

£5.000.000
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
INTEREST 3i PER CENT.
INVEST PROMPTLY
The Bulletin
/wuL %&£/ hurt
Vol. 54.—N0. 2780.
Wednesday, May 24, 1933.
Price 6d.
Hegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
. SEND THIS COUPON ,
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
y.B. 333
Stop Itching
-and 5166 pl
ĥ
What marvelous relief!
Just bathe with Cuticnra
Soap, anoint with Cuti-
eura Ointment and the
irritation, itching and burn-
ing of pimples, rashes and
eczema are soothed and
healing soon follows. Mil-
lions throughout the world
know Cuticura’s reputa-
tion for results and use it
with success for all kinds
of skin irritations.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, an<J during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES,
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.i.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINOHOLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’ Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
The Expert
View
Che n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing.
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the ‘‘Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
‘Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
mr*
agree
That the Soundest State
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph
leads the way.
TELEGQADH
/ BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
otiose*
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Recent Australian Publications
The arrival of the Endeavour Press seems
to have stimulated book-publishing all over
Australia. In the six months or so that it
has been operating more new publishing
concerns have been started and more works
by local writers have appeared than in any
previous six years. Some of the novels,
such as “Saturdee” and “Jonah,” would have
attracted attention in any country. Rob-
ertson and Mullens, of Melbourne, have
actually begun to export, and R. W. E.
Wilmot’s “Defending the Ashes,” of which
they made a splendid job, is going to do
something for the balance of trade in Eng-
land before it is finished. Angus and
Robertson are helping to make Idriess,
F. D. Davison and one or two more best-
sellers, and there are at least a dozen other
houses—notably the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
—with a steady output of Australian works.
When it is remembered that many of our
most promising younger writers—Philip
Lindsay, for example—and practically all
the established ones —Vance Palmer, Dale
Collins, Barnard Eldershaw, Roy Bridges
—publish in London, the position may be
regarded as highly satisfactory. Here are
some books which give an idea of the wide
field that is being covered by writers in
Australia.
Plea for the Lyrebird
The Lore of the Lyrebird, by Ambrose
Pratt, is the most attractive work as regards
format that the Endeavour Press has
turned out. The decorations, reproductions
of photographs and dust jacket are charm-
ing. The author, who has been president
of the Royal Zoological Society of Victoria
for some years, is an authority. His book,
in addition to being an exposition of the
unusual nature and ways of Australia’s love-
liest bird, is an eloquent appeal for its
preservation. “Pledge yourselves,” he says
to the children of Australia, “to resist
unitedly and resolutely every policy and
measure that may possibly contract, directly
or indirectly, the small and narrow region
that the Lyrebird still retains.” It is neces-
sary propaganda, since Menura novce-hol-
landice, which is only to be found in Aus-
tralia, and in a small part of it at that,
is fast being wiped out. Every school
should have a copy of this 5s. book.
Australia Infeliz
Celestalia, by A. L. Pullar (Canberra
Press; 6s.), lifts the curtain on Australia
in 1975. It has been taken by the Chinese.
Painful changes have occurred in Sydney.
A temple in a bamboo grove on Bradley’s
Head! A shrine on the Sow and Pigs!
Vegetable gardens where the Rose Bay golf
links used to be! The story, which is ex-
tremely complicated, begins in China, where
the heroine Talia was born and brought
up. (Her father was indubitably white,
but there are doubts . as to whether her
mother was Italian or Chinese.) She
defeats the Australian Bob Armstrong at
an Olympiad fencing bout in Paris, and is
arrested for pretending to be Chinese and
failing to notify her sex, “thereby giving
Australia no opportunity of opposing her
with one of her own sex.” Bob, who soon
falls in love with her, talks regretfully about
his unhappy native land.
“We failed, fell down on our job, became
known to all the world as insular, over-
confident, ignorant, refusing to believe that
anything good or great could exist in any
other people—and then we were humiliated,
and so we have remained and will remain
until the day.”
Bob has a formidable rival, the monocled
platitudinarian Lord Haredale. “Can one
have a better object,” his lordship inquires
rhetorically, “than to serve the Empire?
If that be threatened should one hold one’s
hand to obtain a certain end; hesitate to
use any tool that comes to hand?” Before
the abashed Australian can reply there is
a disquieting revelation.
Haredale’s face set hard as steel. “If I
could kiss the hem of her gown once a year
I should be happy. That’s how I feel for
Talia.”
It is hardly necessary to add that Haredale
wins the lady. Far the best feature of this
novel consists in the vivid pictures it gives
of China and the Chinese; its worst feature
is the stilted dialogue. On the technical
side—in printing, binding and freedom from
literals— Celestalia can look any seven-and-
sixpenny London product in the face.
Mystery and B.Y.T.’s
Miles Franklin’s Bring the Monkey
(Endeavour Press; 6s.) has an English
setting. A house-
party assembles at
Tattingwood Hall,
the property of
Lord Tattingwood,
a secret lunatic
who won a V.C.
in the Boer War and his wife during the
World War. The party consists of the
narrator and her friend Zarl Osterley;
Zarl’s monkey (its name, Percy Macacus
Rhesus Y. Osterley, is an indication of the
resolutely festive note which is sounded
throughout); Captain Stopworth, who loved
Lady Tattingwood in her V.A.D. days, and
a number of stock characters, such as
Ydonea Zaltuffrie (film star), her comic
Mommer, Cedd Spillbeans (producer),
Jimmy Wengham (B.Y.T. and pilot of
Ydonea’s aircraft) and Mammy Lou
(Ydonea’s colored maid). The monkey is
wrongly blamed for the theft of Ydonea’s
blue diamond, and the Yard fails to dis-
cover who murdered Captain Stopworth,
as it failed years before to discover who
shot the then heir to the Tattingwood title
and estates. A thin plot, and the Mayfair
wise-cracking is overdone.
“I don’t know how I could have carried
on with him [Jimmy] for a minute.”
“Did you?”
“You don’t suppose he’d lug Percy all the
way from Africa in an aeroplane for me
unless he had been infatuated. But he wants
to go to excessive lengths in love.”
“How far?”
“Don’t be such a peanut! He’s sheerly
sloppy. I’ve been telling him to reserve
such mush in case he comes down in a desert
atmosphere. England is mawkishly damp
already. He always wants to go the whole
engine.”
“Merely the usual, isn’t it, nowadays?”
Ydonea talks of “scads of ways of tracing
the doggoned old diamond,” Jimmy is an
inane “g”-dropper, Mammy Lou becomes a
jibbering wreck at the sight of a supposed
ghost, and so on. It is strange that these
Elstree-Hollywood shadows should have
been assembled by one who in “Old Blastus
of Bandicoot” created so maciy vital and
original characters.
A Maori Heroine
Half-Caste, by F. E. Baume (Macquarie
Head Press; 65.), is the best of the bunch.
Ngaire, daughter of Rewa and a drunken
Cornish second mate, is reared in a Maori
pah. Paul, who failed to become a priest
and devoted his life to the little girl; fat
old Bella, who mothered her; the Rev. Mr.
Faircloth, who ministered to the souls of
the Maoris and devoured their food; Dr.
Schomberg, the old German who attended
to their bodies—all these are supremely
well done. So are the Maori scenes. The
novelist not only makes you see and hear
these strange people, and smell their foetid
dwellings and gross bodies; he gives you
many glimpses into their kindly, easy-going,
self-indulgent and passionate hearts. He is
not so good when he takes Ngaire to the
great world of Auckland, where she is
spoiled by a fashionable family while she
has money, and ill-treated when her money
vanishes. Arrogant, whimsical Miss Warr,
with her English scorn of Auckland society,
is a. somewhat conventional dea ex machina,
and the young Scot who marries Ngaire has
also been met before. Still, it’s a fine novel,
fascinating as a story and for the lights it
casts on the social problems of educated
Maoris.
RED PAGE.
The Black-and-whiters
Modern Caricaturists, by H. R. West-
wood (Lovat Dickinson, Ltd.), surveys the
cartoonist’s art from Piccadilly to Pekin.
“Boost, don’t knock,” is the author’s ami-
able slogan; but an unfortunate effect of
his procession of reverential commonplaces
is to promote the rankers to the levels
of generals and stagger the judicious with
the aesthetic equivalent of a Nicaraguan
army. Low is classed with the devastating
Gulbransson of Simplicissimus. In Low’s
English period, most of which has been
in the service of the Beaverbrook press, he
has signed innumerable clever designs, in-
variably happy, but never deep-reaching.
Mordancy is not his line. When he attempts
to be biting he becomes pontifical: provides
the cartoon which is a lineal translation
of an editorial from the “New Statesman”
or of four or five haughty chapters from a
new novel by Wells. _ As a matter of fact,
Low was much finer in his Bulletin days.
His humor was then more forceful, less
derivative.
Will Dyson struts into these pages cock-
ing a Mephistophelian eye at the foibles
of the race and confirming Wilde’s conclu-
sion that criticism is a form of autobio-
graphy. His drawings spike the current
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Follow the Flag in all your purchases”—lt’s Empire Week.
Integrity and “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” Go Hand in Hand at
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
©
Obtainable only
from
Anthony Horderns’
and nowhere else.
/
&
fee
1
m
‘Jumbuk
Registered
Trademark.
IS AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
There is always some-
thing different about
an English-made Dress-
ing Gown. It may be
the fit or it may be the
finish, perhaps both,
but there is no mistake
about the comfort and
the lasting service of a
“made i n England”
Dressing Gown.
Sizes Range from
36 to 44 inch chest.
200 to select from, all
exclusive designs, in warm
Winter weight quality gowns
that bear the stamp of
English tailored excellence.
The assortment embraces:—
Overcheck Tweed.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
each 39/6, 49/6
Brushed Wool. Prices,
each . . 55/-, 82/6, 102/6
Plain Fawn, reversible
facings. Price 50/-
Camelhair and Wool mix-
ture. Price 82/6
( Mercery—Qround Floe* Pitt Street.
Freight paid to all seaports in
the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.)
102's
39 7 6
*
Jumbuk” Underwear for MEN
No. 220.—“Jumbuk’
Sizes, ins
Shirts, short sleeves
Underpants
Trunk Drawers
No. 330.—“Jumbuk 1
Sizes, ins 34 36
Shirts, short sleeves 9/9 107-
Underpants .... 10/9 117-
Undershirts with long sleeves 1/-
44
10/-
11/-
10/9
46
11/-
12/-
11/9
48
12/-
13/-
12/9
50
13/-
14/-
13/9
38
10/6
11/6
extra.
40
1 1/3
12/3
42
12/-
13/-
44
13/-
14/-
46
14/-
15/-
48
15/-
16/-
50
16/-
17/-
-“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool.
Exact warm winter weight.
44
16/-
17/3
No. 440.
Sizes, ins 34 36 38 40 42
Shirts, short sleeves 11/6 12/- 12/9 13/9 14/9
Underpants .... 12/9 13/3 14/- 15/- 167-
No. 75.—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton. Light weight.
Sizes, ins 34
Shirts, short sleeves . . 5/11
Underpants 6/6
Trunk Drawers .... 6/3
No. 25.—“Jumbuk” Natural
Sizes, ins 34
Shirts, short sleeves .. 77-
Underpants 7/9
Undershirts with long sleeves
No. 55.—“Jumbuk” Natural
Sizes, ins 34
Shirts, short sleeves . . 7/6
Underpants 8/3
“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets,
the neck and armholes.
( Men’s Mercery, Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in
railway stations in N.S.W.)
46
17/-
18/3
48
18/-
19/3
50
the Commonwealth and
* Jumbuk Underwear for BOYS
“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets.
Sizes, ins 20 22
Prices >4/- 4/3
“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets.
Sizes, ins 20
Prices 3/6
22
4/-
“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets.
Sizes, ins 20 22
Prices 3/3 3/6
“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets.
Sizes, ins 20 22
Prices 3/6 3/9
“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Trunk Drawers.
Sizes, ins., waist
Prices
“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Combinations.
Sizes, ins., chest 22
Prices 6/9
Long sleeves 7/3
( Boys’ Mercery, Second Floor. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in
N.S.W.)
*Jumbuk” Underwear for WOMEN
Combinations
Sizes, ins. . .
for
“Jumbuk’
H.N.S.S.
Prices
“Jumbuk” Children’s Woven
H.N.S.S. Sizes, ins
Prices
( Ladies’ Underwear, Third Floor.
of
Woven Wool.
22 24
In Natural and Cream.
26 28
Girls,
20 22 24 26 28 30
5/6 6/6 6/11 7/6 8/6 8/0
Wool Vests. Medium weight. In Cream and Natural.
20 22 24 26 28 30
3/6 4/3 4/6 4/11 5/11 6/3
Medium weight.
32
9/3
32
6/1 I
Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations
in N.S.W.)
* “JUMBUK” REGISTERED TRADEMARK.
AMTHONY HORDERNS’
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.CX


r
&
X
it?
vft y
9
xr-
«=w?
»sfMfc
y^tJM
teii
ns
P*^
r»*B)sf
=3#
.^■•jgEOßy
gggr^^c^
m
+&2&S&
*o^
«ssi
t£a
You Simply Must Consider
Your Hot Water Bill.
It’s winter. Large Homes, Hotels, Clubs
and Colleges must have copious and cheap
hot water.
The Solution is the International
“IDEAL" BOILER.
Made in England and used the world over;
compact and simple to operate—burns coke
and coal as well as household rubbish. Listen
to a user:
My ‘ldeal’ boiler supplies two bath-
rooms and kitchen and scullery with
hot water for two shillings per week
for fuel.”
Send us your problem without obligation.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.,
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
clock
7
o
ric;
trade mark
:
PATENT NOS
272629
272763
m
-
m
6
) &iW
Humps’
a
|W«
a
Q
!il
&
3
D
ViT-n-j
FOR
m
These new blades have been a triumph!
No one thought it possible to make
such perfect blades at so low a price.
Users are telling us that they realise at
last what a safety razor shave can be.
Keenness beyond words. Velvety, glid-
ing smoothness. And the price—five
for a shilling and sixpence! Try them.
Every dealer sells Seven o’clock blades
for double-edged razors.
9-CLOCK
DOUBLE EDGED
MADE IN ENGLAND
Old At
oo
m
Vitality comes this
simple way
TIRED-OUT with constant pain I Back
breaking, limbs like pieces of lead, head-
ache, tragic daily torture making you look
so old—wouldn’t it be glorious to end this
misery and throw away the age-giving
mask of pain ?
The cause of your trouble is told in two words—
Kidney Trouble. The kidneys are failing to purify
the blood. Poisons are accumulating which cause
dreadful pain and suffering.
You will never regain health, youthful vigour
and vitality until you have prompted the kidneys to
healthy action. The best and quickest means to this
end is a short course with De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. They make you feel so gloriously fit,
feeling, looking years younger.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
Take two at night, then one before meals. In
24 hours you will see they are doing you good.
Persevere and your troubles will end. Invaluable in
all cases of Rheumatism, Joint Pains, Chronic Back-
ache, Urinary Trouble, Sciatica, Kidney and Uric Acid Troubles. They can be
taken by the very young, the weakest, the oldest and women at all times, with
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation that will
do you good from the very first dose.
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lies within the system, through
faulty kidney action.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers which enables
us to state that if you will commence a course with this simple, straight-forward
remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be
ended for good.
It does not matter how long you have suffered or what disappointments you
may have had in the past—get a supply of this tried and trusted, 45-year-old
remedy to-day and start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your nervous system
and building once again the real foundations of health.
Why wait to get too-old looking ?—why wait for total health breakdown ?
when De Witt’s Pills can so surely and certainly banish the poisons, such as uric
acid, in your system, which are the cause of your pain. You cannot have De Witt’s
Pills and illness—which will you have?
h
Years Roll Back
THIS REMEDY CAN, WILL
AND MUST BRING HEALTH
AND HAPPINESS!
We wish we could show you the thousands of
letters from grateful sufferers that tell you how
simple, inexpensive and how sure are the results
achieved by De Witt’s Pills. Many bed-ridden,
thousands suffering “untold agonies,” have enjoyed
a new lease of life and happiness, thanks to this
remedy.
If you persevere with this tried and trusted
remedy, you will find your old, tired, “worn-out”
feeling replaced by new vigour and vitality. Your
day’s work will be a pleasure and your spare-time
pleasures doubled. No more sallow, spotty com-
plexion, no more sleepless nights, no more stabs in
the back, no more rheumatic pains, bad back,
bladder troubles.
Remember the name. See it printed on each
package. With complete confidence we state there
is no remedy that will so quickly, so surely rebuild
your health and strength. Surely you do not want
to stay in pain and weakness when there are thou-
sands of now happy men and women to tell you how
splendidly De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have
given them new vitality, new health, new hope of
happiness. Make up your mind now. Say “ I will
get back my youthful strength and vigour. I will banish the pain that cripples me,
making my life a constant misery.” Do it now. Go to your chemist right away.
He knows all about this remedy and can tell you how good it really is.
See that you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the special
white, blue and gold box. Beware of imitations. Most certainly there is nothing
just as good.
»e WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder Pills
Invaluable in all cases of:—
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDERTROUBLE
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA


Men are Amazed
at their Strength!
1
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australia’s leading Physical Director,
founder of “Health and Physical Culture’’
Magazine, circulating throughout the
Southern Hemisphere.
MAKE THIS TEST TO-NIGHT!
you step into your pyjamas
to-night, stand in front of the mirror
and look yourself over. Are you proud
of the man you see? Is he a strapping,
broad-shouldered husky, with arching chest
and rippling bands of solid muscle? Would
you bet on him in a fight?
Be fair to yourself. You can’t expect
the respect of men or the admiration of
women if you’re a physical weakling. Let
me get to work on that body of yours. Let
me build a man who’ll be PROUD to step
out in a bathing suit. This free book shows
how EASY it is.
You’ll never know what this book is
worth to you until you’ve read it for your-
self. It may change your entire life. It’s
a revolution in body-building and muscle-
building. It’s crammed full of pictures
and matter that will make you open your
eyes. Thousands of men have thought it
worth while to get their copies. No obli-
gation—no salesman will call. YOU will
be the judge and jury. Mail the coupon
or write —TO-DAY.
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N-S.W.
AFTER THIS FREE BOOK SHOWS THEM
THE WAY TO GREAT MUSCULAR POWER!
GET THIS BOOK NOW! Whether you are
weak or strong—sickly or healthy—young or
old overweight or underweight regardless of
WHAT your condition may be, send for it
NOW! It will show you how men just like
yourself have grown STRONG. It will show
you the way to a superbly-built body—to broad
shoulders, powerful m-.soles, a deep chest, slim
waist-line, to splendid health and vitality in
every organ of your body.
I Don’t Promise You Results
I GUARANTEE THEM!
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid
muscle on your arms; to increase your chest
five inches; to develop your neck to a size
larger collar; to add three inches of powerful
development to your thighs, two inches to your
calves; to give you a firm, slim waist-line that
will make you take in a notch or two in your
belt. And I don’t ask you to take my word for
it —I don’t promise anything—l back every
statement with an ironclad GUARANTEE.
I’ve done all this for others. I can do it for
you. Get the PROOF send for my amazing
new book NOW! It’s FREE!
MY SECRET
The great improvement in your health and
strength is simply the natural outcome of a
SCIENTIFICALLY CORRECT COMBINATION
OF RESISTANCE. You will be amazed at its
simplicity and the results you will get from it.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK—NOW
Dear Sir, —Please send me abs°- pB: >
lutely FREE, a copy of your latest rasPf
book, “The Secrets of Muscular I
Strength—And How to Acquire It.” |'
I
NAME |
FULL ADDRESS J
. 24/5/’33|
kulturs and leave them writhing; but the
sneer is always self-conscious, a little up-
stage. Chelsea intellectualism curling its
lip at a tea-party on the terrace is the
essence of the Dyson scoff.
Low and Dyson are announced as Bul-
letin products, and Mr. Westwood pays a
handsome tribute to The Bulletin as a
seminary of black-and-white art. The
chronicle begins with the engagement of
“Hop” and Phil May, and records the
advent of Norman Lindsay, Alf Vincent,
Leason, Scorfield, Percival and others. It
upholds the worth of the present team, but
glances rather scantily at Norman Lindsay,
who on his Bulletin record, quite apart
from his other activities, deserves a chapter
to himself. A whole chapter is devoted
to Wyndham Robinson, who in the “Cape
Times” pictures the mildly cynical grin of
one at peace with the political enmities
around him. A chapter each for Rollin
Kirby, of the New York “World-Telegram,”
and Fitzpatrick, of the St. Louis “Post-
Dispatch,” is recognition of talents which,
though they stand high in the U.S.A., are
in technical quality and in political range
inferior to those of Lindsay.
The inability to apprehend the full stature
of Lindsay is the one injustice in a volume
which hails with full-throated cheers such
immaterial fellows as Sapajou, who escaped
the Bolsheviks and the wolves of Siberia
to caricature for a remote audience on the
“North China Daily News.”
B.C.
Rembrandt Comes to Melbourne
Since the announcement of a Rembrandt
purchase by the trustees of the Felton Be-
quest, we have been treated by art
critics and correspondents of Melbourne
dailies to a display of journalistic indis-
cretions which has been surpassed by Lar-
wood alone. Between them the scribes
have managed to overlook every funda-
mental point. The purchase is not the
work of our National Gallery, but of a
set of trustees bound and' directed by the
terms of their trust. Rembrandt is not a
“foreign” artist but a universal one, the
greatest portrait-painter of all time.
Twenty-five thousand pounds is such a
low price for a good Rembrandt (£lOO,OOO
sterling being much nearer an average for
the finest of his portraits) that it alone
might make one doubt the bargain as too
good to be safe. The fine work being done
locally is not denied, and its purchase from
time to time by the trustees is no doubt
provided for in the trust. Such encourage-
ment is, however, based on considerations
different from those which govern the pur-
chase of Masters. Even sordidly viewed, a
good Rembrandt for £25,000 is a most excel-
lent investment. The Venus of Milo was re-
fused by the English for £2OOO or less. Now
France wouldn’t sell her for a hundred
times that figure. Could imbecility go
further than one contributor’s dictum that
poor Van Ryn in this self-portrait, judged
from the photographic reproduction, was old
and ugly? Rembrandt painted self-por-
traits all his long life. Scarcity of models
and money made him use his own physiog-
nomy often enough perhaps to give rise
to more than a suspicion of egotism. Hence
it follows that his self-portraits in old age
are his maturest and most valuable. One
of the artistic glories of England is the
Rembrandt at Ken-Wood, London; it is,
as far as I can judge, very like the new
Melbourne purchase. The artist when he
did it was old, and too honest to spare
his own defects. He may be—in another
Melbourne writer’s words—“hideous,” but
the picture is nevertheless a miracle in
paint, and could not be bought for three
times the sum advertised to have been paid
by the trustees.
Lastly, a Sydney art authority has cast
doubt on the authenticity of our Rembrandt-
elect on the evidence of a photograph re-
produced in a newspaper! Well, bravery
is always to be admired, even when fool-
hardy. In 1931 I examined critically every
prominent Rembrandt in the European gal-
leries other than Madrid and Petrograd.
The photograph I regard as worthless evi-
dence either way, as useless a guide as a
smoked glass would be to someone trying
to locate a new bacillus. Sometimes it re-
quires an expert to tell a good copy from
an original. As a dabbler with a camera I
know that a counterfeit painting could be
made to look more convincing than the ori-
ginal when photographed, especially (as
with Rembrandts) when the fine grada-
tions in the darkest shadows tend to elude
the camera. Everyone has ignored the
atrocious truth that ours is the only conti-
nent without a Rembrandt painting on pub-
lic view. Recently in little Vancouver I saw
one of the most magnificent of his feminine
portraits, the “Old Lady with the Handker-
chief.” Melbourne is already the proud
possessor of a Jan Van Eyck, of whose
works Paris has but one, and London and
Vienna but two each. If bought with the
precautions one assumes are always taken,
the Rembrandt will at least return its pur-
chase price if another depression forces us
to sell it. and it will show the public where
one vociferous school of artists in Australia
derives most of its portrait-painting tech-
nique.
E. C. MULYANY.
A Satchel of Books
heatre of Youth , by Charles Thomas
(Chapman and Hall; os.), tells amateurs
now to make up, construct and decorate
stages, produce and so on. There are some
helpful diagrams, a number of amusing draw-
ings, and a foreword by Irene Vanbrugh.
The Countryman for April has as its
principal article an imaginary interview be-
nveen the Countryman” in person and
George 111., who notes that his host has
nit on the identical shape, size and type of
Arthur Young's ‘Annals’” for his journal.
Ihe half-crown quarterly is like a breath of
English country air.
A couple of April publications, The Syd-
nevan, (Is.) and G.P.S. (3d.), have come to
The former deals in detail
with the life of the school from Prize Day
last December to the Senior Athletic Sports
last month. ‘ G.P.5.,” which is a fortnightly,
makes a gallant effort to cover the most
—ng happenings of all Sydney public
Play Auction Bridge (Robertson
and Mullens; 6d.) is by “Ace High,” a best-
seller in Ins line. Over 50,000 of his book
lets about bridge have been sold. This one
is chiefly for the guidance of beginners, and
concentrates on scientific valuation or sys-
tematic bidding.
Horrors and Terrors are published at
-»• 6d. each by Philip Allan. When it is
revealed that the dust-jacket of “Horrors”
shows a gentleman with blood-red eyes bear-
ing the corpse. of a female out of a river by
moonlight, while that of “Terrors” shows a
girl starting in justifiable amazement at the
spectacle of a lady with a splurge of car-
mine where her head should be, enough has
been said to indicate the contents to dis-
cerning readers. In the words of the blurb:
“You are advised not to read these stories
at night.”
To Dream Again, by John Fisher (Dent;
7s. 6d.). Old Hubert Coleman, who had
lived m Honolulu in the ’eighties, goes back
on the Acarnania with his English wife. We
learn about his old life, and are given an
insight into his feelings in regard to the
strange Americanised Honolulu in which he
finds himself; and then his ship moves out of
the harbor, turns south, passes Waikiki and
its hotels, and the episode ends. The sad atmo-
sphere of “times lost” is over the whole
story and the prose has a wistful charm of
its own.
T , The Man from Peace River, by W. Q.
Reid (Wild West Club; 7s. (id.), which his
name is Jim Wallace, isn’t very convincing
while in London, where he meets and wins
Diana. Diana as the sort of fashionable
maiden who frequents the Sloane-square-
Knightsbridge sector isn’t very convincing
either, but both she and Jim become more
natural when they reach his remote trading
station in Canada. She doesn't get on in
the wilds at first, but when he is accused
of shooting the infamous Gubbins and she
shoulders the blame, we know that the finish
of their domestic misunderstanding is at
hand. A well-built yarn with less bloodshed
than most of its kind.
Tn The Making of the State (Williams
Norgate; 215.) M. Ruthnaswamy, the
Madras educationist and statesman, has
approached his subject from the standpoint
ail Indian. Yet his book is full of wise
and helpful observations on world affairs
throughout the ages, and his easy running
style makes it delightful reading. Nowhere
before has this critic seen the fatal weak-
nesses of the Greek city-state presented so
briefly and clearly, and there are some admir-
ably judicial remarks about that much-
maligned institution slavery. As a state-
ment of the outlook on Indian affairs of a
highly-cultivated Indian who knows England
almost as. well as he does his own country,
The Making of the State is of inestimable
value at the present time.
And a Little Verse
BEAUTY HATH HER STING.
With slashing teeth and rending claws,
With talons sheathed in silken fur
And jaws lapped in ethereal light,
Beauty inflicts her pain.
It pulses from the vivid sea,
’Tis seeping from a moonlit scene
And flashing from a brilliant bird,
’Tis in the sound of rain.
And I must always gaze to sea.
Or stand and stare with steadfast awe
To see the silent moonlit trees
All .standing sentinel.
And. as I kneel at Nature’s throne,
I still can feel the .smarting wounds
Sag open as I kneel to pray.
And scourge my soul as well.
N.S.W.
P. F. R.
SUNSET AND THUNDERSTORM.
Pricks of rain, interwoven with dusty sun-
light,
Breathing together in an atmosphere of
triumphant and tender pink on your
hreast.
Creating a filigree of most exquisite design
to-night,
You have come, Sunset, star-set to east,
golden to west.
Moon-locked, star-shocked, later you stand,
festooned trees
To the opening sky, which suddenly dis-
closes, like, roses, her light;
Shattered, battered, it seems to fall straight,
And strike the earth, creating an im-
broglio between Day and Night.
The dawn has come, dropping from aqueous
lips
A multitude of drops to some quiet place:
The lingers of Day have quickly unmasked
the Night;
Tenderly, softly she is unbared, with sur-
prise on her dreaming face.
Day and Night had bathed in the same clear
stream under the sky,
And at dawn they had stretched themselves
on the grass, and lay in the sun to
dry.
VICTORIA.
JOAN TAII.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficienily stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Gen Twent: Verse hopeless and prose dull.
... .Rankine R.: Been put that way already....
R. 8.: “What Butterfly Is That?” by G. A. Water-
house, would do P.J.: See article by K. C.
McKeown in the “Australian Museum Magazine” for
April 15, 1933. .. .P.A.: Possibly from S'anskrit,
“gri” meaning beauty, light; “naga” meaning dragon.
....S'am: What’s wrong with your own name? Pen-
names that look pen-names are rarely so effective.
....D.A.S.: “Ballad” very close. Shows dramatic
imagination... .Entee: Can’t make even a guess
at the meaning of most of it N.A.D.: Neat little
picture... .S.L.R., E.P., Fargo: Crowded out in the
run home... .Coola: “Coincidence” well done, but
thin... .A. 8.5.: The long arm is stretched too far.
O.W.G.: Your involved sentences make dashed
hard reading Bilpin: Interest too 10ca1... .H. 5.0.:
Get in touch with “Radio News,” published from
this office... .P.L.: “The Swagman” smells strongly
of stale celluloid... .E.V.E.: Not worth A.D.A.M.
... .W.V.L.: Learn to condense, and try to put more
sparkle into your stuff... .N.A.0.D.R.: Alfred has
possibilities, but you don’t bring them out we 11....
G.P.: Cornelius crashed G.S.: Disturbance on ant-
heap, shortened, might interest Abo. page S.V.:
Drab.... J.G.P.W.: Short of a plot and characters
that stand out. .. .M.L.P.: No more depression sui-
cides. .. .C.M.E.: Ends feebly... .R.L.M.: Nicely done,
though a bit thin.... W.G.A.: Give us something
Australian.... J.W.T.: Steele Rudd and others have
done it much better D.S.: Far-fetched and forced.
. ...A.E.E.: Good idea clumsily handled... .W. 0.8.:
Deregistered “The Murder Car”... .M.H.M.: Char-
acters ate unconvincing.... N.M.S.: Try telling a
yarn without using some old. beersparrer as an
intermediary P.G.: Sent us to sleep H.T.8.:
Old p10t.... V.W.T.: A trifle incoherent... .N. 8.:
Ending is too obvious.. . .M.E.: Might suit an English
paper.... F.C.F.: Can’t believe that men would sit
on park benches in the rain spouting that nonsense.
.... J. 8.: The marvel is that you had the nerve to
write it.,... J.R.8.: Winifred was a washout. ... J.D.:
No use for yams which commence with a round-
table discussion at which all the speakers talk like
professors... .R.H.S.: Not bright enough. .. .H.A.:
“Fiji Times and Herald,” issued daily at Suva;
“Pacific Press,” issued weekly at Suva, and “Poly-
nesian Gazette,” issued weekly at Levuka... .H.W.S.:
Elizabeth Island (otherwise known as Henderson
Island) lies between the Lou Archipelago and Easter
Island, and about 1050 miles west of Easter Island.
It is some two miles across, and is uninhabited. It
is a British possession... .C.C.: The proportion of
marriages performed by registrars ‘in N.S.W. has
increased steadily from 3.5 p.c. in 1917 to 9.7 p.c.
in 1931.. . .A.S.M.: Know of no way of selling except
by approaching second-hand booksellers or by adver-
tising. . .-.C.E.8.: To do so would be a breach of
the Copyright Act and would render you liable to
prosecution A. 8.: (1) and (2) He is not the
original “Man from Snowy River.” (2) “Banjo”
Paterson is alive and writing....A.H.H.: He was
born at Gottingen early in the nineteenth centry
and began to exhibit in Berlin in 1844... .H.C.P.:
Laud values are lower than they have been for
many years, but so are wool and sheep prices;
therefore the income to be made from sheep is
low. Whether land values have reached bottom or
not is matter of opinion... .C. 8.: (1) “Poetry and
Music,” by W. H. Hadow (4s. 3d.), “Appreciation of
Poetry,” by Eden and Cedar Paul (4s. 3d.), and
“Poetry and the Ordinary People,” by M. R. Ridley
(ss. 9d.). (2) “Spenser and His Poetry,” by S. E.
Winbolt (2s. 6d.) ; also “Spenser” in the “Poetry
and Life” series (3s. 6d.) ... .M.C.R.: J. C. Haddon’s
“Modern Musicians” and “Master Musicians” —both
Vs E.E.W.: The lines are labored. .. .W.H.W.:
We shut the office window on your brand of open
air... .C.H.S.: Has some arresting lines; there’s
music in you—keep 0n.... L.C.: Don’t like the
tinkle-tinkle rhythm and the subject is mere fluff.
Think long, write seldom, and after a while try
again... .R.P.: Baby verse crudely handled....
0.0. M.: “For Us” not for us M.J.S.: Well, at
least you got a rhyme for walk.... D.A.S.: Some-
thing in the idea ; second part weak... .0.R.: A
near thing... .K.M.M.P.: “Bracken” old-fashioned
and sentimental. Read some good poets of the
last decade... .L.H.R.: “Resolution” the better,
though it smacks more of the textbook than life.
. ...N.S.: No room for old legend of man in the
m00n.... G.H.L.: Gentle soliloquy not up to the
mark. ... J.W.: Chopped-up prose. .. .F.W.: This
paper is printed in English; Gaelic poems not
wanted... .J. A. W.: Girl must have been right....
E.M.J.: With revision might pass. Last line of
first stanza should be omitted and more restraint
shown... .V.L.: “Pearl Fantasy” left us c01d....
A.D.R.: Still a bit unreal C.A.F.: Merely vulgar.
... .E.F.: Your drink sounds depressing... .L.M.S.H.:
Cheap sentiment in cheaper verse... .R.W.A.: Went
to the wa11... .G. 8.: Slight prettiness, but you can’t
rhyme “yawn” with “Capricorn”....K.R.C.: No;
this is an adults’ paper D.C.: Would have scored
if every line had been as good as the third in the
first stanza... .M.M.: You’re wearing that theme very
thin... .S.R.: Among those close up at the finish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.T.C.: Scratchy and untidy... .8.Y.: Have yet to
learn that Binghi boiled jackeroos in pots....
R.J.D.: Retort a hackneyed Americanism... .C.Z.H.:
All right for milliners’ models; no good to us... .
J.C.H.: Jest is dying on its feet... .M.K.M.: Fewer
and firmer lines, please !... .F.K.: Keep on; they’re
not so bad....T.J.: Afraid you’re bankrupt of
humorous ideas... .D.L.: It must have been done in
a hurry... .N.J.N.: That squib was balancing the
same heavyweight on his lap in the ’nineties
T.A.L.: Count it among your chickens that have
come home to roost... .A.S.: Don’t want illustrated
smoking-room stories... .F.J.M.: Dad and Dave are
not thickheaded; also you can’t draw P.C.:
Fauna and flora in your picture are all wrong....
W.M.•: Clumsily put together... .N.E.S.: Lady who
is “pale but proud” has also a withered left arm
and a club f00t... .P. 8.: You’ve played havoc with
all the rules... .C.D.: Well formed figures, but the
humor is below par... .K. 8.: Linework too thick
A.L.: Promising J.C.C.: You tackled a com-
position beyond y0u.,..0.W.: Artistically, you’re
still a toddler.


a
pignflSMiggi
» J
i^**irii
mil
!___
Hi
W
■
>■^l
i a
ja
*
4
. m
.
#
m
M
.
■
*i
A
''■'A.-.
r:
■
II
i
HI
n
«»»»
/
ap
ir
%
WsSs
mJk
$
■
■
*£A
m
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2780.
May 24, 1933.
A PLETHORA OF JONAHS.
"Its ascendancy shaken by defeat at the Leg, Council referendum, the inner group of the N.S. Wales A.L.P. is now desperately striving to retain the leadership
A.B.: “Dumping the Jonah, are they? But what about the big bloke on the bridge, and the cove alongside? Blime, they're ALL Jonahs!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 1) Panama
Street, Wellington,
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. da.;
a months, 7s.
To ani address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
ti months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, ! td.
ROOSEVELT TO THE WORLD.
The first Roosevelt was a fighter, and if
he had had his way the United States
would have gone into the war in 1915, or
at latest 1916. In either case the world
would have been spared a great deal that
has happened since. The second Roosevelt
is a pacifist, with the touching faith in the
power of woi’ds—his own in particular—
that characterises the breed. He has
addressed a message to the nations in which
he says that the Economic Conference, soon
to meet, “must” do this, that and the other
thing—“must establish order in place of
chaos, by stabilising currencies, by freeing
the flow of world trade and by international
action to raise price levels. It ‘must,’ in
short, supplement individual domestic pro-
grammes for economic recovery by wise and
considered international action.” Very
pretty : but before there can be “wise and
considered international aetion” the war-
debts question must be settled, and on that
vital point the second Roosevelt does not
say a word. He nevertheless refers
copiously to the Disarmament Conference,
whose first, anniversary was celebrated by
some good ladies in Sydney before Easter,
and commends its “immediate” objective,
“a substantial reduction of all offensive
weapons.” But while disarmament is in
progress, or while the delegates are discuss-
ing it, “the peace of the world must be
assured; I therefore propose”
That, all the nations of the world should
enter into a solemn and definite pact of non-
aggression, that they should solemnly re-
affirm the obligations that they have assumed
to limit and reduce their armaments, and,
provided these obligations are faithfully exe-
cuted by all, the signatory Powers individu-
ally agree that they will send no armed
forces across the frontiers.
This Roosevelt programme would be
thrilling if it were new, but it is old stuff.
It can all be found in the Fourteen Points,
the covenant of the League of Nations, the
Locarno agreement and the Kellogg pact.
In article VIII of the covenant “the mem-
bers of the League recognise that the
maintenance of peace requires the reduc-
tion of national armaments to the lowest
point consistent with national safety”; in
article X they “undertake to respect and
preserve the territorial integrity and exist-
ing political independence of all mem-
bers.” Article XII binds them to refer dis-
putes among themselves to arbitration;
article XVI says: “Should any member of
the League resort to war in disregard of its
covenants it shall ipso jacto be deemed
to have committed an act of war against all
other members of the League.” Having
agreed to reduce armaments —on plans to be
“subject to reconsideration and revision at
least every 10 years”—the associated nations
pledge themselves “to interchange full and
frank information as to the scale of their
armaments, their military and naval pro-
grammes, and the condition of such of their
industries as are adaptable to warlike pur-
poses.” Of course, they have done nothing
of the kind, but it is not altogether their fault.
They were induced to join the League by
a President of the United States. They
counted on his country accepting his policy
and standing by them, whereas his country
repudiated and broke him and left them
in the lurch. Now, after 14 years, during
three of which it has been found that not
even the Americans can live for themselves
alone, another President of the United
States repeats the sentiments with which
Wilson moved the world, without once men-
tioning the League that Wilson founded
so that his dream might come true. It is
not yet too late for the U.S.A. to join the
League and try to breathe new life into it.
In that way it would very probably do
more for disarmament and peace, even
immediately, than participation in any con-
ference, at which the same old ground must
be gone over again, is likely to effect.
Fools would sneer, but plain people in all
countries would be immensely impressed by
such an exhibition of the strength (so rare!)
that acknowledges a fault and labors to
repair the consequences. Unfortunately, the
prospect of their witnessing it is remote.
One striking result the Roosevelt message
has had. It was issued in time to be studied
by the new German Chancellor, who was
preparing a speech in the Reichstag on the
foreign policy of the Nazi Government,
a speech for which all Europe was nervously
waiting; and Hitler eagerly pressed the
hand stretched out across the Atlantic.
After inveighing against the Treaty of Ver-
sailles, and protesting that Germany had
“almost committed suicide” in the effort to
fulfil her obligations under it (“224.900
German men, women and children have
committed suicide”), he said: “Germany is
ready to destroy all armaments if other
nations will do likewise; Germany accepts
Mr. Roosevelt’s great proposals, and is pre-
pared unselfishly to participate in the work
of settling the world’s political and eco-
nomic difficulties, being convinced that the
one big task is to ensure the peace of the
world.” He denied that “the Nazi storm
troops,” who are said to number 600,000,
“form an army of reserve,” and promised
that his auxiliary police would be “dis-
banded completely this year.” The Ger-
mans, in fact, rejected the idea of a war
of revenge:—
We have suffered too much from the in-
sanity of our time to wish to visit similar
sufferings on others. No war in Europe could
improve the present situation, either eco-
nomically or politically. If any sfiigle nation
could secure a victory the final result would
be the same —a new insecurity, leading to
Communistic chaos which would swamp
Europe.
These professions accord ill with the Vice-
Chancellor’s glorification of death on the
battlefield, and with recent Nazi demon-
strations in Dantzig and Austria. The
French remain sceptical, but Britons of all
parties seem to be convinced that Hitler
is sincere. They remember that Mussolini
did a lot of sabre-rattling when he was
trying to consolidate his power; and Musso-
lini is now almost universally regarded as
a force for peace. Perhaps the position of
a dictator whose origins are humble and
whose purposes are really pacific makes
sabre-rattling necessary for a time.
And it is probably true of the Germans, as
it certainly is of their late enemies, that
no considerable section wants another war.
The memory of the 1914-18 catastrophe is
too frightful, and its fruits still taste too
bitter, for that. After every war fought on
the grand scale the surviving combatants
and civilians, and the children who experi-
ence its consequences, are nearly all for
peace. The war spirit revives only when
another generation arises and listens eagerly
to old soldiers whose minds have retained
nothing but pleasant impressions of their
days as fighting men —the girls they kissed,
the crowds that cheered them on their way,
the glory, the excitement, the ecstasy of
battle. Then the bourgeois, toasting his
toes at his fireside, from which wild horses
would not drag him, pictures himself (as
someone has said) charging gloriously on
every battlefield in Europe; and cloistered
English poets, who would faint if they
had to apply or take Mr. Eric Campbell’s
prescription for Communists —a punch on
the nose —yearn in melodious stanzas to
pluck “the blood-red blossoms of war.”
Unless human nature changes as it has
never changed yet, it will all happen again,
but probably not in our time.
Meanwhile it is necessary to rescue those
who lived through 1914-18 and those who
have grown up since from miseries and
uncertainties which have lasted longer
than the harsh results of any previous war.
For this moral leadership is required. The
place is vacant if President Roosevelt is
strong enough to take it. But he will
fail, as Wilson did, unless his country
supports him and is ready to make sacri-
fices—above all, those sacrifices which
will set the British free to relieve their
war debtors in the terms of the Balfour
Note. Pious aspirations and counsels of
perfection will no longer suffice. Platitudes
are not enough.
GOLD PASSES FOR REJECTS.
At one time there were 124 members of
the Leg. Council which the Stevens Gov-
ernment has received a popular mandate to
reform. By deaths and a resignation (one
of the two ladies decided, without giving
reasons, that she had had enough, and
another Lang nominee died on Refer-
endum Day) the total has been re-
duced to 119; but even this figure
is grotesquely in excess of the number
of Commonwealth Senators (36) and oi
Leg. Councillors in other States —there are
in Victoria. 30 in Westralia, 20 in South
Aus. and 18 in the Speck. Beyond all
doubt, the vote for reform was influenced
by the conviction that Australia, especially
N. S. Wales, is overburdened with legis-
lators, and that the costly privileges con-
ferred on those who live on the game of
politics and those who have or are supposed
to have other means of support are, ex-
cept in the case of Ministers, outrageous.
Plain men and women hailed with relief
the prospect of getting rid of 60 superfluous
lawmakers and ceasing to pay for their
transport over the insolvent Government
railways and tramways. This, Minister
Drummond said, would happen if the refer-
endum were carried; the 60 or more per-
sons who failed of election to the reformed
Chamber would be forthwith deprived of
their gold passes, with a saving to the coun-
try of at least £10.500 a year. Drummond’s
colleagues were not so precise or candid, but
they did not contradict him, and it was taken
for’granted that he spoke for the Govern-
ment. And the Government got the votes.
Now, however, “S. M. Herald” reports, Cab-
inet is to consider “the proposal that each
member who is not re-elected should be
allowed to retain his gold pass for a period
equivalent to that served in the Leg.
Council.” Labor gentlemen are going
about saying that there will be no calling-in
of gold passes at. all: the rejects will remain
deadheads for the rest of their days. And
there may be 70 or more if, as seems likely,
persons not now r in Parliament are
appointed to the remodelled Chamber.
In countries denied the blessings of Gov
ernment ownership there are no gold passes
for politicians. They get railway warrants
entitling them to ride from their electorates
to the seat of government and back when
Parliament is sitting; that is all. The
same limited concession is granted to Gov-
ernment employees travelling on public
business in the Commonwealth, notably
military officers. Early in the history of
State railways in Australia the politicians
decided that the privilege of travelling on
the nod at any time over any part of the
system was needed to inform and refresh
their minds. In time they got it extended
to railways in other States, and to Com-
monwealth undertakings when the line to
Central Australia was taken over from
South Australia and the Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta length was built; so that lor years
past any member of Parliament, Common-
wealth or State, Senator, M.H.R.. Assembly-
man or Councillor (there were 676 altogether
when last counted), has been able, if he had
a fancy that way, to go from Fremantle to
Cairns and back, a matter of 6000-odd miles,
without paying a cent. It was, of course,
discovered that free rides on Government
trams were also required by politicians for
the right performance of their duties.
When motor-cars came in the Government
sedans placed at the disposal of Ministers
and members provided a pleasant change.
There were also water picnics and fishing
parties in Government launches, and in
States which went in for Government
steamers a cruise could be enjoyed now and
then, though it had to be disguised as “a
visit of inspection” or something of the
sort if reporters were inquisitive.
The price of an “all-lines” N.S.W. rail-
way ticket, first-class, is £176 a year, cost of
sleepers and booked seats excluded. To Leg.
Councillors whose business carries them into
other States—-secretaries of federated trade-
unions, mob-orators, agents, commercial
travellers and the like —the gold pass may
be worth quite double that amount —to
them or to their employers. The admitted
losses on the Australian Government rail-
ways and tramways exceed 10 millions a
year, and they would be a great deal more
if proper allowance were made for depreci-
tion. N. S. Wales is responsible for about
half the total. What right has the Stevens
Government, or any other Government, to
debit the taxpayers with the cost of trans-
porting Leg. Councillors over these bank-
rupt railways and tramways when they
have ceased to perform duties which they
undertook voluntarily? What have the Leg.
Councillors done to deserve the gifts?
There are some good men among them, but
there are others; and if presents charged
to the people are to be handed out it will
be impossible to discriminate. Disgraceful
measures were passed by this Leg. Council
during the disgraceful period when Lang
was in power. Perhaps the most disgrace-
ful was the plunder-bill called Mortgages
Taxation. This measure, if the. Common-
wealth had not intervened, would have
enabled Lang to seize 10 p.c. of the money
the A-M.P. had out on mortgage—the levy
was payable within 14 days, the penalty
being another 10 p.c—while exempting his
own mortgage on his newspaper’s stock and
plant. It was passed by the Leg. Council,
passed in an atmosphere of whisky and rum.
And it is seriously proposed that the rejects
among the men who passed it should be
rewarded by being franked over the insol-
vent railways and tramways for the rest of
their lives. Rewarded!
GERMANY AND THE JEWS.
For some time now this subject has been
kept prominently before the public; all
sorts of allegations have been made and
contradicted, so that many Bulletin
readers must wonder what the truth is. ’ls
it, as alleged, a religious persecution, or is
it, as the German Government claims,
solely a moral, economic and political ques-
tion? To arrive at a clear understanding
it is necessary to go back to pre-war days.
In the early ’seventies there was a small
party in the Reichstag which called itself
anti-Semite. It was a very noisy party,
which nobody took seriously, and by the
early ’eighties it had faded into oblivion.
From then on there was no anti-Semitism
in Germany: a man’s -religious belief was
his own concern; good citizenship alone
counted. Citizens of Jewish faith had the
same opportunities in the Empire as Chris-
tians. and the highest offices and honors
were open to them- Thus Dr. Simson was
President of the first Imperial Reichstag,
Michel was Prussian Minister of Finance
and Dernburg Minister for the German
Colonies; Bethmann-Hollweg had a Jewish
ancestry, and Prince Bismarck entrusted all
his financial affairs to Bleichroeder. Reli-
gious prejudice was, in fact, practically non-
existent. Then came the war, and to the
credit of the German-Jewish community it
did its duty loyally and fully to the Father-
land; every right-thinking German gladly
and willingly acknowledges this.
Why, then, has the Jewish question arisen
and become so acute?
It has already been pointed out in The
Bulletin that during and just after the
war Germany was invaded by hordes of
Jewish refugees from Eastern countries.
One often wonders what the German Jews
thought about these co-religionists, large I >
a rabble, with the lowest moral and com-
mercial principles, or none at all, soaket
in the Marxist-Communist doctrines 01
their Russian Bolshevik confreres. How-
ever, the German Socialist party was then
in power, and it welcomed this addition to
the proletariat and facilitated their acquisi-
tion of German citizenship so as to
strengthen the • party’s somewhat unstab e
position. The results were soon apparent,
for during the inflation these elements bat-
tened on a starving and suffering popula-
tion, squandered their gains and created
amongst visiting foreigners the false im-
pression that Germany was a prosperous
country. .
After the inflation period some ot these
people secured Government positions, the
Socialists being in power; others became
traders and private bankers, and during the
last six years have established a record in
fraudulent bankruptcies, bringing rum to
many thousands of people. The corruption
of Government and municipal officers is
likewise directly traceable to these ele-
ments. and the resulting financial scandals
and huge losses are a lasting monument
of shame to their patrons, the Socialist
party. .
Others of the Jewish immigrants, apostles
of Marxism and Communism, spread these
noxious doctrines so successfully that at
the 1932 elections nearly seven million votes
were cast for Communism. So strong had
the Communist party become that,
although in the minority, it decided to tol-
low the Bolshevik example and set- the stage
for revolution, the burning of the Reich-
stag building to be the signal. Fortunately
the Nazi-Nationalist Government got to
power just in time, and, acting quickly and
resolutely, killed the plot by arresting all
Communist and Socialist leaders. A con-
flagration which would have spread like
wildfire over Europe was scotched, and
bloodshed and untold misery were aveited.
Apparently the danger just passed is not
realised or appreciated in some non-Ger-
man countries, or the present unreasoning
hostility to the Nazi-Nationalist party
would give place to admiration and the
praise duo for preventing such a calamity.
But in Germany itself there are no mis-
givings on the subject. By an unmistak-
able majority vote the people put the
Nazi-Nationalist parties into power on
March 5, knowing that they stand lor a
national Government, pledged to bring
honesty, efficiency and economy back to
public services and to purge the nation
from undesirable elements, no matter where
or what. _ ~
The members of the Hitler-Papen Gov-
ernment are well-known men of proved
ability, in whose honesty of purpose the
nation has the utmost confidence. The task
of rehabilitation is a long and arduous one.
and the Government has asked the nation
for four years in which to achieve it-
Reports from Germany show that all round
a good start has been made; yet the only
activity apparently attracting attention
outside is the great cleaning-up now- going
on It is not “Jew-baiting,” as has been
alleged, but (1) all men of proved Marxist
or Communist affiliations or hostile to the
German State must go; (2) all literature
which is lascivious and wicked must go;
(3) all doubtful places of amusement and
entertainment, and anything else which has
a pernicious influence on national life, must
go—i n every case even though important
interests are severely hurt thereby. Some ot
the people affected have left Germany, and,
safely abroad, are spreading lies and calum-
nies of boycotts, persecution and atrocities,
figments of their imagination. But it ought
to be sufficient answer to these people to
say that the real German Jews are dis-
sociating themselves from the charges anc
the tirades. On that point a great mass
of evidence might be tendered-: it should
be enough to quote the full text of a lettei
from the German Central Organisation ot
Jewish ex-soldiers, addressed to the United
States Ambassador in Berlin. It runs
follows:
In view of the propaganda carried on in
your country in connection with alleged
German atrocities against Jews, we con-
sider it our duty, in the national interest, as
well as in the interest of the truth, to make
the following statement. There were in-
stances of ill-treatment and transgression
which wo would be the last to extenuate.
However, excesses are not entirely avoidable
during any upheaval, and we stress the fae
that in every instance that has come to oui
knowledge the authorities have, wherever
possible, taken drastic steps. We know that
such acts of transgression as have °ccurrec
were perpetrated by who re-
mained in hiding, and we also know that
they were strongly condemned by the Go
ernment and the authorities. .
It is high time to disregard the irrespon-
sible propaganda carried on abroad by so-
called Jewish intellectuals. These men, the
majority of whom never professed
Germans, and who in the most critical
moment abandoned their co-religioms s w
champions they pretended to be and went
abroad, have forfeited the right to speak n
matters concerning the German Jewry
Though their arrows aimed from safe hum*
places may injure Germany and the Ger
man Jews, they are certainly no credit to
them. Their reports abound in exag„eia
tlo \Ve should be grateful if the Embassy
would cable this communication to ' «
United States of America. Ae me pur><.
to bear the expense. We understand that
demonstrations on a large scale are P“P G
for next Monday (March 27), and should
therefore be glad if our letter could be nub
fished in the United States on Mondaj
morning if possible.
TADITUS.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Better Be Prepared!
Victoria announces a 25 p.c. reduction in
the railway freight-rates on wool, which—like
the land and income taxes—were framed in
the belief that sheepmen had plenty of
money, would always have it, and didn’t
mind how much they paid. Th& reduction
has come too late to be of any service this
season, and graziers read about it with
wintry smiles. Over the greater part of
Victoria, in northern, southern and west-
ern N. S. Wales districts and in parts of
Queensland feed and water—feed especi-
ally—have been dreadfully scarce. Farmers
and graziers have been killing their lambs
to save the ewes; others have killed sheep
for the skins, because they can get more
for them that way than by skinning the
beasts that perish. And there are grim
tales of drovers losing most of their flocks
on the roads. The Vic. Mallee, the Wim-
mera, South Gippsland, South Aus., West-
ralia and portions of N. S. Wales and
Queensland report May falls which have
improved the outlook, for the wheatgrower
especially; but more rain is needed.
It is given out that the Commonwealth
Government will have a surplus of £2,000,000
at the end of June; and improvident State
Governments and importunate public-ser-
vice organisations are proposing to cut it
up. The Government had better not make
any hasty promise to either set of claim-
ants. If drought were to follow the run
of good seasons and tragically low prices,
the whole of the surplus, and more, would
be needed to extend relief to the victims.
For upwards of three years nothing has
been done for the pastoralist. The
political tradition is that nothing should
ever be done for him, he alone among
Australians being ■ capable of overcoming
all his difficulties, and of paying any
fancy tax, rate or freight charge which may
be imposed on him. There was an easy
belief also among the politicians that the
wool market was sure to recover. It has not
recovered, and the situation of those who
depend on it has grown steadily worse. How
bad it has become was revealed in a return
published within the last fortnight, which
showed that some of the leaders of the
industry, men with names known wherever
wool is discussed, had furnished proofs
that they could no longer pay the Federal
land tax and keep going. When such
things can be it is sheer insanity to con-
tinue the extortion of that levy on capital.
It is equally crazy to persist with the
special tax on property income, which pre-
vents the lowering of farm and station
mortgage interest. These mad imposts
should be repealed at once.
• ♦
The Afrikander Way,
The South African election has resulted in
a smashing victory for the Hertzog-Smuts
coalition. For nearly nine years the Union
had a Hertzog Government, representative
of the old Boer element, Orange Free
Staters, Transvaalers and some Cape Dutch,
with a Labor wing. For five years before
that Smuts was in power, his support mainly
coming from the British, including the
native-born, and the powerful mining in-
terests. The coalition was precipitated by
Tielmann Roos, a former Hertzog Min-
ister, and subsequently a Judge. He aspired
to lead it, but his overtures were rejected,
and he then formed a “party” of his own,
which . was pro-coalition, he said. An
extreme Nationalist wing, led by Dr. Malan,
another ex-colleague of Hertzog, stood
aloof, but announced that it would support
the Government as far as it could. There
was a small secession group in Natal, and
Labor factions, which, when united, helped
to keep Hertzog in power, also took the
field.
Members of the House of Assemb’. are
ejected for five years, but the last Parlia-
ment was dissolved before it had completed
its fourth year. It had 78 Nationalists. 61
South Africans (Smuts and his men), five
Laborites supporting the Government, three
opposed to it, and an Independent. The
next Assembly will be nearly all coalition-
ists. Followers of Roos and the Natal
secessionists have each won two seats. Roos
himself was defeated in Rustenberg, a
strong Dutch electorate, by Grobler. the
Minister for Native Affairs. Labor suffered,
as it always does when it is divided; but
the Australian-born Creswell, who was
Hertzog’s Minister of Defence before the
coalition was formed and leader of the
party before it split, held his seat.
The election was of importance to the
Empire, as well as to South Africa. Of late
years the old racial antagonism which pro-
mised to disappear in the days following the
formation of the Union had revived and
grown in bitterness. The restoration of
the republics and the amalgamation of the
Cape and Natal with them into an inde-
pendent nation outside the Empire became
a real possibility. The pro-Dutch policy of
Hertzog and his attitude on the bilingual
and flag questions had helped to divide the
Lnion into two camps. It is an eloquent
instance, of the uses of adversity that the
world-wide depression should convince the
parties of the necessity for a merging of
interests which a short time previously
were regarded as hopelessly incompatible.
It is possible, indeed probable, that the
strains and stresses that lie ahead of the
new Government will revive some of the
old enmities and create new ones. It can
at least be said that a community divided
by racial feeling, and at opposite poles in
regard to such vital matters as the policy
to be maintained towards the teeming
native races which threaten the existence
of a white South Africa, has thrown down
the parapets and come out into No Man’s
Land in an honest attempt to work out a
joint salvation.
It is an inspiriting example to other self-
governing Dominions, and the Australian
people should study it if their politicians are
incapable of profiting by it. Here we have
no racial divisions, and stand in no danger
from overwhelming savage peoples; but
national unity to meet, a national crisis has
not been arrived at. It has not been serb
ously sought. In the central Parliament we
have a one-party Government, with un-
friendly “allies,” and a bitter Opposition
divided into two warring factions. N. S.
Wales, Victoria and South Aus. had Labor
Governments till the Labor party went to
pieces, and the U.A.P.-Cocky Administra-
tion which succeeded the Labor Govern-
ment in Victoria is not feeling well. As a
rule, every attempt at a constructive
policy has been met with a destructive one,
in State and Federal spheres alike, the idea
being to sprag the other fellow’s wheel for
no other reason than that he is the other
fellow. So nothing great has been
attempted, and nothing much has been
done. The Afrikander way is the better way.
• ♦
The Cost of Education.
Notwithstanding that many complaints are
heard about it in these days, all things
considered the cost of education in Australia
is very low. In Victoria it does not run
to more than about £7 10s. per pupil, even
though in dozens of small country schools
it runs to £3O. Against our £7 10s. the
U.S.A. figures are £lB and the Canadian
£l3 4s. We could cut our cost in two
ways—(l) by weeding out those who are
taking an education which chiefly unfits
them for what they are best fitted for; and
(2) by cutting out the small country
schools. To do the latter would penalise
pioneering, and Heaven knows that is the
last thing we ought to penalise in Australia;
as to the former, the comparative figures
show we are not spending too much, though
it is quite true we may not be spending
it on the right things.
■ ♦
“Solidarity for Ever!”
The Labor politicians who are coming to
Sydney from other States to hold a “unity”
conference will have plenty to occupy their
minds. It was hoped that they would be
able to concentrate on effecting a settle-
ment of the quarrel, now seven years old,
between the State and Federal Labor fac-
tions in N. S. Wales. The task baffled pre-
vious bands of negotiators, and since they
labored in vain the Federal Labor party
has been ejected from the Treasury benches
and routed at the polls through the instru-
mentality of the State Labor faction, and
the State Labor party has suffered an even
ghastlier defeat, with Federal Labor cheer-
ing on the winners.
Meanwhile the war has been carried into
South Aus. There three Labor “parties”
contested the State Assembly elections, and
“Lang Labor,” subsidised from Sydney, won
the three Adelaide seats, and Federal Labor
—or the group that corresponds to Federal
Labor—has lodged an appeal, alleging all
sorts of things against Lang Labor, and
Mr. J. J. Daly, who led in the Senate for
Mr. Scullin, has been expelled for backing
the wrong horse. These S. Aus. matters will
need attention at the unity conference, and
so will the position of Mr. J. J. Kenneally,
the unificationist-secessionist from West-
ralia, who is president of the Federal A.L.P.
executive. On the business paper is a
resolution that M.r. Kenneally should be
deposed for ruling that Labor politicians
were at liberty to support or oppose the
Premiers’ plan.
Now new complications have arisen in
N. S. Wales. It was believed that Federal
Labor, though shrunk to a remnant, was
at least united, but the Leg. Council refer-
endum campaign proved that it was not.
Though without a member in the Assem-
bly, it has a number of representatives in
the Leg. Council, chiefly relics of the days
when the A.W.U. bosses controlled the
Labor organisation. Some of these gentle-
men, notably Mr. Coates, sided with Mi - .
Stevens on the issue referred to the people;
the others—though not invited on Lang plat-
forms and refused space in the Lang news-
paper—were of the same mind as Mr. Lang,
as was Mr. Scullin himself. It was popu-
larly supposed that Mr. Coates was the
group leader, but Mr. Grayndler, M.L.C-,
general secretary of the A.W.U., has pub-
licly denied it. Obviously the unity con-
ference will have to consider the case for
and against Mr. Coates and his friends.
The other faction has given it another
problem to solve. The fight against
A.W.U. control of N. S. Wales Labor was
led by Mr. Willis. Had it failed Mr. Lang
might never have become Premier, or if he
gained the position he wrnuld not have held
it long, for at no time have the A.W.U.
bosses had much use for him. They tried to
regain their ascendancy through the Federal
A.L.P. executive. Mr. Willis was chiefly re-
sponsible for the successful State A.L.P.
revolt; and he was Mr. Lang’s main prop
and support when both factions ran can-
didates for the Warringah by-election, when
Mr. Lang was challenged by Mr. Loughlin
for the leadership, and when Mr. Lang ex-
pelled Messrs. Mutch, Dunn, Lazzarini,
Flannery, Fitzgerald and Coates from his
Ministry.
Mr. Willis did most of the fighting on
these occasions, for Mr. Lang, terrible
If!How as he may seem, is really not much
of a fighter. He is a good hater; and that
is the secret of his ascendancy over the
mob. He hates the things the mob hates,
and expresses his hatred in terse sentences
which the mob can understand and appre-
ciate. But he never stands his ground when
tackled by. a foeman his own weight; never
replies, though stung, to a Theodore or a
Loughlin. Mr. Willis is different; if he
takes a buffet he gives one with equal
heartiness. With pen as well as voice he
strove for Mr. Lang; he induced the
Miners’ Federation to heavily subsidise the
Lang newspaper. Mr. Willis was included in
the three Lang Ministries, and sent to Lon-
don as Agent-General. But he has lived
to learn, as Mr. Loughlin, Mr. Mutch and
Mr. Theodore did, that when the fear of
rivalry is aroused in the breast of Mr. Lang
the politician thei'e is no room for friend-
ship or gratitude.
Recalled to bvdney by the Stevens Gov-
ernment, Mr. Willis found his position on
Mr. Lang’s newspaper gone, nor had the
party leadership in the Upper House been
kept for him, though he was still a member.
While he was on the water it had been con-
ferred on young Mr. Concannon, his junior.
Mr. Willis was out of favor. He had been
mentioned as an alternative to Mr. Lang
by Laborites who murmured that the latter
had wrecked three Labor Governments, and
by others who considered him lukewarm
about socialism. Came the referendum, and
with it a further fall in Lang stocks: he
was beaten again. Fatuous remarks of his
bosses, the leaders of the A.L.P. executive,
the Inner Group, were disgustedly recalled:
Mr. Garden had hailed him as a greater
than Lenin; Mr. Graves had predicted that
the Noes would win by 3 to 1. Mr. Andy
Lysaght, the M.L.A. for Bulli. a coalmining
electorate, had died. The Labor electorate
council made the necessary arrangements
for a selection ballot; Mi-. Willis was a
candidate, and would probably win. When
everything was in readiness for the ballot
the Inner Group announced that there was
no time for one, and that it had given the
nomination to an old gentleman named
Sweeney. The ballot was held in spite- of
the Inner Group: Mr. Willis won it with
637 votes, the total (unusually large for a
Labor ballot) being 1229; Mr. Sweeney,
who also took his chance, received 62
primary votes. It was thereupon given out
that Mr. Willis would stand for Bulli as
“the duly selected candidate of the Labor
supporters in the electorate,” and Mr.
Sweeney as “the duly selected Labor can-
didate.”
It is to be hoped that the delegates to
the unity conference will have a pleasant
trip to Sydney and a safe return.
♦
The Tax on Income from Property.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Walters’s comments
on the iniquity of the super-tax on income
from property (B. 19/4/’33) are timely,
fully justified and to the point. But Mr.
Walters did not call attention to one of the
worst aspects of this confiscatory measure.
I refer to its influence in keeping up the
rate of interest. A few months ago the
A.M.P. made the Lyons Government a
firm offer to reduce interest on loans to
4 p.c. provided the Federal Government
would rescind this super-tax. The Bank of
N. S. Wales has also stated that the bank
rate is largely controlled by the working of
this measure. It therefore, robs the property-
owner in two ways: it confiscates part of
his income and increases the amount of
interest he is compelled to pay. It reduces
the value of all property. It maintains an
artificially high rate of interest, although
Mr. Lyons has repeatedly told us he has
done and is doing his best to procure inter-
est reduction. It discourages the investment
of foreign capital. And, by reducing the
bonuses payable on life-insurance policies
and otherwise, it robs the aged, the widow
and the fatherless.—Yours, Charles Somer-
set (W.A.).
4
Europe and Its Dictators.
The wife of ex-Premier Holman wrote a
travel-note in the “S. M. Herald” recently
in which she referred to “Rome, Naples,
malodorous at eveiy turn; Florence, too inert
to take out the dead cats and dogs that pol-
lute the classic Amo.” It was no doubt
true of these Italian cities when the lady
last saw them, but since then Mussolini has
got into his reformative stride and such
things are unpleasantnesses of the past.
Rome has become one of the cleanest cities
in the world, and Naples isn’t far behind.
They are also —at any rate outwardly—ex-
tremely moral cities. • Obscene shows and
books are banned, and the Pornographic
Museum, with its exhibits from Pompeii
and Herculaneum, which used to be open
to the public, is closed except to scientists
and the like. A sanitary revolution was also
effected in Ireland when the Cosgrave Gov-
ernment took over. “Dirty Dublin” became
clean overnight. The once-foetid streets by
the Liffey were sluiced out, the rubbish was
lifted from the parks and squares in the
neighborhood of the stately Shelburne in
the early hours of each morning, and the old
city faced the day with a cleaner face than
it had known in centuries. Berlin has
always been physically clean, but during
the “fourteen years of abominable Marx-
ism” from which it has just emerged it
became the filthiest city on the moral side
in Europe. Hitler has made it “one of the
most respectable cities in the world.”
Hair-raising stories of orgies, in which
blase youth staged a search for pleasure,
have ceased, now that 20 cabarets have been
closed. The Nazis have banned jazz as
negroid, and have instituted a censorship of
books, pictures and advertisements.
Such interferences with the liberty of the
subject may not appeal to many Austra-
lians, but their * Australia is a long Way
from the Communist-atheist influences
against which they are reactions. The other
side of the picture is seen in Russia, which
encourages free love and abortion (the first
by the laxest divorce law in history, the
second by providing what we call “illegal
operations” as a free service in the public
hospitals), and which isn’t much concerned
with civic cleanliness. Europe seems to
be approaching a stage when it will only
have these two cultures to choose between.
*
Do We Patronise Disgusting Films?
In the past fortnight attacks on American
films have appeared in the “S. M. Herald”
by (1) a New York correspondent, who
wrote that “the people of the world are
growing to hate quite naturally America
and Americans because of our disgusting
films,” and (2) a Victorian churchman, who
said that American films were having “an
evil effect on the morals of young Aus-
tralians.” If they are right the position
is serious: no country sees more movies
per head of the population than Australia,
and over 75 per cent, of them are Ameri-
can. But are they right? There has been
a close connection between the Pit and
the playhouse in the minds of British and
American moralists for a hundred years.
\ et fully 90 per cent, of the plays of the
second hall of the nineteenth century were
portentously moral affairs like “The Silver
King.”. And for a good reason. In the
entertainment business nothing pays like
righteousness. English-speaking audiences,
outside the luxury quarters of the great cities,
have always shunned cynical plays in which
vice triumphs. They like to be preached at
as much as they like slapstick. But the
moralists could never be got to believe this
in the closing days of the drama’s supremacy,
and they can’t be got to believe it now
that the cinema is supreme.
Francis Birrell, the film critic, expressed
a great truth: —
The pictures are often blamed for their
immorality. They might be more truthfully
charged with a preposterous and unintelli-
gent seriousness and unsuitable desire to
moralise.
The chief weakness of American films is
their devastating sameness. There is a
monotonous avoidance of the facts of life,
about these screen tracts concerning gang-
sters who reform or get shot; and young
captains of industry who are lured from nice
girls for a while and then repent; and
elderly captains of industry who are lured
from nice wives for a while and also re-
pent; and mothers who sacrifice everything
for their babies, and win to happiness in
the end; and lads who defeat the forces of
evil by courage and honesty, and maidens
who rebuff millionaire rakes and wed virtu-
ous toilers. English producers also exploit
these sorry old plots, and they derive in-
spiration from the TJ.S.A. in other direc-
tions. To quote the “S. M. Herald”:—
During the last month or so one or two
English musical films have been brought for-
ward almost every week. Each has been
a passable imitation of a type of Hollywood
film that went out of fashion some time ago.
The chief difference between English and
American films is that the former are
spicier, on the whole. It isn’t that the
producers of England are less moral than
those of America. Far from it. The trouble
is that they usually have more artistic
integrity. When one of them is faced with
a delicate situation he is tempted to carry
it to its logical conclusion, whereas the.
business-like American is likely to supply
the edifying development which he knows
will please the right-thinking denizens of
the U.S.A.’s flannel-nightgown belt.
American films are not disgusting or im-
moral, as a rule —only as stupid and unreal
as the average melodrama used to be. What
Australia should agitate for is not films
that are less disgusting, but films that are
less asinine.
• 4
Returning the Compliment.
“Si Anu” bespeaks a welcome for them:—
The Australian showboat reached Singa-
pore the other day, and it was forthwith
announced that 50 Chinese merchants from
Singapore had decided to visit the Common-
wealth. There should be some interesting
captains of industry amongst them. Some
of the big Chinese commercial houses have
a history as ancient and exciting as that of
the old British East India Company. In
the days of native sovereignty their founders
arrived from Fukien and Canton as coolies
and promptly dug themselves in. They lent
money to the besotted Malay sultans,
financed their little wars and sometimes
turned them off their thrones. In the Dutch
islands, where pirate kingdoms had taken
the place of ordered society owing to the
Hollanders’ wanton destruction of the spice
plantations, they even set up independent
kingdoms.
Some of the Chinese merchant houses of
Singapore owe their origin to the secret
societies which terrorised the island 70
years ago. These gangs had their head-
quarters in the thick jungle which then
covered most of the island, and the initia-
tion ceremonies were as sanguinary as those
of the Arunta tribe. One of their exploits
was to purloin two cannon used for signal-
ling in the English fort. At one time it
looked as if they would purloin the whole
island. Their descendants did so in the end
by legal means. As banker, trader and in-
vestor, the tireless Chinaman owns all of
Singapore that doesn’t belong to the Arab
or the Armenian.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ......... 4,300,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ........ 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS *
„ .GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street EC3
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia ’and "at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
_ , „ *iL Classes °* General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
(• ine Diamonds
£2O
•'ine Diamonds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£25
DIAMOND
ENGAGEMENT
Fine Diamonds
£5O
h
II
083
cm
The diamonds used in the rings
illustrated are guaranteed finest
quality Blue White Gems - the
illustrations representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with Pure
Platinum Settings, these rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia
Write for a selection on approval.
A catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding
Presents sent post free on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD
SYDNEY
13 Hunter Street
BRISBANE
116 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
098 Collins Street
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lang is evidently one of the prophets who
have no honor in their own country. The
referendum voting at Ebenezer, where "the
greatest statesman Australia has ever seen”
has a farm, was: Yes, 145; No, 27.
“Midshipmite” Coyle has left the Vic.
U.A.P. to join the Cockles. He says he is fed
up with the failure of the Ministry to help the
farmers. Coyle was “overlooked” when the
McPherson and Argyle Governments were
formed. But for the pressure he put on the
then Premier in 1929, when Morley died,
Walter West would have been appointed to
the McPherson Ministry, and would probably
have retained the Gippsland South seat.
Coyle stressed the right of the north-east
district to a man in the Ministry. He for-
got Beardmore. McPherson remembered
Beardmore and forgot Coyle. Waranga is
Coyle’s constituency.
Queensland’s Industrial Court, has ruled
I hat when the 44-hour week comes in on
July 1 48-hour wages will have to be paid.
Employers and employees are both dissatis-
fied. Employers say that in' Melbourne and
Adelaide a 48-hour week is being worked on
a wage of about £3 a week, whereas the
Queensland rate is £3 14s. Unions have
asked for a declaration fixing standard hours
at 30 a week. The application is to be
heard on June 16, but by that time it is
expected that others will be filed, including
one for no-hours’ work a week, with quad-
ruple rates for overtime.
The game of chasing one another down
the hill that currencies are playing is hav-
ing some unexpected results. Everything in
the garden was lovely so long as our £ was
depreciated (through high exchange) and
other currencies weren’t. But to-day the
Japanese yen is worth only 18 or 14 English
pence against the old 241; wherefore Japan-
ese shippers get the sort of bonus by ship-
ping to Australia that Australian exporters
get or think they get by shipping to Britain.
So the Australian makers of kitchenware,
who had managed to secure 95 p.c. of the
local trade, have been driven to the Tariff
Board with the plea that they are in grave
danger unless the tariff is raised still higher
against the Oriental.
Sixteen members of the A.L.P. executive
have, picked J. T. Sweeney to be the Labor
candidate for Bulli. Six hundred and thirty-
seven Labor electors of Bulli say they want
A. C. Willis, and Willis says they’re, going
to have him. So on Wednesday night Mr.
Lang will open the campaign for Mr.
Sweeney, and Mi\ ,Willis will open the cam-
paign for himself. By opposing the A.L.P.
bosses’ man. however selected, Willis “auto-
matically places himself outside the move-
“Mr. A. C. Willis, M.L.C., said he regarded the
failure of the A.L.P. executive to select him to
represent Labor in Bulli as a compliment.”
ALBY: “These compliments are simply stag-
gering.”
ment,” as the jargon goes; hut he survived
expulsion before, and will probably survive
it again.
If the Lyons Government has its way
there will shortly be a Commonwealth Grants
Commission, charged with the duty of tak-
ing evidence, for and against and making
recommendations about grants to necessitous
States—or to Governments which allege that
their States are in need. It is to consist
of five members, and the chairman will get
£3OO p.a., the ordinary member £2OO p.a.,
“plus £5 ss. for each day of sitting and
travelling expenses, less financial-emergency
deductions.” There is already a Parliamen-
tary Public Accounts Committee, but “this
committee has found it impossible to deter-
mine any general principles which could bo
applied in such cases,” votes being involved.
The proposed substitute looks unsatisfac-
tory. It would be better (and probably
cheaper in the long run) to revive the Inter-
State Commission, pay its members fixed
salaries, and take the chance of the High
Court pronouncing its decisions unconstitu-
tional.
When ex-Premier Hill of S. Aus., packed
up for London and the Agent-General’s easy
chair, he sent £3595 ahead of him, and
charged exchange to the State. Butler asked
for a refund of £916; and Hill paid up.
Hill’s claim that exchange had been paid
on money taken by previous! Agents-General
was too thin ; Australian currency wasn't at
a 25 p.c. discount in those days. And, any-
how, to take money for personal use is one
thing and to ask the State to pay for the
transfer of investment funds quite another.
Hill’s stock has slumped heavily.
“Although the Yes mafority has increased to
nearly 40,000, the defeated party is seeking to in-
validate the referendum on the ground that the gist
of the Reform Bill was not explained to every
elector.”
“I’ve had enough of your body line bowling.
Under the new rule I order you off the
field.”
“I’ll take you to law, see! And if I can’t
get justice here I'll carry the case to
those overseas interests I warned the
public about.”
In accordance with its Ottawa promise,
the M.L. Government has set up a tariff-
whittling commission, with the Comptroller
of Customs, Dr. Craig, for chairman; his
associates are B. E. Murphy, professor of
economics, formerly a barrister; J. B. Gpw,
who represents cow-farming interests, and
G. A. Pascoc, member of an engineering firm.
No nation on earth has been able to extract
so much per capita from its citizens through
tariff agency as the Maorilander pays. The
imposts are so distributed that they have
never given effective aid to manufacturers,
and concerns established 80 years ago are
still struggling. But they are so used to
struggling that they’ve given up worrying.
Abolition of two Federal taxes, the special
impost on property income and the land levy,
was advocated by the Vic. Rural Disabili-
ties Conference, convened by the Argyles. A
sales tax on flour for local consumption, equal
to about Bd. a bushel on wheat and a half-
penny a loaf on bread, was also urged as a
means of helping wheatgrowers. Farmer-
delegates would be satisfied with less, but it
is the custom in these matters —industrial
arbitration procedure popularised it —to ask
for more than you expect to get.
A correspondent complains of a vexatious
experience on the Queensland Government
railways, now once more under Labor Con-
trol. Travelling from Ingham to Cairns,
some 144 miles, on a train affectionately
known as “the Midnight Horror,” he had his
ticket punched 11 times. Still he ought to
be thankful that an election isn’t coming on,
or that he didn’t make the journey in the
great days of McCormack. Then his ticket
might have been punched 22 times.
Australian women are indignant with Tom
White, the Minister of Customs, because he
has refused to 1 appoint a woman to the board
which is to report on the censoring of
books. In White’s opinion there arc some
things in some hooks that no woman ought
to see; but then many of such books arc
written by women. The real truth behind the
prohibition is that the average male, having
a romantic attitude towards women, simply
can’t discuss with them subjects which
women are accustomed to discuss among
themselves and would be ready to discuss
with men—if the men were better educated.
A woman J.P. was asked to step down from
a Melbourne Bench because the case to be
tried was full of matter unfit for a lady’s
ears. She replied that as the accused was
a woman, and therefore more likely to be
understood by one of her own sex, she wonid
stay where she was. The male J.P. solemnly
marched out of the court.
Electioneering is no easy job in South
Africa, where candidates may have to address
the free and enlightened in three tongues,
English, Afrikaans and (in the backveld)
the Taal. Up to the end of last century,
the Taal was the language of the Dutch
population and was spoken by Uitlanders.
It was a mongrel mixture of low Dutch and
half a dozen other tongues, with fragmen-
tary declensions and no genders. Reitz,
father of one of the coalition Ministers,
started to build something like a civilised
tongue on it and “Hollands.” The war
checked the scheme, which was only brought
to fruition a few years ago'. Now, Afri-
kaans is a compulsory language with Eng-
lish in the courts and public services, all
public servants being required to be
bilingual.
Whether John Allan lags superfluous, as
leader of the Disunited Cocky party will be
determined at a meeting to-day. In a round-
about way the central council of the organ-
isation has told 67-year-old John of Rodney
that it would be obliged if he made way for
somebody else. But Allan is an obstinate
old gentleman; then he holds his place
in the Ministry by virtue of his party
leadership. And Dunstan, the Minister of
Lands, has to be reckoned with. By assisting
to depose Allan he would make it. possible
for Bourchier or Old to become leader, and
lie would naturally prefer the position him-
self.
A. E. Moore, Leader of the Queensland
Opposition, sayis he is delighted at flic
. N.S..W. vote in favor of a reformed Leg.
Council, since a second Chamber is essential
to good government. He docs not mention
that his Government had the opportunity of
giving Queensland a second Chamber and
frittered it away. Moore’s party came back-
after a long Labor reign with the knowledge
that the people had voted for the retention
of the bicameral system. Time and again the
Moore Government was urged to set up an
Upper House in place of the one abolished
by Theodore, but it. pottered about making
excuses until it was too late. The story
behind that procrastination will make inter-
esting reading some day.
“Mr. Beasley demanded to know why there had
been no reduction in overseas interest. What had
Mr. Bruce done in London? He might have attended
many luncheons and dinners.”
“There's a wireless ’phone message from
a gentleman in Australia, sir. A Mr.
Beasley, sir. He says he objects to your
having three meals a day, sir.”
As a Yes-No exponent Lang threatens the
pre-eminence of tlic late George Reid. In
the tour that was to conquer the country he
told a Dubbo audience that if the Yes crowd
won the referendum the “Labor party would
never again function in N.S.W.” When the
first shock of the voting was over, he pro-
fessed himself greatly heartened, because the
result •‘foreshadows an early return of
Labor in the Federal and State Govern-
ments.”
An interesting sidelight on the recent cool-
ness between Germany and Britain was a
speech in the Commons by a Mr. Manders,
of Wolverhampton. Manders wanted a bill
passed forbidding the importation of Ger-
man goods. Manders is Freetrade, and Wol-
verhampton is Freetrade; and for a moment
the proposition staggered the House. Then
it remembered that Germany manufactures
quantities of the small ironware and enamel
goods that Wolverhampton specialises in, and
the motion was laughed out.
The successful revolt of Chinese Turkestan
against Nanking has probably more to do
with the completion of the Turksib rail-
way, recently the subject of a Soviet pro-
paganda picture, than with religious perse-
cution. . The railway places a Chinese pro-
vince bigger than N. S. Wales in closer
communication with Moscow than with its
old Pacific' outlet, Tientsin, which lias a
terrific desert and ranges of immense moun-
tains between. Turkestan has for halt a
century been a demonstration that the
Chinese can administer a colony quite weL
if left alone. The country was peaceful
enough until the Russian revolution put
strains upon it similar to the strains put on
Manchuria by the proximity of Japan. There
will bo additional embarrassment for India
if Turkestan becomes Moslemised and Com-
munised at the same time.
Imports of clear sheet glass are rationed at
present, and rationing is to continue. The
duties have been fixed at 2s. per 100ft.'
“That's what I think of Belgian glass,
blast it!”
British, and 4s. foreign, with provision for
deferred duties of 45 p.c. and 75 p.c. This
looks fair enough, and the H'ous.e was satis-
lied ; hut when the matter was under con-
sideration W. M. Hughes gave an extra-,
ordinary exhibition of a little man in a rage:
It is a question whether an Australian or a Belgian
industry should be encouraged. Australia owe#
Belgium nothing. There are more Australian soldiers
lying in Belgian soil than Belgium itself lost during
the war. I wouldn’t go a yard 1 to help Belgium or
any other foreign country. I will register my vote
on behalf of my fellow-citizens.
The Belgian Consul-General has published
a dignified protest against this attack on his
nation.
Taking only the bread-and-butter facts,
Belgium bought £4,195,100 worth of Aus-
tralian goods in 1930-31 and £3,579,100
worth in 1931-32; Australian purchases of
Belgian goods amounted to £312,000 and
£282,100. Imports of Belgian sheet glass
last year were valued at £3229. whereas
Belgium took £192,800 worth of Australian
frozen beef. Overseas buyers of Australian
frozen beef are few and far between; in
six years Belgium purchased £1,741,500
worth. Australia can no longer afford to
let its politicians indulge in the pastime of
insulting good customers.
Politically, Aden i.s part of the Indian
Empire. There is a report that it is to be
transferred to the British Government, and
questions are being asked by Indian inter-
ests, which are not getting much satisfaction
from the replies. Unspeakable hole though
it is, Aden is one of the strong posts which
Britain has dotted at vital points all over
the world. It commands the gate of the Red
Sea. as Gibraltar and Malta do those of the
Mediterranean. To hand it over to an
Indian Government dominated by Gandhi
or some such person would be an act of
insanity.
Determined to prevent the Vic, Electri-
city Commission from selling toasters, kettles
and the like, Chief Secretary Macfarlan is
to ask Parliament to give him a right of
veto. The commission’s job, Macfarlan says,
is the generation and supply of current;
competitive trading is not. The commission
contends that it is part of its business to
educate the public in the use of improved
appliances so as to push the sale of juice;
and as many Assemblymen (not all Labor-
ites) are of the same opinion Macfarlan
won’t get sanction for his ban easily.
The Forgan Smiths have decided to repeal
the Railway Superannuation Act passed by
their predecessors in 1930, on the ground
that its provisions are financially unsound.
Those who have contributed to the fund are
to receive amounts paid in, plus interest, on
retirement from the service. The general
demand was for the return of contributions,
with interest, in a cash payment when
the Act is repealed. Foggy explains that he
hasn’t got money in the house just now.
though he hopes to have it some other day.
Melbourne lawyers are beginning to de-
mand a higher standard of qualifications for
Vic. police magistrates. At present appoint-
ments are the close preserve of clerks of
courts, who, for all their experience of petty-
sessions work, are apt to be narrow-visioned
and pedantic.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hamer”: There are problems which I
defy anyone to solve. After midnight I met
a well-dressed man sitting on a doorstep,
and spoke to him, thinking by his moans he
was in trouble. He was. “’S like thish,”
he said. “I’ve gotter divorsh from the
wife; but we’ve made it upsh. I sliee ’er
NO CAUSE EUR ALARM.
CORONER: “Why didn’t you make more efforts to trace your customer when you found
you’d sold him poison by mistake?”
MCPOUITICE ( chemist ): “Weel, ye see, they were both the same price.”
pretty often. Then there’sh me preshent
wife; I girron wish her pretty well, too.
Then there’sh the ladysli friend I may
marry if I gesh divorshed again. Dunno
whish to go home to; whishever I do shome-
one’s hound to be nashty to me!”
* * !]:
“0.P.F1.”: For 48 hours or so last week
Eugene Gorman, K.C., was the most popular
man in Bendigo, and if the freedom of the
city were a Victorian custom he would pro-
bably have had it conferred on him. The
Easter fair for charity is a mighty annual
effort, in which every Bendigonian takes a
hand. There was, incidentally, a raffle for
a motor-car; a J. Hop, obeying instructions,
bought a ticket, a fellow-cop witnessing the
nefarious transaction. Two of the pro-
moters were prosecuted. Gorman, briefed
for the defence, contended that it was law-
ful to' sell tickets at a bazaar, and that the
street in which they were disposed of had
been declared a bazaar; not only that, but
the Attorney-General had been informed how
much of Quartzopolis had been “bazaared”
for the period of the fair. Anyhow, Eugene
argued, a bazaar was no walled or roofed
area; and he quoted authorities on the im-
memorial East. The P.M. was convinced.
Case dismissed.
“8.D.J.” (Bond.) : A strange change has
taken place in the social status of pacifists.
They used to be, almost exclusively, freakish
persons like Bertrand Russell; possessors of
towering intellects, long hair and prepos-
terous clothes. Most of them were old
enough to have been gaoled as conchies dur-
ing the war, and the young despised them as
enemies of the Empire, and ineffectual ones
at that. Suddenly, mysteriously, the B.Y.T.’s
have started to go pacifist. The Oxford
Union has been blamed for starting it by
carrying the motion “that under no cir-
cumstances will we fight for King and
country.” Manchester, Glasgow, Aberystwyth,
Bangor and Cardiff followed suit. At
Claridges’ and the Berkeley, nowadays,
“Imperialist” is one of the deadliest insults
you can throw at a young man with any
pretensions to intellectualism; and even
Gu-ardees are beginning to use the reigning
gags which imply that members of their pro-
fession are dunderheads as well as stipen-
diary homicides. One has to go further back
than the universities to find the fons et origo
of the fashion or whatever it may be called;
specifically, to the plays of Noel Coward and
Somerset Maugham. The mud camouflaged
as patriotism that has been so subtly cast
at the war business by these satirists has
stuck longer and attracted more revolted
attention than all the filth of all the war-
novelists put together.
* * * if.
“V.M.H.”: Strange things happened at
our boarding-house the other day. There
came a rat-tat-tat at the front door. I
opened it; a stranger asked, “Are those
yours?” “Those” were a' full set of false
teeth that lay on the mat. They weren’t
mine. I took them through the house, but
no one claimed them, and they were parked
on the hall table. Half an hour after a
neighbor came in to tell us that a set of
false teeth was lying on our mat. I opened
the door again, picked the grinders up, and
placed them beside set No. 1 on the table.
Later I was picking flowers and noticed
puppy gnawing something on the mat. An-
other set of teeth! That evening the mys-
tery was very simply solved. An elderly
boarder who is out all day had left a low
drawer open, full of old spectacles and teeth,
and puppy took the dentures for bones.
* $ * ❖
“Davy”: Meet the prince of cadgers. He
touched me first in London’s Strand and left
me 3s. poorer. In Adderley-street, Cape
Town, he begged another couple of bob. In
Colombo he staggered me by saying in a lordly
way “Not a bean, mister; I’ve ten bob.” Our
next meeting, only a couple of weeks later,
was in Perth; broke again, he extracted an-
other florin. Finally lie turned up in Bris-
bane with no demand other than the price
of a feed. In return for it he told me he
had tramped the world, stowed away or
worked his passage across the Seven Seas;
“and I’ve never had a quid in me kick,”
he added proudly, “for as long as I can
remember.”
“H.”: Finding fault with someone else’s
job is to be deprecated, but. criticism of
“Cavalcade” (B. 3/5/’33) is warranted. The
returning C.l.V.’s are shown as carrying
the Lee-Enfield short rifle. British infantry
in the South African War were armed with
the long Lee-Metford; the cavalry had a
carbine of the same brand. Some of the
Australian mounted troops carried Martini-
Enfields'of .303 calibre; but these,are beside
the point. Further, the butler in the pic-
ture _ wears a ippustache, an adornment no
British manservant has ever been seen with
in my experience. He and his fellow-ser-
vants have their meals in the kitchen, with
the range as a background. Considering
that other portions of the film show the
THE WAY IT GENERALLY ENDS.
THE YOUNG ONE: “I tell you it’s damned difficult to forgive your wife for deceiving
you.”
THE OLD ONE: “Damned lucky for you, my boy, if she doesn’t work it round so that
you have to forgive her.”
West End residence of the Marryots as a
swanky mansion, an establishment, of the
kind would have boasted a hall for the high-
livers below-stairs. Lastly, a butler of such
an establishment would never, on retiring,
have taken a low-down gin palace of the
kind depicted. If he had not gone in for
letting West End lodgings for bachelors of
social standing, his pub would have been
one of those little places hidden away m
quiet corners of West End squares—ultra-
respectable and patronised chiefly by other
butlers, footmen and coachmen—which were
to .be seen in the ’nineties. Perhaps that is
all gone now, however.
“O. W. Waireki”: I lent my neighbor
Brown an illustrated copy of “The Senti-
mental Bloke.” He enjoyed it, and passed
it on to liis wife, suggesting, at the same
time, that they should go and see the talkie
version, soon to be screened locally. The
lady opened the volume, and ran a critical
eye over Hal Gye’s quaint illustrations. “We
shall certainly not see this,” she declared
tartly. “Everybody's naked."
*i' sjc v
“Bert the Carpenter”: Phil Hargrave’s
collection of publicity tales (B. 10/5/’33)
reminds me of an unpublished story of another
boy wonder. The lad, who had a Russian
name, seemed unable to sit still on the'piano
stool, and was described by a critic a.s a
“restless genius.” I quoted this to the care-
taker of the Adelaide hall in which he played.
“Restless genius be blowcd!” said the care-
taker. “He’s got three blind boils. I saw
the quack put a dressing on ’em before he
went on.”
* * * *
“Norbell”: These days every housewife
has to drop the potatoes she is peeling and
go 'o the front door to’ .say “Nothing to-
day, thank you !” to a pedlar of toilet soap
and safety-pins. Often she slams the door
in his face, and usually the poor devil knows
as much about salesmanship as a cow does
of the Ten Commandments. Our street has
broken out into an eruption of enamelled
notices on front gates, with the legend
“Beware of the Dog”; but the camphor-and-
cotton men disregard the warning. My
neighbor, who owns a fierce bulldog, is really
worried about it. The notice on his gate
now runs: “Beware of the Dog. This is
not Bluff. It’s Dinkum!”
“Philm”: Not all the out-of-works who
knock at doors sell soap and tape. In Perth
an ex-army man, disregarding the handicap
of a peg-leg, has found a job in many city
stores shooting rats. With an ingeniously
contrived torch held up to his left eye and
a rifle in his right hand, he pots the rodents
with all the finesse of a body-liner, and gets
a bag of up to 50 in a night.
* * * *
“MacManimus”: The Presbyterian Church
in N. S. Wales has just emerged from a
heresy-hunt. Professor Angus, who holds
the chair of New Testament Theology at
St. Andrew’s College, was accused of being
“out of harmony with the accepted doctrine
of the Church,” notably as to the Atonement
and the Resurrection. His peers of the
General Assembly, after listening to an elo-
quent defence, accepted the doctor’s ex-
planation of his position. Thirty years or
so ago a young minister of the Kirk in
Victoria was suspected of unorthodox views
concerning the Atonement. In his defence
he endeavored to show that the word meant
“at one mind.” He had to leave the Church,
and endeavored to found one of his own,
without success.
* * * *
“D.”: Said Professor Macintyre at the
Sydney Town Hall meeting of protest
against Germany’s treatment of its Israel-
ites :
“I would remind you that no nation has ever
persecuted the Jews and ‘got away with it.’ ”
Would that national misdeeds were punished
with such, consistency ! The English, sacked
Jewry after Jewry during the barons’ war,
and when the Franciscans saved 70 Jews
from death “the populace,” to quote Green,
“angrily refused the brethren alms.” . Even-
tually Edward agreed to drive them out of
England.
Of the 16,000 who preferrei] exile to apostasy, few
reached the shores of Fra::i". Many were wrecked,
others robbed and flung o\ o board.
The French have been persecuting Jews
intermittently for 1000 years, and the Ger-
mans only stopped for the duration of the
war. The historical truth is that persecu-
tion by a nation, whether of Jews, Catholics
or Protestants, has no more effect on the
fortunes of the wrongdoers than national
corruption, which is another tendency that
clerics often say draws down diyine wrath.
England was corrupt under Henry VIII. and
Elizabeth, and one of its most glorious
periods followed; France was corrupt (and
glorious) under Louis XIV., and so on. The
Irish are the only ancient people who have
never had a morally corrupt era. What have
they got away with?
* * * *
“Molar”: Anatomically, no two oral cavi-
ties are alike. In general practice of over
two decades, I have met with only one case
in which there was • a resemblance —a lady
wore her sister’s spare set when her own
was being repaired. The U.'S. criminal
investigation authorities long ago realised
that the oral cavity was an excellent means
of identification. The rugae (the raised folds
on the vault of the mouth) are infallible as
to measurements for identification; only a
surgical operation could fake them. But the
recording process is too expensive compared
with finger-prints.
“Centurion”: Von Papen’s speech glorify-
ing death in battle as the highest human
ideal recalls one' of Gilbert’s heroes in the
“Bab Ballads,” Avho maintained “that in
battle’s fierce rage true happiness only is
met.” Like that hero, Von Papen has never
attained his heart’s desire, but he had a
splendid chance when the British cavalry
surprised the Turko-German H.Q. at Nazareth
in 1918. He preferred to leg it for safety,
leaving most of his cobbers to be captured
with all the H.Q. records.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Judge put on his wig, two
counsel donned gowns and 12 good men and
true laid down the tools of their trade and
sat in a jurybox for two days in Melbourne
to decide whether a woman had really stolen
a certain article, or whether she had put it
in her bag under the belief that the grocer
had included it in her list of purchases.
Having listened to five addresses the jury
returned a verdict of not guilty and went
back to its jobs; the Judge took off his wig
and the counsel their gowns. The State
footed a bill for £lOO-odd. The article was
a bottle of cream worth fivepence-halfpenny.
❖ ❖ * *
“Black Mountain”: It is 92 years this
month since the foundation-stone of St. John
the Baptist’s Church at Canberra was laid.
’Berra at one time had nearly as many foun-
dation-stones as residents, but this can be
said of the one _at the old church—it was
the first of the litter, and the ceremony was
the first public function held in the place.
May 11, the anniversary day, saw the dedi-
cation on the grounds of an old sundial, once
the property of Robert Campbell, who gave
£5OO towards the erection of the church, to-
gether with a glebe of 100 acres. Twenty
years before Campbell received his grant at
Duntroon, a convict in Sydney made the
sundial—the first in Australia—and it was
placed in the home of the family at Camden.
T. M. Shakespeare, M.L.C., discovered that
it had been removed from Camden about 20
years ago, and finally traced it to Vaucluse
House, it having become the property of the
caretaker. The stand on which it is now
mounted is of Rokite concrete —the only
Canberra invention since Farrer bred Ms
wheats there. The inventor is J. Shake-
speare, a brother of the Upper House press-
man. i
NONE OF HER BUSINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s no concern of mine, me dear,” said
portly Mrs. Clay;
“An’ where she gets ’er swanky duds is
not for me to say.
I wonder, though, ’e don’t wake up, for
someone always tells;
’ls screw don’t run to snakeskin shoes an’
thirty-bob marcels.
‘Oo foots the bills? Ah’ ’oo’s the sport that
owns the big sedan?
E ’angs around a lot too much, ’er flash
instalment man ;
That’s wot she calls ’im. Fishy, eh? I
wonder ’ow she dares;
But I’m not one to talk, o’ course—l mind
me own affairs.
“The Browns are raisin’ Cain again—it
always puzzles me
Why common folks as don’t deserve their
blessings can’t agree.
I ain’t the one to scandalise, hut what I
knows, I knows ;
An’ only yesterday it was I ’eard the sound
of blows.
‘Jist beatin’ carpets in the yard,’ she tells
me, pretty calm ;
An’ yet I could ’ave sworn I saw some
bruises on ’er arm.
An’ w’en I sniffs you should ’ave ’eard me
lady’s ’aughty tone!
But, then, the Browns don’t int’rest me—
I’ve worries of me own.
“You need to watch these oldish blokes,
that look so grave an’ prim ;
Take Johnson from the corner ’ouse, say,
wot’s the strength of ’im?
’E’s rarely ’ome, I notice, now, till after
twelve at night;
She ses ’e’s workin’ overtime. Ah, well,
let’s ’ope she’s right.
But w’en I warned ’er as a friend, she sorta
got the spike,
An’ tells me not to fret meself—you know,
sarcastic-like.
A nasty eye that woman ’as, but, after all,
who cares?
Me motter is, an’ always was, jist mind
your own affairs.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


AN OLD MAN’S POETRY.
[For The Bulletin.]
It is not like thistledown, bubbles or feathers,
Not like the dim daydreams of weary old
horses.
Nor wild things made captive, that tug at
their tethers,
Though it has been all of these things in
its courses.
It is not like a sunset of emerald and amber,
Nor an autumn wood glorying in bronze
and in copper,
Nor an old widow sitting resigned in her
chamber,
Though any of these would be perfectly
proper.
It is like a fine amphora shapely and slender,
Whose beauty resides not in chasing or
painting,
Filled full of. wise wine, rich, mellow anl
tender,
To cheer you when hopeless or stay you
when fainting.
MAOBILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
“Bramble Cay” : London “Daily Herald,”
a noted investigator of the nesting habits of
the female horse, has published a story of
the atrocities to which the aboriginals of
North Queensland are subjected by Japanese
and other “pearlfishers,” it being a common
occurrence for our unfortunate brothers to
be chained up on the “pearling ships” like the
slaves in the days of the West African trade.
The journal’s moderation astonishes me. For
instance, it might have mentioned that when
the available chains, including the anchor
cable, arc used up, the unhappy natives are
manacled to the mast with pearl necklaces.
I well recall an argument between a pro-
minent T.I. pearl dealer, now deceased, and
a Jap skipper. The latter had chained a
boy with a rope of pearls and, when the boy
died under the subsequent flogging, freed
him from his bonds by chopping off his
hands and feet before throwing him to the
sharks. He had been too lazy to wash the.
blood off the pearls before offering them for
sale, and that’s what old Tommy kicked
about.
* * * *
“Ivayeff”: I agree with “Oran’s” conten-
-1 ion (B. 2G/4/’33) that handwriting is
a poor criterion of sobriety; I once had
my signature queried at a bank which I had
reached before closing-time only by a fast
sprint. I had to wait several minutes before
1 could reproduce my usual signature, and
even then the official seemed a bit doubtful.
On another occasion I was caused much tem-
pura ry embarrassment through not being-
able to sign even approximately like my
usual scrawl. In this case an oculist was
to blame. Not satisfied with his first trial
to locate an error of vision, he had given
me a second dose of atropine. The result
was that for some time afterwards I could
see everything except the point of my pen
“22!)”: Mention of Major Coats (B.
19/4/’33) recalls a cobber of his, Lieut.-Col.
Davies, a Maorilander, who. after command-
ing a brigade in the Great War, went to the
Leicestershire (17th) Regiment. At Khar-
toum, in ’24 (following the assassination of
Sirdar Stack), the 17th, after quelling a
mutiny of Sudanese infantry, had to oust
the Egyptian garrisons from the Sudan.
Davies’s company was told off to see that
the 2nd (Gyppo) Infantry played no tricks.
He discovered that as fast as one party of
them loaded the train, another dumped
the baggage out on to the sand the other
side. They thought it a great joke—until
the Ungrezi effendi extended his company
ALL WHITE.
HIKER: “Many blacks in this district?”
ABO.: “Not one. You’ll have to travel a hundred miles now before you sight a nigger.”
at the double and prepared for action. “If
your battalion is not ready to move off
within five minutes,” snapped Davies to the
Gyppo colonel, “I’ll blow you all to blazes!”
lii four and a half minutes the 2nd Egyptian
Infantry was ready for Port Sudan and
Egypt!
° ■ ■'* v * *
“Shep”: It’s hard to fathom how “O. de
Vi’s’.’ Digger got home heavy mediaeval armor
as loot (B. 17/5/’33). With transport, cart-
ing it round France was simple enough; at
one stage we had two pianos that would
have been blown up if we hadn’t grabbed
them. Our trouble was getting even small
things away. When the brigade took over
Strazeele and Pradelles, shops and homes
were just as the civilians rushed out of them.
Immediately the parcel mail for Australia
increased, so much so . that headquarters
demanded rigid censorship, with instruc-
tions to C.O.’s to reject any parcel that
looked like loot. Not that the rightful
owners gained anything; shelling smashed
up pretty neat; everything left. I wandered
through the picturesque Pradelles chateau
and some of the old homes with a khaki
connoisseur, who nearly wept as he pointed
out pieces of furniture and glassware, lying
there in the debris, that would have brought
him big prices here. The biggest one-man
effort I have seen was a heavy German
machine-gun, complete on its stand, sent
home in pieces, some by each mail —all the
parts numbered so that he might be advised
of any shortages, and make them good with
parts from other guns.
* * * *
“Nikko”: There were well-organised
juvenile pushes in Sydney quite recently.
Our office boy, an obliging and popular
youth, seemed to suffer from some mysterious
ailment that affected him badly on Monday
mornings, sometimes preventing his appear-
ance until Tuesday. This, in conjunction
with his battle-scarred air when he did
appear, caused the firm to make inquiries,
whereupon the youngster confessed that lie
was a leading member of a seaside push.
It had warned a city push never to set foot
on the beach it claimed for its own; his duty
was to challenge any enemy who dared to
stroll on the prohibited sands. The war
had raged for months. “Here’s a week’s
pay,” said (In' boss. “Make it a full-time
job in future.”
“Centurion” : That reference to the import-
ance of pandering to the particular hobby of
inspecting potentates (B. 17/5/’33) recalls
a general officer of the long ago whose parti-
cular “rat” was sanitation. When it was
known that the old gentleman was coming,
the C.O. had the place turned upside down
and so spruced up that the inspection passed
off without a fault being found. Still, the
old boy w r as frightfully stuffy at lunch, and
when his report came in it was a snorter —
it ignored the sanitary aspect, but gave the
regiment beans for slackness. Next year we
were ready for him. In an out-of-the-way
corner a heap of the vilest muck obtainable
was negligently hidden and he was gently
urged round to it. He was in ecstacies. He
kicked up the devil’s delight, but congratu-
lated himself on his perspicacity, 'which had
saved numerous lives by preventing an epi-
demic. The subsequent report was so splen-
did that the C.O. still refers to it with pride.
“Craig-I-Lee”; Carefree bird men, is it?
In the early days of post-war flying, a Vic.
student was sent off on his first solo. In-
stead of circling the ’drome and landing, as
he was told, he kept a straight course and
disappeared into the blue. It was ten hours
before the instructor heard what had hap-
pened. The bright youth had flown to a
distant town and cleaned up £2O joyriding.
“Minnie Haircut”: Some time ago I wrote
about the trials of the musician with limited
means who tries to buy music in Sydney.
My principal complaint was that prices
were inordinately stiff. Since then my aunt
has died and money doesn’t worry me ; but I’ui
still disgruntled. It is perfectly impossible
for money (I haven’t tried love) to buy
in the “second city of the Empire” anything
beyond the rudiments of what a library of
pianoforte music ought to contain. And
the devil of it is that though theatre-ticket-
radio-set-and-gramophone-mongers can bo
perfectly definite about what they haven’t
got, they make a profound secret of what
they have got. I have made several attempts
to obtain from one of the firms that not only
purport to sell but to publish music to get
a list of its publications. The list was
always Out of print. If you want to buy
music in one of these establishments you
must have a list of what you want. The
list is taken. The attendant consults cata-
logues and shouts numbers up a tube. The
reply is (in my case almost invariably) a
positively triumphant “No, we haven’t
got ’em.” Or a venerable old score, fly-
specked and crumble-backed, is produced with
an air of “that’s one up against us,” and
charged at anything up to four times the
price of publication. A more elaborate
machinery for preventing the sale of music
THE LISTENER- IK.
MUM ( hearing the homework) : “And where is Perth, Bobby?”
BOBBY (who is allowed to do the tuning-in ): “ Just—just around past [?]LO, mummy."
I never encountered. Why the devil don’t
these people put their old stock in piles
in the main shop and let musicians see
whether there’s anything there worth buying?
“Retired Hop” : The proposal of the Eng-
lish Metropolitan Police heads for the
enlistment of educated youths to train for
higher positions in the force has proved un-
popular in England, as did a suggestion of
the sort when mooted in N. S. Wales. In
the past some of the Australian police forces
were officered by men who entered as “officer
cadets,” and in Queensland the system met
with success for many years. _ After the
war an attempt was made to reinforce the
Scotland Yard staff by picked young men
who had gained a measure of distinction as
army officers. The scheme proved a failure
and was abandoned. In his book, “Scotland
Yard,” Dilnot, an acknowledged authority,
says their failure was due to their lack of
experience of the criminal classes. He is of
the opinion that good detective work in the
big cities is based on long and intimate ac-
quaintance with all classes of criminals, an
acquaintance that can only be gained by be-
ginning at the bottom of the ladder as a
beat constable.
“F.1.A.T.” : I see that Sydney's police chief,
Mr. Childs, has been “touring the ill-lit
streets of the underworld on a mission of
public safety.” His next stunt should be
to assume the guise of a motorist
from the country or another
State and make a round of his
traffic cops. There is a type of
Sydney policeman who virtually
loses his reason at an early stage
of every peak hour. When he
waves traffic on he doesn’t do it
with the reassuring calm of a
Piccadilly artist, whose every
hour on duty is a peak hour in
a manner of speaking; his face
becomes convulsed with passion,
his arm semaphores with epileptic
energy, stifled objurgations pour
from liis lips. The hardened Syd-
ney driver takes no notice. The
visitor is quite likely to become
panic-stricken and drive into him
or into somebody else. I drove
about London for two years,
mostly between Knightsbridge
and Fleet-street. In all that time
I only saw one bobby show signs
of the excitement that bespeaks
a frayed temper.
“Beta”: A thing that struck
me on Referendum Day—l was
a deputy re turning-officer—was
the large number of people who
refused to use the Government
pencils provided. They brought,
their own indelibles, being obvi-
ously of opinion that I might be
a handy man with an eraser.
There were so many of them that
I felt quite dispirited; but the
policeman on duty at the door
nrovided a bright spot. Falling
into a daydream during the lull
at tea-time, he was awakened by
the dignified approach of a very
haughty dame. He flung up his
arm with an imperious gesture
that would have halted a speed-
ing taxi-cab. “Your religion,
please, madam,” lie demanded. A pretty
girl, voting for the first time, asked me to
make my initials on the back of her voting
paper more distinct, so as to obviate all
risk of informality, Her attitude was in
marked contrast to that of several voters
who placed both questions among the also-
rans by inserting the figure 13 in each square.
si: * $ *
“Vienna” : Percy Grainger, in his explana-
tion of his “Colonial Song,” endows Aus-
tralians with an almost-Italian appreciation
of music, but I don’t agree With him. The
Australian is sd darned tolerant that he’ll
put up with, and even applaud, anything
that purports to be music, but isn’t. It’s
impossible, for a musical ear to pass along
a Sydney city thoroughfare without being
assaulted by the yawps of some young loafer
who has conceived the idea of getting easy
money bv yodelling some awful ditty, usually
of American origin. The approaches to
suburban railway stations are cluttered up
with people who make weird noises on con-
certinas and harmoniums. All such im-
postors reap a fair harvest. I only once
heard of a prosecution of one of these street
mendicants —a girl who played the violin
in the purlieus of the Central Railway
Station. She actually made music, and I
presume this was the gravamen of the charge
against her. On the one or' two occasions
when 1 passed her pitch there was nothing
in her bag.
“Spare Corp”: In France I encountered
the family bed, a survival of an ancient
sleeping habit that prevailed even in Eng-
land. After acting on escort duty I was
chasing my battalion, and at night struck
a small, very old cottage where I was hos-
pitably entertained, my tin of bully-beef
(loved by the Gauls) being regarded as full
payment. My entertainers had little Eng-
lish, but it was better than my French;
and they did have plenty of wine. Bed was
at last suggested, but I felt rather embar-
rassed when I found myself invited to take
my share of a huge bed in which tile whole
family slept together —pere and mere, two
filles and a boy. Pere and mere seemed a
bit hurt when I preferred to camp near the
kitchen fire.
“Lao-dah”: A bottle thrown over from
the Orvieto off Colombo in 1928 has turned
up at Toulon. It must have doubled the
Cape, beat up the North Atlantic, navi-
gated the Straits of Gibraltar and toured
the Mediterranean.
“Bush Telegraph” : A South Aus. journal
recently published the reminiscences of one
IT. C. Maul, who came to this country with
Lord Harris’s English eleven in 1878-79.
The old gentleman tells how. on the. team's
journey from Melbourne to Sydney, it lived
in terror of the Kelly gang, which had stuck
up several of the small towns visited. In
Sydney, the tourist says, he found a cousin,
who “had been sent by the Treasury to take
charge of the Mint,” giving his staff re-
volver practice, Ned and his mates having
threatened to stick up the establishment. Has
anyone ever heard of bushrangers threaten-
ing to raid the Mint or any other Sydney
financial institution? I have always been
under the impression that that sort of thing
was reserved for politicians.
* * * *
“Selma”: Our office flapper was giving
her views on the cricket altercation. “I
think it’s perfectly horrid of Larwood to
go writing the way he is,” she said. “You
won’t find Jardine doing it. .Tardine may be
a pig but he is a gentleman!”
“Cross Roads" : Sydney Harbor Bridge has
achieved a grim record for suicides, and when
foot-passengers one morning last week saw
what was apparently a man’s figure hanging
by the neck from the middle of the great
arch they could scarcely be blamed for imag-
ining that a new variety of felo de se had
been staged. The figure turned out to be
a life-like dummy, and the crowd _ wince
gathered passed on, realising that it had
been badly sold by some person with an un-
pleasant sense of humor. Naturally, the
evening paper made the most of the incident,
and published an arresting picture of the
dangling “body.” At the risk of being con-
sidered ghoulish, I will consider an offer
of odds that the mock hanging is not carried
out in real earnest one of these days.
-v * *
“Badili”: It is popularly supposed by
those who derive their impressions of Papua
from returned tourists that the ambition of
every native Papuan is to get into gaol,
where he finds rest and plenty. That this
is not always the case was seen m Port
Moresby the other day, when a prisoner
from Abau assaulted another from V ailala
for singing all night and thus murdering
sleep. The objector was given 14 days shot
drill, which seems excessive. Many othei
wise blameless people, in gaol or out of it,
have felt like assaulting people of the type
of the Vailala minstrel when helplessly at
their mercy. If self-satisfied folk who used
to sing and recite to the wounded and con-
valescent in the war hospitals and rest
camps Could have known what their afflicted
hearers thought of them, they would have
realised the narrow margin dividing this life
from the hereafter.


B 1
ml
m '
M
JK\
V
s? N
v
*V
«£
C*>
D
O'
p-
s
# vv
O'
.<0
dam
Mi
•V v
tm
S.I-4-17
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Under-Secretary for Agriculture takes
the bun in the Queensland civil service for
number of Christian names. A recent
“Gazette” called him Arthur Ernest James
Charles King Graham.
Leo Cussen, Acting C.J., died suddenly last
week, at 72, and had a State funeral. After
a notable career at the Bar Cussen was
appointed to the Vic. Supreme Court Bench
in 1906. He consolidated the State statutes
twice and was thanked at the bar of both
Houses on each occasion; meantime he had
drafted the Imperial Acts Application Act,
passed in 1922. He was president of the
Melbourne Cricket Club and of the Public
Library Trustees, and was a member of
the Uni. Council. Minnows of politicians
prevented tangible recognition being given
to Cussen for his Acts consolidation work,
but he was on leave of absence on full pay
while ill for many months.
Justice Mann is to act temporarily as
Vic. C.J. It is proposed to continue Irvine,
C.J., as Acting Governor till December 31,
after which a Cocked Hat from abroad is
expected. In filling up the S.C. vacancy il
will be difficult to pass over Wasley, of the
County Court, who is no stranger to work
in the higher Court. If Menzies would
accept a puisne wig it might suit the Minis-
try to overlook Wasley’s claims; elevation
of the provocative Attorney-General would
relieve a strain which is felt in both par-
ties on the Speaker’s right, though State
politics would become duller.
Tom Taylor, the new chief clerk of Vic.
Lands Department, has had to wait a long
time for well-deserved promotion. In 11
months he will reach the retiring age, 65.
It was largely due to his advice and pressure
that the old Friendly Societies gardens on
Yarra bank, now called the Amateur Sports
Ground and the Motordrome, were redeemed
from a swampy, neglected area that nobody
would take the responsibility of managing.
R. W. Robson, who is launching the
“Sunday Observer,” is a Maorilander who
started young. At 24 he managed a
paper on the other side of the Tasman.
Coming to Australia, he became manager
of the old “Daily Telegraph.” Fleet-street
jobs followed ; he came back to Sydney to join
Dave Yaffa as editor of “Newspaper News”
and to start the “Pacific Islands Monthly.”
W. R. Carpenter, head of the Islands firm,
is interested in the new venture, and on the
literary staff are Malcolm Ellis, A. J.
Buchanan, Ilarty (late of the “Church
Standard”) and Carson, who wrote the
R. W. ROBSON, who is about to give
Sydney another Sunday paper.
“World’s” financial news. Joe Gilchrist,
who was with H. D. Mclntosh on the.
“Sunday Times,” is business manager.
Arthur Henry Shakespeare Lucas, just
turned 80. has already listed 1500 varieties
of Australian seaweeds; now he is off to
Lord Howe Island to search for more.
Lucas, besides being an enthusiastic
botanist, has published books on Australian
animals and birds. Seaweeds in other parts
of the world have been put to all sorts of
uses, foods, medicines and even artificial silk
being made out of them ; Lucas lays special
stress on the food value and tastiness of the
edible varieties, and claims that those around
Australia’s coast represent an enormous field
of untapped wealth.
Recently revisited this country, E. 11.
Scott, a former resident of Melbourne and
a member of the A.1.F., who for the last 13
years has been manufacturing in Chicago a
short-wave radio receiver reported to be the
best (and also the most expensive) in the
world.
Wallace Bruce, one of Adelaide’s financial
pillars, comes of an old Yorkshire family, but
lias had to work his way up entirely on his
own. While still young, he was chairman
of S.A. Taxpayers’ Association, and latterly
he was in the chair of the committee of
experts and near-experts which advised the
Commonwealth on unemployment. Before that
he was president of the Associated Cham-
bers of Commerce. A title came his way when
he was Mayor of Adelaide at the Duke of
York’s visit. He has been on the Tramways
Trust, is a trustee of the State Savings
Bank, and has presided over bodies varying
from Harbors Board to Dentistry Board.
WALLACE BRUCE, of Adelaide.
Socially he is as .icheeiry as he looks. He is
prominent on the S.A. Cricket Assoc., and,
at 53, is still good at most games, including
bridge.
C. J. Jacobs is going abroad to study the
modern methods of manufacturing in use in
the big steel concerns. Jacobs is managing
director of John McGraths and Motor Dis-
tributors, chairman of directors of Commer-
'cial Steels (Aus.), the Drop Forging Co.
and the File Manufacturing Co.,- and a
director of the Paget Manufacturing Co. and
Simpson’s Inks. He somehow finds time to
go yachting on Port Jackson in his craft
Alkooelie, and to act as commodore of the
Royal Motor Yacht Club.
Death has claimed pioneer-pastoralist
John Henry, of Pakenham (Vic.), at 86. Six
feet four and built in proportion, Henry whs
for 50 years a conspicuous figure at markets
and shows; he was a judge of all kinds of
stock. His son Evan, of Quarry Hill, Ber-
wick, has since his father’s retirement taken
his place as a judge at many shows.
Fine service was given to Victoria by J. J.
Lock, member of the Liquor Licenses Reduc-
tion Board., who' passed out the other day.
He became its first secretary 26 years ago,
giving up a managing-clerkship in a city
legal firm. When Andrews died in 1914
Lock was made a member of the board, and
his knowledge of law proved useful. Monu-
ments to his work are 1750 deiicensed pubs;-
there were 3507 bars when he was appointed
secretary.
Stanley Argyle completed his first year
as Premier of Vic. on Friday. His longest
term under Premiers whom he served was
2J- years under John Allan (1924-27); he
had 13 months under McPherson (1928-29),
seven months under Lawson (two Minis-
tries, 1923-24), and three months under
Peacock (1924). It would not be safe to
tv age r that Allan will stay as long with
Argyle as Argyle stayed with him.
The defection of organiser Jack White
was the stiffest blow Labor suffered during
the referendum campaign. White has been
a sort of kingmaker in western N. S. Wales.
His energy and influence over the farmers
contributed largely to the return to the
State Parliament of Treflo, Thrower, Dunn,
Clark, Paddy McGirr and McClelland, and
of Cunningham on two occasions to the
House of Reps. Now that he has gone over
to the Cockies Labor will find it much
harder to win western seats.
N.Q. Diggers have conferred on A. H. W.
Cunningham, part-owner of Strathmore and
Woodhouse stations, their League Certificate
of Merit for the part he has taken in the.
establishment of Scartwater station. Which
is run by returned soldiers for the benefit
of their fellows. In 1918 Cunningham
selected the country now known as Scart-
water, and collected from his friends suffi-
cient cattle and cash to establish a herd on
the property. Now, under his direction,
there are 8000 cattle on the holding and
assets are valued at £32,000. Grants from
the profits are made to League branches for
necessitous cases.
Few municipal employees can boast so
long a record with one council as T. D.
Glasscock, town clerk of Glebe, Sydney, who
has just retired. His name first appeared
on the pay-book in 1876, when his stipend
as “messenger and assistant” was Bs. a
week. Eight years later, when he had
climbed to 255., he was appointed town clerk,
at £3. He was then 22—“ the youngest town
clerk in Australia.” Glebe said. Glass-
cock is a pillar of the Boy Scouts, and has
acted as honorary treasurer of every public
fund in his district. When he joined the
staff Glebe was the most fashionable suburb
of Sydney. It has long ceased to be that.
Tasmania loses a helpful citizen by the
death of William Walker, who finished up
at 73 in his native Hobart. Holder of a
couple of university degrees (Arts and
Science), Walker had a bent for mathematics,
which found practical (and profitable) appli-
cation in a number, of business ventures, in-
cluding railway building in association with
Captain “Teddy” Miles and others in the
early days of West Coast mining fields.
Though a slight speech impediment, plus a
strong antipathy to limelight, kept him out
of public life, his advice on business matters
was eagerly sought by a very large con-
stituency. Withal he was an ardent lover
of books and a keen collector and appraiser
of Australia’s literary beginnings. A few
years ago he unostentatiously handed to the
’Pas. Public Library his rather wonderful
garnering of Australiana —over 1000 publi-
cations, among them the famous pirated
edition of “Pickwick Papers.”
A. R. G. Hawke, who ousted ex-Premier
Mitchell from the Nortliam (W.A.) Assembly
seat, is a capital platform speaker. That’s
not unusual, but this is: he learned the art
of oratory per medium of a correspondence
course,
A. M. Cook has been made senior metro-
politan P.M. in Vic., ,T. IV. K. Freeman to
rank after him as a city beak. They suc-
ceed Kelley and Berriman, who retired long
ago. For reasons of economy the Argyles
kept Cook and Freeman waiting for the
step-up.
T. Lindsay Buick, one of the oldest of
M.*L. journalists and as well known in Wei-
LINDSAY BUICK , Maori-
land journalist and his-
torian.
lington as the
town clock,
has just turn-
ed 67 but is
still going
strong. Born
in Oamaru, he
played Rugby-
in his youth
and represent-
e d Marl-
borough Pro-
vince ; he also
cultivated a
gift for public
speaking, and
after a brief
career as a
lecturer enter-
ed Parliament
uiid e r Bal-
lance's banner
in 1890, re-
maining there
long enough to
be Whip un-
der Seddon. In
1897 lie bought
an interest in
the Man a-
watu “Stand-
ard” and com-
menced writ-
ing. He now
has to his
credit, in addi-
tion to the
Lord knows how many newspaper articles,
nine, books, mostly dealing with M.L. history.
His latest work, “The Mystery of the Moa,”
is iii a fair way to becoming the classic on
the subject.
0. R. Cudmore, a new member of the S.A.
Leg. Council, rowed twice in the Oxford
and Cambridge boatrace, and represented
England in the 1908 Olympic Games. The
war caught him in England ; he was twice
severely wounded while with the Royal Field
Artillery. Tie founded and was for five
years president of the Imperial Services
sub-braneli of the R.S.S.L., and has done
good work in shifting some of the disabilities
of ex-imperial soldiers residing in Australia.
He helps to administer the S.A. Soldiers’
Fund.
Lysaglit, the ex-Attorney-Gen oral of N. S.
Wales, who died recently, was the queerest
mixture of audacity and shyness. When he
decided to come to Sydney he built himself
a home away out at Campbelltown, 30-odd
miles from Macquarie-street; yet he was
so terrified of an accident and of hurting
somebody in the process that he wouldn't
use a motor-car —wouldn’t even ride in one
if he could avoid it. Nevertheless, it was
he who drafted and brought in the most
audacious law-reform bill ever introduced
to a British Parliament —so audacious that
even Lang was glad to drop it the moment
its author handed back his portfolio.
BISHOP KIRKBY, who was one of the
speakers at the Sydney Town Hall
meeting at which the treatment of
Jews in Germany was condemned.
Always unassuming, just-dead Justice
Cussen did not stand on ceremony 20
years ago when Premier Tommy Bent
arrived at Cussen’s Auburn home one
evening in a hansom and asked him
to “jump in” as arbitrator and settle
a building strike affecting 6000 men.
Gently ’Sonah explained that there was a
light way of approach; the C. J., John Mad-
den, would have to be asked to make a
Judge available. But the two had an un-
official chat and Bent went away satisfied.
It was suggested to Madden that because of
Cussen’s special knowledge (he was a civil
engineer before he took to law) he would
be the ideal man to arbitrate. Great pains
were taken by Cussen, and he delivered his
judgment in the Executive Council chamber,
Spring-street; it was accepted without
demur. In 1924 he presided in the same
chamber as Adminstrator of the Govern-
ment while Governor Stradbroke was in the
Northern Territory and Lieut.-Gov. Irvine
was overseas.
Yeoman work without any limelight is
being done for his brown brothers by
Apirana Ngata, Maoriland’s Native Minister.
Ngata launched communal sheep-farming
among the East Coast tribes of the North
Island, and now has loosed his henchmen
to spread it among their kin in Rotorua.
Like his predecessor in office, “Timi” Car-
roll, knight Api, who wears a perennial smile,
is addicted to flights of oratory. He carries
M.A., LL.B, after his name, and will be 59
in July.
The Institute of Anatomy at Canberra is
to have another lectureship, the fifth. It
has been endowed by Miss MacKenzie, for-
merly of Melbourne, but now of France,
in memory of her grandfather, Charles
Mac Kay, who came to Victoria from his
native Sutherland as a teacher. He could
have been first vice-principal of Melbourne’s
Scotch College, but declined the appoint-
ment. He returned overseas and died at
Kilmore, where the Highland population
raised an imposing obelisk to his memory.
Died last month, at 65, Dunedin’s chief
librarian, W. B. McEwan. Due to his
efforts the Dunedin library has a complete
collection of M.L. troopship magazines and
papers—probably the best in the world. Six
months ago the Carnegie trustees recognised
his work by offering him an endowed trip
to Canada and TJ.S.A. to study library
methods and development.
John Gale published the first number of
the Queanbeyan “Golden Age” (N.S.W.) in
1860, and was still writing for it 70 years
later, though by that time it had passed into
the hands of his grandchildren. In one
way, Andrew Frederick Laurie’s record on
the “Border Watch” (S.A.) is better; he
and his brother founded the paper in 1861,
and he was in actual control of it till 1920.
When the two Laurie boys, printers, decided
to establish a paper at Mt. Gambler, it w r as
their mother, the wife of the meenister at
Portland (Vic.), who named it (after a
Lowlands newspaper) and wrote the early
leaders. Later (1863) John Watson, the local
schoolmaster, joined up as editor, and he
lasted till 1925 —62 years—and another
Watson, James, spent 57 years in the com-
posing-room. The firm is still Laurie and
Watson.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD
CECIL H DOYLE (Chairman!
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. 11. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 49,103 61 p.c. = 37,500 11,003 137,376
1924.. 59,163 6i „ „ 37,500 21,663 159,039
1925.. 38,329 61 „ ~ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,446
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 . . 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,816 32,587 44,755
1932.. 283 Nil 283 45,038
During the decade to the close of accounts
in 1918, which included the fat years of the
British meat-purchase scheme and other war-
time contracts, divs. averaged 10.7 p.c., and
more was put by than was distributed. In
the following year paid capital was doubled
by the transfer of £300,000 from reserves,
leaving the lay-by visibly £35,320. Then
the tide began to run out. Divs. averaged
4.4 p.c. for the seven years to the end of
Oct., 1925; for the next seven the average
was no more than 2.5 p.c., and aggregate
losses (£217.189) exceeded aggregate profits
(£146,813) by £70,376. However, £lOO,OOO
was brought from hiding, reducing the net
shrinkage in visible reserves to £80,623.
Thoroughly dissatisfied, shareholders ap-
pointed a committee of investigation last
year. Amongst other things, it was found
that heavy bonuses had been paid to execu-
tives, and that no specific allowance had
been made for depreciation for the 10 years
1922-31. So shareholders have put in an
entirely new set of directors. But whether
the new board will be able to squeeze much
profit out of the business is doubtful while
conditions remain as they are. No hint is
given of the savings expected to follow
elimination of staff bonuses, or from the over-
haul of other outlets. The facts are that the
freezing industry in Maoriland is over-capi-
talised, and competition for fat lambs in the
crowded Canterbury markets is fierce. At
Smithfield (Eng.), where the co. sells its
products, it has to compete with Argentine
exporters. Thus small fluctuations in lamb
and mutton quotations are liable to play
havoc with earnings, as the figures over the
last five years show. Hopes are, however,
that the Ottawa agreement will further
stiffen prices, and, with the stopping up of
some of the outlets, lead to steadier though
probably moderate earnings in the future.
In 1931 an extraordinary combination of
circumstances enabled the co. to record its
best profit for over a decade. Though Smith-
field prices touched their lowest level (2|d.
for mutton) for over a quarter of a century,
the co.’s consignments arrived when the
market was at its top (10|d. for lamb).
Last year’s prices, after fluctuating at low
levels, strengthened towards the close of
accounts; but the co. missed the ’bus, and
only £283 of profit was shown. The outlook
for the current term is more promising,
notwithstanding that killings may be lighter.
: Here is the skeleton of the business as
balance-sheet figures reveal it: —-
1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures . . . . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Other liabilities . . 801,954 484,148 498,850
Premises and plant . . 780,417 768,516 774,184
JBook debts, investments,
etc. .. .. .. 720,015 478,512 456,014
Pukeuri debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
The co.’s five works are reported to be
maintained in thoroughly good order out of
revenue; much depends upon that. The
year’s apparent slip in the financial position
was £37,170, leaving liabilities, which include
something- for contingencies, £92,806 in
excess of more or less liquids.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares, which are covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 20s. lid., at 10s. 3d.;
at which figure the return would be 4.9 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7J p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ * £ £ £
1929.-25,211 9375 p.c. = 10,625 5211 60,874
1930.. 14.436 9375 Nil 5061 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.-13,106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 . . . . 27,267
1932.. 6,166 937' Nil 30,476
Added rc.-.n-s, £11,087 .. .. 19,389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
*Half year, 3| p.c.
Owing to shrinkage in consumption, pro-
duction is now well in excess of the demand
for tea, and, of course, stocks have accumu-
lated and broken down prices in the world’s
markets, while exchange, tariff adjustments
and general slackness have complicated
the position locally. Turnovers have con-
tracted, margins have narrowed and stocks
and debtors’ balances become troublesome;
hence the persistent slip in this co.’s earn-
ings. However, now that India has decided
to get into line with other tea-producing
countries by restricting its production of the
leaf, the sag in prices appears to have ceased.
It was in 1928 that this co. took over
the tea business of James Service and Co.,
which included the Robur Tea Co., for
£275,689, of which £75,000 was for goodwill,
not treated as an asset herein. The ords.
got p.c. in the first year, but, nothing
since. As the outlook began to change the
board decided to go into the refreshment-
room business, the manufacture of table
pottery, etc., was undertaken, and activities
were extended to N. S. Wales, where the
business of the Oriental Tea Co. was bought,
and the co. went a bit into debt for the
purpose.
Still, there is nothing to worry about in
the finances:—
1929 1931 1932 1933
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 57,551 94,286 92,029 67,922
Property, shares,
etc 53,491 148,001 149,140 152,915
Stocks . . 156.076 125,784 91,232 65,937
Book debts . . 41,800 34,983 44,431 39,245
Cash . . . . 9,623 31,435 44,535
Last year the book value of stocks was re-
duced by £25,295 and debtors’ balances by
£5186. Thus, together with the allowance
for depreciation, etc., the board was able
to knock £24,107 off the amount coming
to outsiders and strengthen the cash hold-
ing by £13,100. The more or less liquid
surplus (£81,795, including stocks) was
£6727 stronger than at the previous balance.
Considering the difficulties, the co. is for-
tunate to have balanced on the right side
last year. The prefs. had to be content with
half a meal, which took £5BB more than the
declared net result, in which the slip was
£2066. That was after £11,087, as against
£12,938 in the previous term, had been added
to reserves, raising them to £55,012, which
includes an unspecified amount for depre-
ciation.
The market, which notes the change in
the outlook and the comfortable state of the
finances, prices the prefs. at 18s. as against
16s. 6d. a year ago. There are 125,000 of
them, 7£ p.c. cumulative, with priority as
to capital, and at no time are they to exceed
half the total scrip issued. Subject to the
allowance for depreciation, the cover is 365.
lOd. in net tangibles.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929* .. 10,898 20 p.c. = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 . . 31,568 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,296
1932 .. 28,725 224 p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 . . 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000 18,199
*l5 months.
This is an Adelaide-controlled concern, floated
by Guinea Gold in 1928. Its ’planes provide
quick transport from the coast to the gold-
fields, some 3000 ft. up in the mountains in
New Guinea. In its first four years the co.
paid divs. averaging 30.6 p.c., transferred
£20,000 from reserves to capital in 1930, and
at the close of last accounts still had a
lay-by of £18,199. The absence of aggressive
competition, lack of roads, the contract with
Bulolo Gold Dredging and general efficiency
have been the chief factors enabling the co.
to put up such a splendid performance.
Since the inception of the business, its
machines have made 8935 return flights,
aggregating 1,080,930 miles, carried 10,444
passengers and 10,155 short tons of goods,
machinery, etc., with only one mishap in-
volving loss of life.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, 3919 passengers and 4178 short
tons of cargo were carried, an increase of
464 persons and 232 tons respectively. Never-
theless. gross earnings (£77,695) were
£17,924 lighter, due to- a reduction of 1.6 d.
per pound in the average freight rate
(4.31 d.), which was 66 p.c. lower than in
1928. Owing to the heavier call for minor re-
pairs (the co. now carries portion of its own
risks), exes. (£64,642, including £9521 struck
off for depreciation) were only £2252 lighter,
leaving the net result £15,672 short of the
previous year’s at 17.4 p.c. on capital. Still,
20 p.c. was distributed, and the first
quarterly div. for the current term has been
maintained at Is. per share.
When the books closed there was £12,726
coming to creditors. The cash holding was
£26,348, debtors’ balances figured at £18,570,
fixed assets at £59,807 and shares in other
cos. at £l2OO. Nothing to worry about
there. The shares are the co.’s holding in
Fiji Airways, Ltd., which set up during the
year. Its prospects are said to be promis-
ing, though not so good as the parent’s.
Owing to the difficulties of road construc-
tion and maintenance, air transport shows
no signs of receding into the background in
New Guinea. The investment value of the
scrip will depend largely upon the life of the
goldfields, and upon whether the big mining-
cos. decide to run their own services. At
28s. 6d. the scrip returns 14 p.c. on a 20
p.c. div. basis.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Ee ‘
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Resjrves. serves.
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640
1924.. 25,405 15 ~ ~ 15,000 H 0,4-1
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,
1695 32 834 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926!! 28i598 15 „ ..22,500 6,098 139.353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,000 7,984 147.337
Premiums on shares . . 75,000 222,337
1928 41:762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929 * 52 141 15 „ „ 57,500 14,641 244,782
1930! . 29,064 12j „ „ 31,250 - 242.596
1931.. 1,181 74 „ ~18,750 225,027
1932.. 19 177 6 ~ ~ 15,000 4,1* t 229,201
1933.. HboBl 5 „ „ 12,500 226,785
The Australian clip for 1932-33 is figured
at approximately 3,100,000 bales, or 50,000
bales more than the record notched in the
previous year. For the ten months to the
end of April the average price was £ll
4s. sd. per bale as against £lO 18s. lid. for
the previous season. The co., which has
been handling wool, grain and produce in
Yic. and southern N. S. Wales for close
on half a century, put an extra 14,604 bales
under the hammer. Turnover in_ the pro-
duce department was well maintained. In
the stock section there was lesser trading
at lower values.
However, after making provision for con-
tingencies—the matter was given careful
consideration, the board says—gross earn-
ings were figured £7717 short of the previous
year’s:—•
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
1932.. 75,464 92,315 73,138 79.2 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
Last year’s bigger business was handled at
an extra cost of £1379, leaving the net
result £9096 lighter at 4 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 7.6, 0.4, 20.8, 18.4, 20.3, 19.1
and 21.9 p.c. back to 1925, when wool aver-
aged £34 19s. Bd. per bale.
The div. was lowered a point to 5 p.c.
The average distribution, for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930 was 13f p.c.;
but conditions which made the 13f p.c. pos-
sible have vanished, and are not likely to
return. Future results will largely depend
upon the co.’s experience in connection with
debtors’ balances and upon prices and sea-
sons. A 5 p.c. div. on capital as it now
stands—incidentally, the last £lOO.OOO
brought with it £75,000 in. share premiums
—will call for only a shade over 2.6 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined).
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:—
1922. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 149,271 364,582 254,665 217,898
Premises and
plant .. 77,339 141,235 138,403 160,923
Book debts, etc. 235,652 722,077 594,026 527,636
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 9,005 14,005 9,005
Merchandise . . 3,380 3,610 2,436 3,370
The year’s spring of £22,520 in premises,
etc., was on account of additions to the co.’s
Kensington (Vic.) warehouse, the idea being
to save outside storage and extra handling-
charges. To meet the outlay and knock
£56,010 off the overdraft (now £104.528),
debtors’ balances were reduced by £66,390,
investments, etc., by £5OOO and sundry credi-
tors were leant upon for an extra £19.244.
The more or less liquid surplus (£322,113)
slipped £33,689.
The market prices the pound shares at
28s. 6d. as against 255. 6d. a,year ago.
The return at 28s. 6d. is 3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. should the distribution
rise to 8 p.c.
Perpetual Executors & Trustees (W.A.).
Towards
Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec. 1924.. 1674 5 p.c. = 1575 99 473
June, 1925.. 2903 5 „ „ 1575 1328 1,801
Dec 1925.. 2342 5 „ ~ 1575 767 2,568
June, 1926.. 2723 6 ~ „ 1890 833 3,391
Dec., 1926.. 2655 6 „ ~1890 765 4,156
June, 1927.. 2443 7 ~ ~ 2205 238 4,394
Dec., 1927.. 2941 7 ~ „ 2205 736 5,130
June, 1928.. 3815 8 ~ 2520 1295 6,425
Dec., 1928.. 4000 8 „ ~ 2520 1480 7,905
June 1929.. 3520 9 ~ .. 2835 685 8,590
Dec.’ 1929.. 3657 9 ~ 2835 822 9,412
.Tune’, 1930.. 3448 9 .. ~ 2835 613 10,025
Dec.. 1930.. 2719 7 ~ 2205 514 10,539
June, 1931.. 2115 5 ~ ~ 1575 540 11,079
Dec., 1931.. 1699 4 ~ ~ 1260 439 11,518
June, 1932.. 1819 4 „ „ 1260 559 12,077
Dec., 1932.. 1838 4 ~ „ 1260 578 12,655
Much of the early success of this 11-year-
old Westralian trustee co. was due to returns
from its six-storeyed freehold in St. George’s-
terrace, Perth. The property was bought for
£47,519 in 1922. At the end of last year
it stood in the hooks at £60,345, unchanged
during the twelvemonth. Other assets were
furniture, £1464; Government securities,
£13,310; debtors. £4007; cash, etc., £1282.
There was only £557 coming to outsiders.
The co. does not disclose the volume of
trusts in hand. But its corpus and other
earnings have contracted with the fall in
values, cuts in interest and rents and growth
in taxation. Commission earnings, which
had more than doubled during the four years
to the end of 1930, reaching £17,053, were
£13,185 last year, when the shrinkage was
£201; interest and rents (£5235) were £768
lighter. Thus the contraction in the year’s
total income (£18,420) was £969, of which
£755 was offset by savings in exes. (£14,837,
including provision for taxation, deprecia-
tion, etc.). Taking the commissions sus-
pense account (£4499, up £74) into the
reckoning, the year’s net result was 5.8 p.c.
on capital as against 6, 9.7. 11.3, 12.4, 8.0,
8.5 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1925. The div.,
which had been lowered from 9 p.c. for the
18 months to the end of June, 1930, to 4
p.c. for the last half of 1931, was kept at
4 p.c., and looks like remaining there for a
while.
Prospects, however, should gradually
brighten as the trust business expands and
the co.’s own reserves continue to mount.
The £63,000 of paid capital is in 210,000
pound shares, paid to 65.; excluding the
building maintenance reserve, they werecov-
ered by 7s. 2d. in net tangibles. That is to
say, a 4 p.c. div. would call for no more than
3.3 p.c. on capital and reserves combined.
Murray Shipping, Ltd.
, Dividends ■ N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 8330 1296 10 p.c. = 4320 2714 7,522
1924.. 4998 1296 10 „ „ 4320 6,904
1925.. 6445 1296 8 ~ ~ 3456 1693 8,597
1926.. 1501 1296 Nil 205 8,802
1927.. 2716 1296 5 p.c. = 2100 8,062
Doss.
1928.. 3842 Nil Nil 4,220
Profit.
1929.. 2204 1296 Nil 908 5,128
Lass.
1930.. 1926 Nil Nil 3,202
Profit.
1931.. 1724 Nil Nil 1724 4,926
1932.. 1476 1296 Nil 180 5,106
1933.. 102 Nil Nil 102 5,208
Deficit.
Assets written down, £33,762 . . 28,554
For a few years after the present co. amal-
gamated various shipping interests on
the Murray, Darling and Murrumbidgee in
1919 it earned a run of .moderate profits;
the ords. averaged a shade over 6 p.c. for
the seven years to the close of accounts in
1927. Since then the big inland waterways
have been above and below navigation level,
according to seasons, slump has interfered
with passenger earnings, and competition
from motor transport and the railways lias
kept freights low. Thus the ords. have gone
without for the last six years and the pref.
div. was four years in arrears at the end
of January.
Actually the position was worse than the
bare figures suggested. To cover depreciation,
etc., since 1928, £33,762 has been struck off
the book value of shipping, plant, etc., reduc-
ing the figure to £22,772 at the close of last
accounts. The only other asset was debtors’
balances and cash, £13,892 (up £1918). The
amount coming to trade creditors was £417
(down £208). Including the insurance re-
serve (£3857), £28,554 of the capital
was thus unrepresented by tangibles in
the books at the end of January. To
clean the slate 15s. (=£32,400 in all)
is to be lopped off each £1 ord. share, and
arrears of pref. divs. to the close of last
accounts are to be cancelled. Also 7s. per
share (£7560) of the pref. money is to be
returned in cash. All this will reduce paid
capital to £24,840. of which £lO,BOO will
carry a fixed cumulative 6 p.c., or £648 p.a.
The writing down will, of course, lighten
the charge for depreciation; much depends
upon whether the fleet, etc., has been main-
tained in good working order. The pref.
div. and 5 p.c. to the ords. will now call
for £1350 p.a.. which, subject to seasonal
conditions, may be within the co.’s reach.
Hoadley’s Chocolates, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. senes, serves.
1923.. 16,217 557 10 p.c. = 7487 8173 19,862
1924.. 13,913 5998 10 „ „ 7494 421 20,283
1925.. 9,274 6000 5 „ „ 3748 19,809
Loss.
1926.. 4,639 6000 Nil 9,170
Profit. 4 p.c.
1927.. 240 3000 Nil 6,410
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 22,646 Nil Nil 16,236
Profit.
1929.. 6,693 Nil Nil 6693 9,543*
Loss.
1930.. 15,795 Nil Nil 25,338*
1931.. 26,677 Nil Nil 62,015*
Profit.
1932.. 222 Nil Nil 222 51,793*
*Freehold appreciation reserve ( £15,709), created
in 1929, not taken into account.
This is the co. which took over Hoadley’s
chocolate business in 1911. It was hit
severely by the early post-war slump, but paid
a run of 10 p.c. divs. to the close of accounts
in 1924. Then it was decided to enlarge
and modernise the factory. To meet the
outlay and lighten the overdraft, capital was
doubled by the issue of 75,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. About the same time Nestle’s com-
pleted their, new chocolate factory at Abbots-
ford (Sydney), the Cadbury-Fry-Pascall in-
terests had set up works in Tasmania and
Macßobertson started to extend Ms busi-
ness. In the struggle for turnover Hoad-
ley’s fought a losing battle for a while,
costs remained stubborn and slump brought
a fresh lot of troubles, including a crop of
bad debts. The co.’s losses for the six
years to the close of accounts in 1931 aggre-
gated £62,823 net.
Pref. holders, who have gone without for
the last five years, talked of liquidation 12
months ago. Meanwhile the outlook has be-
come more encouraging. Savings followed an
overhaul of the organisation, more of the
(“Wild Gat ” continued on page 16.)


A RECORD OF SOUND FINANCE
Sfte
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT FOR 1932
INCREASE IN NEW ORDINARY BUSINESS NEARLY
£BOO,OOO
PREMIUM INCOME EXCEEDS
£2,000,000
A WONDERFUL RECORD FOR A YEAR OF DEPRESSION
Ordinary Department
New Life Assurances: Business transacted —9957 Policies, assuring . . £6,350,443
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £11,269,626) 311,339
Total Income for the Year 1,990,999
Claims by death (death-rate low —only 52 p.c. of expectation) 376,774
Bonuses (every year a bonus year)—Net Surplus for the Year 321,309
This is a large surplus, in view of the year being one of great business depression.
Combined Ordinary, industrial, and Accident Departments
New Policies issued during the Year
Assuring
Total Income for the year 1932
Interest Income
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1932
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policy-
holders only.
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses, and provision for the
growing liability of policy contracts to the following extent: —
SURPLUSES FOR THE YEAR —£488,193
These surpluses exist after writing off £107,835 for possible depreciation of investments.
Contingency Reserves (in addition to all actuarial reserves) stand at £120,000.
Policies in the Ordinary Department number 98,293. Those in the Industrial Department
number 21 5,072. Those in other Departments number 55,276. In all an army of over 368,641
—an impressive combination,
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render unexceptionable and unexcelled
service to the assuring public.
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
Arthur Bonville Were, J.P., Chairman.
Senator the Hon. Sir Harry Lawson, K.C.M.G.; Geo. E. Emery, C.M.G., J.P.; C. J. Henderson, J.P.; General
Sir Harry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.8.; James Pullar, F.F.A., A.1.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Secretary.
Charles E. Melville, Manager.
CHIEF OFFICE FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORATE:
HON BRUCE SMITH, K.C. (Chairman); ROBERT M. PITT; SIR KELSO KING, K. 8.; SYDNEY SNOW.
RESIDENT SECRETARY: CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.I.S.
£7,998,785
2,658,104
610,810
14,053,967


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * #
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.l. — Advt.
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO&CO.PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.)
Telegrams: Victor Beggo. Melbourne.
PIONEER
THE BIG NAME IN LEATHER
BELTING
For over 74 years the name
Pioneer on a leather belt has been
an assurance of long years of trouble-
free service on the toughest drives
and under the most difficult work-
ing and climatic conditions.
We make a special guaranteed
Pioneer Leather Belt for every
transmission requirement. Ask for
the leader since iqss
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
tree advice and our new catalogue.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEE
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL 1
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL'S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
business has been placed on a cash basis
and the financial position has improved.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
(£22,713) was £7718. Profit and loss
charges (£22,491) were £19,171 lighter, due
largely to a smaller allowance for bad debts,
leaving net profit at £222, an improvement
of £26,889 on the previous year’s result. The
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles was £51,793, or 13s. lOd. per ordinary
share, at the end of Dec. That is leaving
out of the reckoning a reserve of £15,708,
created in 1929 by writing up the book
value of the freeholds.
-The position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it is as follows:
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £149,967 £149,967 £149,967 £149,967
Overdraft .. 40,707 41,025 44,613 15,135
Other liabilities 29,856 17,112 10,150 7,349
Freeholds, etc. 42,861 40,580 40,133 39,522
Plant, etc. .. 64,262 46,791 42,036 37,495
Shares in
other cos. .. 5,374 5,374 5,374 6,374
Stocks .. 62,082 55,138 46,312 36,094
Debtors .. 56,161 49,198 33,735 17,291
Cash, etc. .. 2,796 1,392 833 590
Last year the final balance (£12,552) on
a property sold in 1928 came in, other
debtors’ balances were reduced by £3892 and
stocks by £10,218. Including the allowance
for depreciation, etc., the co. was thus able
to knock £29,478 off the overdraft and £2BOl
off the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Altogether, the more or less liquid surplus
(£31,491, including stocks) improved £5374.
Incidentally, there is a contingent liability
upon the co. to buy 20,000 £1 shares in
Federal Milk Pty. at par from W. Hoadley
at his option or death.
The market notes this, notes also that the
pref. div. was £33.000 in arrears at the
end of Dec., and that resumption of divs.
will depend largely upon the extent to which
turnover can be further livened and outgoings
restrained. It therefore prices the prefs.,
covered by net tangibles with a book value of
265. 2d., at 4s. 6d. as against 2s. sd. a year
ago, and speculates in the ords. at Is. 9d.
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., a prospect-
ing concern registered in Melbourne at the
end of April, 1930, vigorously continues the
hunt for gold-bearing properties likely to
develop into something worth while; and it
is exceptionally well equipped for the task,
being backed by a powerful group of half a
dozen London and three Australian mining
cos. Hence the rush for scrip in the first
offshoot, Mt. Coolon (Q.), which w’as
brought to production inside 12 months; it
netted approximately £70,000 from its first
five months’ operations and is now on the
dividend list. The prospecting co. is also
interested in Berry Leads, which is testing
the auriferous deep leads located by drilling
■Oca l ' Allendale m the Ballarat district
(Vic.). Here the lead is believed to be
practically dry, and prospects look bright.
In conjunction with Western Mining Corp.,
Gold Mines of Australia has taken an
option, till May 1, 1934, over the Wentworth
leases, Ora Banda (W.A.). Here the lode
extends throughout the length of the pro-
perty. It will, without doubt, live at depth,
says geologist C. G. Gibson; he adds that
.the show has a good chance of develop-
ing into a big mine. Where opened up the
lode consists of a wide band of highlv-
sheared and schisted greenstone. The main
workings are on the 50ft. and 100 ft. levels,
from which crushings ranged from Sdwt. to
15dwt. per ton.
* * * *
During 1932 Australia imported 60,809
tons of brimstone compared with 21,362 tons
for the previous year. The supplies came
from Texas (U.S.A.), where 876,000 tons
•were produced during the year. The sul-
phur imported was used mainly in the manu-
facture of sulphuric acid required for super-
phosphate production. Up to the present,
the only sulphur obtained in Australia has
been recovered indirectly from the roasting
of zinc concentrates, which contain about 30
p.e. sulphur. For some years prior to 1931
the Electrolytic Zinc Co. produced sulphuric
acid equivalent to 25,000 tons of brimstone
annually; lately the co.’s output of acid
has been much lighter. However, the Mt.
Lyell Co. (Tas.) will shortly be producing
pynte concentrates equal to 14,000 tons of
sulphur annually, and the Lake George Corp.
is investigating the recovery of elemental
sulpuur from the pyritic lead-zinc ore at
Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) by a method now
successfully worked in Norway. At present
there is a bounty of £2 ss. a ton, less 20
p.c. cut, on sulphur recovered from Aus-
tralian sulphide ores.
Melbourne snapped the 70,000 £1 shares
in Nelson Consolidated, which handed a
further £30,000 in paids to the vendors for
a property containing parallel lines of fis-
sure lodes at St. Arnaud (Vic.). The area
includes the old Lord Nelson, which was
worked to a depth of 2300 ft. and paid over
£267,000 in divs. to the end of 1912. But
it is Love’s Indicator in the centre of the
area to which attention is to be paid. This
reef was worked at shallow depths with un-
satisfactory results by the Welcome Nelson,
whose funds ran out in 1926. Still, the cap
of a sulphide lode, 3ft. to sft. wide, and
strong underfoot, was revealed in a crosscut
from the 335 ft. level* and 1000 tons of the
stone yielded dOGoz. of umaai uoB«ys
were much better, and big improvements
have since been made in recovery methods.
The intention is to deepen the shaft (now
down 345 ft.) to 500 ft., and to work the reef
on the 335 ft. level and below;.
* * * *
During the first four months of this year,
23 gold-mining cos. were registered in Vic.
Their nominal capitals aggregated £274,825.
of which £224,470 was subscribed. For the
corresponding period of 1932, 15 cos. with an
aggregate nominal capital of £240,950 were
formed.
* * * *
Granites Gold, Mitta Mitta (Vic.), has
located two new reefs, each 4ft. wide. One
is showing free gold, and the other gold in
the gossan outcrop. At the moment the co.
is developing four reefs with satisfactory
results.
*** • *
The Golden Lily’s new lode at Aberfeldy
(Vic.) is sft. wide 30ft. below the tunnel
level and 510 ft. vertically below the surface.
A parcel of 20 tons recently averaged 3oz.
Driving and rising are to be gingered up.
# * * *
On the Gisborne goldmine (Vic.) a
faulted section of the reef, 3-£ft. wide, has
been picked up in a drive on the 218 ft. level.
Between the 130 ft. and 218 ft. levels there is
600 tons of stone assaying up to 3oz. A rise
is being put up to stope this ore.
* * * *
Hillbriek’s New Concord, Maldon (Vic.),
has struck good ore and heavy water in a
shaft 73ft. deep. The installation of a
pump at the old Concord shaft to the north
is expected to overcome the water difficulty.
* * * $
At Mt. Coolon (<J.) the main drive has
been taken a total distance of 110 ft. north
and south of the crosscut on No. 4 level in
ore averaging 19s. per ton (gold 845.) over
a width of Bft., which is about half the
total width. The values obtained as driv-
ing proceeds will largely determine the
future of the mine.
* * * *
The Queensland Mines Department has
investigated the find at May Downs station,
50 miles from Mount Isa. It declares that
“the field has attracted altogether too much
attention.” Outside the Golden Crescent
area, which has been prospected for upwards
of 40 years without success, there is “noth-
ing to be seen that warrants pegging.”
* * * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), is pushing
on with its 1060 ft. tunnel at the rate of
about 62ft. weekly. It expects to meet the
lode in another 150 ft. The treatment plant,
capacity 100 tons daily, is being erected, and
a £12,000 contract has been let for a steel
pipe line from the Dawson River to deliver
50,000 gallons daily. The line is to be
completed by October 31. Still, many wonder
what the result of it all will be, notwithstand-
ing the encouraging assays proclaimed.
* :!: * jit
The milling and power plants on the
Golden Mile, Cracow (Q.), have been given
trial runs, and the necessary adjustments
made. The designed capacity is 50 tons
daily. The treatment consists of fine grind-
ing and collecting the gold on corduroy
blanket strakes, and a 91 p.c. recovery is
expected.
* * * *
On the old Calliope field, Gladstone (Q.).
a hew reef has been found in New Zealand
gulljr. The lode, which is about 15in. wide,
consists of white, friable quartz intermixed
with clay, and slugs up to soz. have been
found. Gold was first discovered at Calliope
by Samuel Stutchbury, Government Geolo-
gist of N. S. Wales, in the fifties of last
century, and over £20,000 worth of alluvial
was won before the area was abandoned in
1878.
* «= * *
A syndicate has taken over the old Mount
Shamrock on the Gayndah (Q.) railway,
and is renovating the workings and cyaniding
the residues. The mine has been dewatered
and a new Empire mill and tables are to
be erected. The property, first worked by
an English co. 35 years ago, is the only
spot in Queensland where telluride has been
found.
* * * *
Mutooroo Copper, Adelaide, has joined in
the hunt for gold properties. It has taken
an. option over an 18-acre lease north of and
adjoining the Wentworth, Ora Banda
(W.A.).
* * * *
Golden Arunta has decided to suspend
operations at Brown’s Belt, Centralia. The
reef, cut by a shaft 35ft. deep, was 7ft.
wide, but very low grade.
* * * jjj
Anglo-Australian Gold Development, re-
cently formed in London with a capital of
£400,000, has bought three diamond drilling-
plants, two of them capable of boring to
2000 ft._ The Mars at Nannine and the Beryl
group in the Kundip district, Westralia, are
to be tested first ? the work is expected
to begin in August. Drilling of the Day
Dawn on the Murchison field, the Leonora
at Leonora and Wheel of Fortune at Len-
nonville will follow. On the Apex at Marble
Bar, preliminary operations are to be con-
fined to underground development. The total
area of the co.’s leases is 2434 acres. In
the past, the output of the mines embraced
aggregated _ 153,2570 z. fine from 186,252
tons. The intention is to form separate cos.
to work properties which promise to be
worth while.
* * * *
Metals Investigation Pty., Melbourne,
has taken an option over the Imperial Co.’s
leases, the Morning Star and Abadair, at
the south end of the Kalgoorlie field, near
the Lake View and Star properties. The
terms of the option are £lOO cash, with the
right until July 15 to a three months’ work-
ing option on payment of another £lOO.
The full purchase price is £20,000 cash,
less deposit (£200), and a 20 p.c. fully-paid
share interest in any company formed to
the property; capital not less than
£50,000.
Ati the end of 1932 ore reserves at Great
Boulder (W.A.) were put at 204.792 tons,
assaying Bdwt., plus 333,208 tons of probable
ore of similar grade: a total of 538,000 tons
as against 80,372 tons in 1930, when develop-
ment was at a standstill. Crosscutting is
in progress on 1950 ft. level of Hamilton
shaft to prove the telluride-bearing lode,
6ft. wide, met with on the ISOOft. level,
where it assayed 30dwt. The development
of a 4ft. lode assaying 12dwt., first met in
a crosscut at the 900 ft. level of Lane’s
shaft, is also in hand. General-manager .Tack
Warrick is on his way to London to help
with discussions concerning the erection of
a new mill to treat 12,000 tons monthly.
The estimated cost is £BO,OOO. At present
the co. is milling 7000 tons monthly for an
average working profit of about £lO.OOO.
* * * *
South Kalgurli has proved the lode on the
o2sft. of the Hainault lease for a distance
of 128 ft., the ore averaging 9dwt. over a
width of 12ft. The management is now on
the hunt for the same lode at deeper levels.
At the end of March, 1932, ore reserves were
figured at 214,000 tons assaying B.sdwt.,
and 94,700 tons assaying 6dwt. The new
lode is expected to provide a substantial
addition to these figures.
* * * *
On the intermediate 1188 ft. level at
Boulder Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, the lode
has been driven on for 200 ft. over a width
of 12ft., and 1400 tons, averaging 17klwt.,
has been taken out. The co. is now cross-
cutting to the east boundary lode, which a
recent drill hole showed to be 39ft. wide
with two sections (6ft. and 3ft.) each assay-
ing 30dwt.
* * * *
On present appearances Wavic Gold has
something encouraging in the Two Boys at
Iligginsville (W.A.). A shaft 120 ft. from
of the reef found the hanging wall
at 57ft. Here the reef is s|ft. wide. Driving
has disclosed values from 15dwt to an ounce.
The strike of the reef is east and west, which
is not usually considered a favorable indi-
cation, but other shows, including the Vic-
torious and Carbine, with a similar strike
have turned out well. The erection of a
treatment plant is under consideration.
* * * «
The Mararoa (,W.A.), though poor in the
oxide zone, paid good divs. after it got into
the sulphides. T. Nicholson took it over about
eight years ago, and has since been getting
payable ore out of some of the upper work-
ings. During the last three years he ex-
tracted 35390 z. of gold. The show has now
been bought by the Phoenix .Co., which is
unwatering the lower workings to get at a
make of good ore found by the diamond
drill. Norseman, on the same reef, hopes
to start up its new plant next month, and
the market believes it has good prospects.
# * * *
There is much activity in the Buller dis-
trict (M.L.). A co. is developing a large
low-grade formation in granite at Karamea,
and an alluvial area at Croninville, formerly
worked by prospectors, is to be sluiced on
a large scale. At Britannia Creek, a reef
lost by faulting has been located again,
and 2oz. stone is now going through the five-
head battery. Also a better water supply
has enabled sluicing operations at Addison’s
Plat to be extended.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the position of the prefs. in
Queensland National Pastoral? (2) Do their
arrears of divs. come first? —6008.
(1) To cover drought and other losses
to the end of 1931, £525,000 was struck
off the ord. capital, reducing it to £75,000
in 600,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each. The
250,000 £1 prefs., 7 p.c. cumulative with
priority as to capital, were not interfered
with, except that they were given four votes
for each share held as against one vote per
share for the ords. Incidentally, the Q.N.
Bank is entitled to appoint one director
if and so long as the co. shall be indebted
to the bank for the sum of £25,000. At
the end of last year the amount coming to
outsiders, including the bank, was £245,195,
which exceeded more or less liquids by
£46,770. The book value of the cover for
the prefs. was 235. Bd. in net tangibles,
chiefly leaseholds in western Queensland.
(2) No, the prefs. rank after outside credi-
tors. Divs. cannot be paid to pref. or,
indeed, any other shareholders unless profits
are available, either from the year’s earn-
ings or reserves. To pay a div. out of capi-
tal may land the directors, as well as the
shareholders who receive it, in serious
trouble. _ Including £14,191 written off for
depreciation, etc., the co. registered a loss
of £29,030 last year, and that amount of
the £75,000 of ord. capital was unrepresented
by tangibles when the books closed. At the
end of this year there wall be £140,000
(over 11s. per share) coming to the prefs.
in accrued divs. But unless the co.’s articles
provide otherwise, arrears of pref. divs. will
not become a liability of the. co. until a
resolution has been passed to pay them.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.D.: (1) A fair gamble; much depends upon
how the dredging area on the Lower Watut turns
out. (2) At 17s. 6d. the return is 5.7 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis; but you may have to wait a
while for a lift in the div J.G.R.: See B.
8/2/’33... .C.P.H.: ■ (1) A reasonable spec.; but
until the debt is substantially reduced it is a
doubtful investment. (2) Chiefly because the co.
has not yet run across anything worth mentioning. It
is a gamble at long odds.. . .Sanus: Pref. shareholders
now have four votes for each pref. share held, and
ord. shareholders one vote for each ord. share held.
No dividend can be paid to the prefs., or, indeed,
any other shareholder, unless profits are available,
either from the year’s earnings or reserves... .T.D.:
(1) No trace Teece Transmission Co. (2) The ords.
.... .T.W.: Over the last few months the price has
risen from 7s. to 13s. Bd. Recent developments
suggest that they are still worth consideration....
R.A.H.: (1) Deborah line is one of the lesser im-
portant anticlines. Co.’s paid capital is £8750 in
46,500 shares of 10s. each—4o,ooo paid to 2s. 9d.
and the balance (vendor’s shares) fully paid. (2)
Prospects not bright with metal prices as they are.
. ...H.S.T.: Not recommended... .F.C.H.W.: See B.
17/5/’33. Morobe dredging claims comprise about
1440 acres, with a 12-mile frontage to the Lower
Watut River. There is another 1450 acres to the
south-west now being test bored. (2) Very doubtful;
recent results cannot be accepted as reliable guide
to the value of either mine.... A.A.C.: Have asked
co. for balance sheet and trustees’ report. Will
advise you on receipt L.J.M.: It is a long-term
speculation. If you cannot afford to lose, keep out.
. ...W.T.K.; ’Asia, Union, Carlton and Myer. The
last-named offers best prospects of early benefits....
A.W.R.: At 18s. lOd. the market has discounted the
future. A.P.A. at 10s. Cd. offers better prospects.
.. . .R.J.H.: Don’t like it. Too much reliance should
not be placed on assay figures.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Stable Money
“Gibbo”: If you want an example of
the wicked effects produced by the violent
fluctuations in price levels, due to our un-
stable money, I can produce one. In 1919
a Victorian grazier made his will. Prior to
doing so he had a sworn valuer in and valued
his property, stock and plant. The land was
valued at £8 per acre, sheep at £1 ss. and
cattle at £lO per head. Two elder sons had
already been given a start; two sons and
two daughters still worked on the property.
The father, trying to be fair to all, valued
the start he had given the other two sons;
then to bring their portion up to what the
others were getting, he left, legacies in cash
to them and the two daughters; the balance,
after probate and other expenses were paid,
was to go to the two younger sons. In
effect, they went into possession with a
mortgage of £4 ss. an acre on the property.
The father died at the end of 1919. The
executors had to sell some of the stock to
meet probate, etc. Then each of the boys
had to partially restock at the peak of the
boom. That father tried to be fair to all
his family; yet if you take to-day’s value
of land in this district he actually left them
£1 an acre behind scratch.
Politicians or Banks?
“ J.S.L.” : The views of a Digger grazier
about socialisation of banking, which means
transferring control to politicians. My chief
grievance in life is against the politicians.
They bribed us for our votes by offering
gratuities or cash, and have been bluffing a.nd
robbing uS ever since. Further, whilst politi-
cians are under orders from union bosses and
public servants, no banker can reasonably be
expected to reduce his charges, seeing that he
has no assurance that the politicians won’t
grab the saving and use it for their own sup-
porters and/or themselves. Another thing. A
banker says “Yes” or “No,” and if he says
“Yes” he doesn’t leave a customer up in the
air when the job is half done. The poli-
tician says “Yes” to everything before an
election, provided there are votes to be got
that way, considers the matter after the
election and then, if it suits him, forgets
all about it, or wilfully does not attempt to
carry out his undertakings. Agreements
and contracts are thus nothing to politicians.
They mean everything to banks and financial
institutions.
Tax-Free Settlers
Mr. Godbard suggests (B. 5/4/’33) that
people overseas who buy a certain amount
of Australian stock now held abroad should
have it made tax-free if they settle in Can-
berra. But there is no particular merit
in getting people to settle in Canberra.
Why not rather exempt all investments in
North Australia and the Kimberleys from
Federal taxation for thirty years? The
objections that apply to tax-free bonds at
Canberra would not apply here. Investors
in a new land take a risk, a big risk, with
their money. They would be doing a great
service to the country by investing their
money and living in the North, and a suc-
cessful population of only twenty thousand
would provide a good trade for southern
States. A nearly tax-free land would be
a magnet for investors big and little. If
private enterprise were allowed to build
railways, etc., the country would _ soon
attract a large enough population to instal
a system of local government and admin-
istration ; and in a very few years the Com-
monwealth would be relieved of the burden
of maintaining the Territory.—J. R. L. (Q.).
The Teacher’s Job
“Ariota”: Articles on “real education"
have only convinced me that none of the
critics has had the courage to come to grips
with the problem. Education has been sacri-
ficed to the dominie’s bread-and-butter needs,
whether he was inspector, teacher or direc-
tor. Of course, the educationist has also
had the fear of being labelled disloyal if he
has probed too deeply into the systems by
which we are governed. Naturally he fails
to effect much improvement. Real education
teaching honesty of thought, directness of
purpose and clarity of vision would have
done its duty fearlessly by teaching youth
to subject to the severest criticism all the
systems by which we are governed. No tra-
dition, no convention should have swayed
their judgment; only truth and honesty
should obtain. I think every parent should
read Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World.”
In this Ijook is shown the logical conclusion
of all tyrannies of wealth and intellect un-
scrupulously used. The parents’ eyes would
be opened. The bright boy can break out
of the treadmill and attain a certain amount
of personal liberty. But his duller brother
wakes up to find he is the slave of a system
that actually limits him in the exercise of
the instincts nature gave him for the con-
tinuance of the race and his happiness.
The Tariff and Westralia
“C.W.C.”: Except in one year, 1925-30
showed for Australia an adverse balance of
trade, which should have warranted an ex-
change rate favorable to the exporting indus-
tries. If you add the oversea interest bill
you have a very heavy adverse balance, which
should warrant an exchange rate of, say, 25
p.c. to 30 p.c. ; this would have benefited
Westralia immensely. But Australian Govern-
ments, Federal and State, were borrowing
heavily overseas and making up the deficiency,
so the exchange rate remained practically at
par. During all those years (and in pre
vious years, too) the community was robbing
the exporters—and particularly W.A.
because she is specially dependent on export
industries —of their just rewards. Noth-
ing has been done to alter this state of
affairs. But before any more oversea loans
are raised this question should be dealt with.
The exchange should be fixed on the balance
of trade plus oversea interest, but absolutely
apart from oversea loans. If there is too
much money in London on our account,
either before or after raising a loan, we
should import gold instead of goods—just
as we have to export gold when there is too
little money at our credit in London. Against
these gold loans the Commonwealth could
issue notes to four times the gold value. The
alternative is to stop borrowing overseas
and launch our loans in Australia in Aus-
tralian currency.
“Ex-G.P.”: The N.S.W. State gamble
would be bad enough if it were nothing else,
but the harpies are tlmisting in while the
going is good. They claim to have occult
powers; you send them 2s. or 2s. 6d., and
in return they will send you a horoscope
so that you may know when to buy lottery
tickets that will bring you prizes and when
to leave the things alone. Some with powers
of divination will sell you shares in lucky
tickets at prices that will give them 300 p.e.
profit. These harpies are drawing hundreds
of people into their net; the ghastly part of
the business is that the harder up people are
the easier they seem to fall victims.
* * *
“Eilliab”: An Australian industry that
gets scant publicity is barrel-making at Lith-
gow (N.S.W.) Small Arms Factory. The
lack of trumpets is probably due to the fact
that the work is done by a Government
department which blushes to find its product
praised by King’s Prize-winners and other
marksmen. After June 80, rifle club mem-
bers and militiamen will be required to use
the short, heavy barrel, and the factory is
busy, turning these out, as well as lopping
five inches off the models now in use. The
barrel is made from Australian steel. Simul-
taneously, on July 1, new high-velocity
ammunition (Mark VII) is to be put into
use. The missile is said to be 500 ft. per
second faster than the Mark VI bullet which
it is to replace.
“Assistant”: There is another point in
disfavor of the lay-by system compared with
the ordinary instalment or hire-purchase
plan. Under the latter, the customer makes
a deposit and, having undertaken to pay in-
stalments, is given possession of the goods.
If these are not satisfactory the vendor
soon hears about it: instalments are stopped
and the vendok* has to “repossess” the goods
—a proceeding he mostly hates. Hence if
the quality of hire-purchase goods is not
always high, at least there is very rarely
any deception about them; they are what
they pretend to be. But under the lay-by
system the customer makes deposits until
the full purchase price is paid; not till then
is possession given. The customer is usually
asked to satisfy herself (occasionally liirn-
self) that the goods offered for delivery are
the precise goods bought; and that ends the
matter. There is no redress if the next day
the customer finds, for example, that what
purported to be solid timber is three-ply,
entirely incapable of the job which it is
called upon to do. Thus dishonest traders
can put off under the lay-by system goods
which they know would be fired back at
them if they were sent out to a hire-purchase
or other time-payment customer.
“N.A.N.” (Tas.) : Japanese complaints
about our wool-classing may be justified* to a
certain extent; but the fault is not altogether
with the woolgrowers. For years, some of
us, through our brokers, have tried in vain
to get a frank report on our wool from the
manufacturers who eventually make it up.
Most woolgrowers are anxious to meet users’
requirements, but all we can get are genera-
lisations which growers regard as propa-
ganda for the depressing of prices.
“Clerk”: Bichard Trevithick’s claim to
fame (B. 10/5/’33) is due chiefly to his
courage—it was called “lunacy”—in using
steam pressures of about 1001 b. to the square
inch when normal practice favored 51b. He
can thus be said to be the father of
modern high-pressure locomotives, many of
which boast a boiler pressure of more than
4001 b. to the square inch.
The Fort Pirie (S.A.) police magistrate
is trying a new plan with a young married
woman who went into a shop where another
woman ran an account and had 41b. of butter
charged up to her. She said she was willing
to pledge herself not to enter a store within
five miles of Pirie for a year, and the
p.m. made out a prohibition order accord-
ingly.
“S.S.”: Queensland Government ought to
see that its instructions to the police not to
hound men on to the next town are obeyed.
Recently I put in an appearance at a police
station on the S.-w. line, and, relief granted,
I was told to move on. I objected that I
was seeking shearing or crutching, and
thought the present centre offered excellent
prospects. The sergeant persisted that I
would have, to go on, as there wa.s no hope
of getting work in the district, and wrote
in the name of another town as my next
place of issue. However, I got busy and
booked up for a good run of shearing, which
I would most certainly have missed had I
moved on as I was told to do.
There are now no fewer than 58 woollen
mills in Australia; in 1931-82 they bought
252,000 bales of wool at auction and quite as
much during the last twelve months. Pro-
duction amounts to about 16 million square
yards of woollens, worsteds and flannels, a
million blankets and eight million pounds of
yarns. Until the last two or three years only
men's wear was catered for; now lightweight
fabrics of good quality are being produced.
The following shows what remarkable
changes have occurred in imports :
1924. 1932.
Woollens.. .. 14,087,400 sq. yd. 462,200 sq. yd.
Worsteds.. .. 3,824,000 sq. yd. 143,000 sq. yd.
Worsted yarns .. 1,983,0001 b. 45,4001 b.
Thus not only has work been provided for
Australians, but Australia has been saved
from default abroad.
“Lameroo”: Hundreds of farmers in the
S.A. Malice east of the Murray are holding on
to heavily mortgaged land, believing that as
soon as prices of primary products take,
a turn for the better the mortgagee will
foreclose. This sword of Damocles tends
towards depression of spirit and a conse-
quent falling-off of effort. Land is not being
properly farmed, house and outbuilding im-
provements, fencing, clearing, water supply,
etc., are being neglected, with the conse-
quence that the security of the mortgagee is
depreciating enormously. The total of such
depreciation over all Australia could surely
be already counted in millions. I am aware
that the Paine Committee has reported
against a Government loan to enable
farmers' advances to be fixed for a number
of years, giving the mortgagors a chance
to recover; but the position is so
serious that the possibility ought to be
further explored.
* * >:= *
“P.W.": Farmers are indebted to “Ex-
Banker” for so frankly giving his views about
the farmer and his debts. But, in spite of
“Ex-Banker,” the banks did lend themselves
to inflation of values. In proof I recall that in
scores of cases when properties were offered
for sale the amounts which banks would
advance were publicly announced; and those
amounts were greatly in excess of what the
properties would bring if they were forced
on the market now. If the men who bought
on the strength of those advances are
“gamblers” or “plungers,” then surely the
banks are to blame for making it possible
for such people to go into the business.
“Ex-Banker,” I gather, would just let things
take their course.
“DON’T DO AS I DO—DO AS I SAY.”
“President Roosevelt, whose country has been spending 400 million dollars a year on its navy, compared with 50 million
pounds in Britain, is preaching disarmament and peace to the nations.”
THE ADMIRAL (to Europa): “You’re to follow my advice, lady, NOT my example.”


SUNDRY SHOWS .
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.), “Maid of the Mountains”
Criterion “Escape”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royaii “Our Miss Gibbs”
King's Dante
State Movies and Talkies
+
In Re Fillum v. Legit.
“Plays such as Somerset' Maugham’s ‘The Bread-
winner’ make this Showman marvel at the survival
of the theatre-going convention. The audience, 90
p.c. suburban-dwelling, could have been entertained
at its respective local cinemas, at a quarter the cost,
with a couple of tolerably interesting full-length
plays, very nicely acted, and staged in a manner no
theatre can rival.” — Bulletin, 10/5/’33.
“M.G.S.” addresses the jury:—
On behalf of my client, Madame Legit, I
wish to refute some, if not all, of the accusa-
tions hurled by the prosecution against a
lady who, whatever her faults, is deserving
at least of sympathy and understanding, for
she is a public servant with a long and
honorable career, and if she has fallen tem-
porarily on evil days that is not altogether
her fault. Moreover, I wish emphatically
to challenge the prosecution’s right to make
comparisons between her character and that
of the chief witness for the prosecution,
Miss Fillum. Ladies and gentlemen, it is
nothing short of an insult to couple together
these two females, one the conscienceless
paramour of American millionaires and the
other the chosen companion in her time of
such men as Sophocles, Euripides, /Eschylus,
Marlowe, Shakspeare, Ben Jonson, Voltaire,
Racine, Goethe, Molibre, Sheridan, Pinero,
Ibsen and Shaw. I admit that Madame
Legit has descended occasionally, but she
did so in order to live, and that is what we
all must do. And as a result of her shame
and suffering what has she been able to give
us? I point to such of her recent achieve-
ments as “Saint Joan,” “Young Woodley,”
“Journey’s End,” “Captain Brassbound’s
Conversion,” “Cape Forlorn,” “Loyalties,”
“The Barretts of Wimpole-street,” “Autumn
Crocus” and “The Road to Rome.” I would
even cite in her favor the chief charge
against her, namely, “The Breadwinner,”
which, with all its faults, and they are
many, is immeasurably superior to any-
thing that can be claimed for that
Jezebel Miss Fillum. In addition, I would
cite such recent revivals as Euripides’s
Medea, Shakspeare’s “Macbeth,” the Gil-
bert and Sullivan operas and Ibsen’s “Ghosts.”
These things she has given us, not when her
exchequer was overflowing, but when many
ot her lovers, with a fickleness that d'oes
uiem little credit, have left her to privation
an d want —nay, to downright starvation.
YYhat is the record of Miss Fillum?
She was born about 35 years ago, and per-
haps it is necessary for me to remind you
that she was born dumb. Every indulgence
was shown her in her infancy. It was feared
that she was not quite a normal child, but
it was hoped she would grow out of it.
As she developed into adolescence, however,
it was considered by intelligent observers
that she was definitely an imbecile. Admirers
contended that if she could only be made
to speak her mentality would be restored,
borne of the most brilliant scientists of the
world devoted their talents to giving her
the power of speech, and eventually the
miracle was achieved. Ladies and gentle-
men, I well remember the occasion when I,
along with a few others, witnessed the con-
summation of the operation. It was in a
smaff hall in Sydney about eight years ago.
Miss_ Fillum opened her mouth and spoke,
and it was we who were struck dumb. You
remember, ladies and gentleman, Anatole
France’s play, “Tin Man Who Married a
Dumb Wife,” which he took from a story
by Rabelais. The misguided husband longed
tor his spouse to speak. He believed that
the sound of her voice would lighten his
days, gladden his nights and bring him and
his helpmate _ into closer sympathy. The
surgeons obliged him and loosened her
tongue, and after a few weeks of it the dis-
tracted man sought a doctor and begged to
be made deaf. Many of us nowadays, when
Nicholas Hannen, in full flight, in
“Escape.”
we enter a moving-picture theatre, long for
the antidote given to Anatole France’s char-
acter.
Miss Fillum has now been for several
years in possession of the faculty of speech.
I ask my learned friend, what use has she
made of it? I ask him to name one con-
tribution. she has made to human thought.
I ask him to repeat, from memory, one
speech, one line, one epigram she has uttered
in all that time that sticks in his mind as
worth remembering. In his turn my learned
friend is dumb.
Ladies and gentlemen. I wish to be fair
to my opponent. I will endeavor to give
Miss Fillum all the credit I think she
deserves, for we all hope that some day she
will attain to something higher than the
mental age of eight. She has, I will say,
a pretty, if overpainted and vapid, face, and
she has the charm of novelty. She comes
before us in expensive garb, wearing beauti-
ful dresses and ropes of pearls. The re-
sources of the whole world are at her com-
mand. Unlike her shabby sister, who has
to be content with the cheapest scenery, she
is able to adorn herself with the grandeur
of Niagara Falls, the majesty of the Pyra-
mids and the sombre monotony of the
Siberian steppe. For her glorification the
pomp of the ancient Roman Empire is con-
jured up in the twinkling of an eye, and
for her artificial Niles are made to flow in
Hollywood, regardless of expense. But, for
all this display of wealth and ingenuity, she
remains at bottom an empty-headed fool,
without the brains even to thieve intelli-
gently.
For, ladies and gentlemen, she is nothing
but a common thief and pickthank, without
a shred of scruple in her heart. She steals
the great thoughts of the great minds of the
past and bribes with colossal sums the best
minds of to-day. And in her foUy, vul-
garity and ignorance she does not .know what
to do with her loot when she has it in her
fumbling hands. She has turned Tolstoy’s
“Anna Karenina” into cheap melodrama,
Shakspeare’s “Richard III.” into a Wild
Margery Caldicott as a respectable lady,
Charlotte Frances as a lady of no
account, and Christopher Hassall as a
rural cop, in “Escape.”
West show and Pirandello’s “Right You
Are” into a fatuous romance. The incur-
able flippancy of her empty soul is un-
daunted by the greatest themes. In her
hands the Sacred Book itself becomes a
dime novel with a flaming-colored cover, but
it would be straining a point to indict her
for blasphemy, since she is as incapable of
reverence as a camel of poetry. She makes
nonsense of history and pornography of the
immortal loves of Romeo and Juliet and
Tristan and Isolde. She has not even the
confidence of the few convictions she has
got, and when, by some inexplicable acci-
dent. she is presented with such a picture
as “The Front Page,” she does not appre-
ciate the gift. And her greatest thefts have
been made at the expense of the sister whom
she affects to despise. Ladies and gentle-
men, it is not my client, but she, who should
be standing in the dock.
I am aware that Miss Fillum is at pre-
sent the vogue while my client is temporarily
out of fashion, but I can trust you, ladies
and gentlemen, not to be influenced by such
frivolous considerations as that. After all,
what you are being asked to adjudicate on
is not a matter of the taste of to-day or
to-morrow but something more universal,
the truthfulness or otherwise of art as a
mirror of life. I leave the verdict in your
hands with confidence.
John Galsworthy’s claim to be considered
a modern playwright can hardly be con-
tested ; but he escapes the essence of modern-
ity, which seems, judging by the bulk of
contemporary work, to be a capacity to
believe in nothing, coupled with a faculty
for knowing hardly anything. Galsworthy
knows his world, in a genteel sort of way,
and though he is very nice about it. he holds
most firmly by one shibboleth, which may
be termed, for lack of a more exact means
of expressing it, the Gentlemanly Thing.
In his “Escape,” played by Nicholas Han-
nen and co. (Miss Seyler isn’t in the cast)
at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night, Gals-
worthy tells a story in a prologue and nine
episodes. It is a story worth telling; it has
a point, and it is told with the suave humor
and impeccable taste of which the play-
wright is so notable an exponent. For
once in a way (it isn’t pretended that the
case is typical) there has been a miscar-
riage of British justice, and Captain Mat-
thew Denant, with a distinguished war
record, goes to Dartmoor prison for five
years on a charge of manslaughter in cir-
cumstances which,, had they been placed as
fairly before the jury as they are revealed
in the prologue, should have ensured his
acquittal. So when he escapes there is
plenty of reason why folk who encounter
him, and who know (since the newspapers
made it a sensation) the history of his
trial, should feel well disposed towards him.
In a series of neatly-drawn pictures the
audience is shown what various people of
various parts of society thought about it.
The pictures are just and limned with a
tolerant pencil. The tag “There’s no
escape from a man’s decent self” is the
whole of Galswox-thy in a nutshell.
In this very worthy vehicle Mr. Hannen
and his fellow-mummers had plenty, of scope.
The thing could have been done rather
better in respect of many details by a com-
pany long domiciled in Australia, where
versatility is a prime essential. As it was,
thirteen members of the co. played twenty-
five parts, all passable; some exceptionally
well done. Among the latter may be enum-
erated Maureen O’Moor’s “shingled lady”
and a very diverse character, Mr. Meade’s
retired Judge and John Longden’s parson.
Mr. Hannen’s impersonation of the escaped
convict, the all-important character, was
natural and convincing. No higher praise
than that can be given to any actor.
Take a quadrilateral, ABCD. Place it in
an elegant drawing-room. Let Abe a good-
looking Viennese music-master; let B be
his wife; let C be some sort of artist;
and let D be the artist’s lawful. Take a
second act and join the point A to the point
D and the point C to the point B, and
you produce equilateral triangles. Remove
to a chalet in the mountains by separate
motor-cars. In the third act take a nice
clean rubber and carefully and firmly erase
the lines AD, CB. You then have your
original quadrilateral back again. If the
geometrical figures look too bare and un-
inviting, throw in an old German caretaker
who is a confirmed boozer and has gout and
a grumpy disposition but whose nature is
golden; also his wife, who is quarrelsome
but good-hearted. Try the effect of making
your lines wriggle a little to represent phil-
andering, but be careful to return to the
straight line again. Use best-scented note-
paper.
This is the mathematical basis of Herman
Bahr’s “2 x 2 equals 2,” which arrived
at Melbourne Garrick on Saturday as the
first offering of Theo Shall’s new Continen-
tal Comedy Company. It is a reminder that
there is no international copyright in theat-
rical confectionery. This particular Vien-
nese example, however, is composed of the
very best pastry, with some real butter and
eggs in it, and cooked so nicely that it goes
down without sticking in the mind; the pink
icing of the happy ending is all over it. It
was selected by Shall because of the oppor-
tunity it gives him in the first act for a
display of his peculiarly delicate histrionic
talent, of which he took such full advantage
that he completely captivated his audience.
The Austrian actor has a unique capacity
for giving significance by voice and gesture
to an artificial situation. It is a tender
art, and whether the plant will thrive in
tougher soil remains to be seen. His assist-
ant in the first-act dialogue was Noel Boyd
—the part was wrongly attributed to Mrs.
Shall on the programme. The local lady
depicted a capable, sensible and charming
woman with outstanding fidelity. Mrs. Shall
had the attenuated role of a bundle of sub-
missive, tearful femininity and fulfilled it to
the general satisfaction. John D’Arcy,
though not the approved type of the stage
musician, admirably portrayed male vanity
loaded beyond endurance by spirited hero-
worshippers. Thelma Scott gave a brisk and
bustling vignette of a jealous pupil, and
William Ralston, as the gout-stricken care-
taker, was another real-life character that
appeared to have strayed into an artificial
picture by accident. The play, which merits
commendation for its careful staging, is
billed to run till further notice.
George Benson as Philip and Hermione
Hannen as Mrs. Philip, in “Escape.”
Philip Hargrave continued to display his
powers of interpretation and control of the
Melbourne Auditorium Steinway all last
week before enormous audiences, and then
departed under his female escort to Bendigo,
Ballarat and other centres. After further
consideration of his performances, this paper
has come to the firm conviction that the
youngster is no mere infant monstrosity but
a quite genuine musician. Some prefer his
Beethoven to his Bach, and others his Bach
to his Beethoven. The obvious rejoinder is
that if he can play Bach he must also be
able to _ play Beethoven, unless there is no
such thing as logic in the realm of musical
proficiency. As a matter of fact, he plays
both with equal felicity. A standard test of
interpretative skill is the first movement of
the “Moonlight” and, after the first two con-
certs, he played this so mellifluously that it
would have been an impertinence to offer
him a mental handicap for age. Some mur-
murings have been heard regarding the
danger of overtaxing the lad’s powers of phy-
sical and nervous endurance. Mozart
started at the age of six, and nobody couid
stop him thereafter. Nature exacted her
penalty when he reached the age of 35. He
had a short life but a gloriously fertile one.
All that the public has the right to ask of
Philip’s sponsors is that his remarkable
talent be not sacrificed to commercialism.
Nellie Bramley has bought some new
plays, but in the meanwhile “The Laughter
of Fools” was revived at Melb. Palace on
Saturday. This being the lady’s 61st week
of continuous appearances, all that criticism
can do is to retire backwards from the
august presence, bowing repeatedly.
The Palette
Jo Sweatman points an < honest, painstak-
ing, matter-of-fact and cameraic eye at
Nature in 79 canvases at Melb. Athenaeum.
There is very little that misses the lady's
twin lenses, even in a landscape comprising
several square miles of hill, dale, river and
sky, except the broad truths of light and
shade. In some of the smaller pictures her
color sings louder and the atmosphere
vibrates more vigorously than when she
tries to compete with the kodak.
The autumn show of the Society of Arts
in Adelaide is pleasant, but uneventful.
Nora Heysen and Whinnen have fine flower
and fruit work. Among the veterans, John
White has a sound landscape, and James
Ashton deserts the seashore for Healesville
(Vic.) scenery.
Louis McCubbin’s show at 9 Collins-
street ranges between a large study of Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery and environs,
Sydney Bland as the Farmer, in “Escape.”
painted 10 years ago in his early realistic
manner, and a still-life of a Japanese vase,
looser in style and fresher in color. The
Barrier Reef studies appear to fall between
the two phases.
There’s an honest simplicity about Colin
Colahan’s work, displayed to excellent effect
under artificial light at the Meldrum Gal-
leries in Queen-street, Melbourne. Colahan’s
landscapes convey the effect of instantaneous
impressions, and of a painter who' stopped
when the original stimulus was exhausted.
Consequently the leaves of the trees are miss-
ing, but each frame contains a dissertation
on form, color and tone. “Scrub Track” and
glimpses of stormy seas at Beaumaris con-
tain this dramatic quality in excelsis, but
some aspect of the truth of light is recorded
in ail the landscapes. The studio portraits
are painted with the same forthrightness and
a self-respect that disdains the sleight-of-
hand of the artistic Dantes. In “Dr. Arthur
Joyce” and “Susan,” a tall woman in a
flaming scarlet dress, the painter hasn’t
dictated to his subjects, but has let them tell
their own story. This humility is refresh-
ing nowadays in Melbourne, where Matisse’s
pots and Van Gogh’s nudes have given
painters Dutch courage beyond their native
ability.
“F.S.” : I am deeply interested in the pos-
sible effect on art criticism in Melbourne of
the purchase of the Rembrandt self-portrait.
There is a school of realistic painters in
Melbourne, and critics denounce their works
on the score that they are “mere representa-
tion” and that realism is a dead-easy thing
and beneath a cultivated person’s notice.
While conventional Royal Academy pictures
were bought for the Felton collection there
was no criterion wherewith to confound
these critics, except the Raeburn portrait
and Rodin’s magnificent Minerva. But with
the advent of an unassailably-good Rem-
brandt they will either have to correct their
values or say that Rembrandt was not a
realist, or that, if he was, he was mistaken
in his objective, which is like saying that
Darwin was wrong in discovering the origin
of species and ought to have confined him-
self to a new gloss on the Book of Genesis.
“M.G.S.”: I am possibly in the unique
position of being the only person in Mel-
bourne who has seen the Felton Bequest’s
new £31,500 purchase, Tiepolo’s “Banquet
of Cleopatra,” and yet I have to confess
that, though I must have looked at it, my
mind bears not the slightest impress of the
experience. That was probably because I
had already surveyed some hundreds of
square miles of similar Renaissance canvases
that tell a story in a now archaic tongue.
After all, Tiepolo was only one of the
Harold B. Meade as an honest son oF toil,
in “Escape.”
Alma Tademas of his time. The picture
was in the Hermitage Gallery in Petrograd
when I went through it in 1914. It was
acquired by Catherine the Great, and sold by
the Bolsheviks. Artistically it is not likely
to compare very well with the £20,500 Rem-
brandt, but it is likely to be more popular.
All the same, considering the amount oi
public money' at stake, it is startling to
find Sir Charles Holmes, the Felton adviser
in London, writing about the work more m
the manner of an emotional flapper than an
objective painter.


Notice to the Public
1 am informed that certain malicious
persons have been spreading the rumour
that my Company does not pay full
income tax.
I affirm the complete falsity of this
rumour, and advise the public of Aus-
tralia that my Company has consistently
paid its full assessment of income tax in
Australia, and that, in the last five years
alone, its payments of State and Federal
income tax have amounted to over
£1,500,000.
Apart, however, from income tax, there
are other very heavy payments to
Australian Governments, as witness
the following figures
Total payments (excluding capital
expenditure) of the Shell Com-
pany in Australia during 1932 £5,307,468
Of which, Salaries and Wages
and Miscellaneous Expenditure
amounted to - - - £1,809,529
Balance paid to Federal and
State Governments (including
one year’s income tax) - - £3,497,839
O. W. DARCH
Qeneral Manager
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
9 '
Melbourne, 18th May, 1933
POVERTY POINT.
“Kleig”: Anthony Belmont (real name
Clark), who recently returned to Tasmania
to visit his parents, appeared on Broadway
with the late Jeanne Eagles in “Her Card-
board Lover,” which enjoyed a long run in
New York some years ago. He was in the
cast of “Saint Joan” with Dame Thorndike
when the play was first produced.
“Cauboy” : Fanny Wiseman, who recently
took her last curtain at 86 in Melbourne,
was the oldest actress in Australia. She
made her first appearance at the age of
eight in the now-forgotten Queen’s Theatre,
where G. V. Brooke gave a distinguished
series of Shakspearcan revivals; she made
her last with Allan Wilkie as Juliet’s nurse
at the Palace seven years ago. She had 13
children and was the original Topsy in
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
“Hamfat”: The most interesting point
about “The Sign of the Cross” talkie is the
way the situation that originally, made the
play has been dropped. The climax in the
stage play came when Marcus' forcing his
attentions on the unwilling Mercia, is
checked by a sudden crash of storm, in the
midst of which the lightning in the back-
ground outlines the sign of the cross on the
window, giving Mercia the cue for the lines:
“The Master has spoken! You cannot harm
me now!” The daring of Wilson Barrett
in “bringing the Deity on the stage,” as one
critic put it, set horrified tongues wagging
in the days of the first production, which is,
of course, precisely what Barrett intended;
it would hardly cause a flutter to-day.
Charles Laughton’s departure from, the stage
tradition which represented Nero as an ague-
ridden neurotic is the most notable of the
other alterations.
“Bond.”: “Bunty Pulls the Strings,” the
Scotch idyll played by the Moffat family all
over the world about 30 years back, is re-
vived at the Seville as a challenge to the
modern humorous improprieties. Kate
Moffat, who played Bunty in Australia, is
now content with the part of the aunt, and
Winifred Moffat, of the younger generation,
takes the lead.
“Amity”: I nominate as the most resource-
ful spruiker I ever heard a gentleman who
travelled with “Fat Fannie” and “Lovely
Lulu.” His habit was, in addition to harang-
uing the passing throng, to waylay each
patron as he emerged and ask his opinion of
the show. It was then that his finest powers
were revealed, particularly when the com-
ments were unfavorable. “Sorry I saw
them,” remarked one visitor. This was in-
stantly translated as “Sorry I can’t come
again and see more of them.” “A revolting
spectacle—a horror!” remarked a severe-
looking lady. “The lady says the finest show
she ever saw—she’s going to buy a new pair
of spectacles and come again to-morrow 1”
announced the spruiker. Presently there
emerged a well-known citizen whose enter-
prising small sons had dragged him in. “Not
worth it!” was his contribution. “Not work-
ing !” shouted the imperturbable one. “Here’s
an unfortunate man out of work, yet he
makes the effort and raises the money to
see this lovely show. What a wise man !
What an example to others” The
eminent citizen, now the cynosure of the
delighted crowd, seized his offspring and
bolted.
“A. Major” : Like many of the older school
of music-lovers, I have tried to eschew pre-
judices and give Debussy, Stravinsky, Ravel
and a dozen others who have endeavored to
hew new paths in music a fair spin. I haven’t
noticed that such few mild enthusiasms as
I have been able to develop by conscientious
study of the opuses of these masters are
genuinely shared by musical students, and
the man-in-the-street is still blissfully un-
aware that there is any school of music
that dates after Chopin, unless, perchance,
it be that of Irving Berlin. As we oldsters
would hasten to inform him, Berlin dates
back before Bach, being just a melodist, and
frightfully old-fashioned in his methods ot
evolving a tune. I’m just leading up to an
expression of the opinion that the post-classi-
cal composer most likely to remain in favor
is John Philip Sousa. Beneath my window a
few minutes ago an itinerant band played his
“Stars and Stripes Forever,” and played it
well. The rattle of pennies afterwards was
a coda that spelt the popular judgment of
1933 in unmistakable terms. No wonder!
The vigor in the two simple themes is ele-
mental and colossal. If they had come J o
Beethoven he would have made from two frag-
ments of them a Tenth Symphony of stupen-
dous power. Wagner would gladly have in-
corporated them wholesale in “Rienzi.” Bach
would have found in one phrase enough back-
bone to carry a six-part fugue. Chopin would
have penned a polonaise in minor mode that
would have sufficiently watered Sousa’s
brave milk to express the woes of a Poland
that enjoyed wallowing in misery. As for
the subtle harmonists and audacious eaco-
phonists who keep the world of music busy
testing its own sanity to-day, they would
have flown affrighted from such terrible vul-
garity.


THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
MAY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Currency Depreciation and Tariffs.
Devaluation of the Dollar?
Its Effect on Gold Premium.
How Can Prices Be Raised?
Maoriland Flax.
Position of Bondholders.
Stocks Worth Watching.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the May issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
l.:3e:tohs —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through Hie leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
if
||&r
■
S*T.
w
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
D.
EACH
/memberV
Aftijon |
JB'UIRIEAU «ir
OIRCDIIAJiIW*
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily' Mail” will get
you results. It.is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
Wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Walk-about” : I was running the muster-
ing camp on Cattle Plains, and the first day
oyt I took with me the head stockman from
an adjoining station. Riding along, the
unwaslied-for-a-month-looking individual re-
marked, “Yer know I married the boss’s
daughter.” Knowing the boss was a bachelor
and lived most of his time in palatial Syd-
ney pubs, I remarked “I didn’t think he
was married.” “No. he ain’t either,” came
the reply; “my wife’s a half-caste.”
“Beau Desert”: “Technical points!”
snarled Dave the teamster. “Even in wood-
clioppin’ you can’t get away from them.
Remember the big meetin’ at Bunaroo when
the purse was worth a coupler pubs? You
don’t. Well, Andy and me was runnin’ Herby
Clint, a cove who used to cut, for us in
Sneezer’s Gully. Herby eould chop all right,
and- when he opened out against those Bunaroo
blocks we had him backed to the limit and
were considerin’ what bank we’d take the
winnin’s to. Herby finished his lot before
the other coves was half-way through, but
we never drew a bean. The flamin’ judges
discovered one of them technical points.
They talked some blasted rot about ‘assist-
ance by outside means,’ and disqualified
Herby because the friction of his axe set
his block on fire !”
“Bungee”: “Larrapinta’s” gunsmithing
exploit (B. 26/4/’33) takes a bit of believ-
ing, but the bush mechanic has a lot of
courage. I remember two lads in the iso-
lated Carnarvon Ranges (W.Q.) who decided
that a pistol, was essential to their happi-
ness. The biggest problem was the barrel,
but they solved this by cutting five inches off
the end of their dad’s pea-rifle with a gapped
table-knife and an old file. They used some
pieces of stone for polishing. The foresight
had to bo removed from the piece and replaced
on the rifle. So neatly was this done that
Dad wmsn’t aware of it until many years
after, when the boys, no longer in awe of
him, confessed.
“Homfrey Beale” : Don’t know if collect-
ing is a general ichthyological weakness, but
some fish certainly display a leaning that
way. A cod yanked out at Bourke (N.S.W.)
in ’9l had four dentures mixed up with its
internal machinery. Three of them (subse-
quently claimed and reworn by the respec-
tive owners) had been lost in the ’9O flood.
A perch caught at Mungindi (Q.) repaid
exploration of its innards with one wedding
ring, one metal “rheumatic” ring and nine
rubber bottle-stopper rings. A snapper
hooked off the Queensland coast on a trip
I made had three hymn-books in its tummy.
(It wasn’t a bigoted fish, for the books were
of different denominations.) An eel I
snared in the Burdekin River (Q.) had
seven elastic garters tucked urider its waist-
coat. In the bulk store of a crocodile my
mate and I shot in the N.T. w T ere five white-
handled pocket-knives. (I know a croc, isn’t
a fish, but I lay the information under the
Consorting Act.) An oyster I saw opened
on a Broome (W.A.) lugger wore two blue
glass beads coyly arranged under its chin.
I could mention other cases. [Yon shan’t.—
Abo. Ed.]
Runa’ : One finds strange things on
mountain-tops. We were riding near
Ohaeawai, Bay of Islands, M.L., and noticed
near the summit of one of the extinct vol-
canic cones a white speck. We rode
up the spiral sheep-track round the moun-
un*l wo reached a tiny patch of grass
at the top. It was almost entirely occupied
hy one mushroom, which had a diameter of
.?. , eet. The circular white patch was
visible miles away.
“Youngest Inhabitant”: The greatest of
Australian wreck myths has been doing the
rounds of the papers again. It tells how the
crew of the Government cutter Mermaid, lost
m lorres Strait in 1829, was wrecked five
times m a few months. The seamen are said
to have been picked up first by the Swift-
sure, and, when she went ashore, by the
Governor Ready. A similar fate overtaking
her, the shipwrecked crews were taken
aboard the Comet, and when this vessel was
lost they were transferred to the Jupiter,
which ran aground at the entrance to Port
Raffles! It makes a good yarn, but the
facts are that the Mermaid, instead of being
the first, was actually the third vessel
THE PESSIMOPTIMIST.
'ERB: “What has got you worried lately?”
WILLIAM: “I’m frightened o’ getting drowned in this ’ere flood of prosperity."
wrecked. The Governor Ready, which
crashed on a hidden reef between Murray
and Halfway islands on May 18; 1829, was
the first; her crew took to three boats, and
after an adventurous voyage of 1500 miles
reached Timor. The Comet, Mermaid and
Swiftsure were next wrecked in turn ; the
Jupiter did not run ashore until 1830.
“Sweat Moresby” : In a village near my
plantation lives an old Papuan sorcerer who,
among other things, can produce rain, stop
it, make fishing trips profitable or> other-
wise and cause fleas to appear in a doubter’s
bed. I was foolish enough to doubt and
he was told. One day I found, the old
chap squatting at my gate with his puri-
puri (medicine) bag at his side, casting a
spell in the direction of my bedroom. Croco-
diles’ teeth, eagles’ claws and certain dried
leaves were slowly extracted from his disre-
putable old bag and placed in front of him.
He then commenced to tear the fibre from
cocoanuts into small shreds, and to heap
them up on the ground in the shape of a
pyramid, crooning a peculiar arid monotonous
incantation the while, and with ceremony
liberally discoloring my footpath with mas-
ticated areca-nut juice. That night I
scratched myself to pieces. Every blasted
flea in the district was in my bed. I don't
know how they got there, and I’m still not
convinced of the genuineness of Papuan sor-
cery ; but if I find that old devil within 100
yards of my house again I’ll shoot him.
:!: * *
“Leo Lear” : The term “cocky” for a small
farmer dates almost from the beginning of
Vic. settlement. J. B. Cooper, in the course of
historical research, found the name “cocka-
too” applied to small leaseholders in the
Port Fairy district in 1543. The country
round Port Fairy was one of the dozen
notorious 5(K)0-acre Special Surveys granted
at fl per acre. James Atkinson, a Sydney
solicitor, owned the one in question, and, as
it included the settlement site, Port Fairy
was for many years his private town. The
Government 'was compelled to repurchase
from him sites for public buildings. When
Atkinson leased portion of the rich area to
farmers he sent his own picked men —mostly
Irish —from Sydney as tenants. These men
were christened “cockatoo farmers” by the
other settlers.
“Jackdaw” : “Ye micht ha’ noticed, Ma'is-
ter-r-r Hennessey,” said McWhannel, reluc-
tantly passing the decanter back across the
counter, “that th’ weather-r we’re luiein’ is
verra, ver-r-ra feeckle; aye, an’ it’s nae
wonder-r when you come tae think it oot.
These blatherin’ amater-r-rs are th’ cause o'
it. Th’ Commonweal Ijas meteor-r-r-ologists
appointit for tae r-r-regulafe th’ weather-r-r.
an’ richt well wad they dae it if there was
nae inter-r-r-rfer-r-rence o’ ony kind, an’ we
wad aye ha’ pair-r-rfectly seasonable
weather-r; but there’s a cairn-tain class o’
people—min’ ye, I’ll nae mention ony
names, but Ah e’u'd —there’s a cair-rtain
class o’ people wha eanna leave things alane,
but must aye be tamperin’ wi’ things which
dae not concair-r-rn them, pair-rticular-rly
th’ weather-r; an’ forbye they ca’ themselves
amater-r-rrs. Nae twa o’ them is o’ th’ same
opeenion, an’ th’ weather is pullit this way,
thot way an’ th’ itlier way onteel it becoonis
oncair-rtain an’ dither-r-rt, an’ th’ coontry
suffer-rs ir-r-r-repar-r-r-rable.’lolss an’ th’ pui'r
farmer lives a life o’ ater-r-r-rrial damnation.
Ah tellit ye, mon, they aihater-r-r meteor-r-
-r-rologists ar-r-re a pair-r-rfect pest tae th'
air-rth an’ sh’u’d be suppr-ressit. Here’s
tae ye.”
“H'amer”: A cattle-dog has been a fixture
at the gates of the St. George District Hos-
pital, Sydney, for five years. Bluey chased
the ambulance which conveyed his master to
the institution, and saw him carried in •
and now he is waiting for him to come out
again. He came out actually a few davs
after he went in, but Bluey didn’t recognise
the coffin. So the dog stays on, a little
excited when , the ambulance dashes up,
grateful for the food given to it, and firmly
refusing to be lured away to a new home
and a new master.
* * * . *
“Bioko” : The cow that wouldn’t be milked
by a woman till she put on her husband’s
coat and hat (B. 3/5/’33) reminds me of when
the Thompsons went for a holiday. They
asked me to go across every day and milk
their cow, but explained that the cow fiercely
resented being milked by anybody but Mrs.
Thompson. So I must put on an old coat
worn on such occasions by Mrs. Thompson,
which I would find behind the door in the
.shed. I went to the shed, found an old
coat, donned it daily, and milked the cow
without any trouble whatever. I nearly
forgot to add that when the Thompsons re-
turned I learned that I had got the coat
from the wrong shed. Mrs. Thompson had
never worn it in her life.
“Kiriwina”: The pressmen accompanying
the Federal. Government party now touring
New Guinea are making important discov-
eries. One is the “romantic story” of the
“discovery of pink-and-white pearls” in the
Trobriands—dropped on, it is alleged, when
the fortunate finder was attempting to
found a smoked-oyster industry. To . the
writer’s knowledge trade in these Trobriand
pearls has been going on for over 40 years.
It was once in the hands of a Greek colony
headed by the notorious “Nicholas the
Greek,” and buyers came regularly from
Europe to secure the pick of the gems, their
headquarters being at Samarai. They were
sea-mussel pearls, and were gathered and sold
to the Greeks by native skin-divers.
“Mangi”: The correspondents touring the
Papuan and New Guinea fronts with Fed-
eral ,Minister Marr have recounted the
party’s astonishment at finding natives in
Port Moresby handling lathes and otherwise
performing highly-skilled work with machin-
ery. There is nothing astonishing about it
when one reflects that the Papuan is a born
artisan and a good deal of an artist. The
canoe-building of some of the tribes and the
architectural achievements of others are of
amazingly high standards considering the
primitive tools employed before the white man
came. To hereditary craftsmen like these
the mastering- of the labor-saving and infin-
itely more efficient implements of the Euro-
pean carpenter or smith is comparative
child’s play.
“Imbaga” ; No wonder Bapuan copra- and
rubber-growers are talking bankruptcy if
they conduct their affairs on the lines of
“It-i,” who says he feeds his transport croco-
diles on one native laborer a week (B.
10/5/’33). In my time, a native laborer
cost £7 at Bill Whitton’s store at Samarai
for the recruiter alone, and there were the
commission and the transport charges to
the plantation or goldfield as well. For a boy
landed on the Yodda you paid all of £2O in
those cheap days. It is difficult to believe that
the. feeding of crocodiles, however labor-
saving, with provender at this rate would
prove a paying proposition. “It-i” should
buy a copy of The Bulletin’s “Farm
Accounts” and go seriously into his costs.
“Mish” : Although he is a thief and a can-
nibal, filthy and treacherous, the inland New
Guinea Kanaka’s shibboleth is the purity of
his women. Far from the restraining influ-
ence of a District Officer. I saw the punish-
ment meted out to a ravisher. The victim
was bound to a triangle of logs staked into
the ground. The bucks of the tribe, with
their bows, then proceeded to shoot arrows
into the culprit’s legs, beginning at the calf
and extending up the leg to the thigh, with
the final arrow through the stomach, obvi-
ously using the navel as a bull’s-eye. I had
the impulse to end the business with a kindly
bullet from my .450 Smith and Wesson, but
the serious attitude of the executioners con-
vinced me that I would have been the next
target.
* * * :]!
“Viau”: It may be wrong for New Guinea
employers to punch native laborers ; but the
law provides no effective alternative. Here’s
my sad experience. Bibu, a notorious rogue,
refused definitely to do his job, so I took
him to the Kiap, hoping for exemplary pun-
ishment for a breach of the N.L.O. We wasted
four days, he, self and three witnesses; he
was fined five bob, and—because I had
to hand in the money out of deferred pay —
he and all my gang believed I’d been pun-
ished. Koat, a moody cuss, disobeyed an
order, ran to the district office, and complained
that he was given work he did not like. He
was lodged as a guest in the Government
compound till I should arrive; I thought he’d
run home to his village, and rejoiced. It
was three weeks before I went to town.
Then Koat, after a holiday at the Govern-
ment’s cost, and without any loss of pay or
privileges, was returned to me without
punishment. Needless to say, each repeated
his offence. Then I took the law in my own
hands. Bibu got a hiding, and gave no further
trouble. He was kept well subdued by
victims of his previous assaults, extortions
and depravities, now courageous. Koat,
after similar treatment, became nearly en-
thusiastic at work. As for me, I ran the
risk of fines totalling £2OO and a year in
gaol.
HARMONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The morning lights the hilltops and a wind
is ■ in the trees,
A bloom is on the clover and a perfume fills
the breeze;
A butcher-bird is charming wood and clearing
with a song,
Where camp-fires glow and glitter by the
reedy billabong.
The wild-duck wheels the marshland by the
white-roofed pension-town.
And early on the highway dairy-carts go
rumbling down.
A thousand throats are swelling in a
thousand melodies,
And my blood in trine is coursing with the
cosmic harmonies.
For I’m knotting old matilda in the last
pale light of stars,
And I’m leaving this my kingdom, where the
sunlight falls in bars.
To wanderers who come seeking place to
rest their burdenings
While I’m away a-shearing ’mid the wool-
shed’s murmurings.
No longer sick with hope deferred a vaga-
bond am I;
Again there’s beauty in the fields, and beauty
fills the sky.
And dreams long dormant spring again to
lease of life anew—
Oh, the world seems kind and rosy when
you’ve got a job in view.
QUEENSLAND.
P. JAMES IRVINE.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
h
SOHUTE,
BELL&Cuct
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: *1 BrMjf Street. Syine*.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait .upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
ifbmmonwcaltl) SavtoJßanli of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Why Stammer
or Stutter?
WTien you can be permanently and perfectly
cured of stammering, stuttering, etc. by mv
own original scientific method. I am in no
way connected with any other person of similar
profession in Australasia, and my method is in
no way similar.
Testimonials from Doctors, Great Public
Schools Education Dept., St.. John’s, Cambridge
England, and many others cured by me may
be inspected. I guarantee a perfect, permanent
cure.
Phone, call or write for appointment.
MRS. E. G. PHILLIPS,
Bishop’s Chambers, 60 Castlereagli St
Sydney. Phone: 8W7035]’
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
E.S.” : In accordance with a provision
in her will, Mrs. A. E. Curtis, daughter of
Ur. William Goldie, first town clerk of St.
Kilda (Vic.), who died at Bankstown, Syd-
ney, the other day, was followed to her grave
at Rookwood by a horse that had been her
pet for 20 years. Which recalls the funeral
UTENSILITIS.
“Still singing in the chapel choir, Mr. Pollydick?”
"Baint singed a note since me operation.”
“And what was the operation?”
Deddun you ’ear ’bout it? Why, throat-doctor down to city ’e cut out me utensils.”
of Kate Armstrong, of Disputed Plains,
Richmond River, a noted horsewoman.
Her favorite hacks and hunters were included
in the procession to Casino cemetery, carry-
ing the ribbons they had won; the chief
equine mourner was Pretender, who walked
immediately behind the hearse. One of the
best horses she owned was Dick, a topnotch
hunter. When he died she had him buried
on the estate, and put a marble monument
°ver ms grave. Another who had an insepar-
able love of horses was squatter Harry
Anmng, of Mount Sturgeon (Q.). In defer-
ence to his wishes he was buried in front of
the stockyard rails, where the horses would
gallop over his grave every morning
* * * '*
Karaway”: It was reported the other
day tliat an English rider had ridden out a
hard finish though his leg had been broken
earlier in the race. The same thing happened
at Albury (N.S.W.) 13 years ago. Harry
Hyland was riding Ulandra in the Albury
Cup. Near the half-distance some bumping
occurred; Ulandra was knocked on to the
rails, and .Hyland had his leg broken. Despite
this, he did not let up a moment, and after a
desperate finish won the Oup by a head On
returning to scale, he had to be lifted from
the saddle and carried in. Always at Albury
races you will hear of the time “when
Ulandra won the Cup.”
* * *
“Gumblegubbin” : The English “Farmer
and Stockbreeder” announces that an elec-
tric coaxer has been put on the market
for driving cattle and pigs. It has a small
torch battery, and is affixed to a short rod :
a touch with the point induces the most
stubborn animal to get a move on. If Salt-
bush Bill applied that to the tail of his
wayback mob he would probably lose sight
of their heels for a while in the dust cloud;
but it is the sort of persuader of which the
bullocky has often dreamed. It should also
come as a boon and a blessing to the donkey
teamster and the mule driver.
:Js : t ;
“Valeria": “H. Beale’s” animal-suicide
theory probably accounts for the dissolution
of the Aged Ewe. When you start hand-feed-
ing you will notice her sniff at the oats and
look at you as much as to say “you can’t keep
me alive!” In a day or two a crow will
lead you to the carcase. Cart her into the
hospital paddock, tempt her with fodder deli-
cacies and she declares a hunger strike. When
the silt tank in front of a dam of good
water _ becomes a death-trap of dirty slime
you will find her smothered in it. If a limb
from a tree falls. most likely she will be
beneath it. The Aged Ewe should be abol-
ished by Act of Parliament.
* * *
“Waranbini”: Let me add another mud-
nest builder to the four listed by “M.L.C.”
(B. 3/5/’33) —the grey jumper, or apostle
bird, which is usually found in companies
of from eight to a dozen. Each pair builds
a. round nest on the top of a limb. These
birds, which are leaden-grey in color, with
black wing feathers and tail, are never
shy in the bush, and where they are en-
couraged they like to fossick about in
gardens. There is no need for the gardener
to worry about snails and slugs or other
destructive things when these keen and active
searchers are about. They turn over clods
and rubbish with their beaks and heads, and
pry into every nook and corner. Travellers
frequently have them for company when
lunching under a tree by the roadside; they
pick up any morsels that are thrown out for
them.
* * *
“Gabbing Dick": A new sort of road-
making machine, an invention of the Sydney
engineer Irvine,
is being used on
the main road
between Brisbane
and Toowoomba.
It obtains its
material on the
spot. Black soil
is heated in a
reverberatory fur-
nace (stoked with
wood) to about
1000 degrees
Fahrenheit and
then mixed with
hinder three
parts soil to one
of binder. The
resulting sub-
stance resembles
clinkered brick,
and while not
first-class ro a d
material is a
great improve-
ment on the
gra v e 1 usually
used on country
roads. But the
main advantage
is that the sur-
face is not alf act-
ed by rain. The
machine, which
move's along un-
der its own power,
deposits material
as. it goes, and
does about 300 ft.
per day.
:!: *»:
“II a r m e 1”:
After a year's
study of the New
Guinea Kanaka’s
language and
grammar, I do
not think so bad-
ly of the irre-
gular French verbs which were forced on us
at school. The verb tenses of the Efentira
dialect (round the Ramu goldfield) pass all
understanding. “Kanke” is “to steal.” There
are two past tenses—the distant past, “I
stole last year." and the not-so-distant past,
as “I stole yesterday.” ' Neither of these
words has the slightest sound resemblance
to ‘Kanke.” The. two future tenses, “I
shall steal to-morrow” and “I shall steal
next year,” are again totally dissimilar. The
sentence “I did steal once upon a time but
don t nou r ” is expressed in one word, and
not a syllable has a “Kanke” sound. Can
any Bulletin reader honestly say he speaks
pure Kanaka? I do not mean the horrible
“pidgin” or Desperanto of the coast.
* *
“Taoist”; The essence of the yarn about
the dog who couldn't recognise his master
with his clothes off is older than Aristo-
phanes. A translation of a Chinese parable
that dates from about 400 b.c. :
Yang Chu’s younger brother Pu went out one day
wearing a suit of white clothes. It came on to
lain, so that he had to change. He returned
dressed in a black suit. His dog failed to recognise
hrtn and rushed out at him, barking. This made
Yang Pu angry, and he was going to beat the dog.
Vang Chu said, “Do not beat him. You are no
wiser than he. If your dog went away white and
came back black, would you know him?”
*** ‘ *
“Waranbini”: Recent trials of abos. at
Darwin revive memories of the time when
northern suspects were taken down to Rock-
hampton. One from Cape York named Kaio
was accused of murdering n white man, but
acquitted. He was turned adrift at Rockhamp-
ton to find his way back through SOO miles
of hostile country. Unarmed he had to pro-
cure his own food in the bush, and that in
itself was a crime against tribal rights.
Every step of his way he had to move tvarily
to avoid hunters and camps, and what food
he got he was obliged to eat raw. Often he
had to crawl long distances to avoid dis-
covery ; and he must swim crocodile-infested
waters. He - got through, and was always
pleased afterwards to talk about his adven-
tures. He lived to somewhere about a century,
being blind when he died not very long ago.*
* * y *
“Pick”: Plant aphis being regularly on
her menu, the giant green ladybird is wel-
comed by gardener and orchardist. But by
the proprietor of a honey joint she is re-
garded as the worst enemy. Milady possesses
a body, wings and curling antennae that
resemble exactly the stalk, leaves and ten-
drils of the vine in which she perches. Rear-
ing from an extended twig- she curtseys un-
ceasingly to counterfeit a twig shaken in
the wind. So faithfully do her color, form
and poise match the surrounding foliage
that her detection is the next thing to sheer
impossibility. When a bee unsuspectingly
searches the vines and alights near, the mur-
deress pounces upon him. Trussing him up
so that he cannot use his arrow, she nips off
his head and sucks his body dry.
* JJ: ❖ *
“Te Kopu”: Few birds when tamed can
be trusted to mingle with their wild rela-
tives, but one of the exceptions is the Maori-
THE GENEROSITY OF THE CITY.
SARAH: “What have you done with your watch , father?”
DAD (just back from the city): “A. bloke I met is going to have my
name engraved on it free of charge. He reckons the gold he
cuts out will pay him well.”
land karoro or black-backed gull (Larus
dom inicanus ). They are seen by the dozen
around native villages and are as tame as
the domestic cat. They spend half their
time hopping around the kainga, and during
the rest of the day congregate with their
fellows along the sea or lake shore. Some-
times their pinions are broken off to ensure
that they will not return to a wild life, but
the precaution is unnecessary. The wild
birds make them welcome; I’ve never seen
a tame gull attacked by them.
* =l= -•:= s|:
Thu a’ : The Maori regards the wild duck
as the best meteorologist for dwellers near
rivers and streams. When the ducks build
low it foretells a dry season. If they for-
sake the river banks and build farther in-
shore the. rivers will rise accordingly. On
l 1 ! 10 , occasion when the birds built unusually
high heavy floods were prophesied and duly
came; similarly an unusually low nesting
prognosticated the driest season the Waikato
had known for years.
* * *
“Pick]’: A champion gourmand is the trap-
door spider. The other day while clearing
scrub at Beecroft (N.S.W.). a chap who
has a roving commission to collect spiders
gathered in several. Penning them'in a stop-
pered jar, he went on with his work. Next
morning only one prisoner was in the jar.
That bloated cannibal—by no means the big-
gest of the original group'—had devoured the
others and was greedily hunting round for
more. There can’t be much substance in spiders.
“Riacakiaki”: Nominate the Maori as the
finest canoe-builder in the world. His giant
war canoes, often 80ft. or 90ft. long and
capable of carrying 100 to 150 warriors even
in a choppy sea, were not always constructed
from one dug-out tree trunk, but frequently
had an additional hull, or haumi, added
a* the stern, where the strain was
ast. Hie method of joining:—a tongue-and-
groove system, in which the projecting
tongue of the principal hull fitted closely into
a large slot cut in the end of the liaumi—
was infinitely superior to the lashing of
square ends, together found everywhere else
m the Pacific. To each gunw r ale one or
lmHht Sld f'?n ankS W6re £ , 1 Wed t 0 incr ease the
height of the canoe. These were lashed to
the gunwales, but a preparation of leaves
vwas wedged in between the top of the ’wale
and the bottom of the plank to make the
canoe watertight, and, as an additional pre-
caution narrow battens were run along both
the inside and outside of the canoe, covering
the joins. All parts of the canoe were held
together by means of stout lashings and to
prevent damage from abrasion, these were
invariably countersunk.
SALLY, COME UP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, all you young fellers that’s fond o’
the sea
(To me way, boys! Sally, come up!),
Both or’nary seaman an’ bully A. 8.,
Come along to Liverpool Town.
I know a fine ship that’s “100 Al”
(To me way, boys! Sally, come up!)
A clipper of seventeen hundered ton,
And she hails from Liverpool Town !
ShCs as dry as a biscuit and light as a cork
(To me way, boys! Sally, come up !),
A' 1 ’ she’s sailing on Saturday, bound for
New York,
All the way from Liverpool Town.
She’s a fair floatin’ paradise, angels an’ all
(To me way, boys! Sally come up!),
An! carries a donkey to heave an’ to haul
A\ hen we weigh from Liverpool Town.
There’s rum fer yer breakfast, an’ gin fer
yer tea
(To me way, boys! Sally, come up!)
A n ’ ham an’ cold chicken an’ sausages, free!
All the way from Liverpool Town.
The cook kept a cabaret somew’ere in France
(To me way, boys! Sally, come vyp!) ;
the mate takes the wheel w’en the crew
want to dance—
As they say in Liverpool Town.
They give us ’ot-bottles in every bunk
(To me way, boys ! Sally, come up !),
An’ nobody works w’en the skipper gets
drunk
On the way from Liverpool Town.
So say fare-you-well to yer sweet’earts an'
wives
(To me way, boys! Sally, come up!),
An’ sign on with me fer the rest of yer lives,
An’ good-bye to Liverpool Town ! (Avast
heaving !)
s.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


:
MEMORISE WITH
c EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Crip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaulfleia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , , SYDNEY.
Onpos/te Union Club and Two Minutes
irom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF-from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
AT LAST
QUICK RELIEF
FROM CATARRH
SPLITTING HEADACHE
DIFFICULTY IN BREATHING
AFFECTED HEARING
COLD IN HEAD
Is there anything more distressing than the
difficult breathing of Catarrh sufferers and the
inconvenience it causes? EIS D IT for your
own sake and for the sake of those about you.
Those sickening pains in the region of the
eyes the ringing noises in the ears —why
suffer when Catarrh Clysmac will give you
quick relief? Made from pure volatile oils, if
goes right to the seat of the trouble, bringing
soothing relief and leaving the head as “clear
as a bell.’ -
Get a supply of Catarrh Clysmac to-day. Every
package carries a guarantee, and all Chemists
sell it at 1/9 or nearly three 1 times the
ouantitv for 4/6; or direct from Santox
Chemical Co., Ltd., Box 103511, G.P.0., Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
It looks as if less harm is done to cricket
by body-liners than by penny-a-liners.
* ¥
“The Chinese pronunciation of Jehol is something
like Ray-haw, with the accent on the first syllable.”
—“John o’ London."
Since this revelation fear lias been felt
in Australia that we have been pronouncing
“Whaffor” incorrectly all these years.
* *
“Why pick on poor Larwood?” queried the
Bondi flapper. “I’ve bowled many a man
over with my body-line.”
DISILLUSION.
“How beautiful you are!” sighed the in-
fatuated boy.
“I’m fifty-eight,” cooed bis companion.
“Rubbish! You don’t look a day more
than sixteen.”
“I’m fifty-eight,” she insisted. “It’s the
effect” — —
He jumped to his feet. “Stop!” lie yelled.
“I know what you’re going to say. It’s
the effect of Creme Captivationne; your
sparkling hair is due to Breath of Sunshine
Shampoo; Dentist Willie (‘Painless’) Tug-
well installed your glistening teeth, and you
CAT ( disgustedly ): “Dammit, this would happen with that mouse looking on.”
use Perfume of Aspidistras Soap morning
and night. I’ve been reading about you in
tlie papers for years.”
She bowed her lovely bead in mute assent.
And so the romance of just another
eighteen-year-old sentimentalist was utterly
wrecked. , , „
M. D.
¥ *
THE INFALLIBLE SIGN.
Some people pin their faith to dates—
mark off upon a calendar the time when winter
crashes gates, the time for fires and steam-
ing cates. There’s other proof, and simpler
far. I know quite well the winter’s come
when Johnson murmurs “Mine’s a rum! ’
The tardy sunrise is a guide, but that can
easily he missed; wet weather also may pro-
vide some evidence, and cheeks cold-kissed
and things like that; pawnbrokers stout their
judgment to sure signs can pin, when long-
pledged overcoats pass out and summer tog-
gery cbmes in. At adventitious aids I sneer.
Were every other witness dumb, I’d know
that wintertime was here by Johnson’s
croak : “I’ll have a rum!”
H. M.
* *
“The Arbitration Court to-day refused to set aside
an award bade by the Conciliation Commissioner.”
•— “Herald."
Id’s this dab ’flu, you do !
* *
“British cricket lovers in Australia rightly objected
to the leg-theory, but on the wrong ground.”
— “Herald.”
But what’s wrong with the Adelaide
ground?
* *
“AS MAN TO MAN.”
“I never really quarrelled with Mr. Jardine in
Australia. We just had a few talks as man to
man.”— Maurice Tate.
Tate : “Is it true that I’m out of the Test
again, Mr. Jardine?”
Mb. Warner : “Now, now, Tate. Be Eng-
lish, Tate, my man. No squealing, Tate.”
Tate : “Think how you’d feel, Mr. Warner.
Look at my 94 n.o. against Victoria”-
Mr. Jardine (sternly) : “SILENCE.
TATE.”
Mr. Warner: “Play the game, Tate; play
the game. Remember what we’re here for.
As Ambassadors of Empire Amity, Tate.
Never forget that.”
Tate : “And then there was my three for
30. A dam’ sight better effort than Bowes’s
three for 60 in the same match.”
Mr. Jardine (Napoleonically) : “SIL
ENCE, 1 SAY, TATE.”
Tate: “Silence yourself, Mr. Jardine. I’m
getting sick of it, and that’s straight.”
Mr. Warner: “Oh, Tate, Tate,-how could
you? Is this cricket, Tate? You know our
English habit of putting the Game before
the Prize.”
Mr. Palairet (weakly) : “O England,
my England!”
Tate : “Who ordered Harold to put the
wind up the Aussies by bowling at ’em?”
Mr. Jardine (with Ilitleresque scowl) :
“BE SILENT, TATE.”
Mr. Warner: “Are you, in your madness,
going so far as to impugn the sportsmanship
of an English amateur, Tate? The sports-
manship of a member of the M.C'.C.! The
sportsmanship of a HARLEQUIN! Are you
going so far, Tate, as to suggest”-
Tate: “I’m not suggesting anything; I’m
asking. Who told Harold to bowl at young
Bradman’s head?”
Mr. Jardine (rising and derating hand in
manner of Mussolini) : “SHUT UP, TATE.
INSTANTLY, TATE.”
Tate: “I won’t shut up, Jardine. Put
yer head in a bag!”
(Stricken moans from Mr. Warner of
“Maintain Empire Spirit” • “Play Grand Old
Game”; “ Waterloo—Fields of Eton”;
"Cricket Cement of Imperial Friendship.”)
Tate : ‘‘You wait till we get back to Eng-
land, Jardine. I’ll give you a bit of what
these poor Aussie biokes are getting from
Harold first time I bowl against you. 11l
tell the papers what you’ve been up to. you
see if I don’t. English Sportsmanship! Bali.-
Seotchie! You dunno the meaning of the
term.”
(EXIT as Warner swoons.)
D.
PRUNING HINTS.
The amateur gardener will shortly be
facing the annual duty of
pruning his rose-trees. A
word of guidance may not be
amiss.
First get your seccateurs.
A blasphemous search is
likely to end near the tap,
where you threw them after
cutting that wire-netting
last Christmas. Get down to
it with the kerosene and oil.
and put in a strenuous hour
sharpening them. After
you’ve got them to your sat-
isfaction you’ll probably find
you’ve set the wrong edges.
Don’t worry. Patience is one
of the signs of the true gar-
dener.
You will, of course, scorn
gloves for your job. And
ignore the fussy profes-
sionals who advocate cutting
above a certain eye, and so
on. Just snip bits off here
and there according to your
fancy and aesthetic sense.
Handle the long canes of
your climbers with confid-
ence, not as though you were
about to operate on a stick
of gelignite. Go right in
among them. When you get
that marcel wave in your
spinal column through con-
t i n u e d bending over,
straighten up smartly. A
thorn in the top of the skull
or the back of the neck is.
after all, of no great moment.
Don’t swear. Just extricate
yourself calmly, sit on the
lawn and pull the thorns out
one by one until you are
completely free, and then,
whistling blithely the while,
repair to your medicine
cabinet and apply iodine
Your wife, if she knows her
job, will be waiting for you with lint and
bandages.
W.
* ¥
“Every man should aim at, being his own boss."
• — “Sun."
It’s all right as an aspiration, but the
best the average man can hope for is to
outlive, her.
“The tapioca starch used annually on stamps in
U.S.A. would make a dessert sufficient for the
population of New York.”— -“Argus.”
Uncle Sam always did, want to lick crea-
tion.
Have England’s cricket fans put the
breeze up Larwood?
Y- *
GLOSSARY OF ROYAL COMMISSION
WORDS AND PHRASES.
“Denial.” —Favorite word in bright lexi-
con of every witness. The theory is that it
becomes more impressive if uttered heatedly.
“Protracted Proceedings.” Sometimes,
after sitting for a year or so, a Royal Com-
missioner will voice a mild protest against
the “proceedings being needlessly pro-
tracted.” The attitude of the Bar table is
one of frozen disapproval.
“ ’Bjec’.”— Staccato phrase yelped by K.C.
when client is in danger. It also serves to
sidetrack the question into other channels,
thus helping to string out proceedings. No
limit to its use. Record for one day’s sit
ting achieved by Mr. Spotlight, K.C 1 ., in
June, 1929, with 387. ,
“Allegations.”—Answer to every K.C. s
prayer. Indispensable to, and the reason
for, all Royal Commissions. Being made
under privilege, they can be flung with im-
punity at all and sundry. Substantiation
regarded as negligible detail. .
“Was an offer made?" —Time-honored joke.
Model answer is “Certainly not.” Has been
asked in each of the last 7000 Royal Coin-
missions, with no known case of a reply in
the affirmative. Tongue should always be
removed from cheek and smile from race
while answering. . ,
“Witness.” —• Often synonymous with
“accused.” Witness’s chief duty is t 0 P° ss f ss
an execrable memory when questioned by tin*
K.C. assisting the Commissioner, and to
give instant answers displaying excellent
mnemonic powers when questioned by ms
counsel. . ,
“Findings.”—On the juvenile principle
that "findings is keepings,” all Royal Com-
mission “findings" are kept pigeon-holed
THE BENCH : “Have you anything to say, prisoner,
before sentence is passed upon you?”
THE PRISONER: “No, your Majesty, except that it takes
very little to please me.”
after publication, and no further action is
taken.
S. K.
¥
“Men of good taste prefer a mixture of teas.’'
— “Argun.”
In short, gentlemen prefer blends.
¥ ¥
“The children of those old-time pioneers were as
good as gold.”
lint we’ve all gone off the gold standard
since then.
¥ ¥
THE LATEST DICTATORSHIP.
Are you failing to set your fair share
of other people’s money? Have you enemies
that you can’t get even with? Do you like
dressing up?
Then join O’Cohen’s Night Shirts.
Come one,-come all! Special rates for
family parties. Anybody with a grievance
is eligible.
The Night Shirts stand for the immediate
abolition of Parliaments and Small Debts
Courts ; also of six o’clock closing and the
property qualification for State lottery
tickets. On the constructive side they advo-
cate the socialisation of beer.
Complete control of the State will be
taken over by Messer Angus O Cohen,
assisted by Commissars to be chosen from
Night Shirters. Commissars will be en-
titled to tack a K on to their night shirts.
.loin up at at once. Remember, a Night
Shirt is more comfortable than a Shroud,
and Blood is stickier than Water. Take
a friendly hint and get on side before it’s
too late.
Angus O’Cohen.
HEART-CRY.
This world by some malicious power
Is made a vale of tears and wrath,
Else wherefore does the accursed shower
Drip on us in our nice hot bath?
¥ ¥
“Americans paid more than 10 million dollars
for jigsaw puzzles last year.”— “Herald.'’
Australians pay dearly for filling in their
income-tax forms, too.
TRANSLATION.
When she called him her “darling old bean,”
lie knew, with no vestige of doubt.
That the little gold-digger must mean:
“It's time you began to shell out.”
O.
PAST AND PRESENT.
“Most women admire the adventurous, travelled
man. His ‘past’ is rarely held against him.”
— Woman’s payer.
They look for a, gent, with a record mis-
spent,
And a past that’s intriguing and murky:
They don’t get upset though he’s kissed in
Tibet
Or Timor or Tashkend or Turkey.
A man with a future the ladies will suit —
His welcomes are sure to be pleasant;
But the one, I’ve observed, who will win by
a mile,
The one who is sure of a kiss and a smile.
Is the man who can show the best present.
T. B.
EUCHRED.
He turned to her, with shining eyes,
“You are my queen,” he cried.
Nestling within his eager arms .
“You are my king,” she sighed.
Then horror darkened, each young face
As hubby snarled. “And here's the ace.”
O.D.
HIS BREAK.
“Her husband had frequently been arrested for
drunkenness. He repeatedly made and broke reso-
lutions to give up drinking.”— Divorce-court Hem.
He swore he’d spurn the demon drink—
And he intended to, no doubt;
No more, for him, the festive bout
Which often ended in the clink.
Hut, on the. evidence, I think
He mus the one they carried out!
P. C.


jowtuicnafr
QaaivL I
M
S
?
V
W,ih
a
(amp-Berlei
Surgical Belt
Hove you joined the gallery of
onlookers because of prolapsed ab-
dominal organs or some form of
hernia? Then don one of Farmer’s
Camp-Berlei Belts and away to the
links or tennis court once more. You
will engage in business or profession
with a new comfort and confidence.
Write for the Camp-Berlti Booklet
Farmer’s,
P.O. Box
497 AA,
Sydney.
ft.
he
y_
Farmer!;
“THE STORE FOR MEN"
Legal Notice.
ALICE MARY GROVES, Deceased.
I'TOTICR is hereby given that pursuant to an Order
of the High Court of Justice England made in
the Matter of the Estate of Alice Mary Groves
Spinster deceased late of Danypark Llangattock
Brecon! Wales who died on 16th November 1929 any
person claiming to be beneficially entitled to any
property of the said Alice Mary Groves particularly
Charles Groves (grandfather) Henry Groves (father)
Donald McNair (uncle) hi s children Margaret McNair
and Alexander McNair Isabella McNair (aunt)
Alexander McNair (uncle) John McNair (uncle)
Jean McNair (aunt) Elizabeth McNair (aunt)
Lavinia McNair (aunt) or their descendants
are immediately to send particulars of their
claim to Mr. D. H. Dibdin of Messrs. Bridges
Sawtell and Co. 23 Red Lion Square London W.C.I.
The claims will be adjudicated upon before Master
Holland Room 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London on Wednesday 15th November 1933 at 12
noon.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE -----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
WARNING!
HAIRLOK OR RUBBERCRIN PATENTS
WARNING TO INFRINGERS
In the High Court of Justice, London,
England, on the 28th March, 1933, an
action between the owners of the above
patents and certain British infringers
came on for hearing, and at the con-
clusion of the evidence the Court
granted:—
1. An injunction to restrain the in-
fringers, their servants, and agents
from employing a method of producing
and from importing, manufacturing,
selling, offering for sale, dealing with
or using upholstery pads in infringe-
ment of the Letters Patent.
2. An enquiry as to damages.
3. Delivery up or destruction of all in-
fringing material, and the Court ordered
the infringers to pay the costs.
WE HEREBY GIVE NOTICE THAT
WE HOLD THE SOLE AND EX-
CLUSIVE RIGHT TO MANUFAC-
TURE AND SELL IN AUSTRALIA
MATERIAL UNDER THIS PATENT,
and will take such action as may be
necessary against anyone making, using,
and selling infringed material in this
country.
.... DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston
• and Perth.
NOTE: Furniture and Bedding Manufacturers, Furnishing Drapers, Upholsterers, Motor Body
Buuaera, and others interested are invited to communicate with us for full details and samples
° . r? new comfort upholstery material, which, briefly described, consists of hair in combination
witn latex, moulded to various shapes ready for the upholsterer.
The following is published for information only, and is not an invitation
to subscribe for shares.
GOLD MINES OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
(Incorporated in Victoria, Australia, 28th April, 1930.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £500,000 in 1,000,000 shares of 10/- each.
£157,100 shares have been issued since incorporation, and have been
privately subscribed in cash at par; they are all fully paid. A call has been
granted over 10,000 shares at par until 31st March, 1934.
OBJECTS:
The advancement of the gold-mining industry within the Commonwealth of
Australia by searching for, acquiring, and testing promising properties,
an<^ > raising capital by the promotion of separate companies or otherwise t'o
equip and operate such properties as may survive expert examination and
testing
T r , , PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS:
In London: New Consolidated Goldfields. Ltd.; Camp Bird. Ltd.; The Zinc Corpo-
ration Ltd.; Golden Horseshoe (New), Ltd.; The Associated Gold Mines of Western
Australia (New), Ltd.; Austral Development, Ltd.
In Australia: North Broken Hill, Ltd.; Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia,
Ltd.; Metals Investigation Pty., Ltd.
„.. T , ~ DIRECTORS:
Cohn Fraser, Mining. Engineer, 3(50 Collins Street, Melbourne (Chairman).
vf l ' Robinson, K.C.M.G., Solicitor, Collins Gate, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. G C. Ivlug. Mining Engineer, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. M L. Baillieu, Investor, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. Alex. Stewart, Engineer, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LONDON BOARD:
Mr. J. A. Agnew, Mr. C. Latham Baillieu and Mr. L. B. Robinson
BANKERS • \
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne..
~ SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Arthur Robinson & Company, Collins Gate, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Hugh G. Brain, c/o Secretariat Proprietary, Limited, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne
MANAGER:
G. Lindesay Clark, B.Sc., M.M.E.
LONDON SECRETARIES:
Austral Development, Ltd., 95 Gresham Street, London, E.C.2.
THE PRINCIPAL ASSETS of Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., areo-
la) 85,700 fully-paid shares in Mount Coolon Gold Mines N.L.;
(b) Option held until October, 1934, over 100,000 shares in the capital of Mount
Coolon Gold Mines N.L. at 15/- per share;
(c) Its appointment as General Managers and Consultants to the Mount Coolon
Gold Mines N.L. for a period of ten years from 14th October, 1931. at a
remuneration equal to 5 per cent, of the amount from time to time dis-
tributed by the latter to its shareholders by way of dividends (in addition
to the actual expenditure incurred by Gold Mines of Australia. Ltd.). Its
appointment under similar terms for a period of five years to Berry Leads
N.L. (Victoria);
(d) Cash and other liquid assets amounting to £31,500;
(e) 30,000 shares paid to 2/- in the capital of Berry Leads N.L., a company
which has been registered with a nominal capital of 100,000 shares of
10/- each;
(f) Options of purchase over mining leases in various parts of Australia, which
leases are now being examined and/or tested.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES N.L. was the first company promoted by Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd. This Company, which is operating a mine in North
Queensland, was registered in October, 1931, and brought to the productive
stage in 12 months. Profits made during the first five months’ operations
approximated £70.000 and the first dividend has been declared. The capital
of the Company_ is 800,000 shares of 10/- each, of which 600,000 shares are
issued. The initial public issue of 440,000 shares was heavily over-subscribed.
The vendors received 160,000 fully-paid shares. Of the latter, Gold Mines of
Australia, Ltd., received 130,000 shares.
BERRY LEADS NO LIABILITY: This Company, in which Gold Mines of Australia,
Ltd. holds the interests mentioned, will test certain auriferous deep leads
already located by drilling near Allendale in the Ballarat district. Victoria.
Shaft sinking is to be undertaken and further testing by drilling on the area
secured (approximately 1000 acres) will he carried out. The lead is believed
to be practically dry and is in a locality which vielded a great amount of
gold in earlier days. Prospects of success are considered good.
WENTWORTH MINERAL LEASES, W.A.: Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., in equal
share with Western Mining Corporation, Ltd., has on the recommendation of
Mr. C. G. Gibson, Mining Geologist, taken an option until Ist May, 1934, over
the Wentworth Leases situated near Ora Banda and some 45 miles from
Kalgoorlie, West Australia. Mr. Gibson’s report is as follows:
“Only a brief examination of the property was made, and this report must be considered
more as a general opinion as to the mine’s possibilities rather than as a report on the
mine itself. The lode, as opened up, consists of a wide band of highly sheared and
schisted greenstone having a proved width of —in places—not less than 50 feet; this
lode has been proved to extend through the full length of the property and it will,
without doubt, prove of considerable permanency in depth.
“The main workings are on the 50 and 100 feet levels; on these levels a total length
of over 500 feet has been driven and there are several crosscuts and other workings all
showing lode matter of apparently similar nature and grade. A little work has also
been done at 150 feet, where similar lode material is exposed and the main shaft has
been sunk to 2"00 feet (water level) ; the bottom of this shaft could not be examined,
but it is reported to be in similar formation to that exposed on the 150 feet level!
The greater part of the material taken from these workings is said to have been
treated for returns ranging from 8 to 15 dwt. per ton, and, as far as it is possible to
judge from appearances, the ore does not appear to have been to any great extent ‘picked.’
“I was, of course, unable to do any sampling during my inspection, but I was much
impressed with the size, and undoubted permanence of the lode channel. Clearly, too.
a large portion of this channel has been definitely proved to carry payable values’, and
a serious effort should be made to ascertain the full extent over which such values
extend. With this object in view, I would recommend that a complete sampling of all
the accessible workings be made, such sampling to be done at five feet intervals and
over (as near as possible) 5 feet widths. Should the result of this sampling show a
reasonable extent of ore of even approximately payable grade, then a further testing
of the lode in depth should be made. This should be done by diamond drilling to a
vertical depth of, say, 350 feet to 400 feet; in order to obtain water for this purpose,
the main shaft should be sunk to such depth .as would ensure this. This latter work,
I think, might be safely put in hand right away, as I feel confident that careful and
complete sampling will bear out my present opinion that the property has a good chance
of developing into a big mine and fully warrants a systematic try-out in depth.’’
The acquisition of the abovestated interest in this option, on quite satisfactory terms,
is regarded as important, and the testing of the property along the lines recommended
by Mr. Gibson is now being done.
The Company possesses a good business and technical organisation and facilities for
drawing upon its shareholding and associated companies for advice and assistance
as necessary. It has built up a considerable goodwill and is in a favorable position
to acquire or participate in new goldmining business. Shareholders in Gold Mines of
Australia, Ltd., can look forward to receiving reasonable preference of allotment in
respect to shares in subsidiary companies which may be promoted from time to
time to acquire and operate new mining properties.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The two films at the Regent this week
are specimens, in their widely different ways,
of productions that have done much to make
Hollywood the bad girl of the artistic
family. Lying is, of course, the lady’s weak-
ness. “Walking Down Broadway” is about
the virginal passion of Boots Mallory for
James Dunn. His love equals hers, but
when slanders on her virtue reach his ears
he faces her, umbrellaless, in a teeming rain-
storm and casts her off. The misunderstand-
ing is so hackneyed and the characters are
so incredible in their imbecility that the
director evidently felt the need of a sensa-
tion, so the house which contains Boots’s
attic bedroom is blown up by dynamite, and
James rescues her from the flames. No
such people ever existed outside publications
like the “Girls’ Companion,” and their
inane goings-on are made more irritating by
being presented in an expensively realistic
manner.
“Red-headed Woman” is one of those films
that raise high hopes and fall down in the
last few sequences. Jean Harlow does the
best work of her screen career as a female
go-getter. She begins by stealing wealthy
Chester Morris from his wife. Then she
takes up with a senile rake who is even
richer than Morris. There are some wick-
edly funny touches in the best tradition of
i rench farce; as, for example, when Morris
tells his rival that he has been having his
wife watched. The old gentleman is panic-
stricken and then humiliated by the news
that all the incriminating evidence is against
his chauffeur. A weak point, psychologically,
is that the lady should have let herself be
bowled out so easily. Young women who
marry for money are usually faithful—if
only to the money, so to speak. When they
stray unless they become madly infatuated
with a detrimental and bolt—-they are too
clever and careful to be found out. But
the crowning dishonesty of “Red-headed
\\ oman” is Jean Harlow’s attempt to mur-
der Morris, for whom she had never felt
affection or jealousy. For the sake of a
few revolver-shots and a smashed-up ear—
thrills that are as stale as the rescue in the
other film—the director has ruined a bril-
liant bit of characterisation. What a finish
if the ancient had been shown trustingly
married to his chauffeur’s sweetheart! The
dialogue (by Anita Loos) is extremely funny
in its cynical way, and the casting and act-
ing are beyond praise.
* # *
“Secrets 0 f the French Police,” at the
’ “teraUy swims in gore. Gregory
Raton, a Russian expatriate, is responsible,
lii lus pursuit of the millions of the late
Ozar Nicholas 11., he needs someone to
impersonate Princess Anastasia. Gwiii
Andre, a Paris flowergirl in love with a
pickpocket (John Warburton), fits the bill;
but as she is poor but honest Ratoff has to
abduct and hypnotise her. This necessitates
a double murder, of which Warburton is
suspected. Warburton enlists the aid of
Bertillon (Murray Kinnell) of the Secrel
Police. Warburton at one stage of the con-
test is almost riddled with bullets. A
Grand Duke who refuses to believe that the
flowergirl is Anastasia dies in a planned
motor smash. Eventually Ratoff is cornered
by the Surete and Gwiii is rescued. A final
horror is the discovery by the rescuing party
tha.t Ratoff’s mistress has been murdered
and her body turned into a statue. The act-
ing, is _ad equate and the technicians have done
their bit as usual.
. In “Sailor, Be Good,” Jack Oakie plays a
gm-guzzling gob who is handy with his fists.
He is down to fight a series of bouts lead-
ing to the championship of the U.S.A. navy,
but loses condition owing to his dissolute
habits. Vivienne Osborne sets out to cure
him and he wins a few preliminaries. Then he
gets swelled-headed, is married by a neurotic
lady of fashion and takes to drink again.
Kicked out of his wife’s home as a pest he
returns to his old haunts, licks the naval
champ, and wins Vivienne. The censor
lias left in a good deal of what the Yanks
call rough stuff.” His defence will no
doubt be: “You should see what I cut out!”
* # *
(t W. , Jacobs ' s horrorful little classic,
The Monkey’s Paw,” at the Empire, has
been spoilt as a film by the introduction of
a love story and a “then-he-woke-up” end-
ing. Even so the acting almost saves it.
Ivan Simpson’s Mr. White, whose dream
leads to bitter regrets, is just bettered by
Louise Carter as his wife. Deftly they
create a cosy home atmosphere, soon to be
shattered by the monkey’s paw, brought from
It 1 a - tT Aubre y Smith as Sarn-major
Morris—another clever vignette.
Lee Tracy is in his element as a publicity
agent gabbing his way through “The Half
naked Truth.” By sheer weight of Talk he
takes Lupe Velez, a side-show dancer, and
a we , ek ba ? her starring on Broadway.
When she falls in a variety of love with
her producer, Lee supplants her with a
hotel maid, and Lupe drags back to the side-
show. But Eugene Pallette brings her and
Iracy together again. The humor is sadly
overdone.
* * *
“Diamond Cut Diamond,” at the Hay-
market, chronicles the adventures of Adolphe
Menjou and Claude Allister as crooks. They
are first seen on a kind of Anglo-South Sea
island. By robbing an alleged native of a
pearl they raise enough to reach London.
Menjou does a Bond-street jeweller out of
a bracelet. Trailed by a sleuth he hides it
in Benita Hume’s handbag, only to find that
she is m the same game as himself. Eventu-
ally the wily Benita double-crosses her trade
rivals, and when last seen they are crack-
ing stones in an English prison. The act-
ing is polished; the sound effects are poor.
. “Cauboy”; English talkies are now hav-
ing American accents grafted on them for
American consumption, and this strikes Eng-
lishmen as incongruous. There is nothing
incongruous about it. The aim of drama
is to create an illusion of reality, not to be
the reality itself. The illusion is condi-
tioned by the degree of knowledge the audi-
mce has of the particular reality concerned.
I bus Australian actors take the parts of
Scotchmen, Russians, Germans, Chinamen
and niggers, and if the audience is deceived
mto acceptance of the illusion that is all
that is required. Actually, the comic Irish-
man and the stage Scotchman are only con-
ventions about those racial subdivisions, and
if the public were presented with the real
thing it wouldn’t recognise it. Dion Bouci-
cault was a terrific stickler for “realistic”
detail, and in his staging of “The Letter”
he even saw that the Chinese “boys,” in
answering their master’s call, hurried on to
the stage buttoning up their tunics as they
came. Probably most of tbe audiences
merely thought they had been caught nap-
ping, and only an ex-Singaporean would have
understood. On the other hand, in his last
season of Barrie plays one of Dion’s com-
pany was severely criticised by Melbourne
theatregoers for the poor quality of his Scots,
though he was actually speaking his native
Aberdeen.


Everything at.
MURDOCHS
for the
“MAN ON THE
LAND.”
Riding Breeches
for
Men -
19/6
Correctly cut, well fitting Riding
Breeches for the man who spends
most of his waking hours in the
saddle. The exclusive Murdoch
"Toughite” (Regd.) Cotton Tweed
Riding Breeches, with cross pockets,
medium balloons, strapped knees
and laced legs. Ready for service.
Work
Boots
14/9
A Murdoch Service Boot for strenu-
ous wear. In Black Boxhide Derby
with mock toecaps and watertight
tongues. Double screwed and sewn
soles. Men’s sizes.
Tan Yearling Calf Officers’ Military
Derby Boots. Heavy double-decker
sewn and screwed soles. Also in
Black. Guaranteed solid leather.
MURDOCH’S PRICE 17/6
Work
Shirts
5/6
Exceptionally staunch-wearing Pin-
head Working Shirt's for men.
Double sewn at vital points of wear.
Fashioned with attached collar and
breast pocket. Shades of Blue, Grey
and Fawn. Price, each 5/6
(3 for 16/-.)
“Drover
Hats - -
21/-
The "Drover.” Superlative quality
pure Fur Felt "Drover” Hats for
men. Specially ventilated. Crown
slightly higher than ordinary hats
and brim 3 Jin. wide. Plaited
leather band. Dark Fawn shade.
“Sombrero”
Hats - - - -
27/6
Murdoch’s “Sombrero” model Hats
for men, suitable for all weather
outdoor wear. Brim wide and
crown -H in. Well eyeletted and
with plaited leather band. Dark
Fawn, Black and Slate shades.
We Pay Freight.
Kindly Write to Desk “R ”
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY
PARK AND GEORGE STREETS.
r ARMERS
Rural-Topics. Dairying.,
Stockbreeding . Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
.. Notes Etc All in »
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES &
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1823 of 1932.
Between WILFRED GEORGE COOPER Petitioner
And VIDA VERONICA COOPER Respondent.;
To VIDA VERONICA COOPER late .of Dalton, near
Goulburn.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILFRED GEORGE
COOPER has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
three and in the event of you not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this tenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-three.
For the Registrar,
[L.S.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. F. THOMAS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Goul-
burn ; by W. H. HILL & TRUMAN, Solicitors, 10
.Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The most complete Banking
Service in Australasia
The Bank of New South Wales, the oldest and
largest bank in Australia, has 705 branches and
agencies throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Pacific Islands and London.
Through this network of branches the Bank provides
every facility for financing internal and inter-
dominion trade and at each one of its branches it
transacts all customary banking business.
The Bank maintains a highly efficient British and
Foreign Exchange Department under the direction
of experienced officers, who are prepared at all times
to advise on exchange matters —including the buying
and selling of forward exchange and the opening of
currency accounts in all principal currencies of
the world.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commmerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
Deposits exceed £83,000,000.
HERE’S
ONE
LEAK
YOU
COULD
STOP/
FARMER'S
£
bank
k
Wk
V/\
izy/JL
Yes! You can stop one leakage from your bank
account those expenses that are always crop-
ping up for your “old style” fences for new
wire.... new droppers... .for maintenance and
repairs. And they increase as the fence gets
older!
You save all this with a “Cyclone” fence. You
erect it. and forget it. Permanent.... and per-
manently stock-proof. No repairs! No main-
tenance! No new materials to pay for! No
sagging, stretching or loss of stock.
And “Cyclone” Fence saves you money right
from the start saves you £8 a mile in actually
putting it up. Cost of materials is the same as
the “old-style” fence, but “Cyclone” is erected
in A LITTLE OYER HALF THE TIME!
m
a
m
(&&■!
m
jljl;
&
>
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C9P"L T ?
21 JAMIESON STREET, SIDNEY. '
Anft at Melbourne and Adelaide.
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and
priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock
Pences, and comparison of costs.
| NAME I
| ADDRESS |
IV tin 24*5 j
Legal Notices.
CHARLES HORN DECEASED
p<)R the purpose of enquiries pursuant to Order of
the 3rd May 1932 of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division England in re Charles Horn
deceased" (who died Intestate on 6th May 1/925 at
Oxford England) and re Jane Horn deceased, (who
'died Intestate on Bth June 1928 at Oxford England)
Butterfield v. Mole (1931 H 3609) for the purpose
of ascertaining the persons entitled to the real
and personal estate of the Intestate Charles Horn,
all persons claiming to be so entitled are by Ist
October 1933 to send in their claims to Reginald
O’Kelly a partner in Messrs. Stow Preston and
Lyttelton 12 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London W.C.2
England Solicitors with full particulars and in
the case of those residing out of the jurisdiction
the name and address of some person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the claimants may be
sent. In default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the Order unless the Court on applica-
tion otherwise orders. The adjudication on claims
is on the 18th day of October 1933 at noon before
Master Willmott at Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England.
Dated the 10th day of April 1933.
M. G. WILLMOTT,
Master.
STOW PRESTON & LYTTELTON, 12 Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, W.C.2, agents for Andrew Walsh and
Son, Oxford, Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
NOTE. —The said Charles Horn was born at
Ividlington in the County of Oxford, England, on
12th February, 1857. He was a Compositor, and
married one Jane Chamberlain and resided and died
at Oxford.
The parents of the abovenamed Intestate were
Charles Horn the Elder and Lucy Horn (nee
S'olesbery). The latter in 1846 married one William
Mole by whom she had issue. The said William
Mole subsequently left the said Lucy Mole and
went to Australia.
Information is required in particular- as to tne
death of William Mole and the alleged marriage of
Charles Horn the Elder with Lucy Mole.
CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH CHESNEY
HOPKINS Deceased.
COR the purpose of an inquiry directed by an
r Order (dated 24th October 1932 and made in
the High Court of Justice Chancery -Division in
England in an Action re Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney
Hopkins deceased Darby v. Official Solicitor 1932 H.
2870) to ascertain the persons entitled to the property of
the abovenamed Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney Hopkins
All persons claiming to be interested are by 2nd
October 1933 to send to Cecil Brodrick, 63 Queen
Victoria Street London E.C.4 England Solicitor full
particulars of their claims and if not residing in
England or Wales the name and address of a person
in England or Wales to whom Notices to the Claimant
can be sent. In default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the Order.
ADJUDICATION on Claims will be on Tuesday
17th October 1933 at 12 noon before Master Willmott
Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England.
Dated 4th April 1933.
M. G. WILLMOTT, Master.
NOTE —The abovenamed Charlotte Elizabeth
Chesney Hopkins was a daughter of Francis William
Hopkins and Margaret Hopkins (wee NcNeiU)
Frederick William Hopkins a brother of the saw
Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney Hopkins was born m
18.77 and was last heard of in Australia about •><)
years ago where he was believed to have been em-
ployed as a station hand.
CECIL' BRODRICK, 63 Queen Victoria Street,
London, E.C.4, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
READ THIS
WONDERFUL LETTER
ABOUT
EADE’S PILLS
The World-famous Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, SCIATICA
or LUMBAGO.
24th Field Brigade, R.A.,
Neweastle-on-Tyne,
November, 1932.
Si rs —(Had to .say I had great relief in
four days after using your Pills, and I shall
certainly continue their use. I feel a neu
man, and shall not fail to recommend' the
treatment to anyone who is unfortunate
enough to suffer from• severe Rheumatism.
W. BAKER.
Many thousands of people throughout the
world can testify to the remarkable efficacy
of Eade’s Pills. Hundreds of letters have
been received by the Proprietors, every one
genuine, reporting the marvellous results
that have followed a few days treatment.
Packed in two sizes, and sold by every high-
class Chemist throughout the Commonwealth.
For certain results insist on getting Bade s Pills.
A GOOD STATION POLEY
If quality appeals to you this is the
Saddle you will buy, and the price
is very moderate.
No. 145
KEMP
STYLE
POLEY,
£B/5/-
Bare.
Girth. Leathers
and good N.P-
Irons 207-
extra.
Freight free for
cash on N.S.W.
railways.
It has Pigskin Seat and
Pads, best Kip Flaps
and a good Tree.
WRITE FOR OUR 88,PAOE OATAWGUE OF
SADDLERY AND HARNESS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 OKOR(iK STREET, SYDNEY.


“Member Audit Bureau Circulations.-
The IVlost Widely
Read Newspaper
in Queensland.
“"Ta®
CX
mm
99
Representatives
Robt. D. Fisher,
74 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 85007.
Louis S. Marks,
Newspaper House,
Collins St., MELBOURNE. F 3906.
The SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS
The only
Evening Paper
in the North
of Tasmania.
(EST. 1924).
The S.E. Express gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Mid-
lands, and the North-West Coast of
Tasmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, It
is the Sunday Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN THE S.E. EXPRESS FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “The Examiner” (daily) and “Weekly Courier”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
OLD BACKS AND
JOINTS MADE YOUNG
From pain and weakness to healthy vigour
in quick time is the rule with Harrison's
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism,
backache, painful urination, lost vitality
due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinary
and bladder troubles, or for aches and pains
generally. No matter how many things have
failed you, Harrison’s Pills should set you
right, for they remove the cause of the
trouble. One user says: “Never known such
quick relief. They soothe all the pain away,
and' leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since
taking them I have felt years younger .” If
YOU want to feel and look ten to twenty
years younger— quickly —get a package of
Harrison’s Pills from the chemists’ to-day :
2/- Trial Size; 3/- Standard Size; and 57-
Large Size. If not pleasantly surprised with
results — money hack! Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Australia House, Sydney, or any good
chemist.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
IF THE WORST ARRIVES.
“Dialectica”: If the dry spell in parts of
Australia develops into a drought there is
only one motto for the grazier—be ruthless.
If you decide to feed your stock, put them
all in a small paddock and keep them there.
If you leave them in a big paddock they 11
kill themselves running about looking for
tucker, and what little grass does shoot will
be trampled down, so that they will get
little good of it. But if you spell your pad-
docks it is remarkable how much feed will
grow with even a little rain. Later in the
year you may be able to put some stock in
them.
I would never hand-feed again, unless I
got feed very cheap. Once you begin to
feed sheep they never seem to do much good
-on the little bit of feed they get naturally,
and it is not long before they won’t forage
for themselves.
Go through your sheep carefully every
week or two and Jceep them constantly under
your eyes. You will find that even' in the
worst drought there are always some prime
sheep, particularly crossbred ewes. How
they keep in such condition is a mystery,
but it is also a fact, of which you should
take advantage. Send them to the fat
market. If there aren’t enough for even a
halt-truck you will find your neighbors will
also have a few, and you can split a half-
truck with them.
If your sheep are going off rapidly, shear
them early, even if they have only ten or
eleven months’ M r ool on them.
After shearing, draft off the weak and the
old, cut their throats and burn them. It is
the only way, and you will lose nothing by
it;-the sheep you kill will be valueless, even
if they had the luck to survive. Forget
what you once paid for them; think of them
only as liabilities, and remember that they
wifi die a lingering, horrible death if you
cion t end them mercifully with the killing
Re ruthless. You may find your flock
i educed by half when you have finished,
but the best half will be left and you will
have something worth while on which to
build when the good seasons come back.
DRAFTING SHEEP.
“A alerin”; Simple as it may look, there’s
an art m drafting sheep. As sheep are shy
about passing under his arm, always draft
the big line into the yard opposite the man
at the gate. Do not swing the gate until
the sheep gets his head very close to it,
otherwise he will baulk. The man keeping
the sheep moving, along the race should use
a small, blunt stick, not a bag or a bush;
always poke the sheep over the rail and the
second or third in the queue, never the
first. The man pushing the sheep up in the
forcing yard should never walk through
them from the rear to start them into the
race; let him get over the feuce and push
up the leaders. The drafter should keep his
eye well down the race and not on the
first couple of sheep.
THE STATION MEAT-HOUSE.
“Liss”: It should be one that can easily
be kept clean, in addition to being cool and
fly-proof. The dimensions will largely
depend on the amount of meat to be kept’;
tor the station killing two sheep or a
steer at a time, a room 10ft. square will
found large enough—not that it can very
well be made smaller. All the timber, except
the walls, may be cut in the bush. The site
should be handy to the house, away from
drains or rubbish tips, some considerable
distance from the killing pen, and, if possible,
where some trees will shade it from the even-
ing sun. House should be 7ft. high in front
and 6ft. at the back, sloping towards the
west, and roofed with corrugated-iron. A
ceiling is optional, though to be preferred.
Having stood corner posts and door-post
up, nail a 6in. by lin. pine board round the
outside at the bottom; this will retain the
cement floor, protect the gauze from salt
water when the floor is washed over and
provide something to batten the gauze to.
Build a bench along one side, about 20in.
wide, and make it substantial, setting the
legs in the ground, and protecting the gauze
behind it with another piece of 6in. by lin.
pme. Leather loops nailed to this will hold
the knives. In the angle made by the bench
and the wall at the left-hand end set a
good big box or beefwood block at least
i” the ground. Now cement the floor.
\\ alls may be made entirely of galvanised
gauze, or of Ift. of gauze above the bottom
board, then t. and g. or weatherboard for
oft. and the rest (to the roof) gauze; I
prefer the former. Stand the pickle cask
in one corner and from the roof suspend an
old sulky tyre; it makes an excellent rail
on which, to hang the joints.
Over this house build a roof in pyramidal
form of thatch' laid on netting, bringing the
eaves well down below the level of the other
roof, in order to protect the meat from the
sun and to cause as much draught as pos-
sible. The thatch should be thick and well
laid. If cane grass, swamp grass or straw
is not procurable, use small gum branches
and lay netting over the top to retain the
leaves. Cover the walls of this outer build-
ing with rabbit netting to keep dogs away
from the meat-house walls, and provide a
door opposite the inner one.
still time for a crop.
“Woorinen” : The calamity-howler is hard
again. Because we Victorians have
had a dry summer and the early autumn
rains ran a bye all hands are predicting
a crop failure. I write in the second week
of May; there is still plenty of time
for wheat. The dominant factor in Vic as
regards rain is the fall in May or June for
satisfactory germination and the September
and October falls for filling out. Records
show that the best wheat years have been
dry in the early months and that some of
the worst have been wet in the first few
months.
All the old hands in the Vic. Malice keep
on sowing to schedule in years like this,
knowing that the worst that can happen Is
a light crop or a dirty one through lack of
rain early enough to germinate weeds in the
fallow, and fully expecting to reap a normal
crop. It is the new hand who is likely to be
put out of lii.s stride by these Sellowings.
BENCUBBIN AND TOTADGIN.
“Dunboy” : These new wheat varieties are
giving good results in Westralia. They were
bred on the Merredin State farm by the
late E. Limbourne and have come through
satisfactory tests there and on other State
farms. Bencubbin has also proved itself in
the field. So much was it in demand for
seed this year that farmers who had sup-
plies of it charged their less fortunate neigh-
bors as much as 4s. per bushel, ungraded.
Totadgin, an early variety, has yet to estab-
lish its name on private farms; but this
it will accomplish if it can do as well there
as it did on the Merredin, and Yilgarn State
farms. Both varieties are resistant to flag-
smut. It is considered that Totadgin may
replace Gluyas Early, very susceptible to
flag-smut, as the standard early variety, just
as Bencubbin is superseding Nabawa as the
standard mid-season variety.
THE SPIKE-ROLLER.
“Agri”: In a season such as the present
when (in our. N.S.W. district, at least) there
has been insufficient rainfall to pack the
fallow and allow the usual routine of work-
ings to be followed, the spike-roller may be
used to advantage. Its benefits are three-
fold. On fallow which has worked up loose
and lumpy, it solidifies the seedbed, breaks
the clods into uniform size—not too small to
spoil the. condition of the surface, nor too
large to impede germination—and leaves the
surface smooth and eVen. This is an advant-
age when one wishes to sow t to an even and
finely-calculated depth.
After sowing in loose soil, the spike-roller
may be used to pack the soil round the seed,
thus ensuring a quick germination when
rain comes. If used after sowing, it is
advisable to drag light harrows behind the
roller to loosen the surface a little.
AND NOT QUITE FIFTY ACRES!
“O’Gorman”: As an example of pasture-
improvement in its simplest form, the ex-
perience of some neighbors of mine in north-
east Vic. is worth recording. Three seasons
ago these people took over a block, less than
50 acres ill extent, of such light carrying
capacity that the two preceding occupiers
had abandoned it. They began with an
application of 1501 b. per acre of super, the
first autumn over as much of the area as
it was then practicable to do, following with
similar amounts in spring and next autumn ;
they applied in all six tons of manure, cost-
ing £3O.
For this outlay they were able to raise
their herd from 13 ill-fed cows to 30 well-
fed ones, besides 15 head of young stock,
not yet in profit, in addition to making ample
reserves ot meadow-hay and silage; up to
30 acres was mown for this purpose during
the past season. Next year it is proposed
to milk up to 40 cows. Without introduction
of improved milking strains butter-fat pro-
duction has been increased from 661 b. to
1301 b. per acre.
The laying down of artificial pastures is
only just being effected, and has not yet
begun to affect the returns. Pasture-harrow-
ing has, however, been frequently carried
out, in conjunction with subdivision and
rotational grazing. As in most cases of a
similar kind recorded in recent years the
chief agent in this improvement has been
sub. clover, with some aid from English rye
and white clover.
MILK FEVER
“Gland” : I am connected with a veterin-
ary firm near Melbourne, and, in my opinion,
“Seteren” (B. 3/5/’33) does not go far
enough in his treatment of milk fever and
yet goes dangerously far. Milk-fever cases
are very frequently attended by our men,
the treatment now’ employed being the in-
jection of a calcium solution direct into the
jugular vein. Of course, in some cases, the
distance to be travelled would make the cost
prohibitive except where the, animal is very
valuable. “Seteren’s” advice to keep a milk-
fever outfit handy is good. Scrupulous
cleanliness must be observed, however; and
even then there is a risk of mastitis follow-
ing the treatment.
Regarding drenching, if the cow displays
symptoms of “going down,” as it is com-
monly termed, on no account attempt to
drench her ; there is too much risk of caus-
ing pneumonia by the drenching liquid
being taken into the lungs. Drench about a
week before the cow calves, and beneficial
results will follow. Though science has not
yet arrived at the limits of research in
milk-fever treatment, it is established that
an exhaustion of the calcium in the blood-
stream is primarily responsible for the con-
dition. Ordinary milk contains a greater
percentage of lime than there is in lime-
water. One gallon of beestings contains
twice the amount of lime usually present in
the blood-stream. So the cow that gives two
gallons of beestings per day loses four times
the amount of lime normally found therein.
When a drench is given prior to calving,
the flow of beestings is not so heavy; con-
sequently the degree of lime exhaustion is
diminished. Some farmers milk part of the
beestings and give it to the cow as a drench.
This is beneficial.
The advantage of the lime-injection
treatment may be cited briefly: (1) As the
udder is not interfered with, there is no
danger of mammitic infection; (2) the cow
recovers and resumes feeding within fifteeen
minutes of treatment (I recently saw a cow
rise before the operator had withdrawn the
needle) (3) the animal is ready for sale
within eight hours of treatment. Under the
old system, the sale would be delayed for up
to three weeks. As the operation requires
great, skill, it should be performed by a
qualified veterinary surgeon.
Our recommendation to the farmer is: In
the autumn top-dress freely with lime. Throw
(i bftg or two into the wnterholes. Top-dress
with super in the spring. Lime fed in the
bails is of little value, as only 2 p.c. of any
so introduced _ can be assimilated. Use a
burnt lime which gives a stable analysis of
about 95 p.c. lime carbonate.
Incidentally, the -term “milk fever” is
technically wrong, a s. a sudden fall in tem-
perature, not a rise, precedes the collapse.
As it has been in use for so long, however
it is probable that the name will persist.
BEATING ST. JOHN’S W'ORT.
“TV odgil”; “H. Da” has good scientific
authority for the statement (B. 10/5/’33)
that “St. John’s wort may be kept in check
by sowing sub. clover and top-dressing yearly
with lewt. super.” Hitherto our agricul-
tural departments have recommended con-
trol by the sodium-chlorate spray, lib. to
1 gallon of water, applied at the rate of 150
gallons per acre in July. Writing in the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette,” Chief In-
structor Stening describes this method as
effective but expensive. For dealing with
large and badly-infested areas he now pins
his faith to sub. clover.
Mr. Stening gives a history of experiments
conducted at Tumbarumba, where the
weed has overgrown approximately 5000
acres. A densely-infested area was ploughed
Bin. deep in October, 1928, and sown in
March, 1929, with 81b. sub. clover and 1001 b.
super, per acre. The clover has been top-
dressed in March each year since with lewr.
super, per acre. Results were such that
another area was sown with half the quan-
tity of sub. clover seed (41b. per acre) and
lewt. super, per acre in March, 1931. G.
C. Bartlett, the district agricultural in-
structor, who supervised the experiments,
has recently reported that the effectiveness
of the control resulting from the 41b. seed-
ing was equal to that from the heavier sow-
ing. On both areas only about 1 per cent.
of plants of St. John’s wort had survived,
and these were weak and stunted.
“Thus,” says Mr. Stening, “not only has
the. St. John’s wort been suppressed, but
it is replaced with a succulent pasture at
small cost, and the carrying capacity of the
land has been improved to a remarkable
degree. To ensure the efficacy of this
method it is essential to top-dress the sub.
clover regularly each year in the autumn
with at least lcwt. super, per acre, as this
greatly stimulates the growth of the clover
and assists it to smother the weed.” Some
farmers and graziers believe that the weed
has nourishing properties. Stock will eat
it, but the Chief Instructor issues the warn-
ing that “it contains an active principle
which lias a very serious effect on stock
grazed on the weed for some time. Light-
colored parts of the skin are rendered pecu-
liarly sensitive to sunlight, causing a severe
itch, and as the result of rubbing and biting
the parts swell and bleed. The nervous sys-
tem is also affected, causing either depres-
sion or intense excitement. Death some-
times results if feeding is persisted in.”
GRASS SILAGE.
“A.G.R.”: Whittet, the N.S.W. agrosto-
logist, advocates the conservation of surplus
grass as silage. It should be cut while still
succulent, and stacked the same day in order
to prevent it drying out. Horse sweeps
or push rakes to carry the grass to the
stack, and a mast stacker and grab to elevate
it, will be found useful.
On the first day build the stack to a
height of sft. or 6ft., and leave for a few
days to settle. After this grass can be
added every second day till the desired height
is reached. The outside of the stack must
be well tramped while building, and the
centre kept level till finishing off, when
it should be slightly higher than the out-
side. The stack should be weighted with
about 12in. of earth, rising higher in the
middle.
Grass may also be put into pit or hillside
silos, and must be well tramped and covered
with hay weighted down with soil.
TRICES OF WIRE-NETTING.
Most of us who are old enough are always
ready to compare the prices we paid for
things 20 years ago with what we have to
pay to-day—to the disadvantage, of course,
of those of to-day. A while back it was the
popular thing to blame “the unions” for it;
to-day, in the country especially, “the
tariff” is usually put in the dock, whether
the article concerned is protected or not.
One of the lines most frequently quoted is
wire-netting. Now there is no tariff against
the all-British product whatever ; not even
primage is charged. Yet Australian prices
have for many years been far below British.
In 1922, taking the most popular size of
netting (42in. x l|in. x 17B). the price of
the Australian product in main Australian
centres was £56 per mile. To-day it is
£39 10s. per mile. And these reductions
have not been forced on Australian manu-
facturers by outside competition, either.
There is evidence of that in the fact that
reductions totalling £7 2s. sd. per mile have
been made since the beginning of 1932, not-
withstanding that the Australian price was
already below the landed cost of British.
The landed cost of British without exchange
is to-day £39 10s. lOd. per mile. The jirice
of the Australian article is £39 10s. The
cost of exchange on the British product is
£lO Is. Bd. That leaves a difference in
favor of the Australian netting to-day of
no less than £lO 2s. 6d. per mile.
Rylands, the principal Australian makers
of netting, are selling their product in
Maoriland at a considerable advance on the
Australian price; yet even that is 5 p.e
below the British price.
GETTING RID OF WALLABIES.
A correspondent is plagued with wallabies
and wants to know liow to get rid of them.
“What’s tin* best poison?” he asks. Queens-
land’s Agricultural Department, to which the
query was submitted, replies that wallabies
may be poisoned by using powdered strych-
nine in minute quantities, about as much as
can be taken on the point of a small pen-
knife, inserted into lin. cubes of sweet pota-
toes, or corn soaked in a solution of strych-
nine dissolved in vinegar. Be careful; to
gather all baits not taken overnight, notify
neighbors arid post notices adjacent to ail
roadways to the effect that poison lias been
laid.
Wallabies can also be trapped. A simple
trap consists of a pliable sapling lin. to
Hin. diameter and a piece of string. The
sapling is used as the spring of the trap,
one end being put in the ground, while from
the other the string with a noose is sus-
pended. The sapling being o ut of the ground
the string with a small catch of wood is
used to bring the spring into bow-shape.
A run is chosen and the loop spread out,
the spring being retained in place by twist-
ing the catch once round a side-trestle and
placing a stick from the catch on to a trestle
opposite. The trestles and retaining-bar of
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


■ '.I:
v-
m
<S§
X 77,
h
thicknesses of the toughest
obtainable leather make
the sole of this exclusive
Abbey Boot. . . .yet it’s
pliant and so easy-fitting that it
is ideal for general wear. The
roomily-designed upper gives
every muscle full scope for
action. You will walk better in
an Abbey 800 t.... and save
money, too. Extra mileage is
guaranteed.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE-
STREET ADDRESS —No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS.
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNE V.
FPL 334
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander," 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Some Broken Hill Figures.
Ore mined to date, 44 million tons.
Value produced from the mines, £157
million.
Dividends to date, £37 million.
Still going strong.
And then there is “The Barrier
Miner,” now in its 46th year of office
as the Great Daily Newspaper ot
Broken Hill and the Far West.
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
The Leading Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the “Sunday Times has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the Sunday Times has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
Managing
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes ot Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
: Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
why
’Sui/a.REBSHIBaSm
WHEN
aib a
£xi<?«
The cost ot one starting
failure through a rebuilt
battery will more than
pay the difference be-
tween a rebuilt and a
genuine EXIDE backed
by the Word’s Largest
Battery Organisation.
40
CAPITAL CITY PI
RICES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co,
Ltd.); Melbourne —A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide—UNBEHAUN &
JOHNSTONE LTD.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN LTD.: Hobart—MEDHURST
& SONS PTY. LTD
EC X 12
the spring catch' are in the centre of the
string loop, and if an animat strikes the bar
the catch is released and the loop catches it.
In one case where 30 of these traps were
set in scrub along 25 chains, as many as 120
wallabies were caught. The trestles are
increly two scrub forks with a stick across
them about 4in. to 6in. high, and 12in. to
loin, apart.
The department is also of opinion that
a vermin yard might be useful —a yard ot
any size which might suit the farmer. In
one side of the fence there are two open-
ings about a couple of feet wide. These
openings are fenced on each side and run
diagonally for a distance of about six yards
into the yard, terminating in a narrow open-
ing. This is sufficient to allow the animal
to pass in, but not large enough for it to
return easily, even if it could find the open-
ing by which it entered.
AN EFFECTIVE REPE LEANT.
“X.5.A.” : Many N.S.W. fruitgrowers have
been troubled by hares and other animals
attacking their young fruit trees. ,T. Ballon-
tyne, of the Bathurst experiment farm, has
carried out an experiment with a solution
which repels, and is cheap : sulphonated oil.
Heat linseed oil until it is smoking hot,
set it outdoors and immediately add flowers
of sulphur—ratio, 1 in 9, in weight of oil;
that is, 10 per cent, solution. Sift the
sulphur slowly into the hot oil and stir;
the mixture becomes hotter until the sulphur
dissolves. It may be thinned by turpentine
to spray through a chemical sprayer, or
may be applied by brush.
On application a rubbery coating is formed
on the trunk. Copper soap may be added
as a fungicide, or strychnine as a poison
for rodents that are starved into attacking
it; but experiments show that these have
soon died after eating the sulphonated oil.
This mixture lasts longer and is more effi-
cient than lime sulphur, blood or whitewash,
as all these wash off in even light rain. No
injury to the trees experimented on was
found, even though it was applied heavily
during hot weather.
WINTER LAYERS.
“Ivokoro”: Production of winter eggs is
a great thing to aim at. Provided proper
attention has been paid to breeding and birds
have been hatched at a period which will
give them time to reach the producing stage
by April, they will continue to lay until
February, if well fed and housed. Stock
hatched thus early mature quickly, and,
though they are apt to moult just about
the time they are expected to be producing,
care will prevent this reaching serious pro-
portions.
Winter-laying strains can be built up. In
breeding, second-season hens with a good
laying record as pullets should be selected
and mated with males from liens of a simi-
lar type. If persisted in, breeding on these
lines will produce a fowl with winter-egg
production as a fairly marked characteristic.
Feeding is no less important than fixation
of type. Conditions should be made as com-
fortable as possible and conformable to
summer surroundings. Good housing is
essential, and ample scratching litter should
be provided under shelter where the birds
may exercise themselves out of the wet and
wind. Birds exposed to the weather will
fall off in production at once and the cold
may induce a false moult.
As to the feeding itself, the poultry-
owner would be well advised to rely on one
of the many proprietary mashes on the
market. These are ready-mixed and provide a
balanced ration. It is impossible for the
average poultryman to make similar mashes
at anything like the same cost.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My horse scalds badly under the saddle
and girths after a day’s riding and has to
be turned out. Treatment? —5647.
Keep on riding him, feed, him well, and
swab a saturated solution of alum on his
wounds about three or four times a day
whether you are riding him or not.
(1) Is the counteraction of frost by smoky
fifes a general practice in Queensland? (2)
Is it the heat of the fires or the smoke which
counteracts frost? (3) About how many
fires per acre are necessary to cope with a
moderately heavy frost? (4) At what time
does frost form? (5) Are there any inex-
pensive chemicals which would be useful? —
5754.
(1) No. (2) Heat. (3) Wood fires
should be about 30 feet apart each way.
(4) 4.30 a.m. to 5 a.m. When the ther-
mometer falls to 35deg. F. the fires should
be lighted. (5) Crude-oil burners are used
in U.S.A., but this method is expensive in
Australia on account of much greater cost
of oil. Q’land Agricultural Department will
be pleased to supply further information
required.
(1) Is creeping bent grass good for
lawns? (2) lloiv would it. grow along a
shady car drive? (3) Best variety to use?
(4) Price of seed? (5) Quantity needed
per 100 square yards? (6) Time to sow ?.—
5877.
(1) Excellent if it can be kept well
watered during the heat of summer. (2)
Quite well if it gets a few hours of sun-
shine during the day. (3) New Zealand
Brown Top ( Agrostis tenuis). (4) 2s. per
pound; carriage extra. (5) 31b. (6) Now.
How soon after sale of produce must an
agent in N.S.W. forward a remittance to the
grower ? —5931.
Within 14 days.
/ am making cider of Cleo. Scarlet and
Stunner apples. (1) What is the best blend?
(2) When to sugar, before or after fermen-
tation? (3) Quantities sugar for sweet,
mild and bitter? (4) Books on the subject?
—5531.
(1) Impossible to say, as none of these
is a true cider apple; dessert apples pro-
duce only an inferior cider. You must ex-
periment for yourself. (2) Sugar is not
used in the best cider and is not considered
necessary. If you prefer to use it, before
fermentation is recommended, as sugar
assists the process of fermentation in
liquors. (3) You will have to test and
decide these for yourself. (4) There is a
good article on the subject in the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica,” which may be consulted
in most public libraries.
Reasons for the following weather peculi-
arities at Dorrigo ( N.S.W.) : Heavy con-
tinual rain in the wet season comes from the
south-east, light rain from north and north-
west; thunderstorms come from the west and
south-iccst and, raging gales from the south-
west to s.s.w.f —5736.
The north-east to south-east wind brings
in warm, moist air from over the large areas
of the Tasman Sea and Pacific Ocean, and
consequently brings rain. Conversely, the
westerly winds bring air from over the con-
tinental land mhss, which is dry, being warm
in summer and cold in winter. The thunder-
storms associated with the west and south-
west winds are due to unstable temperature
conditions as a trough of a disturbance
passes. South-west to s.s.w. gales are those
blowing around a cyclonic depression centred
to the south-east of the district.
What is the Bruckner theory of rainfall?
—5535.
It hypothecates a cycle of about 35 years.
Rainfall records in Australia as yet cover
too short a period to verify the theory as
far as this part of the world is concerned,'
but, in. any case, as the period is irregular
and 35 years is merely the average length,
conclusive year-to-year forecasting cannot be
attempted from it.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“E.11.M.”: Don’t th row away worn-out
hoes and cane-knives. With a cold chisel,
cut a cane-knife to fit the width of the hoc-
blade and drill four 5-1 Gin. holes through
it. Drill similar holes in the hoe and fasten
the knife-blade to it with Jin. rivets. Hoes
repaired this way never require a file on
them, as the cutting edge gets thinner with
work.
“Kariah”: The towel used in the dairy or
outhouse is a rag before its time if hung on
a nail. Drive a galvanised-iron spike through
a cork and use that, for a peg.
“Elfar” : “Dunboy’s” method (I*. 19/4/’33)
of protecting his bags is good, but lie seems
to have time to give away. What’s wrong
with stringing a length of plain fencing wire
from end to end of the shed, well clear of
the wall, and throwing the bags neatly over
it? Takes less time, and you can get a bag
if you want one. If mice or rats try the
Blondin act —grease the wire between bags
and Avail and place a tub, half-filled with
Avater, underneath.
“Speranza” : When putting in grain crops
leave a track the width of the drill unsown
around the paddock. Later on plough this
track again, work it down, and plant
Japanese millet. The result should be a nice
width of green feed around the stubble pad-
dock after the hay lias been cut. It is also
an excellent firebreak. Farmers often have
trouble with the binder in opening up a
heavy crop. The above practice makes easy
tin l opening up of the heaviest of crops.
“Beady”: If a rabbit gets away with a
trap, I look for him around the foot of a
hill or among the taller growth along the
river. Nine times out of ten lie’s found
handy in either place, being too handicapped
to go far through the thicker growth or up
the side of a hill.
“A.G.R.”: In deciding whether to top-
dress a pasture, be fairly sure it will pay.
On poor soil at Gat-ton College (Q.), various
combinations of fertilisers were used on
natural pastures. Some gave noticeable in-
creases in yield of herbage and carrying
capacity. But when they reckoned up costs
they found that the net loss amounted to
over £1 per pere.
“Citron”: The best way to treat citrus
trees damaged by frost is to leave them alone.
No .pruning before midsummer, no disinfec-
tants and just half the normal fertiliser.
Less water should be applied in irrigating,
otherwise the feeder roots may rot and re-
tard the trees’ recovery. Vines, ornamental
trees and shrubs should be similarly treated.
“Cooramin”: Shelled maize cobs, crushed
and mixed with molasses, make good fodder
for stock in lean times; In 1902 the Colonial
Sugar Co. bought large quantities of the cobs
on the northern rivers of N.S.W., paying 10s.
a ton on the river bank. After treatment
the fodder Avas sent to drought-stricken
districts.
“Fancar”: Corncobs and husks are an
excellent mulch for shelter or fodder trees.
A load of them was thrown out to our
fowls and accidentally formed a- mulch round
the last, tree of q newly-planted row of
pepperinas. This tree is now 12ft. high; its
nearest neighbor is sft.
“Carben”: If the cabbage-grub attacks
the young cabbage-plants, water with Avarm
Avater to which has been added saltpetre,
a teaspoon to a couple of gallons. This
mixture will also help the plants along, as
it has manurial qualities. Once the cabbage-
grub gets a good start tobacco-dust and
lime as generally recommended are of little
use.
“Dai R.”: A swinging fence-post is a
menace to stock. Valuable horses and cattle
have been lost, through neglect to rig a
jury-post. Rosts that split and open caus-
ing wires to sag are w.orse. They can be
remedied by a couple of wire bands twitched
tightly.
“Willeroo” : Old rails from tram and rail-
way lines make good sleepers or bearers for
foot-bridges, and also for bridging narrow
crossings for vehicles. When the rails are
bolted down, cut the deck slabs or planks
so that the ends fit neatly on the lower
flange of the rail on each side. For vehicles
four rails are needed, the two centre ones
being put down with the flat side upwards.
“Tena”: If when you look over the gar-
den you see cabbage, cauliflower or other
plants cut off, the culprits are probably
cutworms. These greyish-looking grubs hide
in the top soil and arc generally to be found
near the scene of their depredations. If not
killed, they will quickly chop off a AA'hole
garden of voung plants. Poison with baits
laid about the beds made of Mb. bran, -J tea-
spoon Paris green, worked up into pellets
with treacle. \ Keep the baits away from
children and chickens.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
'llio. service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
. To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or ‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Trained nurse (32), Q’land, widow, wants position
companion or care invalid. Willing to travel. Refs.
—5865.
Wardsman (23), N.S.W., able attend garden and
milk, wants position in private or cottage hospital,
or looking after male invalid.—sBB2.
To get in touch with growers of rice pop-corn.
—5843.
To buy separate .copies or bound volume of Wells’s
“Science of Life.” —5860.
Words of poem in which the following lines
occur: “And when the last Great Scorer comes, To
write against your name.”—sB67.
To buy “Composition,’’ by Stanford; “Modern
Harmony,” by Hull; “Ultra-Modernism in Music,’
by Duncan; and “Applied Strict Counterpoint” and
“Studies in Fugue,” by Kitson. —5914.
Words of “Dan Murphy’s Brindle Cow.” —5966.
Information Sought.
(1) What commercial pilots in Australia
have the most flying hours to their credit?
(2) Horn many and who have completed
more than 5000 hours? (3) How many of
the following pilots (list received, too
lengthy for reprinting) are ex-war pilots ?—
5692.
(1) and (2) No official record is kept,
but.there is reason to believe that the fol-
lowing Australian airmen now engaged in
civil aviation have the greatest number of
flying hours to their credit and that each
pilot named has completed more than 5000
hours: R. Adair, L. J. Brain, S. G. Brear-
ley, E. H. Chafer, J. Francis, B. C. Heath,
C. E. Kingsford-Smitli, C. C. Matheson, F.
Neale, R. Parer and S. E. Sutcliffe. (3)
All are ex-war pilots except Brain and
Baird.
(1) Top speed of Be Havilland Puss
Moth? (2) Cruising speed? (3) Petrol
consumption? (4) Horse-power? (5) Pro-
peller revolutions at cruising speed? —s7o4.
(1) 125 to 12S m.p.li. (2) 105 m.p.li.
(3) (a) Top speed, 7.5ga1. per hour. (b)
Cruising speed, sgal. per hour. (4) 120.
(5) 2000.
(1) Is the book “Behind the Barrage'’
banned in N.S.W.? (2) Was, or is, the
booh “All Quiet on the Western Front”
banned in N.5.W.? —5757.
(1) It is not included in the official list
of prohibited books. (2) It was held up by
the Customs Censor for many weeks and
finally released as fit for Australian con-
sumption. A complaint, however, was
lodged with the N.S.W. police a few weeks
after the book was released by the Customs.
This led to a prosecution, and it is now an
offence to sell or expose the book for sale in
N.S.W.
‘Has the mechanical player-piano any musi-
cal value? J find I very soon get tired of
hearing a particular roll played. —s7BB.
No mechanical contrivance can replace,
in music, the hand and brain of the indi-
vidual. The skilled pianist, playing for
himself, uses the instrument and the score
as means of expression of his mood. Though
with a mechanical player the operator can
control tempo and volume he cannot hope
to parallel the sensitiveness of ten human
fingertips. But despite this the mechanical
player, with its fine precision of rhythm and
phrasing, is a better teacher, to the operator
who has some executive ability, than is
generally realised. Half the difficulties of
technique evaporate when a score is accu-
rately translated into sound, and when this
correct translation can be repeated until it
holds the memory. For the student who
cannot obtain competent human guidance
the player-piano is invaluable.
Why are two wires used on each Gov-
ernment telephone, whereas in most private
telephones only a single wire is used? —
5662.
The single-wire telephone line uses earth
in lieu of a return wire. In the early days
of telephone work, such lines were regularly
used, but as the number of telephone lines
on the. one pole line increased, it was found
that. single-wire lines were subject to over-
hearing or cross-talk from one another, and
to noise interference from any parallel tele-
graph or electric-power wires. Hence, it
it became necessary to use two wires of
equal gauge and other characteristics to
prevent this, the interfering effect in one
wire being neutralised in the return wire.
In the case of telephone lines in country
districts, the Government portion of the
lines generally carries several lines, or other
lines are expected in the future, so that
two-wire lines are erected. The private
portion of the. line generally breaks away
from the main line, consequently single-
wire lines can be used without interference.
It is usual to connect the single-wire por-
tion of the line to the two-wire portion
through a transformer. Single-wire lines are
still in a few cases used for Government
lines, in remote localities where there is no
likelihood of disturbance from parallel cir-
cuits.
Prospects of Maorilander finding unem-
ployment-relief icork in N. S. W. ? —5864.
Available employment is allocated to
registered applicants in the order of their
registration and family responsibilities, and,
in view of the number a'lready registered
for such work, outsiders do not stand much
chance.
What is the “ bombora ” in Sydney
Harbor?— s466.
“Bombora” is an aboriginal word applied
to the. high-crested wave which breaks, even
on windless days, over submerged rocks
near the coastline and in some cases at
entrances to coastal harbors and inlets.
There are one or two bomboras near North
Head at the entrance to Sydney Harbor, also
one at the entrance to Botany Bay, which
is marked on the Admiralty Chart No. 2179.
How are thermometers sealed without
losing the mercury filling when they are
heated at each end? —5751.
A gas flame is blown across the top
of the tube until the glass becomes very
plastic. The top of the tube is then drawn
out very thin, but still having a minute
bore. Heating the tube drives the mercury
to the top of the tube, and it travels along
the newly-made thin bore, expelling all the
air. The glass at the top, or rather that
portion just below where it starts to thin
out from the previous operation, is then
melted and, provided the work is carefully
performed, will effectively seal the tube.
Information regarding Thursday Island
and the living conditions for the white popu-
lation ? —5216.
Climate is _ pleasant; necessaries of life
are priced fairly reasonably when the dis-
tance and difficulties of transport are con-
sidered ; electric light and power are avail-
able and there is a good supply of water
reticulated from the town reservoir. The
whites on the island are healthy.
(1) Is it true that the English mush
plant has lost its smell? (2) When did
this happen? (3) Has any prize been
offered for a mush plant with the odor?—
5758.
(1) Yes. (2) A few years ago the pheno-
menon was generally noted, but the actual
date of the final disappearance of the smell
from all plants is unknown. (3) We know
of none.
(1) Proper time to lop sugar and lemon-
scented gums in Melb. district? (2) Time
to prune fuschias? (3) Can cutting bach
just after flowering be taken as a rule applic-
able to all classes of flowering shrubs? —
5889.
(1) March or April, so as to miss hot
winds; or September, so as to miss frosts.
(2) Tninvd'ately after flowering. (3)
Generally, yes.
1l) tviuners of short-story competition
conducted by the Q’ldnd Authors and Artists'
Association? (2) Name of the judge?
(3) Is the assoc, conducting another com-
petition? (4) Name and address of the
secretary ? —5519.
(1) Ist: “Tugboat,” by J. A. Hethering-
t°n_ and D. H. Symmons, Sandringham
(Vic.) ; 2nd: “Tessa,” by Lilian McCarthy,
Queenscliff (Vic.) ; 3rd: “The White Horse,”
by Sadie Morey, Sheffield (Tas.). (2)
Vance Palmer. (3) No. (4) Thelma Cham-
pion, Dunmore-terrace, Auchenflower, Bris-
bane.
What would be the voltage drop along a
7/.044 copper wire running If miles from
the supply station, if the supply is 240
volts? —5574.
Depends upon the value of the current
flowing along the wire. 7/.044 wire has a
resistance of 2.294 ohms per 1000 yards, and
as two wires are required, a total length of
SJ miles will be needed, having a resistance
of 14.13 ohms. To ascertain the potential
drop, in volts, across these wires multiply
the current in amperes by 14.13. If the
total length of the wire is If miles instead
of 3L multiply the current bv 7.06 instead
of 14.13.
*8 uit able material for loose-cover for a
motor-launch? / am dissatisfied with can-
vas? —5664.
Good, heavy grey canvas will provide the
best cover. It should be made to fit the
launch, with brass eyelets at the edges for
lacing and tying it taut and triffi. No
cover w T ill give satisfaction if it is merely
draped over the boat and allowed to sag in
the middle to hold water to rot the canvas.
If the cabin, etc., are not high enough to
form a ridge for the cover, a long wooden
pole. should be fitted from stem to stern,
specially to act as a ridge-pole to tilt the
cover and throw water off. This can be
stowed ashore when the launch is in use.
Iron should not be used, as it may rot the
canvas by the action of rust, unless it is
very well coated with marine paint.
(1) Two years ago I obtained a Supreme
Court judgment for a substantial amount,
arising out of «. case of misrepresentation in
the exchange of city and grazing properties.
No payment has been made. What is my
next step? (2) Can free legal aid be
obtained for this class of ease? —s63o.
(1) Apply for a writ of execution if the
defendant is worth powder and shot. (2)
Not if you are in a position to pay. The
N.S.W. Legal Aid Office was established to
assist persons unable to pay for legal ser-
vices. Under the Act creating it any person
not worth £5O, excluding tools of trade,
necessary furniture and wearing apparel,
may be a party free of cost to proceedings
in the courts, including all civil jurisdic-
tions of the Supreme Court, except divorce
and bankruptcy.
I wish to take up water-color painting.
(1) What colors are used? (2) Brushes?
(3) Name of an instruction-book? (4)
Name of a Sydney dealer in art requisites?
(5) Cost of an outfit? —s362.
(1) Yellow ochre, aureolin, cobalt, French
ultramarine, burnt sienna, light red, ver-
milion, rose madder, veridian, emerald green,
Vandyke brown and black. (2) One wash
brush, one No. 5 round and one No. 9 flat
(Winsor and Newton’s sables). (3)
“Water-color Painting,” by W. Richmond
(Isaac Pitman and Sons). (4) Mounted
Whatman’s nott or rough paper, 2H pencil,
rubber and small sponge and blotting-paper.
(5) W. G. Penfold. Pitt-street, Sydney. (6)
Cost about £1 for W. and N. colors, and
brushes about 10s. A fitted box of Rowney’s
colors would come much cheaper than this
and they are quite good enough to practise
with.
I am contemplating gathering sponges for
commercial purposes on the Great Barrier
Reef. Can you suggest a good book on the
subject and where obtainable? Also, your
opinion of prospects of such a venture? —
5588.
The subject is dealt with in a book on
sponges by Ernest Cresswell (Pitman’s
Common Commodities and Industries
Series), obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney.
It lias yet to be shown that toilet sponges
of good quality occur on the Great Barrier
Ileef, and before investing money in such
an enterprise it would be advisable to for-
ward specimens to Mr. Cresswell for his
expert opinion. His address is 17 and 18
Rod Lion Square, London, W.C.I.
In what direction does the earth turn
wlijle going round the sun, and what causes
the seasons? —5477.
Direction of earth’s rotation on its own
axis is towards the east. Direction of rota-
tion round sun is anti-clockwise, looked at
from some point in space above the northern
half of the globe. Seasons arc caused by a
slight inclination of the earth’s axis which
varies the incidence of the sun’s rays upon
surfaces outside the tropic zones.
(1) Method of waterproofing a jute stack-
cover? (2) Would cheap mineral oil rot
or spoil the sheet? (3) Best way of ensur-
ing durability? —s62s.
(1) .Tute is a very unsatisfactory material
to waterproof because of its open weaving
and loose fibres. A thick coating to fill it
is what is required. A thick boiled linseed
oil should give best results. (2) Possibly;
not recommended. (3) This is a very good
dressing: Three-quarters fill a kerosene-tin
with tar, and heat it to near boiling-point,
then stir in enough air-slaked lime to make
a creamy mixture. When it froths it is
ready to apply, and gives a surface like
black enamel. Tack the jute in place and
apply the mixture while it is hot. Recipe
for a very good waterproof whitewash was
given on this page (B. 26/4/’33).
Recipe for hectograph composition? —ssss.
Take 1 part glue, 2 parts water and 4
parts glycerine, all by weight, and melt all
together over a closed fire or a water bath
to prevent burning. Allow to steam gently
for a while to evaporate some of the water,
and then pour into the receptable which is
to hold the pad, usually a shallow metal
pan. .To make the composition softer, add
glycerine; to make it harder, add glue.
(1) What is wrong with my goldfish?
They become very bloated and after a few
days they die. Only some of the fish seem to
be. affected. (2) 1 understand that bluestone
will kill algo’. What amount could I put
into a 20 -gallon glass aquarium that would
not be injurious to the fish? —5391.
(1) Various causes are discussed by T. C.
Roughley in “The Cult of the Goldfish,”
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; Os. (2) The
use of bluestone in water containing gold-
fish is attended with considerable risk. The
algne can be killed by shielding the aquar-
ium with brown paper for about a week.
How to put a lustre on to a marble carv-
ing ? —5730.
Melt 4oz. of white wax over a slow heat,
and, while warm, stir into it its weight in
Pure oil of turpentine. Mineral turps is
useless. Mix with a wooden spoon. Bottle
when cold and apply to the carving with a
woollen cloth and rub well. Olive oil and
•fine rottenstone will give a good lustre to
large pieces such as mantelpieces.
Is 20 years too old to join the N. 8. Wales
Police , Force? —5471.
Officially the age limit is 27. but in view
of the large number of qualified candidates
on the approved waiting list, there is no
prospect of an applicant of 26 being
appointed. The list is closed for the time
being.
How to revovate a man’s leather coat
that has lost its g1055? —5579.
Any good shoe polish, rubbed in with a
flannel and brushed with a soft cloth, will be
found satisfactory. The coat must be
cleaned before application of polish.
Is there any difference between expensive
and cheap guns in regard to distance each
will shoot? Why? —4473.
The distance a gun can shoot depends on
the length of the barrel and the strength
of the charge. Its price depends on the
reputation of the manufacturer, and reputa-
tion is only gained by durability.
I have O'dark leather coat that is losing
tt_s color. Can you recommend a stain or
dressing to restore it? —5697.
You can darken it with a dressing of
raw linseed oil. which should be applied after
washing the leather. If the oil fails to
darken it sufficiently, take a little Bismarck
brown, mix it with turps, and rub in very
evenly. Finish with shoe polish.
Cure for distemper in dogs? Cause of
and. action of distemper? —sBo3.
There is no infallible cure. The disease
is said to be distemper pneumonia or
distemper gastritis according to the part
attacked. Treatment consists in dealing with
symptoms as they arise. When the discharge
from the eyes is profuse it may be moderated
by the application of a mild astringent lotion
such as a 0.2 per cent, solution of zinc sul-
phate. If a cough is present give inhalations
of steam medicated with friar’s balsam. Pneu-
monia, ulceration. of the mouth, vomiting,
diarrhoea, convulsions, all require appropri-
ate treatment. The dog must be kept warm
and dry and under the best hygienic condi-
tions. Feeding must be carefully attended
to in order to keep up the animal’s strength.
Vaccination is practicable, and pups thus
treated are immune.
Does Anybody Know?
. Meaning of Narrangarril the name of a
hill outside Goulburn (N.S.W.) ?—5813.
Henry Newbolt, in some verse on Captain
Craven, makes a reference to one Lucas,
“crushed with chains for a comrade’s sake.”
Briefly, what is the yarn, and where can I
get it in detail? —5177.
Brief Answers.
W.A.11.: Including interest, at the end of
current June quarter you owe £2 2s Solvent:
Approximately £7OO p.a. Interest and annuity
tables are stocked by all big booksellers. Tables
are self-explanatory.... Khartum: The score is
doubled both above and below the line. .. .L.M.P.S.:
Each of the three balls would have sustained 33A
p.c. more wear than each of the four ba115....
J. J.: You cannot legally claim the money. It is
for the trustees to say in their “free and uncontrolled
discretion” whether you are “in a more settled
condition of life” to warrant the transfer of the
shares to you. You can, however, make a will dis-
posing of your interest as you think fit, but this
would not take the matter out of the hands of the
trustees during y'our life, as a will speaks only from
the death of the testator.... E.G.D.: Cannot find any
record in Sydney of a man named Mincurin, reputed
to be “a worthy successor to Burbank” D.S.:
Cassell’s “Latin-English and English-Latin Dic-
tionary” (ss. 4d.), Morris’s “Elementa Latina” (3s.
6d.), Longman’s “Latin Course, I” (3s. 7d.),
Kennedy’s “Revised Latin Primer” (Os. 2d.)....
W. 8.: Write Registrar, Sydney Uni J.K.: “The
Concise Radio Handbook,” by R. C. V. Humphrey
(2s. Gd.), published by White Bros, and Parsons,
Wingello House, Angel-place, Sydney H.R.S.: The
implement referred to would be one of three makes
of land-graders commonly employed in the Goul-
burn Valley; the makers are Pavey, of Merrigum,
and W. Kiely and Torney, of Tongala. Designs are
constantly modified, and recent productions are up
to date. ... J.S.; Answers can be given on the facts
stated only. Probably the board was more fully
acquainted with the facts A.G.H.: Cannot see
any hope of a claim being successful. The lots
referred to would be a burden on you, not a benefit
with accrued rates. Many have been abandoned.
. ...W.H.T.; See the “Table of Kindred and
Affinity” in the Prayer Book G.L.: The N.S.W.
Lotteries and Ait Unions Act prevents us from pub-
lishing such information A.D.F.: See “Complete
Art of Firework-making,” by Thomas Kentish
(Chatto and Windus, London) J.S.; Make a
complaint to the local Inspector of Nuisances...
T.M.: “Across Iceland,” by Olive Murray Chapman
(95.) ; “Iceland,” by Stefan Stefansson (Bs. Gd.) ;
“Tramping Through Iceland,” by D. M. Ramsden
(10s.) ; and “Iceland Year Book” (35.) E.M.8.:
“The Buccaneers of America,” by Esquemeling (215.).
. ...C.E.8.: (1) Write Richard E. Oaten, Secretary,
N.S.W. Athletic League, Holt’s Chambers, Pitt-
street, Sydney. (2) No. (3) From Angus and
Robertson, Sydney'. .. .L.R.: Write Commissioner of
Police, Police Dept., Phillip-street, Sydney 1.H.:
AD aid you will have to pay, and as a last resort
the department could have recourse to the land itself.
Tou should write at once to the taxing authority
and endeavor to obtain some concession, such as
payment by instalments. .. .A.A.: (1) “Any person
who, not being an aboriginal, or the child of an
aboriginal, lodges or wanders in company with any
aboriginal” may be proceeded against under the
A agrant Act (N.S.W.). Otherwise there is no
statutory prohibition. (2) There is no record of his
having been either W.F.P.: The Defence Depart-
ment is under Federal and not Vic. law. It may-
be the department holds that, as the wage or salary
is paid by the Crown, it cannot be garnisheed, and
your daughter’s solicitor is correct S.M.: Write
E. Colclough, Box G7B, G.P.0., Brisbane 0.C.:
Write Secretary, Naval Board, Defence Dept., Mel-
bourne. .. .W.A.W.: Phrase is simply a borrowing
from the old fishing phrase “dropping the sinker,”
meaning to lose the weight attached to the fishing
line.... J.L.: (1) Not many opportunities. Watch
advertisements. Also apply shipping cos. which trade
in those parts and Commonwealth Dept, of Health,
Melbourne. (2) Ticket did not win a prize
A.S.: Write Secretary, Sub-Department, of Irrigation
and Water Supply, Dept, of Public Lands, Brisbane.
....J.S.: Where a person is liable to pay Q'land
income tax of an amount less than £l,' the tak
payable by that person is £1 S.L.: Lengths are
as follows: Brisbane River, 210 miles; Fitzrov, 180 ;
Dawson, 232; Burdekin, 425; and Herbert, 128....
C.L.S.T.: Write Dept, of Public Health, Sydney, for
pamphlet on the subject. .. .W.M.: Benalla is an
aboriginal word meaning a musk duck. .. .C.G.S.:
He has not published any book of verse A.J.A.:
(Hope Farm) : Send full address to the Service Dept.
. ...T.J.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, for
Bulletin on “Green Manuring,” 6d W.C.8.:
Where an old-age pensioner receives free
board and lodging the value is assessed at 12s. 6d.
per week, and is regarded as income unless, received
from husband, wife, father, mother, or children
S.S.: A fox decoy whistle can be obtained from W.
J. Baker, 3 Hunter-street, Sydney', 3s C.M.8.:
C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney J.E.AV.: See
page 917, “Commonwealth Official A T ear Book.” No. 22,
and page 496, “Year Book,” No. 25 D.J.0.: (1)
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne, can supply (a)
at 70s. p.a., (6) at 765. p.a., and (c) at 21s. p.a.
payable in advance. (2) Correct title is “Metropolis
of Tomorrow,” price 575. 6d H.J.M.: Down-
draught wood producers ar e suitable for any size
suction-gas engine of any make. Full particulars
and prices from Frank Saunders, 9 Bligh-street,
Sydney... .T.A.R.: Where a man contracts with
another to make any article for him for a price
fixed, property in the article passes to the purchaser
when the article is completed and ready for delivery'.
Your client is not entitled to repudiate and you
can sue for the price in the Small Debts Court....
L.J.Q.: (1) and (2) Ordinarily an Act of Parlia-
ment speaks from the date of the Governor’s assent,
unless otherwise provided, and is not retrospective!
Rules legally made prior to the amendment of a
principal Act are binding up to date of amendment.
In the case you state there appears to have been
a breach of the rules, inasmuch as the nomination
was not made within the required time. (3) It
applies to the original nomination... .L.S.R.: This
would have to be examined before any opinion
could be given. Get another examination made and
ask if an X-rav would help. .. .P. 8.: (1) Y e s. The
injection treatment is quite satisfactory. N 0 danger.
(2) Yes. (3) No. (4) Many doctors do it apart
from specialists. Ask your usual doctor to recom-
mend the nearest, if he doesn’t do it himself
C.F.G.: AVrite N.S.AV. Agriculture Dept, for speci-
men share-farming agreements.... R.H.AV.: Write to
the secretary of the Imperial War Graves Commission,
Whitehall, London A.A.: Yes. A sectarian riot
took place at Batman Hill about the Pastoral Hotel
on Monday, July 13, 1846. See Melbourne “Argus’"
of July 14, 1846. (2) Not known. (3) Yes. (4)
Not known. . . .P. 8.: The pension will be subject to
N.S.AV. unemployment-relief tax. .. .D.A.J.: The
basis adopted in assessing a married couple’s wages
for N.S’.AV. unemployment-relief tax purposes is that
two-thirds represent the, amount due to the husband
and the balance to the wife. The value of board and
lodging is considered in each case to be £1
per week H.E.11.: The agent for the Hardy
Patent Pick Co. is P. T. Taylor, 141 York-
street, Sydney; for the Denver Rock Drill Co.,
Noyes Bros., 115 Clarence-street, Sydney; for Climax
Drills, Perks Bros., 31 Queen-street, Melbourne. The
agency for Flotmann Drills is not known to u 5..,,
(Many others mailed.)


ĥ
Obtainable
from your
local Dealer
Move
POWER
toYDSI
CLYDE
BATTERIES
The CLYDE ENGINEERING
CO. LTD.
61-65 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY
New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed/'
by Raymond Spargro.
10/6 Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,"
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
LENNON'S HOTEL
BRISBANE
The l centre of Queensland’s
distinguished social life and
leading hotel in the State.
R usns i i^B
O'* TRUST 4 C//-vJi
* WOODS *
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
p CURE .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Three horses had to be destroyed as the
result of injuries sustained in jumping events
at Williamstown. One of them was More
Noise, who had come into prominence as a
Grand National Steeplechase candidate by
scoring over the Moonee Valley fences on
May 13. More Noise opened at 2 to 1 for
the Autumn Steeplechase, but was deposed
from favoritism by Calfly, who had finished
second at the Valley and met his grey con-
queror on 111 b. better terms. More Noise
fell heavily at the third fence and fractured
a leg. Peragoon also came to grief and
broke his back. The other prad to have his
sufferings ended by a surgeon’s bullet was
Firmeroi, who fell in the Kororoit Hurdle
and snapped the fetlock of his off fore leg.
Calfly landed the Autumn Steeplechase
from end to end. He is not engaged in the
“National,” nor is Jimball, the runner-up.
Coming to the final obstacle it looked as if
Jimball would overhaul Calfly. Both horses
struck heavily and Jimball lost so much
steam that he experienced a two lengths’
defeat. Jumna (third) belongs to Gus
Powell and is a half-brother to Mosstrooper.
Though entered for the big cross-country
contest in July, Jumna possesses small
claims for consideration. As Mosstrooper
appears to have outlived his usefulness, the
horse on whom Powell will have to depend
mainly in the Grand National Steeplechase
is Tezpur, a son of Ethiopian. Twelve
months ago Tezpur accounted for a strong
field in the Travancore Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley, and he ought to be well sea-
soned now.
Chief feature of interest in the Kororoit
Hurdle at Williamstown was the fact of
Walter Scott finishing second with 12st. 21b.
up. The Kenilworth gelding had not figured
over the battens since his fall on Williams-
town Cup day. With the race in hand on
that occasion he ran down the last hurdle
BERi " I W f\Z OFF MV GAME
■TV\ISMORNING,t
_ . //. , >*>
GIERT *. Vou CERTytvINU_Y \NERE.
SUFFERING) prom
Inferiority complex'.
Giert : " why ora,c, in the
COMPLEX "
and jumped the rails of the straight, falling
on to the steeplechase course. Walter Scott
is the ideal type for a jumper. He has been
nominated for both the G. N. Hurdle and
Steeple, and may credit F. E. Shillabeer
with one of those races. The Kororoit
Hurdle favorite, St. Magnus, unseated A
Fullarton at the first flight. It was the
bad luck of Fullarton to sustain another
fall when More Noise came down.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap were
won by Rose Valais (Rpssendale—Lady
Valais) and Sergeant Major (The Night
Patrol—Vinalia). Each started a warm
favorite, Rose Valais going out at 5 to 4
against and Sergeant Major at 5 to 4 on.
Royal Serenader, a brother to Viol d’Amour,
put up a good fight with Rose Valais, and
he is almost certain to win soon for the
Perth sportsman Boan. Later in the after-
noon Viol d’Amour, owned by the trainer of
Royal Serenader, was beaten in the Bay
View Handicap by Beaunilly, who belongs
to Mi’s. A. M. Bunbury, of Westralia—her
first victory in Melbourne. Beaunilly’s form
in Groperland was so good that she was
allotted Bst. 71b. in the last Caulfield Cup.
She carried only Bst. 21b. on Saturday and
received 161 b. from Viol d’Amour.
Inspired by Duncan having the mount,
punters accepted 2 to 1 about Count Orloff
for the Beach Welter, but the grey son of
Ethiopian let them down badly. Success
rested with the second favorite, Chilperie.
Though four short-priced horses won, Mc-
Shortodds scored heavily over the successes
on Beaunilly (25 to 1) and Simarre (20
to 1). The last-named finished with a para-
lysing run in the Gellibrand Handicap to
vanquish Multudo by a neck. Simarre is
trained by _ Vincent O’Neill, of Spearfelt
fame; he is a four-year-old stallion by
Moabite from Sarcenet, by Sarchedon from
Nancy Sykes, by The Welkin.
It rained so much in Sydney at the week-
end that the Rosehill club had to postpone
its races, and regulars who could afford
the time and the money wished they had
gone to Brisbane. There, after work had
been done on it for 12 years, off and on, the
Doomben course was opened for business
by the B.A.T.C. (the A stands for Ama-
teur), which had a crowd of 15,000 for the
occasion and received the gratifying infor-
mation that £17,700 had been “invested” (it
is always “invested”) on the totes. But
one Sydney party regrets having made the
trip. Jamieson, the trainer from Maoriland,
who has settled at Randwick, took up Clos
ing Time and Voyager, with Bartle to ride
them. Voyager’s objective was a division
of the Heavyweight Trial, and he was made
favorite at twos —Jamieson got better prices
for his parcel. Voyager had every chance
but was beaten out of a place, victory going
to Miss Silvy, a daughter of Silvius, ridden
by Lough Neagh’s jockey, Taytwan.
Closing Time was expected to win the
Doomben Newmarket, run over a straight
six furlongs. He went out at 5 to 1. He
began smartly, and at two furlongs had the
lead and the rails position. When another
two furlongs had been traversed he was
galloping beautifully, and it seemed all over.
But over the last furlong Wollun, described
as > “the mystery horse from Armidale,”
joined him, and Wollun got the better of a
bumping finish by a head; the. time was
lmin. 12|sec. Jamieson lodged a protest,
and Hayes, the rider of Wollun, said he
had lost an iron, and his mount had “hugged”
Closing Time (“slightly hampered,” he
admitted in reply to a, question asked by
Jamieson, who used the word) ; but the
stewards decided that the interference had
made no difference to the result. Perhaps
they were right, and no doubt Wollun would
have placed the decision beyond all doubt but
for the loss of the iron ; but the consensus
of opinion is that Jamieson was unlucky not
to have been awarded the race. Wollun is
by Sir Dighton—Golden Gag, and has been
trained on an Armidale station. He won the
Armidale Cup in February ; the Doomben
Newmarket was only his fourth race. His.
party got 20 to 1 (the closing p'rice was
tens), and the commission was fairly solid.
Another Sydney trainer, C. I*. Brown, has
no regfets; he picked up a double with
Legislator in the Whinstanes Handicap and
Fragrant Zephyr in the First Novice Handi-
cap. Legislator was at evens, Fragrant
Zephyr at 9 to 2.
“Sandgate”: Doomben was originally ac-
quired as a recreation park and was later
purchased by the Wren interests. The lay-
out took years to complete; the ornamental
side was considered first and shade trees and
palms planted are now the oldest feature
of the course. The race track has received
special attention. The circular course is
nine furlongs in circumference and has a
straight a few yards short of two furlongs.
The straight six furlongs, is the only one
in Australia outside Flemington. One
feature of the tracks is that they are laid
down with cotton waste. This is a great
.encourager of grass and gives a spring in
the going which cuts out jarring. The
improvement was decided upon to meet the
complaint of southern trainers that in
summer Queensland courses are as hard as
concrete.
* * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Orpah; next, N.E.F.
Canterbury Handicap: Agincourt: next,
Wallace Mimi.
Campsie Handicap: Babili: next, Carat.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
At 35 George Cook is still boxing well in
Britain, though lie shaped like a back-
number when last in Sydney. He met Larry
Gains at London Olympia on Thursday
night, and the colored man, who is 28, could
not stop him; many hooted when Gains got
the verdict. Cook has been earning his
living in the ring for 16 years. Pity he
never had a punch.
Bonny Muir made Leon Labriola look like
a selling plater early in their week-end
wrestle at Leichhardt, and with a short-arm
scissors hold scored a fall in the third, round.
After that the former Melbourne Grammar
School boy lost energy. Deadlocks and rabbit-
killers had him dazed—or so it seemed —-
in the fifth, and Labriola’s body-press pinned
his shoulders. Labriola was still slinging
the boy about in the sixth, but Muir sud-
denly recovered. He picked the Italian up
in a crutcli-hold, and slammed him for the
deciding fall.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Melbourne League games in-
creased interest by stressing the: general
evenness of the teams, even St. Ivilda, which
hasn’t won a game yet, missing victory over
South Melbourne by only four points,
through faulty kicking. This was on South’s
ground and the Red and Whites were being
hard pressed when the bell saved them- —-
South, 80 points; St. K., 76. The undefeated
Fitzroy Maroons had an even narrower
squeak when Melbourne kept slightly ahead
throughout and missed the win through
fumbling at the last moment—’Roy, 82
points; Melb., 79. ’Roy’s rover, Haydn
Bunton, gave a sparkling exhibition, which
may be his last for a while, the League hav-
ing decided to carpet him for allegedly in-
fringing the much-fractured Coulter law.
The collision of Richmond and Collingwood
drew a 28,000-mob to the Punt-road ground,
to see a fast, close game. Scores kept even
throughout, but the superior marking and
more accurate passing of the Tigers gave
them the call —Richmond, 93 points; ’Wood,
74. The winners owe their laurels chiefly
to the Strang brothers and Eric Geddes,
very clever on the wing. Speedy Essendon
gave Carlton’s Blues the cold shivers until
well into the last quarter; then it un-
accountably tired, and the Blues got busy
to some purpose, gaining the day with 96
points to ’Don’s 76. Footscray put it all
over Hawthorn with 94 points to the May-
bloom’s 57; and Geelong ran away from
North Melbourne with 122 points to 78.
* * * *
Heavy rain and soaked grounds gave Syd-
ney footballers a chance to show their ver-
satility in the week-end fixtures, and, as far
as the handling codes were concerned, those
teams who realised that a sloppy ball's
proper place is on the ground came out ahead
of it. In the Rugby Union competition
North Sydney and Western Suburbs are
bracketed at the head of the table after the
third round, while in the League the end
of the fifth sees South Sydney and St.
George heading the list hand in hand.
The Union game between Randwick and
Manly at the “Village” was exciting.
’Wick’s handling tactics landed it with
a score of six at half-time to five hoisted by
the home side. The going was much heavier
in the second part, and Manly, content to
let its big forwards do the cart-horse work
with the ball at toe, piled on seven points
to win 13-6. Though the opposition was
weak, St. George scored its first win of
the season well, beating University 6-3, two
tries to one. Here again the forwards won
with wet-weather tactics. The Drummoyne-
Western Suburbs battle at Drummoyne Oval
was a clash between two high-class packs
and was won by Western Suburbs by 17-10.
Eastern Suburbs gave North a good go for
if on the Weigall quagmire, the Northerners
winning 16-13. East lost its sterling full-
back, Ilorsell, early in the first half.
The Rugby League’s star turn between
unbeaten South Sydney and Western Suburbs
at the Sports Ground drew a good crowd in
spite of the bad weather. Underfoot condi-
tions were better here than elsewhere, but
the Southerners found them against their
open tactics and flopped badly, final scores
being 18 (four tries, three goals) to 5 (a
try and a goal) in Western Suburbs’s favor.
South was without Wearing and Quinhvan.
but was outmatched. This was Western
Suburbs’s eighth win in the last eleven meet-
ings of the two clubs. University showed ex-
cellent form to beat North Sydney on the
latter’s ground 21-2. At Marrickyille, New-
town outplayed and outgeneralled Balmain
to win 21-5. Newtown crossed five times
to Balmain’s once, which just about sums
up the play. St. George continued on its
winning way by outing Eastern Suburbs
14-10 at Arncliffe after East had led 7-2
at half-time. Both sides scored two tries
and two penalty goals. St. George con-
verted both tries.
The Combined Australian Universities got
a father of a licking from N.Z. Uni. in their
first Test at Auckland, the home side win-
ning by 28-8. The victorious team included
two All Blacks and no fewer than seven mter-
provincial reps., and scored six tries, five
of which were converted. The Australians
crossed twice, Westfield converting one. of
the tries. Earlier in the week the tourists
were beaten by Auckland College _7-20.
“Old Q.” : Some Sydneyite has been ask-
ing in the papers why the Australian team
for South Africa has been christened the
Wallabies, after Moran’s side of 1908-09
in Britain. His contention is that each
touring team from this country has carried
a different label, citing the Waratahs as an
example, while the Maorilanders have
always been known as All Blacks. One
reason may be that this Wallaby team,
like the first, is drawn from several States,
whereas the Waratahs, with the exception
of one player, were from N.S.W. The All
Blacks and the South African Spring-
boks come from one homogeneous com-
munity. The different name in this case not
only definitely distinguishes the side, but
is not likely to be imitated by other sporting
bodies. Any sort of sporting side out of
M.L., from ping pong to bowls, styles itself
All Blacks, and the same is true of South
African tourists, who are all Springboks,
whatever sport they represent.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Rugby. Union inter-
state season opens in Sydney on June 3
with a match against Victoria, and selection
for the home side will be on May 27—not
much time for what will be practically a
new team to shake together. The return
match will he at Manly on June 5, the re-
fusal of the Cricket Ground trustees to
allow the Union the use of the ground on
those dates being the cause of matches of
this calibre having to be played on suburban
grounds. For the same reason the dates for
the Sydney meeting of N.S.W. and Queens-
land are as yet in the air. The Queensland
fixtures between these States will be played
in Brisbane, and perhaps in Toowoomba, on
June 24 and July 1. A Newcastle team will
figure in Sydney during' the matches with
Victoria and a metropolitan side will start
a tour of the N.S.W. Western Districts on
June 1.
.** * *
The opening game of the Maoriland Soccer
team in Australia saw N.S.W. beat the
tourists badly at the Sydney Cricket Ground
by five goals to nil, a big margin in the
round-ball game. Weather conditions were
expected to suit the All Blacks, but they
found it hard to keep their feet on the slip-
pery centre patch, and showed little
cohesion. As this was their first game
together, that is hardly to be wondered at.
The home side was nippy and showed excel-
lent ball control. The combination in the
forward and back divisions was good, and
Tennant, who replaced Davidson. at centre
half, did not neglect his wings. The for-
ward division was particularly strong, and
in the Crowhurst-Cameron wing had a rare
pair in attack. The shooting at goal with
the wet ball was excellent, while Crowhurst’s
accurate centring was a feature of the
game. The Maorilanders will do a lot
better with practice. Zuill in goal and
Kay in the forwards were particularly
noticeable.
(Continued on parje 30.)


9s
9s
%
. m*
P
da
l£
ft
SL
ft
ft
ft
r
IN
SIZES
fWAR
MED^
IK
Pert£
*nt> tP
*»eoAi J
M.
£RTH
’ "I Ota]
P».~hs
«z*us;
, f itejr<s>
1 “Jh.n'Dcwar
NsS
CP
WPCRWI
to Wear
cp
tioKn
0
I*FCRJ*L
to Wear i
JohivTW
iNSTfTOTC
totoP**r&mCtim
«?Kn\)*teir».B tt v i L«
world will always have its
Newcomes and its Parvenus. But
lineage will continue to command
the respect and admiration it
deserves.
Dewar’s is a whisky of lineage. It
may be possible to beguile a
connoisseur from Dewar’s once, but
he will return to it, with a keener
appreciation than ever of what is,
beyond question, the real aristocrat
among whiskies.
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
Dewar’s is available in four sizes—including
flasks designed to fit the pocket perfectly
The seal placed upon every Dewar s bottle, under Government Supervision, is a
guarantee that it contains only genuine Detvars Whisky, distilled in Scotland.


(For public information only, the whole of the shares having been subscribed.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Nelson Consolidated Cold Mines
No Liability.
ST. ARNAUD, VICTORIA.
(Incorporated Under the No Liability Provisions of Part II of the Companies
Act 1928.)
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO in 100,000 Shares of £1 Each.
70 000 Shares are now offered for Subscription at 1/- per Share on Application,
1/- per Share on Allotment, balance in Calls as required.
30 000 Shares fully paid up are to be. allotted to the Vendors m payment of the
purchase consideration as hereinafter set out.
100,000 Shares.
DIRECTORS:
A H Merrill, M.C.E., 324 Orrong Road, Caulfield, Mining Engineer.
E. G. Banks, M.1.M.M., 7 Toorak Road, Toorak, 5.E.2.
Frank Bray, St. Arnaud, Merchant.
Leslie de Grut, Garden Court, South larra, Investor.
John W Eskdale, Bank Place, Melbourne, Investor.
Stephen H. Marriott, Bank Place, Melbourne, Investor.
BROKERS:
Messrs John May and Sons, 90 Queen Street. Melbourne, who have under-
written the whole of the Shares offered for subscription.
MANAGER AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Geo. E. Dickenson, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Victoria Buildings,
corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
HISTORY.
The property embraces a channel of country containing parallel lines of
fissure lodes, most prominent of which is the Lord Nelson.
The Lord Nelson Mine was worked to a depth of -oOOft., and paid in divi
deild The sLady 5 Lady ‘ Nelson on the North was a good gold-producer, and worked a
parallel lodeto > adoof the Lord Nelson lode outcrops some twenty
feet above the surface for a width of about six feet, proving its existence, intact,
for the whole length of the property. 0 «. , \
The locating of Love’s Indicator (which yielded up to 3oz. ot per ton)
in the centre of the property led to the formation in 19— of The Welcom
Nelson Company. This Company sank a main shaft, and after prospecting at th
134 ft. level with unsatisfactory results, deepened the shaft to 345 ft. its presen
dePt Development work at 235 ft. level failed to locate anything of .value, but in
X-cutting West at 33oft. level, the cap of a sulphide lode was cut at 60ft. A
level was driven south on this lode for a length of 525 ft., the stone m the lev
varying in width from 3ft. to sft., and going strongly underfoot.
J The Mines Department records the stopes over this level yielding 300 oz. of
gold from 1000 tons of ore. . ~ , ~, ~
As the plant in use was unsuitable for the treatment of sulphide ore, it w
highly improbable that the return reflects the true vaiue of the "^Mbies
be seen by samples of ore forwarded for assay to the Ballarat School °f Ah
by the Welcome Nelson Company, which disclose values greatly m excess of th
obtained from the tonnage crushed. . Main
On account of financial difficulties the Company was unable to sink the Main
Shaft further to develop this lode, and was forced to close down in 19-6.
PROGRAMME OF DEVELOPMENT.
The present Shaft, which is sunk to 345 ft., .is in good order to water level
: & from the surface It is intended to sink this shaft to oOOtt. to woik
• SfeiSMS S leml - I'll,' South drive at tta level will also
be oontmMd, as
reports.
The following reports on the property may be inspected at office of tie
I ° m w“ BARAGWANATH, Secretary for Mines Victoria
T?DBT. BENTLEY, Mine Manager, Slieepshead Gold Mine, Bendigo.
17 .1 . I
rootbrawi
“Fitzcray” : The argument in y ictorian
Football League circles over the qualifications
of Hughson, who, after playing with Preston,
an Association team, for two and a halt
years, was claimed as a League player Dy
Carlton, has ended in the Man Without a
Club being declared a Carltonite. Hughson
has been informed that if he wants to play
with Preston he will have to. make further
application. If he doesn’t Ins position in
regard to Carlton will have to be reviewed.
In the meantime, he is not to play with any
club, but remain, like Mahomet’s coffin, in
tin’ air so to sneak.
* « * *
"Hotham” • St. Ivilda footballers have for
some time past rather belied their nickname
of “The Saints,” the conduct of the club hav-
ing been marked by a continual Donnybrook.
The latest upheaval was the throwing out in
a lump of the club selection committee,
Deane, the captain, being likewise declared
no longer a captain or a playing member,
As the decision was only arrived at on the
casting vote of the chairman, further hos-
tilities are hourlv expected.
* * * *
"Stand Off ’: The Queensland find N.S.W.
Rugby Unions are at loggerheads over . e
rifles to be played when their teams meein
Queensland. Like Maoriland, t e 3 '
landers followed the
request and returned to the old rules this
season, a sensible step considering then
representatives in the Australian team must
in Queensland it conform to the custom
of its hosts. This was the case in the past,
when the local Queensland rules regarding
the line-out and placing the ball in the scrum
were observed by inter-State teams visiting
Brisbane.
* ‘ * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Continual references to
more or less mythical “ashes” in connection
with sport arc a weariness of the flesh, but
the Maoriland Soccer players now in Aus-
tralia provide an interesting variation. When
MEMBERS OF THE MAORILAND SOCCER TEAM NOW IN N. S. WALES.
Left to right: H. L. Godber (manager), A. Stenhouse, W. H. Zuill, M. Kay,
J. Christie ( capt.) and L. Grove.
the All Blacks were in Australia 10 years
ago, the Australian and M.L. captains were
smoking cigars together at some function.
It was resolved to retain the ashes of these
as a trophy, and they were enshrined in a
metal safety-razor case, which a Queensland
Soccer official had carried through Gallipoli.
This was placed in a wooden casket. Maori-
larid holds the trophy at present.
“Outside Right”: Anthony Graham, with
the All Black Soccer team in Australia, is
unusual for this side of the Line in that he
plays Rugby as well as the round-ball game.
In Britain' the double is much more com-
mon. The outstanding example was C.
B. Fry, who, with cricket, sports and Soccer
Blues at Oxford, only missed a fourth for
Rugby through an injury. Later he played
Soccer for Southampton and the Corin-
thians and for England against Ireland in
1901, while in Rugby he figured for Black-
heath and Barbarians, clubs which can
muster an international side on occasion.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham” : Though the tradition, of
medal play in club championships persists
in Australia, it has long been abolished in
favor of match play by British clubs. Re-
cently Royal Melbourne followed suit, and
the example is being taken up by other Mel-
bourne clubs. ET’om all points of view match
is far more attractive than medal play.
Another advantage is that representative
players get plenty of practice for inter-dub
and competition matches.
* * *
“Birkdale”: The Southport professional
tournament, the richest of its kind .in
Britain, was won this year by a comparative
unknown, W. 11. Davies, who turned m a
card of 293 for the 72 holes. H. Cotton,
now professional for the Waterloo club, near
Brussels, tied with E. R. Withycombe and
F Nolan for second place, each having
scored 294. Eight other players beat the
300 the field including all the leading pro-
fessionals of Britain. Southport is a Lan-
cashire seaside course, and one of the oldest
in the North of England.
$ * *
“Mere Colonial”: Remembering the fury
with which the word “unsportsmanlike” was
received by the British nation when applied
by Australians to certain English cricket
tactics of late, one is surprised to find the
English press ringing with the same expres-
si 0I1) this time in connection with golf. It
appeai -s that in the final of the big South-
port tournament for pros. Cotton was jeered
by £ be CJ . ow( j a t the last hole of the tourney
w flien a missed putt lost him the £lOOO
purse The London “Daily Telegraphy
rount n y aC cuses the Lancashire crowd oi
“unsportsmanlike conduct,” and the next
move f ro m the Cloggers is being eagerly
a -waitcd.
, ... ...
" ' , .. n p ln hL
Brassey : The Australian Golt Giub s
annual scrap for the A.I.F. trophy was^ won
this year by G. Iv. Bain, who took the State
A.I.F. Cup some years ago, with a cam ot
two down to par with a ten handicap. Bam
was all square at the turn, and in spite
of adverse wind was level with par until
the last two holes. In addition he qualified
for first place for the first nine-hole trophy,
was top of the list for the fifteen-and-under
handicap event, and tied, eight down, with
0. Walker for the best scratch score, won
by VV. Mackenzie, seven down.
* * * *
“Yeerongpilly” : Associate golfers from
o £ bei , gf a jes will please note that the tenth
annua j o pen meeting for the Queensland
women’s championship will be played on the
Goodna links from June 19-24. The pro-
me 0 with the qualifying round for
£ hg championship one roU nd of stroke play
o ' n fi ? st tw J days . The eight leading
« with „ miniature replica far keeps.
p . j R aw ]
Kacquet ana tsawi
“Top Spin” : Following on their easy Davis
Cdp win from Norway, the Australians made
a good showing in an exhibition against Den-
mark, a much stronger side, at Copenhagen,
though McGrath and Quist lost the doubles
match to Wium and Winther by two sets to
one. The match with South Africa, which
follows on the French championships ending
on June 4, will be our first Davis Gup trial
of importance. Kirby, the South African
captain, is a left-hander and proved too good
for Perry in the Tests with England in the
Union, while England was also beaten in
the doubles. Farquharson, Robbins and
Condon, the other members of the team, are
also well above average Davis Cup form.
“Cut Shot”: The teams which have sur-
vived the second round of the Davis Cup
tourney are, in addition _to Australia,
Britain, which easily got rid of Finland;
Greece, which lost only the doubles to Rou-
mania; Czecho-Slovakia, victorious over
Monaco; Austria and Ireland. Australia’s
next match against South Africa will be
played at Queen’s Club, London, once the con-
vincing ground for the Oxford-Cambridgo
sports and football games, but now entirely
given over to tennis. This round must be
over by June 13 and the final of tho Euro-
pean zone by July 17.
“Kooyong”: The Victorian L.T.A. has de-
cided to come into the centenary celebra-
tions for which Melbourne is feverishly pre-
paring. Application will be made to the Aus-
tralian body to hold the national champion-
ships in Melbourne in January, 1935. Adel-
aide was down for the title fights that year,
but has graciously waived its claims. The
Victorians have high hopes that Ellsworth
Vines may come over with a team.
*‘* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The sports master
of Sydney’s Fort-street school has brought
a storm on his devoted head by asserting that
the lads in the seminary who go in for tennis
would be better employed playing “real boys’
games.” In his speech-day report he stressed
the advantages of team games as builders
of character, and in that he laid his finger
on the weak spot in that otherwise excel-
lent game tennis. Football, hockey, lacrosse
and. in a lesser but still important degree,
cricket are based on mutual assistance and
trust in one’s associates —no bad spirit to
inculcate for sterner trials, while individual-
ism and self-assertion are tempered or
eliminated. This is not the case in tennis.
Too often we see exhibitions of vanity and
petulant ill-temper on tennis courts —pain-
ful evidence of its tendency to encourage an
undesirable ego, which would quickly be
obliterated in team games.
Car and Cycle , .
“Formula”: Malcolm Campbell, who is
getting ready for another try at a new
world’s speed record, has been at it since
1925, and should think about making this
last attempt his farewell performance on the
principle of the pitcher and the well. Since
his first success on the Pendme Sands in
Wales, when he hit up 150.369, Campbell
has raised the limit five times, having
nearly doubled his first performance with
his last run of 272.108 m.p.li., as he had told
a doubting public on the initial occasion he
would do in eight years time. Campbell lias
all 1933 to go to make good his claim. He
has the car, but the trouble is to find a course
on which it can top the 300-mile mark with-
mil T>ni‘i<Ttronhe
out catastrophe. # *
1 .in
“Differential”: America, which builds
many motor-cars, might be expected to
spread itself 011 big motor races as Europe
does. The contrary is the case, the only
event held of international importance being
the annual Indianapolis 500, which is run
on a bricked track of 2 miles 594 yards to
the lap, with banked corners. This year’s
event, on May 30, will, as usual, encourage
semi-stock cars. The qualifying trial has
been increased from 10 to 25 miles at a
minimum speed of 100 m.p.li., the 42 fastest
cars being left in. The first race in- 1911
was won by America at 74.5 m.p.li., and
for the three following years French drivers
in French machines won. Of late European
cars have been conspicuous by absence, though
the prize-money runs to over £20,000. The
best speed so far is 104 m.p.h. by H. Frame
in’ an eight-cylinder front-wheel Miller.
“Kick Starter” : The Australian dirt-track
cycling authorities have been informed by
the British Autocycle Union that it will
provide fares for a team of Australian
riders to visit Britain this season. They
will be paid starting money for two rides a
week, with the chance of winning £l5O to
£2OO at each meeting. The riders must leave
in about three weeks’ time, and States are in-
vited to send in nominations at once. A
little while ago the British body and its
Australian cobbers were at variance over the
rating of the team of British riders lately m
reDresentative team, and some
sSks. stir- * bc
~.
“Richmond”: Ossie Nicholson, the Vic-
torian pushbiker who is attacking the world s
record for a 12 months’ ride, reached 16,008
odies early last week This is 1100 miles
ahead of the record held by Humbles of
England, at the same stage. Humbles s
figures for the full term were 36.007. Though
Nicholson is using a tliree-speed gear, this
will not affect the attempt.
Miscellaneous
“Aileron” : Some motor-cycle racing ex-
perts seem to take kindly to flying, perhaps
because “cornering” and “banking” in the
two sports have a good deal in common,
&nd the latest to get into the limelh,
Q ueens lander Vic Huxley, one of the worm b
mo st prominent dirt-track racing r •
other day in England he won an -Herts-
croSS.coUntry race promoted by the tfeUs
%^ Agto Club. He had been fewer than 20
times in t h e air, and had made only halt a
dozon solo flights,
;J: ... *
„ # T of the limited oppor-
Bung : InWte<* t on in Aus-
tumtties ice l h y has rp f senta tives have
tfalia aind s<ime jg. Jeffreys, secre-
done well in Europe. ■controlling the
tary the . . , f ro m Europe, where
gauie, has jus Aus tralian team
he discussed the visit 01 an ausu m; mp „
to the Continental winter resorts limes
are too bad at present for anythin*, or tne
j,^ nd , ut some tliing may be done when the
j A by Au stralian play, says the
eturne( j traveller, is well up to that in Eng-
, , d Europe, but Canada and the United
. in a c j ass b y themselves, as might
. pxt)ec t e fl.
... ... * *
. m.,„ inter-State eight-oar
Hamilton . The i t »ta it | t
race in Brisbane did[ not complaints
body-line barge. bad °iven N.S.W.
afterwards that the starter had »iven
a Jump out of the barnerDy nor sequ s
crews off from moored boats, as a^gea^Dut
taking an imaginary 111 e cr came
river instead ’ t ba t nothing-
second, was loud m P > w ben th<>
happened beyond tal J "“Vi ti on censured its
Queensland Rowing Association censuica
starter.
“Blue Chalk” : Veteran Melbaarne: Inman
who is now showing that he can stUL wiem
a billiard cue with the best of them m
match with Horace Li o pXrity
asserts that the game
as a spectacle and Ph a “ Tin drum He
cannons expimted by V alter Lmdrum. B
seems to have , fo tain,
has happened befoie. Once x 1: was themsun
of the spot stroke. Then ,
losing hazard Other stunts lp eUC to
keeping ahead 1 _ t ion of the ex-
render. them futile One suggestion or me.
champion is worth norm*,. +u iX
brations. ...
nmu Gaffer” - Victoria can boast a not-
sarinter in J C. Horsfall, holder of the
vnrrls title At the recent Mel-
_n 9
2. 10sec L “h ic b i s close to Jim Carlton’s
. f 0 fip-nres of 9 3-ssec. A following
nd kep “ t f is performance off the record
bookg but a subsequent run of 21 3-10 sec.
for t & G 2 20 should be passed as an Austra-
lian record. The previous accepted figures on
a circular track were Jim Carlton s -1
3-ssec„ which he share*. J. grehan,
of Queensland. For a straight ru .
Australian time 18 . 1 ’
done nine years ago m Adelaide.


SHEAF STOUT
keeps me Fit for
the hardestqame
SHEAF STOUT
UA TOOTH’S


And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things
you don’t know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most up-to-date and reliable short-wave and
technical information. nn ir.r n j
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY. PRICE 2d.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Women’s Guild of Empire determined
to help one citizen of the Empire to found
a home as their special celebration of May
24. That’s why they organised the big
matinee at Her Majesty's that was in full
swing just as this Letter was dashing into
print. The Guild is working through Canon
Hammond’s Pioneer Home scheme, and last
Friday it was hopeful of netting sufficient
not only to give a family a home, but to
add something for them to go on with. Mrs.
David Maugham had sold over 180 tickets
lone-handed, and another member of the
committee confessed to having sold four
boxes, though there are only two in the
house.
Even in these depression days no young
man need feel afraid to take on matrimony
in company with a Girl Guide. Give her a
dozen butter-boxes, two balls of string and
some saplings and she can furnish the whole
house. She can run up a canvas home if
house rent’s a problem, and that canvas
home will be as comfortable as and probably
a hundred per cent, more cheery than some
mansions. The exhibition of Guide work in
Mark Foy’s was the most fascinating hap-
pening of last week. Here were camps and
farms and nurseries, a Brownie’s house, set
next door to a Ranger’s home, a barn (made
of bark), a cobbler’s shop (in each of these
the girls were hammering and sawing and
painting away) and a basket-weaver’s estab-
lishment.
The farm was complete with horse pad-
dock, sheep run, pigsty, chicken run and
cow byre, each enclosure marked off with a
different type of fencing; and there were
beehives and even a garden. Around the
nursery was another garden, an affair of
terraced window-boxes. In the gleaming
white doll’s house each room was furnished.
This, the toy cupboard and a chest of
drawers were all made from butter-boxes.
Also there was a clever crib made from
strong calico with white wood supports.
Over" in the camping section there were at
least a dozen different kinds of campfire—
the self-feeding one a marvellous bit of archi-
tecture. But the Brownie house, with its
giant toadstool before the door, the most
knowing of brown owls near by and a dear
little Brownie just within the door, proved
irresistible to the grown-ups. Edgeworth
David’s lady opened the display.
Margaret Chalmers and Gwen Selva once
more proved themselves congenial musical
partners when they put on their concert at
the Forum last week. On this occasion the
audience was given the benefit of costumed
singers, so that if the composer and the
imagination failed to create the Early Eng-
lish and Persian Garden atmosphere, the
raiment of the singers could help the pic-
ture. Gwen Selva, Lurline Flemming and
Jeanette Rooney were delightful pink-and-
white shepherdesses and Reg Hood was a
decorative shepherd. in an arrangement of
songs by Purcell. Liza Lehmann’s “Persian
Garden’’ was sung by the same group (this
time in flowing garb), plus the help of
Montgomery Stuart and Charles Nicis.
The vice-regal Isaacses sound nice people
in their own home. One of the things they
delight in telling the visitor is the story
of black brother who stole, or at any rate
obtained in some unconventional manner, a
diamond necklace, and, when pursued, swal-
lowed it. Whether he took the dose holus-
bolus and was thereby choked, or had time
enough to swallow the diamonds one by one,
is shrouded in mystery. Anyway, death over-
took him, and according to legend he is
buried beneath the aged spreading deodar
on the Yarralumla lawns, with his innards
still, apparently, a macabre setting for the
glittering *gems.
The Governor-General has just returned
from Melbourne, where he, visited his
brother, who has been very ill. The brothel’s
are devoted to each other, and for years past,
no matter how much of Australia lies
between them, they have never let a day pass
without a telephone conversation.
The G.G.’s lady has a ready wit. She
was dancing with a gallant man of war, and
a sudden stop in the music found them both
standing facing the very bare back of a
lady in a very beautiful white frock. “Ah,”
said the warrior, who fancies himself a con-
noisseur of clothes, “angel-skin!” “Yes,
my dear General,” answered Lady Isaacs,
“but much more skin than angel!”
The undergrads, determined to keep their
party clean this year, and. their ball at the
Palais seemed as though it had been holy-
stoned by the Commonwealth’s censor, it
was so vei’y pure. No stunts interfered
with the continuous performance of the saxo-
phone, and only by singing of ’Varsity
songs was the hop different from every other
dance of tlie year. True, the songs sung by
two thousand voices, odd, even, and jig-saw,
had a rousing, not to say startling, effect. At
first blast it was devastating. After that
you got exhilarated by it and added your
own falsetto to the jollification. Though the
night was not gaudy, it was gay; probably
one of the brightest in undergrad, history.
More than two thousand able-bodied young
took the floor and foot-massaged it vigorously
till • three o’clock in the morning, when a
stirrup cup of hot bovril was served to the
survivors.
The gold of chrysanthemums shone every-
where. It was twined with the blue and
gold of the Uni. round the official box, and
high standards of the richly-toned blooms
decked the v.-r. table. The Governor came,
aided by one with the heather-mixture name
of lan Campbell. President of the Students
Representative Council Bowie Wilson and
Joy Johnson, vice-president of the council,
did the honors, Joy wearing garments as
jocund as her name, a turquoise velvet cape
being associated with her golden frock. The
’Varsity’s Deputy Chancellor Mungo MacCal-
lum was there with his lady, the Mayoral
Hagons shed civic lustre, engineering was
represented by the Barraclouglis, Barbara
Peden came with her Professor father, Miss
Fidler and W. A. Selle were other eminent
personages and Esmey Burfitt shone like a
sapphire in blue velvet.
Two of Maoriland’s writing women are at
present in Sydney. One is Nellie Scanlon,
journalist and novelist, whose last work had
an Enzed setting, being the story of an early
settler and his family. When last in Wel-
lington—the Pencarron country of her novel
is not far off the capital city—Miss Scanlon
was busy collecting material for the next
two volumes of the trilogy; for the work is
to be a saga, its final note the post-war
world of to-day.
Mrs. Trudee Porter, an Aucklander, had
a success at the Repertory Theatre on
Saturday with her comedy “The Spinster
Who Spun.” Mrs. Porter has had many
of her plays produced in her own land, but
this was her first offering to Australian
audiences. It is a lightweight, and the
dialogue is merry and bright.
Last Saturday Beatrice Meeks coo-ecd all
the Hordern clan and all the Winter-Irvings
in Sydney to a cocktail party for her cousin
Audrey Hordern, who marries Bill Winter-
Irving to-day. In the evening the Tony
Horderns spread themselves in a dance at
Retford Hall to celebrate the same matri-
monial venture.
A group of charming girls in graceful
“Madame Pompadour” frocks will greet the
guests at the masquerade ball of that period
to take place at the Wentworth on June 15
in aid of the N.S.W. Institution for the Deaf
and Dumb and Blind and the Royal Alex-
andra Hospital for Children. These Pompa-
dour beauties will all be masked, as will every-
body else until after the judging of the fancy-
dress competition. A very nice crystal
reading lamp will go to the lucky holder
of the right ticket in a guessing competition,
and on the list of attractions are a “mys-
tery or masked partner” dance, and exhibi-
tions of ultra-modern and old-world dancing.
Visitors to the recent exhibition of the
Society of Women Painters were struck by
the portrait:
studies of
Violet Bow
ring. It is
some years
now since
Mrs. Bowring
and her late
husband (he
was a well-
known artist,
too) came to
Australia from
Maoriland by
way of Lon-
don. The two
immediately
found a place
in the art
world of Syd-
ney, and in
almost every
exhibition
from the time
of their arrival
works by one or both were conspicuous.
In the Women Painters’ show the heads of
two Russian boarhounds from Violet Bow-
ring’s brush were much commented on. The
Buixetin photographer made this picture.
Commem. Week pranced along gaily, and
these twentieth-century blues were out of
the saddle at the Festival Follies which
rioted through the Union Hall last Wednes-
day. An occasional beer-bottle or egg being
tossed nonchalantly into the audience from
the stage disturbed nobody; probably the
fielding was good. One madness succeeded
another, and the Psitcairn Island ladies in
their hula hulas, their wide hairy chests
clad in brassieres, received a loud hand, as
did a company of Girl Guides, ringleted and
what not. At the query “Why should we
stay?” from the mutinous boarders in a
nightmare hash-house scene, the brawny
landlady arose and, like the good old senti-
mental balladist of other days, carolled in
impassioned tones “Because You Came to
Me!” The hit of the evening was the
drinking chorus from “The Student Prince.”
The realism of the draughts of ale with
which the singers gargled their tonsils drove
the students in the audience almost to
frenzy. But youth even at Commem. time
has a touch' of the sentimental in its make-
up and when a slim young tenor with a
note not unlike Tauber’s sang a dreamy
love-song from the same opera, the house
listened with both ears.
Muriel Brenda Mummery came from Lon-
don last week to claim her bridegroom. He
is Alexander Jeffreys Jobson, and the two
met in England a year or so ago, when Mr.
Jobson was on his travels. The bride is
the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Norman Mum-
mery, of London, and a niece of Claude
Reading, who armed her to the altar ot St.
Mark’s, Darling Point. The subsequent re-
ception was at the Claude Readings Wol-
lahra home. The young man is the only son
of the Alex. Jobsons, of Double Bay.
The musically-minded turned up at the
Apollo Club’s concert last week and listened
to one of the best renderings of Beethoven s
“Creation’s Hymn” Sydney has ever heard.
The choir was in fine voice, and under
Arnold Mote’s direction gave out such color
and tone as made the concert memorable.
In addition to the delights of the choral
work, there were piano solos by Isidor Good-
man, songs by Elsie Findlay and poems by
Brunton Gibb.
To-day’s big event is the wedding of
Audrey Hordern to William A. Winter-
Irving, of Victoria. The rendezvous is in
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, at 3.30.
Past and dead is the idea that only the
plain woman bothered to cultivate her mind.
Here’s a pretty
Queens land
girl, Alma
Andrews, who
has her feet
set on the
track to high
finance. She
has just been
made an asso-
ciate of the
Federal Insti-
tute of Ac-
countants, no
mean achieve-
ment for such
a youngster.
Her account-
ancy studies
were com-
menced in
Perth and
completed
in Queensland,
where Miss
Andrews is now a University student. This
portrait is from the Noel Maitland studio.
The Women’s Guild of Empire had a very
rare bird piping his native wood-note at its
lunch on Friday. This was Mr. Skertz, who
was attached to the Russian Court in the
days of the Romanoffs. He travelled through
his native land from the Pacific to the
Baltic as recently as 1928, so that his
account of conditions before and since the
revolution is informed by personal experi-
ence. The picture is a grim one. H’e de-
clares that the number of unemployed never
falls below three million, and in Russia ot
to-day if you do not work you do not eat.
China’s Consul-General was the supporting
speaker, and his appeal against Communism
was forceful and shot through with humor.
With him was his clever little daughter Zok
Chen, whose manner is one of grave cour-
tesy. Zok means purity. “There are many
girls in China named so,” she told this
Letter; “to us it means what you mean
when you name a girl Mary.’’ Miss Chen
has studied in America and is a qualified
chemist. She was born in Shanghai.
Mrs. A. A. Kemp, of Manly, holds some-
thing of a presidential record. She has been
the chief of the Katoomba Red Cross Society
for 17 years in succession. She has also
been on the throne of the Lud Mayor’s
Armenian Relief Fund Committee for many
years. Other presidencies she holds are those
of the Manly Auxiliary of Crown-street Hos-
pital, the Manly branch of the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Society and the Manly Girl Guides.
She is in addition vice-president of the
W.C.T.U. and vice-president as well as prac-
tical worker on the Sydney committee of
the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society, of which
she has lately been appointed a life member.
Tresillian is the Royal Welfare Society’s
mothercraft centre, and it is to the interest
of the State that its good work for the
arriving and just-arrived citizen should be
maintained. To help the funds there is to be
a ball on the Wanganella (lent by Huddart
Parker) on June 28. A committee that
includes five knights’ ladies, the Mayoress
and an alert-looking younger set headed by
Irene Cusick will see that the shekels roll in.
“Hop,” of The Bulletin, will henceforth-
adorn the portrait avenue in the National
Gallery. The picture is in water-colors and
was painted by Julian Ashton in 1908.
Julian has presented this picture of his old
friend to the Gallery Trustees in recogni-
tion of their lending him several gallery pic-
tures by former pupils for the exhibition
of works by his past and present students.
Hats are to be higher, biretta- and fez-
like. The fez ones look kind to the human
face, and in crochet they are pictorial as
well as smart —just the thing for picnic
races —and packing can’t hurt them. Veils
flutter from the soft little sailor hats, nicest
when they come down just a bit lower than
the eyelids. But some are worn nose length,
and some even come to the chin. Pique,
organdie and even satin gloves are already
being worn at the other end of the world,
and they should take on even more in Syd-
ney when our hot summer will make them
a blessing, as well as a decoration. Peri-
winkle blues and greys are tipped for color
favorites, though color must always be a
matter for the wearer to decide. A color
that suits is never unfashionable.
Every woman who takes part in the public
life of the State must surely be behind the
C.W.A. in its resolution to ask for the
appointment of two women on every hospi-
tal board. This should not have to be urged
on the Hospitals Commission, _ because
is a never-ending supply of income to tne
health institutions from the efforts of women.
The auxiliaries and the younger sets always
make this Letter think of a solid army ol
the descendants of Red Riding Hood keeping
the wolf from the door. And of all tne
auxiliaries the linen auxiliaries seem tne
most deserving of the laurels, for not only
do they organise frivols to get the tunas
to buy the materials for sheet and pillow-
case and pyjamas, but during the year they
sew up miles and miles of seams.
There is something almost fantastic these
times in the idea of a happy play. Theatre-
goers are accustomed to sitting through dia-
logue larded over with cynicism, morbidity
or sex innuendo, but the audience at Bryant s
Playhouse were given fare of another sort
in Pinero’s “Enchanted Cottage.” The play
is a fantasy mixed by an imaginative ? brain
and an experienced hand, and there s the
silver note of hope in it instead of the blare
of frustration and futility.
The United Service Institution hung ou.t
the bunting of rejoicing on Saturday night
and held a reception and dance in honor ol
Colonel J. D. Lavarack, the new comman-
dant of the Royal Military College, and Mrs.
Lavarack. There was a great roll-up of the
military, and Colonel Spain and his lady did
the honors; Mrs. Lavarack wore sealing-wax
red chiffons, and Mrs. Phillips, who came
with her Brigadier-General, was in white and
gold brocade.
The German cruiser tucked up her grey
skirts and slipped out of Port Jackson on
a lobelia-blue morning of last week. The
sun shone, the air was still —except when re-
verberating with the salutes exchanged by the
guns of the visitor and the Canberra. The
salvo was in full blast as the Koln was off
Kirribilli, and her band played what sounded
like “God Save the King.” The men stood
in squads upon the shining deck, where the
brasswork gave off a warm glint. The same
sunrays were reflected flashily from the
brasses of the Canberra that lay, a long,
lean greyhound, guarding the shore. Off
Garden Island another warship stretched
friendly, but alert. Overwhelming Fort
Denison the slender length of the German
ship moved slowly on the blue waters, under
the blue flower of the sky, passing between
the hoary stone tower of Pinchgut and the
green of the foreshores.
Helen Montague, private secretary to
M.L.’s Finance Minister Coates, has been
holidaying in Sydney and Melbourne. _ She
returned by the Wanganella last Friday,
taking with her memories of Palm Beach
and the Mountains to combat the belief of
many Enzedders that Australia is a large
flat land devoid of scenery.
Their friends of the Arts Club determined
to put a sparkle into the quiet little exhi-
bition of the Women Painters. Mrs. Flor-
ence Taylor decided to lead an army _of
feminists and art-lovers to the Education
Gallery one afternoon last week, and on a
few days’ notice so many rallied to the call
that the two big rooms'were crowded. In
between music and tea the guests gazed at
the pictures or talked to the creators
thereof. There was a bright concert pro-
gramme, contributed to by six of the city’s
leading musicians.
Brisbane’s bouquet:—
A. E. Moore, Leader of the Opposition, has bought
historic Bulimba House and gone into residence.
Mol lie de Gunst had the most satisfactory box-
office receipts seen for a long time in. Brisbane. She
has now gone north to her native Bundaberg, after
being f£ted and blossom-strewn here. Dagmar Roberts
and ’celloist Van de Klei also came in for eulogies.
Joan Heale, daughter of the E. H. Heales, Fleet-
wood, Kureen, N.Q., is going to marry M. A. Cole-
batch, Vice-Consul for the U.S.A. at Brisbane.
Irene, daughter of the J. C. Sweeneys, Dutton
Park, is to wed Roy Christison, son of! the late
Robert Christison, Lammerniuir, N.Q.
The Women’s Club has been collecting opinions
as to what men like best in women. A magistrate
stated that one of the most attractive women he
knew frequently appeared in the dock! Dr. Ellice
Dart arranged the argument, and tea was served
after the pow-wow.
Marjorie Lightbody had a pre-wedding party at
Gainsborough, Ascot, for Mollie Tynan and Dr. D. A.
Quinlan, of Westralia. Pink roses were in
the supper-room and chrysanthemums and dahlias
in the lounge, where bridge was played. The hostess
wore almond green; the guest of honor was in
romany purple.
The Methodist church at Pittsworth was done up
in white blossoms for Victor Mann’s marriage to
Amy Geizer. The bride was in white mariette and
lace, with tulle veil and lace cap, and Joan Geizer
and Beryl Mann ’maided in mauve organdie.
Youth, beauty and brains passed with the going out
of Nell Douglas Graham after a short illness. Nell had
many friends in Sydney, where her dramatic gifts
were appreciated. With lan Vallentine she started
the Art Theatre here, and her careful attention to
detail was worthy of notice. She had played with
Nell'ie Bramley’s and other professional cos. and
with the Brisbane Repertory and the S'hakspearean
Society. She was the only daughter of barrister
Austin Douglas Graham.
The Lieut.-Governor, with Dr. and Mrs. Morgan
Lane, went to Peter Dawson’s concert in the City
Hall. The Cryles, Mrs. Alfred Needham, Lilian and
Eddie Cahill were in the large audience.
At St. Paul’s, Roma, Robert, son of the Donald
Camerons, Quibet, Roma, married Lorna, daughter
of the late E. H. Russell and of Mrs. Russell,
Duarran, Roma. The bride was in magnolia satin,
with a Brussels lace veil. Dorothy Russell ’maided
in rose pink, with a cap of satin leaves. Nancy
Russell was trainbearer in rose pink.


What could be a happier
choice for a radiant bride
than a radiant gift a gift
from the brilliant range of
“Hecworth” E.P.N.S. Plate.
Any article that bears the
name of “Hecworth” makes
a gift that will be prized far
beyond its intrinsic value
one that will serve as a
tangible and beautiful ex-
pression of your good wishes
in the years to come “a
thing of beauty and a joy for
ever.”
But remember! In selecting E.P.N.S.
Plate, beware of imitation! Nothing
but genuine Plate can be considered
for gift-giving. _ Protect yourself,
therefore, by insisting on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate.
Here comes
the
BRIDE
STAMPS FREE.
Six pictorial Mozambique or four big
Crete FREE to collectors writing to see
Bargain Approvals and sending postage.
STIR LINO CO., 117 Manchester Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
Mayor and Mayoress Simpson, of Haw-
thorn, staged the first of the civic balls of
this season at t'he local Town Hall, which
was a study in gold and russet tones in lights,
foliage and flowers. Public Works Min-
ister Jones and Mrs. Jones were there, she
arrayed in black crepe georgette, and among
the guests were Mr. and Mrs. C. H. A.
Eager, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Gray and W.
Anglis and his wife, she in mushroom-pink
satin. Sixteen debs, dressed in white curt-
sied to the host and hostess and with their
partners sedately stepped through the lan-
cers. Mrs. Simpson’s lovely velvet gown of
very dark burgundy hue was set off by a
bouquet of pansies that toned exactly. Her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. E. E. Simpson, was in
pale amber tinted lace.
With Mayor Johnson as organiser, St.
Kildaites did their bit for St. Vincent’s
Hospital with a dance and card party at
their Town Hall. Mayoress Johnson came
in gown of hyacinth mauve flamisol, and
Mrs. H. H. Morohey, a vice-president of
the committee, was there in a soft white
frock. Ticket secretaries were Mrs. F. F.
Clausen, in deep blue velvet, Miss A. Styles,
in jade-green georgette, and Councillor A.
Levy, who was accompanied by Mrs. Levy.
Members of the auxiliaries of the R.V.1.8.
met for dancing and bridge at Ormond Hall.
Mrs. J. Frost, president of the combined
auxiliaries, danced in mauve crepe trimmed
with velvet of a darker hue.
There was a dance aboard the Dutch liner
Nieuw Zeeland. Lud Mayor Smith was there
with his fiancee, Cynthia Brookes, who was
in coral pink. Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Brookes joined the party with their other
daughters, Elaine and Hersey. Valerie
Purves came in a frock of black grosgrain
silk, and Sandra Shackell was in white lace.
For a dance at the Rex in aid of St.
Vincent’s Hospital, the organisers were
Lorna Moriarty, whose black gown had a
shimmer of gold sequins; Jill Ryan, whose
georgette frock shaded from pale yellow to
sunset pink; Nancy Connell, in white chiffon
with a pale-blue scarf; Mary Sheehan, whose
turquoise-blue frock was topped with an
ostrich feather cape ; Gwen Williams, whose
gown blended wine-colored velvet and gold
tissue, and Nancy Mitty, the hon. sec., who
sported scarlet chiffon. Among the dancers
were Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Millington, Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, in black georgette, and Mrs. G.
Fitzwater, wearing a frilled gown of pale
yellow chiffon. The revival of ruching was
featured in the peach-pink angel-skin frock
worn by Nola Sims.
A bridge gathering at the Green Door tea-
rooms, for St. Vincent’s Hospital, was en-
gineered by Lucille Meehan. Special guests
were Mayoress R. G. McKenzie, of South
Melbourne; Mayoress H. R. Johnson, of St.
ICilda, and Kathleen Esmonde and _ Marie
Fitzpatrick, who are officers of the Southern
District Auxilary.
Officers of the Nieuw Zeeland were enter-
tained and good-byes were said to Truda
Taylor at a cocktail party at Mrs. E.
Delany’s home, South Yarra. The hostess
wore a black gown with sparkling collars
and cuffs, her hat being of black velvet.
Jennie Brenan lent the Embassy for a
dance in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. The
Tooralc Auxiliary committee ran the show,
Eleanor Willis, the president, wearing ruby
red velvet. Judge and Mrs. Starke’s daugh-
ter Monica, in black lace, was hon. sec.
The ticket secretaries were the good-look-
ing Betty Fogarty, whose frock was camel-
lia pink; Peggy Ahern, in white with a leaf-
green velvet coatee, and Sylvia Burke, who
favored pink flamisol.
The £lO,OOO which James Dyer put in a
bank for a permanent orchestra in Mel-
bourne is not to go to the organisation
created out of the University and Symphony
orchestras. Unlike most public benefactors.
Dyer has genuine artistic reasons for his
refusal to hand over the cash. Writing
from Paris he says that universities and
academic institutions should be training-
grounds for orchestras, not public enter-
tainers, and that the conducting of such
schools is a whole-time job. The Dyer idea
has always been that each municipality in
Melbourne should add its quota to his little
lot, that performers should all be profes-
sionals, that they should be in continuous
rehearsal and that “for the public and its
education there should be no half-measures.”
Until this ideal is achieved his £lO,OOO is to
go on accumulating interest.
The Wool Train that is doing a three-
weeks’ tour of the country districts carries
experts selected by the C.W.A. who give
demonstrations in' spinning, weaving, rug-
making and quilt-making. The use of
scoured Romney Marsh wool for filling mat-
tresses in lieu of kapok is one of the prac-
tices the train has set out to popularise.
Among those aboard are Miss E. Butcliart,
one of our most expert hand weavers; Mrs.
E. Bailey, Mrs. E. C. Vcitch, Miss D. Roche,
Miss A. Stewart and Mrs. R. H. Peake.
Mrs. A. S. Morton is in charge of the pro-
gramme of demonstrations and the C.W.A.
section of the peregrinating show.
The knot-tying of Studley Carthew Bur-
ston, of Yallambee, Mulwalla (N.5.,W.), and
Mary, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. A.
Manning, of Yarrawonga, was performed
at Scots Church by the Rev. James Legge,
uncle of the bride. Vellum-tinted crepe
satin with a veil of Limerick made the
bridal array, two attendant ’maids, Mary
Browning and Kathleen Friend, affording a
contrast in rose-pink crinkle crepe frocks
topped with Juliet caps of the same material.
There was a dinner afterwards at the
Windsor.
At the Collins-street kirk Eunice, elder
daughter of the R. F. Walkers, of East Mal-
vern. and Thomas P. Crankshaw exchanged
vows. The three bridesmaids featured in
their dressing creamy angelskin lace topped
by hats of apple-green velvet. A trained
gown of ivory-white satin and a veil of
Brussels lace and tulle arrayed the bride.
There were rejoicings afterwards at the
Wentworth.
-The Uni. students’ revue at the Comedy,
“Stude Prunes,” profits of which go to the
Lud Mayor’s Fund, takes a rise out of the
audience at the end of the show when pro-
ducer Norman Atkyus addresses a speech of
welcome to an archduke with a name end-
ing in “offski” in a d.-c. box, and after this
individual has replied in a foreign tone of
voice asks all to stand and reverently sing
the Russian national anthem, which they
do. It’s a fine tune, but it hasn’t been heard
in Melbourne for a long, long while, and
anybody who sang it in Moscow or Lenin-
grad would probably be boiled in oil.
In the first-night audience at the Theo
Shall production of “2 x 2 equals 2,” staged
at the Garrick, were Major-General and
Mrs. Bruche, the Lud Mayor, with his
fiancee Cynthia Brookes, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Brookes. Senator and Mrs. Elliott,
Brigadier-General and Mrs. Jess, Mrs. Her-
bert Brookes arid sundry Consular folk.
Glimpses of Russia before the Revolu-
tion were given by Mrs. Edward Smith at.
a tea-gathering of womenfolk at; Mrs. W.
Mortill’s home, Hawthorn. The English
visitor had touches of hois de -rose upon her
navy suit and millinery. Mrs. Mortill wore
a flat cr§pe frock of plaid effect in brown
and white with a fur tippet, and a toque of
coque feathers. The Wee-don lady. Mrs. W.
E. Agar, Mrs. Hylton Dale, Mrs. John Dye,
Mrs. F. Rae and Mrs. Russell Jackson were
present.
Rarely has violinist Gertrude Ilealy
played better than she did at her recital
at the Assembly Hall in conjunction with
accompanist Elsie Fraser. Enthusiasm after
the closing number of her programme,
Mozart’s Concerto in D, with cadenzas by
Joachim, was overwhelming. Miss Healy’s
attire was black and white —-black velvet
skirt with a white satin bodice —and the
pianist wore corbeaU-blue flat erfipe.
At an afternoon gathering of the Standard
Players’ Society Vance Palmer read poems
by Furnley Maurice, and soprano Dora Zivin
sang groups of songs by Madame Florence
Ewart to words by Rupert Brooke, John
Drinkwater and others, accompaniments
being played by the composer.
At a gathering at The Hermitage, Geelong,
good-byes were said to the headmistress,
Elsie Morres, who 1 has retired, and the lady
was presented with a cheque and an etching
of the school gates. The new principal is
Miss Peterson, formerly head of the Tin tern
school, Glenferrie-road.
In the Proscenium Club’s charity perform-
ance of “Flat to Let,” at the Garrick, Kath-
leen Howell wore a graceful evening-gown
of georgette of the new cornflower hue, with
sparkling buckles about the corsage; later
in the play she sported a diaphanous frock
of pale delphinium shade. Jean Barklamb
made entrance in pyjamas of scarlet satin,
with a coat of parchment tint of the same
material. Eileen Johnstone’s backless party
frock was of apple-green angel-skin.
A conceit peculiar to this State is the
use of the cow pumpkin (which at this
season develops a ruddy glow in its cheeks)
as an item of ballroom decoration. One of
the city tea-rooms has been employing these
pumpkins in its autumn decorations for
years, and the vegetables made their appear-
ance at a Geelong after-the-boatrace dance
and at the Tennis Association’s hop of last
week.
Pianist Nancy Baird, who recently
acquired the degree of Mus.Bac. at the Uni.,
is on her way to Germany for further study.
Mrs. H. R. Baird, of Brighton, is accompany-
ing her daughter.
Broothorn made this picture of Beatrice
G. Ternan, teacher of voice production, who
has lately re-
turned to this
city after four
mtfnths in
Adelaide.
There she
gave lectures
and recitals
under the title
of “The Open-
ing of Doors,”
the object of
h e r address
being to inter-
est women in
the import-
ance of acquir-
ing the art of
fluent public
speaking. She
has now gone
north to carry
her mission to
Brisbane. Miss
Ternan used
to be known to listener,s-in as Mary Gum-
leaf.
Returned travellers say that the latest
Parisian fad is the wearing 0 f detachable
fingernails, painted or lacquered to go with
the wearer’s frock. Also the fashionable
jewellers of Paris are keeping Yo-Yo alive
by making miniature spinners of gold, dec-
orated with jewels, which may be carried in
the daintiest of handbags or slipped into a
glove.
Much in favor among women of all ages
just now are sets comprising woollen toque,
scarf ahd bag. These are fashioned of a very
wide woollen braid woven in a pattern com-
bining two or more colors. The millinery is
usually of the sw r athed sort, the scarves
are fringed and the large pochettes are zip-
fastened. With a dark topcoat or tailored
suit such sets give a very smart effect.
Miles Franklin’s new novel “Bring the
Monkey” was inspired by a tiny African
ape, a pet belonging to Jean Hamilton, for-
merly of Melbourne, and now resident in
London. Miss Hamilton and Miss Frank-
lin are intimate friends, and bo'th became
attached to the little beast, which has caused
its fair owner much embarrasssment while
travelling by its habit of eating train tickets.
It is proposed that the memory of F. W.
Homewood, mentor of so many clever
students of the IJni. Con., shall be kept green
by a memorial scholarship which will permit
tire holder to take a diploma course in
music. Students and friends are doing their
best to collect the £550 or so required, and
a Princess competition has been organised
to assist. The candidature of Violet Vernon,
who is “Princess Schubert,” was furthered
by a bridge party at the Wentworth. Mrs.
C. E. Yandeleur, wearing powder-blue flat
crepe, was the organiser, with Dorothy
Carter as horn sec.
Mary Jane Treadwell, of Noradjuha, who
died the other day, had been postmistress at
the little Wimmera township for almost 60
years. She was appointed when the first
settlors —many of them from South Aus-
tralia—commenced to encroach upon the
squatters’ land. The first p.o. was a tent.
She was the mother of 12 children, all now
living. The fine old lady was a month short
of 86 when the final call came.
Paul Saunders has just completed an un-
usual Odyssey for a child of 12. His mother
died in Sandringham last year; she wanted
to be cremated and to have her ashes buried
in England. Being the eldest of a family
of four, Paul was selected to convey the
urn.
While a Sydney headmaster was saying
unkind things about lawn tennis as a pastime
for boys, Norman Brookes, just elected presi-
dent of the Old Melburnians, was expressing
a fervent hope that the Vie. public schools
would give' greater importance to the game.
Claire and Patricia, daughters of Mr. and
Mrs. Stanley Hammond, of Toorak, waved
good-bye from the deck of the Narkunda to
many friends. They are bound for England
and the Continent for a stay of some months.
They won’t be lonely, for many Toorakians
and South Yarraites are touring the Euro-
pean capitals.
This year’s winner of the Mollison scholar-
ship in Italian language and literature is
Helen Byrne, M.A., who goes to the uni-
versities of Perugia and Florence to further
her studies.
Miss F. E. Virtue, vice-principal of the
P.L.O. since 1920. is severing her connection
with the old school after 87 years of service
there.
Just a little bit disappointed that she was
unable to accept an invitation to go on a
tour of South
Africa wi t h
the Firm’s
Gilsullivan co.
is Ains 1 i e
Williams, sub-
ject of this.
Broothorn pic-
ture. An ex-
stud eii t of
Albert - street
0o n„ t, li e
singer, who is
only daughter
of Judge Wil-
-lia m s and
Mrs. Williams,
of Melbourne,
has been in
the chorus for
two seasons,
tour i n g the
Commonwealth
and Maoriland.
Prior to going
on the boards she was a keen worker in the
interests, of the District Nursing Society.
By way of the Van Rees and the Montoro,
a mail has arrived from the Nieuw Holland,
the first Australian trade exhibition ship,
by now doing the rounds of Macassar, Soura-
baya, Samarang, Batavia, Singapore and the
rest of it. A lure stronger to the passengers
even than the deck games is the deck aft.
which resembles a section of an agricultural
show with its fresh, canned and dried fruits,
its tinned hutter, jams, bacon, axe-handles,
sweets and even electric signs. The promen-
ade deck is gay with j posters arranged by
the Australian Travel Association.
Adelaide amusements :
Dr. and Mrs. O. E. C. Wilson staged a dance for
the debut of their two elder daughters, Honor and
Yvette. Their spacious old mansion is an ideal place
for a dance and although it was a wet and stormy
night, sheltered balconies and verandahs for sitting
out were available. Autumn flowers and foliage were
massed everywhere and the supper-table was decorated
with white and crimson roses. The hostess was
gowned in black ring velvet and carried a sheaf of
crimson roses. Honor Wilson was frocked in white
angelskin lace; her sister was in shell pink dull
crepe de Chine. The pearl necklaces they wore
belonged to their great-grandmother.
The Sowden lady’s mother, Mrs. M. Suttie, and
her sister, Mrs. V. Raves, of Sydney, are the guests
of the Sowdens at Victor Harbor.
A bridge party in aid of St. Mary’s Mission of
Hope was held in the Town Hall. Matrons played
cards and younger folk supervised and served the
afternoon tea.
At the residence of Mrs. Sidney Reid a garden
fete was held, arranged, by the Junior Red Cross.
A dance on the lawn by wee girls dressed as rabbits
and pixies was much enjoyed.
The Goode lady gave a delightful afternoon tea
in the new tea rooms of Mrs. Norman Beurle, widow
of the Baptist minister who died suddenly in the
train en route to preach at Port Adelaide. During
the afternoon Mrs. Wordsworth James recited
“Captain Cook’s Coo-ee" and Mrs. A. C. Hill gave
two monologues.
The first of the reunion dances arranged by the
Adelaide Uni. Sports Association was held in the
refectory. A home-made supper and cocktail
sausages were served in the Lady Symon Hall. The
arrangements were under the care of Mrs. Rex Matters
and Shirley Burns-Cuming, assisted by the 40
members of the committee. A novel decoration in
the ballroom was a series of caricatures of professors
and students by Alicia Harrington, Colin Kerr
having added an apt verse to each. The pictures
were auctioned during the evening to spirited bidding.
Numbers were given by the Uni. Footlights Club in
the cloisters from 9 p.m. to midnight.
The doings of Perth: —
Sixteen debs made their bob to Miss Northmore
at the Karrakatta Club flutter. Mrs. R. T. Robinson’s
daughters Noela and Betty weraf in frilly taffeta and
sheathed satin. Puffed sleeves were a feature of Marie
Dakin’s 1 ivory velvet gown. Brunette Pauline Woorl-
roffe added a touch of' pink to her crinkly crepe.
White satin was the choice of Joan Pead, Joye
Morrison and Louie Shenton. A dusting of sequins
gave a sparkle to the cape of Una Atkinson’s frock.
Shell-pink velvet was chosen by Lucy Stone. Quinta
McClemans had a ruched trimming to her neckline.
Marjorie Lukies was clad in ninon-de-soie. Dorothy
Adams wore white taffetas, puffed as to sleeve and
bouffant as to skirt. Pam Haywood chose embossed
brocade, Joy Illsley was swathed in angelskin lace
and Lilian and Jean Oats were in crinkly marocain
plentifully pintucked. The club’s president, Mrs.
S. J. Anderson, received in a little ermine cape over
her black lace gown. The spoil of many gardens
made a riot of color and fragrance in slipper and
lounge rooms.
Women members of the Aero Club are thinking
out a series of social events for the wet and cold
months. Their first frisk was a successful evening
* of bridge in the Womens’ Service Guild rooms. i
The Kerr-Pearses, with daughter Elizabeth, aid
back from the Foggy Land.
The Westralian Bar opened its doors to receive
Mollie Kingston, Sheila McClemans and Margaret;
Battye, a clever trio who graduated last year.
Edna, daughter of Mr. Arthur Francis, is affianced
to Norton Dillimore, of Lake Grace, whose home
town is Christchurch (M.L.). The Paul Barrett
couple’s only daughter Nellie is engaged to Lance*
son of Mr, and Mrs. George Taylor.
The engagement is announced of Trixie, second
daughter of the A. H. Mallochs, and Stanford Bag-?
sliaw, of Bridgetown.
At the L.A.B. Club’s guest night, Anita Fitz-
Gerald contributed a paper on Arnold Bennett, with
Bennett’s “The Stepmother” successfully enacted as
illustration. There were musical iteinsi of merit and
a delectable supper. President Mrs. Mason wore
pearly satin and the retiring secretary Geraldine
Montgomery, who is packing up for S’Africa, was
in black lace and taffeta. New sec. Miss Doonaii,
was clad in apple-green erepc.
The Speck enjoys its autumn: —
Mrs. Alan Maxwell invited a throng of guests to
Boronia, Brown’s River, to meet her sister, Lady
Abinger. The big living-room, with it» many-
windowed outlook on the Derwent, was gay with
autumn blossoms and foliage. Mrs. Maxwell received
in a dark navy wool crepe frock, relieved with aj
touch of white, and the guest of honor was in black
georgette, with small black turban. A regiment of
girls, headed by Mrs. Maxwell’s daughters Sheila and
Jean, attended to the refreshments.
The Junior' Division of the A.W.N.L. broke out into
a birthday party at the League’s rooms, and enter-
tained, among others, members of the Senior Division.
Tile cake sported two candles only, the League being
yet in the nursery.
Lovely weather smiled on the Longford Golf Club's
opening at Mountford links. There were over 12ff
players, and -a crowd of guests was entertained
by tlic president and Mrs. T. C. Archer at the-
clubhouse, where the tea-tables were gay with holly,
and autumn foliage. Beside half the western district’s
inhabitants, a good many ran out by .car from
Launceston,
The Midland Hunt Club, which was in low water
i couple of seasons ago, again boasts a long mem-
bership and a big' following. The last meet, at
Meadowbank, was a memorable one. Mr. .and Mrs.
Malcolm Gibson hostessed a picnic lunch at the
meeting place. Women riders predominated.
The Phil, scored a big success with its Brahms
Centenary concert at Hobart Town Hall, George
Jackson conducting. The programmes were furnished
with a short sketch of the composer’s life and work,
written by Mrs. Gustel Mclntyre; president of the
society. The Lieut.-Gov. and Lady Nicholls were
in the seats of the mighty.
Launceston Art Society’s Exhibition is decidedly
one up on that of last year. The hanging and
arrangement of the pictures in the King’s Hall are
effective, and good work is shown hv Dorothea Keeling,
Ethel Nicholls and Harry Kelly, in oils; and by
Mrs. Reid Bell, Ethel Greig, Charles Hills and
Stanley Fuller, in water-colors.
Betty Giblin writes from Simons town, South Africa,
where she is staying with her sister, Mrs. Leth-
bridge, whose husband is attached to the staff at
Admiralty House. Old naval friends there at present
are Rear-Admiral Evans and his wife, and Dr. and
Mrs. Hayes. Mrs. Hayes was Ruby Guesdon, of
Hobart.
Mrs. Elsie Stutterd is back in the Speck, visiting
relations. She put in some time with her sister,
Mrs. Arthur Dowling, at Ross, and was there enter-
tained at a party in the studio built by Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Dowling near their home.
Joyce,. youngest daughter of the A. E. Slioues,
East Risdon, and Frederick Walch Edginton, Exeter,
West Tamar, announce their engagement.


AS WE SAUID BEFOER
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in. old readers and a new
generation may enjoy' the things that delighted an earlier one.
Quong Tart, Sydney’s representative
Chinese, gave a christening party, and to it
were bidden, among many others, old Sir
John Robertson and his young friend, Tom
Slattery, M.L.A. When the clergyman
A GOOD JUDGE.
MISSIONARY (visiting cannibal islands ): “I shall leave one of
my young friends here to fill you with . the peace that
passeth all understanding. Which shall it be?”
CJOEF: “That one tat fella.”
[“Hop” —10/3/94.]
began the service the grey-haired old Jack
reverently went right down on his marrow-
bones, and, bending his head, remained in
that uncomfortable attitude until he felt
thoroughly tired. Looking up, he observed
that Thomas, in an endeavor to make the
best of both worlds, was “only half-kneeling
,j own ” —{.<?., be was on one knee and was
resting his elbow on his bent leg while the
clergyman got through his interminable task.
Jack hereupon picked up his big walking-
staff, which was lying near, and brought it
down smartly on Mr. Tom Slattery s skull.
The latter winced severely, rubbed his head
and said nothing, but when the service was
finished he complained and said: “Sir John,
you hurt me very much indeed.” Well, 1
meant to, you infernal rascal,” snorted old
Jack —“you came here to a religious cere-
mony, and if you haven’t the blankity-blank
good grace to sanguinary well go down on
your adjective marrow-bones, you deserve to
have your carmine head properly stove in.”
[ll/7/’9l.j
Mdme. Bernhardt does not use the French
“Sara,” but spells her first name with an
“lx”—“Sarah” —in her autograph, which is
bold and large. [6/6/’9l.]
Governor Kintore circularised the promi-
nent Adelaide butchers, asking them to
tender for the honor of Government House
meat custom. One butcher replied by a polite
memo., stating that he “never tendered for
the supply of gentlemen’s houses.” An-
other, it is whispered, offered to serve the
vice-regal household gratis, provided “my
missus has the right of private entry to all
the swell parties and le-vees.” [ll/7/91.]
Lady Ilopetoun, at Bendigo, was delighted
to see the hovel in which the Prime Minister,
Lord Salisbury, then Lord Robert Cecil,
lived in 1852. Graham Berry unearthedMhe
facts about Lord Salisbury’s _ stay in Ben-
digo while hobnobbing with him at Hatfield
House. [ll/7/’9l.]
Little Mdlle. Seylor is Bernhardt’s com-
panion. Scene —the state bed-chamber at
2 a.m. “Seylor!” “Yes, Madame.” “Has
the parrot had his sugar and brandy?” “Yes,
Madame.” “And, Seylor.” “Yes, Madame.
"My St. Bernard, under the bed, is very
restless. You must get a cake of good soap
to-morrow morning and get the man to scour
him all over.” “Yes, Madame — a has les
chicns!” “What’s that, Seylor?” “Nothing,
Madame.” “Seylor, darling.” “Yes,
Madame.” “I forgot the milk for the pug.
Dress yourself and go out and get some.
There is a quarter-franc piece on the mantel-
shelf.” “ Mais , Madame.” “Well, never mind,
Seylor (weeps). Nobody cares for the poor
dumb animals but me. To-morrow you are
to go to the market and get me a live lob-
ster, which I shall keep in my bedroom to
remind me of the little Queensland alligator
lam to have.” [25/7/’9l.]
Parkes boasts that as his train left
C'astlemaine (Vic.) three local girls kissed
their hands to him. Pooh! We once saw
forty women kiss their hands to Brigham
Young as he steamed out of Salt Lake
depot going east. [ll/7/’9l.]
. The evening papers lost a chance to do
some really fine writing about the scene in
the Melbourne morgue when the floods came
along and washed that institution out. It
was just about dusk —a grey, cold, sodden
twilight, and the sky overhead was as dreary
as Parkes’s countenance when the election-
returns came in. Just outside the front
door of the dead-house the Yarra was rush-
ing madly along, with
dogs and furniture
upon its turbid bosom ;
and the waters sang
a hollow dirge as they
went along, and the
unrestful winds sped
by, conveying sodden
hats that were borne
up by unseen hands,
and wailing a plain-
tive melody, like the
last observation of a
huge cat upon a wall.
There were three
corpses lying on three
cold and fishy slabs
inside the morgue.
They were on their
backs, and looking up
gloomily at the roof
as if they were think-
ing about something.
By-and-bye the water
began to creep in
under the door. It
had come from haunts
of coot and hern away
up in the Gippsland
mountains —come in
strange sharps and
trebles, over glisten-
ing sand-bars and
little shining inlets,
and gleaming shal-
lows decked with curi-
ous things—come to
babble at last on the
stomach of the dead
chemist who was wait-
ing to be inquested
through having rashly
taken some of his own
medicine. It could be
heard in the darkness
as it clamored at the
door; there were six
inches of it—then a
foot —then a moment
later there was a yard
of it, and more still coming. Next the door
burst in with a horrid rending sound —there
was a strange gleaming upon the waste of the
great wild waves —the doorway was full of
water and frogs and mud and broken barrels
—the corpses started to float and cavort
round the room, and knock their heads
against the wall and bump up against each
other —the policeman in charge fled with a
long-drawn wail —there was slush everywhere
murky gloom—consternation —hallucina-
tion —general riot and destruction —and the
scene closed. The printer will please set
this item up tenderly. [25/7/’9l.]
Australia has lost one of its best-adver-
tised and most remarkable medical men,
Mr. J. G. Beaney, M.L.C., who died at Mel-
bourne last week, leaving what is under-
stood to be a substantial fortune to be dis-
tributed in English and Australian chari-
ties. He had, so far as is known, no near
relatives. He was a man of good medical
instincts, but it was his un-
bounded push which gave him
the enormous success that he
undeniably attained as a
money-making doctor. _ He
began as a chemist’s assistant
in Brighton (England), and
(though by that time legally
qualified) followed the same
calling when he first arrived
in Victoria; lie wound up his
active medical career as the
doctor wl(.o made more money
than any other in Australia
barring one —the Napoleoiiic-
looking and brilliant operating
surgeon J. N. Fitzgerald.
Beaney was a showy man,
essentially vulgar—or, let us
say, Oriental —in his tastes^ —
a man of champagne, dia-
monds and ruby-velvet dress-
ing-gowns. If a book appear-
ed under his name, yon might
bet your life that someone
else had written it. He
boasted that he had, 100
times without a failure, per-
formed the master-operation
for hernia, which, if correct,
entitled him to a big reputa-
tion as a clever and lucky
surgeon. But he too often
acted as if lie were following
a trade instead of a profes-
sion. If he performed a lith-
otomy operation, the ghastly
results were put in the public
window of a bookseller’s, and
labelled “Extracted by Dr.
Beaney.” A gigantic calculus,
one of the biggest known,
taken from the body of one
Robert Berth at Melbourne
Hospital, was thus displayed,
duly ticketed in the Beaney
interest, and it was in refer-
ence to this that what was
practically a charge of man-
slaughter came to be formu-
lated against the man of fizz
and glitter, whose enemies
alleged that, instead of crush-
ing the stone —which lie
might, they urged, have done
after making the incision—he,
in his anxiety to secure a
prize advertising specimen,
deliberately hauled out the big pebble
with the forceps, hopelessly tearing the
surgical wound. At the inquest, Beaney s
end of the log was brilliantly upheld by
Purves, whose most masterly legal, effort
was favorably compared with Aspinall’s able
defence of Beaney when the latter was tried
for attempting abortion on a St. Ivuda bar-
maid years previously. On both occasions
Beaney was acquitted. [ll/7/ 91.]
Janet Achurch was to have played at
Wagga the other evening. As there were
three feet of water in the pit of the Odd-
fellows’ Hall, and as several families were
roosting in the circle, she didn t. LU/ •/ d-i.j
The big Melbourne drapery business of
Buckley and Nunn has been sold t°a syndi-
cate for £350,000, lock and barrel. _ Whereby
hangs a tale. Fov more than thirty yeais
Buckley managed the show in Melbourne,
whilst Nunn bought for the'firni in London
They never met. Once when Buckley had
booked his passage “home,” and was on the
point of starting, lie suddenly unpacked his
trunks and stopped where he was, to the
great grief of his employees, who loved him
dearly and thought a nice sea voyage would
be good for everybody s health. Finally,
Nunn astounded the rag trade by turning
un in Melbourne a few months ago. Having
wept on the bosom of his long-lost partner
and taken a look around him, the mystenous
Nunn returned home, his death being
announced by cable very shortly afterwards.
As a matter of fact, Nunn drowned himselt
in the river Avon, a stream otherwise famous
for a certain immortal “Swan.” Then there
was no Nunn at all. and the old business
passed into new hands last week. Sic fran-
sit gloria nunndie —no, mundi. Llo/ </ yj -J
Dibbs has 14 daughters. Parkes, in pro-
nosing woman suffrage, is deliberately play-
ing into his hands. [ll/7/’Ol.]
Editor Bulletin, —As the widow of
Marcus Clarke, a brother-journalist of yours
and an old Bulletin contributor I seek
your co-operation in letting the public know
the facts in regard to the several dramatic
versions of my late husband s novel. Ills
Natural Life,” now being played through-
out Australasia. Although I hold, in con*
junction with Messrs. R. Bentley and Sons,
publishers, London, a legal right in the
novel in question, and, therefore, in any
dramatised version of it, as recently settled
in England, I reap no benefits from the stage
productions given of it, except in one soli-
tary instance, namely, from Mr. Alfred Dam-
pier. And it is in justice to his honorable
action in the matter, and in defence of my
rights that I am sending this statement
abroad. I may add that I would take steps
to prohibit the appearance of the many
A BRIGHT PROSPECT.
SWAGGIE : “Say, boss, any chance ’bout ’ere for a job?
BUSHWHACKER: “Naw, nothing ’ere, friend, but if you
tramp to Melbounrae, sell out your swag and
get a decent tog-out, I think you might ’ave a
chance for a job on the next Speight versus
Syme libel case as juryman—two quid a day.
They tell me that’s the best game nowadays.’
[Frank P. Mahony —3/3/’94.]
unauthorised and illegal versions being
played here and there, but am advised that
the companies producing them are so
ephemeral, financially speaking, that it would
only mean waste of money. Therefore, 1
now make this appeal to you to help me by
publishing the facts. —Yours. Marian
Clarke. Melbourne, July 4, 1891.
Sydney pawnshop windows are full of
second-hand teeth —some from the dead, no
doubt, others from the living. In the latter
case hope must be far from the breast when
people conclude that, as they have nothing
for the teeth to do, they may as well pawn
them and take td drink. But who buys
them? Like the opera-glasses, violins, re-
volvers and concertinas always on view in
pawnshops, they seem to be put there for
ornament, as no one ever seems to want any.
It is said they are worked up by dentists
into new sets. If so, it must be consoling to
the millionaire who has a false set to reflect,
when he is getting in his fine work on turkey
and truffles, that the very same grinders he
is using on such dainties once watered at
the smell of a hot saveloy, or gnawed a
chop-bone at “the eight o’clock rush. And
how the lover must enjoy a kiss from the
lips of his Potts Point darling whose new
set may have been bathed in the gin and
cloves loved by their former owner—the pride
of the Chow’s harem; or they may he the
same ivories that have been alternately
lipped and bashed by the “bloke” when she
wouldn’t give him up all of her sinful earn-
ings. They are, indeed, false teeth. 11/1/ 98.1
DRY.
Unnecessarily Envious Dead-beat After
CORONER'S INQUEST: “They say he died
drunk. Just his bloomin' luck, Spose
I shall die as sober as a donkey.
[ G. R. Ashton— 5/12/’91.]
THE SPLITTER’S SONG.
The long day’s nearly over, and the cool,
calm night’s at hand,
It’s time for givin’ over work, I know;
Peace is creepin’ down the valley, silence
settles on the land,
The shadows they are length’nin’ down
below.
Far away the sun is shinin’ on the eastern
headland still, . ,
On rugged rocks and sheets of glittenn
foam;
Here the wekas ’gin to answer one another
from the hill,
And the wood-splitters are making tracks
for home.
For day is done, and night’s begun,
And dreamless sleep’s a-comin’!
As the last man stumbles whar’wards the
moreporks harshly hoot, /
And sleepy molds rustle in the bush;
From the tangled mass of lawyer and
supple-jack and tute,
He hears below the creek’s half-muffled
rush ;
Now stars begin to twinkle in the clear sky
one by one;
All’s silent save for bleat of mother-sheep
And cry of young lambs answerin’ —witu
settin’ of the sun
The valley seems to sink in quiet sleep.
And day is done, and night’s begun,
And dreamless sleep’s a-comin’!
There streams a flood of firelight from the
open whare doors ;
The cook’s had supper ready long ago.
Fling the logs upon the hearth till the
wooden chimney roars—
Black pine, egai-sticks, and matipo!
Supper over, smoke begins ; then a yarn, a
song maybe, .
The splitter tumbles early into bunk
Up before the break of day, little time for
dreams has he ; .
Soon in deepest depths of slumber he is
sunk. . .
For day is done, and night s begun,
And dreamless sleep’s a-comin’!
O my brothers, O my sisters, by the bitter
bond of graft,
By sweat of brow, by salt of scalding
Who seem doomed to travel forward while
the lucky journey aft—
To toil and moil and struggle all the
years;
Quiet night comes down at length on the
longest working-day, .
And sweet and deep is sleep when grind
is past; ,
There’s a rest at least before us, and the
landlord asks no pay
For the bed that welcomes weary bones
at last!
-When day is done, and night’s begun,
There’s dreamless sleep a-comin’!
[27/11/’97.]
DORA WILCOX.
THE LATEST HAT.
She’d a fair young face and an eye serene.
And about her crown, like a halo brignt,
With much dainty lace and a touch of green,
And its fleecy feathers so neat and clean,
Spread a hat of straw, quite the sweetest
seen
In the stalls that night.
’Twas a fairy thing, and it lightly lay _
Like a buoyant moth on her golden hair,
But the men behind, in their mannish way.
Were concerned far more with the foolish
play— , . ..
It obscured the stage and m anger they
’Gan to sweat and swear.
But a holy peace on the forehead sat
Of the lady fair —a serene delight—
When the tumult spread, and with queries
They endeavored to shame her. She knew
then that ' .
Every woman had worshipped her daiimg
hat . ,
In the stalls that night.
[l6/10/’97.]
SILAS SNELL.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The Indian in Africa
"W.R.8.” (Natal) : The dissection of the
South African census figures for 1931 is
now well advanced, and it is ascertained
that in this State alone there are 270,000
Indians. The beginnings were very small.
In the early fifties of last century, in order
to provide coolie labor for the canefields, the
founders of the sugar industry in this coun-
try obtained permission to bring in a few
Indians under a five-year indenture; at the
end of the five-year period they were all to
be repatriated. The majority of the men
were accompanied by their wives; and they
appear to have been an industrious and well-
behaved community. The five years ended,
the planters put it that sugar-growing was
obviously a colored-labor industry, because
cane did not grow in England or France or
even Iceland, and that it was far better to
have the colored labor they knew than the
colored labor they did not know. So the
indentured labor and its wife and their
children were allowed to remain.
The laborers were, of course, earning more
money than they had ever dreamed of get-
ting at home; so they were soon followed
by Parsee and Mohammedan traders. More
than half of the trading licenses in the
State are to-day held by these people; and
of the chief seaport and business centre of
Durban a large section is wholly Oriental.
They have after the manner of their kind
prospered enormously, and in some suburbs
a very large part of the residences rented
by Europeans are owned by them. The
effect of this quick acquisition of wealth,
and the knowledge that Europeans are their
tenants and their debtors, is very evident
and very irksome. Even 20 years ago the’
Indians in South Africa were still at least
respectful to the white and often cringing.
To-day they are for the most part either
cheeky or arrogant. Nor does this apply
only to the trader. There are Indians doing
coolie work who are as truculent as any.
They have wliat are called agents-general,
who are their ardent and in some cases elo-
quent advocates; these agents have obtained
colleges and schools, with bursaries and
scholarships. Indeed, there is hardly a
claim made on behalf of the Indian which
has not been granted, save only electoral
rights; and already they point to tbeir edu-
cational equipment and ask on what ground
full citizenship can be denied. And the
press for the most part .seems disposed to
agree with their claim.
Meantime the “peaceful penetration” of
the country is pushed on. Fully two-thirds
of the motor transport in Natal is in the
hands of Indians. They form combinations
for their own advancement and the freezing-
out of white competition: it is a rare thing
for a white trader, no matter how long-
established in a country town, to keep his
doors open in the face of this massed attack.
The Indian was, as we have seen, confined
at one time to Natal; but you will find him
now in the Transvaal, Cape Colony and
Rhodesia. _ The only city of these States in
which he is not tolerated is Johannesburg,
perhaps because of its large Jewish popu-
lation. In the Orange Free State Indian
immigration was. prohibited ; but about 150
bad been domiciled there previous to the
Act of Union and were permitted to remain.
The census shows that already in these few
brief years the number has grown to 600.
With nearly all Indian women it is a case
of “one in the basket and one on the back.”
In East Africa there is less coolie labor
than in, say, Natal, but a very large part
AND ONE FOR HER NOB.
"I suppose she gets her looks from her mother.”
“Yes, and doesn’t have to go to her dressing-table for them either.”
of the commerce of the country is in the
hands of Mohammedan traders ; Indians also
largely man the railways. Here. too. an-
other curious development is taking place:
the Mohammedans are steadily converting
the natives to the faith of the Prophet.
So this is South Africa: on the one hand,
an overwhelming black population, ever in-
creasing in numbers, ever gaining in con-
fidence, and falling steadily under the influ-
ence of an Oriental people, whose Moham-
medan trouble-makers are as active and per-
nicious as any in the world; on the other, a
sparse white population divided by race and
growing less and less disposed to regard
themselves as bedded in the soil of the
country.
“Korfee” : The trammels of correct spell-
ing were ignored in other days. In one
of Horace Walpole’s letters he tells of
three great ladies of his day, whom he
names, playing the old game “I love my love
with a letter.” Quoth the first, “I love my
love with a N because he is a Night.” The
second weighed in with “I love my love with
a G because he is a Gusticc.” The third:
“I love my love with a F because he is a
Fississliun.”
* * * *
After comparing results of Australian-
made and foreign wireless equipment. Burns
Philps decided to give an Australian co.
(Amalgamated Wireless) the job of supply-
ing their new ship, the Malaita, with the
necessary gear. It has been shipped to the
Clyde, where the vessel is being built.
* * * ' *
“Wircmu”: The South Island Maoris had
a sketchy tradition concerning the occupa-
tion of their territory by the Moriori. They
reckoned their predecessors were the descen-
dants of the people who were blown
to M.L. in the three canoes
somewhere about a.d. 1000, and
who are reputed to have occu-
pied the fluid for about 300
years previous to the arrival of
the Maori immigrants under
Toi. Toi, it is recorded, made
his first landfall at the Chat-
ham Islands, where he found no
people. From North Island
Maori sources Elsdon Best
ascertained that the Morioris
were remembered to have been
tall and thin, with distended
nostrils and very dark com-
plexion. They were such
thieves (the story runs) that
the Maoris had to exterminate
them. This wasn’t difficult, as
the Morioris were a very un-
warlike people. They settled
their own quarrels by fighting
with sticks, the duel ending
with the first (low of blood.
Before resorting to blows, there
was always a “battle of the
tongues.” But they had mar-
tial traditions, and cherished
ancient weapons—stone clubs
and axes and wooden spears.
The Maoris routed them like a flock of
sheep. It is still related with gusto
how one of the old Ngatiawa chiefs had a
pre-emptive right over the infants and
younger children, sorting them out like fm
lambs and seeing that their mothers kept
them well nourished and in good condition
to provide soft eating for his toothless old
gums.
'l* -I-
Maoriland has formed a co. to make green
native-flax fibre into artificial silk and trans-
parent wrapping-paper. The works will be
at Mercer, on the Waikato, the centre of
a vast flax-growing area ; here the crop will
be converted to the cellulose pulp from
which the silk and paper will be manufactured.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : • “Oxmead" (B. 3/p/’33) finds
Austen Chamberlain a “very shadowy figure
in my memory” at school. Yet at Trinity,
Cambridge, Chamberlain was from the very
start accepted as a born leader of men, the
future hope of the advanced Liberals—this
bit of the forecast, of course, went, astray.
In those years Gladstone was having hard
work trying to make Joseph Chamberlain fit
into a team with moderates like Hartington ;
but in 18SG J.C. split with his leader over
the Irish question, and took his young sons
with him into a Liberal Unionist camp,
which gradually became Imperialist and Con-
servative. However, that doesn’t matter;
the point is that Austen was a certainty
for fame from the age of 19.
“Impair” : One drawback to Monte Carlo,
as far as many of its habitues are con-
cerned, is that to play trente ct quarante or
even roulette in its simplest manifestations
some exercise of the thinking machinery is
necessary. A new game known as Monte
Carlo hazard, lias removed much of the
handicap. It is played with three dice in-
' stead of the twin “tats” of the original
hazard, the caster “setting” the bank. The
latter pays up to ISO to 1, as against o 5 to
1 at the other games, if the player calls
any number between one and six thrown
with the three dice. Other odds arc from
30 to 1 evens, to varying quotes against
the throwing of triples or aggregates nomin-
ated. The new game has taken the place
by storm, and the old tables are experienc-
ing an - unprecedented frost.
“One Spade”: It has been generally
accepted that bridge first spread to Western
Europe from Russia, and those who have
been exposed to modern “contract” are only
IT DOESN’T.
MA ( interrupting Pa): “But. why is it, dear, that in these fishing stories the fish that
gets away is always such a monster?"
THEIR SON: “The thing is, Ma, it doesn’t get a weigh.”
too ready to ascribe to the game a Bolshevik
origin. A symposium in the London “Daily
Telegraph” has produced an authority who
says he discovered it in Constantinople,
where it was known as “britch,” in 1879.
He was told that it had been devised ten
years before by four card addicts, and
that later the rules' were codified by the
Gercle d’Orient, the swankiest club in the
Turkish capital of those days. It drifted to
Cairo and thence reached Britain through
the medium of British army officers.
=i: * t- $
“Differential”: What seems to be a long
overdue device for motor-cars is being mar-
keted in Britain. This guards against lack
of concentration by drivers overcome with
drowsiness after long spells at the wheel, a
happening responsible for many accidents.
It is on the same principle as the “dead
man’s hand” fitting in the control-cab of
electric trains. When a driver feels it may
be needed he switches on the power working
it, and with one hand keeps the button of
the device depressed. Release of pressure
brings a buzzer into operation, throws out
the clutch and applies the brakes.
* * * *
“C Sharp Minor” : Any fool can write a
waltz ; any composer who has learned the
elements of harmony can write a better one.
A really good one comes out of the blue
only, three or four times in a century, and
it almost always flies, like a bird to its nest,
to a bandmaster, a person
not of much esteem in the
palace of music but very
often the fellow who knows
his way about the place
best, from drawing-room to
scullery. To the writing of
waltzes, as of. books, there
is no end, but the chaps
who developed the simple
exercise into a fine art
were the elder Strauss
(“Waltzes from Vienna’’
wasn’t devised by musi-
cians who respected the
facts about the evolution
of their art) and Emil
Waldteufel, both band-
masters —the one German
and the other French. The
Frenchman was the finer
craftsman and the better-
inspired musician of the
two. Labitsky. Launer, the two younger
Strausses, Gung’l. Lumbye (long dead and
forgotten), Czibulka and Siefert all did not-
able work in the same field —and every one
of them was a bandmaster. Franz Leliar and
Oscar Straus, who have supplied the world
with its best waltzes since Waldteufel’s, got,
if not their first, their best musical experi-
ence in bands. Chopin wrote waltzes and
so did Tschaikowsky. but they haven’t been
very popular in the ballroom. Freddie and
Peter weren’t bandmasters.
Two homing-pigeons are on the wing for
Sydney. One of them is Grace Watson, who
lias been linked up with everything from the
Victoria League to helping out-of-work
women; the other Mrs. Spring, who has been
in London for the last 11 years. A Sydney
Arts and Crafts woman (she took a re-
fresher in study in France), with a nook in
Sloane-street, she had a big jump-off in
the Thames village at a huge exhibition of
crafts. Queen Mary in her tireless search
for women’s work took a fancy to some of
Mrs. Spring’s stuff, and bought a parasol-
handle or two with Australian birds, leaves
ay.d blossoms as decoration.
* * * *
“Thonnanby”: British bookmakers are
following the unsuccessful tactics of their
Australian brethren and attempting to down
the tote, which has proved highly popular
since it was started three years ago on
British courses. A syndicate with a fund
of a million has been formed to outbid the
machine, the last report of the Betting Con-
trol Board having shown that tote prices
are 50 per cent, better than those of the
Ring. For some time past individual book-
makers have been flooding the totes with
“blower” money at the last moment to re-
duce dividends. The new organised move
will work on group telephone calls from the
racecourse which give the odds just before
the races. The members of the combine will
then rush money on to the machine, thus
dropping the dividends to amounts below the
bagmen’s prices. It is expected that the
resources of the combine will enable con-
sistent “bearing” of the tote odds long
enough to put the public off machine-betting.
“Ex-Englishman”: The edible frog (B.
5/4/’33) V He is quite all right. Taken on
a visit to Prance as a boy, I made the best
of my limited opportunities, but never found
the dish. (Thought I had, once; but it was
my first oyster patty.) Years later, in the
U.S.A., it was a matter of course. The legs,
fried in batter, taste like a fragment of
chicken.
“Hoylake”: Drastic revision of scratch
scores by the English Golf Union has caused
considerable heartburning in some quarters.
The mug with the long handicap will not
weep, but the scratch player, who will now
have to figure among the handieaps, will cer-
tainly suffer from lacerated feelings. Some
of the cuts have been heavy, Northwick Park
Club at Harrow, one of the most popular in
the vicinity of London, having been docked
from a 78-stroke scratch to 72. Only one
or two clubs have had theirs raised, one
being Hendon, another London district club,
Which has had its Bogey lifted from 74 to 75.
❖ * * #
“Trajectory”: During the visit to Aus-
tralia of the English cricketers and the
American tennis-players, Larwood is said to
have expressed the opinion that Vines’s ser-
vice was faster than his special express de-
liveries. Last year a timing device whs
used in the Davis Cup match between
Britain and Germany which showed that
during volleying the ball was travelling at
93 m.p.h., while the fastest service recorded
was 68 m.p.h. Neither Austin nor Prenn,
who supplied the tests, is noted for great
speeds, so it is probable that Vines’s tre-
mendous service tops the 100-mile mark.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Billie Burke, widow of
Florenz Ziegfeld, is fighting to retain from
the creditors a few hundred dollars —all that
will be left out of the estate of a man who
lived like a millionaire. Ziegfeld never
thought of writing a letter when he could
send a cablegram; never thought he had
dined unless he paid for dinner for twenty
people, and was lavish in his productions
even when productions ceased to pay. The
habit of dying poor is strong in show-
business millionaires, especially American
ones. Erl anger left only £25: Charles FrolV-
man merely £4OOO. On the other hand,
Barnum died a pound-millionaire.
“Loud”: It is a safe bet that Australia
will never see “The Green Bay Tree,” now'
doing well at the St. Martin’s. The kind
of play the Sunday societies used to
wallow in is now for the first time seen ill
the open. A kind gentleman has adopted a
choirboy, and now, ten years later, fights
to prevent his marrying—and so on. London
laps it all up; and Frank Vosper’s acting as
the sybarite—taken with his former success
as Henry VIII. —puts him right in the front
ranks of the profession.


Tally!
BY NOEL RAYMOND.
OLD George leant against a post and
counted the sheep surging through the
gate. His battered hat with its nar-
row leather band threaded through slits in
the felt was tilted over one eye. His jaws
worked rhythmically as he chewed on a long
stem of grass.
At frequent intervals he grunted. To the
layman his snort might have been meaning-
less. But at each grunt young Albert,
perched on the top rail of a near-by fence,
knifed another neat notch from the peeled
stick in his hand to mark a further hundred.
“Tally!”
The last few sheep bucked over imaginary
logs as they skipped after the mob. George
groped mechanically i-ound his belt for his
pipe as his unimpeded eye noted that one
of the retreating wethers needed the knife
on its off hind foot. He called Darky’s atten-
tion to it and the man whistled George’s
dog.
“Use your own dog,” said George. “The
old bitch is coming with me.”
Darky grinned, and winked at Albert, but
he knew better than to venture further com-
ment. The old chap had been known to
tight a man three stone heavier and half'
his age for a too-familiar use of his dog.
George tamped his pipe down with the
smooth end of a tin match-box and glanced
at Albert through a haze of smoke. The
wrinkles round his nose accentuated the gleam
of amusement in his steady, brown-framed,
grey eyes.
“Well?” he inquired.
“Eight hundred ’n’ fifteen, be me,” replied
Albert.
“Nine hundred and fifteen.”
“Aw, yairs. Nine. Dunno how you never
make a mistake.”
“Count their legs, and divide by four,”
chuckled old George. He flicked the spent
match toward his dog, who caught it smartly
and danced her appreciation of the joke.
“Aw!” deprecated Albert. The old cove
was a bit of a nark when he started pulling
your leg. But Albert really did not mind.
George was privileged by virtue of his ex-
perience and knowledge of station lore.
For example, there was no getting away
from the fact that George was a sheep-count-
ing phenomenon. Men had long given up
arguing with’ him. Only once had he ever
been at a loss for the correct total. That
had been when a strange drover’s dog had
fastened on to the old bitch’s paw in the
middle of a count. Luckily George’s dog-
mate had upended the aggressive lady and
taught her visiting manners in a matter of
moments. Otherwise George might liave
sadly lost tally in the possible man-support-
ing-dog argument. As it was, he had apolo-
getically remarked that the count was either
“'fifty-nine or sixty.” Foolishly, a jackeroo
accompanying the drover had chuckled scorn-
fully, declaring that he was willing to lay
the odds the old cove wasn’t within ten of
it. Accepting the challenge at the instiga-
tion of his mates, George had let him off
with “an even new hat.” The recount was
keenly checked by all hands. A wiser jack-
eroo had proved a sport, and five years
afterward George’s thinning hairs were still
protected by the once-elegant headgear the
loser had provided.
Slipping the bridle off a yard-post and
over his arm, George now led his horse
toward the homestead. The old bitch trotted
at the side.
Albert hopped off the fence and strode
after him, unconsciously copying the man’s
* easy, confident,, slouching gait.
“Ivin I come,” he pleaded, “if you’re goin’
to give th’ ol’ bitch a run, George? D’yer
think she’ll win all right at th’ trials? Will
there be more people there than there is
sheep here, George?”
“We’ll see, old chap,” came the old man’s
quiet reply, made in an accent which toned
oddly with his surroundings. “You may go-
and put up the hurdles if you like. Here,'
girl”....
The town of Dibbity claimed the distinc-
tion of holding the only show in the district
which incorporated sheep-dog trials with its
agricultural, horticultural and industrial
activities. George and Albert went together
to it. The youngster was thrilled to the
soles of his shining new shoes. His im-
pulsive excitement at finding himself actually
on the showground evoked from the man a
responsive beam of sympathetic understand-
ing which even his dense covering of whis-
kers could not altogether conceal.
It was Albert’s first show. His father,
the station blacksmith, had emphatically re-
fused ever to take him. Albert, senior, had
Religion. To him concourses where men
applauded racing, and drank, and visited side-
shows extolling the beauties of the Female
Form Divine were garishly shining plague
spots casting frightful beams across the
narrow way lit by the dim light of Right-
eousness. On this occasion it had taken
young Albert days of earnest pleading to
gain parental consent to his going. Arguing
that he must see “th’ oh bitch” do her trials,
he had managed the miracle in the end.
Dibbity show was a wonderland to Albert.
When the boss’s horse ran second in the
final of the Local Trot, he could have wept
with excitement and disappointment. When
“th’ ol’ bitch” liad trouble with a mule-
headed sheep that dug in its toes during the
trials and appeared likely to remain rooted
to the spot, he fell into such a frenzy of
apprehension that the trackside seat shivered
and his neighbors expostulated.
After that, Albert remained outwardly
calm; but he followed every movement of
George, the dog and the sheep with eyes
which fairly blazed his excitement. Joyfully
he noted the smooth way the dog slid over
the ground, alternately nursing and firmly
driving the small group of bewildered sheep.
Her sagacious appreciation of the hours of
training with George was standing her in
good stead. She moved confidently and un-
erringly, a tireless atom of electric energy,
almost unconsciously responding to the
directing impulses from the control station
which was her master.
When she was awarded the prize, only
the terror of making a howling exhibition
of himself prevented Albert from rushing
into the ring and carrying her off the ground.
Secure from vulgar gaze behind the cattle
stalls, he took the old bitch to his excited
bosom and hugged her delightedly.
George was pleased, too. The fact showed
in the sweep of his elated whiskers as he
squatted on his heels and went over the finer
points of the campaign for Albert’s benefit.
Ordinarily the only discussion he would have
■permitted himself would have consisted in
a few’ quiet words of praise addressed to
the appreciative dog herself, but Albert’s
obviously heartfelt enthusiasm merited and
received an unstudied tribute from the old
man. “Gome on. Albert,” he suggested. “You
and I shall celebrate.”
Albert voted for the boxing booth, where
he spent twenty minutes packed with thrills,
W'atching the local lads pitting their opti-
mistic fury against the bored skill of the
troupe regulars. George thoroughly enjoyed
himself watching Albert’s delight. They
went from sideshow to sideshow 7 , dismissing
fi'om their minds the thought of a possible
future explanation to Albert, senior. George
reckoned it worth the risk. Albert himself
was past caring.
They came at length to the tent of the
Roaring Riders. Here twin daredevils on
motor-cycles with open exhausts spun round
the walls of a wooden cylinder, defying
gravity and death, and trusting to the laws
of centripetal force to keep their horizon-
tally-speeding machines pressed to the vertical
track, l’ound with an ominous bulge
travelled abreast of the performers.
Realising with a rare gift of youthful in-
tuition that by this time George must be run-
ning low in funds, Albert suggested shouting
the old man a ticket with the remnants of
his own pocket-money. George tactfully
pleaded a headache and .watched Albert
drinking in the propaganda bellowed from
the platform at the door by a stout- gentle-;
man with a megaphone. Inevitably falling
to the lure, Albert followed the man with
the pink-ribboned straw -Hat in to the Arena
of Death. George leant against a near-by
hoop-la stall, and his eyes showed a friendly
amusement as. they followed Albert’s eager
figure.
The next session began. Mounting their
wheeled dragons, the riders roared again on
their flying way. George listened idly to the
staccato riot, plucked a grass-stem and
chewed steadily on it. Several passers-by,
imbued with ‘. that , peculiar, impertinent
curiosity which shows'and similar gatherings
appear inevitably to • engender, cast inquisi-
tive glances at his lounging figure. George
appeared unaware of their scrutiny; his keen
glance flicked from one to the other without
apparent interest—-but he could have written
down the color .of each curious eye that
stared at him.
A flashily dressed young “sport” nudged
the perfumed girl at his elbow.
“Get the hayseed, Annie. ‘Rus in urbs ’:
the country invades the town, eh?”
Annie giggled. George’s sharp ears over-
heard the remark, and a faint smile puckered
his eyes. The young man would have been
surprised and annoyed had he known that
the “hayseed” mentally corrected the Latin
tag for him. George’s keen eyes had once
shone hopefully from under a mortar-board —
but that was far back. A change in fortune
had long since presented the manager of a
sheep station with a drover destined to be-
come an overseer, with the quick, clear
reasoning brain of the born mathematician.
Gradually the mechanical pandemonium
died. George noted Albert’s reluctant exit.
As the youngster passed the ticket-box a
sharp report sounded within the tent. Hope-
ful of further thrills for his money, Albert
half twisted, but was frozen in mid-turn by
a woman’s hysterical scream. A babel of
voices swelled from the tent. The panicky
audience stampeded and clattered down the
exit steps. Rapidly a fresh crowd collected,
thirsting for entrance and displaying as much
eagerness as did the audience in departing.
Albert was jolted into the forefront of the
curious throng by the stout gentleman, who
now brandished his megaphone as a weapon
and ordered the “gents.” to “kindly disperse
and get along. One of the bikes backfired
and scared the boss’s wife. Now, please,
gents All right. Get this ! Get ter
hell, or I’ll dong yer with this! Understand
that?” Awed slightly by his vehemence, the
crowd reluctantly retreated.
An agitated figure, clad only in singlet and
trousers, trotted from the tent and hastened
toward the secretary’s office. A trail of
bulging-eyed humanity surged in his wake.
This was something like a turn!
The messenger padded back to the tent
of the Roaring Riders and disappeared, after
a hurried colloquy with the stout gentleman,
whose worried expression contrasted oddly
with the gay abandon of his pink-trimmed
headgear.
“Reckons a bloke’s shot in there,” exulted
a dapper little man in a bowler hat. “Feller
got away in th’ crowd. I c’n guess the
strength of it. I know th’ mob. There was
a brawl there this mornin’.”
The crowd gathered round this gift from
Heaven: One Who Knew More Than They.
“Mind, I ain’t sayin’ it’s a fact,” cautioned
the pleased holder of attention. “Billy Pat-
ser, what drives th’ lorry fer ’em, he gets
ther sack this mornin’. Before he went he
give th’ boss a punch on ther nose. An’
Teddy—that’s one uv ther bike-riders —lie
cracks Billy a beaut. Billy off; an’ he’s bin
on ther pot all day, an’ ther last time I seen
’im he was well shot, an’ goin’ off about what
he was goin’ ter do to Teddy. Well, I reckon
’e’s done it. But, mind yer, that’s only
my”
The crowd left him and seethed toward
tin; tent once more. The arrival of the police
relieved the stout gentleman of his responsi-
bility. A burly constable herded the crowd
back to a respectable distance. A couple
of “d.’s” vanished into the tent and remained
there for some minutes. An ambulance
arrived and a figure covered by a blan-
ket was carried out and rushed off to the
nearest hospital.
Satisfied that they could not gain entrance
to the chamber of horrors, the crowd slowly
dispersed, happy in the knowledge that they
had some, news to spring on the folks at
home before they saw it in the next morn-
ing’s paper.
The plainclothes men came out of the tent
and began talking to the constable in low
tones.
“Excuse me.”
“Yes? What do you want?” inquired the
burlier of the two plainclothes men.
“Found your man?”
“What’s that to you, Dad? Run along
now; we’re busy.”
George tilted his hat over an eye with one
hand and groped for his pipe with the other.
“As you please,” he remarked, rather
stiffly. “One imagines you know best how
to conduct your own case.”
Slightly astonished at the incongruous
speech, the plainclothes officer became
momentarily curious.
“Don’t happen to know anything about
this business, do you? See a chap dressed
in a grey suit, black shoes, no hat, fair
hair ?” .
“No,” replied George. “No, I didn t see
him.”
“Well? *Have you anything to tell
us? Connected with the troupe at all?”
“Oh, no. But if I were you,” said George,
stroking the beard at the corner of his mouth
with slow-moving pipe-stem, “I’d have
another look round inside. Heard you say
everyone was out of the tent.”
“What’re you driving at? Know him by
sight? Did you notice he didn’t come out.
“Wouldn’t know him from twenty others
around us,” answered the old man. Blit l
have an idea he might still be inside—-and he
might sneak off if you don’t soon grab him.
The burly man stared hard at George tor
a second; then, “Keep this cove .here a
minute,” he directed the constable.
The two plainclothes men entered the tent
again. „ .
They found their man. He was at tne
bottom of a property trunk, hidden under a
jumble of old uniforms and miscellaneous
Cl °“Good job we didn’t take these chaps’
assurance that he must have slipped nnf with
the crowd,” commented the detective. Ao\\,
Dad, let’s hear what you know about this.
“Can’t help you at all,” replied George.
“But how in” . .
“Just a habit of mine I was unconsciously
practising,” explained George. ‘ I was watch-
ing the youngster going in, and keeping an
eye open for him coming out, and I. hap
pcned to count seventy-five people passing m
and only seventy-four leaving the show, _so
I thought it might be worth while making
sure the chap had really made an escape.
That’s all I”-..- T
“Well, strike me, ain’t that jest what 1
says might’ve ’appened,” broke in the man in
the bowler, returning like a bee to the new
found centre of sweet attraction. Wasn t
that jest what I told yers a coupla minutes
suddenly realised that the crowd
was again rapidly collecting in a ring of
which he was the magnetic centre.
Hastily scooping up the hand of a Bo,,gle-
eyed Albert, he led him firmly away to collect
“tli’ ol’ bitch” as a preliminary to the home-
ward trip.
The Magic Ring
A man who saw Dante in Melbourne had
an extraordinary experience. Coming out
of the theatre he bought a diamond ring
for five shillings from a seedy person
who accosted him in Bourke-street. The
seller told him that if he wore the diamond
the right way round nothing would happen,
but if he turned it inwards he would be-
come invisible. He tried the virtue of the
ring and then walked into the nearest bar,
where he drew himself two pots of beer
He was drawing a third when the barmaid
saw the vessel sailing through the air by its
own volition and fainted. He escaped in
the resulting confusion, jumped on to a
passing tram and took a vacant seat. At
the next stop a fat woman got in and sat
on him. He leapt off the tram in the ex-
citement and decided to go to some secluded
spot like the Fittfroy Gardens and restore
himself to visibility. It was then that he
discovered that the ring had fallen off his
finger in the scramble. He decided to go
to Russcll-street to report the loss, but
when a policeman tried to walk through him
he thought better of it and went home. But
his attempt to explain matters to his wife
only produced a fit of hysterics.
It then occurred to him that there were
many advantages in invisibility. He went back
to the city, thinking how he could wipe off a
few old scores, secure a fortune for himself,
and afterwards, having nobody to bother
about, could give himself up to purely intel-
lectual pursuits. He dined off fruit hawkers’
stalls and slept in a vacant bedroom at Men-
zies. Next morning he helped himself to a
cigar at the inquiry office, and walked out
of the hotel. When he got into Collins-
street he saw a man who had bilked him in
a business deal, and he went up and punched
the man in the nose. His enemy’s look of
pained amazement gave him no satisfaction,
and leaving tire enemy hotly accusing a per-
fect stranger of the outrage, lie went .into
the National Bank, where he abstracted
£lOO in notes from the counter. Some
small boys saw the notes going down the
street and went in pursuit, so he had to
drop them.
The man with the ring got tired of dodging
pedestrians who collided with him, and motor-
cars which tried to go through him, and
sought refuge in the Alexandra Gardens. H'e
listened to the talk of two lovers, only to
find that it consisted of descriptions of the
plots of moving pictures. By the afternoon
he was feeling so lonely that he tried to
make the acquaintance of a terrier dog, only
to discover that it regarded his voice with
the same suspicion as human beings. He
abstracted a “Herald” from the hands of
a newsboy, bolted round a corner and just
had time to read the Lost and Found adver-
tisements, when the owner pounced on it.
Armed with the information he had gleaned
from the “Herald” he made his way with
difficulty to a house in Collingwood and
knocked at the door. A woman who was
young and pretty opened it, but slammed it
in liis face when she saw no one, so ho
knocked again. This time she rushed
past him into the street to catch the bell-
ringer. He slipped inside and ransacked
the house from top to bottom, but without
finding the ring, which the young woman
had advertised. After searching everywhere
lie went into the sitting-room, where he saw
the woman admiring the ring, which was
right way round on her finger. He tried
to retrieve the ring and in her astonishment
the woman allowed him to do it. ITe slipped
it on his finger and started to leave, but,
looking back, saw to his astonishment that
the room was empty. In liis agitation lie
attached no importance to this phenomenon
and got out of the house as quickly as pos-
sible. As he left a man, presumably the
woman’s husband, opened the gate and let
himself into the dwelling. He walked
quickly to the nearest point on the Yarrh,
and turned the diamond outwards. Satisfy-
ing himself by the astonished demeanor of
a fisherman on the opposite bank that he
was now once more visible he took the ring
off his finger and hurled it far into .the
river. He went home and explained to his
wife that he had lost his memory.
Ne_xt morning he opened Ins Age and read
to his horror that there were rumors of a
,fo “racc'of
fc S&lVt
who had gone to investigate the case had
burst from the house with their hair stand-
ing on end and their limbs shaking. lie came
to the conclusion that in the struggle for
possession of the ring the diamond had been
turned inwards, with the result that the
unhappy woman had become invisible and
would probably have to remain so for the
rest of her existence. This so preyed on his
mind that he told his wife the -whole story,
but she only said that if he didn’t take a
good holiday he would end in a lunatic
asylum. Fearing that he might really be
certified as insane if he talked too much
he decided to maintain silence, and spent
two days diving in the Yarra, but to no
purpose. His conscience so tormented him
that he could not sleep, and one night he
got up, went into the city, took a lift to
the top of the' Manchester Unity building,
offered up a prayer for his immortal soul and
threw himself over. He had almost reached
the ground when he woke up in a profuse
perspiration.
He has convinced himself it was all a
dream, but sometimes his confidence is
shaken, especially when he looks at his
finger, on which the mark of the ring is
still visible. On such occasions he re-
flects that possibly there is a woman, young
and good-looking, wandering in a spectral
condition around Melbourne, eating off the
fruit-barrows and sleeping in vacant hotel
bedrooms, and he is plunged into acute
depression. He then renews an oath he lias
made never again to go to shows of magic.
CINE MA.
The Joyous Lad.
There was a joyous lad #
Lipt a girl in the spring:
A merry time they had, . .
But he loved much better to sing, to sin» ;
He loved much better to sing.
And so, when summer came by,
And the sad girl sighed for a ring,
He cruelly let her sigh, . .
For ho loved much better to sing, to sing >
He loved much better to sing.
Till, on an autumn day,
He tuned the trembling string,
And cheerily he did play, . •
But he had no love to sing, to smg;
He had no love to sing.
So he went in the winter rain
His lost love home to bring;
But lie looked for his girl in vain,
And was left with his grief to smg, to
sing;
With only his grief to smg.
N.S.W.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
A Sugar-gum.
She shuns the laughing thro'ng of lofty blue-
gum trees; . '
With feet in cooling creek, taking her
Summer ease,
She stands apart, and, swaying in the breeze,
As slave in sealed seraglio, weaves white-
limbed ecstasies
Some swarthy lord to please.
What subtle essence slow encircling in those
cells
Breeds that distinction her leafy coronet
clear spells?
That slim upsoaring trunk a flawless iomi-
tain swells,
A jet, a spire of crystal from enchanted
dells
Of lands the poet tells.
Dryad in that taper trunk, sleek her silver
sides;
The intimate whiteness of her arms nor spot
nor blemish hides.
Serenely on her leaf-bound brows a cool
content abides
Though burning gully wind with baleful
breath derides.
Or ice-eyed Winter chides.
There broods o’er her a peace, the sense of
treaties made
With discontent; for ever green and un-
afraid,
She lifts her dew-freshed face, and, throned
in the glade,
Lays on the tired spirit keeping vigil in her
shade
A gentle accolade.
S.A.
C. H. STANDE.


A L O
from SYD
W;OM &W& JWSISf
NIY # AMERICA and ENGLAND
REY MARIPOJA
OR L D
MO
fS
m
is
feV
” "“" _ w .w«tr • tit.-.
rHis truly describes the trail of Matson-Oceanic ships linking
Australia with America—England-—and the rest of the “long
bright world!”
Swift, splendid ships, the “Mariposa” and “Monterey,” shorten the
‘ l° n g ’ a nd add lustre to the “bright” .. . place California but 18
days from Sydney ... set this trans-America route as the royal
highway to a royal holiday in America—and also the shortest to
England . . . and wed ultra-modern luxury to the primitive charm
of the South Sea kingdom.
New Zealand . . . Fiji . . . Samoa . . . Hawaii; the spans between
them smooth, sunny, and short (never more than 5 days) ; diver-
sions that range from outdoor swimming to night-club gaiety;
artistic public rooms that are forums of wit and conviviality;
staterooms of intriguing charm and matchless convenience; service
that thinks and acts in one motion!
FARES to LOS ANGELES, or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS, from £125/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £9l -
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
TO ENGLAND FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
C Single ) from £lOl ( Single ) from £77/9/-
( Return ) from £lB5/18/- ( Return ) from £l4l/6/-
FROM MELBOURNE:
First class ... ( Single ), from £lO2/13/-; Return, £lB9/2/-
Cabin Class .. ( Single ), from £79/2/-; Return, £144/12/-
FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
Choose for your next vacation spot, those glamorous South Sea
isles, sparkling with novelty, drenched in romance! Swift service
and moderate fares bring them within easy access.
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
First Class Single Return Cabin Class Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- 65/0/- 24/5/- 47/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 75/0/- .... 55/ 0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
First Class Single Return Cabin Class Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £4l/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £35/5/- 69/0/- 26/5/- 51/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 79/0/- .... 59/ 0/-
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EX C* HANG E
Next Sailing to America from Sydney S.S. Monterey - - MAY 31
Next Sailing to America from Melbourne S.S. Monterey - . MAY 27
May we send you free, descriptive literature?
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY - PHONE 87981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED sm- 2 a
341 Collins St. & 461 Bourlee St., Melbourne - Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
ill I lie World’s Spotlight International Exposition
Chicago, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933. America invites you to visit this World’s Fair.
Bottle-o and Lady.
BY ANGUS O’COHEN.
IN the spacious yard of the McShane Mer-
cantile Exchange the employees were
preparing to set forth into the highways
and byways of Sydney to garner the harvest
of the week-end in the habitations of the
unashamed, where the Monday-morning cry
of “Bottle-o!” urges the faithful of Bacchus
to cash in upon their infirmity, and to take
heart until pay-day comes round again.
While his men harnessed up, the directing
genius of the establishment, Mr. Michael
McShane, delivered his weekly efficiency
talk. His subject this morning was ‘‘Ser-
vice.”
“ ’Tis something more than the collection
of empty bottles you men are engaged upon,”
he declared. “ ’Tis a social service as essen-
tial to the good content of the community as
are water and gas, and it’s just as needful
in this business as in any other that we
should have regular, satisfied customers.
Now, when you’re having a pot of beer ■in
the course of the day, let it be something
more than a relaxation. Inquire diplomati-
cally of the publican who his best bottle-
customers are, that you may approach them
and make regular clients of them. And if
there’s any odd thing besides bottles they
wish to be rid of, take it off their hands,
whether it is worth anything or not. If it
isn’t you can dump it when you get clear
of the place.”
With a wave of his hand Mr. McShane
started his welfare workers on their errands
of mercy, and proceeded to clean the effi-
ciency chart outside his office. Upon this
was entered daily the total of each man, and
on the best weekly tally a bonus was paid.
In the yard there now remained, besides
the proprietor himself, only Sammy, the
youthful acolyte whose duty it was to
cleanse the rescued bottles of all worldly
and unworthy contaminations, and to
arrange them in strict order of social pre-
cedence : the solid bourgeoisie of beer here,
the lower orders of pinkie there, with special
corners for the supercilious aristocrats of
the wine trade and those casteless unfortu-
nates which are compelled to perform the
menial tasks of the pickles industry.
“When you’re classifying this morning,
Sammy, keep a sharp lookout for six-ounce
phials,” said Mr. McShane. “Keep them
separate from the ordinary medicines; I’ve a
good market in mind for ’em.”
Bottles, it may be noted, were classified,
not sorted, at the McShane Mercantile
Exchange, in conformity with the principles
of commercial gentility laid down by the
best business-efficiency experts.
The return of Mr. McShane to his office
and the firm closing of the door indicated
that he had gone into executive session with
himself, and was not to be disturbed for an
hour. _ This hour every morning was the
most important in the daily schedule of the
McShane Agency, for during it were con-
ceived those plans and stratagems by
which Mr. McShane conducted a branch of
his enterprise giving an outlet to the artist
m him, besides returning a steady profit.
In pursuance of it he began methodically to
open the mail.
The first letter was baldly headed “Vau-
cluse” and signed “J. Thomas,” but Mr.
McShane had no need to look up the little
black book in his inside pocket to recall “J.
Thomas.” Under this pseudonym Mr. John
Ihomas Trembath, a noted figure in the
drapery trade, had several times called for
help.
Early in his career Mr. Trembath had
adopted a vociferous teetotalism for business
purposes, but a course of tonic wine after
an illness in middle-age had developed in him
an appreciation of alcohol in its more viru-
lent forms. Lacking the moral courage to
forswear teetotalism, he had become in the
course of several years, not a victim of the
demon rum, but a terrified slave of his empty
bottles. A friend had discovered his secret,
and introduced him to Mr. McShane, who
had solved his problem by removing bodily
on a float a garage containing the hundred
dozen sardonic witnesses of Mr. Trembath’s
apostasy.
“So the ghosts are troubling Mr. Trembath
again, ’ murmured Mr. McShane. “’Tis a
tenner it’ll cost him to have them laid. I’ll
go out to-night and see what sort of a’ mess
he s m.”
One other letter held Mr. McShane’s
attention. It wag addressed from an expen-
sive block of flats at Potts Point.
I have been informed by a friend of your
collection service, and would be pleased if
you could call any morning before noon,” he
read “There are a couple of dozen items
1 ™ SI set rid of. — (Mrs.) G. Bkandon.”
Ihe Case Book of Mr, Michael McShane
contains records of some startling successes
in the elimination of embarrassing bottles,
such as “The Problem of the Hypocritical
Cabinet Minister,” but he applies to the
smallest, as to the biggest, task the same
artistic efficiency.
Ladies acting upon their own initiative
were rare clients, he mused. He would
place his professional services at the dis-
posal of Mrs. Brandon immediatelv.
‘Sammy, get out the Ford,” he called.
Having _ removed his collar and tie, and
changed his coat for one showing more signs
of wear, Mr. McShane took from his pro-
perty cupboard a capacious tool-bag. This
was ingeniously stayed to give it the appear-
ance of containing tools, and was fitted with
pockets to stifle the telltale chatter of
bottles. With a rusty-liued bowler hat to
complete the ensemble, Mr. McShane was a
passable imitation of a plumber on his way
to make a diagnosis. Mrs. Brandon’s flat,
no found, was in a choice corner position on
the third floor, but bis professional eye noted
the approach as a difficult one should he be
called upon to make any large removal.
“My name’s McShane, come to see about
the bath-heater,” he said when the door
opened in answer to his ring. He had noted
ffiat the door of the next flat had moved
cautiously as he passed.
His new client smiled appreciatively. She
was a youngish woman, pleasing to look
upon, and with a self-possessed air which
indicated that she and life found no fault
with each other.
“Will you sec what you can do?” she
asked as she admitted him.
The empties were in the bathroom, and
Mrs. Brandon watched with interest while
Mr. McShane packed them snugly into the
tool-bag.
“I must congratulate you on your enter-
prise,” she said. “I was wondering how I
could get rid of them. People talk so, don’t
they? My friend told me I could safely
leave them to you.”
“A couple of dozen is nothing,” Mr.
McShane assured her. “It’s when they have
to be removed in hundreds without the neigh-
bors knowing that I have to put my think-
ing cap on.”
“You must get to know a lot of secrets?”
But Mr. McShane was not to be drawn
into indiscreet reminiscence.
“Keeping my clients’ confidences is an
essential part of the business,” he told her.
“My curiosity is rebuked, but it’s nice
to know you can keep a secret. Now, what
is your professional fee, Mr. McShane?”
“Two shillings, ma’am,” replied the master
bottle-o, not quite sure whether or not she
was making fun of him. “I’ll be at your
service any time you ’phone or write.”
As he drove back to the yard Mr. McShane
considered his latest transaction.
“I’ll be bound she never emptied those
bottles herself,” he muttered. “If she did,
she’s got a taste for whisky unique in a
woman. It’s twenty years since that Prince
Charlie brand was on the market, and it’s
only a connoisseur would have it now. Maybe
it’s her husband, but I’ll lay odds he’s
either dead or divorced. She doesn’t look
like a married woman in harness.”
During the day he forgot Mrs. Brandon
in considering the case of Mr. Trembath,
and that evening he drove out to the impos-
ing residence of that clay-footed idol of the
temperance movement. Mr. Trembath in
person received himi That gentleman’s usual
manner was either an elephantine joviality
or a patronising condescension, but before
the family bottle-o he was almost humble.
“I should have called you in before, Mr.
McShane, but I kept putting it off, and now
they’ve piled up on me again,” he said de-
jectedly. “I tried going for a walk every
night and dumping a few, but that old sticky-
beak Hoskins next door got curious, and I
had to stop.”
“How many have you on hand?” asked
Mr. McShane.
“About two hundred.”
“It might have been worse, but these
things easily get out of hand,” declared Mr.
McShane, with the air of a surgeon examin-
ing a malignant growth. “Where have you
got them?”
“They’re stacked away in all sorts of odd
corners, but I sent the servants out in case
you had an idea.”
“First of all we’ll get them out into that
shed at the back.” Then, noticing the look
of alarm on the face of his client: “Don’t
worry; it won’t be necessary to take the
shed this time.”
Mr. Trembath was a widower, and managed
to keep his trunks and wardrobes free of
feminine supervision. Now they were filled
to capacity with empty bottles, and the high
tide of his shame had swamped also a mis-
cellany of cabinets and desks. The removal
of an imposing array of volumes from a
locked bookcase revealed a couple of dozen
whisky bottles standing to attention.
They set Mr. McShane’s thoughts back
to the fascinating Mrs. Brandon. Every
one of these also bore the brand of Prince
Charlie ! He understood now how the lady
had come to engage his services.
With the master draper as a nervous and
awkward assistant, the master bottle-o got
the bottles into the shed. In it were three
large cases, wherein he carefully packed the
empties.
“But you can’t take them out like that,”
objected Mr. Trembath. “Old Hoskins would
wake up in a minute.”
“I’ll get over that,” declared Mr. McShane
confidently. “Now listen.”
Promptly at five-thirty the following even-
ing Mr. Trembath arrived home in his car,
suddenly remembered a parcel he had for-
gotten, and sent his grumbling chauffeur
back to the city. Strolling round to the
rear of his house he quietly unlocked the
shed, and passed on into the house. At
twenty-five minutes to six a lorry sped up
the driveway, and quickly backed up to the
shed. In a few seconds Mr. McShane, suit-
ably attired in a leather apron, had sprung
down, opened out the double doors, and
begun to unload three packing-cases with
the assistance of the driver. The cases,
although they appeared heavy, were empty.
As the third case left the lorry Mr. Trem-
bath took his cue and rushed into the yard.
“Hey! Wlhat are you doing there?” he
called.
“Packages from Smith’s for 72 Lilac-
avenue,” cried Mr. McShane without paus-
ing in his unloading.
“Lilac-avenue? That’s the next street,
you damned fool,” retorted Mr. Trembath.
“Get that stuff out of here.”
“Blast! More haste less speed, and we’re
over our knock-off time now,” wailed
McShane. “Come on, George, load her up
again.”
In less than half a minute three eases
had been returned to the lorry, the three
which Mr. McShane had filled the previous
night. In the shed rested the three dupli-
cates he had brought on the lorry.
“Close the gate after you,” called Mr.
Trembath as the lorry started.
“Go to Hell!” cried McShane, for the
benefit of Mr. Hoskins, who had begun to
flutter about in his back yard.
A ten-pound cheque from Mr. Trembath
closed the transaction; but Mr. McShane
waited hopefully to learn more of the
draper’s romance so picturesquely pledged
in pre-war whisky. The agency ‘continued
its rescue work among the orphaned bottles
of the metropolis, but there was little that
called for the exercise of the proprietor’s
own talent. As an antidote to boredom he
turned to the preparation of a paper on the
“Historical Significance of the Bottle,”
which he hoped to read at the annual con-
vention of master bottle-o’s.
More than two months went by before he
received a second request for his services
from Mrs. Brandon, and he set off imme-
diately for her flat, again disguised as a
plumber. A big touring car was standing
outside the flats, and the young man in
the driver’s seat was intently watching the
long, narrow street behind him. As the
McShane Ford pulled up, Mrs. Brandon
hurried down the steps, and, sighting Mr.
McShane, came across to him.
“Will you do me a real service?” she
asked quickly. “My husband—he’s found
my address—l’ve heard lie’s on his way—
he’ll make trouble”
As she spoke a car swung into the street
a quarter of a mile below, and headed up
the hill with open exhaust.
"It’s him,” gasped Mrs. Brandon. “Oh,
please stall your car in the road and block
him for a few minutes. This is for your
trouble.”
Thrusting a ten-pound note into his hand
she ran to the _ other car, which began to
move as she climbed in, and sped up the
street.
The business was off Mr. McShane’s
usual beat, but clients, and especially charm-
ing lady clients, who paid so handsomely
in advance, deserved the best of service.
Swinging the Ford out as if to turn it, he
stalled it across the narrow street, and
flicked the ignition key on to the floor. The
car from the bottom of the hill pulled up
with screeching brakes. Mr. McShane’s
imitation of a flustered driver became actu-
ality as he caught sight of the yellow police
number-plate on the newcomer. He knew
Reynolds, the detective, sitting beside the
driver.
“Get that rat-trap out of the way,
McShane,” Reynolds yelled. “We want that
car in front.”
It was a full minute before Mr. McShane
managed to get the Ford clear, while
Reynolds cursed.
“That woman’s one of the cleverest
co”
The rest was lost in the scurry of the
police car’s departure.
Mr. McShane endeavored to do a little
efficient thinking. So his fair die t was
a crook. He wondered where the gallivant-
ing Mr. Trembath stood in the matter.
A taxi pulled up outside the flats, and
from it alighted the drapery magnate him-
self. Mr. McShane hailed him, considering
the time inopportune for any nice observ-
ance of professional ethics. Ordinarily Mr.
McShane never recognised a client in
public.
“Mrs. Brandon’s just gone on the jump
with a police car a short lap behind,” he
told Mr. Trembath without preamble or
apology. “I wouldn’t go near the place if
I were you.”
“Is she a—a criminal?” gasped the draper.
“Yes, Reynolds said she was a clev"" ——
began Mr. McShane, and paused. W ' uad
Reynolds said? A confidence { Mr.
McShane’s fingers caressed the foldea bank-
note in his vest pocket. Or was it coun-
terfeiter? Still, he had nothing against the
woman himself. One shouldn’t be too criti-
cal —or too curious.
“By the way, I wonder if you could let
me have ten singles for a tenner, Mr. Trem-
bath?” Mr. McShane requested.
Mechanically Mr. Trembath peeled off the
notes, and poked the tenner into his pocket.
His thoughts were elsewhere.
“Thanks,” said Mr. McShane. “No, I
don’t think she’d really do a thing like
that.”
“Eh? Like what?”
But Mr. McShane had started towards
the Ford.


W/A
m
&:
Fortnightly Across the Pacific
to
CANADA
UNITED
STATES
EUROPE
via
Picturesque New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
at most economical rates.
Travel by the
splendidly-appointed
modern liners: —
R.M.M.S. AORANGI
R.M.S. NIAGARA
R.M.S. MONOWAI
R.M.S. MAKURA
R.M£. MAUNGANUI
Cosy, restful cabins,
spacious dining-rooms,
wide promenade decks,
with all facilities for
games and sport, luxuri-
ous lounges, unsur-
passed cuisine and fault-
less service.
Illustrated literature and full detail
on application.
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
and Union Ghe>
m
S
n ;
C
» • #
a
fe ,
r ■!»
%
0j«*«1le4
;%:■'
1 I®ill!
i *A
*
Jil'i
it W
Hi i- ' l.i hi
11=
li
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son ..
Ao*“* M * o '" ta “ B '“’ * C -
Fremantle
.. Hobart
A Green Flame Passes
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
THOUGH old Quaker was entire, he was
the exception that proves the rule, so
that for nine months out of the year
his owner was apt to forget that lie was a
stallion. He was nearer thoroughbred than
draught, but in him was the large, benign
nlacidity of the working Clydesdale. lhe
children played in his yard, dragging him
round by the forelock and swarming all over
as far as could be ascertained,
he had never been broken to the saddle, ae
was the perfect hack, so that young Frank-
ly n rode him daily about the farm, and even
to the little township, leaving lum hitched
in the streets for hours, without a qualm.
Even when spring ran through the land
like a green flame, and there was a calliug
in the wind, the old beast was amenable to
discipline, though then he ran free lord
of his little domain and of the few mares
that came to him seasonally to be served.
He was not a big horse, and his youth
was long gone when he came to the tus-
sock country; but he had the pride of his
kind, so that he carried himself nobly, and
moved with a wild freedom that caught the
eye and lifted the heart. ~ , . v
Through the winter he was stabled, but
in the spring, with his mares, and through
the heat of summer and autumn, he had the
run of a small paddock that lay on the last
slope of the downs that ran up to the edge
of the dreary waste of tussock.
On its green crest, against the sky, you
might see him at any time -of the day or
night, standing poised like a statue, with
his blunt, grand head lifted into the wind,
ears pricked, nostrils flared, big, calm eyes
staring intently into the blue heart ot the
distance, where the wild ponies grazed or
ran pin-points of color glancing across the
vast, dun-grey background of the tussock.
On a still, sunny day his mane and tail
were like pools of white foam against the
blue, enhancing the steel-grey of Ins smooth
hide; but when the wind lifted them, and the
sky was grey or flecked with cloud, then
they dulled to the monotone of the rest ot
him—marble-grey against the shadowed
k°Young Franklyn was tremendously proud
of him, of his looks and his intelligence and
placidity. Could he have served more mares,
his master would have been a made man;
but it was only because the life was already
dying from the old stallion that young
Franklyn had come by him.
Now, in the seventh year of his possession,
Quaker was showing an even greater indif-
ference to the mares that were brought to
him. Some of them had had to come again,
and young Franklyn was sorrowfully aware
that the star of the grand old grey was set.
Next season no mares would come to him
to graze along the hillside, while he stood
keeping guard on the green crest above.
Quaker was nearer thirty than twenty,
but his legs were clean, and his lines were
still supple and lean. There was no tell-
tale thickening of the limbs and the gullet,
no sinking of the eyes to betray lus great
ago; but only, at this last, a definite failing
of his masculinity.
Even his color held —the attractive, uni-
form, steel-blue grey. His points were still
milky white, untinged with ageing cream or
yellow. His eyes were soft and full, and
brightly keen, his breathing unimpaired, his
reach as generous and free.
But on the eighth spring no mares came;
and Quaker did not care. Sometimes at
night he called a little, answering the wild
ponies, galloping the length and breadth or
his paddock, and snorting playfully; but
when young Franklyn gave him a couple
of mares, he showed no particular interest,
even though later they proved in foal.
But young Franklyn, who slept soundly,
did not hear what Quaker heard as the
spring waned. Faint and far through the
lovely nights, a mare calling and calling.
Even when he slept, the calling pierced
the old stallion’s dreams, so that he would
start awake, and go thundering to the top
of the slope, where, in the liquid moon-
light. he would fling his fine head high, and
call back again and again.
As time passed, that insistent nightly call-
ing woke in him again the old, primeval
urge, so that he began, for the first time in
his life, to grow restless and uncertain-
tempered, as though in his heart he knew
that his days were drawing in, and his soul
was sickening for one last adventure before
the final call.
Young Franklyn solicited a mare or two
for him —sad, heavy-hearted, hairy-heeled
old things, for whom man could find no
further use, so worn they were, and broken,
under man’s bitter yoke. Old Quaker turned
from them contemptuously, yearning only
for the far, calling voice that echoed nightly
through the desolate marches of the tussock.
So on a tender night, when the moon was
full behind a scud of clouds, when spring,
grown old, hesitated on the threshold of a
young summer of breathless loveliness,, .he
Vent—went with the lightness and agility
of a young horse, over fence and ditch and
stunted scrub, out from the green slope,
into the drifting sand of the tussock. And
as he went he called and snorted. This was
his night, and in his heart there woke and
sang again all the green glory of the old
and dying spring. Never before had he left
his own pasture. Never before had he
desired to leave it. But now the memory of
it was as the memory of a prison house;
and the thought of man’s hands restraining
him and guiding him made him fling his wild
head high, and leap snorting into the wind.
The hateful dust spurted in little white
clouds from the dim pools of shadow which
lay about the bases of the pale tufts of tus-
sock, and the tips of the grey scrub were
like drifts of snow above the mystery of
its shadow. The air was cool as a miracle,
and burdened with lovely secrets.
Not the cloud-shadows racing along the
unending undulations of the tussock were
swifter and lighter than he, nor more reck-
less and gay. Once he swept down on a herd
of startled ponies, which fled like shadows
before him, their tiny hoofs winged with
terror. On a rise he stood poised, to watch them
go, scorning to match his pace with theirs.
For an hour he sported, half-forgetting
what had lured him from a servitude a life-
time old; but presently, on a barren slope,
with all the sleeping moon-silvered world
spread round him, he paused and sent out
his questing call.
Faint and far the answer came down the
little wind; faint, insistent, poignant with
urgency.
Quaker reared, snorting and pivoting on
his heels —went flying in pursuit of his fly-
ing shadow, through the secret night.
Twice he paused to call; and now the
answer was not so faint, and there was
excitement and yearning behind the sound,
so that the blood raced hotly through the
grey stallion’s veins, as it had not raced
these many years, making him leap and
plunge with a glory long departed.
In a small, high-railed enclosure, in the
depths of a dank, dark island of scrub, he
found her.
Drunk with desire, he reared against the
rails, and, half-rotten, they gave beneath
his weight, throwing him to his knees.
When with a squeal of excited anger he
regained his feet, she was already free,
dancing away through' the dim light, a thing
more of spirit than of clay. Half-anxiously
he called. With a little knicker of laughter
she sped away, and Quaker, with a mad riot
surging all through him, took up the chase.
Up the slope through the scrub, out of
the shadow into the moonlight, with the dull
thunder of their hoofs filling the night with
mad music. leaped and snorted as
he ran, with his glowing eyes fixed on the
lithe, elusive form of the saucy little siren
who led him. Slim she was and dainty
—thoroughbred in every line of her. In the
moonlight she looked black as ebon, though
she was really brown; and the moon was
silver on her one white stocking, and on
the star that blazed on her forehead when
she turned her slender head to coquette ancl
Lal Under her limpid glance he pirouetted like
a colt that has never known man, so know-
ing neither pain nor fear. Will-°-the-w *p
she led, away and away towards the lulls.
Drunk with the last flame that leaps before
the fire dies, he followed on; and it seemed
to him then that never again could his
strong heart tire. .
Presently they climbed from the tussock
into the ‘stern, bracken-grey hills. Ihe
clouds raced over the moon, and the wind
sang. Oh the bleak crests, ever and again
they stayed their crazy race to circle each
other in crazier transports of cavorting,
so that the keen wind was pungent with
the scent of earth and the bracken and
grass that was. crushed and bruised by then
flying hoofs. And as they leaped and reared
and twisted, they neighed and squealed and
snorted—she flaming with new desire, he
knowing, but not knowing that he knew,
that for him the flame once quenched would
light no more.
So his keen eyes grew wild and herce,
and there was a savagery in the. rhythm ot
his galloping, almost as though, in his sub-
conscious mind, he had a dread that she
might ultimately play him false and elude,
him, flying from him in the laughing power
of her youth, leaving behind a thing old and
broken, scorned by all things but the cold
hand of death.
Now home and all that he had known of
civilisation lay far below and many miles
away, driven from memory by the wild and
primitive glory of the heights they had
attained. The air was thin and keen and
tingling to the touch, so that the lungs
began to labor. Presently, as they fought
their way along the crown of a bush-grown
spur, the little mare began to falter. Her
glossy sides were damp with sweat, and the
eyes she turned to him were no longer
coquettish and tantalising, but distressed and
half-fearful.
Within him tlie tide of his olden power
flamed. He snorted pridefully, nipping her
quarters, so that she kicked, but only half-
heartedly ; so he shouldered her aside and
went ahead of her, breaking the trail; and
she who had led liim so crazy a dance
meekly followed her lord and master.
Night died, and, ineffably forlorn and
grey, dawn crowned their madness.
•Under its bitter, revealing touch, in the
old grey stallion the little green flame flared
false and high—and passed for ever away.
Heedless of the mare’s importunities, he
stood aloof on the rocky height, watching
the light grow in the east —light that came
with slow relentlessness, to steal the last
light from his fierce, sad eyes.
As the first shafts of the sun gilded the
topmost peaks he turned, and, with the
little mare disconsolate beside him, plunged
down and down, into a world of bush-grown
valleys, still caught in darkest night.
Now the desolate miles of tussock were
tinged with an unearthly loveliness of red
and gold; and now they were grey under
a grey sky, lifeless and unutterably forlorn.
At the broken stockyard the weary little
mare forsook him, watching with beaten
and cheated eyes the old grey stallion climb-
ing up the long slope to where a watery
rift of sunlight trembled.
Poised there, his grand old head lifted
into the uneasy wind, he sent his last chal-
lenge out across the waste.
Then, spent and unbelievably weary, he
traversed the long miles home.
Young Franklyn came for him at noon
where he stood drowsing beneath, the shade
of green trees that overhung the drinking
pool. Head down, hip sunk he stood, heed-
less of the flies that swarmed and stung
his flanks. In unbelieving silence, young
Franklyn stood regarding him. Last night
he had owned a horse old but still full of
conscious pride and power; but the horse
before him now was an old, old, flea-bitten
grey, with sunken flanks and dull and
rheumy eyes. A beast grown timeless old,
waiting for death, so that at man’s approach
he neither moved nor lifted his head.
Sick at heart, the man whispered his
name; but beyond the listless twitching of
an ear the old stallion gave no sign that
he was any more aware of life or living.
Epitaphs.
LADY.
Here lies a lady of lineage fine.
Her eyes were currants wet with wine,
Her mouth was a winter rose, like satin
Was her brown body, and vivid the pattern
Of all her loves and all her lies.
Like a golden bee in a dusty comb
She lies within her narrow home.-
Death has not yet had time to prise
Her dewy eyelids from her eyes,
To strip one petal from the fair,
And tarnish the smooth silk of her.
But the tongues of the so-called wise and 3 us t
Have made her splendid name grey dust,
And all her beauty one red-rust.
BUCCANEER.
They haled him from the sapphire seas
To bring him to the gallows-trees;
Under a poor, sparse English sun
They hoisted him, and so he hung,
Nut-amber as a pint of beer —
A brazen earring in Death’s ear.
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Diapason.
I felt the sword-bright beauty of the sun,
And birds were singing, and the flute-like
rills
Were calling to my soul. I had to run
Straight to my hills, my apple-breasted
hills,
To whom 1 give a passion physical
That flings me down to grasp those
splendid limbs.
One soul, one body, so that I must fall
Down on my knees, as men do, singing
hymns.
A flame of music sets me marvelling;
The bare brown earth makes beauty hue
a bird,
And I can hear the very boulders sing
Mad symphonies, aurora-gold. Sun-stirred,
A paean of grass, shrill blade on shriller
spear, . .
Is soaring in a green fortissimo.
The daisies gleam like castanets; and, cleai
And sweet past all belief, the piccolo
Of thistledown is rippling overhead.
The yellow gorse, in w-ave on blindm.,
wave,
Is Orpheus crying vainly to the dead,
Or subtle music such as some fair slate
In sensuous coverts past the sunset s dooi
Sings to her lord. Unceasingly tneic
comes
The throbbing of unnumbered ridges, roar
On urgent roar like many beaten drum*.
The shaken strings of distant trees chime in,
A passionate ’cello from the rata burns
And rimus cry out like a violin
Piercing with silver. Little timid fe rns
Gleam shyly in a quietude of bells,
And clematis, more bright than any star.
Clings to the treetops in the crooning dens,
Caressing them, a green and white guitar.
Ecstatic harmonies are sweeping slowly
Up to the sun. My soul knows world
release; , ,
The hills are close'to me, so near, so hoi}-
Godhead is mine; and deep, immortal
peace.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWABT.


Essex Car Makes
Astounding
Beauty Record.
ORIGINAL FINISH LIKE
NEW AFTER 100,000 MILES.
Mr. F. Yott, a prominent Melbourne
business man, purchased a standard
model Essex Sedan from Neals
Motors Pty., Ltd., on the 31st Aug.,
1928, and on its fourth birthday
drove it to the agents for their in-
spection. Mr. H. J. Lane, director
of Neals Motors, Hudson Essex
Agents, writes as follows:—-
“Essex Sedan Reg. No. 93071 was
delivered new August 31, 1928, and
after inspection to-day we were
surprised to find the original duco
in extraordinarily good condition—
equal to new. To our knowledge
this car has travelled over 100,000
miles, including 10 trips to Sydney
and back, twice to both Canberra
and Adelaide and back, and has fol-
lowed reliability tests and 24-hours’
trials as official car. The only atten-
tion it has received to maintain the
duco finish in such condition was
periodical Simomzing. s*' 5 *'
Motor Cars, Furniture, Radios,
Refrigerators, Pianos and Ali
Objects with a fine Finish
Can Now Be Kept Beautiful.
There’s nothing finer than Simoniz for
furniture. It makes furniture look new.
And keeps if that way. Further, keeping
any Simonized surface bright and spot-
lessly clean is the easiest thing in the
world.
Simoniz protects the delicate finish of fur-
niture in the same mighty way that it'
does car finishes. Simoniz is made
to withstand outdoor exposure and the
constant wear and tear a car finish gets.
That s why Simoniz is so excellent in pro-
tecting furniture from scratching and
marring.
And Simoniz on a car lasts for months.
On furniture it lasts much longer, of
course.
How to SIMONIZ Furniture
Simoniz your furniture in much the same
way you Simoniz your car. That is, use
the Simoniz Kleener to restore the natural
lustre of the finish. It takes off all dis-
colorations and the oily scum left by
dust-collecting polishes previously used.
It really makes the finish like new by
removing surface scratches, stains, blem-
ishes and the like.
Next apply the Simoniz. Then a few light
strokes with a soft cloth and your furni-
ture looks bright and just like new again.
Makes Cleaning Easy
The Simoniz forms a hard, lustrous sur-
face to which dirt and dust can't stick.
To keep it clean just wipe dust off with a
dry cloth. No polishing is necessary. It’s
positively the easiest and best way ever
heard of to keep furniture looking beauti-
ful all the time.
There are dozens of other uses for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener around the house.
Simoniz Kleener is excellent for cleaning
glass and pewter. And there’s nothing
like Simoniz for linoleum and hardwood
floors, woodwork, refrigerators, gas stoves
and the like. In fact, anything with a fine
finish needs Simoniz. Enamel, lacquer,
varnish and duco finishes last much longer
and stay beautiful if you keep them pro-
tected with Simoniz.
■
.'A
liWowis
3 SIM SXSI'dOXOW
APPEARANCE ALWAYS COUNTS.
Clothes Make the Man—But be sure that Your Car
too is Well Groomed.
People will always judge you by the appearance of the
car you drive. No other possession is so closely associated
with you in your social and business activities as your own
car. Few see your home, fewer still see its appointments,
but everyone passes judgment on your mode of trans-
portation. It isn’t only new cars that look new. Hundreds
of thousands of wise motorists the world over know that
regular Simonizing ensures that they drive cars that
look new.
Simonizing Your Car
Will Restore the Finish
and Make It Last Longer
Don’t be surprised' when people stop and admire your car after
you Simoniz it. Its rich, sparkling beauty will attract every
eye. Those who don’t know that Simoniz lasts for months
will wonder how it’s possible to keep a car so bright and new
looking ALL THE TIME.
Year after year, in all countries of the world, and in all possible
climatic conditions, Simoniz keeps millions of cars beautiful.
It protects the finish in all kinds of weather, makes it last longer
and keeps colors from fading.
Simoniz is the recognised modern and scientific way to keep
cars beautiful. Nothing could be easier, quicker or safer. So
don’t experiment. Always use Simoniz Kleener (green tin)
to clean the finish. It restores the original lustre with'amazing
w m
St
Ail
m
IB
ISM
1
pyss
cay
*Rs
nA>fSr~
DUCO
NT
PfprtcTi
MS
s^o
ENA
g«s
DUCO
speed. Then apply Simoniz (yellow
tin) for that famous weather-
proof protection.
h
Good Car Painters
RECOMMEND THIS
METHOD TO PRESERVE
THE FINISH
Simoniz imparts a hard, lustrous film
of protection which prevents the
finish blooming” from exposure.
Good painters know this and always
Simoniz their good paint jobs to make
them look their best and to make
the finish last longer. Any experi-
enced painter will tell you that the
duco on a car which has been regu-
larly Simonized is in far better con-
dition than those which have
received any other treatment.
With a Simonized car you only have
to wipe down with benzol, which
easily removes all Simoniz, before
respraying with lacquer.
Largest Motor Accessory
Firms in Australia Distribute
SIMONIZ.
No- better proof of the high prestige and
wonderful reputation of Simoniz and
Simoniz KJeener can be given than the
names of the interstate distributors for
these wonderful products. These firms are
the. largest and most reputable in each
capita] city of Australia.
Interstate Distributors:
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd, Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros., Ltd. E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
CAR BEAUTY TREATMENT
FREE SAMPLES
for “Bulletin” Readers.
If your car is dull and faded and you
wish to test out Simoniz and Simoniz
Kleener just fill in the coupon below and
enclose a penny stamp. You will be
astonished at the results on your car.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd.,
Peel Street, North Melbourne.
Enclosed find one penny stamp,
postage for FREE SAMPLES of
Simoniz and Kleener.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, May 24.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
BRING THE MONKEY.” By Miles Franklin, author of “My
Brilliant Career.” Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD.” By Ambrose Pratt,
President Vic. Zoological Society. Exquisitely illustrated.
Price 5/- (postage 2d.).
‘ SATURDEE.” By Norman Lindsay. 6/- (postage 3d.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.).
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Patersons new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “ BULLETIN ” Offices.
8P
\p
o
&
o
&
4
c,\>
c°'V 4 ‘
*V
V<s'
pP*V* o\
£ v
. X e
V> x \> e
$
c>\ « v
\V
PW o v,e<> Ac''
r- a 5o? v m*' , c >
0?'
V 6
<o}
o°
iv
e
a*
.*•' s e^e^S^
z<y
c*V“^


TfieWORLD'S GREATEST BRIDGE
LU trCLILcL
CnjLanxL,
fctt
;v.v,
r .?
a?*
\
\-,
-»:• .'
as*
i
&rtrT:J
"wOoi \
*
4Jl*
iiP
©US
5%3 :
t
f
£
' &
tV ffl
b. ift-
v- m
xz*
im /§
•n*
, *£i& 'z*
s*£fK. ■. )w
J?'
AI:
&C
w'l
i;Cb. *ia.
fs
ifefe
•'^!-
*3/,
.^ViS
J *y
'&fe' >•s
•SfcS
3#
ITjtaQ
: 3# 3
*2^
S5«a§SS5;
-T'.S
•W,
•.. 'V, ,C ( t«
*‘j&
\
♦VF
4i;st^
LoJiLljlvmL ku
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/ASIA) LTD
c/liAilralia) £l to rial (OirtltJ) O/ijasiLJali
ton.
Since 1927 The Australian
Beam W ireless Service, operated byA. W. A.,
has saved the public over £860,000
in the cost of oversea telegrams.
During the past four years AmalgamatedNVireiess
has paid to:
♦ Its Australian employees £950,000
# To Australian Governments £450,000
#> To private shareholders £108,500
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
