

'*>'l
: §
Mi
\
H
m
-
W-:
m
Of cour.j'e you'll
WANT A NEW KODAK
™ IS EASTER
M
X
The happiest holiday of the year!
Treat yourself to a new Kodak
and a supply of Verichrome Film.
You will bring home real photo-
graphs—pictures you’ll be proud
to show your friends —worthy of v
your photographic prowess.
The super-efficiency of the new Pocket
Kodak simplifies photography makes it
easier, more enjoyable than ever before.
Prices are reasonable, from 52/6 up.
With Verichrome Film you are sure of
getting your snap —certain of clearer, richer
pictures. Load only with Verichrome.
Illustrated Folder free on request.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK
(AUSTRALASIA)-
PTY. LTD.
379 George Street. Sydney; “The Block." 284 Collins Street. Melbourne. Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane;
37 Rundlf Street. Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; 662 Hay Street. Perth ; Ruthven Street. Toowoomba ;
East Street, Rockhampton flinders Street. Townsville
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland ;40 Princes Street. Dunedin i,
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
tffijuif.
Vol. 54.—N0. 2773.
Wednesday, April 5, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
*“* taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleoe
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
Please send without obligation, your New Free
Fool; let, explaining how to Write for Profit nl
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin' ‘
My Name ... .
Mp Address . .
S B. 133
SOMEDAY, SOMEONE may
WALK on your ROOF
RED
ORJ3
è
Galvanized Iron
- b y Joh
Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
IF you specify
and use "RED
Orb” Galvanized
Iron for roofing,
it can be walked
over without the
least danger of
denting. "RED
Orb” is made from
a specially hard-
ened iron and costs
no more than "Blue
Orb.” It is not
suitable for curv-
ing, but it is the
finest roofing iron
procurable.
\OeofJe emn/wheire
€.O cure Mina.
iiicura
SOAP, OINTMENT
AND TALCUM POWDER
They know these world-
wide household remedies
are made of the purest in-
gredients and when used
regularly will keep the skin
and scalp in good condition.
Cuticura Soap for daily
toilet use, Cuticura
Ointment toheal any skin
affection, and Cuticura
Talcum to refresh the
skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Australian
Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving
Stick Is. 6^
é
"THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
41.4-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
•
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firm, Hbrnibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OE WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations
Representative:—
Robt. D. Eisher—Bsoo7.
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
1 DIRECT MEDIUMIg WOMEN]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous-
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Art of Reminiscence
It is often said, with a touch of some-
thing like awe, that British novelists and
plaj T wrights who were children and in some
cases unborn during the Edwardian and
late Victorian eras can get the atmosphere
pf those vanished days as effectively as
writers who lived in them. Australia is now
witnessing an example of the phenomenon
in “Cavalcade,” the film version of Noel
Coward’s pageant. An explanation may be
that the British reading public welcomes
the stream of reminiscences by all sorts
and conditions of people which pours from
the literary watershed in the neighborhood
of St. Paul’s. The ideal reminiscencer is a
septuagenarian, though youth is, of course,
no bar ; Beverley Nichols, taking a hint
from Max Beerbohm, who compiled a
bibliography of his works shortly after
coming down from Oxford, produced an
autobiography at 25. Books by hunting
men—-particularly those who, in addition to
following famous packs, have ridden in
famous steeplechases—always sell. So do
the memoirs of eminent big-game or covert
shots or deer-stalkers. There is another
public for anyone who can write authori-
tatively about fly-fishing, wet or dry, or the
pursuit of salmon in Britain, Norway,
dr Canada. And then there are the titled
muckrakers who disinter dead scandals and
explain how the principals came to behave
as they did, sure in the knowledge that
there will be enthralled audiences for their
revelations in thousands of suburbs. But
perhaps the largest group is composed of
prominent journalists. They have more to
say of general interest than the others—
having met most people of real importance
at one time or another, and being
acquainted with the inside history of many
im’portant events—and, in the nature of
things, they know how to express themselves.
All three writers whose works are discussed
below are, or were, journalists.
Gossip
David Williamson, author of Before
Forget (Sampson Low, 12s. 6d.), is one of
those amiable folk who make a hobby of
collecting friends. Particularly, celebrated
friends. He began work in Fleet-street in
the Eighties, helped C. K. Shorter to found
the “Sketch” in 1893, and has neVer stoppec
meeting interesting people from that day
to this. He is naturally good-natured anc
uncritical, the bom hero-worshipper. This
kind of autobiographer often leaves the
reader in the dark about his own origin
and the early stages of his career. He
appears full-fledged out of the void, asjt
were, in the capacity of familiar of the
great, and no explanations of his qualities
or attractions are given. However, at least
two of Mr. Williamson’s charms, in addition
to his abounding charity, become apparent
as his story proceeds—his gentle humor and
the excellent memory which enables him to
recall revealing little anecdotes about scores
of notabilities. There is nothing distin-
guished about his style; in fact, it is the
style of the social chatterer of a daily
paper.
The index contains the names of over
1000 people, and they are practically all
dealt with in a genial and easy manner.
Patriot and Poe*t
Faber and Faber have just published Vol.
I of Sir Henry Newbolt’s My World as in
My Time at 18s. 6d. This writer and Mr.
Williamson are poles apart in all but their
goodwill towards those they have met
during their respective walks through life.
Newbolt was born in his father’s vicarage
at Bilston in 1862; he went to Clifton in
1876, and to Oxford (Corpus) five years
later. More than half the book is about
his schooldays and Oxford, and he keeps
‘’’'"returning to Oxford and meeting Oxonians
after going to London to read for the Bar.
Like many earnest-minded young men of
his period and class, he worked at Oxford
House in Bethnal Green; in those days
“slumming” was fashionable. He was called
in 1887 and got his first brief a few months
later, but his heart was in literature. He
is one of those who can write flamboyantly
patriotic verse and remain an artist. The
Kaiser made what he describes as “a
threatening move” in 1896.
I had in my drawer some verses which
I had written w r ith the title “Drake’s Drum”
more than a month before. I posted them
to the editor [of the “St. James’s Gazette”],
Sidney Low, as possibly appropriate to the
present moment, and on the evening of 15th
January I liad the singular pleasure of see-
ing in every street,
as I walked home
from, Lincoln’s Inn,
the p-lacards of the
“St. James’s Gaz-
ette” bearing two
words only in enor-
mous capitals: as
it were, the beat of the Drum made visible.
He was still at the Bar when he published
“The Island Race.” An “Athenaeum” critic
objected that it was impossible to make
“genuine poetry” of such a subject. New-
bolt wrote to the editor in terms which
for one so habitually composed and tolerant
were almost violent, asking if Browning and
Tennyson were no more than “mob orators”
and exploiters of “rhetoric” when they wrote
such poems as “Home Thoughts from the
Sea” and “The Revenge.” He had all the
argument—almost every great English poet
from Shakspeare to Swinburne and Hardy
has handled patriotic themes emotionally—
but on second thoughts he tore his reply
up. “When read over,” he remarks, “it
relieved my mind of its indignation.” A
revealing sidelight on the man. During his
editorship of the “Monthly Review” (1900-
1904), he secured articles from many
specialists on politics, military and, of
course, naval questions, and every poet of
the day was proud to write for him—
Hardy and Yeats, Meredith, Binyon,
Phillips and Bridges—but the circulation
declined. He was a Liberal, and Conserva-
tives were very much in the ascendancy at
the time, at any rate in review-buying
circles. The volume ends with a fascinating
chapter (“Conrad and Trafalgar”) which
throws some new lights on the bizarre
personality of the novelist.
Mid-Victorian Glasgow
In / Remember (Porpoise Press; 7s. 6d.),
J. J. Bell writes of the Glasgow of his
boyhood (half a century ago. His father
was a merchant. He is a contemporary of
Mr. Williamson and Sir Henry Newbolt, but
the only other point of contact lies in his
early interest in- Gladstone. They had
the pleasure of meeting the great man; Bell
never even saw him, though he would have
liked to —his companions of the ’sixties and
’seventies used to fight over Gladstone. He
doesn’t seem to have met anybody worth
writing about at length, except Neil Munro,
and he is silent on the subject of his
schooldays. The life he describes is as
different from that of a budding London
journalist of the period as if it had been
lived in another century. Dinner was eaten
at 4 p.m., but the business man only dined
at home on Sundays, when the meal con-
sisted, usually, of beef, “roasted in front of
the fire, in a huge sort of Dutch oven, sus-
pended from a ‘jack’ which turned by
clockwork.” On the other six days of the
week the breadwinner dined in town, and
came home to high tea. A reputable
citizen never smoked in the street, but once
inside his gate he might light a cigar, using
for the purpose a vcsuvian.
His Aunt Bella, having passed the age of
30, was of no interest to men. She did
crystoleum and macrame work, and would
take a hand at catch-the-ten, but drew
the line at napoleon.
She was deeply and kindly interested in
the Queen, the. members of the Royal family,
the Royal young couples, the Royal babies.
She could always tell you the Court news
of yesterday. She admired Mr. Gladstone
almost as much as she admired the minister
of her church.
It is a brilliant genre picture of a severely
disciplined society which, though dull accord-
ing to our standards, was essentially com-
fortable as existence is in a disciplined
regiment or ship.
Such books as these should be as useful
to posterity as they are interesting to us;
they reveal the habits of life and thought
of the best kind of nineteenth century
Britons in three important sections—the
lower-middle, middle, and upper-middle
classes.
RED PAGE.
Death
Ernest Hemingway may occupy a minor
place in post-war literature because what
there is of his style is, canonically, bad.
Yet he is about the only contemporary
writer in English who faces all his fact?
at close range, and that ought to improve
posterity’s opinion of him. But' it probably
won’t, style being history’s unworthy touch-
stone for all but fiction, and generally for
that, too.
The Spaniard has a word for the supreme
moment in his bullfight, the actual moment
oi encounter between the matador and the
bull. This is called the “moment of truth ”
of death—usually the bull’s death, of
course, but sometimes the man’s. As long
as Hemingway can keep that luminous
moment of truth somewhere near the
thought behind his sentences, he doesn’t
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—not an unattainable ideal, but an established fact at “THE SENIOR STORE.”
Fashions for Autumn and Winter
representing genuine value!
U 11
Reveal a new note of Economy
L,
7 Ti Ta
j
;-e§
i&w
a
c~J
vvmjfyz/:
f jKcn
.V-"
rif
%
r/'f
d
«T
•■;■'■'
t z_
■•>■• .
teCt
£
'
: ? : Kf
■ -. < 8f5.il
i m
i \ k
V> f *V 4 ,i‘v'c«»Ss»
c ?ri vg&
tj&.&'f to ••' *°\ e
1— Flannel Suit . . 291 1
No winter wardrobe can be considered complete
without at least one suit! This one is featured in
an excellent quality Flannel and is lined throughout.
Fastens three buttons. Skirt has pleats. In Mid-
grey only. Sizes, S.W., W. and O.S.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 29/11
2 Well-tailored Face Cloth ... 63/-
Face Cloth. . . the smartest fabric for Suits, fashions
this well-tailored Costume. Two tailored pockets.
Lined throughout. The well-cut skirt shows pleats
on side. Choose from Navy, Brown or Black.
Sizes, S.W., W. and O.S.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . 63/-
3 Diagonal Wool Marocain . . 58/11
Diagonal Wool Marocain is used in this well-
tailored Costume. Self material forms a delightful
effect on the collar. Smart treatment on sides.
Lined throughout. The skirt is very attractive. In
Brown, Wine and Green.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 58/11
( Ladies’ Coats and
Costumes, Third Floor.
Freight paid to all
seaports in the Com-
monwealth and rail-
way stations i n
N.S.W. )
are fur trimmed
4 Fine Quality Face Cloth ... 65/-
Becoming Coat of Fine-quality Face Cloth. Well cut', and
the self-empiecements form semi-fitting back. Cosy collar
of Coney fur. Half lined Art. Silk. In Bottle, Nigger
Brown, Navy and Black.
Sizes S.s.w. s.w. w as.
Lengths, inches 46 47 48 49
Anthony Horderns’ Price 65/-
5 With Peschaniki Collar .. . 84/"
Superior-quality Face Cloth. The empiecements extending
from shoulder to hem give slimming line. Attractive collar
of Peschaniki. Lined throughout. In Nigger, Bottle, Navy
and Black. „ _
Sizes s.s.w. s.w. v w. os.
Lengths, inches 46 47 48 49
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 84/-
6—ln Suede Velour Cloth
30/-
Inexpensive Coat of Suede Velour Cloth. Self-cordings
form smart trimming. Collar is of Coney fur. Half lined.
In Rhum Brown, York Blue, Nigger, Bottle, Navy and
S.S.W. S.W. W. O.S.
Lengths, inches 45 46 48 49
Anthony Horderns’ Price 30/-
e
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA ; s a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
coundess delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
n
m
m/'
s/t
U n
//
t
r mis
IMlHii
* V 5;
f* v'-'C’
und < Jri
rfion
SPECIAL ROUND TRIP
EASTER CRUISE
TO NEW ZEALAND BY
R.M.S. MONOWAI
CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON.
LEAVING SYDNEY APRIL 13
RETURNING SYDNEY APRIL 23
PASSENGERS MAY LIVE ON BOARD
IN NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 Wiliam Street, Melbourne
a
<4
o*Sl
*o*!i
*001)
*00')
'*oo//
'*oo//
'**o/
J A PA N
The most attractive
and economical
Eastern Tour
Round Trip Steamer Fares
Sydney to Yokohama:
FIRST - -
SECOND -
FARES ARE FREE
. - - £9O
■ £56/15/-
OF EXCHANGE
Round trip passengers may live on board
at ports, and the Eastern Exchanges are
so low that the Australian £ is worth more
than in any other country.
S.S. TANDA SAILS APRIL 12
S.S. NANKIN SAILS MAY 13
S.S. NELLORE SAILS JUNE 14
Joint Passenger Agents:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
£*A
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY AND RESIDENTIAL HOTELS.
Make a note of these addresses
for yourself and your friends.
Within three minutes Hyde Park and
Tube. Daily terms as required. Pas-
senger lifts. Garages. Central heating.
Hot and cold running water. Exchange
telephone and gas tires in all bedrooms.
BRIDGE, BILLIARDS, TABLE TENNIS
and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 gns.;
Double from 7 gns. Bath, Bed and Break-
fast from 9/6. Tel.: Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 3} gns. Single; 61
gns. Double, Bath. Bed and Breakfast
from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Hotel of refinement with young and
cheerful society. Accommodation for 90
guests. Delightful Rooms arranged as
Bed-Sitting Rooms. Terms: 3 gns. Single;
5 gns. Double. Tel.: Padd. 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Owing to its popularity you are advised
to secure accommodation —if possible—ln
advance. Terms! 3 gns. Single; 5 gns.
Double. Room. Bath, Breakfast, 7/6.
Tel.: Padd. 8022.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director , Mrs. ,J. E.
Stevenson.
“THE BARRIER MINER n
bad its 45th birthday on March 1!
Forty-five glorious years in the most
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was, and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past 45 years. The only newspaper in
Broken Hill covering the whole of the
Far Biggest sales West ot
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, npt
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible, medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
«The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Are You Willing to Improve Your Knowledge ?
READ CAREFULLY.
POST FREE .
Write for Fiction List,
Australian Dairyman’s Handbook.
The Latest Accurate Information on all Subjects connected with
Dairying, together with Facts, Figures and Charts, Profusely
Illustrated with Photographs and Colored Plates. Best Book ever
published on Dairying. PRICE, 45/-.
Birth Control in Aus-
tralia, Methods an d
Practice, by Taylor, 2/2;
Foreword to Marriage,,
by Dr. R. V. Storer,
4/9; Makeshifts —Home-
made Furniture from
Kerosene Cases. 1/2;
Super-Het. Book and
A.C. Circuits, 1/3;
Methods of Birth Control
Explained, 1/11; Parent-
Hood Design or Accident, Manual of Birtb
Control, by Fielding, 3/9; Famous Crimes,
six complete real life thrillers, 1/3; Fun
Book, great guide to home amusement.
1/3; Mastery of Sex Through Psychology
and Religion, by Weatherhead, 5/4;
Ferrets and Ferreting, practical manual
by W. Drury, 2/8; Book of Bee-keep-
THE STEEL SQUARE
and its application to
everyday use. Full of
problems old and new.
Complete encyclopaedia
of steel-square know-
ledge. Revised edition,
by F. T. Hodgson. In
two volumes.
Price 16/-
i n g, by
W e b ster,
2/6; Re-
s' t oration
E x ercises
for
W omen,
by E.
Horni-
brook,
9/C.; U p-
h o 1 s tery
for Ama-
t e u r s,
1/11; Saws,
T b e i r
Care and Treatment, by Durham, 8/6;
The Woodworker Annual, ideal book
for the man who does benchwork at
home, 11/-; Furniture Repairing for
Amateurs, 1/11; Woodcarving for
Amateurs—with hints on design, 4/-;
Squill’s Diary for 1933, Training Register
and Almanac, 3/7; Electrical Construction
by Horstmann and Tousley, 4/10; Electric
Bells, by Saunders, 1/4; Accumulators—
Charging,, Maintenance and Care, by
Camm, 1/11; Fairy Tales of the South
Seas, by Annette Kellerman, 5/-;
A CURATE IN
BOHEMIA
By Norman Lindsay.
.Australia’s best seller,
PAPER 2/3
CLOTH 3/9
Practical Hints for Art
Students, by Lasar, 7/6;
Drawing for Art Students
and Illustrations, by
Sealy, 19/4; Scent and
All About It, by Red-
grove, 5/4; An Hour of
Aviation, by Macmillan,
4/9; Sexual Science, by
Dr. Philip,-4/6; Know-
ledge a Young Husband
Should Have, by Dr.
Philip, 4/G; Knowledge a Young Woman
Should Have,, by Dr. Philip, 4/6; 100
Best Tricks — Magic for the Average Man
—Thought Reading Tricks, by J. Cannell,
4/-; Art of Fortune Telling by Tea-
leaves, 1/9; Modern Ballroom Dancing,
by Victor Silvester, 3/4; The Modern
Letter Writer, by Henry, 2/9; Contract
in Ten
M i n utes,
by E. Cul-
b e r tson,
1/8;
Li e e’ s
Guide to
the Game
of
4/-; The
Book oi
Nat ure.
Full and
Exp licit
THE STORY OF
SAN MICHELE
By Axel Munthe.
First cheap edition of
this world-famous book.
37 impressions sold in
England alone.
With photogravure portrait.
Price 9/-
E x plana- , , , , ,
tion of all that can or ought to he known
by Man and Woman, 2/9; Wise Wedlock,
Complete Treatise on Birth Control, by
Beale. 10/6; Physical Culture Simplified,
Complete Course of Physical Culture, by
Lucas, 6/4; Why and How of Birth
Control, by Adamson, 4/6; 1001 Biddles,
New and Old, 2/6; Zadkiel’s Dream Book
and Fortune Teller, 3/4; My System,
15 Minutes’ Exercise a Day for Health s
Sake, by J. P. Muller, 6/4; Everyman s
Encyclopedia of Gardening;, by Wng t,
2 vols., 7/- set.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
care what the shape of the sentences is.
If they come ungainly to get the thought
out, that’s how they come; if the thought
is born in a flash of light, that’s how the
sentence leaps into life on the page; if
delicate gradations of repetitive dialogue is
the form, that’s how it appears, no matter
the number of repetitions; if the thought
comes on the distant music of memory,
that’s how it goes down on the paper, in
long phrases full of sighing tender beauty.
Very seldom this last: Hemingway doesn’t
go in for music, other than the music of
truth. All that is to say he is a writer
you can always trust to trick-out nothing,
but to give it all to you as it came to
him. A great rarity in letters, post- or
pre-war.
Most of the English critics didn’t under-
stand Death in the Afternoon (Jonathan
Cape; 7s. 6d.). They accepted it as a
treatise on bullfighting, and used up their
space to correct errors in style, in Spanish,
in history, in statistics, even in opinion.
The book does seem to be mainly a fas-
cinating, technical explanation of the art
of bullfighting, but when the author of the
book is Hemingway it can be taken that
there is more in it than that.
Grace, gentleness, kindness-=-the aristo-
cratic virtues have departed from this con-
temporary democratic period; they were
already on the run when the monstrous be-
trayal of the war drove them finally out.
In trying to do without them in letters we
have dabbled in the grosser realisms of man
in warfare, of man in subsequent hysteria
screaming from the housetop that all inhibi-
tions have vanished, that he will rut where
he lists, become drunk in whatever com-
pany he finds himself, kill his fellow, break
his bond, insult and flout his reason and
all virtues and rules. The headache after
this (which used to be called sin and has
not changed its nature with its name),
inflamed by the morning-after’s empty
pockets, has hardened into pessimism, the
philosophy without tribunal or relief, the
cynical philosophy of the down-and-out, the
tramp. This is a dead-end.
Subconsciously, literature’s main job is
the opening of doors in dead-ends—gener-
ally doors of escape, of course. But with
those gentle virtues most of the easy way
of escape has vanished. In any case, escape
is not Hemingway’s pepper any more than
music is. His mind is sincere, hardworking
and fearless; the only thing that is any good
to him is the truth at the closest possible
range, the fact. ‘ The fact of this fascinat-
ing art of bullfighting is death, death
so much a commonplace that his quite
unaffected title names its time of day,
as if it were a meal, a drink or an engage-
ment. That opens Hemingway’s kind of
door in this dead-end.
Not a door of soft evading, nor one of
false hope or faith in a cynic period, but
one in the cynic post-war pattern: of reali-
sation. He says in subconscious effect:
“All right, have it your own way; you can’t
have it both ways. By making too much
of death and, corollary, too much of the
mere holding-on to life qua life, you hark
back-—you betray your present contempt
for religion and God and good manners
and the other old laws and graces. In this
game of cynic realism you have queered
all your values by dodging the one reality,
the one absolutely certain fact. This being
death, come close to it, as close as the
matador and, the bull in the moment of
truth, face it and see that you keep it in
its place in the pattern. It is part of your
job to know and understand death. This
book is how some 1 of the lucky ones earn
their living by it, for instance, and a pas-
sionate high-pressure living it is, because it
rests on the stark fact which you talk about
but won’t realise or use. Grace being
scrapped, begin at the other end with death
and sand —earth. Build from that on the
one certain fact of death in its true rela-
tive place, and you may get some life into
the game.”
As in “Fiesta” and “Farewell to Arms”
he - takes the romance, courage, glory—all
the flag-wagging—as read, and concentrates
on the practical fact which keeps these
dreams alive.
HILARY LOFTING.
“The Banjo” Again
The Animals Noah Forgot, by A. B.
Paterson (Endeavour Press; 2s. 6d.), has a
promising Foreword by the author. An
English swan is discovered with an Aus-
tralian bear. The bear explains ivhy his
people didn’t go in'the Ark. Mr. Platypus
comes along and the bear introduces the
swan.
“I want you to take him where he can get a
good feed of waterlily roots and frogs, and then
fetch him back here. We’ll boil the billy and
make a night of it. He can tell us about Richard
Creur-de-Leon, and we can tell him about these
neighbors of ours.”
And it is from what the native bear and the
platypus said that night that this book is written.
A charming idea, and it is carried out in
the early stages of the little book. We
meet “Weary Will”:
The strangest creature for his size
But least equipped for combat
That dwells beneath Australian skies
Is Weary Will the Wombat.
Also “Old Man Platypus”:—
And he talks in a deep unfriendly growl
As he goes on his journey lonely;
For he’s no relation to fish nor fowl,
Nor to bird nor beast, nor to horned owl;
In fact, he’s the one and only.
The bandicoot, the swan, the laughing jack-
ass and one or two more are dealt with on
similar lines, and then their interpreter
seems to have run. out of material. One of
the longest poems is “The Silent Shearer, ”
a ballad about a bush-fighter who didn’t
talk; and “Swinging the Lead” and “The
Army Mules” are soldiers’ songs. There
are over 20 illustrations and decorations by
Norman Lindsay.
J.
A Satchel of Books.
“Blackwood” continues to publish its Talcs
from the Outposts at 3s. 6d. each. Among
the stories in “Soldiers’ Tales” is Ole Luk-
Oie’s “The Green Curve,” one of the best war
stories that have been written in English.
"Tales of Africa” contains Buchan’s “The
Grove of Ashtaroth,” which delights this
critic anew every time he reads it, and
“Jungle Tales’’ has four contributions by Sir
Hugh Clifford. Amazing value!
J. M. Dent and Sons have published, as
the latest addition to their King’s Treasuries
series, Form Room Flaps for Girls (each
play has a prefatory note and notes on the
characters’ dresses) ; Elizabeth Morse’s
C nan ft; Boswell and Johnson (consisting of
selections from the "Life”) and Evergreen
Stories, which include such classics as
“Theseus and the Minotaur” and “The
Poisoned Robe.” The volumes are Is. 4d.
each.
Joe Ed Painter, foreman of the U.T.
Ranch, hears that Miss Nina Carr is arriv-
ing to spend the summer. Ma Bales, the
housekeeper, appears even at that stage to
envisage wliat is coming:—
“You go git her, Joe Ed Painter. The super
says plain out that you’re to meet her.”
“An’ I say plain out that I won’t,” the big
foreman said. “Ride sixty miles in a buckboard
with a girl! Not me!”
But all these woman-hating cow-punchers
have loving hearts, and the hero of Frank
C. Robertson’s Cowboy Courage (Wild West
Club ; 7s. 6d.) is no exception. The Esca-
lante Kid is the luckless outlaw who kidnaps
Nina and bites the dust shortly before Joe
Ed renounces the principles of a lifetime and
consents to wed the new owner of the ranch.
The Gold Comfit Box, by Valentine Wil-
liams (Ilodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.). In this sensational spy yarn Claver-
ing is again opposed by his German rival
Dr. (“Clubfoot”) Brandt. Over and over
again each gets the other in his power, and
invariably, owing to the carelessness, verging
on imbecility, of the man behind the gun,
dungeon-key or whatever it may be, nothing
regrettable happens. The word regrettable
is used advisedly; the reader would be
almost as sorry to see Brandt meet his
deserts as he would to read that Clavering,
that master of the English art of skiting on
self-depreciatory lines, had perished in a
Hun ambush. A pleasing little romance
trickles gently through the rip-roaring narra-
tive, and the ending is exceedingly deft.
Booth Tarkington made his name with some
of the best stories about boys—American boys
—that have ever been written. But he knows
adults as intimately as he does the young,
and he is as much at home in Europe as in
the U.S.A.. so it isn’t strange that his latest
book, Wanton Mally (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.),
should be about England under Charles 11.
Mi'S. Jinny Wilmot, an inveterate roysterer,
persuades the Chevalier de Champvallon
(like his friend De Grammont an exile from
the. Gourt of the Sun King) to join in a
mock assault on a London bishop! One of
the bishop’s servants is wounded 'and the
practical jokers flee to Wanton Mally. The
rest of the book is concerned with the taming
iof Jinny by her love for the Quaker Col-
poys. Equally interesting as a study in.
feminine psychology and as a picture of the
period.
And a Little Verse
BORN 1914.
We are the youth of to-day,
And we feel the restless urge
To be over the hills and away,
To be down where the waters surge.
We have a cry that is deep,
A cry that rends and tears;
We have a harvest to reap
That was sown in the dread dark years.
We have a cry, yet we know not
What is the cry we make;
We have a harvest, yet cannot
Joy in the reaping take.
O Lord, in Thy mercy send us
A message tender and sweet;
Take Thou of our grain and bless it,
And turn the dry husks into wheat.
And, Lord, we are torn asunder
With doubtings and half-formed fears!
Send of Thy rain and Thy thunder,
And wipe out the stain of those years.
W.A.
L. ROBERTS.
THE DARK HOUSE.
When I go home alone to my dark house, '
In fancy lighted windows I can see,
Find welcome where there is no sound at all,
Save of the leaves that tap the outer wall,
The winds of nightfall fingering the tree,.
The scratching of a mouse.
Suppose the lamplight set a flower of gold
Upon the garden pathway’s homely space !
If eager hands shot back the bolts grown stiff.
If Love himself dwelt there (oh, if— and if)
And flames were dancing in the fireplace,
To warm me from the cold !
It needs a little courage still to keep
My spirits from down-drooping when I come
To where the empty house in shadow lies,
Remembering it once was otherwise ;
And there are wintry evenings I could weep
My heart out for that lonely coming
home....
When I go home alone to that dark house
That waits us all. I push the thought away.
Rather my dreams shall be upon the dawn.
With all the roses opening upon the lawn,
And somewhere in the treetops', very close,
The blackbirds fluting in the new-
born day-
Vic.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) mil he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted j
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.F. : O. Henry has done it better in
prose.... J.P.: A fit subject for satire, but your Muse
is a heavy-footed lady. .. .A.C.: To put it mildly,
verse is not your forte... .E.G.T.P.: It won’t do, son.
. ~y. C-C-M.: On the contrary, Lawrence spent most
of his life avoiding people,... W.G.8.: If you mean
to 'write worth-while verse you will have to con-
centrate .... 0.W.: One verse to prove that the race
of horse-poets hasn’t entirely perished :
With a choking in my throttle,
I bounced on old Blue-bottle,
And settled down to ride.
I could hear -he timber crashing
And horns together clashing.
It was my only guide.
.. .. Chatterton M.: “Poet” goes back with reluctance.
Excellently phrased, but trite... .Forfar; It isn’t safe
to assume we remember anything that has not been
printed. Anything from 300 to 000 letters a day
are . handled... .Muriel C.: Don’t find them suitable
for the B. Try “Woman’s Mirror”... .F.G.8.:
Neat, but not out of the way.... F.P.1.; Hard to
tell what “social services” are; but, according to
a N.S.W. Treasury statement, N.S.W. spent on them
£3 11s. 6d. per head in 1931-32 ; AVestralia came next
with £1 17s. Id., and Tasmania was at the foot
with 12s. 9d Carncross; No good to us. The
B. has no use for the man who has skimmed the
surface of a thousand things. Its arms are open
to the man who has dug deep in one... .Nemingha:
Quite true and a trifle tripey....J.L.: A good theme,
and one that would repay more care... .1.W.:
Very laborious sapphics, yours. Have another go
at “The Needy Knife Grinder,” and then try again.
... .P.J.1.; Plenty of swing; too much of that
rather slipshod moralising A.A.1.; Can’t do any-
thing with it. . ..Ac e of S.; She held the joker,
obviously.... H.M.8.; A roundabout way of indicat-
ing mosquitoes.... H.M.; Very poor, and valentines
are out of date, anyhow T. McC.; Shakspearc
Pegged out that claim 350 years ago... .G.L. :
Sounds musical but doesn’t convey much meaning.
.. . . K.S. ; You never wrote a more unscannable elegiac
than the line which contains the word. .. .Phoebe:
Swinburnian without the sweetness 0.8. P .: There'S
an idea in it; when you grow older you may do
it more justice.... J. 8.; Grave or gay, you lack the
touch that carries the writer into print
J. Spinifex: Rhyme and reason both evade you.
... .J.T.C.; It creaks and lurches along like an over-
loaded lorry on a rutted road M.H.: Infantile.
.... Morobe; Smooth verse, but hardly a line that
stirs or sticks... .J.C.: You crash at the first hurdle
by trying to rhyme “captive” with “active”....
H.D.; AVell meant, no doubt, but “Where sleepest
now the valiant brave?” isn't grammar L.F.H.:
Below the mark. .. . V.H.G.; The loafer’s yarn is
mostly drivel. .. .A.E.C.; Weakened by the suicide
ending.... 0.G.N.; Not bad but rot good enough.
.. . .C.L.; Far too bloodthirsty. .. .M.W.; Remark-
able array of polysyllables, but a’ dull tale H.B'.:
It peters out after the third page AV.R.T.: Illiter-
ate deadbeats don’t bluff captains of industry as
easily as all that.. . .F.J.T.; Found wanting....
AV.M.B.; Rehash of an oft,-told tale... . A.G.D; Not
badly done, but the gramophone trick Is 01d....
A.G.C.M. : Unpolished F.L. : Dreary. .. .AV.S.W.;
Throws no new light on the subject. .. .W.G.M.:
You were a long time coming to that small point.
. ...V.A.J.; Might suit a woman’s paper. .. .W.E.D.;
No sparkle in it....M.W.: Wild-west stuff... . D.R.F.:
Why interpose a bore between the characters and
the readers?... .J.F.: All scenery and no story....
C. : It has ceased to be topical... .R.N.M.; One
is old and the other sketchy... .D.A.S.; Too melo-
dramatic. Write about something you know....
James C.: Very good of you; but she will not
give the necessary authority. .. .8.1. Y.: Original,
doubtless, but that isn’t enough.... M.M.: Five pages
of that Hiawatha stuff would make a strong man
groan.... I.B.: A mass of Johnsonian words doesn’t
fit well into verse.... S.R.C,; Would have liked the
champion liar better if he had spoken understandable
English. .. .R.R.: Just one damn adjective after
another... .S.W.: Relished the first few pages ; snored
towards the finish... .C. 8.: Uninviting... .H.R.M.:
The prospector who murders his mate and dies of
thirst while fleeing with his ill-gotten gains is an
old friend. .. .T.L.K.; Consigned to the pile of blasted
hopes.... H.W.; Kept that impostor at arm’s length.
. ...D.J.8.: Ends tamely... .W.W.: Racecourse yarn
reads like a treatise on the higher mathematics....
D. : More convincing than most. Not for us, but
try it elsewhere.... F.M.; Needs a surprise ending
to carry it through.... P. 8.: “One and Eightpence”
is not worth it... .E.M.F.: An old plot crudely pre-
sented. ...J.1.: Middling... . A.F.: Second trip had no
better luck than the first.. .D.A.W.: You give us only
the frills... .A.L.R.: Sentimental trifle... .W.R.W.:
George couldn’t break in here... .C.H.F.: Send it
to a book magazine. .. .C.H.V.: N0....J.C.: Reads
like a story chopped in halves... .W.R.: Not what
we are yearning for. ...A.L.: Nat Gould and water.
. ...R.S.C.: There have been too many of these coin-
cidental meetings by campfires... .0.M.P.; Couldn’t
get excited over that bunch of boarders.... M.C.:
Lightweight... .J.l’.: Started well, then turned to
melodrama... .N.M.S.; Just missed a second reading.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E. 8.: A tangle of distorted figures. .. .D.R.: They
are not side-splitters... .J.W. : We have been kind
and hidden them. . . .P.T.S.: Comic-looking characters,
but none of them smart-tongued... .0.M.: You dis-
cover every pitfall the novice can tumble into....
S.K.R.: Gent, with simian features is a dull jester.
. ...T.F.: Not the belles the gag says they are....
M.J.S.: Jest too ghastly... .W.G.: The trimmings are
the best part of the sketch.... F.C.: He will not go
far without lessons. .. .H.M.: You’re getting nearer to
print... .W.T.: Joke began to totter half a century
ago.-... A.K.: Jibbed at the youth with two right
hands... .E.T.D.: Waste of good board... .M.Q.:
Washwork too blurred. .. .M.S.L.: Don’t like the
thorny linework. .. .P.H.: All figures out of shape.
. ...J.E.: Misdirected energy... .H.R.8.: Jokes lack
backbone.... A.S.C.: Imitators not wanted.... L.F.:
Their incompleteness jars the eye. -.. 8.W.: Callow.
C.S.: Never use mapping pens on rough sur-
faces. .. .T.A.: Unattractive... .W.H.S.: Vigorously
rendered heads, but the rest is drawn just anyhow.
... .H.J.J.: With study, another year should see you
in print... .G.N.W.: Try to visualise how your draw-
ings will look when reduced... .R. J.F.: Disregard
of perspective ruins your chances. .. .V.D.H.: That’s
not a cattle-dog... .V.W.: Same to you. ... J.E.S.:
Untidy.... A.8.H.: Horses or mountain goats?....
H.W.: Some improvement, but not enough.


t
'»V ■> - x
■ I
■HH
—M
I
' V ■ ••
V'jjjjL *
tltlll
■
I
n i i
S&>,
am
tr *S&*£o- .-■.
% gm®
i . ...... . 43®
n
psgs»i
S'-.v.’ -.:,
m s
ll 11 B|
1
SWI
z
V:: : :
■
IS!
is®,*
H
-
■
mm
is 1
r /
as
: . ;
Wy/f
%V 4 - ;
.. .1 .. wv
*■** €r. 1
Rr
/ • • ; -sc- s%'
c' '' ■^v
11
■
i
H
I
,x:
HMlllflHi
K*
: >£**.
I
fSKis«.&; mmmSi
V-
I
i mm
I
ill
. ''-v «H|
. .
y
¥>...■
i*
■ -
wMmmsmm
■
■
■ .;
% $ mmm t
!ll!!!f KEPif:
! • •. • V
\T "' ' <+y m ' Vi
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2773.
April 5, 1933.
PERIL IN THE CORRIDOR.
“The Polish Corridor threatens Europe with another war.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
\ ictoria : Newspaper House, 2i7-2i9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
\V ESTjtALiA : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, Ilf Panama
Street, Wellington,
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
1 erms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6a. ;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
(i months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for J/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
RAISING PRICES.
The Graziers, meeting in Sydney the other
day, got on to the old subject of price-
raising. Finally they carried a resolution
declaring that they had “done everything
within their power to reduce their costs of
production to conform with world prices for
their products,” that costs nevertheless were
still greater than prices, and that “the
Graziers’ Federal Council of Australia
should be requested to ask the Common-
wealth Government to cause inquiry to be
made by a committee of economists and
bankers into methods by which levels may
be raised to the point of profit.” Now, how
can the Commonwealth Government raise
the price of wool? The buyers are for the
most part people living outside the Com-
monwealth over whom the Government has
obviously no control. Our Government
can no more tell them what they shall pay
for our wool than their Governments can
tell us what we shall pay for their goods.
There is only one way in which the Gov-
ernment can raise price levels; and that is
by currency-inflation—by depreciating our
own money. This, however, does not add
one farthing to the price we get for our
wool or other exported staples. But it
does give the exporter more of the depreci-
ated Australian money in exchange for
each £ or dollar or franc the foreign buyer
pays. Let us consider how far that would
take us out of the wood.
Admittedly such an inflationary plan
gives the exporter an advantage to start
with, and that advantage lasts as long as
he can get paid on one price level and pays
out on another. Suppose, for example,
the exchange rate were raised to 150—it is
at present 125. This would mean that for
every £lOO the English buyer paid for, say,
wool, the Australian exporter would get
£l5O, or £25 more than he gets at present.
So long as the exporter could get this extra
£25 without paying any more for wages or
other services, of course he would be in
pocket. The immediate questions are:
(1) How long would it last? and (2) Who
pays the extra £25?
Clearly the buyer does not pay a penny
of it; which means that Australia must pay
every penny of it. But what do we mean
by Australia? The answer to that is quite
clear, too—those Australians who have to
make payments on the other side. These
are, first, debtors, chiefly Government and
public bodies, who between them have to
find about 34 millions a year for interest
overseas. If the exchange rate is 150, it
follows that the taxpayers of Australia
must pay 17 millions extra. In addition to
these debtors, there are the importers of
overseas goods into Australia. In 1927-28
the value of the direct oversea imports was
148 millions sterling. In these latter days
they are cut down almost to bare necessa-
ries, largely raw material and tools of trade,
so that the 1931-32 figures were under 45
millions. On even that radically reduced
total the 150 exchange rate would mean
a further 22i millions. Thus to double the
present premium on Australian money,
Australia would have to pay through the
taxpayer and the importer approximately
40 millions—as a bonus or bounty to the
exporter.
The next problem is: How much benefit
would the exporter—the wool-grower, for
example—get out of it? At the outset he
would certainly get a great deal. He might
get it all. But then the taxes would start:
the Governments would have to recover
their 17 millions, and the farmers would
have to pay their share. The importers
also would pass on their extra charges to
their customers; and, of course, higher taxes
mean higher prices, too. The raising of
prices—which means an increase in the cost
of living—would be almost immediately
reflected in wages. But, though in this
way the advantage which the exporter got
would be most severely whittled down, it
does net follow that it would entirely
disappear. There are charges which would
remain the same no matter how much the
currency is depreciated. These fixed
charges include interest in some cases;
though in most cases it is open to the lender
to put up the rate. Also there are some
charges which might not be passed on.
Here, for instance, is a manufacturer who
imports raw material, on which he has to
pay exchange; but he might decide that
the market was not in a condition to stand
higher prices.
On the other hand there would be liable
to be a rise in prices against which the ex-
porter had no set-off at all. A manufac-
turer would see that a certain imported line
which had been competing with him had
now to carry an extra 25 p.c. exchange.
Hitherto he had been making very little
if any profit; and he would certainly seize
the opportunity to put his price up 10 or
20 p.c. This would be a very important
offset against those small benefits which
the exporter got without having to meet
counterbalancing charges.
On the whole, then, it seems certain that,
though at the outset currency deprecia-
tion through raising the rate of exchange
brings benefits to the exporter, in the
long run he gets very little if any advan-
tage; indeed, the only substantial advan-
tage he gets is through fixed charges. These
he pays on the old basis while getting paid
on the new—the method by which Germany
practically wiped out all its internal debt.
That advantage could be gained in a
simpler way, and one less likely to have
serious consequences—it is a dangerous thing
to monkey with the currency; there is
probably not an economist in the world who
would not warn us against it. Already we
have done something in the way of reduc-
ing fixed charges—(the p.c. reduction of
rents, interest, etc., is a move in that direc-
tion. But more could be done; and at the
same time confidence ought to be restored
either by reducing principal debts or turn-
ing them into loans over a fixed period, at
a low rate of interest. The position in
which the vast majority of farmers—of all
kinds—find themselves to-day is much the
same as the banks and financial cos. were
themselves in about 40 years ago. The.
Commercial Bank of Australia was a case
in point. It owed a lot of money to
depositors, and, like the graziers and others
to-day, could not pay. Two arrangements
were made'; under the first, one-third of the
debt was made perpetual (in the shape of
pref. shares), carrying a maximum 5 p.c.;
two-thirds of it was made a fixed debt for
five years, subsequently, as to two-thirds of
it, extended to 20 years. In practically
every instance during that period of recon-
struction an effort was made to preserve
the shareholders’ equity in the bank or the
financial co., as the case might be; and
there is quite as good reason why the same
effort should be made to preserve the equity
of the farmers and graziers in their holdings
to-day.
THE BLACK BLOT ON AUSTRALIA.
The big trouble with the great industrial
countries of the world is that they have
lost their markets. They simply cannot sell
their manufactured goods at any price. It is
quite unnecessary at this moment to inquire
why: the fact is sufficient. But Australia is in
the extraordinary position that it can sell
all it can produce of its staples at some
price. It may be a wretchedly poor price;
but at least it is sufficient to keep body
and soul together, and it would do a good
deal more than that if it were not for the
oppression of debt. Yet is all the arable land
in Australia under cultivation? Are all the
agricultural implements and draught stock
in use? If they are not, then in the cir-
cumstances we have related they ought to
be. There is, of course, no fortune to be
made from farming. But without the
faintest shadow of a doubt there is an
honest living in it for tens of thousands
of the young men who are growing up in
idleness.
Nor is there the faintest shadow of a
doubt that tens of thousands of the unem-
ployed could be profitably emplo.yed min-
istering to one another’s needs. It is true
they have no money; but if a hundred
men were dumped on a fertile island they
would not starve because their pockets were
empty. As long as the gardener could keep
himself alive while he produced a crop of
vegetables, and as long as the bootmaker
could keep himself alive while he made a
pair of boots, they would be quite all right:
the gardener and the bootmaker could then
exchange their products, and so could all
the others. What a hundred men could
do on an otherwise uninhabited island, a
hundred thousand men can do in Australia.
They are their own market for their own
products. All they need is organisation,
with credit to carry them through the tin-
fruitful period of production. Economists
in America and Europe have suggested
plans for putting these ideas into practice;
but in no other country in the world could
it be done with so much hope of success
as in Australia, because of our very isola-
tion and because, after all, we are but a
handful of people. Forty years ago there
was a great strike at Broken Hill; and
the men, under very able leadership, settled
down to a long struggle. They were heavily
handicapped through living in something
approaching a desert, where quick cultiva-
tion of eatables was impossible. But they
called for farmers, for bakers, for butchers,
for tailors, for bootmakers, for clerks, for
horsedrivers; and among their number they
found all these and more. They had very
little money; but what they had was spent
on raw They issued no strike-
pay ; only coupons, redeemable at the
baker’s (whose bread had been prepared by
labor working for its own coupons) or at
the bootmaker’s, or elsewhere. Strikers
even went into South Australia and worked
on farms, taking in payment wheat which
was milled for the strike bakeries. Those
Broken Hill men of 40 years ago showed
us the way.
But the unemployed cannot do it them-
selves. When a man has not a penny in
his pocket, even the posting of a letter is
impossible. And there is more than lack
of pence in the w r ay. There is the feeling
of hopelessness and helplessness—where can
a start be made? Whatever is done for
the unemployed, those who have the splen-
did advantage of not being unemployed
must do it.
Here and there great things have been
done for a limited number of the out-of-work
—by Canon Hammond, for example, in
Sydney, by the Boys’ Employment League
in Westralia, and by the Kuitpo colony in
S. Australia. Kuitpo, an offshoot of the
Central Methodist Mission, has been in
existence 2\ years, and during that time
600 men have been equipped to help them-
selves. Employment has been found for
250 men direct from the training farm,
276 have been sent to employment from
the colony’s waiting-list, and at a recent
date 70 were still in the colony. It is not
entirely self-sqpporting, but it is well on
the way to be so. “We have found by
experience,” the manager says, “that, the
percentage of men who are not anxious to
make good is very small. We should
have a dozen colonies where unem-
ployed men could be sent and classified.”
But it would be foolish to look to the
land alone. These hundreds of thousands
of unemployed have been trained to do
things of which these hundreds of thou-
sands themselves have need; as we have
seen, it is chiefly a matter of organising
the exchange of their services. That organ-
isation is the business of some body. Of
course there are difficulties in the road;
the work of the organiser is to find out
how to overcome difficulties. To leave
things as they are; to let these youths
grow up in idleness; to allow older men
to become so accustomed to the dole that
they look for nothing better; to permit
this feeling of helplessness and hopeless-
ness to grow in a country like Australia
until men turn to revolutionary commun-
ism—this is a standing disgrace to us. And
a standing menace.
BOOKS IN AUSTRALIA.
During the past month or two Australia
has had the pleasure of. welcoming a flight
of overseas publishers, who have told us
what great book-readers we are and that
their object in coming this way was to see
that our wants are even better catered for
in the future. One gentleman assured us that
outside England Australia is easily the
best market for English books. It was
very interesting and very gratifying, no
doubt; but it is capable of being looked at
froip another viewpoint. It may be that
outside England Australia is the best
market for English books because every
other country is a better market for its
own books.
Still, there would be no reason to com-
plain if the English and other overseas
hooks Cipne here only in fair competition
with those produced in Australia. But
they do nothing of the sort. When a book
is published, it makes comparatively little
difference whether the number of copies
printed is 3000 or 5000. A publisher can
never be sure whether a book will be a
“best-seller” or not; so the tendency is
always to print on the liberal side. This
means that, if a book “flops,” a large
number of copies are left on hand; in
England, after the first two or three
months, a book is practically not called for
at all unless it is one of the few that have
come to stay. The result is that, so far
as the failures are concerned, publishers
are left with heavy stocks of what are
called “remainders”; and it is for these
that Australia is so good a market—it is
largely because it can be depended upon
to relieve them of so large a number of
such volumes, rejected and despised by the
readers of England, that British publishers
have so high a regard for Australia.
These books are sold for what they will
fetch; and so we have the constant experi-
ence of English books published at 6s. or
more being retailed in Australia at 2s. or
3s. They are admitted not only duty free,
but free even of ffriinage, on the ground
that we must not tax the education of the
people! Under cover of that piece of
hypocrisy, overseas publishers are able to
unload their failures and their rubbish on
Australia; and in the process the literary
taste of this country is corrupted and
debased. Practically all the books pur-
chased for the country libraries to-day are
of this character. Four months ago The
Bulletin resolved to do what it could for
book-writers in Australia by putting its re-
sources at the disposal of a book-publishing
co. There is np doubt at all about the mate-
rial available. In addition to the novels of
Australian life which ought to be issued in
Australia, there are scores of other volumes
that call for publication. What likelihood,
for example, was there of publishing over-
seas “Banjo” Paterson’s delightful rhymes
of “the animals Noah forgot”—the queer
creatures of our own bush? Or Charles
Chauvel’s moving story “In the Wake of
the Bounty”? There can, however, be no
successful book-publication in Australia so
long as this country is allowed to be the
dumping ground for “remainders”; nor can
there be anything worth while in the way
of magazines while the same practice is
permitted with regard to that class of
literature.
WHAT RAMSAY MACDONALD DID
NOT SAY AT GENEVA.
“Gentlemen, I have been a comedian all
my life. I have played many roles. On
the stage of world affairs I have spoken the
lines appropriate to a statesman devoted to
the cause of freeing mankind from the dread-
ful menace of war; and anon, in the privacy
of my dressing-room, I have endorsed
policies leading directly to the very horrors
against which I had just warned the world.
Needless to tell you, gentlemen, I have
collected handsome royalties—payments, as
one might say, in kind: praise, fame.
“But now, gentlemen, I am a sad, weary
and bewildered old man. I go to my
dressing-room, remove my latest mask and
contemplate .it. How loathsome it is, how
horrible it looks, with its mock air of benevol-
ence, honesty and truth! How hollowly, how
obscenely the echoes of the rhetoric I have
just employed ring in my ears! Gentlemen,
I came to this great assembly to perform
what is probably to be my last important
role. My producers are .growing tired of
me. My memory is failing and I sometimes
forget my lines. I do not win the laughs
I once did. I am getting out of date.
“Next week, next year. I may be ‘out of
a shop,’ not merely temporarily but for ever.
I have no need to tell you, gentlemen, who
are of the same profession, what that' means
to a man who has been an actor all his life.
But I have not, come here to bqfle you with
my regrets or animadvert on the notori-
ous fickleness of the public taste. Gentle-
men, I propose to tell the truth.
“As I said before, I am growing old and
my eyesight is not what it was. Perhaps it
is because of this that, when I gaze around
this noble hall at this august audience,
composed of the plenipotentiaries of all the
Powers, statesmen famous throughout the
world, whose names are household words, in
whom millions of helpless people place
implicit trust, men of the keenest intellect
—when, I say, I gaze around on this
assembly, all I see is a collection of buf-
foons. Solemn, gentlemen, it is true, we
look. We are apt in debate, we are witty,
learned and persuasive, we can produce at
will words that appear to burn; but that is
all we are at bottom, gentlemen—cold-
hearted, cynical buffoons..
“Who are we, we buffoons? We are men
selected for the ostensible purity of our
motives and dedicated to the supreme task
of saving humanity from itself in the. great-
est crisis that has ever threatened the civili-
sation we are supposed to adorn. And
what are we in reality? Common hucksters,
but hucksters in human lives and suffering!
Each of us, gentlemen, has come here de-
termined to take as much as possible and
give nothing in return. I am here to
obtain by every diplomatic means reduction
of the kind of weapon that threatens my
country’s supremacy, such as submarines
and aeroplanes. You, representatives of
France, will ask in the name of Peace for
smaller capital ships, but will insist that
your army shall remain untouched. You,
Germany, will agree to everything that does
not conflict with your, desire for eqyality
in instruments of destruction with France.
You, Italy and America —but need I go on
with the dreary catalogue? None of us can
boast of pre-eminence in fraud.
“I pass my hand before my eyes and
you all dissolve. In your place appears
as strange an assemblage as ever sat in a
temple dedicated to Peace. There is noth-
ing particularly unusual or sinister in their
appearance. They look like a collection of
average official and business men. But what
are they doing? There, on that bench on
my right, a representative of the sovereign
Government of France has just handed a
cheque for 400 million francs to a repre-
sentative of the sovereign Government of
Poland, who is handing it back to the agent
of a French munitions firm. Here, on my
left, are a Chinese and a Japanese. Their
countries are at war, but they themselves
are beaming with mutual friendliness and
trust. They have just come to an agree-
ment on the price they are both to offer a
British factory for cartridges to be used by
their respective countrymen. The agent of
the factory is waiting their verdict with ill-
concealed impatience. He has other clients
there just as good—a Turk and a Yugo-
slav. An Italian is whispering to the Yugo-
slav that their countries will almost cer-
tainly soon be at war, and that Italian
soldiers might just as well be killed by
Italian bullets as by bullets with a foreign
brand.
“Gentlemen, fellow-mummers, no doubt
you are anxious to go into committee to
appoint bureaus and commissions to settle
quotas of flying craft, dimensions of tanks
and displacement of battleships. You are
eager to frame the wording of a new pact
outlawing bacterial warfare and the use of
poison gas. Perhaps you wish once more
solemnly and irrevocably to outlaw War
itself. Do you want me to paint a picture
of the next war —of the incredible potency
of modern poison gases; of how, if severely
gassed, people would be driven mad by pain
and misery and would lose all mental con-
trol; of how one single bomb of modern
asphyxiant might kill everybody in an area
as large as from Regent’s Park in London to
the Thames, or from the Place de la Con-
cord to ? No? Then, gentlemen, I
have no more to say. I have played my
part. I am finished.”
M.G.S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne’s Social Evil.
Yic. Chief Secretary Macfarlan received an
unusual deputation the other day. It was
composed of what the newspapers call
women of ill-repute from Little Lonsdale-
street. Their spokesman was a good-look-
ing young person who showed herself to be
almost as well-educated as the Chief Secre-
tary himself and to have a better grasp of
the problem of the evil which the police,
for the hundredth time in the history of
Melbourne, set out recently to abolish. She
told the Chief Sec. a few plain facts. The
women of Little Lon. do not spread disease
like the casual courtesan, since they know
how to look after themselves. They do
not engage in sly-grog selling, an activity
which enormously increases the damage
done by their trade. Since prostitution has
existed ever since there was such a thing as
society, and law, religion and ethics have
failed to suppress it, it is a fair assump-
tion that it fulfils a social purpose. There-
fore, triumphantly concluded this daughter
of Eve, she and her colleagues ought not
to be persecuted by .the police, but pro-
tected by them.
The history of those attempts makes
melancholy reading. What the City Council
euphemistically called “a crusade against
vice” was started three years ago. Some
40 of the women were arrested and charged
with vagrancy. They all produced bank-
books which showed that they were not
without means of support, so the prosecu-
tion fell down. Charges of accosting in
the street were then brought. These failed
because it was proved that the accused
were either standing or sitting outside the
doors of their houses or shops when the
alleged accosting occurred. The police
then tried to sheet an offence home to
persons having the care, government or
management of the houses. Prior know-
ledge by the landlords of the intentions of
their prospective tenants could not be
proved. There is only one woman in each
of the houses, so she could not be accused
of being a party to the use of the house as
a house of ill-repute. In 1932 the council
launched a fresh campaign against the land-
lords, who are mainly Assyrians, Armenians
and other aliens, under a new by-law; but
again the prosecution broke down over the
question of prior knowledge. Reinforced
by a decision of the High Court, the coun-
cil tried again, this time under an Act of
1842 giving it' power “for the good rule of
the city and the suppression or prevention
of nuisances, and the restraint of dis-
orderly houses and houses of ill-repute.”
But there was nobody to come forward to
say that he was annoyed by the nuisance
except a policeman, which was not con-
sidered sufficiently good evidence.
And so the silly farce goes on. The
council is so occupied with legal subleties
that it hasn’t the time, even if it had the
inclination, to consider what it is really
trying to do. If it drives these women out
of their present haunts, no doubt Little
Lonsdale-street will look as eminently re-
spectable as Collins-street does now. But
nobody supposes that they will not crop
up somewhere else, notably on the pave-
ments of Collins-street. It might be argued
that they will find better accommodation
in the suburbs—their present premises are
far from ideal, since, in order to obtain
immunity from prosecution, each woman is
now the solitary occupant of one small
house or box without proper conveniences
—but it can also be argued that, if they
go elsewhere, it will probably be from bad
to worse.
If the council really wanted to regulate
the evil instead of merely wanting to trans-
fer it out of its jurisdiction, it would
seek power to take over the present localitv
or shift its inhabitants to a more suitable
spot, license them, put them under medical
supervision and see that their trade is car-
ried on with the least possible damage to
the community. It is not likely to do
this. It is too worshipful of conven-
tional respectability. It will probably
go on muddling with the law until its
moral enthusiasm evaporates, and then it
will let the whole thing drop for another
decade or so; and meantime Little Lon. will
be where it has been for the last 60 years.
Of course, segregation and regulation are
not a real solution of the problem. They
are only the device of despair. Prostitution
is an abomination. Poverty drives most of
the women to their dreadful trade—poverty
and the economic dependence of women
upon men. When moralists produce vagrants
who say that they took to prostitution
because they wanted jewels, fine clothes
and a comfortable home, they have only
produced women who wanted to improve
their economic status; and if the only way
they can find to do it is by adopting the
most miserable of all trades, so much the
worse for our state of society.
O
What the Lang Plan Really Is.
An SOS has gone out to headquarters from
the Lang Planners in South Aus.. and every
available free railway pass has been rushed
into the breach. It is to be hoped that
one or other of the gentlemen who have
answered the call will tell honest Adelaide
just what the Lang Plan is. Actually it is
very brief; as announced to Lang’s then
brother-Premiers on Feb. 9, 1931, it was
as follows:
(I) That the Governments of Australia decide to
pay no further interest to British bondholders until ■
Britain has dealt with the Australian oversea debts
in the same, manner as she settled her. own -debt
witli America.
(2) That in Australia interest on all Government
borrowing's be reduced to 3 per cent.
(3) That immediate steps be taken by the Com-
monwealth Government to abandon the gold standard
of currency and set up in its place a currency
based upon the wealth of Australia, to be termed
the goods standard.
That is the Lang Plan, lock, stock and
barrel; and it is quite safe to say that
not one in a hundred of those who profess
to be Lang Planners could give an accurate
account of it.
For the purposes of the present analysis
it is not necessary to go past the first
paragraph. Described in the simplest terms,
this was merely, a proposal to swindle our
British creditors. But that was not the
worst feature of it. It would still have
been dishonest, but at least it would not
have been entirely contemptible, if we had
gone to them and said, “Things have been
running against us, and we cannot possibly
pay you. You must make us some conces-
sion.” But the Lang Plan sought to justify
default on other grounds—no interest was
to be paid to British bondholders “until
Britain has dealt with the Australian over-
sea debts in the same manner as she
settled her own debt with America.” The
facts are that, so far as loans made by indi-
vidual American investors to Britain are
concerned, Britain has never sought any
concession or made any arrangement or
settlement whatever. The only arrange-
ment Britain made was with regard to
money supplied by the U.S. Government
to Britain for the prosecution of a war
in which both of them were engaged, at a
time when America was not yet able to
supply men. On the other hand, of the
money owing by Australia oversea less than
20 p.c. was advanced by the British
Govertiment, which long since has ceased to
collect from us either interest or sinking
fund; the balance of 80 p.c. has been lent
to Mr, Lang and others by individual men
and women to build railways and for other
public purposes. To suggest that the two
debts are alike was therefore a piece of
gross and blatant dishonesty. Either Mr.
Lang is a dull, stupid man, quite incapable
of grasping simple facts, or he is a dangerous
man who will lie to the people in order to
lead them to a wrong conclusion. He may,
of course, be both.
So there we have the Lang Plan. If South
Australia has anything except contempt for
the thing the Plan proposed and for the
manner in which it was proposed, then
South Australia is not what the rest of Aus-
tralia believes it is.
— *
Developing the North.
“Woomera”: Few who know the north will
be disposed to quarrel with the views and
ideas expressed by your “Man in the Far
North” (B. 22/3/’33), who advocates a
railway from Wyndham to the Gulf and
the linking up of the two ends of the
North-South line; but clear-sighted as he
is on the proposition that he submits, he
misses the ingredients of the Bourke to
Birdum proposal that make it really worth
while as a developmental undertaking. The
proposal he sponsors is quite strong enough
to stand on its own bottom, and if the
central Government was wise in its genera-
tion it would see to it that a charter was
issued to have it exploited as it ought to be
by private enterprise.
But it should be additional to, not an
alternative for, the Bourke-Birdum pro-
ject. The inherent value of the latter lies
in the aid it will provide for re-establishing
the cattle industry in Australia. Those who
think that the great days of this industry
have passed for the Commonwealth lack
the long view. Australia will yet supply
great, quantities of export beef, and indica-
tions are not wanting that those days may
be nearer than a lot of people think. It
is out on the Cooper’s Creek country, and
contiguous areas, that the finest natural
fattening lands in Australia are to be found.
Given freedom and rapidity of ingress and
egress, the problem of regular supplies
to the meatworks will be automatically
solved; for the existing intermittency is
largely the problem of drought. Open up
the great natural pasture lands of south and-
central-western Queensland, let the bullocks
come and go as they cannot come and go
now, make the pastures of the Gulf and
the Northern Territory and of these areas
interchangeable at will—in other words, let
the breeding-grounds of the north and the
north-west provide the bullocks to consume
the pastures of the central and south-west
of Queensland, with assurances as to get-
away in case of need, and one of the great
problems of cattle production in Australia
will be solved.
That end can be achieved without inter-
ference in any way with the Boorooloola-
Wyndham scheme. Its excellences are un-
doubted, and the writer has long been
familiar with them. They could best be
dealt with by a chartered company based
on a franchise sufficiently attractive to rally
to our aid the old enterprise and spirit of
colonising effert that I am sure has not
wholly departed from the character of the
modern Briton. More than one damn-fool
Minister at Canberra has blocked such
schemes in the past. Can they be revived?
♦ .
Wanted, a Criminal Code.
One of the items to be considered during
the coming Parliamentary session in N. S.
Wales is, a measure of law reform. Legisr
lation of the kind is long overdue. Legal-
procedure in the Mother State is, in. many
respects, more antiquated than in any other
of the Dominions.
This is particularly the case with the
criminal law. Many processes in use in the
days of the convict system, processes long
since amended by statute in the England
where, they originated,: still remain. A few
days ago three men were committed for
trial on a charge of illegally entering pre-
mises. The actual nature of their act does
not concern this note. What does is that
the charge had to be laid under an Act
passed in 1381, when Richard 11. was sov-
ereign of England, the . archaic phraseology
of legislation more than 500 years old being
necessarily employed in the indictment.
The criminal law is, of all branches of
law, the simplest in its essentials. Many
civilised countries have reduced it to a
clearly-defined code in which its principles
are succinctly laid down by statute, and
freed from the jungle of precedent and
ancient custom which so obscures it in
others. One of the best codes of this kind
yet produced is Queensland’s, compiled by
the great jurist Samuel Griffith. Not only
is the nature of all criminal offences pre-
cisely and unmistakably set out, but the
forms of indictment —these being a fruit-
ful source of argument and dispute under
the old system, often leading to miscarriage
of justice—are set down in fixed form.
When Parliament adopted the new code
the old cobwebbed issues were forthwith
relegated to the dustheap without fuss or
confusion.
There is no practical reason why the
Queensland code should not be adopted by
N. S. Wales. Conditions in Queensland
before it became law were on all fours with
those obtaining in N. S. Wales to-day. The
abandonment of the old procedure and the
adoption of the new would give no more
trouble and cause no more inconvenience
than they did in Queensland. And there
would be a great saving in time and cost.
• ♦
The Pogrom in Germany.
“Schnorrer”: It is obvious that the Gov-
ernment-sanctioned brutalities against the
Jews which have removed Germany tem-
porarily from the list of civilised countries
go further than is directly mentioned in
the cables; indirect references, like the one
which spoke of hundreds of Jewish refugees
being met in French towns, tell more of
the wholesale character of the assault on
peaceable citizens and their despair of pro-
tection.
Actually Hitlerism started as an anti-
Semitic movement, and its early rapid
growth was mainly due to the number of
Jews who flocked into Germany after the
unheavals in Poland and the Russian
revolution, refugees from the countries to
the east, who seemed able to secure jobs
and make a living when multitudes of
Germans remained unemployed. Amongst
the ignorant the Jew was soon made a figure
of more than racial prejudice; he \Vas
turned into a national enemy. “The Pro-
tocols of the Learned Elders of Zion,”
promulgated as an authentic record, is a
sample of the propaganda with which the
people have been fed.
These “protocols” contain alleged plans
for the subjugation of the Christian world
by Jews, through the power of money, a
white-anting process, the immediate object
being to get Jewish brains into influential
positions, and to divide the non-Jewish
people by such movements as Communism.
Actually the “protocols” are pure fiction,
part of a sensational novel, “To Sedan,”
published in 1866 by a German author who
wrote for an anti-Semitic public. The
chapter containing them was regarded as
good propaganda, and was republished time
and again, until in 1905 Sergius Nilus, a
bitter anti-Semite, included the- “pro-
tocols” as fact in a treatise against the
Jews published in St. Petersburg. They
thereafter swept Europe; and though their
true history has been established beyond
doubt, thev have remained in the text-
books of the anti-Jewish movement. The
prominence of Jews in various activities
has given some color to the ridiculous
idea of the great Jewish plot; and that is
why, in the minds of many ignorant fol-
lowers of Hitlerism, the Jew' is honestly
pictured as a public enemy. It is a reason,
too. why the nogrom in Germany threatens
to be as bad as any that have occurred in
Russia.
«
Canberra and Tax-free Bond’s.
From A. C. Godhard, the promoter of the
scheme for converting Canberra into a
refuge for tax-exempt investors:—
I had hoped my plan would receive The
Bulletin’s enthusiastic support, as its
main object was to relieve Australia of the
burden of having to send every year to
London the huge sum of £35,000,000. I had
counted on the paper’s support for a plan
which would gradually convert an oversea debt
into an internal one, and I cannot see any
objection to issuing tax-free bonds to achieve
this result. As far as Australia is con-
cerned, our oversea bonds are already tax-
free. .We do not get a single penny of
revenue from them.
Nor is there anything unpatriotic in any-
one desiring to lend his money on these
conditions. " The advantage thus secured is
usually gained by the surrender of some
equivalent in value. Furthermore, the in-
terest paid to the Canberra bondholders
would, though, tax-free in their hands, be
immediately subject to taxation when spent
by them, as it would swell the incomes of
those who were not exempt. In addition, the
bondholders would in most cases have other
mbans beside the amount invested in bonds,
and bn these they would have to pay the
usual taxes.
The Bulletin suggests that we would
"lose a great deal more than we would gaiu.”
How could that be when, as shown, we do
not get one penny, while if the plan were
carried to fulfilment £35,000,(MX) would be
put into cir'citlatioii • every year? Nearly
£lOO,OOO every day. Surely this is a goal
worth working for!
The Bulletin is sorry it can’t oblige Mr.
Godhard. Australia has had a little ex-
perience of tax-free securities, and it doesn’t
want any more. Why, anyway, should one
section of the community escape taxation,
and that the least enterprising? A man
abroad has £lO,OOO. He comes this way with
it, invests' it in some industrial enterprise,
thereby making employment, and is taxed
like the rest of us. Another with £lO,OOO
comes to Australia, but actually brings not
a penny of it, his money being paid to
some other overseas investor, and he gets
exemption from taxation—or Mr. Godhard
proposes that he should. Why should he?
■ ♦
A + B = One Green Shirt.
The Douglas Social Credit movement in
England lately entered on a phase that
may end in revolutionary action. Follow-
ing the precedent hallowed by Mussolini,
the militants founded the Green Shirts;
and Major Douglas has apparently given his
blessing to the organisation by requesting
that its uniform be faced with the green
tartan worn by his family. Six shillings
fits out an adherent with a green shirt, and
ten shillings covers the full outfit of shirt,
belt, beret and badgelet. According to their
organ, “Front Line,” the Shirts are already
sweeping the land. The slogan is “For
King and Country, and down with the
Bankers.” The leaders say that, as in the
days of Cromwell, Parliament is power-
less, but, unlike the days of Cromwell, an
insurrection to replace it is now possible
without bloodshed. A Green Shirt, it is
explained, must first learn the general prin-
ciples of the A + B theorem, but only
three to six weeks’ study is essential. He
may then go forth and propagate the New
Economics to all and sundry and demon-
strate for the immediate issue of the
National Dividend. This all suggests a
somewhat naive notion of mob psychology.
The Douglas analysis, whether it is right
or wrong, is a severely intellectual achieve-
ment claiming a philosophic basis; but after
the A + B theorem has spent a week or
two in the market-place its author won’t be
able to recognise his own offspring. It
will probably be transmuted, by herd
alchemy, into anti-Semitism. Indeed, some
of Douglas’s followers already have a vague
notion that the Jews are at the bottom
of things. A pogrom is therefore threat-
ened in Britain. The police will, of course,
put it down, the Green Shirts will be sup-
pressed and it will turn out that somebody
or other has made a huge profit out of
selling the official articles of clothing, just
as the Klansmen and Kleagles made for-
tunes out of selling black nightshirts to
enthusiastic Ku-Kluxers.
4
“The Bulletin’s” Service Department.
Six years ago this week The Bulletin
believed it saw a way of being still more
useful to its readers, and the Service De-
partment was accordingly set up. From
the outset there was never a doubt about
its popularity, and with every succeeding
year it has become more popular.
It has answered either in print or by
mail over 51,000 inquiries. No tally ha~
been kept of the number of questions
answered by telephone or of readers who
have called personally to elicit information.
It has received requests for information
from practically every country in the world.
A typical overseas mail brought a letter
from a student in Berlin asking for facts
concerning Henry Lawson, another from a
mother in Scotland seeking a runaway son,
an epistle from a South African philologist
regarding the origin of certain Australian
slang words, and a note from an Italian
who wanted data about our censorship
laws. Americans are prolific correspon-
dents: mostly they want to know how to
go about settling in Australia. And, of
course, there have been inquiries on every
kind of subject from every part of the
Commonwealth.
The Department’s ability to respond to
the demands made upon it has only been
possible by the aid of many friends. It
retains hundreds of authorities on as many
subjects throughout Australia. To these
it submits the questions coming within
their particular spheres. It is also helped
considerably by numerous public and pri-
vate bodies. Government departments—
especially the Departments of Agriculture—
in each of the States and at Canberra have
been extremely helpful, and the ungrudging
assistance they have rendered is gratefully
acknowledged.
The Bulletin tries to make its Service
Page wholly readable by everybody. But
the Page exhibits only a small part of the
Department’s work. The standing line,
“Many others mailed,” printed at the bot-
tom of the fourth column, is a statement
of what occurs weekly. Answers to ques-
tions not of general interest, or where con-
fidential or urgent replies are deemed neces-
sary, are always conveyed by post, or, if
circumstances seem to demand it, by tele-
gram. The Department was initiated with
the object of providing a form of practical
assistance to readers faced with problems
or difficulties they wanted solved. On its
sixth birthday it repeats its invitation to
readers to make the fullest use of an organi-
sation created entirely for their benefit.


CRAVEN - A.
IN THEIR WRAPPER OF MOISTURE-PROOF
'CELLOPHANE * ( reo d.)
10 fa** 9*
lOTinslfc
50..3'9
Che Jtoct&tu-’lh&dh .
when uou open the pommy
CRAVEN A
made specially to prevent sore throats
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
*2!!fei
oSi
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD.
. 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION
FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL
POINTS
If the States ask for it, there will be a
convention to consider whether any and, if
any, what patches should be put on the Fed-
eral Constitution ; Prime Minister Lyons has
promised that. But it isn’t so much a con-
vention that is wanted as a body like the
Inter-State Commission, provided for in the
Constitution, designed by the framers of it
to be “the eyes and the ears of the Parlia-
ment,” but practically destroyed by the High
Court. If such a Commission were well
chosen, in 12 months it could tell what
amendments, if any, really are necessary.
Op the other hand, whatever conclusions a
convention of politicians arrives at are likely
to be based on party data varying from
doubtful to plain horrible.
Westralia is on Saturday to answer two
questions outside the State shindy—(l) Arc
you in favor of secession? (2) Are you in
favor of a convention of State representa-
tives for the purpose of proposing Constitu-
tional amendments? The first was always
a futile question; the only power which
might possibly be able to release the State
is the British Parliament, and as the British
Parliament had itself said that the Com-
monwealth is indissoluble, and that the Con-
stitution whose preamble so declares it can
only be amended by a referendum, there
wasn’t a million to one chance of the Par-
liament doing anything. But even the mil-
lion to one chance was destroyed by the
refusal of public meetings at Perth and Fre-
mantle to listen to the Prime Minister’s
defence of the Commonwealth. An Appeal
Cou T t which could be told that the prosecu-
tion maintained a din so that the defence
could not reach the jury wouldn’t have much
difficulty in deciding what to do.
At the end of March the Commonwealth'
Bank held just under 20 millions in London;
a year ago it held just over 22 millions.
This shows that, notwithstanding the reduc-
tion in exchange rate, the trade balance is
being just about maintained. The figures
offer no argument in favor of a higher ex-
change rate; on the other hand, they don’t
of themselves cry for a reduction.
“In connection with the proposed grant of con-
stitutional government to the people of India, it
is recalled that, out of 320 millions included in
the last census, 294 millions were found to he
illiterate.”
PEASANT'S WIFE: “What have you got
there?”
PEASANT: “The Raj has given us this. They
call it the Franchise.”
PEASANT'S WIFE: “Well done! How do you
cook it?”
History soon gets muddled. The “S. M.
Herald,”'talking of Federal Arbitration, said
last week that the three original members
of the High Court Bench had been delegates
to the Convention which framed the Consti-
tution and presumably knew what the Arbi-
tration clause was intended to do. As a
matter of fact, the Chief Justice, the over-
mastering figure in the court, was not a dele-
gate. The “Herald” is wrong, too, in
supposing that the Arbitration clause was
designed to deal with industries “entailing
migratory employment, such as shearing and
shipping.” It w~as lobbied by J. 11. Howe,
long-time M.L.A. for Port Pirie (S.A.), who
had seen how the smelters there were thrown
idle by strikes at Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
The purpose was to create a Federal body
which could deal with disputes in an in-
dustry carried on partly in one State and
partly in another.
Billy Hughes’s mission to the West to
combat secession is the shrewdest move he
has made ,since he lost the Prime Minister-
ship. He is getting bigger crowds and better
receptions than Lyons got, and he is un-
likely to be as tactless as Lyons, who, after
facing a hostile audience, told the reporters
that he was “disgusted” with its treatment
of him. Senator Brennan, from Victoria,
fell into an even worse blunder when he
stigmatised the secessionists as “disloyal to
the Empire.” As a matter of fact, the
secessionist leaders are not anti- but ultra-
imperialists. They were all for conscrip-
tion in 1916 and 1917, and conscription was
carried in Westralia by thumping majorities.
“The Graziers have decided to ask Federal Mini-
sters to invite the bankers and economists to advise
them how to raise price levels.”
LYONS (to the Graziers) : “Gentlemen, don’t
you think I’d better consult Dante and
the other conjurors? They’re the only
people who know how to put three
white rabbits into a hat and take out
five.”
Menzies, Railway Minister and other
things, hasn’t been getting the loudest cheers
at recent - country conferences in Victoria.
Most of them want money spent, lashin’s of
it, and Menzies is sitting down hard on the
cash-box. He has just told the A.W.N.I
why. This year the Government has re-
duced the gap between revenue and out-
goings by £700,000; but it had under-
taken to save a further £900,000 next year,
and that would mean hanging on to all
present economies for certain, and probably
digging up more taxes. Menzies is trying
to save the country from those taxes; and he
isn’t getting much help from conferences and
deputations. But the chances are he never
expected it.
“Governments should be fanatical about
balancing their Budgets,” Vic. Deputy-
Premier Menzies told a meeting the other
night. The trouble is that to half the
people a “Budget” means nothing actual;
the wickedness of the unbalanced Budged
might be better appreciated if it was real-
ised that what it really means is borrowing
to pay the policeman who keeps us in order
and leaving our children to repay the loan.
The man who ticked up his beer at the pub
and gave Bung an order to collect the money
out of Ms kid’s wages would be reckoned
the dead limit in meanness ; yet that is just
about what the unbalanced Budget amounts
to.
In reply to a question in the Reps, as to
what effect the withdrawal of Japan from
the League of Nations would have upon her
mandates in the South Seas, Attorney-
General Latham said the withdrawal couldn’t
take place for two years, anyhow. “Under
the Covenant a Power proposing to withdraw
must give that period of notice.” But there
are a lot of other things laid down in the
Covenant that sound like empty thunder
nowadays. One is that no nation belonging
to the League shall employ force for the
settlement of a dispute until it has first sub-
mitted it to the League, waited six months
for the award or decision, and then allowed
at least three months more to elapse. “Thus
they are debarred,” said one of the framers
of the Covenant complacently, “from the
tiger’s spring.” Mussolini, when Greece had
to be taught a lesson, was the first to show
the way through that paper hoop.
There are rumors from Berlin tliat Japan
is negotiating with Germany for the return
or sharing of the mandated Pacific Islands.
It sounds like a joke. In the last 30 years
Nippon has added Formosa, Korea, Man-
churia, the Kuriles, the Pescadores, Sagha-
lien and the port and leased territory of
Tsingtao to her possessions. The only item
she lias given up is Tsingtao, and that was
a result of the united pressure of the Great
Powers at the Washington Conference,
coupled with threats of a Chinese boycott.
The report of the M.L.C., just out, shows
how taxation has been heaped up on life-
insurance income. In 1930 this co. paid
£71,545; in 1932, £l66,B69—part of it due,
of course, to the exchange payable on over-
seas interest. Increased taxation means re-
duced bonuses. It is surprising in how many
ways the public pay for the bounty which
is handed to the exporter through exchange.
In the bad dead days a Nationalist Gov-
ernment which ought to have known, better
listened to a tale that it would be a good
thing to build a railway from Parramatta to
Rogan’s Hill (N.S.W.). The Labor Opposi-
tion offered no objection worth mentioning;
the work would give a few men jobs handy
to town, and that was all that mattered.
Later, however, when the work was finished
and there were no more jobs for friends, the
Opposition discovered that the railway was
a sinful business intended chiefly to put up
the value of a big Liberal patron’s land.
When Lang was in office last the rails were
torn up; moreover, to rub it in and make the
public go on cursing the party which built
the line, the Lang Government put a heavy
super-tax on the ’buses that took over the
route. The Stevens Government has decided
that there is no justice in fining the villages
on the route for what is alleged to have been
the sin of a Government, and the super-tax
has been abolished —-on condition, of course,
that the fares are brought down with a
bang. The whole business has been a tell-
ing commentary on politics in N. S. Wales.
Mackrell, M.L.A., sec. of the Vic. Country
party, suggested to the Cocky conference at
St. Arnaud that the State Savings Bank
might relieve debt-oppressed farmers by float-
ing a special loan of five millions and tak-
ing over their mortgages—on the usual long
Savings Bank terms, of course. There
wasn’t much enthusiasm for the scheme; but
it was worth discussing. Whether it is done
wholesale or retail, something of tin- kind
will have to come sooner or later.
In the course of a solemn discussion on
the anomaly of a Judge fining a man £5O
for taking part in a lottery when numerous
State Governments themselves provide lot-
teries and the Federal Government provides
facilities for gambling in them, the “Argus”
delivered itself thus; “Nevertheless, it would
be a step in the wrong direction for Victoria
to relax her laws against gambling. It is
better to be inconsistent and partly righteous
than to be logical and shameless.” In
plainer words, if a murderer is small and
weak and without importance, he ought to
be hanged; but if an institution commits
murder on a grand scale, or if there are thou-
sands of murderers, not only ought their
crimes to be condoned but, if possible, they
should be made to pay a fee for the privi-
lege of going on murdering.
The truth about the secession movement
in Westralia isn’t very creditable to several
people. It was a newspaper stunt; and
it took on mainly because, like the rest of
the world, Westralia wasn’t feeling very
well, and Federation was a handy thing to
blame for it. Then the politicians came in.
A State general election was pending, and
TYPIST (to office-boy Jimmy Mitchell ):
“The boss is thinking of giving you the
sack this afternoon, James.”
JAMES: “Gee, that’s stiff luck. Say, you
plant this ripe herring under his chair,
and see if that won’t make him forget
me.”
Jimmy Mitchell saw that the rule these
days was for the Government to go out, and
the Opposition to come in. So he had to
think up a scheme for preventing things from
taking their usual course; and he lit on
secession as a fine, smelly herring. Until
this occasion Mitchell has had some claims
to be regarded as a pretty large Australian.
He drops now to the ranks of small political
manceuverers.
Queensland pastoralists have been stag-
gered by a decision of the Industrial
Court, which lias reduced rural wages in
Southern Queensland while maintaining the
old rates in the Central and North. The
cattlemen of the North are more affected
by the depresh than any other class of pas-
toralist. They have only recently obtained
relief from a five-year drought, they are
far from their home markets, the cost of
transporting their stock is higher than that
of their southern confreres, and stock are
hardly bringing enough at the abattoirs to
pay for breeding and getting them there.
It is probable the cattlegrowers will shortly
make application to be brought under the
Federal Court, since there seems no relief
for them in the State they are helping to
support.
All the good old Freetrade school-mams
got out their most ferocious canes last week
and called up the Federal Country party.
This body has been crying its eyes, out over
the wickedness of protectionist duties; now,
in the interests of the tobacco growers, it has
joined up with the Labor party to demand
more of the sin. In the words of one of the
“Oh, you wicked bird!”
marms, “the Country party now revolts from
duties as being too low at 500. per cent.”
But the demand of the good ladies that the
Tariff Board’s findings shall be endorsed in
al-1 circumstances must be resisted. No Par-
liament could accept any such proposition
and still claim to be a democratic institution.
After much talk of reorganising Aus-
tralia’s defence forces, the Federal authori-
ties have taken action. _ A new tunic will
be issued to troops for camp fatigues. It
is open-necked and has half-length sleeves,
but it would be more consistent with Aus-
tralia’s defence policy if the whole uniform
was cut down to a loincloth.
S’Africa's Coalition Cabinet was sworn in
last week, with Hertzog as Priminister and
Smuts as Deputy. The two Labor members
of the old Hertzog Government (Creswell
and Sampson) have been dropped; interest-
ing newcomers include Jan Ilofmeyer, son
of a former Cape Colony Premier, and Dun-
can, leader of the Natal secession movement.
This movement will presumably go into
recess, in the hope that the Coalition will
be able to end the threat to the British
connection.
Finding itself in a hopeless minority, the
bantam section of the Vic. Cocky party
which attacked Allan, Dunstan and Goudie.
members of the Coalition Cabinet, called
off the fight. Easy-going John Allan, who
the day before the conference at St. Arnaud
was 67, knew he was safe before he began
to defend himself. A man from Waranga
led off against the three, and wanted the
conference to express disapproval of their
having stuck to the Ministry on the Mort-
gages Bill, Allan replied that it was open
to the party that had put Dunstan, Goudie
and himself into the Government to pull
them out; but he asked them whether they
thought they would have got the Closer
Settlement Act and a few other handy Coun-
try-party measures if they had had no
places in the Cabinet. Allan’s remarks were
very warmly received; much more warmly
than the solo of Paterson, M.H.R., on his
well-known one-stringed tariff instrument.
In addition to the blowfly, the buffalo
fly, the prickly-pear and the rabbit, the
Queensland pastoralist has one especially
heavy burden to bear in the shape of a tax
on the sale of Crown leases. A man desir-
ing to improve his holding does so with the
knowledge that every improvement which
adds value to his lease adds to the taxation
taken from him if he should sell it. Owners
of freehold are exempt from this impost,
which is not levied in other States, and, con-
sidering Labor’s advocacy of leasehold
tenure, its persistence in collecting this tax
is illogical. The Government was tackled
on the question the other day by a deputa-
tion of graziers. They got no satisfaction.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pawang”: The Biblical injunction, “thou
shalt not suffer a witch to live,” lias been
modified by a decision of the Full Court in
Melbourne, which has decreed that cafe
proprietors shall not suffer them to make
a livelihood. Bowing to the inevitable the
Cafe Proprietors’ Association has decided
to sack its teacup readers, to the further
detriment of the unemployment figures. But
some of these diviners may find other outlets
for their powers. I would suggest the re-
vival of sideromancy, an ancient form of
divination performed by burning straws on
red-hot iron and observing the way they
bend, though the technique is somewhat
cumbersome. Perhaps the art of rain-mak-
ing by dipping a cat in water might also
be cultivated. This is very successful in
Malaya, where the witches not only procure
the rain but predict the time and date and
will order any requisite quantity according
to the needs of the agriculturist.
“Hawley”: Melbourne has obviously
something to. learn from Perth in the matter
of traffic regulations' (B. 15/'3/’33). The
THE BLOW HARD.
UNCLE TED: “An’ there I wuz on a lonely road , thirty miles from anywhere, with a
blazing car. An’ what do yer think I did?”
MUM (fed up with the recital): “Took a deep breath, I suppose, and blew it out.”
blind and partially-blind have carried white-
painted walking-sticks in Perth for many
months past, and volunteer helpers may be
seen at intersections assisting the afflicted,
the white stick being all that >is needed to
bring help.
“Sealed Pattern”: Recent discussions ,>n
army uniforms remind one of the universal
vogue the open-necked tunic, with shirt and
the Sam Browne belt, once peculiar to the
British officer, have attained among the
military of other nations. The Americans
were the first to adopt the kit after the
Great War, but recent photographs show
that it is being worn by the German forces,
legal and otherwise, while Hitler, Von
Papen and even Mussolini are all depicted
in the garb. France has retained the blue-
grey tunic with the stock collar, but has
adopted the famous belt. One wonders what
that stout old Indian soldier, Sam Browne,
would say if he could see to-day the general
adaptation of the harness which lie brought,
into use for service on the North-west
frontier, borrowing the idea from the em-
broidered belts of the Bokhariat tribesmen.
“General Prac.”: If the recent outbreak
of typhoid in the camp of a religious sect
near Cowra (N.S.W.) was due to “carriers,”
and not to an ascetic disregard for sanitation,
the Health authorities face a ticklish prob-
lem. The worshippers have now shut their
hymuboqks and scattered to the four corners
of the land; and people who know or suspect
themselves to be reservoirs of typhoid germs
are. apt to be secretive and hard to track.
They naturally fear to lose their jobs, and
therewith goes a queer sort of injured pride.
Many of them, worse luck, are concerned in
the preparation of food. I once traced a
country epidemic to a virginal deaconess who
dispensed dainties to ailing members of her
flock. The classical instance is that of
“Typhoid Mary,” an efficient but dirty Irish
cook. From 1906 onwards this lady was
the starting point for at least ten epidemics
in the States of New York and New Jersey.
She was head cook for some time in a large
maternity hospital—of all places—and did
her usual midnight flit only when 25 nurses
had been laid low by the fever. After
years of hunting, a frantic Health Dept,
grabbed her by the heels and locked her in
a special cottage on North Brother Island.
She was still there when I last heard of
her in 1930.
“Abingdon”: According to an English
journal Young Oxford, finding pae fism and
other diversions pall, has taken to snuff.
The plea advanced is that the habit is much
more economical than pipe or cigarette. The
haberdashery shops in the university city
should be among the gainers, for
snuff-taking necessitates the use of
colored handkerchiefs, preferably
of expensive silk. These were the
“bandanas” which in earlier days
engaged the attention of the Artful
Dodger, Charley Bates, and others
of the light-fingered fraternity
over which Mr. Fagin presided. Snuff-
ing, indeed, used to be encouraged by
the medical profession as a preventive
of colds. Dr. Gordon Hake, a medico
writer of a poetic turn, laid it down
long ago that the practice had power “to
wake up the torpor so prevalent between
nose and brain, making the wings of an idea
unfold like those a new-born butterfly.”
v *
“Iverys” : Does anything daunt the ambu-
lance man? The other day a workman was
badly injured by a swinging girder on the
top of a building in course of demolition in
Liverpool-street (Sydney). It was found
impossible to get to the victim by the unsafe
staircase, ,so down came a dogman’s box, into
it went two ambulance men with a stretcher,
the box swung in mid-air to where the
injured man was lying, the stretcher was
held on the edges of the box, and the case,
a spinal one, was placed in the ambulance
waggon with much less shaking than a stair-
case journey would have entailed. Thou-
sands watched the practical demonstration
of courage and resource.
“Mr. Chucks”: Those who think that
Britain is indifferent to the demands of
Dominions trade will be glad to learn of a
recent decision of the Lords of the Admiralty.
An order lias gone forth that in future
every seaman’s ditty box must be made of
timber grown in the Empire. Hitherto
private contractors have supplied them of
such timber as they willed, but in future the
Royal dockyards will do the job with Empire
wood. The ditty box is the only private
possession a seaman owns at sea, for there
even his own soul doesn’t belong to him.
It costs ss. 9d. and is issued to him when
he joins the Navy. In it he keeps his
private treasures, including the portraits
and letters of his wives, and whither he
goeth the box goes also, being the property
of the Admiralty. When he finally goes
ashore the box has to be returned to store.
* * * *
“Quistraddle”; The remark of “Office
Doctor” that some mental patients are sane
enough on all subjects but their own com-
plexes (B. 5/3/’33) reminds me of a patient
I once met in one of England’s largest
mental hospitals. He was a retired colonel
of the Indian Army and spent his days very
happily (and childishly) making miniature
gardens out of sticks and stones and broken
twigs. But once in a while officials called
on him from the India Office and the War
Office to ; seek his opinion. He had a detailed
knowledge of the North-west frontier and
any interpretations or new entries he made
on their official maps of that area went
unquestioned.
“Morita”: The two ladies who resorted to
court to get them back their molars (R.
20/3/’33) went to considerably more trouble
than one of our depressed vegetable hawkers.
GOOD HUNTIN’.
BUTIEK: “I have to inform your lordship that there’s a burglar, downstairs.”
HIS LUDSHIP : “ Very well, Parkinson; bring my gun and sports suit—the heather
mixture.”
One morning he arrived totally gummy in
the lower jaw—self-conscious about it. too.
“Done them in in a dumper yesterday at
tile surf,” he told us; “I can’t go the price
of a new set, but, someone might hand me
old ’uns in to the surf sheds.” Gummy he was
for two more weeks, then he smilingly came
back with complete teeth. “You got them
pack?” I asked. “No, no one handed them
in,” he replied; then added : “But these are
pretty right. They’ve had this set for weeks
without anyone coming back for them.”
' * * *
“Jakay” : Quite a large picnic hamper was
required for the Strathnaver on her day in
Hobart. The supplies included a ton of fish
—trumpeter, perch and flounder, 3000 cray-
fish, 3000 eggs, 50 gallons of milk, 4 tons
of potatoes and 50 cases of apples, peaches
and pears, with two Or three hundredweight,
of beans, spinach and melons tucked around
in the corners. Hobart benefited to the
extent of about £l5OO for the day from the
incursion of the thousand tourists. Tatter-
sall’s office raked in £4OO of it.
:i: * *
“Chevroford” : Strange/ as it.
may seem, artist Denis Con-
neliy’s suggestion for celebrat-
ing Melbourne’s centenary by
erecting an earth mound 100 ft.
or 300 ft. in height in the
Domain (B. 29/3/’33) has been
taken seriously. A mound 100 ft.
in height would require to be
450 ft. or so at the base or the
earth would wash off it. A
300 ft. mound would cover half
South Yarra. If it were
planted with trees there would
have to be a reservoir or some-
thing at the top to irrigate it.
The artist’s idea is that every
citizen should personally con-
tribute “one square foot” of
soil to the edifice. A square
foot is a purely conventional
thing that can be indicated by
lines on a sheet of paper, but
can’t be dug up, put in a bar-
row and emptied on a monu-
ment. By the time the pyra-
mid had reached any consider-
able elevation citizens who
started late would avoid the job
of toiling to the summit and
dump their quotas at the bot-
tom. so that the memorial would
be all base and no summit. This
danger might be obviated by
supplying aeroplanes to contri-
butors.
“Flinders Street”: Sydney newspapers
made much the other day of the incarcera-
tion of a lady who was the possessor of two
superior Chow dogs. These followed tlieii
mistress to the calaboose, and, when the
door of a cell clanged on her, sat outside and
howled inconsolably. Unable to quieten them,
the sergeant in charge ordered their removal
in a patrol-car to the lady’s address, and
peace reigned again. Years ago Townsville
(Q.) rejoiced in a citizeness whose only
known name was Annie Bags. She lived in
a shantv in the outskirts, and wherever she
went a score or so of. disreputable hounds
trailed behind her. Townsville usually took
half a day off to watch her periodical visits
to the lock-up, attended by her pack. These
waited patiently on the near-by slopes of
Castle Hill until such time as their mistress
was enlarged, when the lot went home
together. *
“F.S.”: A novel example of how people
with wlnit is called “normal eyesight” can
deceive themselves has been provided by
Sir James Jeans, the eminent English astro-
nomer. He told the Royal Institution that
an amateur astronomer illuminated a map of
Mars from which the so-called “canal” mark-
ings had been removed, and placed it at the
bottom of his garden. His friends were
asked to sketch what they saw, and, knowing
it represented Mars, most of them put in
the conventional markings. Sir James then
tried the experiment on some school children
unaware that it was supposed to be Mars,
and many of them made similar markings.
Two influences were obviously at work here.
Some of the observers saw what they ex-
pected to see and others had optical hallu-
cinations due to the fact that if the eye
gazes too long at a brightly-lit object it sees
things that aren’t there. Sir James deduces
from this that the “canals” and all the
assumptions from them of a populated planet
are sheer moonshine. An artist could have
told him that without any experiment.
Unless an astronomer has had the training
of a painter he is very unlikely to be able to
define what he sees in terms of actual appear-
ance. If you ask the man in the street
whether he knows what a train looks like
he will unhesitatingly reply in the affirma-
tive. If he tried to paint one he would dis-
cover that lie knew practically nothing. All
that the ordinary individual sees when he
looks at a tram is something that will either
take him to his destination or run over him
if he doesn’t get out of the way.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: The Henry Ileed who held
the first religious service in Melbourne in
1835 (B. 22/3/’33) was a Launceston mer-
chant who followed sealing and whaling in
Bass Strait. As early as 1831 he was in
Portland Bay on his business, and while
there conducted Methodist services among
the hard-bitten whaling crews of those
days. Apart from services held at Col-
lins’s settlement at Sorrento in 1803,
these ministrations of Reed’s are the first of
which there is record in Victoria. The old
merchant had a strong religious bent; in
later years he built an undenominational
church in Launceston at his oivn expense
and held forth therein.
“Doc”: There was a new cultural ele-
ment in Melbourne’s Eight-Hour Day proces-
sion. Besides the demand for shoes made
by a lorryload of children in beautifully
polished footwear, banners were carried bear-
ing such slogans as “We Want Sex Hygiene
and Birth-control Information.” The answer
to that seems to be, why not get it? The
proletarian bookshops in Bourfce-street are
packed with cheap editions of works on the
subject, from Marie Stopes to the latest medi-
cal pamphlet. The windows of the chemists’
shops in the same workers’ thoroughfare arc
stuffed with the appropriate physical material
and the assistants inside are only too ready
to supply the requisite instructions. Further,
there is a voluntary organisation with an
office in the city which gives away informa-
tion for nothing. It also delivers lectures
with a nominal charge for admission, but they
are very poorly attended, most of the prole-
tarians with the alleged thirst for knowledge
of the subject being at. the pictures. The
notion that there is a capitalist conspiracy
to keep the people in ignorance is a delusion.
They are either revolted because of their
early conditioning to a sense of shame with
regard to all sexual matters' or they are
simply not interested. •
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Having served beside them
in two wars, I have developed a sincere
admiration for the qualities of the Maori-
land soldier. This lias been added to since
reading that a conscience-stricken Maori-
lander has just returned a church bell which
he brought home to his Shivery Isles from
a Bloemfontein church. Purists might say
that the Conscience took its time about
awakening, but better late than never. It
was the boast of another faihous band of
warriors in South Africa, Strathcoua’s
Horse, that they could steal anything they
could lift. I recall some of them getting
away with a whole waggonload of beer
intended for the Field Force Canteen at
Volksrust, but, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, their religious leanings or some-
thing made church bells sacred to them.
THE HOLIDAY GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let classical bards vaunt the ladies
Who Paris on Ida cajoled,
They fail to delight me,
Impress or excite me,
These dames from Olympus of old,
Or maybe those scribes who described ’em
Lacked art at portraying a pearl,
For they fail by a mile
To compare with the style,
The charming, beguiling,
Vivaciously smiling
Appeal of the Holiday Girl!
There was Helen who toppled down Ilium,
And Cleo whom Anthony snared,
But they leave me as cold
As (lie wind on the wold
Whenever their charm is compared
With the subtle, ineffable damsel
Who sets all my senses awhirl;
The queen with a racquet,
In dainty red jacket,
Whose crown for the day
Is a crimson beret
On the curls of the Holiday Girl!
You may sing of your Eves of the ’eighties,
Your dignified dames of days dead,
Your bustled and bodiced
Meek maidens and modest,
That gossip’d o’er needle and thread.
“The maid of to-day is too forward,”
Wails the whimpering, wowserisli churl!
It moves my derision
When a radiant vision
Skips nimbly, the sunshine on satin skin
streaming,
A shingled Hygeia, her shorn tresses gleam-
ing,
A laughing and dancing,
Gay goddess entrancing.
The radiant Holiday Girl!
QUEENSLAND.
HUGH GREENFIELD.


“Bill O’C.”: Someone recently threw a
timely brick at the nitwits who light cigar-
ettes' on all (and mostly inappropriate)
occasions. My quarrel is with the goats of
both sexes who throw away burning matches
and smouldering fags. It is quite a modern
habit, and the results may be seen in the
increasing crop of destructive fires of all
sorts. A big percentage of country grass
fires have been traced to roadside starting
points; clear evidence of the reckless discard-
ing of cigarette ends, largely from travelling
motor-cars. In my suburb are to be seen
several yawning, charred gaps in ornamental
green hedges, due to the same cause. Many
a hostess and club secretary would give
something to see another phase of the mis-
chief dealt with. Burnt holes and scars on
ANOTHER GEOLOGICAL WONDER.
SCULPTOR (exhibiting one of his pieces): “She was cut out of a solid piece of marble.”
WOOP: “Gripes! How did she come to get there?”
piano lids, card and billiard tables, covers
and carpets tell their own tale. To remon-
strate with a culprit observed in the act is
to invite offensive backehat; to such an
extent have manners and habits degenerated.
Example and education have greatly dimin-
ished the public spitting nuisance in recent
years. Can’t we do something with those
who thoughtlessly sow “firebrands, arrows
and death” without even the sporting
interest the expectorator may take in his
marksmanship ?
* * * *
“Junior Turf Club”: The passing of the
old hansom cab (U 29/3/’33) is certainly
to be regretted. In the years that the locust
hath eaten gay youth did not consider it had
had its fling properly until it had driven
a hansom down some darkling midnight
street with the cabby reclining comfortably
in the passenger’s place. And for a con-
fidential tete-a-tete, the modern world has
nothing to offer to come up to a hansom.
There the solitude d deux was enjoyed to
perfection with no precautions save the
hoisting of an umbrella to block the view
through the “trap” above of any driver
who permitted curiosity to outweigh profes-
sional etiquette.
“Selma” : It wasn’t a tennis ball
that caused the commotion in our
suburban street; it was a football.
A group of youngsters kicked it
repeatedly into a small and excep-
tionally well-kept garden; the
householder, after repeated remon-
strances, dodged out and confis-
cated the ball. Thereafter she and
the ball remained inside, and no
amount of knocking, shouting and
rapping at windows could bring
her out. The bereft kids went
home and complained, and one
irate mother descended on the
garden and pulled up most of
the young stocks. When the police
arrived they explained to her that
while confiscating a football
might or might not be a
serious matter, there was no
doubt about the light in which
the law regarded the wholesale
destruction of a neighbor’s garden
plot. A tearful lady with a trowel
and two dozen choice young stocks
arrived next afternoon and had a
gardening interlude; then three
dejected small boys appeared to
apologise, the ball was handed over,
the two chief disputants had a cup
of tea together and the whole epi-
sode ended amicably.
“Yakub” : Britain has been better to the
Chosen than most; but they had some long-
sustained as well as severe tribulations even
there in the Middle Ages and the Dark ones.
There is an old tradition that they w'ere ban-
ished by Canute, but were suffered to return
by William the Conqueror in 1066, and
settled mostly in London and Lincoln. The
close of the thirteenth century was their
worst time, and there is a record that all
Jews, their number then being no more than
17,000, were banished from England in 1290.
On that occasion they stayed away for 370
years; it is one of the many things to' the
credit of Cromwell that he permitted the race
to return. It is exactly a century since the
first Jew w 7 as admitted to the English Bar,
and a couple of years less since the first
Hebrew w 7 as elected Sheriff of London. The
first two Jews returned to the House of
Commons were Baron Lionel de Rothschild
(his title was an Austrian one) in 1549 and
Alderman Solomons (afterwards London’s
first Jewish Lord Mayor) in 1851, but
neither was permitted to sit until some years
later, when Parliament passed a special reso-
lution throwing down the barriers against
the race. It was not until 1871 that a Jew
received the M.A. degree at Oxford.
* * * *
“Kurrajong”: The closing of Broken Hill
hotels at one hour later than Sydney time
has a much simpler explanation than any
judicial misinterpretation of the law (B.
8/3/’33). The Standard Time Act of 1902
fixes the closing time of Broken Hill hotels
as the mean time of the 135th meridian, and
prescribes the mean time of the 150th meri-
dian as the standard time for N.S.W. gener-
ally. As the difference, 15 degrees, is one
twentv-fourth of the earth’s circumference
the difference in time is the twenty-fourth
part of a day—one hour. It really was
Adelaide time that the law was prescribing
for Broken Hill pubs. But Adelaide found
it missed some worms through being a full
hour behind Melbourne and Sydney, so a
local law cut it down to half an hour. Now 7 ,
therefore,. Broken Hill keeps three times:
(1) Pub time, one hour behind Sydney; (2)
Adelaide time, for railway and general pur-
poses, half an hour ahead of No. 1; (3)
Sydney time, for certain official use, a half-
hour ahead of No. 2.
:!: * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: Not only were the
plutocrats and the bucks of the North
Queensland goldfields hung wfith massive
gold watch-chains when Plancus was consul
(B. 29/3/’33), but it was essential to wear
dangling from them a number of “medals,”
also of the genuine assay. These commem-
orated athletic prowess in the past, or the
fact that the wearer had received a token
of esteem from the bnothers of the local
Wesleyan community, or maybe from the
Reehabites or the Antediluvian Order of
Buffaloes, to commemorate high office held,
So ingrained was the custom that few
escaped it. Writer once won a prize for
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
MRS. SCALPEL (wife of Dr. Scalpel, very popular surgeon): “My husband says the
motor-car is responsible for quite a lot of modern ills.
MRS. SQUILLS (wife of struggling g.p.) : “Yes, we’ve noticed there’s always an epidemic
of appendix operations after Dr. Scalpel buys a new limousine.
highest batting aggregate in a match between
Charters Towers and Townsville. When an
official asked what form the medal should
take, writer asked for a couple of good bats
instead. The official stood aghast and then
jumped to a conclusion. “I see,” he said,
“you ain’t got a watch-chain; blime, I got
a old one I’ll lend yer.”
* * * *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: The claim that
centenarian James Clarke was born in Mel-
bourne a century ago (B. 29/3/’33) may
be only two or three years out. Among
the self-termed “proprietors of stock at Port
Phillip” who petitioned Governor Bourke in
October, 1836 —the petition was a counter-
blast to that by Batman and his followers —
was a James Clarke, while there were also
a .Tohq and William Clark. Melbourne’s
first P.O. was a slab hut in Flinders-street,
hear King-street; the second was a cottage
in Chancery-lane, and the third, opened in
1841, was a small brick building on the site
of the present G.P.O. It is quite conceiv-
able that a small cottage stood on this site
between 1835 and 1841, and here Clarke
may have been born.
* * * *
“H. 8.”: Although in its urgent appeal
for funds the Sailors’ Home in George-street
North, Sydney, lays claims to being 70 years
old, its genealogy goes a lot further back.
From November 18, 1822, -when the first
public church service for seamen only was
held aboard the brig Lynx, lying in the
Cove, various efforts were made to establish
a home for seamen, but it was not until
17 years later that sufficient funds were
collected. The old Union Inn, a large
building which stood in those days by the
gaol, was leased, and on September 2, 1839,
the home was opened.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: A woman recently called on
Melbourne Museum authorities and stag-
gered the savants by asking them for infor-
mation regarding the breed-
ing of frogs for culinary
purposes. They were able
to tell her that there are
upwards of 70 varieties of
batracliia in this country,
some of them poisonous,
but, not being Frenchmen,
they could give her .no
guidance for the establish-
ment of an edihle frog in-
dustry. Rana esculent a,
as a matter of fact, is the
variety most esteemed by
epicures on the Continent
of Europe. Like the kan-
garoo, only a portion of it
is suitable for consump-
tion, but the hind legs,
when properly cooked,
make a dish as good as
spring chicken. Since the
depression R. esculent a has
been largely cultivated by
Japanese farmers in the
flooded rice fields as an off-
set to the fall in price of
the national comestible. In
Melbourne about 3000
frogs are consumed annu-
ally in the medical classes
at the University, but that demand is already
fully catered for.
* * * *
“Topee”: “Cady” (B. 22/3/’33) asks
“Whence the Australian synonym ‘hard-
hitter’ for a ‘bowler’ hat?” Presumably it
carries the meaning of “boxer.” As to the
latter word, even in Webster’s Dictionary
you wall find one meaning of “boxer” is “A
derby hat (Australia).” But the “boxer”
colloquialism has quite died out in this
country.
“Elizabeth Owen”: Surely the derivation
of the different terms applied to “bowler”
hats—l have also heard them called “egg-
boilers” and “pea-dodgers”—is of compara-
tive unimportance beside their hideousness.
Yes, I know our sex wear freak hats, but,
after all, these are passing phases.. But
the abominable “bowler” has been in use
since the seventies of last century.
“Coger”: A well-meaning organisation has
recently been formed in Sydney to discour-
age or prevent smoking in restaurants ana
other places where it has become general ot
late years. It will probably fi™ lts ettor s
futile, simply because women who_ want to
consume tobacco over or at the end ot t leu
meals will object to be interfered witn j s
as much as men, and restaurateur
continue to study the wishes of the majority
of their customers. In other days 1
different; chivalry forbade smoking except
where men alone congregated. I can remem-
ber London chop-houses of 40 or 50 years
ago where fragrance from your grilled chop or
your beefsteak pudding struggled to assert
itself through dense clouds of tobacco smoke
as well as the reeking fumes of rum-punch,
but that was only in famous houses like the
Cheshire Cheese in Fleet-street, where
women seldom, if ever, penetrated. Ana
those, I suppose, were the. successors ot
the “Back Kitchens” of Thackeray s day.
If woman wants to smake anywhere she
finds herself, even in trains and trams, the
old distinctions will presently go by the
board.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Imperial Army, which
knocked off recruiting for a few years tor
economy’s sake, is asking for 30,000 to take
the equivalent of what was once the Queen s
shilling. Some of the inducements read
strangely to those familiar with the old-time
recruiting posters. One of them begs readeis
to enlist and “be sure of seven years’ secu-
rity,” which seems a quaint w r ord to use
in connection with a soldier’s trade. They
put it better in old days. “See the World
for Nothing” was one urge. ‘The Uniform
Appeals to the Fair Sex” w r as another, and
brought the Queen, it may. be suspected,
many a bad bargain along with the rest.
* *
“Farleigh” : Somewhat incongruously, just
before the outcry began in England about
the arrest of British subjects in Russia
without the charges against them being
made known, a British officer was in-
carcerated in the Tower of London for
reasons about which the public was kept in
entire ignorance. There was. so much
mystery about the case that visitors to the
Tower craned their necks to get a glimpse
of the prisoner and questions were asked
in the House of Commons. It turned out
that he was a military prisoner; he has been
tried since on charges of selling information
to agents of a foreign Power. It is a re-
minder that military law may still supersede
the civil law, not only in war-time, when it
is inevitable that it should do so. but in
peace-time, when the, merits of the high-
handed procedure are not so clear.
* * * *
“Jungor”: It is surprising that Prime
Minister Lyons should have been howled
down by Perth and Fremantle audiences;
for of late years political controversy has
been conducted more decorously in Westralia
than in any other part of the Commonwealth.
Partly this is due to the good temper of
Premier Mitchell, who has hardly ever been
known to say a bitter word of an opponent,
and partly to the restraint of ex-Premier
Collier, a Labor leader of a type that grows
rarer -with the years. Even the conserva-
tive “West Australian” has been accus-
tomed for years past to set aside a weekly
column for “the publication of views of the
responsible body of Labor.” And the
preacher in the free newspaper pulpit just
now is Philip Collier, who w r ill do his best
to upset the Mitchell Government next week.
Can anyone feature the “S. M. Herald”
offering Lang a free column once a week
to air his view’s on the eve of an election —
or vision w r hat use Lang would make of
such an offer?
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Subyacker”: Persistent cries of “We
want George” added to the disturbances at
one of Priminister Lyons’s anti-secession
meetings in Westralia, but the George indi-
cated (Minister Pearce) refused to be drawn,
reasoning, probably with justice, that the
crowd merely wanted to demonstrate their
disapproval of him. George’s offence is that,
although a Westralian representative, he has
done better out of Federation (materially)
than any other politician in the Common-
wealth, and it rankles among those who
reckon that the State never made a worse
bargain than when it threw in its lot with
the union. George has been a Senator for
32 years, never losing an election, and a
Minister, at different periods and under
many different leaders, for over 20 years in
all—a record which looks like standing for
many a day.
YO-HO-HO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Mr. Lane, M.H.R. for Barton, a fervent temper-
ance advocate, speaking on the tariff, said that he
would like to see rum made so expensive that none
could buy it; he was particularly concerned with
the extent to which the lower orders consumed the
stuff.”
O stimulating product of molasses,
O virile daughter of the fruitful cane,
It breaks his heart to see the lower classes
Mopping you up, our estimable Lane,
In fairly generous nips and wide-brimmed
He’d make you dear as Veuve Clicquot
champagne,
Or genuine Chartreuse, or old Tokay—
That is, if he could only have his way.
So be’t! I blame him not who wouldn’t
slake a
Pre-breakfast aridness with aught but tea;
And here is one who’d think it scorn to
take a
Mouthful of squarefaee or of eau de me,
A nip of Bundaberg or prime Jamaica,
Although you begg’d him upon bended
knee.
In fact, there’s nothing makes him half as
glum
As watching base plebeians downing rum.
Demon, time was when Sydney’s highest
brimmed you
In flowing goblets and with gusto great;
And poets of that era doubtless hymned you,
Having little else wherewith to celebrate.
But how 7 the rolling years have damned and
dimmed you
And tumbled you from off your high
estate,
To point a Parliamentary address
Deploring proletarian excess.
Shades of the stalwarts shrined in Abbott’s
stories,
Those figures of the past you may descry
In Phillip’s following or mayhap Mac-
quarie’s,
Those sturdy souls who cooked the goose
of Bligh!
Could they have dreamed —0 tempora, o
mores !
’Twould ever be a thing to vilify,
The stuff that served both high and low
degree
Alike for stimulant and currency?
Ah, well! If all that slithers down the
gizzard,
Like old Methuselah or Mountain Dew,
Like Johnnie Walker or like Marie Brizard,
Were put beyond the reach of me and you
Financially, it doesn’t need a wizard
To tip the biz illicit stills would do.
Good IJncle Sam has set his kids that sum
And got the answer to it.... Mine’s a rum.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


*o «*»« rnuw bb -
kisMEI-TROIIEy
COMPRESSOR
The Kismet Trolley Compressor is really
two pumps in one with a patent super-
charging action.
It is a manually-operated 2-stage Compres-
sor delivering large volumes of air and
attaining high pressure with ease.
An ingenious heel-and-toe movement on
the side of the powerful chassis locks the
handle—the Compressor can then be lifted
with one hand and run about on its wheels
with pnsp
For convenience, speed of inflation, mobility
and ease of operation, there is no garage
inflator to equal the Kismet “Trolley.”
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, G.l.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
w
BRAKE
LINING
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO,
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge, Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
ŵ
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The first move to bring Melbourne’s cen-
tenary on the front pages of the world s
newspapers has come from Macßobertson.
He has offered £lO,OOO as a prize for an
international air race from London to the
Yarra metropolis. The words expended on
the project were telegraphically to the point.
Lud' Mayor Gengoult Smith sent a note by
hand to "the Macßobertson which bluntly de-
manded, “Will you give £lO,OOO for the
greatest air race the world has seen for our
centenary.” “Dear Lord Mayor: Rc yours
of even date. Yes,” was the confectiofiery-
maker’s answer.
The Right Rev. Gilbert White, who died
at Selborne, Epping (N.S.W.), last week,
was born in Cape Colony 74 years ago ; ho
graduated at Oriel College, Oxford, where
Cecil Rhodes was then making an occasional
appearance when he could spare time from
diamond-mining. Gilbert White spent 4S
years in Australia. Beginning his work in
the vineyard as rector of Charters Towers, he
was consecrated first Bishop of Carpentaria
at Sydney in 1900, with Thursday Island
for liis headquarters. After 15 years at that
outpost he resigned to become the first
Bishop of Willoclira (S. Aus.), where, as
in the Far North, he did notable pioneering
work for his church until his retirement
eight years ago. Besides being indefatigable
at missionary activities in his vast dioceses,
he was an exceptionally fine scholar and a
writer of distinction. Dr. White was a
descendant of the famous Gilbert White,
English naturalist and antiquary (1720-
1793), author of the “Natural History of
Selborne.”
MARCUS BELL, superintendent of the
Defence Department’s laboratories.
The late Viscount Chelmsford came of a
notable family—his grandfather was Lord
Chancellor and his father rose to be a
general—and he himself was to win distinc-
tions in even wider fields. He first
became known as a fine athlete —he
captained Oxford against Cambridge at.
cricket in 1890 —and a couple of years
later he won one of the most coveted
of academic distinctions, an All Souls’ fel-
lowship. Queensland had him for Governor
from 1.905 to 1909 and N. S. Wales from
1909 to 1913. “Wullie” Kidston .'got'the
better of him in a dispute over the Queens-
land Upper House, but in the Ma State
he showed capacity and tact when the
first Labor Administration came into being-
under McGowan, for he had the broadest
sympathies. He was Viceroy of India from
1916 to 1921. Later still, the Governor
who had been attacked in Queensland as
anti-democratic was to become a Labor
Minister in Britain —he was First Lord of
the Admiralty under Ramsay MacDonald
in 1924-25. Few men of our time have
packed so much administrative achievement
into a life that closed at 62.
“W.E.F.” ; Among the resumes of the late
James Edmond’s career I did not see any
reference to one of his journalistic feats
which can have few parallels. In the early
’nineties, when Federation was becoming a
vital question, E. W. Cole, founder of Coles
Kook Arcade, offered large cash prizes tor
the best essays for and against Federation.
Three university professors were appointed
judges and they were swamped with thou-
sands of essays. The prize for the best
essay in favor of Federation was won by
James Edmond ; the prize for the best essay
attacking Federation went to one Charles
Wilson. When Edmond called to pick up
his cheque he also asked for Wilson’s money,
as that name was only another for himself.
Cole was astounded that one person should
have secured both prizes with so much com-
petition, but he declined to hand over
“Wilson’s” cheque on the ground tliiit it
was “contrary to the spirit of the competi-
tion.”
Aretas Young, the veteran Adelaide bar-
rister by training and sharebroker by
choice, has left an estate of £13,000. He was
the only son of any Governor who fever
stayed on and took a prominent part in
the life, of S. Aus. His father was Henry
Fox Young (1848-54).
After 10 years on the Supreme Court
Bench, Maoriland’s senior Judge, Justice
MacGregor, is retiring. Born in Scotland 70
years ago. he commenced his studies at Edin-
burgh Uni., but qualified at Otago Uni., and
later started practice in Dunedin. He was
appointed a Crown Solicitor in 1914. and a
K.C. lately In 1920 he was Solicitor-
General.
Captain B. M. Aldwell. who died in San
Francisco a few weeks ago, was the master
of the Tahiti when that vessel collided with
the Greycliffe in Sydney Harbor. “Old
Scrap Iron,” as his shipmates affection-
ately called him, was a favorite with pas-
sengers and crew alike. On Sundays at
sea he delighted in conducting church ser-
vice, and carried it out with due rever-
ence, though there was. a lack of variety in
his choice of hymns. The collision, with the
subsequent Marine Court inquiries, weighed
very heavily on the kindly old mariner. On
retiring, he settled at Sari Francisco.
Air-Commodore Peregrine Forbes Morant
Fellowes, who is the leader of the aero-
plane contingent in the party which is to
attempt, the conquest of Mt. Everest, is a
Victorian, born in Melbourne in 1883.
Entering the Royal Navy he was invalided
out, but returned in 1914. Transferred
to the Naval Air Force, in 1915 he. soon
showed himself a born airman. In France
he won the D.S.O. and bar when in com-
mand of Wing (11 at Dunkirk, one of his
stunts being tire bombing at low level of
the lock gates at Zeebrugge during the
immortal naval attack on the submarine base.
Eater he was with the British Air Force at
Constantinople during the 1922 trouble
with Ivemal Pasha. Then followed the lay-
ing out of the airline from Cairo to Bagdad
for Imperial Airways, Fellowes’- flying in
front of the ploughing party which laid the
directional furrow and returning to give
them the proper line. The lameness which
caused his retirement from the- Navy has
proved no handicap in the air.
Frith was busy at the Graziers’ Confer-
ence held in Sydney last week. To-day he
offers three impressions; in the Land Pages
next week he will offer half a dozen more.
To-day’s trio include F. 11. Tout, the retir-
ing president, who in these days grows
sheep at Young, and before that cultivated
law in Sydney. He is an M.L.C. and went
to Ottawa as one of S. M. Bruce’s advisers.
His successor in the chair is to be James
Walker, a western man —to be included
among Frith’s next half-dozen. Flanking F.
H. Tout are the knighted Graham Waddell;
he was for several years president, and is
on most of the Graziers’ Councils. His home
is at Bethungra. Colonel Waddell, very
well known to the volunteers of a former day,
was his father. The third is E. D. Ogilvie.
not as well known yet as the other two, but
still a member of the Graziers’ Council and
a coming man. He is from the New England
district and has specialised in exchange. A
little impatient in debate; but an incisive
speaker and writer.
11. D. Young, whose father, C. 8., started
the Kanmantoo vineyards, in South Aus., in
1855, is a grandson of that Lady Charlotte
Bacon to whom Byron dedicated “Childe
Harold.” The lady came to Australia when
H. D. Young was'a kid; but he remembers
her only as “a rather terrifying personage.”
H. D. YOUNG, S.A.’s best-known racing
man.
H. D. Young was one of the finest riders
the Adelaide Hunt Club ever had and was
its president; for years past he has been
president of Onkaparinga. S.A.’s one big
picnic meeting, and is probably S.A.’s best-
known racing man. He is a busy M.L.C.
and in his spare time still carries on Ivan-
mantoo.
Patents have just been taken out in Mel-
bourne by T. G. Howden for a machine
which, it is claimed, will not only simplify
the teaching of physical geography in
schools, but be of use to navigators. It is
an elaborate device, but its chief feature is
a globe so designed that if it is rotated
round the sun its axis will always point to
the Polar star. Howden, who used to teach
pothooks at Scotch College, has been com-
pletely blind for ten years.
There still are members of the pre-Federa-
tion vintage in the Westralian Leg. Council,
but none in the Assembly which is just about
to renew itself. W. D. Johnson can look back
the furthest; he was one of the first Parlia-
mentary Labor party of six. returned in
April, 1901, and is the only political survivor
of the little band. But Johnson failed to hold
Kalgoorlie for more than one term, and
though he soon found another seat at Guild-
ford from which, he prophesied, it would take
“a mighty lot to shift him,” it proved rickety
when conscription became a burning issue,
and Johnson went out for another two
terms in the war and post-war years. As
long ago as 1904 “Plane Bill,” as he used
to be known, was very near the Premiership,
and he has been leader of the Labor party,
but recent Cabinet-choosing caucuses have
passed him over despite his years of service
to trade-unionism. Still, he is a sticker,
and there is no telling that he won’t come
again.
H. M. Mackay, who flew to Sydney with
Ivingsford Smith, is the first passenger from
Maoriland to make the trip. He is the head
of the Airways ’Plane and White Star
Motor Services which link Enzed from
Auckland to The Bluff. Thousands of men
have migrated from Maoriland to Aus-
tralia, but Mackay reversed the process.
In the days when he lived in Sydney
he ran the campaign for E. R. Larkin- when
he won the Willoughby seat in the Assembly,
and after Larkin was killed in action Mrs.
Larkin nominated him for the empty seat,
keeping a promise made to her husband.
However, someb< dy else won the selection,
and Mackay got busy with a recruiting eam-
At the N.S.W. Graziers’ Conference — Centre, F. H. Tout; right, Graham Waddell;
left, E. D. Ogilvie.
paign. Not one of those “I-think-you-ought-
to-go” campaigns, but a “Come-with-me"
appeal. His present trip to Australia is
costing him £250, but he thinks it well
worth the money in view of the possibili-
ties of air passenger-service.
Had an 80th birthday in Adelaide, Sam
Jacobs, chairman of directors of S.A. Brew-
ing Co., and prominent all over the com-
mercial community. He has been chairman
of TattersaM’s Club and also of the Finance
Committee of the University. An early legal
training (with a Melbourne degree) and a
wide reputation for perfect fairness have
made him a sort of universal referee in argu-
ments commercial or sporting; and a life
of enjoyment with moderation finds him, at
80. able, to all appearances, to continue it
indefinitely.
J. B. Doneley, dentist, has secured the
Labor nomination and will oppose ex-M.P.
Bayley for Barnes’s old Wynnum (Q.) seat.
Doneley was defeated by Barnes last time
by only 200 votes; but Forgan Smith’s stock
was on a rising market then.
T. K. Maltby, of Barwon, who in his
spare time is an auctioneer at Geelong, has
taken on the job of sec. to the Vic. Argyles
in sucession to Dick Linton, Agent-General-
designate. Since the Cabinet was formed in
May last Maltby has been Whip, and he will
continue to round up quorums. A Cabinet
secretary from outside the Ministry is a
comparatively recent innovation in Victoria.
Maltby makes the thirteenth at Cabinet
meetings, but nobody seems to be worried
about that.
C. L. Westcott, general manager for the
Wakefield oil people in Australasia —they
market Castrol —got his first lessons in busi-
ness in what is now The Bulletin’s Sydney
home: as a youngster fresh from a school
at Rydc he went into Holdswortli McPher-
son’s office. Within four years he was
Noyes Bros.’ engineering salesman, and the
year after that, when still only 27, he floated
a co., Westcott, Hazell and Co., and held
C. L. WESTCOTT.
the Wakefield agency. Then came the war,
and he went oft with the first transport
fleet. After the Armistice he was attached
for a while to Australia House, and so im-
pressed Sir Charles Wakefield that the latter
appointed him manager and attorney for the
co. in Australasia. He has 'evidently done
his job well, because a few years ago he
was invited to go across to Canada and
introduce the co.’s products there.
Teddy (E. W.) Cutler was one of the
N.S.W. trade-union leaders of the old school,
and one of the first to be cast aside by the
modernists—he had been 26 years secretary
of the Furniture Trades’ Union when he was
passed out. During his term of office he
gave encouragement to a fluent young
speaker of the name of 'W. A. Holman, who
was in the French-polishing section of the
union. Conscientious and sincere, Cutler
remained a factor in the union movement
after he had lost official status. He was
70 when he died last week.
Crossed over, at 74, W. H. Teale, retired
school-teacher. His great-grandparents were
free settlers who arrived in 1788 with Gov-
ernor Phillip, and were married in the open
at Sydney Cove shortly after landing. Their
daughter Diana received a grant of land
from the Governor as one of the first free
children born in the colony. She married
John Teale, of Windsor, whose old flour-
mill still stands as testimony to the quality
of convict labor.


The WOLD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
, Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income. Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255.130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1915.. 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1920.. 1,383,575 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,3's
1925.. 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1926.. 1,777,280 1,143,303 137,169 1,255 495,552
1927. . 1,834,631 1,208,544 138,508 1,558 1.-, 7n o
To General Reserve, £32,318 \ aod.iiM
1928.. 1,941,408 1,187,815 146,746 3,321 1 „ r „ rt>A
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £50,000 J 0/0
1929. 1,279,446 159,340 I
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; J-498,229
to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO J
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 j
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000; ) 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931. . 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488 131*981 \ 177 7 . n
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 ) ‘><4U
1932. . 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
♦lncludes dividends to shareholders.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£> £/ £, £/ £/
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1926.. 702,441 220,950 266,648 3726 211,117
1927.. 748,088 266,027 284,818 2512 194,731
1928.. 774,993 270,683 283,702 2610 ( „ n 7 QQH
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO J /u< >9 8
1929.. 786,542 324,782 290,392 4438 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000 ;. J- 115,930
to Income Tax Reserve, £lOOO J
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 ) _ 7 SQ „
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 j
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267 7 , Tr
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £ 2000 j ’ 6
1932.. 757,097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
The low costs at which the office collects its
income and manages its investments, the con-
servative treatment of the figures, the satis-
factory rate of interest earned and the solid
nature of the assets are a pleasant com-
bination which make the outlook for policy-
holders as encouraging as can be expected
these days. Last year there was a further
contraction of £390,197 in the amount of
new Ordinary business written (£4,018,005),
due largely to the dulness in Canada. But
if term assurances (£2,071,500) are taken
into the reckoning, the volume of new busi-
ness improved; this mostly in Australia,
where about three-quarters of the income is
gathered.
Combining the figures of the two depart-
ments, net premium income (£1,968,668)
advanced £27,815, while interest, etc.
(£935,080) fell away £48,305, due to the
cut in returns from Government securi-
ties. Thus the tax bill (£158,880) was
£9672 lighter, and with Consols now at a
small premium in the market, there was no
need to further write down their book value;
also claims and other outgoings shrank a
bit. So £499,304, or £145,690 more than
for the previous year, was added to the
assurance fund, raising it to £18,984,887
at Dec. 31. In addition there were
other visible reserves totalling £862,093,
of which £275,093 belonged to the General
branch. These extra reserves supplement
the earning power of the assurance fund,
and contribute to bonuses.
Policy-holders are entitled to not less than
80 p.c. nor more than 85 p.c. of the profits
in both departments; the balance belongs
to shareholders, who have undertaken to
conduct the business at a cost not exceeding
15 p.c. of the Ordinary and 45 p.c. of the
Industrial income. Of last year’s total in-
come exes, took no more than 8.5 p.c. in
the Ordinary and 26.3 p.c. in the Industrial
branch, compared -with 8.3 p.c. and 26.2 p.c.
respectively in 1931.
The surpluses distributed in the two de-
partments compare as follows:
1920» 1929. 1931+ 1932.
Ordinary . . £388,556 £692,946 £560,967 £552,326
Industrial .. 66,267 76,730' 66,022 70,530
The shrinkage in the figures over the last
three years is due to provision for contin-
gencies, the growth in taxation and reduc-
tion in interest. The full effect of the
statutory and other cuts in interest was
felt for the first time last year.
The office now assumes that the funds in
each department will earn no more than 3
p.c. After deducting taxes, last year’s net
interest return was £4 2s. 4d. p.c. in the
Ordinary and £3 19s. lid. p.c. in the Indus-
trial section. Previously non-profit Indus-
trial policies were valued on a 3A p.c.
basis; the change to 3 p.c. strengthened the
actuarial reserves by £116,802.
The funds are invested in this way:—
1931. p.c. 1932. p.c.
Public securities. £16,946,873 83.2 £17,732,593 83.9
Mortgages . . 811,061 4.0 774,200 3.7
Loans on policies 1,820,538 8.9 1,891,968 9.0
Cash, book debts,
etc 510,211 2.5 453,623 2.1
Property.. .. 90,773 .5 90,773 .4
Other assets . . 180,488 .9 188,887 .9
£20,359,944 £21,132,044
Liabilities* . . 780,543 1,068,54.6
Net assets ..£19,579,401 £20,063,498
*Other than under policies.
Thus £785.720 was put into Government
securities last year, and the rise in the
market price of Consols has provided the
co. with -a further inner reserve in that item.
Moreover, owing to their exemption from
certain taxes, Consols provide a better net
return than is to be had from most other
front-rank securities at the moment.
The proprietors, who have to qarn £4
or more for Ordinary policy-holders before
they can take £1 for themselves, received
80 p.c. on their capital (£200,000) in 1931
as against 100 p.c. for the preceding years.
General Industries, Ltd.
, -Dividends N
Pi - ef. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2.194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261* Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
*Eight months.
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. +3l p.c.
This is the holding co. through which Met-
ters and 1v.F.8. welded their interests about
half a dozen years- ago. Paid capital is
£1,144,498 in 293,636 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
850,862 ords. —the latter include 294,539
shares issued in payment for reserves, hidden
and disclosed, in the Metters Co. The his-
tory of the old cos., particularly Metters,
and early performances after the merger
encouraged hopes that it would be a 10 p.c.
proposition. But slump slowed down the
big plant, which depends largely upon acti-
vity in the building trade for employment.
Thus the operating cqs.. have been unable
to get overhead back in proportion to the
drop in turnover, and losses lnve shown up
for the last three years.
The combined turnover of the subsidiaries,
whose business is. spread throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland, fell away to
about one-third of what it had been, and
stocks and debtors’ balances proved to be
troublesome, too. Thus, following profits
aggregating £89,059 in 1929, the pups regis-
tered losses totalling £77,381 in 1930,
£68,466 in 1931 and £17,348 last year, w’hen
the improvement w r as due mainly to trade
recovery. It is plain, however, that turnover
needs to brighten a lot yet before satisfactory
profits are likely to emerge. What sections of
the business are dragging most, is not ascer-
tainable from the published figures, but big
savings are .expected to follow’ the closure of
K.F.B.’s. Sydney showrooms and transfer of
the stocks to Metters. Metters itself is
understood to have shown a small profit for
the past year. This and the better outlook
generally enhance the holding co.’s pros-
pects of balancing on the right side, but it
is difficult to .say w’hen the prefs.’ slate, is
likely to be cleaned. The statutory cut
has lowered the div. to 5.42 p.c., and there
will be £59,051 (=4s. per share) coming to
them at the end of February next.
The holding co. has taken its.proportion of
the subsidiaries’ losses into account by strik-
ing £169,383 —£17,348 of it in respect of
last year—off the book value of its share-
holdings/reducing the figure to £1,024,988 at
the end of F'ebruary. Thus, £160,236 (=3s.
lid. per share) of its ord. capital was unre-
presented by tangibles when the books closed;
that takes into the reckoning £54,000-odd
of inner reserves, which apparently existed
in the subsidiaries’ properties on the basis
of 1927 values.
The position as the combined balance-sheet
figures of the operating cos. show it is as
follow’s:—
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £904,531 £904,531 £904,531 £904,531
Liabilities . . 227,483 221,886 207,016 215,485
Freehold . . 400,665 394,83? 390,508 388,317
Plant, etc. . . 350,453 348,365 340,937 331,779
Stocks . . 420,039 393,255 323,176 314,373
Book debts . . 232,184 121,567 116,205 127,387
Shares other cos. 35,723 35,723 35,723 35,723
Cash .. .. 576 780 1,329 729
Last year £11,182 was added to debtors’
balances, while stocks were reduced by £BBO3
and £8469 w r as tacked on to the amount com-
ing to outsiders —the bank figured for
£164,398. The contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£227,004, including
stocks but not shares) was £6690, making
the slip £165,312 over the last three years.
The plant, which is thoroughly efficient, is
capable of supplying most of Australia’s
wants in the lines produced—attention has
lately been turned to the manufacture of
aluminium and enamel hollow-w’are and elec-
tric and oil stoves, etc.
The market prices the prefs. at 14s. and
the ords. at 7s. 6d. as against 11s. and ss.
respectively a year ago.
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profits. (10 p.c.) Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued ; added goodwill,
£37,495 7,138
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 p.ei =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 224 „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Efficiently-handled concerns like this one,
operating on the chain principle and selling
low’-priced miscellaneous goods, continue to
make extraordinary progress, despite gener-
ally depressing conditions. Quick turnover
for cash is the foundation on which the sys-
tem is built, and this depends upon good
buying. Small personal service—salesman-
ship i.s reduced to a minimum, there are no
deliveries and few’ book debts —means low
overhead.
This co., formed in Sydney at the end
of 1924, immediately spread to Brisbane.
Also subsidiaries have been set up in West-
ralia and Maoriland, and another one w r as
registered in London to do the foi’eign buy-
ing; but imports account for only a fraction
of the co.’s sales now’. Last year three new
branches were opened, raising the number of
stores in the chain to 24; tw r o more, one at
Rockhampton and the other at Townsville,
will open presently. The co. also bought
land at the corner of Pitt and Liverpool
streets, Sydney, from the railwmy authori-
ties for £171,000, and a new store, to be
ready in June, is going up on the site, and
a subsidiary has been formed in Vic., where
the old Britannia Theatre in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, has been leased.
Last year’s net earnings sprang £6438 ; and
after handing the prefs. their £7500 enough
remained to show 36.5 p.c. on the ord.
capital as against 32.6 p.c. in the previous
year. A 5 p.c. bonus was added to the div.
(17i p.c.), making 224 p.c. for the year,
and that was sweetened with a one-for-one
gift issue iu 1931. Still, part of the cash-
paid capital was issued at a premium ot
200 p.c., and that takes some of the gilt
off the gingerbread.
The quick development of the business,
last year’s property purchases and the
nature of the financial structure, etc., are
all reflected in the next comparison ot
balance-sheet figures:—
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £93,764 £155,713 £242,788 £242,788
Liabilities ..127,525 123,901 127,170 274,911
Freeholds . . 51,667 120,948 118,697 302,819
Leaseholds . . 6,095 9,178 9,083 19,852
Plant.. .. 37,196 55,952 51,629 98,828
Shares other cos.,
etc 9,450 63,050 103,100 102,901
Stocks.. .. 100,551 84,689 121,556 143.476
Debtors . . 4,159 4,336 4,044 21,957
Cash . . . . 929 36,599 65,703 41,629
Thus to add £184,122 to the freehold item,
carry an extra £21,920 of stocks and £17,913
of book debts, as well as knock £2311 off
the amount coming to trade creditors
(£61,858), the board tacked £150,052 on to
tlie mortgage (now £213,052) and drew upon
cash for £24,073; surplus earnings provided
the rest. The spring in the book value of
leaseholds and plant was due mainly to an
alteration in the method of presenting the
figures; the allowance for depreciation is
now shown separately at £52,419. The West-
ralian and Maoriland subsidiaries are both
reported to be doing well.
To provide for future capital require-
ments 200,000 of the unissued ords. are to be
converted into 7 p.c. second cum. prefs.; but
an immediate issue is not contemplated, the
chairman, says. At present there are 75,000
'TO p.c. first-prefs. and 167,788 ords.. While
earnings continue in excess of 10 p.c. on
the first prefs. and 7 p.c. on t}ie rest of
the capital, the issue , of these second prefs.
will be very helpful to the pound ords. These
are not listed, but buyers at £4 have been
unable to attract sellers. The return at
£4 would be 5.6 p.c. on a 22J p.c. div. basis.
At 31s. the 10 p.c. prefs. return 6.4 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £3 15s. lid. prefs.,
and 255. ords.
S. Aus. Gas Co.
Writ- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 112,736 8 p.c. = 76,218 36,518 213,275
Share premiums, £18,177 . . . . 231,452
1927.. 112,439 8 p.c. = 80,373 32,066 231,452
Share premiums, £25,590 . . . . 257,042
1928.. 92,521 8 p.c. = 88,131 4,390 —• 257,042
1929.. 97,983 7| „ „ 93,750 3,293 940 257,982
Reserves disappear, £24,219.. .. 233,763
1930.. 75,920 5J p.c. =72,500 1,962 1458 235,221
Share premiums, 2106 . . . . 237,327
1931.. 90,956 5 p.c. = 70,000 20,956 237,327
Reserves disappear, £BBl . . . . 236,446
1932.. 68,987 4 p.c. = 56,000 15,387 234,047
The S. Aus. Gas Act put' the standard
div. at 8 p.c. from the beginning of 1924.
Prior to the Act 84 p.c. was paid. How-
ever, £52,500 of reserves was capitalised in
1924, making the standard 8 p.c. worth 8.6
p.c. to old holders. But freight on coals
from Maitland (S. Aus. has no deposits of
its own) kept costs up, and, more important
still, competition from the Adelaide Electric
Co. has been severe. Thus, since slump set
the public cutting household exes., the gas
co. lias been unable to earn enough to pay
8 p.c.
The following comparison of revenue and
expenditure figures shows what has hap-
pened :
Mfg. and To
Sales of Distribution Repairs Special
Gas and Sun- Exes, and to Purposes
Residuals. dries. Interest. Plant. Fund.
1926 ..£536,817 £9,919 £389,856 £44,143 £36,518
1927 . . 590,907 16,213 448,97 T 48,000 29,777
1928 . . 613,867 28,272 500,905 51,384 1,719
1929 . . 640,528 13,260 503,547 55,552
1930 . . 660,786 2,429 529,202 60,055
1931 . . 539,560 397,006 52,600 19,953
1932 .. 469,675 1,497 355,645 47,382 14,543
Sales reached their peak in 1930; but out-
goings were swollen by the trouble at
Maitland. Under the Act the co. is per-
mitted to set aside for special purposes an
amount equal to 2| p.c. of the paid capital
and debenture money combined. Except
in 1926, nothing approaching the maximum
allowance has been made. Much, therefore,
depends upon whether the expenditure on
repairs and renewals has kept the under-
taking in good working order. The “writ-
ten-off” column in the introductory table
shows how much the co. has actually been
able to do in this way.
Last term gas and residual sales
(£u09,675) slipped a further £69,885. mak-
ing the drop £191,111 over the past two
years. Coal costs fell from £247,767 in
1929 to £145,127 last term ; but other exes,
have not been so easy to reduce. Last
year’s net earnings were £21,969 lighter than
in the previous term; the div. was lowered
another point, reducing it to 4 p.c.; and after
transferring £14,543 to the special purposes
fund and writing £843 off motor vehicles,
reserves were reduced by £2399. The
lay-by of £234,047 represents £177.349 of
reserves accumulated prior to 1924 (£25.100
has been written off since) and £56,698 of
share premiums.
Since 1926 £866.412 has been spent on
fixed assets, bringing the book value of the
undertaking up to £2,563,318. Most of the
outlay was financed by the issue of bonds,
in which respect the co. is rather heavily
committed, as balance-sheet figures show :
1926. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £1,010,825 £1,456,698 £1,456,698
Bonds .. .. 600,000 1,175,000 1,108,400
Other liabilities . . 30,957 50,184 33,516
Freeholds .. 162,347 194,094 193,510
Leaseholds .. 4,107 29,866 29,866
Plant, etc. . . 1,530,452 2,340,323 2,339,942
Stock . . . . 118,969 181,217 146,351
Debtors .. .. 102,344 84,944 70,667
Cash, etc. .. 5,934 70,190 25,863
The fixed debt is costing from 5f p.c. to
7 p.c. Thus bondholders drew much more
out of the business than the shareholders
did last year.
The scrip is at 18s. Gd. in Adelaide, at
which figure the return as 4.3 p.c. on a 4
p.c. div. basis.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
* is £ £
1921. . 29,019 10 p.c. = 26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 ( 44 934
Tax thereon, £95.. ..) ’
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22,302 7 ~,, 20,481- 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 3i „ „ 9,660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 2,868 26,974
1C26. . 23,898 8 „ „ 22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 ~ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough Branch, £12,247. . 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2i ~ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12.207 4 ~ ~11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
Trade brightened—the management can
thank Coles and Woolworths for bringing
the shopping centre back to Queen-street
—and the new cafe and a better lift
service helped. Turnover was no less
than 22 p.c. better than the previous
year’s; thus gross earnings (£145,4G3)
sprang £20,511. Though exes. (£127,209)
took £14,464 of the increase, they were 2£
p.c. lighter on turnover, and enough profit
remained to show 6.6 p.c. on capital as
against 4.4. 1.8, 7.1, 3.7, 3, 7.3 and 8 p.c.
back to 1926. So the div. was lifted a
couple of points, raising it to 6 p.c.
Although it is not the co.'s best per-
formance, it is the most encouraging for
over a decade. Shareholders averaged 8.1
p.c., sweetened with £57,514 of bonus scrip,
over the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1921. Then it was decided to widen the
co.’s connections in the country, mainly
on a t.-p. basis. But the move failed to
produce the results anticipated—for 10
years after the co. had been caught in the
backwash of the post-war boom it had been a
struggle to pay an average of 5.6 p.c. So
about five years ago it was decided to con-
centrate on city turnover. The last of the
branches was closed in 1929, and the with-
drawal from Maryborough, which was part
of this plan, alone cost £12,247. Then just
as the figures began to improve the whole
outlook altered completely; and it was not
until the latest figures were published that
investors had much of an opportunity of
judging the outcome of it all.
Further improvement in turnover is
reported since the close of accounts; thus
immediate prospects of the 6 p.c. div. being
repeated are bright enough; chief danger
appears to lie in the possibility of a change
in seasonal conditions.
The change in the co.’s trading methods
is reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1927. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £276,243 £276,243
Liabilities . . 202,412 108,920 109,805 105,362
Freehold . . 127,935 150,527 150,428 153,855
Plant, etc. . . 27,895 36,915 38,475 41,234
Stocks . . 220,046 145,485 149,856 156,747
Book debts, etc. 137,849 57,164 48,554 39,860
Cash and in-
vestments . . 5,247 16,664 25,535 26,858
At the close of accounts the liabilities con-
sisted of a mortgage (£46.585), debenture
stock (£39.000) and trade creditors
(£19,776):. More or less liquids, including
stocks, exceeded the lot by £118,103, an
improvement of £3963 over the twelvemonth.
Stocks are claimed to be conservatively
valued. The growth in the book value of
freehold and plants is on account of the new
cafe and new 7 lift.
The pound shares, which w;ere priced at
13s. a year ago, are now 7 at par. The back-
ing is 21s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd.
Towards Re-
Oct., Loss. Dividends & Tax. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 8,785 Nil 5,420
Profit.
1923.. 10,429 6 p.c. = 11,620 4,229
1924.. 8,130 4 „ „ 7,751 379 4,608
1925.. 5,335 Nil 5335 9,943
1926.. 15,321 6 p.c. = 11,629 3692 13.635
1927.. 5,802 3 ~ „ 5,814 13,623
1928.. 16,849 5 „ ~ 9,691 7158 20,781
1929.. 18,030 5 ~ ~ 9,691 8339 29,120
1930.. 2,656 Nil 2656 31,776
1931.. 2,827 Nil 2827 34,603
Written off, £4633 29,970
1932.. 1,213 Nil 1213 31,183
The present co. bought the business from
Canadian interests for £lOO,OOO in 1912.
Incidentally, over the 22 years before that
the venture, then mainly confined to artesian-
well-sinking in Western Queensland, had
yielded the vendors £32,362 in divs.; they
had put only £2160 of their own. money into
the business. To enable the co. to under-
take the manufacture of boring-plant, wind-
mills, pumping machinery, oil engines, etc.,
and to provide for expansion on the hard-
ware-importing side, more capital was got
in.
In its first 10 years the co. paid an aver-
age of S p.c. from profits averaging 104 p.c.
on capital. In 1920 a 7 p.c. bonus-scrip
issue was handed out, and a further £43,000-
odd of fresh capital was gathered. The
money went partly into a new warehouse
and partly into stocks. From this point
the co. has been more or less in trouble.
After deducting losses, but including addi-
tions to the depreciation reserve (now 7
£15.112), net earnings since 1921 have aver-
aged only 3.6 p.c. on capital, and the average
div. was 2.6 p.c. p.a., the last three years
being dry ones.
Developments at Itoma helped for a w r hile.
But last term no boring contracts were to
be had, conditions in the pastoral areas
affected sales of the co.’s manufactures, engi-
neering orders fell away, and the hardware
trade, as usual, w T as very slow. Gross profits
(£28.035) w 7 ere £2109 lighter, making the
slip £25,289 since 1929, and only £1213 of
profit remained. During the year the depre-
ciation reserve was drawn on for £4633.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £139,123 £193,820 £193,820 £193,820
Liabilities .. 11,384 27,119 16,010 18,516
Freeholds . . 29,082 48,768 48,828 48,902
Plant, etc. . . 28,866 46,454 48,074 42,881
Stocks and stores 75,100 121,898 108,606 111,825
Uncompleted bores 7,655 139 -
Book debts . . 30,189 38,688 39,538 35,456
Cash, investments,
etc. .. 6,151 1,139 773 6,215
Including stocks (up £3219), the more or less
liquid surplus (£134,980) was £2073 stronger
(Continued on page 16.)


c®M
V
•c&ftfcv.
mm
•••• >•
C#**
■
WWWRSSWSJfiwft
m
A
m
mm
■ : «m
mM
mii.
■
m
m
m
«
2l+or| 7 6
I4*rl'-
Also in Tins of 50, 100
and 150. Also 50s, Round
Airtight Tins.
Consider all the reasons why Country
Life are the preferred cigarettes, their
firmer rolling, their better tobacco,
the careful packing that safeguards
freshness. Add to this the fact that
you get an additional cigarette in
every one and sixpenny tin, and your
sense of value will bid you say
"Country Life" every time.
4-8888 I*2
(ountry
Life
The better cigarette


Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* x * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.L — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE k CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. Advt.
TESTING of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination.
We advise regarding most suitable method of
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Plow Sheet.
A. VICTOR L.EGGO & CO. PTT., LTD.,
Melbourne.
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
‘A sure jriend in uncertain times!
How to liquidate a
Mortgage
WISE is the man who covers his loans and mortgages with
adequate life assurance policies in the A.M.P. Here
is an interesting story on the point:—
In 1911 a certain man took out a policy in the Society for
£lOOO. As he prospered he added other policies, until by
February, 1927, they totalled £6250.
In 1928 this member (a grazier) obtained a loan, on mortgage,
of £B5OO. Soon, owing to the depression, he found great
difficulty in paying the interest. He was, indeed, in arrear with
his payments. In January of this year he was accidentally
killed and the position looked black for his family. It was
found, however, that, with bonuses, the total assurances had
grown to £7897 16s. With this tidy sum the deceased’s
executors were able to place the mortgage in an absolutely safe
position and have a substantial amount in cash with which to
carry on. Life assurance is the only means whereby such*
recovery can be made. Adequate A.M.P. policies give a man
peace of mind, even though his property be heavily mortgaged
and he be suffering the effects of the times.
THE Society is prepared to consider applications for
Mortgages on First-class Freehold Properties and for
Loans to Local Governing Bodies at Lowest Current
Interest Rates. It will be glad to show enquirers how easy it is
to establish a Sinking Fund to wipe out a Mortgage at a certain
date, or at death should that occur first.
Full information regarding mortgages and/or the numerous
A.M.P. plans of assurance may be had from any of the
Society’s offices or representatives.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
.General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices in the Capital and Principal Cities of the
Commonwealth.
District Offices throughout all States.
AMP
assets £80,600,000.
Gives best possible contract.
than at the previous balance. Freeholds
show little alteration; the book value of
plant, etc., was reduced by £5103. Stocks
have been taken in at cost or replacement
value, whichever was the lower, .the board
says. , ...
Excluding depreciation, the net tangible
backing amounts to 21s. Bd. per share, 14s.
of it in surplus liquids. The market specu-
lates in the scrip at ss.
At the annual meeting of New Guinea
Goldfields, Ltd,, chairman Frank Hambridge
said that the co.’s immediate prospects were
brighter than at any previous period in its
short history. There was general disappoint-
ment that the Golden Ridges mill was not
yet operating at full capacity. Still, the
co. is within measurable distance of obtain-
ing very satisfactory results from the treat-
ment of the Golden Ridges ore-body. Pend-
ing the installation of additional cyanide
tanks, now on order in Sydney, the mill
will treat about 1100 tons of ore monthly
for an estimated profit of £7OOO. When
mill extensions are complete, the capacity
would be raised to 4500 tons per month.
The surplus from the alluvial workings dur-
ing the year ended Sept. 30 last was £54,906.
The recovery of alluvial has since proceeded
normally, except in December, when a record
flood temporarily demolished the elevators
and sluice-boxes. Treatment of the Edie
Creek ore will not be decided upon until
the veins on the plateau have been tapped
at depth. Now that the power plant is in
operation, No. 1 and No. 4 shafts are being
pushed down on Edie No. 1 and Edie No.
2 areas. The crosscut at 350 ft. from the
No. 1 shaft will shortly tap the lode, whilst
No. 4 shaft will go down a little less than
6Coft. (200 ft. yet to go) before crosscutting
begins. The potentially important alluvial
areas located by the company’s geologist
(11. M. Kingsbury) in the Purari district
are now being drilled, and the services of
L. A. Deeoto, who bored the Bulolo ground,
have been retained, doubtless for check bor-
ing. The chairman paid a tribute to the
work of general-manager Harrison, whose
efforts against odds are transforming a
mountainous tropical jungle into a civilised
mining centre of importance.
The sluicing claims of Bulolo Gold De-
posits on the Upper Bulolo River and,
Koranga Creek have been proved to contain
“a large quantity”, of easily-worked wash,
with values from ss. to 10s. per cubic yard.
The claims are being equipped, and produc-
tion is to begin before the end of June.
Also, boring of the dredging ground on the
Lower Watut is in progress, and results to
date are said to be satisfactory.
* * * *
At Waihi (M.L.) the new west reef on
the No. 3 level, Martha Lode, has been
driven a further 21ft. in stone assaying 475.
per ton (gold 845.) over widths of 2ft. to
4ft. The limit of the reef to the east has
been reached, making the total length so
far proved approximately 200 ft. Crosscuts
to the new reef from Nos. 4 and 5 levels
are being driven. During February the co.
milled 18,947 tons for 5636 fine ounces of
gold and 29,8010 z. silver.
:Jc J*t *
Owing to floods, the Palmer River Co.’s
dredge (N.Q.) got in only 234 hours’ work
during the month ended March 11. But
recoveries (80oz. 3dwt. of gold from 13,200
c.y.) were the best for the last six months;
values are improving as the work proceeds
upstream. Production so far this year
totals 1390 z. 19dwt. from 34,800 yards.
* * * *
At the Talisman, on the old Mt. Peter
goldfield (N.Q.), 10 tons from a 121 n. reef,
worked to a depth of 40ft., averaged 3oz.
per ton. The Mt. Peter Extended and Mt.
View, on the same field, are also working
fairly rich but narrow reefs. At Specimen
Hill results have proved disappointing.
# sk ❖ #
Industrial Metal Deposits, a Melbourne
co., is testing a new method for the separa-
tion of zirconium and rutile from beach
sands. A sample of 20 tons from the beach
two miles north of Ballina (N.S.W.) is
to be treated ; if results are satisfactory a
plant will be erected. Both minerals have
the same specific gravity; thus their
separation has always been difficult. Zircon
contains 67 p.c. zirconium oxide, and is
used in special refractory ware; rutile car-
ries 60 p.c. titanium oxide, chief use being
for the manufacture of titanium white.
* * * *
Clunes, Ltd., an English co. formed in
1931 to take over 1000 acres on the Clunes
goldfield (Vic.), has transferred 500 acres
to Clunes Goldfields, Ltd. (capital £25,000).
The transferee proposes to launch out, and
talks of employing 2000 men eventually.
The Clunes field was discovered in 1851, and
rich quartz saddle reefs, up to 100 ft. in
width, were subsequently worked to a depth
of 1745 ft. Over £6,000,000 worth of gold
has been won.
* * if. #
Some rich stone has been taken out of
old Victorian fields lately. At Yandoit, 10
tons yielded 80oz., and more similar stuff
is in sight; at Creswick, 7 tons from an
indicator at a depth of 100 ft. returned 240 z.:
at Wedderburn, 40 tons from a 6ft. reef
yielded 210 z., while at Moliagul, 18oz. was
obtained from 16 tons from the Nuggety reef
(width up to 4ft.) and 960 z. from 29 tons
from the Sheoak reef (width 3ft.). The
indicator reefs at Moliagul provided the
Welcome Stranger nugget of 22850 z., an-
other of 480 oz. and several of over lOOoz.
❖ ❖ * ❖
New Red, White and Blue (Bendigo) pro-
poses to develop the extensive spur system
between the 1500 ft. and 1680 ft. levels as
soon as unwatering is complete. A recent
crushing of 225 tons yielded no more than
320 z. The Ironbark, whose last return was
only 9oz. from 172 tons, is pushing its shaft
down to 2000 ft. to reach the line of the rich
Hercules reef.
*'* $ *
Rose, Shamrock and Thistle, Harrietville
(Vic.), recovered 15380 z. from 1765 tons
for the six months to the end of January.
The profit was £5247, of which £3OOO was
paid in divs., leaving a p. and 1. credit of
£6378. Ore reserves are being rapidly de-
pleted, and vigorous development and shaft-
sinking are in progress.
Mining Promotions, Ltd., a Melbourne
concern, has taken over the old Darlington
mine at Stawell (Vic.), and will carry out
development before deciding whether for-
mation of a co. to work the property is
justified.
* * * *
An increase in miners’ phthisis is reported
from Bendigo (Vic.), and immediate steps
should be taken to enforce corrective
measures. These include firing at the end
of shift, thoroughly wetting down ore before
and during shovelling, and the supply of air
to dead ends, such as drives, winzes and
rises. Quartz dust is known to be much
more active in producing phthisis than any-
thing else.
* * * *
The dolomite-magnesite deposits near
Smithton (Tas.), found in 1931 by officers
of the Tasmanian Geological Sux-vey, are
to be investigated by Herbert Gepp and
Dr. Frank Stillwell on behalf of the Com-
monwealth and State Governments. The
mineral occurs over an area five miles long
by three miles wide, the most important ex-
posures being along the Duck River. Its
chief uses are as a refractory in steel manu-
facture and in connection with the sulphite
process of paper-pulp making. The develop-
ment of the Smithton deposits will depend
largely upon what happens in connection
with paper-pulp in Australia.
* * * *
Hansel Mundy, on its property at Hum-
bug Scrub (S.A.), has sunk the main shaft
to 63ft. in lode material 4ft. wide, about
lOin. of which carries over loz. gold per
ton. No. 2 shaft is down 36ft.
s': '!= si: *
The revival of gold mining in Westralia
dui’ing the last three years is well illus-
trated by the following figures:—
1930. 1931. 1932.
Men employed .. 4,284 6,291 8,695
Tons ore treated . . 645,344’ 982,163 1,327,021
Value per ton, dwt. 13 10.5 9
Total value—gold at
84s £1,783,056 £2,200,502 £2,546,176
The output in tons per man employed was
150 per annum in 1930, 156 in 1931 and
152 in 1932. Thus in actual mining opera-
tions there has not been any very great
increase in efficiency. What small reduc-
tion there has been in mining costs is the
result mainly of cheaper supplies.
=!= 3= * *
Last year the Westralian Mines Depart-
ment assisted 1129 prospectors in in-
vestigating new finds and the re-investiga-
tion of old ones. When a find is made in
waterless and isolated places, means of
transport are supplied, or the Government
contributes something towards the cost; also
assays of ore from new ground are made
free of charge. No less than 4000 old claims
had been raked over again by the end of
1932. From these nearly 6.000,000 tons had
been extracted and treated for a yield of
about 4,755,0000 z., worth over £20,000,000.
In the boom days of rich shallow deposits,
leases were abandoned when difficult ground
or the water level was reached.
* * *
Until recently it was considered that the
success of Lake View and Star (W.A.) de-
pended on the Horseshoe, Chaffers and other
leases to the south and west of these areas.
But on the Lake View lease to the north
the new lode, first struck at the 1400 ft. level,
has been exposed at the 1200 ft. and 1800 ft.
levels, the width varying from lift, to
21ft., and the grade of ore is reported
above the average for the rest of the mine.
The lode has been driven on for hundreds
of feet on the 1400 ft. level. Recent develop-
ments mean that backs or stopes are avail-
able for a height of over 400 ft. The discovery
of another lode, Bft. wide, worth 40s. per
ton, on the 1400 ft. level is of secondary im-
portance. These finds have transformed the
old Lake View lease into a new goldmine.
In future the co. will disgoi-ge over 40,000
tons monthly.
Goldfields Australian Development, re-
cently formed in London, is diamond drilling
the Moonlight leases at Wiluna (W.A.)
to test the extension of the No. 2 westdode
of Wiluna Gold Mines. The Moonlight main
shaft, now being unwatei-ed, is to be sunk
to the sulphides, and these tested by driving.
The Bulletin lode also is to be proved at
depth, and at Sandstone, on the Black
Range, the drilling programme is designed
to show whether the' lode faults below the
400 ft. level. At the end of January the
co. had £91,000 ill hand..
* ■]: *
Good developments continue in the Great
Boulder (W.A.). The latest are a new lode,
4ft. wide, carrying 12dwt. at depth of 900 ft.,
and a widening of the X lode to 6ft., value
30dwt., with telluridc showing in face of th<-
di-ive at the 1800 ft. level. Ten years ago
the Boulder was-thought to have no more
than three yeai’s’ profitable life ahead of it.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is treating
the highest-grade ore on the Boulder Belt; its
output averaging round the 40s. mark, with
gold at the standard price. Since expendi-
ture approaches the same figure, this show,
like many others, has to rely on exchange
premiums for divs. Feb. figures were 6624
tons, standard value £11,676, of which exes,
took £11,674.
!>: * * *
At Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) developments
at depth continue to disclose new ore lenses,
and the co. looks like being able to maintain
a shilling div. The present shaft can be
sunk to over 4000 ft. on the underlie, or
another three levels ; so a new shaft will
not be necessary for a long time. Meanwhile
the co. is strengthening its cash and ore
reserves.
& * * ' *
Bi'oken Hill Prop, has commenced a cross-
cut from the 1500 ft. level of the Great Boulder
(W.A.) to test the w T ell-defined lode channel
located by diamond drill on the Enterprise
lease. If indications are encouraging enough,
driving along the lode channel will follow.
The treatment plant at. Hannans Extended
(capacity 1200 tons monthly) will be com-
pleted presently.
* * * *
Old tailings dumps continue to attract
attention in Westralia. Two ex-eockies, with
no previous experience, but working on
advice from the School of Mines, lately put
at Eundynie. In the first mouth they treated
up a plant to cyanide about. 28.000 tons, of
tailings on the old Hidden Secret North
650 tons for 122ciz„ which more than paid
for the plant.
* * * *
Hill 60, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), is being
sought by option-takers. The Hill is an old
show, and has dealt with about 20,000 tons
of half-ounce ore.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Aristo and A.G.L.: The co., registered in Mel-
bourne, sells forestry-bonds ( £3O an acre) in respect
of land it bought in the Rotorua district (M.L.).
There is no reason to suppose that it will not do
all it has contracted to do, which, thus far, is to
maintain the forests until harvested, or for 20 years,
whichever is the shorter period. Shareholders thus
depend for their returns upon the sale of bonds, not
timber. The bonds are a long-term speculation,
the result of which will largely depend upon con-
ditions at the time the forest products are sold
E.R.W. and Mourilyan: These bonds are not dealt
in on the Stock Exchange. The secretary of the
co. may be able to find a buyer for you R. 0.0.:
Values petered out and the co. is now defunct....
Perplexed: Unless you are urgently in need of the
money, hang on for a while... .Iv.G.: The pound
shares are priced at 4s. 9d. on the market; you may
get a trifle more later... .L.S.: Sit tight; but
inform the co. of your circumstances. .. .A.J.F.: A
doubtful speculation; too many getting a cut out
of it S'.D. : Leave it alone; there are numerous
ways of trying to influence the njarket, and that is
one of them. .. . F..T.8.: The amount varies with
different offices. Write to the co. concerned and
ask for statement of surrender value.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Woman Worker
Dear B., —It seems to me that the vari-
ous women’s societies could do a good deal
more to help the trained but unionless
woman worker. There is no doubt women
have been exploited in the labor market
during the depression. Many of them,
Avorkers on the same job for years, have been
reduced in their weekly wage, and have con-
tentedly acquiesced, to help things along;
some, no doubt, because they realised that
their wages had been too high. But in
many cases they have seen their lost wage
spent in additional luxury in the house or
clothing of their employer. There should
also be some way of preventing women with
means taking jobs when liard-up women are
available. The governess or private teacher
fares worst. Here is an instance, one of
many, A highly-trained governess was
offered a position to teach four children,
aged 14 to S, the eldest in Grade VII, and
music to tAvo, if possible; 30s. a week (and
keep, of course), single fare for six months’
duty, return fare for 12 months’. This was
quite good for a governess these times, even
Avhen it is considered that she gives five
hours’ solid work to her pupils, plus music
and preparation hours, and is usually com-
panionable and helpful in the house. But
the catch came when it was pointed out
that, no housemaid being kept, she would
have to do her own room and laundry (no
hardship), also help with sweeping and dust-
ing, do all the table work and all the mend-
ing for the family and house! No one could
do all that satisfactorily. That employer
would have better service were he to give
£1 a Ayeek to a governess and 10s. per week
to a girl helper (whose keep would be negli-
gible in the country), besides doing his bit
to ease the lot of the woman worker. —
Yourts, Teacher (Q.).
Post-leaning
Dear Bulletin, —The most important
thing for us Australians to do is to abolish
the habit of leanirig against a post. The!
spirit which animated the pioneers appears
to be practically dead. They Avere men whq
did things. Nowadays, when anything lias
to be done, it is customary to look around
for someone else to do it, or at least render
substantial assistance. Everybody wants
something for nothing. No wonder the posi-
tion -is untenable. And the dole system is
making matters worse. There are to-day
thousands of young fellows who have never
done a day’s work. They have become, or
are becoming, used to the dole, and it will
be a hard matter for them to get rid of the
habit of leaning against a post. It is tragic.
The cry is heard everywhere, “Give youth
a chance.” lam in favor of that—in favor
of discarding all the political fogies who
appear to be unable to get us out of the
mess we are in. But unless a radical change
comes about, it will be idle to give youth
a chance, because the young fellow will have
become used to post-leaning and .therefore
lacking in the necessary qualities for national
salvation. —J. H. N. (Q.).
The Banks and Advances
Dear B., —“Socialisation of credit' and
“nationalisation of banking” are appealing
to many, and a surprising amount of sym-
pathy for something of the kind is being
expressed outside of Lang’s followers. What
else can be expected from men who want to
expand production and are prevented from
doing so by restricted finance? Can it be
Avondered that they have both hands open
for any relief, whether offered by Lang or
someone else?
If this country is to be saved from “social-
isation of credit,” those Who control finance
must specialise on putting on a sound foot-
ing all of their customers who are produc-
ing the right goods, and also make it pos-
sible for all those avlio are game enough to
endeavor to do the same thing to be accom-
modated. The trouble is that at present
the banks are deflating the value of rural
assets to such an extent that, except for a
few plums, it is impossible to get them to
make a worth-Avhile advance. The people
are told that money is available, but that
no one w r ants it, as there is no profitable
use forr it. 'The banks forget that the very
low advances they are prepared to make,
accompanied by their high rate of interest
as compared with low value of primary pro-
duce, is the cause of the lack of demand.
Production cannot be stimulated on the
terms offered.
Surely assets which have saved Australia
from ruin are worth any money. Why
Avon’t the banks see that their method of
calculating values on Avhat they call a pro-
ductive basis is doing untold harm in abnor-
mal times such as these? In a calculated
way assets have practically no value to-day,
yet on a broad view their worth is higher
than at any time in our country’s career.
Instead of this over-nervous restriction of
credit, it would be sound policy to take the
view that £1509 lent at 4 p.c. would allow
of £5OO more being spent towards produc-
tion, giving bigger returns and making a
safer interest investment, than £lOOO lent at
6 p.c., leaving the producer the same amount
of interest to find in each case. —Yours,
Riverina Grazier.
Wanted, New Catchwords
Dear B., —Owing to cheap and universal
but superficial education people are carried
away by catchwords more than at any other
period of the world’s history. Look at
our own use of the Avord “Hun” in the war.
The Communists are past-masters in this
art. They make great use of the word
“bourgeois.” “Religion! Why, my dear
mail, religion is bourgeois!” And you really
begin to feel ashamed of the faith in you.
Such' things are very infectious. A neighbor
is a staunch Conservative. You hear a man
mutter: “Bigoted old Tory!” and you imme-
diately lose a little of your respect for
him. The Communists have been so suc-
cessful in their propaganda that such Avords
as “capitalist system,” “mortgage,” “bank,”
etc., arouse a storm of rage in the mob when
merely mentioned. When this happens the
only thing to do is to invent new names,
new catchwords; and here the newspapers
can help. For example, four years ago when
I was in England I asked people: “Why don’t
you adopt Protection?” “Never,” they said.
“It is an iniquitous system.” “What do you
think of safeguarding?” “Ah,” I was told,
“splendid! Just the thing we want.” It is
not too much to say England was saved by
the new catchword “Safeguarding.” We,
too, must find and adopt new catchwords, as
we have allowed the Communists to dis-
credit the old ones and the people seem
determined to be ruled by catchwords.—-
Yours, T. L. Gillespie.
Subsidised Industry
Dear B., —-It is absurd to put relief men
on to shifting sand, pulling weeds and
filling up potholes where nobody cafes
whether they are filled up or pot. Why
don’t the Governments acquire or rent fac-
tories Avhich have been closed down on
account of the depression and start them
going again? None of the goods produced,
such as tinned foodstuffs, etc., need be put
up for sale in Australia; the stuff might
be sent overseas —to the East, for instance.
Even if we had to sell at a lower price than
it cost us to produce, the scheme would still
be worth while, for the loss would be less
than the present cost of relief. —Yours,
Goshawk (Q.).
Getting a Job
Dear B., —For the past three years I have
had no boss but old man De Presh; never-
theless, battling like the devil, I have managed
to keep everyone but the Tax Commissioner
at bay. I make less than a worker on relief,
but he (the taxation bloke) has expressed his
intention of summonsing me. But that’s not
all. I saw where by leasing an otherwise
utterly useless mudbank (I live on Bribie
Island, Q.) I could make perhaps another
tenner, so I applied for a lease and offered a
rental. The department informed me that.
there were no provisions for leasifig the mud-
bank. I then sought the aid of a friendly
politician ; but “it would not be advisable to
grant a lease for such purpose,” says Forgnn
Smith. One Avould have thought that an effort
to gain a livelihood these times wofild have
met with approval from even a Tory, let
alone one whose days and nights are spent
in an endeavor to ameliorate conditions for
the worker. But apparently I’m ivrong.
When I’m broke the Government will find
me in a day’s work and some rations and
charge the taxpayer a shilling in the pound
for my benefit. —Yours, Bill Barnacle, (Q.).
Test Matches
Dear Bulletin, —I would go farther than
you—a ten years’ spell is too little.—Yours,
Australian.
Traffic Office Delays
Deaf B., —The other day it was necessary
for me to go to the Sydney Traffic Office
to register my car and get the new wind-
screen sticker. I wasted nearly two hours
there. If the authorities had any considera-
tion at all for motorists or for public con-
venience or the prosperity of the coqntry they
would have the Traffic Office open on Satur-
day afternoons so that motorists could renew
registrations, licenses, etc., in their spare
time. —Yours etc., Eureka.
The Boys
Dear P>., —“Silen” (B. 18/1/-33) em-
ployed. three boys, and not one of them
was satisfactory. He blames the boys.
Workers are trained, not born. It is the
parents of those three who are responsible
if their offspring have no conscience about
thMr work, lose interest quickly and haven’t
the backbone to see a job through. Don’t
blame the boys. Let’s treat them as citizcns-
in-the-making who have been greatly wronged.
—Yours, Emel (Vic.).
The Unmarried Mother
Dear B., —As a general practitioner I have
of late been struck with the number of single
women (fine specimens of the sex mostly,
from both physical and social viewpoints)
who h ive presented themselves for diagnosis
as to whether they were pregnant. In the
great majority of cases they were employed,
but their partners (90 per cent, of the
women wore engagement rings) were stated
to be unable to marry on the grounds of
expense and unemployment. Their chief
worry was “the disgrace to the family. -4
Their fears being confirmed, the girls pro-
ceeded to jeopardise their lives and damage
their health by seeking the services of an
abortionist. Sometimes a medical man accom-
modates them, but more frequently an oblig-
ing nurse does it for a couple of pounds. It
is not to be forgotten that there are many
who, highly charged with the pangs of sex
hunger, find it dangerous to neglect its
gratification. Opening wide the gates for
abortion by legislation, as in Soviet Russia,
is certainly most undesirable, nor can birth
control by the use of contraceptives be advo-
cated, for it would tend to promiscuity and
endanger the basis of morality, whilst from
a political aspect the dangers are obvious.
The only solution of the problem is mar-
riage, together with a reversion to the Roman
idea (b.C. IS) of compelling, by legislation,
the father to provide a dowry for his daugh-
ter. Such a scheme would lower the inci-
dence of venereal disease and promote thrift
in the community.—Yours, Sandig.
M.L.’s Unemployed Levy
Dear B., —Although severe penalties are
provided for evading payment of M.L.’s un-
employment levy of ss. per quarter, the
Government does not convenience contribu-
tors by accepting instalments at the nearest
post office. The levy must be paid at a
money-order office, which, in my case, means
a journey of 15 miles to Nuhaka (H. 8.),
although there is a P.O. at Tangitere, four
miles from me.—Yours, Tangitere (M.L.).
Money
Dear Bulletin, —For practical purposes
our money consists of notes, coins and cur-
rent-account deposits in the banks. Fixed
deposits cannot be considered as currency.
Mr. Brown wishes to convert £5OO to fixed
deposit and his banker obliges him. In
order to pay their client interest on his
deposit the bankers purchase some kind of
interest-bearing security, and thus the liquid
credit that was Brown’s has passed to the
seller of that security. The banking figures
show £5OO more fixed deposits; but it is
plain that if Mr. Browp had purchased his
security direct from the seller there would
have been no such record. Yet the final
result would have been much the same. Fixed
deposits simply tell us' how much business
the banks are doing for investors, and the
statistics taken alone are not important.
The most important function of the banks
lies in their ability to create and cancel the
chief part of our currency. When the bank
grants Mr. Brown a loan ®r overdraft it
means that so much new money has been
added to the currency in circulation, ami
when the loan or overdraft is paid up it
means that so much has been withdrawn.
As bankers’ currency exceeds, both in
volume and velocity, the two other forms of
currency (notes and coins), it follows that
its importance in. our social machinery is
paramount. At present the volume of
current-account deposits is low and its cir-
culation sluggish. Both these causes make
for a falling price level and trade stagna-
tion. If the volume of money (principally
current-account deposits) could be increased
systematically, it is probable that the result-
ing rise in the price level would improve the
circulation and eventually bring about a
recovery of trade. A stabilisation policy
whereby the volume is increased or decreased
according to the demand of trade as shown
by the price level is needed, as it promises
to be the quickest and easiest solution of
our troubles. —Yours etc., W. B. (Tas.).
“This Freedom”
Dear Bulletin, —Four years have taught
one lesson —the inability of democracy to cure
itself, because there is no power in a demo-
cratic State to force unwelcome remedies.
Things would be different under, say, social-
ism ; if a community run on such lines found
there was over-production of any particular
commodity, with consequent ruinous prices,
the dictator would transfer so many thou-
sand producers of that commodity to other
jobs, and the problem would vanish. But
we are not slaves, subject to what we would
regard as degrading control; so to-day people
engaged in overstocked industries are com-
peting with one another until —economics
being as hard as iron and as logical as the
rule of three —the weakest are forced out
and the industry continues to support just
as many as it can and pay them the value
of their production and no more. Values
to-day are gradually settling to their natural
levels, and unemployment figures are conse-
quently starting to diminish; but Time, not
man, is effecting the cure, and there has been
incalculable suffering in the process. It is
no doubt pleasant to reflect that a man is
free, and can choose to do what he likes
with his life, and work at any job offering;
but Paul summed the matter up when ho
said “with a great price obtained I this
freedom.”I—Yours 1 —Yours etc.. T. P. B. (Vic.).
Unearned Increment
Dear Bulletin, —You quote the governor
of the Bank of England as saying that
he can’t see any way out of the world’s
distress. Perhaps the case has not yet
been correctly diagnosed. What seems to
me to be the chief cause cf the trouble is
unearned increment. A man buys a block
of land for £lOO. The people make a city,
and the block rises in value to £lOO,OOO.
The lucky individual levies rents on this up
to £lO,OOO per year, or, if he sells, lends
the ivealth, which the whole people helped
to create, back to them at high rates of
interest. Land has sold in Sydney up to
£3OOO per foot. How can the people be
other than impoverished? Rural lands which
cost the original holders ton and twenty
shillings per acre have been sold for as
many pounds. Farmers with millstones like
this round their necks can only produce at
a loss, and are crying out for a sucking-
bottle in the shape of a bounty.—J. F. (Q.).
THE MISERIES.
EVERY ONE OF THEM: “I don’t know what those others are crying about; but I’m sure they can’t feel things like I do.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs”
Criterion “While Parents Sleep”
Royal Dante'
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Command to Love”
King’s “The Middle Watch”
State Movies and Talkie*
Our ’Arbor
Last Thursday morning the Showman
found on his desk two brochures both cal-
culated to stimulate the wanderlust in the
breast of the devoutest hermit. One was
entitled “The Great Barrier Coral Reef,”
"Speaking into a microphone.”
the other “Sydney Harbor Panorama: An
Illustrated Survey of Points of Scenic and
Historic Interest observed during the Tour-
ist Harbor Trips arranged by Sydney
Ferries, Limited.” After perusing their con-
tents the Showman felt an overwhelming
desire to broaden his mind by travel. But
where? The Great Barrier Coral Reef or
Sydney Harbor? Borrowing the Religious
Editor’s well-worn double-headed penny, he
spun it to the ceiling, calling “Heads the
Harbor.” Heads it was. Frfth absolutely
refused to go. He says he sees all of the
harbor he wants to from the window of his
fiat at Cremorne Point. That, of course,
is not. the proper spirit. So the Showman
went alone, and sat on a lofty seat enjoying
the society of a lifeboat, rafts, cork-jackets
and some buckets. In this nautical atmo-
sphere he proceeded to survey “The Points
of Scenic and Historic Interest.” The Kir-
rule began to glide away from the jetty.
Immediately a Voice (gracious Heavens,
what a Voice!) blared at the back of the
Showman;
“ON OUR LEFT, AT THE SOUTH-
WEST CORNER OF THE QUAY,
STANDS THE OLD STONE BUILDING
NOW KNOWN AS THE MERCANTILE
FREE STORES"
The Voice was imperious. There was no
escaping it. It boomed into the ears and
shook the spine. The origin of the Voice
was located easily—an inoffensive-looking
person on the lower deck speaking into a
microphone in an empty saloon. He was
reading from a sheaf of typewritten pages.
By this time the Kirrule w r as stationed under
the Bridge. Voices boomed out from loud-
speakers all over the ferry :
....“WHICH MAY BE JUSTIFIABLY
CLAIMED AS THE GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENT OF ITS KIND IN THE
WORLD"
Leaving the Bridge behind, the Kirrule
nosed towards the Heads at a steady eight
knots. As it slipped by Benalong Point.
Mrs. Macquarie's Chair, Woolloomooloo and
once-swanky Potts Point, the Voice regaled
the passengers with items concerning the
nomenclature and history of each. It was
tireless. It went on and on.
“WOOLLOOMOOLOO WAS LONG
THE GATHERING-PLACE OF THE
BLACKS"
“RUSIICUTTERS BA Y. .. .SO CALLED
FROM THE NUMEROUS RUSHES
WHICH GREW THERE". .. .
“DOUBLE BAY WAS FIRST KNOWN
AS KELTIC COVE”
But as the bays grew wider towards the
Heads the Voice was unable to bridge the
gaps between each with enough historical
facts. So, turning to a gramophone on a
seat, the announcer placed a record on
the disc and started the machine. More
talks and music filled the minutes until the
Spit hove in sight. The air was vibrant
with the fruity strains of Irving Berlin’s
“Blue Skies,” played on a Wurlifzer organ.
The ferry’s siren screeched to the Spit Bridge
officials to get ready to let the Kirrule
through. Up and down the scales went
“Drink his tea out of a smoke-blackened
billycan."
“Blue Skies,” louder and louder screeched
the siren. The din was terrific. Then
silence; then the Voice; “ON THE RIGHT
IS CLONTARF IT WAS HERE THAT
THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH WAS
SHOT AT WHILE BEING ENTER-
TAINED AT A-PICNIC. THE SPOT IS
MARKED BY A PfNB-TREE.”' ~
Two hundred pairs of eyes were glued on
the pine-tree. : ...
The Spit Bridge, was passed through to
the seductive strains of- a waltz from “The
Count of Luxembourg,” and as the Kirrule
churned its.way past Seaforth, with its little
week-end cottages perched crazily on in-
secure cliffs,. afternoon tea was served. The
Showman has always wanted to drink his
tea out of a smoke-blackened billycan as is
done by ferry deckhands, so he rushed the
refreshment counter praying that his chance
had arrived. But, alas! tea was served the
same way as in Buckingham Palace.
The upper reaches of Middle Harbor be-
yond Powder Hulk arid Bantry Bay bear
less trace of man than any'other spot near
the city. Even the .Voice was comparatively
quiet as the Kirrule chugged along past
Flat Rock to beautiful Killarney, once
known (the Voice was firm on this) as
Cockfighter’s. Point. The late afternoon sun
illuminated the wooded hills with the golden
glow' beloved by Arthur Streeton. As the
boat stopped -in the shallows stillness reigned
for a few precious moments. Sydney seemed
a thousand miles away; then the propeller
threshed again and.the return journey com-
menced.
“WE ARE NOW BACK AGAIN IN
THE MAIN ARM. ... THE TURRETS
PEEPING OVER THE TREES INDI-
CATE THE POSITION OF WILLIS’S
CASTLE"....
“FOLLY POINT, .SAID TO BE SO
CALLED OWING TO A SETTLER WHO
BUILT HIS HOUSE THERE WITH THE
KITCHEN IN THE TOP OF A TOWER
AS HE HAD AN OBJECTION TO THE
SMELL OF COOKING"....
But the Voice had by now ceased to hold
the Showman spellbound. He decided upon
a tour of the ferry. Disregarding the
caution: “PASSENGERS ARE ALSO RE-
QUESTED NOT TO CONVERSE WITH
ANY OF THE CREW WHILE STEAMER
IS UNDER WEIGH.;’ he made friends
with the. crew. George, - the stoker, was a
grizzled old sea-dog. . Twenty years with
"PRECIOUS BANE"
(Independent Theatre’s production at Sydney Savoy).
Top to bottom, left to right: Arthur Lane as Old Beguildy; Marie Rosenfeld as
Prue Sam; John Wyndham as Kester Woodseaves; Hawdon Wilson as Gideon
Sam.
the co. Before that aboard the old Kumara
and Geelong. Shipwrecked, too. Was
aboard the Wakatane when she went down
in Prince’s Channel 28 years ago. Then
there was Jack, the engineer. Jack has
pulled five people out of the. Harbor in his
time. He jumped dvei board to save them ;
all in the day’s work. Don, a deck-hand,
was in the Navy once. He was on H.M.S.
Natal whqn she was blown up in. the North
Sea in 1915 and helped to bring H.M.A.S.
Tasmania to Australia twelve years ago.
Charlie Holm, the skipper, seen after the
trip, was a, reticent fellow, but the Show-
man elicited the fact that he has been push-
ing tourist boats around Port Jackson
for ’ nine years and that previously he
had skippered a tug. The Voice (Bruce
Murray), though quite garrulous about
Pinchgut, Quaker’s Hat Point. Shark Island,
and the hurtd.red and one other “Points of
Scenic and Historic Interest,” had little to
say about himself. Still, the Showman
sensed that he is proud of the job he fills
so well.
The passengers, who appeared well-pleased
with the cruise—many of them had had
also a morning session up the Parramatta
and Lane C.dve Rivers —looked a countrified'
and overseas lot. Cameras and brown paper
lunch bags were much in evidence. Click,!
click, click went the cameras throughout
the afternoon; munch, munch, munch went a
couple of hundred jaws. Orange peel, apple
cores, crusts of' bread and chocolate
wrappers bobbed up arid down in the wake
of .the. .Kirrule., ..A; deeo'raus. .middle-Hass.
crowd who took in everything as solemnly
as a contented Shorthorn milker. The
approach of winter was foreshadowed by
the click of knitting needles. Two old
de'ars, unmindful of the romance of the
Balmoral Amphitheatre or the glories of the
municipal dressing-sheds on Edwards Beach,
knitted with bowed heads while they
earnestly discussed the comparative dietetic
values of crumpets and saveloys.
Middle. Head was rounded, after which
came. a. straight run up the west channel. The
Kirrule surged past historic Chowder Bay.
(There’s a place the Voice might have said
a lot about, but it isn’t very pretty history,
and the Voice is discreet.) A little later
the ferry threaded its way through the
traffic in Sydney Cove and berthed without
a hitch at No. 5 Jetty. The Showman
waited for the Voice to announce:
“STRAIGHT AHEAD YOU WILL FIND
PLASTO’S, THE FIRST AND LAST,
AND THE PARAGON. TAKE YOUR
PICK. THE BEER IS GOOD AT
EACH.” But Mr. Murray had dismantled
his gear and had packed it away.
The Showman sighed. A bosker trip
and a cheap one. Then came a yearning for
the turtles, crabs, mutton-birds, beche-de-
met and the sea-anemones of “The (treat
Barrier Coral Reef.” Perhaps to-morrow
afternoon....
Shaw has done it again. In his “Too
True to Be Good,’’ performed by., the Gregan
McMahonites at the new Garrick in Mel-
bourne —the latest thing, by the way, in
theatrical architecture and symbol of this
Bright New’ World, which, as Shaw would
say, is sparking gaily on the edge of the
Abyss of Self-destruction—G.B.S. asks us
to look at nature and then shoves a kaleido-
scope before our eyes and merrily shakes it
for three hours, forming the most unexpected
and exciting patterns. And yet there is a
sort of order running through the series of
apparently inconsequential pictures—the
, order of Shaw’s ideas familiar to every
reader of his prefaces, grim ideas despite
their facetious setting. Here is the medical
profession, chasing new fashions assiduously
but sceptical of its own pretensions, symbol-
ised by a doctor attending a wealthy invalid,
the symbol of a mentally sick world, rest-
less with the desire for change and terrified
at the idea of anything changing. Here is
Scientific Determinism —a pathetic figure
this, in a black frock coat, sitting lumpily
in a cavern marked St. Paul’s in the middle
of a howling Oriental desert —having abol-
lished God, demolished the heavens and
destroyed hope, faith and incentive to
action by proclaiming that man can
only progress along the evolutionary path by
a senseless accident, the results of which
are liable to be wiped out by another
equally senseless accident. There is his son,
symbol of the generation which stands be-
wildered between the old world and the new,
brought up as a rationalist and to -believe in
man’s ability to conquer nature through
science and knowledge, a movie-fed roman-
tic whose politics derived from the doctrine
of the survival of the fittest and ended in the
appalling catastrophe from which civilisa-
tion is still reeling, and in which his part
was to drop bombs from aeroplanes on de-
fenceless villages. There is the usual
Shavian contrast —in the army he was
honored for killing men, women and child-
ren; in civil life he. is. a thief who is being
chased by the police for stealing a pearl
necklace from a perfectly worflfffess woman.
The horror of his situation is. that he no
longer believes that he was anything more
than a destructive monkey, made doubly
destructive- by the. science of his 'father.
Another, shake of ‘the .kaleidoscope and
we see Colonel Tallboys, D. 5.0., the
familiar Shavian satire on the professional
soldier, who gets a K.C.B. through the skill,
subtlety and originality of Meek, a private
soldier. Tallboys pockets the decoration
with the remark that it all works out fairly
in the end, as he performed actions in his
time which gained decorations for his
superiors.- There is also Shaw himself, or
as much of him as the owner has ever been
able to contemplate, in the person of Ser-
geant Fielding, who tries to find in' real life
the answers to the problems postulated by
Bunyan and in the Bible, whose “higher
“All in the day's work."
centres” seek to transport him to a Back
to Methuselahan realm of pure intellect, but
whose “lower centres” are not denied a
Shavian iron ration of indulgence in the
shape of an affair—a sort of liaison between
electrons—with Sweetie, “the prettiest nurse
who ever raised the mortality rate of a hos-
pital by 10 per cent.” The first act is the
only one with pretensions to drama. At
the end of it the. Microbe which has hopped
into the bed vacated by the girl who has
been made well by discovering a Purpose
says the play is now over —the rest <pf the
evening will be spent in talking about it and
the exits are all in order. Nobody accepted
the invitation, and it is doubtful if any
regretted it. Shaw is usually interesting
even when he is repeating himself.
It is necessary finally to cease judging
Shaw from any accepted criterion of dra-
matic convention. This play is not a play
at all. It is merely Shaw talking to him-
self about subjects he happens to be inter-
ested in. The fact that he clothes liis ideas
in human bodies and gives them titles and
puts them in more or less logical relation-
ship to some not too ferociously impossible
environment doesn’t matter. They are all
aspects of life, since they are aspects of
Shaw, and it almost becomes a nuisance
when they appear to be like actual human
beings, since human beings don’t wash their
dirty linen in public, whereas all Shaw’s
characters wash theirs with almost fanatical
industry, and then put them on inside out
so that you can see what frauds they are.
Col. Tallboys, for instance, knows far more
about himself than any professional soldier
of the type ever knew about himself—it is
Shaw talking about himself or a particular
aspect of himself. If the above theory is
correct the limitations of the characters are
Shaw’s limitations. So if it is remarked that
the characters are a thoroughly disagreeable
lot, however good-humoredly presented, it
is to be hoped this paper won’t be sued for
libel.
Present critic has said hard things about
McMahon, but he has seen Shaw done in
London and Moscow, and lie lias never seen
him done better. The casting was brilliant.
The excellent Thomas Skewes, whose gen-
eral practitioner in “The Doctor’s Dilemma”
is gratefully remembered, was the perfect
emblem of Science sitting dismal in the
desert in frockcloth and ashes; Joseph
Ambler’s Colonel Tallboys was an intellec-
tual delight, and so was John Gorbutt’s Ser-
geant Fielding. Collins Hilton. Thelma
Scott, Allie Robson, Norman Blacker, Ruby
May and Paul o,’Loughlin were all good
after their fashion. John Darcy caught the
spirit of despair and scepticism of the air-
man turned burglar very cleverly. In the
final soliloquy, a beautiful piece of Shavian
prose, he brought off a difficult feat superbly.
The furniture was by Frederick Wars. and
fabrics by Michael O'C nnell were features
of the fine staging.
Sydney’s theatrical fare these days is not
very exciting. At Her Majesty’s “Our. Miss
Gibbs” is entering on its last week; at the
Cri. the bad language of Bright Young
Things entrances patrons of “While Parents
Sleep.” Dante, the magician, continues to
hold the stage at the Royal, and Wirths’
“He was in the Navy once."
Circus, back under canvas again, opened on
Saturday night in a vacant lot in Surry
Hills. At the Haymarket (or new) Tiv.
Jim Gerald is putting his 746th revue, "A
Moorish Maid,” through its paces. In the
circumstances it isn’t surprising that the
show that drew the best house of the lot-
on Saturday night, which was wintry, was
“Precious Bane” at the Savoy, where the
Independent Theatre players gave the best
dramatic performance seen in the Bridge
City since Sib Thorndike and co. played
“Ghosts.”


TRAVEL HOME VIA
NEW YORK
AND THE
GUNARD LINE
Homeward bound, via U.S.A., Canada and
Canard to Europe. See Honolulu, San Fran-
cisco, Vancouver, Montreal and New York,
and the fascinating cities of America and
Canada. A Weekly Express Service from New
York by the renowned
AQUITANIA, MAURETANIA, BERENGARI V,
46,000 tons. 30,000 tons. 54.000 tons.
Also
The Largest Cabin .Fleet in the World.
Connecting with the following Sailings from
Sydney:
S.S. Monterey Sailing April Bth
S.S. Makura Sailing April 13th
S.S. Niagara Sailing April 27th
S.S. Mariposa Sailing May 6th
S.S. Maunganui Sailing May 11th
Return tickets issued by the Suez Canal and
Cape Lines are available for return by this
route. Apply to —
CUNARD LINE
(C D. LINE),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY,
OR
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
s 3
5 ss
■SC
WffM:
mj
.
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
illustrated folder No. 25
GREATLY
REDUCED
FARES
Special Excursion Rates
per T.S.S. “MARELLA”
leaving Sydney May 6,1933
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES
JAVA £6s—no exchange
SINGAPORE . LI A —no exchange
IDEAL WINTER TRIP
DURATION OF VOYAGE—7 WEEKS
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY ::: Telephone 87901
Read the B.P. Magazine, 1/- per copy. All newsagents and booksellers.
rj r\
PLEASURE CRUIS€S
BY ROYAL MAIL LINERS
From SYDNEY
"Narkunda" to Noumea, 22nd April
I I days' Cruise via Brisbane. Fares
18 to 24 guineas. First Saloon only
"Strathaird" to Hobart, 13th April. 6 days'
Cruise' via Melbourne. First Saloon Fares
I I and 12 gns. Tourist Class 7 and 8 gns.
"Maloja" to Papua, 16th June.
12 days' Cruise via Brisbane,
Whitsunday Passage and Barrier
Reef. Fares: 18 to 24 guineas.
First Saloon only.
"Strathaird" to Papua, 26th August.
12 days' Cruise via Brisbane,
Whitsunday Passage, and Barrier
Reef. First Saloon Fares from
18 to 24 gns. Tourist Class
Fares I I and 13 guineas.
FARES ARE FREE
OF
EXCHAN G E
ŵ
shadow shows.
“Lord Babs,” at tlie Plaza, is a knock-
about farce. Bobby Howes, as a comic
steward, falls over things, smashes glasses
and makes an ass of himself generally. Then
he turns out to be a peer, and in order to
escape marrying the wrong girl shams infan-
tilism. He is put to bed in a nursery full of
toys, and fed out of a bottle when he is
yearning for a whisky. Later, he bolts, is
pursued by the servants of his would-be
father-in-law, forcibly dressed for the wed-
ding, and so on. The director has grafted
on to this Laurel and Hardy theme some
music and photography in the whimsical
Lubitsch manner. The comic stuff isn’t bad
of its crude and unoriginal kind, and neither
is the other feature in its imitative way. but
in conjunction they produce the disconcert-
ing effect of a man in a tophat and sand-
shoes.
Herbert Marshall is the outstanding figure
in “The Faithful Heart.” He is first seen
as a merry philanderer off a tramp steamer
in a Southampton pub. Edna Best (Blackie
the barmaid) hates him on sight, but loves
him on better acquaintance. He leaves,
promising to return, but never does. The
South African and World wars come and
go. He is now a War Office brass-hat and
a V.C., and about to marry Anne Grey, a
smart London girl. Blackie’s daughter turns
up, and he has to choose between her and
his new career. Herbert Marshall is un-
usually alive and human—a jolly, chaffing
boozer as the sailorman; a smart, resolute-
looking soldier as the t.o. in uniform. Both
parts have been played by thousands before,
but he is as lifelike in them as the next man,
except that he employs his West End accent
all through. Edna Best also jibs at talk-
ing as provincial barmaids did in the nine-
teenth century, and she is colorless as the
daughter. Still it is an interesting film on
the whole. Some of the wharf-side shots of
Southampton capture the chill, misty atmo-
sphere of the old town, and there is an in-
vestiture scene which comes as a welcome
change from the melodramatic rubbish which
Hollywood manages to introduce into almost
any sequence dealing with soldiering.
* * #
“Bird of Paradise,” at the Sydney Regent,
deals with the romance of Joel McCrea
(American yacht-owner) and Dolores del Rio
(Hawaiian She saves him from
a shark. What could he do but love her?
Dolores is dedicated to a native prince, and
the attentions of the white man are resented
by the natives. They truss him to a tree
as a warning. However, he snatches Luana
away as she is on the point of being mar-
ried, and flees with her to a secluded island
in an outrigger propelled by an outboard
motor. Their idyll is interrupted by the
arrival of the lady’s tribe. Then the hero’s
friends turn up, and Dolores is offered the
chance of proceeding with her lover to the
U.S.A. She prefers to go home and be tossed
into a volcano, which must be about the
severest criticism of life in America that
has been offered by Hollywood to date. Jus-
tice would have been served if the producer
had caused Joel to be tossed in after her. He
was to blame for the whole trouble. The
photography is splendid, and the native
dances are interesting.
“Men Are Such Pools” presents Leo Car-
rillo as a homicidal violinist. He is im-
mured in one of those U.S.A. gaols which
seem to be one part penitentiary and three
parts hydro. His chief job is to build up
the gaol band. On his release he strangles an
enemy and is sent back again. But now the
home-from-home holds no joys for him, he
broods and refuses to be interested in the
gaol band. Enter a kindly detective, a hat-
check girl and the warden. They want him
to conduct his masterpiece before a visiting
impresario. He refuses, but is induced to
by a ruse. The film ends there. How the
producer restrained himself from showing Leo
charming the wealth • and fashion of New
York with his art will remain—perhaps for
ever—one of the mysteries of moviedom.
“If I Had a Million,” at the Empire, is a
combination of eight stories by different
authors and directors, each of which por-
trays the effect of the sudden acquisition of
a fortune on an individual. The money comes
from an eccentric millionaire. The bene-
ficiaries are selected at random. They are
a shop assistant (Charles Ruggles), who
smashes his employer’s china when he hears
the news; a street-walker (Wynne Gibson),
who moves into an expensive hotel; a forger
(George Raft), who can’t get anyone to cash
the cheque on account of his reputation and
goes crazy; an oppressed book-keeper
(Charles Laughton), who displays his joy
by “raspberrying” the president of the com-
pany; a sailor (Gary Cooper), who thinks
the cheque is a fake and considers himself
smart when he passes it off on an illiterate
storekeeper for ten dollars; a condemned
murderer (Gene Raymond), who goes to the
chair with the cheque clasped in his hand ;
an ex-vaudeville artist (Alison Skipworth),
who wages war on roadhogs, and an old
lady (May Robson) in a Home, who gives
the inmates the times of their lives. The
chief fault is that, with one or two "excep-
tions, none of the lucky ones behaves nor-
mally. But it’s a new idea interpreted by
a great cast.
* * #
Clara Kimball Young, a toast of the pre-
talkie era, is back in “Mother and Son,” at
the H'aymarket. Her voice is “common,”
but then she represents one who has forsaken
betting in hells for gambling on ’Change.
She manages to support her son in luxury
until the crash in stocks di’ives her back* to
the old game. Doubting his love, she tests
him by revealing herself as “Faro Lil.” He
stands up manfully to this till she is accused
(wrongfully, of course) of cheating! He
then behaves as no 100 p.c. American
should behave to one bearing the sacred
name of Mammy; but the ending is happy.
Clara, who is considerably more matronly
than of yore, repeats all her old stunts
grandiose gestures, posturings, staring eyes,
heaving bosom, and so forth. A rather de-
pressing spectacle. Why can’t these movie
producers leave us our “silent” memories,
illusory though most of them no doubt were ?
George O’Brien is saving the ranch fof
Betsy King Ross in “Smoke Lightning.” A
Zane Grey.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBctOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and .New Zealand, and all other parts of the
. „ world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
R'onobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
1 • - .
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan.
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
THE TRAITOR.
MRS. MAGGS : “’Ave you noticed ’ow shabby Mrs. Snaggs looks when she’s all
dressed upt”
MRS. DAGGS: “Well, and wot can you expect, my dear? Will you believe me, she
pays the tradesmen!”
“Dai R.” ; The other day I was trailing a
reef through the bush near Tullamore
(N.S.W.) when the funereal silence was
smithereened, and through the desert mallee
broke two consternation-stricken emus with
a skinny old prad in hot pursuit. As they
passed the judge’s box and disappeared from
v iew round the turn of a rise, the horse
appeared to be coming up on the outside,
and the birds were showing signs of exhaus-
tion. A neighboring cocky told me later
that the prad was one lie had used for kan-
garooing, and that the horse had taken to
the chase as a pastime. An instance of a
horse that had been used for pursuing din-
goes, and bad subsequently adopted it as a
sport when riderless, was well known round
Walgett (N.S.W.), the animal having been
owned by my dad when he was overseer on
Euroka station.
❖ sj: :Jc
“Thabanchu”; Take it from me that that
cat which camps with the farm calves (B.
22/3/’33) knows its, onions, especially when
winter comes. Long ago the writer was
stationed in an Orange Free State dorp
with a party of mounted police. It was
during the South African War, and word
came that a local farmer was back from
commando and camping on his farm by
night after spending his days in the fast-
nesses of Thabanchu Mountain. It was
bitter winter weather when we got orders
at midnight to surround the farm and wait
until the morning to rush the building. We
got there about two in the morning and
squatted under what shelter we could find
until daylight. There were many degrees
of frost, and the steel barrels of the rifles
stung like red-hot iron. By the favor of
Heaven my post was a little stone-walled
kraal full of calves. I snuggled down into
the grateful warmth of these, and was the
only man of the lot able to get a move on
without creaking audibly when the time
came to move on the house.
“Yambergan”; That cat that lived with
the cows and calves (B. 22/3/’33) had a
forerunner in a little dog that once was the
star attraction of Doondi station on the
Balonne River (Q.). Every visitor had his
attention called to the unusual hound, and
he once had the honor to be inspected by a
Governor. His hobby was horses. He lived
in the paddock with the station working
nags. What lie lived on no one ever found
out. He could not have done much hunting,
for he was a feeble little runt of black-and-tan
terrier ancestry. When the horses were
brought up in the morning he accompanied
them to the yard, but stayed outside while
those of his friends that were down for
fatigue duty were being caught. As soon as
the huanans went he joined the remainder in
the. yard, and when they were turned out fol-
lowed them down the paddock. Numerous
attempts were made to handle him. but ho
never let anyone come within 20 yards* of
him. Meat thrown to him by the charitable
was contemptuously ignored. He carried on
in this way for years until one morning he
did not come up with the mob. He was
never seen again, and, in the words of the
poet, “No man knows his sepulchre.”
“Plankton”: The fresh-water “jewfish,”
referred to by “Mulga Bill” (B. 8/3/’33),
is really a species of catfish ( Tandanus tan-
danus). The duties of nest-building and
care of the eggs and young are mainly car-
ried out by the male parent, but in this in-
stance the female also interests herself in
these matters. In the case of the giant
salmon catfish (Netuma thalasserin) of
North Queensland, the male collects the eggs
in his month and carries them about dur-
ing the whole of the incubation period.
Several other species not belonging to this
family have also adopted this unusual method
for safeguarding the eggs.
“A.II.B.”: The site of the old Mahaukura
Pa at Te Porere, at the edge of the bush on
the northern slope
from Mt. Tongariro.
has just been sur-
veyed by the M.L.
Government as a per-
manent historical re-
serve. Te Kooti built
this redoubt in 1869
for his final stand
against the Govern-
ment foices. Its out-
lines can be seen from
the motor road, and,
save for fern and flax
and a mound covering
30 Hnuhaus, the work
is almost as first
m a d c. McDonnell
took the pa by frontal
assault, and his losses
wou 1 d have been
severe but for Te
Ivooti’s failure to
allow for depression
in loop-holing the
thick sod-and-pumiee
walls. Captain . St.
George was shot bfy
Peita Kotuku. who
had escaped with Te
Kooti from the Chat-
ham Islands in the
schooner Rifleman the
year before. I was
once in a Native Land
Court when a famous
old dame, giving an
indication of her age,
said, “I was a woman
grown at Te Porere.”
The name ran through
the Maoris like a
breeze in corn. This
woman was at the
fight in the pa and
lost her li usb a n d
there, and in the sub-
s e q u e n t, scattered
fight and e has e
through the bush was
attacked by Renata
Ivawepo, an old chief
of the Hawkes Bay
“friendlies”—the “fat
pigs of Ngati-Kahun-
gunu” in local idiom.
Renata lost an eye in
that tussle. Te Kooti
had little share in the
fighting. A bullet cut
off one finger and
passed through his
side, but, as usual,
his bodyguard of devoted wahines got him
away through the bush.
“Vil N.” : “Go away!” roared Murphy, of
the Harp and Shamrock, Kullandong, peer-
ing through the curtained window into the
dark street. Then, seeing it wasn’t the
police constable knocking, lie went down and
opened his side door. He just clutched the
door in time to save himself subsiding from
shock into the hall. Before him shone a
gaunt face surmounting a cloaked figure
carrying a limp female under his arm.
“Good-night,” dreamily murmured the mag-
netic face. “Could I interest you in a great
money-saver?” Money-saver straightened up
Murphy; av coorse lie could be interested
in a money-saver. Phwat was it? An auto-
matic barmaid that didn’t go desartin ye f’r
the first squatter phwat proposed. Be the
saints, an’ where was she? Here she was
—the dummy the Inventqr had let slip into
a sprawling heap of arms an’ legs on the
doorstep. All the Sydney pubs was instal-
lin’ thim, thin? Shure an’ it’s impos-
sible !... . Soon the Inventor was carry-
ing his “Ermyntrude” into the bar while
Murphy lit a discreet lantern. An Auto-
matic Barmaid, with no wages to pay! Th’
initial cost av £l5 th’ first an’ th’ last, not
countin’, av coorse, the rechargin’ av Erm-
ingtrude’s batteries once in a month ! “Now.”
murmured the Inventor, a beatific smile
lighting his pallid face, “to set Ermyntrude
to work!” There came a faint click as he
fiddled near her neck. The automaton
straightened suddenly; so did the interested
Murphy; so would have his hair, had he
any. Next second the Inventor, leaning on
the bar-counter, slammed down two shillings
and ordered a whisky. Ermyntrude smiled!
A little mechanically, certainly, but she
smiled, turned with a faint click, juggled
bottle and glass and delivered the correct
change whilst the Inventor drank. “You
try now, Mr. Murphy.” Murphy was a near-
teetotaller —he knew his wares better than
anyone else —but he tested Ermyntrude and
was delighted. After three more tries she
became more than a money-saver in his shin-
ing eyes—a toy—and he itched to try her
again. He did. Soon he had ordered rum.
brandy, plain beer and even shandy, toast-
ing the Invento'r, who stood a little apart,
his cloak gathered round him. Murphy
paused to tell the story about the girl and
the curate, and was delighted when Ermyn-
trude laughed and a dainty blush provocat-
ion jy suffused her waxen cheek. Then she
tipped the Inventor an automatic w r ink.
“ONE WAS TAKEN AND”
“Have you put the cat out, James?”
“One of them.”
“Marvel —hie —oush !■” gasped Murphy. It was
then the footrest turned into a brazen, writh-
ing serpent and a playful earthquake threw
the floor into Murphy's face.... He awoke
next morning. Hazy recollections of a won-
derful dream about an automatic barmaid
spun through his shuddering brain.... Be
the saints, he was lying in his bar. He sat
up, scratching where once hair had thatched
his pate. Where was his Ermyntrude?. ...
Where was that Inventor?. .. . The worst
fears, like a stormy dawn, began to light
his consciousness. . . .lurching strides brought
him to the ti 11.... Holy St. Pathriek, an’
where was his last week’s takin’s?
# sic ❖
“Tetegi”: A mysterious light which may
sometimes be seen on the north-west N.S.W.
plains takes the form of a burning roly-poly
which, when approached, rolls into the
Namoi, which is close by. It travels at the
same speed as the person who follows,
whether he runs or walks, In a wet April
it is always seen, and during the remaining
months of the year appears occasionally.
Never at any time does it make more than
one appearance in a night. It's a very old
institution. The Kamilaroi. as the Namoi
blacks were called, knew it and called it the
Weetaawaa, which means “big light.”
“Specker" : An apiarist and a pigeon-fan-
cier lately made a test of the speed of their
respective pets. Three bees and three
pigeons were released at a measured dis-
tance from their homes, and the bees won.
Neither bees nor pigeons are supposed to
possess any instinctive sense of direction,
but to depend upon vision and memory. The
homer pigeon is not a migrating bird and its
ability for way-finding varies considerably.
Each bird must be carefully trained, arid
only about one bird in twenty proves to have
the stamina and memory necessary for long-
distance flights; 750 miles is about their
limit. The fact that birds freed at a great
distance from home take a disproportionately
long time to return points to the conclusion
that they are guided by memory, not instinct.
THE OLD TIN TRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas deep in an old tin trunk we found
them,
Things stacked away when our blood was
red
(No silken ribbon it was that bound them,
But a twisted double of woolpack thread).
Old droving records and stock-route sketches ;
The tanks were marked with a star beside;
Broad arrows pointed the long dry stretches
Where the unfenced pastures were wild
and wide.
Relics of days that are gone for ever ;
Victoria’s head on a gumless stamp;
A tattered map of the Never Never
Brought memories racing of track and
camp ;
Of bright campfires with the billy swinging.
When our worldly wealth was the clothes
we wore ;
Of tracks we tramped .when our hearts were
singing
And light the burden of care we bore. >
They took us back to -old. shanty dances
With girls who never had glimpsed the
sea;
But there was guile in the luring glances
They flung at the men who were spending
free.
We saw in fancy their flounces swinging
As the fiddle wailed like a thing in pain,
While doubtful story and tuneless singing
Came echoing out of the past again.
Beneath the litter we found a letter,
Its words and phrases long out of date —
The last lone link of a broken fetter—
That helped to steer us and keep us
straight;
Mellow with age, it was rent and tattered—■
We had carried it round for thirty years—■
The ink was pale and the pages spattered :
By water, was it?—or the splash of tears?
iS.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


The “Keepdry”
GUARANTEED
OILSKIN
RAINCOAT.
Not just a shower-proof Coat, but
a serviceable Oilskin that carries
our guarantee for one year! Made
of .Tapparra Silk in Black or Yel-
low. Protective front, storm col-
lar and cuffs, and made double
throughout. Send Height and
Chest Measurements. Obtainable
in two styles:—
Walking, 79/6; Riding, 84/-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
e
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pqys for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. D seuss the matter with their representatives or
write to-
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman ,ot Directors: Hon. lrethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
:rr- N.S.M. Agents : Farmers & Graziers’ Cooperative Grain Insurance and j,
_ Agency Co., Ltd.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
I
m
t£sty
m
J'jilj I* J* 35 ]’!*
J if! HLJM* s i ?'
IS, a W>«s»
i:2 ?» ft
Sf-t&K
1? li S
u
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
“Rae-akiaki”: Twenty-four-stone Tame
Il'oromona, or Tommy Solomon, just dead at
the Chathams, was the last surviving full-
blooded member of the Moriori race. These
folk, according to I-lenare’s traditions, were
the descendants of the first inhabitants of
Maoriland, and they first peopled the Chat-
hams early in the thirteenth century, hav-
ing been driven from the mainland by the
newly-arrived Maoris. There is a theory
that the Morioris came from Melanesia in
three drift canoes late in the tenth century,
but their exact homeland is still an un-
solved ethnographical problem. But whether
they hailed from New Caledonia, the New
Hebrides or the Fiji group, the 'Maori owes
a lot more to them than is generally
admitted. It was from the Morioris that
the Maori learnt the art of constructing
HIS GUESS.
VIRULENT WIFE: “You disgraceful creature! What must the
neighbors think to see you staying out till this hour?”
HHUBBY: “That I’m (hic) ’fraid to come home, I sh’pose.”
strongly-fortified pas: nothing like them is
known in the Pacific outside Fiji—a point
in favor of a Fijian origin for the Moriori.
It was from the Moriori, too, that Henare
learnt his curvilinear art, which is not
unlike, the decorative art of New Guinea,
but is totally different from the rectilinear
art of Polynesia. Yet Maori tradition pic-
tures the Moriori as an indolent, shiftless
race, easily conquered in battle and possess-
ing but a rude culture. The decimation of
the Moriori by the Atiawa fighting men in
1835—they seized the brig Rodney in Well-
ington Harbor and compelled the skipper to
take them to the Chatliams —is not evidence
supporting this; for the Moriori had been
isolated for five centuries and during that
period had never been under necessity of
fighting.
“Taniwha”: So little is known about the
Morioris that practitioners of the science
of ethnology blush when the name is men-
tioned. The museum at Christchurch (M.L.)
harbors some Moriori skulls and some other
evidence that such a race once existed, but
it tells little even to an eye as learned in
Polynesian lore as Macmillan Brown’s.
What is known about the Moriori histori-
cally comes from Maori sources. The
Maoris were whales on genealogy, but, hav-
ing only a sketchy numerical system, could
locate dates only by reference to genera-
tions. In a land where warfare was the
principal pastime and the deeds men did in
war were the landmarks of time, it may be
assumed that the average span of life of a
chief was short. So far as Maori evidence
goes, until a Maori canoe touched the
country’s shores, it liad not had a human
footprint on its beaches. That first canoe,
paddled by Ivupe and Ngahue, who came
all the way from some very far distant
island of the Pacific (the best guess is that
it was Tahiti) arrived (presumably) about
the time good King Alfred was laying down
the foundations of the English Army and
Navy. Ivupe and Ngahue, having’ non-
chalantly paddled 2000 miles over the
stormiest sea in creation, paddled back
again to their home, and reported that no
men lived in the new islands they had dis-
covered. But when the Maoris decided to
migrate wholesale to Aotearoa (somewhere
near the year of Magna Charta) they found
the Morioris there, with a legend that they
were the descendants of the oecupants of
three canoes blown away from somewhere
(probably a Melanesian island) in a gale.
By Moriori reckoning they had been there
400 years, so they must have arrived while
Charlemagne was walloping the Saracens.
The Maoris took the prettiest of their
women as concubines and ate the fattest of
their men.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Poisoning wasn’t un-
known to savage Binghi, the favorite method
being the introduc-
tion of ground mus-
sel-shell into cooked
food supplied to use-
less _ old relatives.
This obtained
mainly in tribes
whose usages im-
posed compulsory
care of infirm fam-
ily connections, as
many of them in dif-
ferent parts of the
continent did. If
the subject was suffi-
ciently “advanced”
to take his medicine
in large doses it
soon produced symp-
toms similar to those
of appendicitis, quick-
ly culminating in a
funeral. A wicked
old full-blood who
did duty as a. stock-
man on Euroka
station. ,W alg e 11
(N.S.W.), when my
beard was black told
me that “accidental”
snake-bite was often
arranged, the modus
operandi being to
camp the encum-
brance near a log
with snake - tracks
leading thereto, and
make a campfire at
the opposite end.
The annoyed serpent
almost invariably
struck as it left by
the other end. In
tribes where care of
worn-out relatives
was compulsory,
however, penalties
for murder were
severe and surveil-
lance keen; and in
times of monotony
juries Were more
prone to return a
verdict of guilty than
to weigh the evidence, so great care had to
be exercised.
* * :Jc :Jj
“Cooramin”: At least one wild-animal
mystery has been solved. A beast known
as the .Tamberoo tiger, which had been a
night terror among the local poultry, was
shot at dawn while raiding a fowlhouse at
Albion Park (N.S.W.). and proved to be a
fine specimen of the tiger cat, over 4ft. long
from nose to tail-tip. Some time back there
was an excited hunt in North Queensland for
a “marsupial tiger,” which also transpired to
be a tiger cat. In those parts this foi'mid-
able giant of the dasyures grows to a con-
siderable size, and will attack and kill even
a full-grown kangaroo. It is mostly spotted,
but some specimens are striped, and the head
is not unlike a tiger’s. It is the fiercest
and most pugnacious of all Australian ani-
A MATTER OF POLICY.
“Vat did Cohen look like during the fire?”
“Veil, you never saw such a smile of despair on a man’s face.”
mals; dogs that will rush at a dingo don’t
like tackling the nocturnal spitfire. It is
rarely reported these days south of New
England.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Many aviary enthusiasts are
experimenting with the breeding of hybrid
finches, and the results are sometimes very
beautiful. The zebra finch mates readily
with almost any other species, and one of the
mostly lovely birds obtained was the result
of crossing the zebra with the diamond
sparrow. More beautiful still was the hybrid
between the male crimson (“blood”) finch
and the diamond sparrow hen. Budgerigars
and finches do not live happily together,
especially during the breeding season. While
doves and finches agree well, doves are
clumsy birds (except the peaceful diamond
ones) and may accidentally injure the nests.
Diamond sparrows can be bought now for
about 6s. 6d. per pair, and budgerigars from
2s. 6d. (green) to £5 (silver) per pair.
* * * *
“Desert Pea”: A plant that is rapidly
spreading in Queensland is the wild mint
weed ( Salvia lanceifolia ). the eating of which
has resulted in the death by poisoning of hun-
dreds of cattle on the Darling Downs in. recent
months. It rather resembles the common
garden mint, grows to a height of about
ISin., and bears seeds from about 2in. off
the ground to within a few inches of the
tip of the plant. Each pod contains many
thousands of seeds, most of which germinate.
It is deep-rooting and flourishes on all types
of soil. Although it has been proved to be
poisonous on the Downs, in other parts of
the State where it grows it is regarded as
excellent stock feed and has no harmful
effects, while in its native home —the U.S.A
—it is also non-poisonous to stock. The
weed is of the Labiatce family, all members
of which contain an aromatic oil, and it is
probable that this oil poisonous in
certain climatic conditions.
❖ ❖ -k
“Macti”: On Yam Island, in Torres
Strait, close to the village, is a carved stone
figure of a woman holding a basket in her
outstretched hands. Its actual origin is un-
known, but in native legend it represents
an episode in the history of the hero Soida,
who came from New Guinea in the distant
past, bringing new plants and fruit to the
islands. When Soida arrived at Yam, by
way of Two Brothers Island (he was an
air-traveller, by the way), he decided to stay
there for a while before going on to Murray,
and the people, with their customary hospi-
tality, provided him with a wife. Soida
found to his disgust, however, that they had
given him an old woman. So when the time
came for him to proceed on his journey,
without leaving much in the way of choice
plants, the Yam Island wife was transformed
into a figure of stone, to remind the people
of what they might have gained in the way
of good food supplies had they been more
generous.
❖ ❖ 'i : *
“Wandi”: A botanical curiosity that I
have never seen any reference to is a bush
product that was known to the blacks on
the Richmond (N.S.W.) as heilamon tree. It
grows to a foot or more in diameter, 20ft.
to 30ft. high, and has a thorny trunk and
branches, red flowers and hard red seed-
stones. The wood is light and Cough, and
was used by the blacks for making shields.
red s c eds were strung together for neck-
; afies by both black girls and white girls,
1 bey were also used in the old days for deco-,
rating fire-making sticks. Though the trees
* have aeen “ evcr carried much foliage, they
dowered profusely, and the seeds later red-
dimed the ground underneath the boughs,
Despite its abundant fruition, however, the
tree was rare, which may be accounted for
by Bmghi s demands on it for lieilamons.
* * * *
n- „ . I v
N Dorngo (N.S.M.)
, ° - rmusual treble the
/ f* P e l aa ded a big trout and inside
, • e brown snake and a-large
Hitherto the record stands to the
c d , s J lort sighted Queensland jack-
croo who didn t notice that he had thrown
is triple-hooked line across the narrow
creek he was fishing in. While he slum-
bered a crow, a jackass and a goanna took
the baits. Roused bv the commotion he
hauled liis catch through the water and
when he sighted it at his feet fled to the
homestead and demanded his cheque
* * # '
'
" L idapa”: Opium isn’t the only thing
smuggled into Australia from China. Cobalt
lovebirds bring up to £lO a pair in Sydney,
but they are prohibited immigrants. Many
attempts are made to bring them in, but
So £ ar the honors seem to. be with the
Customs officers, as the Chinks have not
devised a way in which to stop the birds
twittering. A European was held up when
leaving a ship’s gangway. Thirteen birds
were discovered beneath his singlet;
* * , * *
' . ;
Lannc : Tick" must have struck a dif-
ferent breed of ibis (B. 22/3/’33) from that
hich used to nest iu Western Queensland
111 my n!, me ' I knew built no
nests. They casually tramped about on top
°f a matted lignum bush and started house-
keeping. If an egg fell through the open
twigs into the water they just laid another,
If a chick fell they wrote it off as a dead
loss and carried on. The amount they bad
to write off in this way must have been
tremendous, and if the water was low in
the nesting season the smell was solid
enough to walk over. As to chasing other
birds away, that was not the writer’s experi-
ence. The swamps w-ere generally alive with
ducks, and as the lignum bushes gave exeel-
lent cover, shooting in them was extra good,
Birds were apt to be a little gamey under
the conditions described, but if the stranger
within our gates mentioned this we always
blamed the weed in the low water, and said
nothing about the dead-chick content.
SELLING A HORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The horse’s day is done,” said Dad.
“He’ll soon be one with Tyre—
Ain’t that what writin’ fellows say?—
I T es, one with Tyre and Nineveh, -
A memory, no more, me lad!”
And thoughtfully he eyed his prad
And spat into the fire.
“And I dunno,” he rambled on,
“Why I have cause to care.
With plains to cross and hills to climb,
He’s lasted me my blinkin’ time.
But back of motors you’ll be spun
Across the hills and plains; me son,
Or slither through the air.
“He’s through, like flint and steel are through,
Sundial and wooden plough.
Like sailing ships lie’s had his day,
And mugs of horn and pipes of clay.
The world rolls on and chaps like you
Will doubtless find that you can do
Without him, anyhow.
“The onlv thing that gets me, kid,”
Said Dad, and mused a spell,
“Is how the chaps you used to rub
Against in any country pub
Will ‘sell a horse’ for pot and tid
The good old-fashioned way they did,
When there’s no horse to sell!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
Commonwealth Savmosßank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with break f a st
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/0
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but,
e
è
in'addition,’ if" you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge m the h
garage, next door, during your entire sny.
Such value service and convenience is n
obtainable at any other hotel in M
bourne Please write for tariff ca .
which gives all information, or state you
requirements and we will gladly Quot •
Special rates for clubs, conferences,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, M *
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
SMOKE-OH!
SECESSION.
The far-flung Western spaces
For freedom have a. erase.
So W.A. now faces
The parting of the I V.A.’s.
DEAD SEA FRUIT.
You meet a peach and decide that you’ll
make a good pair. “If I marry her,” you
reflect, “I’ll get a plum.” So you fix a date.
Then she shows that, she has ceased to pine
for you and doesn’t care a fig; and pre-
sently she gives you the raspberry, and you
realise that the answer to all your hopes is
a lemon. jj jyj
BASS THE MILK, PLEASE.
Dear B., —As I hear you are collecting for
something I don’t understand, and in which I
am not interested, I enclose a cheque for £57
10s., and will send more should it be neces-
sary to bring about the desired end which
I am ignorant of, and in whicli I am in
any case not interested. My name is not
what it is, and I can’t say what it was for
fear of incriminating myself. Besides which,
in my opinion, the whole transaction was
perfectly honorable and aboveboard. —
Yours etc.. Cheese It.
P.S. —I can bring evidence to disprove any
of this if, at a later stage, it should be held
by my counsel to be dangerous.
Y Y
Somehow one always did think of “jug”
in connection with milk-vendors.
Y Y
THE ASSOC. OF ROYAL COMMISSION
WITNESSES HOLDS ITS ANNUAL
REUNION.
The president, Mr. A. Nanias, in welcom-
ing new members, spoke in admiration of
their excellent showing before recent Com-
TYPIST: “I’m going to get married, sir — I’m marrying an
artist.”
EMPLOYER: “Dear me! Then I’m losing you?”
TYPIST: “Oh no, sir, I shan’t leave; but I shall need
more salary.”
missions. It was a tribute, he said, to their
mental adroitness that they had baffled every
assisting K.C. over lengthy periods, thereby
worthily upholding the best traditions of the
association. The time was not far distant,
he hoped, when they would be given profes-
sional status. At present, as an amateur
body, the only real advantage derived by
members was the press publicity, which
tended to lose its effectiveness after the first
five months of any given .Commission’s sit-
ting. He could not conclude, he said, with-
out reference to the invaluable work done
throughout the year by their Hon. Instructor
in Memory Losing.
During the evening a portrait of the late
Baron Munchausen was unveiled, a two-
minute silence marking the respect of all.
By resolution, it was unanimously decided
that the late Baron be canonised according
to the rites of the association, and made
their patron saint. The accompanying toast
was solemnly drunk in milk from which all
cream and butter-fat had been carefully
removed, an ornate loving-cup in the form
of a tin hare being used for the purpose.
The function terminated with a farcical
sketch entitled “Taking the Oath.”
Y
That Sydney Royal Commission witness
who caught a cold and referred to his “bilk
bithness” seems to have hit the nail on the
head.
Y Y
“Stevens is the worst Premier N.S.W. has ever
had.” — J. T. Lang.
It’s pure unselfishness that enables a man
to forget himself like that.
At At
“The progeny of a single fly during a single
summer often amount to 1,427,649.”
Well, thank Heaven there aren’t any mar-
ried flies!
Y *
THE FAMILIAR TOUCH.
The “Whoop’s” interviewer of overseas
aviators calls on some possible appointees to
the Sydney archbishopric :
I ran YEN. ARCHDEACON HOWL to
earth in the kitchen, whither he had fled
on learning that I was in the hall. Ilowly
proved to be a fine type of muscular Chris-
tian. “But wait till you see Junior,” cried Mrs.
Howl —“Aggie,” to yours truly, ten seconds
after the intro. The proud mother was .back
with her bonny lad in a trice. Howly,
though not exactly a mixer, should make
good in our sunny Austral
land, aided and abetted by
Aggie and Junior. I next
interviewed CANON
SMITH, who arrived last
week from Tooting (Eng.).
Smitho is on the small side,
but his heart is as big as
a bullock’s. It was Smitho
who as a fledgling mission-
ary with no weapon save
his umbrella put to' inglori-
ous flight a tribe of raven-
ing South Sea cannibals.
Tackled in his vestry in
re his hopes of securing
the plum, he professed be-
wilderment. “Now, now,
Smitlio,” I cried, pounding
him affectionately on the
back. “The readers of the
‘Whoop’ won’t bo satisfied
with that, you know. Como
clean, boy ! Come clean
rie thereupon made the fol-
lowing > sensational disclos-
ure (exclusive to the
“Whoop”) : “In the highly
unlikely event of my being
chosen as archbishop it is
possible that I may
accept.” The next on my
list was BISHOP CHAG-
RIN. Though one whom
I have every reason to be-
lieve was Shaggy appeared
at a window, the maidser-
vant said, “Not at home.”
“What’s Shaggy like?” I
asked shrewdly. “Horn-
rimmed specs, a scowling-
dial, grey side-levers?”
She was plainly flummoxed.
“Say no more, kid.” I
laughed, and pushed in-
side. It transpired, on in-
vestigation, that the bish.
had escaped by the back
door. However, readers of the “Whoop”
may rely on my making contact with him
ere long.
“The Wimbledon authorities have decided on
harder tennis balls.”
Is this a prelude to body-line serving?
Y- Y
“Some of our critics’ performances were never
very convincing even against fats bowling to an
off-field.” — Bradman. in Melt). “Herald.”
Quite true, but fats of the calibre of
Warwick Armstrong often bowled some very
triekv stuff.
H- Y
“She poured a bucket of my own milk over me.”
Her way of throwing cold water on his
schemes.
QUESTION OF THE HOUR.
The forum that assembles every morning
on my ferryboat is composed of Sydneyites
with the same names as those who are figur-
ing daily in the “Sun” ; but their diction is
far less polished; and, as for their intel-
lects But meet them :
BETTY McMAHON (Business Girl).
BILL WESTON (Clerk).
GEOFFREY CUNNINGHAM (Merchant).
PERCY BURFORD (Motor Salesman).
PETER HAWKES (Small Shopkeeper).
Bill (slumping into seat) : “ ’La, Perce!”
Perce (bleakly): “Ar. Bill! Gotter-
nietcli ?”
MMRS. WEDD: “ Mary and her young man have been setting on the
couch for over two hours.”
MR. WEDD: “You shouldn’t say ‘setting,’ my dear; it is sitting.
MRS. WEDD: “I mean ‘setting.’ They’re hatching out trouble for
themselves.”
II AW RES (a bustling cringer) : “G’dy,
Bill! T)y, Perce !”
Bill j “Ermpli!”
Perce)
Betty (pinching Hawkes’s seat as lie un-
warily rises) : “Unkydoo, all! That wuz a
swell Jane I seen you with at ‘Passion’s
Perils,’ Perce.”
Perce (bitterly) : “You said it, kid—mi’
she stood me in a swell price fer candy,
dimmer!”
Cunningham (after a political nomina-
tion) : “Good morning, Miss McMahon and
gentlemen. Any room for a little one? Ha !
Ha! I thank you, Mr. Hawkes. No; don’t
trouble to move up further, Mr. Burford, I
pray; I’m quite comfortable, or, anyhow,
comparatively so, on the ex-
treme edge of the seat. I see
that you are reading one of Mr.
Stevens’s powerful speeches,
Mr. Weston.”
Bill : “Yerrong. I wuz read-
ing where a cove cut ’is old
woman’s head orf.”
Cunningham : “Such, Miss
McMahon and gentlemen, are
the sordid tragedies which dis-
figure life, social, economic and
political, in this great and glori-
ous Empire of ours on which
the sun never sets; aye, and
ever will, ladies and gentlemen,
until such time as we substitute
for our so-called Democracy
(Heaven save the mark!) a
benevolent dictatorship com-
posed of and motivated by men
and women of all creeds and
classes who shall have as their
guiding slogan the inspiring-
words : ‘For Faith, for King
and for Empire!’ Let us, I
say”
Betty : “Didger say this
gink Stevens chopped a dame’s
head orf, Bill?”
Perce : “That wouldn't be
the hoop as wuz up on Pcrishor
in the 3.30, Saturdee, woodit,
Bill?”
Bill : “Getclier brains brush-
ed. He means the Attorney-
General or District-Attorney, or something.
Anyways, he can’t be the coot that rides
fer Brannigan’s stable; ’is name’s Ikcy
Stevens. He’s a Yid.” (To Cunningham) :
“What’s this guy Stevens’s first name?”
Cunningham : “Bertram, Bill; to his in-
timates, Bert. The initials are 8.5.8.,
and”
Betty (carolling while she examines the
remnants of her recently-plucked eyebrows in
a mirror) :
I love a guy, an’ he loves me.
GEE!
An’ this guy’s moniker starts with a “B.”
SEE?
“The moon am shinin’, goilie,’{ sezzee—
Cunningham (testily): “Come! Let us
be more serious. Let us address our minds
to the urgent, to the —er —burning question
of the hour. Need I say that I refer -
Hawkes (ingratiatingly): “’Ear! 'Ear!
Mr C. I got an abserloot monte tex the
Valley las’ night; a fair, boilin’ stone-cold
sizzler. Accordin’ ter ‘Spike’ Maguire
(Forum goes into whispered conference on
burning question of the hour.) 2 4
Uncle Sam is finding his bull-ion a fair
cow !
* *
Trouble seems to be He-browing in Ger-
many.
* Y
The Nazis say their policy is over-Jew.
COMELATELY: “There must be money still
to be made digging here.”
OLDTIMER: “Well, yairs. Sometimes one o'
the blokes dies, an’ there's ten bob fer
the grave.”
“She took a dislike to my farm immediately she
arrived.” —Divorce petitioner.
It’s known as being “down on the farm.’
* *
Seeing he was a mop for beer
His wife, a woman grim,
The way to deal with him saw clear —
She mopped ■ the floor' with him.
PROPOSAL.
“ Brains , dear, I fancy, more or less,
Insure against nn,happiness.
How, you look sensible,” I said;
“What do you say if ice two wed ?”
“No fear.” One glance at me she took.
“Vm as brainy as I loo]:!”
P.O.M.C.
THE SHOW.
The giant spud has come our way; the
monster pumpkin’s also down; Dad. Dave
and Sar a li are
astray, bewildered
in the teeming
town. The Duke of
Marlboro ugh
XXII. the cud is
chewing in his
stall; the motor-
cars all bright and
new are burnished
up in stand and
hall : the tattooed
woman’s here; the
State has yielded
all tilings high and
iow, inanimate and
animate, to form
that composite
“The Show.”
The shakedown
shakes up those
who came too late
to book their beds.
Upon the hash-
house menu things
w e name a r e
always off, and what
is on seems off, too.
when it’s brought
to us. The ' city’s
full and brisk is
trade; parcels, tan-
ned faces, dames
who fuss o’er stray-
ing kids our streets
parade; drunk s,
mendicants a n d
strange new cars
and gaping Daves mix in the flow. Theatres
are filled—and shops and bars. The whole
State’s with us —for “The Show!”
H.M.


HERE IS LUXURY
. , . on a level never before attained
HERE IS BEAUTY
. . . that makes you doubt your eyes
HERE IS VALUE
... that leaves you no other choice
The MASTER
CHEVROLET
for
1933
Into a motoring world, weigh-
ing its expenditure to the last
penny, confidently comes the
Master Chevrolet for 1933.
In money terms, it competes
in the very lowest price field.
In luxury and beauty, it com-
petes with every car on the
market.
,
‘V '
XjivyyywvvvwMyaS
m
mm
mm®
mm
■s.
v«
No-draught Ventilation
.. . individually controlled
I
O
a
This new health ventilation alone
places the 1933 Chevrolet beyond
comparison for luxury and value.
Here, for the first time in motoring
history, is a system for the perfect ventilation
of closed cars, utilizing only air currents
generated by the motion of the car. No-
Draught Ventilation is patented, and no other
car in the Chevrolet price-class can give you
the comfort and pleasure of this modern
motoring luxury.
Important Improvements
Plus all the refinements of last year's model
comes the Octane Selector, which enables
immediate engine adjustment to make the
most of any grade petrol.
And a host of other improvements in the
1933 Chevrolet make this car, without question,
the 1933 value leader.
Beautiful Body Lines
From the new “V” shaped radiator to the
“heaver tail” Chevrolet is superbly designed.
Fitments were never finer —comfort was never
more fully considered. Instance the ad-
justable foot wells in the rear compartment
of the sedans.
Economy
Chevrolet performance has kept pace with
mechanical and body improvement. The 1933
Chevrolet is definitely economical to run,
feature after feature tending to lessen fuel
consumption. Four-point rubber-cushioned
engine mounting not only adds riding comfort
hut it decreases coach work strain and upkeep
cost. It is a vihrationless mounting.
Chevrolet to-day answers your question—
“ Can I afford a car ?” with a decided “Yes, if
it is a Chevrolet.”
Consult Your
Local Authorised
Chevrolet Dealer
{All prices subject to Sales Tax)
NEVER WAS A LOW-PRICED CAR SO RICHLY ENDOWED
MEAN DERI NGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
* Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
The Lead in Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the Sunday Times” has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times” has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW THIS
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should
know how to save money by making their
own family cough remedy that will prove
safe and effective for every member of the
family from the youngest baby up to the
oldest adult. Here is the recipe, given
by" a leading' chemist: Into a jug put
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either
treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and a
large breakfastcupful of warm water; stir
until dissolved, and when cold, pour into
a large bottle. Then add a bottle of
concentrated HEENZO (it costs 2/- at all
leading chemists and stores),.and you will
have a family supply equal in quantity and
superior in quality to eight ordinary
sized bottles of the usual remedies for
chest and throat ailments, which, if
purchased in single bottles, would cost up to
£l. You will be astounded at the speedy
way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases
the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis, influenza and whooping cough!
Make it a practice to always have HEENZO
in your home.— Advt.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price tor the original.
Missing Friends.
]y[RS. JESSIE ELLEN BURGE and her
daughter Irene Douglas Burge, widow
and daughter respectively of Frederick
Edward Burge, late of Gobur, Victoria, or
anyone knowing their wdiereabouts, please
communicate with The Perpetual Executors
and Trustees Association of Australia,
Limited, 100 Queen Street, Melbourne.
é
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling lust Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
**The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The American Crisis.
Gold and Commodity Prices.
Outlook for Investors.
Are Bank Shares Too High?
Prospects for Base-metals.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the April issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


Vi
!1Y
Used Cars Bring
Highest Values if Lubricants Were
ALEMITE
Scientifically Compounded
TO MEET
EVERY FRICTION NEED!
The useful life of a petrol engined vehicle—midget car
to 5-ton lorry—is directly proportionate to its lubrication
care. Keep bearings sweet with ALEMITE Lubricants
from the first mile—cut repair bills in the meantime —
get the greatest value when ready to sell or trade.
By the ALEMITE High Pressure System of Lubrica-
tion—clean, new lubricants force out the old, carrying
away grit, bits of metal, dirt. And a special ALEMITE
Lubricant is now available for protection against every
friction wear. Ask for particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives :
BENNETT & WOOD. Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION - • Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
K-Aust. 7-32
AI.FMTTF. LUBRICANT
IS LOVE AN ILLUSION?
AN AGE-OLD QUESTION.
The composer of the winning song of
the Australian waltz-song contest thinks
so. What do YOU think? Purchase a
copy of “Love’s An Illusion,” which we
will send you for 2/- post free, and
then write an essay of not more than
400 words, stating whether you think
love is an illusion or not; and your
reasons therefor. For the best essay
received we will give a prize of £2/2-.
with six consolation prizes of 5/- each.
Entries close on the 2nd of May, and
results will be published in this paper
on the 17th of May.
“LOVE’S AN ILLUSION”
Lilting—T unef ul—Lovely
The Australian Publishing
Service, Paterson, N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDIC-
TION No. 90 of 1933. BETWEEN JOHANNA
ANNIE MANGE LSDORF Petitioner and
FREDERICK WILLIAM M ANGELS! DORF Respon-
dent.
To Frederick William Mangelsdorf Late of Albury.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Johanna Annie Mangels-
dorf has commenced a suit against you in this
Honourable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of Desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to-the said suit at the proper office
of this Honourable Court on or before the 16th day
of June, 1933, and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time, the Petitioner will proceed and suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 22nd day of March, 1933. John F.
Williams, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 76 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY. FOR THE REGISTRAR, E. L. Dickson
CHIEF CLERK IN DIVORCE.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
10th to 19th APRIL, 1933
llllllllllllllllllllllllilllllillllllllllllllllllH
NINE DAYS :: :: SIX NIGHTS
AUSTRALIA'S PREMIER EXHIBITION
NEW ATTRACTIONS EACH DAY AND NIGHT
Magnificent Display of Agricultural and Other
Primary Products.
Finest Show of Livestock in the Southern Hemisphere.
Magnificent Horticulture Exhibition.
Grand Exhibition of Machinery, Motor-cars, and all
Classes of Manufactured Goods.
Hunting, Trotting, Steer Riding, Cattle Drafting and
Other Rodeo Events, and Woodchopping
Contests Day and Night.
CHEAP EXCURSION TRAINS FROM ALL COUNTRY DISTRICTS.
Consult Handbills at All Railway Stations.
ADMISSION—Outer Gates : Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
GRANDSTANDS EXTRA.
G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
m
m
L
PROSPECTORS'
AIDS
Quartz
Dishes
For carrying
quartz. Heavy
gauge material
with beaded
edges. Diame-
ter 17 \ i n.,
depth 3ji n.
Price, 5/6
each.
Prospecting
Dishes
With galvan-
ised - iron rim
11 n. deep
machined on
to body. Out-
side diameter
inside
diameter
depth
Price,
4/6 each.
Cast Iron Dolly Pot
This solidly-cast Dolly Pot is made strongly enough
to withstand extra rough usage, yet light enough to
be easily handled. Diameter of opening is
Complete unpacked weight, 16^1b.
PRICE, 8/-. Freight extra.
ê
We have just issued a splendid Catalogue cf Tools and
Hardware. In addition to nearly 250 pages of illustrations
and descriptions of over 1400 articles, there are many pages
of valuable information compiled by a competent authority.
To make sure that you secure a copy, fill in and send this coupon now.
•NAME
ADDRESS
£Pllersc
Proprietary Limited
51-65 Ilathlirst Street, Sydney.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited.
(Founded 1886.)
Head Office: Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The 46th Annual Report gives further evidence that
THE M.L.C. IS IMPREGNABLE.
ASSETS
at the close of the year exceeded £21,000,000, of which 93 per cent, was
represented by public securities and loans on policies.
The proportion represented by mortgages was 3.66 per cent, only, on
which the amount of interest outstanding was less than 1 per cent', of the
principal sum.
FUNDS
increased by nearly half a million pounds.
RESERVES.
All policy liabilities were valued on a net premium basis at 3 per cent,
interest. In addition, large contingency reserves have been accumulated
as a further safeguard for policy-holders’ interests.
NEW BUSINESS
in the Ordinary Branch exceeded £4,000,000 (and in addition term
assurances amounted to more than £2,000,000).
TOTAL INCOME
exceeded £3,000,000 per annum, the transactions for the year showing
an increase in premiums in both the Ordinary and Industrial Branches.
EXPENSE RATES
showed a reduction in both Branches.
BONUSES
declared are on the same scale as for 1931.
THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND BONUS
PROSPECTS ARE UNEXCELLED.
TRUSTEES
John Donaldson, A.1.A.. Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir Hy. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.G., Sydney.
The Hon. Sir John B. Peden,
K.C.M.H., M.L.C., Sydney.
lit. Hon. W. A. Watt, P.C., Mel-
bourne.
Sir Nicholas Lockycr, Knt., C.8.E.,
1.5.0., Melbourne.
The Hon. F. W. Eggleston, Mel-
bourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Arthur Eedy, Managing Director.
W. .T. Bloomfield. 8.A., LL.B.
James Kell.
The Hon. .Tames Ashton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
F. Leverrier, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.


JpUIBItAtJ Ot
OIRCDJIApiDW*
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Ho m e Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
v/H
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and £in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
me PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
lo succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<t
f you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
w
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
POLLED ANGUS BULLS.
“Golightly” : Like “Tombong” (B. 8/3/’33),
I have a great respect for them. Prime
baby-beef is always sought after in the fat-
cattle market, and butchers and exporters
prefer the hornless type—there are no
bruises on carcases after transport. I’ve been
using Polled-Angus bulls on ordinary-run
cows of mixed blood, also dairy-bred stuff.
The Angus is so prepotent that in one gen-
eration he will convert a herd of light-
framed. slow-fatteners into first-class horn-
less baby-beef producers. He stamps his get
with the early-niaturing, blocky and easily-
fattening qualities so desirable. But a pedi-
gree bull is essential. The breed is so domi-
nant that its male get of half- or tliree-
quarter-breds can be mistaken for pure-bred,
so when buying them insist on pedigrees.
A badly-bred beast may be detected by
one or more of the following faults: Some
horn-growth in the shape of scurs or
buttons; a hard black coat color; white or
blue-roan patches; a long, narrow face;
pinched nostrils; loose skin and flesh on
throat; flabby, unfilled brisket; rough, pro-
minent shoulder points and hook-bones;
tapering hips arid quarters; tail placed high
and hanging straight down ; narrow in the
twist, with turkey hocks. On the other hand
a well-bred Angus has a round barrel, legs
wide apart, and flesh and fat so evenly dis-
tributed that the small bones of the breed
are deeply and smoothly covered.
In fhe production of baby-beef, half the
breeding is in the feeding. The best breed
will be handicapped by poor pastures. The
pedigree Angus bull, mated with good sorts
of milking, mixed-blood cows, will produce
prime fat vealers on natural pastures that
are not quite good enough to produce fat
sucker lambs.
BABY BEEF ON DAIRY FARMS.
“W.D. Me.”: Forty years ago, after the
land bcom in Vic., I sold butter at 6d.
to Td. per pound and whole milk at 4d. a
gallon, and glad to get it. And we paid
our way. If I were a young man dairying
and the threatened slump came I would go
back to the days of grandfather—milk the
cows once a day and rear a fine vealer. If
the present price is maintained baby beef
will show a better net profit, than butter at
6d. or 7d. per pound, and at the same time
reduce the labor by half. Any decent dairy
cow on good country will rear two vealers
together. Marketed prime they will show a
greater net profit than the average dairy
cowu I know a dairyman who last year
had a cow that was hard to milk. He put,
calves on her and fattened 18 that averaged
£2 a head. In effect, a return of £36 gross,
and a better net return than the best cow
he had. If present prices for baby beef
hold it may be a great relief to the dairy
farmer who finds his income suddenly drop-
ping 20 or 30 p.c.
MEAT MARKETING CONTROL.
Australian stockowners are by rio means
in accord with regard to the proposal to
create an Australian Meat Council on the
lines of the N.Z. Meat Producers’ Board, and,
as they are to decide the question by voting-
on it, a brief sketch of the M.L. body’s powers
and activities may be useful. The board con-
sists of eight members, two of them Govern
ment nominees, one a representative of the
M.L. stock and station agents, the other five
elected by a ballot of farmers. It. sets the
standard of grades for shipment, arranges all
freight contracts, does all advertising and
publicity in Britain, arranges in Maoriland
with the rail and shipping authorities for
the handling of meat and livestock, and in
London for marketing. The funds enabling
the board to function are obtained from a
levy of Id. per carcase of lamb and mutton
and id. per quarter of beef, each less 25 p.c.
These amounts are collected through the Cus-
toms on shipment. Grading of meat is super-
vised by the board, and every precaution is
taken that the various works strictly adhere
to the standard.
From the beginning the board realised that
regularity of shipment and continuity of sup-
ply were essential to successful marketing in
Britain. Meat cargoes from M.L. do not
arrive as casually as they do from Australia.
They are programmed to meet market re-
quirements. The market is thus never
glutted or bare, as too often occurs with the
Australian product.
A very important aspect of the board’s
work, and one that particularly calls for
the attention of the Australian stockowner,
is the insistence on careful handling of live-
stock on the way to the freezing works. The
Australian record in this respect is some-
thing of a scandal, and the penalty is paid
in waste due to the bruised condition of stock
on arrival. The board enjoins watering be-
fore trucking and bans biting dogs. The
handling of sheep or lambs b" the wool is
also deprecated.
Advertising,and publicity in Britain are also
a feature of the board’s work, and a large
sum is spent annually in tliis way, the
methods employed including lectures and the
free use of .the cinema. Prosecuting indi-
viduals selling inferior quality lambs from
other countries as New Zealand has also
been part of the board’s work and numerous
convictions have resulted. The result of all
these activities is that no other meat gets
the publicity in Britain that M.L. meat
enjoys, and there is no Empire product better
known.
Thanks to the board, the cold-storage rates
in London have been reduced and will be
further lowered, while in M.L. it has been
successful in having the rail charges on live-
stock cut down. Freight rates overseas have
been reduced; and it is claimed that in the
nine years of the board’s existence over a
imillion has been saved and has gone into the
pockets of the producers.
If an owner is not satisfied with the
board's handling of his stock he can kill
for himself under the grading control, and
ship on his own account. Thus he has the
imprimatur of the board’s grading stamp on
his meat, with all its advantage on the
British markets.
UNCLASSED CLIPS.
“Science III”: “Murrawong’s” par. re
unclassed wool clips (B. 15/3/’33) prompts
me to give the experience of a neighbor. He
shore a nice line of comeback ewes in 1930,
and received lOfd. per lb. for first pieces'’
(second-grade wool), but only for fleeces
(the best). This crazy result made him
think it would be _ a good idea to make a
better job of his pieces next year, which he
did. He put up a very nice line of first
pieces, but his second pieces were rubbish, full
of dust, burrs and what not. He received
IOJd. for liis first pieces and 30Jd. for his
seconds! It makes one wonder whether
buyers do pay more for stuff properly classed,
and whether one would not do as well by
just dumping wool in any old how.
WHEAT FOR SHEEP.
“Yalerin”: Some of the wheat Stored in
country silos might be absorbed in feeding
young sheep. At 2s. 3d. per bushel it is a
very cheap feed, preferable to maize, chaff
or bran. With a little roughage, which is
essential in feeding any concentrate, less
than lib. of wheat per day will keep a sheep
in good condition, and this comes out at
about 3d. per week. To avoid digestive
trouble start feeding in small quantities and
gradually increase until the full ration is
reached. Some sheepmen have got good re-
sults from soaked wheat; this is easily done
by halving the bags, tying loosely and steep-
ing in a pit for half an hour.
Whether it will pay to thus feed sheep
depends. The grazier, mortgagee or State
oanfiot afford to let young sheep die; and
there are several districts in N. S. Wales
at any rate where there isn’t enough grass to
keep them alive.
SUDAN GRASS IN RIVERINA.
“Agri”: Riverina dairy-farmei’s have dis-
covered the value of Sudan grass in supply-
ing excellent green fodder at a time when
the natural pastures are at their worst.
Sudan grass is .sown on well-prepared
ground, immediately after a good rain, in
September or October. It responds, very
rapidly to summer rains, sometimes growing
so tall and thick that it has to be cut for
hay or silage. Usually, however, the graz-
ing of the dairy herd keeps it down.
Sudan stands up to dry spells. One mid-
summer, when everything else was parched
and brown, I saw a paddock of it beautifully
green and fresh.
COW DROPPINGS.
Talking about the waste of cow manure
lying about paddocks. Leith Gillespie,
B.Agr.Sc., in a booklet just published by the
IT. V. McKay people, says that in one year
30 cows will produce manure containing the
equivalent of 9 tons sulphate of ammonia,
2-2 tons super, and 41 tons sulphate of
potash, the lot worth, at to-day’s market
value, £204. Very often this wealth is worse
than wasted; it is allowed to do harm. It
ought, of course, to be spread. Pasture har-
rows will do this job ; and the blade harrow
will do other jobs just as important—includ-
ing the pruning of matted roots and the
breaking of the surface crust. “Harrowing,”
the man in charge of this branch in the
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, writes, “is par-
ticularly necessary on sown pastures which
ire highly productive and heavily stocked.
Heavy stocking consolidates the surface soil,
and harrowing should be carried out to break
the crust formed, to aerate and sweeten the
soil, allow rain to enter freely and, by the
formation of a mulch, conserve moisture.
Pastures heavily stocked with cattle should
be harrowed after each grazing period.”
SORGHUMS FOR HAY.
“Setren”: Many Darling Downs farmers
are growing impliee and saccaline for hay:
many others complain that they cannot
cut and stook the stuff satisfactorily.
They should try taking off every alter-
nate batten from the reel of the binder.
I have cut a crop 12ft. high and
got it through. Alter the sheaf-bands as
you get in a crop of different heights;
otherwise it is very hard to stook. A man
should follow the machine with a long stick
and straighten the crop as it falls on the
platform canvas; and, when stooking, the
sheaf should be dropped heavily on its butt
to make it level. Take good care to have
the first four sheaves at a good angle. If
they are stood straight up, as soon as they
start to dry they will 1 fall, and it’s much
more trouble to restook than to stook. It is
well worth the trouble, for as fodder in
drought-time these sorghums are on their
own. Stock chew up every leaf and straw,
and I have fattened pigs on them and whey.
SEED GERMINATION.
The importance of knowing the. age of seed
purchased is once more stressed in a report
issued by the South Australian “Journal of
Agriculture.” In S. Australian tests crim-
son clover which had a 95 per cent, germi-
nation in 1925 —presumably the year after
it was grown—fell to 36.5 per cent, the next
year, to 21.5 per cent, in 1927 and to 7 per
cent, in 1929; two years later it was entirely
infertile. Subterranean seems to be the
hardiest of all the clovers in this respect;
but the germination even of subterranean
was down to 57 per cent, seven years after
it was fresh. Speaking in a general way,
you can say that clover seed a season old
has lost 29 per cent, of its fertility, and at
two years old anything from 25 to 75 per
cent. Grasses lose value much more quickly,
as a rule; in the S.A. experiments not one
grass germinated 40 per cent, after four
years. (They are poor germinators at the
best. It might be that some process of
scarifying the seeds would be beneficial. It
has been proved so with some clovers.)
Lucerne is a better keeper, but in the third
year even lucerne germinated only 76 p.c.
Rape seed, 'also tested, was found to be a
quick loser: in the fourth year only 2 per
cent, germinated.
BLUESTONE.
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Co., which makes the E.S.A. bluestone, has
produced a handy booklet of formulae for
mixtures for treating various fungus dis-
eases, with directions for preparing and
applying them. Incidentally, it tells the story •
of how Bordeaux mixture was developed.
At Medoc, in France, certain vines along-
side the road bore leaves, although elsewhere
they had been defoliated by downy mildew.
The scientist Millardet found that, in order
to protect the fruit from thieving passers-
by, the growers daubed the leaves with a
mixture of lime and bluestone. and spread
the word that the grapes were poisoned.
Millardet, observing the effect on the leaves,
and following this clue, was soon able to an-
nounce that bluestone mixed with lime was a
valuable fungicide. Since then it has been
improved enormously and has been made
applicable to many fungoid diseases, includ-
ing bunt or stinking smut of wheat. One
of the most important improvements made
in practice of late years has been the addition
of “spreaders.” Casein is generally used
for the purpose. Five ounces of casein added
to 50 gallons of spray will greatly increase
its wetting or spreading power. In Burgundy
mixture (used to combat Irish blight in
potatoes, among other things) the lime is
replaced bv washing-soda—Blb. bluestone.
101 b. washing-soda and 40gal. water;
■applied, so far as potatoes are concerned,
when the plants are about Bin. high and
again just before blossoming.
A correspondent mentions an Australian
bias in favor of imported bluestone on the ■
ground that it is more soluble than the Aus-
tralian. Tests have failed again and again
to substantiate this. Often, however, a large
part of the imported bluestone has been
reduced to powder, and in that form it is
naturally dissolved more quickly than when
it is in large massive lumps, as the Aus-
tralian article generally is. Still, if powdered
Australian bluestone is preferred, it can be
got. In fact, E.S.A. bluestone is on the
market in three forms: Battery crystals,
“slowly soluble”; mixed crystals, “readily
soluble’’; and fines, “rapidly soluble.”
WESTRALIAN POISON BUSH.
“Wescocky”: During the autumn months,
in the outer Westralian wheat belt, when
stock feed becomes scarce, many fatalities
are caused by eating poison bush. The two
varieties that cause miost of the trouble are
box and narrow-leaf. Narrow-leaf is the
deadlier and more common.
Box poison, generally found near stony
ridges or outcrops of granite rock, grows
thicker after' a fire, but does not spread from
its natural haunts. Narrow-leaf, most com-
mon in light gravelly soils, is seldom very
apparent before fire, but after the land has
been cleared it sprouts rapidly and seeds
with amazing prolificacy. Both box and
narrow-leaf are leguminous and have very
small orange-colored, pea-like flowers. Nar-
row-leaf has a leaf about 2in. long and three-
eighths of an inch wide; it tapers but little.
After eating narrow-leaf an animal dies
quickly.
The best methods of eradication are to
fallow the ground when the plants are young,
or grub and pull. The bushes will not all die
after the first grubbing, but two or three
treatments will suffice to clear the paddocks.
It is only when feed is scarce and the stock
are craving for green feed that they eat the
poison scrub, and a supply of ensilage will
fill the bill. But, all the same, remove the
bushes.
Cattle when poisoned can be saved if
noticed immediately they become sick. Take
care mot to excite them, and dose them with
a tablespoon of permanganate of potash
(Condy’s crystals) in a beer bottle full of
warm water; shake the mixture well before
administering. A drenching bit is not neces-
sary, for, owing to their weakened state, the
cattle will show little resistance if taken by
the horns and the head held upwards while
the dose is poured down the neck. Recovery
is generally rapid, though slight paralysis of
the hindquarters may persist for some days.
ARTIFICIAL MANURE SUBSIDY.
The Federal Government announces that
forms of application for the artificial manure
subsidy are available from the Department
of Commerce. Claimants must forward appli-
cations to the fertiliser subsidy section of
the department in the State in which the
fertiliser has been used. The subsidy to pri-
mary producers is at the rate of 15s. per ton
of artificial manure used in the production
of primary .produce other than wheat during
1933, including fruits and tobacco, and it
also applies to the top-dressing of pastures.
The subsidy will not be paid on fractions of
a ton and cannlot be applied for until the
manure claimed upon has actually been used.
For subsidy purposes artificial manure is
defined as any substance containing nitro-
gen, phosphoric acid or potash which has
been manufactured for the purpose of fertilis-
ing the soil or supplying nutriment to plants.
Animal or vegetable matter not subjected
to process of manufacture is not included
in the definition.
Claims for the subsidy should not be sent
in until the total amount of fertiliser to be
applied at any one period of the year has
been used. One claim should be enough in
most cases, and, save in very special cases,
the number should not be more than two,
in order to assist in reducing the cost of
administration.
OYER-RICH PASTURE.
The South Aus. lamb industry lias been
perturbed over heavy losses following on a
falling off in condition, though the stock
were on excellent feed, with clover predomi-
nating. Investigation by the Stock Depart-
ment showed that pulpy kidney was present
in the carcases examined. This condition is
an after-death change and is due to the toxic
action of a bacillus. A predisposing cause is
the grazing of the mothers and lambs on pas-
tures rich in protein, such as clover. This
upsets the normal bacteriological content of
the bowels and permits the formation of an
abnormal quantity of the toxic bacillus. The
matter is being investigated by the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, and
this will probably result in the discovery of
a remedy. In Maoriland, where considerable
trouble has been caused in the same way, it
has been found that the losses have been
considerably reduced by starving the ewes,
if these are on rich grazing, for 24 hours
weekly.
A USE FOR OLD CAR ENGINES.
“Bill the Lizard” : Old car engines can be
picked up dirt-cheap, but the chief objec-
tion to them is the waste of power when
used on small jobs. A car engine usually
develops 20-40 h.p., whereas a small shed-
chaffcutter, firewood saw or corncrusher
seldom needs more than 5-6 h.p. To over-
come this, dismantle your engine and remove
all the pistons and connecting rods but one.
(Continued on page 26.)


A
•■ft
H
mr
An expert’s design
Here’s a special Abbey Riding Boot
designed and made to meet the
smart horseman’s every need. It slips
smoothly on. . . .fits close. . . .and is
light and pliant, too. The elastic
ankle insets adapt it to every move-
ment of the foot. It never feels
tight or uncomfortable. The Abbey
Riding Boot is lined completely with
soft leather. It has a sole of the
toughest leather available.
Order by Post.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 —ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS :
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 327
*3
% s
ty
H
ii
Monarch
HH Cigary.
ft
Craig kAitken
Wholesale
Distributors
Sydney N.S.W.
V~ K,
h
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the.
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Life of Joseph Chamberlain
By J. L. GARVIN, editor of “The
Observer.” Illustrated. Vol. I,
1836-1885, 215.; Vol. 11, 1885-
1895, 21s.
“Mr. Garvin’s animated and brilliantly-
colored narrative forbids tedium.” — -Mr. J. A.
Spender in “The News-Chronicle.”
Egypt Since Cromer
By The Rt. Hon. LORD LLOYD,
G.C.S.I. Formerly High Commis-
sioner for Egypt and the Sudan.
Vol. I, from 1904 to 1919. With
maps, 21 s.
“A work of the very first importance. It
is written by one who speaks with special
authority and knowledge.”— The “Daily Mail.”
Conservatism in England
An Analytical, Historical and Pol-
itical Survey. By F. J. C. HEARN-
SHAW, M.A., LL.D., author of
“Democracy at the Crossways, A
Survey of Socialism,” etc., Bs. 6d.
“We fancy that the most thoroughgoing Con-
servative will find very little fault with the
politics of this book. It is extremely readable,
both because it is Vigorously written and be-
cause it expresses the point of view of a man
who knows his own pugnacious mind.”
— “News-Chronicle.'’
The Constitutional Law of the
British Dominions
By ARTHUR BERRIED ALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.LITT., author of "The
Sovereignty of the British Domin-
ions,” 1 Bs.
• The enactment in December, 1931, of
the Statute of Westminster and the
vital changes in the mode of conducting
the foreign affairs of the Irish Free State
render it desirable, the author considers,
to attempt to set out the main features of
the Constitutional Law of the Dominions.
England, Their England
By A. G. MACDONELL.
[Empire Library
(RECOMMENDED BY THE BOOK SOCIETY)
“A joy to read....l cannot remember any
passage (describing a cricket match) in a
recently published book which has made me
laugh so much.... a book which must cer-
tainly not he missed.” — Ralph Straus in the
“Sunday Times.”
“....as fun it is immense.. . .you must just
get the book and read it.”— Gerald Gould in
“The Observer.”
To k»o Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
o o o
FARMERS
'll-™, RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc All in
ITHE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES GS
Interested in Gardening?
Well, send at once for a copy of Yates'
Annual, 1933, just published I
«o
°*c
«L U
<*r E
H 0
Mg
eA -»D
K g-j.
1933
*Afi
o e
'A*
This, the finest of all
garden seed and plant
publications issued in
Australia, is now avail-
able post free for all
who are planning better
and brighter gardens
and bigger and more
profitable crops.
Complete Lists of—
Novelties and
Specialities
Vegetable Seeds
Flower Seeds
Bulbs and Roses
Plants and Trees
134 Pages
8 Colour Plates
175 Illustrations
/"> ur packet seeds are obtainable from leading stores in every city and almost
every town and village throughout Australia. Any store stocking our
sealed and dated packets will also be pleased to obtain from us to your special
order Bulk Flower and Vegetable Seeds, Bulbs, Plants and Farm Seeds as
well as special varieties of Flower and Vegetable packet seeds not usually carried.
When writing for catalogue, please mention the name of this paper and
ask us for the names of the Stores in Your Town, or, if preferred, we
will supply direct from our Mail Order Dept., Sydney.
ARTHUR YATES & CO. LTD.
Australia's Greatest Seed House
(Box 2707-C, G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Take up bearings and grind valves. Super-
fluous valves may be removed and the intake
and exhaust ports covered with flat pieces
of tin squeezed between the manifolds and
the cylinder block. On most it will
be found that each pair of cylinders share
the same induction port. It is manifestly
impossible to block this up. so, instead, leave
the inlet valve in the cylinder next to the
one to be left —usually, though not neces-
sarily, the front one. This extra inlet valve
must be spring-loaded as usual, but remove
or adjust its tappet, so that it will not lift.
Replace cylinder head, etc., and carry on.
Take care not to disturb the timing gear.
The spark-plugs should be left in to keep
out dust.
SYDNEY’S EASTER SHOW.
Last year, mainly on account of the bridge-
opening celebrations, entries for tlie
horse section at Sydney’s great Easter
show totalled a record 3654. This year
promises better still. 3795 entries being
already in hand. The Clydesdale
does exceptionally well, there being 59 stal-
lions and 48 mares entered, while for the
district-group classes there are five entries
in the section open to breeders throughout
the Commonwealth and six in that restricted
to the Ma State. To cope with the extra
entries the committee has decided to add an
extra night session to the show. There are
two newcomers among the rodeo events,
too —releasing the surcingle and the camp
draft. These with the steer-riding contests
will take up three sessions. The other sec-
tions are as usual, though this year the
horticultural show will be moved into the
Hordern Pavilion.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I clear my Tasmanian vegetable
garden of the common black ant which has•
its nest in the ground—not in decayed
timber —and is injuring peach-trees and fruit
to a considerable extent? —4831.
There are no ants in Tasmania that are
injurious to fruit trees. If ants are numer-
ous on peach-trees it indicates that the trees
are infested by the black or green peach
aphis or by the black cherry aphis, and the
ants are frequenting the trees to collect the
secretion known as honcydcw given off. by
the aphids. Spraying the trees with lime-
sulphur solution or any of the nicotine
extracts will get rid of the aphids or scale
insects, and the ants will then leave the
trees of their own accord. The black ants
may be got rid of by pouring about a table-
spoonful of carbon tetrachloride or carbon
bisulphide into their nests after dark, when
all the ants have returned from their forag-
ing expeditions, and then closing and well
treading down the entrances. The nests
should be located and marked in the daytime
so that none are missed.
How to get rid of borers in citrus trees?
—4928.
There are several borers of citrus, and
these vary somewhat in their modes of
attack. Generally, however, they may be
destroyed by pruning and burning young
newly infested branches, by inserting a piece
of pointed wire into each burrow and thus
killing the insects, or by injecting into the
burrows small doses of fumigant material,
either carbon bisulphide or paradichloroben-
zene, and then sealing the opening with
grafting wax or moist clay.
(1) I have a charcoal-gas producer driv-
ing my tractor. Does the combustion of the
carbon-monoxide destroy the poison value of
this gas for fumigating rabbit-burrows?
(2) To what temperature must steam be
subjected before chemical change takes -place ,
producing hydrogen and monoxide? (3)
Books on the subject? —47l3.
(1) Yes. (2) Steam heated cannot alone
produce hydrogen and carbon monoxide. It
must be passed over or through red-hot coke
or carbon to produce these gases. (3) The
best description of the production of the
above two gases by passing steam over
heated coke or carbon will be found in books
dealing with the production of “producer
gas.” A list of such books can be obtained
from any bookseller stocking technical text-
books.
I have just purchased a quantity of bicar-
bonate of lime (46.7 p.c. lime). How much
should be sown per acre with oats on a
sandy-loarn soil (which I think lacks lime),
also for top-dressing? —4B92.
Sow as much as you can afford. The
minimum quantity suggested is one ton top-
dressed either before or after sowing with
super. The best plan is to make one job
of “liming” by applying a sufficient quan-
tity to have a beneficial effect over a period
of years. It is better to apply 10 tons per
acre every 10 years than the same amount in
annual dressings of one ton. The same applies
to top-dressing pasture. A point to be noted
is that the higher the rainfall the greater
should be the rate of application per acre.
Your “bicarbonate of lime” is probably
wrongly described. It is almost, certainly
ordinary carbonate of lime containing 46.7
p.c. of' lime, equal to approximately 83.5
p.c. calcium carbonate—in short, a high-
quality mild lime.
What are the causes and method of treat-
ment of (1) laminitis and (2) ringbone in
horses ? —4877.
(1) The common causes are working
horses in soft condition on hard roads, after
over-engorgement of wheat and constant
standing on one leg owing to lameness in the
opposite limb. The disease is seen some-
times towards the end of pregnancy in mares.
Badly-formed feet predispose animals to this
condition. The symptoms are great heat and
pain about hoof, lameness and a paddling
gait. Stand the horse in water or a run-
ning stream for several hours daily. Drench
- with 1 pint to 14 pints linseed oil according
to size of horse. ” Feed on bran mashes and
green fodder. The animal should be given
a few minutes’ exercise several times a day.
(2) Cause not definitely known, but poor
conformation of legs and constant jarring
on hard roads predispose animals to this
condition. It is considered hereditary.
Symptoms, may be foot lameness, with or
without pain, or there may be no lameness.
No treatment is satisfactory, but firing and
blistering sometimes check the bony en-
largements.
I have put down a bore to the depth of
238 ft. with a rise of 70ft. of water. Can I
raise water by windmill, or will I need a
motor ? —4B39.
Cannot make recommendations as to
whether engine-driven pumps or windmills
should be utilised to raise the water from
such bores without a knowledge of the cir-
cumstances. For instance, in the event ot
a bore being located close to a homestead
and the water being of a quality suitable
for domestic purposes or for garden water-
ing, and of an engine being available, it may
be to the landowner’s advantage to utilise
such engine to pump water from the bore.
On the other hand, if the bore is located out
in paddocks at some distance from the home-
stead, and if the water be required for stock
watering purposes only, it may be that a
windmill will prove more satisfactory. A
windmill will do the work and require less
attention than an engine-driven pump. A
tank, of course, is necessary if a windmill
is used.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Waterwise”: Try planting breakwinds or
groves of trees both sides of your trough-
ing or dam. Stock like to camp, or cool off,
after coming into water. .
“Tenrag” : If pullets show no inclination
to start laying try an iron tonic. Dissolve
a small piece of iron sulphate ( about loz.)
in a cup of cold water and add a teaspoon
of the mixture to each gallon of drinking
water. , . ..
“Marsh”: I recently saw three valuable
rams die from blood poisoning after they
had been shorn ; the germs had assuredly come
from dead wool lying in the, shed. Dead
wool should never be kept anywhere near
the shed.
“Sage” : When you have to prop up a lruit-
tree limb you’ll find a section _of an old
motor-tyre an aid. Take a bit about a
foot long and slip it over the limb, with the
forked stick under it. The rubber acts as
a sleeve. „ ,
“Cow Cocky” : Pressed for green feed for
the milkers last year I stripped the leaves
from the cornstalks, as it was a toss-up if
the cobs would carry grain. They did—and
better stuff than if the foliage was left on.
Testing the same idea this year, I find it
works for the benefit of the cobs.
“D.J.H.”: Don’t leave the plough tight
up against the soil in the furrow when
spelling the nag. Pull the plough back a
foot or two, and you get an easier start.
It saves horse, harness and man.
“Sylvester” : In 20 years as a country car-
penter I did hundreds of handsaws up for
farmers, and the condition of most of them
was appalling. Get a tradesman to do the
job. He has the experience and appliances,
and you can do better work if you have a
saw that runs free and true.
“Yarri” : Stockmen who have used wombat
leather for seats of saddles declare that the
seats never wear out. It is also good mate-
rial for the soles of boots, as it is more
durable than common leather. A tanned
wombat hide is a. good thing to have for
mending harness.
“R.11.P.”: To make a cheap “stickfast”
for pump pulley belts and the like, punch
a |in. hole in the bottom corner of a petrol-
tin; put in an, old motor-tube, pour half a
pint of benzine on it, stand well back and
drop a match. The melted rubber will run
out and you will find it an excellent stick-
fast.
“Whooplesnitz”: When the horse paddock
is bare and the horses are being hand-fed,
mix a handful of coarse salt into Dobbin’s
chaff and corn. He will appreciate the
added flavor and be all the better for it.
“Awani” : If your young citrus fruits are
falling, apparently without cause, look for
a green bug, about the size of a Christmas
beetle, clinging to some, of the fruit. These
bugs insert two spike-like arrangements
growing from their heads into the young
fruit and suck out all the juice. The only
sure way of destroying them is to take
a tin of water and search trees early in the
morning and late in the afternoon. When
you find a bug throw it in the water.
“Cow Cocky” : I recently bought a ton of
mill offal, and lost a full bag of pollard from
split bags, whilst pounds ran from others
through tears and mends. Seeing that we
get a short ton, and that the miller weighs
the bag, too, surely a decent bag should bo
insisted on. Every time it’s handled there
is waste. Wheat is also put in third- and
fourth-hand bags; maize-growers will use
bags that even haphazard potato-growers
would not look at.
“E.A.R.": I noticed a neighbor using a
neat device for doing away with those Un-
sightly “cocky” bales of wool. When con-
signed, his bales, though' not quite so heavy
as ordinary ones pressed by a wool-press,
had quite a good appearance. A Baltic-pine
box, same dimensions as the wool-pack, had
one side hinged (opening out like a door)
to allow for the exit of bale after pressing.
The pack was placed in, its edges folded
over the top edges of the box. The wool was
tramped well into the pack, and when quite
full the top of the pack was placed on the
wool and sides drawn well over and
stitched down (for preference) or skcw r ered
tightly.
“Willeroo”: To prevent gates that are
hung with hook and eye hinges from being
lifted off by cattle or pigs, put a thread on
the end of the hook that goes in the eye,
and screw on a strong nut, with a wide
washer between it and the eye of the hinge.
Some men turn the top hook downwards. It,
is easy enough to hang a gate that way, but
if you want to take the gate off yon have to
get the hook out of the post with it, and
that is usually a difficult job.
“Le Gloriana”: When a snake comes nos-
ing round the house, he may get away while
the hunt for a weapon is in progress. Some-
times an unsuitable stick is found, and if
it breaks without breaking the wriggler the
consequences may be unpleasant. Take two
lengths of 124 gauge wire. Double them,
hang on a nail and plait together fairly
loosely. Bind the loose ends with tie-wire
and the other end with stout cord to form a
handle. Hang in a handy place, and you
have a weapon which cannot break, is light
for the womenfolk to use, and even in the
hands of a weakling deals a blow which
seldom leaves need for a second.


Our Servicet Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of lafct
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth, good family, will do any kind of work
about house or apartments, in return for home for
few weeks, Sydney or suburbs. Refs. —5036.
Semi-trained nurse (S.A.) wants position as
companion or help on station, anywhere.—so3l.
Words of “Aloha 0e.”—5024.
Words of verse describing- the movement of the
platypus.—so 22.
Librarian wants suggestions for a humorous library
bookplate which will indicate to borrowers that they
must return books. —5007.
To buy novels written in German. —5002.
Newspaper clippings and other printed matter
containing references to life of Jardine, . Cape York
pearl trader.—soo3.
Information Sought.
/ have a fair knowledge of astronomy, but
am puzzled as to why the moon -is month
after month low down to the north. J thought
that the -moon traversed the ecliptic every
month. —4799.
We presume you are referring to the moon
about the time of full moon. The reason
why the full moon has been rising far north
during the last few mtmths is that the sun,
during that time, has been south' of the
Equator. In order to have a full phase, the
moon must be 180 degrees in longitude away
from the sun, so that when the sun is 234
degrees south at the summer solstice and sets
(at Sydney) 284- degrees south of east, the
full moon will rise the same amount north
of east, in order to be 180 degrees apart from
the sun. During the winter months this is
reversed and the full moon rises south of
east.
I understand that one of our Australian
birds builds a double nest. Is that so? What
bird does this, and the object? —49o9,
Yes, the yellow-tailed thornbill constructs
a double nest, the lower cavity being lined
with feathers and containing the eggs; the
upper is unlined, and is said to serve as a
roosting-place for the cock-bird at night. It
has also been suggested that this upper cham-
ber is intended to deceive cuckoos and per-
haps other enemies. Nests with two of
these unlined chambers in addition to the.
nest proper have been observed, but this is
unusual.
Is the moon on its northerly course? If so,
how long has it been so? I understand the
moon takes several years to go a northerly
course, and a similar period to go a southerly.
Is that so? —4885.
The moon reached its greatest southerly
declination, coming south, in February last.
At present it is oscillating between northerly
and southerly motion, and will continue to
do so until next September, when the motion
will definitely change to north, and will
continue thus until the end of 1942, when
southerly motion will commence again. The
period is known as the 19 years lunar cycle.
A 7 umber of old-age pensioners in Australia
and their distribution according to States?
Give figures for both sexes. —4762.
At June 30. 1932, 183,317 (men, 77,793;
women, 105,524). distributed as follows: —
N.S.W.: Men, 30.098 ; women, 39,769. Vic.:
Men. 21,381; women, 31,414. Q’land : Men,
10.718; women, 13,018. South Aust.: Men.
6,632; women, 10,428. West. Aust.: Men,
5,375 ; women, 6,083. Tas.: Men, 3,589;
women, 4,812.
(1) Can Vic. school-teachers do exchange
duty with teachers from Great Britain? (2)
If so, to -what authority must one apply
for exchange duty? (3) Length of period and .
salary arrangements f—4Bs6.
(1) Yes. (2) Director of Education, Mel-
bourne. (3) Period, twelve months. Other
information may be obtained from Director.
What are the prospects of the pearling in-
dustry at Broome? Is there -much demand for
white labor? Any chance of getting a job on
a pearling lugger at Broome? —462B.
Prospects arc not bright. Overseas mar-
kets are apparently overstocked with shell,
and the tendency is to restrict output. White
labor in excess of the requirements of the
industry is available locally, and you would
be ill advised to go to tlie expense of visiting
Broome on the chance of obtaining a job.
A football club owes me -money. If I sue.
should I issue a summons against the presi-
dent or the secretary? —49lB.
If the funds of the club become exhausted
then the individual member, such as president
or secretary, who gave authority for the
supply of goods on credit becomes personally
liable. As a first step write to the secretary
and inform him that if the debt is not paid
within, say, 14 days you will place the mat-
ter in the hands of a solicitor.
. What is the position of an old-age -pen-
sioner who enters a benevolent asylum as
regards the payment of his pension? —4B32.
H (i is granted a special pension not exceed-
ing 3s. 9d. per week for his personal use
and, in addition, the dept, pays the institu-
tion for his maintenance the difference be-
tween 3s. 9d. per week and the original
pension.
(1) What relationship should the length
of the supply pipe bear to the height of the
*>!L v 9 nnec tion with a hydraulic ram?
i-i \ mu enc -I °f the hydraulic ram ?—4812.
, f l ' J- l le . su PPly pipe should be not less
than five times the height of the fall, but
, ? pipe may be made 10 times, or more, the
height 0-, the fall. (2); In ordinary cases it
returns about 50 per cent, of tlie natural
rj V J A. at , IS '. the Quantity of water multi-
plied by the height of the delivery above the
ram will be about 50 per cent, of the quantity
working the ram multiplied by the
head of fall, in the same unit of time.
My five-months-old, Scotch collie pup, which
I am preparing for exhibition purposes, has
gone off his food. What diet should I use
to get him into prime condition? —4711.
Probably you have been overfeeding him.
Cut him down to two meals a day. At least
one-third of the ration should consist of raw
meat'; the balance can consist of oatmeal,
rice or wholemeal bread. The oatmeal and
rice can be mixed with milk to advantage.
Do not cut the meat up into small pieces,
as the dog digests large lumps of meat, which
lie naturally will swallow whole much better
than if cut up. Provide water at all times.
(1) What amount hooked can a Q'land
publican charge per day for drink? (2) Can
an outsider prosecute and recover for liquor
hooked up on a Sunday? (3) Has the price
per bottle of spirits, beer or stout been fixed?
-■-4765.
(1) Under the Liquor Act (Q.) no
licensed victualler or wineseller can recover
any debt on account of liquor supplied by
him for consumption .on the premises, except
as to liquor “supplied in moderate quantity
with meals to any lodger.” Refusal to pay
for liquor supplied is punishable by fine. The
charge for liquor supplied to lodgers must
not exceed ss. per day. (2) He should in-
form the police ; any fine imposed would go
into consolidated revenue, not into the pocket
of flic informer, though he might make a
claim as such for portion. . (3) No. but the
customer is bound to pay only “a reasonable
sum” for the drink supplied.
My lawn is greatly disfigured by numerous
small mounds of earth made on the surface
by earthworms. How can I remove the
cause? —4B9s.
The worms may be killed quickly and
cheaply by watering the lawn with a solu-
tion of copper sulphate (bluestone). Dis-
solve lib. of fine bluestone crystals in 50
gallons of water for each 100 square yards of
lawn, and apply through a watering-can with
a coarse rose. The mixing should be done
in a cask where possible, for it corrodes most
materials. Wash the can with clean water
thoroughly afterwards. The best time to
apply is during still, muggy weather when
the worms are near the surface. The treat-
ment will not injure the lawn.
May the buyer of a block of land in N. 8.
Wales on time-payment relinquish the pur-
chase and be free of all claims by the vendor,
in virtue of the N.S.W. Moratorium Act?
The book published recently by the i. 4 nr Book
Co. seeths to say that he is free; other
authorities say he is not. —479S.
Probably you refer to Section 26 of the
Lang Act, which provided that where an
agreement for the sale and purchase of land
was made before the commencement of that
Act the purchaser might at any time within
three months after such commencement
(Sept. 1, 1931) rescind the agreement. Under
that provision the vendor retained any money
already paid to him, but the purchaser was
freed from liability for any damage or ex-
pense incurred by the vendor. Under the
Stevens Moratorium Act this freedom from
liability was limited not to include payments
which a Moratorium Court might direct.
This amendment was passed to meet cases
where a purchaser before rescinding remained
in possession and in the enjoyment of rents,
etc., but had not met his obligations under
the agreement. In such eases application
can now be made to a Moratorium Court.
Your case does not appear to come within
these provisions and your “other authorities”
would therefore be right.
How to treat a dog suffering from dan-
druff? —4748.
In, mild cases a thorough wash once a
week, using a coal-tar soap (not carbolic),
proves effective. In more stubborn cases
give an oatmeal bath twice a week. A
double-handful of fine oatmeal, 2oz. glycer-
ine. and the yolks of from 2 to 6 eggs, in a
gallon of just-warm water, well m : xed and
thoroughly rubbed into the skin, which is
then carefully dried, will do what is neces-
sary. Put a jittle borax in the rinsing water.
Brush coat daily.
(1) What is the rate of the Federal cotton
bounty? (2) How much is paid annually?
—4570.
(1) The rate of bounty payable on seed
cotton varies on higher grades from 14d.
pei- pound in 1932 to 4d. per pound in 1936,
while on lower grades it varies from fd.
per pound up to 1932 to |d. per pound in
1936. For year ending September 30, 1933,
the rate payable on higher grades is ljd.
per pound, and on lower grades fd. per
pound. The provisions of the Financial Emer-
gency Act apply, and the rates are reduced
accordingly by 20 per cent. The bounty on
cotton yarn ceased on June 30, 1932, while
the expiry date fixed for that on seed cotton
is September 30, 1936. (2) 1927-28: Seed
cotton. £8.1,454 ; cotton yarn, £24.846. 1928-
29: Seed cotton, £64,930; cotton yarn,
£33,638: 1929-30: Seed cotton, £70,307;
cotton yarn, £48,660. 1930-31: Seed cotton,
£100,848; cotton yarn, £57,085'. 1931-32:
Seed cotton. £64.206; cotton yarn, £94,395.
A native Indian doctor has written to me
asking whether it is possible for him to settle
in Australia .. Can _ you furnish conditions
that would govern his admission, and where
could I get necessary papers? —4B96.
All aliens who wish to settle here ar<- liable
to be rcstr-ieted from landing in Australia
unless their admission has been authorised
by the Minister for the Interior. Applica-
tions for landing permits should be addressed
to Secretary, Dept, of Interior, Canberra.
Rate of freight on furniture, household
goods and motor-cars from Sydney to
C010mb0? —4795.
Sixfy shillings per ton of 40 cubic feet
payable at destination in British sterling!
A declaration is required in respect of any
package the contents of which exceed £lOO
in value, and extra freight of 11 per cent.
ad valorem is payable thereon. The freight
on motor-cars is the. same, subject to an
additional heavy-lift charge if the car ex-
ceeds two tons in weight.
(1) When was New Caledonia first used
as a penal settlement ? (2) How many
prisoners were sent there? (3) When did
transportation cease? (4) Does the com-
munity still consist of a proportion of ex-
prisoners t —4929.
(1) In 1864. (2) About 40,000. Most of
France’s long-term political prisoners. (3)
In 1895. (4) A large proportion of the
white population there to-day consists of
long-term prisoners, freed prisoners and their
descendants.
Method of preserving prawns for bait, one
that will keep them two months preferredf—
-4821.
Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of salt mixed
with three teaspoons of brown sugar in a
cup of water. Remove the heads from two
quarts of prawns and place in this solution
in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with a rubber
ring. It is doubtful whether the prawns pre-
served in this manner will keep as long as
two months.
(1) Number of civil servants in Australia
and annual cost of salaries? (2) How does
the number and cost compare with other
co nn tries ? —4869.
(1) In 1931 the number of civil servants
in Australia was 211,953, and the annual
aggregate cost was £48,775,000. (2) No
comparative statistics are available.
(1) Cost and duration of medical course at
Sydney Uni. and prospect of employment at
completion of course? (2) Cost of massage
course at Sydney Uni.? —4886.
(1) Cost, approximately £350; period, six
years. Every normal person who qualifies
for an M.B. degree is certain of employment.
(2) Approximately £45.
Now to prepare soil for stocks? —4974.
Where possible, select virgin soil. The next
best place is one where stocks or wallflowers
have not been grown previously. Failing
either of these conditions, the soil should be
limed, digging deeply so as to incorporate
the lime thoroughly in the soil. Three weeks
later give the ground another deep digging,
and at the same time work in plenty of
bonedust.
Hints on planting and growing camellias?
—4954.
The plants require a situation protected
ftom hot winds in the summer and from
frosts when they are in bloom in the winter
(June to September). A southerly or
easterly aspect, with shelter to the north and
west, is the best situation, but the plants
can also be well grown in a bush-house or
shelter-shed or in large pots or tubs. A good
loamy, peaty soil gives the best results. The
best months for planting out are from April
to September. After flowering and before
growth again commences, trim the plants
into shape. Liberal applications of water
during dry weather are . necessary. When
preparing the ground, work a little bone-dust
into the soil and give a dressing of this
each year after flowering. When planting-
out in beds or amongst other shrubs, allow at
least 10ft. between the plants.
Whereabouts in London is Grub-street, and
how did the name become associated with
struggling writers? —so2o.
Grub-street, now called Milton-street in
honor of the poet whose home was near it. was
famous in the seventeenth century for the rea-
son given in Dr. Johnson’s definition in his
“Dictionary”: “Originally the name of a
street near Moonfields in London, much in-
habited by writers of small histories, dic-
tionaries and temporary poems, whence any
mean production is called Grub-street.” The
name has also been applied, since this time,
as a collective term to struggling hack
writers.
(1) What are the characteristics of the white
cedar tree? (2) Where does it grow? (3)
Can any use be made of the tree's bark and
berries? (4) Does it yield gum? (5) Is the
timber easily worked?- —5025.
(1) It bears a profusion of lilac-colored
flowers and whitish pulp berries, and is cul-
tivated in parks and gardens as a shade-
tree. (2) In coastal brush forests from the
Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales to Northern
Australia, and extends to India. (3) Tlu*
berries are suspected to be poisonous. The
Hindus use flowers, leaves and bark for
medicinal purposes. The root bark is on
the secondary list of the United States Phar-
macopoeia as an anthelmintic. In large doses
it is said to produce narcotic effects. (4)
Yes, The product resembles wattle-gum. and
is exuded in considerable quantities. (5)
Yes.
Who first discovered gold in Katgoorlie
(IT. A. ), and when ? —1960.
Flannigan and Hannan, in June, 1893.
Particulars regarding fish called threadfins
or Cooktown salmon?— 49o4.
They are tropical fishes of the familv
Polymcnsidce with slender filaments beneath
the pectoral fins which can be moved freely
in all directions and may be either shorter
or longer than the body of the fish. They
are tactile organs, and enable the fish to find
its food in intensely muddy estuarine waters.
A species common in Queensland, Polynem us
tetradactylus, is known in the northern towns
as salmon or Cooktown salmon, though it
bears no resemblance to the true salmon.
It occurs in shoals and meets with a ready
sala in the northern markets. Threadfins
rarely extend southward to the coast of N. S.
Wales, but are plentiful along the northern
seaboard. Some species attain a length of
six feet.
(1) W hen was responsible (Parliamen-
tary) government established in New- South
Wales? (2) English laws dating far back
(even to the Stuarts) arc sometimes brought
up in our Law Courts. How does this come
about? Were English laws carried to the
new country? —4Bs3.
(1) 1856. (2) The laws in force in the
several States are : The Common Law of Eng-
land and the English Statute Law inherited
on the original settlement in N. S. Wales
or applied by Act of Parliament in 1828;
the Acts passed by the State itself, together
with rules, etc., and other decisions of the
local judiciary as have the force of law;
Commonwealth Acts and such Imperial laws
as apply to tire Commonwealth.
Brief Answers.
W.F.P.: Smith is entitled to the money
received less the commission due to O’Reilly. The
agreement to accent £5 and the receipt in full
were procured by means of a false pretence —on the
statement submitted. .. .J.T.F.: If the property is
rightly included as an asset in the estate, probate
duty would be paid out of the estate....
N.G.M.: Information not available in Sydney....
G. : Under the Moratorium Act you have two
years over which payment may be suspended. But
your default in payment during that period does not
exclude the vendor (who is a mortgagee within the
meaning of the Act) from applying to a Moratorium
Court for leave to enforce his rights. If the Court
thinks his application is a deserving one, it
may grant it, despite the fact that the full period
of default has not elapsed... .A.A.: The Mora-
torium Act gives you time in which to make per-
formance of your part of the contract. You cannot
abandon the purchase of the land without the consent
of the vendor... .J.D.: Howard’s “Confidential Chats
with Boys” (3s. 4d.). .. . R.M.E.: (1) The will of
1914 was revoked by the subsequent marriage. (2)
If a new will were made after the second marriage
without provision for the children under the first
marriage, application can be made to a Court of
Equity by such children as are left without adequate
provision for their maintenance, and the Court may
make an order for provision to be made out of the
estate. (3) If no second will were made thei widow
would take a third of the estate and the remainder
would be divided equally among the children. .. .
H. : If the obligation to pay interest was created
before October 1, 1931, you are entitled' to a reduc-
tion of nine-fortieths in every pound. It is late
now to deduct the past over-payments, but you
might do so, and let the mortgagee apply to the
Moratorium Court if dissatisfied... .N.0.K.: The
position of a trustee is practically that of an owner,
within the limits of the trust committed to him,
except that he does not apply any of the property
or income to his own use. He may lease any of the
trust property if reasonably he is convinced that is
the most efficient course to take in the interests of
those concerned I.MiC.: Has not been tested.
Under the Lang Act it was provided that the Act
should not bind the Crown. The new (Stevens) Act
brought certain mortgages to the Crown under its
provisions, but the Department to which you refer
is not mentioned. .. .A.0.R.: He was never deported.
. ...J.H.: Let us know the full facts... .R.R.: He
is not an Australian —he was born in England—
although he has many relations here. .. . W.J.T.:
The transaction in question is subject to State income
tax under the provisions of Section 12 of the
Income-tax (Management) Act, 1928. The taxability
under this section does not depend, upon the purpose
for which the shares were acquired, but applies if
the shares were bought during the year of sale
or the six years next prior thereto... .J.L.: The
books have no commercial value. .. .W.H.G.W.: (1)
and (2) No T.R.8.: (1) Asking for wo/ds in
the “Wants” section. (2) Any leading bookseller
will furnish a list. .. .T.D.: Seeds were first planted
in Kenya in 1922 with fair success to date. A
wide distribution of seed has been made since 1927
from Kew, which included the Union of South Africa,
S. Rhodesia, Nyasaland, and Tanganyika. A grant
from the Empire Marketing Board provides for the
further distribution of seed. . . .E.T.: The Board of
Social Study and Training. Sydney, provides and
controls a course of study, theoretical and practical,
extending normally over two years, for all types
of social workers and grants certificates for Social
Study and Training to those who successfully com-
plete the-course. Address, 5 Hamilton-street, Sydney.
.... H.N.: This is a trade formula which cannot be
obtained. It is believed to be made largely of
pounded peanuts and a roasted cereal, probably
wheat, all seasoned to taste and blended with oil.
Special machinery is used in the preparation of
nearly all these foods, and most of them are beyond
the skill of the amateur at home. ...A.M.G.: Little
authentic information is available at Sydney....
A.N.: Firms in the trade in Sydney have never
heard of the machine.... J. 0.: It is not a coin
but a small commemorative medal of the accession
of Queen Victoria to the throne in 1837. It has
no value. .. .G. 8.: From Marine Engineers, Ltd.,
Creek-street, Brisbane. If the parts are not in
stock, they will have to be indented. .. .8.5. R.:
1896-1903,’ 3s. 6d. ; 1913, 4s. 7d. ; 1923-24, 6s. 3fd.
. ...C.8.: “The Shorter Oxford Dictionary’’ (two
vols.), price £4 10s H.L.If.: Cannot trace the
wreck in our records.... A.T.M. : J. L. Burke’s “The
Adventures of Martin Cash” (1870) should be
worth about £2 2s. ; Wm. Howitt’s “Tallangetta”
(1857), about 15s E.8.C.: Aidan de Brune, Box
4059 W, G.P.0., Sydney. . . .D.R. ; The best is Barton’s
“Australian Company Secretary” (325. 6d.). .. .
P.M.: To re-seed a lawn, cut the turf close, rake
it hard, cut close again, then sow the seed and
top-dress lightly with clean soil or coinpost, and -
water well. .. . S.L.: Write Arthur Yates and Co.,
184 Sussex-street, S’ydney. .. . A. 8.5.: All receptacles
for jam, etc., should be hermetically sealed. Over-
ripe and decaying fruit should not be allowed to
remain in pantries or storerooms. A little pyrethrum
powder dusted about where the flies are will soon
destroy them.. .T.R.P.: The S.S. Balclutha foundered
on the coast of N.S.W. in October, 1881. She was
bound from Melbourne to Sydney, heavily loaded
with bluestone, and was last seen off Gabo Island,
smothered in spray, in a heavy s.-w. gale. Twenty-
two lives were 105 t.... F.S.: A person who is receiv-
ing an old-age pension cannot also receive an invalid
pension, and vice versa .... E.S.H.: Wash dog with
Cook’s 3 p.c. mercurial soap; dress sores daily
with compound naphthol beta ointment. Treat dog
for worms, give a course of arsenic, from one to
five drops of Fowler’s solution (according to the
size of the puppy), twice a day in a little water
after food. After a week, gradually increase the
dose from two to ten drops (according to the size
of the puppy)... ..S.C.W.: Yikarreri is an abo. word
meaning “stagnant water” ; Piallaway, another abo.
word, means “cracked mussel shell”... .A.L.J.: The
total number of volumes at the beginning of 1932
in the Commonwealth National Library at Canberra
was 99,669 books and 7000 pamphlets, the chief
feature being a unique collection of Captain Cook’s
manuscripts and early works relating to Australia.
. ...J.J.D.: Inquiry forwarded to the secretary of
the Vic. Housewives’ Association, who will com-
municate with you on the subject ... .C.R.S.: Par-
ticulars regarding the N.S.W. Milk Board, together
with definitions of milk-distributing areas and
milk-collecting zones, are to be found in the Milk
Act, 1931. Details regarding the Paterson Scheme are
obtainable front the secretary of the scheme, George
Twohill, 375 George-street, Sydney... .D. 8.0.:
“Bosca” is the trade-mark of Frank Arnold, saddler.
143 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .P. 8.: The person
is liable for N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Tax....
1.A.: Marriage is not in itself a legal ground for
dismissal from employment.... G. 8.: Ringing the
changes is a trick that takes many forms. In
essence it consists in pretending or making it appear
that the amount put down was greater than actually
was the case, or that sufficient change has not been
given. ... (Many others mailed.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The biggest calamity of a joyless day for
punters at Roseliill was Peter Pan’s failure
in the Rawson Stakes. The chestnut was so
heavily backed (he started at 3 to 1 on)
that many of the ringmen were reluctant to
lay him at the finish. A strand of the barrier
caught him under the chin at the start and
he lost five or six lengths. The damage did
not seem irreparable, and when he moved
up into fifth position at the half-mile it
looked as if he might yet get up. Backers
got a shock when he dropped back again
and finished last. Although Bartle did not
push him unduly hard it was a disappoint-
ing effort for a horse that has been hailed
as a successor to Phar Lap. Lough Neagh
took the race after staving off a challenge
near the finish from Kuvera (7 to 1), whom
he beat by a neck. Dermid (33 to 1) was
three lengths behind Kuvera. The winner s
closing quote was 12 to 1, but as
much as 25 to 1 was laid against him in some
quarters. As a result of his showing he
has ousted Braeburn from favoritism for the
Sydney Cup.
Dark Chief upset calculations by winning
the Three- and Four-year-old Handicap. An
indifferent showing in the Victoria Park
Flying Handicap on March 22 had not helped
to'make him popular with backers, and he
started at 12 to 1. La Justice (6 to 1) had
charge at the distance, but the Dark Fox
gelding finished strongly and beat her by a
length ; Gravure (9 to 2) was third. Dark
Chief is a fairly good galloper, and now that
he has struck form must be taken into con-
sideration for the three-year-old events at
Randwick. Ptolemy, solidly backed, never
gave his supporters a thrill.
Leila Vale (7 to 2) got smartly away in
the Nursery Handicap and, after leading the
field with Heroic Queen to the turn, went
on in the straight to win comfortably by two
lengths from Blixton (2 to 1), who cut
Frimsel (3 to 1) out of second money by
half a neck. The winner seems to have re-
gained the form that enabled her to win the
Gimcrack Stakes. She was piloted by W.
Gert :" \ wamt to see -me
ErASTSf? Show T
6ert : " GtOOO, lilu takke you"
G*&VZT\" 5uT I <IB GOT NOTHING
SMART TO INEAR,*
&eRT:"THATS ALL G\c-,HT. YOU OOMT HAS/E
TO TAKE PART IK THE <3»RAKO
PARADE'' .
Cook, who notched his second win since
returning from India. Blixton is a. hand-
some colt, and appeared to be short of a
gallop.
Keith Cook rode a well-judged race on
Whittingham to win the Railway Handicap.
McGrath's horse was four lengths behind his
rivals at the start. Cook let him run on
until nearing the half-mile. Fifty yards from
home he caught the leader, Caravel Boy (do
to 1) and beat Booth’s gelding by halt a
length. Version (8 to 1) was two lengths
away third. The winner s effort brought him
many friends and he may now be considered
a Doncaster possibility. Jacko and Johnnie
Jason went out equal favorites at 4 to 1,
but failed to get near the money. Cynical
was next fancied at 6 to 1. Whittingham s
price was sevens.
Alien Veilmond (7 to 4) and Satmoth
(3 to 1) were battling it out at the Leger
in the Autumn Handicap it looked as though
backers might shake off the hoodoo that had
clung to them throughout the day. But
they were disillusioned. Pretzel came from
an almost impossible position and snatched a
length victory from Satmoth, with Veilmond
three-quarters of a length away third, lhe
race was slowly run in the early stages, and
this accounted in a measure for Veilmond a
failure. Still it seemed that Ned Moss s
horse had lost a good deal of his V.K.C.
autumn carnival form. Pretzel s showing
was decidedly good. He was last at the
turn and had a lot of leeway to. make up.
Opening at 5 to 1 he eased to 7 to 1, at
which price he started.
Backers went for a recovery on Sas-
sanides in the Parramatta Mile. He went
out at 5 to 2, but was never in the hunt.
The winner turned up in Nellie May (10 to
1) who scored a length and a half victory
from Gagleigh (5 to 1). Inducement (33 to
1) and Sodi (5 to 1) dead-heated for third
nlacp Nellie May was a star performer on
A.R.C. courses before the A.J.C. took them
under its wing.
* * * *
In reply to remote correspondents, who
have been asking for “another Jacko and
another Piastoon,” this Page fancies Tom
Pinch for the Doncaster and Mince Pie for
the Sydney Cup.
Selections for Warwick Farm next Satur-
day :
Chipping Norton Plate: Peter Pan; next,
Lough Neagh. .
Liverpool Handicap: Tom Pinch; next,
Lightning March.
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup: Mince Pie;
next, Braeburn.
Cabramatta Handicap: Irish Bard; next,
Version.
* * * *
Isle of Astur, bred in Westralia by E.
Temby and brought east by that trainer in
search of autumn spoils, will be a runner in
the Sydney Cup. Temby arrived at that
decision on Saturday last after the gelding
had splendidly captured the Epsom (Vic.)
Handicap. In his previous three outings
Isle of Astur registered two wins and a
second. The distance on Saturday—one
mile—was regarded as too short for Temby’s
candidate, about whom odds of 6 to 1 could
be obtained in a field of 11. Green Wave,
the Caulfield Guineas hero of 1930, was
favorite, but he missed a place, as also did
Hellenist and Golden Lullaby, each of whom
was well supported. Isle of Astur smothered
the leaders at the straight entrance and
was not ridden out to score by two lengths
from the consistent but somewhat unlucky
Yaropian.
The burden carried by Isle of Astur at
Epsom (Bst. 81b.) was 121 b. more than his
Sydney Cup impost. In the W.A.T.C. Derby
of 1931 Isle of Astur vanquished Alienist:
by a head, and two days later he carried
lOst. to victory in a seven-furlong event for
horses bred in Westralia. Second honors
in the Perth Cup at that fixture went to
Adeline’s March, who was runner-up again
last December, when Alienist won. It is
rather remarkable that Alienist, Adeline s
March and Isle of Astur should all have
come east this autumn. Alienist broke the
ice at Moonee Valley on Eight-hours Day, but
Isle of Astur has completely overshadowed
him. Isle of Astur may have to be seriously
reckoned with in the Sydney Cup. He will
be given a pipe-opener in the Autumn Stakes
at Randwick.
Melbourne bookmaker J. J. Langley landed
the first division of the Two-year-old Han-
dicap at Epsom with Poreia, a filly by
Heroic from Reverie, which cost him lbUgns.
as a yearling. In the spring Poreia ran
third to Lisburn and Bridal Path in tne
fillies’ section of the V.R.C. Manbyrnong
Trial Stakes. She is wayward, and ran
out wide at Moonee Valley on Eight-hours
Day. This offence was repeated on Satur-
day However, Muschialli succeeded in
straightening the filly, and she defeated W.
Duncan’s mount, Staghorn, by half a lengtn
L K. S. Mackinnon, V.R.C. chairman, might
have collected a share of the place money
with Roxane if that Ronsard filly had not
been interfered with two furlongs from home
The stewards allocated the blame to W.
Little, rider of Sergeant Major, and sus-
pended him for two months.
Melason, starting at the cramped odds of
10 to 9, followed up his success at the pre-
vious week-end by running away with the
second division of the juvenile event. This
Blackadder gelding probably is the fastest
of his age in Victoria at present. £. i'V.
Hoysted, who trains Melason for R. X.
Sheil, landed the last race on the card with
his own horse, Harry Gavin, the best ot
the progeny of defunct Eurythmic. Though
he opened favorite, Harry Gavin was sup-
planted in the market by both Semitist and
Some Hero. Last-named belongs to W. M.
Gollan, of Sydney, and is in the stable ot
J. Holt. It was a thrilling finish. Harry
Gavin, under difficulties, worked his way
to the front at the home turn. Challenges
were thrown out on all sides at the dis-
tance, and Hoysted’s prad squeezed home by
a mere head from Some Hero, with Emi-
nere only half a head farther off and Semit-
ist an equally close fourth. Honors really
lay with Eminere, who was far back m the
field after two furlongs had been covered.
The success of Windbag as a sire this
season has been remarkable. Chatham,
Liberal and Winooka have done him brilliant
service, while other members of the tribe
keep winning in all sorts of company. Fred
Foulsham, the Caulfield trainer, sustained a
heavy blow when Liberal broke,down before
he could compete in the autumn classics, but
Jangada, whom Foulsham races in conjunc-
tion with a Castlemaine sportsman, has
evened up matters to some extent. This son
of Windbag has scored two firsts and two
seconds in his last four outings. He annexed
the Trial Handicap at Epsom very easily,
and strangely enough, was followed home
by ’Winserie. a four-year-old daughter of
Windbag. Easby, whose full brother. Easmg-
wold, ran second in Wynette’s Caulfield Cup,
caused a surprise by takingthe Epsom Purse,
in which Skram, with Duncan up, proved a
false favorite.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
With the Australian featherweight cham;
pionship vacant, “Young Llew Edwards
having retired, some interest was taken m
the tilt between Teddy'Moroney and U rank
Hartman at Parramatta. Moroney won on
points, and is now ready to meet anyone
for the Commonwealth crown. Griifoonce
held this bauble, but it’s not wortn 30 bob
nowadays.
* *
Wrestling will not go on drawing capacity
crowds to Leichhardt Stadium if decisions
such as that given to Walter Browning on
Saturday become the rule. Browning was
adjudged to have beaten Billy Meeske on
points. In fact, Meeske out-manoeuvred the
heavier man from the opening bell and
scored a submission fall in the second round.
Browning then rattled his man with brutal
rabbit-killers, and had him reeling ni the
fifth when he evened the falls with a Loston
crab’. Meeske still wrestled the better m
the sixth, and earned a draw at least.
Ins and Outs
After drawing a one-day match with Wel-
lington the English cricketers met Maonland
in the first Test at Christchurch. The visitors
made 560 for 8 wickets, Hammond dominat-
ing the game with a splendid 227, while
Ames came along with 103. M.L. made -2.
and was following on when the game was
foolishly abandoned because of threatening
rain which did not arrive. In the second
match at Auckland, Britain’s knock of 548
for 7 was marked by Hammonds 33b n. 0.,
which included 10 sixes. This tops Brad-
man’s Test record of 334, the match being
rated as a first-class fixture. M.L. made los
in the first innings, and was saved by
rain on the third day of the match, which
ended the English tour. Hammonds
“average” for the two Tests was thus obo!
* * * *
H H. Shri Ranjitsinliji Vibhaji, Maharaja
Jamsahib of Nawanagar, whose sudden death
of heart failure in Calcutta is reported, may
safelv be ranked with W. G. Grace and
Victor Trumper as one of the three great
batsmen of cricket history. A Rajput, he
was adopted, after the Indian fashion, by his
uncle, succeeding to the title in 100 b. After
schooling in India, he went to Cambridge, but
was not considered good enough for a cricket
Blue until he had distinguished himself for
Sussex county. Australians saw him m
1897-98 when he was in his cricket, prime,
and his subsequent career in the game is
too well known for recapitulation. Like
many of the Indian princes, he helped the
Empire with! men and money in the Great
War, serving himself in France.
“Tenth Slip”: The Sydney grade cricket
premiership has this year fallen to the Oum-
berland district club, which, under its old
guise of Parramatta, dates back to Mac-
quarie’s days almost. Anyway, the last time
Cumberland landed the bacon was m law.
so its success was about due. History has
repeated itself in another fashion also. In
1900 the bowling of “Old Bill” Howell, the
famous international, was largely respon-
sible for the club’s triumph. This year his
son, “Young Bill,” who has only attained
State honors as yet, was the side s bowl-
ing stand-by. In Queensland, the Toombul
club won its eleventh premiership, the
veteran Bon Oxenham heading both batting
and bowling averages with 48.11 and 8.07
runs apiece for 38 wickets. West Torrens
headed the South Australian clubs. H. O.
Nitschke averaged 70 for 7 innings, with a
highest of 91. F. H. Collins took 28 wickets
for 11.75 each.
* * *
“Five Ways” : Queensland cricket authori
ties are making a commendable attempt to
encourage the young blood of which the
State stands so much in need. Next season
it is proposed that each of the six district
clubs in the Brisbane grade competition
should father a primary school team as
part of its district organisation. This team
would play its cricket on turf wickets
instead of having to begin the game on mud
or concrete. Players graduating on these
pitches have to learn the game all over again
when they come on to turf, and often develop
early faults that are difficult to eradicate
later.
❖ ❖ *
L. C. H. Palairet, brother of R. C. N.
Palairet. who was one of the managers or
the English Eleven lately in Australia died
in England recently at 63. Tall, with a
great reach, he was regarded as one of the
most graceful cricketers of his day, special-
ising in forward play. Like his brother,
he was prominent in, association football and
cricket at school and university, getting Ins
cricket Blue and captaining Oxford. With
his brother, he was also a mainstay of the
Somersetshire eleven for some years, and
played for England against Australia m
1902 at Manchester and the Oval. His tour
innings for England averaged only 6 runs,
but he put up some notable performances
in county cricket and for the Gentlemen.
“Aigburth” : When Jardine’s cricketers set
their feet again on their native land —or, in
the case of Pataudi, their adopted heath—
there is likely to be something doing if the
British yellow press can bring it about.
Expectation was keyed to a high pitch when.
Larwood’s boat was nearing Marseilles, but
the pitch was queered for the reporters b>
Carr, captain of Larwood’s county, who
hurried across France to meet his subord-
inate before lie released any cats. Carr was
understood to be the bearer of a peremptory
reminder to Larwood from Notts that a
still tongue made a wise head. In any case,
Larwood has proved as communicative to
date as a Newcastle grindstone, and the news
hounds are grinding their teeth in baffled rage.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Football
League’s annual meeting disclosed a cushy
condition of things. Already £BOOO of the
£21,000 incurred by the purchase of Harri-
son House as League headquarters has been
paid off, and at the present rate of £IoOU
a year the balance should be wiped out in
a decade. Income was roughly £onOO. this
including £790 for office rents in the Harri-
son building. Expenditure, including the
annual payment for headquarters, was about
£4600. This includes losses totalling rb-o
on matches in Adelaide and Sydney a, rd
against Tasmania, while advances to ciuhs
were set down at £172. The opening round
of the season is set down for April 2J.
* * * *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian foot-
ballers had one of their best seasons for
years, according’ to the anilual report, me
game had been taken up in Goulburn and
Newcastle, while half a dozen junior teams
had been added to the League. There was
a profit of £l2O for the year, although the
League had expended some of its own earn-
ings for propaganda purposes outside the
grant received for this from the Australian
Football Council. This year admission prices
for club matches will be Is. Id. and 6d. in
place of Is. 6d. and Is., and this, it is hoped,
will help attendances. The big inter-btate
carnival opens in Sydney on Aug. 2, when fc.
Australia will meet Wcstralia and Victona
N. S. Wales, and will close with a match
between combined sides on August I z. 11
addition to the above States, with Tasmania
and Queensland, Canberra I ederal Territory
will make its first bow in these biennial
events. ... *
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The inter-State matches be-
tween the Queensland and N.S.W, Rugby
Unions in Brisbane will probably be played
on May 20 and 27, with if possible a mid-
week match at Toowoomba. The dates for
the games in Sydney will now be August o
and August 7 (Bank Holiday) instead of
August 12 and 19. The Q.R.U. is consider-
ing the re-establishment of the Union code
at Townsville, where, as well as at Charters
Towers, it flourished in pre-war days.
* * * *
The British Rugby internationals ended
on Saturday, when Scotland won to the Top
of the table by a lucky victory over Ireland
at Dublin, the visitors scoring two dropped
goals (8) to two tries (6). The Scots
beat England by a try to nil, and Wales by
11-3, scoring 22-9 in the senes. O f the
others, England beat Ireland, Wales beat
England, and Ireland beat Wales.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
announced a profit of £897 on the past yea ,
comparatively humble compared with past
seasons, though takings were £3745 m excess
of the previous year’s. Still, expenditure i<
been increased by £5150. It must b
accounted to the League for righteousness
that it has expended a lot of money on mai
taining out-of-work players m order to ketp
them in the metropolis with their clubs m
stead of chasing coaching jobs m the coun-
try, and that it intends to extend the policy
this season. Generally, the financial situa-
tion is satisfactory, bank cash standing a
£5708, an increase of £1743 compared with
that on December 31, 1931.
“Birkenhead Park” : It is not uncommon
for a Scottish schoolboy to figure in tin
Rugby internationals for his country, but l
is a'rare happening in the other Britn
sides. An exception is W. Wooller a -0-
year-old lad from Rydall school, who
appeared with success as centre tbm
quarter for Wales this season. Wooller is
also a cricketer of note, having scored o\
100 runs and taken more than 100 wicket
for Denbighshire last year.
Cambridge won the boat race from Oxford
in the slow’- time of 20mm. f)<see. r
41 miles from Putney to Mortiake finishing
easily with' two and a half lengths
good. The win was the more meritorious
since Luxton, last year’s stroke _
in this boat, dropped out through sudden iU
ness and was replaced by another v i <
Sambell. at the last moment. Thisi w tut
tenth successive win for the Light Blu , <
beats Oxford’s record of nine wans inaroj.
done twice, from 1861-69 and from IS.KK .


New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free
“ NOSCERE,”
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street., Melbourne,
10/6
C.l.
SAoatQjvajMik&tfiadn
&i(Pcuddjj^ r y4ikow^Su^w^
t f /// ///
//
/
/
//,/
, "///,:
//'■//
■ / /
/
/ / /
4
3S
//
/
vs
Whether shooting in the rain
with bando and sporting bag
exposed, or padding through
swamp with the chance of
your ammunition coming into
direct contact with water
itself, if you carry only “ Dux-
bac ” Cartridges you’ll find
that wet makes no difference.
The IMPROVED
"Duxbac”
WATERPROOF
Cartridges
are spoil-proof under the wettest con-
ditions, being treated by a new
scientific process that renders them
impervious to moisture, the water-
proofing being done after loading,
effectively sealing them against
damp or wet, yet combining “
ballistics that can always be
relied upon to give re-
sults unexcelled by
any other cartridge.
Obtainable From
AH Dealers
Throughout.
Australia
c
*
a
OBEV
%
360
Wet 'tookjes Sb-
TRUE BLUE AND BRITISH
• • •
e
è
The Unicorn is unique
. . . "He’s plus a little
something,” too ! . . .
The unicorn is 50% of the British Coat
of Arms, so he has the Empire Spirit. ..
And if you possess this Empire Spirit,
you’ll see that your car has it too —
you’ll fill your tank always with the
true blue British petfol . . .
m
PLUS WHAT ?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GUT
“C.O.R” Plus is a fine quality
motor spirit plus a special soluble
compound of lead which eliminates
“pinking” and meets the needs of
today’s higher-compression engines.
For your protection it is coloured
BLUE by the addition of a minute
quantity of perfectly harmless aniline
dye which cannot separate from the
petrol.
C 48/16/33
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Poolman, Street. Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3261. 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agents for South Australia and Queensland: :: ;; Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s annual strafe
for the A.I.F. Cup is down for decision in
Brisbane on April 29. Intending invaders
from other States are reminded that they
are eligible and that professionals and
amateurs may take part together without,
outraging the social proprieties as in some
other States.
❖ ❖ *
“T.T.”: A novel aid to finding golf balls
in the rough is seen on the Mackay (N.Q.)
links, where the sensitive plant flourishes.
When touched, the frond-like leaves of this
plant close together, and by carefully
approaching the spot where a ball dis-
appears it is often possible to get the line
of the missing pill from the plants over
which it has run and which have put up
the shutters in consequence.
* t- x *
“Hay, etc.”: Golfers along the Riverina
side have always been a turbulent lot. The
other day they informed the N.S.W. Golf
Council that they would see it in Booligal
before they adopted its system of par handi-
capping. The Riverina crowd is taking on
instead the system prevailing in Britain of
a fixed par on the playing value of the
courses, and in this it has the moral sup-
port of many leading Australian players,
as well as several other N.S.W. country golf
associations. It will also apply links han-
dicaps to clubs where value differing from
par is played, and will add two additional
strokes as their State handicap to sand-
green players handicapped to par when
playing on grass greens. The Golf Cohncil
has forbidden the change in vain and is
considering the matter of declaring the re-
calcitrants “black.”
* * * *
“Shirley”: Maoriland golfers are taking
very ill the request of their N.S.W. opposite
numbers that the battle for the Kirk-Win-
deyer Cup, which is due to take place in
Maoriland, be postponed to next season
because the Ma State cannot raise a strong
team. N.S.W. has the pot and a postpone-
ment by mutual agreement means it will
retain it until a later meeting. M.L.
opinion holds that as Ma is the defender she
should lose the cup on forfeit if she cannot
field a To ask the ALI Blacks to wait
until N.S.W. is able to muster its strongest
team is, as they see it in the Shivery Isles,
a mile over the odds.
* =l=
“Amateur Pro.”: The golfing pothunter
stopped a nasty one last wee£ when the
British golfing unions decided that in future
no player would be allowed to accept “testi-
monials” from business firms and manufac-
turers for holing out in one. The practice
is little known in Australia, but in Britain
and the Continent has developed into a
branch of business advertising, golf balls,
clubs, clothing, wines and spirits, fountain-
pens, cigars and cigarettes, etc., etc., being
showered on the fluker, and the presenta-
tions, of course, being given publicity. As a
result, club secretaries were often required
to sign certifying cards by the dozen for
the lucky flayer, they in their turn receiv-
ing a “testimonial” for their trouble. The
authorities might now go a bit further and
cut out the idiotic custom which sticks a
hole-in-one unfortunate for a round of drinks
for a whole - clubhouse full of people, half
of whom he doesn’t know by sight even.
* ' * * *
“Moorefield”: According to an English
journal, a Yorkshire golf professional has
devised a new variety of steel-shafted club.
He broke two steel clubs and, being like all
lykes, of frugal mind, welded two of the
halves together. The weld left a bulge in
the middle, the shaft being larger there than
at either end. To his surprise he found the
gadget had acquired all the whippiness of
first-class hickory, driving the average shot
-0 yards further. Of course, he is now
working overtime manufacturing the new
club, and the usual crowd of mugs is com-
ing at him for the gadgets like bees to a
brewery.
❖ * :j: *j*
“Carnoustie”: Of making many golf clubs
there is no end. One would have thought
that the numerous weird contraptions de-
signed from time to time by American
golfers and as regularly spurned by St.
Andrew’s would have been enough. But
there is still another, and strange to relate
St. Andrew’s has signified its approval
thereof. It is designed to make golf easier,
the which is a heresy in itself, and is a
wooden club with a face much deeper than
usual and with a sole perfectly flat instead
of rounded. It is claimed that this will
make “fluffing” practically impossible, but—
I dunno. It is wonderful what some of the
Old Contemptibles can achieve in that line.
Racquet and Bawl
“Claremont”: The Australian Davis Cup
team made a good showing in Perth on the
eve of their departure, Turnbull in parti-
cular impressing. The team’s first Davis
Cup match will be against Norway at Oslo,
beginning on May 13, and the South Africans
may be the next opposition. If that is sur-
mounted, the winner of the Japanese-
German match will be faced. This is a
crucial event, for Germany will probably be
the winner against Japan. Tilden considers
that Von Cramm and Prenn are the two
most improved players in Europe, and if
Crawford and co. can pass this double
hurdle there seems nothing to stop them
until the inter-zone final for the right to
challenge France, with the United States as
the almost certain adversary.
* * * *
: The Australian tennis-players
will definitely go on to America after the : r
European engagements are over, and will
kick oft in some of the eastern tournaments,
following with the American national
doubles and singles. They will then play
with H ay ,f C r? SS - the c ? nt inent in matches
with the Californian flayers, who will be
xl T av h om e from the American tour-
Xt n 1S hoped to take part in the
K Const championships in California.
Negotiations are centred on the amounts
tluo f lf °f nians are Wll hng to allow Aus-
tralia for tlie games on their way home. For
* ve - ars the Californians have developed
tins series of matches at Chicago, St. Louis
and Kansas City, and at present they are
boggling about cutting the gates with the
outianders.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: 0. B. Cochran, the
famous producer of theatrical enterprises and
pretty well everything else in the show line,
speaks ruefully in his recent book, “I Had
Almost Forgotten,” of his experiences among
the tennis-players. He started Suzanne
Lenglen off as a professional, and from the
tone of his comment on that “short but
stormy experience” he was glad to get out
of his venture. One surprise he experienced
was his failure to induce many amateurs of
note to turn professional, though his observa-
tions of their methods had led him to think
the transition would not be a violent one.
He found them unwilling to leave the good
wicket they were on, and he adds, “my
negotiations led me to believe that amateur
tennis was more remunerative than I had
imagined.”
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: “Wizard” Smith, who has
not been much heard of lately, appeared in
the limelight again with a new record run
from Brisbane to Sydney. The car was a
V 8 Ford, and the trip took 13 hours 38
minutes, which is 43 minutes better
than his own previous figures set up some
little time ago. But for a delay of 20
minutes, due to a broken petrol pipe, even
better time would have been done. The
distance is about 640 miles. At one stage
of the trip the car was timed with a chrono-
meter to do the mile in 40see. No casualties to
man or beast using the public highways other-
wise than in motor-cars have been recorded.
* * * *
“Whizz” : The news that Malcolm Camp-
bell is looking for a fresh course on which
to try for the 300 m.p.h. he is determined
to achieve has set half the world eagerly
advocating the merits of some piece of flat
land or sand or other. Among those who
are reaching for Campbell’s ear is Collector
in N.S.W., which rejoices in the suzerainty
or something of Lake George, a natural
curiosity which is sometimes a dampish frog
hollow and at others a dried mudflat. The
inhabitants of Collector have been taking
up collections to pay for cables to Campbell,
but so far that individual has proved as
dumb as Lake George itself. The Collec-
tors swear that their mudflat is the finest
thing of kind in. creation. Carpers
assert that it is inches deep in soft dust,
and that Campbell would have hard work
beating a traction-engine on it. The con-
troversy is now raging, and I propose to
let it rage.
* * 4> *
“Formula”: The good showing of the
English-built Gardner-Diesel car in the
Monte Carlo Rally definitely puts the crude-
oil engine on the motorist’s map, for the
midwinter test across Europe is un-
approached elsewhere in severity. The engine
is now in general use in Europe on motor-
lorries and other transport vehicles and in
a short time many makes of cars will mount
the Diesel power unit in one shape oi
another. Cheapness,. compared with petrol,
is only one item in the Diesel-principle
engine’s favor. Not only is the fuel far less
costly, but mileage is better, starting instant,
and acceleration superior. There are nc
fumes or heat in the car. and engine speed
is so low that engine life is longer than
in the case of a petrol unit.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: J. Pringle, of Victoria.
who will be Australia’s official representa-
tive in the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy
races for motor-cycles, is fortunate in being
able to join up with the Norton racing
team on the other side, for this will greatly
add to his opportunities of obtaining the
necessary machines and undergoing a sound
preparation. Last year he finished twelfth in
the senior race, averaging 71.48 m.p.h. on
the very tricky course, and the experience
should help him to do even better things in
the coming events.
Miscellaneous
“Grimalkin”; The first meeting of the
Australian Women’s Sports Union in Mel-
bourne saw Queensland. N.S.W.. Victoria
and South Australia strip for action. Vic-
toria and Ma tied for first place on wins,
but placings gave the elder State a narrow
victory. The meeting will be held every two
years. Brisbane will see it in 1935, Sydney
in 1937 and South Australia in 1939. All
Australian records for the flappers prior to
this meeting have been wiped out on the
casting vote of the president. New South
and Bananaland voting against the motion.
The union is to affiliate with Le Federation
Sportive Feminine Internationale. “Spor-
tive” has a distinctly saucy flavor.
sf- - * * *
“Splash” ; From Cairns in North Queens-
land comes news of a youth who seems to
have overlooked the fact that in the tropi-
cal zones the white man degenerates into
a feeble lizard as a preliminary to passing
in his cheques as a result of the deadly and
enervating climate. H'e is W. Fleming, who,
at the Far North swimming championships
recently, carried off the 100. 220, 440 and
880 yards ehampionliips. His time for the
100 was a local record, having only been
beaten by the Hawaiian Kalili, who was
recently with us. and is one of the world’s
fastest water sprinters—and also a product
of the tropics, by the way.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The annual battle between
the N.S.W. Great Public School crews for
the Head of the River title comes off this
month, the heats being down for April 26
and the finals for the following Saturday.
As usual, the race will be rowed on the
Parramatta. The crews are already in their
training quarters and well on in their pre-
paration. Last year’s race was won by St.
Joseph’s. There is added interest this year,
since three of the crews have taken up the
revolutionary Fairbairn style which the suc-
cess of Cambridge University has advertised
so widely in recent races with Oxford. The
adopters of the new style are Scots, King’s
and Grammar.
* V * .j.
Mark VI”: Military rifle shooting gets
nothing like the press publicity accorded the
gatherings of the civilian rifle clubs, but since
it is conducted as far as possible under active
service conditions and with the military rifle
is of a good deal more practical importance.
This year’s shoot for the King’s Medal at
Williamstown (Vic.) was won by Warrant-
Officer Shearim, whose total in tiie four sec-
tions was 162 out of a possible 200. As
three of the sections comprise shooting on
the move from 600 to 1000 yards, rapid fire
at 300 yards and snap-shooting at 300, this
is good going. Shearim hails from N.S.W.
and this is his third win in the event.


The Australian Art
Exhibition
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY
252 George Street, Sydney.
Visitors to Sydney are advised to
visit the Macleod Gallery and inspect
the exhibition of work by all leading
Australian artists.
New works by Hans Heysen, Will
Ashton, Norman Lindsay, Robert
Johnson, Dora Wilson and many other
prominent artists have recently been
added.
ADMISSION FREE.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
è
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FREDK. LEVY,
Managing Director.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
<«rip Lodge Ritual, etc.
8001-let Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitieia,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Amusements.
j. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THEO. SHALL in
THE COMMAND TO LOVE.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE MIDDLE WATCH.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d -
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
One of the best-dressed shows 9!’ the week
was the reception to 100 distinguished
women staged by the Feminists at the Wen
worth. It looked as though everyone who
had had cash or credit had gone out and
bought for herself one of those devastatingly
graceful and sparkling affairs that are the
latest in frocks. Miss Preston Stanley
in her welcoming words demonstrated clearly
that there is nothing fearsome about a
Feminist. Mrs. B. S. B. Stevens, wife .of
the Premier (she came under the i üblic
Affairs heading), spoke on behalf of the
invited, and Gladys Moncrieff, in hly-of-the-
valley greens, slipped from her seat above
the salt and sang, the melody of “Love Will
Find a Way” lingering in the memory all
the evening. Of course, there were lots ot
speakers, among the Feminists apd among
the guests, and all threaded their remarks
with humor.
The Historical Pageant Ball at David
Jones’s was a notable feature of Sydneys
Festival Week. From the auditorium, along
the narrow gallery, down the winding stairs
on to the wide platform in front of the
lift paced the long procession of Australia’s
pion,eers. A pause. At the foot of the
half-dozen steps leading into the ballroom,
Chief Justice Philip Street took the salute:
Down the aisle, on to the dais at the other
end of the room, to group themselves in
front of a large gilt frame, came Dampier,
Captain Cook, Da Perouse, Governor Phillip*
Governor Bligh, Margaret Catchpolc, W. C.
Wentworth, Gregory Bl'axland, the Collett s
Inn set, Mrs. Caroline Chisholm, Judge
Advocate Collins and others too numerous to
mention —in naval uniform, in military dress,
in besprigged muslins, in wigs and in crino-
lines, in bustled dresses; with cocked bats,
with swords and gold braid, in knee-breeches
and buckled shoes —in fact, in all the allur-
ing trappings of old-world fashions. The
Uni. set, in caps and gowns, and Nellie
Melba (Marguerite) formed a colorful back-
ground, the while looking with grave decorum
on the minuet danced by Rose Massey’s
pupils.
In spite of the weather crowds found
themselves on Saturday at the Quambi fete,
which was opened by Lady Game. In the
beautiful grounds of the Kelso Kings flags
flew and gaily-colored bunting wrns fes-
tooned between trees. The cockatoo who
whistled “God Save” for a coin attracted
small boy as well, as small boy’s father,
while mother gazed appreciatively on the
turnips and carrots and greens with which
Mrs. E. C. Riddle’s stall was stacked. The
takings go to the Church of England migra-
tion scheme.
The past glories of Burdekin House were
retold at a dinner given to Mr. T. E. Rofe
on Friday, the night on which the ownership
passed from him to the trustees of St.
Stephen’s. The dinner was organised by
Mr. and Mrs. W. Epps in appreciation of
Mr. Rofe’s generosity to the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital ; Mrs. W. Arnott, who is
a member of the auxiliary’s council, and
Mr. E. D. Gray, one of the vice-presidents,
added their quota to the chorus of eulogy.
Mrs. Rofe also came in for her meed of
praise, Mrs. A. J. Reynolds and Miss Y r .
Ormiston being the most prominent speakers.
In the cellars of Burdekin House there
are row after row of shelves each with the
name of the spa water or wine which found
on it a resting place. And it is told that
a book was once discovered, a volume as big
as a merchant's ledger, in which was recorded
neatly the household’s expenditure, so that
even'in the days of the Burdekin splendor
there was a budget to be balanced. The old
key and lock of the front door are being pre-
sented to the Historical Society, but the
knocker will still gladden the eyes and fill
the breasts of visitors to the manse with
envy.
Sydney was shocked at the news that
H'ugh and Katherine Mcllrath were
amongst those killed when the City of Liver-
pool crashed in Belgium; widespread sym-
pathy is felt for Mr. and Mrs. Mcllrath, of
Mcllraths, Ltd. Katherine, who was only
18, had just finished her education at Chel-
tenham College, and H'ugh, an old Shore boy,
three years older than his sister, had gone
to bring her home after a tour of the .Con-
tinent. The 'desire for an extra day in
London led them at a minute’s notice to
change their plans—and tragedy followed.
Three weeks ago Margaret Honey and
visiting economist Harry Hodson met. They
became engaged on Sunday night week in
Sydney; the following Tuesday they were
married in Brisbane; to-day they are almost
at Macassar on their way to England. Mar-
garet, who is very fair, is the daughter ot
Mrs. Byron Beans, of Darling Point; tor her
wedding she wore a frock of Chanel-pm ’
fiamisol. The bodice, which had crystal
buttons down the centre-front, was one o
those long-waisted, swathed affairs that give
an almost jumper effect; she wore a litt; e
hat of the same material as the dress, ana s e
carried a bouquet of frangipanni, tuberos
and pink carnations. Dr. T. 1 . I ry, who. was
at Balliol College, Oxford, with the bride-
groom, was best man. Mr. Hodson, son o
Professor Hodson, of Cambridge University,
is sub-editor of the “Round lable.
There was so much excitement at Cen-
tral Station that no one noticed Margaret
had boarded the wrong train till Jean cnen-
ton saw the Brisbane express steam out. -
friend came to the rescue with his car ; n
a pity the camera men weren’t there to pic-
ture the race that followed. Would the ca
get to Hornsby in time to catch the express.
It just did, and Margaret bundled m some-
thing like a movie heroine whose one hope
to circumvent the villain is to jump on a
train running at umpteen miles an lioui. .
That Mrs. Jessica Dee is blessed with
many friends was shown by the crowdec
rooms of the Berkeley Club last week, when
Mrs. Lee, who is to marry Vito baritone
this month and go to England, was presented
with a cheque, while a table piled high wit
beauty proved that her great love for flowers
had not been forgotten. Many of these i
addition to letters and telegrams, had been
sent by friends unable to be present. _ Di.
Mary Booth, who had been closely associated
with Mrs. Lee in war worls, said 311 st the
right things in her own inimitable way.
On Monday night the Governor-General
will open the three-day conference of the
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. I ro-
fessor Gordon Bell, of Otago University, will
deliver the oration in memory of knight
George Syme, the first president. nil
academic dress will be worn, and as wives
are invited to this session the _ Con. should
present a colorful scene. Clinical reseaich
at the different hospitals will take up the
next three days.
It was decided at a meeting at Govern-
ment House that the loan Exhibition ot
Antiques in aid of the Kindergarten Union
should be held in Dymock’s Building from
June 20 to July 20, and the organisers were
wished “the awfullest luck ever ye kent
by Lady Game, a wish that will he echoed
by all, for no cause could be more worthy.
Dorothy Welding pictures here Mrs. O. E.
Phillips, who
a s president
of the ladies’
committee is
taking a keen
interest in the
Military Ball,
which will be
held at David
Jones’s on
Saturd a y.
Mrs. Phillips
is the wife of
the new Base
Commanda n t.
Before s u c-
ceeding Brig.-
Gen. Heritage
at Victoria
B a r r a c k s,
B r i g. - G e n.
Phillips was
Senior Staff
Officer of the
Quarter-
master-General’s Branch at Army Head-
quarters, Melbourne.
At Mark Foy’s Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott judged the Beauty Eyes competi-
tion. Magic-making Dante, whose interest
in Dalwood and its subsidiaries is steadily
growing, arrived at midnight after his show
at the Royal. A “Dad and Daughter” dance .
came on later still. Important people here
were the Lud Mayoral Hagons, Mrs. flagon’s
black laces enhanced by the basket of pink
roses presented by Matron Kirwan.
The Younger Set of the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital was responsible for the
Floral Festival Ball which ushered in Festi-
val Week. It was held at the Wentworth
on Saturday, and hither came the Governor
and Lady Game, attended by Captain Camp-
bell. The April frolic at Mark Foy’s for
the Community Hospital was organised by
a group of Sydney business men. At the
former the State finalists in the Goddess of
the Air competition were introduced to the
public. A large basket of gladioli and palely -
pink dahlias and trails of mignonette cap-
tured the first prize in the competition for
the most artistically decorated table, the
second going to a table arched diagonally
' with red roses.
Rosemary Rees, whose ninth novel has
just appeared, is to break into another line
Of writing. ■ When her publishers (Chap-
man and Hall) learned that she was Return-
ing to her native land they instructed her
to gather material for a travel volume,
which will be ready for Christmas. The
versatile lady has been actress as well as
novelist. She made one essay in the talkies
in ’Murka, but remains unresponsive to their
allurements. . .
If you want to grow slim, get a job in a
talkie studio. Here, under the glare of arc
lamps, perspiration streams down the backs
of operators and actors alike. W hy the spot-
light men, away up on their little platforms,
don’t wear shorts is a mystery. At the
shooting of the ballroom scene m me
Squatter’s Daughter,” the girls in their even-
ing frocks liad the best of it and the less
back to the dress the happier the wearer.
The men tucked towels or handkerchiels
into their collars, and the writer had a hm-j
rible moment when she thought a man had
forgotten to take his out. However, the shot
was not being made ; it was only a sort ot
preliminary canter. No matter how hot you
are. you must exercise restraint. “Mop your
face gently, don’t wipe it,” Dorothy Dunck-
ley is heard beseeching the men. Dorothy
is not only taking a part, but has the re-
sponsibility of making up both men and
women. The camera, which is mounted on
a trolley, is pushed by assistants and fol-
lows in the wake of the actor or scene that
is to be shot, as if it were some horrible
monster. Wonderful patience is shown by
director Ken Hall, by Captain Hurley
(who is at the camera for this picture) and
by the spotlight men. Over and over again
the same movements and the same dialogue
until a perfect film is made.
This girl with the vivid face is Eva Kuraz,
the elder daughter of I)r. Rudolph Kuraz and
Mrs. Ivuraz,
Czecho - S 1 o-
vakia’s Con-
sular couple.
Eva lias a dis-
tin c t talent
for acting, and
has appeared
in various
amateur per-
formances,
notably in
“Two f r o m
One,” a quick
comedy staged
by the Inde-
pendents last
year, when
her impersona-
tion of the
tender cling-
ing-vine type
of wife was
out standing.
Photo from
Rene Pardon.
About 200 of our dusky brothers and
sisters bad a ball, of their own at Armidaie
recently The belles all wore evening dress,
main of the frocks being backless : the dance,
which took * place at the Wintergarden,
started at 7.15 and ended &t 5 o clock the
next morning. Every girl asked was ex-
pected to dance; if she refused one partner
she had to sit out. And in the back veran-
dah were parked tlm little piccaninnies
whose parents were busily engaged in a fox-
trot within. It was all so jolly that the
owner H. F. L’Amie, has promised the
colored folk the free use of his hall once a
year. Mrs. Smith, her brother and her
niece arranged the affair.
Everything points to the success of the
Handicrafts and Home Industries exhibition
which will be opened at the ‘‘Sun Building
by the Isaacs lady on April 18. This is being
.organised by the Country Womens Asso-
ciation with the object of showing outback
sister how to help herself. Every Monday
afternoon the organising committee meet, for
four hours’ discussion, so that there is hardly
a detail that hasn’t already been consid-
ered. Nearly every country newspaper is
backing the effort, and helpful suggestions
are coming from the most remote parts.
Mrs. C. Simms, from Naretha quarry,
called in to see The Bulletin the other day.
Naretha is 846 miles from Port. Augusta, on
the East-West railway, which is being bal-
lasted, but. in spite of the heat which en-
compasses it by day, the people at Naretha
sleep deep, for all night long the cool breeze
rushes over at something like 60 miles an
hour from the Bight. There are trees at
Naretha, and green vegetables; the latter
through ’the patience and industry of one
of the workers. Tomatoes, radishes, lettuce
and cabbage grow in the desert under his
careful eye. The bath water, everybody’s
bath water, is run into a sunken tank in
the middle of his plot. He soaks the garden
night and morning and protects his plants
from the too-hot. sun. And there are no
slugs at Naretha! Ants there are by the
million, but no mosquitoes.
How would the Sydney housekeeper like
visitors to morning tea if it was at six
o’clock? That’s the rule in Naretha, for
there’s nearly always somebody to drop off
the train from the East, so the kettle is
always boiling on the myall fire which has
a scent suggestive of sandalwood, only more
delicate. Twice a week at Naretha the
housekeeper gets her stores, tea and sugar,
meat and fruit, everything. The stores come
by train, and the whole population turns
out, sometimes with wheelbarrows, to bring
home the supplies. The meat is of the best
quality and is killed on the train. You
keep stores cool in a Coolgardie safe, or in
a box in a hole in the ground; coffee and
cool drinks have almost the temperature of
being straight off the ice if you decant them
from water-bags. Naretha, in short, is just
another example of the ingenuity and the
instinct for home-making which most Aus-
tralian women possess.
If you turn off the main road to Barren-
joey at Dee Why and travel for a couple of
miles in the direction of Narrabeen Dake
you will come upon an interesting manifes-
tation of the immemorial sympathy that
exists between religion and the soil. A year
ago a considerable tract in the fertile little
valley that lies below Elanora Heights was
uncultivated. The authorities of St. Mat-
thew’s in Manly decided to take it in hand
and train Anglican boys there in farm Avork.
The youngsters have transformed what was
previously bush and swamp into a little
paradise. The whole area has been fenced.
The big community house in which the
toilers meet for meals and recreation is stir
rounded by flowerbeds and approached by
elaborate paths and rustic bridges, and all
kinds of agricultural products ar,e on sale.
Imagination boggles at the thought of what
the place will look like in another year. Give
a well-organised church suitable territory,
and it will do things to the land that are
calculated to make the neighbors gasp with
envy. Its workers develop a sort of mis-
sionising spirit, and that gets results in any
walk of life.
There are berets and turbans of ermin-
ette to be worn with scarves of the same
snow-white fabric, and these allied to black
frocks and bright complexions (the latter
purchasable everywhere in all wanted
shades) will be devastating. One jaunty
sailor, its brim of black velvet, its crown
(if white, is not unlike those Avorn by
giddy yachtsmen of the ’nineties. Another
sailor was in black matelasse, its croAvn
swathed Avith burgundy and its centre-front
stabbed Avith a steel ornament that looks
like a little spring Avhose coils are slack.
Vinia de Loitte (Mrs. Howard Vernon)
writes from Her Majesty’s Theatre, Perth:
Just received a letter from a man ’xvay up at
Mackav (Q.), asking for one of my G. and S. book-
lets ; lie had “only just read of it in The Bulletin.”
A most interesting letter for me, for he had seen
Howard Vernon in Calcutta before 1870 and quoted
his parts and the names of other players.
From her letter, the Gilbert and Sullivan
company is having a marvellous time, what
with packed houses and hospitality. Tint
Grand Mogul of the “West Australian” (C.
R. Smith) entertained the company at
the paper’s new office —“searchlights from
the roof aided by a glorious moon. An ex-
quisite panorama of Swan River, and a
charming host.”
Saw this effort of a small boy friend the
other day:—
If I was a father I would have four boys and
they would have the dinner ready Avhen I got
home from work.
If I was a father my trade would be a chemist
and when my boys grew big I would take them
into the shop and learn them to be chemists.
I would take them to the pictures.
I think I would make an enjoyable husband.
Queensland’s quantum :
Marie Boyd’s marriage to J. P. Blaikie AVebster
will take place in London this week. She is the
widowed daughter of the James Loves, of Brisbane.
Doris Dickson, daughter of the late J. D. Dickson,
Clermont, and of Mrs. Dickson, Ascot, is marrying
Kelvin, son of the J. W. Laheys, Clayfield, on
April 20. .
Nell Douglas Graham had a big audience, includ-
ing the C.J. and his lady, for her presentation of
“Berkeley Square” in the Cremorne. The costuming
was excellent. Mary Kessell, as Kate Pettigiew,
wore bouffant old rose satin, set off by gold lace,
powder and patches; Marjorie Mant, as Helen,
was in sky blue; Mrs. P. J. Symes, as Lady Anne,
was in brown and gold and later in purple and
gold; Sybil Smith played the Duchess of Devon-
shire in panniered rose taffetas. AY alter Pym \\a=
excellent as Peter Standish; Wilfred Spargo, Roy
Bulcock, Neville Shaw, Lawrence Johnson, John
Hunter, George Page and Moya Connolly were otheis
in the cast. . ■
Rupert Wickham Flower married Olga Barnes in
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church. The biide entered
on the arm of her uncle, John Mowbray, and was
given awav by her mother. She wore ivory angel-
skin lace "and matte velvet. Initia Burns ’maided
in amber flat crepe with ostrich featherings. The
reception was at Kirkston.
Mrs, H. Bonney has been awarded the Gant as
prize for the outstanding feat by a pilot in 1932.
Charles Dearden is just back from a ne j*rb
three years’ tour with Edward Branscombe s Glee
Singers. In Africa Branscombe died suddenly and
Charles took over the company. He is the only son
of the late Kathleen Watson, a sometime Bulletin
scribe- his sister married a son of Admiral Cress-
well. ’He is running Eddie Cahill’s farewell concert
at the Cremorne.
An “Aboriginal Evening” arranged by Ashton
Murphy was held by the Authors and Artists
Association in the Women’s Club J. AY Bleakle.x,
Chief Protector of Aborigines, emphasised the dramatic
power of the aborigine in arranging his corroborees
and ceremonial rituals. Ashton Murphys paper
dealt with the aborigines of the Dawson; Janies
Devanney, author of “The Vanishing Tribes, told
of the black man in literature and characterised
Brunton Stephens’s poem “To a Black Gin as a
W H Crowther married Meta Hooper in St.
Luke’s, Toowoomba. The bride, xvho was given
awav bv her father, wore a magnolia gown with
Irish lace yoke and flared velvet cape with
Brussels lace veil and Irish lace cap. Misses Lo.na
and P. Hooper ’maided in sunset pink chiffo ai .
wide-brimmed hats. ; , R
Another Toowoomba wedding was that of Ben.
Brown and Dulcie Boys at All Saints’, Ann-street,
Brisbane The bride’s uncle gave her away , she wene
parchment voile with a picture hat trimmed with a
knot of roses under the brim. Joyce Morgan m
apricot marquisette, and Marjorie Leichney ’ *
o-reen ’maided. The reception was at Lennon.,
where Mrs. Boys received in mastic georgette and
al 'Brought 1 from S'tanthorpe to Brisbane by air,
Edwin Pike died at his Ascot home weekl He
was o-overning director of Pike Bros., G
street Born in 1860 in Wiltshire, England, he
came to Australia in 1883 bent pastoral pursuit,
but started his city white
member of thecal Queensland Golf Club.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
J-I
ils
lo
m
w
SNv
a«s
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE DV THE FRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
etat means
•STATE vu
OWNED BV THE
STATE OF FRANCE
TSe of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, ts
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR. THIS
IN MIND
Rshe following statement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not| is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
I complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the .corld.
insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes
Sole Agents for Australia : MAURICE PELL E'f IER, 16 Bridge Street,
Sydney, iS.S.W.
STATE
Distributors
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Cureier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. 1 Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND;
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
Prof. W. E. Agar and liis wife gave a
party at which Poultney Bigelow and Irina
Eristoff were guests of honor. Mrs. Agar
wore dull black satin, and her daughter
Elizabeth, a recent debutante, had sash ends
in two shades of pink falling over her ivory
lace frock. Miss Eristoff wore vellum-
tinted satin, with a waistbelt of Hindoo red
and sandals matching. Among the guests
were the Barrett and Raws knights and
their ladies and Prof, and Mrs. Ernest
Scott.
James Barrett and his lady entertained
Poultney Bigelow and Miss Eristoff, roping
in members of the combined Empire
Societies and other friends to make the tra-
vellers’ acquaintance. Palmyra, the Toorak
home of the Barretts, is possessed of a gar-
den which is a sanctuary for native birds
and beasts, and it harbors some tame mar-
supials which greatly interest visitors from
overseas. The hostess wore a gown of ruby
red with a black ostrich feather boa and
shiny black straw toque. Cara Barrett was
in beige georgette and lace, with a matching
hat. Miss Eristoff wore a frock that blended
brown and nasturtium red, with a felt hat
of nigger-brown tint.
Irina Eristoff was guest of honor at a
dance at the home of Mrs. W. Mortill. who
is of Russian birth. The youthful visitor
came in draperies of deep ivory satin, and
the hostess was in pale-green flat crepe with
sparkling trimming. Among the guests
were painter George Bell and his wife,
Jessie Brookes and some members of the
Seyler-llannen Co.
Irina Eristoff and her grand-uncle, Poult-
ney Bigelow, made their last appearance
socially in Melbourne at an E.S.TJ. gather-
ing on Friday afternoon —they propose to set
sail for Germany. Prof. Osborne welcomed
the visitors, and Mr. Bigelow gave an
address on the English language.
Mrs. Montague Cohen gave a dance at
Grosvenor, Toorak, in honor of her grand-
daughter Barbara, who is to undertake a
course of post-graduate study at Cambridge.
The hostess wore draperies of filmy black
lace ; and Miss Cohen’s frock was dahlia-red
flat crepe. Mrs. Harold Cohen, Barbara’s
mother, chose a gown of russet-hued crepe
romaine.
As president of the Yarra Yarra Golf
Club associates Mrs. Clarence Marriott,
wearing a tailored suit of prune-hue and
matching velvet toque, extended hospitality
at the links to about 250 associates and
their friends. The hostess gave handsome
prizes for foursomes and a putting com-
petition.
The Edgar Rouses had a late tea-gather-
ing at their Toorak home to offer congratu-
lations to Audrey Hordern and her fiance,
William, only son of the John Winter Irv-
ings, of Nagambie. Miss Hordern, who is
second daughter of knight Samuel Hordern
and his lady, of Darling Point, Sydney,
is very often in Melbourne. She wore to
the party a frock of deep petunia pink with
a matching toque cap, and her hostess was
in pale green.
Two Phillip Island families were united
by the knot-tying at St. John’s kirk of
Molly, younger daughter of the W. E.
Thompsons, of Cowes, and Lawrence, son of
Mrs. I. B. Dixon, of Ventnor. Ivory Chan-
tilly lace, with a veil of tulle, was worn by
the bride, and her ’maid was clad in powder-
blue georgette.
Mrs. A. Warren Clarke put on the billy
at the Alexandra Club to welcome home her
sister, Mrs. R. L. Chirnside, back in Mel-
bourne after about eight years’ absence.
Both _ hostess and guest of honor favored
magpie blends in their attire, and Alison
Clarke also mixed black and white in her
frock.
Phil Finkelstein, of the Firm, and his
wife, who sported a gracefully-draped frock
of citron-green hue, gave a party at their
Toorak home to celebrate their daughter
Peggy’s birthday, with dancing at the Rex
afterwards. The maiden looked charming
in violet-hued crepe.
The Returned Soldiers’ League has pre-
sented to Mrs. Alfred Deakin its certificate
of merit as acknowledgment of the interest
she has taken in soldiers and their depen-
dants. During the Great War she conducted
the Anzac Buffet in St. Kilda-road.
The International Club, an offshoot of the
Bureau of Social and International Affairs,
had an official launching on Thursday. The
Isaacs 1 dy, who gave the new organisation
a push-off, wore a skirt of black satin and
a bodice of white georgette embroidered in
black; her hat was of black velvet and she
sported a necklet of ermine. Speeches were
made by Mrs. Herbert Brookes, I. H. Moss
and Dr. Georgina Sweet, and in the gather-
ing were the Moore lady, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, Mrs. W. Mortill, Mrs. F. W.
Eggleston, Mrs. E. L. Iviernan and Mrs.
Arthur Norman. A string quartette from the
Uni. Con. provided music.
Works Minister Jones told a Henry
George League luncheon gathering which
assembled to welcome Poultney Bigelow
that, wearing the uniform of a butcher’s boy
and carrying a meat-tray, he once met Henry
George in Spring-street, Melbourne. Hav-
ing read “Progress and Poverty,” he could
not resist stopping the economist and speak-
ing to him. He cherished his boyish impres-
sion of a charming personality.
Curiosity which many people have felt
regarding the ownership of the site on which
stands the venerable Theatre Royal in
Bourke-street was gratified last week when
the terms of the will of Michael Murphy
formerly a captain in the East Yorkshire
Regiment, became known. Although he
lived abroad and made the Army and Navy
Club, London, his headquarters, he declared
in his last testament that Australia was
ms domicile. His Melbourne real estate
included the theatre site and Cornwall
House, Collins-street, set down as of the
gross aggregate value of £56.100. The in-
come from the property is to go to a sister,
nieces and nephews. Two nephews, W. St.
L. Robertson, of South Yarra, and J. E.
Robertson, of Queenscliff, are executors.
The shops 'are featuring large pochettes
of velvet or fur, generally with a zip fast-
ener, and decorated in one corner with a
quaint metal buckle or steel buttons' First
in favor are pure white bags in material
like a stamped velvet or the imitation fur
cloth known as erminette. Prices range
from 12s. 6d. up. You can have a necklet
or a fanciful stole to patch the bag if you
buy in a shop that intelligently considers
its customers’ fancies.
Customs Minister White launched the
show of Eileen Dent’s oils and water-colors
at the Athenaeum Gallery. Mrs. White, who
accompanied her husband, was a symphony
in brown velvet gown and millinery. Miss
Dent wore a figured silk frock and a black
hat.
‘ The Business and Professional Women’s
< tub has suggested to the Centenary Cele-
brations Committee that Sydney-road" should
be reconstructed and beautified and rebap-
tised the Road of the Pioneers. Also that
attempts should be made to gather records
of the achievements of women pioneers.
After a meeting at which these matters were
discussed, Mrs. Vance Palmer gave a chat
about her experiences on Green Island, in
the Barrier Reef region, where she and * her
husband recently spent seven months.
The dressing in “The Middle Watch” is
remarkable chiefly for the extraordinary
mixture of colors worn by Miss Seyler as
the gay Mary Carlton. To a red-and-white
figured silk frock she adds a toque of dahlia
shade with deep rose-colored trimming, and
waves a chiffon handkerchief of pale salmon
tint, She looks impudent and alluring in
striped cream-and-pink pyjamas. Charlotte
b ranees, who is Fay Eaton, the other maiden
responsible for unusual happenings in the
navy, is in a party frock of pale green eyelet
embroidered organdie with a dashing little
hat of the same sliade perched at a cute
angle.
In the first-night, audience were the Robert
Rests and their daughters Margot and
Helene, the Frank Taits, Mr. and Mrs Mer-
son Cooper, the R. Marshalls, Dr. Garnet
Deary, who brought his daughters Helen and
I at, Mr. and Mrs. Alan Russell, Mrs. Hew-
left and Mrs. Fred Theil.
Mrs. Lionel Popham, widow of Russell
Coldham, of Ballarat, is on a visit here
from London. She married last year Colonel
Popham, who is likely to join her here
shortly. They will return to England next
month..
The Proscenium Club gave a performance
of ‘ Under Cover,” a comedy-drama by R. C.
Megrue, at the Bijou, in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, with very satisfactory financial
results.
Elsie Woolley; the songbird from Adel-
aide. who is to accompany tli e Australian
Imperial Choir abroad, has been engaged to
sing - the contralto solos in the Philharmonic
Society’s performance of “Elijah.” Miss
\Y oolley has been* referred to by Alfred Hill
as “the, girl with the golden voice,” and has
won prizes in South-street and at Bendigo.
She has also appeared on the Melbourne
stage in opera.
This is a reproduction of Aileen Dent’s
portrait of Mrs. R. K. MaClvenzie, now on
show with
many other
pi c tures by
the same
painter at
the Athenaeum
Gallery. Mrs.
Mackenzie
hails from the
City of the
Bridge, and is
a graduate of
Sydney Uni.
As secretary
of the hos-
pitality com-
mittee of the
Women Gradu-
ates’ Associa-
tion of Vic-
toria she looks
after the en-
tertaining of
collegiate visi-
tors to the
State. She is also an active membet of the
League of Nations Union.
After a stay in Melbourne of oVer a year
Mrs. Robert Burt, who has been the guest
of Mrs. 11. .Underwood at Williamstown, i.s
packing to return to England. She said
farewell to her friends at a bridge gathering
at the Wentworth.
The Oswald Symes and their daughters
Nancy and Margaret are booked for foreign
travel. Her sister, Lucy Rowe, in a beige
ensemble gave a farewell tea to Mrs. Syme
at the Lyceum Club. The prospective tra-
veller wore black and white.
Students of politics, skirted and unskirted,
have sat up and taken notice of a resolution
agreed to by the women’s section of the
United Rural party, which foregathered at
St. Arnaud last week, that “members of
Parliament should have qualifications for
service.” Politicians already in the legis-
lative ring are, for the most part, con-
vinced, of course, that they have qualifica-
tions, but even they must feel disconcerted
at the tests the conference, which was led
on the question by a Ballarat delegate, pre-
scribed for application. M.’sP. are “to give
proof that they have been engaged in some
worthy calling, profession, or industry:
private enterprise or community service, and
have shown some executive ability in the
discharge of such pursuits.” What is to
become of brass and push, not to mention
sliding panels?
During her short visit to the city the
Isaacs lady paid a visit to the Sunshine Shop
and made several purchases. This venture,
organised by Mrs. Norman Brookes for the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, made a profit of about £5OO during
eight days of trading.
Greta Bremner, a sister of Marie, of Gil-
sullivan fame, left for foreign travel on
Saturday. She is accompanying Commander
and Mrs. William Bremner on their return
to England from Maoriland, where the Com-
mander has been naval intelligence officer
for the last three years.
Sailed for London last week, Gwendolyne
James, sister of authoress Winifred James,
now residing in England. Miss G. James
has been visiting another sister, Mrs. Skews,
of Warragul.
A trio of women graduates have booked
passages in the Orsova —Miss F. Cederholm,
B.Sc.; Ethelyn O’Dwyer, who has qualified
as a lawyer; and Nell Edeson, who is an
architect.
Vera de Bavay, pictured here by a
Dickinson-Monteath camera, is getting her
t rousseau
ready to sail
for London
towards tli e
end of (lie
month, there
to become
Mr s. Jo h n
Higgs. Miss
de Bavay, who
recently re-
turned from
foreign travel,
has been
i n t e r e s ting
herself in St.
Vincent’s Hos-
pital’s appeal
for funds and
was president
of a commit-
tee of women
which eng i-
n e e.r e d a
highly-succcss-
bridge party for the cause at Buckley and
Nunn’s.
A boom in Australian concert artists is
promised this year. On April 22 Dorothy
Canberra, who has been draining the critics
of superlatives in England and Paris, will
.sing at Melbourne Auditorium. She is a
daughter of Rev. T. J. Thomas, of Caulfield.
On April 29 Adelaide’s boy pianist, Philip
Hargrave, will agitate the keyboard at the
same locality. Peter Dawson and Percy
Grainger are to follow.
A line from Adelaide: —
A committee of Germans resident in Adelaide,
co-opting Dr. Herbert Basedow as president, organised
a dailce held at the Palais Royal to mark the visit
of the German cruiser. German waltzes were a
feature. About 300 people were present, 60 of them
being officers from the Koln. Mrs. Basedow wore a
smart frock of pale pink satin.
The commander, officers, and cadets of the Kdln
gave an at-home on the cruiser that lasted from
4.30 to 8 p.m. There was dancing on both decks.
Afternoon tea was served at small tables in cabaret
style.
At the meeting of the Port Adelaide Racing Club
at Cheltenham, there w“as as much chiffon as wool
worn. Dr. A. V. Benson (chairman) and his wife
entertained guests at afternoon tea. Mrs. Benson
wore a brown tweed tailor-made, with a brown
straw hat and an ermine stole. Everyone missed
the familiar figure of Dr. A. F. Lynch, a member
of the committee, who had passed away since the
previous meeting.
“Waltzes of Vienna.” was accorded a great recep-
tion, Adelaide having had nothing in the theatrical
line for many months. Lieut.-Governor George
Murray was present with his sister. On the second
night the commander and officers of the Koln were
the guests of the J. C. Williamson management.
The Symon lady opened the garden fete held at
Attunga, the residence of Mr. 0. von Rieben,
organised by the Young Australia League in aid
of the Children’s Hospital. There was dancing in
the evening, a special floor having been laid on
the lawn and the garden lighted with Chinese
lanterns.
Great interest was shown in the glass painting
by Frederic Nagel on the first; day of his exhibition
held in the Argonaut Gallery. The Sowden lady,
smart in a black frock and toque, opened the show.
A word from Westralia:—
Jessie Mcares and Bob Sturkey had a hustle-up
cable which gave them only four days to get them-
selves married, packed up and off on the first stage
of the journey to New Guinea, in which tropical
country they will have their first home. There
was no time for the usual parties, but Jessie invited
a multitude of friends to an evening of hectic bridge.
Joy Lathlain and Mollie Lloyd ’maided at the
wedding. Mrs. J. G. Meares held a small reception
at the Ivarrakatta Club, after which there was a
storm of confetti at the train. The bridegroom is
Bob Sturkey, son of Mrs. de Moullin, and engineering
is his profession. •
Gertrude Margaret, youngest daughter of tt\
Wilford Mitchell couple, wears a. sparklet upon her
finger, the gift of Harry, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. 0. Chandler. Esme Higgins is also newly-
affiaticed. Frederick Kenneth Hosking is the man
who has pegged a claim upon her heart and hand.
Dust whirled in the wake of the Prime Minister
and Mrs. Lyons as they dashed about between
receptions, rallies, meetings and meals given in their
honor. At the mayoral reception in the packed-
to-the-roof Regent Theatre on the morning of their
arrival, Mrs. Lyons wore wine-red wool crepe and
furs out of respect for the sudden cold snap. Mrs.
Sinclair, who accompanied her, was in red and
white with navy headgear.
Winnie Hinde, who lectures undergrads in French,
has given her promise to a Frenchman, M. Levy, of
Louis Dreyfus and Co. Winnie sails off in April
for London, where bells will ring soon after her
arrival. Towards the end of the year the couple
will return to this country and domicile in Sydney.
After being the leading lady at many young
things’ parties, Edna Cockram embarked this
week for a holiday in the Foggy Land.
Through Speck specs:—
Members of the Tasmanian Ski Club inaugurated
the season with a dinner at Highfield Hotel. There
was a warm welcome for their vice-president and Mrs.
V. C. Smith, just home from abroad, and for
Professor apd Miss McAulay, also lately returned.
Mrs. .T. B. White (Launceston) and her two
youngsters, John and Margaret, left, in the Ceramic
on a visit to Mrs. White’s parents in Scotland. A
variation on the' usual farewelling was introduced
by four of her friends, Mrs. Craig, Mrs. Holman,
Mrs. Thyne and Mrs. Humphreys, when 34 guests
were bidden first to a talkie party at the Plaza
and afterwards to supper at the Craigs’ home in
Brisbane-road.
Mrsi C. E. Davies, with daughter Ciceley and
niece Patricia, went off in the Orontes. The younger
set gave many little shivoos for the two girls; the
matrons concentrated on bridge and tea parties.
Lady Allardyce, before leaving the Speck, where
she has spent a pleasant and busy sdx months, enter-
tained a number of women friends at tea at the
Queen Mary Club, where the rooms were ablaze
with lovely dahlias from Mrs, E. 11. Webster’s
garden. The lady hopes it won’t be long before
she comes out again.
Mrs. Hugh Armstrong left in the Ceramic for a
trip to London, via Africa, where she will catch
a glimpse of her niece, Mrs. Lethbridge, formerly
Nancy Giblin. Miss Eliza Blyth travelled in the
same boat, on a visit to her brother in Africa.
The two Alfred Bennett girls, with their cousin
Sheila Bennett, were passengers by the Strathnaver
for Sydney. The special attraction for them there
will be the Show; Barbara Bennett is one of Tas-
mania’s foremost show riders and prizewinners.
The women contestants for the four-oar cham-
pionship of Australia had a gruelling time after
they landed in the State, practising in Arctic
weather and rough water. When the great day
came, how'ever, it was beautifully fine and still.
Victory went to the Victorians, whose rowing record
has always been good. All the oarswomen were
given a cheery time.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin ' of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The Austral Salon held a discussion on
“Humor” one evening recently, and in the
course of the proceedings the chaplain of
A LION AND NO MISTAKE.
(Our artist tries his hand at a sassiety sketch.)
LADY PLANTAGENT PEISLEY (of Onions Point ): “There — do you
see that young party over yonder talkin’ to my gals?- Well,
that’s the lion of the day. "
DUKE DE DARLNURST: “Wot, the cove with the winder in his
eye? Well, what does he do uncommon?”
LADY P.: “Oh, he don’t do nothin’, and never did. But his step-
mother was the granda-ater of the celebrated poet Wattsis-
name”
DUKE DE D.: “You don’t say so! But wot did Wattsisname
write?”
LADY P. : “Well, do you know that’s wot nobuddy seems to know,
you know!” [“Hop” —19/12/’91.]
the French warship offered a few remarks
in his own language. It would have been all
right only the Salon took it for granted that
he was' talking about humor, and laughed till
it lost its voice and dislodged all its back
hair, and as the reverend gentleman was
merely thanking his friends for a very enjoy-
able evening it was presently felt that a
hitch had arisen somewhere. When he had
finished there was an embarrassing pause.
Some of the members said “Old” in an un-
certain sort of way, and some of them groped
in the dim recesses of their memories for
some disjointed scrap of the French they
had learnt at school and said: “Avez-vous
le canif demon oncle?" The kindly French-
man felt in his pockets and replied that he
hadn’t got it about him, and then the Salon
got into a perfect agony of perplexity, and,
fixing its harassed eye upon the visitor, it
exclaimed : “ Polly-vous Frongsay .” It is
impossible to guess what might have happened
after that, but luckily a male friend came
to the rescue and cried out: “Nux Vomica ;;
Nil desperandum! Nihil fit! Casus Belli!
and these timely quotations tided _ over the
difficulty. The Salon is now. of opinion that
it is rather backward with its Hebrew, but
otherwise its education is all -j
Professor Koch, the German microbe-
exterminator, has a cousin in Victoria a
long, plain, German farmer, who hoes
potatoes and takes no interest in scientific
research. Another cousin was the ex-sailor,
publican and miner, Harry Koch, who dis-
covered the famous Koch’s Pioneer claim at
Bendigo. [lO/1/’9l.]
Dion Boucicault used to say that all
those who arrive at the door that leads to
success will find it labelled “Push!” Dion
was also author of the phrase “Shakspearo
spells ruin, and Byron. bankruptcy,’’ which
appeared in a “Times” letter written by
Boucicault, but signed by Drury Dane Chat-
terton, at whose house “Formosa” was then
running. [3/l/’9l.]-
About 16 years ago a shepherd was found
dead in a clump of myall acacias on a
station out on the Barcoo. Beside the body
was an empty rum-bottle and a pannikin, on
the bottom of which the dying man had
scratched the words, “An officer of the Light
Brigade.” And this was perfectly true. He
had actually been an officer in that brigade,
and was deprived of his commission for
continued drunkenness. So perish the “mili-
tary heroes” —in gaols and hospitals, poor-
houses and Barcoo out-stations, the “broken
tools that tyrants cast away.” [lO/1/’9l.]
Sydney Taiwhanga,
the tv e 11-k no w n
Maoriland M.H.R.,
died on the evening
of his re-election to
the House of Repre-
sentatives, Sydney
was an original as
well as. an aborigi-
nal, and, although
much abused by the
pakehas, he was very
popular with _ the
Maoris, whose intet-
ests he had really , at
heart. He was a
puny and insignifi-
cant-looking* speci-
men of the Maori
race, but that did not
prevent him from
being a regular Brig-
ham Young in his
own small way. He
has had several
European wives in
his time, and had a
new one with him on
hi s electioneering
campaign. Honey-
mooning and elec-
tioneering together
killed him —he
should have taken
them up one at a
time. When we first
met Taiwhanga,
many years ago, he
was a surveyor’s
assistant in his
native country.
Afterwards he visit-
ed England on a
native-land mission,
and when returning
via Sydney he, on
the strength of old
acquaintance, looked
us up at The Bul-
letin office, and
gave unto us an
account of his Eng-
lish adventures far
more comprehensive
and straightforward
than that vouchsafed
to the outside world.
Amongst other
things, he told us all
about his adventures
with the lady saints
of Exeter Hall
circles, and laughed
until the tears ran
down his dusky
cheeks as he describ-
ed how effectually he
had humbugged‘Miss
Tait, daughter of the
Archbishop of Can-
terbury, by “gam-
moning to be pious.”
[3/l/'9l‘]
The police raided a thieves’ haunt in Mel-
bourne the other day, and got into rather a
tight place in consequence. There were
seven ladies in an upstairs room, and the
only means of escape they could think of
was to throw their clothes out of the window.
The officers burst the door in, and then they
began to realise the full dimensions of the
problem, but though they felt rather embar-
rassed they faced it boldly and eventually
pulled through. H’ow they managed it has
been officially kept dark. [lO/1/’9L]
God save Australia! —from the Austra-
lians in London. J. F. Hogan has written
a novel called “The Lost Explorer,” in
which he is really very rough on that ill-
used ghost, Leichhardt. Under the disguise
of Louis Louvain, he -credits the poor old
boy with a son and marries him to a black
gin. Apparently Mr. H'ogan is under _ the
impression that “Sturt’s Stony Desert ’ is
still an unoccupied waste, so he locates his
lost explorer there, and his descriptions are
about as unreal as the greenest newclium’s
could be. “Every prospect of another brick-
fielder,” cries one of the characters, and a
footnote informs us that “brickfielder” "is a
common expression in Australia for an ex-
ceptionally sultry day.” By means of con-
stantly shouting “Coo-ee” to one another a
TONSORIAL ARTIST (to little Symploins, who is very proud of a
very little scrubby moustache ): “I can give you something
to stop that!” [Phil May— 7/2/ 88.]
search party find L.L. in captivity amongst
a tribe of half-civilised blacks at the foot
of an active volcano, and they rescue him in
an Allen Quartermain manner. The Aus-
tralians in London don’t know much about
Australia. It is only one out of fifty of
them who hasn’t lived all liis life in Mel-
bourne or Sydney. [lO/1/’9l.]
Four people were fatally sunstricken last
Friday in the City of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow
—Rockhampton. On the same day, in Syd-
ney, one Hebe sold 67 bottles of whisky over
one bar in sixpenny nips. At Crookwell
(N.S.W.), also on Friday, a 4ft. snake
swallowed a 3ft. snake, but that is hardly
worth mentioning in a country where people
wouldn’t be surprised if you told them that
a 3ft. snake had swallowed a 4ft. snake.
t!0/l/’91.]
The wife of a well-known Queensland
M.L.A. is a very pompous person who puts
on more airs than Cleopatra, and with con-
siderably less reason. She lately acquired a
sharp-tongued Italian lady named Bridget,
who occupied the position of cook. The mis-
tress entered the kitchen and interfered in
the culinary business. Bridget brandished
the frying-pan with a Donegal war-whoop
and yelled, “By hivins. if yez doan’t git out
o’ this in foive seconds, O’ll bang ye over
the head wid this froyan-pan!” Mrs. M.L.A.,
in a fit of attempted dignity, exclaimed:
“Bridget! do you that I’m a lady?
“You moig'ht have bin intindid for one,
ma’am, but the Divil run away wid the
pattern[26/2/’98.1
The lugubrious fiend who relapses once
per annum into long, piteous wails concern-
ing “the dying year” seems to be taken
rather worse than usual this a.i>. He rolled
the old familiar “dirge,” or “lament,” or
“retrospect” off his chest with exceptional
vigor, and its melancholy rumble resounded
through the cavernous gioom of the Austra-
lian press like a consumptive cough in a
catacomb. It is about time editors left off
encouraging the bard who rhymes year with
bier, drear or tear, and exhorts us to con-
sign it to the sepulchre of the past. He has
been hanging like a pall over every 31st
December since time, was, and when the
present year dies we shall hope to see the
would-be warbler of a requiem wrapped in a
winding sheet of his own miserable screed
and buried with the corpse of the defunct
twelvemonth. [lO/1/’9l.]-
This overworked land of dumps, blue
devils and madness owes a debt of unfathom-
able gratitude to the man who edits the
Canterbury (M.L.) “Times.” At the present
moment we are unable to give his name, but
if we ever meet him at sea and are both sick
over the same rail, if we find him holding
; forth drunk in a public house with his coat-
tails on fire, or if we should chance to come
across him endeavoring vainly to get a pig
through a gate, of in any other difficulty, we
shall esteem it a privilege and an honor to
give him all the support our moral influence
can confer, and will back him up till he
won’t know where he, is. In a recent issue
of the “Times,” this gentleman announced
a prize-story competition, and stated in
emphatic terms that any tale containing a
rich uncle who suddenly comes home to put
things straight would go into the waste-paper
basket. Also, any narrative in \vhich a ghost
wandererihro'u'gh 1 A Hhige fumbling building,
or a moated grange, or an ancestral hall, or
a gloomy ruin, or bounds over an arid plain,
or in which a spectre shrieks amid the
mouldering walls of an ancient priory, or
where a goblin clanks its chains in an un-
wholesome dungeon, or in which the storm
fiend howls, etc. The heroine with a wealth
of golden hair straying luxuriantly over her
shoulders is disallowed, also the girl with the
pink, shell-like ear, and the one with a depth
of dreamy longing in her violet eyes, and the
one who sings a simple verse of a simple
song and then goes mad during a thunder-
storm. A tall man with a blonde moustache,
or a gigantic savage armed with an axe, will
not be tolerated for a moment, and any
beautiful lady who reigns over a barbarous
kingdom, which can only be reached by an
underground pass-
age will be torn up.
Maps on shirt-
fronts, maps on
sheets, tablecloths,
cuffs, baby under-
clothing or Japan-
ese vases, maps
on school - slates,
maps on plates,
saucers, cups, or
any other articles
in domestic use,
maps on oilcloth,
parchment, calico,
paper, human skin,
or bull hide, show-
ing the way to a
buried treasure, no
matter how diffi-
cult of translation
they may be, or
how mouldy or un-
decipherable from
old age, are strictly
prohibited, also
underground fires,
wattles, the hand-
some, well-connect-
ed young man from
home who is get-
ting colonial ex-
perience on a sta-
tion, and who wins
the daughter of the
squatter in spite of
the opposition of a
dancing -master
thinly disguised as
a French Count,
and bloodshed of
all kinds, including
sudden death.
Also, the editor
will view competi-
tors with a more
kindly eye if they
won’t p.ut in a
lover standing on
a damp pavement,
and watching the
slavey’s shadow on
a blind under the
impression that it
is his own girl’s reflection. We regard these
conditions as the first step towards general
purification of colonial literature, and we
give the originator of this noble move a free
“ad.” with feelings of unwonted gratitude.
[7/1/ oo.J
Says Houssaye: “Two kinds of theatrical
spectacle will always exist —that which
appeals to the intellect, that which
appeals to the eyes. You may smash the
aristocracy that boasts its coats of arms,
you’ll never destroy the aristocracy ol
nature. The descendant of a Montmorency
may go to the spectacle that pleases the eye;
the divinely-gifted son of a rag-picker will
“AFTER THE BALL.”
The cricketing nuisance.
Tom Durkin —[13/1/’94.]
go to the spectacle that appeals to the in-
tellect.” Which is another and roundabout
way of saying that your soundest critics are
found in the gallery. [3/1/ 91.]
SHIFTING SAND.
Do you see that post a-sticking in the sand?
Just the point of it a-poking through the
sand ?
Me and Madge put in that fence.
Yes ! We should have had more sense!
We was young, you see, and didn’t under-
stand.
Twenty years come next November we began ;
There was nothing here but scrub when we
began—■
S<?ld the farm on Dingo Flat,
And put all we had in that!
Into blasted shifting sand and “take-all pan.
This here paddick—which? Why, where
you’re standing now
(Oh, it was one, though you wouldn’t think
so now !).
Well, we grubbed it nice and neat,
And we put it in with wheat:
And we didn’t reap enough to feed the cow !
In the early spring the sand began to shift —
In a “norther” have you ever seen it shift?
Well, it all went in a night,
Not a blade was left in sight
When we come to look next morning at the
drift!
Round the back there, by them stunted
pepper-trees ;
Hardly anything will live here but them
trees.
Madge is lying there, asleep,
With the sand above her, deep:
Deep and loose enough to sink you to the
knees!
Many other things are buried on the land,
Things you can’t get back from any kind
of land,
Youth and hope, and tears and sweat,
Wasted work and vain regret,
In the sneaking, creeping, greedy, shifting
sand I
[ll/9/’97.]
NIL.
CHARITY.
The other day as I sat down to sup,
A tiny beetle fell into my cup.
While yet the cruel walls of glass were
foiling ,
Its feeble efforts, just a touch of mine
Preserved its life —and kept the bru
from spoiling
The rare and dainty flavor of my wine.
I met a beggar, trying in the street
In vain to stay the coming, going ieet .
I heard a sob, a tale of hopeless toiling,
I searched my. purse, and gave, and tea in
Just to prevent an anguished face fiom
spoiling ■
Tim glad and even tenor of my lite.
[27/3/’97.]
VON KOTZE.


Oranges and snow! Mantled peaks look down
on semi-tropic verdure in Southern California
r\
r\
cm
UM
m
mil
AMERICA
Orchards are alive with bloom and birds are
nesting . . . mountain crests are stained with
emerald ... in New York’s Gramercy Park the
crocuses are pricking through the soft earth
... in Boston canoeists are on the Charles . . .
the baseball season starts . . . white yachts are
bobbing in the hay at Coronado . . . tarpon are
striking at Miami.
In Washington, the distinguished from all the
world are cantering through Rock Creek Park
. . . equine thoroughbreds strain at the barriers
of Pimlico and Belmont, Saratoga and Tan-
foran ... all America stirs in the great
awakening of May and Spring!
There is no better time to see America than
now! Travel throughout the length and
breadth of her spring-swept continent is facili-
tated by superb railways. Frequent trains,
running on swift, punctual schedules, fit every-
one’s convenience. Pullman sleepers, parlour
and club cars, unrivalled dining service, and
alert personal attendance establish a new
standard of luxury. Liberal stop-over privileges
permit you to include many interesting side
excursions. Costs are amazingly low!
America, the most intriguing highway from the
Antipodes to England, is also the shortest!
For it is now reached, in swift luxury, on the
“Mariposa” and “Monterey,” new sovereigns of
the famous Matson-Oceanic Line, in 18-day
service to California.
You stop at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii, and you may select your own route
across America from either San Francisco or
Los Angeles.
In the WORLD’S SPOTLIGHT Interna-
tional Exposition CHICAGO, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933.
America invites you to visit this World’s Fair.
MATSON-OCEANIC LINE
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE B 7981-3
*
m
&
km
• i
m
'VSR.-.
man
mmmmrnn
4R-IA.
. f
m
f».
m
S3®
ROSENWALD
MUSEUM, Chi-
cago. This five-
million dollar
building (near-
ing completion)
will house trea-
sures valued at
3 0 millions!
Old Mortality.
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
OLD MORTALITY, the fawn-black Jer-
sey bull, stood backed under the scant
shelter of a storm-tossed willow tree
and stared unblinkingly away to the ranges
where the knife-edge of the wind-cloud was
etched in a sable arc against the luminous
beauty of a sky from which the daylight had
long "since died. Presently he moved un-
easily, backing into the bitter scud, lowering
his mighty head and weaving it from side to
side; but" his little, bleared eyes remained
iixed in their unwinking stare. Overhead
the moon laughed suddenly from the inky,
flying clouds. The wind-whipped trees were
immense and night-robed with dignity.
The scud passed, and the old bull, grumb-
ling fretfully, left the doubtful shelter of
the twisted tree and went across the pasture,
moving with a lumbering deliberation that
was somehow stately and a trifle awe-inspir-
ing.
Twice he went round the paddock, never
varying his heavy, rolling gait, giving voice
to a continuous smothered moaning, like
the dire threat of thunder to come.
The paddock, large and square, was un-
compromisingly flat and devoid of any shelter,
so that the bleak southerly went over it,
blowing the lush grasses that reached to
the great bull’s knees. Beside the tortured
willow a turbid pool presented its oily sur-
face to the laughim moon.
Old Mortality made his way back to it
and stood pawing the turf and shattering the
lonely silence with his sudden outraged bel-
lowing, so that the very wind seemed to
die away and wait, caught in a hush of
listening.
As the last sobbing tones died, from far
up the wind a faint answer came drifting.
Old Mortality gave it no heed, but stood with
his massive head lifted, and his unwinking
stare turned back to the ranges that were
stark under the moon ; snuffing the wind with
questing nostrils, as though he dreamed he
might catch a lingering breath of the frag-
rance of those ice-cold mountain springs from
which, until this night, he had always drunk.
Full forty miles away they lay, cupped in
their fern-hung hollows, with the aromatic
scent of tlie bush that skirted them to make
them doubly sweet. And there was a stream
that plunged down from the hills, whispering
of cloud-crowned heights that laughed in the
sun or drowsed the night away.
Old Mortality lowered his head and voiced
his grief, so that the desolating sound of it
whipped the empty night. In the next pad-
dock the thoroughbred mare Asphodel fell
to snorting and stamping with a wild and
primitive ecstasy that set all the dogs for
miles howling with a half-fearful glee.
Drunk with power, Asphodel raced. round
in crazy circles, flinging herself about in mad
transports of abounding life that had not
been hers since she had come to the slavery
of bit and rein.
Old Mortality blinked angrily, and his
wicked warning rumble redoubled. In the
paddock beyond the one where the mare
cavorted was a herd of cows —bland, sleek
beasts who ignored him, serenely chewing,
while he fretted his wild heart out here in
alien pastures.
Back there, in the hills, when lie had sent
his wild challenges vibrating into the pale
heart of the night, a thousand ringing echoes
had rifted the trembling silence, so that his
shaggy harem had lowed back uneasily, as
they waited for the defiant answers that rose
from hill and valley.
But here his raging defiance died flatly,
unanswered, and the sleek, sheltered herd
that through the day had regarded him with
mild, inscrutable eyes disregarded him now
with a silence that was in itself an insult.
Grunting with baffled rage, Old Mortality
waded into the scummy pool, churning it to
a black morass, iridescent in the moonlight.
For some seconds he wallowed, seeking for
the spring that instinct told him must be
there; but the stench from the foetid bog
clogged his nostrils, shutting out the spici-
ness of the wind, and soon he clambered out.
again, pawing at the hard, dry turf and
bellowing his loneliness and torment.
Again the dogs barked, far away, and
again the high-strung mare fell to her rap-
turous snorting; but from the herd in the
field beyond came never a sound to show that
they heard or cared.
Old Mortality stopped bellowing, and shook
his massive head, echoing the mare’s fanfare
of snortings.
Her seeming interest, tinged with mock-
fear, roused his ire to fever-heat.
Long years ago. when he had been hand-
reared, a miserable “poddy,” pot-bellied on
his meagre diet of “skim-dick,” he had shared
a paddock with a great, placid old Clydesdale
mare, short of breath,, slow of movement.
Racked with the desire of young things to
suck, Old Mortality had trailed her unceas-
ingly ; licked first her face and shoulders,
lipped at the soft flap of her flanks,
tugged at last at her udder —an indignity that
the old horse was powerless to resent, though
in the beginning she had striven to kick him
aside. Though from her barren teats he
had drawn no nourishment, along with the
assuagement of his desire to suck Old Mor-
tality had imbibed a magnificent contempt
for horses. . Many there were who bore the
marks of his adolescent horns; but it was
not until his temper soured with age that
he took to seeking and deliberately goring
them. Now in him the desire to feel his
mighty horns rip through delicate hide and
soft, warm flesh had mounted to an obses-
sion—craving as racking as the desire to
suck of the little, weaned calf.
In his hill home four mouldering corpses
filled with horror a tiny, foxglove-grown
ravine. Corpses that, a month gone, had been
young horses, drunk with the intoxication of
life, fearing nothing on earth save men, so
that death had overtaken them unawares.
Old Mortality had cornered them against a
fallen tree and ripped them from ribs to thigh
as they leaped lightly and unsuspectingly
past; and none had known save one or two
members of his shaggy herd, who cared no-
thing that beauty had died in lingering agony.
But m the yard one day his craving out-
stripped his cunning, so that he attacked the
stockmans horse, goring it terribly before
they could drive him off with the only
weapons lie feared—the shining-pronged
pitchforks that could pierce the hide and sting
like scorpions.
Only cupidity had saved Old Mortality
f rom the gun that had ended the horse’s
screaming agony ; for Old Mortality had a
pedigree that rivalled the lineage of kings;
S(> strangers came to look at him where he
fumed in the seclusion of a high-railed yard
that had been liis domicile ever since his
unprovoked attack on the stockman’s horse,
Ringed and chained he learned to fear where
before contempt had tempered his hate;
learned to suffer men’s hands 011 .liis body.
Rut though he resented the familiarity—•
though at times he desired to kill—the in-
stinct in him was not a craving as was the
instinct to kill horses.
Perhaps at the back of his mind lie was
aware that, \yhile they mastered him, men
W ere afraid of him, whereas horses had no
f oar Q f hi m at all. Indeed, they expected
him to move aside when they came near,
carrying themselves with an insolence and
arrogance that, with the single exception of
himself, had the whole world bluffed. Only
he, who had drawn the knowledge from his
unwilling foster-mother, knew the truth —
knew how stupid and timid they really were.
AVith a slobbering bellow, he broke into a
lumbering trot, spattering the slimy, nacreous
ooze from his body into the clean, wind-swept
grass. At the fence he paused to bellow
again; but the mare, wearied of her mock-
fear. had fallen to grazing and paid him no
further heed—a form of insolence not to be
endured.
Old Mortality reared up, monstrous and
primeval and slightly obscene in the flicker-
ing light of the moon, across whose face the
dark wrack writhed in streaming banners ;
dropped across tlie fence, so that the wires
sang as they parted. At the sound the marc-
lifted her head and drew a deep breath,
expelling it nervously through delicate, flared
nostrils.
As she glimpsed the massive form of the
bull lumbering towards her her uneasiness
subsided, and sihe tossed her head and went
on her toes, flirting with his grotesquely
bobbing shadow.
A couple of yards distant Old Mortality
paused to tear the earth and savage the night
with his sullen bellowing, while sjie stood
with her slender neck arched, eyeing him with
playful curiosity and snorting a little with
pride and mock-fear.
Old Mortality charged. Asphodel, secure
in her pride and stupidity, stood fast until
the last moment; then, with a squeal l of in-
dignant surprise, leaped aside; but even so
her shoulder met Old Mortality’s with an
impact that flung her headlong and sent the
bull to his knees. His horn grazed her shoul-
der, ripping the soft hide, driving him to a
frenzy, so that he. sobbed with tlie blood-lust
as he surged to his feet,
Asphodel plunged up, lunged on to the
savagely swung point of Old Mortality’s horn,
so that she was impaled through the chest,
The point, driven with all the old killer’s
weight behind it, went down to the very
base, through lungs and heart, so that the
mare died without sound, not knowing even
that she was dead.
Her weight, sagging down, dragged Old
Mortality to his knees again, so that by the
time he had wrenched his horn free he was
in a veritable ecstasy of rage, goring the
splendid corpse again and again until his
horns and head and neck and all the trampled
grass about were running red in the ghastly
moonlight,
(Continued on next page.)


BALANCE SHEET
OF THE ■ * ’ '
Commonwealth IBank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1932.
LIABILITIES:
£ s d
Capital Account t • 0 0
Reserve Fund ‘ 1,495,922 9' (i
Rural Credits Department-
Capital Account 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund » 173,264 .13 4
Development Fund .... 78,769 6 8
Deposits, Accrued Interest and > . ’
Rebate 63,080,502 5,5
Bills Payable and other Lia-
bilities 3,653,499 12 2
Contingent Liabilities—■
Outstanding Credits per
Contra ..'
74;481’,958 7
497,661 17
1
6
Total General Bank and Rural '■ i ,
Credits Departments ... .. 74,979,620 4 7
Note Issue Department .. .. 50,742,202 6 5.
£125,721,822 11 * 0
ASSETS.
£ s ri
Cqin, Bullion and Cash Balances 739,315 4 9
Australian, Notes 5,044,981 0 0
Money ?t-'Short Call in Lohdon 13,83,0.241 15 11
Short. Term Loans in Australia 12,232,720 14 6
Investments-- .
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. .. 10,844,000 0 0
Commonwealth Government
, Securities . . ' . 17.. 19,536,812 10 4
Bills Receivable in London and.
Remittances in Transit .. . . 1,191,177 14 8
Bills Discounted,- Loans and
, Advances to. Customers and
other Assets 9,963,751 19 10
Bank, Premises 7 1
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS Cr.
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund ; 89,341 ,16 3,
National Debt Sinking Fund 89,341 ‘l6 3
Rural Credits Department—-
To Reserve Fund. . 9,225 - 7 9
„ Development Fund ...... 7 9
Note Issue Department— l
To Commonwealth Treasury ~. 613,183 ’ 2 9
- „ Rural Credits Department
Captial Account ... 106,553 15 3
'£916.871 6 01
8 (1
£
By Profits; for Half-year ended
31st December, 1932 —
~ Banking Business 178,683 12 6
„ Rural Credits Department .. 18,450 15 6
~' Note Issue Department .. .. 719,736 18 0
£916,871 6 0
Dr- RESERVE FUND. _____ Cr.
é
£ s d
By Balance 1,406,580 13 3
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
■ 'Account of one-half of Net
Profits of Banking Business 89,341 16 3
£1,495,922 9 6
We certify.. Ulafjthe above Balance Sheet, com-
- piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank,-is. true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS,-Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. O. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 10th March, 1933.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Notes in Circulation .. 50,053,426 10 0
Other Liabilities i 688,775 16 5
£50,742,202 6 5
AtoSlili'b'.
£ r d
Gold and English Sterling . . 11,409,343 16 7
Debentures and other Securities 38,088,530 15 5
Other Assets 1,154,327 14 5
£50,742,202 6 5
Certified Correct, ,
BERTRAND EATHAM,
Secretary Note -Issue Department.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 10th March, 1933.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st DECEMBER, 1932.
LIABILITIES.
'£ s d
Reserve Fund 1,720,881 14 3
Depositors’
Balances' £114,857,804. 2 10
With Interest
- Accrued .. 1,417,948 2 2
116,275,752 5 0
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities . . . . . . . 4,093,409 0 2
£122,090,042 19 5
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin and Cash Balances .. .. 4,378,602 0 3
Australian Notes 140,269 10 0
Government Securities 79,438,217 17 10
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities . . 31,384,520 16 10
Other Assets 5,132.118 8 10
Bank Premises 1,616,314 5 8
£122,090,042 19 5
I)r. PROFIT AND LOSS.
£ s d
To National Debt Sinking Fund . . 62,499 10 5
~ Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. 62,499 10 5
£124,999 0 10
By Profit for Half-year ended
31st December, 1932 .. .. 124,999
s d
0 10
£124,999 0 10
Dr.
RESERVE FI ND
To Balance
£ s d
1,720,881 14 3
£1,720.881 14 3
By|Balanee
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits
£ s d
1,658,382 3 10
62,499 10 5
£1,720,881 14 3
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, lOtn March, 1933.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-Genera] of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given
Beyond the cow-paddock a sheep began to
bleak—a monotonous, frightened sound that
presently smote on the bull’s half-crazed con-
sciousness. Desisting from his hateful labor
lie stood motionless, staring away again to
the ranges, above which the wind-cloud still
hung, with the sky beneath luminously
silver.
Then a heifer lowed—a soft, inquiring
thread of sound. Old Mortality grunted and
swung away from his bloody handiwork —
left it lying there, without a single backward
look. . \
That gentle, plaintive call had roused in
him a fresh lust, so that ho travelled towards
it at his lumbering run that covered the
ground with surprising swiftness. Over two
fences he crashed with a sing of parting
wires that woke some consternation among
the cows. The more highly strung beasts
stampeded wildly, but at the far side some
sat unmoved, placidly chewing, nor did they
pay the slightest heed to the thundering bel-
lowing of his mating call.
One by one he drove them to their feet,
herding the surprised and indignant matrons
before him, until he had them all driven into
a corner, in a compact, rebellious mass. But
he could urge them no further, though he
crossed and re-crossed the fence, tearing the
wires, away and smashing uncounted posts.
The nervy cows broke away in the opposite
direction, while the rest regarded him with
mildly scandalised surprise, and one or two
stolid ones actually fell to chewing their
cuds again.
To Old Mortality tha position was incred-
ible. In the vast lrill-paddock that had been
his range through life lie had been accustomed
to lead his herd, and they had followed,
albeit reluctantly, with exceeding meekness;
but, though , these sleek beasts were even
meeker in mien, they would neither heed nor
follow.
Bellowing thickly, he turned and left them,
and within a quarter-lioni* they were all
bedded down again, quite undisturbed by the
faint echo of his royal displeasure that was
wafted to them ever and anon, but growing
fainter and fainter until it died away.
All through the night Old Mortality
travelled back towards the ranges. Once on
the road, instinctively he followed the man-
iriade trail, grumbling threateningly to him-
self at first, but falling at last to a sullen
silence that was fraught with purpose.
He moved at his deliberate, stately walk,
carrying his head low and swinging it from
side to side, staring unwinkingly ahead. Now
and then his nostrils flared, drinking in the
1 sharp, damp wind that was cooling the lusts
from his blood, and filling him again with
intense yearning for his home hills. Once
only he paused, when, in a paddock by the
road, a horse neighed. Old Mortality stopped
dead and, turned to stare intently, with his
wicked pig eyes smouldering; but when the
sound xvas not repeated, he moved on again
with his muttering bellow, that was like
distant thunder.
Dawn found him back in the foothills, but
still many miles from home; but, though as
the day wore on the heat grew intense, he
paused neither to eat nor to drink. Unerr-
ingly, instinct set his hoofs on the road
home; but the nearer he came,to it, the
fiercer became the burning nostalgia that
urged him on, so that: he forgot all 1 list and
hate, forgot hunger and thirst, even; but
under the searing heat of the summer day his
aspect,xvas transformed.Trom. awe-inspiring
to terrible, so that those who met him passed
him swiftly and looked back fearfully at the
massive, rod-eyed- beast -with the saliva-
covered muzzle and foam-flecked sides.
As the noon waned he caught stray breaths
of the damp, earthy, overpoxveringiy sweet
fragrance of.native -bush,,and began to. rUmbl'e
to himself ,as' he’ went —a throaty, almost
crooning sound, very different frorn the awe-
some moaning -of -the prex’ious night. New
sometimes h'q broke into, his lumbering-trot,
so that the frothy saliva 'from ,* : his mouth
was blown back:.to rlus .heax--mg flanks. A
P.ony grazing by the roadside did-not cajiso.
him to turn his head even.
Dusk came, grey, and"soft-ly luminous,--and-
grateful to hid blistered liide, and hoofs. Now
he was trayellin'g through rugged Z country
where the hills were crowned .with -bush that,
spilled over and ran down to'wide'valleys
that fell away abruptly into steep ravines ;.
his own country, though as yet his home was
far away.
Sometimes he paused to bellow, listening
m shivering ecstasy to the;' echoes ' that-
vibrated and ro-vibrated back from tlie
hushed peaks; and sometimes there were
answering challenges—never .'the flat; frozen
silence of the plains.' ...
Abruptly Old Mortality left the road and
crashed through a-fenccr-ou-to-a-steep hill--
side, pocked with old grey stumps and
logs rank, with grey-broxvn bracken and
streaked with the starry xyhite of -manuka
bloom. Far beloxv, the.riyer was a shim-
mering ribbon in the moonlight.
Skirting fallen logs and-stumps and the 3
starry manuka drifts, Old Mortality slid at
last down an'almost perpendicular track into
the deep river.
Thrusting his slobbering muzzle into its
icy sweetness, he sucked in copious-draughts
—the first water he had tasted in forty-eight
hours. Then, puffing and blowing, he waded
ashore and snatched a fexv mouthfuls of the
rank prairie grass before he proceeded in
search of a track up from the river. As he
went he .began to belloxv again, but softly
and lingeringly; for over the crest of the
great, dark hill that reared away from the
river was home. Over there were the lean,
shaggy cows that obeyed his least command—
xvho moved uneasily xvhen he challenged the
night. /
Presently he found a track and ceased his
calling, climbing steeply out of the darkness
into the livid moonlight; left the stony track
on (die cliff-face for the bracken of the hillside.
Half-way up he stumbled on a cow,' who
leaped to her feet with a frightened bellow,
but paused a few yards axvav to call
invitingly.
Old Mortality kept oil. Home was over
the hill.
The last, part of the ascent xvent up steeply
through virgin bush that was dark as death
and as profoundly still.
On the crest he emerged suddenly, and
stood in utter immobility, staring out over
the lovely valley that was his home. In
the dense shadow' of a tall, quiet tree, he
waited, watching the shadows of the clouds
go flying from hill to hill ; and then he bel-
lowed, peal after peal, vibrant and terrible
as summer thunder; and from the valley be-
low, and from the hills near and hills, so far
that mortal ear could scarcely hear, rang hack
triumphant answer.
Old Mortality shook his head and snorted—
paused suddenly, listening, for close behind
him there had been a sound.
With his muttered thunder, the old bull
turned. On the edge of the shadow of the
great tree a horse stood, ebon in the moon-
light !
. Old Mortality stared, his little eyes red-
rimmed with hate; but the horse’s gaze went
out above him, over the valley and the high,
gaunt peaks, looking beyond and far beyond
in a way that horses have.
Old. Mortality backed away. The blood-
lust in him stirred, tingling through his
veins; but now that he was on the road
home ho did not want to fight. .. .and instinc-
tively. for the first time in his life, he was
afraid of a horse. Not paralysingly afraid,
but cautiously.
There was about this horse confronting
him something different. He was insolent,
hut not stupid. Those white eyes that stared
beyond, to fields none other could see, were
wise behind their glassy wideness. And he
xvas light, yet massive—thin so that the
veins arid muscles stood out like whipcord
under the satin of his jet hide. Thin with
the thinness of perfect physical fitness, taut
as a bowstring, and more savage than Old
Mortality himself.
Horses, with few exceptions, are peaceful
beasts. Arrogant and powerful, in them the
instinct to live and let live transcends all
others. It was their peaceful assurance that
made them such easy game for Old Mor-
tality. Nocturne, the great black gelding
with the white eyes, was not. of these. In
his young days a cow had gored him wan-
tonly while lie was quietly grazing. Now.
though with men he was gentle enough, all
horned beasts were his deadly enemies, to be
driven and slain, lest they treacherously, slay
him ; so, meeting Old Mortality face to face
in the domain that he was wont to regard
as peculiarly his • own, all the primitive
savagery in him surged to meet the savagery
that gleamed in the bull’s smouldering eyes.
Nocturne lowered his head suddenly arid
came on, swishing his tail, and moving with
long, sinuous strides that were both swift and
deliberate. His grand head was outstretched
so that his muzzle was almost in a line with
his neck. His shapely ears were pricked, his
white eyes gleamed, and his lips were drawn
back from the big milk-white teeth that
clicked sharply in little, tentative snaps.
, Old Mortality held his ground, lowering
his head, rumbling with rage, and pawing
the loose, frost-splintered shale so that it
rattled away down the hill with a noise that
was startling in a silence that was suddenly
disquiet.
Then he charged. So lightly he went, Noc-
turne seemed blown rather than to leap aside,
swinging in mid-air, so that he could strike
a lightning blow that rocked the mighty bull
as lie had never been rocked before. Only a
glancing blow, but behind it there was a
power that warned the old killer that death
was on his heels at last.
Bellowing direfully, he swung away, con-
tent for once to live and let live. Below him
was the valley of Heart’s Desire.
Momentarily he forgot Nocturne —the only
horse who had ever faced him and lived ;J
and then behind him was a sound that|
brought him round with a shuddering roar./
Nocturne came down the hillside, not in
wild rush, but dancing like a Dervish, movl
ing like thistledown, malevolent and deadly!
He circled Old Mortality, plunging lightly!
rearing and kicking, skittish as a colt; buff
his wide white eyes were watchful as a cat’s!
anticipating the bull’s every move.
Old Mortality fell silent; and from thel
ivalley. below a cow called, and a bull’s throaty'
bellow answered her.
With a sob of rage Old Mortality lowered
his head —and Nocturne struck. Swift and
deadly as a trip-hammer, his iron-shod hoofs
slammed home between the great bull’s horns.
Old Mortality sobbed once and sagged to his
knees, and the black horse’s lightning hoofs
descended unerringly again and yet again.
From the valley the cow’s questing call
beat up against the little wind, and on its
heels rolled the thunder of the unknown bull;
but Old Mortality did not hear.
Clouds raced over the moon, and the wind,
pungent and earthy, was filled with the pro-
mise of life. Nocturne neighed, a sound like
swift laughter, as though he knew his kind
avenged ; went away over the hill, galloping
in wraithlike silence. But Old Mortality did
not stir.
Morning found him lying as he had fallen,
with his mighty head turned, and his glazed
eyes fixed in an unwinking stare on the misty,
smiling valley.
Necklaces.
That swarthy woman with the hanging
breasts,
Within whoso tomb they laid the garnets
drilled
And strung on wild-beast sinews for her
pride,
Has handed down her legacy—the love
Of sparkling stones to clip about the neck.
What traveller brought the lapis lazuli
To serve a cardinal’s tabletop in Rome?
A fawning merchant, hinting that a flake
Of that same blue could shape a score of
beads
For the plump throats of churchmen’s
mistresses ?
“A jest, my Lord!” did Cardinal’s eyes
grow grave;
Or ( should they twinkle) whispers, of a
purse—
Oh, thievery and barter go with gems
As well as grateful kisses ! Sapphires lured
The wanton eyes of that red-headed Queen
Who set a spark to Troy’s immortal towers;
And that pale temptress whom great Cresar
loved
Flayed with the uncut emeralds in her lap
That were tossed there by ruddy Anthony,
And called the craftsman in to weld a
snake
With emerald eyes—a foretaste of her doom!
A Persian woman clickt between her hand
The chain of turquoise, dreaming of an hour
Of nightingales and roses and a dawn
That blushed for what the secret garden
held
The while her bearded lord his dagger drew
Across his cuckold palm to test its strength.
A little Chinese lady, twittering,
Tottered upon her bound feet to a chest
Lacquered with dragons and a pearl inlay:
Where in a shallow drawer the kidney stone
With its bright healing nestled on brocade.
Exquisite doll, perhaps she had a heart
Beyond her tending of the priceless jade,
Carved into beads too heavy for a doll.
Her little pipe of nephrite, and the cup
From which she drank her sip of amber
tea
All made immortal on a silken screen !
Hid any lover ever draw her close?
And make the jade beads clash? Or brush
the paint _
From her peaked face with his unruly ups.
Her soft humanity seems drowned in gems.
She is more real, I fancy, on the screen.
How many centuries since a wooer clad
In skins of beasts found amber in the mud
And polished it, because a woman smiled.
V yellow-headed woman of the North.
While starving wolves crept through the
sighing trees, ,
And drowsy bears sniffed at a dream o-
Broimht by the first spawned, reeling butter-
How years since striding Bothwell
brought „ ,,
The garnets that she loved to Scotland s
And Hvith ’ bold fingers sped the necklace
The satin hollow of her swelling breasts.
Or traced unconsciously the circling trail
The axe would find, like bloodhound, at the
end?
What i.s the moral? Time the miser keeps
His grasp upon the jewels, though t
That was so tender vanishes m dusn
The brown, the red, the golden cm of
In some black cavern where the
trBBS
Alone caress them; but the tmc kla^& ,
Of these forgotten women gleamand_gio
Vnd fan fresh greed again in tr 5f liei >
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST


THE PUPILS OF
BERNARD CRONIN
STORY-WRITING
PARAGRAPHS
ARTICLES
A New South Wales pupil writes:—
“I have already received about £3O for
stories and articles. As writing is a pro-
fession with all the initial difficulties and
setbacks of most professions, together with
a few of its own, and I regard myself as
still serving my articles, I do not feel that
I have anything to grumble about. I have
to work at night, often after a long and
tiring day, which is a big drawback. Still,
£3O is a profit of just 200 per cent, over
your very moderate fee for the Course.
“I doubt if I should have sold a line
if it had not been for the splendid training
Mr. Bernard Cronin gave me. I had been
rejected so many times that I was on the
point of giving up, and would probably
have done so had I not obtained your
prospectus and decided to take the Course.
“Apart from Mr. Cronin’s exceptional
experience and thorough understanding of
the art of story-writing, I think the best
features of the Course are his candid criti-
cism and extraordinary patience. The be-
ginner needs both in large quantities, and
Mr. Cronin . certainly supplies them. 1
am very grateful to him for the kindly,
patient way he led me along the literary
track—and also for the hard knocks he gave
me when I deserved them.”
A N.Z. pupil writes:— -
“My story ‘Leavings’ gained first place
in the ‘N.Z. Tablet’ 'short-story competi-
tion from 140 entries from most parts of
New Zealand. The prize is £5/5/-. This
is the one I submitted with Question and
Answer for Paper nine and which you said
I should place if I persisted.”
A Victorian pupil writes:—
“I am pleased to say that I placed ‘The
Cub’ with the ‘Australian Journal.’ ”
Another Victorian pupil writes:—
“ ‘The Leader’ has accepted one of my
stories.*
A West Australian pupil writes: —
“My story ‘Bread Upon the Waters’
appeared in March 2 issue of ‘The Queens-
lander.’ ”
In the past few months many similar
letters have been received. At the third
lesson Mr. Cronin tells his pupils whether
it is worth while going on. That accounts
for the early successes of those who do
go on.
Copies of “Writing to Win” and “Writing
for the Newspapers” are sent free to those
interested.
Write to Mr. Cronin at 398 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. It will save time and bring a
more helpful reply if you say what your
aspirations are and what your writing ex-
perience has been.
PELMANISM—MentaI Training
A Practical Course for
Practical Men and Women.
DELMANISM teaches you the Science
of Living.
Nature has given you a brain. The
education you have received in the ordi-
nary way has given you knowledge of
various subjects, and the experience you
have gained in after life has added to
that knowledge.
But Pelmanism trains your brain and
shows you how to apply that knowledge
and experience in the best possible way.
That is why it is so popular. It is
what people have been wanting for a
long time. To-day the Pelman Institute
enables you to obtain this scientific
mental training at the lowest possible
cost and with the least amotmt of
trouble and exertion.
Practical Psychology
pREAT strides have been made in
recent years in ‘the science of Psy-
chology. The mind —its nature, its
actions, its weaknesses, its impulses
is being studied as never before. The
results of these studies are to be found
in Pelmanism, which is a working course
in Practical Psychology directed to the
needs of the average man and woman.
The present Pelman Course is based on
30 years’ intensive study and practical
experience. The experience embodied
in the Course has keen gained as the
result of dealing with the difficulties,
failings, fears, aspirations and ambi-
tions of many thousands of men and
women belonging to practically every
known Profession, Trade or form of
business —including the important busi-
ness (housewives note!) of the Home.
Great pains have been taken to keep
the Course as simple as possible, and
in this aim the Institute has been
entirely successful. The Course is what
it is intended to be —a practical Course
for practical men and women who, in
the majority of cases, have to earn their
own living. This is explained very
clearly in “The Efficient Mind,” a copy
of which will be sent, free of charge,
to every reader who uses the coupon
printed below.
These Defects Conquered
TT is necessary for everyone who wishes
1 to “get on” in life to keep in mental
training. When your mind is “out of
training,” all sorts of symptoms appear.
Here are a few of them: —
Forgetfulness
Inability to
Concentrate
Procrastination
Depression
Timidity and
Shyness
Mind-wandering
Brain Fag
Indecision
Lost Confidence
Pessimism
Boredom
Unfounded Fears
And there are many more. These
are not permanent defects, but if
neglected they will become more serious
and more deeply rooted, with very mis-
chievous consequences to your business
and social life and to your prospects
and happiness. They are signs that
your brain wants training and toning
up. Pelmanism gives you this training
and this toning up. As a result of
taking the Course, these defects and
weaknesses will disappear. You will
find them “fading out,” and after quite
a short time your mind will recover
its normal strength and natural tone.
Thousands have proved this already.
Qualities Developed
DELMANISM not only helps you to
overcome these defects but it de-
velops what might be called the Plus
(+) qualities of the mind. That is to
say, it strengthens those faculties which
are characteristic of the scientifically-
trained mind and which are of the great-
est value in all the affairs of life.
Some,of the qualities which Pelman-
ism develops are :
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Initiative
Courage
Reliability
Strength of Will
Cheerfulness
Self-confidence
Organising Power
Driving Force
Presence of Mind
Resourcefulness
Determination
Self-control
Salesmanship
Creative Imagination
A Reliable Memory
. It is the possession of these qualities
that gives to any man or woman what
is known as Personality, and you can
develop them yourself by practising
Pelmanism for a short time every day.
Tou need not devote a long time to it—
say half an hour every evening for the
next three months. You will find at
the end of that time that you have in-
creased your mental stature, that you
can do better work, that your brain is
clear, that you can master difficulties
which formerly baffled you—and master
them with ease—that you are more effi-
cient, that you have qualified yourself
for better things, that you are much
happier in yourself and that you will be
living a fuller, more interesting, more
eventful and more creative life. And
as so many people have found, this
improvement will be reflected in in-
creased income-earning power.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success
if you will give it your loyal effort,
your honest endeavor, and a regular and
definite amount of time until you have
completed the Course. A sustained effort
over a period of but a few weeks will
yield you dividends that will last you
your whole life through.
The Key to the Magic Door
“pELMANISM,” says Dame Sybil
Thorndike, “gives mind-exercise
scientifically, and because its principles
are scientifically based, it not only im-
proves, but
actually di s -
covers, qualities
tlyat would
otherwise have
remained dor-
mant. We all
Ypish. for Suc-
cess, to be up-
lifted from the
mediocre, but
many never find
the key to open
/the magic door.
/iPelmanism, I
earn convinced,
m.
Dorothy Wilding.
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
is the ‘Open Sesame’ that smoothes
away all difficulties, giving a mental
clarity and alertness that sees oppor-
tunities and uses them rightly.”
Sir
A :
Herbert Barker
ANOTHER well-known advocate of
Pelmanism is Sir Herbert Barker,
the eminent specialist in Manipulative
Surgery, who sends the following mes-
sage to every reader
who wishes to suc-
ceed in life.
“The world,” he
says, “owes an
enormous debt of
gratitude, to the
inventors of the
Pelman System for
discovering a
means so easy and
pleasant, by which
the Nation’s men-
tal equipment can
be brought to its
ê
Vandyk.
Sir Herbert Barker.
very highest pos-
sible pitch of effi-
ciency and main-
tained there.
“I know of no other method to com-
pare with it.
“Benefit Beyond Computation”
“I am convinced that benefit beyond
computation can be secured by all •
whether the student be nineteen or
ninety—who will follow the directions
given in the Course.
“It is impossible to speak too highly
of it Pelmanism might make a new
world.”
Write for this Free Book To-day
IN “The Efficient Mind” you will find
* a full explanation of the Pelman
Course and much interesting informa-
tion on the subject of Mental Training.
This book will be sent you free on
application to the Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. Write for it to-day and it
will be in your hands by return of
post. All correspondence is regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor rep
resen tatlves.
7 leaders who can call at the Institute will
he welcomed. The Director of Instruction
will have a talk with them, and no fee
will he charged for his advice.
FREE ENQUIRY FORM
To the Telman Institute;
3 Gloucester House;
396 Flinders Fane; Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
349
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay. “Those
who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.” 6/- (postage 3d.).
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”— “Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
Ready Soon:
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
V
~ .vfc**
ftV y o\
c°’’ .<**
. .4, G e ,-A •
#
P* csS>> - -
*r k
**
\p
o
&
0°
\oyy
<&' ?
\\ e ** ' ,
, ■^V 5
w
\S
//of/'
%v
4*


ii
111
M.
m,
C
m
Wa
T was in just such ships as this, that intrepid
sailors fought their way to distant America—and
there, in the fertile, sunbathed valleys of Virginia,
found the pleasures of tobacco and the secrets of
its culture.
Modern liners now replace the ships of yesterday,
but the enjoyment of tobacco has never been
supplanted. And still the world gets its finest
tobacco from Virginia—tobacco which reaches
you, mellowed and fragrant, in these fine sub-
stantial cigarettes—Abdulla Virginia Leaf.
i
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
ly ABDULLA.
ULLS
m lew
cork tippeo
RETTes
=a
/\bDUI,I.\
VIRGINIA
LEAF
CORK TIPPED.
ICs PACKETS -9.
2©s FLAT TINS -1%
f ou cannot buy a better nrginicL (Cigarette
AM. I
