

W 4
MOT O R
m
wm
Ol L ,
*
;#*
Sf
s-s
PAR
I
1
i-XWvXvXw*
* •'k*
1
■•-i-.C!
«v>
■ r.\'
■p*ll
sss m ewMM
1
i
fj<: v', , :s :
*' y V V
s» . v T' S••
1
-• . '
lip
I
i
I
ilrVi?
£*£■;
SP
*•*•
j*y
m
Atlantic’s steel-tough film posi-
tively seals in the power. You’ll
enjoy the added pep . . . the
extra miles per hour. Atlantic
sells at regular price at your
garage. Start using it to-day.
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd.. Marketers of Petrols, Lubricants, Creases, etc*
AMI. 48
The Bulletin
cc£
Vol. 54.—No. 2786.
Wednesday, July 5, 1933,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TTIIE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to •
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426- George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SKND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. *
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1 3
My Name
Uy Address
a.B, 533 .
SOMEDAY, SOMEONE may
WALK on your ROOF
ŕ
ŗ
Galvanized Iron for Roofing
Made by John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
IF you specify
and use "RED
Orb” Galvanized
Iron for roofing,
it can be walked
over without the
least danger of
denting. “RED
Orb” is made from
a specially hard-
ened iron and costs
no more than “Blue
Orb.” It is not
suitable for curv-
ing, but it is the
finest roofing iron
procurable.
For Real
- ' use
A • U3C
Cuticura
Soap and Ointment
DICINAL
Bathe your face before retiring
with Cuticura Soap and
warm water to remove the dust
and grime from the pores. When
the skin is irritated, as with
clogged pores and blackheads,
gently smear with tllticura
Ointment before bathing.
Consistent use will assure a
clear, healthy skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out' Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 12,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
The
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday—2d.
hat a market-
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole -
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so with
you ?
.
STELES
LEADS THE WAY
AEU
9*C
The Red Page
Medicine in Literature
It is remarkable that only one great figure
in English literature has been a doctor—
and Dr. Johnson wasn’t a doctor of medi-
cine. The late Poet Laureate is the only
doctor-poet of real distinction; Somerset
Maugham is the only outstanding medi-
cal playwright; and he and Conan
Doyle are about the best of the doctor-
novelists. It is a disappointing list con-
sidering the unique opportunities doctors
have to study humanity in its most
dramatic aspects. Doctors are more likely
to see life in the round than lawyers or
clergymen, who minister chiefly to the peni-
tent classes. And the doctor should see
further into the hearts of those with whom
he. comes in contact. He has no more hope
than the others of getting the whole truth
and nothing but the truth from his confi-
dants, but if he is intelligent, and has
learned his job, he will be able to discern
the facts behind the reservations. In this
age of self-consciousness and self-expression
when all kinds of people, from ruthlessly
truthful flappers to mendacious ancients of
the stamp of Trader Horn, are turning out
best-sellers, it is natural that doctors should
also be writing; but for some strange reason
they are still a long way behind parsons,
lawyers, sailors, journalists and even archi-
tects and shop-assistants in the teeming
literary field. The two books which are
reviewed below indicate, amongst other
things, the enormously interesting material
of which they have a virtual monopoly.
Ailments of the Eminent
The late Charles Maclaurin invented a
formula which James Kemble (who,
like Maclaurin, is an Australian, a doctor
and a Bulletin contributor) has employed
effectively in Idols and Invalids (Methuen;
65.). An endearing trait in the character
of most good doctors is a Christ-like toler-
ance. They forgive almost all because
they know, if not all, at any rate a deal
more than the rest of us about the origins
of human behavior. Dr. Kemble has this
quality. The word “villain” does not
appear in his lexicon. To him Henry VIII.
was not a congenital lecher and homicide,
nor was he the Bluff King Hal whose Eng-
lish jollity is emphasised by another school.
He divorced Catherine of Aragon because
a male heir was needed to secure the Tudor
succession, and he did it only when he real-
ised that she could never have a child.
After giving birth to Elizabeth Anne
Boleyn “began to display the same propen-
sity for miscarriages that Catherine had
done.” Anne was not merely unfaithful;
she was promiscuous, a -disastrous habit in
a royal wife. Catherine Howard had the
same failing. Jane Seymour gave Henry
the son who was to become Edward VI.,
and died, Although he repudiated Anne of
Cleves, he treated her well, and he was
kind to Catherine Parr. His matrimonial
life was blasted by syphilis acquired in
early youth. This, according to Dr. Kemble,
is the explanation of the many children
born to him who either died at birth or
immediately afterwards; and of Bloody
Mary, with her “square head” and bad
sight. He died of syphilis.
Just as his life had been ruled by his
syphilitic infection, so his death was occa-
sioned by its ravages upou his heart and
blood-vessels.
Some day a medical historian will show
how the history of mankind has been modi-
fied, particularly in recent times, by the
spirochaete which Columbus and his crew
brought back from America in 1493. This
book deals with eight characters and the
Borgias (Pope Alexander VI., Cesare and
Lucrezia) . and three were syphilitics. Colum-
bus showed symptoms of general paralysis
of the insane six years after the discovery
of America; he had rheumatoid arthritis
and cardiac dropsy, and he died from car-
diac failure due to valvular disease.
Cesare Borgia complained of an “ulcer” and
a “sore in the groin” at the height of his
career, and in 1503 his face came out in
“red blotches and pimples.” Fortunately
for him his life ended four years later. “It
is better,” observes Dr. Kemble, “to be
killed in battle than to die of G.P.1.”
There is a fascinating study of Cleopatra
which explodes the popular belief that the
•intermarriage of blood relations necessarily
leads to degenerate offspring. History
shows Cleopatra to have been unusually
healthy; she had
a first-class mind,
she could endure
fatigue and
anxiety, and she
bore sound chil-
dren easily.
Yet she was the ultimate product of cen-
turies of the most intensive “in-breeding.”
Her great-grandparents, Ptolemy and Cleo-
patra, were full brother and sister. Their
child, Cleopatra, married her own uncle—
that is, brother of both her parents.
She was one of the children of Ptolemy
the Thirteenth and Cleopatra the Fifth,
who were brother and sister. She derived,
her splendid health from her healthy ances-
tors. The consanguineous unions that pro-
duce tainted stock are those in which bad
family traits preponderate. Characteristi-
cally, Dr. Kemble defends her against jeal-
ous Romans such as Propertius, who con-
demned her as a wanton. It was her busi-
ness to save Egypt from the usurping power
of Rome.
When her purse proved ineffective she
proffered her person, just as, though in a
manner less open to misconstruction, the lad
thrust his hand into the hole in the dike to
save his country from inundation. Richard
the Third offered his kingdom for a horse,
and it would seem that Cleopatra sacrificed
her chastity for her realm.
All at Sea
In Dr. Cronin’s Grand Canary (Gollanczr;
7s. 6d.), the intense and decorative style
which illumined “Hatter’s Castle” has been
allowed to get out of hand. Everything
is over-emphasised, over-colored. An Ameri-
can lady missionary tells a comic Irishman
that she is in love with Dr. Leith, whom
she and the Irishman have met for the
first time aboard the Aureola; Followed by
the worthy fellow’s commiserating eyes she
walks away.
Restrained only by her will, the anguish
in her bosom almost, stifled her. Her heart
seemed burning, bursting with the comming-
ling of pain and love.
A number of shipboard infatuations, of an
essentially ordinary description, have been
raised to the nth degree of romanticism on
similar lines. Dr. Leith, who lias made a
professional error in London and is in
danger in his distress of becoming a dipso-
maniac, falls in love with Mary, who has
left her husband behind in England. They
have gone ashore at Las Palmas.
“YOu are married,” lie said in a low tone.
“You have your husband.”
The melancholy surrounding her form
like a delicate shadow again enwrapped her
voice as, like one repeating a lesson, she
said :
“Michael is very good to me. He is fond
of me. And I am very fond of him.”
The conflict within him was insupport-
able ; words broke ardently beyond the bar-
rier of his restraint.
The brother of (he missionary already men-
tioned falls in love with Mary’s wanton
friend Elissa, who seduces and discards
him. When he tries to win her back
she asks if he is mad.
“No, not mad. Only mad for love of you.”
His breast heaved; tears rolled down his
cheeks. “Oh, Elissa, my beloved, we have
sinned together. But now we belong to
each other. You are mine—you whom my
soul loveth. Now I will be glad and rejoice
in thee.”
Ihe emotional characters are incredible in
their lunatic absence of self-control; the
stereotyped characters such as the comic
Irishman with a heart of gold and the
Cockney woman are very stereotyped in-
deed; and most, of the others are incredible
in their abominable rudeness. Also,, the
story ends on an anti-climax. Yet it holds
the reader’s interest all through. The
author’s medical knowledge is responsible.
When he explains that his hero has had to
leave London he is able to reveal what his
mistake was, and the reader seCs that a
man like Dr. Leith might have made a
mistake of just that kind. The descrip-
tions of the epidemic of yellow fever at
Santa Cruz, of Mary’s illness, and of the
measures taken by Leith to save her are
all informed with knowledge, and they are
correspondingly absorbing. Arnold Bennett,
in spite of his genius for getting up a case,
wasn’t nearly so convincing and exciting
on the subject of pneumonia.
RED PAGE.
A Lost Continent
The Problem of Lemuria, by Lewis
Spence (Rider; Robertson and Mullens;
10s. 6d. net), is the first attempt to collate
ali the available evidence relating to the
hypothesis of a sunken continent or con-
tinents in the Pacific. One of the most
important workers in this field has been
Prof. Macmillan Brown. Some years ago I
sat amongst the professor’s standard oranges
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —an assurance of accuracy
HORDERNS’
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
ře
Here is the opportunity you have been awaiting,
our Half Yearly Genuine Sale and a special
opening event of Manchester selling. Each
reduction is genuine—and reinforces our state-
ment — “We believe our values to be supreme and
that there is none better.”
“THE PEOPLE’S SALE”
SUPER BARGAINS OF QUALITY MANCHESTER
11 /3 “HORDURA” Regd. Sheets 10/6
“Hordura” (Regd.)
Anthony Horderns’.
Sizes.
54 x 90in
63 x 90in
72 x lOOin
80 x 1 OOin
90 x 1 08in
Sheets. Obtainable only at
.Guaranteed. Plain and Twill.
Prices, Sale
Pair. Priees.
ll/3 10/6
l3/9 12/11
l6/6 15/11
lB/6 17/11
23- 22/3
17/6 Hemstitched Sheets . . . 16/6
“Hordura” Hemstitched Sheets. Boxed in pairs.
Prices, Sale
Sizes. Pair. Prices.
63 x 1 OOin.
72 x lOOin.
80 x 1 08in.
90 x 1 08in.
17/6 16/6
19/6 18/6
22/6 21/6
25/6 24/6
9/6 “Osman” Sheets .... 7/6
“Osman” Sheets. Plain Linen Finish.
Prices, Sale
Sizes. Pair. Prices.
54 X 90in. 9/6 7/6
63 x 90in 12/- 9/9
72 x lOOin 13/11 11/9
80x1 OOin 15/6 13/6
90 x 1 08in 21/- 17/11
22/3 White Double Bed . . . 16/6
Sale Special 500 Pairs Plain White Double Bed
Sheets. Size, 86 x lOOin. Price, pair .... 22/3
Sale Price, pair 16/6
3/11 Herringbone Sheeting now at
Exceptional Sale Offer 12,000
Yards White Herringbone Twill
Sheeting. Extra high-grade quality
2/11
Heavy weight. For double beds. Width, 80in.
Price, yard, 3/11. Sale Price, yard 2/11
l/~ Yard Horrockses , Calico now at
100 Pieces Horrockses’ Calico.
Width, 32in. Usual Price, 1/- yard.
Reduced to, yard B£d.
è
Horrockses , Calicoes Reduced
Horrockses’ Calicoes. Width, 36 inches.
Prices, yard .. B|d. 9d. 1/- 1/4 1/6 1/8 1/10
Sale, yard .. 7|d. B£d. 1 Id. 1/3 1/5 1/7 1/9
“HORDURA” Pillow Cases
“Hordura” Pillow Cases. Size, 20 x 30 ins. Taped.
Price, each 1/8
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 1/7
Buttoned. Price, each 1/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 1/8
Housewife. Price, each 1/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 1/9
2/2 Finlay’s Pillow Cases , . . 2/-
Finlay’s Pillow Cases. Size, 20 x 30 ins. Taped.
Price, each 2/2
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each ...... 2/-
Buttoned. Price, each 2/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 2/1
Housewife. Price, each 2/4
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 2/2
White Turkish Super
Admiralty Towels.
Heavy weight. Red
heading and fringed.
Sizes, 24 x 48 inches.
Price, each 2/6
Sale Price, each . . 2/3
GLASS CLOTH
Glass Cloth. Red or
Blue Check Designs.
Widths, ins.—
24 27 26 27
Prices, yard—
-1/2 1/4 1/8 1/11
Sale, yard—
1/- 1/3 1/6 1/9
TOWELLING
Kitchen Towelling. All
Pure Linen, reliable
qualities. Widths, ins.—
24 26 27 29 35
Prices, yard—
-1/3 1/4 1/7 1/11 2/6
Sale, yard—
1/- 1/2 1/6 1/9 2/3
2/9 White
TURKISH
TOWELS
1000 Dozen Heavy-
weight British Towels.
Neat red heading. Size,
24 x 46 inches. Usual
Price, each . . 2/9 i ,
Reduced to, each,
CHRISTY’S
TOWELS
Unbleached Turkish
Bath Towels. Christy’s
famous qualities.
Prices, Sale,
Sizes. Each. Each.
23 x 48in. 4/6 4/3
24 x 50in. 4/11 4/8
26 x 56in. 5/1 1 5/8
30 x 60in. 7/6 6/11
n
V
2/6 Value at
1/11
Heavyweight superior
quality. A most handsome
combination of colors,
which include Tango, Blue,
Gold, Green and Red.
Size, 23 x 45 inches.
Usual Price, each . . 2/6
Reduced to, each .. 1/11
wU »
«p® v
K
y£
SALE SPECIAL
18/11 Irish Linen
Damask Cloths
600 only Irish
Linen Damask
Cloths, in five dis-
15/6
tinct floral or scroll designs.
Size, 70 x 88 inches.
Price, each 18/ 1 1
Sale Price, each .... 15/6
10,000 TO CLEAR
2/6 Breakfast Cloths at
1/6
10,000 Bleached Damask Break-
fast Cloths, with Rose, Blue, Gold
or Green colored check border.
Sizes, ins. 45x45 52x52 54x68
Prices .... 2/6 2/1 1 3/6
Sale .... 1/6 1/11 2/6
Calico Car Covers
Each.
12 x 15. Price 16/11
Sale Price 15/3
12 x 18. Price 1 9/9
Sale Price 17/11
15 x 18. Price 24/-
Sale Price 21/6
15 x 20. Price 27/-
Sale Price 23/11
15x24. Price 32/6
Sale Price 27/6
18x20. Price 32/6
Sale Price 27/6
32/6 MARCELLA QUILT 29/6
White Satin-finished Marcella Quilts, well
raised designs. Single Bed size.
Price, 32/6. Sale Price 29/6
Three-quarter Bed size.
Price 39/6. Sale Price 35/-
Double Bed size.
Price, 49/6. Sale Price 39/6
Large Double Bed size.
Price, 59/6. Sale Price 49/6
All Wool “HORDURA” Blankets Your Opportunity to Save Now
All Wool White "Hordura” Blankets.
Standard weight.
Sizes.
54 x 78in. Single Bed
63x81 in. Three-quarter Bed. ...
72 x 90in. Double Bed 37 ' b
81 x 99in. Large Double Bed 47/6
Prices,
Pair.
24/6
30/-
Sale
Prices.
22/6
27/6
34/6
42/6
All Wool White “Hordura” Blankets. Soft,
warm. Splendid value. Standard weight. Prices,
Sizes. Pdir.
54 x 78in. Single Bed 29/6
63 x 81 in. Three-quarter Bed .... 35/11
72 x 90in. Double Bed 45/11
81 x 99in. Large Double Bed 56/6
90 x 108 in. Extra Large Double Bed 67/6
fleecy,
Sale
Prices.
27/6
33/6
42/11
51/6
64/6
2/9 Australian
Flannel at 2/6
All Wool Australian Flannel.
Heavy weight, for men s wear.
Natural, Light Grey, Dark
Grey, Welsh and Cream.
30in. wide.. Price, yard, 2/9
Sale Price, yard 2/6
OUTSTANDING
DOWN QUILT SALE OFFER
Down Quilts, covered in best-quality
downproof floral sateen, with plain
sateen panel and border filled, with
good-quality Down. Shades: Rose,
Blue, Green, Gold, Brown, Orange,
Wine and black. Double Bed, Price,
45/-. Sale 357-
Single Bed. Price.. 39/6
Sale
29/11
2/3 Flannelette
to Clear at 1/1 li
Horrockses* best - quality
Striped Twill Flannelette.
Fast colors. Attractive shirt-
ing and pyjama designs.
Extra heavy weight. 33in.
wide. Price, yard . . 2/3
Sale Price, yard .... 1/1U
Superior Quality White “HORDURA
All Wool White “Hordura” Blankets. Full standard
weights and sizes. „ . _ ,
Prices, Sale
Sizes. Pair. Prices.
54 x 72in. Single Bed l6/11
54 x 78in. Large Single Bed 19/11 18/11
63 x 8 1 in. Three-quarter Bed 25/6 23/11
72 x 90in. Double Bed 32/6 31/-
81 x 99in. Large Double Bed 39/6 37/6
Silver and Dark Grey Blankets
All Wool Silver and Dark Grey Tasmanian Blankets.
Full standard weights and sizes. Splendid, values^
Sizes Pair -' pric ® s -
-54 x 72in. Single Bed 15/6 14/6
54 x 78in. Large Single Bed 16/6 15/6
63 xBl in. Three-quarter Bed 21/- Ijj/®
72 x 90in. Double Bed . . 25/ J 1 23/11
81 x 99in. Large Double Bed 31/6 29/6
the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
Manchester—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all seaports in
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD. —SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O. ’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.


TOUCH!
and the sugar draws the tea!
f
:
i
m
mm
a as
m
m
TOUCH!
and the Threaded Rubber
Insulator draws the acids!
That’s why yon get
Quicker Starts with
a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery!
The perfect porosity** of the Threaded Rubber
Insulator allows free and uniform circulation
of the battery acids. This means that a Willard
Thread Rubber Battery always develops maxi-
mum power—and gives quicker starts under
all conditions.
Made of rubber, this Willard Patented
Threaded Rubber Insulator has proved to be
the most satisfactory battery insulator known.
Its insulating qualities are higher than any
other insulator used! Impervious to strong
acid solution!
Reinforced with hard rubber ribs, it does not
warp or crack. It is so strong that it actually
outlives the plates themselves!
A Willard Thread Rubber Battery will give
you real economy. You’ll get quicker starts
and better service under all conditions
longer battery life and your upkeep will
be less! Ask your dealer about the Willard
Thread Rubber Battery!
Due to Amazing Porosity
PLUS Capillary Action .
A magnified section of the Wil-
lard Threaded Rubber Insu-
lator. Porosity means free flow
of the battery acid between each
positive and negative plate. See
the tiny threads which by capil-
lary action (same as the sugar )
carry the acid through. 5,000 of
these wicks to the square inch!
This means easier and quicker
starting for you.
E3E
BATTERIES
e
No Wood in a Willard
Thread, Rubber Battery!
Practically 85% of all battery
faults are due to the premature
failure of conventional insula-
tors. Hard usage, vibration, and
the result of overcharging often
wear out wooden insulators be-
fore the battery plates have
been used up. Insure yourself
with a Willard Thread Rubber
Battery. More Willards are
sold than any other make!
Motor Supplies Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd.. Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.


BE A MAN SHE’LL
ADMIRE !
ALFRED J. BRITOS.
Australia’s Leading Physical Director.
“Founder of “Health and Physical Culture”
Magazine.
yyoMEN want he-men for their hus-
bands and sweethearts. None of this
shop-man stuff for the real girl. She
wants to be proud of his physical make-
up; proud of his figure in a bathing suit;
she knows it’s the fellow that is full
of kick and vitality that gets ahead
in this world. He’s got the physical
backbone to back up the mental
decisions he makes. He’ll win out
all the time.
LOOK YOURSELF OVER.
How do you shape up? Are you giving
yourself a square deal? Have you got
good, solid muscles that mean health and
strength inside and out? The stamina that
gives you the ambition to win at every-
thing you start? Make that girl admire
you first and foremost for a real he-man
and the hardest part of winning her is
over.
WHAT I CAN DO FOR YOU IN JUST 30 DAYS!
In just 30 days I can so alter you that she will hardly know you. I’ll put a whole
inch of solid muscle on each arm in 30 days, and 31 inches across your chest. Iye
done it for hundreds, and I can do it for you. I don’t care how weak and sickly
vou are. It’s my pleasure to get them weak, because it is the hopeless cases that I
work with best. It gives me a lot of joy to see them develop, and the surprised look in
their eyes when they step before the mirror at the end of 30 days and see what a
miracle I have worked for them.
YOU’LL BE A HE-MAN FROM NOW ON!
And it’s not a temporary layer of muscle I put on you. It’s there to stay. With
those newly-broadened shoulders, that powerful neck, and great manly
maintain your self-respect in any society. Every woman will know that you are what
every man should be —a forceful, red-blooded he-man.
I WANT YOU FOR 95 DAYS!
t, . on .lavs you think vou have improved, wait till you see yourself at
Knmethimr the cat dragged in, by comparison. lin not called the Man Maker ior
nothing; mySystem Tefentittcally builds real muscle faster than you ever imagined.
GET THIS GREAT BOOK—FREE !
Send now for My Free Illustrated Book. Full of pictures ofpupils “‘hletes and
myself. Crammed full of information that will amaze you. It s the finest art gaiierj
of strong men ever assembled. Take out your pen or pend, and fill m the coupon
below. Don't delay, send it in to-night .NOW.
RUSH THIS COUPON ALONG NOW !
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir. —Please send me absolutely Free, a copy of your
book, “The Secret of Muscular Strength—and How to Acquire it.
Don’t send one penny—lT’S FREE.
NAME
ADDRESS
■88«/Z,/S -a
overlooking the lights of Christchurch and
listened while he recounted his investigations
amongst the gigantic and enigmatic busts of
Easter Island, that tiny speck in the waste of
waters between the South Sea archipelagoes
and the coast of South America. Epstein
has never conceived anything so arresting
as those curled, sarcastic smiles on 70-foot
faces gazing from titanic terraces over their
hypothetical lost empire. It is Prof.
Brown’s theory that these were the portrait
busts of a race of Nietzschean supermen
who used Easter Island as their ancestral
burial-ground. It must have been a slave
empire with millions of obedient helots.
An English voyager 200 years ago sighted
its shores, but, lacking the urge of scientific
curiosity, sailed on, contenting himself by
noting their latitude and longitude. The
next voyagers sailed right over the spot
where he had seen seas breaking at the foot
of a range of mountains on which lights
gleamed in vast numbers. During the inter-
val a seismic convulsion, to which the great
earthquake in Japan was a minor local dis-
turbance, and for which there is consider-
able, if conflicting, geological evidence, had
plunged an ancient civilisation into obli-
vion. Further north are other vestiges, not-
ably the great water city of Metalanim in
the Carolines, composed of the largest
blocks of masonry ever used by human
builders, which must have needed other
millions of slaves for their construction.
The Australian Prof. Elliot Smith is an-
other scientist who has given his attention
to the problem. He traces the origin of
the ruins back to ancient Egypt. Spence
prefers the hypothesis of an indigenous
civilisation arising in the Pacific and send-
ing out waves of migration, possibly through
Japan, China and Central Asia to Europe,
thus making the Pacific the cradle of West-
ern civilisation. He also sends another
wave to South America, where it established
itself as the empire of the Incas. The
Lemurians were white, if the fact that the
South Sea Islanders believed their gods
were white is any evidence. Moreover,
Spence establishes a possible connection
between Lemuria and Atlantis, tpe lost
continent of. the Atlantic.
Madame Blavatsky received precise in-
formation about the Lemurians from the
astral sphere. They were gigantic and
bestial, and begat a species which later de-
veloped into mammalian apes. They pos-
sessed a third eye which conferred on them
psychic vision. Dr. Rudolf Steiner reports
that they were without language but were
able to communicate with each other by a
species of thought transference, and could
lift enormous weights by the exercise of will-
power alone. According to Colonel Church-
ward, who found some tablets recounting
their history in a monastery (not located)
in India, their civilisation under Wise Rulers
became so advanced that there was not a
single person who was not well clad, well
fed, well sheltered, with easy work and
ample leisure for recreation. As they de-
veloped intellect and will-power they re-
belled against these Wise Rulers, and in
course of experiments in self-rule sank into
the greatest depths of vice and sensuality.
So, if Lemuria had not been destroyed by
earthquake, it would have succumbed to
democracy. There is even the astounding
evidence of one observer to the effect that
a colony of Lemurians live an ideal life in
isolation on a mountain-top in California,
and never visit Hollywood.
Where almost everything is conjecture
there is room for honest difference of
opinion about the Lemurians. It is my
belief that they lived until they died and
no longer. They laughed when they were
pleased, and cried when they were unhappy.
The wise ones ate when they were hungry
and drank when they were thirsty, which
was always. The unwise ones ate too much
and drank too little and died prematurely
of sclerosis of the arteries. They believed
everything they read in their favorite news-
paper and disbelieved everything printed
by the opposition press. They had a firm
belief in culture and always voted for the
politician who promised not to tax the
moving pictures. They were intensely
patriotic, and believed that one Lemurian
was equal to ten foreigners, and when a
visitor told them the opposite they thought
he was bad-tempered, ignorant or jealous.
They had the highest ideals about morality,
and when the censors stopped an immoral
book coming into the country they
approved of his action, and got their friends
to smuggle a copy in in their baggage.
Those who had no property believed that
property was theft, and those who had
plenty of it believed that private owner-
ship was the bulwark of Lemuria. They
had a great love of art, but always let their
best artists die in poverty, and then paid
each other. enormous prices for their pic-
tures. They had a high reputation for
sportsmanship, and when they got licked
it was only because of the unsportsmanlike
behavior of their opponents. They believed
ardently in peace, and fought a continuous
series of exhausting wars in order to main-
tain it. They believed in every form of
legal robbery, but anybody who robbed out-
side the law they punished with a proper
severity. They, considered all change was
bad because their own era was the best, and
all previous eras were barbarous. They
had a high conception of the truth, but
did not consider it was wrong to cheat the
Government. They suffered great wrongs
meekly, but over the little ones became
furiously indignant. Their health was on
the whole poor, though they did everything
their doctors told them and drank enough
medicine to float a battleship. They be-
lieved in an after-life of perpetual felicity
but never evinced any eagerness to leave
this one. They were fond of dogs and
children, and were kind and generous by
nature, and if they erred it was through
ignorance rather than evil disposition. In
short, they had all the characteristics of a
highly-cultured people.
This is all I know about the Lemurians.
It is admittedly not scientific. All the
scientific information can be found in “The
Problem of Lemuna,” which is a fascinat-
ing volume.
M.G.S.
A Perfect Lady
An American critic has discovered a speci-
men of censorship which makes our
Customs officials look like Athenians of
the Golden Age. When Nathaniel Haw-
thorne died he left a notebook, kept
between 1837 and 1853. His widow pub-
lished it in 1868. Mrs. Hawthorne wanted
the world to have a good opinion of her
husband, according to the moral notions of
her time, and comparison of the published
version with Hawthorne’s original script
reveals that she did her job with remark-
able thoroughness. Mrs. Hawthorne had
a distaste for concrete metaphor. “Of that
kidney” became “of that sort”; “quick tem-
pered as the devil” was metamorphosed into
“very quick-tempered,” “smell” into “odor,”
“belly” into “rotundity” and “swilling” into
“drinking.” When Hawthorne noted that
he “went to bed,” Mrs. Hawthorne turned
it into the more elegant “retired.” She
Avas shocked by such phrases as “the
maternal bosom,” “forfeited her chastity”
and even “male and female,” and they all
went west. Her refined nature Avas unable
to tolerate descriptions of seasickness and
tooth extraction, at any rate in her hus-
band’s mouth. If Hawthorne’s home was
anything like his wife’s idea of what life
ought to be. he must have found writing
in his journal a relief.
M.S.
Anzac Day Anthem
The Anzac Festival Committee, of Queen
Victoria Buildings, Sydney, is offering a
£5 prize for an Anzac Day anthem. The
conditions are:—
I—The competition is open to all and the anthems
(of not more than 20 lines) must reach the com-
petition secretary not later than September 30.
2*—The manuscript must be signed with a nom de
plume and accompanied by a sealed envelope, con-
taining the author’s name and address inside and
the nom de plume on the outside.
3 The entrance fee is 3s.
4 The adjudicators’ decision shall be final.
The winning anthem will be the subject
of a subsequent competition for a musi-
cal setting.
A Satchel of Books
J. M. Dent and Sons have issued The
Diary of Samuel Pepys and Tom Jones in
their Double Volumes series at ss. each. The
Diary, which is Lord Braybrooke’s un-
abridged 1854 edition, has an introduction by
David Garnett, the new editor of the “Nation
and Athentieum,” and George Saintsbury has
written the introduction for Fielding’s mas-
terpiece. The Diary has a useful index of
names and places.
Canterbury Cathedral, by M. A. Babington,
is one of a series of booklets dealing with
the cathedrals, abbeys and churches of Eng-
land which Dent and Sons are publishing at
2s. 6d. each. It tells the story of Canter-
bury from St. Augustine’s arrival there in
a.d. 597 to the present day. Not only are the
cathedral and the numerous churches inside
the city dealt with, but there are fairly com-
prehensive accounts of churches as far away
as Fordwich and H’erne. These books are
interesting to the general reader, and in-
valuable to tourists.
Among the Reeds, by Jane Laker (Cassell;
7s. Gd.). A story of pre-war Sydney with
never a mention of society, squatters or
Randwick. The characters are intelligent
and articulate folk who are interested
chiefly in art and literature—and there isn’t
a prig among them. Jane, who tells about
them with feminine charm, and her friend
Charlotte are delightful. Would that this
admirable writer could be claimed as a local
product, but, though she has obviously lived
and may have been born here, the melancholy
fact obtrudes that she sees Australia and
Australians through European eyes and
thinks of them in terms of European people
and places! Get this book if you are curious
to learn how N. S. Wales impressed a
clever, nice-natured cosmopolitan 20 years
ago.
George Allen and Unwin have published
Jean Cocteau’s Opium at ss. The transla-
tion has been admirably done by Ernest
Boyd and there are a couple of dozen illus-
trations —mostly ghastly—r-by the author. The
book takes the form of a collection of mostly
unrelated thoughts about opium, some of
which are platitudinous, inasmuch as they
have been uttered of every kind of addict
(“To tell a smoker in a continuous state of
euphorion that he is degrading himself is
equivalent to telling a piece of marble that
it has deteriorated through Michael Angelo.”),
while some are highly suggestive.
All children have a fairy power of changing them-
selves into whatever they, wish. Poets, whose child-
hood is prolonged, - suffer greatly when they lose
this power. That is doubtless one of the reasons
which compel poets to use opium.
The narrative ends with a bald intimation
of the author’s cure after six weeks in a
clinic. He doesn’t emulate De Quincey by
describing his experiences while being weaned
off the drug.
The Scientific Romances of H. G. Wells
is the latest Gollancz omnibus volume. It
costs Bs. 6d. and contains such masterpieces
as “The Invisible Man” and “The Time
Machine.” There are 1232 pages in this
eight-story book.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Same
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.5.8.: Thanks for suggestion; passing it
on to the Endeavour Press W.E.H., “When nitre
is heated it is said to deflagrate.” Never doubted
it; but you mustn't be so technical in verse....
S. D. Virgil: No, “we can’t expect the leaders of
Governments to clean behind backdoors.” Still, you
are rather hard on the lady... .E.A.8.: Glad you
like the short 'stories Will C.: “Hulks” needed
no ballast to sink it.... J.L.M.: “The Stream” says
nothing original. Also, Masefield’s poem is in rhyme
and your imitation isn’t... .Paul C.: Doesn’t quite
click... .V.W. : The “dusky warriors” dancing on
“moonlit moss” to the “rhythmic croon of savage
lamentation” fail to move us. ...M.S.: “Peace”
hasn’t its victories, on this occasion... .John
Bertha: You have ideas, but the versification is
feeble.... G. A. L. :
There was a time, when Sydney papers
Fought to get my stuff in print.
Perhaps that accounts for the appalling mortality
among Sydney papers... .D.M.M.: “Futility” is
just that and the other pieces rather more 50....
Bellerive: V mast erpiece of condensation : —-
THE SENSATIONAL WRESTLING CONTEST
BETWEEN HACKENSMITIID AND GOTCH.
Before a noisy crowd
In the United States,
Grimly grappled the
Formidable heavyweights.
As the contest went on,
Frank Coteh did display
Tactics most, cruel in
A daring way.
His only chance against
The Russian bear
Who struggled to contest
In pain and despair.
’.Midst hoots and cheers
Of an uproarou.s din.
Half blind and disabled
He was forced to gi ve in.
Honorable fans in
Their hearts well knew
Haekensmithd was the
Cleverest man of the two.
... . J.H.: “Sonnet to Beauty” hasn’t any....J.M.:
Am 1 needed
For nation building?
Of course you are. Drop the pen and shoulder a
h0d....G.8.: Too. slight to form any opinion on.
Kirkstall: “.Mob Psychology” reads true enough,
but it isn't worth a tenth of the space.... K.W.8.:
Unsubstantial without being fairy-like G.D.V.:
Mediocre to the verge of feebleness. Impossible to
answer contributors by post.... E.A.L.: But wouldn’t
it do for •'•5O places besides Darlingburst ? .T.AV.:
“Night’s shadows creep stealthily tint-trampled earth
to buss.” But “to buss,” according to Webster, is
“to kiss with a smack, or rudely.” Surely they
don’t do it that way... . J.R.R.: AVords run away
with you; reason fails you for rhyme. .. .Geoloin:
“Judge Not” came near, but you don't work out
your theme and there are unmetrical lines
M. 8.: You’ll have to do a lot better than that
K.P.S.: Very close up. .. .A.H.C.: Try a church
magazine C.R.A.: More about the boy and less
about his father would have made it a better yarn.
R.H.C.: Needs a story woven into it 8.C.:
You won’t collect on “The Punters”... .H.S.: Over-
stocked with shadowy characters J.J.S.: Poor
yarn, and you give the show away in the title....
C.C.: Murder yarn too bald ; humor in other third-rate.
. ...M.L.: Built on fragile foundations A.8.C.:
Much ado about nothing W. 0.8.: Unbelievable
nonsense A.L.8.: You're the latest subscriber to
the nonsensical theoty that a. ’tec always lets a
pretty offender escape P.0.M.: Yarn in which the
unobtrusive listener turns out to be the main
character has been worn to shreds.... A.E.C.: Aou
left it half told G.P.: You take a fearful time
to get to the point J.8.W.: A fine opportunity
wasted G.S.: Threadbare plot G.G.: Humor
falls Hat A.AV.: Rambling E.M.G.0.: Hazy
1t.E.8.: Not keen on the end.. . .T.J.P.: Another
good chance missed. •
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Anon: You can’t make an old gag new by sub-
stituting commercial travellers for actors... .8.P.:
Still in the knickerbocker stage . ..K.F.: Heavy....
,T.K.: Have you ever been to an art-teacher?....
A. : Golfers look like park loafers, and the jest
is stale. .. .A.E.W.: Census joke arrived too date
B. : Why the cross-hatching on the lady’s cheeks?
. ...R.J.L.: Even the animals appear to be in
strait-jackets N.G.: Get some depth into your
work... .G.A.M. : Promising in patches... .S.J.: Gag
too much like one that was in “Sinoke-0h”....
T.W.: And we thought from the yards of mauve
tissue paper in which it was swathed that it was
going to be something special... .C.L.: Not good
enough to praise, not bad enough to slate. .. .R.D.:
They all look as if they had escaped from an aviary.
W.M.C.: Can’t utilise the old girl who swears in
front of the curate. .. .R.M.: Design too complicated.
. ...F.L.G.: Study The Bulletin before submitting
drawings.. . .8.D.: Sharpen your powers of observa-
tion and get brighter gags... .C.N.R.: Mechanical
sketches and pointless jokes... .H.E.P.: All right
as nursery cartoons... .A.W.: Don’t try to draw
with a clogged-up pen.. .. J.J.L.: Dainty figures, but
they’re fearfully dull in conversation S.C.: You
should have used angular bends and sharp high-
lights with clear edges... .E.A.: Standard slowly
rising 8.5.: Your clubmen take life too seriously.
F.L.: Give some thought to the job in hand —
don't just dash it off P. J.: In that instance you
shouldn’t have used charcoal N. 8.: Haven’t you
been taught how to correct loss by perspective?
V.R.F.: Work not clear enough D.S.C.: Picture
overcrowded.... A. S.: Dave must repeat himself a
lot. He’s said the same thing about those milkers
over and over again. .. .H.R.H.: Cartoon weeks too
late K.S.: You need a thorough grounding first.


'"’■V '•
i
' ■/
<
■ :
; n
‘
U
illlf
/
H
I
■
■
%
>v
■
HH
■
✓
I
'
■ ■
m
m
I
;■? •-
HI
9
.
~ .
m
■ ill
■
~,,.
.
-
m


The Bulletin
Yol. 54.—\u. 2786.
July 5, 1933.
LAST PHASE.
"For they are impudent and stiffhearted......they ar a rebellious house. Be not afraid of their words nor be dismayed at their looks, though
they be a rebellious house. Be thou not rebellious house."-Ezokiel ii.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 232 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
' rcTORiA; Newspaper House, 21/7-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 11/ Panama
Street, IV ellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anr address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.j 6 months, 12s. fid.;
o months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 -months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 1/d.
“GROW LESS WHEAT!”
Australian wheatgrowers have had unhappy
experiences of the politicians who persist in
meddling in their affairs. In the early part
of the war many of them had their wheat
seized, in contempt of the constitutional
guarantee of inter-State Freetrade, and sold
at less than the market price. Seizure of war
wheat was regulated after a fashion when the
marketing scheme was set up, but the storage
arrangements were such that vast quantities
ol grain were left unprotected, and mice
devoured what the elements did not spoil.
Politicians’ friends, as ravenous as the mice,
cleared fortunes on the speculative side,
some of their transactions turning the
stomachs of Royal Commissioners; but no
fortunes were made by growers.
For the four years 1915-19 the average
return to N.S.W. farmers who put wheat
into the pools was a fraction under 4s. 4d. a
bushel, and out of that they had to pay
railway freight-rates in three years, plus
handling charges in 1915-16. In 1916-17,
when the mice and other vermin were
most destructive, their net return was
3s. 3d. As 1914-15 was a drought year—-pro-
duction for Australia was less than 25 mil-
lion bushels, the average per acre being 22-
bushels, the lowest on record—and 1918-19
and 1919-20 were poor years, the latter
especially (the yield was 46 million bushels,
compared with 179 millions in 1915-16),
most Australian farmers made little or
nothing out of their war wheat. Thousands
emerged from the period worse off than
before. On the other hand, the U.S. farmers
did famously throughout, and when their
country , came in the Government fixed the
bushel-price of wheat at 2 dollars 20 cents.
The depression arrived, and the Common-
wealth politicians in power set up a cry of
“Grow More Wheat.” “Grow More Wheat,”
they shouted, “and get Australia out of the
mess. We’ll give you four shillings for every
bushel jmu deliver at your railway station
or siding. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment guarantees the four shillings; so go
ahead.” The farmers went ahead—to such
purpose that the area under wheat increased
from 14,976,500 acres in 1929-30 to 18,164,900
acres in 1930-31. There might have been an
increase without the Government guaran-
tee (though in the previous year there was
a decrease of 136,000 acres), but it would
have been nothing like 3,188,400 acres.
Cropped area and production in 1930-31
were far and away the greatest in the
history of Australia; production jumped
from 126,884,600 bushels in 1929-30 to
213,594,300 bushels in 1930-31. The poli-
ticians who promised the 4s. a bushel were
merely fools who meant well, though the
promises of fools who mean well can be as
harmful as the practices of rogues. When a
good harvest was assured a different stamp
of politician—one with a lying tongue and
a front of brass—was heard from, it being
election-time. He said his party would sec
that the N.S.W. farmers received, not a
paltry 4s. a bushel, but 7s. 6d. The pos-
sibility of a collapse of prices never entered
the heads of these politicians; but collapse
they did. For the year to June 30, 1931,
119,223,200 bushels of wheat were sent
abroad, and the average export price was
2s. sfd. a bushel; the local price fell even
more calamitously. The election over, and
“Labor” in, nothing more was heard about
the 7s. 6d. from the politician with the lying
tongue and the front of brass, and the fool-
Government that meant well never came to
light with the 4s. Those who put their
faith in its protestations lost a shilling or
more on every, bushel they bagged.
Now, if the oracle can be worked, the
affairs of our wheatgrowers are to be ordered
for them by another set of politicians,
meeting at the World Economic Conference
in London. The cry is no longer “Grow
More Wheat,” but “Grow Less Wheat.”
The loudest shouting has been done by the
representatives of the U.S.A., which, having
had a “Grow More Wheat” campaign on a
more grandiose scale than that of the Scul-
lin Government, and having, unlike that
Government, financed it until the money
gave out, found itself with huge accumula-
tions which could not be sold at home or
abroad. Uncle’s delegates think it would
be a fine thing for Uncle—in this matter, as
in others, they consider no one else—if
wheat-growing were restricted by State
action in the four countries taking part in
the discussions, the U.S.A., Canada, Argen-
tina and Australia. They suggested a 15
p.c. reduction of areas to be cropped over a
period of three years. And while the men
from the other three countries were debat-
ing the proposal, the Democratic Secretary
of Agriculture had the effrontery to
issue the threat that “if Australia, Argen-
tina and Canada do not see the light” the
US.A. might dump its surplus on the world
market “at a price as low as 20 cents.”
If Uncle did this it would be the world’s
\Vorst example of blacklegging. But the con-
sequences would plainly be so serious for
Uncle, as well as damaging to peoples
whose friendship is worth cultivating, that
it is doubtful whether American public
opinion would permit it.
Controlled reduction of output was tried
by the British in the case of rubber, to
the great annoyance of the American poli-
tician. Memorable was his elation when
the Stevenson scheme broke down; and it
is strange that he should want to repeat
the experiment in the domain of wheat, in
circumstances far less favorable, Russia
being out of it—necessarily, because the Red
Covernment’s woi’d is not worth a row of
Pins. In 1930 Russia harvested 1,083,900,000
bushels of wheat—22o,soo,ooo bushels more
than the U.S.A., 221,400,000 bushels more
than the U.S.A. average for the two years
1927-1929, and 236,500.000 bushels more
than Canada (397,879,000), Argentina
(235,962,000) and Australia (213,594,000)
Put together, reckoning our 1930-31 wheat
as having been stripped in 1930. Australia
knows only too well how the Communist
grain has invaded its overseas markets,
the British and Italian especially. Now,
as in 1930, its circumstances oblige it to
increase its exports; and, next to wool,
wheat is the most saleable commodity it
produces.
If reduction of acreage were practicable,
it would have to be applied indiscrimi-
nately—to good farmers and bad. Seeing
that the harsh results of the “Grow More
Wheat” campaign are still operating, it
would be necessary to compensate the vic-
tims for the period of the restriction; and
the money is not available. In any case,
restriction could not possibly commence
until 1934, for this year’s crops are all in.
Suppose an old-man drought on the 1902
or 1914 scale arrived in 1934. Suppose the
farmers, anxious to get square, and with
the rested and semi-fertilised earth calling
to them to turn up every foot, found them-
selves bound by an arrangement with over-
seas politicians to sow 10 p.c. or 15 p.c.
less than the area cropped in 1931-32
which shrank to 14,734,800 acres. The
position would not be tolerated; but no
Government will be permitted to bring
it about. The representative of Australia
should be instructed to listen politely to
what the other delegates have to say, and to
send particulars of any feasible plan for
disposing of unsold stocks, but to make it
crystal-clear that Australia will be no party
to any restrictive scheme, though the U.S.
Secretary of Agriculture storm till he is
black in the face.
Judging by reports from the North
American wheat belts, there will be no
over-production this year. Nature has its
own way of solving these problems.. It is
infinitely wiser than politicians.
A SIDELIGHT ON THE CENSUS.
“The German Minister for the Interior, in sub-
mitting a bill for the sterilisation of the unfit, said
the care of a lunatic costs 4s. a day, and that of a
cripple and a deaf mute 65., while unskilled laborers
receive only 2s. 6d. Germany must produce more
healthy children, instead of one child per healthy
couple while half-wits produce three per couple.”
When the census figures are published it is
expected that they will confirm the decline
in the natural increase which has been evi-
dent for a long time. Moreover, it is ex-
pected that the decline will be found to be
common to all classes, though slightly less
evident in the country than in the cities.
Apparently the thunders of the press rela-
tive to the danger of an under-populated
continent close to an over-populated one
have fallen on deaf ears, as far as potential
mothers and fathers are concerned. As a
matter of fact, this is as it always has been.
The aboriginals maintained an equilibrium
m population by all sorts of drastic
measures. Most classes in Australia hope to
maintain their standard and, if possible, to
rise to a higher one, and even the depression
hasn’t altogether destroyed their optimism.
Those who still breed indiscriminately are
either without hope or have lost the sense
of personal responsibility through Gov-
ernmental paternalism. An ounce of obser-
vation is sometimes worth a ton of figures;
and here is the case of Pearl Purdekin—
name fictitious.
Pearl is a placid, pretty, peaches-and-
cream damsel who takes everything that
comes to her. She is healthy but not
over-intelligent—in fact* what' the pub-
licists too hastily call a moron. Before she
could crawl she was taken to picture-shows
by her mother, and since then, except for
the usual learning to read and write at a
Government school, Hollywood has been
her only mental pabulum. She continued
to go to the pictures, and at- the age of 14
she had an affair with the spruiker. at the
local cinema, who was aged 47. To save
the family’s name, her father, a respect-
able artisan, insisted on their marriage. The
baby arrived three months afterwards.
Having lost Ins job, the spruiker could
not pay his rent, but his landlord decided
it was useless to evict him. He has a bit
of a pension, and gets a day’s work now
and then; and there is always the dole.
He is addicted to drink, but is neve%violent,
and Pearl and lie rub along together satis-
factorily. Though intensely philoprogeni-
tive, he takes no interest in his offspring
when they get out of the animated-doll
stage. Pearl is placidly maternal, accepts
everything, suckles her children industri-
ously, but, like her husband, loses interest
in them as soon as the next is coining—
in short, a perfect mother, according to the
socialist doctrine of State responsibility.
On the first occasion Pearl was taken to
the public hospital. There she was in her
glory. It was the nearest to the Hollywood
ideal of human comfort, convenience and
magnificence she is ever likejy to attain to.
She had uniformed nurses to wait on her,
eminent physicians to attend to her and all
the latest scientific facilities at her dis-
posal. Solomon’s wives were not so for-
tunate. On returning to her home after
this thrilling experience she reigned for
some months as a ninsing mother. Then
her baby was taken over by its grandmother
and Pearl returned to her public-hospital
paradise to have another. Up to date she
has had six, and a seventh is coming. All
are healthy children, but four have had to
be sent back to the State institution to have
minor operations for a condition not un-
common among babies, the operations being
performed by leading surgeons who take it
out of their financial patients—they have to.
Pearl’s mother is now looking after five
of Pearl’s offspring. She gets considerable
satisfaction out of this unexpected oppor-
tunity to exercise her maternal instincts.
Her respectable artisan husband, however,
finds all his aims and family aspirations in
ruins. Some people might say, serve him
right for forcing a marriage between a girl
of 14 and a man old enough, to be her
father; but that is another question. The
point is that he represents the higher-
standard-of-life ideal. To attain this he
restricted his progeny to four, hoping to
give them a good education and possibly
see the boy in a profession.
Pearl’s behavior has thrown a spanner into
the machinery. One of the girls has escaped
into marriage, another has to help her
mother at, home with Pearl’s family, and
the boy, having been taken prematurely
from school, drifts from one odd job to
another. The father himself has been driven
from home, not only by the superfluity
of grandchildren, but by the necessity, to
earn more money to keep things going,
which he can only do in the country. The
family is full of complexes, due to the sac-
rifice of natural instincts on the altar of
duty and convention.
In the meantime, Pearl and her spruiker
live a carefree life oblivious of all the
problems they are creating. Their dature
is such that it is doubtful if they could be
made conscious of them.
ARE SYDNEYITES MORONS?
“Exile,” who viewed Sydney after a long
absence (B. 28/6/’33>, was “not impressed
with the new flock of urbanities it has de-
veloped.” It disappointed him “with a
debonairness that is only the movie counter-
feit of a cultivated attitude”; it “has be-
come the Elysee of the nitwit, the Sor-
bonne of the crook”; and American influ-
ences are to blame. “Exile” should know
something of American influences. A good
deal of his time has obviously been, spent
studying the writings of Mencken and
Nathan. He has picked up their intellectual
snobbery, and a passable imitation of their
tortured style. His priggish jibes at Sydney
for its illiteracy and “its indifference to
matters which he in his wanderings has
counted precious” are a rehash of jibes
which his models have been aiming at
American cities for the past 15 years.
I sometimes find myself doubting if there
ever was any justification for the Mencken-
Nathan jibes. M. and N. employ a formula
which has been popular for centuries among
impostors. It is based on a hate-appeal.
Just as Hitler proves his Germanism by
denouncing Jews, and just as Stalin proves
his Communism by denouncing Christians,
so Mencken and Nathan and “Exile” prove
their intellectualism by denouncing Bab-
bitts. Babbittry is represented as a regional
failing. A city or town produces Babbitts
in proportion to its distance from “the
centres of European culture.”
Hollywood is an example. For years I
have been listening to complaints about
its products—repetitions' of the complaints
I used to hear in my youth about the stu-
pidity, vulgarity and immorality of stage
musical comedies and melodramas. For
years, also, I have been listening to prophe-
cies that it will soon suffer for its offences
against intellectualism by being ruined. A
Sydney film critic visited the place a couple
of years ago, and lectured to the Good
Films Society .on his return.
I cannot think that any brilliant artistic
flame will ever come into being there....
Almost all the studios seem to be on the
verge of bankruptcy.... The great disad-
vantage of Hollywood as a producing centre
lies in its provincial location. Elstree is
within an hour’s motor-drive of London, and
breathes the atmosphere of a great metropolis.
Yet Elstree films seem to be getting worse,
if possible; and when Noel Coward wanted
to have “Cavalcade” screened he shipped it
to Hollywood. Sydney, in the estimation of
people like “Exile,” is the Empire’s Holly-
wood—brainless, uneducated and vulgarly
American; a city to be avoided by per-
sons with an appreciation of the finer things
of life.
The mistake that such visitors make—
and an analogous mistake may be made by
visitors to Hollywood—consists in thinking
of Sydney in terms of King’s Cross. There
is a sense in which every city in the
Empire may be said to be Americanised;
they all have their quarters in which movie-
infected youths and flappers who use the
jargon of the films abound. Almost any
issue of “Punch” and almost any modern
English novel testify to the way in which
a small section of London has been Ameri-
canised—or, rather, Boweryised—by the baser
kind of films. What observers like “Exile”
can’t see, and won’t believe, is that there
are hundreds of thousands of people in
Sydney, and millions in London, to whom
America moans nothing at all. They are
as ignorant of the Bowery slang which
some young folks use as they are of the,
Baltimore slang which “Exile” uses.
Another common mistake made by tour-
ists of the “Exile” stamp is that cities in
what they regard as the world’s culture
zone are teeming with deep-thinkers. When
our “Exiles” reach Paris they find the
hotels, pensions, restaurants and night-clubs
on Montparnasse full of people who 'talk
art patter as readily as a King’s Cross fre-
quenter talks movie patter; they don’t
realise that there are millions of Parisians
who are indifferent to almost every form of
art. When they get to London they con-
trast the Chelsea Arts with the Sydney
Commercial Travellers’ Club, and are filled
with gloom about. Sydney’s cultural short-
comings.
I probably know London a deal bet-
ter than “Exile.” I have lived there for
years at a stretch since very early youth;
and I can assure him that the average
Londoner is no more interested in art or
literature than the average Sydneyite. An
important difference between London and
Sydney is that London has over six times
as many inhabitants, and over 40 times as
much money. So everybody in the world
with something to sell goes there sooner
or later. It has often been remarked that
London imports most of its celebrities, and
quite a few have arrived, either in person or
in their works, by way of Sydney, the city
which, according to “Exile,” has “an abid-
ing love for the shoddy and shrill, the fake
and pretentious, the bootlegged instead
of the real.” Here are some names that
occur offhand: Gilbert Murray, Havelock
Ellis, John Hunter, Norman Haire, Elliot
Smith, Norman Lindsay, Haddon Chambers,
George Lambert, Lawrence Hargrave, Henry
Lawson, Phil May, Low, Dyson, and many
minor cartoonists and black-and-white
artists. It would be easy to extend the
list for a column or more if space permitted.
Such men are not produced by a com-
munity of talkified morons. They suggest
that Sydney supports at any given time as
many people of high intelligence as other
cities, relatively to its numbers. “Exile”
may not have heard of them; but that
only means that he doesn’t know Sydney.
J.D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ca’ Canny and the Conference.
Australia's Resident Minister got scant
praise, if any, for the most sensible rejnark
made during the deliberations of the World
Economic Conference. Bruce stood up,
apparently a lone hero in the face of a
hostile mob, to denounce limitation of pro-
duction as a policy of despair. He might
have gone further and said it was a policy
of panic, but the more temperate criticism
evidently. knocked the rest of the grave
and reverend seigneurs endways.
Bruce merely told a self-evident truth,
though the swing of mob psychology has
led to otherwise sensible people imagining
that they can double a thing by throwing
away half of it. In a few isolated instances
circumstances have combined to enable the
miracle to happen. Professor Giblin in-
stances the fact that in a year of failure
Tasmania got more for 2,500,000 tons of
apples than it did for 4,000,000 tons in a
good season.
Other instances of the sort may possibly
be found; but, even if a hundred are forth-
coming. it does not alter the fact that the
world would be richer in apples if the
larger crop were harvested. Further, though
the apple industry may have benefited as
a whole during the bad season, the indi-
vidual sufferings of multitudes of orchard-
ists must have been tremendous.
While there are people who need wheat—
not people who have the money to pay for
it; but simply people who need it—leaving
an acre unsown is as uneconomic as it is
wicked. The solution of the problem is
not to shut off the supply of wheat, but
to devise some means whereby those who
need the wheat will have the means of
paying the farmer for it.
Bruce was apparently the only delegate
who was not carried away by catch-cries
and the force of the herd instinct. He de-
serves a pat on the back, especially from
those who have been so shocked at the
limitation of output in past years.


Raising Prices.
“Valerin,” who is a Riverina farmer: —
You are opposed to currency-inflation as
unsound, claiming it gives us primary pro-
ducers a temporary advantage only. But
where should we be to-day without the help
of the exchange rate? Since the rate was
pegged at 125, the average price of wool has
been B ] d. per lb. in local currency, or 61d.
in British —worse in other currencies. Seeing
we have to pay bank interest, rates, taxes,
wages, store bills, etc., in Australian cur-
rency, our position would be absolutely hope-
less if we had to accept British currency for
what we sell.
Yet that is the long and the short of it
all—we have to accept British currency for
what we sell. We may juggle with it, if
we like, and make it look something else;
but all we get, no matter what we do, is
what the overseas buyer pays us. Inciden-
tally, there is no certainty that, without the
so-called pegging, the exchange rate would
not have gone past 130. If production is so
costly in Australia, then in order to pre-
serve the balance of trade it might have
been necessary for the buyers of English
money to pay even more than 130 for it.
The Bulletin would not have a word to
say against that rate thus arrived at. There
would be no inflation about it. It would
be the open-market price for our money.
What The Bulletin does object to as
economically unsound is the using of the
exchange rate as a species of taxation for
bounty-ing certain industries. If those
industries ought to be bountied, then Par-
liament is the authority to do it.
—♦
Scullin’s Proposed Suicide.
The Scullin party’s announcement that it
will take Lang, Garden and Willis back
into the fold if they promise to be good
is tantamount to the suicide of Federal
Labor, if the offer is accepted. They are
not yet ready to be forgiven; but if they
do . become so, in their own good time,
Federal Labor will find that Garden is
an adept at improving the shining hour
when forgiven, and that it is the same with
Willis. Lang does not matter, because he
merely accepts his dictatorship from the
Inner Group and does what he is told.
In 1919 Willis was thrown out of the
Labor party for trying to reorganise it as
a glorified branch of the I.W.W. He bided
Ids time, and in a few years was chairman
of the concern which had ejected him, and
able to give a casting vote designed to get
Garden (then an avowed Communist) and
his fellow-Reds inside the movement. 'He
failed only because his casting vote was
pronounced invalid. Garden stood as a
Communist candidate for Sydney in 1925.
He had already been to Moscow and begun
to white-ant Sydney trade-unions.
By 1928, he, outside, working the unions,
and Willis, inside, working the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. Conference, secured the passage of
a party resolution which declared that
“whilst the policy and methods of the Com-
munist party are at variance, the objective
of Communism and Labor is identical, i.e.,
the socialisation of industry.” On that
issue the State A.L.P. finally split with the
Federal A.L.P. executive. State Labor now
perforce forgave Garden his Communism,
and within a year, having, as he said, “come
back as a humble member,” he was head
of the Inner Group and chairman of every
crucial committee of the annual conference.
Now, with a backing of 600,000 votes,
Garden and Lang and their friends seem to
hold the fate of Federal Labor in their
hands. Scullin cannot get back into power
without the N. S. Wales vote. Even if he
did have the biggest party in the Reps,
after the next election, a few stray Langites
might hold the balance, as did the Beasley
section in 1931. Federal Labor’s feeling
seems to be that it is better to have one’s
enemy inside the house with his gun hung
up on the rack than to leave him stalking
you out in the paddock.
If Garden and his friends live up to form
they will accept the olive branch only
when they are in a completely command-
ing position. In the meantime they will
apply the Communist white-ant tactics,
which are best applied from the inside of
the body to be captured or destroyed.
They will not, of course, sacrifice the
Red rules, because that would mean taking
the power out of the hands of the inner
industrial groups and handing it back
to the leagues—a change to which the domi-
nant unions would not agree. However, they
may pretend to do it—they are great pre-
tenders. Then Scullin, who after all was
the father of socialisation and moved its
adoption by the 1921 All Australian Trade
Union Congress, will be devoured by the
monster which he created.
7 4 .
The Bulgarian Way.
Dear Bulletin, — Reading of the proceed-
ings at Scullin’s unity conference, and of
those in progress at Sofia, the small yellow-
paved capital of Bulgaria, I am conscious
of a sneaking admiration for the Bulgarians.
In place of the flood of words which are the
staple of politics here, they have action—so
much action that neither tin hares nor
ponies will ever have a chance to replace
statesmanship there as a popular pastime to
watch.
Take their unity movement of 1923. Gar-
den’s friends the Communists were the
implementers of it. They decided to get rid
of the Government and replace it by a
party one and indivisible. Did they talk?
Not on your life! They picked out a fat
Minister who was noisy enough to be as-
sured of a well-attended State funeral, and
slaughtered him at a main-street corner
with a sawn-off shotgun. Then they laid a
complete floor of dynamite under the old
cathedral in Sofia, and when the rest of the
Ministers arrived to mourn —Premier, Exe-
cutive Council, mayors, commanders, police-
men —they touched the button and up she
went. About 120 of those who went up
came down sufficiently whole to be buried.
Nobody wasted any time grieving for them
or uttering words of hate and objurgation.
For days the roads were blocked, with sor-
rowing relatives making for the nearest tree
in sight, along with a bound Communist, a
soapbox and a yard or two of Hemp
is a much more effective gag than Standing
Orders.
Take, again, the anti-monarchist movement
of 1929. The reformers hid one afternoon m
an oak scrub with their trusty Mannlichers,
and when King Boris went driving they
blew holes in his motor tyres and in his
driver and secretary. Boris, being Bulgarian
as; well as royal, wasted no time in debating
with them about the constitutional rights
of monarchs. He wriggled under the car,
came out neatly on the sheltered side,
pinched a motor-’bus —the Amalgamated
Mule-groomers were having their union pic-
nic hard by—and lit out for his capital,
pursued by the bullets of his enemies and
the execrations of industrial Labor.
Now there has been another eruption of
politics, and the experienced Government
is winning hands down. Its simple plan is
to shoot everybody who goes walking in the
central park—an expedient which allow?
Sofia to carry on its normal indoor avoca-
tions without hindrance. Doubtless the one
lift which I he country possesses is working
as usual. The British Minister is enjoying
his bridge; the Spanish Minister is hard at
work on his water-colors; the first secre-
taries of all the other nineteen legations
are continuing their studies in the Bulgarian
language—at the club, with the aid of a
square bottle and a pack of cards. Nobody
allows, politics to disturb his rest in Bul-
garia unless he himself happens to be either
hunter or hunted. Diplomacy long ago
learned that it is most successful when it,
confines itself to barracks and leaves Bul-
garia alone. —Yours, Ei, Verdugo.
■ ♦-
The Soft Answer.
Jealousy between Hobart and Launceston
has been an established institution for at
least a century, and the nearest approach
to bitterness ever heard in discussions in
Small Sister’s legislature is aroused when
any proposed legislation seems likely to
benefit one at the expense of the other.
The latest squabble has had a rather
humorous ending.
Hobart reaps whatever advantage there
is in being linked to Mt. Lyell by the West
Coast road. Launceston wants to know how
long the Government proposes to delay the
promised access to the West Coast road
from the northern end of the island—ten
miles or so of road over difficult country.
Surveys disclose that this would cost £25,000
—a sum held to be out of the question.
An alternative route, 20 miles longer, would
cost about £10,000; this the Government
announced its intention of adopting. But
Launceston immediately protested: why
should its traders be placed at such a dis-
advantage (an hour’s motor-lorry journey)
by this detour, when Hobart traders al-
ready had a direct road to Mt. Lyell? In-
dignation meetings were held and a furious
campaign was soon raging around the ears
of distraught Ministers. The latter ex-
plained and argued and pleaded the poverty
of the exchequer, but the agitators scoffed.
“Justice for the North” was their battle-
cry, and “The Missing Link or Nothing”
was emblazoned on their banners.
Did Ministers stand firm, with an elec-
tion not many months off? Of course not.
But they did the next best thing they could
think of amid the turmoil. Works Minister
Lee gravely announced that, “because of the
apparent conflict of opinion as to the route,”
the whole project would be postponed for a
year; meanwhile the £lO,OOO allocated would
be transferred to other road districts. And
North and South grinned East and West.
♦
In the Clouds Above Sydney.
The Religious Editor ascends to them:—
Something roared above our heads. The
Astraea skimmed the earth, waddled across
Mascot green and taxied up to the crowd on
the asphalt, stopping neatly at the gate of the
official enclosure. As she rocked on her
huge, soft tyres she looked like an amiable
flying whale who had been mafficking with
a White Ensign stuck on a stick in one nostril;
and, to confirm the impression, the Governor
and’ his retinue stepped from within her
vitals like Jonahs. We, nine of the elect,
handed in our blue passenger tickets, took
our places in her belly, were digested into
her softly-cushioned chairs, and immediately
felt we were part of her.
No other travel agency known to man
gives the illusion of involuntary and mus-
cular progress so well as air-mail flying.
The pilot is invisible to the passenger, and
the only machinery to be seen is a port
engine far out on the wiiig, with finger-thick
valve springs gently pulsing. Power seems to
spring from the living tissues of thp fusel-
age, and it imbues one with a sense of se-
curity lacking in days when, strapped to a
squeaking stay, the quaking traveller left
the earth like an exploding cracker and pro-
ceeded by a series of perilous drops and par-
tial partings with his abdomen to a re-
union with the earth which made him feel
like the chief actor in a hanging.
Voyaging in the Astraea is more like
swimming than flying. Now and then her
nose lifted gently to a little wave, now it
dipped to some celestial swell.
Far down we saw Sydney, remote, disor-
dered and panicky-looking. Everything about
it seemed misshapen, except the superb arch
of the bridge. The men leading ants and
driving matchboxes in the insignificant
grooves which we call streets were puny and
slow and effortful of gait as if they were
walking knee-deep in treacle. Not a salient
thing in the city-scape matched the gran-
deur of the beaches or the loveliness of the
silvered bays or the heave of North Head,
standing dark and grim in a cauldron of
surf. Nobody can measure the width, of the
gap between man’s mind and perfection till
he has seen raw nature and the muddled
architecture: of Sydney Town Hall together
from the air! Only the Botany-side land-
scape saved the artificial view from failure;
for around Botany are. the racecourses, per-
fect circles and neat, ovals.
Wherever the eye reached, indeed, as we
swung south, there were racecourses—Rose-
hill to right of us; Randwick and Kensing-
ton to left of us; Rosebery and Warwick
Farm in front of us, and a splather of pony
fields, tin-hare fields, football fields and
cricket fields underneath. What a comfort
to the aerial Cortez it must be to know as
he sets forth that all this is before him. Con-
sorting with the Matterhorn, flicking the
shoulder of the Ala Dagh, racing down the
thousand-mile face of the unbelievable Hima-
laya may be the highlights of the actual
flight; but, the most significant Imperial
fact of all must be to him that at the end
of 11,000 miles of flying lie can still put his
shirt on Chase-me-Charlie in, the 3.15. Those
circles and ovals which dot the route at
Heluan and Bagdad, Ootacamund and Rand-
wick are the wedding-rings of the Empire.
When we had travelled 15 miles in, per-
haps, half as many minutes, the Astrapa in-
clined her nose to earth and revealed an-
other piece of man-made symmetry. We were
coming down in a straight, smooth swallow
dive headed for narrow rows of bright-green
lettuce and cabbage in a Chinese garden.
The sons of Canton were at work. Their
implements rose and fell steadily; their trot
between the beds did not falter. We missed
one of them by a mere wing-span of 90 feet,
as we. soared past him at 100 miles an hour;
hut his hoe continued its steady course
through the air. It struck the earth harder
than we did a moment later. Nine, more of
the elect were standing with blue tickets at.
the ready, waiting to take our places. People
without blue tickets continued to gaze
steadily and vacantly at the Astrsea. as they
had been doing since the morning, until the
arrival of a national flying hero in a green
car distracted their attention and gave them
a chance to treat him like a favorite inmate
of the Zoo.
The Jew as a Coloniser.
Thk Balfour Declaration opened the door
to the realisation of the most cherished
dream of Jewry, and foremost among the
aims of the Zionist leaders was to base
the new nation on the soil. Jews in Pales-
tine should be free—free to worship their
own God, to speak their own tongue,, to
develop their own culture, to found a fairer
and juster civilisation than that of Europe
—and the first essential towards the achieve-
ment of these ideals was reckoned to be
the creation of a self-supporting Jewish
farming' community.
The promoters of the plan did not offer
the new settlers prospects of great riches.
They were required, to quote the words of
a Jewish writer, “to enrich not themselves
but the land; to create a diversified and
productive agricultural economy.” Nor
were they offered an easy task.. They had
to introduce the latest and best farming
methods to a soil impoverished by long
farming on archaic and uneconomic lines.
The settlers succeeded. The record of the
last ten years, a decade that has been a ter-
ribly difficult one for agriculture in any
circumstances, is one of steady progress.
Yet they were almost all city-dwellers.
They had to learn farming as they went
along. Among their achievements they pro-
duced a new breed of cattle, ideally suited
to the country; they multiplied the former
Palestinian record for milk production
per cow by seven; they more than doubled
the productivity of the soil, and made the
“Jaffa orange” known in every orange-
buying market in Europe. Their land,
purchased mostly by the Jewish organisa-
tions that finance settlement and develop-
ment, cost anything from £4 to £2O per
acre, and involved a further expenditure
of up to £5 per acre in improving
the soil. In 1930, ten years after the
commencement of planned settlement, the
profit per acre was averaged by one of the
agricultural experts of Keren Hayesod, the
land-buying organisation, at £5O to £6O.
Keren Hayesod’s settlers don’t own the
land they farm. They have an assured
tenure. If they have a desire for free-
hold, they can buy land, either from the
Arabs or from the many Jewish farmers
who came with capital and bought their
own holdings. The founders of the new
Zion imposed no dogmatic rules about
tenure, but at the back of their minds there
undoubtedly lay the traditional Jewish idea
about land: that it should vest in the
nation; that every fifty years it should
revert to the nation (to be given back to
its holders, nine times out of ten), and that
it shouldn’t be a chattel amenable to specu-
lation. The Jew proposes, if it be humanly
possible, to solve many social and economic
problems in Palestine.
'• ♦
Arms for the Desperate.
Pistols and revolvers taken from arrested
criminals or unlicensed carriers were re-
cently collected in Sydney and, after having
been photographed and paragraphed,
dumped at sea with due publicity. They
had barely reached the bottom of the
Pacific before nine of the same sort were
stolen from a pawnbroker’s shop-window.
The police sagaciously surmise that the
theft was committed by the criminal classes.
So far the public is with them.
What that public would like to know
is why deadly weapons of the kind are
permitted to be accessible to any passer-by.
Though no one in N.S.W. is supposed to
carry coneealable firearms without a license,
frequent shooting crimes in Sydney show
that many do. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has made a feeble effort to restrict
the introduction of this tyne of firearm by
licensing importers. This may shorten the
supply in days to come if adequate measures
against smuggling are taken, but the short-
age will only increase the value to the
gunman of those already in the country.
Under the present N.S.W. system it is
supposed to be necessary to obtain a license
before being allowed to carry a coneealable
weapon. There does not seem to be any
restraint on the person who desires to sell
or pledge a pistol already in his possession.
Many a pawnbroker’s window in Sydney
shows for sale firearms of a coneealable
type. Again, legislation passed some years ago
forbade the possession of any firearm with
barrels less than nine inches long under
the mistaken impression that these would
not be coneealable. There suddenly
appeared in the shops types of revolvers,
automatics, and even double-barrelled pis-
tols complying with the law in the matter
of length of barrel. These are still being
displayed by dealers.
No sale or pledging of a coneealable fire-
arm should be permitted save under rigid
control. Traders stocking such arms should
be compelled to do so in such a manner
as to render them at least as inaccessible to
thieves as the cash in the office safe.
+
Sydney’s Public Library.
The Minister of Education contemplates
building the central block of the Public
Library in Macquarie-street, Sydney, at a
cost of £lOO,OOO. Complete plans are in
existence, but the only parts which have
been built are the Mitchell Library and the
Dixson Gallery, which would be wings in
the final building. Meantime books are
crammed into the obsolete edifice at the
corner of Bent-street, where the greater part
of them are hidden away in stackrooms.
Sydney’s national collection of books is
probably unequalled anywhere by a city of
its same age, size and wealth. But the
library accommodation and methods are
those of a small outback town. The
central reading-rooms are chiefly fre-
quented by the unemployed. They have a
right to be there, and are entitled to better
accommodation than is provided for them.
In Melbourne’s Public Library there is
ample room and verge enough for all who
visit the establishment, out-of-works - in-
cluded. But unsavory fellows are to be
encountered in the dingy Macquarie-street
reading-rooms, and it goes to the heart of a
booklover to see dozens of valuable and
sometimes irreplaceable volumes ruined by
the filth of greasy fingers; it goes to his nose
to sit, while he studies, jambed between
neighbors whose last bath was apparently
taken just after birth.
The research department of the Library,
considering the size of its staff and its
facilities, is one of the best in the Empire.
It is used extensively by manufacturers and
commercial firms. Yet it is financially
starved, and its public section is literally so
small that when more than two students
are gathered together in it the third can
only work there by getting under the table.
The sooner Mr. Drummond produces his
£lOO,OOO, the better.
• ♦
The Dawson Valley Settlers.
Dear Bulletin, —They are not all dissatis-
fied with the Royal Commission’s report
or with their situation or prospects (B.
14/6/’33). Though the Administration did
not fulfil its original programme, the com-
mission nowhere suggests that the present
settlers suffer greatly thereby, except in the
possible control of floods—the last occurred
in 1890. In fact, it says, in respect of one
major grievance, that “if more land had
been irrigated, marketing difficulties would
have been multiplied and, therefore, the
non-construction of the Nathan Darn was
not without some benefits to them.” Mar-
keting prospects are now greatly improved
by the opening of the Cracow goldfield.
The worst charge that can be laid against
the Administration relates to its roseate
prospectus and indiscriminating acceptance
of settlers, some quite unfitted for the
pioneering life. As the commission com-
plains, there is little co-operation of settlers
with the department and among themselves.
As an illustration, during the week in which
I write one party sent a deputation to
Brisbane to get a lot more criticism off it's
chest; another is conducting, for the third
time, a district exhibit at the Rockhamp-
ton Show.
Another retarding aspect not mentioned
is the irrigation complex. Though the
upper Dawson Valley is in the 27-inch rain-
. fall belt and equal in quality to the Darling
Downs and the Burnett, little dry-farming has
been done, though such as has been at-
tempted has yielded notable results, par-
ticularly in wheat-growing. Three dry
seasons have also been discouraging.
With a return of favorable seasons and an
influx of experienced farmers to the rich
areas soon to be opened, the Dawson Valley
mess will soon be forgotten.—Yours etc.,
Satisfied.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP -
RESERVE FUND - -
RESERVE CAPITAL -
£4,739,012 10
4,300,000 0
4,739,012 10
0
0
0
£13,778,025 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London. Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Australia: Agents throughout the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT AT HEAD OFFICE.
For care of Title Deeds Insurance Policies, Scrip, Bonds and other Valuable
LLte, etc. Not confined to the Bank’s own customers,
f AL b OF SAFES range from £l/1/- per annum, upwards. OPEN: Monday
to Friday, 9.15 a.m. to 5.15 p.m.; Saturdays. 9.15 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. Holidays
excepted. Further particulars on application. Inspection invited
Pint- Diamonds'
£2O
Fifte Diamonds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£25
ENGAGEMENT
RING
Fine Diaifitnul
£5O
Sapphire and Diamonds
T tap Cut : Diamond
The diamonds used in the rings
illustrated are guaranteed finest
quality Blue White Gems the
illustrations representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with Pure
Platinum Settings, these rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia
Write for a selection on approval.
A catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, ' Silver and Wedding
Presents sent post free on request.
BROS. LTD
SYDNEY
13 Hunter Street
BRISBANE
116 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
298 Collins Stree
POLITCAL
POINTS
This age-limit business becomes bewildering.
While Street, G.J., goes out at 70, O’Malley
Wood. 77. and long since superannuated, is
brought back to help control a difficult finan-
cial enterprise in a time of depression—he
is to be chairman of the Rural Bank Board.
The spectacle of ancients of the Bench and
the departments returning after retirement
to public work more important than that
from which their increasing years have ousted
them has become painfully familiar. Yet
many railwaymen have been put off because
they are too old at 60.
Nauru’s financial statement is unique. To
begin with, it says “Public debt, nil,” Then
it shows a surplus for the year equal to
33 per cent, of the expenditure, and a sum
“What’s the matter with Joe?”
“He’s fainted. Isn’t it enough to make
any Treasurer faint?”
equal to 125 per cent, of last year’s revenue
collections stuck away in the bank and earn-
ing interest! It’s enough to make an Aus-
tralian politician go to bed and send for the
doctor.
Earle Page will probably resume the head-
ship of the C.P. within the next three
months. The doctor is a curious study. He is
a poor speaker, his thinking is sometimes dis-
orderly, some of his schemes fail lamentably
and there are always ambitious youngsters
with an eye on his job ; yet he has held on
to it for 14 years—a record for any party
in Federal politics. And the Cockies still
Avant him.
One of the first deeds of the session in
the Vic. Parliament was an Act decorating
11. A. Pitt, the Under-Treasurer, with the
title of Director of Finance. After this, it
is expected that the deficit wil be so terrified
that it will go away and hide its head in a
bag.
Eleven months’ figures show a substantial
improvement in South Aus. trade. Exports
increased by nearly £1,000,000 to
£12,186,598, though about a third of the
development is represented by gold specie.
Imports jumped also, but the overseas trade
balance is satisfactory; excess of exports
over imports was valued at £7,700,000 in
Australian currency. Best of all, Premier
Butler considers, the deficit for the twelve-
month Avas £1,012,000, instead of the esti-
mated £1,215,000.
One result of the census is expected to be
that Queensland wi-ll gain a seat in the
House of Reps, and South Aus. will lose one,
while Sydney and Melbourne will gain a seat
apiece at the expense of the country. The
number of seats is arrived at by dividing
the total population of Australia by twice
the number of Senators, thus securing a
quotient, which is then divided into the popu-
lation of each State. Many people think
a saner method of obtaining an efficient
House would be t© divide a few of the more
futile politicians in two and leave them un-
replaced.
The last Queensland Federal electorate to
be established was Lilley, created in 1911.
Enrolments in the region out of which the
new electorate is likely to be carved are.
Brisbano 45,270, Lilley 62,697, Oxley
59,475, Moreton 53,252 and Wide Bay
52,523. Brisbane and Oxley have Labor
members; Wide Bay is U.C.P., and the
others are U.A.P.
Carter, M.L.A., pleaded the other day for
a review of the N.S.W. Forestry Depart-
ment’s holdings policy. He points out
that in the C'oonabarabran district alone the
department controls 1,000,000 acres which
it leases to graziers. Why this concern
should be allowed to go into the sub-letting
business is being asked in a good many
other districts.
The unreformed N.S.W. Leg, Council has
held its last debate. Twenty-four of the
118 members have said they will nominate
for election to the reformed House, and
about twice as many more are labelled as
“probables.” James Ashton and James Mur-
doch will be among the missing, and they
are among the few who will be missed.
Meeting in Sydney to consider the wheat
position, the Premiers declared against re-
striction of output, but a majority approved
of temporary limitation of exports. The idea
is to buy and hold any surplus of 1984-35
wheat “not required for domestic use or
export”; the fund is to be created “by con-
tributions from prices.” in excess of Bs. a
bushel at sidings, another huge experiment
in State paternalism being implied. Forgan
Smith objected to this proposal as wrong
“in principle,” and so it is. It is also lack-
ing in horse-sense. What is the use of Aus-
tralian Governments trying to limit exports
when Russia is free to export every bushel
its serfs can scrape together?
The retail price-index issued by the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Statistics shows that
the cost of living (food and groceries) has
declined substantially during the past year.
While for May, 1932, the weighted average
for the six capitals was 808, in May, 1938,
it was only 746. Sydney is the dearest
capital to shop in. Its index, 797, outstrips
that .of its nearest competitor, Perth, by 24
points, Melbourne by 97 and Brisbane by
99 points, and is higher than the Common-
wealth average by 51 points. Taxation is
chiefly responsible. The N.S.W. employer
has to pay a family-endowment tax of sd.
in the £ of wages, as well as Is. in the £ of
profits for unemployed relief.
The 12 unsuccessful candidates who dis-
puted the Labor plebiscite for the Fortitude
Valley (Q.) by-election have been overborne
or mollified, but Brassington, the winner,
is to have an opponent, Kenneth MacDonald.
The MacDonald is an Independent.
The Scullin group’s bid for Labor unity
has failed because it will not agree to be
swallowed whole by the Lang faction. That
gang provoked a breach five years ago by
smacking the Federal A.L.P. executive’s face
and denouncing it as a bunch of “intriguers
and bureaucrats.” Even after that, the mild
Scullin made Lang’s white-haired boy Beasley
his Ministerial assistant in Canberra, and
it was three years before he and his friends
could work themselves to the point of expel-
ling their tormentors. The present stand
“The Labor ‘unity’ conference was held in a
Sydney talkie building.”
LOLITA S CULLIN: “Darling, couldn’t we be-
come one, now?”
RONALD LANG: “Yes, sweetheart, if you’ll let
me swallow you!”
of N.S.W. State Labor seems to be that it
knows the Federal executive for a pack of
sheep, which it will slaughter inside their
own fold when the moment becomes oppor-
tune.
Thornton and MacDonald, the Metropoli-
tan-Vickers engineers, have been released by
the Red Government, and the trade em-
bargoes have been called off. The Reds made
a virtue of necessity. With their internal
currency useless for international purposes.
every penny of external pelf they can
rake in is of value to them, and replacements
and additions to many of their large-scale
electrical works are possible only with the
aid of British alloy metals and the manu-
factured products of British works. The
imprisoned men were lucky in being British
—especially Thornton, whose family factory
in Moscow was confiscated, lock, stock and
barrel, in 1917, thus establishing a motive
for the enmity which he was alleged to feel
against the Bolshevists.
The thirst of the U.S.S.R. to conquer Asia
seems to be dying a natural death in the
face of Japanese preparedness. A decade
ago, when Trotsky posed as a war lord, some
threat of Russian aggression was heard
“ You’ve weakened since you were
‘Adamzad, the hear that walks like a
man.'”
almost every week ; now, almost every week,
Nippon tweaks the Bear’s nose with
impunity. Its latest essay in defiance has
been to land an armed force from a warship
in Kamchatka, with no more subsequent in-
convenience than “strained relations.”
It says something for Japanese restraint
that the Mikado hasn’t waltzed in and seized
the whole of China. Latest information
concerning the Chinese Navy is to the effect
that a squadron put to sea to save its
admiral, who was attacked by a two-gun
lieutenant. The mutineer was thrown over-
board, and then rescued at the earnest re-
quest of the official executioner. Amongst
his other jobs the admiral was mayor of
Tsingtao. That city is now short of a civic
head, and the province is threatened with re-
volution. The Chinese Navy remained neu-
tral during the recent disturbance with
Nippon, but continued to draw its wages.
Tasmania’s experiment in making cheap
money available to farmers conditionally
upon its being spent in employing men
on permanent improvements has justi-
fied itself. Lands Minister Lee produced
statistics of men engaged, miles of fencing
erected and acres of clearing done which
so impressed Assemblymen that a bill author-
ising a further £25,000 went through in a
couple of minutes. In some districts, accord-
ing to Lee, unemployment has been wiped
out fpr mouths at a stretch, settlers at the
same time being enabled to carry out neces-
sary improvements which they could not have
attempted but for the cheap money.
F. W. Mole said hard things about politi-
cians when he retired from the Queensland
Public C'uratorship a few days ago. Some-
times, he declared, he had had to fight
against political interference for the very
existence of the department. Twice he had
been jockeyed out of the job because of his
open opposition to political appointments.
In the same week Harvey, J., in a letter
read at the farewell to C.J. Street, whom
he has succeeded, declared that the N.S.W.
Courts had had to contend with “a headlong
rush of legislation striking athwart the
higher maxims and moralities of law and
commerce,” and with “men who deliberately
set themselves to undermine the confidence
of the public in the administration of jus-
tice.” But little the demagogue cares while
he retains- the favor of the mob!
When Parliament meets in August the
Forgan SmiVhs will introduce legislation to
amend the City of Brisbane Act. The
original measure thoughtfully provided for
adult suffrage, the expectation being that
this would make the council safe for Labor
for ever and a day; to the dismay of its
framers, the contrary has proved the case.
The Foregones are to redistribute the ward
boundaries. “Inequitable representation” is
the excuse.
Brisbane City Council has , staggered the
ratepayers by announcing a surplus of
£50,000 on all funds. The budget had pro-
vided for a deficit of £126.000. But the
funded debt stands a,t £10.572,892, and there
is a Commonwealth. Bank overdraft of
£917,514 ; and a good many people still wish
the Greater Brisbane movement had never
been born.
Queensland police are again asking ' for
the 44-hour week. They asked for it first
in' 1925; a compromise was arrived at
wherfeby- they . worked the . same hours as
before, but received extra pay for anything
over 44 hours. The Forgan Smiths will pro-
bably return to this method.
The return of Germany’s lost colonies
has been demanded at the World Economic
Conference. The demand was ruled out of
order, but is certain to crop up again
periodically. Germany’s claim is that it
needs the colonies to settle its surplus popu-
lation and to increase its inward and out-
ward trade. In the years of expansion before
the war, they had absorbed only 23,000
Germans, and accounted for a mere .5 per
cent, of its trade. On the other hand, they
had furnished, in East Africa especially, a
lot of native levies, and are capable, if
returned, of furnishing heaps more.
Butler is pushing regional settlement for
all he is worth in S.A. He told a meeting
in Adelaide that an area of 750,000 acres
was available for development, and that
“where the Government failed a private co.
will succeed.” He is willing to consider pro-
posals from an English chartered co. In
Queensland, on the other hand, Percy Pease
has issued a warning that chartered cos.
must keep off the grass.
“Uncle” Arthur Henderson has been com-
pelled to adjourn his world disarmament
conference till October 10—it will be 20
months old then. Meantime It is proposed
to “confer with the Powers.” What with
Japan sending warships and landing parties
to Siberia, Russia replying with a concen-
tration of troops, Bulgaria teetering on the
verge of an uprising, China still defending
its northern frontiers, France and U.S.A.
adding to their aerial defences, the latter
strengthening the Philippine base, and Hitler
yelling for armament equality, the confer-
ences should be worth listening to, if any
Power can spare the time from its warlike
preparations to see an angel of peace for
a moment.
A little business was done in the N. S.
Wales Parliament last week, and a lot of
“language” was heard. Stevens introduced
a bill which is the first step towards grading-
down the unemployed-relief tax. The effect
of this wages slug and of the family-endow-
ment impost has virtually been to double
N. S. Wales direct taxation. Lang with his
usual effrontery raised a wail about the ls.-
in-the-£ tax being a burden on the poor
laborer; but he shut up suddenly when re-
minded that he was responsible for it.
“Paterson, deputy leader of the Country party,
has been touring the wilder west of Queensland, on
the verge of the Randolph Bedford country.”
“Buffalo Bill, I presume?”
If each member of the N.S.W. Parliament
exercises his right to make two nominations
for the new Leg. Council, there will be 416
candidates. On these, at the, first election,
members will cast four sets of votes, at each
voting for a minimum of 30—twice the
number required to be elected—in order of
preference. An expert gang of mathemati-
cians will make an intricate calculation at
each of the four stages, multiplying the
number of votes cast by 1000, dividing them
by 16 and adding 1, thus finding a quota.
With the aid of this and some elaborate rules
about . transfers of preferences, they will
declare elected four blocks of persons who
will sit for 3,6, 9 and 12 years respectively.
When the scheme was first conceived the
Government was pretty sure in its own mind
how the party strengths would pan out
after the voting, but what with whispers of
blocs, individual electoral pressure, the law
of self-preservation, unity moves and other
minor influences, it is not quite so confident
as it was.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Binduli” : In the memoirs of Kate M,ey-
rick. Loudon’s “Night Club Queen,” it is
recorded that efficient waiters were only too
pleased to enter the lady’s service for the
nominal remuneration of five bob a week—
their x-ich returns were indirect ones. It is
a far cry from London to the Golden Mile;
yet in the days before f lic “Great Gold Leak
Commission” it used to be whispered that
plenty of miners would have been quite.will-
ing to pay, and not be paid for, jobs on cer-
tain of the mines. But when a member of
Parliament went a step further and remarked
in an unguarded moment, that there were
mines in which workers did pay, he found
himself decidedly unpopular. What intensi-
fied his troubles was that he was s Labor
“Do you believe that love only coulee, once in a woman’s life?"
“I certainly do — I’m my wife’s second husband.”
'member. His chances of ever being a gold-
fields Labor member again practically dis-
appeared.
* * * *
“Eugene A.”: Neither in Australian nor
British criminal annals can there ever have
been anything involving such heavy and pro-
tracted work for the Law as the case, or
cases, of Rex v. Craig. The young man was
accused of the murder of two Sydney women,
with an interval of two or three weeks
between the crimes. On the first charge the
jury brought in a verdict of manslaughter,
and the Judge gave the prisoner 20
years. Out from Long Bay came the convict
to face the second charge. The jury at the
first trial disagreed ; the jury at the second
trial disagreed; at the third trial Craig was
found guilty and sentenced to death. An
appeal had been lodged against the 20 years’
sentence before the second case began, and
now there is another appeal against the trial
that finisned with the death sentence, on the
ground that certain fresh evidence is available.
The Law has departed from precedent to the
extent of listing the later appeal for trial
before the earlier one, reasoning, no doubt,
that unless the . death sentence is set aside
it will be of no interest whatever to the
appellant whether the near-life sentence
stands or not.
“Spare Warlock”: In his latest report
upon his satrapy of Papua, Hubert Murray
refers to the disturbing habits of the Tro-
briand witches, who are accustomed to visit
the mainland in half-cocoanut husks. It is
interesting to note that members of the pro-
fession in the east of Scotland and the
Orkneys and Shetlands —celebrated haunts
of witches and warlocks —make similar-
voyages, though they use the half of an
egg-shell for navigation purposes. That is
why all propcrly-brought-up children in
those parts used to be taught—and perhaps
still are —to put the eggspoon through tne
bottom of the shell when tin' contents have
been swallowed. The shell is then a total
loss and quite useless as a sea-going craft.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” : My story dbout S. 11. Prior.
One day I took him in a somewhat liippant
story concerning Governor Macquarie, and
remarked to him that when my time came
to pass over I'd be rather afraid of meet-
ing his Excellency. “Oh, well, John,” he
said, with his quiet smile, “I wouldn’t worry
about that —you and Macquarie won’t go to
the same place.”
* * >i= *
“Gillon”: The Prince of Wales entered on
his fortieth year the other day and most Eng-
lish newspapers contented themselves with
chronicling the bald fact. Fifteen years ago.
or even ten. the occasion would have been
used for discussing the heir apparent's matri-
monial prospects and intentions, and dis-
creetly hinting at the identity of various
eligible ladies; but the game has begun to
weary and tin; Prince to be regarded as a
confirmed bachelor. His father married at
28; his grandfather at 21; Queen Victoria
had not reached that age when sin; conferred
her hand on Albert of Coburg and Gotha,
himself three months her junior. But dynas-
tic considerations were more important in
those days and the advisers of majesty more
importunate. Ten years ago the Prime Minis-
ter of the period successfully remonstrated
with the heir to the throne for risking his
neck too often in the hunting-field and the
steeplechase; but if he likes to continue
on his misogrnistic way apparently there is
no one strong enough to influence him. One
result is shown in the British public’s readi-
ness to idolise and idealise the little Princess
Elizabeth of York.
“314 Battery” : Bean, in his latest volume
(IV) of the “History of the A.1.F.,” gives
honorable mention to the official photo-
graphers, and it is only their clue. I can
remember in August, 3.918, being sent for-
ward to gain touch with the infantry of the
7th Brigade, attacking to the left of the
corps front. I had wandered into a sunken
road when I was seized upon by General
“Pompey” Elliott, who demanded instant
artillery support for the Victorian infantry
attacking on the right. To emphasise his
demand he called to a corps staff officer who
appeared in the road with —strange sight—
a civilian. At that instant came an ominous
sound and everyone around dropped or
sought cover —I leapt for the entrance of a
dug-out, but my commanding officer was
before me. The shell landed on the edge
of the road and when I gingerly arose 1
noted that everyone except the civilian had
assumed the prone position. He stood grin-
ning with his camera in action. It was tin;
only time I had my photo, taken at the
front, and it caught me bending.
# ❖ * ❖
“Lao-dah” : According to the “Argus,” the
Maloja, which followed the Otranto on the
new tourist track to Port Moresby, spent
three hours on a coral reef, and the incident
was regarded “merely as an extra thrill.”
I like the “merely.” I was a passenger-
in the Otranto, and a figure-fiend jotted
down statistics of the captain’s exist-
ence dui'iug the halcyon passage, going and
coming, inside the Great Barrier Reef. Of
238 hours, he spent 51 in pyjamas and 101
on a settee. He had one spell of 39 hours
with 11 hours’ sleep. Of course, there wan
a Torres Strait pilot aboard, and it was
popularly supposed in the saloon that this
relieved the commander of all responsibility.
As a matter of fact, a pilot is on the bridge
merely to give the master of a vessel the
benefit of his local knowledge. If liis local
knowledge is at fault and the vessel runs
ashore, the master is to blame. The Otranto
was. by a few hundred tons, the largest vessel
that lias ever navigated the wilderness of
islands, rocks and reefs that compose the
Barrier. Some of the 600 Bright Young
Things on hoard wondered why the com-
mander didn’t join in the games.
“Fleet Street” : Discussing a recommenda-
tion of the N.S.W. Commissioner of Police
that Hogging should be revived (it has never
been abolished) for crimes of violence, “S. M.
Herald” recalls that “a generation ago in
“Was teacher glad to see you back at school?”
“She said so, but I wasn’t able to return the compliment.”
London the Garrotters Act was passed”—
with immediately beneficial results. Actually
it was two generations ago. The frequency
of attempts to strangle made by thieves at
night-time on the Thames Embankment and
other open spaces became so marked that
public opinion was thoroughly aroused. Par
liament responded to the agitation and the
Garrotters Act, prescribing the lash, was
passed in 1563. But it was not until a later
epidemic of garrotting in the ’seventies that
the law was administered with the severity
that stamped it out. Years later there was
a movement to extend the penalty to armed
burglars, but the bill enacting it was never
passed. The English law never went quite
as far as some enactments which have been
suffered to become obsolete in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Wobey” : On the wall in the San Remo
(Vic.) public hall appears the notice “No
Swearing Aloud” in fair block letters. My
surmise that this was merely phonetic spell-
ing was weakened on attending a gathering
there and finding that most, of the conversa-
tion was conducted in whispers.
* * * *
“Ranker”: It lias become the fashion for
Sydney newspapers to interview winners of
lottery prizes and note their reactions.
One is reminded of the case of a ranker in
an English cavalry regiment in India who
wton first prize in the Calcutta Derby sweep
in the long ago. Of course the regiment, to
quote Mulvaney, “dhrank itself into clink be
squads,” and an infuriated colonel sent for
the fortunate one. Pressed to take his dis j
charge, the trooper declined. He said he
liked the army, and intended to carry on.
He was marched out. leaving the colonel
and the rest of the orderly-room speechless:
but he decided to fall in with the Old Man’s
wishes less than a week later. The adju-
tant and the R.S.M. saw to that.
* * * *
“Garth Castle”: Another glaring error in
“Cavalcade.” Nothing more unlike a C.I.V.
uniform than that which adorns the person
of Bridges could have been conceived.
Sandy-colored khaki drill was worn
by this regiment; the lower patch
pockets of the tunic were plain, so
also were the buttons, and the let-
ters C.I.V. were on the shoulder-
straps as well as the hat. Bridges
is seen in a serge uniform of dark
hue with bright buttons, pleats in
the lower pockets and shoulder-straps guilt-
less of titles.
“Coif” : That the contract a man makes lives
after him in certain circumstances was estab-
lished in Sydney last week, when the Equity
Court decided that the estate of a dead man
would have to go on paying weekly alimony
to a divorced wife who survived him. The
order made at the time of the divorce stipu-
lated that the husband’s firm should pay the
alimony out of his share of its profits if
he defaulted in payment. The income from
the estate is between fSOO and £9OO a year.
As the alimony is £l2 a week there is not
much left for the second wife and children.
* * *
“C.Q.”: The Melbourne centenary com-
mittee has decided to have a brand-new his-
tory of Victoria written and published in
time for the great event. The idea is to
squash once for all the innumerable mis-
statements that pass for fact concerning the
Cabbage State’s past. It sounds like a rush
job that will provide a grand cause for end-
less controversy as soon as it comes out.
When the celebrations were first mooted an
argument broke out in the local press as to
whether Fawkner or Batman was the real
founder of the State’s capital, and, as far
as I can ascertain, both sides to the dis-
cussion are still firmly convinced that they
are right. Then there is the question
whether the Eureka Stockade affair was
a blow for freedom or a vulgar squabble oyer
cash. Probably the committee’s historian
will' avoid these controversial shallows by
keeping to the broad, deep sea of Platitude.
sj: ❖ #
“Chevroford”: A Toorak resident was
awakened after midnight by sounds of fare-
well on his porch. Hastening out he found
an embarrassed dam-
sel on the mat. A
youth in a sports
model was just driv-
ing off. Puzzled at
a perfect stranger
paying him a call at
that unusual hour,
lie asked her if she
had mistaken the
address. “Well, it’s
like this, sir,” said
the agitated maid.
“I been dancing at
St. Kilda, and I met
a boy and he offered
to drive me home. I
didn’t like to tell
him I live in South
Melbourne, so I told
him I lived here.”
Then she fled.
“Redouble”: “On
my last air flight
from London to
Paris,” said Sir
Philip Game, “we
were unalde to hear
a word spoken;
every communication
had to bo made by
writing. On the
Astrsea we could
converse in ordinary
tones ; we could have
had a rubber of
whist.” His Ex.
probably meant
bridge, or maybe the
reporter did him an
injustice. Whist
might be played with
little or no discom-
fort where the play-
ers couldn’t hear one
another’s voices;
even the marking of
the scores doesn’t
demand speech. Cer-
tainly there could
be no argumentative
post - mortems, but
these are not an essential. With bridge it
is different; the first business of the partici-
pants is to make themselves heard, and even
a slight deafness is a handicap. In any case,
I wonder how many people do play whist
nowadays.
» * * *
“Der Adcrlaffer”: If Von Billow, some-
time Chancellor of Germany, is correct, the
Prince of the Asturias derived his hemo-
philia (B. 28/6/’33) from the same source
as the ill-fated Czarevitch of Russia—the
German House of Hesse, which has been
subject to the affliction for centuries. The
Czarevitch’s mother was a princess of Hesse.
The great-grandfather of the Spanish suf-
ferer was Prince Alexander of Hesse-Darm-
stadt, and the usual transmission through
the female side seems to have occurred here.
As to non-royal sufferers, Australia years
ago saw a young Duke of Leinster who was
also a hemophilia case.
“C.Q.” : The radio has finally driven the
last of Melbourne’s Italian organ-grinders
off the streets, but there was a non-profes-
sional revival of the ancient cult recently
in a suburb. On several occasions the penni-
less owner of the instrument planted him-
self outside the premises of the Melbourne
District Nursing Society, and after serenad-
ing the inmates for a while went on his way
without taking round the cap. He was
thanking the nurses for having brought a
sick wife back to health.
* * * *
“Nikko”: A Maoriland doctor relates an
instance of a foreign body travelling round
a patient’s anatomy for 30 years (B.
21/6’/33). A young married woman con-
sulted him about an excruciating pain in
her elbow. The spot was X-rayed and
a dark object located, which proved to be an
old-fashioned short crewel needle. Relatives
then remembered that, when the woman
was about two years old. grandma, embroid-
ering for grandpa a pair of carpet slippers,
with the baby playing round, had missed her
needle with a length of colored wool in it.
Search failed to find it, and after the baby
was carefully examined it was decided
that the needle had become embedded in
the old-fashioned furniture. The doctor
who recovered it after 30 years held that the
infant had somehow managed to swallow it.
“Bil Stumps” Sydney carries more evi-
dence about its birth-time than most cities
in the names of its oldest streets —George,
Pitt, Castlereagh, York, Clarence, Sussex,
and so on. The nomenclature of some of the
suburbs is sometimes, though rarely, just as
enlightening. The Crimean War was
obviously the most outstanding event in
men’s minds when Lord Raglan and his
family name (Somerset) were fastened on
thoroughfares in what is now Mosman, not
to mention Canrobert, though the French
marshal’s name has become Anglicised with
the years. Similarly, in Perth, there is an
Indian Mutiny section of the city, proclaim-
ing its date of origin with Outram and Have-
lock and Delhi. And one could safely
assign the ’eighties as the epoch when the
civic dads of Cremorne named a number
of adjacent thoroughfares after Spofforth.
Boyle, Murdoch, Baunerman and a few
lesser-known cricketers. The system had its
advantages ; it will obviously be more useful
to the historians and Royal Societies of
the future than the naming of streets after
aldermen and local celebrities, who, however
useful in their way and day, have left no
footprints on the sands of time.
PASSIVE ENTICEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In a recent London case, where a woman was
sued for enticing- another woman’s husband away,
Mr. Justice Swift ruled that there was no evidence
of active enticement; hence the suit must fail. She
was an attractive woman and the pair were equally
guilty.”
lie erred, and both therefor are reprehended,
But still you couldn’t say she made him
err;
She fell for him, may fairly be contended,
Quite as effectually as he for her.
She didn’t wile or witch or vamp or wheedle.
Or beat his ramparts down by brisk
assault:
She drew him as the magnet draws the
needle—
Is that the magnet’s fault?
There’s nought to show she was the sort of
madam.
Seductively-compelling, honey-sweet,
Of whom our unregenerate parent Adam
Complained, “She tempted me and I did
eat.”
She caught him in no ostentatious tether,
As women have, in history and myth.
They merely clicked, these twain, and bit
together
Into the Granny Smith.
Desirable, entrancing and attractive,
And all that goes therewith, she was, for
sure;
But in her sex appeal was nothing active
And nought importunate in her allure.
What though she took him from his faith
and duty,
We have his Lordship’s dictum, fair and
square:
No man-made law is broke when passive
beauty
Draws with a single hair.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Lex"; T. E. Rofe, of Sydney, is pro-
bably the only attorney in the Empire who,
having been struck off the rolls, had suffi-
cient confidence in himself and his cause to
buy the house he was practising in at the
time of his downfall with the expressed in-
tention of setting up his shingle there after-
his rehabilitation. The Court restored him
the other day, and one of his first public
gestures was to repair to the shabby old
edifice in Redfern from which his plate was
removed 38 years ago by one J. Madden,
and stand by while that same J. Madden
nailed it up again. Then the old gentle-
man went inside, formally took his seat at
his desk, received his first client and (a
very characteristic touch this) handed the
fee over to a charity. During the whole
of Rofe’s tumultuous existence three things
have stood like stone; a disposition
to give money to charities, a capacity for
countering Fate’s deadliest blows and emerg-
ing a winner, and a consummate dramatic
sense. They were all in evidence at last
Thursday’s ceremony.
MRS. MONK: “Oh, dear, the station
has closed down, and I don’t
know if that last recipe was a
pudding or a floor polish.”
“Kerys”-: The most objectionable query in
the census paper to a large section was
“Age last birthday.” Electoral officials often
find the same question resented. I was in
one office when an indignant lady arrived
with her application for enrolment. “How
dare you ask me to state how old I am?”
she hissed. “A gross impertinence 1” “Not
at all, madam,” said the tactful official. “All
we require you to fill in is the year in which
you were born.” “Oh, is that all,” said the
lady, mollified by the soft answer. And there
and then she supplied the desired informa-
tion.
“I. Tdmple”: That “Simpson’s” in the
Strand should have started a series of “Aus-
tralian lunches” (vide a cable of last Wed-
nesday) doesn’t mean that Australian meat
and wine will be used there to any extent.
I was given a lunch at “Simpson’s” as far,
back as 1927 of which the chief ingredients
were Australian lamb and Australian
chablis. If I said the lamb was good, or
even f.a.q., I would be toying with that which
is great and shall prevail, however regret-
table it may be to patriot hearts. Aus-
tralian meat in London isn’t good relatively
even to the sort which is consumed in the
suburbs of the south side of the Thames;
many middle-class housewives recognise and
reject it on sight. At about the time I had
the lunch already referred to a butcher
brought a libel action against a woman who
had accused him of selling Aussie meat!
“Simpson’s” claims to supply the best South-
down mutton and Welsh lamb in the king-
dom, but then it knows how to charge. It
is the only restaurant I know where, after
paying a stiff price for a plate of meat, you
are expected to tip not only the waiter and
cloak-room attendant, but the carver of the
joint. His fee is Is.
“C.Q.”: About the most ponderous form
of musical expression is bellringing. There
is five tons of bell in the belfry of St.
Paul’s, Melbourne, and recently the bell-
ringers set out to perform, for the first time.
Parker's twelve-part peal of grandsire
triples. Each of the eight monsters needed
to be struck 5040 times to bring the opus
to a triumphant conclusion, but the opera-
tors blew out after ringing 1260 changes.
Undaunted, they arc going to have another
shot later. One of the ringers was a woman,
Miss J. Shimmin.
* * •> , *
“0.P.H.”: From November Melbourne is
to have a second evening paper, the “Argus”
proprietary having decided to launch a
“Star” as a rival, to the “Herald.” When
it was a sheet less worthy of notice than it
is now, the “Herald” vanquished or absorbed
five competitors, the most formidable of
which were the “Standard” and the “Sun.”
It is half a century since the Wilson and
Mackinnon house last tried conclusions with
the evening paper, but the small halfpenny
sheet which it brought out faded and died
after a brief run. The “Argus” has begun
its preparations for the “Star” by luring to
its service three men who have been promi-
nent in directing the gathering or present-
ing of news in the “Herald.” For years the
“Argus” was a training-school for the
"Herald.” By publishing the “Sun-Pie.” the
"Herald” people have irritated for eight
years the two old morning papers, and now
one of the “A’.s,” with, it is rumored, the
blessing of the other, is trying to get even.
* * * *
“Anon” ; Melbourne lias unearthed a new
variety of vandal —or humorist. In the dead
of night he descended on St. Kilda’s new
bowling-green, which had been levelled and
rolled and raked at great expense, and was
about to be sown with the proper variety of
grass seed, and diligently spread over the
damp surface about 121 b. of clover seed.
While clover makes excellent cow feed it is
worse than useless on a bowling green, and
there is no way of getting the seed off
the ground, short of shifting six inches of
soil and putting on fresh. What puzzles the
bowlers most is why the miscreant should
have used about 50 shillings’ worth of clover
seed when a handful of dock seed, costing
nothing, would have served bis purpose as
well or better.
* :!: *
“J.R.D.”: Time a certain type of indi-
vidual was excluded from public hospitals on
visiting days. I refer to a number of elderly
men and women who come armed with
tracts and “dodgers” of a highly sectarian
nature. Some of them arc merely bene-
volent old persons overflowing with the
missionary spirit; others are rancid
bigots. Patients surrounded by friends
are fairly safe from these visitations; the
victims are in the lonely beds. I found
a female relative in a private ward cornered
uy one of these fanatics, a tall, bony woman
with wild eyes, who was bending over the
bed demanding of the helpless patient if she
were saved. The patient was suffering from
an incurable disease ; she had had five minutes
of this mental torture and was in a high tem-
perature and almost hysterical. I am writ-
ing this from a public hospital. A nurse has
just rescued me from an Ancient Mariner
who bombarded me from an unpleasantly
close range with a hopelessly confused mix-
ture of religion, Domain politics and the mis-
leading half-facts that a person of limited
intelligence imbibes from the newspapers.
Our public hospitals are non-sectarian, and
it is only reasonable that patients should
be protected from pedlars of fantastic creeds.
* :?■ » «
“T.P.”: The council of the Empire Day
movement has complained to the Vic. Edu-
cation Department that in a small Malice
school the teacher abolished the salutation
of the flag, telling protesting children “You
had better kiss it yourselves” J and that “a
pair of trousers has been flown from the flag-
pole.” If there is anything in these alle-
gations I can’t understand why the director
was not immediately approached. One Mus-
eovitish dominie in Frank Tate’s time
blatantly flourished the red rag. An indig-
nant parent notified the department by tele-
gram, an inspector visited the school on
what should have been a patriotic occasion,
and, after satisfying himself that the regu-
lations were not being complied with, closed
it as a prelude to an official inquiry. The
culprit resigned. No class had a finer record
than the Vic. teachers in war-time; the over-
whelming majority are loyal.
“What’s your new brother’s name, Betty?”
“We don’t know yet. No one can understand a word he says.”
“Heresone”: “Black Elliott’s” ethnology
is all at, sea (B. 21/6/’33). The true Scots
were Irish Celts, who invaded Galloway and
Argyle in the fifth century, and gradually
spread over Scotland. They intermarried
with the native Piets, and their descendants
ai v e the present inhabitants of Galloway, the
Highlands and the Hebrides. Lothian, the
major part of the Lowlands, originally be-
longed to England, and was largely peopled
by English settlers. Later it was exchanged
for Strathclyde (n.-w. England). Thus
what “Black Elliott” calls “true Scots” are
a blend of Celt, Saxon and Norman. The
nearest approach to pure Scottish stock
would be found in the western Highlands
and the southern Hebrides.
“ J.E.G.” : I seldom attend weddings, but
there are some social duties that even a
doctor can’t dodge. As I entered
the church door a young man came
up and said “Bride or bridegroom?”
I was about to reply that I was
neither when he added, “I mean,
are you a friend of the bride or
of the bridegroom?” “Both,” I
told him, “but it was the bride I
brought into the world.” “Oh!”
he said, “bride’s friend,” and
proceeded to show me to a seat on
the left of the aisle. I thought
to myself that “bridegroom’s
friend”, would have been more
applicable in the circumstances,
but I let it go at that.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The Admiralty lias
issued a warning about the misuse
of the “pusser’s dagger,” the jack-
knife issued to all naval seamen
and carried on a lanyard round
their necks. The instrument, it
seems, is employed as a hammer,
scraper, chopper, screwdriver, cut-
ting tool and lever, and some of these ille-
gitimate uses do the Admiralty’s property
no good. Apparently the sailor finds the
knife as handy as the Digger found the
bayonet, an implement which chopped wood
for the dug-out fire, stoked it, operated as
toasting or grilling fork, proved a handy
tent peg, and filled a score of other needs.
* * *
“Freeman”: Ignorance Of the London
trade guilds and their standing (B.
28/6/’33) is not confined to visiting poli-
ticians. Writer has heard of an American
financial potentate who was taken to
Skinners’ Hall, one of the finest of its kind.
“This,” said his cicerone, “is the hall of
the Skinners’ Company.” The visitor cast
an eye round the ancient room, with its
pictures, plate and splendid appointments.
“Gee,” he said, changing his cigar from one
corner of his mouth to the other, “your
income-tax collectors sure do themselves
well.”
“Lyndon” : For centuries Georgia, like Cir-
cassia, was famed for the beauty of its
women, and apparently the males of the
race possess considerably more than their
share of sex-appeal. Otherwise how explain
the happy hunting-ground for highly-placed
brides which the three Mdivani brothers,
sons of a reputed Georgian prince, have
found in the star-spangled country ? The
eldest led Mae Murray to the altar. The second
won the heart aud band of Pola Negri, and
when that capricious lady tired of him his
luck still held; a famous young operatic
singer fell wildly in love with him at first
sight and wedding bells chimed once more.
The third brother seems to have been a pro-
found believer in the advice of Tennyson's
“Northern Farmer” ; his first wife was the
great-granddaughter of J. J. Astor, and when
she divorced him Barbara Hutton, heiress to
the Woolworth millions, succumbed to his
fascinations. The glamor of a title may
count for something, of course, but the three
young men can’t very well all be princes,
and. even if they were, Georgia has had no
throne for anyone to occupy or claim since
the eighteeenth century. It’s always been
a puzzle to me why scores of Russia’s old
nobility, now depicted as driving taxis in
Vienna or slinging hash in Paris restaurants,
have never recognised the field which the
U.S.A. presents for heiress-hunting. But
possibly the difficulty has lain in finding the
steamer fare.
“Ben Daoud” : There' is little new under
the sun. A Sydney paper recently published
an account of a wonderful lifebuoy invented
by a Japanese. This has fittings to allow
the wearer to stand upright in it, while, in
addition to a propeller worked by hand, there
are a signal-light apparatus and a receptacle
containing food and brandy, with other
necessities likely to be useful to the occu-
pant. I was shown an exactly similar
gadget on a P. and O. liner many years ago.
It was explained that it had gone out of
use, not because it did not work, but be-
cause of the impossibility of keeping any
brandy in the bottle. As the crew mostly
consisted of teetotal Lascars, this was felt
to be a reflection on the few white quarter-
masters, the ship's officers or the passengers.
“Speargrass” : Justice Macrossan has told
other juries besides the one at Roma what
he thinks of them. I remember a case in a
western town where a jury consisting mostly
of selectors found the accused not guilty.
“You are discharged,” said Macrossan; “n
jury of your peers finds you not guilty.”
Turning to the panel his Honor added:
“Gentlemen qf the jury, as a matter of pure
formality I give you the thanks of your
country.”
* * * *
“T. 8.”: Touching drink-shaky signatures
(B. 14/0/’33), I was once in a savings bank
when a man who bore traces of a prolonged
bender approached the teller. “Look.” he
said, “this is my pass-book, and I want to
draw a couple of quid, but to tell you the
truth I am too damned shaky to sign my
name. If I leave the book with you for a
few minutes, how about letting me have a
couple of bob to get steadied up?” Appar-
ently the book showed the necessary credit,
and the teller complied. A few days later
I asked him if his unusual client had re-
turned. “Oh. yes,” he told me; “he came
back half an hour later, tossed the two shil-
lings across the counter and seemed quite
annoyed when I refused his offer to come
out and have one with him.”
“El V.” : Feisul of Iraq must have been de-
lighted at his royal reception in London,
which is a nice change for him after his own
flat, drab, worn-out city of Bagdad, in which
his Mohammedan principles preclude him
from drinking champagne except when it is
officially certified to by an aide-de-camp as
lemonade. He i.s a tall, sallowish Arab,
whose limp handshake and general look of
lassitude suggest that he was boiled with last
night’s beans; but the experienced eye sees
when he moves that he would be a nasty
customer to tackle hand to hand, and when
he raises his voice in polite objurgation the
wilting, forage-capped effendis round about
him hop to it like grasshoppers on a stove.
Some harsh things have been written about
Feisul by Australians. He is really a decent
sort, with a great respect for the Diggers,
particularly the two or three who were with
“Aurens” (Lawrence).
PARLIAMENTARY BADINAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘You are the greatest cur that has ever been
in this House. You are yellow through and through.’
“ ‘You are a racecourse spieler. If you had your
deserts you would be in gaol.’
“ ‘You haven’t the guts of a louse.’ ”
— H.S'. IF. Assembly amenities.
You may carp at the gifts and the talents
Of the gentry who govern our State;
You may sneer at their wisdom and balance
And belittle their vision and weight;
But there’s one thing at least beyond
question,
Whereon we arc bound to agree:
They are masters of subtle suggestion
And light repartee.
All fearless of censures and censors
In a game where no bodyline’s barred,
They are skilful and nimble as fencers
To get through the other chap’s guard.
And it’s “ Touche ” for many a fellow;
It means his confusion complete,
The withering gibe that lie’s yellow
From forehead to feet.
You may carry untiring the banner
Of party and toil for the cause
Until in the time-honored manner
You’re chosen for framing the laws.
But it tears, like the pull of a grinder,
It causes your complex to shrink,
A sudden incisive reminder
You should be in clink!
Old Pew landed one in the briskets
Of his co-buccaneers, I should say,
When he told them that weevils in biscuits
Were pluckier insects than they.
But a figure more pungent and spinous
(.uid forthright) they use in a House
Where a chap may be ticketed minus
The guts of a louse.
You may gird at their logic and learning
As barely perceptible things;
You may voice other strictures concerning
Our ninety political kings ;
But you scarce can deny they’re effective
With arts of a practical sort.
The artfully shaded invective,
The loaded retort.
You wouldn’t quite call it a casket.
Our talk-shop, of wit and of worth ;
You may doubt they’re the pick of the
basket
Or the salt of this section of earth ;
But all rivals they beat in a canter.
I think you’ll corroborate me,
When they’re busy with amiable banter
And brisk repartee.
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


Smoke JttdxAM-fieih
CRAVEN A
in the neu> rtzoi&tWi£-p > io<yf
'cellophane'pack
Will Not Affect Your Throat
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD. 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY.
10 for 9°
10 Tins 16
50.. S'9
\
l
20
Is
1
m
m
m
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Macpherson Robertson, who began life as
a manufacturer with a home-made kerosene-
tin boiler and a few pounds of confectionery
sugar, has presented £lOO,OOO to Victoria to
build a metropolitan high school, complete
a bridge across the Yarra between Burnley
and Toorak, promote the centenary air race
and aid charity. It is the largest gift made
by a citizen of Australia for public purposes
since George Bosch gave £250,000 to Sydney
University a few years ago.
Harvey, J., knighted a few weeks ago and
now appointed N.S.W. .Chief Justice, seemed
to be the logical choice, though he will have
only two years in office, as lie is 08 years
old. He is a sound, dignified Equity lawyer
with 20 years’ judicial experience behind hint,
a public-school accent acquired at Marl-
borough, and a love of the classics bred in
him at Tveble College, Oxford. He was not
called to the Bar till after he arrived in
N. S. Wales, and he is unique among modern
C.J.’s in the Mother State in that he never
took silk.
Digby Denham, last pre-war Premier of
Queensland, has just left Australia on a holi-
day trip to Asia. Denham received his coup
tie grace in 1015. He was more a victim
of his own efficiency than anything else;
his disregard of public opinion and his
economical management of the finances were
his undoing. lie told a reporter the other
day that he had forgotten all about politics
now. One of his sons won a Rhodes scholar-
ship and is a surgeon in the Navy.
A remarkable man was Lewis Cohen, just
dead in S.A. at 83. Liverpool-born, he was
educated in Sydney, became a trader in Fiji
at 18 and in 1876 turned moneylender in
Adelaide. With boundless energy, humor
and generosity, lie had a way with him that,
took him into Parliament, the City Council
(he was Mayor for seven years), and on to
countless boards. He was president of the
synagogue, and had been happily married
for 60 years.
All the appointees to the newly-constituted
N.S.W. Rural Bank Board have had Govern-
mental banking or rural experience. O’Malley
Wood is a Cowra native, trained as a surveyor,
who was chairman of the Land Board and
of the Advances to Settlers Board before he
became chairman of the old Government
Savings Bank Commissioners- in 1907. Mc-
Iverihan, 40 years his junior, was educated
under him in the Savings Bank service, and
has been president of the United Bank
W. H. O’MALLEY WOOD, member of the
new N.S.W. Rural Bank Board.
Officers’ Association. Rogers, an old 6th
Light Horseman, had liis early training at
IlaAvkesbury Agricultural College, fought at
Pozieres, managed a big wheat property, is
an accountant and has been chairman of
the Farmers’ Relief Board since January
last.
The retirement of Sidney Fletcher in
Brisbane removes an old legal identity whose
activity lias ranged from the police court
into tlie High Court. A keen politician and
an earnest student of industrial matters, he
acted for a long time for the sugar industry.
His partner, Charles Morris. Avas formerly
chairman of the Queensland Turf Club, but
Fletcher, a brother of the editor of the
“Sydney Morning Herald” and of the Rev.
Scott Fletcher, had quieter recreational
tastes.
Hudson Fysh, the Avar-time flier who has
done most to build up Qantas, of as Inch
he was one of the founders, must have been
a proud man when he arranged the agree-
ment to combine with Imperial Airways m
making the England-Australia air line a
reality. He svas the first man in Queensland
to think in commercial terms of the air; and
the earliest effort to form his company was
received with chuckles in the South. It has
kept going ever since 1921 and has flown
2,000,000 miles in 12 years. Avith scarcely
a single serious accident.
Andy Lacey, of the A.W.U., has had the
uncommon experience of being accredited as
leader of the Opposition in S.A. Assembly
before speaking a Avord in that Chamber. The
Labor factions couldn’t agree on a leader,
so Butler decided to recognise Lacey,
A. W. LACEY, Leader of S.A.’s mixed
Opposition.
who, formerly a Federal M.H.R. for nine
years, stepped into Hill's safe Labor seat of
Port Pirie. A keen debater in tlie Federal
House, he will make his presence felt in
Adelaide, where, however, he will find the
atmosphere much more restrained than at
Canberra.
F. L. Parker, Clerk of the S.A. Assembly,
will be called upon to advise his fifth
Speaker when li. L>. Nicholls assumes office.
Appointed in 1925, when Alfred Searcy
died, Parker has seen rapid changes in the
Speakership ; each party victory sees a new
occupant of the chair, lie served in Gallipoli
and Egypt with the 2nd Light Horse. The
Empire Parliamentary Association and the
Royal Geographical Society occupy his spare
time.
Jim Walden, probably the oldest (and the
richest) man in northern Tas., celebrated his
102nd birthday the other day. Il'e came from
England with the goldseekers. In 1861 he
transferred to Launceston, where he made a
fortune out of skins, hides, grain and pro-
duce. He still attends personally to his
business and continues to make his Beauty
Park.home live up to its name.
.1. A. Lyons, of the South Aus. Assembly,
doesn’t find it an unmixed blessing to have
the same initials as the Prime Minister. A
S.A. Federal member wrote to him from
Canberra. The letter, although addressed to
Parliament House, Adelaide, was returned
from the Prime Minister’s office. A second
attempt met the same fate, so the address
was altered to Jack A. Lyons. Jack A.
Lyons is a wlieatgrower.
Dr. .T. .T. Savage, Westralian Rhodes
scholar for 1911, has returned to Australia
after an absence of 22 years, intending to
practise in Perth. He Avas three times cham-
pion all-round athlete of the Westralian
secondary schools, and Avas a leading East
Perth footballer for several seasons. During
the Avar he Avas a pilot in the Royal Air
Force.
S. Sorenson, who has cut his last scarf
in Cairns at 94, was one of tlie pioneers of
the Danish invasion of Queensland, where he
arrived as a ship’s carpenter in 1869. A
fine specimen of his race, he fought in the
war between his country and the hated Prus-
sian, and later emigrated rather than
become a Prussian citizen. His Cross of the
Dannebrog Avas a cherished possession.
Lieut.-Gov. William Irvine, Avho opened
the second session of Vic.’s 81st Parliament
last week, will be 75 to-morrow (July 6).
During the 15 years he has been C.J. and
Lieut.-Gov. he has started the legislative
machinery going at least half a dozen times.
He has Avritten as well as read speeches
for Parliamentary openings, as he was Pre-
mier for 20 months (1902-04). The utter-
ance lie put into the mouth of Governor
Clarke (afterwards Baron Sydenham of
Combi;) for the special session called in
1903 on the occasion of the railway strike
was, and is, the shortest, on record. Irvine
is on leave as C.J.. and newly-made knight
Mann, who succeeds Cussen, is acting as
No. 1 on the S.C. Bench.
,T. D. O’l lagan, Queensland's new
Assistant Under-Secretary for Justice, went,
from Brisbane Grammar School to the Jus-
tice Department in 1901 and soon contracted
tile habit of becoming private secretary to a
long succession of Attorneys-General and
Premiers, ranging from present Chief Jus-
tice Blair through F. Power, T. O’Sullivan.
J. A. Fihelly, E. G. Theodore, T. .1. Ryan,
and W. N. Gillies to W. McCormack. He was
with the A.I.F. in 1914-15, and among other
jobs has been on “Hansard” and the Tram-
ways Board.
The allegedly gloomy Inge, the best-adver-
tised cleric .in the Empire, is to retire from
the deanery of St. Paul’s next year. lie
has withstood 74 years of the London climate
very well for a man who is popularly
believed to be plunged in perpetual pessim-
ism. Actually his gloom is a shibboleth
which has bdon tenderly cultivated by pub-
lishers and editors.
Melbourne branch of Macdonald, Hamilton
and Co., which handles Inchcape interests,
lias brought a new manager, C. It. Duncan,
front Westralia. Duncan had a London
P. and O. training, was at Aden and Bombay
before Ihe war, and came to Sydney in 3916
to look after the freight business of his eo.
He has been in Perth for his present firm
since 1950.
J. \V. Audas, who has been elected to the
British Institute of Physics, is already a
Fellow of the Linmoan Society, of the
Faculty of Sciences and of the Royal Micro-
scopical Society. Audas, who is senior
botanist at the National Herbarium (Vic.),
joined the staff, which had inherited a high
tradition from Baron von Mueller before
his time, about 37 years ago, and has made
some, notable contributions to the microscopi-
cal study of Australian plants.
Poor Bert Hinkler left gross estate valued
at only £906, He could have multiplied it
several times. Once when Bert was
trying desperately to scrape together enough
to finance his Moth flight to Aus-
tralia, he was offered a chance to go to
India with a motor-car party, a trip which
would have enabled him to organise his route
and return with a fairly tidy sum of money
to start off with'. The negotiations broke
down, because the roan who made the offer
had once done Bert a small favor, and Bert
insisted that he must pay for it by going to
India for nothing.
Jack Williams, Melbourne “Herald’s”
financial and mining special writer, who had
his grounding on The Bulletin, succeeds
John Smethurst as managing editor of the
“Barrier Miner.” Smethurst 'will continue
as advisory director. The A.J.A. will miss
Williams; he was Federal treasurer of the
association till December, 1932.
John Ernest Jelbart. president of tie
N.S.W. Shires’ Association, is in his 53rd
year and a native of the AVimmera (Vic.).
He moved to N.S.AV. many years ago, and
now owns a farming and grazing property
at Stony Park, near Albury. He is famous
among sheep-breeders for his rearing of the
Polwarth strain which ho and some relatives
introduced from A'ietoria. Jelbart has travelled
over 54,000 miles ..n municipal business dur-
J. E. JELBART, president of the N.S.W.
Shires’ Conference.
ing the 20 years of his membership of the
Hume Shire Council, and lias been presi-
dent on a number of occasions. He has
established a record in his part of the coun-
try by never missing a council meeting since
elected. At present, he is barracking hard
for a small-holdings scheme to be run by
the shires. A son. Jack, is one of Sydney's
younger barristers.
Captain James, of the Otranto, Avhich took
600 tourists from Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane to Papua, is a big.
square-built seaman avlioso chance came with
the Great War. A month before that world-
.shaking event he was in Alexandria as
second officer of a small ship. A German
liner, the Derflinger, Avas lying in the har-
bor. and he remarked to a brother-officer
that he would like to command a ship like
that. A few Aveoks later he was back in
Captain L. V . JAMES, of R.M.S. Otranto.
Alexandria with a commission from the
Admiralty to bring tin; Derflinger, renamed
tin l lfuntsgrecn, to London. James com-
manded her throughout the war, and was at
the landing at Ari Burma He had the
dreadful task of conveying 800 British
wounded from Gallipoli with a solitary ship's
doctor to look after them. Over 50 died
en route, and a subsequent report convinced
the brass-hats at home that two hospital
ships were not sufficient for the needs of the
Gallipoli campaign. James has an Australian
wife.
James Waldron, now in his 95th year,
came to Queensland from England in 1801
and became one of the first Australian
planters of sugar and cotton, his first con-
signment of 20 bales of the latter bringing
3s. Old. a pound in London, while there
was a State bonus of 3d. a pound added.
Cotton and sugar were abandoned for general
farming, and then followed a long period on
the Brisbane “Observer” and “Courier.”
Brigadier Murray Bourchier, who succeeds
John Allan as leader of the Cocky party in
Vic. Parliament, is liked by members of ah'
parties. If he captains his party as he did
the 4tli Light Horse in Palestine he will be
a success. For two and a half years (1924-
27) Bourchier was Minister for Agricul-
ture in the Allan-Peacock Cabinet. He
is a grazier at Shepparton, and his wife
is a daughter of the late Frank Madden, who
was Assembly Speaker for 13 years (1904-
17).
There were few better-known Maori
women than Mrs. Heni Pore, who died last
week at Rotorua at 93. She was a member
of the Arawa tribe, and the earlier years of
her life had been full of adventure. As a
child she was taken on board a relief vessel,
and saw the flames of Korora-reka when
Hone Ileke captured and sacked the settle-
ment. She Avas the only member of her sex
who actually fought against the British
during the attack on Gate Pah, when the
redcoats Avere defeated. It was Mrs. Heni
Pore avlio succored Colonel Booth when the
British officer Avas severely Avounded. _ Not
only did she carry water to him; she risked
her own life to draw him out of the line
of fire. When the Maori King party was
formed, the official flag Avas her handicraft.
Until practically the time of her death she
lectured yearly on the past events of Maori-
land’s history, and her graphic story, of the
Gate Pah affair, salted with her first-hand
experiences, ay as always popular.
Policemen have become parsons; but John
Walkour, the new chief of the N.S.W.
Fingerprints Department at police head-
quarters, after qualifying for the Methodist
ministry turned from the pulpit to the force,
lie has been in it for 13 years, 12 of them
amongst fingerprints; and at 35 lie is re-
garded as the youngest fingerprints chief in
the world. Several suggestions made by him
haA'e been adopted abroad.
William Preston-Day, whose death in
Brisbane at 73 is rep’orted. Avas a notable
journalist-musician in the Northern State for
many years. Yorkshire born, he Avent, after
Bradford School and Balliol, to study music
at Paris and Leipzic. His health breaking
down, he transferred to Queensland, begin-
ning there as an employee of the old A.J.S.
bank. For this bank and the Australasia he
moved about Queensland for years, taking
his musical enthusiasm Avitli him wherever
lie wont.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
A.RTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 18C3. Established 1872.
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.: M. J. Rvan. Esa. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN,
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Your Last Year’s Will
May Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Direotor. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Call or Write for Free Explanatory Booklet.
PIONEER
THE BIG NAME IN LEATHER
BELTING
For over 74 years the name
Pioneer on a leather belt has been
an assurance of long years of trouble-
free service on the toughest drives
and under the most difficult work-
ing and climatic conditions.
We make a special guaranteed
Pioneer Leather Belt for every
transmission requirement. Ask for
free advice and our new catalogue.
é
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 18S0
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends
, , „ 5 p.c. To Re- Re-
ApL, Profits. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923 59,752 4325 10 p.c.= 40,423 15,004 172,082
1924 62,047 4325 10 „ ~ 40,423 17,299 189,381
1925 65,121 4325 10 „ ~ 40,423 20,373 209,764
1926 71,121 4325 10 ~ ~ 50,423 16,373 226 127
1927 73,020 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 ~ ~ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 ~ ~ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 ~ ~ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 53 ~ ~ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 53 ~ „ 84,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 . —6„ „ 29,003 201 270,035
The last few years have been full of
troubles for this old-established find ably-
handled importer of paper and printers’
requisites, etc. Larger financing of the
printing trade, which was usually in a hun-
gry condition, had helped to swell turnover.
Capital had more than doubled since the
public became interested in 3915, and the
ords. bad received a steady 10 p.c., with wide
margins, till the close of accounts in 1930.
Then slump, exchange and taxation com-
pletely altered prospects. Also, the death of a
number of Sydney and country newspapers,
the shrinkage in the size of others, and con-
traction in demand for printers’ machinery
and other requisites reduced turnover and
left the eo. overcapitalised.
Foreseeing that something of the kind
might happen, the management had accu-
mulated a large store of cash and public
securities—together £317,645 at the close of
accounts in 1932. Thus the co. has been
able to return its surplus capital instead of
writing it off, and at the same time to enhance
prospects of satisfactory divs. on the balance.
In July, 1932, £207,355 —the whole of the
pref. (£150,000) and one-fifth of the ord.
capital—was returned to shareholders, who
received a further £161,128 (=6s. Bd. per
share) last month, thus reducing paid capital,
to £322,256. The scrip has been been con-
solidated into pound shares.
For the 12 mouths covered by the latest
accounts there was a slip of £10,189 in de-
clared net earnings. Still, enough remained
to add one-quarter of one per cent, to the
div., making 6 p.c. for the year, and put
£2Ol in the cupboard, -raising the lay-by to'
£270,035 at April 30.
The market prices the pound shares at 335.,
at which figure the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 6
p.c. div. basis.' So the investor who looks for
4.8 p.c. on his money counts on an 8 p.c.
distribution. On capital as it now stands
(£322,256) an S p.c. div. would call for
£25,780, or no more than 4.3 p.c. on capital
and reserves combined. The co. can be ex-
pected to get its full share of whatever busi-
ness is offering.
. The solid nature of the financial structure
in seen in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures :—■
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £690,740 £690,740 £690,740 £483,384
Liabilities .. 106,094 45,590 34,208 53,180
Freeholds .. 110,319 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stocks. .. 216,163 167,889 145,692 125,418
Sundry debtors 456,252 356,612 351,499 279 310
Cash and in-
vestments .. 308,471 392,422 409,215 298,802
Thus the return of £207,356 of capital last
,™s accompanied by a reduction of
£110,413 in cash and investments, £72,189
in debtors’ balances and £20,274 in stocks,
/j-wi’i books dosed public securities
and cash (£68,722) totalled
£216,0~6. So the co. has had no difficulty in
finding the £161,128 returned to shareholders
last month. Debtors’ balances are adequately
protected by securities and/or reserves the
board says. ’
Timber lands Woodpulp, Ltd.
oo'J’o te . this co. has sold something like
33,000 bonds at prices ranging from £2O per
bond in the . A ’ series to £4O in the “C IX”
issue. A total of 40,000 bonds may be issued,
all ranking equally. The co. owns two blocks
m Maonland—Pukahunui (41,124 acres)
near Lake Taupo, and Matahina (21000
aeres), near Rotorua. The Pukahunui area
has been planted with Pinus imtiqnis • the
land cost £75,000 .in 1925, and the co ’ esti-
mates that the final cost will be £l2 an acre
including all bond-selling exes. Once the
land has been planted, annual maintenance
costs aie put at 2s. an acre. A prospectus
issued m May, 1932, estimated that when all
the money comes in from 40,000 bonds,
there will be £750.000 available for the erec-
tion of a pulp and paper mill- -£500,000 in
the trust fund and £250,000 surplus on plant-
ing costs, etc.
No balance-sheets have been published but
the co. states that ordinary shareholders
have not yet received a div., and that the
S p.c. pref. div. is in arrears. Under the
original trust deed shareholders held a rever-
sionary interest in the trust fund and sur-
plus moneys. The trust fund was to be lent
to bondholders for at least ten years in order
to erect a mill, and in April, 1932. share-
holders agreed to advance surplus moneys on
the same conditions, provided the co. was
relieved from maintenance and replacement
liabilities.
Now the co. has put forward a scheme
which, if accepted, will place both bond-
holders and shareholders on a common foot-
in£*. Present paid-up share capital of the
co. is £66,350. The co. offers to forfeit its
specific rights over the trust funds and sur-
plus moneys, provided bondholders agree to
present ord. shareholders writing up their
capital to not more than £244,444, to the re-
payment of pref. capital, to the cancellation
of the uncalled liability (about £6000) on
the ord. shares, and to the conversion of
bonds into ord. shares on the basis of 55
fully-paid shares for each bond. This would
call for 2,200,000 shares in respect of 40,000
bonds. Present ord. shareholders in Timber-
lands Woodpulp, Ltd., would thus exchange
all their proprietary rights in the funds of
the co. for a one-tentlr share interest in
the undertaking as a whole.
The proposed reconstruction is precedent to
the establishment of a pulp and paper mill.
The original estimated outlay of £500,000
will not be enough, the co. says; £750,000
would be nearer the mark. Bondholders’ own
plantations are not ready for pulping, anil
thinnings from the State forestry reserves
are not available at satisfactory prices; so
the co. has secured several options, one
being over 16,000-odd acres of timber land
adjoining the Mataliina block, on which it
is proposed to erect the 26,000-ton mill. The
co. estimates that timber on the Pukahunui
area would be ready for the mill hy the
time the forest under option has been pulped,
and that, if its own Matahina block
were planted now, a continuous raw-material
supply would be assured. Prices of the pro-
perties under option have not been disclosed
in the circulars to bondholders
The conversion is a satisfactory proposal.
A meeting of bondholders in the “C” series,
representing nearly 30,000 bonds, will be held
in Sydney on July 21. If accepted by the
requisite majority, the proposals will be
binding on all bondholders in this series.
Holders of the 3000 “A” and the 3000 “B”
bonds were to have their products sold as
timber; but they, too, may now come into
the scheme. Though holders of the ord.
shares in the present bond-selling co. would
receive 244,444 shares in the new co. for
their present holdings, they would forfeit
their rights over £750,000 of trust and sur-
plus funds and unpaid bond-money.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
“A” “B”
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
.g £>£/£/£,
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19,200 600 15,716 169,825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925.. 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926. . 50,453 10,500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,600 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
*Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Drygoods have proved a trap for many cos.,
large and small. Harper’s, however, occu-
pies a unique position in the specialty field.
That the co. has pulled through the last
few years with visibly no more than a
quiver, while the ords. have had a steady 8
p.c. since 1917, sweetened with a 2 p.c.
bonus in ’29 and ’3O. is a testimony to the
quality of the management. The business—
it is well spread throughout the Common-
wealth —consists of . non-luxury lines, and
therefore holds comparatively well in lean
times.
Last year lower values further narrowed
profit margins (they were never wide), and
the contraction in declared net earnings was
£5544. After paying the pref. and B share
divs. (together £12.900). there was enough
to show 8.8 p.c. on the £240,000 of ord. capi-
tal as against 11.1. 11.3. 15.2. 15.6, 15.5,
15.2 and 16 p.c. back to 1926. The sugges-
tion there is that the 8 p.c. div. might be
in danger. But with an eye to the future,
the co. stocked up freely when prices were
at their lowest or thereabouts, and both
trade and commodity values have strength-
ened since. The additional stocks, therefoi’e,
promise to be very helpful.
The management doesn’t overlook the ad-
vantages of cash buying either. Consider
these figures:—
1919. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £398,268 £420,000 £430,000 £430,000
Mortgages . . 35,733
Deposits . . 31,318
Overdraft .. 72,103
Sundry creditors 94,014 49,511 41,778 41,573
Freeholds .. 135,682 146,660 145,665 146,731
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 54,140 48,926 44,800
Leaseholds .. 400
Stock . . 234,710 162,762 146,840 161,501
Sundry debtors 145,856 124,865 111,026 92,572
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc, 22,367 212,982 262,246 270,962
Government securities (£157.290, up £18.986
during the year) and cash (£113,573, down
£10,220) have been piled up with a view to
extending the co.’s operations when oppor-
tunity offers. The year’s net growth in
the book value of stocks was £14.661; debtors’
balances were reduced by £18.456, due partly
to provision for contingencies. Incidentally,
Government securities are now worth more
than their book value, and freeholds and
plant are claimed to bo in at low figures,
too. The year’s spring in the more or less
liquid surplus (£483,462, including stocks)
was £SI2S, making the improvement £313,697
since 1919.
At 295. the ords. return 5.5 p.c. on an S
p.c. div. basis ; it is a very satisfactory yield
front a sound stock these days. The backing
is 86s. 4d. in net tangibles. The profs.—
there arc 150,000 of them, 7 p.c. cumulative
—seldom appear on ’Change. They are
covered b.V £4 7s. lOd. in net tangibles, and
last year’s net earnings were over three
times their annual requirements.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
/ —-Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves,
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 119,497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,600 35,623 246,919
1924.. 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.360
1925.. 122.395 16,374 15 „ „ 67,600 38,521 317,887
1926.. 107.690 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341 703
1927.. 133.021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901.16,374 15 p.o. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288,525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181.178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 . . 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
The trouble began with the reconstruction
of the co.’s main premises about half a dozen
years ago. The old building, together with
£112,500 of reserves, was demolished.
The new _ one, which cost more than was
expected, included an extra five storeys, and
the board went to its bankers for the money,
raising the overdraft to £349,337 at March
15, 1931. The work interfered with earn-
-1o?s’ an( ? 5 p.c. bonus was jettisoned in
’29, leaving the div. at 10 p.c. It dropped
to 8 p.c. in the following year. Then fall-
lng prices made stocks troublesome, especi-
ally in the furniture section, while lighter
pay-bags, the spread of unemployment and
the political misfortunes of the State re-
duced turnover. At the same time taxation
and the weight of the overdraft made it im-
possible to get overhead back in proportion.
Thus losses instead of profits have shown up
for the last three years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, conditions generally became
more settled, and the co. opened an office in
Yokohama. The board, how r ever, reports
most intensive competition,” which means
price-cutting. Gross earnings (£224,264)
were only £3746 better, leaving them
£165,553 short of the 1930 figure. Trading
exes. (£229,724) were pulled back £14,592:
but the interest bill (£13,931) was a trifle
heavier, and a loss of £19,391 showed up It
was an improvement of £18,261 on the pre-
vious year’s result. That is leaving out of
tlie reckoning £16,000 dropped from some-
where into a capital assets reserve; thus
the loss may have been lighter than was
claimed.
The financial position improved:—
_ . 1920. 1926. 1932. 1933
Paid capital.. £722,902 £722,902 £772.902 £772,902
Liabilities .. 35,572 390,054 369,221
Property .. 306,000 371,641 731,386 725 000
Plant, etc. .. 20,805 76,420 163,320 156 700
Stocks .. 494,611 630,482 399,943 385 951
Book debts .. 17,114 62,195 36,716 43,415
Cash, etc. .. 92,818 35,126 12,769 9^644
During the year £4599 was added to the over-
ft (£338,553), while £25,432 was knocked
°! f c<^ ing , to sundl 'y creditors,
etc. (£30,668). 4he book value of stocks
was reduced by £13,992. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus (£69,789, includ-
ing stocks) was £10,415 stronger than at
the previous balance.
Exactly what the future holds for the co.
it is. difficult to say. At the moment the
outlook is more encouraging than at any
time since the slump began. Woolworths
have opened up near by, and Coles will
follow presently. Still, experience elsewhere
suggests that this may not do Foys any
the market prices the prefs. at 18s
as against 13s. 6d. a year ago. Allowing
lot the statutory cut, there will be £42 413
} d - P er share) coming to them at
next balance. This and the outside debt
may stand m the way of the ords. for a
while. They are priced at 11s. 9d. The net
tangible cover is £3 9s. 9d. prefs., 275. Id.
Whitefield, Ltd. (Sydney)
„ r Dividends --To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Pref. Old. serves, serves.
£ £
\ 9 * 9 - • 8 p - c - 15 P- c - = 18,109 3370 15,476
lOQ?" 2 0’1n 6 8 ” 15 » ” 20,192 6034 21,500
1931.. 8,292 4 „ Nil 3,200 5092 26,60-1
Loss.
1932.. 5,692 Nil Nil _ 2 0 910
1933.. 6,586 Nil Nil 14,324
ihis co. mixes cash-orders with home mort-
al 1 ?® business, etc.; to what extent is not
visible 111 the published figures. It was a
clean float; £22,632 of share capital was
gathered in the first year (1923) at a cost of
£B6O, which was capitalised as goodwill. The
business _expanded rapidly, and the co. went
heavily into debt to make advances with a
book value of £342,797 at the close of
accounts in 1930. There were rich pickings
irom trade discounts, and, for a time, the
debts problem caused little anxiety. After
paying the pref. div., the ords. got 15 p.e.
tor each of the first two years, followed bv
111 ari( l "27, and then 15 p.c. again
till the end of March, 1930. But little fat
accumulated; there was only
Sn’rfotrr to . visibl y support and assist
£197,967 of capital, including £BO,OOO of
pref. money, at the end of March last.
With the arrival of hard times, bad debts
exceeded expectations, the granting of credit
has been restricted, interest has been scaled
down by legislation, taxation has increased,
and the co. is now in possession of a number
of properties as mortgagor. Thus losses
instead of profits have shown up for the lasi
two years, and the co. is more or less do-
pendent upon conditions in the proper! v
market for improvement in its figures.
/ „ , tbe last term gross earnings
fell away £4144, making the slip
t rooriil ovcr tbe ■ last tbree years; exes.
(£8890) were pulled back £4608. But after
earmarking £5900 for probable losses as
against £7600 in the previous term a loss
*8686 showed up. This was reduced to
shown in the table by transfer of
±2OOO from the reserve for taxation, reduc-
ing it to £640. Both lots of shareholders
went hungry again.
Ihe position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows :
Paid Sundry
Capital. Creditors. Advances, etc.
1924.. £22,632 £13,106 £37,133
1925.. 46,477 20,225 71,263
1927.. 63,000 107,701 184,538
1928.. 141,879 124,572 286,033
1929.. 168,533 97,867 293,903
1930.. 192,472 113,805 342,797
1931.. 196,960 95,223 326,485
1932.. 197,183 73,113 293,845
1933.. 197,967 61,073 274,004
The amount of foreclosures and property and
other advances is not shown separately in
the published accounts. Last year the book
value of the lot was reduced by £19.841.
yir.i^o?’ o4o was snipped off the overdraft
(£61,073).
. With a better demand for house proper-
ties, and unemployment on the ebb,
the co.’s outlook has improved. But it is
difficult to say exactly when shareholders
are likely to get into the picture ; much will
depend upon what it is able to do with the
properties which have fallen into its hands.
The market prices the prefs. at ss. 6d
there are 80,000 of them, 8 p.c. cumulative
less 22% p.c. statutory cut. with priority as to
capital. The ords. are offered at Bs., but
buyers are shy.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
/ Dividends . Towards
Net Pref. R e .
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 ~ ~ 10,918 1863 19,662
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4£ „ ~ 7,491 1358 2.694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350 Nil 10 644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil _ 20*194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil _ 23,310
When this co. took over the builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware business of F. Malloy
and Son 14 years ago, the building boom
had just begun. Capital advanced from
£70,000 in 1920 to £196,473 eight years
later; and, after allowing for the pref.' div..
net earnings reached 14.4 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital for the 12 months to the
end of April, 1929. Then, with the stoppage
of overseas borrowing, came slump and a
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


NO CIGARETTE
am reach qoa fresh unless
adequately protected aqainst
PRINTED
SURFACES
The injv ami cardboard used for
packets and cards transmit their
odour to unprotected cigarettes—
tainting and spoiling the tobacco.
B.D.V’s “Everfresh” wrapping
protects the cigarettes—guarantees
you absolute purity.
STORAGE
The time occupied iu transporta-
tion, storage and deliveries exposes
all unprotected cigarettes to atmo-
spheric changes. B.D.V.’s “Ever-
fresh” wrapping guarantees you
fresh cigarettes anywhere and any
time.
TRANSPORT
Handling and transport by road,
rail and sea shakes tobacco from
unprotected cigarettes. B.D.V.’s
“Everfresli” wrapping bolds them
firm in the packet. Tobacco can’t
shake out. Open a packet and
CLIMATE
Humid or dry climates rapidly
spoil the condition and flavour of
unprotected tobacco. B.D.V.’s
“Everfresh” wrapping is guaran-
teed completely moisture-proof.
Atmospheric conditions cannot
affect B.D.V. Cigarettes.
k
b.dv.
ter
VIRGINIA
are
D
W
t
B.D.V.’s “Everfresh” wrapping makes them unique in their price class. It
actually wraps the cigarettes—not the packet. It protects them against climatic
changes, transportation, storage, cardboard and ink. It guarantees you the full
purity and freshness and flavour of their 100% imported Virginia tobacco.
It is the greatest improvement ever made to teu-for-sixpenny cigarettes.
D
D
□
'EVERFRESH'
CIGARETTES
Guaranteed 100% pure imported Virginia tobacco.
Coloured cards are included in every packet.
CORK TIPS OR PLAIN
\OfwG.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coli.ison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.l. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
economical processes for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
ê
6
D.
EACH
Wholes ale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Rapid Ore Crusher
UNIX COMPRISES:
Compressed Air-
operated Stamp,
Nightingall Patent,
Amalgamating Table.
Made in All Sizes.
No. 1 Size.
Output 1J tons per
day.
H.P. 2
Table Size 4ft. x 4ft.
6in.
Speed, 175 Blows
per minute.
*
'' ' '''
PRICES &
PARTICULARS
ON REQUEST.
BETA ENGINEERING
'~ r ' Snpncer Street, Melbourne, VIC.
desperate struggle for turnover. Hence
losses instead of profits have shown up for
the last three years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, sales improved; more busi-
ness could have been done, the board
says, but at prices which would have
increased the loss. Price cutting, due to
competition, is the trouble. So, although
gross earnings (£32,511) were £7013 better,
and exes. (£35,627) took but £579 of the
increase, the net result was a loss of £3116,
an improvement of £6434 on the previous
year’s result. That left £23,310 of the
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books at April 30—goodwill (£22,682) is
not treated as an asset herein.
To carry an extra £7929 of book debts,
add £2089 to the book value of plant and
£lllO to the stocks item, the boa'rd went
outside for an extra £9388 last year, as the
following comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:—
1928. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities . . 40.009 17,714 14,445 23,833
Freeholds . . 44,122 65,632 55,673 55,859
Leaseholds .. 19,824 17,272 16,460 15,680
Plant, etc. . . 39,213 40,304 38,731 40,820
Stock.. .. 64.061 54,772 49,850 50,960
Investments . . 1,955
Book debts . . 62,236 24,465 24,106 32,035
Cash, etc. .. 13,331 11,677 5,904 1,642
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£60,804, including stocks) was £4611
lighter than at the previous balance. Stocks
are said to be conservatively valued; much
depends upon this, the efficiency of the plant,
the experience in connection with debtors’
balances, and competition..
The building trade is now more active than
at any time during the last three years ;
but competition threatens to keep margins
narrow. The market prices the ords. at
Ss. 4d. as against 2s. a year ago. Over
the same period, the prefs. have advanced
from 7s. 6d. to 15s. There are 30,000 of
them, 9 p.c. cumulative less 22J p.c. statutory
cut, with priority as to capital and the right
to a premium of 2s. 6d. per share in a wind-
up or return of their money. There was
£5338 (= 3s. 6d. per share) coming to them
in accrued divs. when the books closed. The
net tangible cover is £5 15s. sd. prefs., and
17s. 2d. ords. mostly plant, etc., worth what
it can earn.
During 1932 B. H. Associated Smelters,
Port Pirie (S.A.), produced 135,503 tons of
lead, 6,101.i370z. of silver and 35300 z. of
gold. The lead output was 2000 tons better
than in 1931, but 33,000 tons poorer than
the 1930 figure. The production of sulphuric
acid from the roasting of zinc concentrates
totalled 23,034 tons; the acid is used mainly
in the production of superphosphate. ,The
new plants for the continuous softening and
removal pf copper and antimony from the
lead bullion, and for the continuous degold-
ing and desilyering of the softened bullion,
are in operation. These advances have fol-
lowed research on which the co. has spent
hundreds of thousands of pounds. Only two
cases of lead poisoning were reported for
the six months to the end of December last,
compared with 54 cases in the corresponding
period of 1927.
- *■ * *
The Mt. Lyell Co. is speeding up develop-
ment of the Lyell Comstock ore-body which
contains 650,000 tons of 3 p.c. ore down to
No. 5 level. The grade is 0.75 p.c. higher
than in the Tharsis, which contains 2.500.000
tons, and which will be the principal source
of supply in the future. The co. is extend-
ing the Tasman and Crown tunnel to the
Comstock shaft. This tunnel will prospect
1000 ft. of likely country, serve as No. 7
level for the Comstock and also take care of
the drainage. ,
* * * *
Mt. Coolon’s production for the fortnight
ended .Tune 27 compares with the two pre-
ceding fortnights as follows :
May 30. .Tune 13. June 27.
° re « t°ns 2271 2543 2474
Gold, fine oz 1440 1523 1460
Average yield, dwt. .. 12.73 12.00 11.85
The new No. 4 level continues to be dis-
appointing. The east drive is in 21s. ore
7ft wide, and the west drive is in 10s. stone!
wu l alues are on the basis of gold
at 140 s. an ounce.
* * * *
On the strength of a report by B Dun-
stan, one-time Government Geologist in
Queensland, Australian Mining Trust in-
to form a subsidiary (nominal capital
±2p6\ooo) to work part of the old Forsayth
goldfield (N.Q.). The area includes the
old Queenslander and Big Reef mines, which
shut down with the closure of the Ghillaeoe
smelters in 1919, and the New Queenslander
reef, located by Dunstan during his investi-
. £ he Queenslander, developed to
360 ft.. yielded 41,7550 z. from 31,481 tons
?i™ S nnn Say *l tl J ero 1 sIlO ' I lld be a further
£l °r?£,l () worth of sold to be won by sinking
to 700 ft. and driving new levels The Bio-
Reef crushed 24,286 tons, which averaged
£3 ss. 4d. per ton ; and, it is considered, a
lot more similar stone can be had by further
sinking and driving. The New Queenslander
reef, which runs parallel to the old Queens-
lander, has been traced for 1500 ft. on the
surface, and averages about 12in. in width.
Samples averaged 14dwt. 9gr., but a 60-ton
parcel from the bottom of a 50ft. shaft re-
turned 2oz. per ton. There is about £150,000
worth of ore actually in sight on the
An interesting gold find is being developed
at Lolworth Creek (Q.). Over a surface
area 400 ft. square, gold-bearing debris occurs
to a depth of 12in. Recently S 6 tons of the
stuff returned 370 z. This debris, which also
carries about 1 p.c. wolfram, is believed
to come from large quartz lodes now de-
nuded. An Empire mill is being installed.
* * * *
Hawkwood, out from Eidsvold (C.Q.), is
one of the small fields that have come in for
attention lately. Most of the prospectors
seem to have struck duffers, but one lode,
the Narayen, taken up by Hawkwood Gold
Mines, is being actively developed and is
producing fair quantities of higb-gradc ore.
Developments on the 50ft. level appear to
have disclosed a payable lode, averaging 4ft.
in width; but the 100 ft. level is still in
faulty country, and they are driving to
pick up the overhead shoot.
* * * *
A. J. Jones, ex-Ministcr for Mines in
Queensland, has been responsible for re-
opening the Mt. Shamrock (C.Q.) gold-bis-
muth mine. Activities comprise reorganisa-
tion of the plant, sampling of the Breccia
lode, and retreatment of the old dumps; the
ore did not respond well to old-time pro-
cesses. The Breccia shows very uneven
values in sampling, from a trace up to 35dwt.
of gold, but the average so far seems to be
fairly good. The Shamrock was a rather
good producer some 20 years ago.
* * *
Since the high-grade copper ore of the
Cloncurry district has to travel nearly 1000
miles to the CJiillagoe Smelters, determined
efforts are being made to feet a smelter
erected at Cloncurry. The miners have put.
up their case and Herbert Gepp, at the
request of the Queensland Government, has
visited the centre. It is claimed that, besides
the high-grade ore, there are large deposits
averaging around 5 p.c. that it would pay
to treat locally, but which must remain un-
touched otherwise.
* * * *
There was regret among the mining com-
munity of North Queensland when Cliff Rut-
ledge gave up the general managership of
Chillagoe Smelters last week. He proved to
be a live wire "during the difficult period of
reconstruction, following the Mungana affair.
No sooner had he taken over than markets
went to pieces; yet he lowered the Smelters’
losses. His flying visits from Herberton to
the Etheridge, organising supplies to keep
the furnaces going, and his helpful advice
c.ade him appreciated by miners and pros-
pectors. He goes to Gold and Rare Metals,
Ltd., largely a Scottish co., whose holdings
embrace Mt. Wandoo, King Yol and the
Kitchener.
* * * *
The old Neerdi'e antimony mines at Sandy
.Creek, near Goomboorian (Q.), which were
profitable producers over 50 years ago, have
been taken, up again. A small parcel sent
to Sydney showed 54.2 p.c. antimony per ton.
There has been very little antimony ore
raised in Queensland since 1916; from 1873
to 1916 production totalled 4576 tons, valued
at approximately £58,400.
* * :Jt
Gold Mines of Australia has optioned
a sluicing property on the old Boonjie field,
near Cairns (N.Q.). Testing is in progress.
* * X *.
Hercules, Bendigo, has scattered another
2s. per share, making the total 28s. (=
£84,000) since the rich saddle reef below
the 1620 ft. level was discovered in July,
1932. The last crushing of 229 tons for
190 oz. is the best for some time; it makes
total recoveries from the new reef 14,8840 z.
from 8257 tons.
* * x ■*
Hercules Consols, Bendigo, has been
formed with a capital of £35,000 to develop
a lease of 37 acres adjoining the Hercules,
and embracing the New Chum and Sheeps-
h'ead lines. It is intended to prove the coun-
try below the 865 ft. level.
* X * X
Ironbark South, Bendigo, is in highly-
mineralised ore, 6in. wide, in the leg of a
saddle reef below the 512 ft. level. Here 26
tons yielded 40oz. of gold. The shaft is to
be sunk from the 800 ft. level to explore
the continuation of the reef now being
worked by the Ironbark Co.
X * -.!: :J:
Siamese Tin Syndicate, the big English
concern with large interests in Malaya, is
speeding up the equipment of its St. Helen’s
property, Tas., where manager W. R. G.
Colman expects to start sluicing in about
three months. The 29-mile race from St.
Columba Falls is practically complete. The
intake has been tried: out. and works per-
fectly.
Aberfoyle Tin (Tas.). which lias declared
its first dividend of 124 p.c., has been opened
up on sound lines and'looks like becoming a
steady producer. The coarse crushing equip-
ment recently installed has lifted mill capa-
city to 275 tons weekly. The ore is treated
by magnetic separators to give 54 tons of
high-grade tin oxide. 54 tons of seconds and
9dwt. of wolfram. The plant is only working
one shift.
* * * *
Storey’s Creek Tin. near Ben Lomond
(Tas.), which has been let on tribute since
1929, is to be reopened by the co‘. The ore
consists of tin and wolfram, which are
separated by magnetic apparatus. When
worked on a large scale in 1928. the co.
treated 10,351 tons of ore for 176 tons of
wolfram and 110 tons of tin concentrates.
The lode on the bottom level, Oft. wide and
partly developed, contains less wolfram and
more tin, which is a decided advantage with
wolfram at about 11s. per unit.
* * * *
At Betts Creek, Ramsay River (Tas.), a
prospecting shaft yielded 2cwt. tin oxide,
Gdwt. osmiridium and 3dwt. gold. A second
shaft, 3 miles downstream, gave 6oz. of t.o.
per dish. Near the old South Rischoff, pay-
able wash 6ft. deep is being sluiced, and in
the vicinity of Mt. Ramsay slugs of tin
oxide up to 31b. in weight have been found
m a gully.
*•< # j|t
The “Wild Cat” (B. 14/6/’33) said that
New Deloraine (S. Aus.) had put. through
90 tons for 360 z. of gold ; actually 98 tons
were crushed for 470 z. The co. 'has since
put through another 40 tons for 290 z. 16dwt.,
and the face of the drive, 149 ft. from the
shaft, is in 15dwt. to 20dwt. stone.
* * * *
M ?y Wiluna (W.A.) milled
9°, 033 tons of ore, or 1000 tons more than
m April, for a return of £72,000 in Aus-
tralian currency. The month’s profit on
wprkmg account was £36,357, an increase of
12600. The outlay on construction was £7883
spared with £19,902 in May, 1932. The
1000 ft. level of the No. 2 west lode is now
being opened up, and a crosscut shows lift,
of 31s. ore, with gold at 85s. This is the
lowest point yet reached. Earnings have
been, sweetened with £14,858 (a shade under
3d. per share) in respect of the gold bounty
tor the nine months to the end of September
last.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s profit last year (£70,949)
was the best for ten years. Share-
holders received two 3d. divs., and another
3d. m respect of the current year is pay-
able on July 14. The co. has distributed
over £6,000,000 since 1895. Two years ago
the mine was barely a year ahead of the
mill, at the current rate of treatment. The
measured ore reserves have now increased
their lead to three years, and about four years’
teed is known to exist outside the measured
area.
* * * *
On the market Associated Northern’s
scrip, which is represented by cash and in-
vestments with a book value of Is 6d a
share, lias risen a little above that figure.
Except for a little tributing the co.’s old
Kalgoorlie mine is idle, and its show at Ora
Banda, on the Broad Arrow field, hasn’t
b ? e n f ° r some time. The possibility
ot Loldhelds Australian Development takin»
an option over the Ora Banda property pro-
bably accounts for the market advance.
* * * *
■ ®°. u * h . Kalgurli (W.A.) made enough
profit for year ended March last to pay 12s
a share, and an interim div. of Is' was
handed out in January. Of the remaining
10 d i lv h S " 6th)* special bonus
/o *l nd furtiie r return of capital
(2s. Gd. a share) will-take 6s. 6d., leaving
the co. with cash, investments and bullion
on hand amounting to over £150.000. and a
mine capable of yielding wealth at the pre-
sent rate for several years.
* * * *
~ HiH .60 (W.A.), out of which two Mt
Magnet miners have taken some thousands
of ounces of gold in the last few years, has
been sold to a small London co. The deposit
is low-grade, but there is plenty of it and
crushing pay well at the present price of
gold Bob Black, pastoralist and ex-Kal-
goorlie mining attorney, is the purchaser’s
local representative.
* * *
Seldom a week passes at Kalgoorlie with-
out some new find being reported The
latest is from the Patricia district, about
eS i Kalgoorlie, where R.
W elch and P. lotts struck a large ore body
which has attracted the attention of J F.
, ma ? ager of Lake View
and Stai. He has inspected the property
Mu
■mt. a™ag"d 12dwt. tOnS fr ° m a wi<lth of
v jj.
| !’ aril ( i "i Mining and Exploration’s first
bore at. Kalgoorlie was in calc schist, of
which six sections were auriferous. These
snnti «wJ eSte n u y drivin S north from the
south shaft, and boring ns to bo continued
There are several examples of payable ore-
boches occurring in the calc schist at Kal-
goorlie, a fact which Dr. Stillwell was care-
ful to note. The Croesus Pty. lode, which
was wholly in schist, was worked to the
1000 ft. level with uniform and payable
values. Narrow rich lodes were also found
in schist on the Oroya North block.
$ & * jjs
Westralian Mines Investigation has dis-
patched a party to study the question of
bucket-dredging the Gascoyne, Ashburton and
Fortescue rivers and the swampy country
between Onslow and Port Hedland. C. H.
Wray is in charge.
* ❖ ;|s
Phoenix Gold, Norseman (W.A.), has
received a favorable report from mining
geologist Beresford. On the No. 6 level the
lode has been proved for 400 ft. in payable
values. A _ winze ; s now being sunk, and
a crosscut is being put out to pick up the
new reef located on No. 5 level. The co.
hopes commence crushing shortly.
* * * ‘ ,n
Lakeside Retreatment and Mining Co. has
commenced cyaniding a dump of 250,000 tons
at Hannan’s Lake, three miles south of
Kalgoorlie. This is the tailings from the
old Boulder Perseverance plant, which in
the early days was situated at the lake to
enable a good water supply to be obtained.
The retreatment plant, which cost £7500,
will deal with 9500 tons monthly. Charcoal
will be used to precipitate the gold instead of
the usual zinc dust. There are other dumps
to the north which the co. also has its eye
upon.
* * * *
Arrangements are in full swing for the
annual conference of the Australasian Insti-
tute of Mining and Metallurgy, which will
be held at Kalgoorlie in August. This will
be the first meeting of the Institute held in
Westralia for many years; recent develop-
ments in gold-mining are the attraction.
Papers are being prepared on the geology of
the field, the new Boulder Perseverance and
Lake View treatment plants and the Gold-
fields Water Supply scheme, etc. Visits are
also be made to Gwalia and Wiluna.
# H* # :J:
First returns from the Hannan’s Extended.
Kalgoorlie, on which the B. ll’. Prop, recently
erected a decantation treatment plant, show
that 618 tons was treated for 138 oz. of
gold, or per ton. Costs will need to
be very low to make this grade of stone
payable.
* * * *
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.) netted
£12,211 in 1932, or £368 more than for the
previous year, and a 4d. div. (=l6 p.c.) has
been declared. The co., which is London
controlled, commenced operations in 1906; it
suspended activities in 1924, and recon-
structed in December, 1926. Waihi, which
works the Grand Junction under agreement,
takes 50 p.c. of the profit.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
“K.S.”: According to prospectus estimates, three
or four years hence, should it be decided to pulp,
or 1944 or after should the wood be sold as timber.
A committee is investigating the question. Im-
possible to say what conditions will be four or ten
years hence. Recent experience of timber merchants
does not encourage hopes of much in the way of
profits M.D.: Try Ruwolts, Melbourne, or Poole
and Steele, Sydney... .C.L.S'.T.: Those in the indus-
try are mostly registering losses instead of gains.
Prospects are anything but bright J.C.L. : Have
asked co. for balance-sheet; will review when
received... .N.T.: Don’t believe it. The trustee for
the bondholders certifies that the co. is in a position
to carry out its contracts. At the end of March,
1932, the co. had lodged £589,479 in trust with
the trustee as a guarantee that it would carry out
its part of the contract, which, thus far, is one of
maintenance... .Mado: Either looks like a gamble
at long odds. Norseman and Lake View offer better
prospects F.L.N.: (1) Yes. (2) No. The lots
are a long-term speculation. ,If you cannot afford
to lose, keep out. . . .C.X.: Walkerville for preference,
though you may have to wait a while for a satis-
factory return.. . .H.K.: (1) Sydney prices have been
a shade higher. If you are satisfied with the immedi-
ate return they should be worth that figure, and
there are possibilities. Doubt whether scrip has
ever been priced higher. (2) Would not care to
pick 8.N.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) Doubtful.
(4) Yes. (5) Cannot say definitely at the moment.
(6) Dredge has closed down and the outlook is
doubtful. Still, they may be worth holding for a
while... .E.C.M.: (1) Hold Perseverance and Phoenix.
The New Guinea show has possibilities, but it is too
early yet to say anything definite about profits.


Hes a poor hand at hanging, PICTURES
The Cat scorns Him.
Alwavs mislaying things 1
Hes a Menace with Gas %
A rotten gardener
Hes no Good as a
Garbage - shifter
But He can talk for hours about the Socialisation of
Industries, and hes sure he could run them perfectly .
THE POLITICAL PAGLIACCI.
“Mr. Bondy Hoare, leader of the Miners’ Federation, confessed that his wife often said he was the funniest man she knew. He had gone round all his life
preaching socialism, and yet knew nothing about how to run his own house. Mrs. Hoare saw to everything.”


SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Warrior’s Husband,” at the Regent,
Sydney, is by that reliable sire Lowbrow, out
of Ancientry. “A Yankee at the Court of
King Arthur” is one of the many winners
with which the combination has dowered
the Hollywood stable. The pantomime for-
mula is followed closely but, in the nature
of the plot, all the situations are in reverse,
so to speak.
Marjorie Ilambeau and Elissa Landi are
the Good Sisters. Marjorie rules over a
Graeco-Roman-American land in which the
men are low comedians in subservience to
the women, wlio are showgirls. Ernest
Trues, as the queen’s husband, is an un-
pleasant variant on the Dame.—a mincing
little smirlcer who ogles about in long robes
and ringlets, and threatens to “go home to
father” when slighted. He cracks nearly all
the sex jokes with which Dames amused
the little ones in the good old days; and
the staler and broader they were the louder
Saturday night’s audience guffawed. Elissa
Landi is a lovely Principal Boy. She
swaggers and flourishes her property sword
in the recognised manner till she meets the
Only Girl in th'c World—beautiful David
Manners. Then she becomes a nestling
flapper, with an advanced technique in the
matter of osculation that would have caused
a Victorian audience to leave the theatre
practically in the mass.
The plot, such as it is, concerns the pos-
session of what someone refers to as Diana’s
goidle. The goidle, which’ resembles a Lons-
dale belt, has tlie magical propex-ty of en-
abling the women to boss the men, and when
the Giant (a low-comedy Hex-cules) bolts
with it, at the instance of Truex, the matri-
archy comes to an end. A deal of money
must have been spent on the more or less
Pompeiian villas, baths, streets and crowds,
but there is no serious attempt at realism.
The Amazon warriors are just chorines, and
their battle \vith the Greek men i s just a
ballet with a transformation scene in the
form of a jazz saturnalia.
“Sweepings” is another of those American
dramas in which the movie capitalists show
up the capitalists of trade and commerce.
Lionel Barrymore builds up a Chicago store,
and lavishes so much money on his children
that they become wmsters. One son gets
mixed up in a murder, another appears to
be weak in the head, and the daughter—but
let us draw a modest veil over the goings-on
of Gloria Stuart as the daughter. The
youngest son has a wanderlust which keeps
him far from the parental hearth. He
is the gainer.
Never was there a more talkative bore
than the head of the Pai’dway family. The
least excuse is sufficient to start him off,
hands in pockets, shoulders humped, eyes
and eyebrows working overtime; and he
never says a thing that hasn’t been said
thousands of times by other stage pai-ents.
In the last sequence he literally talks him-
self to death—an appropriate finish, but
rough on the audience.
Lionel Barrymore is almost the whole
show, and he is its chief weakness. No
doubt he is a great old actor. Pie expresses
grief, despair, rage, affection and any other
human emotion in reason according to the
best traditions of Irving’s day. But his
methods seem stagey in this naturalistic
age; also he clings to the actoi’-manager’s
habit of monopolising the limelight. And
he is always Barrymore. In this film lie is
a draper who began business in a stable, yet
his voice and articulation are the same as
in films in which he was supposed to be a
Continental aristocrat, artist or professional
man.
* * *
“Rynox,” at the IPaymarket, is a film
version of an English thriller that was re-
viewed on the Red Rage last year. Stewart
Rome .is. the head of Rynox, Unlimited,
which is in difficulties. One night he is found
shot. Suspicion rests on Boswell Marsh,
a terrifying person who has repeatedly been
heard to threaten him; but all attempts to
trace the murderer fail.
The tragedy has one happy result. John
Longden, heir to Rynox, is able to pay the
creditoi’s out of his father’s insurance and the
business is saved. Then he receives a letter
written by his father, whi'ch explains every-
thing. Knowing he was to die soon anyhow
Rome, had determined to save Rynox by
suiciding. But insuranec companies bar
suicides, so he made it appear that he had
been, murdered. What, you ask. about the
victimised insurance people? In Filmland
they don’t count; they exist to be taken down
for the benefit of the individual. Rome’s
suave, determined business man is a good
study.
John Wayne, accompanied by Duke, his
white cayuse, finds romance “Somewhere in
Sonora.” H'is objective this time is to save
his employer’s son from a bandit gang which
the son has been rash enough to join. . The
entrance exam, for this school of crime is
exceptionally stiff, but John secures an A
pass in all subjects, which include knife -
throwing and gun-slinging. Once John is
in the gang he finds it hard to get out again,
but. of course, he does it to everyone’s satis-
faction, more especially Shirley Palmer’s.
* * *
“You Said a Mouthful,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, steps over the'border-line that separates
farce, from comedy every two seconds or so,
but it is based on a truth of considerable
pathological and psychological significance.
Joe E. Brown, who for the purposes of this
fantasy can’t swim, is 'compelled by circum-
stances to masquerade as a champion
swimmer. H'e has one asset, absolute con-
fidence in his ability to keep afloat—due to
the fact that he lias invented a bathing-suit
which prevents the wearer from sinking.
Events conspire to rob him of this safety-
line when he is put to the .test, but as he
doesn’t know it he wriggles through the
water with magnificent confidence; gets a
tow on the way from a tarpon-fisher, and,
though grievously tangled with seaweed in
the last half-mile, wins the race and Ginger
Rogers.
Preston S. Foster is the jealous rival,
and the negro kid Farina helps Brown.
nis patron, with practical advice and politely-
phrased invocations to Providence. Inciden-
tally, Brown (if it is Brown all the time)
gives an exhibition of surf-board riding
behind a speedboat that marks him as a
maestro of the art. Brown’s mouth is
unique, and so are the wild yawps with
which he registers despair.
“When Strangers Marry” is a jungle
drama exhibiting an American civil engineer
(Jack Holt) making a path for civilisation
in the wilds of Java (entirely synthetiscd),
a job in which he is hampered by the caprices
of a rich young wife (Lilian Bond) and the
machinations of a gun-runner (Arthur Vin-
ton), who has a pull with the Administra-
tion. Chuck into the recipe the gun-runner’s
discarded paramour (Barbara Barondess)
and you have the makings of a regulation
East of Suez romance. The most satisfac-
tory sequences are those in which Holt plugs
the gun-runner in the jaw and his wife
shoots the same villainous person in the
stummick. _ Also there’s a guerilla-warfare
scene in which the American engineers, aided
by imperturbable British ex-officers, carve
for themselves an eternal niche in the his-
tory of ballistics by firing dynamite bombs
out of gaspipe trench mortars. Holt walks
through the uproar in his self-satisfied way.
* * ¥
In “Insult,” at the Lyceum, John Gielgud
is Governor of a district in French North
Africa. His wife, Elizabeth Allen, is loved
secretly by Hugh Williams, a half-caste
(French-Arab) captain in the Legion. Sam
Livesey, the Governor’s military father, mor-
tally offends the captain, who .retaliates by
striking him. A firing squad is about to
operate on the offender when the Governor
(Top to bottom,, left to right): Jack Holt in “When Strangers Marry”; Joe E. Brown
in "You Said a Mouthful,” both at Sydney Capitol. Lionel Barrymore in
Sweepings’ and Elissa Landi attacking Hercules in “A Warrior’s Husband,” both
at Sydney Regent.
is captured by Arabs. The captain escapes
and rescues him. Mr. Livesey apologises.
The producer now has a sentimental half-
breed of proved valor and nobility of soul
on his hands, so he does the only thing pos-
sible —viz., kills him. Pseudo-Arabian music
tootles and thrums throifgh the lacerating
affair, and Dinh Gilly sings what purports
to be a genuine Arab lyric.
“That Night in London” introduces the
English equivalent of the Hollywood male
ingenue of several years ago. In American
idiom he used to be a sweet young thing
who marcelled his hair, got tongue-tied when
he met a new flapper, and cherished ideals.
Robert Donat is sweet on similar lines as
a rural bank-teller who becomes an em-
bezzler in order to have a good time in
wicked London. Pie meets a crook (Miles
Mander) and the crook’s female associate
(Pearl Argyle), and experiences strange
adventures in a London cabaret inhabited,
apparently, by American gangsters pursued
by American detectives. The female crook
falls in love with him, and turns up at the
bank next morning in time to restore the
cash. The acting is convincing and the set-
tings look real enough for their purpose.
Sundry Shows
The Beethoven programme to which' Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane listen ers-in were
treated last week was a step in the right
direction, though it was rather unkind to
show up the old gentleman’s weakness in
writing for the voice. Zena Moller did her
best with the unvocal “Fidelio” extract.
Charming were the melodies of the C Minor
Concerto, which received sympathetic hand-
ling from Frank Hutchens. The Seventh
Symphony was given, a moderate sparkle, but
the eternal trouble of the opening theme of
the last movement being overpowered by the
brass again cropped up. The' fault, as
Berlioz wasn’t afraid to declare, lies with the
composer, who for once in a way miscalcu-
lated the balance. But these broadcast
orchestral performances, which are listened
to by such large audiences, ought to be
more thoroughly rehearsed.
¥ * *
Phyllis McDonald, returned to Sydney
after 11 years’ residence in London, demon-
strated at her Town Hall recital that she
has developed into a violinists’ violinist. She
revels in the overcoming of transcendent
digital and interpretative difficulties, and her
playing appeals more, to the intellect than
to the emotions. Her principal number was
the Brahms D Minor Sonata, in which Frank-
Hutchens, at the piano, deserved a full share
in the applause evoked by a very faithful
performance, unflavored by mannerisms save
those of the composer. An equally con-
scientious reading was given of the Delius
violin concerto, a work which after several
hearings remains, to this Showman, a thing
without form and void of beauty. Ravel’s
notion of a “Habanera” gave Miss McDonald
a further opportunity of showing the facility
with which she absorbs strange idioms. The
rich, full tone she evokes from the fiddle and
the easy grace of her bowing could be better
appreciated in the Pugnani-Kreisler Prelude
and Allegro' and in McEwan’s “Breath o’
June.”
* * ¥
Daphne Harpur, a young Sydney pianist
who, on the advice of Benno Moiseiwitscli,
intends to pursue her studies in Europe, gave
a farewell recital at the Con. hall. Her
playing is exceptionally eleaj and precise, a
quality which gave distinction to her read-
ings of the Bach Chromatic Fantasy and
Fugue and of Scarlatti sonatas. There was
plenty of fire in her declamation of Proko-
fieff’s “Suggestion Diabolique,” and a group
of Chopin numbers was played with grace
and delicacy.
* * *
In the days when actor-manager Bland
Holt was the leading entrepreneur of Aus-
tralasia the best-known member of his co.,
after Holt himself, was Walter Baker, usu-
ally cast as the hero. On an afternoon last
week the theatrical world of Sydney rallie'd
to the Cri. to put on a benefit show for the
veteran, who is very ill. Nicholas Hannen
and Athene Seyler presented a scene from
E. M. Delafield’s comedy “To See Ourselves,”
and a score of other items, extremely varied,
made up a highly acceptable programme.
Bert Bailey thanked the folk who helped.
* * *
Negotiations between the Firm and Syd-
ney City Council for the conversion
of part of Queen Victoria Markets into a
theatre seem to be still at an indefinite stage,
but Ernest Rolls says he’s going to erect a
new house somewhere within a quarter of a
mile of the Royal and have it ready for busi-
ness by Christmas. Seating accommodation
is to be 1800—the stage-show nowadays has
to be prepared to cater for big audiences in
order to bring prices down to a level that
will compete with the talkies
# * #
The only stage shows in Sydney are
Ernest Rolls’s “Honi Soit,” now transferred
to the Cri., and the Connors and Paul song-
andance medley “Happy Hearts” at the
New Try. For Saturday there are promised
Music m the Air,” the Firm’s latest acquisi-
tion m the musicomedv line, which is to
occupy the Royal; a recital by John Brown-
lee at the Assembly Hall, and “positively the
final performance bv young Philip Har-
grave—a matinee affair at the Town Hall
* * y
. Street Scene,” Elmer Rice’s Pulitzer
prize play, which has been seen on the
screen and was . done by Sydney amateurs,
reappeared in the flesh at Melb. Bijou on
Saturday under the surprisingly firm cus-
tody of the Cairns Memorial Players. The
92 parts in the play were taken by 80 per-
formers, and this paper will doubtlessly be
suspected of flattery when it remarks that
the C.M.P.’s interpretation was on all artis-
tic counts better than Hollywood’s. The
play is extremely good. The playwright
never suggests anywhere that he has any per-
sonal axe to grind. If he has any message
to convey it is inherent in the straightfor-
ward presentation of a group of people piti-
fully inadequate to control their environ-
ment. The best of the players were Dorothy
Bush as the yearning wife; Ella Bromley as
her daughter; Jjeonard McKean, who fully
understands the Italian sensualist; Eiric
Morris, tenement bully and terror of the
poet; Max Andrewartha; Lewis Tegart as
the dreamer of visions of an earthly mil-
lennium; Beryl Weeks as a scandalmonger-
mg female with a vested interest in dis-
jointed domesticity, and Wallace Robertson
as the husband tortured by a narrow con-
science, a dull mind, jealousy stimulated by
drink, and strong convictions concerning the
duties of a father and the sanctity of the
marriage bond. This was the best-felt char-
acter in the play.
‘The Warming Pan,” a trite house-
emptier, by W. W. Jacobs, was well acted
by Leonard McKean, Norman Balmer,
Dorothy Bush and the invaluable Wallace
Robertson.
* ¥ *
There was very little music in John
Brownlee’s Thursday’s programme at Melb.
I own Hall, but the art of the Geelong singer
is so perfectly veneered, manicured and
spatted that the lack of soul-stirring material
was scarcely noticed by the huge crowd.
Ihe baritone led off with a melody by Handel,
and it was a relief to hear graceful enuncia-
tion after the customary catch-in-the-throat
passion of tho Italians. Rita Miller sang
a bracket of innocuous English ballads for
superior drawing-rooms, and a decorative
song from Gounod was followed by a ditty
about an owl which might be described as
belonging to’ the poker-work school of music.
Raymond Lambert distinguished himself at
the piano in the “Ritual Fire Dance” of
Manuel de Falla. Brownlee’s audience was
mainly eager youngsters, and it is a pity he
thought that his very best was too good for
them The music-lovers, as well as the per-
sonality-lovers, were better catered for on
Saturday.
* * *
Chefalo and the Magda-Palermo midgets
divide the programme at Melb. Palace, which
,s il Jl Pure illusion from beginning to end.
Lhelalo deceives the eye. Nobody else
can really do anything, but everybody is
busy trying to do something, and the stout
nature of the attempt win's the heart of the
mainly juvenile audience. The Mighty Rus-
sian Giant, towering eight feet in his boors,
has an expression sweeter than all the movie
heroes since Valentino rolled into one, and
he strolls down from liis eminence with the
a ! r an Olympian contemplating a world
of children in a terrestrial paradise. The
talent of the midgets in song, dance and in-
strumental music is as tiny as their mortal
frames; but they are midgets, and that is
enough. Chefalo, the silk-handkerchief king,
races through his ma'gic, leaving his breath-
less audience a steady lap or -two behind.
I lie production of fresh midgets out of empty
lacquered oases is an industry which, so to
speak, he can conduct on his head. As the
infant who accompanied this Showman re-
marked, “One leaves the theatre in the throes
of exhausted wonder with a firm determina-
tion to come again just to see how it is done”
—Mdnch illustrates not only the potency of
Chetalo s magic but the prevalence of adver-
tisement-reading amongst the young
* * *
Maggie Teyrte, an English prima donna,
and xudor Davies, a tenor, will open a
season at Melb. Auditorium on Saturday.
Saturday will also be the night “When
Ladies Meet’ at the King’s. Rachel
Grothers, author of “Let Us Be Gay” and
As Husbands Go, is responsible for the
opus and Marie Tempest is being mentioned
as a standard of comparison for the leading
lady, Isobel Elsom. George Barraud. John
Longden, Margery Caldicott and Harvey
Adams are some of the old favorites
* ¥ *
, ™ ,? rama w ill n °t die in Australia if
the Melbourne Chinese community can help
it. The Chinese Citizens’ Society, which
produced a couple of plays to packed and
imperturbable Celestial audiences last year,
recently sent Ah Goon to purchase costumes
for a mediaeval romance in China. He re-
turned the other day with 35 extraordinarily
beautiful garments. The drama, the spec-
tacle and the orchestral row are to be re-
leased on Cup night.
* * *
Perth Repertory Club dabbled in gore with
three nights of “The Anatomist,” by James
Bridie. Tom Tracy played the central figure.
Dr. Knox, with vigor, and his young daugh-
ter Pat scored a triumph as Mary Paterson
victim of body-snatchers Burke and Hare
(Ray George and Ralph Stoddart). The
part of Raby fitted Gordon Dean like a
glove. Peggy Nunn and Florence Beslev
were genteel ladies of the early nineteenth
century.
* * *
Pat Hanna, of the Pat Hanna Film Pro-
ductions, offered a £lO prize for a title to
his latest effort, and the guerdon had to be
divided amongst 26 people. They all sug-
gested “.Waltzing Matilda.”
“Norbell”: Unrehearsed happenings on the
stage which make a hit with the audience
are usually associated with animals. When
Maud Hillyer was starring in “A Warning
to Women” at Melbourne Royal, one scene
was the interior of a Canadian cabin in the
depth of winter. There was a roaring log-
fire in the open fireplace—done in the usual
way with real logs, to which were tacked
rows of ribbons of red silk, with an electric
fan to keep them fluttering. With a red
lime on the fire it looked more genuine than
the real thing. Miss Hillyer would insist
on the theatre cat being on in that scene, to
add a domestic touch, and the cat didn’t seem
to mind. One night—it was frightfully hot
weather —puss looked about for the coolest
spot. and. attracted by the fan, calmly sat
in the middle of the flames and allowed the
artificial breeze to cool her fevered spirit
while she attended to her toilet. She made
a bigger hit that night than anybody else in
the cast.


LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday—2d.
ē
No. 160
The
‘BOUNDARY
RIDER’
FOLEY
SADDLE,
£7/15/0
Complete with
bevelled leathers,
folded girth and
good N.P. irons.
Freight Paid for
Cash on N.S.W.
Railways.
This No. 160 Poley is a good saddle,
suitable for station work. Well made
on tree with reinforced gullet, com-
fortable pigskin seat and pigskin
pads a saddle we can recommend.
Write for Our Saddlery Catalogue No.
329 and see the Big Range we offer.
Ask for Horse Rug List also.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
8 *
:¥:¥:¥>:K
mm
m
mm
re
\
r
Xv:: ; : : :®: ; : v& : :j:v>: : : : : : : : ;-;
Vauxhall has made
motoring my chief hobby
You can purchase on the con-
siderate G. M. A. C. deferred
payment plan.
“ Having driven my new Vauxhall with Synchro-
Mesh, the easy gear change, over give-and-take
roads, and in congested thoroughfares, I can say that
I am greatly delighted with its performance. The
gear changing is perfect, not the slightest trouble or
noise; this must all be to the good, and means longer
life to the car, as the change being so simple there is
no excuse for hanging on to gears, besides being
much more enjoyable for the passengers in the car.”
So writes an enthusiastic owner. There’s magic in
Synchro-Mesh, the easy gear change. It makes gear changing
child’s play and removes that bugbear—double declutching.
The abundant power, vivid acceleration, finger-light
steering, arid smooth but positive braking of the Vauxhall
give you “silky performance” in every phase of driving
conditions.
The roomy interior provides the acme of comfort. With
dignified lines, real leather upholstery and the famous bonnet
flutes in gleaming chromium, the Vauxhall is heir to every
characteristic that its pedigree implies. To prove the truth
of this owner’s tribute, any Vauxhall dealer will be glad u
give you a trial run.
SYnCHRO
mesH^
l
€flSY
G{RRCHRIUi«
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall Dealer
VAUXHALL
C '
Not only because it is British, hut because ifs a better car
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“Jay Q.”: Why don’t the authorities halve
the height of signposts to enable motorists
to read them? These absurdly high signposts
are relics of the old mail-coach days when
the driver was seated many feet above the
ground; they are no good to a man in a
baby car.
* * * *
“Emel”: Why don't the railways pay?
My uncle bought two bags of seed wheat
from a Yic. agricultural college, and had
them sent five miles by rail to the most con-
venient railway station. The freight charge
was 4s. 9d., the handling charge lOd. lie
had no choice but to pay, but his language
was horrible.
* * * *
“Gollingwood”: None of my money is
going into companies to' grow cane-sugar in
l'apua. As far as my knowledge goes,
the only attempt at experiment has
been made on a 20-acre paddock at San-
gai-a. I visited it just after the cane had
been cut, and was not impressed. I saw bits
of native plantations also; in each case the
crop was riddled by the borer. The surface
soil is only a few inches deep, the under soil
being a poor, grey silty sand which will
grow nothing.
* * * *
“Sandig,” who is a doctor: —
“A.E.” (B. 14/G/’33) is obviously unsophisticated.
It is not “through lack of knowledge” that preg-
nancy occurs; and the medical profession favors the
dissemination of sexual knowledge. Pregnancy is
beneficial to the health of the married woman; the
adoption of means to avoid it is detrimental to both
mind and body. Nature seems to have her own
remedy, and the “terrifying regularity” occurring
among people leading natural, healthy lives seems
productive of more happiness and freedom from
disease than is noticed in devotees of contraception,
who become prematurely aged, with bodies incapable
of production and minds warped and embittered.
* * *
“J.R.D.” : The be.st Australian tobacco is
good enough for me, but I wish you could buy
a tin without a glorious—or inglorious—un-
certainty as to what the next will contain.
In tins bearing the same brand I have got
at intervals (1) a highly-scented tobacco.
(2) a pale lemon-colored leaf, (3) a blend
of lemon and dark leaf, (4) a coarse, dark
mixture. Quality varied from a thoroughly
good smoke to weed that burned away
quickly and stuff that took the best part of
a box oi matches to keep one pipe alight.
If manufacturers decide to change their
blend, surely they should put up the new
mixture in a different package.
“Copelen”: The Vic. Government is
stricting the right to solemnise marriages to
clergymen and the head of a Government
department “or his deputies.” This Act,
ostensibly aimed at marriage shops, has the
effect of snatching away from the thousand-
and-one registrars of births, deaths and mar-
riages one of their more useful and import-
ant functions. Why can’t the Government
approach the matter straightforwardly and
bring in a short bill which will establish
the civil marriage once and for all? They
order these matters better in France, where
an official —the mayor—carries out every
marriage in the community.
❖ ❖ % sjc
“Idle Imp”: Branches of State depart-
ments are scattered about Sydney in a crazy
fashion. The railways, for example. The
Commissioner hangs out his brass-plate in
Bridge-street; the advertising manager and
lus staff live across the road ; the electrical
engineer’s crowd is poked away into a build-
ing in Hunter-street; the estate-agent and
the refreshment-rooms general manager doss
in Bligh-street; the solicitor is in Pliillip-
street; the audit and statistics branch is
down in Castlereagh-street. If all these
branches were brought into one central office,
it would save a mint of time and money.
3ft * $ ❖
“Jayde”: I fail to see how the cost of
education can be appreciably reduced. But
the value of education can be increased, each
child benefiting and repaying the commun-
ity by becoming a useful citizen. This can
only be done by finding out what sort of
training he needs, not what his ambitious
parents desire for him. As_ it is, we see
thousands of square pegs trying to find the
round holes they have been so confidently
allowed to think they fit. One of these days
an enlightened politician may discover that
there is a science of vocational guidance aud
selection —and then, of course, the new de-
partment will be given to a retired coneho-
logist or such to administer.
“Tweed River”: 1 read that the Sydney
Housewives’ Progressive Association has held
a crowded meeting at which stabilisation of
the price of butter was denounced. Politi-
cians and other gentlemen were present, but
nobody spoke for tin; farmer, lie is getting
9d. a pound for butter (there has been a
rise; the price was 7d.), and hundreds of
him on the North Coast have had to seek
Covernmcnt relief in the way of loans to
keep going. On the men are draw-
ing less than £5 a month, and good farmers
too. Where was the Primary Producers’
Union, and how can it expect, the full mem-
bership it is always crying for, when it lets
a meeting like this pass without speaking up
for the farmer?
* * * *
“Transpacific” : My wife and I were stay-
ing in Honolulu, with Vancouver as our ulti-
mate destination. As the C.P.R. liner
Empress of Britain was coming on her
world cruise, we thought of travelling in
her to San Francisco and entraining for Van-
couver. “Can’t be done.” the C.P.R. agent
said regretfully: “passengers going from
Hawaii to any U.S.A. port must be carried
in an Uncle Sam ship.” Coming from Van-
couver to Sydney in a Canadian-Auxtra-
lasian liner, we heard tales in Suva, Auck-
land and Sydney of thousands of passengers
being absorbed annually by an American
line between a Crown colony and two Brit-
ish dominions. Is It any wonder that two
million tons of British shipping is laid up?
* * * *
“Trader”: As a Protectionist, I don’t like
to read that the Tariff Board has recom-
mended that the duties on aluminium- and
enamel-ware be reduced. And yet the whole-
sale price of aluminium kettles in Britain
is 12s. a doz.; the price in Australia, after
paying freight and import charges, is 30s. a
doz.; the Australian manufacturer’s price is
38s. The figures for enamel buckets are
19s. fid.. 495. (id. and 38s. There are enam-
elled articles turned out at Footscray (Vic.)
which are a joy to any housewife; but as
things are she can’t afford to give, say, 4s.
3d. for a kettle that the English housewife
can buy for Is. 4d. It is not the Austra-
lian manufacturer’s fault; he is heavily
handicapped by short hours, award wages
and monstrously costly over-government.
* # * #
“Slinga” : The admission of the President
of the Senate that £17,300 has been lost
in three years on the Parliamentary refresh-
ment rooms at Canberra is amazing, and his
assertion that “no refreshment rooms pay,
and they can't be expected to pay,” is more
amazing still. I havo had over 30 years
intimate experience in the management of
clubs, officers’ and sergeants’ messes and
canteens, wet and dry, and I know that it
is practically impossible to show a loss if
the rules are observed. What amounts, if
any, are owing by customers of the Can-
berra joint? What steps, if any, are taken
to recover debts? What is the cost
to the refreshment rooms (not to the public
service or to the vote) of («) rent and
taxes; (6) lighting, heating, sanitation and
water; (c) wages; (</) repairs and main
tenance of buildings and equipment; (c)
insurance? Now, is any member of Par-
liament game t.o press this matter?


yk£MBE»X
4a»©«i |
©©IRIEAU ©lf
/
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
file people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
£250,000
3,700,000
Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
„
trust
' WOODS *
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
* CURE
sSSjgM
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ABORIGINALITES
“I’ve got a proposition here that puts money in your pocket.”
“Come in and have a word with the one that takes it out.”
Wang : M hen we had our annual bush
picnic at Darriwella, the beer-barrel was
enthroned on a couple of logs, over, which
was built a shelter of branches to keep the
liquor cool. One year the most enthusiastic
worker at this task was little Harry Dunlea.
He kept piling on masses of dense foliage
fill the weight of them threatened to cause
the supports to collapse. Next morning the
hogshead was carted to the picnic ground,
and placed in position, its top .nestling
amongst the cooling leaves, and a.-reliable
man was left on guard. There was' no lack
visitors to the refreshment bureau, but
to the surprise of .all there was, no.-appear-
ance of little Harry—and Harry \was by
no means a teetotaller. The hogshead gave
out much earlier than was expected, .but it
was no use worrying over that, so the beer-
lovers joined up .in a game of “drop the
handkerchief.” Iri the middle of this revelry
strange sounds came from the direction of
the barrel—a combination of groahs, gurgles
and mutterings. Then there was an eruption
of the leafy roof, and the head, and shoulders
of little Harry emerged for. a‘ moment. Then
he fell back, waving his hands- aloft. In one
he held a length of rubber tubing, and as
one of the-crowd moved nearer he was almost
brained _by a falling brace and bit..
*l* * *
“O. W. Waireki”; The weather was fine
but-very cojd. . H.enare had beep an absentee
from Ins .syffibrcu’tting job for. several 'days,
so the boss .went to .the, whar’e :to demand an
explanation. Honare., lounged 'before a blaz-
lng fire. ; "Time .you went but;'” the. boss
snapped. -“Tpo’ye'been doing-nothing' long
enough." /“I" 'not peon doing nothing.”
llentire protested-;' “I peen’ ketting warm."
-r - .. * . «
“Pikirangi”; About 40 years ago, when
Alexandra (Otago, M.L.) was a flourishing
mining town,’ a prospector ambled in one
morning and informed , the local Jonop that
he, had found a very dead 'Chinaman 10
miles down, the river. The Law straightway
changed'his clothes, assumed an authoritative
air and organised a party at fl per head to
recover the body, a proceeding accomplished
after much tribulation but with all due
reverence. They were met by the Mayor as
coroner, the jury, two doctors and the'popu-
lace. who escorted the mournful procession
to the hotel 'where the inquest was to be
held. T.he usual pompous busybody called
upon all to remove their hats in the pre-
sence of the dead, and a leading citizen re-
marked that it was a sad day for Alexandra,
a sentiment with which everyone sorrow-
fully concurred. An identifying witness
another Asiatic, had been obtained, but this
party, clutching his nose, gave a very
oblique glance from a very oblique eye at the
remains and informed his Worship “Him no
toy cousin.” and then bolted. The. assistant
was then ordered to disrobe the corpse for
a . Post-mortem, when it was found to be a
stuffed sheepskin, very ancient,’ but artis-
tically done up. pigtail and all complete. The
Court broke up in mortified confusion, and
the discoverer, still alive, is still complain-
ing ot the injustice-of the Justice Depart-
ment in refusing to give him a reward.
“Dr. iliva rt” :
Mrs. Buffum; of the
corner store where I
buy groceries, has a
rococo taste in medi-
c a 1 reminiscences.
The latest strange
case she has out-
lined for my benefit
concerns her Aunt
Susan. Susan, an
elderly and diminu-
tive lady, was light-
ing her kitchen stove
when she felt a
sharp prick in her
'cheek. She thought
no more about it,
but an hour or so
later her face began
to swell, and then
her neck, and then
the rest of her ana-
tomy. until she was
swollen, to enormous
dimensions. Ki n d
friends dispatched
the unfortunate lady
to a hospital, where
Attempts were made
to deflate her, with
partial success. Sin;
was discharged from
hospital, and con-
tinued to dwindle for
some weeks after re-
turning to her home.
Her health was com-
pletely restored, and
even improved, for
she was cured of
chronic rheumatism
of the joints. A
coiipie of years after
her strange experi-
ence she returned to
the hospitals—just a
friendly call on the
matron and the
matron looked at her
in astonishment.
“Whatever have you
been doing with
yourself?” she in-
quired. “Why,-when
you were here you
were a much bigger
woman.” “So you
think I'm smaller?”
asked Susan. “Cer-
tain of it,” said the
matron. “Well, let
me tell you,” said
Susan earnestly,
“that before my
accident I weighed eight stone four, and
I now weigh sixteen stone three.” Mrs.
Buffum ascribes this increase to the activi-
ties of the. trap-door .spider, which, if true,
is very interesting.
* ❖ ;|s :Jc
VAina” : One of Sydney’s milk-olis is now
a hearty supporter of the movement; against
the keeping of our native ; fauna in cap-
tivity. He was delivering in the dark and
reached down for the white billycan on top
of the back steps. .The can came to life
and with a fiendish shriek bit a fair-sized
chunk out of his hand. It was the family
cockatoo, which had chosen the step's for its
morning meditations. In the subsequent
excitement the cockatoo’s existence was cut
short. To add to the milk-oh’s woes, the
family raised such a fuss over the corpse
that the man lost his job, which seems a lot
over the odds.
“A.H.8.”: lien are has always had his
own health remedies, many of them used
by the old women to this day. Long
ago, when the Arawa flying columns were
on Te Kooti’s trail, there was a sprinkling of
pakeha soldiers about Itotorua. One night
when visiting a Maori house two gay white
warriors slipped into a hot pool. Each had
a leg scalded to the -knee. One was taken to
.military hospital; the other stayed with
the Maoris. The pakeha doctor used lint
and linseed oil. The Maoris sent women
to dive in a deep lagoon in a swamp at
Hinemoa’s Point, whence they brought up
a blackish iron-oxide mud. This mud was
thoroughly pounded and liquified, and
poured upon the injured leg. In about
three days the poultice dried and cracked.
The patient was then taken to -Okahukura
hot pool and washed clean; and his
leg healed much sooner than the one
under civilised care. Some time later, at
a football match on the famous Pukeroa
Hill, the natives’ patient made hacks of the
opposition. The excitement of his Maori
nurses and their friends was terrific. "l\a
poj ra tc wacwae maori,” they screamed.
“Ivoot on te Maori leg ewery time.”
❖ % jJj >•;
“Mudlark’ ; There’s a chap in our district
.( Barca 1 dine, Q,) who has brought the divin-
ing-rod business down to a fine art. For
divining gold he hangs a gold ring on his
forked twig: for oil, a small container carry-
BILL BLOTTO: “’Eaven 'elp all poor souls without a drink on a
night like this.”
ALL: “’Eaven ’elp ’em!”
ing petrol. Searching for water, he carries
a small pebble in his mouth. He calls these
things “counter-attractors.” .. One of his
children contracted some complaint. Guided
by one of his numerous gadgets, he made a
tour of the bouse, and finally the stick
pointed /to, a ..tin., of skim-milk. . . more
skim-milk for that /nipper. .The /enthusi-
ast’s latest claim is that,' us.ing a! horse-hair
as- a “counter-attrhbtor,” lie a lost
horse. He;'is now working on an.;.apparatus
which he claims will divine a way but of the
depression.
' ❖ . * * Hr
“E.S.S.”: Buried in the. mud near Mil-
dura wharf is the hulk of the Jane Eliza,
one of the earliest passenger and cargo
boats on the Darling. She had a very adven-
turous career. On one trip during a flood
she steamed “overland” to deliver stores at a
station, and got lost. Another time she
was stranded a few miles below Bourke, and
remained there, surrounded by sun-baked
fish, for 15 months. Her cargo was taken
on by teams. To balance the ledger her
skipper turned the ship into a sawmill, put-
ting-on a belt drum in place of one of the
paddle-wheels, and rigging a saw bench on
the after deck. There was plenty of material
in the vicinity ; also a big local demand for
sawn timber. By the time the river rose
sufficiently to float the Jane Eliza, she had
a cargo of sawn timber for the down trip
in addition to what had been sold on the
spot. The' old vessel is also remembered
for the fact that her engine; when her days
were done, provided the first pumping power
for the Murrunibidgee irrigation area.
* . -!s *
“The O.I).”: “S.T.S.’s” par. about the
old Jupiter MB. 21/6/’3.“) recalls the time
the steamer J. G. Arnold cut seven miles
off the Mildura-Swan Hill trip and nearly
smashed herself up doing it. When the 1017
flood subsided it was found that the waters
had driven straight across the Tapalin hair-
pin bend., a roaring torrent about 400 yards
long and 30 yards wide pouring through the
cut. The skipper decided to try to force this
passage. Shoving on every ounce of steam, he
but his vessel’s nose against the stream.
When the full drag of the current got her the
.T.G. bucked like a horse, half-reared, and
swung round, almost jamming herself across
the cut. Just as the hands were about to
jump for it, her power told against the cur-
rent and sins managed to struggle through.
TWO-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amongst tin' hilltops-round the.town
The bvishfire’s smoke; .weird patterns
weaves'; ,
At break of day the breeze-brought down
The scent of burning grass and leaves;
And-then a youthful spendthrift pair,
To flaunt their fleeting affluence,
Tossed up their' pennies in the air' '
When passing by my garden fence.' ’
To me the.mulga wires still sing
Their messages in language plain ;
And so I saw the Two-up Ring
Outside a shearers’ hut again.
From greasy clothes the smell arose -
That sunlit yolk of-wool exhales : - -•
“All set? They’re off! Well, up she goes
(And throws the rider) —two flat tails!”
Here Tie some-piles of silver ; there
Some notes spread out beneath a chip;
I see the pennies in the- air,
The outstretched hand that holds the kip.
About the players standing round
The evening* sun its-glory sheds ;
Another voice‘cries: “Heads, a pound!
Set? Sydney of The Bush? Two heads.”
Those homely huts of slabs and bark.
Where slush lamps spread their smoky
veils,
As round the fireplace after dark
We sang our songs and told our tales,
Are gone; and though instead to-day
Sawn planks and iron roofs are found,
I think that often round them stray
Faint echoes, calling “Heads, a pound.”
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


3SV3 Hi^ sliJ ow3W
' PASS EXAMINATIONS. - ■
SPEAK WITHOUT NOTES.
GRIP FACTS, LODGE RITUAL, Etc.
.?*. Booklet -Free.-- Write
REV. WM. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, MELB.
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Uplon t Club anti Two Minutes
U-om Entrance to Domain anil Oircutar
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
LIFE—A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
for in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
is spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system, of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Oua
tf you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
e
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
' will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday—2d.
“Bafangkali”: '■ The Australian census
taken at the end •of the month reminds
me of one instituted..by.the,Rajah of Lombok,*
a small island off; of Java. .The
chief revenue of Lombok: was a small poll
lax of rice collected frofn .'every man, woman
and child in .the kingdom* and for some
time ,the Rajah had, harbored -a deep sus-
picion' that, lie was being! bilked: So he
announced that spirits Had visited him and
commanded that he should immediately jour-
ney to the high peak, of Gunong Merapi,
where the.spirit of that volcano would im-
part important news to him. The Rajah,
mounted on the State elephant, and accom-
panied by his retinue, left the palace for
the distant mountain, which he reached after
two days’, travelling. Ordering his followers
to await his return, the Rajah climbed a few
hundred feet further, lay down in the shade
Ow’d ’ee come for to get the sack, boay?”
“Tha’s what I caan’t make out , but ’t wadden for loafin’. I burnt twice ’s much coal
in my shift as any of they other stokers.”
of a huge rock and went to sleep. At
length he descended, and the party returned
to the palace, where he made known the
message he had received. A great sickness
was to fall on the land, to he averted only by
every man. woman and child in the kingdom
handing a needle to the village headman.
These needles were to be made up in bundles
of a hundred and deposited with the Rajah.
From these bundles 20 parangs were to be
fashioned, and the knives would be endowed
with the magic properties of warding off the
great sickness. In the event of any one
person not contributing a needle the charm
would prove ineffective. For two weeks the
Rajah was. kept busy counting the needles
and tabulating the number from each dis-
trict. These were then forged into the 20
parangs and stored in the Treasury. When
the' following season’s' taxes were due,, the
.Rajah quietly passed the word that the quan-
‘ tity of rice from each district must approxi-
, mate closely the number of needles from that
place. The revenue that year exceeded even
the Rajah’s' expectations, and from that time
-he gradually-accumulated wealth and power.
It is only right to mention, however, that
thereafter, when sickness broke out in the
• kampongs. the. sending of a magic parang to
the affected district always effected a cure.
:J: sjs >!: *
“Searchlight’’: A quaint event in Sydney’s
nautical history was the rrial trip of Harry
Sliawis catamaran. It was constructed at
1 Johnstone’s Creek, near what now is Harold
Park. by\ Harry and his brother —a eon-
Itraption about Bft. long, with tin floats
i and a platform, in the middle whence a
paddle could'manipulate tin; frail craft. For
a kick-off, Ilrir.ry took it to the Ilawkesbury
and paddled it. back to Sydney and John-
stone’s Ray' through shark-infested waters.
At no time was he more than a few
inches above water, and in rough water the
little craft was almost continually sub-
merged. An effort was made to stop this
trip, but. Harry was a stubborn chap. A
crowd of anxious friends lined the foreshore
awaiting his arrival. A rotary paddle made
from , a bicycle wheel was fitted to the cata-
maran. later, and several trips about, the
harbor were undertaken, but the craft was
never again taken outside the Heads.
* * * *
“Macfopus’’: The Hay (N.S.W.) Pastures
Protection Board is asking for a suspension
of the. close season for. kangaroos, the mar-
supials having appeared in hordes on the
Lachlan and Murrumbidgee frontages. One
man says h.c counted 2000 hoppers in one
paddock, • The way those migrations start
; is-a - mystery. Bare country which hasn’t
carried a kangaroo for months will get a
good fall of rain, and with the grass will
appear a kangaroo army from nowhere,
apparently, there having been no sign •of
them for many miles around. The kanga-
roos a couple of hundred miles away can-
not be supposed to have smelt the rain or
the grass, and they probably do not read
the weather forecasts, .yet they never’ fail to
report in good time. Wild ducks do the
’ERB: "I ’ear some of these swell ’ouses ’ave ’alf a dozen bathrooms."
’ORACE: “Well, I suppose it’s ’andy in case of fire.”
same thing, but they travel huge distances
by air and have a chance of spotting new
water. The kangaroo is not a deliberate
long-distance ti'ekker ; ; at, any rate, he lias
never been reported,,a#, moving many miles
across country iiy has
never seen before. . ' . ‘-. V f
“Huon”: For/ ljniriy ! years,, Tasmanians;
have been desirous* oF ;th.e, lyre-
bird oil the Sp’ock. • Some... tifrie / ago a
fund was provided- for bringing , birds from
Victoria and turning themyouf-on Mt. Wei-.
lington, The iiko’yal Australasian Ornitholo-
gists’ Union is holding: the/ money until the
present nesting'season is over. x and will then
see what can be. thine, f One; doubtfuL aspect
of the affair is that/if bluebirds bieepme thick
on Mt. Wellington there may not be much of
that historical - liill left , or of • the. "Speck
either—the birds are such infernal scratchers !
* * : 1 l * / -*' .
“Searchlight” c A bitch owned by. a Never-
tire (N.S.W.) sheepman was as *> canny -a
worker as I have‘seen. The /dog’s owner,
and I were taking’s6me'"fafs*tb the truck-
ing yards. We rode on ahead after opening
the gates and left. Lass to deliver the sheep.
Looking back from a half-mile over, the .plain
we noticed that , the sheep were heading
back towards home., “What about that great
dog now?” I queried sarcastically., “There’s
sorfie good reason,” replied flic owner. “Lass
never makes a ■ mistake'.” -Riding wide we
observed that one of the sheep was. dbwn,
and that the dog was tupping the mob to
work over the fallen animal. Though sheep
are stubborn in such circumstances, the mob
soon brought the one. down'io it's fefet. S The’
bitch then quietly galloped over the lot,
turned them again and duly delivered them
in the yards.
“Bylong”: If I were going on the roads
again I would make up my swag'somewhat
as follows. Instead of blankets, a -warm,
solid overcoat, a spare pair of underpants
and ditto flannel-shirt. I have never felt
the night-that I was not warm when so clad:
and I have camped on the Snowy mountains
in June; A sleeping-bag is ‘better than
blankets; but the good overcoat and extra
underwear are better still. Whenever prac-
ticable I have had a good sack-bag to put
feet and legs in, tucking-in my coat-tails. A
tent is cumbersome to carry and troublesome
to dry. Instead, I would have a light fly,
say,9ft. x 9ft., which will turn the rain, is
easy to dry, and, folded once each w'ay,
makes a good protection over one’s shoulders
should it :rain. A tomahawk is handy; a
sheath-knife is preferable. The, weight thus
saved .should be put into a rabbit-trap. Many
swagmen -carry two billies ; but I prefer
one billy and a small frying-pan.
“10-B.”: A reference in the Federal Par-
liament to “the horse with the golden shoes”
requires correcting. The prad belonged to
a resident of Wagga (N.S.W.) named
Brown.-s While on business in Vie., he lent
it' .to - Gamer,oil, who was the first member
elccfied from!the Ovens to Vic. Lower House.
Cameron .shod the nag with gold plates and
rode it into Beechworth. Brown bought the
plates, and got into communication with an
employee of his at Wagga, who started mak-
ing bets that Brown would ride home on a
horse with .gold shoes. Outside Wagga, a
smith was posted, the gold plates were fitted
on and Brown , did the rest.
* ■ * * *
“E.0.E.”: Cannibalism is not confined to
spiders (B. 24/5/’33). When I was experi :
meriting with] batches of ■ larvae of a yellow
butterfly (Terms) some precious specimens
disappeared , mysteriously. It wasn’t till I
discovered one nearly full-grown larva masti-
cating a little brother that I realised the
cause.
.*‘ * *
“Akeake” : A dozen years ago I stumbled
across an old .cave on the shores of Lake
T-aupo (M.L. ), and from a pile of grinning
skulls and crumbling bones recovered seven
or eight weapons and ornaments. Included in
the find.was a small, flat piece of well-pre-
served matai," thick at one end and extremely
thin at Jhe other. It seemed of no value or
interest, but I kept it, and when I trotted
along my curios to a museum for identifi-
cation it , turned out to be the pick of the
collection. It was an ■ old-time jew’s-harp,
a favorite with Henare before the coming of
th.e’ pakeh'a. The thin end was placed against
the teeth and struck by J the finger, the thick
end being held in the hand. Very .few speci-
mens of this ancient musical instrument
have been found.
“Frigid”: The longest-death adder ever
found in,..Australia was killed the other day
near Goondiwihdi (Q.). It measured 3ft.
Sin. The previous biggest measured 3ft.
It was found.,in the early. days, of settle-
ment and presented to the-Sydney Museum.
“Wanda”: Tell'“Speranza*” (B. 14/6/’33)
that his world’s droving record is in the
kindergarten class when compared with some
of the feats of the days of the big holdings.
I was one of a crowd under Harry Bowden
which lifted a mob of 33,000 sheep off the
shears at Moses Bros.’ Combadello station,
ill the Mofee district, in 1896, and delivered
them at Windy station, Upper Hunter, with
the loss of only two sheep. “Speranza’s”
3900 would each have been known by name
at: the end of the trip by the drovers of the
’eighties and ’nineties.
IF A MAN IS MAKING TUCKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Somewhere south. of Gabanintha, somewhere
north or east of Cue.
Somewhere round about Broad Arrow —any
mining town, will do ;
One’s as good as any other, better, too, in
many .sights.
If a man is making tucker and he’s sleeping
warm of nights—•
Somewhere out from Tuekanarra, where a
man has got: a J chance, "
lie will find. a< triigf, pleasure of the fonce of
circumstance;- ; . («
He will place a. jiister value on his ywrpngs
and;on his rights- ;
If he gets enough for tucker and he’s sleep-
ing warm of nights..
' ‘ . - *f ■- ( r /.
When the facts amp all'against him and the
dreams and visions! fade,'
When he finds his flights of fancy are < f
- moonshine only made,, • „
Somewhere out; fi’pm .WidgiemoOltha he can
start on. other,flights’ • ■
If he gets i enough< for ,fucker and lie's , sleep-
ing 'warm’of iiights."
Somewhere ‘ east of ,west of Mehzies there’s
a .sjiowrbeen, found and .lost;
Somewhere north or, south of.Naniiine there
is something worth the'cost;
Somewhere out from -Leonora faith the
flickering jtorch re-lights - ,
If a man is making tucker and lie’s sleeping
warm of riiglits.
WEBTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


é
Waiting For You
at
“The Australia
, Sydney.
The Brilliant Atmosphere.
The Convenient Location.
The Notable Social Life.
The World-famous Cuisine.
. And the tariff in accord with the times.
NEW “ROOM-ONLY” RATES:
Single Room, from . 10/6
Double Room, from 20/-
The
Telegraphic Address:
“AustraotelSydney.
“THE AUSTRALIA,”
The Hotel of the Commonwealth,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
Larwood is suffering from skiter’s cramp.
1 Iris man Hitler wants to have everything
lus own sway.
v *
“A farthing damages was awarded against the
almost penniless policeman.” —•“&. M. HeraM,”
So now presumably the copper i.s worth
only -|d.
# V
“ A quarry man near New York fell down a bank
aUtt. high while carrying 150 sticks of dynamite
and detonators. There was no explosion.”— “Argun.'’
If we know our quarryman, it showed
wonderful self-restraint.
* %.
MUG’S DISEASE.
Segregation of Malignant Germ.
The eminent pathologist Professor Goof
has segregated yet another germ. It is re-
sponsible, he says, for the virulent Bene-
dictitis or Purl-and-Plain Disease, and gen-
erally for the group of afflictions which are
classed under the heading Mug’s Disease.,
The onset invariably coincides with the
finishing of a row of knitting by the victim’s
wife. There is no warning, as a rule.
Simply a staccato “Count that!*’ Thq dis-
ease has been known to last 294 stitches (in
the case of X.O.S. jumpers). Should the
patient be absorbed in the racing news at
the moment he is attacked, extreme irrita-
bility is likely to be present. Eye-strain is
a concomitant, and there is often a tempor-
ary loss of memory.
The futility of resisting should be stressed.
This disease must he allowed to run its
course.
Closely allied to it is the dreaded Skein-
Holder’s Disease. Chief symptoms are a
dull, glassy look, indicative of morbidity, and
the peculiar position of the hands, which are
held out rigidly about three feet apart dur-
ing the attack. The patient often complains
EVE: “Here, what about my new spring frock?”
ADAM: “Do you think those things grow on trees?”
of a pain in the neck. Should complications
arise, it is advisable to consult a skein
specialist.
These diseases assume epidemic propor-
tions during the winter months. Professor
Goof expects an abatement in the spring.
S. W. K.
¥ *
Lang thinks Willis one of the best fellows
out.
* *
We’ll find a way out when the econo-mists
clear away.
“Although the Powers vie with one another in up-
to-dateness ; their warships all have their differences.”
—“Sun.”
_ It’s only when they go to war that they
sink their differences.
* ¥
THE DOMESTIC ECONOMIST.
“This ’ere Govvinment’s going ter legis-
late against the t.-p. system! Did anyone
ever ’ear the like? Look at that carpet.
Reduced for my special benefit from ten
guineas to £2 19s. 11-Jd. I’m payin’ it orf
still, when I remember. An’ then there’s
our new wireless set. Reduced from £45 to
ten guineas, but, of course, we have to pay
a little interest. It’ll come to £39 altogether
—but wlmt a bargain ! The gramophone that
we had until the time-payment man come
and took it away was cheap, too. Ten bob
down an’ five bob a month.” ‘-‘What was
the total cost?” “Tell the truth, dearie, I
forgot to ask. Come in to-morrow and see
my new corfee set. The one I’m getting for
the blue coupons. It’s a beauty. Well, I
must be goin' and gettin’ the sardines ready
for ’ces tea. Tooraloo, ole dear.”
■ T.
* .y-
-“ Few, men notice much what women wear.”
Is there much to notice these days?
* *
Mrs. Nextdoor «ays her husband is like
Car wood. You never know when the
blighter’s going to come in.
* V
AFTERTHOUGHT.
“After, marrying her he talked of shooting him-
self.”
Such -grisly thoughts us this don't hurry
Most men wfio -face the married lot;
BuF Ignite a number when they marry
Ahr shot.
H. M.
THE OFFICIAL TOUCH.
_ Pausing at the front gate, the sisters
viewed their bungalow.
Tlfe fence was lined with garments and
billycans.,. A ganger with hatbrim over his
eyes and cigarette draped from the side of
his mouth sat in cogitation. Three smallish
men were digging a trench in a leisurely
manner through the pavement.
The ganger looked up.
“Anything wrong?” inquired Louee.
“A lot,” said the ganger. “Your meter
ain’t registering.”
“Did you expect it to?”
“The gas company .does,” he confided in-
dulgently.
“Even when we’re away?”
“You bin away?”
“Nearly three months.”
“Lor’ love a
duck!” muttered
the ganger.
“Somebody might
have asked before
you tore a hole in
our lawn,” Louee
reprimanded.
The owners went
inside. *
Suddenly steps
sounded on the ver-
andah ; the door-
bell rang peremp-
torily. . A voice
said sternly:—
“Gi’ it a good
once-over for funny
business, Bill.”
-Ope n ing the
door, Else con-
fronted a burly
man in a white
motor coat. His
hat sat rakishly on
his head. ;A cigar-
ette' was between
hi? lips. He strode
inside.
.“Turn on yer
lights,” 'lie com-
manded. Reaching
for 1 the nearest
electric-light switch
and tripping It, he
stared at the light. “Yer got a Ceiling man-
hole I can get through?” he demanded.
“No. Why?”
“Yer meter registered hardly any this
quarter—nothin’ to what yer' usual account
is.”
“Do you expect it to register when we’re
not here?”
“Bin away?”
“Nearly three months.”
- Slewing abruptly, the visitors strode
through the house to -the Verandah.
“It’s okay, Bill- the wimmin’s been
away,” lie elucidated.
Bill said nothing; Strolling out and leav-
ing the front door and' the gate open the
devoted servants of am ungrateful public
boarded their car and drove off '
And don’t think that This is fiction.
Te BabakaxTiko.
Ink-slingers like Larwood arc a blot on
the game.
+£• . ’/
boJ” e Inner -Group stilt think “Jack’s the
“The policeman said he attended the evening
seance. There was no result.”
Spirits would hardly dare to appear after
6 p.m.
* *
THE ENTERTAINER.
“Members of a Parliamentary party, numbering
about 20' in all, visited the Nepean Dam.”
— “S. M. Herald
“There goes one of our most lavish enter-
tainers, Eustace,” and the idler near the
pub door pointed to a harassed-lookiug little
man with patched trousers who was bolting
for a tram.
“He doesn’t look very opulent; to me,
Egbert.”
“Possibly not. Yet he has been associated
with as many luxurious banquets and ex-
“What changes when water becomes ice,
boy?”
“The price, sir.”
peditions to our beauty spots, in the 'course
of which no expense has been spared, as
any millionaire. An inveterate spender is
Blogson.”
“What did you say his name was?”
“Blogson.”
“Not Emmanuel J. Blogson?”
“The same.”
“Why, the little hound owes my firm
money. We writted him only yesterday.”
“I can quite believe it; he owes everybody
money. He owes me 305., which I have long
given up hope of recovering. Incidentally,
his gas has just been cut off. Nevertheless,
he is helping to-day to send 20 of our fellow-
citizens, none of whom has less than £7OO a
year, on a motor tour of the Nepean Dam
area. Free. Transport expenses, food,
drinks, cigars—all will be paid for by Blog-
son, and a few others like him. I tell you.
Eustace, men like Blogson are the backbone
of our party system”—
“Here! I’ll be the mug. What is he?”
“A taxpayer.”
D. J.
“A woman in England has a hot cross bun 133
years old.”— “Argus.”
Some of our railway refreshment rooms
can run her pretty close.
V v
WE ALL MAKE THEM.
“Alter working- lor two years on a block of land,
two English immigrants discovered they had im-
proved the wrong block.”
Miss Muriel Moron, the popular film star,
who recently married for the fifth time, has
made an odd discovery. In the excitement
of preparing for the honeymoon, she omitted
to divorce her fourth husband.
Miss Moron treats the affair with charac-
acteristic aplomb. “Tell the folks,” she said,
“that it was my mistake, and Eustace [her
fifth] is in no sense to blame. Anyhow,
what does it matter so long as we love each
011101"? In future, though,” and she executed
a delightful moue, “I shall certainly keep a
card-index record.”
PROPHECIES FOR THE MONTH.
{By Our Stipendiary Crystal-gazer.)
A theatrical manager will announce that
the theatre is at last ousting the talkies.
Another theatre will close down.
The Council of Churches will call on the
Government to keep its word and end the
State lottery.
The Government will consider the author-
isation of a £25,000 lottery as a counter-
blast to the lottery activities of “another
State.”
Several elderly people and children will
be killed in week-end car accidents, and “In-
dignant” will write to the “S. M. 1 lerald"
about it. “Senex,” “Pater” and “Octogen-
arian” will also write.
Nothing will be done.
A number of Jtoyal Commissions will
deliver their findings (which will be pigeon-
holed) and others will begin investigating.
A number of barristers will agree that the
Government is doing well, all things con-
sidered.
A new paper will be started.
The new paper will be suppressed.
“The woman who looks like a wasp ceased to
exist twenty years ago.’’
Yet girls still know all about the art of
stinging their menfolk.
* *
So the Board of Control has failed to
make the M.C.C. reason.
* v-
THE FAILURE.
“He cursed his way through life.”— Book review.
Job cursed the day that he was born. Pic-
ture the feelings of the doctor. Job’s mother,
too—it must have shocked her. But I, who.
cursing, greet the morn, claim I can curse
as well as lie did when an anathema is
needed.
.Should my wife weep I damn her eyes,
thus instantaneously stemming her flow of
tears; from my condemning even the rent-
collector flies. -Rather than face my lurid
curses my creditors flaunt empty purses.
Attendants rush to do my will before 'I
go too far in telling their ancestry; before
my yelling even my surgeon cuts his bill.
Though threatened with all sorts of axes,
I blast aside my rates, and taxes.
Yet, though by cursing I am free from
ills by many men lamented, my spirit still
is discontented, and life Is one long blank
to me. I can’t find words, with all I've
squandered, to fit a collar-stud that’s wan-
dered.
IT. M.
“Drunkenness in Persia, is .punished by fixing a
brass ring through the nose of a culprit and lead-
ing him through the streets at the end of a rope.”
— “Argus.”
Xo wonder Omar did his spotting in the
wilderness!
"An’ I s’pose you started in , quite a small
way, Unclef”
HOUSEHOLDER'S PRAYER.
Oh. for the win {is of an angel!
That’s ivhat / want to-night:
I haven’t a feather to fly with.
And the bailiff is inside — tight.
A. O'C.
BE JOYFUL!
There are those who, turning their backs upon
it, scornfully declare that there is no sign of
returning prosperity.”— “Hun.”
Heed not old Gloom, that dismal hulk,
Who urges you to be a mourner
For hopes gone west. Dodge past his bulk —
Prosperity is round the scorner.
H.M.
DIRGE.
Never again with Mister Whiddon
Will Sydney clap its borrowed quid on;
Stevens ( who's great at problem-solving)
Has shunted him and called in Colvin.
Reg Weaver says his blessed lottery
Upon its pins is very tottery,
Because the Brisbane Golden Casket
Has far more big eggs in its basket.
G.B.


In every respect
an Australian Institution
Ever since the 22nd November 1816, when a meeting of
Australian colonists at Judge Advocate Wylde's Chambers
in Sydney decided upon the establishment of the Bank of
New South Wales, this Bank has remained purely Aus-
tralian in character.
The leading financial institution, and the oldest and largest
bank in Australia, the Bank of New South Wales is owned
and managed by Australians.
The majority of its shareholders are Australian citizens of
moderate means. Over 65% of them hold 20 shares or less
and the average holding of all shareholders is under 30
shares.
The implicit confidence of the people of Australia in this
leading Australian Bank is proved by the amount of the
deposits entrusted to it. Indeed, more than 28% of the
deposits lodged with the principal Australian trading banks
are held by the Bank of New South Wales.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
Aggregate assets exceed £107,000,000.
17
ij4 Triumphant
Tourney of Travel!
SYDNEY/®
AMERICA W ENGLAND
on the NEW
MARIPOSA "ami'MOHTEREY”
£5
m
■nLi
W'<S
y
THE great new “Mariposa” and “Monterey,” bring-
ing incomparable luxury to this swift service,
place California but 18 days from Sydney, and make
the trans-Pacific-America route the shortest way to
England! They stop at Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago, and
Honolulu (never more than 5 days between ports!)
and set a new standard of South Pacific travel excel-
lence !
Cabin Class aboard these great new ships also marks a
new standard in superb accommodations and modest
cost. Itineraries to any point in America or England
NEXT
Sailings to
AMERICA
via New Zealand
F iji, Samoa, Hawaii
" MONTEREY"
from Sydney
JULY 2 6
from Melbourne
JULY 22
F A R E S to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY.
first class, from £125/10/. cabin class, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
first class, from £129/10/. cabin class, from £9l
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
FARES to ENGLAND
From Sydney
first class ( Single ) from £lOl Return: £lB5/18/.
cabin class ( Single ) from £77/9/. Return: £l4l/10/.
From Melbourne
first class ( Single ) from £lO2/13/. Return: £lB9/2/.
cabin class ( Single ) from £79/2/. Return: £144/16/.
THESE FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
For an unforgettable holiday, at a most
modest expense, choose the South Seas!
Rapid service and reduced fares to the
Pacific’s harbors of romance.
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Ao Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji £35/0/
paco pago, Samoa.. £33/5/. 65/0/. 24/5/. 47/10/.
Honolulu, Hawaii . . . 75/0/. . . . 55/0/.
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE
>j< 0 FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji £39 .....
paco pago, Samoa.. £35/5/. 69/0/. 26/5/. 51/io/.*
HONOLULU, Hawaii . . . 79/0/. . . . 59/ 0/.
THESE FA RES .NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
Interesting literature free upon request
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
7M-IA
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY • PHONE B 7981-3
AGENTS:
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE .
ADELAIDE .
PERTH
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourlce Street
. V- 291 Elizabeth Street
. . . 54 Currie Street
. . 15 William Street
THE "1.X.L.” LAMP
Gives a
Brilliant,
White,
Diffusive
Light.
Candle-power, 40
Burning Period,
5 hours.
Carbide Capacity.
-£lb.
Approximate
running cost per
hour, £d.
Height to burner,
1 1 inches.
Weight (empty),
Ulb.
Directions for use
with each lamp.
Lamp well packed
for postage.
■HB
m i
■
1 I
iS*
OR HURRICANE
LANTERN
PRICE:
With Mica Chimney 7/6
Without Mica Chimney 6/”
Postage paid to any
address.
Made in Australia.
Burns Australian-
made fuel.
Suitable for both
indoors and out-
of-doors lighting.
Will not blow out
in the wind.
Unaffected by
insects or dust.
The simplest and
cheapest means of
portable lighting
on farm and
station.
Requires no
mantles, wicks or
glasses.
Ideal for country houses, shearing and packing sheds, station quarters,
dairies, camps, week-end cottages and sea-side shacks, boats, country halls, etc.
By using this lamp you will help to support Australian industries.
If unobtainable locally, send postal note either with order or on receipt of lamp to
H. JONES & CO. PTY., LTD.
G.P.O. Box 639 “D,” HOBART, TASMANIA.
Distributing Agents for Australia for “I.X.Zu” Carbide.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
sr:
R
si
RONALDSON
TIPPETT
Station Equipment
THE SHEARING PLANT,
with BALL-BEARINGS in the Main
and Friction Spindles.
Vibrationless Bearings Dustproof.
Slow Speed, Heavy Duty
Engines
for Greater Strength and Durability.
They last a lifetime.
Petrol to 8 h.p. Kerosene 3to 22
h.p. Crude Oil 10 to 136 h.p.
SHEEP-JETTING PLANT
60-gal. Tank with Round Corners.
2J-h.p. Petrol Engine direct geared
to Double Plunger Self Oiling, totally
enclosed Pump.
Rotary Agitator keeps liquid well
mixed. Adjustable Pressure Regulat-
ing Valve.
RONALDSON TIPPETT
Are the Largest and Oldest Manufacturers
of Engines in Australia.
Buy the Right Machine First
from
ENGINEERING SUPPLY COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Edward Street,
BRISBANE.
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.


SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMEN
Work Well and Last. Long
I
The plough equipped with short mouldboards and levers for team work.
Note the high jump.
Equipped with long mouldboards and forward levers for working behind
a tractor. Shows tractor hitch.
H. V. McKAY’S
The SUNRISE
Stump Jump Mouldboard Plough
Supplied in 3,4, 5 and 6 furrow sizes.
A necessity in all roughly-cleared districts.
The excellent work of the “Sunrise, and its ability to stand up to severe
conditions, have resulted in its being the most popular mouldboard
plough in Austraiia.
IT IS A SPLENDID FALLOWING PLOUGH.
The “Sunrise can be equipped with short or long mouldboards (as
illustrated), or with short or long skeleton boards for sticky soils. Long
stainless steel boards can also be supplied.
An Automatic Lift (see illustration below) can be fitted’ at moderate
cost. It is easy to operate and smooth in action.
Equipped with automatic lift, forward levers and tractor hitch.
SUNSHINE
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
(H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., Ltd.)
State Distribution from
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 27 George Street West, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray & King Streets, PERTH. Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Write for a copy of the 96-page descriptive catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures. It is free and post free.
FOR quiet,
quick shift
and easy
start
w
E
y
/
BB
LEMI
~not
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
©Stands for
"ALEMITE”
which means correct lubrica-
tion under high pressure of all
bearings and metal contacts
in a motor vehicle. All dirt,
sand, grit are forced out...
new, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant is forced in to give protec-
tion and increase efficiency.-.
Clonr 7)/)v demands lubrication of
V-sj&Cu highest quality. Alemite
has developed protection for the three types of gear
in general use and for all seasonal conditions .
Never w grease” the gears in the transmission in-
sist on "'Alemite” Special Gear Lubricant every 3000
to 4000 miles and note the better performance.
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT .. . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following.representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
UOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—2-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
"There’s a smart utility for you—and 100%
British—engine, chassis and body. It would
be a great advertisement for us wherever
. . . said the Progressive One
“Well, I’m satisfied if you are. We’ll sign up
now for this Bedford”
. . . said the Possessive One
Model 2908 Well Sides Utility
Complete with Roadster type cab, this
is a most attractive and versatile Utility
Model. Available on G.M.A.C. plan.
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
B.T.T
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin publication. Every Friday—2d.
If any illustration in THE BULLE TIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original.


LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C.
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
*
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader —classified or display ad-
vertising—is in
Che Brisbane Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Newspaper House.
Collins St., Melbourne. F 3906.
m
*
<o
2
V*
3
It pays you to
test your tyres
regularly once a
week—test them
with the All-
British Kismet
Tyre Gauge.
ê
ë
The Kismet . Tyre Gauge is the. most scientific
and accurate tyre gauge on the market. ‘ It is as
beautiful as it is accurate.
The calibrated hexagonal scale is easy to read—
the pressure being recorded in largo figures and
rising in individually calibrated lib. units.
The external design makes it easy to fit the
gauge squarely on the tyre valve.
Supplied in neat leather wallet of handy vest*
pocket size.
Price
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, C.l.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
!r \\
Head Office.
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Fife,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FBEDK. EEVY,
Managing: Director!
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
RAIN, GROWTH AND CULTIVATION.
“P.J.8.”; This Australia is a maddening
place for anyone trying to make forecasts
of crops, etc. This year, on paper, Vic-
toria has not had enough rain to wet you
properly, but right from Melbourne to the
Malice the country is a carpet of green.
Crops and grass are going ahead in the
Malice as if it were just autumn instead of
well into winter. All round Rochester and
Ecliuca, through Bendigo and the outskirts
of the city itself, where winter growth is
seldom vigorous, the same thing is happen-
ing.
The reason is that the rains have been
light and steady. They have not penetrated to
any depth, but a continuance of light showers
has kept the surface soil moist. There have
been no frosts as I write —quite unusual —
and no drying winds. Hence every available
point of rain is being used to germinate the
seed, the, unusual warmth is pushing
on the growth and prospects are good.
It shows how unreliable actual falls of
rain are as a guide to probable growth. Far
larger amounts of rain falling on a few
separate occasions would not have been half
as valuable as these light rains and warm
days.
A point noticeable to date is the compara-
tively slow germination on deeply-ploughed
ground compared with the shallower working.
A paddock next door where ground was
thoroughly worked to six inches is only
showing growth in a place where, owing to
various reasons, the upper few inches only
was turned over.
It is a practical demonstration of the
advice given for years in the Malice and
extensively followed in W.A., that ploughing
for cereals should he shallow. The shallow
ploughing keeps all tin l light rains above
the plough-sole available for germinating the
seed.
BABY BEEF.
“Old Timer”: The fact that prime heavy
bullocks to-day at Flemirigton (N.S.W.) are
worth up to 245. per 1001 b., while vealers
are good for 375. per 1001 b vealers
touching £7 —is in line with world demand
for small joints.
Ordinarily, in Australia, the development
of fat in the young animal takes place when
growth is almost finished, and the resultant
carcase is too big for world markets. It has
been taken for granted that, to reach market
condition at immature ages, artificial feeding
is necessary ; but in Australia we have never
been able to feed concentrates successfully to
stock. Now a system of baby-beef produc-
tion under strictly grazing conditions has
been evolved in northern New England
(N.S.W.), of which ,T. S. Connolly, of Ten-
terfield-, is a protagonist.
The technique is to mate cows of any good
type with bulls of approved beef breeds, and,
after calving, to spey the cow and unsex the
calf. Under these conditions the cow will
milk indefinitely, and. as even a small quan-
tity of dam’s milk will keep a young beast
in strong growing condition, the system will
produce satisfactory weights up to 7001 b. at
weaning time, say 18-20 months old. When
the vealer is weaned the speyed cow rapidly
puts on condition and is soon marketable as
a fat cow.
The obvious weakness of the scheme is
that one calf only is bred from each cow,
but against this are the advantages that a
highly-valuable body of beef is produced by
the vealer without any artificial feeding
whatsoever, and with costs of production at
a minimum.
A GRAZING SIDELINE THAT FAYS.
“The Breaker”: The supply of draught-
horses is not equal to requirements, and
graziers should avail themselves of the
chance of being in on the good thing. With
20 or. so of good-class mares and a suitable
stallion, a grazier can lay the foundation of
something that will ensure a certain income
after, say, three years. The tractor boom
sent, scores of draught-horse breeders out of
the game; but it is once more a profitable
sideline to sheep- or cattle-grazing.
Draught-horses take very little looking
after; they don’t gallop about and break
fences as do horses of a lighter type; and.
with certain sales for perhaps an indefinite
period ahead, the young stock can always
be got rid of at three or four years of age.
The original outlay for brood mares and an
entire is almost certain to be returned with
the sale of the first two lots of colts and
fillies.
PAPER-LINED WOOLSACKS.
“Ripe Corn” : Re “Presser’s” remarks (B.
7/6/’33) on “improved” woolpacks. C. R.
Murray, of Moselle, Richmond (Q.), tried
out the paper-lined packs a few years ago
by sending bale for bale of a big line of
wool in paper-lined packs and jute packs
to London. The wool in the jute packs
brought more than that in the paper-lined
packs, though exactly the same wool, pressed
bale for bale.
“Sheepo”: It is waste of time to worry
about jute-free woolpacks. It is not the
pack that buyers consider, it’s what the pack
contains. Were wool to be baled in silver-
lined containers it would not be worth any
more in the eyes of the buyers than wool
pressed in jute packs. Super-packs, paper-
and linen-lined packs have been in use for
years. I’ve yet to learn that the graziers
who used them ever gained any monetary
benefit.
FAULTY CLASSING.
“Murrawong”: At a recent meeting in
Sydney of wool-traders, complaints of bad
classing, chiefly from Japan, were investi-
gated. Buyers were unanimous that faulty
classing is found not so much in the large
clips, which are usually handled by experi-
enced elassers, as in the medium-sized and
smaller clips, which are put through by the
owner., or some inexperienced person.
The chief danger , is prevalence of “doggy,”
hairy fleeces among good wools. Manufac-
turers have proved that these mongrel wools
will not spin, neither will they take the dye.
Errors in classing are due to (a) badly-
lighted shearing-sheds (buyers point out that
they seldom continue valuing wool in the
late afternoon, yet the classer has to work
till sundown under much more trying condi-
tions), (6) insufficient bins (a flock which
has not been closely culled or which includes
a wide range of types needs more than three
fleece bins if it is to be properly handled),
(c) not enough shed-hands.
Clips wherein buyers chiefly deplore bad
classing are from the fine-wool districts,
New England, Barraba, Yass and Mudgee.
These districts supply the, types sought
by spinners, and to command attention
from buyers the lines must be even in
length and quality. Care must also be
taken in skirting: American buyers have
been forced to ignore otherwise suitable lines
because the fleeces had not been properly
skirted. In the near future it is hoped to
bring about a conference of graziers, brokers,
buyers, and elassers, a course advocated in
The Bulletin some time ago. This would
do more to improve the marketing of our
wool than anything short of compulsory
classing before sale.
DRIVE OFF THE RABBITS !
“Golightly”: In 1926 a. neighbor of mine
(Central Tablelands,. N.S.W.) left, his hold-
ing ; the rabbits had forced him off. In
average seasons it wouldn’t carry 20 head of
cattle, yet it was good land, but, without
netting fences, difficult to deal with. Thus,
virtually, he gave me the freehold of 640
acres for 15s. per acre. I netted the boun-
dary and cut it into three netted subdivi-
sions ; burnt off the harbor, cleaned out the
vermin, planted some of it down with graz-
ing lucerne and gave the whole a chance, by
light stocking, to re-establish some of its
natural grasses.
The income from that very block of land
this year, with an 18-inch rainfall, was £l5O
net from wool and £225 from 600 fat lambs
marketed ; the total, £.'*7s, is a net return of
over 10s. per acre made up from the lowest
returns I have ever had from wool and fat
lambs per head. The improvements cost me
approxmateily £1 15s. per acre, half of which
was paid for by cash, the balance debited to
work done by my two youthful sons and
myself. The total return from wool and fat
lambs grown on.this abandoned land has been
almost £2OOO in six years.
My experience is that the more heavily-
infested the country is by rabbits rne more is
the worth of the land. A satisfactory profit
is always to he had in cleaning out this pest
from such country.
TRAPPING TIPS.
“Gulliver” : A few* wrinkles for the W.A.
rabbit-trapper. Use brown paper. It is
less noticeable than newspaper and not so
strong smelling. Set your trap well inside
the burrow: a rabbit always leaps over the
first 12 inches when entering or leaving.
When setting in fence pop-holes set before
sundown; then, before turning in, reset the
ones that have been sprung. Playgrounds
are the best (traps set in burrows are often
sprung by baby rabbits). - If the rabbits are
backward scatter a few bits of greenstuff
among the traps—lettuces or radishes, _ for
instance (almond loaves appear to be irre-
sistible to rabbits). Drive the .pin well
home; a frenzied buck is no weakling. Get
the skins off as soon as possible. If the
carcases are allowed to stiffen tearing of
the skins often results. Leave the tails
on. They improve the appearance of the
pelt. Dry in the shade. If any are caught
by the sun, soak and remount; don’t market
them wrinkled. And don’t leave scraps of
paper blowing about the burrows or the
rabbits will soon migrate.
SHADE AND WINDBREAKS.
“Mulyan”: On some Victorian shcepruns
tree planting for windbreaks has been car-
ried out extensively. On one holding of
10,000 acres near Titanga station, 130 acres
were planted as shelter belts, a chain to
a couple of chains wide. It is claimed that
the breaks substantially increased lambing
and improved carrying capacity to the
extent of 2000 sheep, while a previous large
amount of tender wool was reduced to nil.
In this locality the sheep suffered particu-
larly from cold winds; on open N.S.W. runs,
they suffer from cold and hot winds.
Many of the belts are planted along the
subdivisional lines; on the western side of
a south-north fence, which gives shelter to
sheep on both sides from westerly winds,
and on the south side of east-west fences,
giving protection from southerly winds. In
western N.S.W., subject to hot northerly
winds, the break would be better on the
northern side. Here, too. the blinding dust-
storms take the place of the cdld westerly
blizzards of Victoria.
In many places the belts, composed of
low, spreading trees and hardy shrubs, are
planted in the form of a long V, with the
apex pointing north, and in other places the
form of a giant cross. These belts, situated
centrally in wide, open paddocks, provide
efficient breaks to winds from every direc-
tion. In-them also the sheep find warmth
in winter and shade in summer—a consider-
able benefit to lambing ewes and young lambs
when the shelter is handy to all parts of
the pasture. Sheep quickly make for these
from the winds, whether they are hot or
cold. In the heat of summer, when the
shade is convenient and sufficient for them
to spread in, they require less water.
An important consideration in establish-
ing breaks is to provide at the same time
for future needs of timber and firewood.
The taller trees are planted down the centre
and the height of the belt dwindles to shrubs
on the outside, which breaks the wind near
the ground. Primings and loppings alone
supply tons .of fuel annually, a valuable fac-
tor on the plains. In the Titanga (Vic.)
homestead paddock there are over 100 differ-
ent species of eucalypts, that most favored
being a mountain gum ( E . alpina), a small
tree from 15ft. to 30ft. high, . with a huge
wide-spreading top, and foliaged almost to
the ground. A further value of the belt—
along a boundary or subdividing line —is
that it forms a good check to fire when this
comes sweeping across the plains.
TOP-DRESSING IN RIVERINA.
“Agri.”; The top-dressing of natural pas-
tures has never received much favorable
consideration in Riverina, especially in the
dryer wheat-growing districts.
However, a trial at Jindera. in the older
and wetter section of the district, should
go far to convince farmers of the benefits of
the system.
Superphospate was applied at the rate of
1301 b; per acre on SO acres of somewhat in-
ferior natural pasture in April. 1030. A
section of much superior land, capable of
carrying two sheep to the acre, was used
as a check.
During the first two years the average
comparative increase was estimated at 124
per cent., more than four sheep being car-
ried to the, acre on the treated land. For
the third year, it carried 3.6 sheep per acre,
an increase of 56 per cent, over the unfer-
tilised check area.
For the three-year period, the top-dressed
area carried, on an average, twice as many
sheep as the unmanured pasture.
SMALL DAIRY PADDOCKS.
“A. 0.8.”: It is easy to find plenty of evi-
dence of the advantages of intensive fenc-
ing. The Old Bodalla estate has had its
carrying capacity doubled by paddock sub-
division. A 90-acre farm at Clunes, well
subdivided, carried a beast per acre, and be-
tween 50 and 60 head of them were milkers.
Naturally, this was a highly-improved pro-
perty, mostly under paspalum, and there
were no logs lying about to lessen the carry-
ing capacity.
One of the great advantages of a number
of paddocks is that the pasturage is kept
always fresh. The cows eat more greedily
when changed about from paddock to pad-
dock, and do not tramp over and foul the
grass as they do in larger paddocks. With
a number of paddocks, if one is eaten too
low it can be rested for a short time and
a little seed added, with some rough, heavy
harrowing work carried out to help ger-
mination. Small paddocks, of course, mean
added cost for fencing, but this is made up
for many times in the extra cream return.
DAIRYING AND POULTRY.
“Balib Dwyer’: Dairy-farmers should
also go in for poultry-farming on a commer-
cial scale. The dearest part of poultry food
is the protein, generally furnished by meat-
meal, dried buttermilk, etc. Skim-milk is a
good substitute, chicks and young stock mak-
ing rapid growth on it between hatching
and lading. Cockerels, otherwise unprofit-
able to rear, will fatten largely on skim-
milk and grain, especially if caponised.
Beside the direct income from eggs and
table poulti'y, fowl manure is valuable for
those green crops (lucerne, maize, sorghums,
etc.) which are essential to the dairy-farmer,
and which can, also, form a useful part of
the fowl’s ration. A hundred liens will pro-
duce annually nearly four tons of the valu-
able animal manure. Each ton contains
6601 b. organic matter, an average of 301 b.
nitrogen, 251 b. phosphoric acid and 171 b.
potash. For comparative purposes, horse
manure contains 4701 b. organic matter, 101 b.
nitrogen, Sib. phosphoric acid and 71b.
potash; whilst the figures for cow manure
are 3271 b. organic matter, 71b. nitrogen,
51b, phosphoric acid and 21b. potash. The
conservation of this manure is only one of
the reasons fpr keeping the birds confined
on the intensive system—the practice of
allowing fowls the run of the farm has
everything to condemn it.
Growing stock, however, can be profitably
employed in a paddock that is resting, where
they willdean up any young ticks and gener-
ally renovate the pasture.
GROWING ONION SEED.
“Parsley”: Onion seed, like parsnip seed,
deteriorates so rapidly that it pays growers
to grow and save their own seed rather than
to depend on the imported seed. The yield
of onion seed in many otherwise suitable
onion-growing .districts ‘unfortunately varies
with tin; seasons, and sometimes owing to
the presence of mildew, tlirip and the Ruth-
erglen bug.
Only seed onions of good'even types, free
from deformity or damage, are retained.
These are stored during the summer and
planted in the autumn, and the seed-heads
grow from these bulbs and seed in the spring.
The seed-heads are cut by hand as they
mature: the correct time ‘to cut them is
when the central seed-heads assume a straw
color. The heads are dried in the sun for
some time, then threshed, sieved and cleaned
with a blower. Seed must be graded into
firsts and seconds with a blower. The
seconds should be thrown into cold water
and stirred vigorously, when the heavier seed
will sink and the rubbish float. The heavier
seed is then removed from the water and
dried as rapidly as possible to prevent ger-
mination, and the remainder may be broad-
cast in beds and grown for pickling onions.
RENTING A FARM.
“J.W.W.”: First, be careful about the
wording of the lease. The terms must be
stated in years, or years and months where
necessary. Date of possession is your first
actual entry on the farm ; and on that date
all stock belonging to the lessor (owner) or
a former lessee or tenant should be removed,
thus leaving the farm empty, ready for your
•occupancy. Don’t allow any odd beasts
which may bo the property of neighbors or
cattlo agistment to .stay <s a few days
longer” fill they can be got away. That
generally means keeping them a few weeks
longer, and you must take whatever fee you
are offered when they are removed, having
made no prior agreement. I lost a lot of
grass that way on my first farm.
See that all pertinent dates and sums of
money payable as rent are plainly written
(or typed) in words and in figures. If any
improvements are needed, have their value
allowed as part of rent, and, if this is not.
assented to, have a special clause inserted
giving you power to remove them at its
expiry. It is also wise to get an option to
purchase. If this is obtained, the terms of
purchase must be specified, as payment
wholly in cash can be demanded in the
absence_ of any stated terms. Have also a
stipulation as to who pays the shire rates,
water rates and any other charges against
the land. Sometimes each side pays half
the shire rates; this ensures municipal repre-
sentation for both lessor and lessee if entered
properly in the shire rate-book —each party
pays the rate on half the property.
The three most important things to re-
member when starting tenant-farming are:
(1) Getting the right farm on the right kimf
of a lease,_ (2) buying the horses you require
to work if. (3) buying your dairy herd.
Always get the advice of .some reliable man
(Land Pane continued on poge 26.)


Feel the Difference!
You will notice at once the pliant
comfort. . . .the resilience. . . .of this
exclusive Abbey Shoe. It gives the
foot full width as well as proper
length. The muscles function freely,
as they should. This shoe is smarter,
too, and holds its shape despite re-
peated resoling.
ORDER BY POST.
There are four widths. . . .narrow,
medium, wide and extra-wide. When
ordering, state which you need, and
ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE-
STREET ADDRESS No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
The Truth
About Catarrh
Remedies Galore
You have, no doubt, tried dozens 'of
remedies, but you are. still looking for the
one that will give you happy relief. The
one remedy you have not tried is waiting
for you—a preparation containing vola-
tile oils known as Catarrh-Clysmae. ''This
new volatile oil treatment has proved a
boon to thousands of sufferers through-
out Australia. They have found its value
for chronic cold in the head as well as
for Catarrh in its more serious stages.
It has been so thoroughly tested and
proved so consistently true that the
money paid for the first package will be
refunded if it does not do what is
claimed. Catarrh-Clysmae can be bought
from any chemist for 1/9 or nearly three
times the quantity for 4/0.
Governor’s Visit to Broken Hill
Sir Philip Game, the Governor of N. S.
Wales, is on a visit to Broken Ilill as
1 lie GUEST OF THE UNEMPLOYED,
THIS DAY, TUESDAY. JUNE 27.
This is another illustration of the origin-
ality aiul the versatility of the great and
famous Silver City. Again Broken Hill
makes History.
“The Barrier Miner.” which has been
published at least twice every day for the
past 45 years at Broken Hill, is one of
the Best Known newspapers in the
Empire, as Broken Hill is one of the
best known cities.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
a note you price for the original.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE ...... 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
JTT
rzr
r^n
t
77/777
is
He’d like to get through. . . .
but he can’t. Neither can he
get over or under it.
“Cyclone” Ringlock Pig Fence
is constructed so that a strain
at any point is jointly shared
by the whole area of the
panel; he’s up against some-
thing pig-proof at last!
“Cyclone” Ringlock Pig Fence
is manufactured from speci-
ally hard-drawn galvanised
wire, and will not stretch or
sag.
It is easier and quicker to
erect, and costs less than the
old style pig enclosure. The
“Cyclone” Ringlock holds the
line wires to the upright wires
in a vice-like grip, and they
can’t be moved upwards, side-
ways or down. No mainten-
ance whatever is required.
Sent out in 5-chain rolls ready
for erection.
PIG-HEADED
OF PIGJ
Prices: £4B/5/- per mile;
12/9 per chain.
Orders for less than half a
mile are charged at chain
rates.
“Cyclone” is not a type
of fence, but is fence made
exclusively by Cyclone Fence
and Gate Co. Pty., Ltd.
On clone
ItIftGLOFK STIFF-STAY PIO FEYFE
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY., LTD.,
Cyclone House. Hardware Street. Melbourne, Cl.
And at Sydney and Adelaide.
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mait> your free illustrated and .priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal
Gates and Ring-Lock Fences end comparison of costs
NAME _ - ~ “
_ “B'tia” a f
Ar - - - ~ - ———
ADDRESS
who knows the district and the local condi-
tions ; these take a long time to learn. The
most satisfactory term to rent a farm for
is three years, with option of extension for
another two or three years. But don’t rent
for too long a period unless you know local
conditions well. Find out the successful
men in the district and learn from them all
you can, and adopt any of their methods
which seem responsible for their success.
They will mostly give advice free to a trier.
Finally, keep all rents paid on the due
dates. It injures your credit if these
fall behind. You can always get help from
the agents for the purchase of a few extra
.stock once they know you are a “good mark,”
and they soon find out.
MILK FOR POULTRY.
“.Tack Point”: Milk is probably the best
single food one can give poultry. On farms
where ebooks get little else but a feed of
grain, feeding of milk in addition will have
a wonderful effect on the egg-yield. Mixed
with bran and pollard, mnizeinenl. or other
available feeds, milk has a value far above
its own high analysis, and it is not then
necessary to use .meat and protein meals.
Growing chicks should be given all the milk
they can drink, care being taken to remove
any left over and thoroughly clean the uten-
sils, and to have clean water available for
drinking as well. For fattening birds, con-
iine them in a crate and give a sloppy mash
of bran, pollard and inaiz<'moHl mixed with
milk, or grain and milk exclusively. This
last food is prepared by soaking cracked
maize or wheat in the milk for a couple of
hours before feeding it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to solder galvanised-iron? —o473.
First apply strong raw hydrochloric acid
(killed spirits is not suitable) to the sur-
face to be soldered, and with a large solder-
ing-iron a plentiful supply of solder is
melted directly into the acid. The iron, must
be rubbed many times over the parts, so as
to work the solder well down into the sur-
face. For a. small job Fluxite will give good
results.
I understand, that a, “home consumption
price" was fixed for Iwheat by the Federal
Parliament during the war or soon after it
ended. (1) For how long did this price
apply? (2) Average difference in price of
wheat for home consumption and wheat for
export while the regulation icas in opera-
tion? (3) Approximate amount of wheat
consumed in Australia while the regulation
was in force? (4) What wgre the main
arguments for fixing the price of wheat? —
6417.
Can’t answer your questions categorically.
What happened was that in 1015 the Com-
monwealth Government and the Govern-
ments of N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia
and Western Australia entered into an agree-
ment which provided that these Governments
should control the wheat crops of the four
States for the 1915-16 harvest. The legisla-
tive authority for Victoria's participation was
the Wheat Marketing Act of 1915, while
the Commonwealth authority was exercised
under the War Precautions Act. This autho-
rity was annually exercised to cover every
wheat crop up to the 1920-21 harvest, and
in effect resulted in the creation of wheat
pools for the.seasons 1915-16. 1916-17, 1917-
18, 1918-19, 1919-20 and 1920-21. Each
State was responsible for the internal man-
agement and control of its own pool. In
Vic. the crop was bought by the State Gov-
ernment. and the internal operations were
controlled by a Wheat Commission, whose
activities for the six pools resulted in sales
for local delivery of 60,506,990 bushels ml'
wheat for £17,085,703, an average of ss. 7.6 d.
per bushel, and for export 159,644,982
bushels, realising £47,891,468, or ss. 11.2 d.
per bushel. Local prices were fixed at the
beginning of each season, and the advantage
in price accruing from wheat sold overseas
was due to later increases in world’s parity
for wheat. Assuming Australia’s population
to average 5,400,000 during the period under
review, the total internal consumption of
wheat as flour for the six years during which
the pools operated should have approximated
218,000,000 bushels. The main objects of
the scheme were to ensure that all growers
should participate equitably in the realisa-
tion of the harvest and the proceeds thereof,
and that the limited shipping space avail-
able should be allotted between the States
in accordance with the exportable surplus
of each State.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tanguloli”: Trace and bullock chains
often break after constant use. They can be
renovated by heating to redness. They break
because the constant strain crystallises the
iron. Make a strong fire of wood and put
the chains on it; then let them cool off in
the sun.
“Tenrag” : To clear pigs (six months and
up) of worms, add to every cwt. of meal
3 gib. of lime and Mb. of salt. For young
pigs up to six months use 10 per cent, of
pure white fishmeal. There is nothing like
it, too. for promoting growth, since it con-
tains all the mineral elements necessary,
having a natural iodine and salt content.
“J.A.S.”: When tomatoes are plentiful
those not fit for table use can be fed to the
fowls, mixed with a wet mash to ensure maxi-
mum consumption. In young stock, they
promote quick growth and absence of leg-
weakness, and obviate the feeding of c-od-
liver oil Tor the latter trouble.
“Agri.”; The two-way hooks in an iron
swing-bar wear only on the end that is in
the swing. Before they have worn too far.
reverse them, and they \vill last twice as
long.
“Tena”: In burnihg out an axe-handle
push the blade well into the earth, leaving
only the eye out. Now build a good fire
over it. If hole is bored through handle and
kerosene poured into it the burning out of
the head will be simplified.
“A. 0.8.” : When rats are difficult to trap,
trv covering the whole trap with tissue
paper. Rats will always investigate a cov-
ered trap. Mice can often be caught with
pumpkin-seed bait when they will even
refuse cheese. Wash all traps regularly to
remove the smell of humanity.
"O.’C.” : Don't forget that bunny is good
food for both fowls and pigs. Boil him well
and mix with the ebooks' morning mash.
Meat is a very necessary adjunct to the
winter layer’s tucker.
“Mimosa”: A good rust remedy is as
follows: Dissolve jo z. camphor and Mb.
lard together (or proportionately) over a
very slow fire, and, taking off the scum,
mix this with as much blacklead as will
bring it to an iron color. Spread the mix-
ture over the steel and iron stoves, lire
irons, etc., to be preserved. Let it remain
for 24 hours, after which rub it off with a
dry cloth. Articles thus treated will not
rust again for six months or more.
“Willcroo” : A cheap paint that won’t rub
off: Mix 61b. of whiting with cold water to
the consistency of ordinary paint, boil for
five minutes, and add Mb. of glue, dissolved
in hot water. The addition of a pound of
yellow ochre will make it a cream color.
“Brad”: I've found a layer of thin
rubber in between the hoof and shoe ideal
for a tender-footed prad, and it saves the
plough nags a great deal when working very
hard or bumpy ground.
“Cooramin”: Small horseshoes that have
worn down to thin slippers should not bo
thrown away as useless, lleat them, punch
holes in them for sprigs; then, when cut
into short lengths, they make capital pro-
tectors for heavy boots.
“Kev.” : Cut off at the bottom that piece
of old square tank usually to be seen lying
about on almost any farm, leaving it about
a foot deep, and place it in position to
catch the feed from the chaff-cutter. Be-
sides doing*away with loss and untidiness,
it speeds up the bagging of feed, which can
be forked out of it more easily than if
spread out on the floor.
“Valeria” : .As soon as a shed cuts
out, the shafting should be cleaned carefully
and painted over with a rust-resistant pre-
paration. The handpieces should be taken to
pieces, cleaned, oiled and put away under
lock and key. Belting should be taken
down, rolled up and stored in a safe place;
stencils should be cleaned and put away
with hooks, pins, ropes, etc. Gates, grat
ings. tables, presses and scales, too. will all
require overhaul. It is attention to this
sort of detail that has helped to keep many
a station out of the hands of the banks.
“Rotorn” : When nailing palings on a fence,
have a line stretched along the post-tops to
use as a guide for height and to keep the
tops level. Nearing a post, judge your pal-
ings for width, hud space them regularly
so as to leave no unduly-wide openings. Use
the plumb-bob to assure perpendicularity.
Drive side nails instead of single centrals.
“Wrash”; Around /a treacle-tin pull a
doubled No, 8 wire and twist the four ends
together tp form a handle. Drop a few
pebbles, or iron nuts inside and solder down
the lid. The rattle so made is the best of
all Bearers for hunting sheep along a race,
or when yarding up in the. woolshed.
“Valeria”: Artificially feeding sheep in
small paddocks may be all right for
British breeds and their crosses, but the
method is no use with merinos. My ex-
perience of them is that, if they are confined
t 0 small areas, they will travel round the
fences trying to get out, and under these
conditions never do well. Should they settle
down, it will be only a matter of time before
liver trouble develops from lack of exercise.
Merinos are naturally heavy feeders, and,
therefore, reamers. They do best when they
have ample country to wander over. Even
cooping up the lambing ewes in small pad-
docks is a mistake ; unless she has a good
flow of milk, the merino ewe is not a good
mother and will leave .her lambs as soon as
dropped.
“Hatter” : The recent report of the Coun-
cil for Scientific and Industrial Research
shows that black disease in sheep can now
be controlled by the use of the vaccine pre-
pared in Australia. During the past year
100 flocks in Tasmania were inoculated with
satisfactory results. The cause of the trouble
has been identified as Bacillus eedematiens,
a germ which infects the livers of sheep
injured by young fluke. The same disease
is found in Europe in association with a
slightly different species of fluke’.
“A.G.R.”: The Queensland Fertiliser Act
requires that the fertilising constituents pre-
sent in all fertilisers be shown on the labels.
The percentages of nitrogen, phosphoric acid
and potash, together with their form [e.g.,
nitrogen as nitrate of soda, dried blood, etc.,
phosphoric acid as super., meatworks manure,
etc.), and the percentage of coarse and fine
material must be given. As unit values
(the value of one per cent, of the fertilis-
ing constituent in one ton of fertiliser) La-
the various constituents are fixed by law
and published from time to time, a farmer
can easily find out whether any particular
brand of fertiliser is good value, and can
obtain the cheapest and most suitable mix-
ture for his particular requirements. Of
course, samples of the various fertilisers
are frequently analysed to make sure that
they conform with the declared composition.
“Tamornie”: Here is a simple way in
which to obtain the height of a tree. Ihrive
a straight stick into the ground till exactly
three feet is above the surface. With a
cord describe an arc- with a three-foot radius
on the south side of the peg. When shadow
of stick touches edge of arc, drive a peg at
limit of shadow thrown by tree. Measure-
ment from peg to butt equals height.
“Larrapinta”: Albert Packer, a Mundulla
(S.A.) farmer, repairing a horse-collar,
noticed that his young son was bouncing a
rubber-ball which had lain up in a roof
gutter for a year and then had been lying
in the sun on a sandhill for six months.
It was still full of bounce. Packer cut the
ball up, found that the inside was of spongy
rubber, and then began to wonder how
rubber sponge would do on horse-collars.
He had one built as a test', and it was so
good that he made others and lent them to
friends to try ; tliey all reported that they
ended sore shoulders and scalding, and after
a year of use showed no signs of the rubber
padding losing any of its elasticity. Packer
has now patented the idea.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers, .
The service is entirely free All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to han<>
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one. subject.
‘ The right of selection . and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Strong young man, Sydney, farm exp., wants em-
ployment. Refs.—664s.
Gentleman, Sydney, seeks position city or country,
wide exp., book-keeping, salesmanship, general busi-
ness routine. Would accept position on station.
Refs—66oo.
Young lady (23), desires position as companion to
lady or delicate girl, Melbourne, or country town in
N. Vic. Refs.—66l3.
Collector, Q’land, wishes to obtain a couple of
platypus- eggs.—664l.
Artesian well-boring driller, Sydney, wants work
as driller or driller’s assistant, any State. —6683.
Book furnishing particulars regarding the Chisel-
hurst (Kent) caves.—664B.
Diagram for dairy with four milking machines,
no feeding, cows to pass through and not back out.
—6677.
Words of verse entitled “Two Men and a Maid,”
beginning “Two little dudes from the city block up
for a brief vacation.”—6664.
Words of old bush songs “Waltzing Matilda” and
“The Genteel Bullock Driver.” —6682.
To buy back numbers of “Amateur Mechanic and
W0rk.”—6689.
To buy centenary edition of Pitman’s “Shorthand
Instructor” or will exchange modern novel for same.
—6665.
To buy “The Telescope,” by 8e11.—6623.
To buy cheap book on restringing tennis racquets
or any literature on the subject.—-6576.
Information Sought.
Who discoi;ered New Caledonia? Did
French navigators play any part in its dis-
covery? How was it that France secured
the ! colony ? —6644.
Bougainville, sailing south from the Nfcw
Hebrides in 1768, noted signs of near-by
land; and when Captain Cook came into
those parts six years later lie-made a search
and discovered New Caledonia. He landed
at Balade on the north-east coast on Sept.
4, 1774, and named the new land. On Sept.
10 he discovered the Isle of Pines. In 1792
a French expedition under D’Entrecasteaux
and De Kermadec thoroughly explored the
island. In 1850 the crew of the French
survey ship Alcmcne were killed and eaten
at Paaba, and Rear-Admiral Dcspointes, sent
to punish the natives, formally took posses-
sion of New Caledonia at Balade on Sept.
24, 1853, and of Isle of Pines a few days
later.
What is the scientific explanation of lumi-
nous gleams seen on the surface of the sea
at night? —663B.
Believed to -be due to bacteria living on
organisms on tbe surface of the water or on
fish, but the exact cause of the luminance is
unknown. It is known, however, that oxygen
is essential for its appearance. If phos-
phorescent material be put in an atmosphere
devoid of oxygen, the light vanishes.
What is the principle of the aneroid bar-
ometer? —6630.
Air pressure acts on a hollow box of
elastic metal in which there is a partial
vacuum. Movements of the sides of the box
due to variations of pressure are communi-
cated mechanically to the pointer. The dial
is calibrated by a comparison of the readings
with those of a mercury barometer.
Where is Agadir, and what was the Agadir
Incident?— 662l.
Agadir is: the most southerly post in
Morocco. By the treaty of Algociras (1906),
to which all the great nations, including Ger-
many. were signatories, France and Spain
were entrusted With the task of preserving
order in disturbed Morocco. The sudden
appearance off Agadir in August, 1911, of
the German gunboat Panther (replaced later
by the cruiser Berlin) and the demand of
the Kaiser for “a place in the sun” preci-
pitated an international crisis, which was
ended by Germany dropping her claims in
respect to Morocco, accepting instead cer-
tain portions of the French Congo.
(1) Method of cleaning and preserving a
rifle barrel? (2) Distances {approx.) .22
calibre “long” and “long rifle” bullets travel
when fired through 24in. barrel? —6510.
(1) The barrel must bo cleaned after being
used. Burr’s-Threeo oil is one of the best
preparations on the market. (2) The latest
types of cartridges have, a range of “long,”
Jmile, and “long rifle,” 1 mile.
Are printed statements of annual accounts
of shire councils obtainable in N.S.W.? —
6419. '
# The N.S.W. Government Statistician pub-
lishes “Finance and Local Government—
Part II,” iii which particulars are furnished
of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and
other statistical information revealed by
shire and municipal councils’ annual state-
ments. Particulars in respect of the year
ended December 31, 1931, will be obtainable
from the Government Printer in a few days;
price Is. 6d., postage 2d.
7 intend fixing up a few electric lamps
using a small 32-volt generator. (1) Should,
the lamps be connected up in series or in
parallel? (2) What power would five 32-
rolt lamps consume, assuming -each lamp
takes one-half ampere? (3) Any danger’of
an electric shock from this current? (4)
Would much power be lost in the wire? —
6584.
(1) In parallel. (2) Each lamp will con-
sume IB watts, the total power consumed
being SO watts. (3) No appreciable shock
will fie felt from a pressure of 32 volts. (4)
Depends upon the area and length of the
wire. If the distance between the generator
; —W ,
and lamps is under 80ft. use 1-18 copper-
wire ; for longer distances use heavier wire.
(1) What is the Board of Trade unit of
electricity? (2) How many units would be
consumed daily, using 10 amperes for an
average of six hours? —6600. <
(1) When one kilowatt of electrical
power has been used continuously for one
hour, one Board of. Trade unit has been
consumed. (2) Depends upon the voltage.
Multiply the voltage by the amperage and
divide by 1000. This will give you the power
in kilowatts. Multiply this by the number
of 'hours and the answer will be in units.
Thus, 240 volts multiplied by 10 amperes
equals 2.4 kilowatts and 2.4 multiplied by six
hours equals 14.4 kilowatt-hours, or 14.4
units,
(1) Was a hare-fist or a glove fight the
longest ever fought? (2) Who scored the
quickest knockout in a glovC contest? —6694.
(1) Verdict goes to gloves. The longest
recorded bare-knuckle fight was between
James Kelly and Jonathan Smith, some-
where near Melbourne, on Nov. 19, 1855;
it lasted six hours 15 minutes. But
with gloves Andy Bowen fought 110 rounds
(seven hours 19 minutes) to a draw with
Jack Burke in New Orleans on April 6,
1893, and Danny Needham battled 100
rounds (six hours 39 minutes), also to a
draw, with Patsy Kerrigan at San Fran-
cisco on Feb. 27, 1890. (2) A 1 Foreman,
now in Sydney, who downed Ruby Levine in
11-j seconds (including the count) at Mon-
treal on April 25, 1928.
I have a print of a “View of London,” by
W. Hollar. What, is \ts value, and what is
the history of the artist ? —6698.
(1) It has been catalogued at 155., but a
print changed hands in Sydney recently at
£5 ss. (2) Wenceslaus Hollar was born in
Prague in 1607. The Earl of Arundel be-
came his patron and brought him to Eng-
land. ' An exquisite technician, he did 2733
prints, all of which are catalogued. He took
up arms in the Stuart cause, and was ban-
ished during the time of Cromwell. He re-
turned with the second Charles, but met with
little encouragement, and died in poverty at
London in 1677.
(1) How can human blood be detected in
water? (2) Has it an odor detectable by the
human nose? (3) What, is the red color
due to? (4) Names of books that treat of
detection of arsenic, strychnine, cyanogen
and other poisons? —6so6.
(1) Human blood can be distinguished
from that of other animals by tests that
require instruments and an extensive know-
ledge of the subject. (2) No. (3) Blood
is composed of red cells, white cells, platlets
and plasma. The color is due to the red
cells. (4) Analytic tests are outlined in
most comprehensive works on chemistry.
I reside in Q’land and har>e served on
ships as trimmer, 2 years 4 months; fireman,
3 years 1 month; greaser, Ti months. (1)
What exams, for a marine driver’s certifi-
cate could I sit for in Australia? (2) What
experience would be necessary? (3) To
whom and at what address should applica-
tion for examination be addressed? (4)
Where are, examinations held? (5) Where
can particulars regarding procedure at
exams, be obtained?— 6443.
(1) You could sit for a second-class
lnarinc-enginedriver, steam division, under
the Commonwealth Navigation Act and Re-
gulations, or third-class engineer under
Queensland Navigation Act and Regulations,
valid only within Queensland limits on intra-
state vessels. (2) Your experience qualifies
you to sit for the certificates mentioned. (3)
To the Commonwealth Navigation Service
at Brisbane, Townsville. (4) All principal
ports. (5) Get a copy of the Navigation
(Examination of Engineers) Regulations,
price Is. 6d., on sale at the Mercantile
Marine Office, Townsville or Brisbane.
What are the conditions of the play com-
petitions being conducted by the Adelaide
Repertory Theatre? —6710
Plays, which may be full length (prize
£2l ) or one act (prize £5 55.), must be ori-
ginal and not previously produced. Adel-
aide Repertory Theatre retains right of first
production. All plays to be submitted under
a nom de plume, accompanied by name and
address of author enclosed in sealed envelope.
Manuscripts to be addressed to the Chair-
man of the Production Committee, Box
1.072 J, G.P.0.. Adelaide. Closing dates are
September 15 for full-length plays ; July 31
for ono-acters.
(1) How to equip a model-T Ford with
Delco ignition? (2) How to fit a foot accel-
erator to same car? (3) What would be
the effect of fitting a 36 x 9 crown wheel
and pinion instead of the standard 40 x 11?
(4) Where to obtain detailed particulars of
model-T Ford? —6sls.
(1) Difficult to answer as everything de-
pends on whether the unit available is adapt-
able to the model. If it is it will be in-
stalled in place of the standard Ford com-
mutator. which is located on the end of the
camshaft. If the unit is new, complete in-
structions regarding fitting should accom-
pany it. (2) Reliable units, complete with
instructions for fitting, are obtainable from
most accessory houses. (3) The top gear
performance of the car would be slightly
lower, and excepting in hilly country the
standard Ford production should give a
better mileage , per gallon. There would be
an appreciable increase in pulling power,
which would be most noticeable "in hilly
country. (4) Manual, price 6d.. can be
obtained from any Ford dealer.
(1) Is ijt practicable to make a 9 0-volt
“B” battermfeuitable for use with a radio
receiver? (2) If not, is there a “ B ” but-
tery that oould be recharged with chemicals
and where is it procurable? —664o.
(1) No. (2) Siemens H.T. cells, obtain-
able from Siemens (Aust.), 257 Clarence-
street, Sydney. When ordering, state number
and type of valves used and the voltage
required.
A cure for dandruff? —6626.
The essential treatment of the condition
i$S frequent washing of the scalp. This can
be done with soap spirit, and it is impor-
tant that the soap be thoroughly washed
out, not only with the water in which tin;
washing has taken place, but with two or
three fresh waters as well.
(1) What causes an impediment in
speech■? (2) Is it curable? (3) Any litera-
ture dealing with the subject and where
obtainable? (4) Name of a specialist who
might effect a cure? —6618.
(1) Modern medical theory inclines to £
belief that an impediment is a symptom of
a psychological disturbance. (2) Cures
have been reported by the psycho-analytic
method. (3) Angus and Robertson could
supply a list. (4) Any up-to-date doctor
could give you a note to a psychiatrist in
whom he has confidence.
Is there a cure for baldness?. —6446.
Baldness of the usual sort is incurable
There is a kind of baldness in which the
hair falls out in certain areas. This cures
itself in time.
(1) I am a resident of N. S. Wales em-
ploying a man at £1 6s. (id. per week. Does
he have to pay unemploymeni tax? (2) 7
am employing men at Bs. per day. What tax
do they have to pay? (3) What tax do I
have to pay for child endowment? —6445.
(1) If £1 6s. 6d. represents the sole earn-
ings for the week, unemployment-relief tax
would not be payable. If board and lodging
is provided, this is reckoned at £1 per week,
and the tax on £2 6s. 6d. is is. each week.
(2) Tax should not be deducted where the
earnings for the week are less than £2. (3)
The rate of family-endowment contribution
is sd. in the £, and is payable >by the em-
ployer in respect of any week in which the
total wages paid by him plus the value of
board and lodging provided (to be taken
into account at £1 per week per employee)
amount to £3 or over.
Suitable dressing for a jartah dance floor?
—6541.
Hard paraffin wax, lib.; powdered boric
acid, 71b.; oil of lavender, 1 drachm; oil of
neroli, 20 minims. Melt the wax oyer gentle
heat, .stir in the boric acid, then add the
perfumes. Mix well, and sift through a very
fine sieve to make a powdery substance, forc-
ing the mixture through by rubbing. Sprinkle
over the floor, and drag a heavy, soft polisher
up and down. The oils may be omitted.
How to make liquorice, and how is it
used in the making of confectionery? —-6497.
Liquorice is a natural product obtained
from the roots of a plant cultivated prin-
cipally in Italy and Spain. All you can do
in confectionery is to take pieces of it, and
coat them with chocolate, caramel, etc. It
may also be cooked with various gums or
gelatines and flavored, then coated. It melts
under gentle heat, and may be worked like
other confectionery ingredients.
I hare been experimenting with etching in
drypoint and bitten work, but am unable to
get the ‘‘soft-ground” effect. How is it done?
—6703.
Coat the plate with an ordinary ground
to which a small quantity of tallow has been
added and smoke in the usual manner over
a bunch of wax tapers. Take a piece of
grained paper such as the ordinary unwaxed
greaseproof luncheon wrappers are made
from, and cut a piece two or three inches
larger than your plate is on every side. Lay
the plate, already prepared, ground side down-
wards. on lo this paper, and, having pasted
all the margins of the paper outside the
edges, turn them down so that they adhere
to the back. Place the design ready for
tracing on the front of the plate and trace it
with a lead pencil on to the grained paper.
Where the pencil forces the grained paper
into close contact with the soft ground the
ground is picked up. Remove the grained
paper very carefully, and bite the plate in
the usual manner. The result should re-
semble crayon drawing when printed.
Cause of and treatment for yellow piano-
keys6sß2.
Exposure to light is supposed to cause
discoloration; the acids from perspiration of
the fingers of players will also contribute to
the yellowing of the keys; ivory keys change
color naturally in the course of time. There
is no easily applicable way of restoring
whiteness. Simple methods of cleaning are:
(1) Washing the keys with a soft cloth
wrung out of hot water containing a
generous amount of baking soda, (2) spong-
ing with strained lemon-juice, and (3)
wiping with a cloth dipped in methylated
spirit. In every case, clean off with a cloth
wrung out of clear water, and polish with
a silk duster. Try a few treble keys' first
at the far end. as if the keys are made of
synthetic material the action of the cleaner
may be uncertain.
(1) Qualifications for joining the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, and how oould
a resident of Australia join? (2) Strength
of the R.C.M.P.. and how many recruits are
accepted annually? Also, number of appli-
cations for vacancies? —6399.
(1) Qualifications are roughly the same
as for any other police force, but competi-
tition for the few available openings is so
great that only men of outstanding physical
attainments, good education and high integ-
rity are chosen. Practically impossible to
obtain an appointment while resident in
Australia. Headquarters are at Ottawa,
Ontario, and an inquiry addressed to the
Commissioner of the Royal North-West
Mounted Police should result in full infor-
mation being furnished. (2) *On Sept. 30,
1931. the strength of the force was 59 offi-
cers. 1154 non-commissioned officers and con-
stables and 138 special constables, with 215
horses and 500 dogs ; 106 recruits were taken
on that year, selected from 324:.) applicants.
Information Supplied.
Date of the death of Theodore Emile
Argles, who wrote as “Harold Grey'’ and
“The Dipsomaniac”?—662o.
Brief Answers.
. A.G.E.: Write Commissioner of Stamp
Duties, Stamp Duties Office, 150 Phillip-street,
Sydney... .A.R.P.: A copy can be obtained from
J. C. Williamson and Co., Sydney... .T.M.C.: Bur-
ragorang means “tribe who wore a nose pin” ; Bur-
rangong, “hunting grounds”; Callemondah, “plenty
of hills”; and Mundamatta, “hermit’s home”....
R.B.T.: (1) and (2) Under the Yic. Police Offences
(False Advertisements) Act it is an offence to adver-
tise false statements about goods for sale; maximum
penalty, £100. The police could prosecute il
furnished with evidence... .M.B.: Lillie Langtry was
born at Jersey on Oct. 13, 1852, and was the daughter
of Very Rev. Le Breton, dean of Jersey. She mar-
ried (a) Edward Langtry (died 1897) ; (b) Sir
(then Mr.) Hugo de Bathe. She died Fein 12, 1929.
....C. H. de la P.: Get in touch with the Chief
Dairy Instructor, Adelaide, who will advise you.
The matter is largely governed by regulations....
C.A.H.: The Income Tax (Management) Act, 1928,
defines a “non-resident person” as one whose usual
or principal place of abode is not in the State.
For Federal purposes, “absentee” means a person
who does not reside in Australia, and includes a
person who has been absent from Australia during
more than half the financial year in which the income
was derived. Family-endowment tax is payable by
employers only, and is levied on wages, etc., paid in
' N.S'AV H.J.T.; Write W, B. Carr Construction,
Ltd., Rozclle, Sydney... .L.S.: Soak skins in cold
water for a few hours, then hang to dry away from
the sun and wind. When they are almost dry, rub
a little vegetable oil into the flesh side and allow to
dry off P.E.C.: (1) A deduction on account of a
dependant is not allowable for either Federal income
tax or N.S.W. unemployment-relief tax purposes. (2)
The information furnished is not sufficient to enable
advice to be given. Communicate with the Com-
missioner of Taxation... .M.M.C.: Write Secretary,
Stock and Brands Branch, Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney... .J.M.: Get in touch with David Moore,
editor, the “Dog World,” G Dalley-street, Sydney.
. ...H.T.: Try C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. ...D.W.H.: The game is finished when 01 is
scored L.P.G.L.: The Taj Mahal is a famous
mausoleum at Agra, built by Shah Jehan about
1629-50 in honor of his wife, Mumtaz Mahal....
F.H.G.: “Henley’s Book of Recipes, Formulas and
Processes’’ (27s. 6d.), “Dyke’s Automobile and
Gasoline Engine Encyclopaedia” (45s.), and “Drake’s
Radio Cyclopedia” (39s.) —all obtainable from lead-
ing booksellers.... A.II.: The Ocean Leather Co. of
Newark, New Jersey, U.S’.A., buys salted shark hides.
... .F.A.T.: “Farm Machinery and Farm Motors,” by
Davidson and Chase. A second-hand copy can be
got for you at 4s. Gd J.L.: Write Q’land Agri-
cultural Dept, for pamphlet “Pisfj Construction of
Farm Buildings”... .B.B.: Write A. E. Smith, violin
expert, Hunter-street, Sydney... .H.N.: Communi-
cate with the manager, Committee of Direction of
Fruit Marketing, Turbot-street, Brisbane... .F.D.W.:
A patient in poor circumstances is usually given
advice or treatment free at a hospital. This, how-
ever, depends on the rules of the institution, which
may require the payment of a fee. Sea the secretary
and ask for an explanation... .R.G.: You do not
state whether the holidays were to be taken with
or without wages. If without wages, the action
of the factory does not appear to be unreasonable.
If you were entitled to the holidays on wages, you
should make a claim... .R.A.M.R.: From £10' up-
wards. Write E. Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .E.M.: Can’t say without seeing it.
Refer it to A. E. Smith and Co., 68 Hunter-street,
Sydnej', for an opinion... .G.H.F.: (1) No. See
Law 32. (2) No. (3) No. (4) From the N.S.W.
Cricket Association; price 6d., postage 3d J.R.:
Try McLeod and Co., Ralph-street, Alexandria,
Sydney; also Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street,
Sydney... .E.G.D.: No need to register... .V.J.V.:
Cannot trace their heights... .D.M.S.: Impossible to
decide which is the correct version.... R.J.W.: (1)
Any competent picture framer could do the job.
(2) Get in touch with the Director, National Art
Gallery, Melbourne.... H.H.: Navigation Dept.,
Hobart, advises that the position is uncertain....
W.F.D.: If the taxpayer is a resident of N. S. Wales
he would be liable to unemployment-relief tax
on income derived from outside that State....
J.II.S.: Boldrewood’s- “The Romance of Canvas Town
and Other Stories” was first published by Mac-
Millan and Co. in 1898. . . . J.G.J.: Small machines
for bottling whole milk are available, but there are
no small plants for condensing and tinning or
bottling of the milk condensed. ... S'.S.C.: Get in
touch with the Curator, Sydney Cricket Ground,
Sydney... .N.A.M.; (1) The exchange rate between
Fiji and London is now on the basis of £111 Fiji
equals £100 London. (2) Obtain literature issued
by the Colonial Secretary’s Office, Suva, Fiji. —
A.S.H.; No such machines on the market. .. .B.D.:
The books have no value.. . .R.H.: In order to be
secure, you should take the acknowledgment in the
form of a promissory note, payable on demand. In
Vic. such notes must be made on Government forms
with impressed duty stamps. .. .F.R.: So far as the
N.S.W. Meteorological Bureau is aware, Clement
Wragge did not issue any predictions for the years
1930-35... .J.S.F.: The following books by Dr. J.
Holland Rose are obtainable in Sydney; “The Life
of Pitt” (25s.), “Pitt and Napoleon” (17s.), “Life
of Napoleon I.” (16s. 6d.), and “A Century of Con-
tinental History, 1780-1900” (10s. 6d.). . . .M.N.:
The competition for Sydney Training College scholar-
ships is based on the aggregate marks for the best
seven papers presented at the L.C.E. These may
include Honors papers, though Honors have not. been
gained... .E.H.: Drop a line to the Perth Public
Library... .R.A.S.: Write Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Dept., Macquarie-strcet, Sydney.... W.B.:
Manus Island is the largest of the Admiralty Group,
which is portion of the Bismarck Archipelago. It
is 55 miles long and about 16 miles broad, fertile and
densely wooded. No crops but cocoanuts are grown
on a commercial scale.... G.C.: The matter is now
before the Tariff Board.... MAY.: Symptoms
indicate a deranged air-bladder, to which goldfish
in captivity are occasionally subject. There is no
cure... .A.G.C.: The engravings have no commercial
value... ,W V R.D.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of
Health, Macquarie-street, Sydney... .E.F.; Presume
you refer to the Asturias, the British hospital ship
which the Germans attempted to torpedo off Havre
on Feb. 2, 1915. The vessel plainly showed the
Red Cross. Later the Germans issued an apology.
... .W.B.J.; For your purpose we recommend “Every-
man’s Encyelopsedia” T.D.: Alexina Maude Wild-
mann (“Sfappho Smith” of The Bulletin’s “Woman’s
Letter”) died Nov. 15, 1896... .G.P.: (1) Henry
Lawson never went to Paraguay. (2) Write E. J.
Brady, Mallacoota (Vic.). (3) He died while cara-
vanning with his son. ... J.II.: It has not appeared in
novel form to our knowledge... . J.J.: His name does
not appear in any of the standard reference books.
W.C.: (1) See “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book.” (2) Short stories (English)
are syndicated in Australia at anything from 10s.
Gd. to £2 2s. each. (3) By lodging a copy with
the Copyright Office, filling in the necessary applica-
tion form, and paying a fee of 5s (Many others
mailed.)


For SPEED, ECONOMY, ACCURACY,
Send Your Overseas Telegraphic Messages
VIA “BEAM WIRELESS”
The fastest long-distance telegraph service in the world.
To Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, Canada, U.S.A., Central
and South America, etc.
Telephone Sydney 8W2211, Melbourne F 4161, and a Beam Messenger
will collect your message within the city area, or you can hand it in
at any Post Office.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.
Beam Wireless Offices:
SYDNEY
47 York Street,
Royal Exchange Buildings,
Pitt and Bridge Sts.,
and 59 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE
167-69 Queen Street,
Collins House,
360 Collins Street.
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is yours free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
a
Tim
- Outstanding Advantages
High velocity, perfect ignition,
remarkable pattern, low recoil,
long range—these are five out-
standing advantages not com-
bined in any other brand.
What more does a shooter need—a good gun, and
the good cartridges a good gun deserves ?
Shooters Who KNOW a Good Cartridoe
Always Insist Upon-
è
é
845
ELEY&KYNOCH
BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Belar’s victory in the Grand National
Hurdle-at Flemington was on a par with
that achieved by Newhaven in the Melbourne
Cup of 1896. He cleared out from the field
and at one stage must have been ten lengths
in advance of his nearest rival. His margin
of five lengths at the finish could have been
greater if Mclnnes had so desired. Mclnnes
shook the whip at Belar after crossing the
last obstacle, but a backward glance satis-
fied him that Lynden’s noble effort to save
the situation for Fred Iloysted’s stable could
not succeed. The greatest admirer of Belar
never expected that he would smash the race
record, which had stood at smin 35£sec. since
Fiscom scored in 1921, by 54sec. —truly
astounding. Carlita holds the record for
three miles on the flat at Flemington—smin.
224 sec. It took Belar only 7<£sec. longer
,o cover that distance and he cleared 15
flights of battens.
W. S. Hickenbotham told The Bulletin
scribe that Newhaven was the fastest horse he
ever handled. Up to a mile and a quarter
Hickenbotham could not choose between Car-
bine and Newhaven. The average speed of
Belar for three riffles over hurdles was only
three-quarters of a second per furlong less
than that of Newhaven for two miles on
the fiat in the Melbourne Cup.
What would have happened if Baanya
(favorite at 7 to 2) had chased the winner
in earnest at an earlier stage? It is hard to
conjecture. Baanya’s recent form on the
flat was better than that of Belar, the latter
having been beaten out of a place in the
Epsom Purse on June 13, while Baanya
romped home in the Jumpers’ Flat at Men-
tone on June 21. However, Baanya was
fiat out at the end of two miles in the
National, and he could make no appreciable
impression on the leader, knocking up in the
effort to bridge a gap of ten lengths. Con-
GERt:* You've been listening to that
TALKING MACHINE AUU DA'/"
Bbrt • I *HusH.r
G\ERT: SEEM TO PREFER. ITS
COMPANY TO MINE''
Bert </ 'Well j you can switch
THIS one OFF."
sidering that he bad to concede the winner
211 b., Lynden did admirably to deprive
Baanya of second honors. The remainder of
the field was so much makeweight. Both
first and second horses were sired by Poitrel,
whose progeny have not been conspicuously
successful on the flat. Mittalla, the dam of
Belar, was bred in N. S. Wales by H. 8.
Thompson, and is by Grafton from a
descendant of the Sappho family.
Sydney horses were in evidence on Satur-
day. Kichaka, whom George Price left in
Melbourne in the autumn, started favorite
for the first division of the Iramoo Handi-
cap and finished a close third to Chilperic
and Press Gang. Third place was gained
by Spearman in the Winter Handicap. He
belongs to E. J. Watt, who has gone abroad.
G. P. Nailon took Spearman’ to Melbourne
to sell him. Two Sydney sportsmen, A. W.
Thompson and Mr. “Constable,” are inter-
ested in the ownership of Jimmie Boy, -who
caused a surprise by appropriating the second
division of the Iramoo Handicap. The
juvenile winner, Great Don, is a, brother to
Mira Donna, who captured several good
races in Melbourne last season and started
second favorite for the Sydney Cup which
Johnnie Jason won.
* * $
The racing at Flemington threw little
light on the G. N. Steeplechase, to be de-
cided this week-end. Mosstrooper, who may
be rising from his ashes as a jumping herd,
put up a great fight in the Kensington
Steeple, losing to Jimball by a neck after
being squeezed on to the rails at a critical
stage and being compelled to shift his ground.
In the second leg of the National double
Gus Powell’s idol will have to carry 51b.
more, and it is hard to conceive that he will
be able to vanquish Redditch on equal terms
and give away considerable weight to rivals
like Baanya, The Cracksman and Flavedo.
The cross-country achievements of Red-
ditch this season are such that, although
handicapped at 12st. 31b., he looks to be the
pick of the bunch. Flavedo (9st. .91b.) is in
the same stable as Belar, and Jerry Moloney
may complete a winning double as trainer.
Flavedo won like a real stayer over the Wil-
liamstown fences last month. Baanya must
be seriously reckoned with. He proved his
worth as a cross-country performer by dead-
heating with Tezpur at Moonee Valley in the
winter of 1932. The Cracksman also has
excellent credentials. There ought to be a
closer tussle in the G. N. Steeple than
there was in the big hurdle race. Places may
be filled by Redditch, Flavedo and Baanya.
:J: # ❖ J)
History lias a knack of repeating itself
in racing. Recently pastoralist J. J.
Leahy won two races with old Tangible,
and at Canterbury on Saturday Poly-
eletan’s half-sister Akuna took the long
race from Brazenface and Confab. She had
won so easily at Rosehill that form pointed
to her being a fair thing for the Canter-
bury fixture. The presence of Wallace’s
Mimi “made” the market, for the mare, who
was laid at, fours during the betting. The
race was never in doubt, as Akuna, after
running third until the turn, went away
and scored with her head on her chest. She
will win again. With Agincourt, Tangible
and Akuna Rosehill trainer Webster has
three useful middle-distance gallopers.
Sportsmen from Bathurst and Orange had
a royal win over Poponaiso’s victory in the
first division of .the Flying Handicap. As
much as 10 to 1 was laid early about the
Orange-trained gelding, who was ridden a
capital race by .Tack Mace’s apprentice
Forbes, The late Teddy Keys gave young
Forbes his first chance to become a jockey,
and on the death of the Randwick trainer
the lad went to the western districts. Popo.n-
aise put up a meritorious performance, as
be was last away, and gave the brilliant but
squibby Nardale a big start over the last
two furlongs. Poponaise was squeezed when
lie dashed between Nardale and Greensea
opposite, the Leger, but, ridden vigorously,
the Popinjay gelding scored, away,
by two lengths from Greensea and Nardale.
Girilambone sportsman A. C. Addison
lias a promising galloper in Winasian, winner
of the first division of the Maiden Welter.
Trained at Warwick Farm by I. H.
Andrew's, Winasian appeared in the race-
book as a three-year-old, but, having been
bred to English time, he is not that yet.
Winasian has started five times. He has all
the quality and looks of the imported
thoroughbred, but his forelegs will trouble
his trainer as he gets older. His dam
Thasia came to Australia iff foal .to imported
Winalot, who is still getting winners in
the Old Country.
Veterinary surgeon J. M. Stewart has
hopes of Wee Jock turning out more than
useful. The Caravel two-year-old scored at
Canterbury like a good one. Stewart raced
Queen of ’ Sheba, who after being sold to
Richard Woottpn proved a veritable gold-
mine for the Anglo-Australian sportsman.
Owner-trainer George Allen was sanguine
that Multudo would down the speedsters in
the second division of the Canterbury Fly-
ing Handicap. Multudo arrived from Mel-
bourne about three weeks ago, and had been
doing well at Warwick Farm. He just
scraped home from Precious Gift,, with the
pacemaker Le Touquet in the minor posi-
tion. Multudo has now won races in West-
ralia, Victoria and Sydney. He has all the
price of the Moabites.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tom Cribb” : The fight between Oarnera
and Sharkey for the world’s heavyweight
championship was won by the elephantine
Italian with a knockout in the sixth
round. A week before the mill the betting,
which was 2 to 1 in Sharkey’s favor, swung
round to odds on liis opponent. Rumors of
a fixed fight were thick, and the attendance
suffered; but the knockout punch—a right
uppercut—seemed genuine. Camera weighed
lSst. 241 b., and Sharkey 14st. 51b.
* * '-I:
A newcomer from Nebraska, “Bad Bill”
Beth, broke into the Leichhardt wrestling
limelight on Saturday, when he locked horn's
with Lurich. li’e is a wilder fellow than
the Russian. Beth’s headlocks appeared to
pin his opponent for three seconds on more
than one occasion in the first round, but
no fall was awarded till the third, when the
American scored with a pin fall. Lurich
was unable to put his man down, and he
looked all over a loser when a right to the
chin floored him in the fifth. As the referee
reprimanded Beth for this infraction of the
rules (V) a left knocked him down. William
was disqualified.
Footbrawl
Close on 40,000 crammed the Fitzroy
ground on Saturday, where a line three deep
sat inside the fence round the playing area
and chanced getting galloped on while the
Maroons strove with Carlton. Alas! play
was paltry, and thrills were lacking. Carlton’s
purposeful drives upset all ’Roy’s sweet
cleverness and caused the Maroon forwards
to take wild pot-shots that brought, singles
where methodical passing would have scored
sixers. Heated play and angry exchanges
led the umpire to twice hold up the game,
but it all ended without any open hos-
tility. Carlton. 92 points; ’Roy, 49. Down
at Geelong 75,000 coughed up £323 12s. 9d.
for the pleasure of seeing the locals show
Footscray how the game should be played,
and win with 82 points to ’Seray’s 51. Full-
back Todd, playing his 200th game with
Geelong, effectively silenced ’Scray’s star
forward, Rail, one goal, snapped from a
crush, being his bag for the day. Colling-
wood went to Hawthorn and taught the
Mavblooms a lesson by booting 12 goals
straight off. The end saw the winners witli
96 points to Hawthorn’s 44. The South
Melbourne-Melbourne imbroglio was the most
even and least scientific game of the day,
South getting home with 88 points to
Melb.’s 81. North Melbourne accounted for
Essendon with 107 points to 75 ; and Rich-
mond’s Tigers, whose high-marking; is a
feature, put it all over St. Kilda with 110
points to 56.
:',i ❖ &
The second meeting between Queensland
and N.S.W. in Brisbane, after the tourists
had been beaten 17-12 by Toowoomba in the
Darling Downs capital during the week, saw
N.S.W. scrape home in a splendidly-contested
game by 23-21, after leading 15-6 at half-
time. Each side scored live tries, but that
fine place-kick Barnes converted four of
these for N.S.W., Queensland managing to
add the extras three times from Clark’s boot.
In the Sydney Rugby Union competitions
University, which had made hacks of the
leaders, Western Suburbs, the previous week,
lost to Randwick at Uni. Oval by 6-3, two
tries to one. Randwick had all the better of
the closing stages, and should have raised its
score considerably with luck. Reserve players
showed great form, Penfold, of Randwick,
being conspicuously good, with Leggat shin-
ing at full-back for Uni. At Manly, the
local men handed Western Suburbs its
second knock-back, the Villagers winning
6-3, or two penalty goals to one. Western
Suburbs, with the exception of Pauling and
Crow, was very streaky and the opposition
little better. Northern Suburbs beat St.
George at North Sydney by 14-0, the heavy
ground suiting the locals. At Drummoyne,
Eastern Suburbs battled hopelessly against
the home team to go down 18-3.
’Plie Wallabies meet South Africa in the
first Test on Saturday at the beautiful New-
lands ground outside Capetown. They should
appreciate the fine turf after their experi-
ence of the dirt playing areas in Rhodesia
and Kimberley. The players have the bene-,
fit of a week’s spell before the game, whereas
they played the recent match at Kimberley
the same day after arriving in the morning
from distant Bulawayo.
The Wallabies, though they lost their
match against Western Province at Cape-
town, 13-8, seem to have shown reassuring
form. Though the side was minus full-back
and captain Alec Ross —an appendicitis case
in hospital—Malcolm, Louden, Hodgson and
Cowper, all on the shelf with injuries,
more than matched the formidable South
African forwards, the home team, which in-
cluded eight Springboks, showing better in
the back play. Each side scored two tries
and a penalty, but the Afrikanders converted
both .their tries. On this game, Australia, if
a full side had been available, would have
been an even-money chance for the first. ’Pest
on Saturday. The loss of Ross and Malcolm,
the two pivot men of the side, will be a
heavy handicap.
* * * *
The Rugby League games were shorn of
the usual interest by reason of the absence
of the players selected for the, English tour.
At the Sports Ground St. George won from
Western Suburbs by 21-2 in a ragged game,
which at no time aroused interest. The win
puts St. George second on the table with
10 points to the 12 standing to South' Syd-
ney’s credit. At Birchgrove, South Sydney
ran away from Balmain by 34-15 in a game
full of bright patches. Balmain was down
19-4 at half-time, but improved its attack
in the second spell. In. the other games
University beat Eastern Suburbs at Pratten
Park 13-10, and Newtown rubbed North
Sydney out at Marriekville by 23 to 4.
(Continued on page SO.)
Racquet and Ball
Tlie past week at Wimbledon was a thing
of mingled joy and sorrow as far as Aus-
tralia was concerned. Crawford, after a
narrow squeak with the Spaniard Maier in
his opening singles game, won through to th“
quarter-finals at the week-end by beating
Maorilander Stedman. Those who fell by
the wayside were McGrath, downed by Eng-
lishman Lee in the second round ; and Turn-
bull, beaten bv Frenn (playing as a Pole) in
the third. Turnbull and Quist staggered
Wimbledon by defeating the star Yankee
pair, Vines and Gledliill, in the doubles.
They won to the third round by outing the
English pair, Avery and Ritchie, while Craw-
ford and McGrath accompanied them with
a win from Dr. Gregory and Wilde. In
other games Farquliarson, of South Africa,
caused a sensation by outing the English
hope, Perry.
* * * *
The British team to meet Australia in the
European zone final of the Davis Cup, which
opens at Wimbledon on July 13, is: Austin.
Hughes, Lee and Perry. In view of Perry’s
defeat by Farquliarson at Wimbledon, Lee
may replace him in the singles, he and
Hughes combining in the doubles.
(Continued on page 30.)


g'¥/sM
* - , ' Sw
i
M
yUm
JUftim*
■\.
/y
*■
%
7T*'
*lfr-
-stf
f >v
>
1/
/
p
TRAVEL
Anywhere Everywhere
WORLD WIRE TOURS or short holiday trips by
any line can be arranged through our World Tour and Travel
Department, without any extra charge. This free service will
enable you to make the most of your trip to see everything
that is worth while, to miss nothing of the joys of travel. We
are agents for all steamship lines, and you have the choice of all
routes. All fares are at regular rates —our travel experts attend
to all details. We will be pleased to forward at your request,
full particulars of the many attractive to rs.
JAVA & MALAYA are the wonderlands of the East.
Lands of strange and luxurious vegetation, of mild and picturesque
peoples, of marvellous ruins, quaint customs, and strange sights.
Fortunate indeed are those who choose to travel on the popular
Burns Philp Line, for the comfort, service and cuisine will add
to the joys of this seven weeks’ delightful tour. The route is by
way of Brisbane, Thursday Island, Darwin, Sourabaya, Samarang,
and Batavia to Singapore. Fares will be greatly reduced for one
special excursion trip leaving Sydney 9ch Sept., 1933, per
T.S.S. “ Marella.”
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS with their coral lagoons, palm-
fringed beaches and native villages, are ever popular with the
tourist and holiday-maker. Our own island mail steamers main-
tain regular services to Papua- New Guinea, the Solomon Islands
and the New Hebrides. Sailings are frequent and fares free of
exchange. Numerous ports will unfold for you strange and
pleasurable experiences, while the colourful native life is a never-
ending source of interest. Delightful tours are offeed, occupy-
ing from 9 days up to 5 weeks.
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
illustrated literature and
full particulars of fares, etc.
Bums,
CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 879 0 |
and at MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE TOWNSVILLE, etc.
Read the B. P. Magazine —. I per copy All Booksellers and Newsagents


22'6 all
Rugs...
Special After-sale Selling of. Aus-
tralian All Wool Rugs of superb
quality, featuring the latest smart
overcheck designs. Shades of Fawn,
Brown and Blue. Finished with
fringed ends. Size, 60in. x 80in.
27(6 All . 0 i
Wool Rugs is'ii
These cosy Rugs are available in
the latest of overcheck patterns, in
shades of Fawn, Brown, Blue and
Navy. With fringed ends. Size,
60in. x 80in.
Pure Merino
Pure Australian Merino All Wool
Rugs, in smart new overcheck de-
signs. Size, 60in. x 80in.
Usually 39/6.
Special Price, 32/6
•: -
Murdoch Blankets, Australian Long
Staple Wool, standard weight and
size.
Ex. Lge.
Sgl. Bed. |--Bed. D. Bed. D.Bed.
Prices Per Pair.
Dark or Silver Grey—
-21/6 27/6 33/6 41/6
White Wool
21/- 26/6 33/6 39/11
Superior Quality White Wool—•
29/6 34/11 44/6 54/-
We Pay Freight.
Kindly Write to Desk “R.’*
m^oomn^swm
Park and George Street*.
Footbrawl
“Hotliam”: In attempting to refute my
insinuation that Australian Rules tootbaU
is an imported game, devised by iml
players--a charge levelled by its supimiteis
at all other codes—“Bohun (B. -8/6/ oo)
refutes himself, for he shows that one ot its
devisers was a Rugby player, who was at
Rugby School, in England, lhe code has
taken drop-kicking, for one thing, from the
Rugby game, but, as I said, its cluel in-
spiration seems to have been the Hairow
School rules. The special feature of the
Australian code, the lacking forward to a
team-mate for him to kick again, was part ol
the llai’row game.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Not everyone connected with
the row over Victorian footballer BuntoU and
the Fitzroy club was whitewashed (B.
31/5/’33). The League found that the
“Coulter law” restricting payments to
players had been broken, and while Buntou
got off with a reprimand—he is Vic-
toria’s best player—the president and late
secretary, with a committeeman ot the 1 itz-
roy club, were debarred from holding any
football office under the V.F.L. during the
pleasure of that body. Strong protests have
been made, and at present 'the matter is
suh judice.
% * ■ * *
“Viator”: When the Wallabies reached
Buluwayo for their second match against
Rhodesia they had travelled 2000 miles in
a week. By the time they had landed back
at Kimberley for the next match of then-
programme, the distance had doubled. This
match was against a combined Natal, Trans-
vaal, Orange Free State and Gnquuland
side, and the tourists were beaten 16-8. lhe
opposition sounds formidable, _ but coming
from various quarters of the Union as it did,
could not have had much combination.
*** . *
“Richmond”: Though no return match
between Victoria and N.S.W. had been
arranged at the beginning of the Rugby
Union season, Victoria has asked the Ma
State to send down a team to play in Mel-
bourne on August 12. While enamored ot
the idea, the hurdle for the N.S.W. body
is its engagement in Sydney with Queensland
on August 5 and 7. Ma could send a second
fifteen to Victoria, but that would invite
disaster in view of the form shown by the
Vies, in Sydney. Still, it would be worth
risking. Not only would it help the grow-
ing popularity of the code in Melbourne, but
it would give many hitherto undiscovered
near-champions a chance in the inter-State
spotlight.
n; * * #
“Rafferty”: Those who say bush football
is not dull are not so very far astray. A
Rugby League game at Woolgoolga, “some-
where in N.5.W.,” is proof sufficient. The
many women barrackers were at a high
pitch of excitement, when one of them put
down the baby she was carrying and went
for an opposition partisan. In a.second or
so, other local Amazons were bogging in, the
brawl being ended after much trouble by a
lot of interfering males. It was a great
show, and in the general excitement the
football was forgotten. Writer does not
even remember which football side won, much
less what the scores were.
» 4-- * *
“Outside Right” ; The Maoriland Soccer
team concluded its Australian tour with a
match in Sydney against Gladesville-Ryde,
winning by seven goals to two. Though they
lost all three Tests, the visitors furnished
on into a good side as the tour went on,
their football being bright and keen. In
goalkeeper Zuill, half-back Christie and for-
wards Kay and Kershaw, they had some
exceptionally good exponents of the round-
ball code.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”: Michael Scott, the 55-year-
old winner of the British amateur golf cham-
pionship, learned the game in liis native
Scotland, though he first blossomed into
championship class in this country. On his
return to Britain in 1912, he won the French
amateur championship and was the leading
amateur in the French open, won by Jean
Gassiat, that year. He represented England
against Scotland six times, and against
America in 1924. The iron clubs are his
strong point.
4: * * *
“Hoylake”: British golfers seem to have
overcome the American hoodoo. Close on
the heels of the defeat of American G. Dunlap
in the amateur championship, comes news of
England’s victory over the Americans in the
Ryder Cup. Winning the foursomes matches
2-1, England won four of the singles. Mitchell
made good at last, winning both in the four-
somes and singles. Great player as he is, he
has been apt to drop his bundle in theseinter-
national matches. The other English winners
in the singles were Havers, Allis and Easter-
brook. Sarazen, Craigwood, Hagen and
Horton Smith —the last British-born and
-trained —won for America.
* *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland women golfers
hopped in early with their championships
this year, the series being completed on the
Goodna course last week. The singles re-
turned to the keeping of D. Hood, who beat
the holder, K. Dixon, three and one. The
winner managed to get square with only
five holes to play, but went on from there
to take three out of four and land the
bacon. The new champion won the title
in 1930, being beaten in the following year
by Mrs. G. H. Turner, who, with ex-amateur
champion J. N. Radcliffe, won the mixed
foursomes on this occasion.
. 4= * *
“Sandringham”: Though it has been
several times suggested that the Australian
women’s golf championships should be played
in Sydney this year in order to let Mel-
bourne have the tourney for the centenary
celebrations, the idea has been turned down.
The big event opens in Melbourne in August,
and the presence of a band of Maoriland
golferettes, the first of their kind to invade
Australia, will lend additional distinction to
the proceedings. Mona McLeod, heroine of
many championships, holds the title, but her
fellow-Victorienne, Susie Tolhurst, who held
it for the two previous years, will also take
the warpath.. ... .
“Susie Sw r attit”: A shining example for
the erratic, male golfer to observe is Mrs.
Treglone, who last week won the associate
championship of Manly (N.S.W.) golf club
for the 20th time. The feat is probably
without parallel anywhere and is eloquent of
the uses of consistency in golf. As Miss
Duret, daughter of a former secretary of
Manly club, the winner was a first-rank
player as a young girl, and won the State
championship in 1912, repeating the feat in
1923. She excels in iron shots and on the
green.
“Brassey” : Recently a Sydney schoolmaster
brought the wrath of tennis players on his
head by referring to their game as an un-
manly one for boys. Another of the frater-
nity, Hyam Marks, of the Sydney G.P.S.
Athletic Association, has done the same thing
with the statement that he disliked seeing
boys taking to golf, since it lacked the speed
which was desirable in boys’ sports. Still,
he should recall that the race is not always
to the swift, and reflect, as a schoolmaster,
that golf offers unparalleled opportunities for
extending one’s use of the English language.
Racquet and Bawl
“Canny Lad”: To date, the cash t akings
for the Australian Davis Cup team’s show-
ing in Europe have been satisfactory. The
first three Cup ties against Norway, Japan
and South Africa netted £5OO, and with
£350 from the French championships the
gates have been better than for the two pre-
vious tours, on which the Australian authori-
ties lost good money.
❖ * . * *
“Cash Amateur”: The cabled news {hat
Ellsworth Vines has been offered a handsome
sum to join the Tilden circus as a profes-
sional hardly comes as a surprise; nor does
the outspoken Yankee’s statement that he
cannot afford to spend his time pursuing a
game which is “a whole-time job” as an
amateur if he is to remain in the front
rank. The sum offered is said to be £20,000
down with the usual share out, and doubtless
many others of the “whole-time” amateur
tennis world arc wishing they had Ells-
worth’s luck.
SECOND: “’Op into it; the other bloke’s worse than you are.”
BATTERED PUG: “Worse than me, is ’e? Well, I didn’t ’ear ’em
countin’ ’im out.”
“Bertha Bashem”: I protest against the
measly insinuation in the cables that the
proposal to include women players in the
British team to visit us was dropped because
this “frequently led to disharmony.” I am
sure Harley Mathews, of Victoria, who so suc-
cessfully chaperoned the last women’s team
to leave these shores, and came back with-
out a scratch, will bear out my contention
that the statement is tosh. Most of the girls
on this side would like to have a word with
the creature who sent that message. As
it is, we are thinking of cabling Suzanne
Lenglen to look him up—-so there!
$ £
“Milton”: The Queensland tennis authori-
ties, like their cobbers in other States, have
for years been swallowing the camel of
veiled professionalism. Now they are chok-
ing over the gnat of matches between ama-
teurs and declared professionals, which are
becoming far too frequent. The pontiffs have
issued a solemn warning. Future meetings in
matches of amateurs and professionals will
cause them “to take a serious view of such
breaches” —as usual, one supposes, through
the wrong end of the telescope.
4= 4: * 4s
“Hotliam” : The better nature within them
stirred, no doubt, by N.S.W. recriminations,
the Australian tennis heads in Melbourne
have suddenly resolved to invite a British
tennis team to this country for the coming
season. The side suggested is Perry, Hughes
and Lee, and, though no official acceptance is
to hand at time of writing, the players them-
selves, it is cabled, have expressed themselves
willing. The terms offered are 33 1-3 per
cent, of the gross takings for appearance in
five Tests. The Americans were given 25
per cent., but their expenses were guaranteed.
In their case the Australian body was out
on the. deal, though all the States made a
profit.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The motoring world was shocked
the other day to hear of the death of Henry
Birkin. one of the most famous of English
speed drivers. Birkin had his arm burned
by the fed-hot exhaust pipe of his car while
racing in the Tripoli Grand Prix. and blood-
poisoning followed. H'e was chiefly identi-
fied with the Bentley cars before the Rolls-
Royce people took them over and specialised
in racing at Brooklands, where he held
several records in addition to others made in
road racing in Britain and on the Continent.
“Wheel”: What constitutes “dangerous i
and careless driving”? Most people would |
say that a man driving a lorry through an |
English country village at 45 m.p.li. was |
hardly guilty of such a charge. An Eng- \
lisli beak has decided otherwise, for he fined !
the driver a fiver. Possibly the fact that j
the lorry’s load consisted of RKXJIb. of
T.N.T., enough to blow the whole country-
side to blazes, had something to do with
his Washup’s severity.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Australian Light Car
Club is to stage its annual 24 hours’ re-1
liability trial in Victoria on July 29 and 30. |
The contest this year will consist of a j
schedule run from Melbourne to Llealesville;
and thence round a circuit embracing j
Beualla, Echuca, Bendigo, Ballarat and so
back to Melbourne. Secretary J. W. Condon i
can supply further particulars.
* ns * i
“Douglas” : The Isle of Man T.T. motor-
cycle races seem to have become the special
property of Hunt and Woods. Stanley Woods
won both the junior and senior events,
Hunt, being second. This is the third time
Woods has won the junior, while he also took
the double last year. Hunt took the double
in 1931. Woods 78.08 m.p.li. in the
junior and 51.04 in the senior, with a fastest
lap at the rate of 82.74 m.p.li.—miraculous
figures considering the very difficult course.
The Australian and Maoriland riders either
crashed or suffered machine trouble. Another
Englishman, S. G. Cleave. won the light-
weight race, averaging 71.59 m.p.li.
* sfe * *
“Hotliam”: The coming centenary cele-
brations are engaging the attention of every-
one connected with leading Victorian sports,
from egg-laying competitions to hunting for
a drink on Sundays. The motor-cyclists have
joined the rush and are considering an All
Australia Tourist Trophy race. Invitations
are to be sent to the leading European riders.
The event will probably be held on the Phillip
Island circuit and will be coincident with a
record motor-cycle show.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburfh”: England won the first Test
with the West Indies at Lord’s by an innings
and 27 runs. The visitors made a good
start by dismissing the home side for 296,
’keeper Ames (83
n. 0.) and the new
opening batsman,
Walters (51), sav-
in g a collapse.
Martindale (4-85),
Griffiths (3-48) and
Acliong (2-83) took
the wickets. West
Indies could get
only 97 and 172,
Headley scoring 13
and 50. Googly-
bowler Robins took
0 for 32 in the first
W.I. innings, while
Macaulay (4-57)
and Verity (4-54)
came off in the
second.
“Tenth Slip”:
Members of Sydney
Cricket Ground and
others interested
held a meeting last
week to consider a
testimonial to Jim
Fogarty, the vener-
able Cerberus at
the members’ gate
of Sydney Cricket
Ground, who has
seen every cricketer
of note, from W.
G. Grace and Hugh
Trumble to Victor
Trumper and one
Harold Larwood,
pass under his eye
this 40 years past and more. Time has been
getting in his bodyline work and the veteran
is retiring to a well-earned rest. Harold
Heydon. of the N.S.W.C.A., 254 George-
street, Sydney, can furnish further details.
't*
“M.G.” : Melbourne “Argus” has been tell-
ing stories of strong men, but no mention
was made of Tom Waldron, the Carlton
policeman, who used to astound people in
the ’nineties. lie was so Irish that he could
not speak English until he grew up. At Port
Melbourne, Waldron once accepted the chal-
lenge of a visiting Yankee shipmaster by
lifting two ungainly-shaped pieces of mach-
inery, one in each hand, and carrying them
across the deck. The lumps were weighed
later and each went quarter of a ton. The
police for years gave Waldron a roving com-
mission following the various navvies’ camps
around Victoria. He had few court cases ;
‘‘summary jurisdiction” made those camps as
placid as a girls’ school. Professor Miller,
Melbourne’s professional strong man of that
day, wanted Waldron to leave the force and
train, holding he was absolutely the strong-
est man in the world. But he stayed in
uniform and became a senior constable, dying
in his early forties.
“Cash Amateur”: Repeated rumors that
Bobby Pearce would scull as a professional
came to a head the other day, when it was
announced that he would be matched against
Ted Phelps in America next August. Bobby
has denied that he has signed articles for
such a match, and there the matter rests.
Pearce is known to be anxious to row at
Henley with another Australian in the Silver
Goblets double sculls and at the Berlin Olym-
piad. In any case, his bond with the Aus-
tralian Olympic authorities to remain an
amateur until two years after the Los
Angeles Olympiad still holds good.
$ * * *
“The Gaffer”: It looks as if Austin
Robertson, the Victorian professional sprinter
now in America, will have to content him-
self with the small fry of the cinder track.
He has issued a challenge to Ed. Tolan,
Metcalfe , and Wyckoff. The last two still
rate as amateurs, and Tolan says he is one,
though the American athletic authorities
declare he has forfeited his status, for show-
ing in vaudeville after the Olympiad. Any-
way Tolan has definitely declined, which is.
perhaps, just as well for Robertson and his
money.


A GOOD TIME
FOR
THE BEST WHISKY
f)
r\
I
Y/ s
\ '
*
• ~///
1/ , n
av
V
j
&
O
">0
//
\W
cd
-
k. j
r ' >
'Wkr-n:
r'k '
The seal placed upon
every Dewar's bottle under
Government supervision is
a guarantee that it con-
tains only GENUINE
Dewar’s Whisky, distilled
in Scotland.
A
A FIRING journey home .. . fagged after a busy day
** .. . and cold. Comforting thought—a drop of whisky
waiting.
It is important that the whisky be Dewar’s—the finest of
Scotch ... a perfect prelude to the evening meal... the
day’s difficulties dispelled... the morrow’s placed in their
true perspective.
*The illustration shows the Cairngorm Flagon in which
Dewar’s Scotch Whisky may be purchased for home use.
This handsome piece of glassware is in perfect accord with
a whisky of Dewar quality and prestige.
SCOTCH
WHISKY


332 Distributing Centres in Tasmania!
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
Tasmania.
“The Examiner” (Established 1842),
the only daily newspaper now publish-
ed in Launceston, not only goes into
90% of the homes in Launceston, but
is distributed throughout Northern
Tasmania, in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA,
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Doug'an, Kermbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
AYli
j COMPOUND ESSENCE
| OF LINSEED
i
Cough;
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALB.
m
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Philip Game, junior, of the smooth gold
head and pink-and-whife cheeks, fell ill last
week just when he should have been making
final arrangements for the party he was tak-
ing to the dance at St. Paul’s within the
Uni. First he shivered, then he ran a tem-
perature, and then he developed measles.
However, he’s progressing very well now.
And that news will spread a wide wave of
relief, for Philip is a very popular young
man indeed.
Out at Mascot on the day after the
Astrma’s arrival you found all the city’s
importants; even the Governor was there,
and all were getting joyrides. The comfort-
able cane chairs with which the cabin is fur-
nished are in twosomes down one side,
evidently with an eye to encouraging honey-
mooners, and single down the other, perhaps
with an eye to subsequent divorce. These
chairs can be lowered to a reclining angle, and
the small tables before each passenger can
be let down flush with the walls. There’s
a special scheme of ventilation whereby the
air is heated or cooled; and, of course, in
the three-hour run over the Timor Sea the
steward will bring you a cup of morning or
afternoon tea. From the time the Astraea.
hopped the Alexandria Canal and roared up
the skies at 60 miles an hour till she slid
back *o her starting point, the fun was in
exclaiming, and hearing the exclamations of
the other travellers as old familiar landmarks
slid by in that breathless rush.
When the flyers had come to earth, there
was a tea-party, hostessed by Mrs. A. E.
Rudder, and while the air was filled with
homing birds, and on the grounds tired little
Moths were folding their wings and taxi-
ing liangarwards for a night’s rest, a steady
stream made its way to the clubhouse.
Among them were Kingsford Smith and his
wife, she clad in glowing reds. Berry-red was
the slim and pretty Glory Rudder’s frock,
and Sadie Budge added royal blues to the
gathering. Later on into the long, cosy
lounge with its polished woodwork, deep
chairs and pretty hangings, dominated by
the shield on the wall given by Captain
Leggatt and dedicated to “those who love
flying for the sake of flying,” came Major
Brackley and Captain Prendergast, who have
brought the Astraea from England. Like all
flying men they are easy to talk to..
Gertrude If. Moberly, whose “Experiences
of a Dinki Di R.R.C. Nurse” has just been
published, relates in letters, written to one
“Peter,” the scenes she witnessed in her
capacity of matron of hospitals and hos-
pital ships. Matron Moberly, after collect-
ing the R.R.C., married “Peter”; she is
Mrs. J. T. Hogan, of Croydon Park
(N.S.W.). She is a daughter of the Rev.
E. G. Moberly, and grand-niece of George
Moberly, one-time head of Winchester, and
later Bishop of Salisbury. Authoress L. G.
Moberly, who died last year, was a cousin.
Sweet are the uses of publicity—to the
sneak thief. The day after a long screed
about the newly-returned Harald Bowden
(of the J. C. Williamson firm) and his wife
and daughter was printed, they were robbed
of everything except standing-up clothes.
Even a small plate with three of Harald’s
teeth was not overlooked. Furs, undies, the
latest things in Paris and New York gowns,
Harald’s suits, a gold watch from Houdini,
a gold cigarette-case from Emelie Polini (he
managed her first tour through Australia),
a gold fountain-pen from Charlie Chaplin
and a gold shaving outfit, given to Mr.
Bowden before he left for U.S.A. by the
amateur actors of Sydney, went off in the
swag.
Somebody out at St. Paul’s within the
Uni. has a sense of the pictorial, and the
result at the students’ dance last week was
an animated scene in the high light of elec-
trics, in the low tones of fireglow. As usual,
a marquee specially grown for dancing had
pride of place in the quadrangle, and here
under the maroon and gold of the college
all was color and movement. In the
common room and the studies fires burned
brightly, and down in the grounds a great
bonfire sent out its crackling heat for the
benefit of the attendant chauffeurs. The
Warden and Mrs. GarnSey did the honors
and were assisted by Joan Garnsey. Sub-
warden Tom Moore and Mrs. Moore, Janet
Mitchell, Dr. Micklem and Mrs. Micklem,
learned profs, and their wives and represen-
tatives of all the colleges within the Uni.
were among the groups who danced ener-
getically and told one another fireside stories
till the ball’s ending.
The Wanganella, which is the Huddart
Parker show-boat on the Maoriland-Aus-
tralia run, showed off all her points to the
hundreds of dancers who sought her decks in
the interests of Tresillian on a clear, cold
night last week. The music was relayed
around tl*e decks by eleven amplifiers, and
so the awkward dancer was robbed of the
slightest excuse for missing the beat, but
as ten times round the deck is the equivalent
of a mile collision was not added to stalling.
All the gaiety of bunting, bright lanterns
and rainbow-hued electrics sent its message
through the night to the young moon that
rode the sky and shed her beams on the
speedboats, as they cut across the harbor and
back again with their loads of merrymakers.
Mayoress Hagon was chairwoman of the
committee and arrived after Phyllis
McDonald’s concert in the Town Hall, to
be welcomed by Mrs. T. J. Parker, wife of
Iluddart Parker’s general manager, and the
impressive W. G. Layton, who is president
of the Tresillian Home’s committee 1 . The
civic lady carried red carnations, which toned
in with her frock; Mrs. Parker's cire satins
were coral-pink in hue and kept company
with a white velvet coat collared in white
Arctic fox. Clifton Love and John Butters
were there with their ladies. Inky Car-
penter and Myrine Collins were the secre-
taries, Norma Fyfe-Hendcrson was in charge
of the publicity, and other good workers in
the cause were Mrs. W. L. Maundrcll, Mrs.
Edmond Gates and Mrs. J. Cusick.
Honors are treading on each other’s heels
at Justice Harvey’s Darling Point front
doorway. First came a knighthood ; then,
when Philip Street retired from the Chief
Justiceship, John M. Harvey was chosen as
his successor. This is a Howard Harris photo,
of the new C.J.’s lady, who, together with
her three daughters—Mrs. John Mant, Mrs.
James Litchfield and Mary Harvey—takes
an active part in the city’s social life. The
District Nursing Association is one of the
lady’s absorbing interests, and she is pre-
sident of the Darling Point branch.
By the time this Letter has slipped into
its pink pinny, Sir Philip Game and his lady,
plus official secretary Harry Budge, are the
guests of the unemployed at Broken Hill.
That doesn’t mean that the hosts, poor
things, will be at any expense,: the Govern-
ment House party is paying its own whack
everywhere; but the unemployed of those
parts have invited his Ex. up to see the
conditions under which they live (perhaps
with a hope that his visit will have some-
thing of the effect of the Prince of Wales’s
visit to the cold, dour mining centres of Eng-
land), and it is they who are arranging the
itinerary. During the vice-regal visit the
residents of the Hill, who are very keen on
padre Drummond’s Far-West Health Scheme,
are holding a ball to swell its funds.
That grand old school the Sydney Girls’
High has attained its fiftieth year, and is
celebrating the event by a ball to-night in
David Jones’s. In its vigorous lifetime the
school has had but two headmistresses. The
first was Mrs. Garvin, of green memory; the
present is Miss Campbell, who is the patron
of the ball. Ethel Turner is an old pupil
of High; so are the three Macks. Doctor
Lucy Gullett, Doctor Lorna Beveridge, the
ball’s treasurer Dr. Charlotte Garnmie and
Dr. Claire Weekes are a few of the city’s
professional women whose early days were
spent at High. President Nancy Norris and
secretary Helen Taylor are others who are
looking forward to a night among old friends.
Mrs. Frank Hambridge and son Rhodes
had a fine crowd of well-wishers down to bid
them a happy voyage to London by the
Maloja last Saturday. Mosman, Wahroonga
and Yaucluse pals were there in force, and
Rhodes, who is pursuing medicine and has
just been entered at St. John’s College, Cam-
bridge, collected quite a lot of advice, from
Sydney Uni. and old King’s School friends.
By the time the Maloja arrives in England
daughter-of-the-house Marjorie, who is study-
ing at the Royal Academy, will have returned
from her August vacation in Finland, so
there are happy days ahead for the three.
The 30th Battalion, A.1.F., reunion com-
mittee (Col. H. Sloan, chairman) is arrang-
ing a smoko for Wednesday, July 19, at
Sargent’s, Market-street. ’Phone 87444 will
answer all inquiries.
Miss Pat O’Connor, the well-known news-
paper and publicity woman, met with an
accident last week, with' the result that her
right wrist is badly damaged.
Up in the Royal Empire Society’s rooms
above Bligh-street, there was a party last
week. The members learned by picture
and accompanying story how the Empire
broadcast, which blurred and whirred and
barked and occasionally came out clear and
suave between the soup and the savory at
Sydney’s 24th of May Dinner, had been made.
Tall Fred Daniel], whose brain had fathered
the idea of the broadcast, explained such
technicalities as wave-lengths and timing,
and illustrated hi.s remarks by diagrams and
slides and photographs. Some of these stir-
ring speeches had to be made as early as two
or three in the morning in order to be re-
layed.in Sydney by dinner-time. Fortunately
the harmony of last week’s party wasn’t
ruffled by beholding the faces of any of the
sentinels of Empire being hauled out of bed
before the dawn. One wondered if any of
the stately gentlemen, like the heroine of
“Cat’s Cradle,” read their parts in the bath.
A few such intimate details would have sup-
plied a human interest,
After the patriotic came the film which
had drawn the women members of the society
even as the magnet does the needle. It was
the picture of the dinner party in the Went-
worth on the great night. But what a dis-
appointment that film must have been to
any woman imagining herself a Diana Wyu-
yard or a Tallulah Bankhead! To begin
with, unused to the glare of the arc lights,
the women diners at the Wentworth sought
cover for their eyes every now and then
behind their menus. And this seemed to be
the moment the eye of the camera spotted
them. When the faces weren’t blotted out
the effect was strangely upsetting to many
preconceived views of the girl friend’s good
looks. The sensitive woman turned her gaze
away in sorrow. President Hugh Denison
did the honors, and his lady was handsomely
clad in mulberry-toned velvet and lace. In
the procession of fine feathers, this Letter
liked the poiusettia-reds worn by Captain
Feakes’s wife, the Persian lamb coat into
which Mrs. Crawford Robertson snuggled
and Mrs. Roystone Davey’s high collar of
ermine.
The scenes at Philip Hargrave’s concert
last Saturday night were more amazing than
ever. The youpgster has now given ten con-
certs with ever-increasing attendances, both
in size and variety. Crowds of small girls
and boys are brought to these concerts, and
afterwards they swarm about the artist’s
room and on to the entrance steps trying to
get still another glimpse of Philip. For
once they really feel in touch with the artist.
This is no grown man or woman separated
from them by chasms of years; he is one
of themselves. “Do let this little girl shake
hands with him !” implored one mother on
Saturday night, when, to get the child free
of the press of admirers, a Town Hall atten-
dant had lifted him on to the table. From
here Philip gaily blew kisses till the room
was cleared; when he finally made his exit,
escorted by Miss Garnaut and Claude King-
ston, one persistent little Gretchen, her two
plaits flying, skipped down the hall after
him, and climbed one of the pillars for a last
look. Other short girls in long plaits were
among the adoring, and so were tall ladies
in long ear-rings. Men, too, weren’t above
a cheer as Philip, still as merry as a cricket,
drove off.
This is a recent Dorothy Welding photo-
graph of just-retired Chief Justice Street’s
lady. Seeing her in the Banco Court the
other morning when the C.J. was being fare-
welled by the Judiciary and the Bar, you
felt she must be a happy and proud wife and
mother. There in the seat of honor on the
Bench sat her husband, further along sat
her son, Justice Kenneth Street, and among
the K.C.’s at the Bar table was another son,
E. W. Street.
The court was jammed with the legal pro-
fession, and High Court Justice Teddy
McTiernan, who sat in the row of chairs im-
mediately behind the C.J., with Judge Rich
as his right-hand neighbor, explained to this
writer that the Banco Court was chosen be-
cause it is the court where the Justices sit
on appeal cases. It was an impressive
though not a dressy Bench. The Justices
wore their everyday black silk gowns, apd
didn't even air their ftill-bottomed wigs—
just their small ones. By the way, if ever
a family profile was carved to suit wig and
the white-under-tlie-chin bands of’the profes-
sion, it is that of the Streets., v
Winifred Carter, who used to be second
harpist in the State Orchestra, under Ver-
brugghen, has returned to Detroit after a
tour of the New England States with the
Detroit Symphony Orchestra, in which she
is first harpist. 'She has the distinction of
being the only woman connected with the
organisation.
At the invitation of the Queensland Gov-
ernment. Annette Kellermau with husband
Jimmie Sullivan slipped quietly out. of Syd-
ney on the first lap of her South Sea travel
films. These will be in the nature of “shorts.'’
Widespread advertising for Queensland’s
great show-place would result should the
famous mermaid decide to disport herself
among the coral gardens. With this end in
view the Tourist Bureau offered to place
launches, guides and other aids at the Sulli-
vans’ disposal. Since arriving in Sydney
some months ago Annette had been living
quietly in the bosom of her family at Pitt-
water, during which time a pair of shorts
and a tennis visor were her almost invari-
able wear. Both the Kellerman sisters had
been taken to the hearts and camps of the
Taylor Point community, and the week-end
picnic dances at Sullivan Camp , were
something to write home about. Annette
and her James hope to put in another three
months camping at the Point before they
return to the U.S.A. early next summer.
Phyllis McDonald, the Sydney girl who
had a brilliant musical career at the Royal
Academy in London and afterwards became
a member of Sir Henry Woods’s 8.8. C.
orchestra, gave her home-coming recital last
week. The Town Hall was far from being
filled, which was a pity, for Phyllis is a fine
musician, and gave a masterly interpretation
of the Brahms D Minor Sonata (played in
conjunction with pianist Frank Hutchens,
who is always satisfying), and the Concerto
of Delius, a first appearance in Australia.
Phyllis wore a rhythmic and flowing frock
of ivory satin, and was handed in congratu-
lation the crop of a small flower farm. Pupils
of the Golden Grove Convent, the violinist’s
first training-ground, sold programmes. Mrs.
John Barlow and Mayoress Hagon were in
the front row; members of the Catholic
Women’s Association brought parties, and
Phyllis’s proud parents were in the audience.
Erik Langker, the artist, confessed the
other day to being a composer. Erik has
written many songs, some of which Sydney’s
old friend Neville Smith warbled at his
studio recitals. Now Erik’s works are being-
sung over the air.
Aileen Fitzpatrick, of the Board of Social
Study and Training, is back at her old possio
at No. 5 Hamilton-street after her travels
in New York, London and the cities of
Europe. In America Aileen was the guest
of the Carnegie Corporation of New York,
and so was a privileged student of the
kindly yet efficient network of social service
that enmeshes Manhattan, or, at least, those
parts of it out the Bronx and Harlem ways.
In London that city’s School of Economics
taught the inquiring Australian much; so
did the welfare work of Scandinavia.
No longer is social service merely a time-
absorber for the idle man or woman; now
he or she who wishes to make philanthropy
a life work must add to a kind heart a
knowledge of psychology, mental hygiene,
economics and so on. Much of this work
operates in public hospitals, where a survey
of the patient’s home life and his chance of
being able to continue in the path of health
after the institution has discharged him is
sympathetically and tactfully made by the
social-service department. Nina Robinson,
attached to Prince Alfred’s, is a part trainee
of the board, and Stella Davies, the just-
appointed almoner to’ the kiddies’ hospital,
has in addition to taking the Sydney course
been specially trained in England for her job.
Dailey’s Castle, at Manly, which has been
converted into a boys’ seminary by the Cam-
den Grammar School people, was built by
Australia’s first Privy Councillor when “The
Village” really was a village. The Norman
walls surround a large courtyard in which,
in Dailey’s day, a band used to discourse
music during his famous dinner-parties. Its
only disadvantage as a school is that there are
too many visual distractions; the windows
of the rooms on the eastern wing look down
on Manly’s Ocean Beach and the Pacific,
and the south side has some entrancing
views of the harbor. Dailey pioneered
another beauty-spot in the Manly district—
Bilgola, where Mrs. Maclurcan now lives, and
which was owned for years by Colonel
“Toby” Watt. The whole of the palm-filled
little' valley belonged to him. He used it
for week-ending while he was living at his
Manly home.


present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift—a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! ‘‘All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
“Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name—and look for the “Hec-
worth brand on every article.
Legal Notice.
Estate of john samuel furness late of
Newcastle New South Wales Retired plumber
deceased intestate. TAKE NOTICE that the Public
Trustee of New S'outh Wales is the administrator
of tiie estate of the abovenamed deceased who died
at Newcastle on the 30th day of June 1932.
Deceased had a son CLIFFORD CHARLES FUR-
NESS born at Paddington on 15th September 1895.
The said Clifford Charles Furness if alive on 30th
June 1932 would be entitled to share in the estate
of the intestate. If he died prior to that date
having married and leaving children alive at that
date such children would be entitled to share in
the distribution of the estate of the intestate. Let
the said CLIFFORD CHARLES’ FURNESS or his
personal representative or his children if any
TAKE NOTICE that unless a claim by them or
any of them to be the next of kin of the intestate
is received by the Public Trustee 107 Elizabeth
Street Sydney New South Wales within two months
after the publication hereof the Public Trustee will
distribute the estate of the said intestate amongst
the next of kin of whose claims he then has notice.
Missing Friends.
VV7ILL JOHN McLEAN, formerly of
** Woorak and Traralgon South, in the
State of Victoria, Farm Laborer, and late
of 30 Capel Street, North Melbourne, in the
said State, and 125 Queensberry Street,
North Melbourne, aforesaid, Railway Em-
ployee, last heard of as residing at 32 Can-
ning Street, North Melbourne, aforesaid, in
March or April, 1929, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. TURNER AND ITOBDAY,
Solicitors, Nhill, Victoria.
Heirs Wanted.
ALL persons claiming to be related to
** either of the undernoted parties are re-
quested to communicate with the Subscribers
as early as possible giving full particulars: —
(1) David Smith, son of David Smith and
Euphemia Skinner, of Colinsburgli, Fife,
Scotland. Mr. Smith is understood to
have emigrated from Scotland to Aus-
tralia about the year 1850.
(2) Miss Euphemia Smith, daughter of
William Smith and Jane Hepburn,
Kinghorn, Scotland. Miss Smith lat-
terly resided in Tlddingston. Scotland.
WILSON. CHALMERS & HENDRY,
Solicitors, 33a Gordon Street,
Glasgow, Scotland.
Mav. 1933.
Amusements.
I C WILLIAMS ON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
HOLD MY HAND.
KING’S THEATRE:
ISO BEL ELSOM in
WHEN LADIES MEET.
Melbourne
Chatter
Sunshine following a frosty dawn gave to
the Grand National Hurdle meeting at Flem-
ingten the best a Vic. winter can offer, and
the crowd was tlie largest for four years.
Though the dressing was more intended for
warmth than for show, there was plenty of
color in it. and shoulder and lapel sprays of
orchids, daphne, \ 7 iolets and lilies-of-tlic-
valley were plentifully in evidence. The
new “swagger” suits had an outing, and
lynx and snow-leopard collars of huge size
on dark-hued topcoats were legion. There were
no vice-regals present. Mrs. Alan Currie’s
coat was of reddish-brown hue Avitli a fur
collar and matching felt hat. Mrs. G. F.
Hyde had one of the new crystal-headed collars
on her black gown. Avliich was covered with a
black coat. Mis. \V. Seymour’s black suit had
a snow-leopard collar, her little toque being
black velvet. A swathed toque of golden-
brown velvet topped the beige ensemble worn
by Mrs. Charles Cunningham. Mrs. W.
Baillieu was a slim figure in a Hindoo-red
suit with a brown hat. Prudence Staugh-
ton’s biscuit-colored coat had a blending fur
collar. Amongst those who watched the
racing were tlie Spencer Bruntons, of Sydney ;
Dr. and Mrs. Mcrrillees, Mrs. R. R. Vincent,
from Geelong, with her daughter, Mrs. R.
Moon ; Mr. and Mrs. Harold Anderson, also
from Geelong; Mrs. R. Turnbull, Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, Mrs. Rogers Thomson
and Mrs. A. V. Kewney.
The brightest ray in the otherwise rather
dull ceremony of opening Parliament was the
announcement by Lieut,-Governor Irvine that
Macpherson Robertson had decided to cele-
brate the centenary of the city by spending
£lOO,OOO. Winter dressing was the rule
among the women. Tlie Irvine lady,
was in a black flat crepe gown with
a skunk stole, topped by a black velvet
toque. The Clarke lady, who entertained
a number of guests at tea, wore an
ensemble of beige cloth and georgette with
matching fur collar and a shiny straw toque.
Premier Argyle’s wife was in black, with
silver-fox furs. Mrs. W. S. Kent Hughes
sported a golden-brown corduroy velvet coat-
frock fashioned with a cape. Her toque was
of similar velvet with a feather mount. Mrs.
Claude Couchman and Mrs. W. Angliss chose
all brown in suits and hats. The Peacock
lady wore a Lido-blue coat and skirt and a
velour hat of the same shade.. Mrs. T. Old-
ham favored the new parrot-green tint in her
suit, and small velvet liat. Mrs. E. J. Hogan
in her attire folloAved the black-and-white
cult, allied to fox furs. The Brunton lady
came in a Burgundy-colored coat and felt-
hat, her frock of the same shade being
spotted in fawn and dull green.
The Government had scarcely finished
saying “thank you” to Macpherson Robert-
son for his centenary £lOO,OOO when Russell
Grimwade came forward with the money to
transplant the old home of Captain Cook in
Yorkshire. Agent-General Linton secured
the historic cottage, which will be taken to
bits and shipped to Melbourne. Even tlie
ivy growing round the door is to be pre-
sented. Mr. Grimwade is footing the hill
for transport and re-erection in one of our
gardens or parks.
This is a Ruskin portrait of Margaret
Davey, a Melbourne pianist, Avho makes a
hobby of the study of two-piano literature.
With Ariel Seeligson, she gave a recital
last April which attracted a great deal of
attention from music-lovers. Miss Davey
is a former student of the Uni. Con., and
gained her Mus.Bac. at the Uni. She is
on the staff of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College.
The Oaklands Hunt Club’s race meeting
at Moouee Valley was blessed with glimpses
of sunshine, but the air was chill, and grand-
stand patrons appreciated the steam-heated
pipes that come to the rescue of frozen feet.
Dressing was a matter of tweeds and furs.
Alisher Clark, president of the club, was
there with tlie master, E. C. Robertson, and
Mrs. Robertson, the lady wrapped in a black
fur coat. Deputy-master W. H. Magennis
eame with liis Avife, who was in black, with
furs. Tlie R. M. Cuthbortsons, General G.
Johxiston and Mr. and Mrs. C. Moore wore
other followers of the chase Avho Avatehed the
racing. Mrs. W. Tennant Hunter—Pliylljs
Holmes Hunt that was—visiting here from
Calcutta, featured in her suit cheek material
allied to a black velvet toque.
The hostesses of a hop for young folk al
No. 9 Darling-street were Joy Bell, who had
a poinsettia-red sasli upon her pale-green
velvet frock; Judy Webb, who achieved a
French touch in her tourmaline-pink angel-
skin gown with its powder-blue sash ; Mar-
garet Neil Smith, who wore a crinkled crepe
frock of leaf-green hue; Rosemary Wright,
in draperies of white starched chiffon, and
her sister Margaret, in a gown of fancy
plaid silk. Mr. and Mrs. Alex. Bell, Mr. and
Mrs. E. M. Webb, Lieutenant-Colonel and
Mrs. F. 11. Wright and Mrs. Neil Smith
gave assistance.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan acted as hostess at a
charity dance and bridge party aboard the
Canberra on Friday afternoon. Eileen
Castles, Mollie Warden, Jock Thompson and
Alban Whitehead sang, and May Broderick,
who was accompanist, also played some
piano solos. Among the guests were Mrs.
E. J. Hogan, Mrs. E. Kiernan, Mrs. I’.
Lucini and her daughter Tinker, Mrs. M. J.
Canny and Jill Ryan.
Members of the Austral Salon boiled the
hilly to Avclcome Grace Watson after her
long sojourn in England. ’Cellist Henri
Touzeau and his pupils made instrumental
music, and Sylvia Fisher sang, with Myrtle
Liddy at the piano. The president of the
Salon, Mrs. Thomas Baker, hacked by the
Weedon lady (vice-president) and secretary
Edith Billinghurst. presented a posy to the
guest of honor.
The Melbourne Hunt Club held its open-
ing meet of the season on the wettest and
coldest day avc have had for ages. But fol-
lowers of the chase, like golfers, are sup-
posed to like dirty weather, and when hunts-
man Norman Wood tooted his horn there
was a good muster. The chase ended in a
kill.
Ex-Agent-General Walter Leitch and his
lady were given a welcome home by the
Victoria League, greetings being spoken by
the senior vice-president of the League, Mrs.
Arthur Hordern, in draperies of black-
crinkled crepe. The Leitch lady \vas becom-
ingly arrayed in pale-grey satin Avith a little
cape of green velvet. Etta Bernard sang.
St. Vincent’s Hospital has a good friend
in the lady whose picture by Broothorn
appears here. She is Mrs. .T. J. Daly, wife of
Dr.. Daly, of Nortlicote, and she AA r as one of
the organisers of the two successful perfor-
mances of “Peter Pan,” acted by a hundred
children, in aid of the institution. She also
takes a practical interest in St. Anne’s
Hostel.
The International Club staged a welcome
for the Leitch lady. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
made a speech, and among the auditors were
Mrs. Claude Couchman, Mrs. H. Emmerton,
Mrs. G. Dickson, Miss Michaelis and Mrs.
G. Bakewell.
The newsagents ran a bridge party at the
Australia in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital
that occupied over .60 tables. Mrs. W. J.
Carroll was organiser and Jean Simpson
was hon. sec.
In aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital there were
afternoon and evening performances of
Barrie’s “Peter Pan” at the Bijou. Miss A
Casey and William P. Carr were the pro-
ducers. Mary Hamilton was Peter, and
Dorothy Smith was Michael, and the other
two members of the Darling family were
played by Maria Roberts (John) and Gloria
Williams (Wendy).
F. W. Thring, of Efftee Films, has pur-
chased the Wattle Path, St, Ivilda, and in-
tends to use part of the building for talkie-
making, hut not so as to interfere with the
use of the place for balls and parties.
A matinee performance at the Athenaeum
in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital included in
its programme a screening of the British
talkie “Tell Me To-night,” song-and-dance
contributions by Madge Elliott, Gus Bluett
and Leo Franklyn, and conjuring by Dante.
The “Strad” trio provided incidental music.
The Irvine lady was in the audience.
Mrs. Edgar L. Morton, Toorak-road, was
hostess of a bridge party in aid of the
Sutherland Homes —an afternoon-and-everi-
ing affair. Mrs. Morton was aided by her
daughters Gwen and Lesley, and by Mrs.
A. Wenborn, hon. sec. of the institution.
The Spencer lady poured tea at the
Lyceum Club in a setting of pink carnations
and mignonette to welcome violinist Florence
I-lood on her return after many years abroad.
Accompanying the guest of honor were her
mother, the widow of legal-knight J. 11.
Hood, and her sister, Mrs. 11. Skeet. The
hostess wore deep blue Avith a touch of pink,
over which Avas a black musquash coat. Miss
Hood covered,her brown and white spotted
frock with a brown fur-collared coat, allied
to a cloth beret of blending hue.
A late-in-the-season dress innovation is the
“swagger suit,” usually made in cheeked and
flecked tweeds. The cut of the coat, which
goes down to below the ktiee, is loose, and
gives an air of ease and warmth. Generally
it is buttoned up to the throat and sports
a. high collar. In some models there are
lines of piping or tucks suggesting a, circular
yoke. Tlie -little hats that look like a cross
between a jockey’s cap and a saucepan lid
are the correct accompaniment for the new
style, made of the' same material as the suit.
The passing of Arthur Castles at Ton-
gala last Aveek caused, deep regret, not only
in Deakin sliire, where he had been sec.
and engineer for 37 years,, but in neighbor-
ing municipalities to which lie was con-
sultant for road or water works. A member
of a pioneering Kyneton business family, he
married a daughter of Stuart Murray, who
was first chairman of the State Rivers and
Water Commission, and before that chief
engineer of the Water Supply Department.
His only son Graeme is a lawyer at Yarra-
wonga. Only a few months ago his daugh-
ter Elspetli was thrown from her horse and
killed while hunting at Lilydale.
The parties of Perth: —
The Embassy (Temple Court that was) sheltered
the T Square Ball, the architectural students’ frolic.
Mrs. Herbert Parry came along in black angel-skin
lace; black satin suited blonde Sheila Clement, and
blue velvet was sister Joan’s choice; Lucy Stone,
in her shell-pink, was worthy of a second glance;
grey peltry trimmed the tangerine gown worn by
Gwen Francis; Alison Rae wore a youthful frock
of buttercup sprigged taffeta ; Joye Morrison’s fancy
lit upon cocoa lace, and Valmar Saw was dashing
m her wine-red velvet.
Manly bosoms were a-glitter with medals and
brass buttons at the Naval and Military Ball. The
Francis-street drill hall wore its gayest plumage of
Hags and bunting, with a whole load of gum
branches thrown in. . Mrs. Martyn’s black gown
boasted a velvet cape; Mrs. Grifflths-Bowen wore
cornflower-blue; Mrs. C. H. E. Manning’s floral
ninon was threaded with gold; Mrs. Athol Hobbs
was smart in her black satin ; Mrs. Bessell-Brownc
also chose black; Mrs. Geoff Drake-Brockman’s cream
lace foamed over a sliell-pink foundation; Betty
McCulloch wore blue and auburn-headed Nancy was
in beige. Nina Jackson mingled pomegranate ninon,
and tangee found favor with Muriel Wieck.
The Fork week-end was a huge success. Every
bunk in the district, was occupied; the railways ran
special trains with sleeping accommodation and the
overflow camped on billiard-tables and in cars. There
were two days of racing, with events for amateur
riders. There was a cocktail party at the Jockey
Club and everyone assumed fancy dress or sports
costume for the dance in the crowded town hall.
The Morris Edwards family scattered lavish hospi-
tality. York’s Mayoress, Mrs. Foreman, wore a
black-and-white ensemble to the first race meeting.
The Parker, Hamersley, Clifton, Monger and Lefroy
clans were well represented. Among the hundreds
who went up from town were the Guy MacLeod
couple and Joan, the Padbury girls, Mr. and Mrs.
Jo Charles, a trio of Smily girls, the Jack Stodarts,
the Henry Moseleys, the Sam Grimwoods and the
Winterboftom couple.
Adelaide’s social round:—
Very bright was the dance organised by. Mrs. K.
Cameron Wilson and held in St. Peter’s College
Memorial Hall to raise funds for the-college mission.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were received by
Mrs. Wilson and Miss Neste Gwynne, the lion. sec.
Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Diamond’s.' daughter Betty
made her debut, and was presented to- his Ex. by
Mrs. H. Hughes. Lady Hore-Ruthven wore black
lace, with a jade-green ring-velvet coat trimmed with
sable. Miss Flieschmann was in terra-cotta toned
lace and Mrs. Wilson chose black crinkled crepe and
a black ring-velvet coatee.
Mrs. Max Fotheringham entertained a number of
friends at afternoon tea in the board-room at the
Children’s Hospital, following on a tour of the
wards. Most of the guests had been on the committee
of the ball recently held to raise funds.
Over 170 tables were booked for the Legacy
Club’s bridge party at the Palais Royal. The
women’s committee, of which Mrs. K. R. Wyllie was
the convener, supervised the supper, and Mrs. R.
B. Ashe (wife of the secretary, Lieut.-Colonel Ashe)
had a cigarette and sweet stall.
The Commercial Travellers held their hop at the
Palais Royal. Mrs. W. H. Morton, gowned in black
lace and a black ring-velvet coatee edged with
white fur, entertained the acting Lud Mayor and
his daughter, Mrs. H. Dunstan, in the president’s
box.
Mrs. Dudley Ryder, a visitor from England, is
the guest of her brother, Ronald Angas, at Collin-
grove, Angaston.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was present at the reception
held at the Adelaide Women’s Club to celebrate the
club’s tenth birthday. Guests were received by
•president Adelaide Miethke, president-elect Phoebe
Watson, and the senior vice-president, Miss A. L.
Tomkinson. Her Ex. was presented with a sheaf of
roses by Thelma Jennings.
There were 24 debs, at the Uni. ball. The
refectory made an effective setting, with a back-
ground of autumn foliage, marigolds and scarlet
geraniums. The guests were received by Vice-
Chancellor Mitchell, Prof. A. L. Campbell and Mrs.
T. Harvey Johnston. Lady Hore-Ruthven wore
sapphire-blue satin with bodice of powder-blue, and
pearl ornaments. Her niece, Miss Flieschmann, was
in orange satin moulded to the figure. Mrs. Legh
AVinser chose black. Golden wattle, marigolds and
wallflower, in black bowls, decorated the supper-
tables.
Mr. and Mis. Eric McMichael, with Kathleen and
Donald, have sailed on a holiday voyage to England,
accompanied by Mary Lisle Johnson. Pattie Verco
gave a luncheon party at the Wentworth as a fare-
well for her cousin Kathleen McMichael.
Dr. R. le P. Mueckc, who has been appointed
house surgeon at Perth Hospital, was given a fare-
well dinner at the Oriental.
The Speck dances the winter away :
The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady attended the Masonic
Ball in the City Hall. In the official party were
Mayor and Mayoress AVignall, Grand Master L. .1.
Abra and his wife, and many other Masonic lights.
The hall was decorated in lodge colors, cerise and
silver. Fifteen young things made their bobs to the
Lieut.-Gov. Beattie Jordan’s senior pupils performed
two ballets during the evening.
Red and white streamers waved over 250 young
dancers in the Town Hull on the occasion of the
Collegiate Ball. Nora Perkins and Joan Chandler were
hon. sec. and treasurer respectively. A room was set
aside for bridge and the stage was used as a
lounge. All the decorations were in line with the
college colors, red and white, and the supper was
a big feature.
Mrs. Eustace Cameron, her daughter Mrs. Keddun
and her daughter-in-law Mrs. Alan Cameron were
at-liome at Mona Vale. About 2(JO guests danced
in the long dining-Toom or played bridge in the
drawing-room and hall, where roaring fires made a
winter’s night cheerful. Mrs. Cameron sported a
long clinging gown of midnight-blue satin; Mrs.
Seddon was graceful in green.ring velvet, and Mrs.
Alan Cameron’s long-sleeved velvet was of dark
wine color. Daughter Cynthia ■wore floral georgette.
The Arts Ball, held in the Albert Hall, Launceston,
had as setting ultra-modern decorative designs. Two
orchestras played in relays, and supper was set in
St. Ailbe’s Hall, the guests being carried there by
a fleet of motor-cars'. H. A. Snelling was organiser
for the show, with D. L. Richardson.as hon. sec., and
a big committee worked manfully.
Mrs. B. E. Duncan gave the use of the smaller
ballroom at the Continental for a bridge party in
aid of the Tas. Sanatorium. Mrs. F. M. Lovett
engineered the show. Another charity effort, in aid
of the Victoria Convalescent Home, was an American
tea at the Town Hall, run by Adela Campbell, with
help from the president of the home, Miss Butler,
and others.
To furnish the new lounge at the King’s Meadows
clubhouse, the committee ran a bridge day, both
afternoon and. evening. Members rolled up in force
and a goodly sun, was raked in. The rooms were
prettily decorated. Prizes in the afternoon fell to
Mrs. G. Hughes and Mrs. V. von Bertoucli, and in
the evening to Norman Gatenby and Miss Rawlings.
The Midland Hunt had a run extending over
Ashby, Bloomfield, and Fosterville properties. Tea
was enjoyed at the home of the Arthur Bennetts.
There was a record number of riders, and a big
muster of cars followed.
Dr. Arndell Lewis and his better half are taking
a little fling on the mainland, expecting to be home
again before Parliament meets. They go to Adelaide
first, and later to Sydney, where they expect to
join up with Mrs. Hungerford, Mrs. Lewis’s mother,
who is visiting friends in Queensland.


NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT.
Water and Settlement
“Tanumbirini”; “Pundi” (B. 2S/6/’33)
is right when lie says that we need more
Belgiums and Ispahans and less spread-out
settlement in Northern Australia. The
worst advertisements which our tropics and
centre have received have been due to the
dumping of unfortunates on areas where
drought, sand and freight-rates have killed
them. The crucial requirement of all interior
settlement is water, and somebody very aptly
replied to the Government-subsidised Stefaus-
son when he said that the country south of
Alice Springs was like that which was
being cultivated between the Mississippi and
the Missouri: “Yes; but south of Alice
Springs there is no Mississippi and no Mis-
souri.” i
Much of inner Australia, even where there
are no artesian or sub-artesian supplies,
might be artificially watered if an engineer
with ingenuity and a large-scale mind got
to work on it. The canalisation and lock-
ing of such rivers as the Georgina and the
Thompson could probably be achieved if there
were a railway in the west. In the sandy,
arid-looking Punjab, canals have added enor-
mously both to the capital value and the
population in a tract one and a half times
the size of Victoria; but there the job has
been done thoroughly. The main feeder
streams are the size of the Yarra; their
abutments on either side provide wide, fast,
one-way motor roads, which run for hun-
dreds of miles as straight as an arrow, and
the roads themselves are fringed with tall
belts of commercial timbers which prevent
evaporation and go far toward paying the
interest on the canal investment. In Persia,
where evaporation is heavier than in Cen-
tral Queensland and the N.T. because of the
height of the terrain above sea level, water
goes underground from the snow mountains,
but is directed wherever the population needs
it by the kanat or subterranean channel
system.
The same system might work on part
of the Barkiy Tableland, where sub-
artesian supplies are in comparatively
shallow ground. Anyway, the Governments
could certainly do a good deal for settlement
by (a) defining small areas suitable to be
peopled, (h) irrigating them intensively and
planting parts of them with suitable shelter
timber. If you don’t believe me, look at
Griffith and Leeton ; and if irrigation in
Australia is a special problem because of
our dearth of snow mountains and big rivers,
well, didn’t Providence make special pro-
blems to be solved?
“Barambali” : I agree with “Albany Pass”
(B. 21/6/’33) that the treatment of aborigi-
nals in Queensland has for many years been
creditable to the State. The pride of the many
abo. settlements is Woorabinda, 40 miles south
of Duaringa, now established about six years,
which has a population of 400 full-bloods.
The abos. run a fine Hereford cattle herd,
and grow large quantities of tobacco, cotton,
sweet potatoes and other vegetables. The
settlement is practically self-supporting, and
is the only one in the Commonwealth where
the discipline is maintained by the natives
themselves. They elect a committee of nine
which tries offenders for breaches of settle-
ment rules and discipline generally. They
also have their own police officials. Approxi-
mately 120 native children attend a State
“I suppose there's only two men and a dog here.”
“There’s four dawgs.”
school, managed by a white teacher. Some
of the brighter pupils are being trained as
pupil-teachers and nurses.
* * * *
Arthur Reid: “D. Empson” (B. 7/6/’33)
questions whether ex-President Hoover was
guilty of writing those verses published in
my book “Those Were the Days.” I don’t
know whether he was guilty or not, and I
didn’t say he wrote the verses. I said he
addressed them to a Hannans barmaid. The
verses were shown to me by the lady, at
that time a married woman, and I got her
permission to make a copy of them. They
were written in a male hand, and she said
they were addressed to her by “Hail Colum-
bia.” Who the author is I don’t know; some
Bulletin reader may.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: There is a flavor of the old
Bananaland days in the news that Mrs.
Roosevelt lias already found that her “Com-
munity Uplift” scheme is a flop. The
President’s wife fixed up a big
lakeside rest camp for out-of-
work women, with first-class
food and most of the amenities,
all free. The other day, some
weeks after the opening, she
found only 30 women there, in
three cliques, each refusing to
speak to the others. Queens-
land tried two similar schemes
for both sexes in the Central
district years ago. With free
rations, the happy communities
were to live close to nature and
till the fruitful earth until it
could support them in comfort.
Both shows were a ghastly fail-
ure, and in each case Eve was
to blame. The last straw that
broke the Government donkey’s
back was the refusal of the
ladies to attend for their ration
issue at a pigeonhole window.
They said this was degrading,
and demanded an open store
with a long counter. Just there
the Government said something
under its breath and slammed
the lid on.
*#' * *
“Nardoo”: Recent rains have
meant a lot to the brave little
town of Birdsville, way out in
Queensland’s west, and not
the least thing > they have
brought in their train has been
the reopening of the school. For
two and a half parched years
Birdsville had done without a
dominie, but the other day lie
turned up again. District
papers say that the town is now
a “hive of educational industry”
with 13 pupils attending its
classes; “unfortunately, two of
the late pupils have outgrown
the school age.” However, it is
comforting to he,ar that “more
youngsters are coming on” round Birdsville.
The kind of youngster who can live through
the kind of droughts they have out there and
the local Barcoo rot and sandy blight is just
the brand we shall need in the next war.
* =!= * :I-
-“Kaloa”: Old-timers would rub their eyes
at the changes in cuisine and society which
gold has wrought 'at Salamaua and Wau. No
longer does one feed on the “catchim-
kukuruk-two-bottlc-beer-he-come” principle,
for there is a hotel (with wine list!) at
Salamaua which has brought steak-and-kidney
pie to the isthmus and has translated the
aforetime “bullamacow” into “roast beef and
Yorkshire pudding.” The cook is half
Thursday Islander and half Swede, and the
staff is at least partially erudite, because
customers are asked to indicate their selec-
tions from the menu by numbers, instead of
with expletives as formerly. Twenty houses,
one church and a new Bank of N. S. Wales
are being built at Wau, and three sawmills
are working full time.
**■■**
“C. Coral”: A young anthropologist, re-
cently from America, has introduced a new
protective covering to Thursday Island. It
is the American poncho, made out of a
square of waterproof material, with a slit
in the middle through which to push the
head. Under its folds a camera can be
covered from the tropical bursts which get
the unsuspecting traveller. The American
visitor, when fitting out, discovered that
Australia produces at least one useful item
not known in the States, viz., waterproof
matches.
* * * *
“Nutwood”: Boorooloola, once a teeming
distributing centre for drovers’ outfits, Gulf
stations and miners, and a halfway house
for wayfarers making to or from the north-
“There’s not enough work, Jacky, to keep us both going.”
“I toss you, boss, to see who stays.”
west and the Barkly or the Headingly track,
looks like going out at last. Ten years ago it
sheltered a tiny group of 10 ancients
who included the 94-year-old Scrutton,
second in command of the great Jardine drove
to the Cape in ’65; and Tom Lynott, who
took the first bullock-drays out to what is
now Winton. At that time, the township,
with a pathetic bravery, used to boast four
records; it had on an average the oldest
people, the fewest European women, the
smallest flour supply and the biggest library
(3000 volumes) for its size of any “white”
town in the world. Now the population has
dwindled to five.
* * * *
“M.”: Bowen and Townsville are going
great licks these days. Bowen will
henceforth supply Mt. Isa with coke under
■ contract made through the Queensland Gov-
ernment. This means an accession of
£60,000 a year (roughly £2O per annum per
inhabitant) to the busy little place, which is.
making a bold bid to be a naval base so
soon as Pearce wakes up enough to realise
the strategic value of such on the north-east
coast. Townsville has become alive to its*
possibilities as a tourist resort, and, apart
from helping to develop the amenities of
Magnetic Island, the Chamber of Commerce
is pressing the local council to build a road
to the summit of Castle Hill, the local
Table Mountain.
* * * *
“Wyara”: “Spinner’s” 12ft. crocodiles (B.
12/6/’33) are mere lizards when compared
with some monsters that have been shot in
N.Q. rivers. Three years ago I had a hand
in shooting a 21ft. 9in. saltwater crocodile
(Crocodilus porosus) in the Daintree River.
Saurians up to 20ft. in length are common
in far-northern estuaries, the largest killed
to date . being a monster 32ft. Sin. long,
which was shot in the Pioneer River, near
Mackay, a few years back.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
Influenza struck down Forgan Smith, our
Premier, so that he was not able to welcome
the Astraea when she arrived here —he re-
covered in time to go to Sydney for the
“unity” conference. Cooper, Minister for
Education, took his place and there was
a good-looking Lady Mayoress waiting to
show the new arrivals round and enjoy the
first ride in the great ’plane. The Lord
Mayor, F. E. Loxton and Fergus McMaster,
the man whose financial doggedness did most
to put Qantas on the map, were other pas-
sengers. The directors of Qantas gave a
dinner in Rowe’s banqueting hall to Major
H. G. Brackley and Lieut.-Commander A. R.
Prendergast, captain of the ship. Fergus
McMaster spoke at length and boomed Bris-
bane as a port of call.
A -chance to wear one’s furs was given
at Ascot races. Pat O’Shea had a tea
party on the committee-room verandah.
Brown and white pussy willow and sable fur
was worn by Mrs. .J. Cadell Garrick. Mrs.
Roger Hartigan had a musquash coat over a
mastic frock. Mabel Cowlishaw’s black fur
coat was combined with grey fox. Glow-
apple was the color chosen by Muriel Burton.
Nut-brown was sported by Mrs. C. P.
Buchanan ; Mrs. Isaac Moore was in black and
fitch fur; Mrs. W. Schrader (Melb.) was
in brown and cream ; tweed and stone-marten
furs were worn by Mrs. J. Henry (Leura) ;
Mrs. Donald Cadell (Tenterfield) wore a
black coat over her black and grey frock,
with a stole of Siberian fox; Peggy Green
(Melbourne) had a’pepper-and-salt diagonal
tweed.
Lennon’s dining-room and Eastern lounge
broke out in dinner parties, trimmed with
pink roses. Vice-Admiral Sir Edward
Heaton-Ellis and his wife dined Mrs. E. T.
Bell, Miss P. Bell and J. Birchall, and, at
another table were the H. B. Seviers (Syd-
ney) entertaining Airs. Stokes Hughes
(Kuala Lumpur), Muriel Burton, A. McMil-
lan (Sydney) and W. E. Crooke. The
Stewart Gows gave a coming-of-age party to
Marjorie Greenland (Sydney).
At the meeting of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation, with Mrs. E. Sandford Jackson in
the chair, Sister Mackellar was commended
for her work in the Übobo centre. Late one
bitterly cold night a small child galloped on
horseback to her door, calling Her to a mother
whose life she saved.
Elspeth Capper and the Brisbane . String
Orchestra, with Eunice Cochrane helping,
gave a recital in the Albert Hall; and the
Women’s Uni. Hockey Club had a dance on
the same night in the main hall of the Uni.,
decked in tango tints.
Toowoomba staged a masked ball in aid of
the R.S.S.I.L.A. library in the Returned
Soldiers’ Memorial Hall. Dr. Alex Horn,
president, was head of committee.
Rev. Father Arthur O’Keefe, of St.
Joseph’s, Kangaroo Point, celebrated his
silver jubilee; Archbishop Duhig presided
and the celebrant was Dean O’Connell.
Father O’Keefe was born at Dalby, the son
of pioneers of the district —one of a family of
fifteen. He was ordained at Dublin in 1908.
At Boonah Methodist kirk, adorned with
roses and lupins, Donald lan McLaren, son
of the D. McLarens, Goodna, was married
to Adelaide Gillett, daughter of the J. J.
Gilletts, Boonah, by Rev. W. Phillips.
Mrs. E. Raymond was at the organ. The
bride, who was given away by her father,
was in white chiffon velvet; the cape was
trimmed with ostrich feathers and the. lace
cap and cut tulle veil were lent by her sister,
Mrs. L. Stoodley. Jonquils, narcissi and
rosebuds made her bouquet. Elsie Gillett
and Barbara McLaren ’maided in white mari-
ette, with touches of water-lily blue on their
white caps. They carried water-lilies.
Leonard C. Robinson, son of the late A.
A. Robinsons, Beaudesert, married Janet
Constance Moxon, daughter of W. G. Moxon,
Brisbane, in St. Thomas’s, Toowong. The
Rev. H. D. Campbell tied the knot. The
bride was given away by her father in
nigger-brown flamisol and date-brown hat.
Doris Henderson ’maided in leaf-green
crushed velvet with a dark-green cellophane
hat.
J. V. D. Coutts is the new’ hon. sec. of
the Queensland Authors and Artists’ Asso-
ciation. Dr. A. C. Melbourne gave an
address on three Australian books of 1837
before a meeting of the members. . Stanhope
Hobday was in the chair; Merna Gillies
arranged the music.
There were 11 debs, at the C.W.A. dance
at Beaudesert, when the Technical Hall was
done up in greenery. Mrs. C. J. Brosnan
was matron of honor, and the buds were
presented to Mrs. Graham Mylne (in black
lace) by Mrs. A. Drynan.
Joan Astill, student of All Hallows’, won
Archbishop Duhig’s £2O prize for the best
senior University exam. pass. Clothilde
Mqllins gained his Grace’s £lO for the best
junior pass, and Betty Reid was in the tie
for the Brunton Stephens essay prize.
There was a double wedding in the Valley
Presbyterian kirk. Rev. Norman Millar
marrying Ivan E. Griffiths to Beatrice Jessie
Fisher, in honey-brown, and Robert George
Lomas, son of F. R. Lomas, Warwick, to
Vera C. Fisher, in lido blue. The reception
was at the Sydney Griffiths home.
In the financial year gas for the Eternal
Flame in the Anzac Memorial cost £l6O.
wages in attending 'to the gardens in the
square £llO and electricity for lighting £9O.
The estimate for the coming year is £448.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page Is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that dePghted an earlier one.
[On Warrego sandridge, August 8, 1891. |
The best thing about the good old times
is that they haven’t got a return ticket.
[5/9/’9L]
Mrs. McWhirter, a passenger saved from
tiie Gambler, claims to be the first white
woman who set foot on Kimberley (W.A.)
goldfields. |5/9/’9L |
When new to office, Tasmanian Premier
Fysh . received some dispatches from the
.Secretary of State for the Colonies signed
"Your most obedient humble servant, Claren-
don.” They were duly acknowledged by
“Your most obedient humble servant, Fvsb.”
|29/8/’9l.|
A lady tells The Bulletin that she re-
members going to a private school with
Madame Melba. Melba had a decided pen-
chant for eating pork pies late at night and
whistling in her sleep. She also whistled
during the day when the girls marched two
and two through the streets of East Mel-
bourne, and was many a time rebuked and
punished for said crime. | 29/8/’9I.J
It is said that the last conspicuous de-
faulter who got away from Adelaide left in
A TOUGH CUSTOMER.
SHE (nestling beside him): “And do you, really love
me?”
HE: “I could eat your boots.”
[G. R. Ashton —26/12/’91.]
a clean-shaved state and disguised as a
middle-aged widow. lie was dressed in deep
black, and an accomplice, who addressed him
as "mother, ’ saw him on board, and placed
him in charge of the captain. The widow
wept bitterly at parting, and kissed her
alleged offspring, and then tottered feebly to
the. seclusion of her cabin. [5/9/’9l.]
Maria Island (Tas.) graveyard—weird
wild silont and «ad—fapp« t i, ' -
Ha„ifa^I h |,e g « ea
seen sdx obi blackened , ;
! bearing
thue foi tryin e to dine out the invaders
of their fatherland in 1846. An old inhabi-
tant of the island says that the saddest sight
that ever met mortal eyes was to see these
brawny, dignified men sitting on the high,
rocky cliffs where now they sleep—longingly
and sullenly gazing towards their lost Home-
land. |29/8/’9L]
Maxim, the Yankee gun-inventor, lias
built, or is building, the long-desired flying-
machine which is to overturn the world. It
is to be a species of very light locomotive,
and when it starts on its wild career will
run along the surface of the earth like any
other vehicle. At 25 miles an hour, .how-
ever, it will begin to jump and manifest a
desire to rise ; at 30 miles, it will skim along,
only grazing the earth occasionally; and at
35 miles it will rear up and start into the
air. The inventor says: “If I can rise from
the coast of France, sail through the air
across the Channel, and drop half a ton
of nitro-glycerine upon an English city, I
can revolutionise the world.” This seems
an eminently probable statement, too. Half
a ton of nitro-glycerine, dropped in the right
place, would wipe out any empire nowadays.
[29/8/-91.]
Sydney Tivoli pantomime still rushes
along, and as it rushes one becomes more
and more impressed by the riskiness of Billie
Barlow’s first costume. It is a Costume that
doesn’t simply suggest the nood in the ordi-
nary sense; it rather' suggests that Miss
Bill has taken off her flesh and is wandering
about clothed in her naked soul.
I The foregoing par., published on Jan. 12,
1901, brought the paper a writ for libel. It
fought the case and won; its leading coun-
sel was its old political opponent George
Houston (“Yes-No”) Reid, of many “Dry
Dog” cartoons. Miss Barlow left Australia
without paying the costs. She repaired the
omission years afterwards when she re j
turned to Australia; William Macleod saw
to that. lie distributed the money among
charities.]
In one of the colonies of which he was
Governor in his youth, Sir George Grey
and a party came to a river which was diffi-
cult to ford, and. at a spot where it never
had been forded. Right there the Governor
wanted to ford it. and, as he always had his
own way, liis-companions left him, went to
the regular crossing-place further up, and
reached a shanty on the other side. An
hour or two passed, and
the Governor didn’t turn
up. Evidently something
had happened to him.
The party went out to
look for his corpse, and
had been away some little
time when a horseman,
who had manifestly been
having a bad wet time in
deep water, rode up to
the shanty, and, as he
dismounted, casually-
asked the proprietor
whether there was any
news. “Oh, yes, sir";
there’s great news!” said
the man. “They think
the Governor’s drowned
in the river. We shall
get a bridge now.” “And
that’s what you call good
news, is it?” said his
visitor, good-humoredly.
“Well, I don’t think it
is. I am the Governor.”
[29/8/’9l.]
Says a Bulletin Lon-
don correspondent: A
great deal of rubbish has
been written respecting
the German Emperor’s
personal appearance.
“Every inch a king,” they
say. In reality he is a
very ordinary-looking per-
son, with nothing com-
manding at all about him.
He is short, walks badly,
despite hi.s long military
training, and has a pale,
almost sallow, com-
plexion. His forehead is
high and intellectual, and
his smile is winning. He
has a certain hauteur of
manner, too, which is, in
its way, effective, especi-
ally when he is compelled
to listen to dreary and
freque n tly ill-worded
addresses. On the whole,
he was very well received
in England,-though it can
hardly be said that his
presence evoked the same
enthusiasm as did his
father’s. |29/8/'9L]
Among the half-dozen or so of banks and
alleged banks which have burst inysteriousiv
in various parts of Australia there is one
characteristic which seems to turn up every
time—the reserve fund can’t be found,
Every bank that breaks has a reserve fund,
but it always seems to be kept in some
place where no one can get at it when it is
wanted. Most of the defunct institutions
bi ? divid end at last balance, and
carried a large sum to .the said reserve.”
fX/Zlf , «f
P lilco they carried it to, or else the road
,i s too dreadfully uphill for it to-be carried
back again, for it navel- scema to get back
m time to do any service. Why they all
keep these funds in such an inaccessible
spot has never been explained. A very small
amount hidden in a pair of old boots under
the counter would have saved several insti-
tutions which have come to grief with a
gigantic amount of “undivided profits” glar-
ing out 'off fin- balance-sheet, but it never
happened to he there. There ought to be a
blhcktracker in every bank to get on the
trail of the profit-and-loss account when it
is wanted; or else the reserve fund should
be abolished altogether, and the general
manager should simply keep a £lO,OOO Gov-
ernment debenture concealed, in his ear for
use in emergencies. The present scheme is
of no earthly good. [29/8/’92. |
They have a kind and thoughtful con-
stable at Onfram (M.L.). H'e was prosecut-
ing a, local landlord for Sunday trading, and
had brought in two witnesses to testify, when
ANSON, AS “ECCLES.”
[Percy F.S. Spence —30/4/’97.]
lie discovered, to his alarm, that they were
both very drunk. It was a tight place, but
in the bright lexicon of the cop there was
no such word as fail. Seizing the drunker
of the two, lie, rushed him out into the yard,
and poured 12 buckets of water over him.
He rushed him back again just as the name
was called, and the testifier lurched into the
box with water, pouring out of his hair and
his ears, and half a bucket in each pocket,
and a lot more in his hat, and stood there
coughing and blowing his nose violently.
Then, in a fatal burst of confidence, he
addressed the Bench as “old rooster,” and
the case fell through. The wot drunk was
committed for contempt, and his companion,
the dry drunk, was left on the pavement, and
the proceedings terminated. . [29/8/’9l.]
A Paris paper estimated at 0,500.000
francs (£260,000) the amount which Bern-
hardt has earned since her debut in 1867.
Her present’topr, which, is ■ to bring £BO,OOO
into her coffers* is counted in the total.
-v. ; ‘ f B/8/ ’9l.|
The “Age’s” London correspondent cor-
rects Pa.tcliett Martin's poetic, picturesque
account of how Adam Lindsay Gordon died.
Patcliett writes like an eye-witness of how
Gordon got up at dawn, kissed his wife,
took bis gun and went forth, with many
other details, the whole thing being imagi-
nary. Il’e shot himself in the evening after
being at the Ypfick in the afternoon. Gordon
lost his money keeping a Ballarat livery-
stable. [29/8/’9L j
A NIGHT tHOUGHT.
The world around is sleeping,
The stars are bright o’erhead,
The shades of myalls weeping
Upon the sward are spread ;
Among the gloomy pinetops
Tile fitful breezes blow,
And, their murmurs seem the music
Of a song of long ago;
Soft, passionate and wailing
Is the tender old refrain—
With a yearning unavailing—
“ Will ye no' come hack again?"
The campfire sparks are flying .
Up from the pine log’s glow,
The wandering wind is sighing
That ballad sweet and low;
The drooping branches gleaming
In the firelight sway and stir;
And the bushman’s brain is dreaming
Of the song she sang, and her.
And the murmurs of the forest
Ring home to heart and brain,
As in the pine is chorused
“Will ye no' come hack again ?”
THE BREAKER.
BARKER’S BLUCHER BOOTS.
Barker was ortee trampin’ the roads. He
was always forgettin' himself and was half
liis time bushed. He was awful absent-
minded, was Barker. He’d get. up in the
mornin’ and wouldn’t know no more’n the
man in the moon which way he’d been goin’
the night afore, and ten to one he’d 'go back
t’where he’d come from. He ’adn’t gump-
tion enough to beat about and track himself.
He’d no idea of anythink barfin’- straight
ahead to nowhere in particular. What He
was goin’ for he didn’t know. Once he'
scorned the offer of a good billet when he
was downright ’ardup for one. It come o"
bein' ’ead over ears in some big scheme or
other in his mind.
Often as not he’d go to stations with his
tucker-bags and come away with nuthin’.
couldn't recollect what took him up, and
forgot his bags thinkin’ of it. Then he’d ’ave
to ante-up a bob to a blackfellow to show
him where he left liis swag. When it come
to payin', Barker d say, quite innocent,
“Do I owe you a shillin’: what was it for.
now? I can’t think.” “Me find um swag.”
“But that’s my swag. I put it there.” “Das
right, boss. You been lose um camp, see?”
Barker’d barney over that for an hour,
sometimes, but he’d stump up at last. He
lost a mint o’ money that way;
Batty as he was, lie hit on a good plan
to steer by. When he’d come to his campin'-
place he’d take his boots off, and leave ’em
pointin’ the right way. Then lie could twist
about as much as lie liked takin’ his swag
off, and makin’ preparations in gen’ral for
the night. ’Pill them boots was right, though,
he daresn't turn, or he’d be flabbergasted
altogether. In the mornin’ everything must
be shouldered for the track ’fore he dare
step into ’em. Otherwise he might get
turned pickin’ up something. He did go
without ’em once, and it wasn’t till he’d
picked 10 or so o’ thorns out o’ his. feet it
occurred to him he was in the ’abit. o’
wearin’ boots. A traveller fetched ’em along
for him that time.
One night he ’ad to get up and go to the
witerhole for a drink. That was the turnin'
point in his life. H'e put his boots on, it
bein’ the time snakes go picivickin’ an’
matin’; and there’s nuthin’ in the wide
world that sets Barker’s hair standiu’ on
end more’n snakes.
When lie got up next day the boots was-
facin’ the waterliole. “Dang it,” says Barker,
“I didn’t know I ’ad to cross that!”
But tin- boots pointed that way, so there
was no get out of it. It was only 50 yards
round the hole, but leather said cross it, and
'cross il went Barker —up to his neck. Ib-
felt miserable when he got out, for Barker
wasn't used to bein' wet. So hi- stripped off
lo dry.
When be was ready to start
ag’in lie found his compass ’ad
gone bung once more. One boot
pointed east, t’other west.
“Now. which way am I goin’?”
says Barker. He sat down to
think it out. But it wasn’t no
use. Thinkin’ made him giddy,
and put him in such a gen’ral
muddle that he lost sight o’
what he wanted to think about.
So he saw there was no help
then but to waif until someone
came along.
So Barker filled his pipe. He
'adn’t ’ad a smoke that mornin’,
and liis mouth was waterin’.
Soon he was puffin’ away big
licks, and found it a good help
to his brain. So he tried ag’in
to think them boots the one way
and finished up with bandicoot-
in' Murphies in the old coun-
try. He was that disgusted
that he grabbed the old clay-
dabb'er to knock the ashes out,
and then lie saw as he’d neve-;
lit it. Barker saved a lot of
’bacca in his time forgettin’ the
match part o’ the performance.
As luck appened, a stockman came in
sight about dinner-time. Barker coo-eed
and he came over. “ ’Scuse me,” says
Barker. “Would you do me a favor, mate?
I'm a bit flummoxed.” “Certainly, old man.
if it's not too much trouble. What is it?”
“femme see. 0h!.... Will you tell me
where . I’m goin’ to, and oblige yours sin-
cerely”- Barker was workin’ it off on his
fingers.
“Why, strike me dead!” says the stock
man to himself, “that bloomin’ old fool’s
mad !”
“Where am I goin’?” says Barker again.
“Off yer nanny,” says the stockman, riding
off. “Keep straight on, and you’ll not be.
long afore you’re there.”
Barker chewed over that for an hour. One
boot said east and one said west. Which
was straight on? “Dang me if I don't go
with Bobindie,” says Barker—he called
one of them boots Bobindie. So he pul
Bobindie on and went west. That night lie
struck a dry gully, and near perished for
want of water. “You’re the. devil’s own."
says Barker. “To the devil with yer!”
He got back next night—how, I dunno—
and he says to the other boot, that he called
Brian Boroo: “Brian,” he says, “we’ll <ro
east at your wish, and the Lord strike you
blind if your designs be treacherous!” So
he put on Brian Boroo and went east, leav-
ing Bobindie to perish. He’d ’ave no more
truck with that gentleman.
In three hours Brian Boroo kicked agin
a slug o’ gold and Barker danced and howled
in _ his delight. Before sundown lie struck
this one-’orse place where I’m treed now.
But in Barker's eyes, with that slug shinin’
in ’em, this miserable old creek was Heaven.
So here he stuck. He was offered a tidy
sum afterwards by a shindykit in the town-
ship to show ’em tin- spot where Brian hit
POLITICAL ECONOMY—POPULAR
BRAND.
INDIGNANT UNEMPLOYED: “Jest look at that
there unearned increment on ’ini!
Stickin’ out a mile!"
[“Hop’’ —14/4/’94.]
the slug: but Lor’ bless you, by that time
Barker knew as much of its whereabouts as
a gorilla.
Anyway, he took the old blucher off, and
knelt down ’fore the ’ouses and kissed him.
“Brian Boroo,” gays Barker, “you’re a
brick!” So he pensioned him off straight
away, and—well, there’s the old fellow, snug
and comfortable, in that glass case.
Me? Oh. I’m Barker.
[2l/S/’97.j
EDWARD S. SOKENSON.


And now another “Bulletin ’ Publication in the Field.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things
you don’t know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most up-to-date and reliable short-wave and
technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY. PRICE 2d.
Sixty.
BY ARTHUR ADAMS.
A DISCREET tap at my door!
“A late hour for a visitor,” I
muttered, looking up at.the clock from
my pile of mutilated typescript. It was after
two o’clock in the morning.
I had been writing a sonnet. There is a
popular belief that a sonnet contains only
fourteen lines. I had already scribbled a
hundred lines, most of them unfinished; and
the product of my pen lay scattered on my
desk, on the two chairs of my writing-room,
on the armchair and on the floor.
Well I should never finish my sonnet
that night. Might as well see who my visi-
tor was. I was curious about this late call.
After all, it might merely be my wife in
the other room, coming down to remind me
of the late hour, or perhaps find me asleep
among my mangled iambics.
I got out of -my chair and cautiously
opened the door.
A hag blinked into my face.
I did not shut the door in her face. For
I remembered a woman who had come thus
years ago, at the same hour of the night, to
iny house —not to my present comfortable
home in a respectable suburb, but to the
door of a back bedroom in a cheap and
dreary boarding-house. She had been differ-
ent ! How clearly 1 had kept the mentory
of that earlier encounter with the same
woman. She was younger then. Yet. I knew
her at once. She was a woman that I could
have never forgotten.
“Ain’t you goin’ to ask me in'?” tin;
woman whined, with a pathetic show of
confidence.
I remembered that I was a respectable
householder, with duties to society. My wife
wouldn’t like me to be seen talking to such
a woman. I was glad that the visit had
happened at that hour. Obviously the woman
was in need of shelter. Of course, I could
not offer her a room: but surely she could
find a place to sleep in. even at that hour
of the bitter night. I felt in my pocket and
found some silver and gave it to her. It
was, of course, only charity; but the years
had taught me the limit of generous instincts.
Rut when that other woman, a mere slip
of a girl, had tapped so imperiously on that
other door so many years ago, I did not
have even a half-crown ; but it was not half-
crowns she had wanted.
The woman was still waiting in the dark.
I felt that she would be difficult to get rid
of and my wife might at any in invite-a wake.
The visitor from the dark might make
trouble. Perhaps she would go away, drift-
ing further down the street; but she stayed,
patient and weary.
“Well, dearie?” she whined.
I had to get rid of her; and the sooner
the better. Disturbing respectable' house-
holders in that street!
“But I don’t know you, do I?” I weakly
“Don’t know me?” she laughed, and choked
a bard, tearing cough. Evidently she
vas ]lo f- a ceustomed to laugh,
She had no right to be out so late as this.
The rain was dripping from the eaves
drearily. Her broken boots oozed; her
draggled, atrocious flat sagged at - an angle,
soaked. She peered blear-eyed into my face
as I silently motioned her to follow me
inside. She laughed a nard laugh as site
took in the untidy comfort of my den, a
««.an’s room. I indicated my desk-chair—
the only seat. She sank into it, exhausted.
“ If I wasn’t sure,” she said hesitatingly,
“I’d-think I w » to< Y(»u’rc
« ¥S- ! 4SS
ghe peered into mv face. “No wonder,
eh?... .after so long'! Thort I’d mistook
the place. Never bin here before, that I
1 ' A- •>
' gh him,Honed my name,
110 rfded
“Yes, I know you now., But you’ve got
th&t fflt< and ]orst yev n i ce black ’air—you,
who used to wear it long, sweepin’ back like
Yes . it ’ s you. though ycr gettin’ bald,
* r , ,»
.did you know me?” I mW
rpmcm i„. Pj eh? You donlt mcanter
Y()n for „ ot t hat little boarding-house not
so'far away from ’ere, eh? Ah, , yes, you
know me ,ty nv .right enough. No use pre-
Y cs you know me, and I know
pjji”
Tl.nt ™i S odo of my youth ! That delieio.m
b’ttie. slim thing who had knocked so timidly,
and yet so daringly, at my door! That won-
derful flight! Her charm, her beauty, lei
youth. .
And now you ve come to this. 1 could
not help cruelly saying.
She laughed mockingly. “And now you’ve
come to this! We’re quits. T ain’t as young
as 4 was, am I?” she laughed, and choked
again with that grim cough; “but, then,”
s he maliciously whined, “110 more are you.”
“Oh, I?” I admitted. “I’m no longer a
f oo ii s h youth who meant to be a poet. Why.
j ot me ' see v Bless me. I must be nearly
sixty Lot me see, my birthday?. A . Sorne-
kimcs 4 C y en forget the date.”
Qui t] ghc toW mc , “The sixth of June.”
Y ou remember still?” 1 looked at her
~ ; ,
“Oh ” she chuckled—and choked——“l
ItvSy job.
«£»? , D » rou 'app™ remember what day
tins day is, en.
Me?. AhJiero’s the paper,
M hy, it is tlie sixth of June.... .to day.
The crone laughed. “No. that day’s gone
now: it’s past your birthday by a matter
of v a couple of hours.”
Fancy my wife overlooking my birthday !
My wife forgetting, and this woman still
with the date tucked away in her head. A
sudden thought struck me. It did not seem
likely. Surely not! Had she come to wish
me, after so many years, an empty “many
happy returns”? It seemed a mockery.
She divined my thought, and laughed. “I
didn’t come orl this way on a night like
this to wish you luck on your sixtieth birth-
day,” she sneered. “What I’ve come for
is to give you notice.”
“Give me notice?” My heart missed a
beat. (Must be careful at my time of life!)
I knew I was at her mercy, and precious
little mercy I would get.
“Ain’t I stuck to you all these years, these
long years?” she snapped. “Did you think I
was gain’ to stick to you for. eyer? Not
me. I've got other business to do.”
“But, look here,!’ I . anxiously pleaded;
‘‘you’re not going to desert me, leave me,
after having been so good to. me all these
years!”
“You’ve had a long run, my boy. longer
than I give to most folks. You’ve had plenty
of time to do the work you meant to do; and
it’s about time that you stood on your own
legs.”
As I stared at my visitor I shuddered:
for she had changed from the whining old
ugly woman to a figure of stern relentlcss-
noss, with cruel eyes blazing . scorn. The
rags in which she was clad were the same,
but she wore them as a queen or an angry
goddess.”
“Pah!” She almost spat at me. “I’ve
done with you, you fool!”
I rallied all my strength. “I took it for
granted that you would still help me, inspire
me, for all my life. I took your services—
valuable services, I grant you—without
bothering very much about you. Aiid you’ve
been wonderfully good to me all through.
I took all that for granted: it came so easily
to me. I knew that you were there, all
that time, helping me, inspiring me, giving
me ideas, putting the pen into my hand
to write great books. I’ve always known
that you’ve been close beside me all through
my life, ever since I had a pen in my lingers.
What did I care about anything when you
were beside me? My inspiration, my god-
dess ! And now you desert me, cast me off,
like a useless thing.”
“Yes,” said that majestic woman, with
the light in her divine eyes, looking down
on me, "you seem to imagine that you’ve
been chosen from the crowd, set apart from
all the world. You’ve had your run; and
now I leave you. You’ve had your spin.
You’re not the only poet that I’ve helped
and inspired.”
• “Forgive!” I-cried, clutching at her regal
robes: < ■
She shook me off. “You have forgotten
me too long.”, she said. “You have usurped
your privileges, imagining that it was you,
poor fool, that wrote the verse. And you vc
got on in the world; you’ve become .respect-
able aud married, instead of depending on
iny help.”
■ '‘But I always knew that you were there,
I eagerly ventured. *
She laughed. “Out in the cold and ••the
rain.. You sitting in your comfortabiy-
warmed room, proud of your house and youi
respectable friends: I wandering _ alone
through the dripping streets. Never did you
call from your door; never did you listen
for my weary footsteps aud take me m.
No; you let ine pass unnoticed: you were
living in luxury too long. You’ve grown
respectable and smug, hugging your empty
pleasures in the haunts of the foolish ncn.
“Better for you,’’ she stormed, “to go back
to the streets, with only a rag to cover you,
and nowhere to sleep. Even that I now must
deny you. You have grown gross with good
eating and drink. Have you a poetic idea
in your thick head now? I built this house
for you,, and you know it'. It s mine. And
wliat have you done? You have, killed your
—that is, ray—inspiration.’’
A little pity softened her voice. “You
and I have had good times and bad times
together. In the old days we were friends
—and more than friends—together. That
night I slipped into your room, when I was
young and loving, and the nights of delight
that made' a now world of this worn old
globe, I cannot forget. Never can I forget
those days, those nights. You were a perfect
lover.” .
Abjectly I clung to the hem of her robe.
She lifted my face to hers and kissed me.
“For the old days, when all the world was
young, and we the youngest in all the
world!” she cried. “It was l who made
you famous, .simply for the kiss you gave
me, when you were unknown.”
“But shall I never see you again?” 1
eagerly asked. “You could look in occasion-
ally for old times’ sake?”
“No; you are sixty. I never stay with
any poet after lie’s sixty. You ought:
to’know that. Well, my dear, for the sake
of old times, perhaps I’ll pay a fleeting visit
to you when your wife and your child are
away. I’m rather interested in that hoy of
yours,” she suggested. “I have an idea that
hi' might be like you.”
“My son!” I gasped. “No, no!” I fell
oil, my knees. “Let him alone- I cried.
“Leave him to make his way through the
world away from the temptations of poetry.
Take the spell 'off him. I have suffered .too
much !”
I had scarcely the strength to speak; but
I flung myself upon that enchanting loveli-
ness, imperishable for all time, and thrust
her through the door. I had strength only
enough to turn the key against that terrible
beauty....
When I awoke it was the dawn of my
sixtieth birthday. Henceforth I should write
only prose, blank prose—but, at least, I had
saved my sou. He would never • write
poetry.
“RIGHT YOU ARE, IF YOU BUNK YOU ARE!”
MATERIALS FOR AN EXPRESSIONIST WSECT-1 9RAMA, OFFERED TO
THE MELBOURNE CENTENARY CO MM ITI EE.
“There are five hundred houses here without baths. ’
—Collingwood councillor.
JUNE s—Arrived at Melbourne' clocks
this morning. iEsthetically, it struck'me
as a fine city. Against the rays’of the
rising sun the fretted skyline, of spires .
towers looked splendid. But frepi a germ’s-
eye point of view it looked most inhospitable.
Terrifyingly, hygienic ! I communicated niy
fears to a staphylococcus who was sharing
with me a fat woman.with .peroxidedfhair
in the first saloon —she had been doing tire
European tour. “The trouble with you
common-cold germs,” he said, “is that you’re
so short-lived you never learn anything: < T
have lived in London, Berlin, New York and
Paris. Never judge a city by its business,,
houses, churches, monuments and public
buildings.” This cheered me. ,
The fat woman sneezed in going down tire
gangway, and, transferring to a baggage-
agent, I chummed up with an acne vulgaris
I found in occupation. He was in a bad
humor. The baggage-agent had a slack day
oil the wharves, and went home early. As
soon as we entered his house, which was
one of the most unpromising-looking little
homes I have ever encountered, my nostrils
were assaulted by a repellent odor. “What
on earth is that?” I asked in alarm. “Coal-
tar soap,” said the a.v. “It's the .bane !of
my existence. They all use it in this dis-
trict.” I spent a restless night wondering
what was going to become of me.
June 6.- —Went to school with one of the
baggage-agent’s children, a healthy boy ,on
whom I could make- no impression. How-
ever, it was a bitterly cold day, there
were 30 or 40 children in the room and there
'was - 'life ■*fireplace, so.-tlie. schoolmistress, _ a
thin - worrfaii * with r; flu, -closed all the win-
dows.'- ■ -She’ grumbled all - day . about some-
thing;-called an ! '“‘_‘J3couomy : Drive.” This is
h 'germ 1 .1 have never* come across, -but, as
•far 'a;s'T,:coul(i gather, it ‘is;, a very active
•organism jahd dauses more diseases.than any
i 'rtidde friends with.m .Klebs-Loeffler
I fWnd.'lodged’ in the false
membrane* of' J a girl who,/ lie “sajd, .had' won
V certificafe,'for never lia'ving a day’s
schooling "|pr‘,seven years. ' ’.
June had, a .terrifying experi-
ence’. j (.The- girl with the attendance record
turned’ out* to’ be* the daughter of the chauf-
feur of a ! rich merchant who lives in a suburb
called IToofalc. 'Tlie dist rict is composed of
line, -large,*-- twceStpifCyed- houses set in wide
■grounds, reeks of baths, soap, carbolic
,-acid'*andt,v.aOTUiri-cleaiiers. I have never
lived diir 'an- unpromising environment.
What *-is to* become of me V
June .11. —I have been in despair, and
thought I would perish miserably, but after
two days I managed to transfer to one of
the three’maids, and she kissed the butcher’s
boy, a*, handsome youth with red hair. I
went home with him, and in tlie evening I
accompanied him to a picture show, inciden-
tally meeting the .housemaid again. Mel-
bourne picture theatres are magnificent
places. You could easily mistake them for
royal palaces. 'They are so cheap, however,
that they are always crowded. Nevertheless,
cheap as they are, some of the people looked
so poor that;! wondered how they could
raise, the price of a ticket. It appears that
many are otit of work, and, as they can’t
afford fires, they visit picture theatres, if
necessary going without a meal in order
to' pay ; for their seats. The night I was
there tlie management gave the money to
a blanket fund.
June 13.—T have visited practically every
part yf the city in company with a -silk-
stocking salesman and am learning things.
In trams, trains, ’buses, at board meetings
and r on the pavements, everybody talks about
something called a Depression. Some say
that this Depression is ! a blessing in dis-
guise, and others say that the disguise is
perfect. A bishop whom my host inter-
viewed said that the Depression had been
sent as a punishment to society for its past
sins, which seemed to me right and proper.
June 15..—1 am in clover. I had no
notion, when I .visited Australia House be-
fore coming on this journey, what a false
and bad impression we English germs labor
under with regard to the Empire. It hap-
pened this why.’ I transferred from the
salespnm to* a • tram-conductor and then to
a man hr cast-off clothing who stole a ride.
He slipped, off in a shopping street, walked
dojvu Ltijn* tiurt, Giitcicd dwelling. I
looked around ine.'
What do we germs know of England who
only England know? The house, which stood
on a 10-foot frontage, had three small rooms,
.Tliere were seven people in them. A young
man. was breaking up a chair for firewood
In the living-room. A box had been placed
over a hole in the floor to prevent the babies
were two—from falling through it.
The mother was sewing clothes for another
that was coming. There was no bath, but
there was a tap over a sink in the back yard
at which a girl, who works in a factory, was
washing and at the same time wrangling
with her sister, who wanted to borrow her
coat. An old man .and woman were sitting
in the kitchen coughing.
There were so many of my friends about
that I was positively overwhelmed at my
welcome. I was introduced to a micro-
organism who said there were hundreds of
other houses like this one, old brick and
weatherboard tenements, inadequately pro-
vided with water, shut in with an atmosphere
of disrepair and. squalor, that acts like a
mildew on the spirits of their inhabitants,
The conditions could not be more ideal for
all of us. I feel I shall stay a long time
here and rear a large family.
June 16—My host and I pay frequent
visits to the corner pub- and I urn now in
full possession of all the necessary data
about my new environment. The area con-
tains 387 apartment houses, four-roomed
mostly, 20 licensed hotels, five wineshops
and seven brothels. Here live 2109 adults.
348 children over the age of two, and eight
babies. The babies are few and healthy be-
cause the weak ones die quickly. Therm are
also 101 allotments with private dwellings
containing 183 persons and covering an area
of one acre. On a similar area in the outer
suburbs only seven houses are permitted to
be built, so a bacillus coli from Camberwell
informed me. This shows how necessary it
is for a newly-arrived germ to make full
inquiries before he settles anywhere.
June 17. —1 had an exciting day yester-
day. My new host got a casual job on the
City Council at the Town Hall. I trans-
ferred to a .stout gentleman who took me
into a room where there were other stout;
gentlemen sitting round a table discussing
something. I gathered, to my alarm, that
they were making plans to celebrate the
city’s 100th birthday. All the science, wis-
dom and intelligence of the people were to
be directed to making Melbourne a city of
which its people could be proud, and one
which would inspire the respect and. admira-
tion of visitors. My dismay can be imagined
when I learnt that £400.000 was to be spent
on this ambition, but I speedily recovered
my good spirits, for it soon appeared that
all the money was to be expended on a
scenic motor highway.
June 20.—1 am back in my old quarters,
and more than ever convinced that any im-
migrant who is not afraid of hard work and
keeps out of the rural districts or the outer
suburbs can make good in this country. In
the last resort, so I am told by a diphtheria
bacillus who attached himself to one of the
children this morning, one can always make
a trip to the public hospital, where, he says,
the doctors and nurses are so overworked
that they offer practically no resistance to
any reasonably-active micro-organism.
June 25. —The new baby arrived to-night,
and we are all agog about it.
M.G.S.


eeliiK 5 Too Old At
Vitality comes this
simple way
THE unforgivable sin to-day is to be "too
old.” Yet young women—men, too —find
themselves just "worn-out” when they
should be at the zenith of a happy, healthy
life.
You want to enjoy life. You want to let
others find you fit and vigorous. Yon don’t
want to be an "always-iH" wife or an "ever-weak”
husband.
Young men and women, finding capacity for
work or pleasure destroyed by constant down-
dragging pain, weakness, back-breaking body
pains, agony to move or turn, bad nights perhaps,
and serious worries such as bladder trouble; most
surely you should realise that the kidneys lie at the
seat of your trouble.
Rheumatism, too, "the illness with a hundred
symptoms”; starting perhaps with sharp twinges
of pain in the muscles, the trouble, if neglected,
will develop until every movement of the body
seems just sheer agony.
Joints swell and become stiff, muscles ache
and burn, the back seems almost ready to break—all day there is constant down-
dragging pain and at night the tortured nerves refuse to sink to sleep.
Modern science has conclusively proved that the cause of rheumatism lies in
the blood. Poisons, such as uric acid in excess, harmful bacteria and toxins, are
carried through the system. In the case of uric acid, the tiny razor-edged crystals
are deposited in joints, etc., which flash to the brain their pain-struck symbols of
distress.
Weak kidneys, what misery they cause. If they are not filtering and purifying
the system they are allowing uric acid and other poisons to accumulate. That
is why you have pain night and day. That is why you feel and look *'too-old.
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lies within the system, through
faulty kicmey. action. There are thousands of men and women suffering daily
untold. agonies because of kidney trouble in one form or another who could
end their trouble in a very simple way. The only possible means of doing this
is to cleanse the body of pain-giving poisons, and that is a function the kidneys
must carry out.
11
ST*
SSI
mk
Years Roll {Back
It is the testimony of not one but thousands
of one-time sufferers which enables us to state that
if you will commence a course with a simple
straightforward remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be
ended.
It does not matter how long you have suffered
or what disappointments you may have had in the
past—get a bottle of De Witt’s Pills to-day and
start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your
nervous system and building once again the real
foundations of health.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why
continue in constant nerve-destroying pain? Why
be weak and ailing?
If you persevere with this tried and trusted,
40-year-old remedy, you will find your old, tired,
’’worn-out” feeling replaced by new vigour and
vitality. Your day’s work will be a pleasure and
your spare-time pleasures doubled. No more
sallow, spotty complexion, no more sleepless
nights, no more stabs in the back. No more
rheumatic pains, bad back, bladder troubles.
Try just one bottle of De s Kidney and
Bladder Pills and prove this. If within 24 hours
from the first dose you cannot see (from colour of
urine) that they have started their health action,
return the partly-used bottle to the manufacturers
and your money will be refunded in full.
This guaranteed remedy has been tried and trusted for over 40 years. It can
be taken by the very young, the weakest, the oldest and women at' all times, with
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the very first dose.
De WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder Pills
Invaluable
m
all cases of:—
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA
BlacK Leg' of the Foothills
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
WHAT Black Leg, the young South-
down ram, lacked in size, he made
up for in compactness of physique
and spirit. There were a full three-score
black-faced rams on the Ivanuka station, and,
until the advent of Black Leg, first one and
then another scarred-hcaded veteran lvad
lorded it over the rest; but when Black Leg,
rising three, had joined them that summer, in
(lie paddock beyond the woolslfed, his youthful
arrogance had taken no stock of their hoary
age that seemed to expect his reverence.
He strolled among them with a placid,
aloof assurance that excited their indigna-
tion, so that they stamped and shook their
battered heads, snorting their disapproval.
Even the least of them ventured to
wax indignant, for Black Leg was smaller
than the smallest among them; but not so
small as he looked. Like a well-built man,
his compactness was deceiving, so that when
the least of the rams decided to be least no
longer and attacked him treacherously in
the rear, lie whirled about like a teetotum
and sailed into battle with every ounce of
him behind the zest of his first charge.
The tail-end promptly oozed out to the
uttermost tip, while Black I,eg stood flipping
his ears and regarding the watching fifty
and nine with large, bright eyes that were
deceitfully benign. During the ensuing days
he fought many battles, emerging victorious
from them all, though most of his opponents
weighed many pounds more than he did.
The secret of his success lay in the intelli-
gence that could keep him waiting in in-
exhaustible patience for his attacker to make
the first move. When he fought, lie fought
with his brain, never battering blindly.
Every movement he made was calculated to
lure the other into an extravagant expendi-
ture of energy. Many of his fights began
in a strategic retreat that deluded the
older rams into thinking that he was but
a faint-hearted craven whom they could
finish off almost at once, if they could catch
him. When they were r exhausted by tlio
savage vigor of their unavailing rushes, then
he would turn and batter them mercilessly.
By night he slept under the twisted
manuka, or sat wide-eyed, chewing placidly,
contemplating the stars that his forebears
had watched when the world was young. He
loved the nights—the cool, spicy breath of
them. Sometimes he would pause in his
hurried chewing, and stare away up to the
domed peaks of the mountains; but his calm
eyes looked not so much at as through them,
to a wisdom that was of the wild. Perhaps
he would leave his warm bedding-down place
and wander restlessly through the bracken,
with the moon gleaming wliitely on his shorn
body, so that his black face and legs were
■* OK ’ : i?i darkness, and he seemed some ghostly
apparition moving without volition through
the immcngity 0 f the night.
His solid haunches were iron-hard to the
touch, knotted with sinew that was tough
au( l supple as whipcord.
b)n Scarface, the father of the flock, Black
Beg ma 9 e no impression, until they were
turned into the llugc p a , sturo where the
itomney ewes ran.
Among the ewes was a young female of
singular attraction, and Scarface promptly
marked her down as his own. So did Black
Beg—not furtively, trying to lure her away
) v ben the old king s back was turned, but
insolently, in broad daylight; and all too
evidently.the hussy preferred him ,Ins youth
&ood looks, to the honorably-battered
but unprepossessing ancient,
O n , a wild slope with the sun running
over it so that even the bracken wilted, they
fought. After half an hour’s furious charg-
tog, Scarface lost his confidence. Nine out
of ten of his charges were merely into space,
while something like a battering-ram would
hit him obliquely m shoulder or ribs, bruis-
ln& Bim cruelly.
The young ewe, after watching them
blandly for some moments, wandered non-
chalantly off over the hill, and disappeared
with one of the other fifty-eight males; but
among the trampled bracken the shadows
grew long before the fight was done,
Old Scarface, a good forty pounds heavier
than his young opponent, staggered off the
field and crept under a fallen tree, while
Black Leg, forgetting the origin of the
atiray, but feeling every inch a king, moved
away through the long shadows in search of
water. From then, through the season, he
reigned in unquestioned supremacy,
When, about a month later, he found him-
self ignominously herded back to the wool-
shed paddock in company with the other
fifty and nine, his indignation knew no
bounds. For two nights he brooded. Then
he forced his way through the fence, and
got back to the flock.
In the end they roped him, transporting
him on horseback; but that night lie was
back again with the ewes. They sought him
for a week, finally mustering the steep, two-
hundred-acre paddock; but Black Leg was
not there. In all his life he never had to be
taught the same lesson twice; His was a
nature essentially aboveboard, but this time
circumstance forced him, literally, into hole-
and-corner methods. In the two-hundred-
acre paddock, wild as it was, he knew with
Unerring instinct that men would inevitably
find him, though he managed to elude them
successfully for some days. When, on the
fifth night of his return, he found a hole
in the corner of the boundary fence, he
waited only long enough to collect a score
of ewes before taking the trail out into
the unknown.
Beyond the two-liundred-acre paddock the
foothills rose in vast, sombre terraces to
the unbroken chain of the mountains. The
first of the foothills, burnt out long since,
were seas of bracken, sad and grey; but
beyond them the steeps were clad with dense
bush. The scent of it, earthy-sweet, was
wafted to the young ram, so that within
him something primitive stirred and woke.
Calm, yet eager, lie started up the high
slope of the first hill. Puzzled but unquestion-
ing, the score of meek ewes followed him.
As they climbed, the still air that had been
keen below was tinged with' the bitterness of
snow. Through rifts in the leaden clouds
the stars were like chips of ice, and, when
the moon peered through, the world was
white, as though caught in the grip of the
frost king, and the shadows were pools of
unguessed mystery.
Black Leg himself was tireless, but after
the first hour the ewes began to' lag, so
that he was forced to accommodate his pace
to theirs. But, even so, dawn, tremulously
golden, found them many miles away, bedded
down on the side of a hill where the sun-
light never penetrated. Black Leg was
content, but the ewes were fearful and un-
satisfied, for in the bush they found no
fodder save here and there the tough, un-
nourisli'ing blades of the toe-toe. They were
empty and uneasy, and frightened by the
vast silence. Their silly eyes stared
with helpless misery. Black Leg led them
on again, higher and higher, towards the
summit of the lower ranges, where an un-
canny instinct assured him that there would
be both food and water.
Presently lio stumbled on a narrow track,
cut by the sharp, pointed hoofs of the wild
red deer. It went along a ridge-top, up
and down, but always towards the moun-
tains. On the top of the last hill there was
a shallow pool of peat-brown, scummy water,
from which the ewes drank thirstily, shoul-
dering each other roughly, while Black Leg
stood back, watching them with placid pride.
When they had drunk their fill he went
forward himself, but could no more than wet
his lips, for his harem, their own thirst
slaked, had trampled the seepage to
iridescent mud.
So he led on again, and up. Soon they
were traversing a precipitous trail that fell
sheer away on either side. On it was no
more than foothold in the treacherous shale,
and the tops of the trees that had their
feet in the valleys reached out detaining
hands that clutched at their wool as they
passed.
There, one of the ewes missed her footing
and plunged over and over into a tree-top,
where she hung, bleating pitifully. Black
Leg peered over, regarding her stolidly. He
moved on, leaving her to her dreadful fate.
Sunset shot the world with green and
silver, and Black Leg paused to sniff at a
little snowdrift that lay snngly in a crevasse
beside the trail. The wind that moaned
over the ridge was bitter with snow, but the
young ram did not falter.
Now the trees and scrub were falling away
behind, giving place to a tangle of weeds and
mountain flowers. The track widened and
failed, and they were out upon the bare
ridge, above the bush line, where the sparse
tough grass clung to the sheltered slopes.
Behind him the ewes spread out, tearing at
it eagerly, but Black Leg held steadily on,
until he gained the very top. Beyond the
ridge was a valley so deep that even now
it was wrapped in darkest night; and beyond
the valley the mountains swept away, majes-
tic and terrible. Their brows were crowned
with wreaths of snow that would lie until
the winter passed away; but Black Leg- sur-
veyed them calmly, turning at last along
the ridge, seeking the spring that his ques-
ting nostrils assured him was somewhere
close.
For the next month lie herded his flock
on the precipitous slope, undaunted by the
autumn gales that swept the ridge-top with
a fury that no living thing could stand
against. Below it was comparatively calm,
no matter how it howled above; and when
the blinding snowstorms swept in dancing
loveliness across the high peaks he and his
ewes Avould bed down in some sheltered
grove of scrub, warmer than they had ever
been in the burnt-out paddocks below.
The winter blew out of the south, and the
ridge and the hillside were buried deep under
the snow. Two of the ewes were buried
with it, under a great drift that detached
itself suddenly and slid, with a roar like
thunder, down on the grove where they were
bedded.
Even so Black Leg lingered for another
day, hoping against hope that the siin would
break through the leaden clouds and melt
the deep drifts. But the wind, with its
bitter burden, blew steadily from the south;
so at last he led the way back towards the
downward trail. Two days later they were
back in the foothills, on the edge of the
bush. His ewes were hankering after civilisa-
tion, but further he would not go. Here was
a stream, snow-fed and unfailing, and here
was abundance of tough, withered grass.
Occasionally the bush-shy sheep tliat in-
habited the steep hills would attempt to join
his flock, but for some reason Black Leg
would have none of them. Perhaps he was
proud, for his flock was pure-bred, while they
were cross-bred and crossed again, coarse-
wooled and curious-shaped.
The winter sighed and wept itself away,
and to his many wives their young were
born. Four of them, foul with their own
droppings, and unattended, died, leaving
out of the six lambs that should have
been born but one that lived through the
bitter day. Of the rest, one was still-born
and five died, so that there was no increase
in his flock. Still, the ones that survived
(Continued on next page.')


v/
vx
v •:
2
45
A
I
und < Jri
ITon
to
Sunny Pacific Islands
“Where Winter Never Comes.”
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
by the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at most economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 Wiliam Street, Melbourne
v/ <O.
JS
S'
*//c
*
fill
>r
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK Or EVERY BOTTU
BOTTLED It CUARANTCtO
PURE DV THE FRENCH
COVERNMENT
ETAT MEANS
•STATE vu
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
e
TV .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ncity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRINC
HEAR THIS
IN MIND
< s7jf following itatement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATE R v
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super*
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheuma*'
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
1 complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, dubs- restaurants,'
chemists and stores throughout the rforld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.*
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes!
Bole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, -VS.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messra. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Clk mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY’’ is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone; F 3348.
BUILD UP BY CUTTING
DOWN EXPENSES.
Comparatively Low Scale Advertising
in a prosperous Market is Offered
by the Perth
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL PAPER.
More Business at Less Cost.
The big Western Weekly offers a
State-wide circulation at compara-
tively cheap coverage. Every keen
business executive must watch costs
these days. Here is the opportunity
for every National advertiser to enter
a market at minimum expense by
using Westralia’s largest and most
popular newspaper. Circulation
backed by A.B.C. certificates.
STUDY THE
BUSINESS OR TRADE
(No extra charge for
Casual
50 Single-column inches
100 Single-column inches
200 Single-column inches
300 Single-column inches
400 Single-column inches
500 Single-column inches
750 Single-column inches
1000 Single-column inches
RATES.
ADVERTISING
Block Space.)
6/- per inch
5/6 per inch
5/- per inch
4/10 per inch
4/8 per inch
4/6 *per inch
4/4 per inch
4/2 per inch
4/- ner inch
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, sth Floor, Wingello House.
’Phone. 85690.
The Expert
View
tIK H.Z. KcTcrcc
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
. WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander/’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Iteadiug-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
.ftatuteJ'&C'C&ruce,
S&xieJ, SCtype,
S’S&ce&rt. TurteJ, rfv&ca
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT MEDIUMT9 WOMEN ]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
were husky, filling him with a curious, benign
pride.
September days drifted in, mellow and
warm, and the lambs, a full month old, were
fit to travel. Black Leg turned back towards
the heights. Spring, lie knew in some
obscure way, would bring men and dogs and
the old indignity of mustering.
The going back was a labor of bitterness,
fraught with a new and terrible danger, for
the ewes and Black Leg himself were long
and heavy in the wool, so that, the under-
growth leaned over and caught at them with
hands that clutched and would not let them
go. Before the day was over the two finest
ewes, with their lambs, were somewhere far
behind, hopelessly trapped and doomed to a
lingering death in the green heart of the
bush ; and the way the flock had gone was
marked through all its length by the strands
of white wool that the bush had taken as
toll.
Only ten ewes survived that bitter journey.
Six of them remained tangled in the cruel
undergrowth. The seventh lay at the bottom
of a ravine, where the light of day never
penetrated.
The snow was gone from the ridge, and
the heights were silver-cool and green with
the tough tufts of bitter, palatable grass.
Below them the snow still lay in the deep
ravines. Above the mountains were still
Avliite-capped, but everywhere the green
spring was abroad. The ridge was alive
with grey cottontails, . and slim, shy deer
regarded the newcomers with alert suspicion.
The riotous spring ended with a drought
that lasted the summer through, so that, the
tufted grass that had grown high as Black
Leg’s head was dry to the roots, and brittle,
so that a little wind could break it. In the
trees below, the hot, dry gusts moaned and
rasped the branches together with a harsh
crackling sound. Black Leg and his flock
grew gaunt, bnt now none of them thought
of leaving the ridge, which was home to
them.
Summer wilted away, and autumn was
there, with a steady northerly, under whose
searing fingers even the hardy scrub died.
The edge of the bush was lined with stark
grey trunks, and there was a thin film of
dust rising from the parched earth that
caught at the throat, so that the air was
shivered continually with the harsh, dry
coughing of the patient sheep.
Quite suddenly Black Leg decided to quit
the ridge, for again his instinct prompted
him to the knowledge that in the lower
valleys, if anywhere, the tussock beside the
mountain streams would be lush and green.
With the dawning, he led his emaciated
flock down from the scarred heights. All
through the day they travelled, but very
slowly, for now the ewes were in no case
to fight the clutch of the undergrowth. Their
wool, sweeping the ground beneath their
bellies, was knotted and tangled with bits
of twig and bracken and the great mountain
bidi-bidi, so that the clutch of bramble and
lawyer-berry was even more deadly than it
had been in the spring.
First one and then another of the older
ewes surrendered and lay down to die; but
Black Leg held on. At noon they paused
on the hill where seepage had made a brack-
ish pool; but now there was nothing there
but a little foetid mud. While the ewes
milled about it with harsh complaint. Black
Leg stood with his head lifted and bis dry
nostrils searching the dry air that was
sinister with a strange and unfamiliar tang,
eddying up from the silence below.
Black Leg took a deep breath' and
whistled, then swung about and, calling the
alarmed ewes, started hurriedly back towards
the ridge. Though they travelled fast, driven
on by a fear that, as yet, they hardly under-
stood, the fire travelled faster, roaring up
the valleys on either side as fire roars up
a chimney. Soon the air was thick with'
the eddying smoke that hung in blue swirls
between the lichened trunks of the forest
giants, who stood waiting in dignified patience
for the fire death that would surely find
them. Ewe after ewe collapsed or was
left entrapped, bleating with loneliness and
terror; but Black Leg never paused, twist-
ing his wool from the greedy clutch of the
undergrowth, driven on and on by the dire
necessity of his fast-dwindling flock.
Only three ewes and five lambs remained.
Black Leg opened his mouth to call, but
through his parched lips no sound came.
Now the world was no more than a swirl-
ing sea of grey-blue smoke, through which
the trees loomed suddenly and were as sud-
denly blotted out a step behind. The wan-
derers came to the narrow ridge, where the
tree-tops flanking the scant foothold were
wrapped in livid flame. But the young ram
did not hesitate. Only beyond there, on the
bare ridge-top, lay any hope of safety. Meekly
unquestioning, the ewes and lambs followed.
A gust of wind 'took one, hurling it to
death in the mighty pyre below. A banner
of golden flame leaped out from the depths
and took another with her lamb. The blister-
ing heat cracked out a slide of shale, from
which Black Leg and the last ewe and four
lambs alone escaped; and then, across the
trail ahead, little tongues of yellow flame
went leaping.
Black Leg, his eyes bloodshot, bis tongue
hanging out like a dog’s, slogged his head
down and held on; but now, through her
daze, panic seized the remaining ewe, and
she halted. Black Leg sensed rather than
saw it, and halted too, striving vainly to
call. On that narrow, treacherous way, turn
he could not —-he could only twist his ugly,
splendid head, and beseech her with agon-
ised eyes. But, if the ewe saw, she was
too panic-stricken to heed. One bleat
she gave; then she leaped out into the
inferno below. For an instant of helpless
agony, Black Leg watched the lambs. Then
a pall of smoke swept up between them.
When it had cleared, they, too, were gone.
Twenty minutes later, with the wool on
his belly charring, Black Leg staggered up
to the spring and collapsed into it, while
the great clouds of smoke billowed up, purple
and blue and green and black, out of the
valleys, and rolled away to the undisturbed
peaks of the mountains. Hour after hour
lie lay, staring with stricken eyes into the
lurid distance. Night came, blotting all
things from sight, and a south wind rose
and blew the smoke and fire away to the
north.
Black Leg staggered to his feet and took
the long trail home.
Some nights later he forced his way
through the fence into the paddock beyond
the woolshed. With the morning, many came
td challenge him. He merely defended him-
self, so that in the end they left him alone.
As they moved out to graze, unobtrusively
he fell in behind them, a self-condemned
failure, shamed and abased, but not undigni-
fied in his ignominy.
In the Gully.
Down from the mountain ridge we went
Into a gully, green and cool,
Side by side with a stream that leapt,
Singing ever, from pool to pool.
High, up high, on the timbered range,
Breezes roamed through the trees at will;
Deep, deep down, in the gully’s heart.
All the winds of the world were still.
Logs, mossed over, that bridged the stream,
Fallen columns of emenild seemed;
Ferns, uplifting their arching fronds.
Still dew-wet by the streamside gleamed.
Here we halted, and there we strayed,
Lured and held by the wilderness;
All around us were shade and shine,
Beech and sassafras, spray and tress.
Fragrance sweetened the dewy air,
Scents outgiven by hidden blooms;
Tinkling, tinkling their silver bells,
Bellbirds chimed in the frondcd glooms.
Bellbirds tinkled, and no bird else,
Save at times (when a sudden hush
Stilled their music and made them mute),
Voicing joyance, there sang a thrush,
Sang of life that was good to live,
Sang of loving that knew no fears,
Careless maybe of whoso heard,
Mindful maybe of heedful ears.
Wandering there in that wilderness
Far removed from the haunts of men,
Walled by bastion of fretted stone,
What came over us there and then?
All this beauty unviewed by men,
All this magic—what did it mean? .
Two we were, with a mystic third
Ever-present, yet all unseen.
Musing there in that cloistral place,
Back, far back, to an ancient day,
Strayed our thoughts on a sylvan path,
Green and golden, through time grown
grey.
Now in shadow and now in shine,
Now above us and now below,
Something silent of footfall moved,
Sought and known by us long ago.
Something known to us ages since,
Loved and lovely, but lost for aye;
Bellbirds told us that it was so,
Beech and sassafras, frond and spray.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


NSSJ
0
■ i iifg
: rill
. ’ ii'ii’-'S
wSbe
111
smsu
m
in
ill
■
«■
| '
I
!■
II
ißKill
M
ft
V
1
. = 4
mm
*
i
. 'i
i. pi
IlilsiKl
. Hh
iteiiillli!
I: :" i:
c„„i.
D'SMlri
VollanJ
IPi nt a
Ijlilllj
IPiijllll
lllilll
sjHliii
CT^CoiLum’s
■
MMI
f Jr #
' : Jg:
'* I
I Hi ffifflllp]
Scots (£j his l^ 1
ill!
BHR
■
- m
*i'NBU«C,H llou/tdcS two;)
- ‘lu : r i" !
.: ' 3K
WM
rlll-l
gfgjg|aa
liiiSlSii
:iif4®;Jfer fifea
:
i>
v!4
I
ft> I L. t '
I—
m
V.v
'■'i! ■/ 1- -
n
iilii'lll
l|l!
H
pan
SSli . i ll®
' ! ' :
iv. ■-
n§
:i • 1,,:
rls ,■ imM
« . * SJy V, »*mm l{4
a
,
wi
i
M
Mm
mm
I- :1* !• iff iHiISSSS I r-. i*
i;
pS
m
SB
:: 7 i : : I
* *> •! «.? l
W:/
fe,,,,,. 1 91
r illf
: • ; ;::p 7 ••
■
m
H
m
!.• •;
i t! «i:'i
SB ■
a
IS. i ,•
SSB?
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO.. Hobart.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
FICTION:— Postage
PAGEANT
By G. B. Lancaster. 6s. 6d. (4d.)
BRING THE MONKEY
By Miles Franklin. 6s. (2d.)
“SATURDEE”
By Norman Lindsay. 6s. (3d.)
JONAH
By Louis Stone. 6s. (3d.)
STORIES BY “KODAK”
Illustrated by Low. ss. (3d.)
GENERAL:—• Posiage
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT
By A. B. Paterson, illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay,
2nd edition. 2s. 6d. (2d.)
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD
By Ambrose Pratt.
Illustrated. ss. (2d.)
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY
By 'Charles Chauvel.
Illustrated. 6s. (3d.)
A MESSAGE FROM “BAWRA”
By Harold Sims. 32pp. Is. (Id.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE
By Ena Burrows. Revised
Scoring. 2s. (Id.)
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
.
8P
\P
o
<P\O
V V,\ & e^
•va- v co’ 1
c° «o'
&
li
&
C*
w
*
Vc.eP' <o*? <&*'
o\
o>
¥
P>
<v . -\>
W<O
0
0°
e
iv
e r S'J
.r v \V <v^'
» **


/SMILING
HEALTH
'• ■ •>...
'M
3-
'
? i
&
-'■V
3k ’ c
*1 t '
■ ■ ■■ .: .
5
gg§
i! ill
.- H|
■■■Mi
mimsm
mmm
raraMi
HPiS
wmm
'> a*
rgHE
U£
■Bill
■■■ . '■' '. '
-■ "'' ‘ ' ' : -. ::' -■ • ■ ■"■ :
i> :1
v illtip
WmsmXfMrfP> /'■ 'w
■ ■:
*W:»:
WM ’mm&
Wm hh
#
THE
% V
O’ D
m
j*
■v
■
TOOHEYS
OjxJuqLnxx^
OATMEAL
STOUT
properties of ordinary Stout
Jlus the Value of Oatmeal,
great body-builder without preservatives.
