

è
é
«'
am
■
S'T
V
m a
t
A
mtctkmtia
The Bulletin
& hjidl/i/Xrrfo,
Vol. 54.—N0. 2772.
Wednesday, March 29, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, JST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing at
advei'tised in the Sydney Bulletin. '
My Name
My Address
S.B. 233
«c
%
w
>
m
p
It pays to look your best
at all times
Cutieiira Soap
will do much to help you.
Used daily, it protects the
skin and keeps it in a healthy
condition.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Paily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to. keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually,
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
e
TuUivie S''se><eruze ,
SicXieJ, Sta^e.
» Screen. TuteL /\t&eZ fsx
&te: SurC&d. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pN SALE ALL STATES 6-.
N . i i 111 , .ajaaa-—/
can
speak only in
terms of the highest
praise of the pulling
power of our adver-
tisement in
The
Brisbane
Courier.
So writes Mr. J. R. Robertson,
manager in Queensland for Over-
beck’s Eejuvenator (Aust.), Ltd.
His advertisements in the
“Courier” bring business from all
over Queensland. Letter on request.
‘‘Courier” Representatives:
SYDNEY—Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt
Street. 85007.
MELBOURNE—Louis S. Marks,
Argus Bldg. F 3906.
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should road the “British Australian anil
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Austi’alia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge, Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman's Mirror
PRICE - 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
iiiai me oounoesi state
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the wav.
<<r^r
TELEG DADH
L BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Crusading Spirit
It is inherent in mankind. The worldly-
wise keep it in check as Bishop Blougram
did his disbelief, and for a similar reason;
it is a sure road to unpopularity, if not ruim
The most unlikely people have let it carry
them away. Wilkes, for example, one of the
worst and best of Englishmen. In spite
of the cant about “art for art’s sake” it is
a fact that most of England’s great literary
artists throughout the ages—Shakspeare and
Milton; Shelley and Dickens; Shaw and
Wells and Galsworthy—have been busy
crusaders; for patriotism and the established
order, for liberty and Protestantism, for
humanitarian legislation, for Socialism and
so on. Though the crusader may suffer
for his activities in his lifetime they will
often cause his memory to remain frag-
rant long after his other claims to fame
have been forgotten. How many would'
remember Hood if he hadn’t written ‘‘The
Song of the Shirt”? Conan Doyle pro-
duced at least one fine novel in “The
White Company,” but nine people out of
ten remember him chiefly as the creator
of Sherlock Holmes and a propagandist on
behalf of spiritualism. Emile Zola was his
opposite number in many ways. Zola was
a best-seller in several languages when
Conan Doyle was fighting to get men out of
prison who were as innocent'as Dreyfus, and
he is only remembered now by the average
Frenchman as the creator of the Rougon-
Macquart family and the writerof“J’Accuse.”
Knight in Homespun
It is appropriate that Henri Barbusse
should have written in Zola (Dent; 10s. 6d.)
the first full-dress biography of a great
Frenchman who plunged into a mighty
battle for the right though he hated fight-
ing. Barbusse despises all the .things that
Zola despised, and notably journalistic dis-
honesty, the arrogance of officials and the
injustices and cruelties of militarism. His
temperament allows him to see his subject
in the right perspective. He can grin while
he worships. It is doubtful if French pos-
terity will give Zola a much higher place
than the British of to-day give novelists
like William de Morgan and Mrs. Henry
Wood. His industry was phenomenal and
his output was colossal, but he had no
humor and little wit, and he found it hard
to bring his characters to life. In a pro-
found and scientifically accurate study like
“La Bete Humaine” anyone who knows the
country round Le Havre will immediately
recognise the railway line, and anyone who
is familiar with sexual psychopathy will
immediately understand what is wrong with
the railwayman and guess what his end will
be. The experiences of the characters are
unforgettable, but the characters themselves
are shadows. Of all the hundreds of men and
women whom Zola drew, Coupeau almost
alone is as memorable as some such minor
Balzac identity as the miserable Roguin in
“Cesar Birotteau.” Zola’s first success was
essentially one of scandal. His naturalism,
which seems so mild to this age of Joyce
and Lawrence, horrified the nineteenth cen-
tury. Even the tolerant Anatole France
condemned it. It w r as because of his habits
of plain speech that the Academy ranked
him morally with Flaubert and Baude-
laire and refused to nominate him. Barbusse
makes the remarkable statement that it was
Zola’s outcast state which caused him to
struggle as he did to be nominated: —
He was so vilified in his works, so
drenched with insults and covered with mud,
so universally rated as a pornographer and
a corrupter of the public, that one under-
stands his wish to have an official conse-
cration which would at least, shut the
mouths of some imbeciles.
In 1898 he was nearly 60, rich, sedentary
and settled in his ways. “J’Accuse,” which
appeared in “L’Aurore” on January 13,
launched him, as he knew it would, on “a
terrible struggle not only with his habits
but with his tastes, his physical timidities,
his sense of strangeness when he left his
desk and also the nervous exasperation
aroused in him by contradiction and the
wound caused by the slightest knock.” As
the defender of a Jewish traitor he auto-
matically incurred the hostility of every
clerical and patriotic organisation. Most
of his friends deserted him; even Qezanne,
the oldest and best-loved of them. Paris
became dangerous and he bolted to
London. In London he stubbornly con-
tinued his campaign in the press and else-
where. He forced himself presently to return
to France. Barbusse, who handles this
grim period with the lightest of touches,
likens him to Turenne, who before going
into battle would
cry scornfully to
his shivering body:
“Aye, tremble, car-
case, and you would
tremble more if
you knew where
I am going to take you!” Here is a
ridiculous yet inspiring picture:—
He was awkward, he was short-sighted,
he held 'his umbrella clumsily under his arm,
lie had the gestures and demeanor of the
student. But when he descended one by
one the steps of the Palais de Justice, amid
cries of hatred, shouts of death, under an
archway of uplifted walking-sticks, it was
like a king descending the great staircase
of the Hotel de Ville under an archway of
naked swords.
He didn’t live to see Dreyfus vindicated.
He was killed, absurdly enough, by falling
downstairs in his home in 1902.
Saint and Rebel
It is a far cry from Zola, the Parisian
voluptuary who had no religion, to Kagawa,
the Christian ascetic of Japan, but they
are alike under their skins. In Kagawa
(S.C.M. Press; Book Depot, Sydney; 7s.)
William Axling describes the career of the
reformer, so far as it has gone, with the
authority of one who has known him for 30
years. Christianity has been one of. the
inspirations of Kagawa’s life. It sent him
from the Kobe Theological Seminary to the
lowest slums in 1909, and it helped to keep
him there for eight years after his marriage.
He inhabited a six-by-six shack when he
first went to Shinkawa, and. as he never
refused a beggar a lodging, he eventually
found himself with 10 down-and-outs on
his hands. A wall had to be taken away
to enable them to lie down.
One was in the last stages of t.b. One
was mentally deranged. Another was a
sick ninstitute rotten with syphilis. It was
through sharing his bed with a beggar that
Kagawa contracted trachoma, the dreaded
eye disease which has almost' robbed him of
his sight.
Five years afterwards when he brought his
wife home she found a couple of ailing
septuagenarians, an outcast beggar woman,
a delinquent youth of 11 and' a destitute
mother with four children, all of whom had
to be fed on Kagawa’s then income of £3
a month. But side by side with these indis-
criminating and almost masochistic acts of
charity went a severely practical nature. He
led the strike which put an end to the
Japanese equivalent of the Combination
Laws, and went to gaol for it. His novels,
which have been best-sellers for some years,
consist largely in attacks on the slums.
They eventually shamed the Government
into starting housing reforms ' in the
Empire’s six largest cities. The earthquake
of 1923 destroyed two-thirds of Tokio and
caused the deaths of 100,000 people. An
Imperial Economic Commission was set
up to advise the Government in its work of
reconstruction, and one of the first citizens
called to serve on it was Kagawa. In the
winter of 1930-31 the depression was at its
height, the nation was spending £1,000,000
a year on relief, and the Social Welfare
Bureau was in a mess. Mayor Horikiri, of
Tokio, asked Kagawa to become head’ of
the bureau at £1800 a year. He refused,
but offered to act as chief adviser for
nothing. He is wealthy—he has drawn
over £20,000 in royalties from his books—
but he, his wife and their three children
live on £8 a month. The rest goes to the
support of his social settlements in Kobe,
Osaka and Tokio. Such saints are to be
found in all races and classes; they may
be aristocrats like Lord Shaftesbury or men
of the people like Father Damien, and
they are often religious. However, in the
last resort, religion doesn’t explain them.
The God-inspired men of old who isolated
themselves in deserts cared little for their
fellow-mortals. The martyrs of our day
are man-inspired, and the supply never
fails. A reassuring thought for those who
are tempted to despair of human nature.
RED PAGE.
Eugenics
Walter Murdoch, professor and essayist,
humorist and philosopher, has let me down
I read “Speaking Personally” and “Satur-
day Mornings,” and so I bought “More-
over ■” “°. n Training Nightmares” caused
my disillusionment. This essay is a frivol-
ous attack on eugenics. Murdoch takes
two books as hooks for his discourse, “The
Case for Eugenics,” by Leonard Darwin,
and ‘Prometheus,” by H. S. Jennings.
He admits ignorance of his subject at
the outset; anyone with an elementary
knowledge of it could have grasped
that fact before finishing the first page.
Eugenists do not claim that their way—the
practice of encouraging mating of the fit
and discouraging mating of the unfit—is
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Farmers ! |
Why be infested by Rabbits!
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Practised without Deviation
“THE SENIOR STORE."
Essential in. . .
every Trappers
Outfit
Strong Hurricane
Lanterns, - - 5/6 each
Strong and Durable Hurricane Lan-
terns. Give a bright and steady
light in all weathers. Admirable for
rabbit trappers. Price, each, 5/6
Trap Setters - - - - 2/9
Brades’ Rabbit Trap Setters. A use-
ful article. Price, each .... 2/9
Handle 7d. extra each.
Water Bags 1/9
Canvas Water Bags.
Sizes, inches 12 14 16 18
Prices, each 1/9 1/11 2/2 2/4
QfQo.r)
K
Wire Netting Cage Rabbit’
Traps. Strongly constructed.
Will hold a number of rabbits
at a time. Price, each . . 1/6
Special quotations for gross
lots.
Dog Traps from 1 0/6
Round Jaw Dog Traps.
Sizes, inches . . 7 8 9
Prices, each .... 10/6 12/6 15/6
ROPE
Good Quality Rope Clothes Line.
Price, each 7d.
Five-ply Sewing Twine.
Price, per hank 7d.
Tin Billy Cans
Tin Billy Cans.
Sizes, quarts
1 2 3 4 6 8 10 12
Prices, each —
sd. 7d. Bd. lOd. 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/3
Tripods at only Bd.
Steel Tripods are an essential item
when an open fire is used.
Price, each Bd.
(Household Ironmongery Department—Ground
Floor, Pitt Street Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.)
Anthony Horderns’
better quality Traps
will help you
KEEP THEM DOWN!
All traps sold by Anthony Horderns’ are manufactured
from specially-hardened and tempered spring steel,
guaranteeing absolute reliability. All the latest features
in the various brands of traps are introduced, so that
you have the latest style of trap—obtainable at a much
lower price!
LANE’S PATENT TRAPS
Wire Spring
Lane’s Patent Wire Spring
Traps. Price, per doz., 21/6.
Price, per doz., for case con-
taining 12 doz 21/-
DOWN-EE
Super Sensitive.
Down-ee Super Sensitive
Traps. Price, per doz., 2 I/6.
Price, per doz., for case con-
taining 11 doz 21/-
Flat Spring
Lane’s Patent Flat Spring
Traps. Price, per doz., 2 1 /6.
Price, per doz., for case con-
taining 10 doz 21/-
JL
VICTOR
Made in Australia
Victor Traps. Made in Aus-
tralia. Price, per doz., 21 /6.
Price, per doz., for case con-
taining 1 2 doz 21/-
Ibu-
A!! Rabbit Traps include Peg
and Chain.
Obtainable- in the Household Iron-
mongery Department—Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
FREIGHT IS EXTRA.
To help ma\e
your expedition
a success ....
'llllllllilllllllliiillilllllllllll
Primus Stove 15/-
Primus Oil Stoves are ideal for
cooking meals in the open. Noisy.
Price, each 15/-
Noiseless. Price, each .... 167-
Wire Grid Iron - - I Od.
Wire Grid Irons. Invaluable in
Camp. Prices, each, 1 Od., 1/-, 1/3
Enamel Mugs from 11 d.
Enamelled Mugs,
Sizes, pint's § I
Grey. Prices, each . . lid. 1/-
White. Prices, each . . I/- 1/2
è
There is no need to have ants in
your food. UKA-ANTS is the ideal
article for keeping them out. In
sets of four to stand on the ground.
Price, per set 3/6
Specially constructed single, suit-
able for hanging safes, etc.
Price, each .1/6
Iron Frying Pans
Sizes, inches —
S 9 10 11 12-
Folding Handles —
2/2 2/4 2/6 2/9 2/11
Long Handles—
-1/10 2/2 2/3 2/9 - 2/11
Pocket Scales
Pocket Balances. Small and light to
carry. To weigh 251 b.
Price, each 1/6
To weigh 301 b. Price, each, 2/3
Enamel Plates, 1/1
White Enamel Dinner Plates.
Sizes, ins. . . 8 8f 9 1O3:
Prices, each .. 1/1 1/2 1/3 1/4
(Household Ironmongery Department—Ground
Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.)
Comfort is essential at night !
é
Sleep on a Stretcher
Folding Canvas Stretcher. Ideal
for camping. _ Folds up in small
bundle for travelling.
Price, 14/9.
Special Price, each . . 9/11
Camp Stretcher Overlays. Cov-
ered in Cretonne. Price, ea., 7/6
{Department—Third Floor. Free delivery
City and Suburbs only.)
Don’t let weather deter you!
Take a Tent!
First-class Calico Tents.
6 x 8 ft.
Walls, 30in., 15/11
36in., 17/6
36in., 26/9
10 x 12ft.
42in., 31/-
42in., 47/6
8 x 10 ft.
30in., 22/6
39in., 24/-
39in., 36/6
12 x 14 ft.
48in., 39/
48in., 60/-
Calico Flys to Match.
11 x 9 ft. 12 x 12 ft. 15 x 15 ft.
10/6 14/6 21/-
14/9 21/- 31/-
(Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth and
Railway Stations in N.S. W 7.)
w
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 271 2C. G.P.O,


CUSHIONS of AIR
□
ft,
'
mmm
m
s ■
M
' skm
slgSg
. I
9
H
3
5
□
H
.
'
r i
;
\ 5
u
r
r
V
y
If It's NOT o Goodyear
It's NOT on AIRWHEEL
OnlT Goodyear makes AIRWHEEL Tyres.
AIRWHEEL Is Goodyear’s registered trade-
mark and Is used to denote that Goodyear Is
?he exclusive maker of AIRWHEEL Tyres.
/
iZ
A
I
SB
If you own a light cor you simply cannot appreciate
how deeply comfortable motoring can be until you have
tried AIRWHEEL+ tyres.
AIRWHEEL+ tyres, with the pillowy softness of a
feather-bed, roll across the bumps and ruts of the
roughest roads as if floating . . . They hug the highway
without a wobble at all speeds ... They come around fast
curves without side-slip or side-sway . . . And when the
brakes are applied these great new tyres quickly, surely
slow down to a stop. • • * * *
These big buoyant AIRWHEEL+ tyres put more safety
into the powerful, tractive All-Weather Tread by putting
more of that tread down on the road. •
They increase the life of the car by absorbing jolts and
jars before they reach the frame. They run on as low as
16 pounds of air because they are built from extra-
flexible, extra-elastic Supertwist Cord. ....
And, as for style —they are the newest, smartest tyres
you have ever seen. . .
Your Goodyear Dealer has full particulars of this sensa-
tional tyre development by Goodyear see him to-day.
C_Ajl avkhLok ov\_w(ta&2/a-
-+
AIRWHEEL
TYRES
rnimj
si
C5-JV&3
IVI A D E
I N
a u s t a A
I A


ŵ
Son succeeds father at
Stuarts—preserving the
unbroken line ofhered =
it ary skill\ of the crafts*
mans simple pride in
honest •work. On every
piece is etched the reg=
istered name Stuart, so
that wherever beauti*
ful glass is sold/ this
lovely English Crystal
is known and loved.
And yet it may be
bought for as little as
a few shillings.
A
GENUINE
EXAMPLE.
«■ » *, *3 m Mi M*- M M t -»A 'i^'S^MJ»a.M
l«BBE"'' : »
ms-w-av: rWm
't*?l
111
W
X
mi
w
y^'\
%&&& IffiP iWA
- ■ *."t f *®T ~
'::• v ~ 00 ® 00w "*^y
sst
HH
v V;
sra
Be sure to look for the registered name <c Stuart ” on every piece you buy,
the only way of salvation for humanity.
Environment is also important. The old
controversy of Nature versus Nurture,
Heredity versus Environment is now prac-
tically obsolete, but Professor Murdoch has
not yet heard the news. I do not know
whether he confined his attention to the
two books named; I would commend to
him Lancelot Hogben’s “Genetic Principles
in Medical and Social Science”; two books
on human heredity, one by Ruggles Gates
and the other by Baur, Lenz and Fischer,
and T. H. Morgan’s “Theory of the Gene,”
also E. M. East’s “Heredity and Human
Affairs.” In case he is too busy writing
essays to consult them, I will briefly sketch
for him, and others, the present status of
the subject.
Heredity and environment are both
.necessary for the full expression of life;
heredity is, so to say, the film, and environ-
ment the developer. Heredity supplies the
limits or possibilities of the organism (plant
or animal, including man); in most cases,
environment is responsible for expression
of those possibilities; sometimes the influ-
ence of heredity and environment is
about equal; sometimes heredity predom-
inates and environment will be but a minor
factor; sometimes heredity is the lesser
factor and environment the master one.
Examples of each can be given from mor-
phology and pathology. For example, eye
color depends solely on heredity, and environ-
ment cannot affect this. The genes that
the professor jests about are to the biolo-
gist what atoms are to the physicist, and
atoms w T ere once ridiculed, too. The gene
theory explains most of the phenomena of
heredity and evolution, and, until a more
satisfactory one is found, it is quite per-
missible to make use of it, remembering
always that it is only a theory, and that
facts must not be distorted to fit it.
Murdoch states that one gene determines
the color of your eyes, another whether
you are tall or short, and so on; in point
of fact most of our physical characters, such
as those mentioned, are due to the action
of multiple genes, and not single ones; Pro-
fessor Murdoch should have known this
by 1932. Professor Jennings’s obiter dicturu
that “this theory of representative particles
is gone, clean gone,” is not consistent with
established modern facts. Environment is
important in certain maladies due to infec-
tion and malnutrition, such as plague and
rickets; if the infection or malnutrition
exceeds a certain degree then the best stock
will go under; but, in lesser degrees, here-
dity plays its part, and in certain epidemics
it is not unusual to see one family exter-
minated while a neighboring one survives,
perhaps not even being affected. In certain
constitutional conditions such as arthritis
or arterial heredity and en-
vironment rr.ay be of almost equal import-
ance; one man with the tendency will
escape if his environment (work, food, home
conditions, etc.) are suitable, while another
with the same tendency, but different sur-
roundings, will become diseased; that is.
out of harmony with his environment.
Murdoch, like so many propagandists,
goes to the other extreme, and magnifies
the importance of environment, just as the
extreme eugenist magnifies heredity. The
scientific biologist refuses to exclude any
relevant factor. The stockbreeder has shown
that his animals can be improved by selec-
tion; the human animal cannot afford to
ignore this patent fact, nor can he ignore
the evil that indiscriminate breeding can
bring to mankind. One need only mention
the famous Ncugaret pedigree; for three
hundred years the condition of night blind-
ness has been handed down from genera-
tion to generation, and, if the present sur-
vivors of the Nougaret stock continue to
breed, we know for certain that some of
their offspring will be affected with the
same condition. When Professor Murdoch
can assure me that he can stop this hap-
pening, then I, too, will condemn eugenics
as heartily as he and become an ardent
environmentalist. Meanwhile people who
would never presume to believe or dis-
believe in Einstein’s theory without con-
siderable knowledge of mathematics and
physics will cheerfully dogmatise on here-
dity and allied subjects without even know-
ing their elementary principles. Why?
M.P.S.
The Brave Dead
The anonymous author of Death in the
Air (Heinemann; Bs. 6d.) must have been
dauntless even as British aces went in TB.
It was his hobby to photograph the Ger-
mans while fighting them. His story is told
in diary-form, and there are passages like
this:—
Camera ready to try out now. Have had to sus-
pend it under wing just beyond arc of prop. Found
that when I tried to snap it through the proo.
always managed to get prop, blurred iii. Have
sWung it so that it will hang level except bn a
vertical bank, and have fixed a Bowden control so
that when I press the gun trigger the pressure on
the wire will operate shutter. Streamlined the back
and removed everything necessary. Looks like a
small bomb. So when lam sitting on a Boche’s
tail, ought to get snap of beggar same instant I
put burst into his hide.
The book contains nearly 50 photographs,
many of them amazing. In one (“Must
have broken up at instant I pulled the
trigger”) you see the enemy ’plane crashing
and bits flying out of it; the caption of
another describes it exactly: “His wings
suddenly collapsed and floated past me”;
and in a third the German pilot is shown
diving from his shattered ’plane. Why this
remarkable work wasn’t released when the
craze for war-books tvas at its height is a
mystery. It brings home the criminal in-
sanity of the business more poignantly than
any of the accounts of ground warfare. The
diarist keeps making friends. Presently
comes the inevitable entry: “Buck gone west.
Damn rotten luck; only out few days, three
or four times over lines.” Next day:
“Canada gone. Of course that would hap-
pen. Just as soon as we get attached to a
something, bang it goes.” And a little later :
“Tommie missing:” And next: “Jock down
in flames.” (Jock was his particular friend.)
“That would have to happen, and he always
dreaded the sight of anyone burning up, even
if it was a Hun... .Bloody heaven!” The
diary ends abruptly. He had gone to join Jock
and the others. Anyone who is curious to
catch a glimpse into the mind of the kind
of courageous, highly intelligent young ser-
vant to duty who fell by the dozen daily
and nightly in all the armies throughout the
World War should get this book. But it
isn’t pleasant reading. For one thing it
exposes for the lie it was the gag about
the spiritually chastening effects of the
flames of war. In this young officer’s case
the flames burnt away his faith in God and
much of his patriotism, and left behind a
grinding hatred of the shirkers and muddlers
at home and hardly any of the softer
emotions except a kind of pitiful love for
his doomed companions.
D.
A Satchel or Hooks
Ingram Intervenes, by Alan Michaelis (Rob-
ertson and ilullens; 4s. 6d.). Ingram is an
amateur detective. He was a colonel in the
war, and the police enlist his help when
there is a particularly baffling murder to be
solved. The only difference between this
astute and dauntless ex-warrior and tlm
dozens like him who have figured in Crime
Club publications is that he operates in Mel-
bourne. He solves three mysteries in this
book, all baffling and all exciting.
_ AChm Hill, by Lida Larrimore (Methuen ;
is. bd.). A love-story fabricated by a past-
mistress in the charming art of innocuous
emotionalism. Lee, who lives at Robin Hill,
is the kind of sweet, good, old-fashioned girl
who is always in love with someone in a
completely sexless manner. At first it is
Lackey, who is her own age and gay and
irresponsible and altogether adorable. But
Mr. Right turns out to be much older and
sterner, and it takes her quite a time to
realise that he is all in all to her. In fair-
ness to. the reading public, works of this
description should be labelled : “Totally un-
suited for Bright Young Things.”
Outcast of Eden, by E. M. Baily (Frank
C. Johnson; 65.), is interesting, but it suffers
from a defect which is often found in Aus-
tralian bush novels. Barrie Henderson, the
hero, talks colloquially like this:—
“I have been afraid of myself—afraid I had in-
herited a kink that would ambush me and defeat
my iron resolve, bringing blight on one dearer to
me than my own soul. I have kicked against the
bars of my cage; I have cursed fate, cursed the
universe, cursed myself, cursed my father for his
weakness.”
And so on, for another half-page or more,
lie lias abo. blood in his veins, but few Aus-
tialians would take it so much to heart and
none would express their shame in such
stilted phrases. Still it is a moving romance,
and Tess Gordon, the heroine, is a remark-
ably nice girl.
Clifford Bax’s That Immortal Sea (Lovat
Dickson; 7s. 6d.) discusses religion and sex
on lines that should appeal to those who
have kept clear of the bigotries of mediaeval-
ism on the one hand and of modernism on the
other. He has no time for any of the theolo-
gies, but he can’t believe that man is no
more than a combination of chemicals. We
have souls, and need a. religion of some kind.
He predicts for Russia “a revival of
Christianity on a scale and of an intensity
which have never been witnessed since
Christianity was a young religion.” He
doesn’t believe that the sexual promiscuity
which began with the war will remain
fashionable for long. The reformers may
sneer at the possessive man, but woman
would force _ man to revert to possessive
habits even if nature allowed him to forego
them on a large scale. It is woman’s busi-
ness to see that marriage isn’t cheapened.
They [women] will regard free-loving women as
blacklegs, who are acting against the interests of
women in general; the vogue of the chaste woman
will return; th e plausible theory that men and
women should have equal sexual freedom will be-
come (even in the United States) a curious episode
m social life.
It has all been said before, of course, but
not often in such clear and temperate
language.
And a Little Verse
SYMBOLS.
If I could paint a venerable tree
With burgeoning boughs and leaves indelibly
Adumbrant, as if sighing to be free,
So simply could I make the branches climb
Beyond the frame, and fix the wheels of time,
The past, the present and the future all
A single episode, whereon might fall
The eye of mortal man, and he would see
Immortal dreams embodied in my Itree;
But were I to employ a lofty rhyme
And noble words, could I be so sublime
If Atropos her chancy shears unsheathed
And cut across my verse? Would the
• unbreathed
Impregnate immortality for me
And link up heaven and earth and poetry?
N.B.W.
E. V. BARTON.
THE CRICKET.
They piled white flowers above her sleep
Her full pale breasts, her slender feet;
No lovelier woman e’er lay deep
In earth, nor one who was more sweet.
A cricket came in with the flowers
And perched upon the coffin lid,
The grass-green spawn of golden hours '
With summer in its gay heart hid.
And she could neither hear nor speak,
Loved mother and most worshipped wife,
While chirped above her ice-cold cheek
>- A vibrant inch that pulsed with life '
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ko notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Scribe: Take our tip and forswear both
Doreen and the muse.... Care W.: Feeling in all of
them, but power of expression is lacking... .J.H.:
Bumps along like a car with a busted tyre... .
Hobbat: Read and re-read, it and it’s still a mys-
tery. .. . E.V.E.; We wish it meant something, there
is such music in the words. . . .C.C.: Neat, but slight.
.... Lykurgus: You might win; but the chances are
you would be bled white first M.IL: On the other
hand, some of the money deposited with the bank
becomes purchasing power for six or eight times the
amount. In America the withdrawal of 350 millions
of deposits reduced advances (purchasing power) by
4100 millions... .C.E.G. : Cut it down to 300 words.
. ...D.J.C.; A good picture with what seems to us
a feeble ending. .. .P.D.C.: Can't spare the space;
there are hundreds of others knocking, and with
very good claims to be asked in L.C.L.H.: Pro-
mise in it. ...Fofeal: If you’ll take our advice you
won’t worry about it any more T.E.R.: N 0....
D.R.: A spirited picture, anyway:
Swiftly the heavens darken,
Loudly the thunders roll,
Birds and the beasts stop to hearken,
The sunning snake makes for its hole.
But storm has its terrors in the city, too. The
Religious Editor suggests:—
At home we have left our gingham,
And we with a cold in our head !
Ah, funeral hymns they will sing ’em
When pneumonia has left us dead.
•'•...Wandering Ike: You are barking up the wrong
giraffe. It doesn’t matter how or with what capital
those mines are being developed: all that concerns
us is that -we have to meet their competition. And
The Bulletin merely asked how we were going to
dp it J.R.H.: Too many unburied corpses in it.
... .E.W. J.W.: But why the sudden drying-up of
the rhyme-fountain?... .K.-K.: Beware of the phrase
that won’t stand analysing....Flora: Yes, but, as
the traffic regulations get tighter, revellers must
keep soberer. “Malcontent” is a mixture of very
good and very poor lines... . D.K.-G.: Form good, idea
old. ...Nimpin: You leave your argument in the air.
.... E. J.Y. : None demands admittance. “3 \y Son”
the best. Sea-piece is overloaded; “Prejudice” is
album-verse... .Ptarmagan: But if caetoblastis will
not thrive in the south, that doesn’t prove-his in-
efficiency in the north. The pear itself won’t thrive
around Sydney; but that doesn’t prove it isn’t a
hard goer higher up on the map. .. .S.Ii.W. : Of it
all we most admired the courage with whi.ch you
tried to make “humble wisdom” chime in with “half-
forgotten now” M.M.M'cG.; Sorry, it had been
sent to the wrong MeG F. A. Harbord: What’s it
all about ? Bellerive : Room for No. 2' of the
Great Sporting Series: —
THE LATE JIM CORBETT, OF AMERICA.
Among the foremost
Of the great heavyweights,
Shone the. late Jim Corbett
Of the United States.
Victory’s he achieved
By he’s speed and skill;
A ring general was Corbett
In a stirring mill.
Health broken and old,
Did wane and depart,
The once celebrate of
The pugilistic art.
....Dobbin: True, of course; but i$ that going to
get us anywhere? W.E.G.; Let’s have a look at
it. Make it as brief anil pointed as you can. And
not a word 3011 can’t substantiate.. • .M.B'.G.: A
couple of them reached a third reading. .. . 1.C.R.:
First, find something to say. .. .White Leaguer:
Yes, but what are you going to do about it?....
Russell F.: To bring that in at this late hour would
merely play into the hands of those who want to
abolish the Second Chamber altogether. ... Iv.M.G.:
The Bulletin short story must be more incisive....
Sealed 0. ; Good most of the way; but the end is
futile.... Horton: Rather pointless ; and one must
go through too many pages to discover it.... J.J.H.:
You don’t make us believe it's true I.LAV.; For
Heaven’s sake, try to be less pretentious—with your
“Eftsoons” and your “sylphic Edens”.... Sam John-
son : Surely it wasn’t necessary to mention that some
private in the ranks had answered Copland after
mentioning that the general himself had replied....
F.S.: “Aiyiady” is too much like a jazz love-song.
. ...P.F.R.; Holds lines that would kill an.v lyric.
R.F.AA 7 .; A r ou get to your point awkwardly.... R. 8.:
You’re 18 and you live at Bellevue Hill, and you
begin a song :
Aye, my. working days are over, and my tun is
sinking low ;
Pray the call will not be long in coming now.
Tut, tut, boy! P.H.P., A.E.E., A.D.R. : Also ran.
. ...1.L.; Story of curate’s rescue of blasphemous
drunk is just the thing for your parish magazine.
. ...D.M.; Too much palaver... .A. 8.5.; All that
fus s about a necktie! Tut. ... J.C.M.; That plot
has had its day....P.5.: Refuse to believe that
jewellers are still being taken in with that trick.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.A r .: You’re more at home with the pen than
the brush... .A.C.F.; All askew D.H.: Not mature
enough yet... .M'.G.: Poses bad and jest an old
vaudeville gag... .H.L.8.: Not inviting that collec-
tion in.... 8.8.: Doleful wheeze... .C.H.T.: Buoyant
st.vle, but the humor is in poor supply... .AV.M.:
A jumble of ill-proportioned figures... .N.E.: Lady
leaning at 45deg, conversing with giant ruled out.
. ...J.S.; A bunch of dummies.... S.M.; Draughts-
manship good; the jest a relic of another century,
... . .N.F.G.; Not much promise showing. ... A. R.;
Your wash work is too dim. . . .AALC.: Joke is in
its dotage... .P.M.: An untidy effort. .. .T.R.J.: The
lady is successfully the law of gravitation.
Does the lorgnette fro it?....8.F.: The seesaw is
worn 0ut...:G.H.: Only local interest.... E.V.: Un-
fortunately the well-groomed young men have nothing
witty to say.... D.P.: Not anxious to spend the
winter in Long Bay... .AV.T.: No hope... . A.R.C.:
The gull in the distance is well drawn.... Rcb:
Everything wrong —humans, furniture, even the race-
horse in the picture on the wall. . . .AV.A.: More
faults in it. than in a nagging woman and the
Lang Plan combined.... E. 0.: But why do all your
people wear drainpipes for trousers ?....F.L.S.:
AVith more confidence vou’ll do something.... 8.R.:
Middling T.M.; Give art a-rest C.C.M.N.: Not
enamored with all those horizontal lines... .N.M.S. :
Drawings appear to be suffering from' a heat rash.
.... H.AV.: Horse is a spirited animal, but his valets
are men of wood. You’ve miles to cover yet.


&%' fr \ " !>•
M
iBHHI
li
f
MM
j¥*>&
¥
mmamm
■ :
•riTir i ■■ mi ■ v
JK/KXSEI '■■■• jjMflMHj ■Hfl v?;
: :
I
A
■
ill ' I
' I
* I *: • *'*
m
m
ill
mmm
WFim
■
»
OHP
*
HR
■
■•••■■■
p
Hn,
■K
■twKAlir % i
m
■* '.* 'r !
1 is
>*
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2772.
March 29, 1933.
NOT FORGETTING THE DOG!
"M. Vishinsky, public prosecutor in Moscow, states that the British engineers and mechanics recently arrested have been charged with taking bribes to destroy
electrical power stations in the interests of anti-Communism. The British Cabinet has discussed the question of placing an embargo on all Russian imports after April 17,
following which a severance of diplomatic relations would naturally follow. The view predominates that the arrest of the engineers is a trumped-up affair.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 117071.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 257-359 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
\\ estkalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 15 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 55.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6o)t.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for foz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
SOUTH AUS. AT THE POLLS.
That at the last State general elections
South Australia had 10 political parties and
to-day has six well illustrates the character
of the State and its people. South Aus.
has no overwhelming outdoor attractions:
it has no Manly or Bondi; it has not even
a St. Kilda. It was settled by serious-
minded people, arid its own character has
tended to keep them serious-minded. But
if they were and are serious-minded, they
never were and are not to-day the slaves of
convention. Their pioneers were men and
women who took large chances: they made
their homes in a land which was quite un-
explored. From that day to this they have
shown an independence of thought and a
courage in action which have produced re-
markable results. They gave to the world
voting by ballot; they supplied us with the
Torrens title; they handed the Parliament-
ary vote to women while others were
merely discussing it as a remote possibility;
and in their village settlements they ex-
pei’imented with the nearest approach to
Communist colonies that Australia has
known. Except in a few areas they refuse
to recognise class distinctions. It never
has been safe in South Aus. to ticket a
man as Liberal because he wears a white
collar or Labor because he wears none at
all. Its city Trades Hall was built largely
out of the pocket of one of its richest
citizens; and its most conservative news-
paper preached something that was hardly
to be distinguished from single tax—which
probably accounts for the fact, that to-day
there is a vigorous little single-tax party
contesting this election. You cannot draft
a people of this kind into two camps, or
even three. The astounding thing is that
you can draft them into a dozen.
The question is what ought to be done
with such a community. For the trouble
is that you cannot find enough people
holding, say, to single tax to return a
member in even one district, although it
seems quite certain that more than one-
fifty-sixth of the electors are single-taxers.
And just because certain groups may thus
have no representation at all, or much less
representation than their numbers warrant,
others will have more. When we reach
Parliament we find that because one party
has gained one or two seats more than
another the former has all the say and the
latter none at all in the measures to be sub-
mitted; and a party with a majority of
one may have the entire control of adminis-
tration. Nor is the position much im-
proved where there are half a dozen par-
ties. For, as we have seen, it will almost
inevitably happen that two or three parties
will come together; and an elector who
would have put, say, the Parliamentary
Labor party first and the Liberal party
second, and bracketed the Lang-planners and
A.L.P. last, may see the Parliamentary
Labor party bargaining with and eventu-
ally accepting the terms of the A.L.P. and
■the Lang-planners. The first-past-the-post
system is a rough-and-ready way of carry-
ing on the government, and where people
divide themselves into two parties it may
work out as well as any; for, at the best,
Parliaments are merely makeshifts. But
the system leaves very much to be desired
in a community which is given to inde-
pendent thinking.
Nevertheless it would be quite possible
to bring this community into two camps;
and we found that out during the war.
But there must be either some large wave
of emotion or some large question of legis-
lation to do it; and the fact of all these
divisions to-day—and there would be many
more if the independents were counted up
—shows that neither of these things exists.
South Australia knows, even though it
may not be always prepared to admit,
that what it wants above all is good, sound,
enlightened administration. In such circum-
stances it is ridiculous that the selection
of Ministers should be made from one small
group, or perhaps two small groups, though
other groups may hold all the ablest and
most experienced administrators in the
House. And it is quite as ridiculous that,
when it comes to legislation, one-half or
thereabouts of the members should say
“Aye” as a matter of course while the other
half or thereabouts should say “No,” also
as a matter of course. Our present Par-
liamentary system is absurdly illogical, and
it is nowhere so illogical as in a State like
South Aus., where party lines are so ill-
defined.
No party will come out of this election
with a majority; and any one of half a
dozen Coalitions are possible. There is not
a single feature of the policy of any one
of the principal parties on which an elector
can put his finger and say that it is of
supreme importance. Nor is there anything
very provocative in them outside the
A.L.P.’s proposal to abolish both the Leg.
Council and the State Governor. The
Radical antipathy to second Chambers dates
from the time when such Chambers were
exclusively the guardians of property. But
the whole world has changed since then;
and the call now is for the protection not
of property but of democracy. “How can
we best assure to the people their self-
governing rights”—that is perhaps the most
important problem of the day. That there
is in existence a great international force
which frankly despises majority rule, and is
prepared to adopt any measures whatever
that will overthrow it, is quite obvious. In
such circumstances a safety device is im-
peratively called for. It may be possible for
Communism to get control of one Chamber
—to white-ant it, as the phrase goes. It
must be much more than twice as difficult
to white-ant two Chambers elected at dif-
ferent times and perhaps by different
methods. The A.L.P.’s proposal to rob S.
Australia of this safety device in the face
of the Bolshevik menace makes it difficult
if not impossible for a democrat to sup-
port the party on this occasion; and, unless
it wants to fall under condemnation also,
the Parliamentary Labor Party ought to
make it plain that it will not combine
with the A.L.P. to put such a plan into
operation. It may be that the present con-
stitution of the S. Australian Leg. Council
is not perfect. The Bulletin is little con-
cerned about preserving the Chamber in
its present form. But the preservation of a
second Chamber in some form was never so
important as it is at this moment.
RUSSIA AND TWELVE MEN IN A BOX.
When a man is arrested and charged with
an offence in Australia—and it is the same
in England—there never is any. great dis-
turbance about it. If he is innocent, we
say, he will be found not guilty; and we
are content to leave it at that. Certainly
nobody is afraid that a great, injustice will
be done. If there is any alarm at all it
ia that a wrongdoer will escape because the
law will demand more complete proofs of
guilt than it is possible to produce. Yet
in Russia the other day when some English
engineers and mechanics were arrested,
apparently on the elastic charge of counter-
revolution, immediately there was great
alarm. Why?
When we get down to the root of it we
shall find that it is because we have clung
to democratic institutions, and Russia .has
thrown them all overboard. Democratic
institutions do not mean mob rule. They
are, on the contrary, based on the rights
of the individual. He must be consulted;
he must not be thrust aside. If he chooses
to go the wrong way politically, it is : his
right to go the wrong way. That is democ-
racy. We often say it has failed; but what
are the alternatives? Russia adopted one
of them. The Communist leaders said that
the people did not know what was good for
them; therefore a mere handful of a few
hundred thousands, by cunning, secured
control over more than a hundred millions,
and imposed upon them a netv system of
government. So long as you depend upon
majority rule there is no need for fraud
or trickery; but the moment the minority
imposes its will upon the majority, it must
trust to its cunning to maintain the
supremacy. That is the position in Russia
to-day. Communism may be right; it may
be the best thing for the people. And
because its adherents believe so utterly that
it is the best thing, the individual must not
count at all. Trotsky stood alongside Lenin
in establishing the Union of Soviets. But
he got in the road; and he was banished—
very narrowly escaping that death which
found many others in the same position.
The whole policy of the Soviet republics
moves on those lines. “If a murder xvill
advance the collectivist reform, then it is
no murder”—it is a public duty. One of
their own leaders has said so.
They had a first Five Year Plan and now
they have a second. To carry them through,
the people—the individuals—were and still
are called upon to suffer terribly. Never-
theless, again and again the quota has not
been reached; production has fallen fat
short of the estimate. The huge majority
of peasants and others who have never
belonged to the Communist party have
been promised great things, and when year
after year has passed and the promise has
not materialised, scapegoats have had to
be found. Under our system, as we have
seen, when criminal charges are made
nobody is perturbed except perhaps the
accused himself. In Australia nothing will
count except the evidence that can be
brought against the accused; and he will
be tried by a jury Of his peers, who know
that they may be in exactly the same posi-
tion to-morrow. In Russia the individual
counts for nothing at all—even if he is a
Trotsky. If it will advance “the Revolu-
tion”.to find him guilty—if it is desirable at
the moment in the interests of “the Revolu-.
tion” to sacrifice a scapegoat—then it
is the duty of someone to find him guilty
and make the sacrifice.
George Lansbury and other friends of
the Soviet talk in London of the rights
of sovereign States. If sovereign States
carry on their business in accordance with
the practices of civilised nations, there is
no reason for apprehension on the part of
foreign Powers when any of their nationals
are arrested and charged with crime. British
and other aliens are charged with offences
every day of the week in the U.S.A. and
France and Germany and Italy; and, ex-
cept that their Consuls see that they are
not prejudiced by reason of their being
strangers, no notice is taken of the proceed-
ing. But in Russia it is all different; and
that is a point which those Australians who
are flirting with Communism might well
remember. They can have Communism
but they cannot have it and also that tre-
mendous regard for individual rights which
finds its supreme expression in the British
Court of Justice.
THE TARIFF AND WESTRALIA.
Some of these Westralian secessionists are'
not playing the game. They are pointing
to the Scullin tariff as an example of the
sort of burdens the industrialists of the
Eastern States are prepared to load upon
the shoulders of the West. The truth is
that the Scullin tariff, along with its em-
bargoes and prohibitions, was not a matter
of Protection at all, but was an emergency
measure, demanded by the financial perils
of the moment; and the same is true to a
considerable extent of the tariff of to-day.
Lest there should be any question of bias,
let us discard the figures prepared in Aus-
tralia and turn to the records of the
British Department of Overseas Trade. In
the report on “Conditions in Australia” to
Dec., 1930, it is shown that in the five years
1925-26 to 1929-30 the position was as fol-
lows :
Deficiency Interest
of Exports ' Payable for Which
to Pay for No Provision
Imports Alone. Was Made.
■ 1525-26 .. £2,866,244 £24,031,672
1526-27 . . 19,5715,227 24,655,922
1927- .. 4,731,900 27,293,236
1928- . . 1,202,571* 27,530,993
1929- ' . . 6,285,720 27,595,701
*Sunplus.
There was, of course, only one way to
carry on in those circumstances: enough had
to be borrowed abroad to meet the defici-
ency mentioned in the first coluriin and to
pay the whole of the interest bill set out
in the second column. But borrowing,
which had become increasingly, difficult, in
1930 became impossible. This'would have
been a bad enough situation to meet in
ordinary circumstances—-suddenly either to
find 34 millions more exports a year or
reduce imports by 34 millions. There was,
however, far worse than that confronting
the Government. Prices of all our staples
had had a smashing fall. . Our overseas ex-
ports in 1928-29 had been 144 millions. In
1930-31 they were down; to 104 millions,
and no less than 151 millions of that con-
sisted of gold, which we were shipping away
in a desperate struggle to preserve the
trade balance—in plain English, to keep
ourselves from being posted as defaulters
on the other side. A sridden increase of
merchandise exports in the circumstances
was utterly impossible. We had to reduce
our imports by at least 34 millions a year
plus whatever the fall in the value of our
exports amounted to. It was either that
or default. To his everlasting credit Scullin
decided that it must not be default. To
their credit Lyons and his Ministers still
say that it must not be default.
Only one way was open to an honest Gov-
ernment in 1929-30, and Scullin took it:
by raising tariffs in some cases and impos-
ing prohibitions in others he reduced the
sterling value of merchandise imports to 44
millions in 1931-32. That saved the situ-
ation and Australia from default. Since
then Governments have been able to with-
draw some of the embargoes, and reduce
some of the tariff charges. But whether
they will be able to continue in this policy
is gravely uncertain. They have only been
able to continue in it thus far with the
assistance of an exchange rate which is at
the present .time equivalent to an extra
ad valorem duty of 25 p.c. on every article
brought into this country.
ADVENTURES IN OFFICIALDOM.
The modern Adam, let us imagine, is
about to buy Blackacre, which is a vacant
tract of two roods where you will, price
£5O. Adam, it will be supposed, has been
brought in by an “agent,” and the agent,
acting for both persoris, will prepare, with
profoundest misgivings and quakings, a con-
tract. He quakes because, it is alleged, no
agent. knows how to prepare a contract,
under the present laws, unless he has a
solicitor at his elbow, and the solicitor him-
self will privately admit funk, though
openly he will brazen it out. Brass is his
middle name. The contract is prepared; it
covers pages of close type, marshalling
clauses, breathless paragraphs, plunging one
upon another, like irregular cavalry. These
paragraphs have been evolved by centuries
of “case law,” experiences, apprehensions
and horn-rim Spectacles, in order that the
temporal and spiritual devils of risk may be
exorcised. They are not exorcised so easily.
Adam, indeed, is now to receive 7000
volts. The contract is tendered for signa-
ture by the hand of Brassbound, the agent;
and Adam is timidly informed that he,
Adam, is a statutory imbecile. For before
Adam or Enoch the vendor may sign, he is
directed that the very Seraphim could not
do it with any good result Unless paraded
before a solicitor, or some such mandarin,
who will read and expound the contract to
him. In fact, tell him in earnest tones and
grave what the contract says, and then
solemnly give a certificate that Adam signs
it with the express advice, consent, know-
ledge and ghostly counsel of this function-
ary. Having signed the contract, Brass-
bound whisks it from Adam and then, de-
mands stamp duty, the first tax.
This, we shall suppose, is a purchase on
terms. The horse having gone, Adam thinks
it high time to lock the stable door; that is
to say, much belated, he will see his own
solicitor—his own family wire-whiskered
attorney, answering to the name of Plegg.
Who, on being shown the contract, cynically
says, “You were foolish to sign it before
you had submitted it to me, Mr. Adam.
Yet all may not be lost. I will advise you.
Now, first, what about pensions?” To whom
Adam: “Pensions, Mr. Plegg? Explain!”
To whom Plegg: “You have bought a' piece
of land from the vendor Enoch. Do you
know how old Enoch is? Do you know
how old his wife is? Whether he lives
with his wife? Whether he has, whether
she has, a crick in the back, is .given to
drink?” And Adam, doubting the relevancy,
will be informed that if the worthy Enoch
or Mrs. Enoch is old, or cricked, or alco-
holic, he or she may be inferred a pensioner.
And, if a pensioner, “Lord have mercy upon
you, and the deposit is lost, and the stamp
duty is lost. You are sunk with all hands.”
In cold fact, says the learned Plegg, you
must get a certificate from the Pensions
Office that Enoch is not a pensioner, and
you must get that certificate, keep on get-
ting it, every three weeks for the next three
years if the time-payment term runs that
long, and, what is more, you may have to
get it from the Commissioner of every one
of the six States, according to circumstances,
if Enoch changes his residence, or his resi-
dence is not too precisely defined.
At which stage Adam begins to be sickbed
o’er with the pale cast of thought. He is
informed, moreover, that Plegg will see
whether the council has approved of any
subdivision involved by the sale.
If this latter hurdle be achieved, Plegg
now gets to grips with “title.” He corre-
sponds with his town agent, Fixey, who in-
forms his principal that there is a mort-
gage for £l7O on the title. That alarms
Adam, who is buying for £5O, but is told
that he has no redress—he must go on
paying the whole £5O by instalments, in the
hope that, by the final last trump of pay-
ment, Enoch will be in a position to pay
off the mortgage. Which does not seem
a hopeful position but is good law. We
know what Bumble said of that.
Fixey also “searches” for land-tax charges,
Federal and State. It is true there is no
State land tax in N. S. Wales now, but
once there was, and old debts have a habit
of trailing clouds around titles. It occu-
pies some weeks to ascertain the facts from
the offices in Sydney, Melbourne and Can-
berra. The debt (if any) is “a charge on
the land,” as the jargon is. The next
consideration is the Water Board, which
announces a debt of £1 4s. for water, and
an old debt of £3 17s. 7d. for a special
storm-water channel in the neighborhood,
which everybody had forgotten, but which
is also “a charge on the land.” The muni-
cipal council is applied to by Fixey, who,
by writing to the Town Hall and paying
an inquiry fee of 2s. 6d., learns that the
municipal rates are £lO 9s. in arrears, that
the kerbing and guttering charge of £3
2s. (Hd. is unpaid, and these also are
“charges on the land.” Fixey, dutiful slave,
then inquires at the Board of Health. It
is learned that the board, in 1901, issued
a direction that the land could not be built
on until six inches of concrete was spread
over the surface. This is also a charge on
the land, a curse which descends to every
successive owner.
Search at the Registrar-General’s Office
also discloses that one Jenkins, having got
a judgment against Enoch, had put a
Fi. Fa. on the title. A Fi. Fa., which has
nothing to do with sol-fa, is a notice to the
world that Jenkins is girding himself to
sell the land for debt, without regard to
Adam or anyone else. In other words, his
debt is a “charge on the land.”
But let it be supposed that the money
is paid, the transfer signed, one more tax
paid to the Stamp Office, and a fee (quite
stiff) to the Registrar-General. One stays
to remember that the Registrar-General s
charges have been increasing, and have
made no concession to these lean days.
His charges on the transfer of a portion
of land worth half a crown are the same
as if it were an acre in Martin-place.
Rates are paid, Board of Health satisfied,
land tax dealt with, Water Board disposed
of, old-age pensions office satisfied, two
Stamp Office taxes met, Registrar-Genera
paid. The title issues and Adam holds m
his hand the Certificate. He inspects the
property, and finds that the area and t ie
frontages are in reality much less dian
(apparently) guaranteed by the loriem
title. Inquiry will then commence, Adam
learning to his great surprise that tie
Registrar-General, when he issues a deed
to a citizen, does not guarantee I d entlt Y
In other words, you get the deed but you
may not get the land. The deed is n
assurance that the land is there. 011
solicitor will then advise you to get a sur
veyor. Which is another story. ,
Notice must be sent to the counci o
the acquisition of Blackacre. Fine, £o
neglect. Then the council and Valu -
General -get to work with assessmen &
rates,:
E.H.T.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where Did the Money Go?
An eminent Australian civil servant was
discussing the public debts with a journal-
ist. “What have we done with all this
loan money?” he said. “I can never make
it out.” It certainly is a mystery when
one considers the huge dimensions of these
debts and the dearth of modem improve-
ments, and even common conveniences, in
States which have been wildly extravagant
in other directions.
In Sydney, for example, great suburbs
are still without underground sewerage.
Sydney and Newcastle have to struggle along
with obsolete types of Government trams,
with high and narrow footboards, which are
hard on women passengers and harder still on
the conductors who have to stand on them,
while the cars sway and lurch, collecting
fares. A Newcastle conductor slipped from
one of these precarious perches the other
day and was picked up dying. Many
conductors have been killed in this way;
hundreds have met with accidents more or
less serious; a great many have contracted
pneumonia and other diseases because of
the exposure to all sorts of weather.- One
would think that a Labor Government
would have had the common humanity to
save the tramway employees—all members
of a loyal labor-union—from these unneces-
sary risks; but Labor Government after
Labor Government has come and gone, and
the footboard that has been the death of
so many good Labor supporters remains. -
Consider also the treatment of patients
in Government mental hospitals. In N. S.
Wales, because of persistent neglect to meet
the requirements specified year after year
by the Inspector-General, the position is
barbarous. It is obviously necessary to the
noble work of healing hurt minds that the
sufferers should have plenty of room. Yet
Dr. Hogg reported at the end of the year—
as he had reported so often before—that
the institutions under his control were over-
crowded, the “overcrowding” being “such
as to be detrimental to the treatment they
are able to afford.”
The number of the rooms for patients who
require them is deficient. There is over-
crowding in the dormitories, and the con-
gestion extends to both day- and dining-
rooms. This undesirable state of affairs
causes the crowding together of patients,
with a prejudical effect so far as their re-
covery is concerned. It leads to undue
friction between patients and imposes un-
fair burdens on the officers and nursing staff.
In other countries there are special
colonies for epileptics. In N. S. Wales “no
separate provision is made for this class
of patient. They are required to take
their places in the wards of the mental hos-
pitals among the insane, where obviously
.they are at times out of place.” Neither
is there any particular provision for tuber-
cular patients. Special wards are needed
“so that they may be segregated properly
from the other patients and may get the
advantages of individual care and nursing,
and so that the spread of infection may
be stopped.” But there are no votes to
be gained by providing these special wards,
so they have not been provided.
Ten years ago a Royal Commission on
Lunacy Administration reported that “the
present hospital for the criminal insane at
Parramatta is unfit for human habitation.”
Dr. Hogg drily mentions that “the build-
ings are still in occupation.” The care of
inebriates was years ago thrust upon the
staffs of the mental hospitals, and the poli-
ticians of the period plumed themselves
mightily on the innovation. But “no sepa-
rate institution has yet been furnished.
Male inebriates are cared for at the Mental
Hosjjital, Morisset; female inebriates at
the Mental Hospital, Kenmore,” though it
is obviously “undesirable to ask inebriates
to associate with mental patients indefi-
nitely.” Senile-decay cases are also con-
signed to the mental hospitals. In “Tory”
England these poor old people are cared for
in infirmaries.
Yet at the end of June, according to the
Auditor-General’s report, the N. S. Wales
public debt had reached the tremendous
figure of £303,719,000, and not a penny of it
had been spent on the war. The eminent
civil servant’s inquiry is pertinent. What
has. been done with all this money?
4 .
The Govern™ ent-by-regulation Trick.
In • war-time a new trick was added to the
already tricky game of politics when it
was discovered that by a judicious use of
the power to make regulations a Govern-
ment- could do all sorts of things without
consulting Parliament. In war-time, when
the Government’s capacity for quick action
cannot safely be restricted, the exercise of
such a power must be permitted; but un-
fortunately the habit has endured. A case
in point arises out of the manufacture of
margarine in N. S. Wales. The Bulletin
holds no brief for margarine. This is a
butter-producing country, and if as a matter
of national policy it were enacted that sub-
stitutes for butter are forbidden, this paper
would shed no tears. But that aspect of
the matter was settled, so far as the present
Government of N. S. Wales and the Parlia-
ment and people of that State are concerned,
in November last. Hugh Main, Minister for
Agriculture, introduced a bill to prevent
margarine-makers mixing butter or butter-
fat with their product. A member asked
if it were intended to prohibit margarine.
Mr. Main replied, “No, margarine -will
have exactly the same rightsand privileges
as it has had since the 1915 Act was
passed.” He- went on to say that there were
two sorts of margarine—one made from
skimmed milk, with which it was not in-
tended to interfere; the other prepared
from vegetable oils. A member asked:
“Are you objecting to that?” : Mr. Main
replied: “No. It will have just as much
right to be sold when the bill becomes law
as ever it had. There is no intention to
depart from the present law except that
we are not going to allow butter to be
mixed with margarine.” And that was quite
right.
But, of course, this bill gave power to
make regulations, and on March 14 of this
year a regulation was gazetted which out-
lawed the manufacturers who use vegetable
oils. It is a very peculiar regulation:—
Margarine shall not contain palm oil; and where
made from coeoanut oil either alone or in combina-
tion with other vegetable or animal oils shall retain
a readily appreciable flavor of coeoanut oil.
Now, as any pastrycook or housewife knows,
the slightest flavor of coeoanut oil makes
margarine unusable; so the regulation puts
the vegetable-fat practitioners out of busi-
ness. They have refused to alter their
methods of manufacture, and have invited
the Government to prosecute them so that
the validity of the regulation may be
tested. The Government, however, con-
tents itself with threatening to prosecute
anyone who sells the banned sort of mar-
garine—a very effective boycott. It is a
backstairs way of doing business, of which
there is far too much in these days, and it
looks as though someone in the margarine
industry—not the butter industry—has been
biting the ear or pulling the leg of the
Government. In view of Mr. Main’s valiant
disavowals a few short weeks ago, he should
explain to the Parliament to which he is
responsible why the Government has so
quickly altered its mind, and why it has
gone behind Parliament to give effect to its
reversal of intention.
4
The Grazier and His Debts.
Letters on this subject continue to pour in.
Most of the correspondents go over the
old ground; but a few offer new thoughts.
If present mortgagors who find it impossible
to carry on with their existing burdens were
turned off, what would happen? On this
point “Larrapinta” (S.A.) has this:—
A young man, reared in the bush, who
had spent all his time since leaving .school
in working On farms and stations, bought a
scrub block, paying most of his savings down
as a deposit. He set to work to clear the
land, sowing down pastures, principally sub.
clover. He put every penny he made into
improvements, with the result that when
prices slumped he was unable to carry on,
and the mortgagee took possession. Up till
then the place had been well managed, but
when the mortgagee put his sons on to
work it, it soon went to ruin. It was over-
stocked at once; and in one way and another
the property has depreciated quite 50 per
cent. That is by no means a solitary case
in my own experience; and we will have
thousands more unless the present men are
kept on their farms and stations. The man
on the land will put up a wonderful battle
if only he can see a chance of winning
through, but no man can fight if he sees
that it is hopeless. It behoves every man,
then, who holds a mortgage over broad acres
to see that the man who is working the place
has a fighting chance.
“D.H.F.” writes on the same question:—
Some mortgagees are putting in managers
to run places which have been thrown on
their hands ; and in every case of which I
am aware the manager’s instructions are
to “make the place pay.” It # is almost as
easy to pick the eyes out, of' a station or
farm as it is out of a mine. You can get
a big return for a season or two, but then
comes the discovery that fences are a wreck,
pests have overrun the place, feed is eaten
out, and so on. The maintenance of our
national estate at its highest earning
capacity is a matter of national importance;
so we ought to have a cleaning-up of country
mortgages as soon as possible.
“Dialectica,” whose case has been much
discussed, writes:—
For the benefit of “Ex-Banker” and others
who insist that I made a hopelessly bad
bargain, I should like to say I. cleared an
average of . £l4OO a year in my first three
, years, after paying interest, rates, etc., and
allowing for depreciation of sheep. The
average return from a lambing ewe was
325. 6d. ; it is now 13s. Until the end of
1926 everything looked rosy, but during the
1927-1930 drought money flowed out faster
than it had ever come in. In 1927 I lost
1000 ewes which had cost 365. a head, and
those left cut a poor clip, and their lambs were
too poor to be saleable. That was my worst
year, but the next thi’ee were very bad.
When the good seasons began again in 1931
prices had fallen, and the country did not
respond very well after four years’ drought.
T,ast year sheep were prime, but prices still
lower.
My experience is probably on a par with
that of most who bought sheep properties
up to 1927. I know of a good many shrewd,
experienced graziers who bought to worse
advantage. Look at the lavish banking cham-
bers the banks vied with each other in put-
ting up in the boom years ; and if our finan-
ciers could not foresee the rapid ending of
the good times, who can blame the cockies?
The valuers of three banks valued my place
at £lB,OOO in 1928, during the drought, and
one of them gave me an overdraft of £2500,
secured by second mortgage, on that valua-
tion. Evidently he thought I got a bargain
at £lO,OOO.
The really serious thing is that exodus
from the land is beginning. In my district
50,000 acres have lately been handed over
to the original owners. One property sold
at £3 an acre: in 1926 is now i on the
market at 255., though it lias had many
improvements added. If sales are forced,
prices will collapse, and that threatens dis-
aster.
The only way out I can see is through a
writing-down of debts, treating each case
on its own merits.
4
Seeds of Australian Culture.
“Womerah”: Those of us who move
amongst men in the fields of human activi-
ties know that culture in Australia is not
the exclusive possession of the so-called
intelligentsia, and that, in spite of shibbo-
leths, syllabuses and intellectual snobbery,
the normal Australian is developing sound
literary judgment through a wealth of
agencies which are practically unknown to
those who are on the outside of the schools
and the Public Library.
I write in N. S. Wales; and it is not the
purpose of this contribution to try to assess
the influence of the State’s Public Library
on the renascence of the past two decades,
but rather to provoke the interest of
Bulletin readers in one specific and little-
known national service which the N. S.
Wales institution is rendering the State;
one which has influenced and is a potent
force in the development of an apprecia-
tion of literature. The Bulletin and
Australian - creative art are indissolubly
linked; it is incumbent that this journal
should be the instrument to take up the
cause of the youngsters, especially those of
the bush, whose fives are circumscribed and
whose wider experiences must necessarily be
the vicarious ones of literature.
In 1920 a box of selected books was sent
from the Public Library to Miranda public
school. It consisted of a due proportion
of very carefully-chosen juvenile fiction,
especially the best works of English writers
suitable for boys and girls-; juvenile books
of travel; history, geography and easy
mechanics. By 1931-32 the distribution was
State-wide, and 3524 boxes containing 78,435
books were sent out. The books last about
six years, but require very careful atten-
tion from binders and repairers after they
are brought in from exchange periods.
Over 11,000 volumes were repaired during
a recent exchange, but funds are not now
sufficient to make adequate replacements,
so from now on the boxes must decrease,
and if the present vote to the trustees is
not increased the library will be forced to
discontinue the circulation of boxes of
books to country schools.
The foundation of the achievements of
notable craftsmen can be partly ascribed to
the influence of early reading, which was
just as formative as personal experiences
and contacts. Consider Professor Sterling
Leonard’s statement on children’s un-
guided reading: “There is much that is
distinctly pernicious and that which contains
the worst sort of raw adventure Stu-
pendous dangers threaten wide-gesturing
and bombastic heroes and are turned aside
by blind chance. The heroes do absurdly
impossible things without effort or weari-
ness; without common wit or real courage.
Braggart impossibilities serve as patterns
to aspiring boys.” The schools served by
the Public Library have, on the other hand,
literature which satisfies the natural cravings
and instincts of childhood and youth, and
combats the pernicious type of reading, with
its false aspects of life.
The writer has access to schools in a
tremendous area of the State, and can
authoritatively testify to the educational
influence the Public Library scheme has had
on school literary appreciation and expres-
sion. Any brake would be a national
calamity.
-—* ♦ *
“This Depression.”
Under this title the Federal Storemen and
Packers’ Union has issued a leaflet with
these sub-headings:—
The Commonwealth Bank is the
Way Out.
Financial Points to Ponder.
The document proceeds:—
Do You Know
That every transaction with a private bank
which involves a profit to the private bank
is a debit in perpetuity against industry,
because that profit in its turn has to extract
still further profits from industry?
That every transaction with the Com-
monwealth Bank which involves a profit
to the Commonwealth Bank is an asset to
industry, because the profits of the Com-
monwealth Bank will go into the Federal
Exchequer and reduce taxation by that
amount?
That by an amendment of the Common-
wealth Bank Act of 1914 your Common-
wealth Bank can constitutionally take over
the business of all the other banks in Aus-
tralia ?
The Commonwealth Bank is the way out.
It is altogether satisfactory to see trade
unions interested in these matters; but it
is not at all satisfactory to see them being
misled with such simple absurdities. Here
are the plain facts of the case:—
(1) Say the transaction with the private
bank was an overdraft, for which interest
was paid. This interest is, it is true, a
debit against the industry in which the
borrower is engaged. But so are the wages
which the same borrower pays to his
workers. That, however, doesn’t prove that
the employer is a fool to pay wages. He
does it because he thinks it is profitable;
and that is precisely the reason why the
borrower gets an overdraft and pays inter-
est upon it. And what becomes of this
interest, this profit? .John Smith is a bank
shareholder who runs a small factory, which
he wants to extend; and he uses his dividend
for the purpose. So the debit against one
industry becomes the credit at the account
of another. - It is these profits which supply
the capital for the extension of industry and
the improvement of the condition of the
people. The only other way to produce
these results is by starving the people, and
slave-driving them. It is because there are
no profits to draw upon in Russia that such
things are being done there. The leaders
probably hate to have to do them; but
there is no alternative.
(2) The profit' made by the Common-
wealth Bank does not all go into the
Federal Exchequer; but suppose it did. It is
money taken from industry just the same as
the profit of the private bank is; the only
difference is that, whereas the profit of the
private bank, being distributed among share-
holders, is used to promote and finance
industry, the profit paid to the Federal Ex-
chequer is used, among other things, to
maintain superfluous civil servants, to add
to the unnecessary buildings, etc., of Can-
berra and generally to encourage Federal
extravagance.
Grandfather thought that nationalised
transport was the way out. In his day the
shocking cost of delivery and distribution
was spoken of as the chief burden upon
industry. If only we could have national-
ised railways, he thought, we should be
set. Well, we have them; and what is
the result? Thousands of miles of line
were laid that were not warranted by either
present or prospective traffic. This not
only loaded the community with a huge
interest burden, but encouraged men to
attempt wheat-growing in hopeless districts.
At the same time the service was loaded
with employees because they had Parlia-
mentary votes to sell. So between exces-
sive interest and an excessive wages bill,
nationalisation, instead of reducing taxation,
has greatly increased taxes* and also enor-
mously added to fares and freights. There
is every reason to expect that the same
results would flow from the nationalisation
of banking. Already we have seen some of
the effects. There was a national savings
bank in N. S. Wales for many years—
it lasted until hard-up Governments skinned
it of its resources and then closed its doors:
That was one example of the nationalisa-
tion of banking. To-day we have in the
same State a Rural Bank, and nobody is
game to say what its assets are worth.
And that is another example. The way of
nationalisation is strewn with disaster.
4
New Wine and Old Bottles.
“Feng-Shui” : The latest census of London
University reveals that at that institution
there are 2387 foreign students, hailing from
61 different countries, and 728 of them come
from India. At Oxford there are 472, at
Cambridge 471, and at Edinburgh 475. If
the exponents of nationalism were logical
they would stop all this.
It is popularly supposed that Moscow,
which has universities specially devoted to
teaching Asiatics the techique of proletarian
revolution, is the chief factory of the sub-
versive elements that are shaking the fabric
of the British Empire; but the effect of an
education in a British university is usually
subversive, too. Some of these young men
and women, when they return to their home-
lands, find an outlet for their energies in
medical, social or other services; but many
of them—probably the majority—don’t.
They ha.ve been brought in contact with the
philosophies of Darwin, Haeckel, Bergson,
Spencer and even Marx, and it is a heady
draught to pour into any unsophisticated
stomach. It creates intellectual doubt and
scepticism which unfit the owner for a
resumption of the old subordination to the
ancestral family system of “the East.” The
only remaining field for expansion is the
political realm, and in that they find. the
British district officer securely installed.
Consequently these children of a chaotic age
discover themselves literally without a coun-
try, so they proceed to work underground
to make a country for themselves—in short,
to create a spirit of nationalism where it
didn’t exist before. The result is precisely
the same as if they had taken a course at
Moscow, because, whether the nation they
visualise is to be founded on capitalist
principles or Communist, it will be equally
devoted to upsetting the foreign Power.
An outstanding example is the Kuomin-
tang, of China. It is almost exclusively
composed of students trained in British or
American universities. It is regarded as
hopelessly bourgeois by the extreme left of
its own party, but it is just as implacably
opposed to foreign domination. Immediately
after its accession to power at Nanking a
couple of years ago it announced that China
was going to build its own railways and
mercantile marine and erect a protective
tariff higher than the Great Wall. It also
declared that it was going to have an army
of 10.000,000 and a navy as big as the best.
Probably the young man who worked out
the lastnamed scheme had watched the
Horse Guards changing guard at Whitehall,
in the intervals of listening to lectures at
the London University.
4
The Undefended North.
H. G. Nelson, M.H.R. for the Northern
Territory, drew an alarming picture last
week of the position there. He averred that
survey operations by aliens were being car-
ried out, that there were repeated and pro-
longed visits by strangers to the coast, and
that strangers known to be liable to the
restriction provisions were frequently to be
seen in Darwin. The speaker is a supporter
of the Labor party, and it seems a fair thing
to ask it a question: Does it believe Mr.
Nelson? If it doesn’t, then obviously it
ought to warn Australia against accepting
its supporter’s statements. If it believes
Mr. Nelson, is it still going to hold to its
anti-militarist and anti-Defence policy?


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP *I’SdGOO 0 S
RESERVE FUND 1 tSqX?? 10 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITGCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E. 0.3.
throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts or the
fe ' world. . . ,
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business transacted..
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Fine Diamonds >x
£2O I
Fine Diamond
£25
M Fine Diamonds
1 £2B
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGA.GEWIENT
'RINGS
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Bings , Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine
onds
£5O
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Uhc. Sam’s farmers are worse off than
our own, because Unc. had more money
looking round for a job ; which meant easy
mortgages and high prices. He knows that
the worst of the load will have to be lifted
off the farmers’ backs: most of the nasty
trouble that occurred last year was due to
wholesale foreclosures. To keep the farmers
on the land, a huge scheme is being-
discussed for taking over the mortgages, and
a bond issue of anything up to 2000 million
dollars is to be discussed by Congress. But
that doesn’t give us much of a lead. What
we can’t agree upon is who is to carry the
baby.
Of course, the primary industries of Aus-
tralia are enormously important; but what
would happen if the secondary industries were
cut out? We dropped our census in 1931, bur
in 1921, when we had one, only 258 of every
1000 people at work in Australia were en-
gaged in primary pursuits, including mining.
Of 2,322,000 breadwinners, the farmers,
graziers, gardeners, mineiys and fossickers
numbered only 599,000. If secondary indus-
tries are cut out for the sake of the primary
industries, wliat are we going to do with
the threeFfourths of the population that are
not engaged in primary industry?
It is a dull day that does not bring forth
some suggestion of trouble for Foggy Smith
and his Government in Queensland. A
number of his Ministers —Pease (Hands),
Stopford (Mines), Hines (Labor) and Dasli
(Transport) —have been in holts with party
supporters, and have emerged all hot and
bothered. Loud sounds of disappointment
and disillusionment are heard where loyalty
FOGGY SMITH: “Go on, Moore, you take her
for a walk.”
MOORE: “I don’t want to; and , besides,
there’s a storm coming up and I’d hate
to get wet.”
and obedience should be manifest. In some
quarters the mutterings are so pronounced
that there is a suggestion that the party
should get out of office without delay, and,
on some pretext or another, push the
Nationalists back. The same sort of thing
was put up to Scullin during his Prime
Ministership when the clouds were lowering
in the Federal sphere. Nationalists, how-
ever, are not allured by the pi*»pect.
Germany is still looking longingly at its
lost colonies; and the “Hamburger Naclit-
richten” lately put it to Australia that it
would be doing a sensible thing if it handed
back German New Guinea and spent the
money on its own continental defences. It
is not at all certain the German isn’t talk-
ing sense. Anyway, the claim that the hold-
ing of New Guinea as an outpost is neces-
sary would sound a lot better if the home
defences were 6 worth consideration. At the
moment Australia is a good deal like the
flash gentleman who spends money on main-
taining a wonderful pergola and hasn’t got
anything left to keep tin* roof of his humpy
even reasonably watertight.
Speaking in his old home town of Kyne-
ton. Vic. Premier Argyle told the farmers
annual convention that he would be able to
carry out his undertaking to keep the
deficit for 1932-33 below £900,000; in
fact, as £536,000 was going m reduc-
tion of liabilities, the real shortage would
not be more than £364,000. Serious thought
was being given to reducing rail freight on
wool, Argyle mentioned. But the think
shouldn’t be too long. The fact is wool-
carrying rates were fixed in days when it
didn’t matter much what the squatter was
charged—and he was charged accordingly.
But in making these concessions not only
this but every other Government ought to
see that the real beneficiary is the wool-
grower and not some moneylender.
One of the grievances of the Basher Gang
in Westralia was that the price of bananas
was kept wickedly high through the Federal
tariff. The obvious answer was that, as
Westralia had whips of good banana coun-
try, it ought to grow some and give itself
cheap fruit. A while ago it began planting
at Carnarvon; and the fruit is now oil
the market. But, alas! the price is no
lower. They find they must charge one
another just as much as the t’otlierside rob-
bers had been doing.
Mussolini took a hand the other day in
the effort to get the nations of Europe to
reduce armaments
and seriously con-
sider peace plans;
and Ramsay Mac-
Donald is still
working in the
s a m e direction.
The Muss oli n i
scheme was, in
brief, that Britain,
France, Germany
and Italy should
swear themselves in
as special con-
stables to keep
Europe in order.
But, as this would
apparently involve
modifying the
treaty which ended
the Great War,
the “Little En-
tente” and Poland
are shouting their
protests because
they are the most
liable to suffer,
having gained the
most; and France,
as the patron of all
these, looks coldly
on this scheme —
and every other,
for that matter.
Poland’s chief con-
cern is the preservation of “the corridor,”
the road to the Baltic, carved through Ger-
many. It is the most dangerous packet of
high explosives in the world to-day.
The motor-car is largely responsible for
it; but the movement started before the
car got fairly going. From 1907 to 1932,
in Victoria, 1748 hotels have been closed
and 70 new licenses have been granted;
to-day 1770 remain. Thus practically half
have been wiped out, those left paying them
compensation. The beauty of the Vic.
system—the best in Australia, perhaps any-
where—is that the poorest pubs have been
delicensed and those that have remained
have been able to improve themselves. The
Licenses Reduction Board keeps tab on
that, too, and finds that since January, 1923,
£1,520,680 has been spent on rebuilding
and altering country pubs and £2,025,930
on metropolitan—total £3,546,610.
The present N.S.W. Leg. Council can be
got rid of only through a referendum. If
the people at the coming count said no by an
overwhelming majority, it would be simply
a vote to maintain the present absurd nomi-
nee Chamber —the most undemocratic thing
imaginable. The highest Court in the Empire,
the Privy Council, has decided this. Lang
passed a'bill through both Houses to abolish
the Council; the Privy Council said he
couldn’t do it without getting the people’s
MOTHER: “Well, you needn’t take the new
medicine if you don’t want to. But,
remember, if you don’t take the new
you’ve got to go on with the old.
approval through a referendum. He also
passed a bill through both Houses to repeal
the measure which prescribed a referen-
dum ; and he was told he couldn t do that
either. So a “No” vote will be a vote for
leaving things as they are. and keeping the
absurd old Chamber in existence.
Either the police are getting much more
tolerant or this generation’s pet vice isn t
drunkenness. In 1890, when Victoria was
having a boom, 16.54 per 1000 of the popu-
lation were up for taking in more liquor
than they could carry. In 1928, which was
about the top of another boom, the figure
was down to 5.50. In 1931 it was 3.91;
but the thin purse may have had something
to do with that crash. One disheartening
feature about the statistics is that the wine-
consumption figures scarely move. Victoria
still sinks 22 gallons of beer for every gallon
of Australia’s own good wine.
The fact that the Vic. railway system is
responsible for 44 p.c. of the State’s public
debt of £169.834.000 was emphasised by
Auditor-General Norris before the Transport
Board. Adequate provision for the protec-
RAMSAY MACDONALD : "Well, ye ken ye can reduce the weight
of the irons if ye like — it’s all a matter for yersels."
tion of capital had never been made, he
said, and the railways had all along been
giving service below cost —largely -because
annual charges for capital were outside the
Commissioners’ control. Further, by spend-
ing £27,000,000 on highways the State had
made motor competition possible, thus add-
ing to the taxpayers’ burden. Which is quite
true, of course; but what does, the Auditor-
General propose to do about, it? The pri-
vate business dare not refuse to introduce
new processes: it has got to make provi-
sion for obsolescence, so that old appliances
may be scrapped and new ones installed.
Rut that can only be done by economy m
both .capital and running exes., to start with.
Queensland’s Golden Casket lottery, which
is under Government control, is in future
to be drawn in various centres outside Bris-
bane, as well as in the metropolis, the first
drawing under the new scheme to be made
at Toowoomba this week. Aeroplanes will
be used to spread the glad tidings of the
drawing and telephones will notify the head
office in Brisbane. Though it is not stated,
there will doubtless be a lot of new billets,
and these and other charges will largely in-
crease costs, which are already heavy. The
lottery ostensibly exists for the benefit of
the State hospitals. Supporters of these
have constantly complained of the percent-
age of the profits which are- swallowed up
in expenses. It looks as if they will have
further grounds for their objections.
Evidently John Allan, Vic. Minister for
Agriculture, is expecting to be hauled over
the coals by the Cocky party, of which he is
State Parliamentary head, at the St. Arnaud
annual conference. He told. the Farmers
Convention that this was a time for unity,
and he would stand or fall by his action in
joining Argyle. As a rule the rank and
file don’t explain why they object to coali-
tions. The cold truth is that by standing
out they hope to get larger concessions.
They are such good democrats that they
are utterly opposed to minority rule so long
as it isn’t their own minority.
The tenderness of Eabor Governments for
gambling in one disguise or another is
notorious. Queensland’s Foggy Smith Gov-
ernment is no exception. Among the bills
to come before Parliament next session is
one amending the law dealing with racing
control, betting and kindred matters. It will
deal with betting taxation and possibly the
legalisation of betting shops, and also with
the appointment of a Board of Control. The
last notion, which also appealed to the late
Lang Government in N.S.W., is open .to
many objections. In the first place, racing
throughout Australia has been admirably
controlled for many years bv the great clubs,
administered by men who are above suspi-
cion, at no cost to the public. A politically-
appointed board would entail extra cost to
the taxpayers, and would open the door to
endless suspicion and scandal, since it would
inevitably be largely composed of men whose
chief claim to appointment was their stand-
ing with the Government appointing them,
and not their standing in tne community
or their knowledge of racing administration.
The Jap is hitting Ah Sin so hard that
his activities in other parts ot the 1 acihc
littoral are apt to be forgotten. Ihe
report is that Brazil has placed an order
for 30 warships with the Nipponese Gov-
ernment. Payment, is to be in kind, bm
there will probably be more concessions than
goods stipulated in the contract. When the
Jap was thwarted in California he tried t
get into Mexico, but Uncle Sam objected.
Since then there has been considerable
migration into the South American repub-
lics, which don’t bother about a colorline.
An impression of the Eight Hours Pro-
cession in Melbourne was that the mitiatrv e
of the Labor movement in Victoria has
shifted from the old-time union official to
the Communists. The Trades Hall did it*
best to keep these heretics out ot the parade,
but failed. Up to the last minute they
were in the dark as to the tactics to la 1
employed by their enemies. Just betore
the expedition started the Communists
crashed the gates with hundreds of banners
bearing such slogans as “Capitalism is Hell,
“Russian Workers AVon by Fighting! Aus-
tralian Workers?” These were distributed
amongst the unemployed marchers, of whom
there. were at least 1500, as against -boJ
unionists. The unionists looked as sell-
conscious as a W.C.T.TJ. stalwart discovered
in a wine-cellar.
AVliat the slump has done to the Maori-
land artisan is shown by the Government
Statistician in the latest Blue Book. Com-
paring the years ended March 31, 1030 and
1932 the number of factories has fallen from
5168 to 4969 ( 3.8 per cent.) ; the number
of persons employed from 82,861 to 68,6.0
(17.1 per cent.) ; wages paid from
£16,846,286 to £12,642,935 (24.9 per cent.).
The value of materials used bas shrunk
from £58,484,245 (a good £13,000,000 more
than the total exports) in 1930 to
£42,343,078 in the latest year—a drop of
27.5 per cent. The building trade has gone
phut. New buildings in 1929-30 were valued
at £6,790,582; in 1931-32 at £1,815,670
a drop of 73 per cent. Unfortunately there
hasn’t been a M'aoriland politician since Bal-
lance who comprehends that the domestic
market is as important as the export mar-
ket, so that these figures are not likely to
do much to correct the impression, strongly
held in the ruling agrarian circles, that the
Dominion will never be prosperous again
till it abolishes Customs Houses.
“Followers of Mr. Lang say that the socialisers
must be driven out of the A.L.P.”
STRANGER: "What’s the poor cow done?"
LANG LABORITE: “He’s a Laborite who re-
fuses to admit that the chief plank of
the Labor platform is wrong.”
Arthur Griffith on the advantages of Free-
trade :
Recently I tried to get some spare parts for a
British-made rotary pump. No one in Sydney could
supply them, so I have to throw away a perfect!'
good pump which cost me £ll. No more imported
machinery for me.
Queensland Industrial Court gave a local
union a useful lesson the other day on the
ethics of playing with double-headed pennies.
Some years ago the tannery employees asked
to be struck off the State register as they
were transferring to the Federal sphere.
The Federal wages award was then higher
than the State. Now the reverse is the
case, and the union desires to come back.
But it has been supplanted on the Queens-
land register by the Leather Workers
Trades Federation; and the Court decided
that in the circumstances one union was
plenty,
Sydney “Labor Daily” on Lang: —
“The greatest statesman Australia has produced.’
Lang on Svdney “Labor Daily”: —
“The greatest Labor paper that has appeared in
any part of the world.”
Well, it's fair dues. “Thee scart ma back
an’ All’ll .scart thine.”


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Limb”: A youngster well able to hold
his _ own with Norman Lindsay’s imps as
depicted in “Saturdee” was encountered by
a Sydney motorist the other day. The kid
jumped from the pavement almost under
the speeding car and was knocked down.
Examination showed a badly-cut head, but
the injured one vehemently objected to
being taken to a near-by hospital. When
the motorist insisted the kid tried to bolt, but
was recaptured and whisked off, resisting
violently. At the hospital the receiving-
sister gave him the “once over. ” “Why,”
she said, “that’s the littledde er—fellow
that tied his sheets together and escaped
out of a window here the other night.”
* :!= :|: *
“Sixenate” : Annoyed at the dilatoriness of
a dentist who had kept their false teeth, left
for repairs, for over a fortnight, two Parra-
matta women secured orders for the return
of the molars, in default the payment of the
full cost of new sets. There is nothing that
makes anybody feel so naked as the absence
of familiar grinders; an American Court
recently decided that the detention of a false
REVISED VERSION.
“You had your sister-in-law and her children ter dinner again last night, Mrs. Aggs?”
“Yus — it’s always either a feast or a faminely in our ’ouse.”
set beyond the time necessary to deal with
a small breakage was worth 50 dollars a day
for “humiliation” to the plaintiff. Teeth are
not the only objects of very personal pro-,
perty that h'ave been dealt with in N.S.W.
courts. A man who had had his appendix
removed was quite indifferent about what had
happened to this useless portion of his ana-
tomy until he learnt that the doctor had
preserved it in a bottle and was using it as
an exhibit. He regarded this as an outrage
and, the medico having refused to give up
possession, the matter went to court, where
it was established that the person to whom
the interesting curio had originally belonged
still had a title to it.
:]: * * *
“Barangkaili”: Touching that decision of
the Sydney Judge that a householder has no
right to retain tennis balls hit into his
garden from neighboring properties (B.
22/3/’33), A friend of mine on the North
Shore line is an ardent rosegrower; for
weeks he suffered from the stream of balls
hit into his garden from the next-door
court, but, despite the damage to his cher-
ished flowers, he invariably returned the
balls. At last things got so bad that he hit
on a device of his own for abating the
nuisance. lie still returned the balls, but
picked them up with a garden folk and
handed them over the fence still impaled on
the prongs. In less than a fortnight work-
men were busy on the court, raising the net-
ting another 15 feet. ;
“Morse” : In the ’fifties two brothers came
from England to Australia : one went .south,
the other west, and they soon lost touch with
one another. Each married and had a son.
I became acquainted with one of these by
working alongside of him for a few years
as a telegraphist, and soon I could tell him
wherever he was by his method of manipu-
lating the telegraph key. Later I was trans-
ferred north, and, working with a “cane”
station, noticed the formation of the Morse
characters, and wondered at the similarity
between the touch of this sender and the
friend I had left behind. I mentioned this
in a letter to my old mate, and the result
was a correspondence between the pair, with
the result that they found they bore the
same name and were first cousins. The
fathers also began to correspond again after
an interval of over 30 years. The strangest
part of this is that neither of the boys has
the same characteristics in the formation
of the Morse code.
:|! * * *
“Craiser”: Melbourne still has in com-
mission a hansom cab. It is owned
by a Jehu who has been plying for custom
since 1902, omitting an interval of five
years when he drove a taxi for a change.
His customers are no longer old ladies or
visitors from the country terrified of the
new petrol vehicles. The other night an
amused crowd witnessed two youths in fault-
less evening dress struggle unsteadily into
the aged conveyance in front of the King's
I asked an onlooker what the fascination
was. “They will have something to talk
about in the morning,” he remarked. Arthur
Adams spoke in one of his London verses of
“the jangling lyric of a cab.” Like the
sailing-ship, the hansom is still the abode
of Bomance.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The 1,000,000 th suggestion re-
ceived by Melbourne’s Centenary Committee
is due to one-time Bulletin artist Denis
Connelly. He proposes an earth mound or
mountain 100 feet or yards high in the
Domain. Each citizen would contribute a
square foot,; there would be red earth from
the Mallee, dust from the outback, contribu-
tions from Scottish moors, English counties,
and the rest of the world as well. Such a
monument, Mr. Connelly says, would be
an outstanding feature in the city, like St.
Paul’s in London, the Eiffel Tower in Paris,
and the Harbor Bridge in Sydney. Trees
would be planted on it and it would be
opened with pomp and ceremony as a ges-
ture of international goodwill. I think it is
a good idea, basically, but is susceptible of
improvement. Specimens of the mud slung
at elections ought to be sterilised and added
to it, with suitable inscriptions. Dust from
housewives’ vacuum-cleaners in Buckingham
Palace and elsewhere might he included to
give it a sentimental interest for women. Some
might prefer a mountain of beer-bottles or
used safety-razor blades as conveying more
human interest, but in that case the trees
would have to be omitted. However, it is
a fine, imaginative project, worthy of a
State which solves its unemployment problem
by sand-shifting methods, and I hope Major
Condor will give it his earnest consideration.
sis :J: ❖ ❖
“Oran”: One Sydney family is trying to
unravel a jewel mystery of some antiquity.
Many years ago the grandmother of the
SANDS. OF SILENCE.
“That big lifesaver doesn’t half know his job. I’m just dying for someone to come
and talk to me.”
present clan possessed a unique and very
valuable diamond brooch. It disappeared;
servants were under suspicion, the police
were called in, the loss was advertised, but
the bauble was never discovered. Not long
ago there returned to the neighborhood the
young married grand-daughter of a woman
who had been a friend and contemporary of
the original owner of the brooch, and the
Sydney family picked up the threads of the
friendship that dated back to the middle of
last century. It progressed quite agreeably
until one day the new arrival paid a visit
wearing the long-lost brooch, which was
instantly recognised by the descendants of
the rightful owner. By tactful discussion
they gathered that the brooch had been left
to the girl by her grandmother, who had
presumably overlooked tlie possibility of any
of her descendants returning and renewing
old associations. The legal adviser of the
family shook his head sagely when appealed
to. and advised that sleeping dogs should
be let lie.
* * * *
“Link”: To be without a massive gold
chain across the go-to-meeting vest was
like being inadequately dressed in the boom
years of the North Queensland goldfields.
To-day these solid relics of an auriferous
era are proving a good investment, as gold-
buyers can testify. At Townsville recently
a cable chain, with links nearly an inch in
length, brought £2l 10s. across the counter
of a local gold-buying company.
*
“X.S.” : A neglected-child case at the Col-
lingwood Court recently brought out a dismal
example of the law’s inadequacy. The child,
a girl, was aged 14. It was alleged that she
had been livifig with a Chinaman. The
Court found that it had no jurisdiction.
Under the Children’s Wejfare Act. 1925, a
child under 17 may be deemed to be neglected
if he or she is found begging, wandering
about without a home or visible means and
associating or dwelling with a reputed thief,
drunkard or vagrant, whether such person is
the father or not. Neither the Ah Sin nor
the girl concerned came under any of the
above categories, and the .Justices made an.
urgent request to the Chief Secretary to
have the law amended.
“Oxmcad”: I read the other day that a
Fremantle parson had intimated to his con-
gregation the considerate wish that they
should “disregard conventional dress during
heat waves.” Westralia, to its credit, has
always led the way in these slackenings of
ecclesiastical restraints. Over 30 years ago
I can recall a Congregational parson in Kal-
goorlie giving out that worshippers were at
liberty to smoke in the porch attached to
the sacred edifice —it was a cool and airy
spot on a hot night, and you could hear the
sermon perfectly well from there. Ten years
before that an even more daring innovation
was introduced in a church service at Mul-
lewa (then the terminus of the Geraldton-
Cue railway), but it is only fair to say that
it was without the knowledge of the officiat-
ing clergyman. A travelling Presbyterian
minister had struck the township, with its
virile floating population of prospectors and
teamsters, and he approached one of the
hotelkeepers for permission to use his largest
room for a Sunday-night service. Bung fell
in with the suggestion heartily; further, lie
volunteered to come himself and bring as
many of the boys as he could get hold of.
The service was a great success, and the
parson expressed himself as more than grati-
fied at the size of the congregation and the
fulness of the salver that Bung had provided
for a collection plate. The only thing that
had worried him a little, his reverence
admitted, was a periodic movement at the
back of the hall and a tendency for the con-
gregation to get up and shift their seats.
The explanation, of course, was that the
barman, an enterprising soul, had blanketed
off a small enclosure at the back of the tem-
porary tabernacle and had let it be known
that he would be there to minister to any-
one who should be assailed by thirst at any
stage of the proceedings. But the parson never
learned about that till long afterwards.
:J: -fi ❖ H*
“Cosmos”: Every now and then someone
returns to Sydney from overseas and makes
an appeal for “Continental open-air restau-
rants.” The Rev. P. A. Mieklem, of St.
James’s, is the latest.
I feel that the delightful system which you find
in Austria and South Germany of semi-open air
restaurants—tables set out under the shady trees
where people of all classes can meet for social fellow-
ship and have their glass of beer or cup of coffee
and listen to first-grade music—could with advantage
be copied in Australia.
Sydney will never have open-air restaurants
—a matter of its winds. The inhabitants
of all Australian cities, and particularly
Sydney, habitually talk about their winds.
A nor’-easter is greeted with pleasure, a
sou’-easter with overcoats and umbrellas,
northerlies and “hot westerlies” with dis-
may, southerlies sometimes with relief, some-
times with curses. A Sydney day begins
divinely as a rule; it has the sunny stillness
of a fine European day in mid-June. But
it goes to pieces as the sun climbs the glit-
tering sky. Dust and scraps of paper start
blowing about, doors and windows bang, the
kiosks and restaurants in places like the
Domain are sealed up. South Germany is
in the happy position of a country without
a history, so far as its winds are concerned;
no one discusses or even thinks about winds.
For day after day it is possible to sit at a
table in the open air and read a paper which
remains motionless when propped against
a beer carafe. The same in Paris. London
has many still days, but it has too many
sunless and dirty ones for open-air restau-
rants. Also, like Sydney, its conformation
is wrong. With the exception of part of the
northern side of the Brompton-road it has
hardly any wide pavements.
* * * *
“H'aette”: “Cady” (B. 22/3/’33) opens
pp an interesting field for research in his
reference to the many equivalent titles for
hats. “Stovepipe,” “nailcan,” “tile” and
“lid.” as well as others like “boater” and
“donkey’s breakfast,” have /obvious origins.
Then there was “beaver,” much in vogue
with our grandfathers, and deriving its title
from the animal whose fur entei’ed into its
composition, as does “castor,” greatly fav-
ored in the golden days of the P.R., when
contestants preceded their meeting in the
ring by tossing their “castors” into it. Castor
was the trade name for beaver fur. The
double-crowned “Terai” takes its name from
a hot district of India, but I am doubtful
as to the origin of “smasher,” once univer-
sally applied to the looped-up felts affected
by South African and Rhodesian pioneers
and bv Australian military forces.
* * *
“Thame”: Whatever the outcome of the
race, the Oxford crew this year promises to
set up one record for the annual meeting
between the Dark and Light Blues. The
cox of the Oxford eight is a Siamese prince,
Komarakui-Nagara. who began his English
life at St. Taul’s School and is now at Mag-
dalen. He is one of the University’s best
lightweight boxers in addition. This must
be the first time that an Asiatic has repre-
sented the Dark Blues in any sport save
cricket.
JAMES EDMOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They toiled for centuries in vain pursuit
Arid bootless quest, those alchemists of old,
Of some supreme elixir to transmute
All baser things to gold.
His was a gift the gods vouchsafed, unsought:
' The wizard pen wherewith the word was
writ
That left a radiance where’er it wrought,
A glow on all it lit.
For year on year he watched, through shine
or shade,
The ever-moving show beneath his gaze;
And over all his lambent fancy played
As summer lightning plays.
What though he loved the jester’s motley
well,
Beneath the cap and bells, serene and
strong,
Lay purpose firm and will inflexible
For ceaseless war with wrong.
A magic pen, for drolleries that rung
A peal to linger in the hearts of men—
Aye, and at times for righteous scorn that
stung—
Ever a magic pen !
Evil and error melted in his mirth,
As leaden clouds by golden sunbeams
kissed
Are riven and rent. Lie lightly on him,
earth —
The Master Alchemist!
N.s.w.
T. THE H.


“Nakh”: Lion Feuchtwanger, author of
“Jew Suss,” is mentioned as one of the vic-
tims of Nazi vengeance. His home was
broken into and the second volume of his
novel “Josephus,” recently reviewed in Tiie
'Bulletin, was torn to pieces. There is no
doubt what instigated this outrage. A couple
of years ago Feuchtwanger published “Suc-
cess,” a novel placed in Hitler’s home town
of Munich. It was a brilliant description
of an abortive attempt to establish a Fascist
dictatorship, and the model for the hysterical
leader was obviously the present Chancellor
of Germany.
* * * *
“Cornet”: There can be no doubt, as
“Zounds” asserts (B. 22/3/’33), that the
art of swearing has become a feeble tradi-
tion in the British army. The only occa-
sion during the late war that I can recall
anything to approach the full-flavored
standard of earlier experiences was when
General Allenby addressed the Anzac
Mounted Division at Surafend in Palestine
over a matter of visiting vengeance on some
Bedouin murderers. The South African war
was the last blooming, so to speak, of this
military gift—for it was more than an art.
In those days the n.e.o.’s of the regular regi-
ments who served with Australian troops—
most of them 21 ’'ears’ service men who
could curse in seven languages—had their
equals if not their superiors in the higher
ranks, even among the wearers of the crossed
batons. By general consent the palm was
given to the late General Tucker, whose
memory is still as a precious ointment with
those Australians so fortunate as to sit at
the feet of such a Gamaliel. Unhappily, I
cannot recall one of his efforts that even a
modern lady novelist would dare to reproduce
in her pages.
* * * *
“Lex”: It is odd that the first foreign
nation to find fault officially with the Rus-
sian criminal code should be Britain. Kry-
lenko, the head of the Soviet criminal prose-
cution department —he would be a Treasury
“silk” in London —was chiefly responsible
for the framing of the Bolsheviks’ criminal
code, and he drew his inspiration almost en-
“AS THE TWIG IS BENT.”
GOVERNESS: “Now, think. What is it makes the world go round?”
KID (whose dad is an impatient motorist) : “The dam’ traffic cops.”
tirely from England. But Krylenko wants
the death penalty to be imposed for nearly
as many offences as in early-Victorian Eng-
land. If the British subjects who are charged
with sabotage arc withdrawn from his
clutches it will be by a process equivalent to
our nolle prosequi. If it is decided to defy
public opinion in Britain and try. them, the
proceedings will be virtually in camera, and
it will be a case of “God help them, for no
one else.will be in a position to!” In all
these trials where patriotism enters by the
window justice retires by the door. During
the war a Digger who was liable to get up
to ten years for an alleged offence of which
he was subsequently shown to be innocent
asked me to appear for him. “Don’t do it,”
said the adjutant. “The man's as guilty as
he can be.” If Krylenko isn’t saying some-
thing like that to Stalin at the present
moment, then I don’t know the ways and
mental processes of brass-hats.
:{: * :Ji
“Amazulu”: Dinizulu, the son of Cete-
wayo, after serving his ten years on St.
Helena for rebellion (B. 15/3/’33), returned
to give the Natal Government a lot of trouble.
He was the recognised
ruler of the province
in 1900, when Zulus
and Kaffirs rebelled
against the fl p.a.
poll tax; in the fol-
lowing year Natal
Government tr.oo p s,
aided by Cape Mount-
eds and Transvaalers,
swept Zululand clean
and arrested Dini-
zulu at Eshowe. I
was one of several
Australians who saw
the old king waddle
out of his “palace,” at
the rear of which was
the biggest empty-
bottle dump I’ve ever
seen (and I was in
Canberra in its “dry"
days). Dinizulu was
deposed and the Zulus
disarmed, but not be-
fore an ugly situation
occurred in Natal.
The rising began near
Richmond, where a
chief refused to pay the
tax and his men killed
a white police ser-
geant and a trooper.
The Natal Govern-
ment promptly seni
troops to Richmond
and arrested every
Ivaffir who had “blood-
ed his assegai.” The
ringleaders were sen-
tenced to death, but
iW in s to n Churchill,
then Under-Secretary
for the Colonies in
the Campbell Banner-
ol a n Government,
vetoed the sentence.
The Natal Govern-
ment resigned, the
Governor threatened
to do likewise, and
the “Natal Mercury”
came out with a cartoon
showing Natal ripping the veto in half, over
the caption “Daughter am I in My Mother’s
'House, but Mistress in My Own.” Churchill
climbed down, and the murderers were duly
executed.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Many contradictory slogans
were borne by the Eight-Hours Day proees-
sioners in Melbourne. At the head of the
parade was a banner with the inscription,
“No Men, No Arms, No Guns.” At the tail
was another exhorting the proletariat to
“Defend the Chinese Soviet Republics” !
* * * *
“Spasebo”: In his latest work, “The In-
equality of Man,” Prof. J. B. S. Haldane
vouches for a story I have not seen in print
concerning Nauru, the guano island adminis-
tered by Australia under the League of
Nations. Tlie natives drank a lot of toddy
until the new controllers arrived. Then a
paternal officialdom decided it was bad for
efficiency and enforced absolute prohibition.
Infantile mortality rose to 50 per cent, within
six months. The medical officer found that
children at the breast were dying of beri-
beri, a disease due to a deficiency of vitamin
81. It is a substance practically absent from
, the monotonous diet of the mothers but is
present in large quantities in the yeast from
which the toddy was made, so toddy was
allowed again. The infantile mortality im-
mediately fell to 7 per cent. Incidentally, in
India Gandhi wants the British Government
to remove the tax on. salt and stop the sale
of toddy. In tropical countries salt is
urgently needed to replace the loss by per-
spiration, but, owing to the tax, the poorer
classes are unable to buy enough. If the
British Government stops the sale of toddy
without removing the salt tax. the health of
the people will be attacked from two
directions.
. “M. de Paris”: As for the right of peers
condemned to death to be hanged with a silken
cord (B. 22/3/’33), beheading was the death
reserved for men of noble blood, even in cases
of felony, until comparatively recent times.
When hanging became general, it was obvi-
ously necessary that a nobleman’s scragging
OPEN TO INSTRUCTION.
P ARSON: “The way you knock your wife about, Jacky, is very wrong."
JACKY: “Sorry, boss. Which way this-pfeller do it?”
should be differentiated from that of one of
the common herd. Silk was expensive and
therefore exclusive in those days, and was
the natural choice. Nowadays no felon so
poor but that a necktie of art. silk could be
provided for him.
* * * *
“Wyara”: The depression has hit the
Methodist Inland Mission, which has been
compelled to cut down expenses by merging
districts. The latest merger is the Central
Australia area, formerly under the charge
of Rev. T. G. Lithgow, with the Katherine
area, of which Rev. T. H. Griffiths is in
charge. Padre Griffiths now has the cure of
souls in a district of 400,000 square miles,
considerably more than half the size of
Queensland. But his flock does not average
one to a hundred square miles.
% % # #
“Cherchez”: “We are behind the women
of other countries as far as politics are
concerned,” said a speaker somewhat deject-,
edly at the Feminist Club’s conference the
other day; “women who have strayed into
Parliament, except in Western Australia,
have not stayed in.” Which is true enough,
as the experience of Miss Preston Stanley
in N.S.W. and Mrs. Irene Longman in
Queensland attests; even in Westralia, one
of those who “strayed in” (Mrs. Edith
Cowan) failed to obtain a second term. The
other, Miss May Holman, probably owes for
her comparative security of tenure a good
deal to her father (a noted Labor organiser
in his day, whom she succeeded in the re-
presentation of Forrest), something to her
seat (an absolutely safe Labor one in the
sawmill country) and just a trifle to chiv-
alry. Indisputably there is something not
easily explicable in the consideration that
Australia, which was almost the first part
of the Empire to enfranchise women (John
Forrest gave them the vote in Westralia
before Federation), should be almost the
slowest to accept them whole-heartedly as
Parliamentary candidates.
* * * *
“Chev.” : “The police have no option but
to administer the law,” remarked Vic. Pre-
mier Argyle regarding the fining of some
Labor Parliamentarians for obstructing the
traffic in Phoenix-street, Brunswick, where
one of them claims to have spoken from a
soapbox for the past 30 years. No doubt,
but they exercise their discretion all the
same. During the Tests crowds listening to
the broadcasts or waiting for the results
blocked the pavements and overflowed the
streets in a dozen places in the city, and
instead of administering the law the sym-
pathetic Johns turned themselves into traffic
cops and directed pedestrians and motor-cars
round the impediments.
$ * *
“Lelaps” : It-is quite possible, supposing
that the pedigree of the Alsatian could be
traced back for 12,000 years, there would
be no trace of the wolf in it (B. 15/3/’33).
That space of time is but a trifle in evolu-
tion. But as to the wolf ancestry of all
dogs, there is no doubt whatever. To the
laymen the most convincing proof is that
wolf and dog will interbreed and have done
so even in captivity.
# * * *
“Centurion”: Though General Chetwodc
more than made good with hiss Australian
command in Sinai (B. 15/3/’33), it took
him/ some time to settle down. He ‘ joined
up” 'at El Arish after the Australians had
been close on 12 months fighting in the
desert, and thought them a. trifle, uncouth.
They, in their turn, watching him riding
about immaculately groomed and followed by
a pair of perfectly-turned-out orderlies, had
their own opinion of him. One day he
complained bitterly to Ohauvel. “I don’t
mind,” he said, “your men not saluting me,
but dammit, they needn’t laugh out loud at
my orderlies.” »
* ❖ * *
“Chirurgeon” : In his attack on the modern
medico’s practice of writing prescriptions in
what the profession chooses to regard as
Latin (B. 22/3/’33), “Pawang” overlooks a
couple of important reasons for maintaining
the custom. One is that Latin is the uni-
versal language of science, or at least that
region of science which has to do with medi-
cine and pharmacy. A prescription written
by a Macquarie-street leech could be made
up without difficulty by a chemist in Buda-
pest. Further, drugs' all the world over
are known by Latin names. To convert
these into the local language in Europe alone
would be a staggering task, and an inter-
Preter would be needed every time anyone
with a prescription sought to have it made
up in a new country,
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Perusal of the daily papers nowa-
days conveys the impression that a visit to
Europe would be about as comfortable as
taking tea in the bottom of an active vol-
eano. Nevertheless, the largest number of
Australians on record left Melbourne in five
overseas liners the other day. There were
2200 of them. A half of these went to
Tasmania in the Strathnaver, but the rest
are preparing to run the gauntlet of the
passport officials of the Continent,
* * * *
“Morimoto” : In administering a rebuke to
Father Woodlock, the Jesuit lecturer who
denounced a birth-control ball in London,
™ Jff“^^/^fiaidThat'^
Wrth-contmllefs hai j a higher and better
"emlity than Fethcr Woodlock, .becaesc tnrth-
a aew nstr nme t 111 t e .
V‘R 1118 . to relieve lndrvidinl su g
and the impotent scramble for ex .to e
world that is terribly It u
a moot question whether the refusal to b
® r children for economic reas 11s e_ s
human suffering. Childless women oL my
acquaintance are not distinguishably happier
than mothers of six. , Only children are not
distinguishably happier _ than members o
large families, and their fathers are no
noticeably more contented than those with
quiverfuls. As for over-population, it is as
artificial a product as the modern bright
JSWtttaf. t' h
offspiing. A few Anst *. < •
under-populated. J ms more peopf
than lC can feed > though it has more labor,
machines and the same natar^
sources If the economic machine has broken
down it is more sensible to scrap it and
substitute a workable one. than throw the
babms overboard, babies being more interest-
in £ objects than broken-down mac in y.
* * *
“Adelaide”: St. Mark’s, the first residen-
tial college of Adelaide University, opened
in 1925 with 10 students. It now announces
that, although it has acquired another house.
it is full, with 44 men. The last six Rhodes
scholars of S. Aus. were all from St. Mark’s.
Reynolds, an old student, has come back
from Oxford to run the college while Grenfell
Price the real Head, spends a year m the
U.S.A. studying the color problem with an
eye to the N.T.
* * * *
“G.Q.”: In the “Age” of March 18. the
cc i e b ra tion of his 100th birthday by one
James Clarke, of Albury. is reported. The
paper supplements this with the information
that the centenarian was born in a house
erected on the site now occupied by the Mel-
bourne G.P.0., and he remembers when a
creek ran through the area. It is not re-
corded whether his parents took him flown
to meet Batman on his arrival in IS3o. Any-
way, the Centenary Committee ought to De
told about it.
AGIN THE REFERENDUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Scullinites and Langsters, the mild men and the
wild men alike, have no liking for any plebiscite;
they prefer caucuses and committees.” — “S. M.
Herald” on the beg. Council referendum.
Who fears the vote of Thirty-three,
The easiest solution
Of how to make the M.L.C.
A .sounder institution?
Strange that among the Labor throng
The reckless and the staid,
The mild men
And wild men,
Are equally afraid. ,
The people’s will they tfll acclaim
Their guiding star, their fetish ;
But when it’s sought to find the same,
How oft yop find them pettish
And quick to carp in accents sharp.
The dasher and the dunce,
The stiff-necked
And circumspect,
They all agree for once.
Vox pofmli for aye their cry,
In ringing tones or raucous;
But many a bird contends it’s heard
As clear and true in caucus.
These plebiscites are chancy fights,
No knowing how they’ll end ’em.
The wild men, the mild men,
The chaps with Lang who howl and hiss,
Or find with Scullin naught amiss,
At least make common cause in this:
They shirk a referendum.
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


“Competition has compelled other petrol
producers to adopt like methods of control,
but the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR
SPIRIT sets a standard of quality not only
in this country but throughout the world.”
■i Extract from the Official Organ of the Institution of
Automobile Engineer»
COMPANY
SHELL
limited.
THE
SHELL
IS BETTER
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some April birthdays
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth). 63, A. G. Davidson
(Bank of N.S.W.), 51, and E. W. Knox (C.S.R.),
86, on Ist; Alex, Jobson, Deputy-Chairman A.M.P.,
58, on 2nd; Dean Aickin (Melb.), 64, and E. C.
Riddle (Commonwealth Bank), 60, on 3rd; Col.
Bourchier, M.L.A. (Vic.), 52, on 4th; Brig. Mackay,
51, on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 66, on Bth;
Tom Truroble (late Australia House), 61, former
Prime Minister J, C, Watson, 66, and R. M. King,
M.L.A. (ex-Min. Educ., Q’land), 64, on 9th; poet
Bernard O’Dowd, 67, and Brig. McGlihn, 64, on
11th; Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., 79, on 12th; Justice
Douglas (Q.), 50, on 13th; Geo. Robertson (Angus
a*nd Robertson), 73, on 14th; Stanley Bruce, 50,
Brig. Gordon Bennett, 46, ex-Mayor Simpson (Adel.),
58, merchant J. M. Dunlop (S’yd.), 66, and Forgan
Smith (Q.), 46, an 15th; Gen. Chauvel, 68,. on 16th :
Rev. John Walker, 78, on 17th ; Win. Dixson (donor
of Dixson Gallery, Syd.), 63, and Archbishop Head
(Melbi), 59, on 18th ; Melb. Uni. Chancellor Mac-
Farland, 82, on 19th; W.A. ex-Premier Collier,. 60,
and Tas. Senator Hayes, 65, on 21st ; ex-Federal
Speaker Groom, 66, Prof. Charteris (Syd.), 54,
W. L. Baillieu (Melb.). 74, and Cliff Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept.), 55, on 22nd ; ex-U. Senator Cooper,
45, and knight Arthur Robinson (Vic.), 61, on 23rd;
medioo-knight Maudsley (Melb.). 74, on 25th; ex-
Q. Senator Drake, 83, W. J. Sowden (late Adel.
“Register”), 75, MacCallum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.),
65, and Col. White (Min. for Customs), 43, on
26th; G. J. Cohen (Syd.), 91, Henry Braddon
(Syd.), 70, W.A. Premier Mitchell, 67, Prof. Agar
(Melb.), 51, and Hewlett Ross (Melb.), 76. on
27th; Justice Dixon (High Court), 47, on 28th;
Geo. Julius (Industrial Research Council), 60, on
29th; Justice Evatt (High Court), 39, and Harrison
Moore; (Melb.), 66, on 30th.
Norman Charles Harris, the new Vie.
Railway Commissioner, is an old Scotch
College boy. Going - abroad, lie qualified as
a Master of Science at the McGill Uni. while
serving an apprenticeship course in the big
workshops of the C.P.R., had railway engi-
neering experience in England, worked for
a time on the hydro-electric concern in the
Speck and then, returning home, was ap-
pointed mechanical engineer in the Vic.
railways five years ago. At 46 he is the
youngest commissioner yet appointed. He
rose to the rank of lieut.-coltmel in France
and won the D.S.O. and M.C.
E. J. Craigie, leader of the Single Tax
party of one in the South Aus. Assembly,
is having another go at Flinders, which he
represented in the last Parliament. Flinders
takes in almost all the vast Eyre Peninsula,
where there are large numbers of small
cocky farmers, who have been persuaded
that a single land tax wouldn’t hurt them
E. J. CRAIGIE, leader of S.A.’s single-tax
Parliamentary party of one.
worth mentioning, but would relieve them of
all Customs duties. Craigie, a Moonta
Cornishman, and as fluent as a waterspout,
is trusting wholly to single-tax this time;
instead of the usual policy speech he put
out a single-tax manifesto. ITis isn’t the.
zeal of a new convert: years ago he went
abroad as Australian delegate to a world
convention of Henry George’s disciples.
James Nangle, N.S.W. Government Astro-
nomer, who reaches the retiring age (65) at
the end of this year, mentioned casually
in a recent address that he was working in
a brick pit at Newtown when he was nine.
Nangle was impressing on his audience the
profound influence of hobbies on every man’s
career, and he Irimself seems to have the
widest possible range of interests. He is
an architect by profession.
Premier Richards (S.A.) helped Wallaroo
to put up a record the other evening. For
two hours it listened to him delivering his
Government’s policy speech without making
a single interjection. Wallarao, a Cornish
town, does most of its listening in chapel,
where Richards is often heard. Probably
it thought it was at "evemin’ service.”
SPENCER WATTS, accountant, president
of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce
and just elected president of the Aus-
tralian body.
A. W. E. Lamport, late northern (N.S.W.)
inspector of the Bank of N. S. Wales, who
lias just gone on long leave prior to retire-
ment, after 45 years’ service, was manager
in the then little town of Ilenty. in the
Riverina, when it was stuck up by armed
robbers 32 years ago. Lamport, seated at
his ofljee table, was surprised to receive a
demand to put his hands up, and found him-
self gazing down the barrel of a quick-
shooter. His response was to grip the office
revolver, and in the fusillade that followed
both lie and his visitor were badly hit in
several places. But the robbers were routed
and Lamport and his assistant, Hazleton,
who had dealt with a second man,, were
generously rewarded by the bank, the Com-
mercial of Sydney, through general manager
Tom Dibbs, joining in a handsome presenta-
tion. Lamport, by the way. is father of
N. K. Lamport, the N.S.W. Rhodes scholar
for .1929, who captained Oxford in the last
Rugger match against Cambridge.
The new president of the Canberra branch
of the R.S.S.I.L.A. is Dr. L. W. Nott, who
in 1925 defeated Theodore for the Herbert
(Q-) seat in the House of Reps, and later,
after failing to hold the' seat, stood unsuc-
cessfully against Billy Hughes for North
Sydney. The Scullin Government gave Dr.
Nott the job of superintendent of the Can-
berra Hospital.
Ernest ■ Robert Sitlington, who died
at Ararat (Vic.) the other day, was one
of a quartette of locomotive engine-drivers
who held a unique record. The four,
until their retirement something over ten
years ago, had heen on the Ararat to Port-
land line since its opening in the late ’seven-
ties. The other tlirge, William Norman,
William Bahl and Harrie Richmond, still
live at Ararat to tell the younger genera-
tion about the good old days before road
transport worried railwaymen. “Bobby”
Sitlington had passed the 77th milepost.
“X.S.”: Rupert Frederick Millane, who
was committed to Penfridge recently to serve
sentences totalling 38 months for failure
to pay fines amounting to £685. has been
Melbourne’s most persistent litigant. His
conflict with authority began when he started
to build a house of kerosene-tins filled with
concrete on a vacant block at Ivanhoe and
the shire council stopped him under its
building regulations. Since then he has
issued over 200 writs and summonses, and
scores have been issued against him. His
pegging out of a claim in Queen-street, in
the middle of the city, under the Mining Act,
brought him into conflict with a fresh set
of authorities. He acquired an extensive
knowledge of the law and Wasted the time of
Courts and Justices to such an extent that
in 1930 an order was made by the Full Court
that no legal proceedings (should be insti-
gated by him without leave of the Court or
a Judge thereof. However, his appearances
continued to be just as frequent. He, became
proprietor of Highways Motors, which in-
volved him in fines amounting to £6OO for
having permitted unlicensed motor-omnibuses
to ply for hire. I saw him-several times in
court conducting his own cases, and was
struck by his air of engaging innocence and
simplicity. There is still a solitary kerosene-
tin rusting on the block from whence his
odyssey began.
The Rev. Christopher Chavasse, Master
of St. Peter’s Hall, Oxford, who is men-
tioned as a possible successor to the late
Archbishop Wright, is a fine example of
muscular Christianity; there can’t be many
high ecclesiastics with an athletic record like
his. He was a lacrosse Blue at Oxford, and
for three successive years he ran for his
’varsity against Cambridge in the 100 yards
and the quarter-mile. In 1908 he gained
Olympic honors, representing England in
the 400 metres. Chavasse comes of a dis-
tinguished family ; his father was Bishop of
Liverpool, his two younger brothers (twins)
were glso fine athletes and so indistinguish-
able that one of them had to wear a ribbon
on his arm for identification purposes in
any event where the two were competing.
The clerical Chavasse won his M.C. and
Croix-de-Guerre in the war; one of the
twins, a medico, won the Y.C. and bar—the
latter a posthumous award for his bravery
in refusing to leave the patients at a shelled
and wrecked hospital, although he himself
was wounded to the death.
Admiral Jerram, whose death in London
was mentioned in a recent cable, was com-
mander-in-chief on the China, station in
October, 1914, when the Emden stole into
Penang Harbor at dawn and sank the Rus-
sian cruiser. Zhemclmg and the French
destroyer Mopsquet. Two members of the
Penang Volunteers manned a launch and
rescued 80 of the crew of the Zhemchug
under the Emden’s fire. One of the pair,
an Australian now settled in Sydney, still
treasures a letter from Admiral Jerram,
thanking him for his services. Within a
fortnight of the Penang business the Emden
met her fate at Cocos Island.
Nine members have been returned un-
opposed to the Westralian Assembly—six
Laborites, two C.P. men and one Nat. For
the other 41 seats there are 121 candidates.
Occupationally, farmers are most numerous ;
there are 31 Of them. Others; Barristers,
eight ; secretaries, six; business ; managers,
agents, accountants and builders, four of
each; civil servants, engineers, miners,
orchardists and solicitors, three; and school-
teachers, auctioneers and storekeepers, two.
Also a timber merchant, waterside worker,
butcher, carpenter, shop assistant, merchant,
advertising agent, watchmaker, journalist,
insurance inspector, school inspector, im-
porter, dentist, baker, clerk, organiser, con-
tractor, printer, brickmaker, salesman and
a pastoralist. A few others schedule them-
selves as legislators, M’s.L.A. and the like.
Guy Moore, who was responsible for the
brilliant staging of the Aero Club’s pageant
at Moonee Valley racecourse (Vic.), had a
distinguished flying career, first with the
A.I.F. in Egypt and then with the R.A.F.
in France. After the Big Shindy he started
with his father, Capper Moore, an account-
ing business in Melbourne, but, refusing to
fold his wings, floated Victoria’s first aero
club about 11 years ago with Rigby, vice-
GUY MOORE, sec of the Vic. section of
the Australian Aero Club.
president of the present club. The parent
concern crashed on the rocks of finance, and
about seven years ago he and others started
the existing club. It has since gone steadily
ahead. Since flying instruction was begun
in 1926, the club has trained 156 pupil
pilots, the logbook shows 12,900 flying hours,
and the membership is 445. There were 50
machines and 18 different types of aircraft
in Saturday -week’s show.
Died at Basra, Mesopotamia, where he was
director of the Maude Memorial Hospital,
David Borrie, a Maoriland doctor, who settled
down there after war service and earned a
great reputation for his philanthropy as well
as- his professional .skill.
Karl Edgar Drake-Brockman, a younger
brother of the Arbitration Court Judge, is
one of five candidates for the Middle Swan
seat at the Westralian elections. He. was
the State’s Rhodes scholar for 1910, the year
after the recently deceased Attorney-General
Davy; both took honors in jurisprudence at
the same Oxford college; both served through
the war and rose to captaincies. Drake-
Brockman, after his return, was puisne
Judge of the mandated territory of New
Guinea for three years, since when he has
practised in Perth. His father was an old-
time Surveyor-General of W.A.
HURTLE PEGLER, owner of Moorfta and
Neilpa stations, on the Darling—
widely known as “Pegler of Mildura.”
Tlie Vic. farmers’ convention, meeting at
Kynetop, seemed to share the local people’s
gratification that Argyle was shaping well
as Premier. He is the second head of a
State Government born in the district. Watt
was the other. The old estate of the
Argyles, crowned by Rock House, a blue-
stone structure overlooking Kyneton race-
course, has passed into other hands; but
Argyle, though a city doctor, is still
attached to the soil, and has an irrigation
(citrus) holding near Kerang.
“Cavesson”: The name of the doyen
of the S.A. Assembly, whose retirement is
mentioned (B. 22/3/’33), is James Grey
Moseley; Henry James was his father., The
Flinders seat was held for years by Alec*
Poynton, Shearers’ Union man, whose trans-
ference to Federal politics gave Moseley his
opportunity to win the seat, which he has
held since 1910.
E. A. Kendall, who is to be chairman of
Vic. Milk Inquiry Board, is chief veterinary
officer and general utility man in the Agri-
cultural Dept. He will haye associated with
him two producers, a retail distributor and
a Caulfield councillor to represent the con-
sumers. Regulation and control of supplies
in the metropolis, economical distribution and
price-fixing are the matters to be reported
on.
The Rev. Robert Scott West, who died at
Gordon (Sydney), had been Presbyterian min-
ister at Burwood for 31 years on his retire-
ment in 1930. A native of Perthshire and a
Glasgow Uni. man, he was 12 years in Auck-
land before coming to Australia. He was a
lecturer at St. Andrew’s. Sydney Uni., for
many years; in 1915 he; was elected Modera-
tor of the Presbyterian Church of N.S.W.;
and from 1926 to 1928 he was Moderator-
General of the General Assembly.
South Burnett (Q.) has lost, at 75, a
notable grazier in Llewelyn Mander .Tones.
Born on Boonara station, then owned by
his father (David Mander Jones), he had
lived all his life there, except for two or
three trips to the Old Country, and he was
buried in the station cemetery. In 1891 he
acquired sole ownership of Boonara —then a
sheep station, but later turning to cattle —
and sold it for subdivision in 1910, retain-
ing only a small area around the homestead.
The rich flats quickly became famous for
lucerne production. The Forgan Smith Gov-
ernment is assured of a. big windfall from
the estate. The deceased was a kinsman
of the David Jones clan, of Sydney.


PIONEER
THE BIG NAME IN LEATHER
BELTING
For over 74 years the name
Pioneer on a leather belt has been
an assurance of long years of trouble-
free service on the toughest drives
and under the most difficult work-
ing and climatic conditions.
We make a special guaranteed
Pioneer Leather Belt for every
transmission requirement. Ask for
free advice and our new catalogue.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
fw onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent jree, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
APRIL ISSUE ON SALE NEXT
SATURDAY.
The American Crisis.
Gold and Commodity Prices.
Outlook for Investors.
Are Bank Shares Too High?
Prospects for Base-metals.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the April issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
, Dividends:
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 256.272.24,534 15 p.c.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 189,410 15 p.c. = 225,000 629,526
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 . . . . 129,526
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 246,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. = 200,000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO .. 278,007
1926.. 211,608 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,608 289,615
Pref., Ord.,
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
£
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
7$ p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
2$ p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304.247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
Howard Smith has more than half its
money in industries which now look to a
revival in the construction and manufactur-
ing trades in order to enable plant, etc., to
earn anything like its keep. Goal, iron and
steel, cement and blue-metal are not return-
ing the co. any divs. these days. Its ship-
ping and sugar interests were responsible for
most of last year’s profit (£17,415, after
charging £49IS of retrospective income tax),
which was £2243 better than the previous
year’s, but little more than enough to satisfy
the requirements of the 250,000 6 p.c. prefs.
Ten years ago the co. was ranked as one of
Australia’s greatest money-spinners. For the
past three years ordinaries have had nothing
at all.
The two millions of ord. capital includes
£1,550,000 of bonus scrip, most of it scat-
tered after the co. passed over its coal and
shipping interests to subsidiaries in 1914.
During the ten years to 1924 an average of
12 p.c. p.a. was paid on the ords.; then
labor troubles and slump crippled coal earn-
ings, w’hile heavy investment in new under-
takings proved unremunerative. Over the
last eight years an average of only 5 p.c.
has been paid, the last three terms being dry
ones.
Returns from Australian Steamships Pty.,
formerly the old Howard Smith line, im-
proved last year. Three years ago holdings
in the principal subsidiaries were as fol-
lows :
Howard Last
Issued Smith’s Old.
Capital. Holding. Div.
Australian Steamships. . £1,850,002 £1,849,990
Caledonian Coal . . 1,487,894 1,191,276* Nil
Invincible Coal .. . . 104,000 66,321 Nil
Aus. Iron and Steel . . 3,253,007 400,000 Nil
S. Portland Cement . . 849,889 368,299 Nil
Vickers Commonwealth
Steel 318.193 61,300
Southern Blue Metal. . 248,000 48,000 Nil
*325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 866,242 ords.
The co. has also substantial interests in
Australian Sugar (paid capital £207.915),
which has sent out a steady 12 p.c. since 1924.
By exactly how much the shipping co. in-
creased its div. last year is not disclosed.
For the last four years .Caledonian has
passed its divs., and though Invincible
showed a paper profit of £229 last term, no
provision was made for depreciation. Aust.
Iron and- Steel paid 5 p.c. on its ords. in
1929, but they have gone hungry since.
Cement and blue-metal ventures have been
even more disappointing.
A book value of £3,094,476 (practically
unchanged) is put upon “shares in other
cos.,” but the directors are at present unable
to assess their real value to the co. A
writing-down seems inevitable. The co. has
borrowed heavily from its subsidiaries
(£661,432 was held on their behalf at Dec.
31), apparently to finance its shareholdings.
The parent’s liquid position improved
£13,477 last year :
1928. 1931. 1932.
Liquids.. .. .. £420,711 £229,619 £180,692
Liabilities . . . . 664,333 961,813 899,409
Excess liabilities .. £243,622 £732,194 £718,717
The book value of property and plant
(£184,652) dropped £11,161 during the term.
Shipping is still the backbone of the busi-
ness, and Australian Steamships is well
entrenched in the Queensland trade. The
outlook for coal still shows little brightness.
The other investments depend upon general
industrial recovery.
The market prices the ords. at 95., an
improvement of 2s. compared with 12 months
ago. The prefs. are seldom dealt in.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Nominal
Net ( Dividends , To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1921. .147,790 8 p.c. 12 p.c.=146,250 1,540 95,996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „„ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 „ 5 „ ~ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 —■ 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil 675 56,219
1931.. 15,975 Nil 15,975 72,194
1932.. 12,585 Nil 12,585 84,779
This co., which is Howard Smith controlled,
owns the four Aberdares (they are on the
Greta seam, find produce some of the best
gas-coal in the State> besides being the least
expensive to work), the Waratah (Burwood
seam) and West Wallsend and Killingworth
(Borehole seam). Still from the time the
co. took over from the Glasgow interests
(these included the cotton Coatses) in 1914
until the miners upset the apple cart in
1928, the ords. averaged little more than
6 p.c., which was worth a lot more to the
parent, owing to a capitalisation at the
beginning.
The industry is in a bad way; on top of
tlip 15 months’ stoppage which terminated
early in June, 1930, came slump. So high
is the cost of Australian coal that even the
inter-State shipping cos., which have in-
vested heavily in the industry, are turning
to oil. Re-capitalisation on a lower basis
now seems inevitable for most N. S. Wales
collieries. Abermain-Seaham, J. and A.
Brown and East Greta have already
throwm in their lots together, and face the
future with a smaller share-capital and
asset values that make a lighter call for
replacement, etc., out of earnings.
Caledonian showed £3390 less profit
(£12,585) last year; and for the fourth time
neither prefs. nor ords. received a div. The
arrears on the prefs. now amount to
£105,860 (= 4s. 7d. per share). Profits were
written after £36,057 more had been struck
off than was spent on fixed assets: —
1923. 1929'. 1931. 1932.
Pref. capital.. £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £ 464,295
Ord. capital.. 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . . 188,930 219,972 178,301 159,961
Overdraft . . 16,671 98,365 83,391 62,203
Collieries etc. 1,645,298 1,738,708 1,702,977 1,666,920
Stores ’ . . 103,724 61,555 37,293 42,601
Coal stocks . . 6,306 758 17,359 21,208
Book debts .. 48,662 9,074 11,781 11,688
Shares . . 51,302 51,302 52,103 52,103
Cash, etc. . . 809 378 267 317
Over the past tw T o years the drop in the
book value of fixed assets w T as £85,233.
Finances reflect the benefit; the debt
(£222,164) has been worked down by
£129,469, and the liquid position has im-
proved by £110,132.
What the future holds it is difficult to
say. Much will depend upon the attitude
of labor unions and the progress of science
towards making coal-oil a commercial pro-
position. Should natural gas be brought in
at Balmain in large quantities a new danger
may arise in the industry.
Sellers ask 3s. 9d. for the ords.;-last sale
of the prefs. was at 6s. 6d.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13$ p.c- 9281 3,792 121,209
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141,200
July, ’24 ..17,028 15 p.e. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan., ’25 .. 16,476 161 ~ ~ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 .. 18,242 19’„ ~13,063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 . . 14,945 20 „ „ 13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 . . 15,227 20 „ „ 13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 . . 15,710 20 „ ~ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 . . 17,785 20 „ ~ 13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 4,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 ~ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 .. 15,375 20 „ ~13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 . . 15,527 20 „ ~ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 ~ ~ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O . . 17,448 20 „ ~ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l . . 3,281 14 ~ ~ 9,625 174,358
July, ’3l . . 1,141 Nil 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 .. 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
Julv, ’32 . . 8,242 8 „ „ 5,500 2,742 179,488
Jab., ’33 . . 9,679 10 ~ ~ 6,875 2,804 182,292
The turnover of this well-handled and
solidly-established carrying, produce and
agency concern suffered a sharp contraction,
of course —the business is scattered through-
out the back country in N. S. Wales. But
reduction of stocks on a falling market and
special provision against bad debts also
largely contributed to the collapse of profits
and of dividends. The six months to the
end of July. 1931, was the first time since
1895 that shareholders had gone without.
The improvement in the figures over the
last 18 months has been due partly to better
turnover and partly to savings. For the
year to the end of January gross earnings
(£94,574) sprang £6274, while exes.
(£76,663) were £3750 lighter, thus leaving
enough to show 13 p.c. on capital as against
5.7. 15, 22.2, 22.1, 25.8, 22.5 and 24.1 p.c.
back to 1926. The div. was lifted a couple
of points to 10 p.c. p.a. for the second half,
making 9 p.c. for the year as against 4 i>.c.
and 17 p.c. for the two preceding years and
90 n c for 40 years before that. W ith accu-
mulations visibly £44,792 in excess of capi-
tal, the two combined need net only 4.3 p.c.
to cover a 10 p.c. div. Since 1910 share-
holders have averaged a shade under l->
p.c., sweetened with £45,000 of gift scrip,
a cash bonus of £25,000 has been paid,
£55,195 has been brought from biding and
put in the window, and another £20,000 ot
inner reserves was used to write down the
book value of premises.
As usual there is nothing to worry about
in the finances :
, .January 1
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Inabilities . . 131,331 86,314 (8,239 78,085
Premises, plant, . , 100
etc . . 51,236 50,479 47,209 45,122
Stock's 129,410 101,008 82.924 92,040
Book debts .. 217,913 183,272 173,004 168,248
McCulloch Co. 68,022 59,943 51,189 50,436
Cash & invest- „ . rc
ments . . 7,943 23,163 48,914 55,562
Debtors’ balances is the item which catches
the eye; the figure was reduced £4706 last
year, 'making the contraction £49,665 over
the last three years. The book value of
stocks increased by £9116 and £6648 was
added to cash and investments. The co.
holds £25,000 of the scrip in McCulloch s,
the Vic. subsidiary; the difference between
that figure and the entry in the table repre-
sents advances. Including advances but
not shares, the more or less liquid surplus
(£263,201) improved £10,409 over the
twelvemonth. .
There are 55,000 shares fnlly-paul to ;>os.
each On the market they advanced
from’ 70s. to 115 s. over the last two years.
The return at 115 s. is no more than 4.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. A lift in the div.
will depend largely upon the course of
seasons and prices; at the rain is
urgently needed in the w r est of the State.
R. H. Gor4on and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 41,338 1200 124 p.c.=27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 46,600 1200 124 p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 12$ „ ~31.805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 „ „ 35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42.480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ ~46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~46.292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 111,, ~ 34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6 ~ ~18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~15,793 2,424 159,976
Those who got in early, and still hold their
scrip, have found Gordon’s a very profitable
investment —the business, which was built
up on cash-orders, became a money-spinner
during the war and post-war periods. Dur-
ing the 14 years to the close of accounts in
1926 paid capital advanced from £140,000 to
£329,667 by transferring £182,400 from re-
serves and issuing 7267 employees’ shares.
Thus, the gift issues make 6 p.c. worth 18.4
p.c. to old holders at par. But the har-
vests were gathered largely from the scat-
tering of loan funds. When the scattering
practically ceased, and unemployment, the
moratorium and the slump in home and
other building, and the furnishing that goes
with it, further restricted the granting of
credit and curtailed earnings, the co. found
itself with more capital than it needed. So
the whole of the £20,000 of 6 p.c pref.
money and 3s. per ordinary share (£46,450)
besides was returned during the last term,
reducing paid capital to £263,217 in 17s.
shares.
The board leant upon sundry creditors
and the bank for most of the £66,450 re-
quired, notwithstanding that over a quarter-
million had been invested outside the busi-
ness in more or less readily realisable secu-
rities :
1924. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £275,005 £329,667 £263,217
Sundry creditors . . 40,815 44,976 66,804
Overdraft .. . . 19,182 2,415 14,734
Property and plant . . 14,152 120,634 119,385
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 99,865 94,305
Book debts .. . . 84,867 60,377 42,548
Shares, debentures and short
loans .. . . . . 123,046 1
Mortgages .. .. 85,525 [■ 286,530 279,869
Government securities.. 19,744 j
Cash, etc 274 803 733
Thus the book value of investments was only
£6661 lower than at the previous balance,
while debtors’ balances, stocks and hire
agreements were reduced by £23,389, and
£34,197 was added to the amount coming
to outsiders. The shrinkage in the' more or
less liquid surplus (£335,867, including
stocks, etc.) was £64,317.
There was little improvement in the year’s
net earnings, which were 7.8 p.c. on the
£263.217 of capital. The return of the pref.
money involved a div. of £2312, so the dis-
tribution to the ords. was kept at 6 p.c.
Assuming that investments showed a net
return of 4 p.c., the balance of last year’s
profit was 6.5 p.c. on the net book value
of the remaining assets.
The market notes the altered outlook for
the business, and prices the ords. at 21s. 6d.
as against par a year ago, and 545. 6d. three
years before that. The return at 21s. 6d.
is 4.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Each varia-
tion of 1 p.c. in the div. would affect the
yield by 15s. lOd. per cent. The backing
is 275. 4d. per share in net tangibles.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1923.. 37,515 10 p.e. = 25,000 12,515 54,776
1924.. 38,847 10 „ „ 25,000 8,000 5847 60,623
Added to reserves, £89,377 . . • • 150,000
Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8,000 2519 2,819
1926.. 54,747 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,586
1927.. 57,553 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in, £60,065 . . 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930. . .62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ „ 30,000 7,500 1 1736 33 g 66
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 \
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500) 3 ggg 37 526
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 j ’
Over the last 12 months the market length-
ened its bid for the pound shares from 245.
to 2Ss. The investor at 28s. who looks for
5.7 p.c. on his money therefore counts on
an 8 p.c. div.; while the div. remains at
6 p.c. his return is 4.3 p.c. Visibly the cover
is 21.5. 6>d. in net tangibles. Still, bonus
issues make 0 p.c. worth 12 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the close of accounts
in 1024; of the quarter-million of gift
paper handed out £111,455 came from inner
reserves.
•But those performances are not likely to
be repeated within the next decade. Unem-
ployment in S. Aus. continued to grow until
the third quarter of last year. There has
since been marked improvement in the posi-
tion. and a fair, .season is in prospect. After
setting aside something for contingencies, the
year’s gross earnings from sales (£45,847)
were £826 better. Interest and rents
(£38,423) fell away £326, despite a growth
of £11,067 in advances. Exes. (£36,863)
were £1395 lighter; so, including an unex-
plained addition of £1253 to reserves, there
was enough to show 9.7 p.c. on capital as
against 9.3, 12.3, 12.4, 12.8 and 10.8 p.c.
back to 1928. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
thus enabling an extra £7500 to be openly
struck off debtors’ balances and a like
amount off the book value of plant, leaving
only £3600 of the year’s earnings to be
visibly ploughed in. Thus, on the basis of
last year’s figures, an 8 p.c. div. (=£40,000)
is within the co.’s reach when the call for
special provision for contingencies ceases.
Much, of course, will depend upon the kind-
ness of nature and the continued growth in
employment; it is doubtful whether the
breweries may look for much in the way of
relief from special taxation.
Though the co. has gone more extensively
into the hotel-finance business, thus widen-
ing and anchoring turnover, it has at the
same time been able to lighten the debt: —
' 1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £500,000 £506,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 257,197 150,533 149,699 154,763
Property, plant,
etc . . 445,518 395,117 396.656 390.589
Stocks.. .. 17,514 25,118 20,296 17,683
Book debts .. 35,190 32,262 35,688 38,597
Advances . . 52,954 255,647 248,431 259,528
Debenture
trustees .. 71,479
Cash . . . . 24,733 9,518 12,494 15,892
East year £11,097 was added to the book
value of advances, and liabilities, which in-
clude provision for taxation, etc., increased
by £5064 —£44,756 of genuine profit was
raked out of this heap about six years ago.
The year’s visible improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£176,937, including
stocks) was £9727. Since the close of
accounts in 1924 £54,929 more has been
written off than has been spent on fixed
assets; also £206,574 net has been added to
book value of advances, and £150,000 of
debentures has been repaid.
Standard Trust, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re- Re
Dec., Profits. (Less English Taxes.) serves, serves.
1924.. 26,281 8 p.c. = 20,500 5,781 110,351
Debenture issue exes., £9112 .. .. 101,239
Profits on sale of securities, £43,725. . 144,964
1925.. 29,736 7 p.c. = 17,850 11,886 156,850
1926.. 17,174 7 „ „ 17,850 156,174
Pref.
(54 p.c.) Ord.
£ £
1927.. 34,560 13,612 10 p.c. =16,500 4,448 160,622
Transferred to capital assets reserve,
£75,290 85,332
Net premiums on new shares, £59,882. . 145,214
1928.. 40,457 15,108 10 p.c. =18,775 6,574 151,788
1929.. 5.6,438 20,109 10 „ ~ 24,450 11,879 163,667
Transferred to capital reserve, £lO,OOO. . 153,667
Net share premiums ( £36,082) carried
to capital reserve.
1930.. 60,206 22,653 10 p.c. =28,300 9,253 162,920
1931.. 50,753 24,956 7 „ ~ 21,550 4,247 167,167
1932.. 39,334 24,956 4 „ ~12,100 2,278 169,445
These figures are in sterling, the registered
office being in London; but Melbourne owns
a lot of the ords. Formerly the Melbourne
(Continued on page 16.)


: HllSiiiiffieSli
* : *:' • % ' :• : *V '
0 v Glop m 6 n f in
Motor Tyre History
> ■ M' - , - - \ Jim
x
A
n
o
x
sx
%i
X
X
m
X
New standards of motoring comfort,
safety, economy and beauty are estab-
lished by the new Barnet Glass
Aerotype Super Low Pressure Tyres.
They make driving safer, reduce car
depreciation and greatly increase aver-
age daily mileage because higher
comfortable speed is possible on any
road. The car floats over roughest
surfaces.
The Barnet Glass Aerotype is devel-
oped from the Aeroplane Tyre—the
tyres which carry the terrific strain
of landing by heavy planes and which cushion
the machine against damaging shocks.
This construction, adapted to motoring in the
Aerotype, offers the newest and most luxurious
thrill to car owners. The sensation of riding
on as low as 16 pounds of air cannot be
imagined —it must be experienced. Ask
your Garage or Tyre Dealer to demonstrate.
m
m
mm
mmA:- , -
»»


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.mson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B, Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ORES & METALS.—We have to advise that our
Smelters overseas are offering exceptionally favor-
able terms for Refractory Gold Ores and Concen-
trates. We are also buyers of Tin, Copper, Lead,
Silver, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Antimony,
Tantalite and other ores and concentrates. Write
Norman Hill and Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
—Advt.
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.).
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in .Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. .. £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,660,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London.
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
Trust, the co. amalgamated the remains of
three defunct Melbourne banks in 1903;
another relic of the ’nineties, the Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., was taken over in 1910,
and the present title was adopted in 1927.
As the old Australian assets were realised
(mostly at a profit) the funds were re-
invested in British, American, Continental
and other securities; at the end of Dec. only
5 p.c. of the assets remained in Australia.
For many years divs. averaged 8 p.c.
Since 1924 £1,450,000 of share and debenture
capital has been raised (the ords. were put
out at a high premium), and during the
three years to 1929, which coincided with
the world stock-exchange boom, nearly
£1,000,000 was added to the co.’s invest-
ment holdings. These, at Dec. 31 last, were
valued in the books at £2,047,792. The
co. paid 10 p.c. on its ords. during
the four years to 1930; at the latter
date investments, after deducting all reserves,
showed a depreciation of 4.8 p.c. on their
book value. At last balance the portfolio
was over-valued by 26| p.c. on the same
basis.
The holdings comprise 660 investments, con-
sisting of p.c. Government and debenture
stocks, 26 p.c. pref. stocks and 39£ p.c. ord.
shares. Geographically the spread was as
follows: Britain 36.8 p.c., U.S.A. and
Canada 14.9 p.c., South American countries
17.2 p.c., European countries 14.3 p.c., Aus-
tralasia 5 p.c., other countries 11.8 p.c.
Here is a view of the finances:—
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Piref. capital.. £300,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Ord. capital.. 200,000 400,000 400,000 400,000
Debentures . . 430,000 824,300 850,000 850,000
Other liabilities 42,116 31,671 24,299 25,755
Investments .. 1,039,805 1,962,261 2,049,806 2,047,792
Debtors . . 28,374 901 730 2,949
Cash, deposits,
etc, . . 22,281 97,291 21,748 28,640
Though the slump in security prices meant
that all reserves and 26i p.c. of the book
value of investments would be extinguished
if they were realised at market prices
on balance-day, thus wiping out all the
ord. and £142,450 ( 4s. 7d. per share)
of the pref. capital, the £39,334 of
profit (down £11,419) was still enough to
pay 4 p.c. (less English income tax) on the
ords., after providing for the 4i p.c. deben-
tures and 5£ p.c. prefs., compared with 7 p.c.
and the comfortable run of 10 p.c.’s in pre-
ceding years. Gross revenue (£98,821, down
£14,349) was equal to 4.7 p.c. on the book
value of investments, as against 4.7, 5.5 and
6.1 p.c. back to 1930. Deducting exes, other
than interest, the net return was equal to
3.7 p.c. on investments; so the debenture
money is not now earning its keep.
But the co.’s figures are on the conser-
vative side, and the depreciation in values is
not unfavorable when compared with other
British investment trusts. The pref. stock,
from the divs. on which English taxation at
4s. in the £1 was deducted last year,
is at par in Melbourne. The ord. stock is
also around par; charging English taxes, the
return is about 3f p.c. in Australian cur-
rency.
Mt. Lyell
The metallurgical work at Lyell continues
to improve, mainly as a result of intensive
research work. The following table shows
results in 1928 compared with those now
being obtained :
1928. Early 1933.
Grade of ore milled, copper .. 5.8 p.c. 2.7 p.c.
Grade of concentrates .. 20.0 ~ 31.0 „
Tailings 0.45 „ 0.15 „
Recovery . . . . . . 93.0 ~ 96.0 „
Ratio of concentration . . 3.8 to 1 . 12 to 1
Much of the credit is due to Max Playford,
a young Adelaide graduate, formerly re-
search metallurgist, now mill superinten-
dent. At present about 1000 tons of ore
is being milled daily. The figure is ex-
pected to reach 1600 tons when the new
10ft. x 9ft. Marcy ball mill is in operation
(Ruwolts, Melbourne, have the job in hand)
and, later, 2000 tons daily. Most of the
extra stone will come from the Tharsis ore-
body, estimated to contain 2,250,000 tons,
assaying 2.25 p.c. copper. A throughput of
2000 tons of ore daily will give 13,000 tons
of electrolytic copper annually, which is the
capacity of the refinery. Plans have been
prepared for a small flotation unit to recover
the pyrite (about 10 p.c.) from mill residues
as a concentrate containing 50 p.c. sulphur;
the sulphur will be recovered by Common-
wealth Fertilisers, Melbourne, for the manu-
facture of sulphuric acid. The final tail-
ings from the flotation unit are to be par-
tially dewatered, pumped to the top of the
Tharsis, and used underground for filling.
The new shaft, risen from a short drive off
the North Lyel] tunnel, has been completed
to the surface of the Tharsis, a distance of
865 ft., and preparations for stoping are
being pushed ahead. Development of the
Comstock ore-body, about one mile north of
North Lyell mine, is also being hastened;
it contains at least 650,000 tons of 3 p.c.
ore. At a later date, the North Mt. Lyell
tunnel may be extended under the Corn-
stock, from which ore is now brought to the
mill by surface tram. The end of the North
Lyell mine—it still contains over 685,000
tons of 4.75 p.c. ore—is in sight, the ore-
bearing schists being pinched out at depth
by two masses of conglomerate. The co.’s
future depends largely upon its ability to
treat the 2.25 p.c. Tharsis ore at a profit,
and so far as the management is concerned
it is leaving nothing to chance in this con-
nection. Cheap power, large tonnages and
highly officient mining and milling promise
success with copper above £35 per ton.
Figures for January show extraordinary
addition to the profits of Rand goldmines,
due to South Africa’s departure from the
gold standard. Revenues were calculated
at 120 s. per fine ounce (actually the _metal
was worth a bit more) instead of 85s. in
December:—
, January N Increase
Mine. Revenue. Profit. on Dec.
Crown .. ..£548,434 £260,610 £155,887
New Modder . . 355,614 227,412 90,288
Brakpan . . . . 216,041 100,306 55,311
East Rand .. 251,079 78,010 64,761
Daggafontein . . 110,768 47,251 20,141
Durban Deep . . 92,562 30,852 22,748
A boom in Kaffirs followed, of course. Much
ore hitherto outside the pay limit can now
be profitably extracted.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold’s two dredges dug 500,000
c.y. for the four weeks in February, or
77,000 yards more than in the previous
period. The bullion yield for February was
11,6140 z., or 26000 z. better than the Janu-
ary figure. The new dredge for the Bulowat
area will have a greater capacity than the
present dredges; it is to be ready by August,
and a second one is to be put into com-
mission on the same area early in 1934.
* * * ❖
Queensland’s gold yield for February was
43G50z. fine compared with 981 oz. for Febru-
ary, 1932. For the first two months of this
year the yield shows an increase of 64870 z.
over the corresponding period of 1932; Mt.
Coolon and Mt. Morgan were chiefly respon-
sible. By June Mt. Morgan should be treating
500 tons daily instead of 150 tons as at
present; and plans are in hand for lifting
Coolon’s mill capacity from 170 tons to 250
tons daily. With something from Cracow
the Queensland yield is expected to approach
8000 oz. monthly before the end of the year.
* * * *
“Scottish Queen”: On the North Arm
goldfield (a limited volcanic blow between
Gympie and Brisbane), the country rock
comprises volcanic stone and sediments.
Some 24 reefs, from inches to feet in width,
have been located in the sediments to date.
None is of great extent, but most of those
developed carry good values. The most
successful show is Golden Surprise, which
commenced 12 months ago, and now runs
a five-head battery and a Harding mill. Thus
far the mine has yielded £20,000 worth of
gold, and extra equipment has been paid for
out of earnings. A cyanide plant has been
erected, and good returns have come from the
sands. To cut formations known to run
parallel to those being worked, a tunnel
has been driven over 600 ft. into the hill, and
11 reefs of varying width have been met
with. Also a large reef, carrying very good
values, is being worked at the end of
the tunnel. There are two other promising
shows on the field, the North Arm and the
Quincy and Corvi Syndicate’s property.
Each assays well; but no bulk ore has been
treated. The three properties are now under
offer to a Brisbane group for £71,500
Golden Surprise, • £45,000; Quincy and
Corvi’s show, £18,000; North Arm, £B5OO.
Water and timber are plentiful, and the
railway handy.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon’s latest fortnightly return of
2332 tons for 1433 tons shows that there
has been a falling-off in grade from 15dwt.
to 12dwt. per ton since crushing first began
late in 1932. Development on and below
the No. 3 level has not come up to expecta-
tions so far. The east drive on the No. 3
level has, for the last 93ft., been in com-
paratively low-grade ore; also, three winzes
sunk 75ft. below the level have been in
poorer ore than was anticipated.
* * * *
Reporting 0 n the Rose’s Pride and Blue
Bell leases, owned by Cracow Northern, aud
nbout eight miles from Cracow township
(Q.), geologist A. O. Jones says “the reef
is the best defined in the vicinity of Cracow.
It has every indication of being a true fis-
sure lode.”
* * * *
Croydon’s Bendigo Reef. St. Arnaud
(Vic.), has been unwatered to below the
240 ft. level, along which sampling has dis-
closed a lot of 4dwt. to sdwt. ore. The 10-
head battery will first crush the 21dwt. stuff
from the open cut. Treatment costs are not
expected to exceed 12s. per ton. With gold
worth over £7 per fine ounce in Australian
notes. sdwt. ore ought to mean regular divs.,
provided exes, off the mine do not run away
with too much. Gold valued .at ove*
£1,500,000 has been won from mines at St.
Arnaud, where the steep-dipping fissure reefs
vary from a few inches to 20ft. in width.
They have been worked down to 2400 ft.
An English company with a capital of
£200,000 has been formed to reopen the
Eangi Logan deep leads at Ararat (Vic.).
In the past these yielded an average of loz.
gold per fathom. The wash, overlain by
basalt, occurs at a depth of 300 ft.; it is
free from large boulders and can be broken
down by puddling. The gold is fairly coarse.
:|: .1: * *
The Balaclava at Rushworth (Vic.), first
worked more than 50 years ago, is being
reopened. A 10-liead battery has been
erected, and an adit driven to the downward
continuation of the spurs worked above.
There is ample low-grade ore available.
* * * *
At Zeehan (Tas.) three seams of high-
grade galena have been found in the vicinity
of the old Swansea and Tasmania mines—
from this pair about £lOO,OOO worth of
lead ore was taken during their short life.
The veins, which strike northerly, have been
proved by trenching over a length of 100 ft.,
and the lode is to be tested at depth. The
Zeehan field was first discovered in 1882,
but little serious work has been done since
1910. The richest mine was the Western;
it yielded 40,000 tons of high-grade galena,
assaying 54 p.c. lead and lOOoz. silver, and
paid £102,000 in divs. on a capital of £4'so.
The fissure veins, which occurred in dark
crushed slates, had an average width of
Bin.; values diminish rapidly with depth.
* * * *
Aberfoyle Tin (Tas.) plans to suspend
milling to enable a new rock-breaker and
concentrate-roasting furnace to be installed.
Development will proceed normally, and the
ore will be stacked in the dump, which now
contains about 100 tons. At present the
mill capacity is 200 tons weekly, from which
five tons of high-grade and three tons of
second-grade tin concentrates and five cwt.
of wolfram concentrates are obtained. The
wolfram is priced in London at 9s. 9d. per
unit of oxide, compared with 11s. in Octo-
ber last. The fall is due to Chinese agents
liquidating stocks.
* * * *
New Briseis Tin, Derby (Tas.), which
acquired the old Briseis mine after the dis-
astrous flood in 1929, reports a working
profit of £93 for the 12 months of 1932.
The mine is being worked by tributors, and
negotiations for the sale of the property are
in hand. Recovery of tin at Briseis is ex-
pensive, owing to' the depth of basalt over-
lying the comparatively rich wash.
* * * ' *
Mt. Bischoff Extended, near Waratah
(Tas.), is selling up its plant and machin-
ery, which has been idle since late in 1929.
In that year 1150 tons of 0.5 p.c. tin ore
was mined. The lode is flat and narrow,
which means heavy costs.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development, re-
cently formed in London to take options at
Wiluna, Black Range and other parts of
Westralia, held its statutory meeting last
month. The chairman, J. A. Agnew, stated
that £lOO,OOO sterling had been privately
subscribed by investors interested in West-
ralian, Broken Hill, South African and
other mining concerns, and that, after pay-
ment of preliminary exes, and £5OOO to the
vendors, approximately £91,000 remained.
He praised all the properties optioned.
Westralian Mines Investigation, Ltd., is
being formed in Perth to prospect for allu-
vial gold along the Gascoyne, Ashburtou,
Fortescue and De Grey rivers. C. H. Wray,
who formerly worked with Bewick-Moreing
and H. C. Hoover, will direct operations.
The directors include Dick Hamilton, Frank
Moss and J. W. Sutherland, all Golden Mile
men.
* * * • *
On the Essex lease, three-quarters of a
mile north of Wiluna’s main shaft, unwater-
ing has been completed to the 200 ft. level,
where close sampling has proved ore worth
325. (gold 84s. per ounce.) over a length of
50ft. Electric hoisting gear and pumps are
being installed. A drive is being advanced
towards the Essex shaft from, the 450 ft.
level on the east lode. The ore in the drive
assays 275. per ton over a width of sft.
for a considerable distance.
* * * *
During February, North Kalgurli (W.A.j
crushed 1934 tons for a profit of £2OOO, in-
cluding exchange. A total of 409 ft. of
development was done, and 4000 tons raised.
On the Union Jack lease, 1800 ft. north of the
North Kalgurli shaft, ore assaying lOdwt.
has been broken in the main south drive
at No. 3 level. Attention is now to be
turned to No. 4 level. Nothing has been
heard lately of the negotiations for purchase
by Broken Hill Prop.
sj: * * *
The Mararoa, Cue (W.A.), has proved
800 ft. of payable ore ; but the fourth bore-
hole, 300 ft. further north, shows a 25ft.
wide lode, only 2ft. of which is payable.
The fifth bore is to be put down 200 ft. north
of the fourth one.
* * # *
The Sadie and Turn of the Tide, at
Kunanalling, 30 miles north-west of Kal-
goorlie. are developing nicely. The main
shaft is down 200 ft., the last 100 ft. being
in ore assaying 20dwt. over a width of
3ft. A compressor and rock drills are being
installed in order to cheapen and speed up
driving along the lode.
sp * * *
Changkat, one of Alluvial Tin’s most suc-
cessful subsidiaries, treated 1,378,000 c.y. at
a cost of 2.43 d. per yard last year. The
profit was £22,206 ; three 6d. divs. took £9750,
and £1272 was written off for dredge altera-
tions, but no provision was made for depre-
ciation or amortisation. A credit of £34,097
remained in the p. and 1. account.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government is carrying
out geophysical prospecting at Cromwell
Flat in the Kawarau Gorge area . with the
object of defining deep leads. Some rich wash
has been struck in two tunnels in the Kawa-
rau Gorge: as much as 4oz. per dish has been
obtained, with yields up to 40oz. per day.
In one tunnel 210 ft. of level wash has been
penetrated, and in another 200 ft. An area
of 20 acre is under option to the Ao-
tea-roa Gold Prospecting Co., the price
being £12,500. Rich wash has also been
found at Deadmans, on the extremity of the
Cromwell Flat. Several dredges operated in
the vicinity many years ago.
* * * *
The Okarito Five-mile Beach Gold Go.,
operating a dredge at South Westland
(M.L.), has announced its third div. of 10
p.c. on a capital of £30,000. The dredge is
handling 24.000 cubic yards monthly, the
average value being with gold at 84s.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Distance from Gloncurry to Top
Camp. (2) Largest nuggets found in this
area, and by whom? (3) Height of “ The
Monument” between Top Camp and ClOn-
curry? (4) Average pre-war value of
Cloncurry gold? (5) Any profitable reef
discovered in or around the Top Camp ,
or were the principal workings alluvial?--
4947.
(1) 24 miles south by west. (2) One of
3360 z. wa,s found at Chinaman’s Flat; an-
other of 17ioz. was unearthed at Mary
Douglas Hill. Names of finders not known.
(3) Cannot say. (4) £3 16s. Cd. per ounce.
(5) Principal workings were alluvial. Pros-
pecting of reefs generally has been too
limited to give any satisfactory idea of
values. On an area west of Mary Douglas
Hill results are said to have been from sdw*t.
to 7dwt. per ton from shafts 60-70 ft. deep.
Describe the method for testing small
quantities of tailings to ascertain if they
are amenable to cyanidation? —4BB2.
The gold value is found by assay. Aver-
age samples of the material (1000 grains
each) are then leached with a weak solu-
tion of cyanide (say, 0.25 p.c.) for periods
of 24, 48 and 72 hours respectively. After
leaching the residues are again assayed, and
from the difference in gold values of the
treated and untreated tailings the percent-
age extraction can be found. The gold de-
posited on the zinc shavings can be saved
hy dissolving the zinc in dilute sulphuric
acid. Other tdsts, such as consumption of
cyanide, acidity, etc., are described in the
“Manual of Cyanidation,” by E. N. Hamil-
ton.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
K.W.F.: Write to the Secretary, Department of
Mines, Vic A.D.R.: Hold' for a while; each
has a splendid history, is well managed and snugly
financed... .M.E.: (1) They are a speculation. (2)
No record. (3) Chief dangers lie in wrong selection
of soil and/or climate, along with the possibility of
overcapitalisation and overproduction... .J.M.: (1)
Bonuses are not in sight, and not likely to be for
some years yet. (2) There is a possibility of some
of the uncalled capital being asked for M.J.:
There is no open market for these bonds. Write
to the secretary and ask if he can find a buyer....
F.G.J.: Prospects .of getting something on account
of arrears continue to improve, but it may be some
time before the slate is cleaned. The market im-
proved from 10s. to 13s. over the last 12 months;
prospects of furthft- advances during next few months
not blight. .. .A.A.S\ : Know nothing of it. Unless
you are in a position to watch developments, leave
it a10ne.... Subscriber: (1) Both are in the Cooper
and Oertel stable. (2) Arnhem Land has never
been thoroughly prospected. Unfriendly natives and
food and transport difficulties are formidable barriers.
....Perplexed: Can’t see any.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Tung-nut Industry
Frank Cotton in Re*-i.v.
Dear B., —I am pleased to find that Mr.
Penfold, the curator of the Sydney Technologi-
cal Museum, confirms my original estimate of
the probable yield of from, one-half to three-
quarters of a gallon of tung-nut oil per tree per
year. The only point on which he challenges
the accuracy of any of my statements is the
estimate of 55 trees per acre. I took that
fig'ure from the well-known American maga-
zine, “Popular Science,” in which it was
stated that 550,000 tung-nut trees had been
planted on holdings aggregating 10,000 acres
in one of the southern States. Now that
Mr. Penfold practically admits that the prob-
able gross value of Australian-grown tung-
nut oil at world parity price (4s. per gallon
overseas) would be only from 2s. to 3s. per
tree per year, from which all manufacturing
and shipping costs would have to be deducted
before the grower received anything, it seems
unnecessary to pursue the subject any fur-
ther. My objective has been reached’, and
“the necessary corrective to the undue optim-
ism of numerous promoting companies” has
been administered.—Yours, Frank Cotton.
American Experience.
Dear Bulletin,' —If Frank Cotton is not
out to “damn a new industry” (B. 15/3/’33)
why does he persist in distorting the facts?
Tung oil plays such an important part in
modern industry that the question of its
supply is urgent, and those in need will go
a long way to assist anything that promises
to augment the supply and relieve them of
dependence on the Chinese monopoly. He
could therefore easily have got correct data.
Mr. Cotton bases his whole case on plant-
ings of 55 trees to the acre, and if I show
that such planting is not in accord with
practice and would be tantamount to serious
understocking, his case falls to the ground.
In China the tree is practically in a wild
state. In U.S.A., the one country where
the tree has been properly tried out, experi-
ence has proved that the best results come
trom plantings of from 150 to 200 trees per
acre. “Tung Oil,” a bulletin by C. C. Con-
cannon, chief of the chemical division of the
L.B. Department of Commerce, says (p. 79) ;
‘ The number of trees planted ranges from
00 to 116 per acre in different developments,
although 100 per acre is considered an aver-
age spacing.” “Questions and Answers on
Oil.” by Henry A. Gardner, issued in
Ioo_ by the scientific section of (he Ameri-
can Paint and Varnish Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation. states that over the total of 31,000
acres in U.S.A. the spacing* average from
-V° 150 trees per acre. In an article in
Industrial and Engineering Chemistry” Mr.
Gardner points out that “the prevalent idea
is that the greatest yields will be obtained
by planting 200 trees to the acre and leaving
the trees permanently in place.” Mr. 11. W.
Bennett, the owner of one of the largest tung
plantations in the world, has planted IQO
trees to the acre over his holding of 2000
acres. For Australia the writer has found
that the optimum espacement is from 160 to
190 trees per acre. Frank Cotton’s 55-to-the-
acre spacing is on a par with a man with
sheep-to-the-acre country stocking up with
one sheep to four acres.
The Australasian experience of the writer
indicates that a money return of at least £53
per acre is possible from full-bearing
orchards. The price of Chinese tung oil, im-
pure as it is, in the principal world’s markets
has been 16£ U.S. ceiits per lb. for a period
of 10 years, while the current market value
of pure plantation tung oil is at least 20
per cent, higher.
It is absolutely incorrect to label tung
culture as an American negro industry. The
controlling factors in tung-oil planting in the
United States are climate and soil. More-
over, tung culture requires less manual labor
than any other orchard industry, and lends
itself particularly to the application of
modern mechanical methods of cultivation
and harvesting. Many years of association
with this industry satisfies the writer that
the increasing world requirements of tung
on can only be met by another 400,000 acres
of plantations, for Chinese production has
reached its limit. The world must look to
such countries as Australia to supply their
needs.
For nearly a decade the writer has been
continuously engaged in a comprehensive
tung-tree investigation which has cost several
thousands of pounds, and was undertaken for
the purpose of proving the possibilities of tung
culture in Australia. This year, as a result
thereof, a pioneer commercial Florida cluster
type of Aleurites Fordii orchards planted
with tre' , es up to 190 per acre have been
brought into profitable bearing in the John-
stone Valley of North Queensland, and the
writer has now been instructed to proceed
with a four-year planting project of 2,000
acres in the same locality.—Yours, L.
Macintosh Ellis, B.Sc. of the Forestry
University. Toronto.
Australian Shoes
“Mark Patch"; A shoeman of nearly 30
years wholesale experience in selling ini-
ported and Australian footwear, I have a few
words to say in defence of the. better-class
Australian shoe manufacturers of women’s
and children’s footwear, replying to Lesley
Murdoch (B. 22/3/’33). In ;i general way,
Australmn-made shoes, particularly women’s
and children’s, are getting a poor advt.
through tens of thousands of pairs being
dumped upon the market by factories using
the "stuck-on sole.” This process has been
a success in overseas countries, many manu-
facturers with world-wide reputations using
it, combined with good materials; but in
Australia it has been seized upon by mass-
production factories, which use the shod-
f*ie*t a , ther obtainable, combined with
rushed labor, to keep down prices and in-
flict upon the feet of their fellow country-
men and -women foot-coverings which have
been the cause of a boom in the chiropody
business. Nevertheless, excellent fitting
shoes, provided a fair price is paid, can
be purchased at any reputable shoe store,
because, in spite of cut-throat competition,
several Australian factories have made re-
markable strides in the fit and quality of
.f lr Product. They haye received con-
siderable assistance from Australian last-
makers, who are now turning out lasts con-
structed to suit the slight peculiarities of
Australian feet.
Buying a Farm
"J.W.W.” ; When inspecting a farm with
a view to purchase see every acre of it.
Noxious weeds of one kind or other are
present more or less on most properties now
offered for sale. I nearly made a bad slip
recently when inspecting a place for a Mel-
bourne merchant who wanted to settle his
son. We looked the country (Vic.) up and
down without result, mainly through the
occurrence of .some bad weed or other
adjacent to or on properties visited. But
at last we alighted upon a place that looked
“just the thing.” We went to the owner;
lie sent us to his agent in the township.
He guaranteed the land clean of all noxious
weeds. The agent took us back and over
the property, after, introducing us (at our
request) to the local butcher, who told us it
was good country for fattening stock. (Always
get a local butcher’s opinion on this point.)
We had seen all the farm except a. 30-acre
paddock, and were about taking the value
of that one for granted, when I noticed a
single star thistle in a clump of grass. Im-
mediately I decided to do a rapid walk
(alone) over this last paddock. In less than
100 yards I came across two more "stars,”
and before‘ getting to the farthest corner I
discovered that three or four clumps of very
vigorous ones wore ripening enough seed to
sow' hundreds of acres of the pest. Next
day we were on the road looking for another
farm. It took two weeks more to find a
suitable one.
Tasmania is making a bid for Australia’s
trade with razor blades manufactured at the
new Hobart factory of Nettlefold and
Waterworth Pty., Ltd. If the demand holds
30,000 blades will soon be made weekly.
Swedish surgical steel is at present used,
hut Australian material will |,e utilised
where and when possible. Tasmanian female
operatives are being trained in the work.
Waterworth. the technical adviser, studied
the job in Europe before the industry was
launched in Ilobart early in March. The
blades are going on the market at five for
Is. 6d.
* # * #
If two experimental shipments of apples
in non-Tefrigerated space now on their way
to Rotterdam from the Speck are successful,
fruit-export will be revolutionised. In this
experiment attention has been given to ven-
tilation, stowage and the choice of varieties,
and different conditions have been estab-
lished on the two ships to test them out.
One vessel goes direct to Rotterdam from
Hobart in 30 days,
calling only at Port
Said, where a little of
the fruit will be dis-
charged. As the
freight is Is. a case
cheaper than for refri-
gerated space, fruit-
growers are looking
hard at the experi-
ment.
if: *
“Tripjack”: A N.
S. Wgles fettler gets
£7 a fortnight (less
deductions) and pays
2s. a week relief tax:
If he is selected as the
best man to relieve the
ganger on his; Saturday
off, he gets 5d." extra,
but has to Pay Is. in the
pound tax, being thus
2s. 7d. out of pocket
by the “rise.” He
used to get Is. each
for emptying sanitary
pans. Then it was
cut down to lid. ahd
now this lid. puts
him over the £7 a.
fortnight, and costs
him 3s. extra tax, so
he loses 2s. Id. for
doing the dirty job in
his own time.
#
The recent M.L.
Economy Commission
waxed caustic over
the unsoundness of
the three superannua-
tion funds public
service, railways and
teachers. From the
public service and
railways there are 27
drawing over £7OO
p.a.: they contributed
£26,619, and have
already taken out
One man
who paid in £1217 has
had a divvy of £11.122 ;
coming a close second
is the railway bigwig
who paid in £I79S to
draw out £15,312.
:Js *
Martin Snelling, the
Brisbane auctioneer
who holds regular
cattle .sales in the
pens he erected some
years.ago at Eidsyold
in the very heart of
Queensland’s cattle
country, lately set out
to shatter the world’s
record for a cattle
sale —he established it
on June 4, 1932, by
auctioning 7000 head
of stores in one go.
By the middle of the
month lie had 7300
head booked for the
sale. Incidentally,
Queensland now pos-
sesses approximately
5.000,000 head—more
than all other States
combined.
With ah estimated apple crop of 4,500,000
bushels (less than last year, but 550,000
bushels above the average of the past six
years), Tasmania is looking for new out-
lets, for apples below the highest standard.
An increased demand for cider in the U.lv. as
a result of taxation on other liquors has
turned attention to the production of apple-
juice, 536,719 gallons of which was imported
by the U.lv. in 1931 and probably more
last year. There aj;e enough rejected apples
yearly to enable manufacturers to swamp
the Speck with cider, but the demand does
not exist, .the public taste remaining true
to hops and other firewater.
* ❖ sjt #
“El Verdugo” : The Post Office is a weird
and Wonderful institution! Two years ago
it wrote imploring me to take a post-office
box. and, moved by the strange spectacle of
a Government department seeking business,
I yielded and began to pay a pound a year
for the privilege of doing the postman’s
job. Becently the renewal fees—payable in
advance, of course—fell due, and the fact
was notified on a flamboyant form; but as
I was away ill, nothing was done about it.
Then the department sent me a notification
that the box was closed, and that I might
apply for my fetters at the G.P.O. counter.
(This notification was delivered by the post-
man.) Since then no letters have been
addressed to me at the box number; never-
theless, the G.P.O. has intercepted every
letter addressed to my street address, marked
it with the closed box number, and kept it
for four or five days, during which period
it has been endorsed “Box closed by account-
ant.” Needless to say, when I return to
my office next month I .shall do without a
P.O. box.
* * * *
The use of steel sleepers is spreading:
they threaten to be a very serious rival to
hardwood. The Great Western, in England,
has placed an order for another 100.000, for
use this year ; and that will make this one
co.’s total 400,000. equal to 185 miles of
track.
❖ •]' * :J:
Manchester Corporation, which has a gas
department outside the city council chamber,
has for some time past b_een extracting
benzol for use as a motor-spirit; and the
experiment has been so satisfactory that two
more gas plants are to be fitted for the pur-
pose. The three will make 340,000 gallons
annually—not a great deal, but enough, they
reckon, to save about £lO,OOO a year in
the running of their ’bus services. And
the cost of the plant is quite small; one
installed at Stretford,' just outside Man-
chester, to produce 100,000 gallons a year, has
cost £12,000. Incidentally, Belfast is using
creosote in its municipal ’bus services; but
a report to the Australian Council on
Science, and Industry is not very encourag-
ing.
Jac-kaburra” : I handle a good many tyres
and find it quite a regular thing for intelli-
gent customers to order, say, 30 x 5 when
they really want 30 x 5.00. No, my cus-
tomers are not silly—they learnt at school
that “5” is no different from “5.000000’’ or
as many more noughts as you care to add
after a decimal. The whole system has, like
Topsy, “jus’ growed’’ from the days when
balloon tyres went in such weird sizes as
31 x 5.77. During the past couple of years
a half-hearted attempt has been made at
simplification by omitting the overall size
and substituting the rim measurement, but
it will he many years before buyers order
their tyres that way. It is all just another
case of the manufacturer failing to see the
consumer’s viewpoint. Tyre sizes are easily
understood by those in the trade, but not by
people who buy an average of one tyre every
two years—simplicity is indispensable there.
* * * +
“C. Coral”: An experiment in footgear
suited to the requirements of the men work-
ing in the boats is being tried in “Thirsty.”
Japanese have used their own article (of
dark-blue cloth with padded sole) imported
from Japan; but an Australian-made boot
is being put on the market, similar to that
used by the sugar-cane cutters, with brown
canvas uppers and special rubber soles, but
minus heels. If it stands up to tests a few
thousand pairs should be required annually.
* * * *
“J.” : Re “Beta’s” remarks (B. 15/3/’33)
on silky oak and black bean. Silky oak is
not often waxed. A tradesman, when French-
polishing oak, stains, “fills in” and polishes
without black streaks showing; sappy places
are stained to match first. Writer has seen
hundreds of oak suites made, and cannot
recall a case of black streaks showing up;
they would be the sure mark of the amateur.
As to black bean, it must be as thoroughly
seasoned in furniture-making as in joinery,
and more so. If furniture is made of un-
seasoned wood it is sure to split in a warm
room.
* * * *
“Heresone” : The only way to check dole
frauds is to make the men do useful work
for their money. I know a shearer who
earned upwards of £6 per week for eight
months of the year, and boasts that lie drew
rations the rest of the time.
% sfs #
There is a remarkable development of can-
ning in England. Hartleys, the jam people,
who already had a fruit-preserving plant at
Aintree, have built a factory in Lancashire
to handle peas, beans, carrots, asparagus and
other vegetables; and the National Canning
Council is preparing plans for two large
factoi’ies in the same county for dealing with
poultry. With birds selling for 15 pence
each in the neighborhood, something of the
kind ought to be worth looking into at Par-
ramatta. among other places in Australia.
THE CUSSEDNESS OF THINGS.
UNCLE SAM: “Of course, it had to some back just when I’m down to my last dahler.”


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THEO. SHALL in
THE COMMAND TO LOVE.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLEE and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE MIDDLE WATCH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ; “Our Miss Gibbs’’
Criterion “While Parents Sleep”
Royal Dante
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal ~ “The Command to Love”
King’s . . . “The Middle Watch”
State Movies and Talkies
“Speed”: A Vic. Aero Club Pageant
Rhapsody
Speed!
Speed is the essence of the contract.
Speed!
Indeed,
Where would we be without it?
We’d
Be slugs, on lettuce-leaves, unworthy of our
imperial heritage.
Greed?
No, it was speed taught Eve the taste of
apples.
“Taste, ' said the Serpent. “Wait,” said Eve.
“Speed!”
Cried the Serpent, “there’s someone coming.”
And Eve speeded.
“It is decreed,”
The Angel of the Lord said unto Adam,
“To speed
“Shall be Man’s fatal destiny.
“Whether for Good or.lll
“Towards fortune or disaster
“Thou shalt proceed
“Faster and faster.” ■: l\
“Agreed,” said Adam,
And out of Ed-
en down the centuries he speeded.
Or sped—
A ped.
For the first few thousand centuries,
He led
A hand-to-mouth existence
Chasing the antelope and other fauna,
His bed
An unquiet heap of rushes.
(“I think,” said Mr. Adamson, the traveller’
For a Melbourne hatter,
“I’ll turn in. This damn train
“Was twenty minutes late again
“At Wangaratta.”)
Eve
Was disappointed. She felt she’d
Been cheated.
But Adam’s seed
Became Atalanta.
lasus, her father, was chagrined at the
arrival of a daughter,
And his neighbor’s banter.
On the Parthenian Hill lie exposed her.
A slie-bear found her.
She became a mighty huntress and the
world’s first female runner—
A stunner.
But in the Matrimonial Stakes at Athens
Milanion won her
By dropping Aphrodite’s golden apples—
The Grecian bounder.
(“Cripes. I see that Am-
“y Johnson’s gone and married that chap
Mollison.
“The grafter.
“These tarts are all the same.
“A man
“Is all they’re after.”)
“It is decreed,”
The Angel of the Lord said unto Adam.
“Towards fortune or disaster
“Thou shalt proceed
“Faster and faster.”
“A steed, a steed,”
Cried Adam.
“The kingdom of contemplation
“For a steed!”
The Lord gave him the llama, the elephant,
the ox, the camel, the yak, the ass and
the mule, the ass’s poor relation.
And he subdued them.
“Intercede
“For me,” unto the Angel of the Lord cried
Adam.
“These animals impede
“My freedom of migration.”
The Lord sent him Tubal-Cain, seed
Of Lamech and Zillah. He was the First
Mechanic. He begat
The dandy horse, the dandy horse begat the
draisene, the draisene begat the eeleri-
fere, the celerifere begat the velocipede
and the velocipede begat the bicycle.
(“Damnation!
“These plugs
“Are up to putty. Motoring’s
“A mug’s
“Game. Wings!
“Now, if a bloke had wings”
Adam Jones
The aviator
His father was a park curator,
Loved his flowers, their quiet faces,
The solemn trees, the silent places
And all slowly growing things.
“Beauty, my boy,” he used to say.
“Beauty is slowness. Kings,
“Kings cannot buy it.”
“What was that noise, father?”
“Wings, my boy, wings.
“Wings of the swallow.”
“Wings!”
(“That _ yellow-bellied, lily-livered nigger
Amit
“At the hotel at Sourabaya
“Told me he packed my thermos, the flaming
liar!
“Now I shan’t get a drink
“Till Darwin, dammit!”)
“It is decreed.”
The Angel of the Lord said unto Adam,
“To speed
“Shall be Man’s fatal destiny.
“Whether for Good or 111
“Towards fortune or disaster
“Thou shalt proceed
“Faster and”
Rip, tear!
Lords of the air!
Shepherds of pastures blue!
Whizz, whoo!
Jupiter Six and Jupiter Eight,
B-r-r, rip!
Rolls-Royce. Nimbus and Cirrus and Lynx,
Wapiti, Bulldog, Gipsy One and Gipsy
Two.
Turn ! Slip!
Men and women and boys and girls
Up in the air
Bombing a “hare”
Into a cloud, over a hill
Faster and higher
And higher still.
Up to the sun.
Fun!
A wood became a wooden village;
The villagers
Prospered at their tillage;
The . village became a town, the town a-city
Full of busy people.
The Lord Mayor was a trifle pursy.
The Arts, the Sciences, the civic virtues
Were prized most highly.
The citizens rested from their mercenary
labors
And built a cathedral with a fine tall steeple.
It was the envy of all their neighbors;
The Bishop was devout and also witty.
Speed!
“It is decreed,”
The Angel of the Lord said unto Adam,
“Towards fortune or disaster
“Thou shalt proceed”
(“Faster, for Gawd’s sake, faster!
“That anti-aircraft post has got us spotted.
“God bless the. man who first invented
churches.
“It’s easy as signing on the dotted
“Line. Mind the lurches.
“Steady!
“Now, /we’re right, over it, I reckon.
“Ready!”)
Frith and the Showman spent a pleasant
hour or so roaming round the Radio Exhibi-
tion in Sydney Town Hall. Like all Syd-
ney exhibitions, this one looked as if it
wouldn’t be ripe for several days. Hot and
bothered mechanics were busy with screw-
drivers and spanners; piles of wrapping
paper,lay everywhere, and most of the star
attractions described in the morning news-
papers,, including, the Robot, hadn’t arrived.
However, it was a beautiful thing to see
dozens and dozens of radio cabinets, all about
the .same size and shape, with evidences of a
cubist complex : in the mind of the designer,
standing there absolutely silent. This is
where Art scores over Nature. At a dog-
show or a cliopk ’show it is beyond human
power to silence the exhibits, and people, a
quarter of a mile away marvel at the din.
New radio cabinet, designed especially for
U.A.P. supporters ( pat’d ).
Frith, ever critical, was peeved about the
lack of originality in the lines of these radio
cabinets, and brightened when he found an
enterprising firm that grafts the wonders of
wireless into grandfathers’ clocks. But he
thinks he could do a lot better than that
(see sketch). The silence, which threatened
to grow oppressive, was broken by a loud
voice which emanated from a stand where
a cinema picture of Mr. Westinghouse (in-
ventor of the thing that stops railway car-
riages with that sickening jerk) showed that
gentleman making a speech in the American
language. It sounded like somebody thump-
ing an iron tank with a waddy. The sound
died away after a little while, being probably
suppressed. It was gathered that all the
row in this show was to be made, officially
as it were, from a glassed-in broadcasting
stage up near the Great Organ, but this was
occupied by piano-shifters, whose remarks
were not broadcast.
The only electrical appliance that in the
least interested either Frith or the Showman
was an enormous copper affair of striking-
simplicity' that creates a tremendous spark
with a temperature of 10,000 deg. F., or some-
thing like that. It is used for welding steel,
but Frith reckons that if bis dentist once gets
Occupied by piano-shifters.
sight of it he will convert it to other and
darker uses in his torture-chamber. The
Postmaster-General has a fine show of tele-
phones and telegraphs, including a typewriter
that works itself and four gilded canisters
that get busy and do calculating tricks when
you dial an automatic ’phone. Not knowing
by sight the new sort of telephone there is
such a fuss about, neither Frith nor the
Showman can swear that it isn’t on exhibi-
tion. If it is, the P.M.G. is a mug, because
he’s got 80,0000 old-fashioned ones in stock
and ought to work ’em off before he adver-
tises the new sort. If it isn’t on show, that
If the dentist once gets sight of it!
proves what a reactionary, oppressive, un r
progressive and retrogressive sort of a cow
he is. This Page doesn’t deal in politics, but
it knows how to handle ’em !
* * *
The Bulletin received the author’s invi-
tation to attend “The Womanisqrs,” by
George Duke Walton, performed by the Un-
Named Players at Christ Church Hall, South
Yarra, last week. The combination of a
title like that and a church hall was sur-
prising, but “The Womanisers” turned out
to be eminently proper. The four young
bachelors who, in the first act, decide to
taste the pleasures of female companionship
in order to confirm their rooted dislike for
it have various farcical adventures in a
Cowes boarding-house, and decide in the
last act to return to celibacy. Mr. Walton
showed that he has the knack of writing
light, rapid dialogue. His chief fault as
a playwright seems to be that he thinks
from plays into plays instead of from life
into plays. His four main characters were
well enough differentiated, but then he
should have sat down and thought about
how they would naturally have reacted. In-
stead, he thought of them in stage terms
and came to a hackneyed conclusion. In
the second act, moreover, the cast of four
expanded to 24, and the author’s and the
Un-Tamed Players’ ability to handle the
team was in inverse ratio to increase in
the population. The matchmaking mother
who made her unfortunate daughter sit
under a bunch of mistletoe to intercept
kisses was a crude creation, even for farce-
comedy. However, there were some good
laughs in the show, and Mr. Walton ought
to do better on a smaller canvas when he
has begun to observe life a bit. George
Walton, Cuth Barrington, Leo Byrne and
Ray Connell were excellent as the four celi-
bates. Two: of them had voices like crosscut
saws, which was a pleasing change from the
orthodox convention of making young Aus-
tralians talk like Oxford undergraduates.
# * *
Theo Shall commenced clicking liis heels
through “The Command to Love” at Melb.
Royal on Saturday. The play concerns a
proposed military alliance between France
and Spain which can only be cemented by
the Spanish Minister for War, and his con-
sent can only be obtained if the French
military attache has a love affair with the
Minister’s wife, thus giving France the in-
estimable advantage of petticoat influence.
It is the view of weltpolitik held in the ser-
vants’ hall, and some people who don’t
belong to the servants’ hall might ask why
the play was written. The answer is simple.
The second act is the most prolonged orgy
of Deferred Seduction that J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., has ever presented to a grateful public.
Without counting them, the Showman guesses
that public was chiefly composed not of mem-
bers of the presenc generation, but of their
grandparents. Said grandparents must have
led very dull and monotonous lives if they
now get vicarious satisfaction out of play's
like “The Command to Love.”
The programmatic statement that the
work of Rudolph Lothar and Fritz Gottwald
was adapted by Mr. Shall is accepted. “To
adapt” means to make fit or suitable. Mr.
Shall fitted to his needs the part of Gaston,
Marquis du Saint Lac, the attache, and did
it to his own satisfaction and the delight of
his followers. In the role of a Frenchman
who confesses to a million previous love
affairs, he was more Germanic than Gallic,
more unsophisticated than expert* and sen-
timental rather than cynical. He didn’t
make love to Manuela, wife of the Spanish
War Minister, with his tongue in his cheek,
but with his heart in an adolescent flutter.
Taking him as himself, however, he was
satisfactory. In his by-play he was again
the astute theatrical runs-getter, though his
final score fell short of his “Autumn
Crocus” performance. The local Coral
Brown gave close on six feet of magnificent
feminine physique to Manuela. None of the
others specially mattered.
* * *
A full house at Melb. Assembly Hall made
the acquaintance of a new sonata by Ravel,
introducers being Franz Schieblich. a Mel-
bourne violinist just returned from Germany,
and pianist Roy Shepherd. Ravel’s work
gave present critic an overwhelming feeling
that life, for the moment, was a hopelessly
drab and monotonous affair. The violin built
up a structure of some stolidity and stateli-
ness-, but the p ; ano part is best expressed
by those beautiful lines from T. S. Eliot’s
“The Waste Land” —
Drip, drop, drip, drop
Drop, drop, drop.
The second movement, which was called “The
Blues,” was extraordinarily like the Javanese
gamelang. Other items on the programme
were the “La Folia” variations of Corelli-
Leonard and Paganini’s D Major Concerto,
which revealed Schieblich as a highly accom-
plished violinist.
* ¥ ¥
The invasion of the metropolis by the
Cairns Memorial Players began on Satur-
day, when this ardent and sincere suburban
organisation presented two pieces at Mel-
bourne Bijou, which was crammed for the
occasion. J. M. Barrie never did solve any-
thing, so he is quite at home in' his incon-
clusive thriller, “Shall We Join the Ladies?”
A wealthy gentleman of leisure who should
have been employed at Scotland Yard has
the luck to have a brother shot at Monte
Carlo. The desire for revenge develops an
unsuspected talent for crime-detection. He
collects 12 suspects, invites them to liis
country home and tells them why they have
been invited. He then puts them through a
facile cross-examination. The ladies retire
and he submits the males to further ques-
tioning. A- scream is heard, the gentlemen
rush in the direction of the ladies —curtain.
The play is entertaining and the Cairns
M. P. did their job so capably that wonder
was aroused that they should have bothered
to waste their talents on A. A. Milne’s
“Dover Road,” a thoroughfare which gets
nowhere, goes the longest way round to get
there and through the most uninteresting
landscape available. Constance Jorgensen’s
excellent handling of the over-maternal and
tearful Eustasia made amends for a bad
selection.-
* * ¥
At the Sydney Repertory Theatre on
Saturday William Rees produced IbseTi’s
“Ghosts,” taking the part of Pastor Manders.
Dorothy Whiteley was Mrs. Alving, and
William Leahy strove with the unpleasant
role of Oswald. Not a bad performance, but
it came a' little too soon after the Thorn-
dike oo.’s memorable achievement.
* * *
A very mixed bag from Adelaide shows:
Clem Dawe, much farewelled, goes out of
the Royal, for “Waltzes from Vienna” to
come in. A “cafe chantant” of the Student
Christian Movement, at the University, was
clever and successful —and possibly unique.
The Tongan Choir is doing the suburban
halls. Educated apes are supplementing the
Star pictures, and an alleged Ginger Meggs
is on the stage at West’s. The old Pav.
is reopening as the Rex; Wondergraph has
changed its name to Civic.
* * *
Adelaide theatres are rapidly shaking off
Hollywood shackles. Claude Webb, now at
West’s, is showing the London (and partly
Australian) version of “Maid of the Moun-
tains,” with Ginger Meggs and gang on the
stage also. At the Majestic are Jack Hul-
bert and Cicely Courtneidge in a long month
of “Jack’s the Boy.” And the Times
Theatrette gives a mouthful of world news,
from Jehol to Test-match souvenirs.
The Palette.
The pencil is a medium which most artists
have been content to use hieroglyphically.
In his show at Melb. Fine Arts Sydneyite
Lloyd Rees pushes the medium pretty well as
far as it will go in an attempt to suggest
color and render tone. In “Farm at Wind-
sor,” where the issues involved are relatively
simple, he gets nlearest to success. In such
complicated subjects as “The Skyline of Syd-
ney” what he produces is not so much an
impression of a particular effect as an inven-
tory of miscellaneous articles.
Adelaide Society of Arts starts its season
with a good mixed show from Victoria. Miss
Bale is curiously versatile, figures and
flowers and landscape alternating. The Art
Gallery of Adelaide has bought her study of
camellias; also three of Victor Cobb’s really
powerful etchings of scenes in and around
Melbourne, which formed the other half of
the show.
At an art show: —
Characters : Mrs. Blunk, patron; Mr. Bunk, the
art dealer.
“Ooh! I think that is a darling thing.”
“Quite.”
“The willow is so much a willow.”
“Quite, quite.”
“Ah, that pine. How it glows as the pine does
glow!”
“You are a student of Nature, Mrs. Blunk?”
“Aren’t we all , Mr. Bunk, aren’t we alii”
“Er, well, yes, I suppose so.”
“Everything in Nature is beautiful, Mr. Bunk —■
everything.”
“Quite.”
“Those dear little old-fashioned houses now —how
natural, how beautiful! ”
“Quite.”
“Horrors! The Bridge, the Bridge, that terrible
Bridge !”
“Why, don’t you like bridges, Mrs. Blunk?”
“Oh, Mr. Bunk, those dreadful suicides —no, I
can’t look at it, I can’t.”
“Oh, quite natural, Mrs. Bunk, quite natural!”
Poverty Point
“Hamfat”: The universal theatrical earth-
quake has involved Max Reinhardt’s
Deutsches Theatre, for three decades one of
the world’s rallying centres for intellectual
drama. Reinhardt has gone into talkie pro-
duction, and the manager to whom he leased
his theatre failed to make it pay.
“Cine Ma”: Psychologists assert that
symbols appear almost to acquire a life of
their own, dwelling in the unconscious mind
and popping up into the conscious in the
most unexpected way. The Vie. State
Executive Council has just decided that a
film for general ■ exhibition shall be indicated
by a circle and a film not for general exhibi-
tion by a triangle. The circle is obviously
the ancient symbol for the sanctity and
unity of family life, and the triangle is, of
course, our old friend husband, wife and
home-wrecker. It is difficult to believe that
the Council 1 made its excellent selection by
any. process of conscious reasoning.


TONAL ADVANCE
THE LEADERS OF RADIO
<±
a /1 (LuJ ..
FISK
RADIOLA
As the result of extensive research work by the
engineers of the A.W.A. research laboratories under
the direction of Mr. E. T. ‘Fisk, F.lnst.R.E., A.M.I.E,
(Aust.), Amalgamated Wireless presents the Fisk
Radiola.
Unquestionably the finest Radiola yet produced, it rep-
resents a noteworthy advance in broadcast reception and
A.W.A. is confident that it will fulfil to the highest
degree the critical demands of Australian listeners.
Outstanding in musical reproduction, the Fisk Radiola sweeps
aside all previous concepts of radio and establishes new
standards of reproduction. Its tonal realism makes an instant
s appeal to the most critical ear —its distinctive appearance and
harmonious design are a delight to the eye. Its realistic
reproduction is due to the incorporation of the new and
amazing A.W.A. Tonal System, which has the effect of repro-
ducing the broadcast item with extraordinary fidelity of tone
and realism.
Let Your Lars Prove it!
To listen to the Fisk Radiola is to be amazed at its lifelike
reproduction. It is a veritable revelation in realism—it almost
appears as if the artist were present in the room.
Coincident with the development of lifelike tonal quality, the
new Radiola incorporates every worthwhile radio improve-
ment, gives greater selectivity and is extremely sensitive —all
models giving Interstate reception.
Be sure to see and hear the Fisk Radiola at your nearest Authorised Radiola Dealer.
THE CABINET
The beautifully proportioned cabinet with its
distinctively shaped grill panel and delicately
moulded top and base shows the marked
influence of the modern trend fn design. It is
finished in a rich walnut shade by a special
lacquer process, hand-rubbed to obtain the new
velvet lacquer finish.
mi
A comprehensive range, priced to
suit all purses.
ALL-ELECTRIC MODELS
RADIOLETTE— S-valve, Table Model .. £22 10 0
RADIOLA 120 — 5-valve, Console Model £29 10 0
RADIOLA 130 — 1-valve, Console Model
(including A.W.A. Noise-free Receptor) £39 10 0
BATTERY MODELS
RADIOLA 1208—6 -valve, Console Model £37 10 0
RADIOLA 130B — 8-valve, Console Model £45 10 0
Ifune in to the RADIOLA HOUR
At 8 p.m. every Thursday Stations 2SM. 2GB Sydney.
-AY Alhury, 3DB Melbourne. 380 Bendigo.
SDN Adelaide, and 4BC Brisbane.
At 8 p.m. every Tuesday Station 2UW Sydney.
GOOD to look at and
GOOD to listen to ♦
RADI
A PRODUCT OF AMALGAMATED
O L A
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.


Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6:
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.e. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but.
m
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is bv the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —7-1 hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
mm
y
m
fJP''
i fl y>
fYV
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
JIB'UIRICA'U Clt
OlßC'tlAJilipSt
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mttil” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT.. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81'022.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Arbeep” : I was, about twelve years old,
and my brother eleven, and we were ripe for
mischief. There was one old wether in the
yard, a rough-looking, tough old fellow, and
we decided to butcher him. We managed to
cut his throat, but made a terrible mess of
punching the skin off, using the knife too
much; and it was as ragged as a black-
smith’s apron by the time we’d finished. We
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT.
COHEN JUNIOR (arriving home ): “Fader, I ran all the vay behind a tram and saved
my penny.”
COHEN SENIOR: “Very goot, my boy. But next time you run behind a taxi-cab and
save two shilluns.”
hoisted him up on the old bullock-gallows
and dressed him. Then father was sighted
coming up from the cultivation paddocks.
It was too late to hide, so we stood our
ground, with heads hanging, expecting a good
taste of the belt v The old man walked up,
examined the tattered skin hanging over
the fence, and cast an expert eye on the
carcase on the gallows. “Who killed this
sheep?” he asked in an ominous voice. But
we, who knew him well, detected a little
quiver in the undercurrents of the voice, and
spoke up hopefully, “We did.” Dad walked
around the carcase, regarding it with a heavy
frown, and fingering the buckle of his belt.
We wmtched that belt-buckle apprehensively
Then the frown melted away, and a grin
came over his face. “Well,” he said, “it’s
awful, but it’s better than the first one I
did."
“Sam Slocum”: Jack the abo., who is.
blacker' than the darkest hour before the
dawn, visited our camp while we -were at
supper recently, and after joining in a snack
stayed on awhile yarning. “When do the
galahs nest here, Jack?” 1 inquired. “August
and September,” replied our visitor
promptly. My mate was curious to know
how one could distinguish the cock bird from
the hen.* “Well, now,” answered Midnight,
“that’s got me puzzled, an’ I’m an Austra-
lian meself.”
* * * *
“Be Glorieux”; “There was a jackeroo I
knew back in ’97,” said Old Bill, “what
had wnat yer might call a literal mind.
Ritchie ’is name was; a quiet, ’elpless sorter
little bloke. If you took ’im outer sight of
the ’omestead an’ turned ’im round twice
’e’d be lorst for ever. One day Joe Brinley,
the overseer, takes me an’ ’im out in one of
the ’ome paddocks to muster a little mob
that ’ad been missed at. shearin’. We finds
about 60 behind a mulga ridge on the back
fence. They was mostly strong wethers, but
there’s a few old ewes. Crossin’ the ridge
coinin’ ’ome the old ewes starts to knock up.
I lifts ’em several times, but it’s a hard job.
‘They’re pretty far gone,’ says Brinley; ‘don’t
give ’em to the crows, though; cut their
throats if yer must leave ’em.’ However,
by perseverance we gets over the ridge where
we could see the ’omestead about three miles
off. Brinley turns the mob over to Ritchie
while we goes lookin’ for more. ‘Poke ’em
along steady an’ don’t leave that fence,’ ’o
says. We rode round for about an hour an’
come in from the opposite side. Passim the
yard we sees about 20 sheep in it, an’ they
looks awful. Ritchie is asleep under a tree,
an’ when ’e woke ’im up Brinley ’ad to
ask ’im where the rest of the sheep was
three times before ’e got an answer. ‘They
knocked up, boss, an’ I left ’em.’ ’e says.
Brinley gives ’im up as a bad job. ‘Come
on, Bill,’ ’e says ter me; ‘they can’t ’ave
gone far.’ ’E was right. We found 38 of
’em strung out erlone the fence, an’ damme
if that lad ’adn’t cut the throats of every
flamin’ one of ’em.”
* * *
“Wemby”; ’fhe day had been wet; the
way long and boggy. Happening upon a
remote tavern, the traveller concluded the
day. He sought dinner, bed and breakfast.
Next morning he was bubbling with resent-
ment. “I’ve never been in such a place
before,”.lie wailed; “the towels were filthy,
the water like mud and there was no damned
soap!” “Well,” challenged' Mrs. Public-
house, “you’ve got a tongue, haven’t you?"
“Yes,” he said, “but I’m not a cat!”
“Homfrey Beale”: He dropped his cigar-
ette swag in the dessicated earthscape of the
bush-pub verandah, and poked a counten-
anee like three droughts inquisitively through
the bar door. The sight of the shearers
playing cards in an adjoining room drew
THE UNPARDONABLE SIN.
“Wot’s up, Sam ?"
“Gor' lumme, here’s me missus cleared out with Bill Bodgers and absolutely gone and
left the sliprails down and all the cows is out.”
his gaze, and presently he glided gently in.
He stood by the. table in silence till the
game finished and the beer flowed; but they
were a hard lot, and it missed him. His
gaze became bitter. “Reminds me ov the
time I was doin’ card tricks on the stage,”
he said suddenly. “Card tricks —was yer?
Know any good ones now?” asked Big-
headed Barney. The visitor said he knew
a few still, and Barney asked him to give
a sample of his skill. “I tell yer wot,” said
the woebegone one; “I’ll let anyone shuffle
the pack an’ I’ll bet ’alf a quid I can cut
any card yer like ter name in one go.” “Yer
on,” said Barney, and, shuffling the pack
well, handed it to him with the request to
cut the ace of spades. The nomad laid the
pack on the table and started towards the
back door. “ ’Ere, where yer goin’?” asked
Barney. “Ter get an axe ter chop the pack
in two.” he said. It broke the drought.
* * * *
“J.H.S.”: Tell “Whitehall” (B. 8/3/’33)
that if he wants big fish he can get them
off the Bawanaland coast anywhere north of
Bundaberg if he brings along tackle strong
enough to hold them. There are gropers or
rock cods running.up. to 8001 b. and with the
pull of a draught colt; sharks which grow to
above 20ft.; schools of giant mackerel and
barracoutas of monstrous size. And you
need not go far offshore to catch the big
fellows either. Here are a few recent bags
from a tidal creek as a guarantee of good
faith : 3cwt. groper caught by Clarry Bryce
(Watalgan) ;10ft. man-eating shark yanked
out by 15-year-old Arthur Neumann (the
weight was 4301 b.) ; a 901 b. rock cod and
another of 1501 b.; two sharks (one 6ft. and
the other 7ft. 6in.) bagged by 16-year-old
Charlie Richter; an Bft. 6jn. shark caught
by H. Richter; an Bft. shark yanked out by
C. W. Guiski; a Oft. blue, shark and a 12ft.
hammer-head shark dragged out by Arthur
and Walter Sommerfold, all of Baffle Creek.
“C. Coral”: In the olden days of Torres
Strait, one of the interesting ceremonies
was the process of making a young man into
a warrior. At the age of puberty, he was
made to stand face to face with his mother,
and then from a small bamboo filled with a
particular mixture drops of liquid were
caused to exude into his mouth, the bamboo
being held in such a position as to suggest
that the exudation came from the mother’s
breast. The father then took him in hand
and anointed him on the face and upper
body, after which the maternal uncle spat a
mixture of chewed leaf over his body, and
lie was given a piece of alligator liver to
eat so that he might not be afraid of any
enemy. Other things, including portions of
the human body, also formed part of his
fare, this being in order that he should
“come proper Strong for fight.” In due
course, when he went forth with the fighting
men bent on conquest, if he secured his
man he did not sever the head himself but
left that job to his uncle, who duly pre-
sented it to the mother in token of the
prowess of her son. Then the parents hung
the grisly trophy outside the family domicile
for all and sundry to see that young Pai-
wain had duly graduated as a head-collector
(there being no newspapers to advertise the
fact) ■; and after it had been on view for a
few days, and the village had finished talk-
ing of the exploit, the' head was cooked in
the ltopmaori oven and the “meat” partaken
of by the young lads in order that they too
might become brave fighters.
![: * *
“Bill R.”: While repairing seed-boxes at
.Johnson’s nursery, Melbourne, an employee
the other day made a new back-jump record.
•His feverish activity whs prompted by a
sudden glimpse of something awful amongst
the material. The apparition was an out-
size in triantelopes. On a broad humped
back he wore a tangled scrub of inch-long
bristles that grated noisily with a scaly
rattle: as he pushed a way through the mer-
chandise and squirmed from sight. His
legs were thick, black and mossy, and curved
under-swung mandibles —much elongated—
were surmounted by an evil death’s-head
countenance. Any member of the Council
know his name?
;jj Jjs
“Youngest Inhabitant”: The large camp
of flying-foxes reported from Queensland
is a reminder that it was not until five
months after landing tnat the First Fleeters
came across one of the little beasts. It was
killed, according to Bradley’s "Journal," on
June 27, 1788, and measured 3ft. from wing
to wing. An emu had been shot within a few
weeks of landing, and a kangaroo had been
killed on May 27. Bradley says the ’rod
weighed 1401 b., measured 7ft. 3in. from head
to tail, and had hind legs 2ft. 7in. and fore-
legs Ift. long. The first eagle—it measured
7ft. from wing to wing—was brought down
on March 20, and three days later a 13-foot
shark was landed. He had four hooks in
him apart from the one that caught him, and
the liver gave 20 gallons of oil. The first
black swan was killed on May 22; from
wing to wing it measured Oft. Sin.
THE EAST OF THE MOIUORIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlip last survivor of the ancient Moriori race lias
died at the Chatham Islands.”
IP passes out of sight if not from mind,
Fades out of human story:
But in ethnology a place he’ll find
And have .such claim to glory
As beats upon the last of kind,
From Moa to Moriori.
His race expires with him. Its name is
cleared
From scientific tally;
Like aborigines who once careered
Round Tassie hill and valley,
It’.s given up the struggle, disappeared,
And handed in its alley.
It’s vanished, as Cro-Magnons went, of
whom
You read in history’s pages.
Consigned to an inexorable tomb
Beneath the dust of ages;
Gone, as the Aztecs tottered to their doom —
Only by speedier stages.
Time was he trod an enviable pitch
Among the fern and kauri;
A lord and master, with a'rare and rich
Dominion for his dowry.
Ah, well! Wc didn’t put him in the ditch ;
You've got to blame the Maori.
They tramped him down beneath their ruth-
less feet;
And doubtless suo more
Full oft they made the slaughtered foe their
meat,
Grim conquerors and gory!
ITabet! Into oblivion complete
Exit the Moriori!
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C U&
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ẃ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help. ! , ;
(Hbmtiionwealtl) Savinas JBank of Austral
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
THE
UNITER
Hill I K mU
insurance
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
{effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of .Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Thugine”: An old pioneer woman of the
N. S. Wales North Coast is proud of a
shot which she once tired. Hearing a
goanna in the fowl run she rushed out with
a stick, but the reptile ran up .a tree. She
ran for dad's old shotgun, but knowing that
shot would have little effect on the go.’s
tough hide she loaded with nails. Then
she fired, and to her astonishment found
that she had nailed the goanna to the tree.
* * * *
“Curiae”: An exhibit of the hardiest
forms of plant-life to be found around Syd-
ney is maintained, quite unintentionally, by
DECREE ABSOLUTE.
JANE: “What do they mean by a welfare-
worker, John?”
J OHN: “A divorce Judge.”
the N.S.W. Government on the North Syd-
ney railway station. On a sandstone rock
face that was blasted out about two years
ago every niche and crevice sports its clump
of vegetation, though the wall gets practic-
ally no sun and the seeds that settled on
it must have emanated from such sparse
collection of herbage as exists in a wide
acreage mostly occupied by bricks and
mortar. I’m no botanist, but I recognised
in the collection our old friend bracken
and a grass very like the tubular-spiked
Irish bog variety. A point about all the
specimens is that thev don’t grow where, as
stains show, there are watercourses on the
cliff face. There must be a tremendous' will-
to-live on the part of all these plants—
botanical rabbits as it were. Possibly some
day an Australian Burbank will arise and
mane some practical use of their vast
vitality.
“Wonganilli” : Concerning the age of fig-
trees. (B. 8/3/’33). My mother, who was
born in 1837 at Figtree. on the N.S.W. South
Coast, and lived all her life (91 years)
within a few miles of the place, said that
the fig-tree from which the place takes its
name had always seemed the same size to
her. It is a narrow-leaved variety, but there
are many of the broad-leaved or Moreton
Bay figs in the district which are equally
noted for size and age. My father, also a
native of the district, said that the well-
known Spring Fig-tree (so named from the
spring near it), a giant growing near Won-
ganilli mine, was the same in his boyhood
as now. He also said that the few dead
fig-trees he had seen in the bush had been
killed by fire, and were comparatively young,
the well-grown ones seeming to be able to
withstand anything.
* * * *
“Ceebee”: A recent sight in Bendigo,
strange since the earliest days, was a shaft
sunk in the centre of the city near the
Town Jlall. over the old bed of the Bendigo
Creek. Tattle-used streets are being swept
for specks and shafts even sunk in some.
But as the alluvial workings have been re-
peatedly combed the average fossicker is
making nowhere near a living wage, and
is kept going by the dole.
* $ * *
“W.P.T.”: One morning after a shower of
rain oh the north coast of N.S.W. I sat and
listened to the birds. First I heard a
butcher-bird, then a silver-eye, then a willv-
wagtail and then a peewit. And then‘i
discovered that one bird was responsible for
all the sounds. It was neither, a lyre-bird
nor a bower-bird, but an olive-backed oriole.
Though it hasn’t a high reputation as a
mimic I consider it very little inferior to the
lyre-bird. This oriole was once fairly plenti-
ful in the Eastern States, but is rapidly be-
coming extinct.
* * ' '!•
“Whooplesnitz” : Draughts as played by
the Hanuabada or EJevela Papuan, work-
mg in Port Moresby, is instructive. Lunch
hour arrived, the playing board of the local
draughts club is produced and placed on
the sidewalk in front of the British New
Cuiuea Company’s store. Two players,
using bottle-tops for men,
commence the stern contest;
partisans group themselves
behind the player of their
choice. For perhaps two
minutes the game is played
in thoughtful silence. Then
the onlookers take a hand
and anybody who sees a
move makes it. Bottle-tops
move across the board with
a fine flourish and kings are
made and removed quicker
than Presidents are in South
America. The game ends in
uproar, and it’s a long con-
test that lasts four minutes.
“Raeakiaki”: Hunting the rare and now
almost extinct M.L. tuatara lizard (Spheno-
den pnnetatus) calls for bushcraft. a keen
ear. swiftness of movement and plenty of
luck. Until the introduction of the Euro-
pean rat put an end to the inland breeding
of the muttonbird. the tuatara was most
frequently found along with the titi. whose
burrow he shared, but afterwards it became
a pure gamble as to where you’d find him.
He emerges from his hiding-place after
dusk, and is only to be located by the slight
hissing noise he makes. A false step, the
snapping of a dry twig or the rustle of
undergrowth will send him scuttling away,
but onee you can switch a light on him he’ll
remain as stationary as a statue. You’ve
HER PERMANENT WAVE.
FIRST FLAPPER SOW: “Why has she such an aversion to having a bath?”
SECOND FLAPPER SOW: “She’s frightened it might take the curl out of her tail.”
then got to cautiously creep up to him,
slowly work your hand towards him. and,
grasping him, jerk him into a tin or box
with a quick flick. It's no job to tackle
without thick, heavy gauntlets; for the
tuatara has vicious claws and he knows how
to make effective use of them. I’ve only
known one tuatara that became a pet. It
belonged to the chief engineer of the Gov-
ernment steamer Hinemoa, and no matter in
wliat part of the ship it might be it would
come slithering along in answer to his
whistle.
* :|s * *
“Akeake” : The Torres Strait islands may
be the last home of cat’s cradle (B.
8/3/’33), but in pre-European days it was
played all over the Pacific. Like the Murray
Islanders, the Maori made the most intri-
cate designs with great swiftness and dex-
terity. it often requiring several persons
as well as the use of hands, feet and teeth.
Traditionary and mythical figures and
events were generally represented in the
designs, but frequently there was not much
resemblance between the object and the
result. It was different when it came to
the design of a canoe, the rays of the sun
or a mountain, but the finest and most
realistic creation I ever saw showed a man
escaping from his enemies by jumping over
a cliff, and the late Elsdon Best, who was a
connoisseur of cat’s-cradle lore, declared he
had not encountered a better design in his
50-odd years of wandering amongst tlie
Maoris.
v
“Wainui”: The kuri, or native dog of
Maoriland. is supposed to have been seen
last in 1895 or 1896, when strays were re-
ported from the Rangitikei River and Lake
Taupo, but a relative of mine who was in
the Urewera country back in 1908 declares
that on that trip lie saw a dog uncommonly
like the native variety at a Maori pa.
Standing about 15in. from the ground, it
had a long body, sharp nose, large mouth
and erect ears. Its long hair was a dirty
yellowish brown in color, but it lacked the
bushy tail invariably associated with the
kuri. The only other characteristic of the
native dog that it lacked was the inability
to bark: this one set up a clamor that could
be heard half a mile away and never stopped
barking until a thick bit of wood landed on
his head. Then he started howling.
* * * *
“E.S.’": A peculiar feature of the low
dividing range of west Queensland is the
dense bendi scrub that clothes the western
slopes, and forms an almost impregnable
fastness for wild cattle. The scrub consists
of a series of winding belts, each about 300
yards wide and a couple of miles long, com-
posed of tangled masses of wiry stems and
branches that are impenetrable to horsemen.
A party who had a contract to clear some
of the scrubs of wild cattle adopted a novel
plan. A young bull was thrown and tied
down in the open on a moonlight night. In
the morning Mickie was vicious enough to
charge at his own shadow. He was let go
With a big bell on his neck, his part being
to drive out the hiding herd. lie threw hini-
self into the job witn violent energy, trying
his utmost to get away from the terror that
was swinging and clanging at his throat. He
wanted to find his mates in a great hurry,
and his mates, as soon as they heard his
clamorous approach, bolted from him in
panic. A dog followed him, urging him on
when he showed signs of flagging, while a
horseman kept pace on each side of the
thicket till the scrubbers broke out at the
end, when other riders dashed from cover
and swung the mob away from their strong-
holds. A rifle ended Mickie’s gallop as soon
as he broke out. The bell was wanted, and.
anyhow, the clatter only made trouble when
the scrubbers were in the open.
* * * *
“Deekay”: There is in Cue (W.A.) a
wheelbarrow which has a story of mateship
attached to it. “Russian Jack” and his
mate went prospecting 70 miles from Cue.
They found good gold and were reluctant
to leave. The water supply was very nearly
gone when the mate went down with dysen-
tery and sandy blight. “Russian Jack” de-
cided to take him back. With only his
tomahawk, penknife and a piece of wire, he
fashioned a wheelbarrow from the mulga
scrub. Then with the small supply of
water that was left he set off to wheel his
mate over a sandy track to the nearest
water, 35 miles ahead. Heat, sand and flies
did not overcome his endurance, and he
pushed on a further 35 miles to the town
and doctor, and so saved his mate.
❖ * ?;• jj:
Arbor : A woman, a spaniel, a walnut-
tree The more you beat them the better they
be, says the old rhyme ; and the reference to
the walnut-tree seems to be true enough. There
is a tree in Surrey Hills (Vic.) that was
rather stunted. It was beaten with sticks
on the trunk and limbs during the winter,
after the leaves had fallen, and it then
sprouted up like a weed in the front garden.
Members of a local horticultural society
grinned when the incident was mentioned
at a meeting, but a tree expert who was
present launched out into a scientific expla-
nation.
* * * *
i /oMF ' T he Sundry Showman (B.
1/J/33) speculates about how Nature colors
nsnes with such sparse pigmentary aid as
is to be found in the sea. Can it be that
the colors are metallic? I caught some small
fish in a mudhole in the Ludlow River
(W.A.) and threw them into a galvanised-
iron tank. The fish have now attained a
length of -in. to 3in. and are a beautiful
red gold. When I popped them in they were
just the usual fish color.
ROSE OF FLANDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet and cadenced comes a calling from
a time that's far remote,
From a land where there are meadows ring-
ing with the skylark’s note;
Where the moon is on the poppies and the
trees grow green anew;
And the night, fair Rose of Flanders, tills
with whisperings of you.
Love? Ah no! No amorous fancy walks
within this memory;
Something purer, something deeper brings
your picture back to me,
Calls me o’er the ageing spaces, o’er the
trackless width of blue.
To the dappled fields and crosses, Rose of
Flanders, nearer you.
I am counting every cobble down the path-
way to your door,
And my comrades fill the spaces in the parlor
as of yore;
And I’m listening to your, chanson as we
ofttimes used to do.
While you bent to tasks so deftly and we
chimed encore to you.
“Vencz maintcnant, mcs cnfants.” We were
eager to obey.
When the waffles, cherry-flavored, harmon-
ised with rhum an lait;
And we never felt embarrassed by a treasury
napoo.
For a bon heart for the “Doeger,” Rose of
Flanders, beat in you.
When the song birds charm the orchards by
the acres that are ours,
And the apple-trees have blossomed and the
brown bees haunt the flowers.
Do you sometimes hear our footfalls, do our
voices linger yet?
God be with you, Rose of Flanders! We at
least shall not forget.
QUEENSLAND.
P. JAMES IRVINE.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f be leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
v#
❖
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping. Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania,
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
' ■> . '
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
5G Hunter Street,
Sydney.
I %
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultieiil,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
• • •
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and
from Entrance to Domain
Two Minutes
and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tan
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
SMOKE-OH!
There seems to be more than one kind of
cow in the Sydney milk trade.
* *
“Scotland has produced few singers.”
And not too many shooters, either.
* *
“Jardine deserves praise for his habit of always
giving full credit to his team.” — “Sun.”
Some call it the Douglas Credit System.
¥ *
ON BELLEVUE HIDE.
“The Australian accent resembles our Cockney
accent, and is to be found in the highest classes.
The Australians also slur their words.”
— “Critic” in London “Standard.”
“Gownter Guvmintouse Wensdee, Lydy
Smith?”
“Yuss. But I gottergetter frock. Moine’s
a sliyme.”
“Wotswrongeryer brahnT'
“Me brahn! Therwunnergotstynedat
Sirenry’s rice-darnce! Down be sully, Mrs.
Bowse-By!”
“Wellit looks orlrighterwie, Lydy Smith.”
“Wish I could sy ther syme. I’m gonner-
getter new one at Madame Jooly’s nah.
Shesgotterwhoite that ortersootme. Careter-
come ?”
“Downmoinditido. We couldavtea arrer
Orstrylia afterwards.”
“Quoite. Just wyteaminnit while 1 ring-
feramyde. . . . Ar ! Here’s Mary. Tell Thom-
son erbringer car ralind. Mary.”
“I’m sorry. m’Lady, but Sir Hector tele-
phoned for Thomson from the city half an
SUITOR: “Er — Mr. Smithers, I’ve courted your daughter
for sixteen years.”
MR. SMITHERS: “Well, what do you want?”
SUITOR: “Er —to marry her.”
MR. S.: “Well, I’m jiggered! I thought you wanted a
pension or something.”
hour ago. He has just left with the limou-
sine.”
“Well, Mrs. Rowse-By, I spowse there’s
nothing forrit butter ketchertrem. ’
“A tremull soot me, Lydy Smith. I like
trems. Tremser.so//e, I alwuz sy.”
10.2.4.
* *
Is Europe in for a war to end Warsaw?
# *
“Norman Lindsay says our heads are like those of
the ancient Romans.”
We certainly follow Nero’s example of
fiddling while things burn.
“Accused was charged with stealing from Salva-
tion Arm}' halls brass instruments which he latei
played in bands.” — “Herald.”
It’s one of the few ways these hard times
to make a few notes.
unfair to the invention.
The cameraman was puzzled. He was
trying out the new apparatus that made
thoughts as well as spoken words audible.
It had worked well enough at Callan Park
a few hours previously. There had even
been results at the monkey house at Taronga
Park. Yet now every time he tried to turn
the handle it jambed. In despair he tele-
phoned his chief.
“Where y’at?” inquired the great man.
The cameraman told him.
“Y’ blasted ape!” roared the chief. “Yer
own nous or ter ’ave told yer you was wastin’
yer time goin’ there. How the hell did you
expect to record a thought in that joint?
Pack up quick. An’ the next time yer take
that machine within shoutin' distance of
Parliament House you’re fired!”
S. K.
* *
The Socialises’ slogan : “Hive him enough
rope and he’ll Lang himself.”
* *
“The two accused first became acquainted at
Long Bay.”— Police-court report.
Pen. friends?
•¥*
WHEN DOCTORS RULE.
“In some future age the man or woman who does
not look after his or her health may be treated
as a criminal.”' —Sydney doctor.
Charged with neglecting a cold, .John
Sniffle was sentenced to three months’ hard
medicine in Sydney Hospital. The S.M. said:
“You have pleaded that you cherished your
cold with the object of giving it to your
mother-in-law. Such conduct merely
heightens your offence.”
Giving judgment in the big Appendix case,
in which it is estimated that the costs to
date exceed £40.000. his Honor Mr. Justice
Biilious said that the story of the average
man’s life was bad enough without an appen-
dix, especially a diseased one. The attempted
evasion of the law by the
respondent was made all the
worse by the fact that he
possessed quite eno u g h
money to cause the doctors
to feel optimistic" about their
chances of having a cut at
him some da.v. Damages
were awarded for the full
amount claimed.
Charged with toothache,
Adam Weakfang was yester-
day remanded to Long Bay
for observation and treatment.
The local branch of the
B.M.A. has decided to frame
a request to the Government
for an alteration of the
Health Act, 1950, making it
mandatory upon all persons
whose incomes exceed £5OOO
p.a. to submit themselves for
operation at least once every
12 months.
V *
From the Small Advts.
section of the "Darling-
hurst Whisper” :
Positions Wanted.
(1) Bright young THUG
seeks position. Police re-
cord and extensive know-
ledge of cellars. Has own
jemmy and revolver. Apply
"Bash,” The Den, Darling-
hurst.
(2) Veteran ASSASSIN
wants job. “Bumping-off”
done at £1 a head, or two
for 30s. Women and child-
ren half-price. Clean, swift
and sure. Special offer:
one child dispatched free for
every client spending over
£2 before Easter. Write or
’phone Sensation Dept., the
“Weekly Ghoul.”
(3) Bill the Slasher wants employment as
razor-sharpener. Previously under patron-
age of Associated Razormen’s Institute.
Sharpened all weapons for the great 1931
affray at King’s Cross. Strict secrecy
observed. May be engaged through Mrs.
Annie Worpleduck, Underworld Queen.
Positions Vacant.
(1) Wanted, GROCER’S LAD. Previous
experience, in sly-grog industry essential.
Must be capable of defending shop. Apply
Muldoon’s Soda Fountain. Gin-lane.
BARMAID wanted. Hours 6 p.m. to
6 a.m. Blonde preferred. No wowser need
apply. Call personally Soak and Soak.
Estate Agents.
SALESMAN wanted for new razor (the
“Dubble-Kut”). Must, be certificated trades-
man, skilled in latest modes of attack and
defence. Scarred men preferred.
T. W. N.
* *
“Punters will be given their medicine at the forth-
coming meeting.”
Exactly. Don-castor oil.
**, _ ,
The girls to-day no doubt are Messed
With quite uncommon charm;
But what I like about ’em best
Is an impassioned arm.
M. G.
PERSISTENT APPLICANT: “But if you’ve lost your cartoonist, can’t
I take his place?”
HARASSED EDITOR: “You can, as jar as I'm concerned. But you 'll.
have to arrange that with the undertaker who buried him.”
“The Hollywood stars who threatened to strike
over their pay cuts have come to terms with their
employers.”
Having kissed and made up, they’re now
ready to make-up and kiss.
* *
MUSICAL COOKING.
“The Westinghouse Electric Company has given
a demonstration of cooking a sausage by radio.
Wireless sets of the future, it is said, will have
cooking apparatus attached.” — “Woman’s Mirror.”
When you want to cook a dinner that is
more than just a tin-er-fish, corned beef,
spaghetti, Boston beans or potted ham, you
will have to tune with science in your radio
appliance to assure the proper tempo for a
roast of veal or lamb.
Though with music that’s staccato you
perhaps can fry tomato, it is obvious to any
who the art of cooking know, though some
dishes with Caruso you may cook, you can-
not do so with a multitude of dishes that
require a'treatment slow.
With a fine discrimination you will need
to choose your station and the music it is
serving when the cooking session’s on, know-
ing Elgar’s good for curry, Liszt for dishes
in a hurry, blit one single burst of Wagner
and your omelette is gone!
H. M.
Owing to the prevalence of shoplifting,
shopkeepers are finding it hard to keep up
disappearances.
V V
TABLOID HISTORY.
For several seons Australia was where it
is now, waiting to be discovered.
Some Dutch seamen were the first to see
it. They immediately sailed away. The
historian Von Bunk has advanced the theory
that they anchored somewhere near Sydney
and caught a whiff of a tin-hare meeting.
Came the 28th April. 1770. Captain Cook
didn’t want, to land that night. However,
it was close on
six and the sail-
ors were thirsty,
so he let them
go ashore.
Returning re-
vellers reported
the presence of
strange animals
which hopped
about instead of
walking. Th e
ship’s doctor,
who had never
heard of fleas of
that size, treat-
ed the mariners
for d.t.’s, and a
number signed
the pledge on
tin l spot.
A b o 11 18
years later a
shipload <<f con-
victs arrived un-
der the command
of Captain Phil-
lip. The con-
victs landed at
Sydney on
,T anu a r y 20,
1788. Hen c e
A n n i v ersary
Day.
Phillip found that the ancient inhabitants
—aborigines—favored the barbaric practice
of painting their faces. To this day thou-
sands of ancient inhabitants paint their
faces, as can be proved by a visit to any
suburban ballroom.
We now reach the age of hiking. Among
the earliest hikers were Blaxland, Went-
worth and Lawson. They decided to hike
across the mountains —Blaxland took the
frankfurts and the billycan, and Wentworth
the tea, sandwiches and condensed milk.
Lawson, who had Scotch blood in him, took
Blaxland and Wentworth.
Parliamentary Government followed logic-
ally on the habit of taking things, and in
1925 the first woman was elected to the
N.S.W. Parliament. Simultaneously eight
blood-vessels burst in the Union Club, a
record which had not been bettered since the
arrival of the first. Labor Government many
years before.
The politicians had long since taken gold
passes which entitled them to travel free
on trams and trains, but the passes did not
entitle them to travel free on the ferries.
The bridge resulted. And on March Id,
1932, the bridge was ceremoniously opened
by Captain De Groot. He was rewarded
with a souvenir in the form of a certificate
signed by two doctors, certifying to his
“Cripes, some of the stuff they put in the
papers is an insult to a bloke’s intelli-
gence.”
complete sanity. His rights in the document
are all the more to be envied inasmuch as
since its acquisition the Test matches have
demonstrated to the world that only about
.OS of our city-dwellers are completely sane,
and some are inclined to put it even lower.
D. M.
H- ¥
COURT CIRCULAR.
London, Monday.—H. M. the King has
contracted a cold.
London, Tuesday.—ll. M. the King has
broken his contract.
CELEBRATION.
Pour out the whisky! Let it flow!
Come, fill the festive beakers high
And carol cheerful songs! What ho!
To-night I mean to split the sky!
This night of nights HI consecrate
With beakers brimming o'er the edge —-
For, be it known, upon this date
Twelve months ago I signed the pledge!
N.
ART OF PRIZE-WINNING.
What, you ask, are my claims to the title,
of Sydney’s Champion Competition Prize-
winner? Well, I won the Don’t Wash Soap
£lO,OOO Competition, the Makemsneeze
Insect Powder’s Comp, of £5OOO, the £5OOO
No Art Missing Word Competition, the
“Place the Eyelid” Competition (£7500 in
prizes) run by Chokeyou Self-raising Flour,
and the first prize in the lottery, besides 872
other minor competitions.
A fairly good record, I flatter myself. Yet,
as you say, I am on the dole. The explana-
tion is simple
The Don’t* Wash Soap’s £lO,OOO turned
out to be £lOOO unless certain conditions
were complied with; and. as the missing
words in the sentence “The best cleanser is
Soap” were found by 372,947 other
competitors, the net result was poor—in
plain English, a postage stamp. The Makem-
sneeze Competition was harder; you had to
answer correctly six questions such as
“What Australian city is proud of its
bridge?” and only 14,000-odd people shared
the prize with me. I got quite a good
ss. Bd. from that. So many people shared
the “Place .the Eyelid” prize that the pro-
moters decided to give us each a sample
packet of self-raising flour instead of money.
The time I won the State lottery I had
a share in a penny-in syndicate for which
the promoter was supposed to. sell only 240
tickets. He actually sold at least 5000.
We were trying to find out the exact number
when the news reached us that he had col-
lected the prize and left the State.
Yes; I’ve won S7O first prizes altogether,
and my present position is that I can’t
afford to buy myself a badly-needed drink.
Never mind. I’m still an amateur!
H.M.


MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
Tha Lead in Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly-
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the “Sunday Times” has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times” has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulas adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179. yuney ’
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Areus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348
The Endeavour Press
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney
First List of Australian Books
55
“SATURDEE
by NORMAN LINDSAY
Price 6s. Posted 4d. extra
The celebrated sketches of schoolboy life, which first appeared in The Lone
Hand, have now been revised and rewritten as a novel. The exploits of Peter
and Conkey, Bulljo, Snowey and their girl-friends, Dolly, Trixie and Elsie,
are told with a brilliant humor and understanding of the mentality of “human
tadpoles.” '
JONAH
by LOUIS STONE
fl! Ce Posted 4d. extra
his epic of a Sydney larrikin, first published in 1911, has been out of print
and almost unobtainable for twenty years. Considered to be a worthy successor
to Robbery Under Arms and For the Term of His Natural Life amongst books
that can properly be described as “Australian Classics,” Jonah will surprise
those who now read it for the first time by its masterly treatment of a phase
of Australian life which has almost entirely vanished.
BRING THE MONKEY!
by MILES FRANKLIN
nrZ Ce6S \' c n/t td *7? * Posted 4d. extra
Ihe author or My Brilliant Career, Old Blastus of Bandicoot and other
Australian novels here presents a “light” mystery novel, dealing with jewel
robberies and murder in an English country-house. In the solution of the
mystery, a pet monkey plays a part which is something quite new in detective
fiction.
THE ANIMALS
NOAH FORGOT
by
A. B. PATERSON
Price 2s. 6d. Posted 2d. extra
After a silence of many years, Aus-
tralia’s great national poet, “Banjo”
Paterson, now issues another, book
of verses, dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian ani-
mals. These verses have been writ-
ten in response to requests by many
children who are the poet’s personal
friends. The characters of the bush
creatures are dramatised in simple
poems, illustrated by Norman
Lindsay in a whimsical style.
IN THE WAKE OF
THE “BOUNTY”
by
CHARLES CHAUVEL
Price 6s. Posted 4d. extra
Mr. Chauvel, who is the director
of an Australian film company,
recently voyaged to Tahiti and Pit-
cairn Island to take scenes for his
film dealing with the mutiny of the
Bounty. His book is an enthralling
reconstruction of that historic event.
A piost informative account of the
Pitcairn Islanders, as they are to-
day, adds interest to a book that
will be widely read. Fifty illus-
trated plates accompany the text.
THE LORE OF
THE LYREBIRD
by
AMBROSE PRATT
(President of the Royal Zoological Society of
Victoria.)
WITH 1 6 ILLUSTRATED PLATES
Price ss. Posted 3d. extra
One of the most beautiful and
rare and certainly the most intelli-
gent of the world’s wild cre’atures,
the Lyrebird is so shy that little is
known of its habits and characteris-
tics. Mr. Ambrose Pratt has now
collected into a delightful book all
the lore of the Lyrebird as observed
at close quarters at the home of a
widowed lady, whose friendship
with a wild Lyrebird made these
remarkable observations possible.
A POPULAR MANUAL-
CONTRACT BRIDGE
WITH THE REVISED SCORING
by
ENA BURROWS
(Winner of the “Culbertson Cup”)
Price 2s. Posted 2dt extra
Cloth bound, pocket size, with the card
indicators printed in black and red, this
manual is proving very popular amongst
Bridge players.
ALSO, NOW IN THE PRESS-
PAGEANT: A NOVEL OF TASMANIA
by G. B. LANCASTER
A Best-seller in England and America
PROM ALL BOOKSELLERS, NEWSAGENTS & LENDING LIBRARIES
Or from the Endeavour Press Offices (care The Bulletin! at
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Wellington and London
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Cynara,” at Sydney State, is an almost
flawless production. Its outstanding features
are the casting and the amazing natural-
ism of most of the American director’s
studies of London life. It is hard to
imagine a more perfect picture of a
rising junior at the London Bar, in face,
voice, manner and even clothes, than Ronald
Colman. When his' wife goes abroad, Henry
Stephenson, in the capacity of one of those
genial, dapper old rakes who may be seen
in any West End club or hotel, takes him
to a Soho restaurant, accosts a Couple of
shop-girls, and lands him with one for tlie
evening. If the studios and stages of the
world had been searched it. would surely
have been hard to find a more entirely suit-
able Doris than Phillis Barry. Tire weak,
emotional and trivial, yet lovely, face; the
roguish charm, the sweet, faintly Cockney
voice—she has them all. Neurotics of the
sort have a slight hold on life, and she goes
the way of her kind when her lover’s wife
comes back and he shows signs of indiffer-
ence. Kay Francis —cool, gracious, exqui-
site —dominates the rest of the story as the
at first puzzled, then horrified and then for-
giving wife. She and Colman have most
to do, but thie general level of the acting is
so high that it is absurd to talk of stars.
Stephenson’s John Tring is as remarkable as
anything in the production for its humanity
and unstaginess, and the Temple clerk is
another gem.
* * *
It is good business from at least one stand-
point for film-directors to use the plots of
world-famous playwrights. It silences the
moralists. There have been no complaints
about “coarseness” or “vulgarity” in respect
of O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude,” at Sydney
St. James, yet, as it stands, it is just
another exposition of the old French mari-
banquier-ami de coeur theme, with a senti-
mental ending. After this we may reason-
ably look for a Hollywood rendering of “The
Cenci.” Norma Shearer is the over-sexed
wife; Alexander Kirkland is the uxorious,
obtuse and detested husband; Ralph j\lor-
gan is the ridiculous banker (he provides
food for the lady’s vanity instead of money),
and Clark Gable is the lover. The neces-
sary excuse for the wife’s infidelity is that
she wants to make her husband happy. Her
mother-in-law (May Robson) demonstrates
in a melodramatic sequence the horrors of
insanity, and urges her to have the child
her husband longs for by a man with a sane
father. So she turns to Gable. But, of
course, being the woman she is, she would
have taken a lover anyhow. The only note
of improbability is that she is represented as
remaining faithful to Gable. The arrival of
the son causes inevitable complications. As
a small boy (Tad Alexander) he loves his
putative father and hates Gable. There is
a painful moment when he blunders on liis
mother while she is being kissed passionately
by the interloper. As a man (Robert Young)
he gets engaged to the wrong girl; that is,
he gets engaged—any girl would have seemed
wrong to the selfishly possessive type whom
Norma Shearer portrays so well. Her Nina
is a masterly study of a wanton in three
stages: at first she is a girl with a con-
science who weeps while confessing that
she has been “wicked with men” ; next she
is an arch matron with a roving eye and a
disarming habit of kissing her male admirers
in public; finally, she is a hag. She does
her subtlest work in the third transla-
tion. Her face becomes hard and raddled ;
her easy charm is replaced by an anxious
stridency and her voice takes on the deepened
notes of age. The others are good without
being remarkable; their business is to play
up to her. The much-boomed device by which
the players’ thoughts are revealed is a dis-
appointment. We hear the thoughts which
have been recorded “off,” while the thinkers’
mouths stay shut. A more pleasing innova-
tion is the absence of butlers and parlor-
maids, chauffeurs and footmen, who have
done so much to interfere with the Con-
tinuity in previous Society movies.
* * *
The joke of “Infernal Machine,” at Sydney
Regent, is that there isn’t any. The scene
is an Atlantic liner. The captain has an
incurable disease: a half-crazy scientist
wrnnts his body after death; there are two
anarchists in the steerage; the radio opera-
tor has a grudge against bosses; there are
a millionaire who is faced with ruin, his
fiancee (Genevieve Tobin) who doesn’t love
him and an idiot (Chester Morris) who
loves Miss Tobin and has become a stow-
away for her sweet sake. When the an-
nouncement is made that there is a bomb
aboard, timed to explode at midnight, all
act according to label, except Morris, who
solves the mystery at 11.59. Alternative
title : “What a Man ! or From Lifeboat to
Bridal Suite.”
Muckraking newspapers are again held up
to scorn in “The Crusader.” H. B. Warner
is the District Attorney. A rag which
claims to exist “for the public good” com-
missions the hooligan who is its star reporter
(Ned Sparks) to dig up some scandal about
him. Sparks produces evidence that the Dis-
trict Attorney’s wife (Evelyn Brent) was
once associated with a cabaret-proprietor
(Lew Cody). At this stage the D.A.’s
flighty sister (Marceline Day) kills a scoun-
drel while resisting his infamous advances.
Sparks thinks Warner’s wife did the deed,
and presses for the publication of the stahry
of her life, but the crusader confounds his
epemies by telling the truth, and announcing
his intention of prosecuting his sister. War-
ner is as polished and dignified as ever in.
this silly drama.
* * *
“Where Is This Lady?” at Sydney Lyceum,
■will probably rank in popularity with “Sun-
shine Susie” and “This Is the Night,” which
resembles. . It is yet another one about
t ienna, and it has some tuneful music and
delightful songs. _ Marta Eggert, a fairy-
thing with a pleasing voice, plays
Steffi Pinnger, the poor Viennese girl, and
Oven Nares is Rudi Muller, a Berlin banker,
but equally poor, who comes to Vienna to
retrieve his fortune by marrying Lucie
£12?" IWcndy Barrie). Steffi and Rudi
mef t at the theatre, go to a night-club after-
wards and exchange silhouette-cuts for keep-
f« ke fW T T en . St .o ffi disappears. Rudi, realis-
ing tnat Lucie is as poor as he is and loves
a flute-player (George K. Arthur), sets out
with his lawyer, Dr. Schilling (played by a
come .dia. n . Gibb McLaughlin), to And
Steffi, using sandwich men to parade her
silhouette through the streets. In the sup-
portino- programme George Clarke, the Eng-
lish radio comedian, appears in “Here’s
George,” a slapstick comedy about service
flats and a prospective mother-in-law.
* ¥ *
“The Flag Lieutenant,” at Sydney May-
fair is a competent reproduction of the
popular old play. Henry Edwards is an
engaging hero even if some of his antics
would be liable to get him removed from
a man-o’-war in real life. Peter Gawthorne,
Louis Goodrich, O. B. Clarence, Sam Livese.v,
Anna Neagle and Joyce Bland give excellent
support.
„ Nares.is the somewhat wooden hero
ot I lie Love Contract.” Winifred Shotter
is animated by contrast, and Miles Malleson
as a butler, and Gibb McLaughlin, as a car-
driver, also get plenty of laughs. Miss Shot-
ter loses her money on the Stock Exchange.
Aares was indirectly responsible for her
ruin. Although lie is carrying on with a
married woman lie is smitten with the charms
ot his victim and gives her a job as chauf-
feur. The terms of her engagement are that
it she can stick it for three months she will
get her possessions back; if not, she must
marry him. Why British producers waste
good money and actors on shell unrealities
is one of the mysteries of the film business.
* * *
“The Conquerors,” at Sydney Empire is
meant for a happiness film. But can 'the
world ever be happy while booms and slumps,
comtort and starvation alternate as in this
picture of three American generations? We
see Richard Dix taking Ann Harding' away
to .Nebraska after the 1873 crash which
ruined him. The young banker does well,
and so does his town. Comes the 1893 depres-
sion, and he almost takes the count. Then
we reach the war, in which' a grandson dis-
tinguishes himself preparatory to carrying on
in the bank. The 1933 crisis, which rele-
gated most of the U.S.A.’s family banks to
the dust-bin isn’t dealt with, and the film
ends with the octogenarian hero dreaming
ot the days when lie courted his dead wife.
Dix is Dix -always sound in such parts,
though there is little light and shade in his
tmg \r nd the same applies to Ann Harding.
Ldna May Oliver and Guy Kibbee supply
the comic relief. The settings and costumes
are IUO per cent, realistic.
* * *
“Laughter in Hell,” at Sydney Havmarket,
is a depressing concoction. Pat O’Brien,
as a slow-thinking Irish engine-driver, kills
his wife and her lover, and is condemned
to the chain-gang. The film shows the har-
rowing condition of the convicts, and parti-
cularly of O’Brien, who is in the custody of
the brother of his victim till he escapes
meets a nice girl and crosses the State line
to happiness.
In “Sundown Rider” Buck Jones rides,
Barbara Weeks does the cheering and Niles
i elch plots. “Silver” is as good as ever.


Si
■
5 4
1
w.
■
t
.
ifei
a
r*:
I
gj
2f®:25
Hi • .Mf
mtm «
mm
;
* *
- !
>i'j i
OTCaIIJJLrnS
11
use-msu
Scots Vl
Sa&W Si
Mf:
•SiHHH
Kiiai
Distributors tor the House of McCallurn
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son ..
Melbourne and Brisbane. , , D „ -
Gibbs, Bright & Co. . . . . Adelaide Macfarlane Bros & Co.
~ Fremantle
. . . . Hobart
If any illustration in ,f THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
TRUE BLUE AND BRITISH
■
u
M
♦
mu
B
The lion is British —
through and through
— He’s (, plus a little
something,” too !
He has a reputation fori
smooth, silent, purpose-1
ful power —the British 1
lion. That’s the Empire
Spirit. And for smooth,
silent, powerful per-
formance from your car
there’s only one true
blue British spirit . . .
PLUS WHAT ?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
“GO.It” Plus is a fine quality
motor spirit plus a special soluble
compound of lead which eliminates
"pinking” and meets the needs of
today's higher-compression engines.
For your protection it is coloured
BLUE by the addition of a minute
quantity of perfectly harmless aniline
dye which cannot separate from the
petrol.
C 47/16/33
Tho Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Pnnlman Street. Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3281. 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agents South Australia :yid Queensland: :: :: Dalgety £ Co. Ltd.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
you may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect Service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely* unequalled: Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6 Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. ‘ It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects,, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated 8001-let to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
Built for ease of operation!
Built for compactness!
Built for service!
Built for speed!
ŵ
—and you can buy it
for only
£l9/19/
Terms Available.
Everybody
....in the
home, office or
when travelling
.... will find a
hundred uses
for this handy
portable.
THE
BRITISH
IMPERIAL
“GOOD
COMPANION”
PORTABLE
Any of those Agents will supply free details and literature : -
L. DOBELL & 00., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawier Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
l l N3?m^Wniq3WnDgSi^
JLOIHlVd 3H1,
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep. : H., C.- HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
‘‘The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from The Bulletin Office,
all States.
s/
A
r
if
V
PROVE IT FOR
YOURSELF !
Made from the finest safety razor steel—manufactured by
a new and revolutionary process —subjected to an inspec-
tion so drastic that a poor blade simply cannot get through
—these new English Gillette blades are without doubt the
finest blades produced in any country by any process.
Ground, honed and stropped in the long unbroken ribbon
of steel, every Gillette blade has the same uniformly perfect
edge.
Buy a packet to-day and prove for yourself the amazing
superiority of the new English Gillette blades.
©5
;£>
O.
oz
zm
oz
s>
o>
CT’Z
So
Gillette Slotted Blades for old and new type
razors, 2/6 p6r packet. Of all dealers.
ẁ
<o
~na
uJ z
Qh-
xq:
Sea
GILLETTF INDUSTRIES LIMITED
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.I,


w
PERFECT INSULATION LIFE
to DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES/
m
rials
rew.j
• NS.I
internal insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
-v way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en- -
tirely protected from leakage on sides
and bottom. It is at the base of the cells!
where corrosion is most dangerous.
other battery protects this danger spot.
Perfect Insulation ” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
ŵ
RADIO BATTERIES TQR.CH R.EFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
fewer merino lambs.
Golightly ’; My neighbor lias six-tooth
merino ewes and wethers of the one drop,
lhe ewe portion gave approximately 75 per
cent, of merino lambs, which, averaging'
eight months old, were sold at the Sydney
• v . , s. at the end of January. Coming off
rich lattening country within 250 miles of
the market they were in sappy condition.
They averaged ss. 7d. per head at auction,
or os. 4wd. net hack to the farm, plus drov-
W? (rail and selling costs were 2s. 24 d. per
' Their mothers’ fleeces averaged
- b - and fetched at auction 9}d. per pound
gross; 50. 75 per cent, of lambs at 3s. 44d.
is approximately 2s. (id. per ewe. On the
other hand the wethers cut 111 b. of wool
averaging at auction IOJd. gross; so their
wool clip was better by 2s. lOd. per head,
lhey returned more than ewe and lamb
without the disadvantage of (1) losses of
ewes, inevitable at lambing time, (2) the
extra paddock room taken up by ewes and
lambs, (3) blowfly trouble.
Just now everything favors the wool-cut-
ting- merino wethers as against breeding
merino lambs. Up to 20 per cent, more dry
sleep can be carried, if breeding is discon-
tinued, and this added, clip is a considera-
non. .therefore woolgrowers in N.S.W.
might well consider the policy of fewer
merino lambs and more wool. Reduced
merino lambings would be helpful, too, when
the next drought comes.
CULTIVATION OF NATIVE GRASSES.
n „ ¥ ulya V” ; While many imported grasses
T g ife? med and P ro Pagated in dairying
™tinn S ’f Jl t e attention is given to the culti-
vation of the native plants. Many of these,
,V . sa T 1 attention, respond in a man-
!.fOn!n a L Would be a surprise to those who
legald them, as inferior croppers. I have
a s es of kangaroo grass 9Tt. high, grow-
f under natural conditions, where bush
cattle were constantly grazing. Its normal
fie gilt, m grazed areas, is four to six feet.
Like wallaby and oat grass, it can be grown
from the coast to the far interior, on dry
lld f os n aS wtdl as on rich flats, though
naturally more abundant feed is produced
on the latter. No imported grass will sub-
sist under more varied conditions of soil and
° 1 t ian tbe three plants mentioned—
and the same can be said of a dozen others;
and they make excellent hay and chaff.
It should not be forgotten that our high-
class wool was developed wholly on native
pastures that had no assistance whatever
Sne h r kjndowner. Some of the potential
plants ot these pastures are rib grass, coolah
grass, blue, Flinders, Mitchell, sugar or
row n top, satin top and native wheat grass
n?w m ii xed u in S rn, lie P‘? rts with saltbush and
other shrubs. T liese have carried stock for
a century without any assistance from man
and though often subjected to severe droughts
and & grazing. All make good hay, and
are hi hly suitable tor cultivation, particu-
larly the first five. Stock fatten on these
quickly in a ll stages of their growth. They
do not become harsh and unpalatable with
age. Sheep and cattle oat them down to
the. roots, yet after rain they spring up again
as good as ever. I have seen sheep keep in
good condition on the stubble of Mitchell
grass that had been burnt black by drought,
with the dry blades licked up from cracks
and from among the bare stumps of salt-
bush.
Many far-in pastoralists plump for blue-
grass as the most valuable of all fodder
Plants in the country. My pick is Mitchell
of niil ht ! thls g - ra ?‘ s 011 the plains
or Queensland reminds one of fields of wav-
ing wheat. It is relished by stock from short
green stuff to its tall grey seeded stage. As
meadow hay it has no equal. For working
horses I consider it hs good as oaten hay.
.potin tins and bluegrass improve greatly
by cultivation in the quantity of forage pro-
duced, and the improvement would doubtless
continue if carried on with seed from suc-
cessive cultivated plots. The resultant sown
pastures would ultimately be of the hio-hest
value for dairy cattle and fattening lambs. *
GRASSES AND LEGUMES.
U. Murray : I have yet to hear of
instance where any considerable increase in
either quantity or quality has resulted from
supermg a pasture composed of native grasses
without a mixture of legumes.
SHIFTING STOCK.
“Roefo”: Shifting stock in drought
periods or from dried-up waterholes at the
back of the paddock to permanent water five
or six miles away is no job for the novice,
otock should never be driven to water, unless
to a water new to them. Give them a start
m the early morning from the dried-up holes,
and they 11 walk in themselves to the place
where you want them to go; drive them in
and they’ll expect it every day, especially
if there is good feed out where the water-
holes have dried up. Make sure that none
are hanging in corners or on the fence. The
job must be done before the heat of the
day, otherwise the thirstiest 0 f stock will pull
up. and camp at the first shade.
To get stock acquainted with water away
from holes that are liable to give out, muster
them and take them to the well-watered
locality. Not for a drink, but to familiarise
them with the country. In dry periods it
means certain losses if stock are left outback
until the holes give out and they are then
driven m a bunch to permanent water. Thev
will invariably make back to where they
have been used to grazing; many will linger
by the dried-up holes and perish. Get them
know where the permanent water is before
the outback water dries up.
impaction in cattle.
It. N. V ardle, one of the departmental
veterinary officers, advises Vic. farmers, in
the Mallee particularly, to take precautions
during i dry periods to prevent cattle from
becoming impacted. He suggests the follow-
mg in the ‘ Journal of Agriculture”:—
adequate water supply on each
property and in as many paddocks as pos-
sjbie. Every effort should be made to see
tnat milking cows get water several times
a day during the dry-feed period.
i C J ia ? shoilld be cut for cattle in
lengths of about lin.; this will tend to keep
the animals chewing the cud. Oaten hay or
chaff is not an ideal food ; a ration as nutri-
M OU J- 7°, uld be obtained if good straw were
chaffed long and balanced by the addition
ot ciushed oats, bran or other concentrate
Each afternoon sufficient chaff for a day’s
use should be damped with a mixture of
molasses m hot water, up to equal parts of
each, covered with bags, and used the fol-
lowing day. Molasses, an excellent correc-
tive during dry feeding, may be fed up to
the rate ot 51b. per head.
(3) Feed ensilage during the summer.
The lack ot green feed in the dry months
is thereby remedied. The ensilage should
be made from the excess of spring grasses
and self-sown crops; the pit method is re-
If ? ther foddei ‘ be avail-
able 301 b. of ensilage is a fair ration for a
dairy cow, and if fed during the period when
there is no green feed will reduce the inci-
dence of impaction eases to a minimum.
•p, ' ' mtervals of four weeks between
December and March, a saline drench, with-
out lard or butter, should be administered
to each beast.
(5) Always have, before the cattle a quan-
tity of mineral mixture. Formula recom-
mended is-stock salt, GOlb.; boneflour, 301 b. •
sulphur, 51b.; Epsom salts, 31b.; sulphate
or iron, lib. This mineral mixture should
be placed m boxes or troughs, both in cow-
rd 1 . c ? nd Paddock. Roofed receptacles
should be used so as to protect it from rain.
BREEDING FOR IMPROVEMENT.
Bahb Dwyer : There is no royal road to
success in the breeding of animals or birds
tor nigh production. An unscientific and
unsuccessful way is to mate individuals with
high records without considering other im-
b°. mts - „ Many a poultry-farmer has
seen the size of his birds and of the eggs
such points eten ° rate because he disregarded
Breeders should grasp the fact that
acquired characteristics cannot be inherited
p,"; "Iff Vld - lal . is capable of transmitting
o its offspnng just what its ancestors trans-
mitted to it and nothing more. Like begets
like; the successful breeder, always bearing
this in mind, seeks the animals of average
general excellence to. breed from rather than
tbe phenomenon which has made a record
r robably the most trustworthy method of
ensuring improvement is by testing a sire’s
ability to transmit his inherent excellence
by mating him only with a few selected
temales and testing the progeny for produc-
tion* This method is particularly suitable
for poultry or quick-breeding animals: it
is scarcely practicable in the case of long-
breeding animals, except for the pedigree
breeder. The next-best thing is to be
guided by the records of the sire’s near-
relations, which should be uniformly good.
Type and appearance will naturally be
always studied in conjunction with produc-
tion records.
Every hreoder should have a working
knowledge of Mendelism. Although the
actual .workings of Mendel’s law become less
apparent as the numbers involved diminish,
it functions all the time, pointing the way
to improvement and enabling one to avoid
pitfalls.
FEEDING OF CONCENTRATES.
“8.8. D.”: The rim should be to use
as much home-grown grain as possible.
Wheat, maize, barley, rice—all are ideal to
combine with linseed and cottonseed meals
for Strawberry, with meatmeal for Denis, or
with as large a variety as possible for the
ebooks. . The protein in skim milk, useful
though it is for pig- and fowl-feeding, lacks
the amino-acid cystine without which growth
is impossible. Dried blood is very rich in
cystine ; the two together, with maize, barley
and wheat, form a first-class pig-food, but
take one away and the result is unsatis-
factory.
Ruminants naturally digest a better per-
centage of protein than animals with a small
digestive tract, so for fowls, pigs, etc., the
fibre content must be closely watched —there
are foods with quite a fair paper analysis
which will yield less than half their nominal
nutritive content, the remainder being ex-
pended in the process of assimilation and
digestion. Palatability is important, for most,
times animals won’t eat what they don’t like.
Molasses, though it contains no protein to
speak of, is decidedly useful here—there is
something wrong with the animal that won’t
relish food when flavored with it.
The possibility of tainting milk, flesh or
eggs should be borne in mind. There may
be no objection to adding 10 per cent, of
meatmeal to crushed wheat for cows, as
suggested on this page recently, but experi-
ment on a small scale may reveal a taint in
the milk. Cod-iiver oil fed to pigs has been
known to flavor the flesh slightly if given
too near the date of slaughter.
KIKUYU GRASS.
“Sigo” : Kikuyu grass (B. 22/2/’33) grows
best m black soil. On the Darling Downs
(Q.), the kikuyu sends its roots down many
feet in the loose black soil, and it takes
a long dry spell to affect the growth. Heavy
frosts kill the surface grass, but the sprout-
ing stems grow as well as ever after a spring
downpour. When the kikuyu is planted in
the cut-down rich-soiled scrubs on the Bunya
Mountains (Q.) the grass grows twice as
tall as anywhere else, and twice as quickly.
Fowls like kikuyu; guinea fowls like it
better—they stuff it in like cattle. A small
® lass "’ill not go far if a couple
of dozen guinea fowls ar.e on it continually.
mortar for retaining wall.
“^ I( * Hand’’: I can unreservedly recom-
mend this method, which I have often used.
bl l lCks or , stones in a mud mortar
(almost any sub-soil is suitable, almost anv
top-sofl unsuitable), leaving as nearly as
possible half an inch of the crevices between
the bricks unfilled. When this mud mortar
has set reasonably hard —say in three or four
days—clean all the interstices back to the
regular depth of half an inch, and fill up
and point off with a bit of cement mortar
11ns will take about a bucketful to four
square yards of surface. I find a mortar
made with one part cement, one part spent
lime and three parts of clean, fine sand
works nicely, and comes out a good clear
white. This method will be found suitable
tor any but high-class house-building work
and cannot be much excelled for cheanness
and easiness.
YOUNG CITRUS TREES IN AUTUMN.
.. “XSA”: Autumn is the b:>st time to plant
citrus trees. Transfer of young trees from
the nuisery to a new and permanent posi-
ttoh should obviously be made when favor-
able climatic conditions prevail, (so that
there may be sound root, establishment
before the cold weather sets in. Citrus
trees make their best growth during autumn,
and for this reason the younger trees
need every attention. They should be well
worked in order to encourage the root sys-
tem, topped or otherwise trained to a sym-
metrical growth, and, above all, kept grow-
ing- A young tree that receives a cheek
for any reason whatever may be set back
for years. That is why it is all-important
that scale insects must never be permitted
to suck their lifeblood— and autumn is the
time when scales get in tlieir worst work
Ao orchardist can afford to let these sucking
pests get busy on his young citrus trees
ORANGE HONEY.
“Val. N. Seer”: In America the orange
tree is one of the most important sources
of honey, and I find it hard to understand
why bee-farming is not extensively practised
in the large groves of Australia. The flowers
are pre-eminent for the purpose of the busy
bee, in that their wax-like form and open
structure lend no hindrance to the insects’
activities, and, in addition, the flow of the
nectar is most prolific. The full flush of
the spring flowering lasts about a month.
In America it is not unusual to find strong
hives of bees averaging GOlb. per hive over
this short season.
ROUGH SHEARING SHEDS.
“Slieepo”: Crudely-constructed bough
sheds are much in evidence in parts of
Queensland for carrying out shearing opera-
tions. Many serve the purpose, but most
are - sadly lacking in the small details that
admit of careful handling of the wool.
Ground floors should be covered with old
packs or bags to prevent dirt from getting-
in to the fleeces; bins usually divided by
wire-netting allow dirty pieces, ribs and
locks to get into clean wool. Nail up
hessian or old packs as partitions between
the bins, and be sure that a like material
is laid down over the ground floor of the
bins.
Even if the galvanised-iron is only second-
hand, . try to get enough to place on the
roof immediately over the bins; showers
of rain at unexpected times will wet the
wool, and pressers are apt to press some of
the wet wool'. An old tarpaulin or two are
always handy about a bough shed. At the
worst, second-hand packs can be obtained
cheaply : besides wearing well, they will keep
out a good deal of rain.
, ROUP IN FOWLS.
"Dipli.”: With the cold weather coming
on the poultry-raiser will need to keep an
eye open for the complaints which are styled
roup, and which include ordinary colds, con-
tagious nasal catarrh, and avian diphtheria.
The organism responsible for these is identi-
cal with that of chicken-pox. The symptoms
make them fairly easy to distinguish, though
sometimes the ordinary cold may be accom-
panied by nasal catarrh, which is highly in-
fectious. The ordinary cold is indicated by
a watery dischai’ge from the nostrils, and
there may be a froth-like bubble about the
eye. There is no offensive odor and the
attack is not contagious.
Nasal catarrh is shown by a slimy dis-
charge at the nostrils, with one or both eyes
closed owing- to the accumulation of pus in
the eye orbits. There is mucus in the throat
and mouth, with coughing and forced breath-
ing, and there is an unpleasant smell. This
disease is easily spotted by the dirty patches
on the wings caused by the bird wiping
its eyes upon them and the dirt adhering
to the sticky feathers. Under the w r ing the
feathers will be matted with the dried pus
where the bird places its head when roost-
ing.
iuphtheria is another very infectious
trouble. It is marked by yellow growdhs on
top of the windpipe in the throat, and at
the corners of the mouth, while the nostrils
are also usually clogged.
Bad housing and overcrowding are the
contributory causes to these conditions.
Draughty or unventilatcd buildings with
damp floors lead to chills, with complications.
Ihe easiest way to spot an epidemic is to
visit the yards at night when sick birds can
be identified by their breathing or coughing.
i be isolated and in bad cases
killed and burned. Avoid overcrowding at
all costs. Birds returning from shows or
new purchases arriving on the farm must be
isolated for some days. Preventive measures
are always advisable. Permanganate of
potash sufficient to color the drinking water
slightly will fill the bill. Birds that have
nasal catarrh in a bad form must be killed
and burned. Drinking-water contamination
spreads this disease; for a disinfectant, dis-
solve ooz. of bluestone in a gallon of water
and add a cupful to each four gallons of
drinking water every day. Another treat-
ment consists of 3 ounces of bluestone, one
ounce sulphate of iron, and a quart of vine-
gar Mix well and add an ounce to each
gallon of drinking water. For laying birds
begin the dose at quarter strength, gradu-
ally increasing it to strength. If this is not
done, the birds will not drink and egg-pro-
duction will drop. For the eyes, after wash-
ing, use two or three drops of a 10-p.c.
argyrol solution or 10 grains of nitrate of
silver in an ounce of water, the eyes to be
washed with this twice a day. A fairly
strong solution of permanganate used twice
daily is also efficacious. Treating individual
fowls, examine the mouth and remove mucus
or cheese-like deposit from the palate cleft
lor treatment of diphtheria in the mass,
tlie nrst bluestone prescription §jiven is as
(Continued on page 26.)


Flexible .... for
hard, active wear
An Abbey Boot double-soled
with the toughest leather. It is
easy-fitting. . . .built on a special
Abbey last which provides for
every curve of the foot. There s
not the least strain or tightness.
The ankle, cut slightly lower at
back, fits snugly and comfort-
ably.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW ADDRESS
IN GEORGE STREET—No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS.
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 326
Legal Notice.
'O ANNE O’HALLORAN nee McDONNELL and
i MAGGIE WILLIAMS nee McDONNELL sisters
of John McDonnell late of Ballyvorane Co. Cork or
their Children respectively.
TURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
Justice in Saorstat. Eireann made in the Matter of
the Estate of the said John McDonnell Deceased-
David Howe Acton Plaintiff Maria McDonnell
Defendant —the above mentioned ANNE O’HALLORAN
and MAGGIE WILLIAMS or if they are dead then-
children respectively are on or before the 14th day
of June 1933 to come in and prove their claims
as legatees under the Will of the said John McDonnell
at the Central Office Law Courts Dublin otherwise
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order.
Wednesday the 21st day of June 1933 at the
Examiner’s Office is fixed as the time and place
for adjudicating upon claims.
JOHN lIEALY,
Examiner.
MICHAEL R. lIEGARTY,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Kinsale, Co. Cork.
Short Story
Writing
Free Lance
Journalism
NEW COURSES :
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus.
1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Expert
View
Clk n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
w. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance. , .• _
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
, . , . T> MpT t?a\ General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Managing Director. A. P. McLLAjN,
held mine
twice
as that-itsan
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane —EXIDE BATTERY
SERVICE (Q.) PTY r ., LTD. ; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY
SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne
—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide —UNBEHAUN AND
TOHNSTONE LTD. ; Perth —M. J. BATEMAN, LTD. ;
Hobart—MEDHURST AND SONS PTY., LTD.
X9b
■j-tm
JL?
w
effective as anything. In individual cases,
as with valuable birds, scrape away the sm
face of all lesions and paint with 1
cent, iodine, the bluestone mixture, already
referred to, or the 10 per cent, nitrate ot
silver solution.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What country Produces the greatest
quantity of maize in the worh , t(lC y
much of its production is «*ed /wj ZporU>
feed, for human consumption and foi expon.
The U.S.A. (2) Close on
if,000,000,000 bushels is laaiiied _annuahy,
representing about 75 per cent, of t t
production. About So per cent, is fO to
livestock, 10 per cent, is used for human
food and about H per cent, is expoited.
On a farm in my district is a Jersey
heifer, aged about eight months which yives
as much as two to three cups of • > , e
Apparently the other calces saching. '•*,
brought on the supply of mill. Whats ti
eel use f —4631.
Phenomenon is natural and
The heifer should be separated from the
calves that suck her. On no account should
she be milked.
Is there a plant, preferably a cereal that
does not stool, suitable, for planting in the
rows when solving peas, to support them
and keep them off the ground?— 4< <O.
It would not be advisable to plant any
other type of crop, since it. would rob tne
pea crop of nutriment; further, no satis-
factory crop is known which would be suffi-
ciently strong without making a shade. In
some districts growers are plantui» >
rows of peas close to one another, so that
each supports the other and largely prevents
laying over at an early stage.
(1) Are M.L. and Tasmania troubled with
the rabbit pest? (2) Is a reward offered by
the Australian Government for a foieeffec-
tive method of destroying rabbits? —45b5.
(1) Rabbits are prevalent all over Aus-
tralasia (2) No. In 1887 the combined
Governments of Australia offered a reward
of £25 000 to anv person who would demon-
strate ' a more effective method than those
then employed, but after over 1400 dif-
ferent schemes and suggestions had been con-
sidered it was reported that none was hkelj
to prove more effective than the methods
then employed.
Is the bark of Acacia decora suitable for
tanning kangaroo-skins ?
cutting on the round spoil the hide foi ulni
making?■ —4642. , . c , iir .
The bark of Acacia decora contains up
to about 20 p.c. of tannin, and should be
suitable. Salting hides prior to tanning im-
proves the leather. If “cutting on the round
means cutting a strip across the back a u
extending into the boliy on either side, it
is definitely inferior to cutting entirely along
the back.
Under present conditions can you see how
grazing can be a profitable undertaking in
the future?— 4Bos.
If present conditions are expected to con-
tinue there are very few industries that can
look at the future without a shudder. Only
thing, to do is to hope for better times.
“A.C.8.”: Last season 102,015 cases of
tomatoes were sent from the mid-North
.Coast (N.S.W.), where a few years ago
not. a tomato was raised. Bonny Best and
Break o’ Day are very successful varieties
in these districts; Earliana is a good casing
variety. Where tests have been carried out
the return from staked plants has been
greater than from unstaked ones.
“W.D.Mc.”: I repeat to “McNoon” (B.
8/3/’SB) that not 20 p.c. of the dairy-
farmers in Vic. have silos. When I said one
ton of hay was equal to three tons of silage,
I should have said prime hay. Mill, 1 re-
main of the opinion that ensilage is the
dearest fodder a farmer can have. _ 3he
money expended in making and stoung it
could be far more profitably employed in
cleaning up the farm of rubbish, building a
big hay barn, sowing grass, harrowing and
top-dressing with super., subdividing into
small paddocks, providing ample water and
growing fodder crops that Strawberry can
harvest for herself.
“Bullswool”: The discarding of the, old
feathers in the moult as well as the grow-
ing of the new plumage is greatly aided if
linseed-meal or oil-cake, is added to the mash
during autumn. These feeds will not over-
fatten then. A little cod-liver oil in the mash
all the year is good for the egg-making and
other machinery.
“Tana” • An inch of rain on an acre re-
presents 23,770 gallons of water, or over
101 tons. After a heavy rain some system
of stirring the top soil is advantageous. As
soon as possible get the scarifier at work.
Once the, capillary action sets in the sun
will soon get all the water back again. An
inch in well-worked land will last a long
time.
“A.W.G.”: A friend with a fine herd of
Jerseys had just received the result of some
Government tests. On account of seasonal
conditions results were sadly disappointing.
Happening in on him shortly afterwards,
just when the fifth Test match had gone in
England’s favor, I opened with -‘And what
do you think of the Tests now?” “Tests,”
he snorted. “Damn the Tests! I can’t
understand what’s happened to the
cows.”
“ John no”: The farmer with a few good
mares could not do better than to breed a
few foals, especially of the heavy draught
and active, handy farm sorts. There is
going to be a serious shortage.of these classes
of horses before long. On the Queensland
coast numbers of farmers have not bred a
foal for years; horses have been so cheap
that they have not been considered worth
breeding. The same farmers are beginning
to want new horses, but are,, finding them
hard to get at moderate prices.
HINTS FOR THE FARM. *
“Walkabout”: Unsalted fat and ground
burnt leather, mixed, is a good healing paste
for sore-backed horses. Spell the prad while
you are treating it. as no horse with a sore
back should be saddled until the sores have
healed and the back hardened.
“Deekay”: Before putting the new points
on the scarifier or cultivator, heat them in
the forge until blood-red; then drop them m
the water-barrel. Points tempered in this
manner will give much longer service and
will not be hard enough to crack when they
are jambcd in a stump or stone.
“Floodmark”: Fences in black soil some-
times fall down; strainers, stays and all.
Growing trees prevent it; on the other
hand, their growth is apt to burst wires.
This can be avoided by sighting intermediate
posts so that the wire comes parallel with
the outside of the tree. Pass wire round
tree and tie a loose slip-knot; strain at
centre of strain, and expansion of trees won’t
worry you for years. An alternative is to
peg the tree with half-inch iron, cut in
six-inch lengths and strain wire to pegs; but
it’s more costly.
“Dimon”: A plant worth encouraging or.
sheep-runs is parslane, or pigweed, as its
fleshy leaves provide food and moisture for
stock when other herbage has dried up. It
thrives as well along the creeks in the dry
north-west of N.S.W., where it is often used
as a vegetable, as on the eastern river farms,
where it is used for feeding pigs. The plant
will grow in any part of the country and
in any soil. It is mostly found along water-
courses outback, the seed and broken stems,
which root readily, being distributed by
floods.
“Doggee” : I made a very good work-bench
anvil out of an old flatiron. I cut the top part
of handle out, straightened the end pieces,
and sank the iron upside down through holes
bored to take the end pieces. It makes
a convenient block for riveting, etc.
“Wandi” : Much is lost: annually through
carelessness with skins of sheep killed for
home use. Don’t throw them across a rail
in the sun; they lose weight and quality.
Spread them out in a shed, wool side down,
and soon afterwards brush over with a wash
made of a. teaspoon fill each of arsenic and
washing-soda boiled in a quart of water to
prevent damage by weevils. When dry, stack
in a heap on a level surface.
“Dimon” : Pigs should not be weaned under
two months old. In cold weather the extra
warmth they get from the sow is important
to piglets. After weaning, keep them pro-
vided with dry grass or husks that they can
bury themselves under.
“.Tolinno”: Sifted wood ashes will serve
the purpose as well as cement when your
galvanised-iron tank springs a leak at the
bottom. Throw in three or four shovelfuls,
spreading them where the leak is. The more
lime in them and the finer they are the better.
“Sylvester”: Farm planes are apt to
crack and wear for want of oil. Cut a
wedge to fit tightly in the mouth of the
plane and, standing it in a level place, fill
if with raw linseed oil. Keep it filled until
the oil seeps through each end.
“Wrash”: Before trucking lambs for the
market, if possible let them have an hour
or two in the paddock, and see that they
have a drink. Don’t drive them hurriedly,
nor truck them overheated. Have a few
grown sheep in the mob; they will steady
restive youngsters and leisurely lead the
way. Don’t use a .stick to poke the lambs
into the truck, and pelt the dog that bites
out of the yards. And don’t overcrowd the
trucks.
“A.C.8.”: Before buying bean seed ex-
amine it with the aid of a magnifying glass.
Seed should be dark-colored, of medium size
and with no pinched ends. If small holes
are detected it is probably infected with bean
weevil. If the seed is partly dark and light
it should be rejected—it should be uniform
in color; if split, it should be examined for
weevil eggs. From COO to 1300 bean seeds
go to the pound weight.
“Salmon Gums”: When a epw gets milk
fever a bicycle pump and valve are often
used to inflate the udder. Before using, dis-
mantle and boil each part, particularly the
valve, thoroughly. Have a hot lysol solution
handy, and immerse the valve after doing
each teat. I have seen a cow become In-
fected with mammitis in every quarter
through the use of an instrument not disin-
fected. After inflating, tie each teat tightly
with a piece of tape, boiled. The tapes can
be removed after about three hours.
“Porter” : A long bolt that will prevent the
gate hinge coming off its pin can be made
by heating a rod of the required diameter
and bending it at right-angles, leaving
about sin. in place of lin. bearing-pin
of the ordinary pintle. When a washer is
welded on just above the bend to make a
bearing for the strap of the hinge, the job
is complete.
“Bill R.”: Where a sandy crossing on the
homestead approach pulls up motor or team,
shovel through a box-cutting 18in. or 2ft.
deep, and fill in with tip-dray loads of stone.
Devel off the roughened surface with a clay
binding; then, even if the sand drifts over
it. there will always be a solid foundation
to draw over.
“Wrash”: To fit the post and neatly shoul-
der the rails where two fences meet or a
line is being repaired, first measure up rails
and adze them. Place a paling across the
post-hole, and place the post perpendicularly
upon it, with the corners of slantwise rails
just entering the mortises. Then break the
paling and, all square, the construction will
sink into position.
“Salmon Gums” : If you are short of green
feed for your hens, try sprouted oats instead.
Soak whole oats in water for about 4S hours,
then spread it about an inch thick in shallow
trays, allowing surplus water to drain off.
Place trays in a dark, warm shed and
sprinkle daily with water. Stir them for the
first two days; in a week the sprouts will
be an inch long, and roots and husks woven
into a solid mat.
“Tamornie” : For a good cattle lick, take
equal parts of bone flour and coarse bay
salt, mix and give up to 4oz. twice daily
to each. cow. I have given this a seven-
month trial; result, increased milk supply,
less digestive trouble in the herd, and
cessation of twig- and bone-chewing. I


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let”- notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (Sydney), strong, exp. as motor-driver,
wants job; Refs.—4BsB.
Ex-Guildford Grammar (W'.A.) man, 21, exp.
IV.A.. S’.A. and Vic., wants job in South Seas or
tropics.—-4866.
Youth (19), Brisbane, well educated, wants job on
Queensland sheep station. Refs. —4970.
Married man (29), no children, wants position
working manager or overseer of sheep property,
anywhere ; 11 years’ exp. Q’land and N.S.W. stations.
Refs.—49B7.
Printed matter relative to Lieut. Win. llawes, R.N.,
scientist and astronomer. —4906.
To exchange, weekly, “John o’ London's Weekly”
and “Saturday Evening Post” for “London Mercury,”
“Times Literary Supplement,” “American Book-
man,” “Blackwood’s,” “Contemporary Review,”
“Fortnightly, Review,” “Atlantic Monthly” or
“Nineteenth Century.”-—4916.
Words of comic song “Patrick McGinty’s Goat,”
—4857.
IVovds of verse containing the line; “The maiden
who was twenty at the bursting of the boom.”—
4952.
To get in touch with growers of Wimmera rye-
grass in N.S.W. —4893.
To buy winter (1932) “Topographical Quarterly.”
—4983.
Information Sought.
(1) What ten countries in the world
possess the r/reatest number of motor-cars,
trucks and ’buses? (2) Same information
as regards motor-cycles? —4B3B.
(1) U.S.A., 26,132,116; France, 1,695,000;
Great Britain, 1,557,130 ; Canada, 1,188,237;
Germany, 688,136; Australia, 525,846;
Argentine, 345,856; Italy, 285,042; M.L.,
192,576'; India, 180,191. (2) Germany,
792,075; Great Britain, 626,649; France,
400,000; U.S.A., 110,915; Italy, 93,098;
Australia, 78,210; Sweden, 57,500; Switzer-
land, 49,550; Belgium, 44,325; and South
Africa, 40,000. *
Who invented motion talking pictures;
and where? —4699.
The first talking pictures were developed
by Warner Bros and the engineers of the
Western Electric Co. Previous to their first
appearance in 1928 there were several inven-
tions which reproduced talking pictures, not-
ably the De Forrest phono-film and several
unimportant combinations of film and
gramophone. These, however, were mostly
of an experimental pature.
(1) When the census is taken on June
30, must the collector examine all papers?
(2) Will the unemployed in country towns
be chosen as collectors? —4751.
(1) At each place visited the collector
must ascertain if the census schedules con-
tain all the particulars required, and, if not,
he must endeavor to obtain such further
information as is necessary to complete
them. (2) Instructions have been issued
that wherever suitable unemployed persons
are available they should be selected for
appointment as collectors.
(1) I am thinking of travelling per horse
to the Kimberley district ( W.A .) from the
south-west. What do you think of the idea?
(2) Best route? (3) Water supply and
nature of country to be travelled through?
(4) Best time to start? —4183.
(1) Slow, and probably more expensive
than travel by rail. In the present dry
season it would be practically impossible.
(2) Via New Norcia and on to Ballidu,
thence to Wubin, and from there along
the usual road via Magnet on to Meeka-
tharra; thence along the stock route via
Three Rivers, Roy Hill and Nullagine and
continuing along the stock route to Pardoo.
After that the coast stock route would be
used, through Wallal and on to Ra Grange
Bay, and to near Broome. (3) Water can
be had at reasonable distances along the
stock routes, and sufficient could be obtained
along the roads to Meekatharra, but it would
be impossible to describe the nature of the
country over such a long journey. In a
good season sufficient feed could be found,
and as f§r as Meekatharra horse feed could
be purchased. (4) About the beginning of
April, and only then if summer rains had
fallen in the northern areas.
Who owned the Brisbane electric tram-
ways before the Brisbane City Council and
how and when did they pass into the coun-
cil’s hands? —4BB3.
The electric tramways in the city and
suburbs of Brisbane were controlled by a
private company with a head office in Lon-
don until December 31, 1922, on which date
they were purchased by the Q’land Govern-
ment, which appointed a trust to control and
operate the system until December 1, 1925,
on which date the control passed to the
Brisbane City Council.
What is proof spirit? —4B6s.
Proof spirit is such spirit as shall at
a temperature of 51deg. Fahr. weigh exactly
twelve-thirteenths of an equal measure of
distilled water. It contains 57.06 per cent,
by volume or 49.24 per cent, bv weight of
absolute alcohol. Spirits are termed “under”
or over” proof according as they are
weaker or stronger.
(1) What is a Sydney Technical College
diploma course? (2) What educational
necessary to take such a
. (1) The most advanced courses of tech-
nical instruction given by the school. (2)
The Leaving Certificate in English, matlie-
Wlm w" d P , ! qT K ; s or chemistry. Students
sion Jf qu / llfi £ d to matriculate for admis-
sion to any faculty of the Sydney University
are also qualified to enter the corresponding
diploma course provided they can satisfy
the occupation requirements. Admission can
also be made by an entrance examination
held in February each year.
Can an old-age pension be garnisheed? —
4888.
An old-age pension is absolutely inalien-
able, whether by way of sale, assignment,
charge, execution, insolvency or otherwise.
It cannot be levied upon for payment of
a debt nor can it be pledged as security for
a loan.
(1) A firm to which I owe money has not
sent me an account for five years, though I
have aslccd for one. Can this creditor charge
me interest on the amount owing? (2) Is
there any time limit after which a debt
not demanded lapses? (3) Is it law in
X.tf. If', that a person receiving less than £4
a week cannot be sued for debt? —4725.
(1) Not if the firm, though requested by
you to do so, has failed to send an account.
(2) After six years from due date a debt
for which no demand has been made during
that period becomes statute-barred. In the
case of goods sold on a fixed term of credit
the period of limitation begins to run on the
expiration of the credit term. (3) No.
I am the victim of a serious accident, and
am in receipt of weekly compensation from
my employer. My employer has provided
a doctor, so I have not had a doctor of my
own. In the event of my employer wishing
to terminate the compensation by the pay-
ment of a lump sum , would it be necessary
or advisable to employ a representative advo-
cate (medical or otherwise) to watch my
in tercsts ? —4640.
If your injury falls within the provisions
of Section 16 of the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act (copy posted) you may make
application to the Workers’ Compensation
Commission for medical examination, with
a view to having the injury assessed, if
the injury does not fall within the provi-
sions of the above section, the liability of
the employer in respect of weekly payments
may be redeemed under Section 15 of the
Workers’ Compensation Act of 1926-1929,
provided the worker consents, and subject to
the approval of the Commission.
(1) Quantity and value of paint imported
into Australia? (2) Quantity and value
of paint manufactured in Australia? —4658.
(1) Value of import of paint and varnish,
1930- £263,079; 1931-32, £249,964. (2)
Value of output, 1930-31, £1,525,910;
1931- figures not available. Statistics of
quantity in each case are not procurable.
An Indian who has been 40 years in Aus-
tralia, and is now over 70 wishes to apply
for the old-age pension. He cannot produce
a birth certificate, but knoivs where h e was
born. To whom should he write in India
for the information? —464B.
It will not be necessary to write to India
for proof of age. The department will
endeavor to prove claimant’s age from local
records, and if no proof is forthcoming the
magistrate dealing with the case may state
whether he is satisfied from claimant’s appear-
ance that he is over 65.
llow to break up gerberu (African
daisy) plants and time to do it? Can I
use plenty of manure when transplanting
them, or do they need poor 50i1?— 4739.
Dig up the plants and cut the clumps
through, then reset pieces with healthy
centre-growth. The work can be done up
to the end of April. Sandy loam (well
trenched) is the best soil, but do not give
manures of any kind when replanting. A
mulch of. rotted manure when the plants are
coming into flower is helpful, but don’t
cover the centres of the plants.
(1) When is the best time to bud roses?
(2) Method of budding? (3) Are rose-
woods suitable or must you have briars? —
4898.
(I) Budding can be done until the end
of March. Soak the plants with liquid
manure for at least two weeks before
attempting the work in order to force the
sap to run freely. (2) Remove the top-
growth of a limb of last year’s wood, and
just beneath a leaf-stalk make a horizontal
cut about 4in. wide and from it make a
downward cut (forming a T) about 2in.
long. The incisions should be made through
the bark only and not into the wood. Cut an
eye from the rose which you desire to bud,
and, after removing the bark, insert the eye
with the small pieces of wood at each end
carefully in position under the bark on
the parent rose-bush. Finally, bind the
limb with raffia both above and below the
bud, taking care to leave plenty of room for
the bud to grow. If the bud shows strong
growth it may be necessary to loosen the
raffia. (3) Briar is most suitable, but the
work can be done on rose-wood.
My dog has a small, hard, red swelling
on the edge of the eyelid. It followed an
attack of distemper of which he is now
cured. What can I d0?— 4849.
It can often be cured at once during the
early stages by extracting the eyelash
around the roots 0 f which the stye has
formed. If treated later, the parts should
be fomented with hot poppy-head tea, with
the additon of boracic acid. This should be
made bv boiling for ten minutes two crushed
poppy-heads in a Quart of water ; then strain
through fine muslin and add a dessertspoon-
ful of boracic acid. Apply with a piece of
absorbent wool for 10 or 15 minutes as hot
as can comfortably be borne. Repeht three
or four times a day.
Is there any record of inter-State"move-
of commodities in A ustralin'? ]f hot
has it ever been suggested that such statis-
tics be kept"? Would such statistics be
difficult to compile? —4B6S.
Arrangements for collecting and compiling
complete statistics of in ter-State trade have
been in operation in W.A. and Tas. for many
years, and at the Conference of Statisti-
cians held in January, 1925, it was resolved
that efforts be made in the other States
to collect data concerning the inter-State
movement of certain principal commodities.
Since January, 1931, statistics have' been
compiled from Q’land showing the trade with
individual States in the main classes of
goods.
(1) What opportunities does Australia
offer a girl who is determined to attempt a
stage career? (2) Is there more scope for
beginners in England? —47ss.
(1) J. C. Williamson, Ltd, Sydney, give
auditions, but opportunities are scarce. Best
introduction to the profession is to join an
amateur group. (2) There are fewer oppor-
tunities in England than in Australia.
I live in a lonely part of New Guinea. 1
want to learn to play the violin for my own
amusement. Could this be done without the
aid of a teacher? Cost of suitable text-
books and violin? —4809.
Many other people have done it. Every-
thing depends upon the acuteness of your
ear. “How to Hold the Violin and Bow,”
by Kross (25.), and a violin instruction book
(about 55.) should start you on the road.
As to a violin, consult A. E. Smith and
Co., 08 Hunter-street, Sydney, who stock
the books mentioned.
My six-montlis-old cat has had two violent
fits. (1) Cause and treatment? (2) Is the
cat unclean to have about the house? —4477.
Fits, in cats are generally due to internal
irritation. Some teeth trouble or round
worms may be the matter with your cat.
It would be advisable if the cat. is valuable
to consult a vet. If this cannot be arranged
give it two grains of freshly-scraped areca
nut for each pound of the animal’s weight,
administered in a little milk. A cat with
fits is not likely to be injurious to human
beings, but if the fits continue it should
be destroyed.
The benches in mg sdloon are made of
white marble Which has developed a brown
stain. Any way of removing this? I
have tried various sandsoaps, but to no a Vail.
—4581.
Wash the benches well with soapy water,
work quickly, and wipe up all moisture so
that none remains on the marble. If this
does, not remove the stains, procure some
oxalic acid from your chemist, and make
up a very weak solution with plenty of
water. Tie a. sponge or soft rag on a stick
—this acid is poisonous—and wash the
stains. over with the solution. Clean it
up quickly with plenty of fresh cold water,
as the acid is injurious to the stone, and
wipe dry. Several applications should re-
move the most obstinate stains.
What is the climate of the Gilbert and
Ellice Islands? —-4788.
It is described as pleasant and bracing
during the season of the crisp north-easterly
trade winds (March-October), but becomes
enervating during the season of rains and
westerly gales (October-MarCh). The ther-
mometer varies blit little, the lowest reading
being 72deg. and the lvghest 92.2 deg. in the
shade. The average annual rainfall is about
165 inches.
7 have often found starfish with arms of
dispronortionate site. What is the reason?
—4773.
The starfish possesses curious powers- of
self-mutilation and of regenerating lost parts.
It will promptly discard an arm, if attacked,
and eventually grow another. The regrown
limbs are, for a while, smaller than the
others.
What are the characteristics of the ele-
phant fish? —4780.
It is a “ghost shark” of the order llolo-
cephali, characterised by a structure on the
snout which somewhat resembles a short
trunk. It is fotmd in Vic. and Tas. waters,
and is plentiful around M.L., where two tons
have been taken in a single haul of a trawl
net. Though not popular, the flesh is quite
palatable.
How is dessicated cocoa-nut made? Could
it be made in the home?— 4Bl3.
It is prepared by power-driven graters.
The only method for home use is grating
by hand. Use a carrot- or bread-grater,
and, if the shreds are too long, cross chop
with a sharp knife. Then thoroughly dry
the eocoanut in a slow oven to bring out
the nutty flavor and prevent it from going
mouldy.
It has been noticed that during seasons
following bush fires orchids bloom more pro-
fusely, though one would expect that the.
fires would destroy the dormant seeds. What
is the reason? —4.BB4.
Possibly germination has in some way
been stimulated by the chemical products of
the burnt forests, but the more probable
explanation is to be found in the presence
of a benign fungus. Modern research has
shown that marty (possibly all) orchids are
dependent for germination on the presence
of such a fungus, which has been found
associated with their roots or tubes.
Particulars of a ship wrecked off Rossel
Island, New Guinea, about 70 years ago?
She carried a load of Chinese who were
eaten by the natives.— 4B94.
The St. Paul, French ship, from Bordeaux
to Hottg Kong, where she shipped emigrants
for Sydney in 1858, was wrecked September
30, 1858, on Rossel Island in the Louisiades,
s.-e. New Guinea. The crew took a boat
and nine of them reached the Q’land coast,
and then New Caledonia. Some 350 Chinese
passengers were killed from time to timo
and eaten by the Louisiade natives. In
January, 1859, one survivor was rescued.
Method of constructing a home-made
barometer ? —4729.
Obtain a tube 33in. long which is sealed
at one end and thoroughly clean and dry
on the inside. Introduce the clean mercury
by means of a tapered glass tube, the small
end of which has a considerably smaller
diameter than the inside bore of the baro-
meter tube. When filled, invert and heat
in a sand-tray to expel air or water vapor,
then immerse open end in cistern of
mercury, bring the tube to a perpendicular
position and clamp on stand to keep the
wlibld “perfectly rigid. Calibrate in inches,
subdivided in tenths at the upper end.
Brief Answers.
11. S.: We have no information: cameras
of the type described have not been available in
Sydney for many years... .WAV.: Cannot collect
any details; the instrument is' unknown here. Write
to tile author or tell us the purpose of the instru-
ment and give a description. We will make further
inquiries. .. .G.F.S.: Where there is no will it is
usual for the widow or one of the next of kin to
apply for letters of administration. Here, appar-
ently, the widow has applied and administration
has been granted to her. It was not necessary that
your agreement should be obtained. (2) and (3)
As one of the next of kin, you can apply, irrespec-
tive of where you are domiciled, to the administratrix
for an account of how the estate has been, or is
being, distributed. (4) Write to her, and if you
cannot get a satisfactory reply place the matter
in the hands of a solicitor in England ; as your
wife is resident there she could arrange that part of
the business.... F.W.: You may devise land to an
enemy, but you cannot compel him to take it.,..
N.L.: Rates of Federal entertainments tax are
2M. on admissions of 2s. 6d., with an additional
Ad. for each Gd. or part of Gil. by which the payments
exceed 2s. Gd L.R.R.: A direc t beam wireless
service to England was established on April 8, 1927.
A similar service to Canada, IJ.S.A. and Mexico was
opened on June 16. 1928. .. .A.M.C.: Tophet is the
name given in 2 Kings, xxiii, 10, to a spot in the
valley of Ben HinnOm, near Jerusalem, where the
Hebrews in the time of Ahab and Manasseli offered
children to Molech and other heathen gods. Josiah
“defiled” it as part of his reforming activity, and
it became a place for the bestowal and destruction
of refuse, and a synonym for Gehenna... .8.Q.P.:
Write to the Sheep and AVool Dept., East Sydney
Technical College, Darlinghurst, Sydney.... L.C.W.:
You'll have to write to the Education Officer,
London County Council, County Hall, Westminster
Bridge, London. S.E.I. .. . E.M.: The book has no
value... .N.P.; Hugo’s “Spanish Simplified” (Bs.)
....A.A.: The original debt of the Commonwealth to
tlie British Government under the Funding Arrange-
ments Act 1921 was .£92,480,150. This has been
reduced by Sinking Fund payments to the extent of
£12,755,936, leaving a balance owing of £79,724,220.
... .S.R.: A. J. Hopkins visited England with the
■1902, 1905 and 1909 Australian cricket teams.,...
J.H.: S.S. Tekapo arrived at Sydney from Welling-
ton, October 23, 188 G ; s.s. Naming departed from
Sydney for London, October 17, 1897 ; s.s. Orontcs
arrived from London, July 10, 1909. .. . A.V.C.: The
pianoforte piece played by Lynn Fontanne in “The
Guardsman” is Chopin’s E Flat Nocturne. .. .T.R.:
Porterhouse steak is a cut between the tenderloin
and the sirloin, and was so called from first being
served at a house where porter, ale and beer were
sold. .. . D.M.H.: The 2s. per fortnight should, under
the Court’s order, be applied towards the payment
of overdue fees. If costs are not paid, the union,
through its secretary, could issue a summons....
R.G.G.: “Beekeeping in Victoria,” by F. H. Behune,
published by the Vic. Agri. Dept. (Is.) ... . A.W.C.:
(1) Ironmonger is employed by the St, Ivilda City
Council, Victoria, as a gardener. (2) In the early
days of cricket, when players took the field in tOp-
hats, it was the custom to present the bowler who
took three consecutive wickets with a new tile....
A. ; It cannot be done by correspondence ; attend-
ance at Sydney Uni. is essential. .. .N.S.; Japanese
is taught at the Berlitz School of Languages, 335
Gcorge-street, Sydney, by Mr. Kuri-Bayashi. Chinese
lessons are given every Monday, Tuesday and Thurs-
day evening at the headquarters of the Chinese
Republic Society, K.M.T. Bldgs., 75 Ultimo-road,
Sydney... . T.L.J.; There are a few cottages on small
freehold holdings at present available in Norfplk
Island which may be leased. Write to the Adminis-
trator, Norfolk Island. . . .S.P.: Adjinbilly is a N.S.W.
aboriginal name meaning “permanent creek or water-
course” ; Douwingcrie, also an abo. word, means
"place of axe-stone”.... E.M.C.: The liquidation of
B. has now been completed, the final pay-
ment of Is. 4d. 'per share being made on March 15,
1932 ... . W.L.J.; No payment of maternity allowance
is made in the case of an aboriginal or Asiatic....
L.M.L.: Write to the Director of Maternal and
Baby Welfare, Dept, of Public Health, 93 Macquarie-
street, Sydney... .K.L.D.: The Brisbane Cup was
first run in 1870, when it was won by Dandy. . .
L. 0.: The lady’s arm should rest lightly within
the gentleman’s arm, the tips of her fingers merely
touching his forearm. .. .C.V.D.: Best way to learn
is to work under one for a period. There are no
exams, to pass. .. .H.H.M.: Golden retrievers are
not procurable in N.S.W., nor in any other States.
There are a few in M.L. The Labrador is better for
shooting.... A.A.: (1) A license is private, and
B commercial. The cast of an A licence would be
from £45 to £5O. (2) New Guinea offers oppor-
tunities of employment for experienced pilots holding
a B licence. (3) Depends on the aptitude of the
pupil, but should be gained in from eight to 12
hours’ dual and three to five hours’ solo. .. . J.C.:
Make up the formula you have been using, add a
little solid paraffin wax and powdered resin. You
will have to experiment a little to get the quantities.
A few drops of oil of lavender or sandal oil will
improve the odor. Melt all materials in a water-
jacketed pan....G.A.: The Foster Knitting Machine
Co., 26 Jamieson-street, Sydney... .T.E.L.: Y'ou can
buy a partnership deed form from any law stationer
for 6d., but it would be wiser to have the agree-
ment drawn up by a solicitor. .. .H.K.K.: (1) Waugh
and Josephson, Ltd., Unwin’s Bridge-road, St. Peters,
N.S.W. When writing, state type and number of
engine. (2) On kerosene, 4 h.p. ; on oil, 31 h.p.
. ...G.M.: (1) See “The Daily Mail A’ear Book” and
“Whitaker’s Almanack.” (2) 00-go-nia. . . .M.F.AV.;
(1) Wettin. (2)' Hohenzollern. .. . J.S.: Would not,
on the facts disclosed, regard the transaction as
bona fide and such as wnuld be upheld in a court
of equity T.E.S.: “The Bulletin Reciter” (25.),
obtainable from the N.S.W’. Bookstall Co., Sydney.
... .W.J.K.: There is no “natural order” in winding-
up an estate; all depends on the ease or difficulty
with which assets can be got in. In the case you
show, six months would be a fair time to allow.
The executors are required to furnish an account to
the Registrar of Probates within 12 months. Y’ou
could write to the tvustee co. for information....
J.M.H. : J. H. Andrews and Co., 259 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .F.W. H.: Use aluminium or anti-corrosive
paint. Any paint merchant will advise as to reliable
brands. .. .A.S.: The California gold rush occurred
in 1849. .. .F.E.L.: Have a chat with the principal
of a coaching college in your city. ... J.W.W.: The
positions have been filled. Further particulars from
Dept, of the Interior, Canberra, F.C.T A.S.:
Don’t know of any English ones. The following are
American: “Fur Age,” 47 West 37th-street, and
“Fur Trade Review,” 43 West 29th-street—both
New York..'. .F.L.S.: It has no value... .H.T.H.:
(1) Communicate with Agriculture Dept., Brisbane.
(2) Yes. (.3) Pamphlets are available. (4) Not
aware of any, but the practice is fairly common in
Q’land... .D.J.: The Lord Mayor of Melbourne is
elected by ballot annually on the 9th October bv
the council out of its own body. Between that
date and the day of taking office the. alderman or
councillor elected is styled the Lord Mayor elect.
.... (Many others mailed.)


JAMES EDMOND—HIS LIFE AND WORK
James Edmond, for 12 years associate-
editor of The Bulletin, for another 12
J. F. Archibald’s successor as editor, and
for still another 12, after he had retired
from the chair through ill-health, a regular
conti-ibutor, died last week at his home at
Wahroonga, Sydney. His extraordinary per-
An early 1888 drawing by Phil May of
Edmond and Hopkins. Edmond had
no set fashion in shaving; he varied it
continually. But lie was faithful to
his cigar.
tinacity was shown in his last severe illness.
Though he had for many years suffered
terribly from both diabetes and Bright’s
disease, though his eyesight was nearly gone
and he had had a stroke which almost de-
prived him of the power of speech, he
refused to let go his tight grip on passing
events. Failure of sight compelled him to
cease his regular contributions about seven
years ago, but he managed to write an
occasional line until a few months back,
thus maintaining a connection with the
paper which began 47 years ago.
James Edmond was born at Glasgow in
1859, and got to work at the age of 12
after what he has described as a precarious
education. At 19 he went to Dunedin, in
Maoriland —it was he who led The Bulle-
tin’s rebellion against the name New Zea-
land—and spent four years there; he mined
and he made lollies, and had little luck
either way. Then he crossed to Bendigo,
and, having taken his bearings, decided that
Queensland was the young man’s field. He
found himself at Rockhampton in 1885
when the “Morning Bulletin” advertised
for a proof-reader. He had only the
sketchiest knowledge of what was required
of a proof-reader; but there was an encyclo-
paedia in the public reading-room, and he
decided that if he began studying in the
morning he might know enough about it
in the evening to get through the night’s
trial. He applied, impressed the boss,
Mcllwraith—Thomas’s brother—with his
extraordinary range of knowledge, and got
the job. Haynes and Archibald had founded
The Bulletin five years earlier, and
already the paper was a market for free-
lances’ paragraphs. Edmond began writ-
ing for it.
By this time Traill had taken charge as
editor, and to him Archibald carried the
first offerings of the new humorist. Who
actually “discovered” him is lost in the
mists:' but there is good evidence that it
was Wilfred Blacket, now K.C., then a sub-
editor; and it was Blacket’s pending call
to the Bar which made room for Edmond
and gave The Bulletin the greatest
humorist and the most versatile journalist
it ever had.
Traill remained in the office until 1887,
when he heard the call of Parliament, and
Archibald returned to the chair. Traill
had lifted the paper enormously. Archi-
bald had joined Haynes in founding it
when he w T as very young and very inexperi-
enced; he knew nothing of politics and had
no flair for them. Traill, on the other
hand, was a very experienced journalist;—
he had been editor of the “Sydney Mail”
—but he had no taste for the personal
gossip with which the paper had been
chiefly concerned. Traill brought sub-
stance to the leading columns; a sonorous
article two columns long gave him the joy
that a sparkling two lines of impudence, of
surprise brought to Archibald. There never
were tw r o men more unlike than the sturdy,
boisterous, courageous Traill, with his
rugged Hebridean mind full of great dull
things, and Archibald, frail and delicate,
abhorring noise and tumult and strife, with
his keenly critical mind full of brilliant
things—large things occasionally, but for
the most part small things. Almost mir-
aculously Edmond appealed to both of
them. Traill saw in him a trenchant poli-
tical writer, with large views like his own.
Archibald saw in him a priceless humorist
a ma n who could supplement his own
incisive wit. In those days the paper pre-
sented a cui'iously mottled appearance.
Archibald spent hours removing every
superfluous word from a few treasui'ed
paragraphs, aiming to make them flash with
hard brilliance; Edmond’s humor, which
Archibald never pruned, demanded ample
space for its development.
During the boom of the late ’eighties,
when Broken Hill was sending half Aus-
tralia crazy and rumors of dazzling finds
had begun to float across from Westralia,
Jack Scantlebury, who mixed journalism
and mining, persuaded Archibald that The
Bulletin ought to have mining news. He
proposed the Wild Cat Column. Archi-
bald treasured up titles; a good title, like a
good phrase, was a jewel to be turned over
and over. The suggested name caught his
fancy; and Scantlebury was allotted the
space he asked for. Then Edmond came
in. He had begun to take an interest in
the giddy finances of the land boom. “Uncle
Abigail’s” bank in Sydney—the ill-starred
Australian Banking Co.—had especially won
his attention. He had already committed
The Bulletin to a strenuous opposition
to overseas boi-rowing: any other sort of
borrowing was not then thought of. The
wild-cats littered on the mining fields, he
urged, were tame and harmless creatures
compared with those which had their nests
in the city. Edmond, without any special
training for the job, and without any
special data, sat down to provide the paper
with a new featui’e. He laid down lines
which in the main are still followed after
nearly 50 years of experience—lines, more-
over,* which have been more or less adopted
by practically every Austi-alian newspaper
with a financial page. And he began that
systematic accumulation of data which to-
day adds so ’ greatly to the value of the
page he founded and of the “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly” which grew out of it. It is a
coincidence that to-day the department is in
charge of Edmond’s son-in-law, Major
Moyes, though he did not come upon the
This was Low’s drawing of “the heads” in his day (about 1913). James Edmond is
shown talking to J. F. Archibald, who is at one end of the table. William
Macleod is at the other end. Hopkins is thinking up a cartoon The fifth—the
only survivor—is S. H. Prior.
scene until nearly a quarter of a century
after the founder of it had passed it into
other hands.
It was a happy thing for James Edmond
that Traill had given to The Bulletin a
policy of effective Protection. Into the
fight over what was" always known in those
days as “the fiscal question” Edmond threw
himself with fervor. In the early years of
the Labor party the, paper found its course
rather difficult. Its sympathies were strongly
with the Labor platform: indeed, that plat-
form had been taken over almost bodily
from the Articles of Faith which Edmond
had drawn up and which the paper printed
and reprinted. Moreover, George Black,
long one of its sub-editors, had stepped
straight from the staff on to the Labor soap-
box as a candidate for a Sydney seat.
Archibald gave his associate a free hand
in this as in all large political matters;
indeed, as Archibald’s health became more
uncertain, he confined himself almost en-
tirely to the literary side of the paper.
Edmond was thus able to stand firm on
Protection; and though he saw the early
Labor men giving support to Freetraders
and Protectionists indifferently in return
for concessions, he never despaired of the
time when the party would be converted to
High Protection. In his latter days he got
great satisfaction cut of Scullin’s emer-
gency tariff.
On the other hand, he had no forgive-
ness for Earle Page. His last paragraph,
never published, partly because it covered
ground that had just been gone over, has
an interest to-day as showing the vigor
of the man’s mind in-spite of infirmities
which would long before have overwhelmed
an ordinary man. He wrote (this was just
before Dr. Page’s temporary retirement)
Dear Bulletin, —I am anxious to split
the leader of the Country party down the
middle so as to make him comprehensible.
There are two Earle Pages, and the differ-
ence between them is much the same as that
between a cannibal and a Presbyterian. One
is a strictly sane individual who wants to
subdivide Australia into smaller States. The
other is a strictly mixed and muddled indi-
vidual who wants a tariff-.alteration, on con-
fused lines and unfathomable principles.
There are plenty of good reasons for the
further subdivision of the big States'of Aus-
tralia. Nothing has been done in that way
since Australia began to rule itself except
that the Federal Territory was carved out
of N.S.W., and characteristically enough the
Federal Territory wasn’t given the dignity
of a State. The divisions of Australia ax-e
absurdly large compared with those of other
Federations, but it is argued that owing to
some kink in the Australian mind they would
be more expensive to govern if they were,
smaller. Consequently there have been some
70 yeai's of somnolent calm. Every time
there is some sign of something being done
some hundred reasons for indefinite postpone'
ment are found. Said reasons are always
much the same., Australia has to consider
the problem of uniform railway gauge, which
assumed its acute form first when two gauges
met at Albury in ISB3, then when two more
gauges met on the Queensland-N.S.W.
border in ISBB, and later when there were
similar disjointed meetings all over the shop.
It was feit that there must be a uniform
gauge and a uniform railway ownership
before new States became practicable, and
in the 49 years since the railway problem
became intense the matter has turned up
many times. But it has always been decided
to liang things up indefinitely, and mean-
while to float a few more loans and spend
them in making confusion worse. New
States and uniform railway control were
both provided for in the Federal Constitu-
tion 32 years ago, but they never happened.
Now there ,is a Federal party which pro-
fesses to want new States, which must
bring up the uniform railway control pro-
blem. but it seems much more intent on
floating immense loans. Its leader held
office for six years, and pursued public in-
solvency a great deal more earnestly than
he did subdivision. —Yours, James Edmond.
Thirty years ago and more Edmond saw
with crystal clearness where the borrowing
policy would land Australia if ever a world
disaster occurred and it became impossible
to either bori'ow abroad or sell abroad.
All Australia knows to-day what gold-debts
are; but for yeai-s when Edmond wrote on
the subject he was a voice crying in the
wilderness. In the early years of the cen-
tury, when he saw that loan money was
being, as he believed, ci*iminally wasted,
and that moreover it was being used to
corrupt politics, he founded the C.O.D.
party, and won many adherents among poli-
ticians—B. R. Wise, Crick and Dr. Arthur
among them. On this occasion Edmond
himself took to the stump and addressed
many meetings. But he disliked it; he
was no orator, and was glad
of it. Incidentally, though
there was no truer Austra-
lian, he never entirely lost
the tongue he brought from
Glasgow,
His work for Federation
was as earnest as it had
been for Protection and
clean finance. Here, indeed,
he showed perhaps more
conspicuously than any-
where else his constructive
genius. During the progress
of the campaign he wrote a
series of articles which were
afterwards reprinted and cir-
culated in vast numbers;
and the proceedings of the
Convention showed how
deeply they had influenced
Federalists all over Aus-
tralia. He was uncannily
prescient about the dangers
and difficulties ahead of the
Commonwealth, both before
the Convention met and
during its progress. In par-
ticular he struggled mightily
to get some better provision
made for the creation of
new States. This had been
one of the strong planks of
his platform. He saw in
new States the best hope
of furnishing those new
cities which he believed to
be among Australia’s chief
needs. Yet he was always
most vehement in his opposition to the
building of Canberra, on many grounds—
it was too near Sydney; its climate was not
suitable; it opened up no new country; it
could never hope to be self-supporting.
. His policy was never a platform of loose
planks. It was a complete thing. Probably
because of that he was never prepared to
make concessions. There were no halt-
measures about his likes and dislikes. In
was no time, he believed, when a man
should not say a word for what he believecl
in; in his opposition to- what he did not
believe in he was unrelenting.
Yet no chief could have had greater con-
sideration for his staff, nor could there have
been a kindlier man. He was a bad chie*
because he had no idea of delegating work.
A hundred envelopes addressed to the
editor would be poured on his desk. He
would laboriously open them, glance at
their contents, pigeonhole them for atten-
tion by this man or that. In his editorial
days he not only wrote all over the paper,
but saw r every line of MS. before it was
put into type. It was not surprising that
his health broke down when he was stik
only half-way through the fifties. Ihe
tragedy was inevitable.
Maybe it was a greater tragedy that he
was ever an editor at all. He stood alone
among Australian writers as a humorist.
Yet he never found time to give more
than a taste of all that he might have done.
Now and again he would go off on a holi-
day, and to these excursions we are mainly
indebted for the few whimsical stories that
carry his name. A few of them have been
collected in a volume, “A Journalist and
Two Bears.” But he was far too intent
on politics to take permanent interest m
his other writings; and it will remain for
someone else to bring them together.
Reference has been made to his holidays.
He gave to them just as little considera-
tion as he did to everything else outside
his serious work. He was liable at any
moment to break in on his associate with
the news that he thought he had bettei
get away for a while. Asked where he was
going he would answer quite frankly that
he hadn’t thought about it. He turned up
at the Central (Sydney) station one even-
ing—he had worked up to the last moment
—and asked where the next outgoing long-
distance train was bound for. Cobar, they
told him; “Then give me a ticket to Cobar,
he said. When he set out on his longer
journeys it was equally uncertain where
they would take him. He had been a
diligent Bible student —he studied every-
thing—and one of his wanderings took him
to Palestine, which he explored thoroughly.
On another occasion he decided that Tibet
would be a good place to inquire into, and
he got as far as the Khyber Pass. In a
third wandering he pushed into Central
Africa, visiting the Victoria Falls. The
aeroplane made an instant appeal to him;
and, broken though he was in health, he
flew over most of the long Australian air-
lines as far west as Adelaide.
His memory was amazing. It has already
been said that he had been a diligent
student of the Bible. If a passage were
quoted, he could in most cases tell exactly
where it was to be found. He had the
same power of quickly absorbing and re-
taining historical facts. But he was not
at all interested in modern personalities.
It was doubtful whether at any time he
could tell you who was Premier of Tas-
mania or Attorney-General in his own
State. Apart from reading and perhaps
travelling, he had no hobbies. He pro-
bably never played an outdoor game in his
life, and took no interest in them. The
addiction of his old friends Macleod and
Hopkins to bowls perplexed and amused
him. Yet he was no recluse. He was a
good talker—that very rare person, a
humorist who could be humorous without
laboring over it. He was, nevertheless, the
despair of the cartoonist; he was very
little interested in art, and could not visual-
ise a picture. Edmond had explained his
JAMES EDMOND—his latest photo.
ideas of a cartoon to “Hop, who was not
always the most amiable of men. hat
you want, Edmond,” the veteran giowled,
“is an algebraic formula, not a cartoon.
. He was, married after he came to Sydney,
and Mrs. Edmond survives him, with a son
and three daughters.


Men Among Pearls.
BY H. DRAKE-BROCK MAN.
CHAPTER XXIV ( Continued ).
FOR a whole fortnight Chris had been
coldly sober; but suddenly, dishing out
drinks to colored men, he had been
overwhelmed by ignominy. Manager, had
Horton said? Why not call it barman and
be done with it? And for Asiatics at that.
But it didn’t do to start thinking—as soon
as he found himself beginning, he took the
quickest path to forgetfulness. And each
time it became easier, more pleasant. This
time he had been drinking all day; his
Chinese offsider had been obliged to look
after the shop, he knew, but he must be
worse than he thought, to start seeing
things.
He lurched down the steps, brushed a
hand across his eyes. But Lettice remained.
And now, she had risen.... Who was that
fellow with the little moustache suddenly
appearing beside her? And wasn’t that
old pompous Tweedie—and his wife? <? All
standing, all staring !
“Come here, Chris,” called the barmaid
again.
Mrs. Tweedie did not know whether to
thank the girl for trying to save an awkward
situation or to snub her for impertinence.
She herself did not know which way to
look.
Quan Sing shuffled calmly over and laid
a hand on Kent’s bare arm. “Mis’ Kent,”
he began.
Then Lady Attenborough spoke; and her
voice rang through the room. “Don’t you
know me, Christopher?”
She had not altered—or only, her mirror
told her, grown more exquisite with the
passing years: it was she who well might
have failed to recognise in this wreck, this
travesty, this creature in singlet and grubby
trousers, the cousin who, from childhood,
had stood to her for all a man should be.
She wrapped the black coat closely round
her hips; the pearls Mrs. Tweedie had so
admired winked and glistened as she
stepped backwards, away from him.
Chris held out a fumbling hand; his
face had grown wrinkled, his eyes opaque.
Only the character of hijs voice, pleasant,
drawling, remained unaltered, in spite of
words which tripped and fell unevenly.
“Lettice—that you, Lettice? I think
I’m not very we 11.... You’re not staying
here, are you? I wouldn’t do that; no, I
wouldn’t do that. Who’s that chap?”
He lurched towards Attenborough. The
man with the small moustache worried
Chris; he searched in the confusion of his
mind for something he felt he ought to
know. He did not discover anything. His
faltering gaze returned to Lettice. She
looked at him. Then she turned to Mrs.
Tweedie and said:
“I think we had better go, if you don’t
mind.”
Mrs. Tweedie, thankful to move, to
escape from the presence of the now frankly
staring whites and gaping Chinese, bustled
hastily up into the store.
“Good-bye, Christopher,” said Lettice,
glancing back over her shoulder from the
top of the steps.
She had ignored the proffered wavering
hand; her husband hurried her, fingers on
elbow, himself brushing Chris aside, pro-
tecting Lettice from sight of him.
“Drunken swine! ” he muttered in her ear.
“Cousin of mine, Dick,” she murmured
back. And her arm pressed his hand
against her side with a swift fervor, start-
ling to Attenborough, who, until then, had
found his wife cold.
Chris stared after them.
“Did you see that girl?” he turned and
demanded of the excited barmaid. ,“Who
is she?”
“Lady Attenborough, I heard Mrs.
Tweedie call her. That right, Bill?”
“Yep,” said Bill.
“What are they doing here? Atten-
borough? She’s Lettice. What are they
doing?”
“I couldn’t say. Going through on the
boat, most likely.”
Attenborough? God, he’d got it now—
that chap with the dark moustache was her
husband! No dream—he wasn’t imagining
all this. She had really stood there in
the flesh—and looked at him!
Chris staggered to a seat and sat staring
at the white-washed wall. One of the men
nudged the barmaid, whispered that he
was best left alone. But she felt too sorry
for him; she tried, vainly, to draw his
attention to the soup the thin little waiter
placed, unordered, before him. He sat
there, slumped, huddled, staring at the wall.
He was still there, in the same position,
when the train whistle brought the shell-
openers to their feet, with suggestions of
a run down to the jetty. They left him,
the young woman with a pitying glance;
but he did not answer their good-nights, or
even appear to notice their departure. And
when, towards one o’clock, Quan Sing de-
cided there would be no more business
that evening, he was forced to waken Mis’
Kent, who had fallen asleep with his head
upon the table.
Chris stumbled out into Sheba-lane. He
had not been seeing things. To make quite
sure he nad asked old Sing. Lettice had
really been there. He looked dazedly up
and down the alley and shivered; the night
™ nd , b | e ' v cold and his arms were bare,
fehe had been, and gone; and here he was
still standing m SheSa-lane ;
He slouched off towards his abode, fight-
ing his thoughts, taking exaggerated notice
of the cold dead roofs of iron, white in the
moonlight; of a cat slinking across his
path; of the wide dreary expanse of marsh
stretching, it seemed to Chris as he issued
from the lane, to infinity.
He made his way to the tiny room
wherein lie slept, a cubby behind the tap-
room of the shi-poo, with a safe taking up
half the meagre space. He lit a candle and
sat down on the stretcher, sheetless but
rug-covered, where nightly he tossed or lay
in sotted supor. The flame of the candle
flickered, making a monster of his shadow
hovering on wall and ceiling.
He felt slack as one of the limp white
suits hanging from a nail driven into the
wall, as though every drop of vitality, even
the last clinging dew of separate personal
existence, had been sucked from him. But
he no longer felt fuddled.
Lettice had looked at him! In her eyes
he had read her thought: as she beheld him,
so he beheld himself: weak, the travesty of
a man, a failure, contemptible—a drunken
waster.
And wasn’t lie? Clearly, as if she had
spoken, he knew that in that moment she
had felt complacently thankful of what she
would henceforth regard as her own sound
judgment,. She would not have one illu-
sion about him left; she would look back
on the past as a mere girlish infatuation, if
she even deigned to think of it, scourging
herself for a blind fool. Not a single illu-
sion left; the scorn of her eyes had blotted
out the image she had carried in her heart,
the last gracious memory he had been able
to place between his soul and extinction.
A waster and a fool!
His mind cleared, grew penetrating, pellu-
cid. Illusion—that was what the world lived
by. He thought Of the world as a vast
unending desert, colorless, except for the
whirling rainbow lights of illusion which
circled about the heads of tiny, insignificant
human creatures toiling up out of shadow,
vanishing into shadowed .space; will-o’-the-
wisp lights, sparks, shining emanations
thrown from the brains of men. like the
sparks flying from a catherine-wheel.
A failure, in that he had not kept whirl-
ing his wheel of illusion! Those scornful
eyes of Lettice had extinguished the last
poor glow by which he had been able to
view himself in the mirror of her memory;
and if ever you were fool enough to see
yourself, or anybody else, bereft of the
fiery light of illusion, you were lost—poor
little creature of illusion!
A waster, in that he had sought by
dubious means to fight the encroaching
shadows as, one by one, the spai’ks died,
the color faded, faces appeared grim, avari-
cious, lustful, disdainful or sneering.
Then through the waste of thought
drifted other eyes, incredibly regarding him
with pity and a dim hope—eyes he had
avoided, not wished to see, never until this
moment really faced; eyes blue as Let-
tice’s; but wistful, hurt, not hurting. Per-
haps, he thought, )f he had tried, he might
have relit his wheel, compromised, walked
on through the desert with June at his
side, smiled through gay sparks at her,
until their circles of light burnt out to
nothingness.
Too late now.
The candle threw up a guttering flame.
Behind, on wall and ceiling, Kent’s shadow
swelled, grew monstrous, towered and
capered above his head before it was en-
gulfed by a darkness more dense than
itself.
CHAPTER XXV
Monty Looks Forward.
Mr. Montgomery sat on his little veran-
dah and stuffed tobacco slowly into his pipe.
On the verandah-rail sat a big white-and-gold
cup; it was past three and he had just
finished the tea he drank every afternoon
after his siesta. He supposed that presently
he would get up, put on his coat and hail
a taxi. Yet he might as well sit here as
in his office. Nothing was doing in M.0.P.;
the great shining stacks in his shell-sheds
had sadly dwindled—all on account of
young Fordyce and the Vandervelde scheme.
It was going well: Peter really seemed to
have roped in the unropable, yet he could
not help wondering how long it would last.
Life was like that, especially in Broome—
all plain sailing, and then suddenly a cock-
eye, and where were you? M.O.P.—mother-
o’-pearl—lovely stuff: it had always seemed
to him a pity there were not more ways of
using it. He had often picked up a shell
to look at; he liked shells better than pearls,
if it came to that. Pearls were nothing
without a beautiful woman to show them
off, but the great iridescent shells, with
their high lights and grey shadows, their
hint of rainbow, held within themselves a
fascination. Life was like that, too—high
light and shadow; color that came and went,
yet was never really there. Well, young
Peter was getting the lot these days—all
the more money for June to splash with.
He himself might as well go and finish up
in Melbourne, pretend he was a city man
again, go to the races every Saturday. He
played with the idea, but all the time knew
he was merely playing. He would miss the
fun he got out of looking on in Broome;
you could look on anywhere and see the
devil of a lot of amfising things. But he
had been too long in the pearling town to
want to go. He supposed he had grown
as crazy as the rest of them. And there
was June.
She would be back in a few days now.
He supposed he would go to meet the boat.
That was what a chit of a girl could do
to a man—hadn’t he even stayed up past
midnight to see her off on her honeymoon
just because she whispered she wanted him
to come and stop Dad from saying things?
A smile twisted the lips under the little
greying moustache, and Monty’s long fingers
caressed the top of his bald head. It had
been quite difficult, to prevent Dad from
saying things. Champagne had made Goer
forget the chill which had existed between
himself and his daughter ever since the
Queenie affair: the occasion of his daughter’s
marriage was surely one upon which a man
might be permitted a few witticisms....
Strange that he should know June so much
better than her own father; better, he
thought, even than her young husband—
there was a bond between them of sym-
pathy, understanding, affection, Heaven
knew what. It was as good as having a
daughter; for him, better perhaps. Not
flesh of his flesh, but spirit of his spirit.
Strange how affections grew: once she had
thought she did not like him, yet now they
met on the same ground: the undying youth
in him called to her youth. He was not in
the least afraid; her marriage would not
spoil their mental intimacy He conjured
up June’s face as she had waved good-bye.
Through the evening she had been all smiles
and blushes; everything had been just as
it should have been except for the awk-
ward moment when the captain of the ship
had come up and insisted upon taking them
all to his cabin to meet the English john-
nie and his wife: what was their name?—
it had slipped; anyway, it was of no account.
But June had gone white as a sheet when
she heard it, and everyone began exclaim-
ing at the resemblance between her and
the English woman. Very awkward indeed!
It had reminded her of Kent, Monty sup-
posed, fumbling round for something June
had once told him—about Chris saying she
looked very like a cousin of his. This
may have been the cousin: an extraordinary
coincidence, if it was; he must ask June
about it when she returned—that is, if she
came back sufficiently in love with Peter.
for him to risk it. If not, the less said the
better. But June would be all right; if
not' —well, then, Peter was a bigger fool
than he looked, and June a different girl
from the one he himself supposed her to
be. They were going to make a success
of life, those two. Fordyce was game, a
regular chip of the old block, and June had
learnt her lesson young and still held her
head high. No crying for the moon.
And Monty never guessed that for one
moment, as the ship drew away from the
jetty, June had nearly cried out in her long-
ing to push back the clock—if only that
were Peter, with Chris beside him, standing
there below, instead of Uncle Monty and
her father! If only her father stood at her
side, not Peter, so that once again she might
catch sight of Chris for the first time, and
ask his name! If only she were just arriv-
ing, gay, eager, still breathlessly c,ertain life
was but waiting to empty a spoil of delight
at her feet!
“Funny,” said Peter, as the water grew
between ship and jetty. “That Lady What’s-
her-name really is your double. But I hope
you won’t look so coldly perfect and un-
touchable in ten years’ time—l shan’t let
you.”
“I think she is Chris Kent’s cousin,” June
murmured, very low.
“I wonder if they met?” Peter laughed
shortly. “I don’t think we’ll ask, do you?
It might not be kind—to old Chris, I mean.”
“No,” replied June. “I don’t think we’ll
mention him any more.”
The voices on the jetty died; the lights
fell away; Peter’s arm stole round June and
his fingers touched her breast. His voice
quivered in her ear; the,song of the tide,
the throb of the ship’s engines, the hammer
of her own pulses whispered to June that
the world was not quite empty of adven-
ture, even though the fairy-tale glitter of
her young imaginings had vanished for ever.
* * * ;|;
Monty rapped out his pipe and rose. He
was very glad June would soon be home
again. He had missed her; felt lonely in
a way he never had before she came to
Broome. So many of the people who used
to blow in for a yarn had gone. Kent had
not been up for weeks. And old Major
Challenge—shocking thing, that! He hoped
he would go out before he softened; but
at least he hadn’t been altogether so much
of a fool that he would be driven to end
his days in the Old Men’s Home Yet,
after all, he might very well have ended up
like that if he hadn’t suddenly got tired
of drinking It was as well not to be
too hard on anybody.
He was arrested in the act of searching
for his topee by a soft rap, and turned round
to see a native boy, very flash in white
coat and trousers, knocking gently on the
wooden verandah-post.
Monty did not recognise him. “Hi, you,
what you want?” he demanded.
“Letter, boss.” The native produced a
folded slip of paper from his pocket.
Monty took it. It came from the matron
of the hospital, asking if he would be good
enough to call. Mr. Kent was there, very
ill with enteric; she did not think he could
live until to-morrow. He seemed to have
no friends here, and wanted no one; yet
sometimes when he became delirious he
talked about Mr. Montgomery, and she
thought it would be doing a good turn if
Mr. Montgomery would bother to come tip
and see him.
Monty.looked up; the boy was still there.
“All right,” he grunted. “You speak I come
by’mby.”
He hated hospitals and sickness. He
didn’t really see that he could be of any use
at all; but he’d have to go. He wondered
if Kent would die. Perhaps it would be the
best thing make life easier for June.
Selfish, that, he supposed; but wasn’t every-
one selfish about the people they loved?
And Kent seemed to have come to the end
of his tether. He’d dropped his bundle.
It didn’t do, that sort of thing.
Chris looked like a ghost—white, thin,
tired out; horribly clean and brushed-look-
ing as he lay in the narrow bed with its
geometrically folded sheets, as if he were
already dead. Only his eyes moved, and
they were blank. Monty wondered if he
merely imagined the hazel irises warmed at
sight of him.
“Decent of you, Monty,” Chris muttered.
The use of the shortened name made him
glad he had come, after all—Chris had never
been so familiar before.
Monty tried to be bright, cheerful, yet
the whole time something inside mocked at
talk of recovery. It was so evident the
man himself thought his number was up.
He made an effort to raise a hand when
at last Monty said he must go, and a half-
smile stirred the drooping lips. The fever
of his fingers made Monty start; then,
suddenly, the bright ejms staring at him
seemed to glaze.
The matron came in. Chris began to
toss. “My wheel’s stopped,” he muttered.
Now, standing thankfully outside, looking
at the waving feathery fronds of a poin-
ciana tree, Monty seemed still to hear a
harsh unnatural voice cry, half-delirious:
“She’ll tell you I’m done. It’s a good thing
too, Monty; a good thing—it has saved
me the trouble and beastliness of blowing
my brains out.”
Mr. Montgomery’s eyes left the tree and
descended to the roadway. Down a sidp-
street a patch of sea glinted like pale
polished jade. A few enormous white clouds
glowed with the first gold of sunset, the
red soil exhaled the warmth it had sucked
throughout the long day, and the south-east
breeze chased through the rustling trees.
The wide street lay empty of life except
for a group of native children and, in the
far distance; two women returning from a
bridge-party.
Unconsciously Monty shrugged his shoul-
ders as though to throw aside a load. He
swung off in his loose stride. That voice
followed—flat, without hope, the sort of
thing which made your flesh creep; he won-
dered if Kent had meant what he said, or
was it only fever? He couldn’t tell, yet
it sounded as if the poor devil had touched
bottom and given himself up to despair.
And he was a good fellow, Chris—some-
thing very likeable about him; the trouble
with him had been he had no sense of
humor, had never been able to laugh at
things—people—himself. It didn’t do—he
was quite right even if he was delirious:
if you couldn’t stand up to life, or laugh
if it got you down, you might as well end
it.
Mr. Montgomery caught up with the pic-
caninnies. The eldest little girl, a child of
nine or ten, struggled along, kicking up the
dust, with a baby in her arms, calling
shrilly to a smaller girl and two small,
bright-eyed, wild little boys. Very savage
and important, one of the boys was chasing
the other children with a stick he pretended
was a snake: their cries echoed along the
quiet road. Monty stopped to watch the
fun. Immediately the piccaninnies grew
self-conscious; they paused in the game,
standing' still to stare with the incredible,
unassailable solemnity of colored childhood.
“Hullo, hullo,” said Monty.
Only the eldest girl answered. “Good day,
Mis’ Muntgummery,” she said.
Monty regarded the baby, fat, serious,
returning his inspection from grave brown
eyes which looked wise enough to read the
riddle of the universe.
“My word, Polly,” said Mr. Montgomery.
“That one fine-feller piccaninny. Where
you bin catch’m him-feller?”
Polly giggled; white teeth flashed merrily
in her dark face. “Him belonga Mumma,”
she said, pitying his foolishness.
Monty grinned back. “My word now,
this-felier one big-feller fool—l reckon he
belonga you!” He made a sudden and
disconcerting lunge towards the three other
children, standing so motionless in the
background.
“My word,” he roared, “I’ll give it you!”
They scattered shrieking. Monty put his
hand in his pocket, and, withdrawing it,
pretended to hurl stones at them. Then
he passed on down the path, chuckling,
swinging his arms, with the rather limp
duck of his suit flapping a little on his big
frame and the disreputable topee pushed
weil back on his head. The children
grovelled behind in the dust. They had
discovered that, as usual, Mis’ Muntgum-
mery’s ferociously thrown stones were
number-one fine-feller lollies—the little
round white ones he kept to suck when he
had been smoking too much. They had
holes in the centre and could be worn as
decorations on small brown fingers until
they grew sticky or were all eaten up.
A chorus of delighted screams, sounding
good in Mr. Montgomery’s ears, followed
him cheerfully down the street.
The End.


Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDIC-
TION No. 90 of 1933. BETWEEN JOHANNA
ANNIE MANGELSDORF Petitioner and
FREDERICK WILLIAM MANGELSDORF Respon-
dent.
To Frederick William Mangelsdorf Late of Albury.
TAKE NOTU3E that the said Johanna Annie Mangels-
dorf has commenced a suit against you in this
Honourable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on' the grounds of Desertion for three
years and ‘ upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honourable Court on or before the 16th day
of June, 1933, and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time, the Petitioner will proceed and suit be heard
and ’determined vour absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 22nd day of March, 1933. John F.
Williams, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 76 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY FOR THE REGISTRAR, E. L. Dickson
CHIEF CLERK IN DIVORCE.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
No. 861 of 1932.
Between JEANIE COWAN MORGAN Plaintiff
And HENRY MORGAN Defendant
To HENRY MORGAN.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to HENRY
MORGAN whose last known address was at Port
Pirie West in the State of South Australia that a
Writ has been issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia in an action in which his wife JEANIE
COWAN MORGAN claims an Order for divorce on the
ground of desertion and if HENRY MORGAN desires
to be heard in opposition to the claim for such
Order he must file an appearance in the office of
the Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
within thirty days of the publication of the latest
advertisement directed to be published in this action
otherwise orders may be made against him in his
absence.
GORDON AUGUSTUS PAVY,
S'oljcitor,
44 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends.
IyyiUMBY. —George Humble Mumby, aged
IVA about 86, is inquired for. by bis
daughter. Any person knowing his where-
abouts or particulars of death, please write
No. 255, Bulletin Office, Sydney.
BRIGGS.— George William Briggs, for-
merly of Auckland, N.Z., Tobacconist
and Hotel Porter, or anyone knowing
whereabouts, please
Napier, Herman and Thomson
A M.P. Buildings. Auckland, N.Z
his
with
Solicitors,
A DAMSON.—ALEXANDER ADAMSON,
born Aberdeen, Scotland, about 1845,
deceased. He had a sister who came to Aus-
tralia and married. She or any other sister
or brother or descendants, advantage, write
MR. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
New Book Creates Sensation•
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free
“ noscere,"
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne^
10/6
C.l.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
had its 45th birthday on March 1J
Forty-five glorious years m themosi
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shoppe
than ever it was, and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for tne
past 45 years. The only newspaper 1
Broken Hill covering the whole of tne
Far West. Biggest sales W est oi
Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses with important engagements in
Sydney competed at Moonee Valley last
Saturday. Viol d’Amour and King Colos-
sus weighed out for the mile and a hall
Moonee Ponds Handicap. They shaped so
poorly that it will be surprising if either is,
taken across to Randwick. So tar tins
autumn E. J. O’Dwyer has been unable to
“nick” Viol d’Amour, although this hand-
some stallion looks well to the eye. Twelve
months ago Viol d’Amour captured the All-
aged Stakes at the A.J.C. autamn carnival.
On Saturday he finished last in a compara-
tively weak field. King Colossus was bred
in Maoriland, and is trained by Lou Robert-
son for W. E. J. Craig, who won over £13,090
in stakes with Royal Feast as a juvenile in
the 1926-27 season. Craig is vainly search-
ing for another champion. King Colossus
keeps letting him down.
Two 10 to 1 chauces fought out the finish
of the Moonee Ponds Handicap. Golden
Warbler led all the way, and, resisting a
late challenge from Isle of Astur, scored by
more than a length. Isle of Astur had to
put up a 71b. penalty for winning at Wer-
ribee on the previous Wednesday. Even
then the Westralian gelding had only lib.
more than his Sydney Cup impost (t st.
101 b.). However, Isle'of Astur seems to be
improving with every outing, and is a
genuine stayer. E. Temby, the owner-tiainei,
may give him an opportunity of following in
the steps of Dyed Garments, Lilyveil, lan
’Or Eurythmic and Lilypond, who annexed
the’ Sydney Cup for Westralian sportsmen.
Ruach’s third in the Moonee Ponds Handi-
cap was not an inspiring effort on the part
of “S. A. Rawdon’s” colt. H. Moran, who
is to ride Metallurgy in the A.J.C. St. Leger
and Sydney Cup, had the mount on Golden
Warbler. This was his third success for the
GER.T / Ifsrt GOING. TO TAKE UP
SKATtNcq -mis winter".
Bert a. dang,erous
pastime^
GERT’/'IT Gives OISE SEACEFUU
C-A.RRIA.C3iE "
\" Sometimes a. Eiviwst
uttue ambulamceT
week. Moran is the most promising appren-
tice jockey in Melbourne.
The Juvenile Handicap at Moonee Valley
was run in two divisions. Melason regis-
tered a surprise victory in the first, for which
Nuit d’Or went out an even-money favorite.
Melason had flopped at five furlongs on the
previous Monday (Eight ITours Day), and,
to" the profit of McShortodds, punters con-
cluded that he could not see out three-quar-
ters of a mile. The Blackadder gelding stag-
gered them by leading all the way and hom-
ing half a head in advance of Nuit d’Or.
The winner is raced by his breeder, his dam
being a half-sister to Rakwool, with whom
Sheil landed the V.R.C. Grand National
Steeplechase of 1931. W. Duncan bestraddled
Nuit d’Or,' but even he could not persuade
the colt to warm up until half the journey
was over.
Blue Shot easily accounted for her rivals
in the second division of the Hollymount
Handicap. She is a product of the Manbyr-
nong stud of L. K. S. Mackinnon, V.R.C.
chairman. Her sire Ronsard (by Son-in-
law) was imported from England, and
showed James Scobie several great trials,
but broke down. J. M. Niall, another of the
Victorian racing rulers, took the Rothwell
Steeplechase with Whurlic, who has had
little experience over fences, but will be
adept before long. Whurlic shared second
favoritism with Calfly, and they battled out
the finish. On the strength of his brilliant
win at Flemington on March 8, Wirrate
started at cramped odds. He ruined his
chance by striking a fence about five fur-
longs from home, when on terms with
Whurlic.
Flimsy, half-brother to the Westralian
champion, Olympian, spreadeagled his rivals
m the Knoll Handicap for apprentice riders.
The son of Legionnaire was in a point longer
demand than Greenhorn, who is trained by
George Jones for the M.L. sportsman, W.
R. Kemball. Heavy support for Greenhorn
was based on his having finished second to
Isle of Astur at Werribee three days before.
He is not dependable, and had to be con-
tent with fourth place. Divisions of the
Highweight Handicap went to Thracian
Prince and Eminere respectively. Thracian
Prince carries the colors of H. F. Creswick,
a leading light in the Victorian polo w'orld.
Eminere, a three-year-old by Heroic, bene-
fited by having W. Duncan m the saddle;
but the change of jockeys was made at the
expense of cramped odds.
* * * *
Although Mince Pie (4 to 1) was always
well forward in the Rosehill Club Handicap
she had to crowd on a full head of steam
to stall off a late run by Satmoth (7 to 4),
who was a short neck behind her at the
finish. Satmoth was unlucky not to have
won. He was going great guns in the
straight, where he met with trouble and lost
a deal of ground. Australian Bee (10 to 1)
an ex-unregistered performer, was third. He
promised well at one stage but spoilt his
chance by running out. Solid support for
Love Song brought the Maorilander down
to equal terms with Mince Pie in the bet-
ting. He was practically unsighted through-
out.
A heavy commission for Magnitas in the
Granville Novice Handicap caught McShort-
odds napping. The Magpie prad had not
shown to advantage in his recent outings
and the ringmen took a risk. Eight to one
was snapped up by his backers and ne
started at 7 to 2. Eton Lady (6 to 1)
looked the winner at the distance, but Mag-
nitas put in a fast run and beat D. Lewis s
mare bv two lengths. Wallace Cup (10 to 1)
was a length and a half further back third.
Bill Wedgewood was favorite at 2 to I,
but whatever chance he had was settled when
he was bumped by Rich Lonsdale at the
half-mile. The stewards found Rich Lons-
dale’s rider. R. Parsons, was to blame and
suspended him for two months.
Burlesque registered a comfortable win
from Pantheon Queen in the Juvenile Stakes,
although interference with Leila Vale wounl
have cost him the race had the mare gained
second place. Burlesque’s pilot, S. David-
son, was adjudged by the stewards guilty ot
careless riding and suspended for two
months. He crossed over at the distance,
interfering with Leila Vale and the favorite
Dromos. The latter finished third, three*
quarters of a length behind Pantheon Queen.
Burlesque drifted in the betting from 2 to
1 to fours, but firmed to 5 to 2 before, the
start. Dromos was backed like a certainty
and went out at 9 to 4. _
After a thrilling finish in the Westmead
Handicap, Tom Pinch (5 to 1) scrambled
home a head in front. of the fast-finishing
Twinkle Star (12 to 1), thus depriving
McShortodds of a badly-needed turn-up.
Cabaret (6 to 1) was half a neck away
third. The winner was racing for the first
time in W- Booth’s colors. He is a massive
nag, whose appearance suggests that he can
stay, but he was palpably done at the finish
Backers were well on the spot when they
sent Barrier King (6 to 4) out a red-hot
favorite for the Trial Stakes. Simpson sent
him quickly to the lead and he was un-
troubled to win by two lengths from La
Vixen, who cut Jonker (5 to 1) out of
second money by a head. La Vixen, who
was having her first run in public for several
months, was fairly supported at 8 to 1.
Pentheus was made a solid favorite at
9 to 4 for the Rydalmere Handicap. He
led into the straight but could , only manage
an indifferent fourth. The winner. Ephialtes
(4 to 1), practically led all the way and
won by 24 lengths from Merryland (5 to 2)
and Nellie May (4 to 1). Pentheus’s show-
ing was decidedly poor considering the wea^
calibre of the field.
* * *
Selections for Rosehill next Saturday :
Rawson Stakes: Peter Pan.
Railway Handicap : Jacko ; next, Dermid.
Autumn Handicap: Antique; next, Sat-
IlK Parramatta Mile: Rancliero; next, Grand
Total.
* * •■=
The Liverpool Grand National, the world’s
greatest steeplechase, was run at Aintree
on Friday, and provided the customary
skinner for the bookmakers. The winnei
turned up in Kellsboro’ Jack, a gelding
owned by Mrs. Clark, which went out at
25’s. Really True was second at 6b s, and
the quote for the third horse, Slater, was
50 to 1 Eighteen finished out of 34 starters,
and the time, 9min. 28sec., was a race record.
Tlie favorite, Golden Miller, had been heav-
ily backed since the entries came out, while
Gregalach and Heartbreak Hill also carried
a ton of money. The winner is Irish bred,
and the owner is the wife of Ambrose Clark,
an American who has been trying to win
the race for years. This was the lady s first
essay as an owner, the horse having been
presented to her by her husband as useless.
Husband’s horse also ran.
* * * *
“Tio Diego”: A Maoriland-bred horse lias
scored again in American racing. lea
Trader, running in Phar Lap’s colors, won
the Springtime Handicap of six furlongs at
Agua Caiiente, the hamlet which, though
it is just over the Mexican border, is rim as
a haven for American racegoers. Owner
Davis paid 800 guineas for lea Trader m
M.L., where lie showed himself a speedy cus-
tomer over the shorter distances. Joe Flores,
the second horse, was last year one of the
best of the Western American three-year-olds,
and ran in Phar Lap’s Agua Caiiente Handi-
cap. Quickaway, in third place, is owned by
J. D. Spreckels, whose grandfather imported
Darebin, winner of the Sydney Cup in 1883,
to America. The Agua Caiiente Handicap,
in which another Maorilander, Pillow Fight,
will try to repeat Phar Lap’s success, has
been postponed to Saturday.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Leon Labriola (14st. 31b.) and Walter
Browning (14st. 51b.) -paraded plenty or
fun, fight and fury, in their wrestle at Leich-
hardt Stadium last Saturday night, Brown-
ing, too husky for the seemingly lighter
Labriola, tossed the Italian about as if he
were a bag of bran until his Boston crab
brought him a fall in round three. Biting,
hair-pulling, punching and tossing . each
other over the ropes followed until Labriola
evened the falls in Jhe fifth round. Browning,
however, soon showed his superiority, in the
next, another Boston crab making Labriola
submit.
* * * *
“Midget” Brodie (7st. 7flb.) and Teddy
Lawler (7st. were down to fight for
the Australian paperweight championship a.
North Sydney Stadium. But Brodie weighed
12 ounces more than rules allowed, so Law-
ler’s title was not at stake. Brodie weak-
ened towards the end of the 10-round tussle,
but he beat his opponent to the punch in
every round except the fourth. In this
Lawler landed many hefty hits, and ran out
a decisive points winner.
Footbrawl
A move of great importance in Australian
Rules football was made when the N.&.'v.
controllers of the game consented to vic-
toria taking over the management ot the
game in southern N.S.W., where the national
code enjoys a popularity unknown in Syd-
ney and elsewhere in the State. The change-
over has been advocated for years. by the
Riverina and other southern clubs, since the
game can be more advantageously governed
from Melbourne than from Sydney, as the
experience of the Albury association, which
has been under the banner of the Victorian
authorities for some time, shows. The game
in the south will also feel the benefit of the
change, for the clubs will have the resources
of the Victorian League behind them.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : There were alarums and ex-
cursions in Melbourne when it was stated
that the Victorian Football Association was
seriously thinking of joining up with the
Rugby Union. The association has suffered
much at the hands of the league of late
years and is getting tired of acting as a
trial horse for its more attractive rival, but
the rumor has been denied. As it is, the
Rugby Union has now over 30 clubs in
Melbourne alone, and Sydney saw last year
how the standard of play has come on.
Still, the international code could do with
a few good Melbourne _ grounds, and the
absorption of the association would come
in handy in this direction.
:|: * =i= *
“Amateur Pro.”: N.S.W. Rugby League
is concerned about its team in Sydney Um-
versity. The strength of the Union code
there results in the League club being ‘ re-
stricted in the choice of its players, to
quote a League official. The existence of a
club playing a professional code is an
anomaly in a university in any case. Alone
of the world’s universities Sydney aim
Queensland enjoy that distinction.
* * * *
“Everton”: After a long interregnum, a
Maoriland soccer side will tour Australia
this winter, playing the States and a lest
series. Though the tour will probably be
limited to three. States—N.S.W.. Victoria
and Queensland —players in all States will
be considered for Test-match selection. A
proposed visit from a British team having
fallen through, Germany was approached,
but has declined. Negotiations with Souta
Africa are now proceeding, but the semi-pro-
fessional conditions existing in the round-
ball game in Australia will probably not
recommend themselves to the Afiikanders,
who are rigid amateurs.
(Continued on next page.")
“Don Crew”: As an object-lesson in en-
thusiasm. Mowbray Park Club (Q-
-ran North Bondi closely for the Australian
surf championship in Sydney recently, takes
some beating. The club patrols Burleigh
Beach, and its members have to travel 50
miles to get there each week-end. To com-
pete in the national championships they han
to survive a test in Brisbane, take then
chance of defeat in the eliminating heats on
the morning of the carnival, and contest the
final that afternoon.
* * * *
Haberfield club scooped the pool at River-
view regatta on Saturday. It took the
maiden fours for the Magnus trophy by
three lengths from Glebe No. 1 in smm.
52 4-ssec., and the challenge eights for the
Riverview Gold Cup in smin 17sec. Sydney
won well from Mosman in the junior tours.
Sydney now holds both junior and senior
titles.' St. Joseph’s College first four
rowed the best race of the day to beat North
Shore No 2 in the second heat of the
maiden fours. The Hunter’s Hill boys
could only manage third in the final, but
they look a good thing for the G.P.S. regatta.
* * =i= *
“The Gaffer”: Curious how professional
pedestrianism, which once flourished all over
Australia, is now practically confined to Vic-
toria, with a small following in South Aus-
tralia. In N.S.W. and Queensland the big-
money and Sheffield meetings have vanished
altogether. In Victoria there remains the
Stawell Gift almost alone among the old-time
events, though there are other regular
country meetings and an annual world s
sprint championship in Melbourne. This
year’s Stawell, to be run on Easter Saturday,
has drawn 146 entries from all parts of Aus-
tralia. Founded in 1878, it has kept going
ever since, and every famous. Australian
runner of the past has figured in it at one
time or another, as well as many noted flyers
from overseas.


Mick Simmons
RIFLE
AND
I
AMMUNITION
f wj// w /
SPECIALISTS
World-Famous
Shot Guns
//J
No. 8 HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L.
SPECIAL DUCK GUN,
12G., 34in. steel barrels, both
choke, Greener cross bolt, specially
built for heavy charges and long-
distance shooting; similar in appear-
ance to the No. 3 ;
weight about £l6/5/**
Carriage Paid.
No. 3 HOLLIS’ “THE
RELIABLE” D.8.8.L-
-GUN, 12G„ top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, re-
bounding locks, X bolt, snap fore-
end, half pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight about 7|lb. , . £l5/10,-
Carriage Paid.
??;i 8 THE CERT D.8.8.L.
steel barrels, left choke, ex-
tension rib, bar locks, X bolt,
walnut stock, pistol
* ri P £.4/15/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 19 CERT D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, 30in. steel barrels, choke,
Greener X bolt (A. &
D. action; £7/12/6
Carriage Paid.
WORLD-FAMOUS
SPORTING RIFLES.
No. 1 THE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt
action, fitted with plain
V-back sight; for short, long
or long-rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, 18in. long,
bored and rifled with the
same care as the military
weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight
about 3Jjlb 24/9
Postage, 3/-; Other States, 3/6
No.4a F.N. SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, 22-
cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long
or long-rifle cartridges; 2 I in.
round barrel; weight
about 31 lb 35/"
Postage, 3/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 12 "WINCHES-
TER, SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL 60,
for 22 short, long or long-
rifle rimfire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol grip stock, bolt action,
ladder rear- and gold bead
front-sight; weight
441 b 50 -
Carriage Paid.
No. 8 STEVENS*
SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 52,
22-cal., bolt action,
22in. round barrel, ivory
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight; weight about
4lb 40 -
Postage 3/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 11 STEVENS*
BOLT ACTION RE-
PEATING RIFLE,
22-cal., magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10
long-rifle cartridges, mixed
or separate; 22in. round
barrel, slide action, ivory
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight; weight about
4*ib 85/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for illustrated detailed Shooting List.
All Letters to Box IS b, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonslw.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
‘The Premier Sports House of Australia”
ŵ
ẁ
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The committee appointed
by the Board of Control to consider the
aspects of body-line bowling has completed
its report, which has been forwarded to the
board for consideration at a special meeting
in Melbourne next month. It is cabled also
that the English first-class counties have re-
commended to the Advisory County Cricket
Committee that “body-line bowling, not being
in the best interests of the game, be declared
illegitimate.” The A.C.C.C. is the ruling
body of English cricket after the Maryleboue
club, being composed of a member from each
first-class county, three from the minor coun-
ties, and at least one from the M.C.C.
Altogether it looks as if the unfortunate
wrangle which' everyone on this side was
hoping was squelched is only just beginning.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally” : There is a return in Aus-
tralia and England to the agitation for alter-
ing the l.b.w. rule which raged a couple of
seasons ago. N.S.W. is moving in the mat-
ter and will suggest to the Board of Control
an alteration providing that a batsman be
out if his leg stops a ball mot pitched on
the wicket but which would “in the umpire’s
opinion” have hit the wicket. It will only
make confusion worse confounded if adopted.
It is hard enough for an umpire at present,
when the ball must pitch on the wicket, to
say if a batsman has kept it out of the sticks
with pads or body. Not one batsman in a
thousand given out l.b.w. under the present
rule will, admit it a fair decision. The mar-
gin for error on the umpire’s part will be
greatly increased if the suggested alteration
is made, and there will be further additions
to the ill-feeling which is creeping into a
game which it was once boasted gave no
opening for it.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australians are dumb-
founded at the treatment accorded th; ir left-
hand batsman Nitschke this season, especially
when the attention devoted t 0 others like
OB men, Darling and Bromley is considered.
Nitschke is fourth in the first-class batting
averages for the season, his fifteen innings
averaging 46.33. Against England he scored
69, 28, 38 and 87, and in his last three
big matches of the season scored 117. 124 and
325. passing the 2000-run mark in first-class
cricket. He is a hard-hitting, forcing batsman
with a fine defence and is in the first rank
of Australian fieldsmen.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The trial matches for selecting
the Australian team for England next season
"ill take the form of benefit games for past
players. Victoria will stage one for Blackie
and Ironmonger in November on llie Mel-,
bourne Ground. N.S.W. will do the same
in January for Collins, Andrews and Kelle-
way. Every effort will be made to keep the
matches from clashing with Sheffield Shield
fixtures.
Racquet and Bawl
“Ivooyong”: The Melbourne Cricket Club’s
tennis championships were practically an
AH-Australia go, the Davis Cup team and
players from other States taking part. The
star turn was the singles final between Hop-
man and McGrath, the former winning after
a splendid struggle by three sets to two.
McGrath was match-point on several occa-
sions, but failed to clinch the game. In the
last set he strained his back badly and will
play no more while in Australia. The
doubles, in which he and Crawford were to
meet Turnbull and Qliist, were postponed
indefinitely in consequence. The women’s
singles provided another triumph for young
Joan Hartigan, of N.S.W.
* * * *
“Salisbury”: Tennis breeds temperament
in its devotees. Recently the Canberra and
Newcastle players moved to throw off the
galling yoke of the Ma State tennis authori-
ties and affiliate with the Australian body.
Rhodesia has also done something of the
sort, having withdrawn from the South
African Association and joined up with the
English body. The trouble arose from the
fact that, though Rhodesia has subscribed
liberally to the cost of sending South African
teams abroad and for importing others from
overseas, the money being raised by a levy
of Is. per player, South Africa ' recently
brought out an English team but did not
include Rhodesia in its itinerary.
“Centre Court” : The bookings for the All-
England championships at AVimbledon are
again very heavy and the seats will have to
be balloted for—last year £30,000 had to be
returned to applicants. The Wimbledon
authorities expect an even bigger rush this
tune, for a koutli African team will be sliow-
while all England is eager to see
McGrath and his much-advertised double-
hand backhander.
“The McHaggis”: Tennis is rather out-
side my bailiwick, but I am moved to intrude
on reading that Bunny Austin, the English
player, recently removed his trousers during
a game with the Franchinan Feret in Paris
and substituted .shorts. I have often won-
dered why tennis players do not substitute
kilts for .he cumbersome breeks of the Sas-
senach. I hey permit perfect freedom of
movement. Indeed it was for this reason
they were evolved by my cattle-reiving
ancestors, who found they could negotiate
their native mountains much faster in them
on their return from raiding the Lowlands.
tartans clisti,, S uished by different
taitans, and the general color effect in a
doubles mafeh would add a new note to the
game.
Car and Cycle
’ : J’be Australian Light Car
Grand Pn x race in Victoria this year oro-
thrills, only six of the fifteen
starters finishing within the time limit four
up in W b B nS T^ tish - The turned
lands Rilev ß tiT giving a Brook-
lanas Riley. His time for the 200 miles was
a | aa )^fiil^ U the^|?lace^
Lovte’sT omhsJ gl i y ' ° 0k 1 11 - 8 ' smash when W.
tvombaid charged into the side of the
course. 1 ive spectators were iniured on<>
fastest lap was done bv M
round°in Smffi^-fo Bugatti )’ who, covered the
d m smm. lOsec., averaging 75,35 m.p,h.
This is the third occasion on which Thomp-
son has been successful. His previous wins
were in 1930 and 1932.
. hizz : The Americans are again
nibbling at the idea of tackling the speed
record since Malcolm Campbell hoisted his
hS'ures. F. It. White, who designed
the ob-cylinder car which killed its driver,
-Daytona during an attempt in
. has started on the design of a new
chassis. The engines will be similar to the
Packard job which' was used in the speed-
boat America X, in which Gar Wood won
the world’s record on the water with 124.91
m.p.h. In view of Malcolm Campbell’s rc-
(!XPressed opinion of the unsuitability
of Daytona for these trials nowadays, White
is likely to find some trouble in finding a
driver for his car. for that is the course he
proposes to use.
* * * *
“Differential”: British racing motorists
are finding that the Brooklands track, built
nearly 30 years ago, doesn’t nearly fill their
requirements. Several companies have been
formed recently to build road-racing circuits
on private estates. One at Copsall, not far
from London, is fathered by Malcolm Camp-
bell, Henry Birkett and other big bugs of
the game. The layout includes a six-mile
circuit with plenty of bends and a mile-long
straight. A grandstand to accommodate
50.000 people is to be built, and it is ex-
pected that 250,000 will bn able to watch
the racing. The old manor house will be
turned into a clubhouse.
*•*
“Py Corry”: Maoriland motor-cyclists put
up some good speeding at the recent beach
races at W aikanac. The fastest mile Avas
AFTER THE RATTLE.
CLUB SECRETARY: “I hope your partner, the Colonel, did not use bad language?”
PADRE: “He did cast a jew reflections on the caddy’s antecedents, but I am of the
opinion they were justified.”
done by W. Kilminster, who hit up 101.651
m.p.h., riding a J.A.P. F. Hewer, on a
Fudge, reached 94.736 m.p.h., and C. Cole-
man (Enfield) 93,75 m.p.h. All are new
M. records for machines of 500 c.c.
capacity and over.
The Nineteenth Hole
‘‘Divot Digger”: On present showing the
meeting in the Shivery Isles between a
N. team and Maoriland for the Ivirk-
Windeyer Cup will not come off this year.
Teams from any Australian State may enter
against the All Blacks, but to date the play
for the trophy has practically been between
N.S.W. and the people across the Tasman.
N.S.W. has asked for a postponement, and
this will be granted to a certainty. When
Maoriland was stuck for a team in 1931 the
match was carried over by consent, so there
is a precedent. The Ma State’s excuse is
that none of the top-line players can go to
M. It is a poor one. There should be
no difficulty in getting a team of second-
raters to make a sporting match of it. In
1930 the team from this side was considered
a hopeless one, yet it brought back the
Cup from Christchurch, and there is no rea-
son why history should not repeat itself.
“Susie Swattit” : The women’s Australian
golf championships this season will see a
strong field. N.S.W. associates are rejoic-
ing at the return from Maoriland, which she
has been touring with the Williamson opera
company, of Joan Hammond, wlio.won the
N. title last year and showed up well
for the Australian title. Odette Lefebvre,
winner in N.S.W. the previous season, is on
her way back from France and will also
figure in the big stuff. Victoria will field
Mona McLeod, last year’s Victorian and
Australian championette, and Susie Tolhurst,
three times champion of Victoria and twice
of Australia, while Kate Rymill will fight
the good fight for South Australia.
“Marino”: The South Australian golf sea-
son opens officially on April L when* a con-
siderable section of the population will, in
the words of the song, go—
Gow fin’ a’ th’ day,
Daein’ nae work at a’,
Rinnin’ aboofc wi’ a bag- o’ sticks
Efter a wee bit ba’.
This year club members hope to see some-
thing of their own courses, for, what with
the Australian championships and other clam-
jamferies, the private member of the big clubs
found little opportunity last season for his
favorite vice. This year all the big stuff,
saving the State events, will be Melbourne’s
funeral. .
. “R.A.” : South Australia’s golf champion-
ships will blossom fairly early this year so
as not to clash with the national tourney in
Melbourne. The State events will run from
August 12 to 19 at Kooyonga. The A.I.F.
Cup will be played for on August 26. and the
country championship at Seaton, Kooyonga
and Glenelg from August 28 to September 1
The father-aud-sou competition, a pet stunt
in South Australian golf, lias been postponed
from September 2 to 23 to avoid the clash
with the school holidays. The women will
tight out their championships at Seaton from
August 7 to 11.
“Sandringham” : In spite of the fact that
the Melbourne golf courses, and especially the
greens, are the best in Australia, Cabbage
Garden golfers consider there is plenty of
room for betterment. Recently a joint
committee of the leading clubs was formed
to consider turf improvement. The services
of Professor Wadliam, of Melbourne Univer-
sity, were co-opted as an expert in soils and
manures, and, with two others, lie is to
experiment with grasses on an acre of land
made available by the Commonwealth club.
Ilis two helpers are J. Tait, head greenkeeper
of the Commonwealth club, and F. Lennox,
who holds down the same job with the Vic-
toria club. A special greenkeeper at a salary
of £3(K) a year has been appointed to super-
vise the experimental area.
* * * *
“Fitzeray”: Melbourne golfers are now
busy on their club championships. The Vic-
toria open meeting on the chib’s links at
Cheltenham drew a big crowd, the chief at-
traction being a four-ballcr against bogey.
Once more the young brigade which is so
prominent in Victorian golf to-day came out
on top, 11. F. Tomkins (4) and C. H. Allen
(12) finishing 8 up on the Colonel. An
interesting player—he finished third with
C. A. Champion (11)—was Cecil McVilly,
the Tasmanian and Victorian oarsman and
winner of the 1913 Diamond Sculls. Mc Villy,
who is on the 10 mark, started his golf late,
but shows some aptitude for the game.
. “Brassey”: Country golf clubs are grow-
ing up so thickly nowadays that the day is
in sight when the man on the land will have
to abandon Strawberry and the rest of the
bucolic fauna and make his choice between
becoming a green keeper, a caddie or a
steward at the nineteenth hole. The latest
intruder on the rural Arcady is the Wallachia
club, designed for the benefit of the nobility
and gentry of the Nepean (N.S.W.) district.
It was opened with due ceremony tlie other
day by the president. Dr. K. O.' Jlones, the
feature of the programme being the profes-
sional championship of the Nepean. Tlr's
drew a field of 29 of the leading N.S.W
professionals. C. Gray, winner of the N.S.W.
open last year, took the title with a card of
68.
Miscellaneous
“Huon”: The smouldering ferocity so
characteristic of bowlers broke into flame
in Tasmania the other day when the North-
Western and Southern Tasmanian Bowling
Associations and the Tasmanian association
got into triangular holts. The north and
south darts demanded equal representation
-on the council of the governing body and
the right for each to fill the presidency iii
furn. The Tasmanian lot refused, inferring
it would see the malcontents at Tort Arthur
first. As a result, the two have withdrawn
from the State association and have called
on the Australian Bowling Council to recog-
nise a new crowd formed by them as the only
genuine Tassie bowling organisation.
'»• V Jfc jj.
“Miaow”: The decision 0 f the newly
formed Australian Women’s Amateur Atti-
letic Union that all previous female records
shall be wiped off the slate and a new lot
started as from the first championship meet-
ing just concluded has raised a rare row
among the N.S.W. contingent. The Aus-
tralian union is mostly a Victorian inyfin-
non and as such was received with contumely
by the Ma State amazons. However, Ma
was forced to join in, and now finds that
all the records, mostly compiled on the north
bank of the Murray, are to be one with
Aineveh and Tyre. Only Queensland stuck
to Ma during the scrap over the decision,
and the majority verdict goes, in consequence.
* * * *
• * itzc ray : The race for the Victorian
eight-oar championship on the Yarra saw
Hawthorn win by a length and a half from
Richmond m lbmin. Msec, for the two miles.
Hie time was the best for 10 years, but wind
and tide were with the oarsmen. Albert
lark, last year’s winners, were out of the
nunt. Hie champion sculls title was retained
tn C ; F* Ie PP Ie . r > of Yarra Yarra club. Here
and ~oV 1“ d were against the winner,
as the time, 22mm. 22sec., indicates, it;bein'
a record for loitering in this event. The
} H-torian crew for the King’s Cup in Bris-
bane is the same as that which won on the
xair a last year, save that F. Ruglin, ertier-
fw Cy , n \ l932 ’ takes-the place of K. Rath an-
crew is a h '“ VI


fn in q
QMm
W
To save delay in writing to
London, J.llott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON?-then The Langham!
When you visit London, old friends must
be told of your arrival—and so in your
bedroom at the Langham you will find a
telephone. London nights can be warm—
but thro’ your open windows at the Langham
comes a breeze from Regents Park nearby.
A few yards from the door the traffic
of London’s west-end hums, but around
and within the Langham there is peace—
and the dignity, the watchful, efficient
service which is the essence of English
hotel keeping.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Miss Crowdy was the hub of social Sydney
last week. A luncheon by the Women's
Association and a presentation of a gor-
geous opal brooch and a fitted travelling-bag
by Lady Game on behalf of 50 inti-
mate women friends were a prelude to the
larger and more popular events. At Ball
Green, the home of General and Mrs. A. T.
Anderson, goou-byes were accompanied with
flowers, in baskets, in posies, in sheaves,
so that the homeward-bound car looked like
a prim a donna’s. Mrs. Anderson’s contri-
bution was a tall sheaf of pale pink gladioli,
and she greeted her guests in platinum
laces. The night was a freezer, but great
fires blazed in all the rooms.
Jean Cheriton had the luck of it for her
party. The day was perfect and the lawns
at Doone proved irresistible. The “Middle”
girls in their grass-green tunics made attrac-
tive ladies in waiting; they also were re-
sponsible for the programmes, in color and
in black and white, which they handed to
the guests at the foot of the garden steps.
Lady Game came to this party in beige pink
chiffons and a shady hat. With her were
her guests, Mrs. W. It. Eden and Mrs. Pres-
ton. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, in lettuce-green
georgette, voiced farewells and good wishes,
the while handing Miss Crowdy a box
of red roses, and Joyce Beazley a box
of pink blooms. Miss E. M. Tildesley was
there; so was Bea Macdonald, in mushroom-
pink, her deep green jade necklace matching
the knot in her hat. Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax
wore navy flat crepe and told mutual friends
of Hector Macquarrie’s success in London;
and Alexander Gordon’s lady had white
spots as big as sixpences on her black frock.
Paddy-Ann Dunn brought fianc6 Stephen
Tennent, and everyone had a word for Marr
•Thompson and his wife.
Outside, the plash of a fountain, the
gleam of the harbor in the distance, the mys-
tic beauty of tree and shrub formation that
is only got on a moonless starry night;
inside, flowers in profusion, long-stemmed
dahlias, roses and asters, huge hydrangeas
in every shade, and marigolds spilling their
goiu; and running through it all the music
of George White’s violin and the songs of
Spencer White and Gwen Selva. This was
the setting for Miss Crowdy’s final farewell
party at Government House. Rosemary Game
with her friend Rosemary Budge handed out
programmes, while Philip and David looked
to the comfort of all. As there were over
300 guests, “Giff” had a busy night, but
he was aided by Major Royce Shannon, Cap-
tain Geoffrey Hughes, and Captain lan
Campbell.
For three days last week the Feminists
sat in conference at their stronghold in 77
King-street, and against a backcloth of black-
and-gold velvet they framed, propounded and
carried resolutions for the furtherance of the
welfare of women and children. Mrs. B. S. B.
Stevens, wife of the Premier, opened the
session, and began by congratulating the club
on the completeness of its agenda paper.
It was imposing enough to satisfy the most
ardent reformer, and under the leadership of
Miss Preston Stanley the meeting lost no
time in getting to grips with it.
But this Letter wonders whether any coun-
try in the world can show at the moment
better evidence of a concern for the child
than you can find on Military-road, Mosman.
There, in one of its busiest parts, has stood
for years a substantial terrace of 12 two-
storeyed dwellings. Behind it was tucked
an R.C. day-school, with a cramped play-
ground. For two months past the knackers
have been at work, and to-day the last of
the bricks are being thrown down. The
whole terrace is being demolished to make
the playground larger.
G. B. Lancaster, who ranks with Alice
Grant Rosman as the best-seller among Aus-
tralian and Maoriland writers, and whose
“Pageant” has just been a tremendous suc-
cess in the U.S.A., expects to leave London
on a visit to these parts in September next.
The American Literary Guild chose
“Pageant” as its February book—which
alone meant a circulation of 30,000 through
this one organisation. This is the first
time a thing like that has happened to an
Australian writer.
Now that home is not a home without a
wireless, the attention of woman is riveted
on the stage of the Town Hall, which for
the currency of the Radio Exhibition has been
converted into a broadcasting studio. Now
that she sees how it is done, she will derive
still more pleasure from listening-in as
she peels the potatoes or darns the chil-
dren’s stockings. Next in importance are
the labor-saving devices. There is a mop
that does away with the washing of linoleum
—a liquid wax is sprayed on the floor, the
mop attached to the vacuum-cleaner, a few
turns, and the result is a clean and a pol-
ished floor. Both men and women are
attracted to the washing-machines and to
the electric ranges. Every make has its
points, over which the demonstrator waxes
eloquent. On one range you cook most of
the dinner in the oven, after the style of a
waterless cooker; another keeps the kitchen
supplied with hot water, and this at no extra
expense, the water being heated while the
dinner is being cooked.
Very quietly about ten days ago W. H.
O’Malley Wood married Mrs. Raines at St.
Andrew’s Church of England, Roseville.
O’Malley Wood, a District Surveyor in the
long ago, is chairman of Commissioners of
the Rural Bank.
The Sam Horderns are losing their
younger daughter, Audrey having just an-
nounced her engagement to William (Bill)
Winter-Irving of Yandra, Nagambie, a limb
of one of the oldest squatting trees in Vic-
toria. At the Willsallen-Baillieu wedding it
will be remembered that Audrey was one of
the attractive ’maids who followed Betty,
while Bill Winter-Irving came up from Mel-
bourne to stand by his friend Bill Baillieu.
From up Dubbo way comes word of
“Chick” (Nola) Ivicrath’s wedding. This
is to take place on the Wednesday after
Easter; the bridegroom-to-be is Mick,
eldest son of the T. M. Scotts, of Burroway
station. “Chick” is the second-youngest
daughter of the William Kieraths, of Bok-
hara, Narromine.
Colored electrics and bunting attracted
the eyes of Sydney ferry-travellers to the
Nieuw Zeeland on Saturday; attracted, too,
over 600 to spend “A Night in Holland,” in
the interests of the Food for Babies fund.
There was dancing on the decks, bridge in
the lounges, a cinema and Dante with his
magic. When you got tired of all this, you
stepped into a speedboat and went tearing
over the harbor to cool off. Lady Game,
who wore a long black velvet coat over her
black laces, brought Joan Eden in palest
green chiffons and a dark green velvet coat,
son David and Mr. Bathurst.
Here’s a noted horsewoman, Cassie Cairns,
who has not only won hundreds of ribbons
and trophies at different gymkhanas and
shows, including Sydney Royal, but can
play a good
game of polo,
and did so last
year at Cob-
bitty. Any
Sunday you
are driving or
hiking along
the North
Shore line
roads you will
meet Miss
Cairns and her
riding pupils.
They are of all
ages, ranging
just now from
four years to
over 60, which
suggests that
the _ horse is
coming back to
favor. Indeed
Mi s s Cairns
says the ani-
maf has never shown signs of being out of
favor since she started her riding school at
Turramurra six years ago. It was in S ot-
land and in Kyneton (Vic.) that she
learned to know her horses, and now she does
everything for 20 of them, feeding and groom-
ing, clipping and doctoring. Photo, from
Howard Harris.
Gertrude Odillo Maher’s exhibition at
the Grosvenor Galleries is attracting a lot
of attention, and already the red seal of
approval has been attached to many, the
trustees of the Gallery being responsible
for that on “The Coronation,” after Fra
Angelica, from San Marco. Gertrude, who
is an Australian, has lived for some years
in France and Italy. Her show consists of
29 miniatures, all based on great works of
art in the galleries of Florence and Rome.
One of the attractions of Festival Week
will be the Goddess of the Air Ball at Bur-
dekin House. This will take place on April
6, after the Goddess has been crowned two
days earlier at Prince Edward’s. The
Howard Smith people are giving free passage
to aspirants to the title from the different
States, and the Australia is putting them
up. Proceeds go to Prince Alfred Hospital.
Macdonald, Hamilton (P. 0.) Co. have
offered a first-class passage in any of their
cruises to the winner of the deck-quoit
match to be played in the interests of the
Church of England Migration Scheme. At
the Quambi f@te on Saturday experts will
show how tue game should be played. After-
wards entries will be received and arrange-
ments made for the finals at one of the big
sports grounds.
At the reception in honor of the Lud
Mayor and his wife by the Royal Empire
Society at their rooms in Bligh-street, Hugh
Denison’s lady stood beside her president
husband and received the guests in a black
lace frock with a cape of black sequins
and a coronet of black velvet leaves on her
hair. The presentation roses splashed their
crimson fragrance against the Lady Mayor-
ess’s frock of ecru lace. Every now and
again in the moving crowds the eye was
gladdened by the tawny dahlias and golden
foliage that stood in great bowls about the
room, and the ear was soothed by the music
from the verandahs. Nearly every other
woman held a fan. some long, ostrich-feather
affairs, others hand-painted, and all very
beautiful. Black lace seemed to be the
favorite in frocking, and noteworthy in this
cobwebby mesh ness was that worn by Kelso
King’s lady and by Mrs. W. G. Layton. Mrs.
Norman Lowe’s frock of silver and pink
floral lame with its fur-banded cape was
another that caught the eye, and so did
the violet-striped velvet of Allen Taylor's
lady.
Annette Kellerman didn’t speak much
about her swimming when she dropped in ro
say “Hullo” t-> The Bulletin the other
day. But she
did say how
much she is
revelling in
the renewal of
f r i e n dships,
and how she
means to make
the very most
of her all-too-
short stay. On
the morning
of her arrival
by the Orsova,
Annette was
up at three
o’clock so that
she would be
on deck for
the first sight
of land and
to see the sun
light up the
harbor. Only
in passing did.
she mention her eight glasses of hot water
a day, her “daily dozen,” the cocktails she
doesn’t drink and the cigarettes she doesn’t
smoke. But her parties are not dry.
For years now she has made her home
in Europe, and for convenience she always
keeps on her flat in Paris. It is so easy
to fly over to London to see the latest play.
She went over for the special gala opening
performance (for charity) of Noel Coward’s
“Cavalcade,” and had some apprehension
that the film version would spoil for her
the memory of the play. But she pronounces
the picture the most wonderful she has ever
seen. The English, she says, have regained
their old prestige in Europe. Other nationali-
ties let the depresh get them down, and show
it in their gloomy faces. Not so the Eng-
lish, who take all their misfortunes in the
day’s march and ask no sympathy.
More fascinating than anything else
Annette has found her talks over the ail'.
At Radio Coloniale (Paris), one of the big-
gest short-wave stations in the world, sic;
gave, for three months, a one-hour talk each
week; half of the time she would speak in
French and the other half in English. Her
subjects covered clothes and their fascinat-
ing accessories, physical education and sports
in all parts of the world ; most loved of all
was an occasional children’s hour. She got
thousands of letters, and prizes most those
from the kiddies. For six months she spoke
from KFI in Los Angeles, probably the
biggest station west of Chicago. She knows
all about health, diet and physical educa-
tion in French, German, Italian, Dutch,
Danish and Scandinavian ; she has lectured
on those subjects in their own languages to
the inhabitants of ten countries —of them
all, Germany is the keenest on diet and
physical perfection. Annette and her hus-
band expect to leave in about six weeks’
time for the islands, where they intend to
make something different in travelogues.
Photo, by Bulletin photographer, who, by
the way, made the first photograph that
Annette ever had taken.
Annette’s husband is an American, name of
Sullivan —one of those quiet, thoughtful,
very engaging American men. He knows
most things there are to know about picture-
making ; and when he isn’t thus occupied he
finds plenty to do as Annette’s business
manager.
Annette Kellerman was a very good excuse
—and a very attractive one, too- —for the
N.S.W. Women’s Amateur Swimming Asso-
ciation to have a luncheon at the Carlton.
Annette, who is a vice-president of the club,
with a basket of pale-pink cactus dahlias in
front of her, told how glad she was to be
back for however short a time, and how sorry
that her stage work had made it necessary to
give up championship swimming. As cham-
pion swimmers are among Australia’s natural
products, there were lots of speakers, Fanny
Durack (Mrs. Gateley), Claire Dennis and
and Mrs. W. Chambers among them.
man who knows how to combine pleasure
and business is Sturt Griffith, of Griffith,
Hassel and Griffith, patent attorneys. Early
in April he leaves on a tour of England and
the Continent, taking with lnm matters relat-
ing to Australian industries and patents
generally. Being a flight-lieutenant in the
R.A.A.F. Mr. Griffith will inspect aviation
concerns whenever he can, and will do much
flving in the course of his work. He intends
to visit Scotland by air, landing in the castle
grounds of his uncle, Sir Richard Griffith,
Bart. Sydney’s young people will miss the
little airman, for he is a hue dancer aud
athlete. _ ,
Passing through Sydney by the Tanda
early in April, artist Mabel Hookey, of
Rokeby House, near H'obart, and her sister
Dora. The latter brings her camera work
into line as a sister art to paint and palette.
The sisters are off to Japan for a three
months’ holiday. The breezy, upstanding
artist Mabel finds time to farm her own land,
with good farm men to help get the best
out of soil acquired by grandfather Stokeil
soon after he stepped ashore in 18-d.
Playwrights and actors, made or in the
making, will find much of interest in the
Theatre Arts Exhibition which will be
opened by Lady Game at the Blaxland Gal-
leries on April 3. This will be the first of
its kind to be held in Sydney, and will be
carried out on the lines of those held in
England and on the Continent.
Velvet repeats itself over and over again
in the winter hats, which are once more
small and compact. VcloUrs and fur-felts
and fur itself are the materials mostly used,
and in spite of the edict that hats are to
be worn straight across the forehead, most
of the small ones are worn with a list to
the left, completely wiping out your eye-
brow if it is of arched architecture. Varia-
tions of the beret will depend from one
side of the head only if you are young or
very pretty, and the other side of the head
must show sculped waves.
Steel ornaments appear on every second
black hat; nose veils will cause spots before
the smart woman’s eyes; borders of feather,
flat and very soft, warm many toques. The
ojd knitted wool antimacassar has been the
inspiration for many of the woollen caps,
and something that looks suspiciously like
macramd work enhances an occasional crown.
Three rows of lace outlining one crown
catches the eye. It is made of leather as
fine as silk.
Queensland's quota:—
The Governor, Lady Wilson and daughter Marjorie
are going to Sydney for Easter and will be the
guests of the Games at Government House.
St. Patrick’s Hay gathering was held with the
thermometer at 96 in the Exhibition Grounds.
The Caledonian pipers were amongst the bands. Sir
Leslie was a guest at a dinner given by the Irish
Association. President D. J. C. McGrath welcomed
him. Judge Brennan, Archbishop Duhig, Premier
Forgan Smith, Home Secretary Hanlon, Lud Mayor
Greene, the Rev. Nathan Levine and A. C. Elphin-
stone were among the speakers and there was a
musical programme. A tribute was paid to The
Bulletin for the help it had always given to Aus-
tralian literature.
A historic Brisbane home, convict-built Bulimba
House, is in the market; an offer of £ll2O was
refused the other day. There is said to be a box
of gold buried somewhere in the grounds. It was
built in 1850 for D. C. McConnel under Andrew
Petrie’s supervision and was called Toogoolawah.
It is made of freestone quarried near Brisbane and
has a fine Georgian staircase.
Barbara Sisley arranged the programme for the
first night of the Shakspeare. Society’s season. Presi-
dent A. D. Graham did the welcoming. Frith
Edmonds, Beatrice Pugh and Ted England sang and
Jack Ellis played.
Richard H. Draney, son of the R. H. ■ Draneys, of
Auchenflower, married Jessie L. Dobson, daughter
of the F, J. Dobsons, Caboolture. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in ivory satin
with a veil of Brussels net, and carried a posy of
carnations. May Dobson and Beryl Draney ’maided;
Ailsa Uhlman, in pink Victorian gown, was a flower
girl. The ’moon rises in the Southern States and
Tasmania.
At St. Alban’s, Cunnamulla, Jasper Wise and
Mary Jane Smith were made one. The bride, who
v y as given away by A. E. Sabien, wore white
bridal satin and tulle veil and carried white roses.
Miss B. Wise and Georgine Smith ’maided in pink
and blue ; little Dorothy O’Brien was trainbearer
in shell pink. The breakfast was at the bride’s
home.
The Queensland Listeners’ League has presented
the Mater Misericordiae Public Hospital with a radio
installation and earphones. Archbishop Duhig
accepted the gift on behalf of the Sisters of Mercy.
V. E. Kington, hon. sec. and treasurer of the
league, said that 486 sets of headphones and three
receivers had recently been installed at the Brisbane
General hospital. A five-valve receiver and 166
headphones have been given to the Mater, one
for each bed. V. C. Gair, M.L.A., thanked the
league and the Postal Electricians’ Union, which in-
stalled the radio, on behalf of Mother Alban.
Jeffrey. A. Wright, Clifton, married Irene Ann
Hope, of Southport. The bride; who was given away
by her father, was in ivory flat crepe with a cut
tulle veil and white satin floral muff. Evelyn
Linnett and Marjorie Bayley ’maided in early-Vic-
torian Nile-green frocks, with lemon hats and muffs.


m
i Sffl
A
those
present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
“Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name—and look for the “Hec-
worth brand on every article.
The Most Wonderful
Value in the World.
iiimtiiitiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiriiii
STRAUSS
Album of
Famous Dances.
cowTfcsrt
-j sn'Swvj dO wntnv
SSflVdlS
2fe
Contains:
MORGENBLATTER (Morning
Leaves) Waltz
BLUE DANUBE Waltz
KUNSTLER-LEBEN (Artist’s
Life) Waltz
THOUSAND AND ONE
NIGHTS Waltz
WEIN, WEIB UND GESANG
(Wine, Woman and Song) Waltz
DOCTRINEN Waltz
TALES FROM VIENNA
WOODS Waltz
WIENER BLUT (Viennese
Life) Waltz
WIENER KINDER (Viennese
Children) . . Waltz
ROSES OF THE SOUTH . . Waltz
AURORA Waltz
RADETZKY March
ANNEN Polka
CARNIVAL Galop
Price 2j 6
Posted 2/8
iiiiiH-iiMiimiimmiiiiHiiiitim
Obtainable from All Music Sellers
or
ALLAN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
State Theatre Building, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Moonee Valley had a bright, warm day for
its races, and feminine patrons sported a
brave array of tailor-mades. Valerie Purves
wore a suit of lime-green woollen repp topped
with a cap. toque of black velvet. Mrs. Mas-
sey Burnside, who accompanied her, chose
golden-brown flecked tweed and a matching
felt hat. Mrs. Oolin Fraser chose all black ;
with her was Mrs. Baldocock, recently re-
turned. from a visit to India. Mrs. Oscar
Eempnere was companioned by her daughter,
Mrs. Rodney Segrave, on a visit from Eng-
land, and Margot Lempriere. Mrs. Segrave’s
grey tweed suit was topped by a Wcdgwood-
bJue tome with shaded feather trimming.
Ihe Lauchlan Mackiunons, Colonel E. Ander-
son (an English visitor), Mrs. Archibald
Currie, the Alec Hunters and Mr. and Mrs.
James Purves were among the patrons.
Phe Royal Horticultural Society’s autumn
show at the Town Hall was strong in
dahlias of giant size standing erect upon
stems as thick as one’s finger. An apricot-
tinted cactus specimen named John Croiien
Avas the champion. Knight Frank Clarke,
Avno launched the show, showed the cham-
pion gladiolus, a W. H. Phipps, its color
tourmaline and pale coral, with blossoms
nearly as large as a teacup. From the
roses was selected a flesh-pink Ophelia,
grown by Mrs. Shannon, of Hampton, to
queen it over the rest.
There was a mingling of representatives
ot many nations at the. International Club
to meet Irina Eristof, who would be a prin-
cess ,f die Romanoffs hadn’t been wiped out
by the Bolsheviks. The guest of honor, who
is only 19, came with Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
with whom both she and Poultney Bigelow,
who is a sort of step-grand-uncle to the
Russian girl, are staying. Mr. Bigelow, who
vi 0n ? tV, 1 "', held Ia Professorial chair at
lale, is 79, but, in the words of the Scrip-
tures, his natural vigor is not abated. He
is a terror in debate, and saunters around
tne city and suburbs, an arresting white-
bearded figure, arrayed in a grey flannel
suit, over which is worn the sort of black
cape conspirators wear in operas. He tops
the outfit with a black beret. Miss Eristoff
wore a jacket suit of beige crepe d e Chine,
topped by a brown felt hat. Mrs. Brookes
opped her black flat crepe gown, Avhich had
touches of white, with a black hat wreathed
in yellow and mother-of-pearl blossoms.
Among those who assembled in the rooms,
Avhich were gay with asters and gladioli, were
av Ar kmmerton, Mrs. Percy Russell, Mrs.
it' Mm’tffl, Mrs. J. Dye, Mrs. Arthur
Hoi dern and Mass Cheong.
gathering at the Inter-
national Club Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred Brookes
gaie a tea-party at their Malvern home to
tv Jl er I " t , rodu ? e Miss Eristoff and Mr.
«r - - \ e slim • dark-eyed hostess sported
d nock ot pale grey crinkled crepe, made with
;L? aiK i a i lKl toPPed Avith a dull blue toque
eap. Autumn foliage and berries figured in
a posy presented to Miss Eristoff and in the
decoiations of the reception-room.
Bridge was played afternoon and evening
at the Caulfield home of Mrs. A- E. Holt
in aid of the Tweddle Baby Hospital at
Footscray. Mrs J. W. Springtliorpe, Mrs.
T W ' An ? liss and Mrs.
• • Fan in Webb had charge of the affair.
raise fnnrW an ., eve ning of bridge, also, to
aise funds for the Returned Army Nurses’
Mrs b ’w at «i the cl ] lbroo, ns in Anzac House,
lenn' J,'. Sloaae ’ from N.S.W., and Mrs. Cul-
S’ fl ® m Bananaland, both former army
nurses, Avere among the guests.
B r noth orn °*'V 1 all IJ T Oo . ke8 ’ Pictured here by
• f thorn, has put her organising ability
the%nJ e f lltl f re supplement the funds of
tb - - Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, of
which she is
president—the
Sunshine
Shop, in Col-
lins -street,
which was
opened on
Thursday
afternoon by
Lud Mayor
Smith and is
booked to end
it s retailing
career next
Friday. Mrs.
Brookes,
whose husband
is famous in
tennis circles,
is a commis-
sioner of the
Girl Guides,
and is presi-
dent of Queen
Victoria Hospital a nd of the Auimal Wel-
fare League Among the saleswomen at the
Sunshine Shop are the Gullett lady Mrs
James Purvea, Mrs, R. White, Mrs Colin
r a B T^ Ml o S - „ C - R* Cowper, Miss Nyulasy
and Effie Ball. Amy Castles is arranging
concert programmes daily.
Mrs. Edric Henty, who is to accompany
her husband on a tour abroad commencing
this week, said good-bye to friends at a tea
party staged by her sister, Phyllis Wilkfnsoil,
Mrsß S lll'a ht ** e of her mother,
and white S Tfl “
velvet hat and the youthful hostess Cobalt
blue woollen pique frock was scattered S
steel buttons and topped bv a small w?i ,
matched her dress. Mrs Hell, ' at
H. Henty were in black ‘ V d Mrs *
*>■>«»
stepped by h haS l r a . cak ewalk
MadaLe 1 CockeTton h? &^ de ”
S Ch wh ( o°Z 1 S
termed gown, and Madame Ghillet, L'lTry
At a Scottish gathering, held appropri-
ately at Scotts Hotel on Friday, our new
Agent-General, Richard Linton, and his wife
were given a send-off to the accompaniment
of the pipes. President
C. W. Wilson told about a visit to Holyrood
Palace, there was music, some of it by the
Highland Pipe-band, and Jock Kerr mono-
logued. Mrs. Wilson combined pink and blue
in her draperies and Mrs. Linton brightened
her all-black gown and velvet coatee with a
shoulder-spray 0 f roses. Mrs. Brian Laing,
whose husband is lion. sec. of the Scots,
wore black lace.
While womenfolk sipped tea in the cafe
ol a city drapery shop each afternoon of
last \veek, mannequins displayed winter wear
tor all occasions. The knit-wear—sports
smts, jumpers _ and cardigans—was attrac-
tive. A scarlet jumper had sleeves made up of
lines of red, white and black, and the same
lines were introduced cleverly on black frocks,
in evening gowns, all long and clinging, the
onlookers made acquaintance with “reptile”
satin, which . has a crocodile-skin sort of
pattern and is very shiny, a change from
tne delustred fabrics now mostly used for
evening wear. _ The frock shown was of
palest petal pink made in princess mode
with a trilly detachable cape. Many gowns
had as an adjunct a glittering sequin cape,
silver or gold.
After the annual survey of the South
xarra auxiliary of the Women’s Hospital,
at which Mrs. Percy Russell was elected
president, Mrs. R. N. Corney hon. sec., and
airs. i. Iverr hon. treas., there was a social
gathering at Fawkner Park kiosk, when Ur.
Ltliel Osborne gave an address upon hos-
pital and other social services abroad. Musi-
was made by students of the Uni. Con. Mrs.
■Herbert Brookes, who presided, was accom-
panied by her guest, Irina Eristoff.
Looks from out this window Lady
Ellen Milli-
cent. Eouise
M o nta g u,
daughter of
the Duke of
M a n c hester,
who is visit-
ing; Australia
with ‘ ,li e r
brother, Vis-
count Mande-
ville, and his
wife, who
was Nell
Stead, of Mel-
bourne. Th e
party while in
Melbourne are
at Amesbury
House, South
Yarra, where
reside Mi’.
John Grim-
wade and his
wife, who is a
sister of the viscountess. The picture is a
special one b.y Broothorn.
There was a gathering of artists and art-
lovers at W. R. Sedon’s home, Camberwell,
when painter W. B. Mclnncs and his wife,
booked for travel abroad next month, were
entertained. Mr. Mclnncs has a commis-
sion to paint the portrait of the Duke of
York for the Castlemainc Gallery. The
ballroom at Ramornie " was decked with
hydrangeas and zinnias. Mrs. E. H. Mair,
who lent a helping hand to the host, wore
lace of berry-red tint, and Mrs. Mclunes
was in black chiffon velvet.
Headed by Mrs. T. M. Pomeroy, with
Mrs. J. J. Daly and Vera Pomeroy as lion,
secs., a committee of women engineered a
dance at the Cathedral Hall on Thursday,
to help St. Vincent’s Hospital, with good
financial results.
Colonel and Mrs. Percy Buckley, who have
been paying a visit to friends in Melbourne,
will return to England via M.L. Mrs.
Buckley poured a farewell cup of tea for
several guests at the Alexandra Club.
The Crouch Prize of £75, awarded annu-
ally by the Ballarat Gallery, has been won
this year by Archie Colquhoun, one of
Max Meldrum’s pupils, with an oil study of
gladioli and Michaelmas daisies. John Dong-
staff was the judge, and the rejoicings of
the Mcldrumites are loud in the land.
Dr. Milton G. Edison, of Caulfield, is
booked for further study in Europe. He will
go as assistant-surgeon of the Strathnaver.
The Metropolitan Operatic Society put on
a charity show, “The Sparklers’ Revue,”
in which grave and gay items were mixed.
The production was directed by William L.
Daley, and James Gawne waved the baton
over members of the Essendon Orchestral
Society, who assisted.
In “The Command to Love” Jean Duncan,
as the wife of .the French Ambassador, makes
entrance in a backless gown of luminous
white satin with lots of’ train. Bands of
white ostrich-feather trimming just at the
elbow seem to have no visible means of sup-
port. In the seeded act she is a study in
the faintest green chiffon with matching muff
and large hat; and in the third act her riding
suit comprises cream sports breeches and a
scarlet shift. Coral Brown, as Manuela,
wife of the Spanish Minister of War, wears
a gown of gold lame in the ball scene, and
in her gold-gloved hand she waves a fan of
shaded green feathers. For her tea-party
with the gay marquis her’frock is petunia-
pink with a long coat of flowered georgette
and a shady pink crinoline straw hat.
South Aus. tunes in:—
Knight Henry and Misses Molly and Helena New-
land return to Adelaide by the Orama. Mrs. J.
Duncan Hughes leaves by the Strathnaver this week •
her father, Brig.-General George Dean, will accom-
pany her as far as Bombay. Mrs. Duncan Hughes
is taking a small nephew to school in England” his
parents, Captain and Mrs. Alan Dean, are stationed
in India.
The End Mayor entertained the captain and officers
of the German cruiser Ivoln at the Town Hall. Every-
one regretted the absence of Mrs. C. R. J. Glover
who is still recuperating after her recent serious
operation. The Lud Mayor made a brief speech of
welcome, and was seconded by Councillor Hombui--
who spoke at length in German. The captain was
not so fluent in English when he returned thanks.
The private view of Ernest Buckmaster’s paintings
at the Society of Arts’ Gallery drew an appreciative
attendance; knight William Sowden, who performed
the opening ceremony, spoke in glowing terms of the
artist’s work. The Sowden lady, who accompanied
her husband, will pay her tribute to art when she
opens an exhibition of paintings on glass by a
talented young Hungarian artist on a visit to
Australia.
Mrs. Carlisle McDonnell, who lost her son the air-
pilot in a ’plane tragedy in Victoria, left by the
Esperance Bay this week for England on a two
years’ visit. Her daughter, Eileen McDonnell, is at
Oxford.
A young widower, Dr. Alan Britten Jones, has
just announced his engagement to pretty Molly
Gunson, the eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. B,
Gunson.
Yvonne Richardson, who recently returned from
England with her father, Professor A. E. V. Richard-
son, after a trip through America, where the pro-
fessor was a delegate at the Ottawa conference, left
Adelaide again this week by the Barrabool. ' She
joins her mother in London, where she will be
presented.
At the Amateur Turf Club’s meeting at Cheltenham
chairman J. H. Morish and his wife entertained at
afternoon tea, always a cheery function. Mrs. Morish
looked smart in a black corduroy velvet tailored suit
with a white satin vest; she wore a black toque
banded with golden pheasant feathers. Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Coles, who have just returned from England
were among the guests present. Mrs. Coles wore a
black tailored coat over a red marocain toilette and
a small black straw hat with a band of white loses
across the back.
Away in YVestralia ;
An all-white bride was Dm, elder daughter of the
W. G. Randell couple, when she mounted the steps
of Trinity Congregational Church for her wedding
with Ross, son of Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Smith. The
marriage garment of Mechlin lace over georgette,
with its flowing train, was' misted over with tulle
veil, a detachable corner of which was worn across
the face. Roses and white stephanotis perfumed the
bouquet. Bride’s sister Beryl and ’groom’s sister
Betty attended in sunset georgette, the capes of
their gowns being moored in position with twinkly
jewels. Roses garlanded their hair and they carried
muffs of flowers. The cake" was cut at the home of
the bride's parents, where a marquee spread its
shelter on the lawn and the young folks danced
into the small hours.
For its first 1933 social the Repertory Club did
useful work with trestles, rods and curtains, thereby
adding considerable area to the McNess Hall’s stage.
Margot Law and Mrs. A. Cummins twinkled forth
in “Rizzio’s Boots”; “The Murder in the Foyer,” a
Grand Guignol burlesque, evoked shrieks of delight
from the audience. Pianist Jean Herbert, Faith
Court with her violin and song-and-dance act, John
Brooks talking on Chekhov and a series of tableaux
filled up the programme.
Lassies with lusty vocal chords swarmed into
Claremont baths for the girls’ inter-school swimming
carnival. M.L.C. had a victory, with St. Hilda’s
a length behind. I’. Gordon, of the winning seminary,
proved herself champion mermaid.
Joy Huggett, pupil of Miss Egan at St, Hilda’s,
has plucked the L.A.B. exhibition tenable in London
—an honor which has not come to this State for
many years.
Crowds came daily to murmur appreciation of
Hans Heysen’s masterpieces exhibited for the first
time in Perth. The management expressed its
satisfaction at the sales, and copies of “Summer,”
which by plebiscite vote was favorite picture of
the exhibition, were much sought after.
After delivering messages of peace and goodwill,
the Kbln up-anchored and turned her prow towards
the open sea. The German cruiser, which embarked
upon a 12-months’ cruise last December, will spend
two months in Australian waters. Among many
entertainments for the officers and men an evening
at the trots proved an original diversion. The biggest
function on the ship was a midday cocktail party.
Piivate paities with some of the - officers as guests
of honor were given by Dr. and Mrs. Bruce Hunt,
Dr. and Mis. Paton and Mr. and Mrs. Joe Bunning.
Vinia de Loitte, Mrs. Howard Vernon in private
life, gave an entertaining afternoon in the Savoy
ballroom, when she illustrated her story of “The
Mikado’’ with many of the opera’s most delightful
songs. A delectable tea was served informally and
then there were more songs by request. Miss de
Loitte wore a shady beige hat to match her frock.
Marie Bremner came along in mignonette fiat crfipe
and a big floppy hat of the same soft green.
From the Apple Isle:—
The Queen Alexandra Women’s Hospital had a
2»th anniversary, when tea tables were set out in
the gi ounds and all the wards were open to visitors.
Mrs. Mary Parker spoke briefly. A notable feature
of the celebration was that the hospital’s very
first patient was present, with her baby of many
years ago, now a stalwart constable, with her. The
committee presented him with a silver cigarette
case to mark the .occasion.
Mrs. Hugh Armstrong is being extensively fare-
welled before starting for the Cold Country on a
visit to her son, Dr. Peter Armstrong, an eye-
specialist practising in Bedford. Mrs. Macfarlane
and Mrs. Thos. Lyons were hostesses at two functions,
Mrs. Macfarlane’s at the Imperial, Mrs. Lyons’s at
her own home.
Lady Allardyce opened the garden fete for the
Blind, Deaf and Dumb, for which Miss Sadler, Lome,
Elphin-road, Launceston, threw open her house and
garden. Folk dancing under the trees by some of
the Methodist Ladies’ College girls and music by
Miss Corrick’s orchestra were special attractions.
Miss Mary Jay, travelling on the Esperance Bay
on her way to Rome, where she will represent
N.S.W. and the Speck at the Lyceum Club’s con-
ference, stayed with the Lewis lady while the ship
was in port and met many old friends. She will
represent the same States also -at the National
Council of Women at Stockholm.
Following up the success of the Charity Ball
on the Maloja, committees interested in the Deaf
Dumb and Blind, the Child Welfare Assoc., and the
Returned Soldiers’ Unemployment Fund approached
the Orient Co. for the use of the Orontes and -were
readily granted it. These shivoos have become .tre-
mendously popular. The ship’s dance orchestra made
fascinating music, and the decorations were brilliant
The weather gave racegoers a lovely day for the
Doncaster Cup at Elwick. Chairman and Mrs A J
Miller bad a big crowd to tea in the pavilion'
Mrs. Miller wearing black crepe with/ pinky-beige
lace at the neckline, and a black hat with a touch
of the same color as the lace. Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Dalglish were there, the lady in dark red
Maisie, second daughter of the Town Clerk and
Mrs. W. Brain, and Alan, son of Mrs. and the late
T. Cane, entered into their matrimonial contract
at St. George’s Church. The bride looked charming
m he i' whlt e angel-skin frock, the tulle veil flowing
out to form a train. A little bandeau of pearl
embroidery and orange blossom held the veil closely
to the forehead. Sister Noel ’maided in crisp white
organdie muslin with bustle bow sash of pink nink
hat and bouquet. ’ P
Anne Kathleen, youngest girl chick of the A. G.
Brammalls, Lindisfarne, was quietly married in
Sydney to Alan, only son of Mr. and Airs AV H
Cummins, formerly of Hobart. Mary Harbottle
(Hobart), a cousin of the bride, was the onlv ’maid
Festivities followed at the Wentworth, where Mrs!
Mackie (Java), sister of the bride, was hostess.
Olive Wilton writes from the Big Smoke that
daughter Junee has passed her entrance exam, for
the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.
Beautiful Lois Ritchie, youngest daughter of the
Keith Ritchies, Launceston, and M. A. Glover, Cam-
berwell, were very quietly married at St. John’s,
Toorak, Alelbourne. Parents and a few intimate
friends gathered afterwards at the Windsor. The
newly-weds are off on the Esperance Bay for their
honeymoon trip to the Cold Country.


m.
K
I Jk
TMs&
YOU’LL NEED SOME OF
THESE FOR THE ROYAL
Write for our Special List of Show Neces-
sities Cow and Bull Head Collars, Red,
White or Blue Cotton Rope Halters, Bull
Rings and Leaders, Mane- and Curry-
combs, Brushes and Horse and Cow Rugs.
The “FARMER & SETTLER” SADDLE No. 128
An inexpensive saddle for farm or rouseabout work.
Made of kip throughout, oiled and dressed ready for
use. The pads are set well up over the stirrup bars, and
it has lengthy flaps and the favorite panel with leather
sides.
oe/ Rarffc Leathers 5/6, Girth 3/3, Irons
Price 85/- tsare 3/ , 9 complete £4/17/6
Freight paid for cash to any N.S.W. railway station.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue No. 329.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
F.
h~
CURRENCYof ISI7
In 1817, when the Bank of New South
Wales was the pioneer of Australian
banking the “ holey” dollar —a Spanish
dollar with the centre stamped out —
and the “dump’—the centre piece
from the dollar —were the chief coins in
circulation. They were worth about 5/-
and 1/3 respectively.
The Bank of New South Wales played
an essential part in the development
of Australia’s currency from the uncer-
tain conditions in 1817 to the regulated
currency of later days.
To-day, the Bank, with its 705 branches
in Australia, New Zealand, Pacific Islands
and London, continues its essential
services to the community, adminis-
tering the people's savings and financing
production and the country's commerce.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian
Bank of Gommerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
iund ‘DVi
ffion
SPECIAL ROUND TRIP
EASTER CRUISE
TO NEW ZEALAND BY
R.M.S. MONOWAI
CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON.
LEAVING SYDNEY APRIL 13
RETURNING SYDNEY APRIL 23
PASSENGERS MAY LIVE ON BOARD
IN NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
MAGGIE DWYER’S WEDDIN’ SPREE.
BY MARY E. DLOYD.
SOMETHING unusual was happening at
Dwyer’s selection. No ploughing was
being clone in the paddocks, a number ot
cars and sulkies were under the great buuya
pines outside the homestead fence a score
of saddlehorses were grazing about in tne
horse-paddock, and the new shed had a big
flag flying from the room.
It was Maggie Dwyer’s weddin’ spree.
\t a long trestle table in the shed the
Dwyers and the neighbors were sitting
down at the wedding breakfast, Dwyer and
his wife opposite the bridal pair, and eveiy-
thing seemingly going forward in perfect
order. But' the bride’s eyes were swimming
in tears, even while she smiled. There was
never such a red-eyed bride as Maggie. And
at her side the bridegroom, Dennis Kennedy,
looked a troubled man.
It seemed as though Maggie was overdoing
the grief of a girl at leaving her home. Mrs.
Quinn <ftnd Mrs. Brennan, on Dwyer s light,
were fast losing patience with her.
“Isn’t she fond of Dennis Kennedy?’’
asked Mrs. Quinn in a. loud, repioaclifu-
whisper. “I’m not denyin’ that a certain
amount of weepin’ is good for a bride. But
what in God's name is the matter with
Maggie?”
“By the flamin’ red eyes of her, she s after
heatin’ out a hundred bush fires,” Mrs Bren-
nan answered, not too softly. ‘‘lsn’t Dennis
takin’ her to a good home, with floors an
ceilin’s an’ glass winders, an’ grandeur with-
out end?”
As disturbing a sight as the bride who
would not be comforte.d was the child climb-
ing on the back of the bridegroom’s chair.
There was not a freckle on the little chaps
face. And not to be freckled in that dairy-
ing district of Yerrandaree marked a child
out as something alien and foreign. I rom
his spotless white silk shirt and shorts to
his slicked-back haircut, he was an often-
sively citified little figure in the eyes of \er-
randarec. Yet there was nothing essem
tially different between the boy and the rest
of the children in Dwyer’s shed just then.
His fair face thickly powdered with freckles,
he would be exactly like them. But Dwyer s
neighbors chose to find an unfriendly atmo-
sphere about him to-day.
He had’appeared at Maggie Dwyer’s wed-
ding spree as mysteriously as Lohengrin
and the White Swan on the River Scheldt.
That he was a cousin's son—little Dennis
Dwyer' from the city—was the casual ex-
planation of his presence. The oldest friends
of the family were told no more. Ihe
meagreness of the information gave great
offence, particularly to Mrs. Quinn and Mrs
Brennan, who could be fierce-faced old
women when they believed themselves
slighted.
At last, under the double aggravation of
Maggie’s ceaseless flow of tears and the mys-
tery of little Dennis, they were openly per-
sonal and aggressive.
“ ’Twas the boisterous bride I was at me
weddin’ spree,” loudly boasted Mrs. Quinn.
“The only tear from me that day was pas-
spiration from laughin’, so it was.”
“Sure, and meself was full of ripplin’
laughter at me owm weddin’,” declared Mrs.
Brennan. “But we, hadn’t the stirnn feat
of a sacret between us, Mrs. Quinn. ’Twas
our lives were the open books.”
Mrs. Dwyer, who had listened to the two
old women with rising resentment, now de-
manded to know what it was they were say-
ing and meaning. ~ „ r _ .
“I was only wonderin’,” said Mrs. Quinn
unpleasantly, “what Dwyers they are who
belong to that little feller climbin’ on Den-
nis’s chair? I thought I knew them all, but
on this boy, lookin’ like a young prince, I
can’t shtick a label.”
“An’ I only sayin’,” said Mrs. Bren-
nan very disagreeably, “that there s only
one Dwyer who is a shtranger to me—an
he has no childer. I know that very well,
for he married my Uncle Dan’s wife s sister’s
step-da’hter.”
The bride turned her tearful face appeal-
ingly to her husband.
“if people twit us a bit more,” responded
Dennis Kennedy, glaring at Mrs. Quinn and
Mrs. Brennan, “they’ll be sorry for it!”
And then Maggie and Dennis looked at
Mrs. Dwyer, and their three agitated faces
turned to Dwyer, and Mrs. Dwyer uttered
the soft entreaty :
“Shpake to thim, father ; shpake to thim !”
But Dwyer, who was no public speaker,
hesitated and squirmed on his chair, and
would not meet their eyes. If ever a man
was a victim of indecision it was Dwyer at
his daughter’s weddin’ spree.
“Why should I speak? Why should I
keep quiet? Why should I stand up an’
tell the truth? Why should I kit down an’
consale the truth?”
These conflicting questions quite plainly
flitted across Dwyer’s tormented face as
Mrs. Dwyer whispered again:
“Shpake to thim, father; shpake to thim!”
It was a relief to look from the Dwyers
to the lively end of the table, where the
young folk were mostly engaged in throwing
sweets and fruit at one another. Yet even
here all was not well. One wedding guest
.sat solitary. It was Terence Ahern. Ter-
ence was very grand with his starched white
shirt bulging over his low vest. But Ter-
ence’s starched white shirts were just the
trouble. He wore one as soon as he finished
milking every day. And the sinful pride
of the habit made him unpopular in Yer-
randaree’s world of .soft shirts. Terence
was condemned to sit solitary at a weddin’
feast because no one liked his starched white
shirt.
A very tall man, who was called “Old
Ned” affectionately by everyone, sat oppo-
site to Terence. He was not fifty years of
age. but long grey whiskers to his waist
made him a venerable figure. And now Old
Ned was merry and noisy, and bent on teas-
ing the bride.
“Cry, Maggie, cry!” lie mocked. “You’ve
howled enough to-day to float your Dad’s
new shed an’ make us all swim for it. Anny-
body would think Dennis didn’t want to get
married!”
“Dennis lias always wanted to get mar-
ried !” Maggie shouted shrilly through her
tears.
And again those three —Maggie, Dennis
and Mrs. Dwyer—looked agitatedly at
Dwyer, and Mrs. Dwyer entreated:
“Shpake to thim, father; shpake to tliim !’’
Still Dwyer hesitated, and would not
speak.
Old Ned pushed back his chair and took
the fair-faced little boy on his knee. “Yer
needn’t tell me, Maggie,’’ he said loudly,
“that this kiddy is any relation of the
Dwyers. Wherever he was got from he’s no
Dwyer!”
The bride broke into loud distressful sobs.
Dennis looked furiously at Old Ned. “You
twit Maggie much more,’' he said threaten-
ingly, “an’ you’ll hear about it!”
Mrs. Dwyer now wept silently. And all
eyes were on the dismal bridal group.
“He’s no Dwyer, I tell yer!” Old Ned
bellowed. “Where’s his freckles? There
was never a Dwyer without freckles as big
as saucers. This lad’s a gentleman’s son.”
Maggie laughed now. Pride colored her
face.
“What do you know about it?” she flared.
“Dennis here was just such another at his
age.” _ ...
“Dennis Kennedy was never like this little
kid!” Old Ned roared. “Wherever yer got
him from, lie’s no Kennedy!”
“Neither a Dwyer nor a Kennedy!”
wailed Maggie. “Father, I must speak
now.”
“Shpake to thim, father, or I will!” said
Mrs. Dwyer desperately.
“I’m only waitin’ for Old Ned to twit
Maggie a bit longer!” roared Dennis. “He’ll
hear somethin’ soon !”
Dwyer sprang to his feet, determined to
speak at last. With Maggie and her mother
ready to snatch the words out of his mouth,
he realised that his chance to be their
spokesman was nearly gone. A fire leaping
through the roof of his new shed could not
keep him quiet now.
“Friends, you all know Maggie there,”
be began boldly. “You’ve knew her since
she was old enough to legrope a calf. There’s
no need for me to tell you that she’s had
no sweetheart but Dennis Kennedy—him
that’s beside her- —an’ that they were to be
married three years ago, only for the flood
that came an’ left Dennis a ruined man.
Well, that you know, and that he started
all over again; an’ also that Maggie went
to service in the city to save money an’
help him. An’ that between them now they
are ready to begin again, far away from the
creek bank this time—high an’ dry. You
all know that.”
He paused for a moment—a moment that
seemed a century to Mrs. Quinn and Mrs.
Brennan. Dwyer was enjoying himself by
this time. To hold every- eye at the table
in silence, as he was doing, gave him a
sense of power never before experienced.
“But there’s somethin’ you don’t know.”
he continued dramatically. “Dennis fol-
lowed Maggie to town, an’ there they were
married at the registhriation office.” In his
new-born pride as a •speaker Dwyer thought
“registry office” a fool of a name. “They
were married at the re-gis-thri-a-shun.office,”
he repeated slowly and weightily, “an’ the
strange little feller runnin’ round that you
are all wonderin’ about is their son Dennis
born over two years ago.”
The air was tense with silent sensation
as Dwyer very effectively paused again. He
went on.
“But it was always in Maggie’s mind that
she had cheated herself of a weddin’ spree,
an’. had robbed herself of the pleasure of
seein’ her friends gathered round hen She
couldn’t let it rest so. Maggie had to have
her weddin’ spree. It’s our girls are clever
gettin’ their own way—God help them!
The wit’s in ’em! An’ .so this mornin’
Maggie an’ Dennis were married again by
Father Walsh this time, an’ resaved the
blessin’ of Holy Church. An’ here she is
at her weddin’ spree!”
The wedding guests were still too stunned
to speak.
“An’ now you know the truth,” concluded
Dwyer, a beautiful smile playing over liis
simple face. “Maggie has cried without
ceasin’ all day because she desaved you all,
an’ is thinkin’ you won’t forgive her, an’
is frettin’ over your weddin’ presents, that
you might think she got from you on false
pretences. She has asked me to beg you all
to forgive her for desavin’ you. ’Twas her
weddin’ spree that destroyed her. Maggie
had to have her weddin’ .spree!”
Dwyer sat down abruptly. And the for-
giveness he had pleaded for came in a babel
of affectionate voices—Old Ned's the loudest
of them all.
“What did I tell yer? Didn’t I say the
boy was a Kennedy?” he shouted. “Three
cheers for the nipper.”
“Now I can eat!” said the bride, and
began to play a great game with her knife
and folk.
Even Terence Ahern, as he deftly caught
an apple thrown at him by black-browed
Aileen Ryan, was happy at last—in spite
of his starched white shirt.
When April Comes.
Now a blithe announcement goes
Through the .she-oaks and the gums
When at dawn or sunset’s blush
“April, April hither comes,”
Flutes the magpie, sings the thrush.
For the graces she bestows —
Tints subdued and mellowed gleams,
Veiling mists and shadows cool—
Praised is she by mountain streams
Gliding down from pool to pool.
Oh, whenever April comes
Leading Autumn by the hand,
Greetings many, greetings sweet,
Make wide music through the land
Weary grown of Summer’s heat.
N.S.W.,
RODERIC QUINN.


Essex Gar Makes
Astounding
Beauty Record .
ORIGINAL FINISH LIKE
NEW AFTER 100,000 MILES .
Mr. F. Yott, a prominent Melbourne
business man, purchased a standarc
model Essex Sedan from Neals
Motors Pty., Ltd., on the 31st Aug.,
1928, and on its fourth birthday
drove it to the agents for their in-
spection. Mr. H. J. Lane, director
of Neals Motors, Hudson Essex
Agents, writes as follows:
“Essex Sedan Reg. No. 93071 wqs
delivered new August 31, 1928, anc
after inspection to-day we were
surprised to find the original duco
in extraordinarily good condition—
equal to new. I o our knowledge
this car has travelled over 100,000
miles, including 10 trips to Sydney
and back, twice to both Canberra
and Adelaide and back, and has fol-
lowed reliability tests and 24-hours'
trials as official car. The only atten-
tion it has received to maintain the
duco finish in such condition was
periodical Simon Ling.”
Motor Cars, Furniture, Radios,
Refrigerators, Pianos and All
Objects with a fine Finish
Can Now Re Kept Beautiful.
There’s nothing finer than Simoniz for
furniture. It makes furniture look new.
And keeps it? that way. Further, keeping
any Simonized surface bright and spot-
lessly clean is the easiest thing in the
world.
Simoniz protects the delicate finish of fur-
niture in the same mighty way that it 1
does automobile finishes. Simoniz is made
to withstand outdoor exposure and the
constant wear and tear an automobile
finish gets. That’s why Simoniz is so ex-
cellent in protecting furniture from
scratching and marring.
And Simoniz on a car lasts for months.
On furniture it lasts much longer, of
course.
How to SIMONIZ Furniture
Simoniz your furniture in much the same
way you Simoniz your cair. That is, use
the Simoniz Kleener to restore the natural
lustre of the finish. It takes off all dis-
colorations and the oily scum left by
dust-collecting polishes previously used.
It really makes the finish like new* by
removing surface scratches, stains, blem-
ishes and the like.
Next apply the Simoniz. Then a few light
strokes with a soft cloth and your furni-
ture looks bright and just like new again.
Makes Cleaning Easy
The Simoniz forms a hard, lustrous sur-
face to which dirt and dust can’t stick.
To keep it clean just wipe dust off with a
dry cloth. No polishing is necessary. It’s
positively the easiest and best way ever
heard of to keep furniture looking beauti-
ful all the time.
There are dozens of other uses for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener around the house.
Simoniz Kleener is excellent for cleaning
glass and pewter. And there’s nothing
like Simoniz for linoleum and hardwood
floors, woodwork, refrigerators, gas stoves
and the like. In fact, anything with a fine
finish needs Simoniz. Enamel, lacquer,
varnish and duco finishes last much longer
and stay beautiful if you keep them pro-
tected with Simoniz.
motorists wise
SIMONIZ
TRADE MARK REG. Jo|at; OFF.
. •
K
1319181518'
MI EE AG E
“It’s new, isn’t
it?”
“It was new
jour years ago,
but Simonizing
keeps the original
dueo in perfect
condition after
40,000 miles.”
SIMONIZ
YOUR CAR
It Makes the Finish
Last Longer
Don’t be surprised when people stop and admire your car after you
Simoniz it. Its rich, sparkling beauty will attract every eye. Those who
don’t know that Simoniz lasts for months will wonder how it’s possible
to keep a car so bright and new looking ALL THE TIME.
Year after year, in all countries of the world, and in all possible climatic
conditions, Simoniz keeps millions of cars beautiful. It protects the
finish in all kinds of weather, makes it last longer and keeps colors
from fading.
Simoniz is the recognised modern and scientific way to keep cars
beautiful. Nothing could be easier, quicker or safer. So don’t experi-
ment. Always use Simoniz Kleener (green tin) to clean the
finish. It restores the original
lustre with amazing speed.
Then apply Simon iz (yellow
tin) for that famous weather-
proof protection.
auco
LAcavisps
gNAMEL.
i/kiN~ jQgmm
•*aivrs
r JO ALL WNJSHes
CT| 0
ESS
Dfricc
s=0
5c
%
l^s
DUCO
SfnNISH
TCHlWfS —
B£S2a
EK
8 .TOR
NEW PRICES
2/6 ea.
Small Size Simoniz
and Kleenex pur-
chased together.
2/9 each separated.
5/- ea.
I,arge Size Simoniz
and Kleener pur*
chased together.
5/6 each separated.
Good Car Painters
RECOMMEND THIS
METHOD TO PRESERVE
THE FINISH
Simoniz imparts a hard, lustrous film
of protection which prevents the
finish ‘‘blooming” from exposure.
Good painters know this and always
Simoniz their best paint jobs to make
them look their best and to make
the finish last longer. Any experi-
enced painter will tell you that the
duco on a car which has been regu-
larly Simonized is in far better con-
dition than those which have
received any other treatment.
With a Simonized car you only have
to wipe down with benzol, which
easily removes all Simoniz, before
respraying with lacquer.
Largest Motor Accessory
Firms in Australia Distribute
SIMONIZ.
No better proof of the high prestige and
wonderful reputation of Simoniz and
Simoniz Kleener can be given than the
names of the interstate distributors for
these wonderful products. These firms are
the largest and most reputable in each
capital city of Australia.
Interstate Distributors :
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd, Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros., Ltd. E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
CAR BEAUTY TREATMENT
Free Samples for “Bulletin”
Readers.
If your car is dull and faded and you
wish to test out Simoniz and Simoniz
Kleener just fill in the coupon below and
enclose a penny stamp. You will be
astonished at the results on your car.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd.,
Pee! Street, North Melbourne.
Enclosed find one penny stamp,
postage for FREE SAMPLES of
Simoniz and Kleener.
jf; j , f •
NAME . •
ADDRESS
Bulletin, March, 29
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay. “Those
who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it. 6/- (postage 3d.).
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
Ready Soon:
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
*
O
o
P \0
. v#
SP
i
o
V . F 1 V'. &i
ei >T i&f'M
\S M
A’V \) e „V
V* **■ oS
dr
V %
c
0°
0*
W 6
\o e «|V
&
W
csiss
.-•' <v^W> 6
As v° , v
'V 0


THEY GET WHAT THEY WAHT..
f ,
*****
ft#
/
■ 4m
ft
*
TOOTHS
KB
.
IN QUART
AND HALF
BOTTLES
a
il
m
A Wherever men meet you’ll find that
Tooth’s K.B. Lager is constantly in
demand. It’s a drink that benefits every-
body because it stimulates and refreshes
and has a tonic value that keeps you
really healthy.
# Tooth’s K.B. Lager is brewed from
only the best malt and hops under
ideally hygienic conditions and its purity
■ : ' '■ \ . ... , / ' .. '• V 1 , r \/ . v
and goodness are unequalled by any
other drink.
Tooth’s
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH &
K laqer
CO., LTD., KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY
K.6BX
