

ii
TIME
JT
5494-
n
y
The Bulletin
7omJl*o Jujvb ‘
Vol. 54.—N0. 2788.
Wednesday, July 19, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Orfice, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'J’HE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
MmceJom'*" 1
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
My Address !*!!!**!
S.B. 133
<5S>
r.ra
O
* ?
>CL»
savon cuticura cufiairaGtifc '
(cV.IAHS\MC tMOVVUt«I I.AHATI>
Won pum o *«»
Wears
to a Wafer
Pure and most economical
lasting three times as long as
ordinary soaps Cutieura
Soap is ideal for daily family
use. It contains medicinal prop-
erties which are most beneficial
to the skin.
Price la.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854■
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age’* renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out’ Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 12,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
THE PATRIOT
1 DIRECT MEDIUM tg WOMEN I
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Expert
View
Che n.Z. Releree
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing.
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the "Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
"Referee’* leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Ok mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury* is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance v with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday—2d.
aqree
e
d
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGPADH
/ BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
Franco-German Relations
Civilisation has been brought to the
verge of ruin by the mutual hatred of
France and Germany. Their old feud has
cost millions of Britons their lives and
tens of millions their jobs and savings.
It is our misfortune, but it is very far
from being their fault. It is necessary to
understand these peoples and their prob-
lems; here are two books, one by a Ger-
man, the other by an Englishwoman who
loves France, which should help. Hun-
dreds of works on the subject are being
published every year, but their authors
are nearly all propagandists. Dr. Roll is
one of the few Germans who can write
objectively about his country, and it is
Miss Hamilton’s metier to be judicial.
Her “Modern Germanies” was as friendly
in tone as this book about the French,
for whom she worked in a hospital dur-
ing the war.
Hitlerism.
When Spotlight on Germany, by Erich
Roll (Faber and Faber; 7s. 6d.), was
published Hitlerism had not arrived,
though the elections of last November,
in which nearly 12 millions voted Nazi,
were over. Some of the writer’s forecasts
have proved incorrect:
A movement like Hitler’s, which is based on
vague discontent and on demagogy, cannot
stand the disintegrating effects of time. If he
had gained power after one glorious and rapid
advance something like Italian Fascism might
have been established.
Dr. Roll thought six months ago that
Hitler would eventually have to nego-
tiate with the Centrists —a pivot party of
Catholic traditionalists with a strong
leavening of proletarians, some of whom
“have participated in spontaneous strikes
side by side with Communists.” Since
then the Nazi leader has had an astonish-
ing popular success —89 per cent, of the
electors went to the polls in March, and
the Nazi vote rose from 11,737,015 to
17,269,529 —and the Centrists have gone
the way of the Communists. Dr. Roll
foresaw that both democracy and econo-
mic liberalism would be overthrown
and that Germany’s choice would soon
lie between a Fascist and a Communist
dictatorship. His only serious mistake lay
in underestimating Hitler’s strength. Hit-
ler was able to mobilise, in addition to a
formidable body of working-class and
Junker support, practically a block vote
of the inflation-ruined middle classes,
which accounted for nearly 45 per cent,
of the adult and income-earning popula-
tion.
His platform, like that of every politi-
cal agitator, rests on astutely chosen
hatreds: of Jews, because many Jews
made fortunes by gambling in valuta
during the inflation period; and of Com-
munists, because some famous Jews, such
as Einstein, are Communists, while those
whose support he is after are individual-
ists. The inspiration of his movement, of
course, has nothing to do with Nor-
dicism, anti-Semitism, and the rest, which
are catch-cries to inflame the emotional.
It is implicit in the Versailles Treaty.
The post-war national debt (multiplied
by thirty in four years), the reparations
demands ajid the occupation of the Ruhr
combinedTto start the mark sliding till,
by the autumn of 1923, its value was
one-mil lion-millionth part of parity, at
which figure it was eventually stabilised.
Foreign loans started a boom in the fol-
lowing year. Then came the world crisis.
The workers were the first to feel it. In
1929 14.6 per cent, of unionists were un-
employed, and 9.4 were on short time; bv
1932 the respective figures were 48.0 and
24.2.
Hitlerism is a reaction against all that
the revolution of 1918 stood for (Dr.
Roll gives as two of the chief causes of
the revolution, apart from the failure Of
the war effort, “the Russian revolution
and the persecution of Communist
leaders like Karl Liebnecht”); and, above
all, it is a reaction against war-induced
want and humiliation by a generation
which was not responsible for the war.
Hitler promises his followers that if they
will stand to-
gether against the
Versailles Treaty
Germany will be-
come great again.
It is an appeal to
the subconscious
in almost every German which was
bound to be made at about this time by
some political psychologist.
France’s “White Peril.”
In Modern France (Dent; 7s. 6d.)
Cicely Hamilton begins the inevitable
chapter on “The Western Front” with
Verdun. Attila sacked it, and it
has been fought for periodically by
France and Germany for a thousand
years. If Hitler succeeds in doing for
Germany what Mussolini has done for
Italy, nothing is surer than that the Ger-
mans will again appear before Verdun.
France may be less capable of resisting
them than in the past. For the first time
in history French peasants are refusing
to stay on the land. Miss Hamilton men-
tions a farmer’s daughter who told her
that “for several years no Frenchman
had put spade to her family’s soil.”
France has large Polish colonies in the
northern mining regions; in one Medi-
terranean department alone (the Bouches
du Rhone) there are 17,000 Armenians;
and, of course, there are many Italian,
Spanish and Czecho-Slovak colonies.
In 1929 of the children born on French soil
one in every 12 was born of foreign parentage.
France has various devices for increas-
ing the birth-rate —families with more
than three children under sixteen are
subsidised by the State, given generous
rental concessions, protected against their
less prolific creditors, and so on—yet
still “for every three French babies that
come into the world there are born five
Germans.” After the war Foch wanted
an autonomous Rhineland as a buffer
State. The best he could get was a
guarantee from the British and American
delegates that their countries would come
to the help of France in the event of a
German attack. The American Senate
refused to ratify the arrangement. Hence
France’s formidable army and air force,
its new system of trench fortifications,
and its preparations to repel invasion in
Alsace and Lorraine. All very regrettable
no doubt from a pacifist standpoint, but
there is nothing else for it. As a thrifty,
even penurious, people the French would
like to put their trust in the League of
Nations; as realists they can’t bring them-
selves to do it.
RED PAGE.
Proletarian Art
Proletarian art is regarded in orthodox
Communist circles as the antithesis of
bourgeois art. The result is curious.
Discussing the subject with some young
Reds, I found that, to maintain their
theory, they were obliged to classify
Dante, Shakspeare, Rembrandt and
Velasquez as bourgeois artists. Even
Chekhov, Dostoieffski, Tolstoy and Gogol
were bourgeois, dated by the Bol-
shevik revolution. It is the new icono-
clasm, like the destruction of Greek
statues during the Byzantine period and
the burning of pictures under the
Mohammedan regime. The world will
get over it.
Having swept the decks of bourgeois
lumber, the proletarian artist is cleared
for action. Panferov, a proletarian whose
novel, “Brousski,” ran into 500,000
copies, explains that “with Tolstoy, as
with Dostoieffski, everything proceeds
from set moral standards; but we ven-
ture much farther, we penetrate deeper,
formulating the undeniable principle that
all man’s mutual relations are strictly
conditioned by economic laws, and that
they do not exist apart from social groups
and classes.” Panferov’s literary creed is
the logical extension of Russia’s social
creed. If a girl wears a nice hat in
Russia she is liable to be suspected of
bourgeois heresies; a proletarian mustn’t
have a Ford until all the other prole-
tarians have Fords,
The two most representative products
of proletarian art which have penetrated
to the West are Ernst Toller’s “Masses
and Men” and “Roar, China,” by Tretia-
kov—both dramas. “Masses and Men”
which has been performed by the
(Red Page continued on page 6.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Always the Truth.
Ak.:
» mm.
... V-
-2,9
U
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
SALE
This design has been sold at
£36/10/-. With slight altera-
tions to-day’s value in normal
quantities is £27/10/-
By mass production, together
with the standardisation of
details, and the courage to order
a huge quantity, we are selling
this “Masterpiece” Man’s ’Robe
at the hitherto unheard of
price .... £l2/15/-
It puts the lowboy out of date.
lilllllllUIUIlUillllUlUtdllllJlIllillUllllllllllllllllilllllUilJlIIllJJilllUlUllUlllJllJiliUUIIIIIIMIIIIIMi"
We believe our Values to be
Supreme, and that there is none
better.
/
The “Masterpiece”
MAN’S ’ROBE
The Culmination of the Designer’s and
Cabinetmaker’s Craftsmanship.
IN PERFECTING the design, and in selecting the materials for this
“Masterpiece” Man’s Robe, Anthony Horderns’ made their
choice on the basis of durability in timber, of strength in construc-
tion, of beauty in finish, and of practical economy in terms of
money, time, and effort. The reputation of providing Australia
with its highest furniture value demanded this.... nothing less.
The leading features are:
—The perfect matching of the grain enhances the rich beauty
of the timber.
—The finish is a warm brown Maple shade; not piano finish or
dull waxing, but just that happy medium that will match or
harmonise with any surroundings.
—Doors are of laminated construction, and have quartered fronts
of highly figured Queensland Walnut.
—Ends and drawer fronts are of solid Maple.
—Drawers and trays are dovetailed throughout.
These features combine to give a long life in service, a division of
space that classifies, without crowding or confusing, and a pride of
possession that is engendered by genuine worth. All the features
that our long experience has proven to be desirable and necessary,
are scientifically incorporated. Therefore, we are able to say that
there is no better value than this “Masterpiece” Man’s ’Robe.
Packing in stout crates, 7/6 extra.
# Furniture—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
mm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmn mm mmmmmmm i
■n
w *
' Mgm
.... v IHill
»t f s^SSlill
/ t ' ;/!
£ 111 '
||
I®? iiJiii
whj j,
ifilEKt"/
Sfc '
ill
" """ ■»* - v-i
■SpHi
liMli
:
■ !> '.. v .
Wk-'WMmw >f / '>
Hr f |
* :
|
—pM
s x* A ’ - v >X *
m ' M Wi§mm.
. 2 i * &
fSll' - - jp |
■■ m
V:".
■■■■■lii M A' '
H ', v "'*,*♦ s# 4'' i
r^r
Weight when
packed
(complete).,
.85 cwt.
HH|
rr :
■B
< '' ' -—i
Ip**
B
H JI
The alternative interior, which is more suitable for women's nse, has increased hanging space for frocks, giving
57in. of length space. In this model (see circle inset), there is one full width tray and an extra drawer,
oin. high. Price, £l2/15/-
A long mirror (see circle inset), measuring 40in. x llin., may be fitted as a further alternative to the small
mirror behind the door, the extra cost in this case is 15/-.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


(
w
(SL
jmm
«ti
CMIKE
' TO NOUMEA
Throughout a cruising holiday by Orient Line, during
which you see quaint, foreign places, you will be
surrounded by the complete comfort of a 20,000-ton
Orient Royal Mail Liner . . . And you will enjoy a
cheerful, restful atmosphere where everything is
different and everyone is bent on pleasure.
R.M.S. "ORAMA" 20,000-tons
Sails on a cruise to Noumea from
FREMANTLE August 22
ADELAIDE August 26
MELBOURNE August 29
SYDNEY September 2
BRISBANE September 6
returning by way of Lord Howe Island.
R.M.S. ORAMA will also make a Christmas
and New Year Cruise to Noumea.
Fares and full particulars will be supplied by
any Orient Line Branch or Agency.
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES


TVIIVI
THE MAN WHO HAS REVITALISED
THOUSANDS OF NEURASTHENIC
CASES.
If you suffer from the following, you
need this FREE BOOK—to-day!
LASSITUDE
GROUNDLESS-FEARS
WORRY
DEPRESSION
LACK OF WILL-POWER
INSOMNIA
WEAK NERVES
SHYNESS
BLUSHING
LACK OF CONFIDENCE
MORBID THOUGHT
SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS
FREDERICK GRAY,
i#s
sH»
S* 1
E*s°
X
Dept. 11,
LOMBARD
CHAMBERS
PITT ST.,
SIDNEY,
N.S.W.
Courage!
THERE is no greater obstacle to
your health, happiness and success
than a nervous disposition created
by morbid fears, self-consciousness,
blushing, and other nervous ailments.
Nervous fears rob you of the joy of
living; deprive you of the ability to
reveal your real self to develop your
talents and make a headway in the
battle of life.
Are you a victim of some form of
fear? Are you tortured by the fear
of darkness, disease, or insanity? Are
you a failure because you lack the
ability to get out of the rut and be-
come a leader instead of one of the
led? Do you feel awkward and self-
conscious in company, and blush
stupidly when spoken to? Are you a
“bundle of nerves," subject to fits of
depression, morbid thoughts, and a
habit of worrying over trifles?
If you are suffering from any of the
following nervous symptoms, send at
once for this book, and learn how to
conquer your weakness, instead of let-
ting it conquer you.
A Startling NEW BOOK
OFFERED FREE TO EVERY
NERVOUS READER.
YOU cannot read this remarkable
book without a quickening of you.
pulse without a surge of red-blooded
courage. It is one of the most startling
books ever written. It has shown hun-
dreds the way to health, prosperity and
self-confidence. You can cure yourself
at home as I did. Send only 2d. in
stamps for postage, and get this amaz-
ing book by return post.
MAIL NOW!
h -CO U.KUIUJ
Frederick Gray, Dept. 11,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street. Sydney. N.S.AV.
Dear Sir,—Please send me absolutely
I'ree, a copy of your book, “Nerve Strength,
Self-Consciousness and Personality. I
enclose 2d. in stamps for postage.
NAMK
ADDKESS
l9/7/’33.
Workers’ Club in Melbourne, is an at-
tempt at a symbolical portrayal of mass
behavior in an abortive attempt at a
revolution. It succeeds largely in spite
of itself. The human characters are in-
tended to be symbols—for Capitalism,
Collectivism and what not —but they
remain obstinately, if incompletely,
human.
The theme of “Roar, China” is
Asia’s revolt against European domina-
tion. An American bagman is acciden-
tally drowned in an altercation with a
Chinese boatman. A French warship
captain threatens to bombard the Chinese
city unless two boatmen —any two boat-
men —are executed and a monument is
erected to the dead American. As a sym-
bol of China’s martyrdom, the captain’s
“boy” hangs himself over the doorway
of the captain’s cabin and a European
girl callously photographs the body. In
this play all the European characters are
thoroughly objectionable, while the
Chinese are mystically self-righteous.
None of the people are real as Sinclair
Lewis’s “Babbitt” is real.
Proletarian art is essentially humorless
“Humor is born of detachment, the
detachment of an onlooker who can
laugh at the strange antics of human
beings without feeling called upon to
take an active part in their living drama
./.. .the proletariat is too concerned with
the struggle of life to be able to see the
humor of it.” Thus a Soviet apologist.
But humor is not always born of detach-
ment. The humor of Voltaire and Ana-
tole France certainly wasn’t.
The fact is that proletarian art proper
is born of hate, and hate never produced
art worth a tinker’s benediction. Art is
controlled emotion. Where there is no
control there can be no art; but the con-
trol comes from the artist, not from rules
and regulations imposed by the State or
by popular idiosyncrasies. That Russia
will produce true art again is not to be
doubted. “Bourgeois” conventions are
the bane of true art in the West, and it
is Western artists who are upsetting them.
“Proletarian” conventions are the bane
of true art in Russia, and it will be
Russian artists who will overset them.
And the Soviet will no doubt reward
them with a term in prison.
M. G. SKIPPER.
New Found Land
In G. B. Lancaster’s Tasmanian novel
“Pageant” native bears fall unconscious
from the trees during a devastating mid-
summer bushfire. Apart from the fact
that serious bushfires are essentially
autumn visitations in the island, there
are no bears for them to destroy. Tas-
mania is too cold for bears.
In “Pageant” foxes, which are un-
known pests in Tasmania, are reported
as barking in the bush. On the
hottest of hot summer days children
gather the frail, spring-blooming clema-
tis. Owing perhaps to the “almost tropi-
cal” intensity of the Tasmanian sun, the
youthful aristos were fearfully hot-
biooded. “It was not the fashion of the
colony to discipline its young men —un-
taught, unchecked, hot with strong blood
and freedom, they ranged where they
would.” They ranged occasionally among
bougainvillaeas in the glowing gardens of
a strange, semi-tropical Hobart!
Amongst other inaccuracies is a Legis-
lative Councillor who resigns when the
Governor forces a measure through the
Assembly. There was no Assembly at
the time. Few English authors would
have the hardihood to spell Eton, Eaton;
in “Pageant” the name of the long-estab-
lished Hutchins school is misspelt sev-
eral times.
“Pageant” is a best-seller in England,
I believe, and was a Book of the Month
in America. It all goes to show how
much more we know about the rest of
the world than it knows about us. I
should like to see every book about Aus-
tralia censored for mistakes by an expert
before publication.
J. M. EDWARDS.
And a Little Verse
TO A REJECTED COMPOSITION.
Gem of poesy! For you my sorrow sings.
I will no more subject you to the rack
Of keen, cold editorial survey,
Since just four times now you have fluttered
back
Like some small, tired bird with bruised wings.
1 will not love you less! Let critics flay
And render dumb the soul you symbolise—
I, who wrought you, know full well you are
A flawless jewel, a scintillating star
Whose glory glows amid the dawnlit skies!
The curtain falls. In this my treasure chest,
Where fragments of acclaimed writings lie—
With famous names appended—gently rest,
And have no fear of any alien eye.
Since it be writ you play no living part,
Sleep sweetly, little stillborn of my heart!
W.A.
M. TREACY.
A Satchel of Books
Whoever has been carried to the gar-
den of quiet enchantment on the delicate
wings of Esther Meynell’s “Grave Fairy-
tale” will delight in Quintet (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d.). Though not a sequel
to “Grave Fairytale,” it is peopled with
three of the characters of that book. One
is the shade of the composer Melchior,
as dominant in death as in life. To the
perfect rendition of his works, Konrath,
the vigorous, passionate and poetic hero-
pianist, dedicates his powers. There is
remarkable beauty in this story of musi-
cians by one who understands music,
of friends by one who has a gift for
friendship.
Magic of Melody, by John Murray
Gibbon, with an introduction by Chris-
topher Stone (Dent; 55.) This unpreten-
tious work is primarily for gramophone-
owners. Musicians from Handel to Bizet
(who first put the melody into melo-
drama) are discussed in brief biographies,
and to each biography is attached a com-
position by the subject, with what the
author considers appropriate words. It is
a game that many intellectuals have
played. Mr. Gibbon remarks that Ros-
setti, Mallarme, Swinburne and others
were fond of writing words for musical
phrases by Beethoven and Wagner.
The Laughing Philosopher (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d.) is by Dion Clayton
Calthorp, so inevitably it is of whimsy
all compact. Pierrot and his cat, Charle-
magne, take the road in France and
meet Harlequin and Pierrette—and Anne
Marie. Anne was only an innkeeper’s
daughter, but she had personality. She
won all hearts. She marries Pierrot, and
he leaves her, and the poor fellow is starv-
ing in the streets, and she sings one of
the carefree songs he had composed but
never written down, and—but you know
how all these essays in sentimentalism
end.
C. S. Forester’s The Gun (The Bodley
Head; 7s. 6d.), like his last novel, “Death
to the French,” deals with the Peninsular
War. The Spanish Bourbon army was
retreating before the French, and the
last unit in the harassed column had the
gun—l 3 feet long and a foot in diameter
at the breech. The fugitives were obliged
to abandon it, and for two years it re-
mained hidden in the Cantabrian moun-
tains. Then El Bilbanito, the guerillero
chief, finds it. The rest of the novel is an
account of its adventures, told with a
wealth of knowledgeable detail, until the
moment of its destruction by the French.
Jorge, the simple soldier who manipu-
lates the unfamiliar weapon —the first
18-pounder he had ever seen —is the
spiritual brother of the solid, resolute,
resourceful British rifleman of Mr.
Forester’s other book. He does his duty
by the gun to the bitter end and then:
He thought of his native Cantabrian moun-
tains.... He had a horse still, which was far
more than he had had when he descended from
them He was off home.
C. Ernest Fayle’s A Short History of
the World’s Shipping Industry (Allen and
Unwin; 12s. 6d.) has a foreword by Sir
Alan Anderson, in which reference is
made to the surprising amount of detail
that has been compressed into this dis-
cussion of sea-trading from the time of
the Phoenicians to the present day. The
beginnings of Egyptian shipping (it is on
record that 40 ships brought cedar from
Lebanon to the Nile nearly 50 centuries
ago); the rise of sea-borne commerce in
Athens and Corinth, Rome, Venice and
Genoa; the changes that followed Da
Gama’s discovery of a sea-road to the
East —all are dealt with at considerable
length. Virtually half the book is de-
voted to the development of the British
shipping industry, which arose from the
activities of England’s merchant adven-
turers in the sixteenth century. The
author ends on a propagandist note.
Shipping has been national in the past;
it must become internationally co-opera-
tive in the future if civilisation as we
know it is to survive.
Gulliver in the Bush, by H. J. Carter
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney; 65.).
Most residents on Sydney’s North Shore
who explore their district know Carter
by sight —a tall, young-old chap with a
grizzled spade beard, usually to be seen
straddling a good horse. His hobby is
bug-hunting. He knows every insect and
every entomologist in Australia, and has
pursued his beloved Buprestida; in every
State in the Commonwealth. He prefers
a brolly to a net as a means of securing
his prey, being more partial to beetles
than to butterflies. He loves music and'
a good story, and has been known to
sink a pot of beer, so his unkindnesses to
caterpillars may be forgiven him. In his
book he tells the story of his hunting,
pausing here and there to spin a yarn
that has very little to do with bugs. The
personality that shines through these
pages is an engaging one, and the volume
can be recommended to anyone who en-
joys hearing a learned man chat about
his pet hobby. 7- r '
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.J.G.: No room for the arm of coincidence
when it stretches 1500 improbable miles
J.0.R.: Much too laborious a parallel E.E.:
You have poetic fancies; try some theme less
hackneyed JJ.S.: It’s been done to death
and you make a feeble fist of it... .C.L.N.:
The most gifted composer could do nothing
with those words... .H.L.Y.: Might do for her
album... .Bellerive: You're not the only poet
whose lawful rest is broken by
Ji RAW LING CATS.
Upon the slanty roof tops.
On a starry night.
Gather brawling tom eats.
To waileth, spit and fight.
Fiends of the roof tops.
In a fearless way.
Mix in fierce . encounters.
Till the break of day.
A.G.: Cheaply pretty, nothing more....
H.C.M.: A 52-line parody would have to be
very good to give it a chance. Yours has only
two passable verses... .M.M.: It won’t d 0....
J.W.: “Storm”—“dawn,” “sorrow” —“hollow”
—have you no ear? ... .Stan : There are rhymes
to “Coota,” but “Reuter” isn’t among them.
. ...F.H.: Can seagulls be said to sing?....
R.G.T.: Too many overworked images...
G. 8.: A long, long way after Lawson
P.M.K.: Miles further behind Walt Whitman.
A.B.: No good 5.8.: Too much “hell,”
but you should persevere... .Dum Crambo:
You’ll have to be better before print comes
within distance J.L.8.: They’re not sonnets.
A rhymeless sonnet is like an egg without salt.
... .C.S.: Originality is not enough. Read Cal-
verley’s “Ode to Tobacco” if you would realise
your shortcomings L. 8.: Doubtful if a gal-
lant would advance his cause by addressing
his adored in lines like —
There are none truer, than 1, your wooer,
Tempted time and again
With Eve-like art by every tart
Upon the Horsham plain.
. ...D.M.M.: Nothing remotely resembling
“Obliteration” ever happened at Yalgoo or
anywhere else on the W.A. goldfields... .E.S.:
No use waiting for the dawn if you can’t find
a better rhyme to it than “born” when it
comes... .C.W.A.: His two most recent books
of verse are “A Flandful of Leather” and “A
Clean Wind Blowing”... .R.F.: James Green-
wood’s “Curiosities of Savage Life” (1863) is
worth approximately £1 Is S.W.: When
M.L. occupied Western Samoa in 1914, there
were 2184 Chinese there. In German times
there were at one period upwards of 4000;
there are now fewer than 1000 J.T.:
Nicholas Hannen is 52 and was born in
London. He was formerly an architect and
made his first appearance on the stage when
he was 29. He served in the war... .W. 5.8.:
It glimmers at the beginning, and then all be-
comes dark N.H.P.: Strengthen the ending
and try again F.S.: Ladies in your story
may wear crinolines, but they talk like 1933
flappers A.J.T.: Life-history of a crayfish
is a theme for a “Kodak.” Your style is too
stolid T.R.: Ignominious failure L.G.:
Her ladyship’s conversation palls P.T.: Get
closer to your characters.... M.K.: Send Lon-
don-embankment yarn to an English paper;
tear the other up R.F.0.: Technically the
verse is correct; now find something worth-
while to rhyme about.:. .R.T.: Can’t make
head or tail of such phrases as “clad in
smoothed cloth of lotus-things” L.W.:
Tame, even for fireside verse.... R.J.: The
obvious way to find out what sort of stuff The
Bulletin prints is to read it... .Hesperian:
They make hard reading... .T.G.: It might go
in a music-hall but it’s rather feeble for print.
J.F.S.: Hymns are quite out of our line.
C.R.A.: Too laborious a climb up to the
anti-climax H.H.H.: Can’t see the point
J. : Prescribe a plate of oysters and a
pint of stout for that lachrymose Muse of yours.
C.E.S.: Just about as discordant as the orig-
inal Wild Colonial Boy Bluegum Bill: Send
it to the lady herself. The chances are she won’t
mind your rhyming “handsome” with “win-
some” C. May: We found no amusement in
it; rather, it was a bit pathetic M.L.M.:
Sorry to disillusion you, but it’s not a clever
',tory... .W.E.8.: Time you gave that yarn best
—it’s had you down for months... .N.A.J.: Too
long, and don’t write on both sides of the
paper W.0.G.: N.S.W. detectives are re-
cruited from the police force, so that cripples
your yarn... .F.M.H.: Too late for a Boer
War story? Not if it's up to the mark;
unfortunately, yours isn’t D.E.: Same
old collection of drunks listening to small talk.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.M.: Your flappers are bow-legged....
L. Too many labels... .H.A.H.: Looks
as if a small octopus had settled on the
drawing paper E.F.: You’ll imperil your
career if you continue in that fashion....
M. Don’t like the wispy linework....
K. Not worth a farthing a dozen....
W.C.: Strive to make the picture tell the story.
A.B.H.: Not good enough... .D.A.K.: Un-
tidy as ever... .B.B.: Nothing like him
F.R.: Wash-work too smeary... .M.W.S.: What
are the grubby dwarfs up to? ... .E.G.T.: Afraid
you’ve reached the limit of your ability....
P.W.: What with misplaced shadows and blots
you’ve made a ghastly mess A.M.: You
might as well try to draw on corrugated wrap-
ping paper F.H.C.: Imitators are not
wanted here... .D.T.G.: Others have made the
same jest about macaroni... .N.M.M.: Cannot
recall earlier efforts, but surely they weren't
inferior to batch just received.... H.J.: Gag
has had its day... .8.K.C.: Redraw it....
L. : P00r... .A.D.: Infant looks as if her
ma had sat on her... .L.J.W.: Nothing wag-
gish about them T.E.N.: That’s what you
went out f0r....Y.L.: Nicely done sketches,
but they’re off our beat.... C.M.: Resembles a
bison more than Dad’s champion milker.


d
1
c/har^//,
Oi
r m
/
a£
I
fW
Vy
■ -
mm
■H
■-.-.
w
■
H—
! : ■ ■
• '
V


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2789.
July 19, 1933.
SPEND AND BE SAVED.
"What is wanted is a new Peter the Hermit to go through the world and rouse the people to spend more than they save.”— W. M. Hughes.
‘“All very well for HIM to talk. Nobody’s given YOU or ME twenty-five thousand.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.'*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advanc*.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months,
£1 I Os.; 6 months, 15s. 6 d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
FORWARD.
Men who spend their working lives in
newspaper offices lake a peculiar pleasure
in the improvement of mechanical pro-
cesses, especially when (as is the case
with the one here introduced) it costs no
man his job. Arrangements for the in-
stallation of the London “Times” type,
in which The Bulletin will henceforth
be printed, were made when S. H. Prior
was managing director and editor. He
would have been a proud man had he
lived to see this issue; Archibald, Mac-
leod and Edmond, 100.
On such occasions The Bulletin is
conscious of what Death has taken from
it. It has the consolation of feeling that
these men are not altogether lost to the
paper; that, as Disraeli finely said of
contemporaries who had left the House
of Commons for ever, “their words will
be often quoted, their example often re-
ferred to and appealed to,” and that,
"though they may not be present, they
are independent of the course of time.
In the spirit which its old chiefs im-
parted to it The Bulletin will continue
to be conducted. Their general policy
will be followed, but changes and modifi-
cations were forced on them by the
pressure of events, and will doubtless be
forced on their successors. Edmond
strove lor Federation, but the results
were far from satisfying him or any
other man, save lawyers and Govern-
ment clerks. In the course of 32 years
grave weaknesses have developed in the
Federal system, and one of the States
has voted for secession. But secession
is no remedy; the remedy is rather to be
found in full national control of national
matters and complete separation of the
powers of the Commonwealth from those
of the States, with better provision for
the subdivision of unwieldy States.
Protection has been necessary to Aus-
tralia, and the necessity remains. There
is no other way of building up industries
which are essential to a full and secure
national life, no other way of preserving
great bodies of our people from being
dragged down to coolie standards- But,
as this generation has seen, Protection is
no panacea for the economic ills of
humanity. If every country tried to be
self-contained the world would be all
Tibets. There must be give-and-take in
international trade. While no promise
made to the proprietors of tariff-fed busi-
nesses may be broken, industries which
would be useless in time of war are not
worth setting up at the cost of irritating
countries which buy a great deal more
from us than we buy from them, and
which have established corresponding
industries with immeasurably greater
advantages. Victims of a calamity which
has scourged all the nations, we Aus-
tralians must not withdraw into a selfish
provincialism and refuse to be citizens
of the world.
As afways, The Bulletin stands for
effective national defence and the settle-
ment of North Australia, and considers
that they should go hand in hand. It
puts no trust in the binding effect of
pacific resolutions on warlike nations
with overcrowded homelands and no
colonies—or next to none. It has an
abiding faith in the Australian people
and in Parliamentary government, though
the Parliamentary system is overbur-
dened; all our legislatures have been
trying to do too much. It has no use
whatever for social revolutions, dictator-
ships or short cuts.
For the rest, The Bulletin wants
young men and women with a bent for
writing to write for it. Not old stuff
about gods and goddesses, fairies and
pixies and leprechauns (it gets heaps of
that); let them write what is in their
hearts, what they see in the file sur-
rounding them, and what they feel. It
is worth writing about, and it will be a
larger life when we get over these trials
which our unemployed fellow-Austra-
lians have borne so bravely. For the
depression will pass, as the depression of
the ’nineties passed, as all unhappy times
pass. It is passing now.
TOWARDS A DICTATORSHIP.
The internal history of nearly every
country since Greece and Rome became
civilised has been chiefly the history of
struggles for various forms of freedom.
Freedom of the press and of speech, and
the independence of institutions such as
Parliament and the Courts, were accepted
as the foundations of every self-respect-
ing State’s social and political existence.
Nobody’s property or job or even life
was safe without them.
Liberty has recently been curtailed, or
done away with altogether, in many
European countries, and Australia is now
getting some object lessons in the way
this kind of change is brought about.
One J. M. Frame, of Sydney Trades Hall,
expounded some of the principles of the
new school of political thought at the
University Politics Club:
He condemned the capitalist courts. As
only fools paid their debts the socialised State
would not pay them.... He did not favor free-
dom of speech where it was applied to criticisms
of the Government of the socialised State. There
should be silencers. The same with the press
if it opposed the Government. The social
ideal was as little work as possible, and pre-
ferably no work.
As sentiments of this kind are opposed
to almost every ideal that modern demo-
cracies have been taught to cherish they
are not often expressed so frankly. Syd-
ney’s Inner Group, for example, will not
thank Mr. Frame for his outspoken-
ness. Yet the essence of the Lang
Plan is that only fools pay their
debts. Chief Justice Harvey complained
a! a valedictory to his predecessor by
the Sydney Bar of the attacks made by
politicians on the Courts. Attacks on
Judges, often of an insulting nature, have
become part and parcel of the Sydney
Trades' 1 Hall tactical scheme. And the
Inner Group has restricted the liberty of
the press by boycotts and the like to the
best of its ability. What it lacks at pre-
sent is that complete control of the
masses which is exercised by its opposite
numbers in Russia and elsewhere.
A row at a North Bondi Lang-Labor
meeting was significant. The branch had
met chiefly to protest against the expul-
sion of a member, Mr. Morgan, by the
Inner Group for having supported Mr.
Willis at Bulli. About half of those pre-
sent wanted to call a special conference
to go into the matter. But the old A.L.P.
rule which permitted any 30 branches
to call a special conference for the ven-
tilation of grievances has been expunged
by some unknown hand. In the new rule-
book there is no proviso for the calling
of a conference by any number of
branches; special conferences are “not in
the interests of the movement.”
So the position is that any member of
the rank and file who objects to having
a nominee of the executive forced on his
electorate, and prefers to support the
nominee of the local electors, may be
thrown out of the party, as the supporters
of Mr. Willis have been. A member of
Ihe rank and file may object to the prin-
ciple of repudiation, if on no higher
ground than that money is owed to him;
he may believe that in proportion as the
Courts are discredited his own possessions
and personal safety will be endangered,
and he may want to say so in public.
Under the new dispensation it would re-
sult in his expulsion from the movement.
In Russia, 15 years ago, the masses
were told that if they did not put com-
plete trust in the Inner Group of the
period their movement would be over-
thrown by outside capitalists (the equiva-
lent of Mr. Lang’s bankers’ party). The
same argument is being used now when
the Soviet Government is doing its best
to get outside capitalists to trade with
Russia.
The plain truth is that no country can
be run on a policy of repudiation. It
comes off once, and then those who have
been bilked take their loans or invest-
ments somewhere else. And no country in
which the Courts have lost their prestige
—that is, in which they have been turned
into class or political courts—can func-
tion peacefully. Australia is more law-
abiding than, say, America on the whole
just because its legal system is not capi-
talistic. If the Inner Group achieved the
dictatorship of the proletariat to-morrow
one of its first moves would be to
make the masses work, pay their debts
and obey the laws. The masses would
find that they had simply changed Par-
liamentary government for a form of
government which is suitable only for
savages, and the fight for democracy
would begin all over again.
SAFETY FIRST.
N. S. Wales Transport Minister Bruxner
told a Sydney gathering the other day
that the annual N. S. Wales railway defi-
cit had been reduced by £1,250,000 dur-
ing the past financial year. He did not
mention that the Auditor-General reck-
oned the loss for 1931-32 at £5,364.600.
and the losses for seven years at
£18,546.500, leaving out that chilling item
"contributions from consolidated re-
venue.” He said, however, that the rail-
way system had “cost £ 139,000,000.
quoted several yards of figures to show
that this was largely due to city expendi-
ture —Mr. Bruxner is a country member
—and finally dwelt with satisfaction on
his Government’s policy, which is to
write down capital to a point “as near
to real value as can be ascertained, anti
then to look to the administration to
give the best results at minimum cost."
The morning after Mr. Bruxner made
these remarks, the crack train of the
State, the Albury mail, was in its second
accident within three months. Commis-
sioner Hartigan admitted that it was a
‘ serious mishap,” and promised an in-
quiry. The 200-odd people who were
in the mess murmur —seven of them
through their bandages —that their luck
calls for a ticket in the lottery. “S. M.
Herald” understands the cause to have
been the failure of the safety catchment
points and a worn rail. Four days later
part of the Cobar mail was derailed,
again without loss of life.
Last time the Albury mail was in an
accident nobody went to hospital when
a wheel broke in halves. A resourceful
enginedriver pulled up before it could
jump the rails. If he had not done so
“there would have been a serious smash,
with the probable destruction of at least
one corridor car” and of homing Mel-
bourne visitors with whom the train was
packed. A high official was asked to
comment on an assertion from Victoria
that the wheels had not been in-
spected before the train left Sydney, the
caravan having been taken off its ordi-
nary run to carry trippers to Kaloomba.
He replied naively that “as he had been
on holidays” he was “not aware of the
details of the mishap,” but “the officials
responsible for examination of trains
and wheels were as vigilant as those of
the Vic. railways.”
The A.R.U. says the railways are in
a dangerous condition, a view in which
the Lang newspaper concurs. But as the
A.R.U. has Red affiliations, and is headed
in N. S. Wales by a Moscow pilgrim who
was pitchforked into the job after he had
been in the country ten minutes or so, it
is difficult to measure the union’s sin-
cerity, more especially as its remedy for all
railway discontents is the 30-hour week
on 48-hour wages, pending the arrival
of socialisation and the millennium. If
it were a sober, steadygoing union with
a reputation for weighing its words, the
public would pay a great deal of atten-
tion to anything it might state about the
condition of the permanent way and the
like; but, as things are, its utterances are
discounted. People have more respect
for the assurances of the Commissioner
that all is well with“the safest railway
system in the world.” Nevertheless these
assurances would carry more weight if
the Commissioner spoke from technical
experience.
The Bavin Government made a brew-
ery manager Chief Commissioner. Mr.
Lang picked a railwayman to replace
him; but (as a Royal Commission said
in effect) “what a railwayman!” Mr.
Hartigan, like Mr. Stevens and Mr.
Spooner, is an accountant. He is no
doubt a good accountant; but whether
he is competent to say where safety be-
gins or where economy should end is
another matter. There is a feeling that
his appointment was prompted, not only
by the current Macquarie-street belief in
the surpassing merits of accountants, but
by the feeling that, unlike Mr. Cleary,
he would be able to brave a change of
Government, Mr. Lang having made him
a Transport Commissioner.
According to Mr. Hartigan, the
amount of money available for track
maintenance has never been, and never
will be, “reduced below safety limits.”
This is satisfactory as far as it goes;
and the Commissioner points out also
that railwaymen are instructed that “their
first and most important duty is to pro-
vide for the safety of the public and the
line.” He pays a just tribute to his “fettlers
and gangers, who have proved on so
many occasions their devotion to duty”
—which never shines brighter than when
they are in actual danger. So the public
must hope that there will be no repeti-
tion of these accidents to the Albury and
Cobar mails. On the construction, indus-
trial and financial sides, the N. S. Wales
Railway Department has been demoral-
ised by politics. It must not be permitted t
to lose the one good record it has
retained.
IMAGINARY CONVERSATION.
The Very Rev. Dr. Hewlett Johnson,
Dean of Canterbury (Eng.), called on the
Japanese Minister of War and found
him sticking Rising Sun flags into a large
map of Asia.
“Excuse me,” said the Dean, “but isn't
your brave army wasting its time?”
“How so?” replied the Minister, pick-
ing up a fresh handful of flags.
“Well, you have heard of Australia
surely?” said the Dean.
“Australia? Oh, yes!” replied the
Minister. "1 learned about it in my
schooldays. Home of the victorious
Anzacs, isn't it? Why, do they want to
give it away?”
“Well, not exactly; but they believe in
turning the other cheek and all that sort
of thing, you know, and l am sure they
would like to share it with you.”
“You don’t say? Why, we in Japan
thought they were a proud race, quite
fanatically so. In fact, Australians have
been held up to us Japanese as an ex-
ample of bushido. You know what
bushkh) means? —racial purity, respect
for one’s ancestors, noblesse oblige,
patriotism, loyalty.”
“If you will excuse me saying so, that
is old stuff nowadays. This is the age
of internationalism, of the brotherhood of
man. In Canterbury imperial sentiment
is simply not the thing. Why, even our
university undergraduates pass resolutions
nowadays refusing to fight for King or
country, and we old people are tired.
The burden of Empire has become too
great. We would gladly set it down.”
“Well, well,” said the Minister, deftly
sticking a pin into the heart of Peking;
“you amaze me. And what is the reason
for this change of heart among our gal-
lant Australian friends?”
“I have never been in Australia, but
from what 1 have gathered the Austra-
lians have a huge territory in the
North, and through incapacity, lazi-
ness or dislike of the climate it is un-
developed and”
“You don’t say? Why our scientists
tell us that Australia’s colonisation of its
tropics, as far as it has gone, has been
an example to the world.”
“And they would naturally like you
to take on the job, subject to proper
safeguards, such as that your people
should stay permanently in the North.
That, of course, could be arranged.”
“H’m,” said the Minister, shifting the
pin he had stuck in Peking to Tientsin.
“And why have the Australians picked
on us instead of Hindus or Chinese?”
“Well, 1 can’t say that they have actu-
ally picked on you, but I am sure they
would if they thoroughly realised the
awful straits you are in on account of
your large families and your low wages
and your overpopulation and all that
sort of thing. I mean, if it were ex-
plained to Australians how your people
are being slowly strangled, their hearts
would bleed for you and” ——
“Who told them we are being
strangled? Our standard of living is
steadily rising, and so are our wages.
Our ships are carrying our manufactures
to every part of the world, more than
ever before. Our artificial-silk industry
has increased its production from
£5,000,000 to £60,000,000 in four years.
We have just acquired a vast unde-
veloped empire in Asia. Does that sound
like being strangled? Don't your Aus-
tralians read their papers?”
“Don’t misunderstand me, sir. I don’t
say for a moment that any Australian
has said these things, but I feel sure
they would if they only knew the facts.”
“So what you have been telling me
are only your personal views?”
“Well, to be quite candid, they are!”
“Then, I can tell you definitely that
as regards Japan your views are all
wrong, and I strongly suspect that they
are all wrong as regards Australia unless
that nation has gone off its head.”
The Dean reached for his hat and um-
brella. “Perhaps you are right,” he said.
“I may have been too presumptuous; but
you see it is this way. I was addressing
some missionaries in, England, and when
a dean is talking to missionaries he has
to say something noble about self-sacri-
fice and all that sort of thing. And it
is hard for a dean to get into the papers
—frightfully hard. The idea about giv-
ing away North Australia just shot into
my head, as it were. And nobody in
England knows anything about Aus-
tralia really, so a dean can say almost
anything he likes.”
“I suppose so,” said the Minister.
“Oh, and one more thing,” said the
Dean as he got up to go. “I thought a
lot of Japanese in Australia would make
it a more Christian country, and that
was quite a mistake, too, wasn’t it? Be-
cause, of course, you’re Mohammedans,
ha, ha! ”
CAUBOY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chartered Companies in the North.
Judgment needs to be reserved on the
Lyons Government’s scheme for settling
the Northern Territory until it becomes
more specific in its detail. As an act of
repentance, however, its adoption is mag-
nificent, for it embodies among the prin-
ciples which Pearce and his two co-
workers in the Cabinet sub-committee
are to implement everything which
Pearce himself rejected in other years.
Of the two areas which are to be
handled, that on the Victoria River is
the Vestey country. It is somewhere
about the size of Belgium and reason-
ably convenient to Darwin and Wynd-
ham. The heart of the Barkly section,
which is about twice the size of Belgium
(Alexandria alone is as big as King
Albert’s European territory), is ahout
120 miles from Vanderlin Island at the
mouth of the McArthur River, where a
port could easily be made. The bulk of
the plateau is rolling, Mitchell-grass
downs, 600 ft. to 900 ft. above sea level,
with sub-artesian water within windmill
reach; the rest is timbered “jump down,”
suitable for cattle-breeding.
When the fate of the Barkly was under
discussion a decade ago, the rock on
which negotiations crashed was tenure.
Britons were prepared to spend
£7,000,000 in 23 years to subdivide the
whole of the tableland into 64,000-acre
blocks, each block dog-fenced and sec-
tioned into watered paddocks. Road, rail
and sea transport were to be provided
and a meatworks erected. At the end
of the term there were to be 200 stations,
about 2,000,000 sheep and 1,000,000
cattle in the area.
The promoters wanted 66-year leases,
guaranteeing to sell pre-specified sec-
tions to young Australian pastoralists.
The Government would not give better
than 42 years, with periodic resumptions,
the locale of which it refused to pre-
specify. It now remains to be seen
whether Messrs. Pearce, McLachlan and
Perkins can show sufficient insight in
dealing with the intricate pastoral diffi-
culties of the country to enable them to
make their plan attractive to investors
without mortgaging the Territory’s future
too deeply.
It is a job which Territorians —people
like the Whites, with 100 years of family
pastoral experience on the Hunter and
on Brunette —could do better than all
the Cabinet Ministers.
*
The Westralian Way.
James Mitchell, late Premier of West-
ralia, lost not only his majority in the
Leg. Assembly at the general election but
his seat (Northam), which he had held
for 26 years. It is a significant and a
pleasant commentary on the absence in
the western State of that factious bitter-
ness which makes a dogfight of politics
in N. S. Wales that Labor Premier Col-
lier should have appointed his old oppo-
nent Lieut.-Governor, the Chief Justice
having relinquished that billet, and Gov-
ernment House being empty.
The Labor Government’s action has
met with general approval. Mitchell was
no statesman, but he is a man of sterling
character, and he hasn’t an enemy in the
world. Nobody ever questioned his sin-
cerity, his integrity, his determination to
do his best for his State and his robust
confidence in its future. In these regards
he inherits all the Forrest traditions.
If Forrest himself had lived a few
years longer he might have finished as
State Governor, and no appointment
would have been more popular or more
judicious. Mitchell (like Forrest, a native
of Bunbury) may wind up as Gover-
nor. There is no high position in
Australia, whether administrative or
social or a mixture of both, which native-
born Australians are not competent to
fill, and to fill without the slightest weak-
ening of Imperial ties.
_ ♦
Lobbying by Public Employees.
Vic. Minister Macfarlan objects to the
State Electricity Commission retailing
domestic appliances. He decided to
introduce a bill to prohibit this com-
petition with taxpayers. Officers of the
Commission immediately began to lobby
to defeat the measure .put forward by
their political head. Thereupon Mac-
farlan gave instructions that the propa-
ganda should cease, and declared that
unless Cabinet supported him he would
resign. Cabinet did support him; Argyle
said that the action of the Commission’s
employees would not be tolerated.
This Commission was created after the
war. It was empowered to control every
electric main in the country carrying 500
volts or more under conditions which
placed it in a position to snap its fingers
at public opinion and Parliament. In
course of time, it entered the domestic
electrical field, and proceeded to push
private enterprise out. The trade made
representations to several Governments
but without avail. The ambit of the
Commission’s socialism having widened,
a negotiator was sent from Sydney to
advise the Victorian trade and discuss the
matter with the Commission. He was
told in that quarter that it “did not care
what Parliament thought”; it was “con-
cerned only with the policy of the Com-
mission.”
In Sydney the same sort of thing goes
on. Retailers protested against the City
Council going in for electrical trading,
and an agreement was arrived at, being
embodied in draft legislation. By means
of lobbying employees of the City
Electricity Department made the imple-
menting of the arrangement impossible.
The power of these public utilities
grows as electrification increases. The
horse-power of the bigger cities now
is almost wholly generated by electricity,
and with generation facilities in their
hands the heads of these concerns are
well on their way to becoming industrial
dictators.
♦ :
Information Wanted.
Dear Bulletin, —Suppose you were in
Adelaide and you wanted to send a
cablegram to our Trade Commissioner
in U.S.A., how would you find him?
Come with me to the G.P.O. One
clerk has never heard of him. A col-
league has, but doesn’t know the
address; “the Eastern Extension people
might.” They don’t. We’ll ring the
American Consul’s office. No reply;
it’s after office hours. We find someone
who knows the Vice-Consul, and we ring
his office. He, too, is out, and the
Consul, his private number tinkled, is
“not home yet.” It is now after six, so
we call it a day.
In the morning, we ring the Chamber
of Manufactures, and then the Ameri-
can Consul; results, negative. The
Tourist Bureau “can’t say,” but rings
the Chief Secretary’s office; and we are.
asked to wait 10 minutes. We can’t, but
call back to learn that “the official secre-
tary to the Commissioner-General for
U.S.A.” is Mr. D. McK. Dow, and that
“New York” may find him. Surely he
has a code address. We go to a news-
paper office and the day sub-editor con-
fidently turns the pages of the Common-
wealth Year-Book. No mention of Mr.
Dow or any of his works. He picks up
“Whitaker’s” and we learn that Mr.
Dow is in Cunard Building, Broadway,
New York.
But someone must know the regis-
tered cable address! We ’phone the
Federal Public Service Inspector’s office,
the Chamber of Commerce, the Customs
(Adelaide and Port Adelaide), and a
number of shipping companies. Unseen
owners of voices say “Just a minute.”
The expression becomes monotonous
and is relieved only once by a bright
young thing (so she sounded) who said
“list a sec.” They all come back with
regrets but no information.
Hiding our feelings of inferiority, we
again go along to the Eastern Ex-
tension Co. and the G.P.0.. The G.P.O.
thinks the Chamber of Commerce
“should know if anyone does.” The
Chamber promises to search for the
information and give us a ring. Mean-
while we call on a business man who
spent some time in the Canadian Trade
Commissioner’s office. He is not in.
We go back to headquarters and ring
him. Still not in. Then our telephone
rings and the Chamber of Commerce
gives us the cable code address —Briencha,
New York.
It all indicates how States distant
from Canberra are out of touch with
Australian affairs. —Yours etc., Isolation.
♦
A Million-pound Cathedral.
In every city of any size and age un-
expected population-movements have
caused churches to lose their congrega-
tions. Paris and Rome possess dozens
of isolated fanes which served fashion-
able quarters in days gone by; and some
of London’s lovely city churches which
used to be packed in Wren’s lifetime
nowadays attract congregations of two or
three dozen. A similar fate has overtaken
St. Andrew’s, Sydney. The Bellevue Hill
area has become Sydney’s answer to
Mayfair and Belgravia. St. Andrew’s is
now almost as remote as if it were on the
North Shore.
The first Lang Government proposed
to resume the present site of the cathed-
ral, and give its owners the Mint site
and £500,000. The Bavin Government
would have nothing to do with the
scheme, but it is now before the Stevens
Government, and there are indications
that it may be adopted with modifica-
tions.
The Anglicans have had bad luck with
their cathedral from the very early days,
when part of George-street was run
through their original grant, until quite
recently, when 10 feet of their frontage
was resumed for the City Railway. But
two wrongs don’t make a right; and it
would be a flagrant injustice, as well as
the establishment of a rotten precedent,
if the citizens were taxed to the tune
of £500,000 (and no financial-emergency
reduction) to compensate a particular
church for having been unfortunate in its
choice of a cathedral site 114 years ago,
and for having been shabbily treated by
more than one Government since.
Another consideration is that the
Queen’s-square sector is considerably
over-churched already. With St. Mary’s
on one side of Hyde Park and the Syna-
gogue on the other, and with St. James’s
Church at the top of King-street and the
new mother-church of the Presbyterians
at the Macquarie-street end of the
Martin-place extension, the appearance
of a £1,000.000 cathedral on the Mint site
would amount to a town-planner’s night-
mare.
♦
Fur Thieves and Receivers.
A Sydney wool- and skin-exporting firm
has been convicted of having had ille-
gally in its possession 1561 ’possum skins,
the ’possum being a protected animal,
and fined £3 per skin —the full penalty
is £5 —with confiscation of the skins.
The forbidden merchandise was packed
with a covering of fox skins, the ship-
ment being disguised by wool-bale cover-
ings.
It is common knowledge that many
thousands of skins from protected Aus-
tralian animals leave this country every
year. Prosecutions for illegal possession
are fairly common, especially in Victoria,
where winter skins have a special value,
but these have been minor affairs com-
pared with the Sydney case. Every year
at the great fur sales in London and St.
Louis huge numbers of Australian ’pos-
sum and native-bear skins are on offer.
It would be interesting to know what
sums are paid to the surreptitious shooters
and poisoners. They almost certainly have
to take what the Australian buyer likes
to give.
Australia’s fauna is unique. Many mem-
bers of it, furred and feathered, have
already vanished. In the natural order
of things the expansion of settlement
must thin the ranks of those remaining.
The hastening of the process to extinc-
tion point in the interests of callous com-
mercialism must be checked.
Checked it could be if the Common-
wealth, which controls the Customs and
can enlist the co-operation of the Cus-
toms Departments overseas, were placed
in control of all matters connected with
our native fauna. Capture of animals
where there is excessive natural increase
should be permitted only under Com-
monwealth license. A further safeguard
would be increased restrictions on the
indiscriminate sale of cyanide by means
of which most of the skins are now
obtained.
: ♦
Tasmania’s West Coast Road.
Dear Bulletin, —The road which the
Government proposed to make via Wad-
damana (B. 5/7/’33) would not be only
20 miles longer than the direct route
between Launceston and Queenstown;
the excess distance is between 36 and
40 miles. A surveyor’s estimate of the
cost is £15,000.
The state of the exchequer had
nothing to do with the case. The Gov-
ernment had £95,000 of Federal-aid
money to spend, and it is spending that
amount irrespective of the fact that it
turned down both road proposals in a
fit of funk. The North had shown so
plainly that it wanted the direct route
that the Government felt it could not
go on with the tourist stunt for Hobart.
The plea for the Waddamana was that
it was necessary for access to the hydro-
electric centre. The commissioners in
charge of the hydro-electric concern
know of no such need; one of them says
that if such a road had been required by
the commission, the commission would
have built it.
Works Minister Lee promised last
August that the Public Works Commit-
tee’s plan for this northern completion
of the West Coast Road would be car-
ried out from the Federal-aid money
this year. The reason given for the
change of front was that the Government
knew it had no chance of getting the
vote through the Assembly. On a division
forced by a Northern member, the Gov-
ernment won by 13 to 6; but the 13 in-
cluded the four members of the Govern-
ment in the Assembly. Put them on the
other side and you have a majority for
the road. Opposition-leader Ogilvie and
three of his co-delegates to the Sydney
conference paired in favor of the road.
One last thing: The road via Wadda-
mana has to drop 1200 ft. and climb
again to the point at which the direct
route would junction with the Hobart
West Coast Road—which is only part of
a State scheme, and was never intended
to stand alone. —Yours etc., Embah.
■ ♦—
Plight of the Queensland Grazier.
Under the Lands Act Amendment Act
of 1927, the Land Administration Board
of Queensland has had a busy time
doling out additional areas to applicants
who have found their present holdings
insufficient to support them. To date,
831 graziers have been granted the
right to add to their present farms
2,531,785 acres of resumption blocks.
In a report just issued, the board re-
commends the reservation for priority
purposes of another 800,000 acres out of
forthcoming C.Q. resumptions—totalling
more than one-third of a blue-ribbon area
which includes such properties as Well-
shot and Alice Downs, Vindex, Oondoo-
roo, Evesham* Strathdarr and Terrick
Terrick. It has become alarmed about
the future of the policy, but it sees no
way out of it.
Seventy-seven p.c. of all the graziers
in Queensland possess fewer than 5000
head of sheep apiece, but own among
them only 26 p.c. of all sheep. There-
fore, writes the board, “the impossibility
of according additional areas all round,
even if they were urgently needed, will
be apparent.”
Nevertheless, the devil of depression sits
on one side of the road to solvency and
the deep blue sea of taxation on the
other. To-day, men who paid £15,000 or
£20,000 for blocks eight years ago ask for
bigger areas to enable them to live. The
board shows that, “with wool at Is. per
pound, it takes 4000 sheep to pay bare
working expenses,” and that “a selection
carrying fewer than 6000 sheep in C.Q.
would, therefore, even with normal sea-
sons and prices, be a somewhat doubtful
proposition.” It recommends that this
minimum carrying capacity be estab-
lished for Crown selections in C.Q., with
a minimum of 8000 sheep in the dry
N.-W. This sounds ominous when
it is reckoned that 43 p.c. of all the sheep-
owners in the* State own fewer than
1000 head; and ominous, too, even for
the graziers brought within the new living
minimum areas when wool prices are
considered.
The average price for greasy wool
(all-Australian figures) between July 1,
1932, and July 1, 1933, was £ll 4s. Bd.
per bale, or 8.65 d. per lb.; at the Bris-
bane June sales of 1933, it was 11.04 d.
per lb. On that basis, the loss on the
wool industry, if the country were
divided into 4000-acre blocks, would be
approximately £4,000,000 for the year.
Obviously, even with larger holdings,
there is no salvation for the small
Queensland grazier unless there is a sub-
stantial rise in prices or a substantial
reduction in costs —a cutting down of the
present iniquitous taxation, interest
charges and costs of materials and trans-
port in particular.
♦
What the Dairy Farmers Want.
Dear Bulletin, —The dairying indus-
try asks for legislation to give it the right
to fix, for butter sold in Australia, a
price bearing a definite relation to eco-
nomic conditions; a price that will rise
and fall as the purchasing-power of the
consumer rises and falls.
In October last our butter realised
106 s. per hundredweight in London. By
May it was down to 745. If London de-
clined another 10 per cent, so would the
price here. Will any reasonable person
contend that the purchasing-power of the
Australian consumer was 30 per cent,
lower in May than in October? fn
March, 1929, our butter was 1595. 6d. in
London.
In May Queensland dairymen received
6id. per lb.; in June, Bd. Six hundred
thousand Australians derive their living
hrectly from dairying. Clearly the posi-
tion demands action. The starting point
is in Australia, where 40 per cent, of our
production is sold.
The legislation is required to ensure
that each butter factory shall have only
its rightful quota of the Australian
market and export the other 60 per cent,
of its output. This will prevent cut-
throat competition for the local market,
which is the cause of the Australian price
falling with the London price. That the
proposal is practicable is proved by the
fact that exactly the same principle
operated in Queensland.
Admittedly there is a possibility of the
power thus given to the industry being
abused. But Governments have adequate
safeguards in their power to fix the
retail price of foodstuffs, and also to
admit butter from M.L.—Yours etc., J.
E. Harding, Hon. Sec., C.Q. District
Executive, Queensland Producers’ Asso-
ciation.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
Ihe Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DIRECTORS:
HON. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. (Chairman), EDWARD R. KNOX (Deputy Chairman)
MAJOR-GENERAL THE HON. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D. ML C
OWEN E. FRIEND, SIR WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth. Agents throughout the World.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclays
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Cable Address: "Thermostat/’ Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and London.
Fife Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£2B
me Diamonds
£25
DIAMOND
sr
WZ
Fine Diamonds
£50
Trap Cut Diamond
£80
Sapphire. iuxi Diamonds
£20
The diamonds used in the rings
illustrated are guaranteed finest
quality Blue White Gems the
illustrations representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with Pure
Platinum Settings, these rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia
Write for a selection on approval.
A catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding
Presents sent post free on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
SYDNEY
13 Hunter Street
BRISBANE
116 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
298 Gollins Stree
POLITICAL POINTS
As soon as the Australian financial
statements came out, Bruce induced the
British Treasury to lift its interdict on
loan-market operations other than its
own, and conversion of more Australian
6 per cents, is proceeding; £17,220,000
has been underwritten for issue at 4 per
cent., the price being £99. More than
£9.000,000 is N. S. Wales indebtedness.
While £15,000,000 of 6 per cents, re-
mains, it is expected that these will be
dealt with shortly. The interest saving
on the current operation will be £415,000
p.a. inclusive of exchange. Bruce has
done excellent work for Australia in try-
ing circumstances; and only blind pre-
judice denies it.
Brassington is back in the Queensland
Parliament as member for Fortitude Val-
ley. There was an unexpected last-
minute rally of candidates, five alto-
gether, but Brassington won with an abso-
lute majority of 3058, scoring 312 more
than the late Tom Wilson’s total (5935)
at the general election. He wouldn’t have
done this had the Moore party picked a
good man and supported him with its
whole strength; but it begins to be sus-
pected that Moore is a chronic ’bus-
misser.
Though N.S.W. Minister Drummond
assured people during the referendum
campaign that persons voted out of the
reformed Leg. Council would cease to
travel on the nod, his Government is
darkly suspected of an intention to let
them remain deadheads. There will be
trouble if it does. In Britain politicians
have to take out warrants when they
use the trains. These are issued to
M’s.P. for visiting their own constituen-
cies, and then they have to declare it
is on political business only that they
are travelling. There are no gold passes
in that happy land.
Largely because Australian beer is
taxed 2s. a gallon, consumption of sugar
and hops fell nearly 40 p.c. in 1932
compared with 1929. The drop in brew-
ery purchases of sugar amounted to 5800
tons. Comparing the same two years, the
beer revenue slumped £1.421,000. Never-
“No, conshable, not intoxicated! Jush
philanshropic — phlan-hic-shopic.”
theless, when an effort was made in the
Senate to get the excise lowered a bit
Massy Greene said the Government
wouldn’t think of it; “it would abso-
lutely cripple our efforts to give relief in
other directions.” So the beer-drinker
will have to go on being a philanthropist
—or a mug.
Attorney-General Mullan says he has
received no complaints that the Queens-
land Companies Act does not provide
sufficient protection against go-getters;
and people can’t be forced to buy shares
against their will. That’s all very well,
but there are hundreds of widows and
old people who by, among other things,
giving sons in the war have earned a
claim to public protection even if they
are weak-willed. Such people are the
special prey of hawkers of worthless
scrip.
A “Life of Lang,” by his former secre-
tary Sleeman, was announced for publi-
cation in March, but Graves, of the
A.L.P., is returning seven-and-sixpences
subscribed, saying it is unlikely to appear.
WILLIS: "Isn’t it enough to make a man
spit blood?”
Sleeman protests that it will, explaining
that he wants more time to record “the
last six months of Mr. Lang’s career.”
But it shouldn’t take a second to record
a blank.
The Vic. Government is considering
the abolition of the office of public soli-
citor. “Many complaints” have been
made by lawyers that “the facilities for
free legal assistance are abused.” Men-'
zies is not convinced that they are; but
even if there is ground for the complaint
the fault should be curable through a
proper investigation of the means of
applicants. Abolition of the office would
be an admission of departmental ineffi-
ciency.
Freight-rates have become a live ques-
tion in the Riverina. Albury firms
find it cheaper to have goods sent by
steamer to Melbourne and thence to
the border than to get them direct bv
rail from Sydney. Even to Wagga rail
charges from Sydney average £6 10s. per
ton, while motor transport from Mel-
bourne works out at £4 10s. per ton.
N.S.W. Minister Bruxner is talking about
further reductions; meanwhile motor in-
terests are preparing for a legal fight to
establish their right to carry goods inter-
state. .
Tas. delegates to the “unity” confer-
ence are getting their leagues to pass a
resolution affirming that “the time has
come for the State A.L.P. execu-
tive to constitute a Labor party with-
out affiliations with the mainland.” The
idea is to work in future alliance with
other State bodies but not necessarily to
be committed to their views. Alone
among Labor leaders, the sketchy Ogilvie
has a great opinion of Lang, but an
Ogilvie Government might find that iso-
lation of the sort he and Dwyer Gray
propose does not pay.
The Canberra allowances to civil ser-
vants were recently reduced, and old
Jack Barnes, whose heart is bigger than
his head, took up the cudgels for the
victims. In reply it was pointed out
that married clerks transferred from
other centres and single men living in
Government hostels are still getting an
allowance of ss. a week. They are also
of course exempt from State and unem-
ployed-relief taxes, whereas Federal
clerks or postmen at Quean beyan next-
door have to pay. Moreover local con-
veniences roads, footpaths, water
supply, sewerage, playgrounds, swim-
ming baths —are heaps better in Can-
berra than in most other Australian
country towns. But Senator Barnes still
protests that the clerks have been scurvily
treated.
Maoriland has experienced so many
troubles through the use of English silver
coins that it thought of minting or hav-
ing minted its own silver currency. A
committee was asked to report on local
v. British minting and on duodecimal v.
decimal coinage. It plumped for reten-
tion of £ s. d., on the ground that the
cost of a change-over would outweigh
all decimal advantages. The British Mint
settled the matter of minting locale by
offering to do the job free, save for
freight and charges and a trifle of £6OO
for designs and dies.
When the Christina Fraser failed to
reach port Perth newspapers came out
with such captions as “Collier Missing,”
“Where is Collier?” “Collier Not
Sighted” and “Is Collier Lost?” Street
contents bills did the same thing in
larger letters. Suddenly there was a
change to “Coal Vessel Lost” and the
like. Parliament House and Premier’s
Department ’phones had run hot with
inquiries from Premier Collier’s friends
asking for information and offering to
join in the search.
The favorable position of the dollar
is stimulating Australian trade with the
U.S.A. and exciting spendthrift bodies
that borrowed in New York Sydney
Water Board is hastening to get rid of
its annual interest load on £1,250,000'
which is not due till September. The
conversion on last year’s remittance cost
42 per cent, of the corpus of the pay-
ment —a cool £30,831 Australian, of
which £20,000 will be saved this year.
Forgan Smith, however, is the man who
has most reason to be delighted. Queens-
land on June 30 last year had a N. York
loan liability of £7,591,511, some of it
at 7 per cent. Converting an interest
charge like that with the dollar about
three to the pound is enough to give any
Treasurer nightmare.
“Lord Burghley is positive that the human
race is improving.”
STANLEY MELBOURNE (at the waxworks) :
“William Pitt, eh? You can never
have rowed in the Cambridge boat,
what?”
Although Australia. has been paying
maternity allowances for nearly 20 years,
the birth-rate last year was the lowest
on record. By contrast, Japan reports
the highest birth-rate on record. Excess
of births over deaths was 1,007,800, equi-
valent to Australia’s increase of popula-
tion for 10 years with excess of immi-
gration over emigration added. The
population of the Japanese Empire is
now well over 90 millions, and Man-
chukuo is excluded. Germany at the
outset of the war had a population of
65 millions.
While £10,772,000 was spent on old-
age and invalid pensions last financial
year, war pensions expenditure amounted
to £6,954,000. Considering that there
are 40,000 more war pensioners than old-
age and invalid pensioners, one would
think it would be the other way about.
Certainly a good many of the war pen-
sioners are children; but they are mostly
big boys and girls now. And the needs
of big boys and girls are greater than
those of old people.
The literary censorship committee which
is to help the Customs to keep Australia
undefiled will consist of Robert Garran,
formerly Solicitor-General, as chairman,
with Prof. Haydon and Dr. Allan. Hay-
don was once Professor of Modern Lan-
guages at Duntroon; he and Allan arc
“Here's trouble in large quantities
already. A report on the League in
his blithering-blazes style by W. M.
Hughes.”
now occupied in training the young idea
at Canberra Uni. College. All three
censors are liberal-minded men, but
whether they will be pure enough in
their outlook for the department is
another matter.
As a rule, Westralian Agents-General
are lucky in their efforts to return to
politics. Lefroy became Premier, Newton
Moore got into the House of Commons
and Colebatch was elected to the Senate.
Bill Angwin, who succeeded Colebatch,
as Colebatch has succeeded him, has not
been fortunate. He tried to get back
into the East Fremantle Council, where
he sat for upwards of 25 years, but
scored only 121 votes to his opponent’s
436. East Fremantle is Labor. Perhaps
it is fed up with Angwin because he is
a C.M.G.
In spite of the howls about the cut,
old-age and invalid pensions cost
£10,772,000 for the year to June 30. This
was only £107,000 less than the entire
yield from income tax, which goes up to
9s. 6d. in the £; and cost of administration
would make up the difference. In 1922-
23 the expenditure was £5,337,900. The
Langsters are organising these pensioners
in political associations, alleging that
they have been “robbed.” The truth is
that a great deal more has been done for
them than for the unemployed youth of
Australia; but then many of the work-
less youngsters are without votes.
A by-election in Fiji for the Southern
Indian Division awoke echoes of a
trouble further afield. Moslem voters
refused to vote. They demanded a
separate roll on the ground that they
were so inferior in number to the Hindus
that the latter must dominate the poll.
That in a nutshell is the situation in
India to-day.


Soiety
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
* * X *
“Cicero”: Another jury story still
heard in a Queensland dairying district.
The panel had retired and the foreman
said: “Well, hurry up, I’ve gotter get
home and milk.” The prisoner's cobber
looked hard at him. “What’s the
verdict?” “Guilty, of course.” The cobber
deliberately took off his coat and set his
pipe going. “Guilty, eh? Then you'll
milk no blanky cows to-night.” The
prisoner was acquitted.
* X X X
“C.Q.”: The disappearance of Laura
Clarke, a 12-year-old girl, last seen in
company with a young man in a motor-
boat near Bairnsdale (Vic.), has created
a situation something like the disappear-
“Look, Grace, there’s a nice old-fashioned girl. Her dress buttons all the way
up her back!”
“Ass! That’s her spine!”
ance of the aeroplane Southern Cloud.
The missing girl has been seen with her
escort entering trains, trams and
restaurants, boarding boats, engaging
flats, lodgings and rooms at hotels, and
passing in the street, not only in all parts
of Victoria, but in S.A. and N.S.W. as
well. The police have investigated all
these reports without result. They
believe that the girl has been drowned,
but another theory is that she was tired
of the monotony of domestic life and
has just cleared out. One of the most
romantic cases of the kind in Melbourne
was the elopement of a girl about the
same age with a youth, the idea of the
flight being inspired by a moving-picture
in which the main incident was the
escape of a pair by motor-boat on a
river in U.S.A. By studying the film and
substituting the Murray for the American
stream, the police were able to track
down the refugees.
* * * *
“Earlforward”: An old man was
admitted to Sydney Hospital with heart
trouble. He looked to be hard up against
it, which doubtless contributed to his
prompt admission. He died five days
later, without a single visitor having been
to see him or a single inquiry having
been made for him; a nurse, hastily look-
ing over the pitifully small belongings
the patient had left in a locker, was
amazed to find nearly £l7OO in bank-
notes and a passbook showing £lOO of
credit. Then somebody remembered
that the old man had expressed a dis-
trust of banks in the course of some
rambling remarks he had made since his
admission. Misers and hoarders run in
all shapes, but there are probably few
who would die more contentedly with
their money in a hospital locker than in
a bank. The memory of what Lang did
to the State Savings Bank is going to die
hard in N. S. Wales.
“D.J.”: 1 nominate “exclusive” as the
most idiotically mis-used word in Syd-
ney’s somewhat tenuous lexicon. A
gossip page referred recently to a local
grocer and his family as being “represen-
tative of all that is exclusive in our
Society.” Not many dukes can afford
to be genuinely exclusive these hard
times; for people to try to blend exclu-
siveness with gracing would simply be
to court financial ruin. Near where I
live an “Exclusive Chemist” hangs out
his shingle. He doesn’t appear to ex-
clude buyers any more than his trade
rival a few hundred yards away. And
then there are the “Exclusive Pro-
grammes” of the talkie palaces—gazettes
that can be seen in a dozen other palaces
near by, and dramas and comedies that
either have been or are destined to be
seen by half the human race!
=1: * * *
“Losuia”: Papuan witches, especially
the skilled practitioners of the Louis-
iades, have other specialties than raising
storms (B. 12/7/’33). One of them is
the complete removal of an enemy’s in-
terior economy, usually done when the
subject is asleep. On waking he is in-
formed of what has happened. What
follows depend on circumstances. If his
death is desired by the witch’s employer,
the patient obligingly dies; if it is a
matter of business, he pays up and gets
his property back. A brother official in
the Trobriands told me that one of his
native police was quite convinced that
he had been submitted to the operation.
Afterwards he had sneaked into the
witch’s hut in her absence, hoping to get
his innards again. He was disturbed be-
fore he could do so, but had seen ’em
hidden behind a kerosene-tin looking
“allee-same red calico.” The mixing of
modernity, as exemplified by the kero-
sene-tin and the turkey twill, with the
powers of evil has always appealed to
me.
x X ■ * *
“Herself”: Touching street nomen-
clature, Sydney may claim the most mar-
“I see in the paper that there’s less unemployment ’ere than in other countries.”
“Gosh! That accounts for me old man wantin’ to see the world.”
tial of all suburbs. Originally it was
Marsfield, an early-settled outskirt of
Ryde; it is now the municipality of East-
wood, but the old street names still re-
main to commemorate famous battles.
You may walk along Balaclava-road to
pass signposts denoting such cross thor-
oughfares as Vimiera, Agincourt, Crimea,
Waterloo, Vitloria, Corunna, Sebastopol,
Culloden and so forth. And then you
come to the Field of Mars cemetery.
“Agi”: Melbourne has a whole Crimea
war area in the suburb of Balaclava.
Alma, Sebastopol, Inkerman, etc., all
within stone’s throw, and Half-a-League-
lane close handy. Footscray has simi-
larly commemorated the Indian Mutiny.
X X X X
“M.G.”: The transfer of a building of
artistic merit from one country to an-
other may be defensible on some
grounds, but the . cottage in Yorkshire
where Captain Cook’s early years were
spent is not a work of art, and the whole
interest in it is based on sentiment. And
that sentiment does not centre on the
bricks and timber composing the build-
ing. It is the place association which
makes it of value. Far better it would
have been to have bought the cottage
as it stood and left it in Marton under
th.e care of the local council, so that
visiting Australians and others inter-
ested could see the place.
sjc ijc sj:
“Der Jong”: It warms my heart to
read of prize money in these effete days
(B. 12/7/’33). To me one of the draw-
backs of the late war was the abolition
of “batta,” the proceeds of loot which
was divided up officially, apart from
that which individuals secured for them-
selves. It seems to have died with the
South African War, most of it then com-
ing from the sale of captured cattle to
the South African cold-storage com-
panies, I fancy. It was as dilatory in
coming to hand as “J.E.R.’s” prize
money, but in my case I pouched some
£24 as a subaltern’s share six years or
so after the Peace of Vereeniging.
* * * *
“Jungor”: When the telegraph line
from the coast reached Cue (W.A.) in
1894 the progress committee of the in-
fant settlement held a meeting and re-
solved that the first outward message to
whizz across land and sea should be one
of loyal greeting to Queen Victoria.
Something short and snappy, it was
agreed, would meet the case, and a com-
mittee of three was appointed to frame
the requisite sentence. They held three
lengthy meetings (one at each pub), re-
ceiving and weighing suggestions and
grappling with the knotty problem. And
the message, when it was finally handed
to the township’s first telegraph opera-
tor, was at least sufficiently distinctive to
be preserved, although I have never seen
any reference to it since. It ran, with
simple directness: “The Queen, Buck-
ingham Palace, London: In the name of
the Lord, we wish you luck. Citizens
of Cue, West Australia.” Some official
acknowledgment was returned, of course,
but whether the message ever reached
royalty herself —and, if so, what effect
it produced—are things never likely-to
be known.
* X X X
“C'h.S.”: Extremism in fashion? Saw
a lady in William-street, Sydney, last
week who wore a brown velvet suit,
brown thingummy hat and brown shoes.
She carried a small brown spaniel in her
arms. Vaguely I wondered if her name
was Brown.
X X X X
“Soso”: While the Victorian Govern-
ment may be restricting the right of civil
marriages (B. 5/7/’33), in N. S. Wales
the arranging of a registry-office mar-
riage has been made easier. For-
merly the parties had to lodge a
declaration that they had “conscien-
tious objections to being married by
a minister of religion.” A few years
ago the Marriage Act was amended and
these words were deleted. In its stead
the parties make a declaration that “the
place where the bride ordinarily resides
is at ....,” which must be within the
registrar’s district. Under the old sys-
tem friany couples had to be sent to a
minister because they would not make
the declaration. Now the registrar offi-
ciates whenever asked by a bride from
his territory, and the result has been a
big increase in civil marriages.
* * * x
“Erua”: The census collector arrived
at our door wearing a harassed air and
mopping a trickle of blood from his
cheek. “You gotter be pretty nippy to
get the papers in these days,” he com-
mented. “Now I hope, lady, you under-
stand I gotter open your forms and see
they’re all filled in before I leave the
place. Some folks try handing in a blank
if we don’t watch ’em. I’ve just been
set on by a man down the road who said
I had no business opening his form. I
said I had, so we had it out in the back
yard. Then a lady took to me with the
broom because I had a look at hers. Yes,
you gotter have some backbone to col-
lect the census these days.” We asked
whether collectors hadn’t to pass some
kind of an examination before qualifying
for the job. “Too right,” he said feel-
ingly. “But there wasn’t any fighting in
it.”"
COURTS SHORTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dainty white pleated shorts and stockingless legs
are the latest dictum of fashion for women tennis
players in England.”
They’re copying Nausicaa and her misses,
Those gladsome beauties unadorned who hit
The startled gaze of wandering Ulysses
And like as not embarrassed him a bit,
Those lissome ladies whom, you may recall,
He caught with nothing on while playing ball.
Outworn conventions you may see they mean to
Shatter to bits as o’er the courts they dart,
Stressing with ev’ry pose the more you lean to
Nature, the greater scope there is for art,
And science, too, in such exacting jobs
As parrying cannonballs and killing lobs.
Shades of Victorian days, when skirts went
sweeping
Across the smooth and placid croquet-green
With nought beyond a piquant ankle peeping
From out the ambuscade of crinoline
To set {esthetic souls perhaps regretting
There wasn’t more occasion for croquetting!
Those days her nether limbs were not for seeing.
Yet now, with scarcely half a century lied,
She comes, a boldly bifurcated being.
Lord knows what Mrs. Grundy would have
said
To view her as toward the net she glides
Not with but in abbreviated strides.
Time was too liberal a show of stocking
Provoked dark frowns and disapproving
snorts.
Heart up, you Puritans who deemed it
shocking!
You’ll see still less below these snappy shorts,
Simply because, however hard you stare,
You can’t discern a thing that isn’t there.
’Vantage, whose ’vantage is it? Theirs or
others’?
Suppose we compromise on ’vantage all.
And, after all, the play’s the thing, my brothers.
On with the dance or (in this case) the ball!
Love games there’ll be, don’t doubt it, as of
yore—
And not improbably a trifle more.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Rip”: They did meet odd people, those
census collectors. A man whose dis-
trict took in the Shoalhaven gullies at
the back of Braidwood (N.S.W.) tells of
an encounter with a very deaf ancient
who was leaning over a post-and-rail
fence in profound meditation. “Your
census paper, Dad,” shouted the Govern-
ment emissary cheerily. The oldest in-
habitant cupped his hand to his ear, and
presently absorbed the purport of the
visit. “But I filled it in over 30 years
ago,” he objected. It was impressed on
him that this was a new one, and Dad
undertook to give the matter considera-
tion. “Who won the war?” he suddenly
asked, as the distributor was leaving.
The latter stared amazedly for a moment
and then, reminding himself that news
does travel slowly in some places,
shouted “We did, of course.” “I’m glad
of that,” returned the modern Van
“Why did you bring the wife?”
“In case we were wrecked. She’s got a jigger to hold a moneybelt an’ I haven’t.”
Winkle with, the first trace of animation
he had shown during the interview. “I
always did hate them Boers!”
. * .-i= # *
“J.D.”: “M.G.S.” says (B 12/7/733)
“Sydney has beer and natural beauty to
offer; Melbourne, beer.” Melbourne
hasn’t much natural beauty, but it has far
more made beauty than Sydney. For
example, in Collins-street it has the only
important thoroughfare of character as
well as beauty in the Commonwealth.
There are few streets to touch it for charm
as viewed from its eastern end at sun-
set on a fine summer evening. Sydney’s
nearest approach, as regards allure, is
the tiny sector between King's Cross and
Macleay-street, and it is completely un-
Australian —a blend of Los Angeles and
Montparnasse. Melbourne's principal
public gardens—and particularly the
Botanical Gardens —are incomparably
more beautiful than those of Sydney,
which is handicapped by its inability to
grow most varieties of shade trees. Also
Melbourne has a bridge, at Chapel-
street, which, though less impressive
than Sydney’s mammoth, is much more
picturesque—a Florentine bridge, so to
speak, as against the one over the Firth
of Forth.
* # * *
“Spasebo”: Mild international compli-
cations have arisen over the Felton
Bequest’s purchase for Melbourne of
Tiepolo’s “Banquet of Cleopatra,” which
used to hang in the Czar’s museum at
the Hermitage, Petrograd. Russian
emigres in Paris have addressed a pro-
test to the London “Times” claiming
that the picture was stolen by the Soviet.
The Felton people retort that they bought
it from a London dealer, but some-
body must have bought it from the
Soviet. The latter’s argument always
has been that the Czar was only the
custodian of his art treasures, which
really belonged to the people, for whom
the Soviet is now the custodian.
* * 'l* *
“Senex”: The other day a Sydney
daily published a cable which made an
Australian agricultural authority quote
“the late Vic. Premier Bent’s witticism to
the effect that he always took off his
hat to a cow.” Bent’s remark, of course,
was a pure plagiarism; the line occurs
in “Our Boys.” It was uttered by Perkin
Middlewick, a parvenu who had climbed
to the social heights on a golden stair
of butter.
* * 4c *
“Cosmos”: What resolute trade-
unionists these doctors are! Sir Ken-
neth Goadby argued in London “Times”
last month that for “the flood of Ger-
man doctors now entering England” to
be given facilities to practise was “incom-
patible with British national ideals and
Empire free trade.” France had a similar
experience after the Russian revolution.
But the local medicoes had been visited
by similar plagues in the past, and Par-
liament had devised a method of protect-
ing them akin to Australia’s language
test under the Alien Immigration Act.
In France before beginning practice a
foreign doctor must not only satisfy ex-
aminers that he is competent as a doctor;
he is also tested for his knowledge of
the French language. And it would be
easy to fail many an Academician on
that subject. Of course, Paris has plenty
of what may be called bootleg doctors—
mostly Russians, who attend members
of the large Russian colony—but they are
liable to be gaoled if patients give them
away.
* * * *
“Vicar”: “Monsoon” (B. 21/6/’33),
writing about the Westralian medico
whose Marathon drinking happened, year
in and year out, in the one corner of
the bar, wonders whether he has crossed
that other bar. Yes, and so has Perth's
last hansom cab, which the medico
always used for travelling to lunch and
dinner, and. of course, to the pub. I am
not sure whether the hansom went before
the doctor or whether the doctor pre-
ceded the hansom, but rather fancy that,
whichever way it was, there was some-
thing of a death pact about it. Nobody
else used the hansom, so far as 1 ever
saw. The doctor used nothing else.
THE BRIDE : “Shall we go home now, John?”
MR. DEPRESSION : “Certainly, darling! Where do you live?”
“Digger’s Father”: The 15th anniver-
sary of Hamel, where American troops
made their first attack alongside Aus-
tralian, has revived in an Adelaide paper
the old yarn that our men actually com-
plained of the newcomers as “too rough”
with the enemy. I wrote in The Bulle-
tin at the time that this (if said at all)
was infinitely more likely to have meant
“untrained; need experience.” But with
the years it has grown into a quite defi-
nite “too rough, and didn’t give the
Boche a chance.” Would any man in
his senses say that of a valuable helper?
In war you want Larwoods.
}|i jje sfc
“Jannock”: Recent comment on re-
cruiting posters, old and new, moves me
to offer my contribution to the collec-
tion. It was addressed during the
Napoleonic wars to “Warriors of Man-
chester,” and after the usual references
to the charm of a scarlet coat for the
Sex goes on: —
“Here also is an asylum for those noble-
hearted young men who have spirit enough to
get into debt by drinking the health of their
Sovereign, and have not the means of paying
those who have been so patriotic as to trust
them.”
Of course, soldiers under orders for
active service could not be imprisoned
for debt.
% * ❖ *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: In 1839 Syd-
ney had 82 licensed pubs. Twenty-three
were in George-street, 12 in Pitt, 11 in
Sussex, 6 in Castlereagh, five apiece in
King and Market; Phillip had two and
Bridge a solitary tavern. Combinations
terminating in “Arms” scored an easy
first when it came to nomenclature: there
were 12 of ’em. Only six names were
repeated: Freemasons’ Arms, Australian,
Woolpack, St. Andrew, Beehive and
Patent Slip each occurring twice. The
last name commemorated the erection of
Sydney’s first patent slip, brought here
by Alexander Fotheringham six years
earlier. Two Governors were immortal-
ised in pub signboards—-Macquarie and
Bourke.
$ $ iN $
“Uramao”: The other day a Maori-
land creditor sued a Chinaman named
Tai Sing for £B. but mistakenly the
papers were served on a compatriot
named Willie Tong, who ignored the
Law’s processes. Tong was collected by
the police in default of payment amid a
chorus of “Whaffor?” from himself and
his friends. The prisoner applied for a
rehearing of his case, but as the Law
had no cognisance of anyone named
Tong the request was disregarded. The
Tongites then served on the gaoler a
writ of habeas corpus for Tong, and
found themselves up against the same
difficulties, for the gaol records showed
that the only Chinaman in custody was
Tai Sing. After more yabber with their
counsel, the Tongites hit on the. bright
idea of applying to the Court for the
body of Tai Sing, though actually that
individual’s body was steaming in a
laundry. This ruse proved successful,
but it required the Supreme Court to
secure Tong’s freedom,
* * * *
“P.M.”: Whenever I read “Raid on
Two-up School in Surry Hills,” a perio-
dical daily news-
paper headline
• —and if it isn’t
Surry Hills it is
quite likely to
be Ultimo —it
sets me thinking
of the conversa-
tion between the
Wellers and Mr.
Pickwick as the
Ipswich - bound’
coach lumbered
through White-
chapel a cen-
tury ago. Sam
had drawn at-
tention to the
increase of
oyster-stalls as
the surround-
ings grew more
squalid, and
wound up with
the deduction:
“Blessed if I
don’t think w’en
a man’s wery
poor he rushes
out of his lodg-
in’s and eats
oysters in reg’-
lar desperation.”
“Of course he
does,” corrobo-
rated the elder
Weller sagely,
“and it’s the
same with
pickled sal-
mon.” On the
same analogy. I
suppose, when
a man is absolutely dead broke in the
regions where Sydney’s Lud Mayor re-
cently went a-slumming it is only natu-
ral for him to rush out and play two-up.
if he has anything left over after buying
his weekly lottery ticket.
* * * *
“Tyke”: Sydney papers have been de-
voting a lot of space to the appoint-
ment of two Alsatian dogs to the city
police force. Queensland tried the same
thing many years ago. The dogs were a
type specially bred in Germany for police
work, the first of the breed having been
introduced to Brisbane by the late Chief
Justice Pope Cooper. They did some
spectacular show work for the men who
had the training of them, but were found
useless when posted to other police. As
funds did not permit of a one-John-one-
dog policy, the scheme was abandoned.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Russia is acquiring a new
bourgeoisie of intellectuals. There are
Australians in it. One Melbourne woman
has been giving Soviet art students the
benefit of her knowledge of sculpture,
and another is propagandising Moscow’s
children’s art theatres.- Another well-
known and well-to-do Australian is lec-
turing at the Marx-Engels institute.
These adherents to Communism from
abroad are finding a congenial atmo-
sphere amidst the swarms of native art
students, propagandist-painters, dramat-
ists, scientists and novelists, journalists
and pamphleteers. Said atmosphere is
practically indistinguishable from that
of Chelsea, Montmartre or the arty sub-
divisions of Darlinghurst or Jolimont.
* * * *
“Emsworth”: Mention of James
McKay’s purchase of Westland province
(M.L.) for 300 so vs. (B. 28/6/’33) recalls
some of the early land speculators of the
Shaky Isles. John Blinkinsopp, skipper
of the whaler Caroline, reckoned he got
the whole of the fertile Wairau plain
when he handed over an old cannon in
1831, but Te Rauparaha and other chiefs
repudiated Blinkinsopp’s elaborate deed.
The famous cannon, after lying neglected
at Port Underwood for many years, may
now be seen in High-street, Blenheim.
Charles Philip Hippolytus, the self-styled
“Baron de Thierry,” claimed to have pur-
chased from Hongi the sovereignty of
all M.L., and asked alternatively for
40,000 acres, for which he had parted
with 36 axes. In the end he got 200
acres. William Webster handed Henare
£l4O 10s. and goods to the alleged value
of £1476 for 500,000 acres in the Auck-
land province: he ended up in Sydney
debtors’ gaol with liabilities totalling
£12,000.
THE LOVE OF A LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am ill love with a lady,
But she is in love with love—
With six-foot-three
Of hyperbole
And the croon of a cushat dove!
Like a spring wind shod with roses,
She trips to the talkie halls,
Where the timeworn “scene”
On the raucous screen
Her innermost soul enthrals.
She broods like a lost Aurora
O'er the “New Psychology”!
And the solemn cult
Of the Ultra-Ult.
Seems more to her mind than me.
But I think I could teach my darling,
By the gleam of the wreckwood fire,
A sweeter way
To love’s far Cathay
And the valley of Heart's Desire.
A bubble of mist and moonlight
Blown by the great god Pan,
A tear, a kiss —
What’s life but this
Since ever the world began?
But my love, she will walk with shadows,
Though the sky is a flame above.
Oh! a chap’s wits whirl
When he loves a girl
And the girl is in love with love.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


I bet I know what the doctor will say . . . ‘change to
CRAVEN A
in the nea> nwiitWve-ffkjocf
'cellophanelpack
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
V.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A lot of seasoned travellers will miss
H. G. Staunton, Commodore ol the
Orient fleet, who has retired. He has
been at sea since 1885. An old Wor-
cester boy, his first job was on a 629-
ton barque, his last on a 22,000-ton crack
liner. He joined the Orient Company as
fourth mate of the old R.M.S. Lusitania
in ’96, and since 1908 has commanded a
series of ships of increasing size. His
mercantile service was interrupted by a
spell of war service in the Navy. He
was commodore of convoys in 1917-18.
Dr. Spence, veteran R.C. Archbishop
of Adelaide, gets a “coadjutor” (the
position he himself held betore succeed-
ing O’Reilly in 1915) in Dr. Killian,
Bishop of Port Augusta. The new
prelate knows more than most men ol
Australia’s up-country, having since 1898
been busy about N.S.W. at Bourke.
Broken Hill, Wilcannia and Forbes.
Charles Mylne McDonald, chairman
of the Northern Collieries Association
since 1923 and almost perpetual presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Employers’ Federation,
is a broad, genial Glaswegian who long
ago lost his native accent. He began life
in shipping and graduated to his present
job via the secretaryships of the North
Coast S. N. Co. and the Australian Steam-
ship Owners’ Federation. He owes his
eminence mainly to a lucid mind, which
gets down immediately to first principles
on any question he tackles; a native wit.
which shows itself to advantage in
impromptu after-dinner speeches, and an
equable temper running parallel to a
CHARLES MCDONALD, president of
the N. S. Wales Employers’ Federation.
strongly-developed Scottish tenacity.
Once Labor agitators used to taunt him
that his figure branded him as the capital-
ist representative in any conference, but
after an inexperienced delegate confused
him with his perennial and equally sub-
stantial opposite number, Albert Willis,
the joke lost its savor.
James Menzies, father of Vic.’s
Attorney-General, who was formerly
M.L.A. for Lowan, is still on deck. He
was re-elected last week as chairman of
the Council of Agricultural Education,
which runs Dookie and Longerenong. In
politics the farthest he got was member-
ship of the Railway Committee. His son
seems to have his eye on the Premier-
ship.
Kerr Grant, who is to preside at the
conference of physicists and astronomers
to be held in Melbourne next month,
is a Victorian who took his M.Sc. at
Melbourne Uni. and was a lecturer there
before he settled down in Adelaide as
Professor of Physics in 1909. He sports
with disintegrating atoms as other people
play football, and is one of the leading
authorities on the elusive and now much
shattered unit.
Rev. C. F. L’Oste has celebrated his
104th birthday in Tasmania. He must
surely be the world’s oldest living clergy-
man.
In 1889 the
Melbourne Uni-
versity appointed
a brilliant young
Irish scientist
named Thomas
Ranken Lyle,
Professor of
Natural Philo-
sophv. Now in
his 72nd year, he
is still connected
with the southern
capital’s seat of
learning. Like an-
other eminent im-
ported scholar,
the Welsh Edge-
worth David of
Sydney Univer-
sity, the erudite
Irishman has
a c c o m plished
much in his long
and active life,
In addition to his
professorial duties
he has written
numerous origi-
n a 1 scientific
memoirs, and has
filled many im-
portant posts and
carried out a host
of investigations
for various Gov-
ernments. With-
in recent years he
has been on the
Electricity Com-
mission, and he
is a member of
the Council of
Scientific and In-
THOMAS LYLE,
Professor Emeritus
of Natural Philo
sophy at Melbourne
University.
dustrial Research. He has a birthday
on the 26th of next month.
Sydney Myer is the latest magnate to
present Melbourne with a relic of Cap-
tain Cook. His gift is Zoffany’s “con-
versation piece,” depicting the navigator
explaining some project to Lord Sand-
wich, Joseph Banks and two others in
conventional eighteenth-century country
surroundings.
Dead at Geelong at 53, Julius Solo-
mon, who was Mayor of his native town
of Talbot when 21 years old. He was
Geelong’s Mayor during the visit of the
Duke and Duchess of York, and has
been president of nearly every body in
the municipality, though this did not
seem to restrict either his sporting or
commercial activities, which were wide,
or keep him from trying his luck occas-
sionally as a Parliamentary candidate.
Arthur Brownlow Corbett, who goes
to Queensland from superintending the
mail branch at Sydney G.P.O. to take
over the job of Deputy Director of Posts
and Telegraphs, is English-born and
began his service in Queensland as a
clerk in the money-order office. He
fought in South Africa as a sergeant
in the sth Q. 1.8. Corbett designed and
installed the unique mechanical mail-
handling plants now in operation in
Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne.
J. F. Whitney, who has been appointed
superintendent of Brisbane Prison, is a
Sydneysider who started his working
life in the N.S.W. Lands Department,
later transferring to the prisons services.
In 1926 he was invited to take the job
of deputy-superintendent at Brisbane. He
is 43, and has been responsible for
several improvements in the Queensland
system, the Government’s recent decision
to inaugurate prison camps being credited
to him.
George Smith, whose death at 84 is
reported from Scotland, is well remem-
bered in Queensland, whither he came
to visit his elder son, Forgan Smith, now
Premier, then Theodore’s Minister for
Works. The fine old gentleman, who
was a landscape gardener, spent over a
year in Queensland, where as a delegate
of the General Assembly of Scotland, he
was a figure in Queensland Presbyterian
circles.
The man who made the first Austra-
lian moving-picture in 1896, E. J.
Thwaites, has died in Melbourne. He
had previously built and demonstrated
the first phonograph made in this coun-
try, and when he went into the movie
business he had to construct his own
camera and projector. In 1897 he and
one R. Harvie filmed the Caulfield Cup
and showed the picture the same night
at the old Opera House (now the Tivoli)
in Bourke-street.
Charles Byrne (“Byrnie”), one of the
ancients amongst the commercial travel-
lers of N.S.W., had some remarkable
pioneering records to look back upon.
With a buggy and horse he went
I'rom Wagga to Hay, to Wilcannia, and
then (with many wayside calls) through
the north and back through Newcastle
to Sydney. It took him six months. That
was only one of his pioneering efforts
on the road, on which he had travelled
for nearly 60 years when his death at
80 occurred last week. “Byrnie” knew
almost as much about the bush and its
ways as a native.
Ex-Premier Jimmy Mitchell read the
Lieut.-Gov.’s spech at the opening of the
Weslralian Parliament. Jimmy is a Bun-
bury native, and before he resigned to
contest Northam, he was manager of the
local branch of the W.A. Bank. He
became a Minister in 1906, has sat in
every Government controlled by his
party since then, has been the party
leader since 1919, and has held the Pre-
miership for eight years; so he should be
at home at the head of an Executive
Council table.
M. A. Brown, who has resigned as
clerk to the Chief S.M., Sydney, has
gone into partnership at Broken Hill
with his brother, who recently acquired
the practice of J. R. Edwards and Co.,
an old-established firm. After joining
the public service in 1915 at Forbes,
Brown saw active service abroad, and
on his return qualified as a solicitor.
His last five years’ service was as a
metropolitan deposition clerk. He has
contributed many articles to the “Petty
Sessions Chronicle.”
W. M. Shannon, who retired from a
Vic. Railway Commissionership in April,
died last week. He had been 52 years in
the State service when he went out, and
had been through every grade, serving
seven years as an apprentice fitter by way
of foundation for his climb. Not satisfied
with that artisan grounding, he went
into the drawing office, and fol-
lowed it up by working his passage to
England as a stoker. Employed by an
English railway company, he worked his
passage again to the U.S.A. where he
gained still more experience. His monu-
ments were the Newport workshops and
the electrification of the Melbourne
suburban lines.
H. D. Murphy, of Mornington (Vic.),
used an Oxford education as a prepara-
tion for a career before the mast. He
was in two Arctic expeditions, and was
with Mawson as astronomer on that ex-
plorer’s first voyage to the Antarctic. He
is at present second mate and owner of
the Jason, an auxiliary sailer which hunts
whales and shelters at Westernport. An-
other hobby of his is the education of
children, and, although a bachelor, he
has a family of four adopted children.
One is at the Uni. Mr. Murphy’s scien-
tific curiosity sends him on long voyages
both on sea and land, and on one occa-
sion his lucky family accompanied him
on a year’s tour of this continent in a
motor truck.
Walter Baker had been so long out
of active stage life when he died at Syd-
ney, aged 70, that the new movie-ised
generation of theatregoers scarcely knew
him. But in his day when he played
juvenile lead for Alfred Dampier he was
one of the heartbreakers of the stage,
with a fine presence and a mellow voice.
He was with Majeroni, Sheridan and
Dampier; but his greatest fame was
earned with Bland Holt. Baker could
and did play every kind of role conceiv-
able in drama, and he had a memory
which enabled him to assimilate a part
with magical quickness. In his later days
he was president of the Actors’ Federa-
tion, and gave his time and talents to
charity whenever a helping hand was
needed.
South Australia’s Commandant, Briga-
dier-General John Leslie Hardie, is a
Ballarat son whose record, as it appears
in Johns, seems to be nearly all capital
letters. He is that rare bird in Aus-
tralia a permanent force man with a
University education. His earlier senior
training was in W.A., where he was on
Brigadier-General HARDIE, S.A.’s
Military Commandant.
the static His specialised knowledge kept
him i i Australia during the first two
years of the Great War, but in 1917 he
went over as Brigade Major of the Ist
Infantry Brigade, leaving the job to
become D.A.A.G. and A.A. and Q.M.G.
of the First Division. He came back with
the D.S.O. and an 0.8. E., and since then
has served in three States before going
back for his third military sojourn in
Adelaide, where he was quartered both
before and after the Great War.
Adelaide “Advertiser” has celebrated
its 75th birthday by issuing a full-size
copy of its first number (12/7/’5B).
The “ ’Tiser” started in opposition to the
“Register,” swallowed it, and is now the
only morning paper in Adelaide. For
some 40 years Langdon Bonython was
sole proprietor, but it is now managed
by a co., his son Lavington being one
of the directors.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, IXS Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office ir» Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glasa
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Doeg he possess the knowledge and experience which (he acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
If'nte for explanatory liaol'let, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL IJ DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman'^
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Wright, Stephenson (M.L.)
/- Dividends —^
Piet, To He- Re-
Alar., Profit. (54 y.e.) Old. serves, serves.
1924.. 41.332 13,741 7 p.o. 20,365 7,226 90,378
1925.. 46.719 13,741 7 „ ~ 20,328 11,450 101,828
1926.. 46.241 13,741 7 „ „ 20,616 11,884 113,712
1927.. 27.147 13,741 7 „ „ 20,706 106,412
1928. .35,729 13,741 7 „ ~20,795 1,193 107,605
1929.. 38.167 13,741 7 „ „ 20,884 8,637 111,142
1930. .36,432 13,741 7 „ ~20,961 1,740 112,882
1931.. 20.887 13,741 6 „ „ 17,996 102,032
1932. .25,964 13,741 4 „ ~ 12,010 213 102,245
Written ofi. £98,224 .. .. .. 4,021
1933.. 30.983 6,871* Nil 24,112 28,133
*Tlalf-year.
That is the first time since 1895 that
shareholders have had to do without,
though divs. had always been moderate.
The debts question is the trouble. The
co., which is in the farm-produce and
wool-broking business, etc., has bor-
rowed heavily to lend, mainly to farmers.
At the end of March its £550,082 of
capital (£249,480 of it is 5j p.c. cumu-
lative, reduced to 5 p.c. by the statutory
cut) was supplemented £689,965 of de-
benture money (costing the co. 5.5 p.c.
on the average) and £879,557 of other
money, including £107,314 coming to the
bank. Visibly the lay-by amounted to
no more than £28,133. There was thus
£3 os. 7d. of outside money at risk in
the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders.
Moreover, £1,547,589, or 72 p.c. of
the lot, was represented by debtors’
balances. The position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it is as follows:
1928. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. . . £546,907 £550,082 £550,082
Debentures . . . . 569,993 689,540 689,965
Other liabilities ..1,073,552 977,871 879,557
Freeholds, etc 202,351 236,842 237,111
Plant 33,898 24,573 19,993
Shares in other cos. . . 201,574 242,354 242,920
Stock 178,406 139,160 97,385
Debtors 1,386,657 1,688,755 1,547,589
Cash, etc. .. .i. 222,440 6,933 2,739
Last year the book value of stocks was
reduced by £41,775, and debtors’ balances
by £141,166, of which £98,224 was in re-
spect of bad and doubtful debts written
off out of reserves. The board was able
to chip £66,777 off the overdraft, and
£31,537 off the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors. The shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£78,191, including
stocks but not shares) was £89,246. The
shareholdings include a half interest in
the Challenge Phosphate Co., which took
over this co.’s Otahuhu fertiliser works
in 1927.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, Maoriland’s merchandis-
ing exports (£37,510,000 in local cur-
rency) were £3,567,000 better than the
previous year’s, thanks to a record out-
put of dairy produce and meat; prices
eased. So the board claimed an extra
£5019 of profit (£30,983). But that was
before striking off the £98,224 for bad
and doubtful debts already referred to,
which left the final balance £67,241 on the
wrong side. After paying to pref. div.,
enough remained in the previous year to
show 4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
2.3, 7.5, 8.1 and 7.3 p.c. back to 1928.
The whole position hinges upon the
ability of debtors to meet their commit-
ments, and whether the provision for
contingencies proves to be adequate.
During the four years to the end of 1932
the Dominion’s export price-index
dropped 47 p.c., while the retail price-
index eased only 16.8 p.c. A little relief
has been gained by the statutory cut of
20 p.c. in fixed interest charges, which
figure largely in farm overhead, and by
the lift in exchange on London from
£llO p.c. to £125 p.c. in January. Also
export prices have recently strengthened,
though they are still shockingly low.
' The market expresses its doubts by
pricing the prefs. at 11s. and the ords.
at Bs. 6d. The book value of the net
tangible cover is £2 6s. 3d. prefs. and 21s.
lOd. ords.
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd.
r— Dividends
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb., £ £ £ £
1923.. 6,243 10 p.c.= 1200 5 p.c. = 3,035 75,950
1924.. 6,224 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6,07 l 74,903
1925.. 6,136 10 ~ ~1200 10 ~, „ 6,071 73,76 S
1926.. 9,779 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ .. 6.071 76.27 C
1927.. 8,332 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~ 6,07 l 77,336
1928.. 10,069 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 6.071 80,134
1929.. 10,531 10 „ ~1200 10 „ „ 8,550 80,915
1930.. 21,480 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~15,767 85.428
1931.. • 2,429 l'O „ ~1200 Nil 86,657
1932.. 1,240 10 ~ ~1200 Nil 86,697
Written off, £59,664 .. .. .. 27,033
1933.. 2,471 10 p.c. = 774* Nil 28,730
*After deducting tax.
This is one of the holding cos. through
which the public is interested in' the
Union group of picture theatres, etc.
Paid capital is £182.000. Besides the
£28,730 of reserves shown in the table,
there is a sinking fund of £15,409 and
£2416 set aside for taxation. There was
£2932 coming to creditors when the
books closed. Chief asset is shares in
Greater Union and Australasian Films
(Holdings'), Ltd., £162,334. This replaces
shares in the General Film Co. (in liq.),
debentures, advances, etc., which totalled
£219,691, less a capital reserve of £59,664,
shown as written off in the table. In
addition the co. owns the Melbourne
Majestic and St. Kilda Theatres—the
Majestic is a leasehold on which £40,925
has been spent, and the other a freehold,
in at £7640 —together with £4OOO worth
of scrip in three small subsidiaries and
cash and other investments totalling
£17,128.
Originally West’s, Spencer’s and Amal-
gamated sold their showing rights, etc.,
to the General Film Co. for scrip. Gen-
eral Film then formed Union and Aus-
tralasian Films to do the showing and
hiring respectively. Satisfactory" divs.
were paid until slump and special taxa-
tion followed a costly programme of
development, to help finance which the
two operating cos. had piled up debts
aggregating £824,864 at the end of 1930.
Also, losses instead of profits began to
show up. It was decided to reorganise
the group, and Union. Australasian Films
and General Film all went into liquida-
tion.
The lour holding cos. in which the
public is interested formed another
group, chief of which are Greater Union
and Australasian Films (Holdings), Ltd.,
to take over the assets. Greater Union
has a paid capital of £400,000, which is
held as follows:
Debt
Original Pay- Bonus
Capital. Merits. Shares. Total.
Amalgamated . . £2,628 £10,220 £45,552 • £58,400
(irt. J. D. Williams 5,850 22,750 10.1,400 130,000
West’s .. .. 4,716 18,340 81.744 101,800
Spencer's .. 4,806 1.8,090 83,304 106,800
£lB,OOO .£70,000 £312,000 £400,000
The co. is to hand not less than 20 p.c.
of its annual net earnings to the liquida-
tors of the old business until creditors are
paid in full. Thus, to pay a 5 p.c. div.
Greater Union would need to net 6 \ p.c.
or more.
On the basis of last year’s net earnings,
a 5 p.c. div. from Greater Union would
enable Amalgamated to pay its pref. div.
and show 21 p.c. on ord. capital. That
is apart from anything which may be
sent along by Australasian Films (Hold-
ings), in which Amalgamated’s share
interest apparently figures at £103,934.
The Films co. took over British Empire
Films, Cinesound Productions and Gen-
eral Theatres Supplies. Since the Union
Group and Hoyts brought their city
houses under one control (General
Theatres Corp.), savings have been made,
takings have improved and all the most
important of the operating cos. are re-
ported to be earning profits.
On the market Amalgamated’s pound
ords. fetch 7s. 9d. The return at that
figure would be 7.7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis. Allowing for the statutory deduc-
tion of the special 10 p.c. tax on income
from property, the prefs. at 255. 6d. re-
turn 7 p.c.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, I’rofit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 46,418 10 p.c. =25,000 2,855 15,563 157,925
1924.. 47.386 124 „ ~ 31,250 4,007 12,129 170,054
1925.. 54,235 124 ~ ~31,250 3,622 19.363 189.417
1926.. 54,181 124 „ ~ 31,250 3,732 19,199 208.616
1927.. 52,595 14 „ ~ 35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed. £lB,Bio .'. .. 240,696
1928. . 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46,976 124 „ 31.250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 124 „ ~31,250 3,182 5,748 265,040
1931.. 17,572 10 „ ~25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 ~,, 20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
This snug little Rockhampton merchan-
dising concern has strong connections out-
back. Earnings, therefore, largely depend
upon conditions in the pastoral industry.
Last year’s gross profits fell away £6B6:\
making the slip 36.7 p.c. since 1929:
(»ros.s ..Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
19->4 £i33,776 £86,390 1929.. £128,432 £81.456
1995!! 84,744 1930.. 124.241 84,061
1926.. 148,169 93,988 1931.. 92,044 74,472
1997 148 900 96,305 1932..- 88,163 60,413
1928!! 127,775 90,357 1933.. 81,298 57.882
Exes., including something for bad debts,
were £2531 lighter, leaving the net result
at 9.3 p.c. on capital as against 11.1, 6.4,
14.8, 17, 13.1, 19.3 and 20.2 p.c. back
to 1926. The slip is due to drought, fol-
lowed by the collapse of prices. Losses,
however, have been met partly out of
inner reserves, leaving visible accumula-
tions £9168 in excess of paid capital
when the books closed. The div., which
had been steady at 10 p.c. since 1907,
with a bit extra in the fat years, was
lowered to 8 p.c.
The co. is exceptionally well equipped
to enlarge its activities immediately
opportunity offers, and/or adjust its capi-
tal to ensure satisfactory divs. from re-
duced earnings. Consider these figures:
1920. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 97,971 36,115 39,762 31,46 G
Stocks .. .. 255,266 208,298 128,446 126,735
Hook debts .. 164,467 76,095 46,119 26,266
Cash . . . . 42,478 63,676 42,078 49,063
Freeholds and
investments.. 131,855 243,568 360,875 367,283
Debtor’s balances (down £19,853 last
year) are now less than one-sixth of the
1926 figure. Over the same period stocks
have been reduced by more than one-
half, and freeholds and investments (the
latter includes £200.000 of Consols) have
been strengthened by £235,428. When
the books closed practically the whole of
the capital was represented by cash and
Consols.
The market prices the scrip at 31s. 6d.
as against 295. a year ago. The return at
the higher figure is 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 40s. 9d. in net
tangibles.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Juno, Profits.' Dividends. Reserves. servos.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 17,795 8 p.c. = 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £26,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c.= 17,600 'I 34,621
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1920.. 11,008- 10 „ ~11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ ~11.000 876 35,011
1928.. 10,094 10 ~ „ 11,009 34,105
1929.. 10,016 10 ~ .. 11,000 33,121
1930.. 10,005 8 ~ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written otr, £25,000 . . . . 9.326
1931.. 5,017 5 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
1932.. 615 Nil 615 9,458
1933.. 901 Nil 961 10,419
Interest centres chiefly in the co.’s hold-
ing (100,000 shares or thereabouts) in
Kandos Cement. Its own tile works, etc.,
at Granville have apparently never con-
tributed much to the pool; after being
idle for most of the last two years, they
started up again during the June half of
the last term.
Kandos, which was a steady 10 per-
center with wide margins during the
boom, paid p.c. from profits equal
to 1.7 p.c. on its capital for the year
ended June, 1932; no div. has yet been
declared in respect of the succeeding 12
months. To eliminate wasteful competi-
tion, Kandos (N.S.W.) and Australian
Cement (Vic.) amalgamated at the end of
1929, each receiving a million paids in
Australian Portland Pty., which is now
the operating co. It controls plant with
an annual capacity of over 400,000 tons,
equal to about one-third of the total
plant capacity of the Commonwealth.
The output of cement for the Com-
monwealth reached its peak in 1927,
when sales (732,000 tons) were no more
than about 69 p.c. of total plant capacity;
in 1932 they had dropped to 255,000
tons, or 21 p.c. of capacity. Thus, capi-
talising plant at £5 per ton of capacity,
whereas £1,640,000 of the capital invested
in the industry was not earning anything
in 1927, no less than £4.796,000 was on
the unemployed list last year.
As for the future, work in connection
with the Warragamba and Nepean dams.
Hume reservoir and Sydney high-pressure
tunnel and other Government spend-
ing ought to keep the pot simmering
for a while. Nevertheless, the industry
remains heavily overcapitalised, and only
moderate returns need be looked for.
There is nothing uneasy about Goodlet
and Smith’s finances:
1930. 1932. 1933.
Machinery, plant, etc... £35,000 £35,000 £35,000
Stocks 1,393 1,398 3,99 S
Book debts, shares in
other cos. and cash.. 116,435 83,854 85,359
£152,828 £123,252 £124,357
Liabilities .. .. 5,202 3,794 3,939
Net assets .. . . £147,626 £119,458 £120,418
Stocks are claimed to be conservatively
valued, and plant is reported in good
order.
The market prices the pound shares at
15s. 6d. as against 9s. 6d. a year ago.
The return at 15s. 6d. would be 5.1 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
N et To lie- lte-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
0 £ £ £
1923.. 9,198 10 p.c. = 7253 1945 11,608
Profit on property sale . . 734 12,342
1924.. 8,593 10 p.c. = 7253 1340 13,082
1925.. 8,040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8,552 10 „ ~ 7253 1299 15,768
1927.. 7,985 10 „ „ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8,351 10 „ „ 7253 1098 17,598
1929.. 9,026 10 „ „ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 „ „ 7253 3150 22,521
1931.. 5,215 8 „ „ 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6 „ ~ 4352 20,503
1933.. 3,727 6 ~ ~ 4352 19,878
This little co. has a bright history. It
set up 23 years ago with a capital of
£38,507. Five years later £21,393 of
bonus scrip was scattered, freeholds and
plant being written up £11,444 for the
purpose, and the div. was dropped from
10 p.c. to 7 p.c. In 1922 a par issue
took capital to its present figure, and a
run of 10 p.c. divs. followed. But soft-
drinks are a luxury easily dispensed with
in hard times, and, of course, there is
fierce competition for the business avail-
able. However, at the end of May about
two-thirds of the capital was represented
by fixed deposits, mortgages, book debts,
etc. Returns from these sources provided
most of the £3727 netted last year, which
was 5.1 p.c. on capital as against 4, 7.1,
14.3, 12.4 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1928.
Still, 6 p.c. was distributed; but trade
will need to look up if that rate is to be
maintained.
Of recent years savings have followed
improved methods of manufacture and
distribution, and finances are robust:
1924. 1927. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities .. 4,322 1,652 1,970 392
Freeholds, buildings,
etc. . . . . 42,825 40,274 33,617 31,937
Plant, etc. . . 23,027 26,526 11,067 8,897
Stocks . . . . 13,330 18,129 8,069 7,843
Book debts and cash 21,359 20,511 48,605 48.393
The more or less liquid surplus (£55,844,
including stocks) improved £ll4O last
year. Since 1927 the book value of
plant has been reduced by over two-
thirds, £18,129 more having been writ-
ten off than was spent on the item.
The pound shares, covered by 255. 6d.
in net tangibles, of which 14s. 9d. is
surplus liquids, are priced at 19s. 6d.
New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser Co.
Towards
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 7,247 Nil 7,247 40,411
Share forfeitures, £11,061 .. .. 29,350
1924.. 24,106 Nil 24,106 5,244
Additions to reserves, £2186 .. 3,058
£ Reserves.
1.925.. 25,724 74 p.c. a ,19,650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27,156 74 p.e. = 19.650 7.506 12,346
1927.. 25,187 74 ~ „ 19,650 5,537 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
1929.. 27,655 8 „ „ 20,909 0,696 26,485
May,
19.30*. 30,975 8 „ „ 24,453 6,522 33,007
1931.. 4.649 Nil 4,049 37,656
1932.. 15,785 5 p.c. = 13,099 2,686 40,342
19.33.. 13,281 5 „ „ 13,099 182 40,524
months.
Provided markets can be found, one
way of taking a little of the sting out
of falling prices is to liven production.
With this end in view the Maoriland
Government has assisted farmers to pur-
chase top-dressing; in return the fertil-
iser cos. agreed to reduce their prices.
Turnover increased to the benefit of
costs, which were also assisted by an
overhaul of manufacturing and distri-
buting methods. Hence the recovery in
the 1932 figures.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a good growing season
and further recessions in export prices,
especially for dairy produced, spoiled the
autumn demand, and stocks accumu-
lated. Gross earnings (£66,223) were
£3763 lighter. Exes. (£52,942) were pulled
{“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 16.)


V
WRAPPING
■t’s t'’"
wr [
B.D.V.’s are now wrapped inside the packet.
This guarantees that you buy your cigar-
ettes as fresh, as firm, and as pure as when
they left the factory. It is the first time
you have ever been offered such quality and
value in a ten-for-sixpenny cigarette.
BIBV
in
The “Everfresh” Wrapping keeps B.D.V.’s
fresh in any climate. ... It wraps the cigar-
ettes inside the packet, holds them firm
during transportation by boat, train or,
truck and gives you better filled cigarettes.
...And it prevents contact with cardboard or
printed surfaces which quickly affect the
flavour of tobacco.
RDM
v'RGIN lA, i
CIGARETTE *
đ
B.D.V. is the only cigarette at its price to
guarantee you perfect smoking. It offers
the same protection as more expensive cigar-
ettes. B.D.V.’s “Everfresh” Wrapping assures
you factory freshness and full enjoyment of
its 100% pure imported Virginia tobacco.
RDV
\Qfi6
2 QfiAi'
CORK TIPS
OR PLAIN
'EVERFRESH'
CIGARETTES
Coloured Photographs are included in every packet.
GUARANTEED 100% IMPORTED VIRGINIA TOBACCO.


Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. DaVies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. CMelb.l. —Advt.
GOLD-BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (.aDout one pounu
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PT Y. LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vie.).
Telegrams: Victor l.cggo, Melbourne.
Any Test Will Prove
PIONEER SUPERIORITY
In Australia’s leading industries
where transmission belting is
selected with the same care as
other sections of the plant you
will find Pioneer Belting giving
many years of efficient service.
When you buy Pioneer Belting
you immediately overcome
breakdowns, loss of power and
costly repairs.
Ri
lONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINGE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only^bv
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 Vorfc Street, Sydney.
20-2fi Queen’s Bridge St. Sth. Melbourne.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
l
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. VV.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Daljrety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE. QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Monro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis. Limited.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.: Daljrety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: Daljrety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Daljrety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Daljrety & Company Limited.
back £1259, leaving the net result a wink
over 5 p.c. on capital as against 5.7, 1.7,
10.1, 10.5, 6.7, 9 and 10.4 p.c. back to
1926. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., mak-
ing the average 5.4 p.c. over the last
decade.
The co. met with difficulties from the
start, 12 years ago, when a flood of im-
ported stocks broke down the market.
The board, however, never lost faith in
the future; with much help from the
bank, it set up another super, plant at
New Plymouth in 1924. Substantia!
additions have been made to these and
the Auckland works since, and as money
became available the debt has been re-
duced :
1924. 1930. 1932. 1933.
raid capital.. £261,745 £261,995 £201,995 £261,995
Overdraft . . 22,780 197,099 150,218 194,880
Other liabilities 46,008 41,120 11,915 27,144
Land, buildings
and plant.. 278,684 421,498 408,510 405,736
Stocks . . 10,304 97,811 44,902 109,359
Hook debts .. 35,900 38,302 30,082 22,483
Stores, etc. .. 409 70 70 70
Last year’s growth of £38,668 in the over-
draft and of £15,229 in the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was due to the
accumulation of stocks, up £64,457 —
they are claimed to be conservatively
valued. When the books closed the out-
side debt exceeded more or less liquids
by £90,118, an improvement of £2961
over the twelvemonth.
The market prices the pound shares at
16s. 6d. as against 12s. a year ago. The
return at the higher figure is 6 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 235. Id.
in net tangibles, all fixed assets, worth
what they can earn, which largely de-
pends upon maintenance of the Govern-
ment subsidy.
On New Guinea Goldfield’s leases two
entirely different gold deposits occur. On
the Golden Ridge section, where the mill
is, a flat ore-body, 25ft. thick and asso-
ciated with easily-removed mudstone, has
been proved over an area of 300,000
sq. ft. The ore assays 22dwt. and can
be cheaply mined by open-cut. On the
Plateau two well-defined veins, associated
with porphyry, are being developed at a
height of 6700 ft. above sea level. One
has been proved for 1100 ft. and
averages lldwt. gold and 28oz. silver
over a width of 4ft. 6in., and the other
for 750 ft. in ore assaying 20dwt. gold
and 260 z. silver, the average width being
3ft. 6in. These veins are expected to
give large ore reserves when fully
opened up.
* ❖ 4= *
Gold production in Queensland for
the first half of 1933 was 40,4220 z. fine
as against 54040 z. for the corresponding
half of 1932. The extra metal has come
mostly from Mt. Coolon and Mt. Morgan.
Coolon’s 44340 z. for June, its best yet,
strengthened the market for the scrip,
which had sagged owing to reports of
broken country in the lowest level. None
of the small fields, except Clermont,
showed notable recoveries.
$ - $ ❖
The best tin-producer on the Kan-
garoo Hills field QSf.Q.), the Sardine, has
just been bought for a comparative song
by Reddie Bros., who hang out on Oakey
Creek, running the only battery there
and taking crushings out of the Shrimp,
a big low-grade deposit with rich blobs
through it. The Sardine was exception-
ally rich in some of the shoots, and ore
was left in the lower workings. The low
price of tin shut it'down; exemption fol-
lowed, and managing director and big
shareholder Bill Lennox sought other
fields.
The Bristol reef, on the Two Mile,
Gympie (Q.), has exhibited some nice
gold in the plumbago country at a depth
of 110 ft. The reef itself is only 6in.
thick, but stoping is often worth while
outside the reef, and the developments
are of interest because of the impending
revival on the adjoining block around
the Great Northern. Here sinking by
three cos. should be in full swing within
a few months. Sydney, Brisbane and
Gympie are all interested.
* * * *
A show that appears to have possi-
bilities of providing big tonnages is the
St. Paul, near Ravenswood (N.Q.). An
option has been taken, and two ship-
ments of ore to Chillagoe averaged gold
8-lldwt., silver 2oz. and copper 3 p.c.
On the face of it, this doesn’t look like
a cyaniding proposition. Previous small
parcels have run to ounces in gold; but
the show will be pretty big and medium
to low in grade or nothing.
* * * *
Gold Mines of New Guinea has taken
over 2,000,000 c.y. of dirt on the north
side of the Upper Watut. The wash, 15ft.
deep, is reckoned to be worth 2s. 4d.
per yard. Working costs are put at lOd.
The property is to be check-bored.
* * * *
Misima Options (New Guinea) reports
that all ore assayed to date shows a
silver content of from 15oz. to 250 z. per
ton. On this basis the silver alone would
more than pay exes., leaving the gold
values net. A trial crushing of 120 tons
returned 73 fine ounces of gold and 545
fine ounces of silver.
The Lucky Hit, Lolworth (N.Q.),
turned down by Sydney interests after
one 6dwt. crushing, is being further de-
veloped by the owners. They are also
crushing the dump of about 600 tons
raised by the recent option-holders, and
the first 33 tons yielded over 31oz.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia has taken an
option over six miles of deep lead at
Boonjie (Q.). The wash lies beneath a
basalt flow. J. C. Coldham is boring the
area.
Hs * * *
Mt. Elliot, Ltd., whose principal inter-
ests are at Cloncurry (Q.), has com-
menced boring on the Homebush deep
lead, Avoca (Vic.).
* X * *
Golden Gate, which is developing a
property at Nundle (N.S.W.), is sinking
a new shaft 100 ft. south of the open cut
on a wide lode formation, which gave
surface assays of 15dwt. over a width
15ft. The shaft, to go down 175 ft., is
to be connected with Chapman’s tunnel.
If the lode continues as it is, this work
is expected to prove 60,000 tons of highly
payable ore. Guesses of this kind don’t
amount to much. It will be time enough
to talk about the value of the property
when a lot more development has been
done.
Carpathia Tin, Ardlethan (N.S.W.).
which has been let on tribute since the
price of tin began to fall early in 1929,
has decided to resume operations on its
own account. At Ardlethan the cassi-
terite is found as lenses in granite close
to its junction with the slates. Masses of
the oxide, weighing up to 20cwt., have
been found on the surface.
* * * *
At Curnows Tin, Torrington (N.S.W.),
tributers have crushed 750 tons for 13|
tons of 71 p.c. concentrate. The ore was
obtained above No. 2 level.
* =s= * *
A 1 Consolidated, Wood’s Point (Vic.),
reports 83,166 tons averaging 6dwt.
on the No. 9 level. Working costs are
put at 255. per ton with monthly
crushings of 1000 tons. On this basis
there is sufficient ore measured up to
yield an annual profit of £lO,OOO for the
next seven years. More stone is avail-
able below No. 9 level, and prospects
of striking new makes seem bright
enough.
* * * *
Corindap Hydraulic Sluicing, Roke-
wood (Vic.), is increasing its capital from
£15,000 to £30,000 to finance equipment
of the property and provide working
capital. The first clean-up of 41oz.
showed that most of the gold was on an
unsuspected false bottom; close-boring
is being undertaken to determine values.
* * * *
Hercules, Bendigo, has just completed
12 months’ work on the new reef, the
return for the period being 15,5570 z.
from 8735 tons. The last yield was
3930 z. from 200 tons. There is still
rich ore in the slopes above the 1725 ft.
level.
* * * *
Monument Hill, Bendigo, has crushed
230 tons averaging 2£dwt., which is not
payable. The stone was from the west
leg of a reef at the 740 ft. level. A
crushing will shortly be taken from the
820 ft. level.
* * * *
The last 22 tons from Corbett Bros,
property at Gordon (Vic.) returned
107 oz. of gold. The main shaft is at a
depth of 100 ft., and the stone shows
gold freely. Since May, 1931, 281 tons
have been crushed for 6360 z.
* * * *
In the Scarsdale district (Vic.), Browns
Creek Sluicing has taken up 1000 acres
embracing the Sandy Creek, Browns,
Budgeons and Watson’s Hill alluvial, and
Berry Kaboonga deep lead has pegged
750 acres at Smeaton. Both cos. have
enough capital to equip their properties,
if values are right.
* * * *
Victoria Alluvial Gold is on the hunt
for £250,000 in London to develop and
equip gold-dredging areas at Lisle (Tas.)
and goldmines at Castlemaine (Vic.).
* * * *
Farrell Mining Co. has been formed in
Adelaide to take over the North Mt.
Farrell, Tullah, Tas. The new lode
recently found on the surface has en-
hanced the value of this property.
* * # *
While gold keeps about the £7 10s.
mark (Australian currency), Lake View
and Star can be looked to for an
average monthly output of 44,000 tons,
worth about £lOO,OOO. When the co.
put up its £400,000 plant on Chaffer’s
lease, it seemed as though the right spot
had been chosen; but developments in
Great Boulder East lease, north of Chaf-
fer’s, have made the cost of transport
from the recent discoveries to the treat-
ment plant higher than is pleasing to
the management.
* * * *
North Kalgurli is content to build up
its ore reserves, now nearly 500,000 tons.
As a sideline, about 2000 tons of lldwt.
ore is treated monthly at the South Kal-
gurli mill. Still, the profit more than
covers developmental costs of about
£2OOO monthly. Boulder Perseverance’s
plant, to deal with 4000 tons a month
from the North, will not be ready
until early next year. What the profit
would be had the North its own plant
is hard to estimate, and why it has not
its own plant is difficult to understand.
* * * *
In some quarters Princess Royal’s 6d.
div., payable this month, is considered
to be a flash in the pan. It is far from
that. The No. 4 level has been extended
to the unexpected length of 280 ft. from
the incline shaft, and is still going strong.
This sort of thing increases ore reserves
and assures more sixpences to share-
holders.
* * * *
After producing over a million and a
quarter ounces of gold, Associated
(W.A.) was declared to be nearing ex-
haustion. But it has bucked up again;
last month’s output was worth £lO,OOO
(Australian currency), and the profit on
working account was £1769. A small
div. was paid a few months ago.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is con-
sidering the installation of its own power
plant. It now pays 1.7 d. per unit, where-
as Lake View and Star is supplying its
own juice at 0.65 d. per unit. B.P. also
hopes to reduce the cost of lime and
bromo-cyanide, used in the treatment
plant, from about 2s. per ton to 6d. per
ton.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop., Kalgoorlie, has
taken six months’ working option over
the Salvation Syndicate’s two leases at
Grant’s Patch, Ora Banda (W.A.). These
were taken up over two years ago by
M. H. C. McKenzie, and, after several
months of deep loaming, yielded about
200 tons of 4oz. ore and 200 tons of
3oz. ore. Jack Warrick, g.m. of the
Boulder, inspected the property early this
year. The ore is friable.
* # * *
Goldfields Australian Development,
which is probing the Moonlight leases at
Wiluna, has taken an option over the
Wilson brothers’ Gimlet South at Ora
Banda (W.A.). It also has an option
over the Wentworth in the same district.
The Gimlet South is near the Slippery
Gimlet, owned by Associated Northern,
which gave up owing to the absence of
water. But that difficulty will be over-
come shortly by extension of the pipe
line from Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp., which has been
granted large prospecting areas in West-
ralia, is particularly interested in the coun-
try south of Laverton, now being opened
up by Ross and Coleman. A strong lode
formation, which has been superficially
tested, has been traced for two miles.
* Jf: *
The last bore on the Mararoa leases
at Cue (W.A.) disclosed a lode 17ft. wide,
value 12dwt., at depth of 690 ft. Put
another way, the value is loz. per ton.
Westralia has had few more encourag-
ing goldmine bore results than this.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Nemo : Not recommended... .K.H.M.: The
bonds are a long-term speculation. The experi-
ence of growers and millers over the last live
years doesn’t encourage extravagant hopes
J.F.M.: If the facts are as ydu state, the over-
paid premiums should be refunded... .E.J.8.:
The Federal Mutual was taken over last year
by the London Assurance Co., whose funds
exceed £12,000,000 sterling F.J.8.: Assum-
ing that the assurance funds and liabilities
under policies exactly equal each other, then
net tangibles were £18,410 short of the mark
at the end of August, 1932. See B. 11/l/’33.
. ...H.K.: No record E.R.W.: The co. has
not yet turned the corner, but it is advancing
in that direction.


They've Vd ter cancel the Test, Snowy.
5S GOT V ARF THE TEAM DOIN' PAC.VL DRILL. > v
MIT YOUR UNO NOME <3,0
UNO SCHTART BEING GOOD HAUJS-PRAUS
AY VUNCE vV
"Free sbeecm ist
VERBOTENj PIG,-OOG(!
'/ .
1 DECLARE OIS MEETING, CLOSED,
DER MINISTER. KAENTIOH6D BOUTICS'f
*But STRIKE me lucky, Gene^u,
llVl /V NOR.OIC 1 vs
THE TEUTONIC TOUCH.
“Archbishop Duhig suggests that the Germans might be given back their colonies in return for helping to defend Australia. "


SHADOW SHOWS.
“State Fair,” at the State, deals with the
adventures of an American farming
family. Notwithstanding the cast and the
local color, it would be easy to believe
that the principals hailed from any coun-
try centre within a radius of 100 miles
of Sydney.
Abel Frake (Will Rogers) has no
thoughts for anything but his prize
hog. Mrs. Frake (Louise Dresser) is
equally wrapped up in her pickles and
mincemeat. The children, Wayne (Nor-
man Foster), who is practising at hoop-la,
and Margy (Janet Gaynor), who walks
about in a dream, anticipate exciting
times. The embarkation of the family
and hog aboard a motor-lorry and the
long drive through the night to the capital
city are highly realistic. Arriving at the
fair Abel spends most of his time at
the hog pavilion nursing “Blue Boy,”
who is indisposed. Mrs. Frake’s time is
taken up with domestic details and
anxiety over the fate of her exhibits.
Wayne tries his skill at hoop-la with good
results, and then falls violently in love
with a trapeze artist. Margy meets a
fascinating newspaper-man on the scenic
railway.
Abel’s hog captures the champion-
ship, and his wife’s entries score first
prizes. But the children are gloomy.
Wayne’s love for the trapezist is not
reciprocated, and Margy has her doubts
about the journalist. They all go home.
Dad and Mum begin to plan for the next
year’s fair, Wayne drifts back to a neigh-
boring country girl, but Margy dreams
of the journalist, poor child! She is in
imminent danger of being forced to
fall back on her former boy, a bump-
tious yokel, when the fairy ink-slinger
reappears.
A most satisfying picture. It doesn’t
caricature the country people; just shows
them as the shrewd, simple, kindly folk
that so many country people are the
world over.
“Yes, Madam” represents Elstree at
something like its worst. The actors are
painfully camera-conscious and the plot
is hackneyed. There is a young Canadian
who will inherit a fortune if he can hold
a job as domestic servant for two
months; and a rascally cousin will get the
fortune if he is sacked. Additional pup-
pets are a retired button-manufacturer —
Sylvia Welling as Frieda Hatzfeld in
“Music in the Air.”
(Other pictures are from the same play.)
the Canadian becoming his valet —his
snobbish wife, and an actress who has
been his mistress. The cousin threatens
to expose the button-maker’s moral lapse
if he doesn’t sack the Canadian, and the
Canadian threatens to expose him if he
does. Towards the end all the characters
are crowded into the actress’s flat, and
three of the men are running around in
their underpants. And then the idiotic
proceedings end abruptly, leaving every-
thing up in the air. Harold French,
Peter Haddon, Frank Pettingell, Muriel
Aked and Kay Hammond are in the cast.
* * *
As a Western “End of the Trail,” at
the Haymarket, is tripe; as a story it isn’t
much better, and the tempo is slow. But
it’s something new in pictures of its type.
There isn’t a cow-puncher in it; there
isn’t a heroine; though the audience, a
cynical lot, guffawed when Tim McCoy
told the pretty little Indian maid at the
finish that he was going to be a father to
her. The Injuns are the moral superiors
of the members of the corps which was
guilty of cashiering Tim. It ends, after
a heap of talking, with Tim’s loyalty
proven and himself administrator to the
Indian territory. Revolutionary, as you
say, reader, yet in Saturday night’s audi-
ence was at least one faithful heart that
sighed for the good old days and a pale-
faced sweetheart.
Gene Gerrard reigns supreme in
“Leave It to Me,” an adaptation of Wode-
house’s “Leave It to Psmith.” There is
the usual musicomedy multiplicity of
plots. Gerrard is the head of Help, Ltd.
Although all think he is helping them
and pay him homage accordingly, he is
in reality helping himself to somebody
else’s girl. That, as far as could be
ascertained, is the basis of the story. In
his anxiety to meet Molly Lamont, Gene
Frank Sale as Bruno Mahler.
gets mixed up in a jewel robbery. The
fact that he is masquerading under the
name of a modernist poet doesn’t help
matters. However, he is able to recover
the gems and establish his innocence.
Whether or no it will make you laugh
depends largely on whether or no you
are a disciple of the Gerrard brand of
comedy.
-v * *
The principal picture at the Regent
this week comes opportunely just now,
when ambitious young publishers are
starting business in so many Australian
cities. Its title, “The Animal Kingdom,”
will no doubt cause some to mistake it
for a jungle film; in point of fact, it is a
useful and fairly compendious guide to
domestic behavior for publishers in their
early twenties, and their brides.
Youthful art publishers are urged,
chiefly, not to insist on introducing dis-
solute ex-pugs to the home in the capacity
of butlers. A butler, however amusing as
a man, who comes home drunk, shakes
hands with the guests and shares the
champagne at parties is bound to em-
barrass a publisher’s wife and infuriate
his father if they have social ambitions.
The warnings to publishers’ wives may
be summarised as follows:
(1) Don't nag at your husband to produce
“popular” books when he is making enough
to keep you in splendor by producing art publi-
cations. You have won a miracle-worker:
leave him alone.
(2) Don't make advances to a lawyer in the
home. You are bound to be seen by the girl
whom your husband loved before he met you.
(3) Don’t begrudge the butler his chief
pleasure. Rather encourage him, and he may
die of alcoholic poisoning.
(4) Don’t try to make a society man of your
husband. Be civil to one or two press girls,
and you will get more than enough social pub-
licity to satisfy a normal woman.
The moral of “The Animal Kingdom”
is that husbands of ladies who deviate
from the above simple code are justified
Cecil Kellaway as Dr. Lessing.
in going back to their “real wives”—
meaning the girls they lived with before
marriage. Myrna Loy plays the wife, and
a hateful creature she makes her. The
only objection this Showman has to Les-
lie Howard, as the unconventional Ameri-
can art publisher, is that he uses the
idioms and wears the clothes of an Eng-
lish Guardee. Ann Harding is delightful
as the girl who wins him back. Her arti-
culation sounded a bit woolly to the
writer at times on Saturday night; but
what he could hear of her voice and
speech was beautiful, as usual. William
Gargan is funny, though completely
incredible from start to finish, as the
butler.
It is a crude production. Our
Censors’ Office technique may be to
blame for the poor continuity, but the
basic defect is the casting; the presenta-
tion of Leslie Howard as the employer
of such a character as William Gargan
represents.
“The Penguin Pool” is a thriller which
breaks new ground in several directions.
The murder occurs in an aquarium, and
the corpse introduces itself by toppling
into a tank. The only pretty girl in the
cast gets her face slapped by the hero at
the finish. Edna May Oliver —excellent
in her well-known manner as a school-
marm —does most to solve the mystery;
and she has the unusual experience of
winning Heaven’s greatest gift to a film
heroine —the love of a good and solvent
man. Jimmy Gleason is the man.
¥
The end of an aisle at the front of the
house isn’t much of a seat as a rule; but
on Friday afternoons, when the frying-
pan brigade is represented in battalions,
the position has its points. Present writer
applied the test to the current Sydney
Capitol programme, which stood it well.
Such is the adaptability of the human
mind and eye that in ten minutes the art
of translating figures fifteen feet high
and six inches wide into human terms is
mastered.
An interesting feature of this show
is a resurrection of scraps from old
news gazette films —Harry Houdini fly-
ing something that looks like a box-kite
in 1907 is an item of the collection, and
it winds up with one of those one-reel
hill-billy melodramas. The action is
snappy, and a running talkie commen-
tary gets breathless in trying to keep up
with it. The notion in the days of such
films was that it must be made clear
above all things that the product was a
moving picture. The technique Then
John Moore as Karl Peper.
developed was crude, and it is easy to
make fun of it, but its essentials are
coming back into vogue now that Holly-
wood has decided to have less cackle to
its ’osses.
“20,000 Years in Sing-Sing.” the main
item, essays to exploit to its bitter end
the vein opened up by “The Big House.”
it deals with a crook of A 1 Capone mag-
nitude (played by Spencer Tracey) who.
having to serve a term in the gaol, en-
deavors to add the institution to his
rackets. He fails, because the warden is
unbribable. The scenario was written by
an ex-warden of Sing-Sing. Released on
parole to kiss his dying sweetheart good-
bye, the gangster gets mixed in a shoot-
ing match in which the expiring maiden
bumps off another gangster. And the
hero returns to Sing-Sing and the electric
chair rather than get the warden in
wrong.
In “The Purchase Price” a young lady
(represented by Barbara Stanwyck), after
being mistress of a night-club proprietor
for three years, marries a hard-working
wheat-farmer in North Dakota (George
Brent) and is horrified to find she is
expected to occupy the same sleeping-
apartment as her spouse. Her reluctance
annoys the wheat-cultivator, who decides
henceforth to sleep in the barn.
The proprietor pursues his erst-
while lady-love to her North Dakota
lair. Being a good-hearted sort of guy,
he accepts the lady’s statement that
she loves her spouse, and decides to go
his way in peace after making a presen-
tation of eight hundred iron-men to lift
the mortgage on the farm. Husband mis-
understands and beats up the n.-c. pro-
prietor. Then, just when the harvest is
garnered, villains set fire to his wheat,
and wife assists husband to allay the con-
flagration, thus proving to his satisfac-
tion that she loves him truly. It’s the
tritest sort of drama, but it has its
touches of humor —husband sniffles with
a bad cold in the tensest situations.
Sundry Shows
Peter Dawson, whose voice is recorded
on well over a million gramophone discs,
and whose appearances on the concert
platform must run into thousands, could
Sydney Wheeler as the Burgomaster.
justly claim, if he cared to do so, that
he has acquired a wider circle of ad-
mirers than any other singer alive or
dead. The ingredients of his success are
crisp enunciation, a baritone voice of
pleasant timbre and a superlative talent
of showmanship. He doesn’t indulge in
musical snobbery; will sing anything he
is sure a lot of people will like, and does
his excellent best to get the last ounce of
merit out of everything he essays. To
the writing of rattling good songs there
is no ending, and as soon as one emerges
that suits any facet of his versatile style
Dawson pounces on it and makes it
famous. The crowd that filled Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night got all that
it expected—the singer in the best cf
voice and the best of humors, a selection
of songs that ranged from the heights of
Purcell and Schubert to the breadths of
“Simon the Cellarer” and “The Drum
Major,” and, garnishing the lot, a ripple
• of cheery patter that speedily established
a genial atmosphere. There were nine
songs on Dawson’s programme, and he
sang a baker’s dozen more by way of
encore. Hubert Greenslade, the accom-
panist, proved himself all an accompanist
should be.
Tapia-Caballero, the young and nice-
looking Chilean pianist, who puts the
high-art element into the present series
of Dawson recitals, is a better foil
for his associate than was that very
robust performer Mark Hambourg. The
hyphenated youngster excels in the graces
and delicacies of the keyboard, and is at
his best in Debussy, playing Bach, Scar-
latti and Beethoven in a Debussyish
manner. De Falla’s “Danse du Feu”
almost took the bit in its teeth and led
the young man into a rational rhythm,
but he sternly resisted the plebeian ten-
dency. Yet his playing is very attractive
and interesting and evidences an under-
standing of the purpose of the modern
schools of pianoforte composition.
H- %■ *
Friday will be the last opportunity for
Melbourne to “Hold My Hand,” at the
Royal. On Saturday Madge Elliott and
Cyril Ritchard will lead on “The Quaker
Girl.” When “Ladies Meet” is drawing
to its close at the King’s, where Isobel
Elsom and co. are preparing Noel Cow-
ard’s “Private Lives.” On Saturday
McMahon’s Players will present “Dis-
raeli” at the Garrick. The Spivakovsky
combination will loose their melodious
notes at the Town Hall on Thursday, 27.
Maggie Teyte’s beautiful voice and in-
different phrasing continued to be the
dominant features of the programmes at
Melbourne Town Hall last week, where
the opening numbers on Saturday night
had the added attraction of ’cello obli-
gatos by that fine local artist David Sis-
serman. A tendency to overload with
florid decoration such slight ditties as
“Songs My Mo-other Ta-haught Me”
and to chop her more serious songs into
unrelated sections are milady’s chief
artistic misdemeanors, but, whatever she
sings, her voice is never anything less
than lovely. This week she is billed with
tenor Davies to sing scenes in character
from opera at the Comedy.


1
i if at
ur ufuir vi n i
JOHNNIE WALKER
# Every bottle of Johnnie Walker Whisky bears a label
which guarantees that it is ENTIRELY the produce of
Scotland, bottled under Customs supervision. In other
words, the fine old mellow whisky produced by John Walker
& Sons Ltd., of Kilmarnock,
Scotland, comes to you with
its identity preserved and
retaining all those superfine
qualities that have made it
the world's most popular
whisky.
1H
n
Hip
illiS
llli
■
11
u
;
■■l
.
H
II
■
Hfl
IP«W
■
■
111
■
H
■
H
I
mu
HH|
■HH
mmmmsm
SBii
HD
Hi
m
1 "■
Ilf,
7T^
H
11 1: pH ■ |
i ••• <
Z2r(
■ . \
i < JSii)
IPI \
I ■
mSSSmm
> ■
*
ill::
tm/mm
■
mm
vi
' ■•■ ,
■B
wmMma,
■ ..
m
■
l!
H
*2 < '' *
. I
l
ill!!!
M
iHilf
■ rnfffi lij i b«m« ..........
U*£
ilililliiil
mm
. i
s. -p- .-mm \
• .•
■
ii
? 4
'mmwmmmm' A
e^2s*=w*i
1
> / <
i|ii|lliil®|ipiillili|!#ii
HSpp
iNR
IflHililli
SS*a
, •/:
still
going
strong.
JOHNNIE WAMCER
SCOTCH WHISKY
BORN 1820-STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN
WALKER & SONS, LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock.


(A'M'P)
.
::
1
I
wt
I
:
His duty is to show men and women
how to invest in happiness
MANY people—especially women—regard Life Assurance
as a painful subject. They don’t like to discuss it. They
think of it as an expense, whereas it is an investment in
happiness and peace of mind and security. Life Assurance is
a boon and a blessing, and the poorer a man the greater his
need of it.
Every man and woman should know all about it—and the
simplest way to learn the wonders of it is to let an A.M.P.
officer explain them. The “Next Best” way is to ask the Society
to send to you a copy of its booklet—“lnvesting in Happiness.”
The first point about Life Assurance is that, under it, a man can
create immediate provision for his wife and dependents. A
young man of 26, in good health, can take out an A.M.P. policy
for £5OO, payable at death, for an investment of less than five
shillings a week. Where is the young man in work who could
not make that investment? And this is the point: if he were
to die the next day, £5OO would be paid. Moreover, A.M.P.
policies grow with annual bonuses. Many a policy has doubled
in value before it matured. Many a young man, by investing
the equivalent of five shillings a week, has been able to draw
about £lOOO when he reached' 60.
A man can make almost any provision through Life Assurance.
Find out about it. Encourage the next A.M.P. man who calls
on you to tell the whole story. Or, better still, drop a line to
the nearest A.M.P. office to say that you want an officer to call.
Every woman should see that her husband
is insured in the A.M.P.
A.M.P. policies
—Provide for wives and
families in the event of
breadwinners’ death.
—Provide incomes for old
age.
—Educate children.
—Pay off mortgages.
—Make secure the home.
—Give men and women
peace of mind.
—-All at the lowest possible
cost, consistent with im-
pregnable security.
Better seize the first oppor-
tunity to get full particulars
of A.M.P. benefits.
ON the first day of this month the Society distributed £4,255,000 in Reversionary bonuses on
all participating policies in force in the ordinary department on 31st December last year.
These bonuses have an immediate cash value of £2,470,310. They mean that participating
members are receiving back, in cash or its equivalent reversionary bonus, 46 per cent, ot the
premiums they paid last year.
Despite the difficulties of 1932, the heavy increase in taxation, and lower rates of interest, the amount
available for distribution is just a little more than last year. But for what the Directors think is an
unjustifiable increase in taxation, the surplus would have been larger. Proof again (if proof w . ere
wanted) that the methods of the Society give it strength to withstand all the winds of adversity.
It is a wise man who invests his savings in A.M.P. policies. There is no better way in w ic
to invest them.
Assets: £90,000,000
Amount paid out on policies, £109,121,924.
New policies last year, £13,610,326.
A.M.P. Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE, A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branches in all the Capital and principal Cities in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.


LIFE INSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
Assurance
The dictionary’s distinction between
insurance and assurance is that the for-
mer is indemnity against something that
may happen, whereas the latter is protec-
tion against something that is certain to
happen. What is generally called life in-
surance is more precisely “assurance.”
Though our house may never be
destroyed by fire, we cannot evade death
or old age, and, whether a whole-life or an
endowment policy be taken out, the life-
assurance office is bound to pay some
time, unless it is one of the kind that
abides its hour or two and goes its way
into bankruptcy.
Death is certain, and life-assurance
offices have calculated the average age at
which it will probably occur amongst
people of normal health. Once past the
doctor, an individual becomes part of an
average with a life office: that is the
essence of assurance. Because a life office
can be practically certain at what average
age death will strike a group of people, it
is prepared to lay odds against the aim
of this indiscriminate marksman in the
case of an individual.
But though the principle is that those
who live must pay for those who die,
policy-holders as a group should receive
more out of a well-managed office than
they pay in. Policy-contracts usually do
not become claims until many premiums
have been paid, and from interest on the
investment of these instalments good
offices pay their expenses and provide
bonuses for policy-holders. A young
man turning twenty who takes out a
whole-life policy in one Australian office
would be 74 before the premiums paid
in would total the bare sum assured.
Under a 15-year or longer endowment
the premiums paid into this office could
never equal the sum assured. Bonuses
would be added in each case, and death
might mature the policy in either instance
after only one premium had been paid.
Well-established offices calculate the
amounts to be charged for a certain defi-
nite cover on a conservative basis; t.ius it
happens that most of such offices show
a surplus after paying claims and exes,
and providing for similar charges in the
future. With mutual or semi-mutual
concerns all or most of this surplus is dis-
tributed amongst policy-holders in the
form of reversionary bonuses, which may
be surrendered (at a discount) for cash,
or added to the sum assured at maturity.
Bonuses come from a favorable claims
experience, low administration costs, and
interest earnings. When an office
measures up the amount it thinks neces-
sary to provide for claims and expenses
in respect of the business on the books,
it must make an estimate of what rate of
interest the accumulated funds will earn,
how much expenses will run off with, and
how mortality experience will compare
with expectations. If it budgets for a
lower interest return and a higher claims
and exes, ratio than is actually experi-
enced, the surplus strengthens the policy-
holders’ position and provides additional
bonuses.
No Need for Gloom
Life assurance was originally looked
upon as provision for dependants purely
and simply in the event of death of the
breadwinner, and many people still con-
sider it only in that light. Provision
against untimely death is the main con-
cern of assurance; but nowadays it
spreads over a very broad field, and is
one of the most popular forms of invest-
ment.
The endowment-assurance policy, cov-
ering the contingency of death and yet
guaranteeing a certain sum at a speci-
fied age, is, particularly to those with
whom saving is not easy, one of the best
ways of providing cash for some future
anticipated event. A trip abroad, educa-
tion for a child, redemption of a mort-
gage, provision for dissolution of a
partnership, superannuation—all such ex-
pense may be provided against before-
hand by means of endowment assurance.
To get the full benefit of the policy, pre-
miums must be paid regularly until
maturity date or death; though this may
be looked upon as a disadvantage, it
brings the element of compulsory saving
into the plan, and in most cases is really
an advantage.
The reason why termination of any
assurance policy before maturity—
through surrender or lapse—often results
in a loss on the deal is that the office
must take out of the premiums paid in
an amount sufficient to cover it for the
death risk it has run since the first pre-
mium was paid—a risk which might
easily involve the payment of twenty
times one or two years’ premiums. This
also partly explains why bonuses com-
pounded over the term of the policy do
not equal the return on gilt-edged securi-
ties. But when it is remembered that the
lucky ones must share the loss on the
death of the unlucky ones, and that in a
good office a 20- or 30-year endowment
policy at maturity often yields lj times
as much as has been paid in, life assur-
ance, soundly conducted, is a thing to
marvel at.
Dangers in Assurance
Laws which protect a policy in the
event of the assured’s bankruptcy, and
otherwise encourage life assurance to the
extent of allowing premiums paid as a
deduction for income-tax purposes, are
strangely at odds with other laws that do
not set a rigid standard in the conduct of
the affairs of all life offices. Fortunately,
in Australia we have many splendid life
institutions; but the figures of these same
societies have encouraged the public to
put their money into mushroom com-
panies, some of which crashed early.
Because two offices charge the same
premiums for the same nominal cover
it does not follow that they are
equally good propositions. Some offices
may go to the extent of guaran-
teeing bonuses and surrender-values, but
it should always be kept in mind that
bankruptcy will limit the value of claims
to the amount of the co.’s funds, and
that “guarantees” or promises may be
valueless.
A person contemplating assurance
must look further than the table of rates
before paying the first premium; if he is
cautious he will ask for a balance sheet
and examine the disposition of the co.’s
funds. He should also ask for an actu-
ary’s report, and ascertain whether there
have been any surpluses (from which
bonuses are paid) in the preceding years,
or whether expenses of conducting the
office are so heavy that the security of
policy-holders is being jeopardised. But,
even though an office may, temporarily,
be actuarially insolvent, if it is heading
towards recovery its position is not neces-
sarily hopeless.
Points to Look For
A good office is one that invests its
funds in safe securities and yet pays good
bonuses' As mentioned elsewhere,
bonuses come from satisfactory interest
earnings, favorable mortality experience
and economy in management. The last-
mentioned factor is the most difficult of
achievement, and the expense rate at
which an office gathers new and renewal
premiums is one of the points which
should be studied carefully by the would-
be policy-holder. The best office, in
short is the one which returns the most
to policy-holders per £1 paid in.
When there is the same amount of cer-
tainty about getting the money out of one
office as out of another, it all boils down
to the net cost of assurance—that is, the
premiums paid, less the bonuses received,
What is paid for the bare sum assured is
the basis for comparing two offices, all
other things being equal. Some offices
offer higher surrender-values than others
—where the policy-holder forfeits a
policy for its cash value before maturity,
the basis on which such value is
calculated is not always the same m rela-
tion to the amount of premiums paid in.
Likewise the cash value of the reversion-
ary bonuses may differ. The bonuses
declared by an office each year cannot be
cashed for their face-value immediately,
They are worth that amount only on
maturity of the policy.
In America it is the general custom to
cash the bonuses. In Australia the over-
whelming preference is to allow them to
accumulate until maturity, the element
of “extra saving”—meaning that the
assured’s premiums buy more than was
originally anticipated—having grown very
popular. The results of the reversionary-
bonus system in the past may be illus-
trated by the case of a youth aged 18
who took out a policy for £5OO in one
office. He died at 74. Premiums paid in
over the period totalled £491, bonuses
added £695 to the policy, and altogether
his dependants collected £1195. The
amount paid into the office yearly was
£8 17s. 6d. In another case a man aged
33 took out an endowment policy for
£lOOO, payable at 60. The annual pre-
mium was around £37. At 60 he collected
£1530. Premiums paid in totalled £998.
At 60 the £1530 may have saved that
man from having to ask for the old-age
pension. The fifteen shillings a week paid
to the office for 27 years would return an
income of £1 3s. 4d. a week if invested
at 4 p.c. in gilt-edged securities, and
the capital would remain intact.
The Bulletin knows another man, now
very well off, who as a struggling youth
in business used to skimp himself each
week to pay his life assurance. When
the policy matured he did not need the
money, having plenty; he now looks back
on the days when he had the taste for
pleasure but not the means, and regrets
the payment of the premiums which
made such a hole in his pocket-money.
But this man was one in ten thou-
sand; the other 9999 people probably
wish they had taken more cover. Still,
there is nothing in biting off more than
you can chew; assurance companies pre-
fer the policy-holder who takes out a
policy within his income and completes
it rather than one who takes out a large
policy and surrenders it or allows it to
lapse inside a few years.
Bonuses in the Future
Since it was founded in 1848 the
pioneering A.M.P. has proved the value
of mutual assurance for its policy-
holders. With such a long and success-
ful career behind it, the office can show
a wealth of actual results to prospective
members which some of the younger
mutual and semi-mutual concerns cannot.
But over the past ten or twenty years all
the Australian front-rank offices have had
splendid figures to exhibit, there being
very little to choose between several of
them. The effect of the keen rivalry was
seen in the increasing bonuses paid up to
1930.
With the onset of the slump most of
the offices overhauled their investments.
Wild-man Governments and the plight of
the country’s finances had a damaging
effect on security values, and, under a
growing burden of taxation, it became
necessary to set aside part of each year’s
profits to safeguard the future. So
bonuses had to be lowered. Then came
the general reduction in interest rates,
and profits shrank further. Last term,
however, bonuses seem to have touched
bedrock, and in one or two offices there
was a slight increase in the distributions
to policy-holders.
The well-handled offices are still adding
satisfactory bonuses to policies, which
(Life Insurance continued on page 23.)
“Under the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act life policies are protected in the event of sequestration, except that
an amount equal to two years’ premiums may be claimed.”
CHORUS: “It’s the only decent thing he has left, and we can’t touch it!”


WHEN DO YOU EXPECT YOUR FAMILY
TO BE SELF-SUPPORTING?
If the answer is “In twenty (or fifteen, or ten) years,” you need a
NATIONAL MUTUAL IMPROVED POLICY OF INCOME
ASSURANCE which would carry them through the remainder of
that period should death rob you of the opportunity to provide for
them yourself.
AN ILLUSTRATION
The following benefits could be secured by a man aged 30 nearest
birthday for an annual premium of £29/13/4 for the first 20 years
of assurance, and £23/6/8 thereafter:—
In the event of nis death within the term of 20 years
1. £lOO and the full amount of vested
bonus additions payable on death.
2. £l5O per annum payable by monthly
instalments of £l2/10/- for the
balance of the term of 20 years.
3. £lOOO payable when such income
ceases.
On survival of the term of 20 years
The contract becomes an assurance for £lOOO
and Bonuses payable at death.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL UFE
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Established 1869 ■ Funds over £35,000,000
A purely mutual institution which was formed to protect
members and their dependents from the financial stress
caused by death, old age, and permanent total disability.
OFFICES:
N.S.W. —350 George Street, Sydney. VICTORIA—39S Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australasia, Great Britain, India, Ceylon, and Straits Settlements.


Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company Ltd.
nmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiic
Incorporated 1895.
iimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiimiimiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiir
NOTWITHSTANDING the unprecedented happenings of
the past three years, the Metropolitan has moved ever
onwards and upwards, its Policies growing in value each year by
the addition of undiminished Bonuses.
THE ANSWER to falling rates of Interest was to reduce
the rate of interest assumed in the Actuarial Valuation
of Ordinary Department Contracts from 3%% to 3%.
This means that the Company was able in one operation
to increase its Actuarial reserves to an amount which,
when accumulated at only three per cent., is ample to
provide the sums assured as Policies mature.
THE ANSWER to the fall in value of real estate was
to transfer large sums from profits to Investment Reserve.
This means that any possible loss on this class of invest-
ment is amply provided for.
With ample reserves and a strong Valuation basis the position
of the Company is such that, just as it has weathered adverse
conditions created by wars and epidemics, so has it come safely
through the greatest economic depression in our history, better
fitted than ever to serve the people who entrust their savings to it.
Write for information regarding Annuities, or any form of Life
Assurance, Income Assurance or Children’s Endowment.
Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
The Metropolitan Building, corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
BRANCH OFFICES IN MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
You will never
be younger ■..
Premiums will never be lower
® Could your dependants carry on without your
salary in the event of your death? Can you loo\ forward with
certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer is “No,”
just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will
protect you and your family, and for what little half-yearly
cost!
# In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC
Assurance Co., Ltd., commenced paying bonuses out of profits,
and has continued to do so since. Few offices in the world can beat
that performance, especially when it is considered that the
“CATHOLIC” has adopted a liberal bonus policy in its Industrial
Department.
# The “CATHOLIC” will quote you for any sound type
of policy. Premium rates compare favorably with any office. The
company’s semi-mutual constitution is exceptionally liberal, policy-
holders being entitled to go p.c. of the profits. The offices invest-
ments are carefully selected and sound, showing satisfactory interest
returns. For criticism of the figures, see “The Bulletin,” 27/9/^2.
Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance
x Co., Ltd.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director
P. J. Ryan, Secretary
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident
Secretary. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
are increasing in favor with the public as
a safe form of investment. While other
institutions were crashing, share values
and dividends being often halved or
wiped out, the life offices, with the excep-
tion of a few post-war weaklings, stood
up to all claims, and advanced freely on
policies to within 10 p.c. or so of their
surrender-value. More people are now
turning to life assurance; taking the in-
creased purchasing-power of money into
account, Australian life offices are show-
ing eminently satisfactory incomes.
Causes outside the control of the offices
themselves will operate against an early
recovery in bonuses. Taxation was never
heavier. In 1928 the A.M.P. paid
£154,157 in income tax; for 1932 the
charge was £804,705. Another society
points out that on returns from invest-
ments (other than Government stock) in
N. S. Wales, more than one-third is paid
to the taxation authorities. Aggregating
taxation charges in all States, more than
4s. in the £1 was eaten up by taxation
out of the income from all investments,
including tax-free Government loans.
Those offices which have anticipated low
interest returns, and have provided for
the contingency, will have the least diffi-
culty in shouldering this heavy burden.
Group Assurance
A most popular way of paying for life
assurance is in small instalments.
Industrial-assurance premiums are col-
lected at the door weekly or monthly by
the office’s representatives. If this were
not an expensive way of buying assurance
there would be a lot to be said in favor
of it. Under the group-assurance system
all the benefits of the large policy are
obtained by the assured, but an instal-
ment of the annual premium is deducted
weekly by the employer from the
assured’s wages, and paid into the life
office. Under the group scheme a young
man of 24 can get a £2OO endowment
policy, payable at 60 or previous death,
for about 2s. a week. Full participation
in bonuses would be allowed.
It is necessary to obtain a minimum of
between two and five members in one
employer’s service before a group will be
accepted by a life office. There is often
no medical examination if a satisfactory
statement of health is forthcoming. Indi-
vidual policies are issued, and should the
assured leave his employer he can pay
the premiums himself, but on a yearly or
half-yearly basis. Group assurance costs
no more than the ordinary kind —a small
discount is usually allowed —and it is a
very convenient method of paying, be-
sides, in many cases, dispensing with
medical examination.
A National Aspect
If an endowment policy were taken out
on a child at the age of 11, for the sum
of two shillings a week, paid yearly, an
assurance of £3OO, obtainable at death or
upon reaching the age of 60, could be
obtained. Compound bonuses at the rate
of £1 10s. per cent, would double the
amount of the policy at maturity.
With the £6OO an annuity of about £4B
a year, on present figures, could be pur-
chased, payable until death. Or, if in-
vested in 4 p.c. securities, half that return
would be obtained, and the £6OO capital
would be left intact.
It is hard to say what bonus rates will
be in the future, but £1 10s. p.c. is a very
moderate figure. The illustration shows
the wide possibilities of life assurance;
for 2s. a week, £5 4s. a year, or £254 16s:
over the 49 years, a child of 11 is assured
of a substantial nest-egg in his or her old
age, and the possibility of another charge
on the State is reduced to a large extent.
Throughout the currency of the policy
the assured’s family are certain of some-
thing more than debts to go on with in
the event of death. And a spirit of inde-
pendence and thrift is engendered in the
policy-holder.
If the £6,000,000 p.a. now being col-
lected in unemployment-relief taxes in
N.S.W. were paid into a sound insurance
office, and assuming the age of the
average worker to be 35, a national
assurance fund amounting to over
£150,000,000 could be built up, the cover
for each individual being payable at
death or upon reaching the age of 60.
That figure excludes bonuses entirely.
Policies Adapted to the Want
The A.M.P.’s tables of rates and con-
ditions of policies fill an 80-page booklet.
But even this doesn’t catalogue all the
kinds of policies that the society issues.
Practically any recognised variety will be
quoted for, and the actuarial staff is kept
busy altering contracts already issued in
order to meet changed circumstances in
the case of the policy-holder.
Running through one leaflet issued by
the society, the eye strikes a table of
death duties; the executors of a person
dying in N.S.W. with an estate valued at
£lOOl will have to pay £22 10s. to the
Government, and where the estate
amounts to £20,000 the Governments
take £1946. If the amount of cash neces-
sary to pay this charge was not available,
portion of the estate might have to be
sold, probably at a great inconvenience
or loss.
One of the best safeguards is a whole-
life or an endowment policy—that is all
that a probate policy really is. The cash be-
comes available when it is wanted, and,
if the cover taken is large enough, the
rest of the estate is left intact.
The A.M.P. is also featuring other
variations of whole-lifes and endowments.
Under a new table —Table V —the sum
payable on maturity of an ordinary policy
may be spread over a definite period of
years. For instance, a man aged 35 may
desire to give his latest infant a univer-
sity education when the child reaches 16.
Say the father was aged 35. He assures
his own life for £5OO, to become payable
at 50, by which time the child will be
nearly 16. Should the father live to 50
a quarterly sum of £27 7s. Id. would be
paid definitely for five years. Bonuses
would augment the endowment. Should
the father die before reaching 50 the
annuity would be paid over the required
period just the same, or, if the widow
desired it, arrangements could probably
be made to pay the claim in a lump
immediately.
The National Mutual has been push-
ing its group-assurance schemes; there is
no doubt about the convenience and
attractiveness of this class of assurance.
For the amount paid out in unemploy-
ment-relief taxes each week many people
could obtain a handsome cover. The
society offers probate policies, too. A
man aged 60 took out one of its policies
for £2,500, the annual premium amount-
ing to £173 10s. lOd. He died after five
premiums had been paid—a total of
£867 14s. 2d. His executors found that
£283 ss. of bonuses had accumulated
(an average of £2 4s. lOd. per cent.), and
collected £2783 ss. They had not to worry
about finding the cash for probate pur-
poses.
With a whole-life policy the premiums
are usually payable right up to the time
the policy becomes a claim. The National
Mutual offers a policy under which a
(limited number of premiums are pay-
able. Under this table a man of 35 can
get cover for £lOO, payable at death, for
ten yearly payments of £5 2s. lid. —a
total of £5l 9s. 2d. Under the society’s
ordinary whole-life table the premium
would be £2 13s. 3d. a year, payable
throughout life.
The M.L.C. offers a wide range, and it
is still putting the family-income policy,
described in last year’s “Supplement,” in
its front window. But the newest addi-
tion to its prospectus is the B.P. table,
a form of multiple endowment assurance
with full participation in the profits. It
is popularly styled a “Retirement Income
Bond.” Instead of the endowment being
paid by the office in the usual lump, it is
spread over a selected term of years, the
first instalment being paid at a selected
age. In the event of death before that
age the sum assured is payable immedi-
ately. If death occurs after several instal-
ments have been paid to the assured, the
balance becomes payable at once. The
policy participates in bonuses until the
selected age is reached, and the unpaid
instalments also participate.
The Double Endowment policy offered
by the M.L.C. should interest • single
women, particularly those who depend on
a salary. For ah annual premium of
£5 Is. Bd., paid from age 25 onward, the
office will pay £2OO, plus bonuses, at age
55. In the event of death before that
age £lOO, with bonuses, could be claimed.
The T. and G. (Australasian Temperance
and General) finds that ordinary whole-life
and endowment policies continue to be
popular. Most of the new family-income
assurances combine the principles of
these policies with that of an annuity.
The endowment assurance and pure en-
dowment policies have a special attraction
for women in business; they are not so
much assurance against death as com-
pulsory saving against want in old age.
The T. and G. has also found its Educa-
tional Annuities popular; a yearly in-
come is paid during a child’s educational
period, premiums ceasing in the event of
death of the parent.
One of the latest types of policy issued
by this office is called Combined Annuity
and Assurance. Under this table an in-
come of 6, 7 or 8 p.c. is guaranteed, and,
in addition, there is a participating sum
payable at death. Upon the death of the
assured there is thus always some estate
left. An instance is quoted of a man
aged 66; for £lOOO down he can draw
£BO p.a. until death, when £275, plus
bonuses, will be paid.
The Australian Metropolitan Life is
pushing a special child’s assurance policy.
The idea of this contract is to secure for
a youngster the low premium rate which
naturally results from early assurance.
{Life Insurance continued on page 24.)


The Australasian
Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
pHE T. & G., although it has many thousands
of Industrial Policies on its books, writes a
large volume of Ordinary business. It actually
has more business in force in the latter Depart-
ment and is capable of handling the largest cover
required.
Its Assets are all gilt edged and are distributed as
follows:
Gov. and Mun. Securities £11,278,048
Loans on Mortgage . . 2,909,422
Loans on Policies . . 1,536,920
Freehold Properties . . 1,933,040
Cash and Sundries . . 263,717
63.0 p.c.
16.2
8.6
10.8
1.4
»
ft
yt
Total £17,921,147-100.0p.c.
There are no intangible assets and no credit is
taken for Overdue Interest, Plant, Furniture,
Printing, Stationery and the like.
Its Liabilities are valued on the most stringent
basis in Australia or New Zealand, and, despite
that stringency and its large disclosed Contingency
Reserves of £475,000, including Actuarial Special
Reserves, its Bonus Rate ranks among the Highest.
The T. &G. aims at giving true Service. It has
many Special Features for Policyholders—Nursing
Service, Free Periodic Medical Examinations,
Non-Forfeiture Regulations, Lien Revival System,
Early Payment of Claims—at age 80 instead of
at death—and many other minor privileges not
provided in the Contracts.
The T. & G. aims at simplicity and
promptness in the Settlement of Claims.
The T. & G. has established an Accident Depart-
ment to give to its policyholders the benefits of
Assurance against Accidents and Sickness.
The T. & G. has specialised in all the modern
types of assurance, such as Married Women’s
Property Act Policies, Probate Policies, Group
Policies, Family Income Policies, Educational
Policies, Annuity and Investment Policies, in
addition to the older types, such as Whole of Life
and Endowment Assurance.
An Enquiry directed to any of its offices will be
welcomed and answered without any commitment
on the Enquirer.
Income - £3,785,000 Assets - £18,000,000
The T. & G. is one of the most Progressive
Offices in the British Empire,
Head Office: COLLINS AND RUSSELL STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Sydney: Park and Elizabeth Streets.
Adelaide: King William and Grenfell
Streets.
Brisbane: Queen and Albert Streets.
Perth: St. George’s Terrace and
Barrack Street.
Hobart: 103*107 Collins Street.
Wellington, N.Z.: Lambton Quay and
Grey Street.
The parent pays the premiums until the
child reaches 21, after which it accepts
responsibility for the commitments. For
a premium of £lO a year a parent can
insure a child turning five for £B9B, pay-
able at 60, or at death after 21. If the
child should die before coming of age.
the premiums are refunded with interest
at 4 p.c. This particular policy would
carry a guaranteed surrender-value of
£176 at 21 —£16 more than the premiums
paid in. The surrender-value may be
claimed by the parent should he desire to
terminate the policy when the child
reaches 21, and, for a small extra charge,
the policy is free from premiums until
the child is 21, should the parent die in
the meantime. The Metropolitan also
specialises in annuities and family-income
assurance.
The Australasian Catholic does mostly
whole-life, endowment and probate busi-
ness in its Ordinary and Industrial depart-
ments. Personal accident policies are
also issued; though it will quote for a
combined whole-life and accident benefit
contract, the co.’s advice is to take each
policy separately.
The Colonial Mutual gathers a large
part of its income from inside the Com-
monwealth, and the rest from Maoriland,
South Africa and Great Britain. The
office reports some solid writing-down of
investments, the object being to show a
gross return of and 5 p.c. respectively
on Government and municipal stocks.
This effort was aided by the purchase of
Australian stocks in London and New
York when prices were very low.
The office is favoring group-assurance
schemes, with free nursing service, which
is also available to industrial policy-
holders. Accident and sickness policies
are a specialty, these benefits being added
to life policies for a slightly higher pre-
mium. Bonuses of £2 per cent, have been
paid on claims in the accident depart-
ment for many years.
The Australian Provincial, coming
more into the public eye, has been sell-
ing family-income policies, as well as
old-style assurance. The co. has a well-
conducted accident branch, with influen-
tial affiliations. Policies in this depart-
ment cover disablement and sickness as
well as death, the benefits varying with
the premium and type of policy. Con-
sidering the risks covered, the premiums
are lower than with life assurance; but,
of course, under an accident policy the
co. may never have to pay, whereas
under a life contract claims are inevit-
able.
Accident policies are a valuable ad-
junct to life assurance for doctors, engi-
neers and manual workers. Cover against
medical and hospital expenses can be
arranged with the A.P.A.
The Prudential is the big British office
(the largest in the Empire) which at
December 31 last had over £260,000,000
of funds, declared bonuses at the rate of
£3 2s. per cent, (including a special dis-
tribution) on Ordinary whole-life policies
issued prior to 1932, and £2 6s. per cent,
on those issued during that year.
Last year this office wrote a lot of
business under its “Heritage” plan. Now
a Heritage Endowment Guaranteed In-
come policy is offered. For an annual
premium of £3O Bs. a man of 30 can
obtain an endowment of £lO6B, payable
at 65, with additional benefits and
options. If he should die before the
endowment matures, £lOO is payable im-
mediately, £2 a week is paid to his depen-
dants until the policy has been in force
35 years, after which £lO6B is paid in a
lump. If he lives to 65 he has the option
of taking the £lO6B in cash, or accepting
£2 a week for the rest of his life.
This policy is one of the newest in the
field, and it will have many attractions
for the young married man. It is not
costly assurance, though the policy does
not participate in profits.
Review of Australian Life Offices
A.M.P. —Taxation, interest reduction
and possible depreciation of securities
were the A.M.P.’s chief worries in 1931.
That term £685,149 was provided for
contingencies in the Ordinary depart-
ment, and special provision was made for
taxation, the heavy nature of which is
mentioned elsewhere. Indeed, it is such
a large item that if the Governments
could see their way to forego it, and the
A.M.P. gave borrowers the benefit, as it
has offered to do, the saving to mort-
gagors would be substantial.
By 1932 the society had ribbed itself
up to carry the burden; in order to main-
tain bonuses in the Industrial department
the assumed interest rate was brought
down to 3 p.c. In the Ordinary branch
£5,495,715 of premiums was gathered
during the year—an improvement of
£7701. The recovery in new business
was marked, and a record volume of
annuities was written. The office assumes
that exes, will absorb 18.7 p.c. of the
premiums; last year they ran off with
11.9 p.c., excluding taxation. Of the
year’s total income in this department
(£9,144,567, down £325,882), including
net interest earnings, 7.7 p.c. was
absorbed in exes.
Net addition to the funds was
£2,193,469, an increase of £316,001. Net
interest return in the O.D. was around
4 p.c. The surplus for bonuses showed
a slight improvement:
1929 £2,941,005
1930 2,849,656
1931 2,468,817
1932 2,470,310
The ratio of bonuses distributed to pre-
miums received in the year on participat-
ing policies was 46.3 p.c., as against 45.8
p.c. in 1931, 58.1 p.c. in 1928 and 30.2
p.c. over 1914-18.
The society’s £86,258,112 of funds (all
departments at December 31 last) was
invested as follows: Public securities,
54.3 p.c.; mortgages, 23.2 p.c.; loans on
policies, 17.4 p.c.; premises, 1.7 p.c.;
other assets, 3.4 p.c. Total existing assur-
ances amounted to £215,682,709.
National Mutual Life. This
society’s premium income has remained
remarkably steady throughout the depres-
sion, though new business has been
harder to write. Lapses are slackening
off. Nearly half of the income is gathered
outside Australia, and, considering the
bad advertisement this country got dur-
ing Mr. Lang’s term of office, the figures
are particularly gratifying. The office’s
premium rates have always been low,
too.
Total income for 1932 (£4,477,015) was
only £506,800 lighter than for 1929, the
society’s peak year, and most of the drop
can be blamed to interest reduction and
taxation. Since 1928 the office has as-
sumed a 3 p.c. net interest return. It
was a wise provision; the actual rate
earned dropped from £5 6s. lid. in 1930
to £3 18s. per cent, last year, which still
left a margin of 18s. per cent, over the
amount budgeted for. Likewise the
amount allowed by the actuary for exes,
was 15.3 p.c. of the premiums, but the
percentage actually absorbed last year
was 12.5, as against 12.7 and 14 p.c. in
the two preceding years. The improve-
ment here is. very encouraging.
Bonuses declared in respect of the
trienniums to the dates in the table have
been as follows:
1925 £2,118,974
1928 3,013,518
1931 3,577,833
On individual policies the effect has been
satisfactory. Interim bonuses since 1931
(the next valuation published will be up
to 1934) have been on a slightly reduced
scale.
At September 30, 1932, policy-holders
could see £35,181,428 of funds. They
were invested 41.8 p.c. public securities,
24.5 p.c. mortgages, 16.2 p.c. loans on
policies, 4.4 p.c. freeholds, 13.1 p.c. other
assets. Assurances on the books totalled
£84,179,337.
M.L.C.—The Citizens’ is a co-operative
office; its £200,000 of capital represents
additional backing for policies, and, since
shareholders have to show more than £4
of profit to policy-holders for every £1
they take themselves, a low expense rate
(not to be more than 15 p.c. in the
0.D.) and other desirable things are as-
sured. The co. hunts for business with
discretion, and its annual income is still
within the three-million mark. But
it is very steady; in 1930 (peak year)
£2,109,000 was shown in the Ordinary
branch, while in 1932 the figure was still
within £120,000 of that.
Last term premium income (£1,968,668)
in both branches advanced £27,815.
Exes, were carefully controlled, and ran
off with no more than 13.5 p.c. in the
Ordinary and 34 p.c. in the Industrial
branch. Owing to provision for contin-
gencies, growth in taxation and reduction
in interest, there has been a shrinkage
in bonus distributions over the past four
years, as these figures show;
1929 £692,946
1931 560,967
1932 552,326
The full effect of the imposts on interest
was felt for the first time last year.
The disposition of the co.’s funds is
very conservative, 83.9 p.c. being in pub-
lic securities. Yet last year’s net interest
return was high at £4 2s. 4d. in the 0.D.,
and £1 2s. 4d. more than the rate
assumed.
T. and G. —This society has made
great progress over the last decade. In
1922 income in the O.D. was £651,114;
last term it was £1,652,870. The Indus-
trial branch raked in £991,568 in 1922;
last term the figure was £2,108,142.
Industrial assurance is a special feature
of the T. and G.’s activities.
Except for causes outside the manage-
ment’s control, the society has suffered
very little from slump. The figures, apart
from the inevitable downward trend in
interest earnings, mostly showed an up-
{Life Insurance continued on page 27.)


bbbmbwhmmmhii
....... ;
M • •:
■
MB
H
Hli|g
5 .:
u
Bi ■
Hi
■
; - X :.:-'.'
ill
m
m £
v' ;
4240
t >'aJ
ICL
s fr
:
1
,: ■ ■ 1
4
■
Mi
J tsb
sat
■ ;*
Hi
■
Mi
HH
m
w
w*
WL
1
m
J’ji
i
M S
HI
■
s ; : . ' ..>.
II
§Mf
m
IP
■
B
■Bln
: pp
■
MBill
8111 l
H
I
- ::
P
BBMMMnj
Hi
§&.
W
BBi
Mi
Kiv ...
IB&
w>
Mi
1
-4SSM
.. .
jMSBBBa
m
***■ ft
m
H
I
■ '
1
Hi
HI
1
3
IP
IP '1
v-
H
4*.;
m
••• , ■
m Jill
WBMM
.'"■'■l
1B .
BH
i—F 11
Mi
■
The Prudential Assurance Co., Ltd., after 85
years of service to the people of Great Britain,
the overseas Dominions and other countries,
has become the greatest and the soundest
assurance institution in the Empire.
Its assets now exceed the colossal sum of
£263,500,000, and it has actually paid to
policy-holders sums aggregating
£400,000,000.
Sums assured with The Prudential (including
bonuses) exceed £720,000,000 equal to the
gross consolidated revenue of the Common-
wealth of Australia for the past ten years.
Twenty - eight million contracts for life
assurance, in one form or another, are now
in force—surely an overwhelming display of
confidence on the part of those provident
people who purchase security for their
dependents by this best of all methods.
The Prudential is the only Assurance Office
located in Australia and New Zealand trans-
acting every class of business. All types of
contracts are written, covering the four great
fields of risk—Life, Fire, Accident and Marine.
The Prudential has a policy for every need—
and the special needs as well.
Whatever your requirements, see the local
Prudential Representative, or write to:
The Prudential Assurance
Company Limited
(Incorporated in England)
Sydney:
Herald Building,
86 Pitt Street.
Melbourne:
Temple Court,
Collins Street,
Adelaide:
23 Waymouth Street.
New Zealand:
336 Lambton Quay,
Wellington.
Perth:
69 King Street.
Brisbane:
185 Mary Street.


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
WmBBKrMwJ . ■.,
mm
m
' :
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
on in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15% Family Protection Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
FOUNDED IN 1886
Branches throughout Australia, /Vew Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £21,000,000
- Annual Income Exceeds £3,000,000


Sfie
Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited
SIX SOUND REASONS
why YOU should make immediate
enquiries concerning The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s
NEW “LEGACY POLICY
1 — The “LEGACY” Policy guarantees
a monthly income to your family.
2 The day you die the “LEGACY”
Policy goes to work for the family.
3 YOU may go —but the “LEGACY”
Policy stays AND pays.
4 The “LEGACY” Policy is a
“Declaration of Independence” for
your family.
5 The returns from the investments
you leave may fluctuate —the re-
turns from a “LEGACY” Policy
never will. Cash available im-
mediately death takes place.
6 During the next 20 years World
affairs will gradually attain a new
point of equilibrium,and during that
unstable period our “LEGACY”
Policy provides stable conditions
for your family.
Principal Office:
316 Collins St., Melbourne
Sydney: 14 Martin Place Brisbane: 289-291 Queen St.
Adelaide: 16 Waymouth St. Perth: 53 St. George’s Terrace
Hobart: Elizabeth St.
C. E. MELVILLE,
Acting General Manager.
C. B. HEARN,
Acting Manager
ward movement last term. Compare these
surpluses:
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Ordinary* o^ : £61,165 £398,612 £389,768 £393,592
Industrial .. 33,261 190,059 2j7,111 -86,548
Total . ."£94,426 £588,671 £626,879 £680,140
In the Industrial branch bonuses were
increased slightly; in the O.D. they were
kept at the 1931 level.
The co. values on a 3 p.c. basis; last
term the interest return averaged
£3 16s. Id. p.c. In the Ordinary depart-
ment exes, (excluding taxes) took 17.1
p.c. of the premiums—the same as in the
previous year. Costs absorbed 34.9 p.c.
of the net Industrial premiums.
The co. finds attractive premises a
good advertisement; 10.8 p.c. of the funds
(£17,921,148) is in freeholds. On the other
hand, no less than 63 p.c. of the total is
invested in public securities; loans (24.4
p.c.) and cash, etc. (1.8 p.c.), made up
the balance of the assets at September,
1932. The co. combines energetic policy-
writing with conservatism in the dis-
position of its funds.
Colonial Mutual. —At December 31
last the Colonial Mutual had £53,000,000
of assurances on its books. In the past
ten years income in the Ordinary depart-
ment has been doubled—a performance
transcending that of the previous decade.
Excepting 1927, when the policies
of the Mutual Life of New York
were taken over, Ordinary income
(£1,911,243) notched a record last term.
Excluding taxes, exes, took 25.2 p.c. of
the net premiums in the 0.D., and 32.3
p.c. in the Industrial section. The society
counts on its funds earning a clear 34
p.c. Here is its actual experience over
the past six years:
Tax Interest p.c.
Interest Income p.c. mean funds,
and rents. Tax. Interest. Gross. Net.
£ £ etc. £ s. d. £ s. d.
1927 509,797 10,886 2.1 5 11 3 5 8 8
1930 660,702 44,221 6.6 5 7 8 5 0 11
1931 652,989 94,564 14.4 5 1 2 4 7 5
1932 610,811 104,410 17.1 4 10 9 3 15 10
That table illustrates the problem facing
all Australian life offices. The Colonial
felt the full effect of the interest reduc-
tion and heavy taxation last term; nearly
4s. in the £1 of income from investments
was swallowed under the latter head. Of
the investments, 54.8 p.c. is in Govern-
ment securities, etc.
The surplus available for distribution
to policy-holders (there are no share-
holders) was about £50,000 lighter, at
£431,696. Shrinkage over the past two
years was £115,312, of which £llO,OBO
was directly due to heavy taxation and
interest reduction. Bonuses, which still
reach as high as £4 per cent., have been
scaled according to Government levies
in the countries where th 6 society
operates.
City Mutual. —This one, popularly
known as George Crowley’s office, has
attracted those people who like paying a
little more for their assurance, provided
they are handed a bit extra weight when
the claim becomes payable. In the City
Mutual’s case the extra weight has been
so substantial that for years the office has
claimed to have paid larger bonuses than
any similar institution in the world.
Of the society’s funds, just under half
was invested in mortgages, etc., at
December 31. During the good times
interest earnings were far in excess of
the 34 p.c. which the office assumes its
funds will earn. Because of statutory
cuts, the N.S.W. Moratorium, other diffi-
culties in the real estate business, and
heavy taxation, there has been a shrink-
age in the society’s investment earnings,
which dropped to 3.27 p.c. on the mean
fund last term. But well over £lOO,OOO
of postponed interest was not taken into
account; an extra £lOO,OOO would have
raised the year’s return to 4.8 p.c.
Bonuses were still high, ranging from
£4 ss. per cent, to £2 17s. 6d. per cent,
on whole-life policies.
A.P.A. —The Australian Provincial is
one of the younger co-operative offices,
and has shown excellent progress over
the past five years. All establishment
exes, have now been cleaned out of the
balance sheet, and the way is clear for
better bonuses. Policy-holders have the
backing of £357,028 in share capital, in
addition to £2,512,585 of assurance funds.
Of the assets, £1,281,848 was in public
securities at last balance.
Exes, are being brought down. Last
year they absorbed 22.6 p.c. of the net
premiums, as against 40.1 p.c. in 1926.
When the good work has been carried
further, and the basis of valuation is
brought more into line with present-
day interest expectations, policy-holders
should be on a favorable wicket.
Australian Metropolitan Life. —
This is another semi-mutual office. It
has never pursued big figures: income in
the Ordinary department was £103,276 last
term, though that was more than double
the amount of ten years earlier. The
Industrial section gathered in £156,665.
The office assumes that Ordinary funds
will net 3 p.c., the same as the larger
offices; even in the Industrial section the
co. values as low as 34 p.c., and the mar-
gin of loading has been increased. Thus,
over the last two years, an extra £43,992
has been added to the actuarial reserves.
Funds stand at £632,603 in the 0.D., and
£558,766 in the Industrial. In addition,
there is £50,000 of share capital.
The return on funds last year was
3.46 p.c. in the Ordinary and 3.66 p.c. in
the Industrial departments. After deduct-
ing taxes, exes, took 19.7 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums in the O.D. last term.
Investments are spread as follows:
Government stock, 42.7 p.c.; mortgages,
23.2 p.c.; freeholds, 20.6 p.c.; loans on
policies, 7.4 p.c.; other assets, 6.1 p.c.
Australasian Catholic. —Formed in
1921, this co-operative office is now pay-
ing bonuses out of profits. The co.
values on a 4 p.c. basis, but so well
selected are its securities that mean
funds showed a gross return of £5 18s. Bd.
during the term to June 30, 1932. They
had borne eight months of the interest
reduction; the return for the year just
past should be somewhat lower.
Over 80 p.c. of the assurances are in
the Industrial branch. Still, the co. has
got its expense rate (excluding taxation)
down to 40 p.c. of the total net pre-
miums, and the tendency is for further
reductions. Mortgages represent 62.5 p.c.
of the assets, and Government stocks
30.1 p.c. The co.’s prospects are encour-
aging.
Producers and Citizens’. —This co-
operative office has found the going hard
lately, partly because of bad times in
country districts, where a large portion
of the business is written. Interest reduc-
tion and taxation have had the usual
effect on returns from investments, which
include a substantial head-office building.
Though bonuses out of profits are not
yet in sight, careful management might
do much inside the next five years. The
trouble is mainly expenses and lapses.
Southern Cross.— Early in its career
this energetic office put big figures on its
books, but costs were high. Just before
slump overtook it the life business of the
New Era and Australian Group cos. was
bought, and the income mounted. Lapses
have since taken toll, but the manage-
ment is at last heading the business in
the right direction, and costs are being
reduced. During the year to June, 1931,
a small profit was announced, but until
establishment and other intangibles are
cleared out of the sheet, bonuses will
remain in the background. Still, pros-
pects seem to be brightening.
What Policy-owners Own.
The combined balance-sheet figures of
22 Australasian life offices, including the
five big mutual societies, compare as fol-
lows for the three years to the end of
1931:
1929. 1930. 1931.
£. £. £.
Public
securities. 98,993,744 102,271,442 106,235,389
Mortgages . 41,876,626 45,556,553 45,063,177
Loans on poli-
cies, etc. . 23,371,843 27,099,417 29,645,874
Premises, etc. 7,979,732 8,501,236 8,769,430
Other assets 8,829,039 9,335,243 10,540,916
Total ...181,050,984 192,763,891 200,254,786
Liabilities f. 4,528,073 4,869,911 4,717,471
Net Assets. 176,522,911 187,893,980 195,537,315
t Other than liabilities under policies.
Thus, after payment of all legitimate
claims and exes., including £4,801,000 in
surrenders, £7,643,335 was added to net
assets in 1931. The money was mostly
put into Government securities (up
£3,963,947) and loans on policies (up
£6,274,031 over the last two years). In
1931 public securities accounted for 52.8
p.c. of the total assets as against 32.1 p.c.
in 1914, when the proportion represented
by mortgages was 43.1 p.c., compared
with 22.3 p.c. in 1931. Over the last 18
months there has been a distinct improve-
ment in the volume of new business writ-
ten, and loans on policies and surrenders
have eased. Though taxation and the
cut in interest rates have reduced the
surpluses available for distribution
amongst policy-holders, the reduction in
the handsome bonuses paid by the well-
established offices has been slight.
In Australia there has been a very
marked improvement in the rates of mor-
tality per 1000 of population, as the
following figures show:
Period.
Age. 1891-1900. 1920-1922.
30 .... 8.2 .... 3.9
40 .... 12.6 .... 6.2
50 .... 19.1 .... 11.6
A Word in Season
Those who are having difficulty in pay-
ing premiums and do not want to sur-
render their policy should ask for one
reduced in proportion to the premiums
already paid. It would be free of further
payments, and nothing is lost.


EE«
.-•&» l " e
£*ssf®s&
sar***
*
1
I
%eriect
Jit *> jfeiacto*?
6 et^ ce -
PRICE, 65/-
With gauge, 5/- extra.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.0., Box 71, Melb. C.l.
ŝ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Gt.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
š
ſ
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wobey”: The overseer of a party of
relief workers on the Vic. railways,
making his rounds, saw one of the toilers
languidly raising his pick and gently let-
ting it drop. After a few minutes’ obser-
vation he told the gentleman of leisure to
get his time. Without argument the man
got his coat, shovel and billy and wan-
“Thirteen more! I’m ruined!”
“Nonsense! Surely you don’t believe in those stupid superstitions!”
dered sadly along the line towards the
time office, passing other gangs at work
on the way. Suddenly inspiration came
to him. Dropping his kit he attached
himself to one of these gangs and com-
menced digging like Monte Christo.
Next day the overseer was amazed to
see him working, and stood spellbound
with admiration, watching the rapid oscil-
lations of his pick. At last he said
sternly, “Here, didn’t 1 give you the sack
yesterday?” “Yes,” was the mild reply,
“but you wouldn’t make a ’abit of sack-
ing a bloke, would you, mister?” He’s
still on the pay-roll.
“O. W. Waireki”: The De-
presh is at last, troubling the
natives of Waiwaiwai. The
other day Henare asked me if
I would lend him £2. “Te par-
son's church having a sale of
work,” he said; “an’ I want to
go there an’ buy a job.”
* * * *
“Rokar”: Harking back to
the good old days when Adam
Lindsay Gordon rode, the
whiskered old gentleman de-
plored the falling-away in the
size of the Grand National
fields. “Why, I remember,”
he declared, “that one year
there were so many runners
in the steeplechase that when
a horse hit hard at ‘Jumbo’ it
couldn’t fall to the ground. It
broke its leg, but the pack
kept it movin’ on its three good
legs, and it got a place!”
“Salmon Gums”: A verdict recorded
by a coroner’s jury at Rockingham, W.A.,
in the early days takes some beating.
“Found drowned,” was the finding in
the case of a man discovered shot
through the head in the bush near the
beach. The coroner, astonished at the
jury’s finding, remarked that it was a
plain case of felo de se. “Yairs, your
Wusship,” said the foreman. “That’s
how Bill come to be drowned.”
sfs H* % %
“Booraby”: At a Vic. bee conference
the other day a veteran in the honey busi-
ness said that he had been stung “a hun-
dred thousand times.” Perhaps he exag-
gerated, but some men are stung every
time they handle bees, whilst others work
among the buzzers all day without hurt.
An abo. rarely gets stung when robbing
a tree hive —and he climbs the tree naked,
chops into the nest, and extracts the
comb while leaning back on the slender
vine he has climbed with. Abos. say a
’possum won’t go up a tree that a black-
fellow has climbed until rain has washed
it or the scent has otherwise disappeared.
Perhaps the bees object to the smell of
him, too.
* * * *
“Wompah”: “I reads,” said Jimmy the
Swallower, pressing a red coal into his
pipe with a finger, “how th’ expedition
what’s goin’ through Centralia with wire-
less. h. an’ c.w. an’ all mod. con. ’as been
growlin’ at th’ dust-storms. Like 'em
t ve seen some o’ th’ blows we useter
get down th’ Cooper. Me an’ th' ole
mare gets caught in one wunst an th air
“ ’ Struth! Wot made yer kill ’em?”
“Your ole man told me to clean up the litter."
gets so thick we fair bogs in it an’ can’t
move. ’Long about sundown th’ wind
drops, but th’ dust still hangs on. I hears
a scratchin’ noise. W’en I looks up,
may I never sink another pint if the top
of th’ dust-cloud, twenty foot above,
ain’t lousy with rabbits diggin’ down to
the’ flamin’ grass.”
* * * *
“Dr. Watts”: Birds may agree in their
little nests, but they are apt to raise
Gehenna when they get into other
people’s. Recently a magpie embroiled
two Melbourne suburban families in a
come-all-ye which ended in the local
police court. One lady had been given a
magpie, and the fowl, after the fashion
of magpies, went a-wandering. The lady
of the first part called on the lady with
whom the wanderer was supposed to
have taken up his residence, and de-
manded the bird. She told how she had
not only been tartly refused but had
been walloped by the other lady with a
broom. The other lady then said that
the magpie had only called at her place
and then departed, but that, when she
told the lady of the first part this, the
latter rushed upon her to beat her, neces-
sitating the use of a broom to ward her
off. The worried beak considered the
case of the two ladies and various others
who accompanied them, as well as that
of the magpie that wasn’t there, and gave
it a draw. Both summonses dismissed.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Old Joe was a confirmed
bachelor. He wasn’t bad-looking, and
he was well-to-do. On his farm there was
an old mining shaft which Joe used as a
well, and one night he saw the sheep clus-
tered round the trough. “Windmill out of
order again! ” he growled, and, putting a
coil of rope into his sulky, he went out
to pull up some water to keep the sheep
going until the mill could be repaired.
Next morning a neighbor passed and saw
the horse grazing around harnessed to
the sulky; when he came home that night
the horse was still harnessed to it. He
became alarmed and began to look
about the paddock for signs of Joe. He
saw none, but noticed some sheep down
by the trough, while others stood with
their heads in it. He went over to give
them water, heard a feeble shout come
echoing up the shaft, and raced off for a
rope and help. They hauled Joe up,
nearly dead through being for twenty-
four hours up to his neck in water, and
with a broken leg into the bargain. He
spent a month in hospital, and as soon as
he could hobble around on crutches he
went to see little Miss Fortyodd. A fort-
night later Joe limped down the aisle of
the church with a bride on his arm. “It’s
like this,” he informed me a month later.
“There may be drawbacks about having
a wife, but no married man would have
been down the bottom of that blasted old
mine-shaft for more than an hour; his
wife would have come out and looked
for him.”
* * *
“H.C.M.”: F. W. Fitz Simons, curator
of the two Snake Parks at Port Elizabeth,
S. Africa, became, in the course of his
duties, the guardian of a two-headed
snake, and he had a great deal of trouble
with it because of a feud between the
heads. It commenced on a morning
when each head received as breakfast a
frog. Presumably the head which fin-
ished its meal first still felt hungry, so it
attacked the other and swallowed it down
to the point where the body divided.
Fitz Simons discovered that the head
which had been swallowed was not dead,
and, after gentle massaging, he succeeded
in straightening out the tangle. After
that the two heads were not as friendly
as formerly. The brain which had tem-
porarily become a mtal brooded upon
the indignity. A little later both heads
and all the snake were found dead. The
heads had bitten each other repeatedly.
There was a post-mortem, at which it
was ascertained that death was due to
snake venom, but when it came to deciding
whether it was a case of murder, suicide
or self-defence, Fitz Simons gave it best.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: Four camels are toiling
at Bridgewater Bay, W. Vic., carrying
shell-grit from the beach to a depot 200
f feet above, up a steep track of heavy
sand. The deposit appears inexhaust-
ible, a half-mile width of breakers
pounding shells to atoms and replacing
every load taken away.
HIS TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The war upset no end of things,” said Joe the
cook and lowered his pot;
“Those good old times we useter know are gone
lor ever, like as not.
It makes a feller sometimes think he’s lived a
bit too late, becos
There ain’t a shadder of a doubt that swanky
isn’t wot it was.
“They say the world is loaded down with debts
and doldrums—l dunno.
These politicians seem to think we’ve gotter
long, hard row to hoe.
For me, 1 wouldn’t care so much,” said Joe,
“or start the rag to chew,
If these here maltsters only made the sorter
tack they useter brew.
“Time was a man could strike a shanty on the
track or come to town
An’ feel, while lie was filling up, the malt an’
hops a-going down.
He needed then no harder tack —to start a spree
on, anyhow—
But spare me days!” said Joe the cook and
rapped the bar, “it’s diff’rent now.
“They say we must econermise, an’ that, I
s’pose, is pretty plain.
But then, why don’t they start upon the rich
man’s port and dry champagne?
Three-star and fine old mountain dew have
soared in price, of course we know,
And yet, I’ll risk a bob or two, they’re true to
label yet,” said Joe.
“Ah, well, we’ve each our cross to bear,” said
Joe the cook, “both nobs and snobs,
An’ quite a lot you see are broke and rather
more are out of jobs.
The war has knocked our earth askew; it’s
much to answer for, that’s poz.
But I could stand all Job endured—if only beer
were wot it was! ”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Honours
aw The rewards! of virtue *
(saith Cicero)
Virtues eventually gain recognition, and men have long realised the fine virtues of
Fayrefield Hats. For half-a-century men have accepted their debonair appearance
and their tasteful style.
Craftsmen, whose skill has come to them from their forefathers, make Fayrefield
Hats . . . hats of rare quality,, hats of sheer-silk smoothness, hats beautifully curled
and smartly curved.
Fayrefield Hats may be had at better class stores for 25/- and for 30/-.
TbuihjaftfiAd. "pccbi
J V • " "ALWAYr aheaP
V
m
\
m
©
t j
Eli
(IF
IL
a
l
rr>~
T Ti'
v_rv
©
ft
in
“Kooragai”: A controversy has been
raging anent the possibility of fox and
dingo hybrids, some claiming that the
fox is a feline. As a matter of fact he
belongs to the vulpine branch of the
canidce; but he differs so much from the
dog-wolf ,crowd that some naturalists
favor making the vulpidce a separate
family instead of merely a hanger-on of
the canine group. The only feline char-
acteristics he has are the elliptical pupil
displayed in daylight and his nocturnal
prowling. Dogs are normally diurnal,
though the dingo, through stress of circum-
stances, has developed nocturnal habits.
As to hybrids, a station-owner near
Rockhampton (Q.) has one, which he
bred, and claims that the cross is an in-
telligent and satisfactory worker. Though
foxes and dingoes are numerous in many
localities, no cross has been reported in
the bush, and the general opinion is that
such a thing is highly improbable. But
it has been proved to be possible.
“Avon”: Feeling the pinch of Depresh,
Maoriland is turning its mind to its gold
resources. A proposal has been made
quite seriously by a Christchurch busi-
ness man —and it has won influential
support —that the whole of the unem-
ployed should be set to gold-winning,
with a view to wiping out the Dominion’s
debt—about £400,000,000. As that’s over
four times as much as the value of all
the gold hitherto discovered in the Shaky
Isles, the idea seems fantastic. But, as the
people who want to see a gold-mining
renaissance say, most of M.L.’s gold-
mining and dredging was done in the
days when gold was a lot cheaper than
it is to-day, and when methods of win-
ning it were more costly. Furthermore,
only a very few of the locations where
gold has been known to exist since the
first days of settlement have been ex-
ploited. The records of the first sur-
veyors and explorers (almost incredibly
unmercenary men) are sprinkled with
copious references to the presence of
gold.
* * * *
“R.”: A hare can think as well as run.
Recently I witnessed a battle of wits
between eagle-hawk and bunny. The
hare, spotting his enemy aloft, streaked
for a fence, and ran alongside it, cross-
ing under the wires from one side to the
other so as to keep it always between
himself and the hawk. The hawk
swooped again and again, but the wires
always foiled him. The chase continued
along the fence for about a mile through
cleared country until a thick scrub was
reached, where the hare escaped.
* _ * * *
“C. Coral”: “Yes,” remarked Jimmy
Susu, carefully rolling a banana-leaf
cigarette, “me I got plenty pamily—eight
boy and one girl. Boys he more better;
you look which way I talk. When boy
he grow, you give him shirt, hat, trousis,
and might two singlet, and that boy he
go work along beche-de-mer boat. By
’n’ bye he come back home, he got plenty
"We’ll ’ave to go ’ungry, lidy, till we’re picked up.”
“That’s all right! I’m quite a good cook.”
“Here’s a nice line in twin beds, sir.”
“But I’m only marryin' one girl.”
things from his pay, and he take some
cash-money and give you and he say,
‘Now, father, this belong you!’ But
which way girl? He want shoe, stocking,
them flash garter, them what-name he
stop underneath (yes, blooms, that one,
all same silika), flash pennycoat, silika
dress, hankis, comb belong hair, earring,
smell powder and smell soap, and I been
forget silika singlet (pink one he like
best) and shimmy with flowers on. Then
he tear small hole in that dress and he
say, “Poppa, I want new dress!’ Then
’nother thing. When you go work along
garden, you look your work with both
your eye, you no get think about where
that boy he stop. But for girl, you got
look one eye along you work and another
eye you got slew all time, this way and
that way, for see that girl she no run
about all time for make sweetheart along
some boy. Yes, boy, he more better
when you got pamily! ”
# * * Ht
“Mack”: Thursday Island has another
relic for its museum —the figurehead
from the German barque Charles Wat-
jen, wrecked on the T.I. coast about a
quarter of a century ago. It represents a
frock-coated gentleman. The vessel came
through a typhoon off New Caledonia in
1905 when carrying a cargo of kerosene
to Yokohama. She had to jettison her
cargo; the rudder was carried away, and
a huge hole knocked in the stem. Owing
to seas flooding the foc’sle, the crew had
nothing to drink for five days save dish-
water left in the galley. But, though dis-
abled, the Watjen was able to rescue the
crew of a smaller German vessel and
bring them safe to Hall Sound, in New
Guinea.
He ' He He He
“Dogger”: A Sydney paper has been
making the devil of a fuss because a
dingo caught near Armidale is evidently
a half-bred Alsatian, “this showing
clearly,” as the sapient journal adds,
“that dingoes will mate with Alsatians.”
Why not, since they are both dogs? All
the same, you never can be sure with the
best pedigreed stock what the descen-
dants will be like. A mate of mine who
prided himself on his kangaroo-dogs
nearly went mad when one of a litter
looked to be pure dachshund. However,
he was a kindly chap, and the pup was
allowed to live in spite of his low clear-
ance. The trouble came when the family
grew up. The dach. used to get so
knocked about by his long cobbers that
we were puzzled what to do with him.
Finally my mate made stilts for him, and
after that he could mix it with the best
of them, though he was always a bit
proppy after kangaroos.
* * * *
“Nicole”: During last year’s severe
winter in M.L., a couple of lads went to
a small lake formed by the ’29 ’quake in
the thermal region of the North Island,
proposing to do some skating. They
found the ice, though three or four inches
thick, was spattered by hundreds of cir-
cular mounds, these risen portions being
thinner than the flat ice area and some-
times broken. The boys broke a bubble,
but retreated in alarm to the banks at
the hissing roar that followed. Cour-
ageous again, they broke a larger bubble
and set a lighted match to the opening.
A flame shot up about four feet and con-
tinued for several minutes, while the ice
commenced to crack from bank to bank,
some of the fissures being a quarter of a
mile in length. The phenomenon was
considered to be caused by methane,
commonly known as “marsh gas,” which
percolated up through the bed of the
lake.
* * * *
“Wyara”: The sparrows that blocked
the siren at the Lithgow police station
(B. 28/6/’33) recall that when the suc-
tion dredge Remora was at work in the
lower reaches of the Brisbane River some
months ago two shags were drawn into
the suction pipe, and, after negotiating
two bends and passing through the pump,
were discharged in slush at the end of the
pipe-line. One bird cleared his wings
and feathers of mud and flew away; the
other had a slightly damaged wing, but
he hopped off briskly.
RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn’s gone and over, the bloom has left
the skies,
Sadly now the suns go down, and sadly rise.
And with a cloudy curtain, curving out ablow,
Down the fields of heaven now the grey rains go.
Roping in the ranges, trailing into mist,
Levelling the valley into lakes of amethyst,
Sweeping round the highlands, striding down
the plain,
Down the fields of heaven goes the good grey
rain.
Drifting o’er the city, drifting o’er the town,
Dusking all the sea-line where the ships go
down.
Ah, the song of triumph, the musical refrain
Woven through the music of the winter rain!
Autumn's gone and over and summer’s far
away,
But earth is wrapped in glory through the
mantle of the grey;
With a sky-blown banner, wide and winged and
low,
Down the fields of heaven now the grey rains go.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL


Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquir>
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mechanic (34), N.S.W., exp. with cars, trac-
tors, pumps, also oxy-welding, wants work,
station, farm or garage, anywhere.—6B34.
Journalist (26), N.S.W., five years’ exp. coun-
try dailies, wants position. Refs.—69ll.
Pensioner (67) offers services, clerical or other
light duties, for home. Country preferred.—
6916.
Accountant (23), Sydney, all-round exp.,
wants position with firm offering scope lor
advancement, Sydney or Queensland. —6917.
Young man, all-round farm exp., wants work
anywhere in Qld., on station or farm. Refs. —
6934.
Temporary teacher, Education Department,
Vic., musical, scoutmaster, wants position as
tutor. —6941.
To buy original 1918 “Aussies”; must be
complete.—69l4.
To buy Munro’s monograph on bamboos
(Linnsean Society Transactions, 1868) and Von
Mueller’s “Eucalypiographia.”—69oB.
To exchange fur coat, fit child 12, for Queen
stove, gas stove or large lino, square. —6878.
To buy set of Linguaphone gramophone
records of German language.—694o.
Words of humorous recitation, “The Matri-
monial Stakes.” —6944.
Words of verse “The Roaring Days,” also the
one in which occurs the line “To the wan-
derer’s rest at the foot of the rise.” —6835.
Words of Newbolt’s poem “Drake’s Drum.”
—6847.
Information Sought.
Who was “Scotty the Wrinkler”? —6850.
That was the pen-name of Phil Moubray, a
contributor of bush yarns and travel incidents
to Ihe Bulletin during the ’nineties. He had
been a military officer, surveyor in Abyssinia,
deckhand on the Mississippi, tutor, journalist,
draughtsman, whaler, cook and rouseabout. He
died at Narrandera (N.S.W.) in November,
1903.
I have a copper token bearing “H.R.H.
Princess Charlotte” and a head on one side,
and “Britannia Mourns Her Princess Dead.
Dibd Nov. 6th, 1817, Aged 21,” with what
resembles a willow-tree and an urn on the other.
Another token has on one side “Four Genera-
tions of the British Royal Family, 1896,” with
a crown and four heads (a baby, two men and
a woman). The other side is indistinct. What
was the origin of these, and what is their value?
—6783.
These are medals, the first being struck to
commemorate the death of Charlotte, Princess
of Wales, daughter of George IV., who died
during her father’s regency. The other medal
bears the heads of the present Prince of Wales,
the present King, King Edward VII. and Queen
Victoria. Both medals were issued in great
numbers and in various sizes and metals. Value
of each, in good condition, is about threepence.
(1) Dimensions of and appropriate materials
for making a simple and cheap fish trap? (2)
Where can l get a diagram? (3) What are the
lawful dimensions for a trap to be used in
N.S.W. waters? —6880.
Construct a frame of 3in. x lin. hardwood
battens about sft. long, 4ft. wide and 2ft. 6in.
to 31t. deep. The usual mesh of wire used for
traps is 2fln. for the sides, top and ends and
lin. on the bottom —each of 17 gauge. (2)
Sketch posted. (3) Particulars of lawful traps
for certain waters will be found in the Fisheries
Gazette, obtainable from the State Fisheries
Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney.
Dimensions above stated are within the law.
(1) Can a diplomaed architectural draftsman
practise architecture and advertise himself as an
architect in N.S.W.? (2) Are there any practis-
ing architecture who have not an architect’s
qualifications? —6B77.
(1) Not until he has been registered by the
Board of Architects. (2) Possibly there are,
but people employing them take risks and may
render themselves liable to damages in the event
of failure of any portion of the building.
Does the use of old or defective valves in a
wireless receiver shorten the life of the “B”
battery, and do old valves consume more “B
battery current than new ones? —6793.
Old valves consume less current, assuming
the “A,” “B” and “C” battery voltages remain
unaltered; but a valve in which the electrodes
are touching may be the cause of heavy “B”
battery drain. The most prevalent cause of
heavy “B” battery drain is in the L.F. and
power stages where incorrect bias or “C”
voltage is used. Make sure the bias battery is
in good condition and correct bias voltages are
applied to the grids of the valves.
(1) It has been found in practice that a pipe
6 in. internal diameter and 100 ft. long contains
one cubic yard of gravel. How much gravel
would a pipe 5.25 in. internal diameter and
100 ft. long contain? (2) Would a 10-//./;. engine
fitted with a 4 -cwt. monkey be suitable for driv-
ing an B in. diameter drill pipe? —6713.
(1) A shade over $ cub. yard; to be precise,
20.672 cub. ft. (2) Impossible to say, as this
depends, among other things, upon the nature
of the gravel. It should be suitable in the case
of a loose gravel.
What was J. C. Williamson’s career before
he joined Musgrove and Garner? —6840.
He was born in Pennsylvania, U.S.A. At the
age of 16 he joined a stock theatrical company
at Milwaukee, travelled with it in Canada, and
in 1864 reached New York, where for seven
years he played dialect and comedy parts under
the management of the elder Wallack. In 1871
John McCullough took him to California for
similar work; there in 1873 he married Maggie
Moore, and with her came to Australia in 1874,
opening with “Struck Oil,” his own adaptation
of a play he had bought from an old Cali-
fornian miner. In 1875 he took his company
to India and Egypt, and in 1876 reached Lon-
don, where he played for a year at the Adelphi,
“Struck Oil” running for 100 nights. After a
two years’ run of the same play in the United
States, Williamson returned in 1879 to Aus-
tralia, bringing with him several of the Gilbert
and Sullivan operas. George Musgrove was at
the time managing a comic opera company,
and Arthur Garner an English comedy. In
1882 the three managers formed a partnership.
I understand that there is a trapdoor spider
in the Pacific Islands which builds its nest on
the bark of a tree. Can you tell me anything
about it? —6849.
Such a spider is to be found on Moa Island,
in Torres Strait. The nest is made of the
bark of the tree, and is placed horizontally
across the trunk, raised slightly above the level
of the surface. This species of trapdoor spider
alters the habits of his kind doubtless because
the tremendous rainfall would flood a nest built
in the ground.
Whereabouts in Australia is the tree Thespesia
populnea to be found? Is it indigenous, and
what are its characteristics and uses? —6827.
The tree is indigenous to Australia, occurring
in coastal Queensland and northern Australia.
It has large poplar-like leaves and showy
flowers. The fruit contains large quantities of
a yellow viscid juice, which is used as a dye.
The wood resists decay under water, and is
used for boat-building. The centre portions of
old trunks decay like those of the European
elm, and acquire a deep claret color. The inner
bark yields a tough fibre, which is used for
making coffee-bags; the finer parts of the fibre
are used to make cigar-envelopes.
Can you recommend a good stimulant or
tonic which will make a fox terrier bear him-
self courageously in the show-ring? —6s27.
Drugs are useless and dangerous. You might
take a lesson from the breeders of game cocks
who keep game roosters with common roosters
which they can boss easily. They thus acquire
a feeling of superiority. Keep the dog with
others he can easily master.
(I) Qualifications necessary for obtaining an
amateur’s radio-transmitting license? (2) Num-
ber of examinations, if any? (3) Fees? (4)
Where to apply? —6B33.
(1) A knowledge of the international regula-
tions, as applied to amateur transmissions; an
elementary knowledge of electrical and radio
theory and ability to send and receive Morse
code at the rate of 12 words per minute. (2)
One. You can arrange for it to be held at the
local post office under the supervision of the
postmaster. (3) Examination fee, 55.; certificate,
2s. 6d.; license fee, 30s. p.a. (4) Chief Inspec-
tor of Wireless, Treasury Gardens, Melbourne.
(1) Of what nationality was Sir Alma Tadema?
(2) What sort of pictures did he paint? (3) Is
he represented in the N.S.W. National Art Gal-
lery?—6Bl9.
(1) He was Dutch. (2) His earliest paintings
were of German life in the middle ages. This
was followed by a Pompeian period, which in
its turn was followed by elaborate works depict-
ing the life of ancient Greece and Rome.
(3) Yes, by a head of Cleopatra.
What is the origin and meaning of the term
“Grangerising” in connection with print col-
lecting?—6B2s.
It derives from the Rev. James Granger, Vicar
of Shiplake, Oxfordshire, England, who in
1769 published a “Biographical History of Eng-
land.” In this he strongly advocated the collect-
ing of engraved portraits and stressed their
future value. The litterateurs of his day bought
unbound copies of his work and commenced to
collect engraved portraits with which to illus-
trate it. This vogue for what is known as extra-
illustration has grown to such an extent that
the term is now rather one of reproach, because
“Grangerisers” mutilate valuable works to add
to their own collections.
How many margarine factories are there in
Australia, where are they situated, and what is
the output? —6699.
N.S.W.: 7 factories, producing 12,733,2411 b.
of margarine and 7,055,2281 b. edible fats. Vic.:
9 factories, producing 6,331.8691 b. margarine;
no figures available for edible fats production.
S.A.: 2 factories; no production figures avail-
able. W.A.: 2 factories, producing 28,9041 b.
edible fats; no figures available for margarine.
If a N.S.W. Shire Council constructs a road
and as soon as it is finished it is damaged by
heavy loads, can the ratepayers make the people
who did the damage repair it? —6392.
A council has power under the Local Govern-
ment Act, 1919, to restrict or prohibit within
reasonable limits traffic of a heavy character on
any of the roads under its control. It is also
open to the council to take action to recover
extraordinary expenses incurred in repairing a
road. The matter of taking action is one for
the council; not for the ratepayers.
How to make a pair of skis? —5808.
Write to C. E. Lane Poole, Forestry Bureau,
Westbridge, Canberra, who can supply com-
plete detailed instructions, with blue prints.
Can you give me lists of (1) famous women
fists, and (2) famous women painters? —
6537.
complete lists would occupy more space than
can be spared. Here are a few outstanding
ones: (1) Caroline Herschel, Mme. Curie,
Marie Mitchel, Annie J. Cannon, Florence Rena
Sabin, Mary Somerville, Dame Helen Gwynne
Vaughan and M. A. Murray, the anthro-
pologists. (2) Vigee le Brun, Angelica Kauff-
mann, Berthe Moriset, Madeline Lemaire. Marie
Laurencin, Joan Manning Sanders, Pauline
Peugniez, Mme. Bardet, Emilie Charmy, Dame
Laura Knight, Dorothea Sharpe, Dore Hawks-
ley, Anna P. Airey, Natalie Sergeyeona, Gondo-
rova, Maria Merian and Rosa Bonheur.
How to adjust connecting rod brasses on
steam engines fitted with distance pieces between
the two half brasses? —6733.
Remove distance pieces, screw down the brass
on the journal and measure the distance
between the brasses with a pair of internal
calipers. Take a gauge from this with external
calipers and fit the distance piece tight between
the brasses. Then slack the nuts off, put the
distance pieces in their places, and tighten the
rmts The brasses will then fit tightly on the
journal.
(1) Can an Inspector of the Fisheries and
Gaines Dept., Vic., come on my property ana
take my boat (anchored in the river) without
asking my permission? (2) If not, can I claim
compensation? —636s.
(1) and (2) An inspectqr has a right to use
or seize a boat if he believes that it has been
used in the commission of some offence, but
not otherwise. Write to the Chief Inspector ot
Fisheries in Melbourne if you have grounds for
complaint.
(1) Was the Bishop of Calcutta ever head of
the Anglican church in Australia? (2) Who
was the first Anglican archdeacon in Australia?
—6846.
(1) Yes. (2) Augustus Hobbes Scott, ap-
pointed Archdeacon of New South Wales in
1824.
(1) Is there any truth in the statement that the
Confederate warship Shenandoah visited Aus-
tralia? (2) What year? (3) Did any Australians
join the crew? —6838.
(1) and (2) Yes; she entered Port Phillip on
January 25, 1865. (3) Not known for certain,
but it was believed at the time that a good
number signed on.
(1) Who introduced the orange-tree into Aus-
tralia? (2) Were seeds or seedlings brought
from Cape of Good Hope? —6Bs9.
(1) and (2) The orange was first planted in
Australia by the Rev. Richard Johnson, chap-
lain to the First Fleet. He brought seeds from
Rio de Janeiro and planted them at Parramatta.
In a few years the trees produced very fine
oranges, which the grower sold at 6d. and 9d.
each.
(1) Where can I procure magnolia plants?
(2) Cost, landed in Broken Hill? (3) Will they
grow in that district? —6799.
(1) Any of the big seed firms can supply your
needs. (2) There are two evergreen varieties:
Fuscata, growing Bft., and Grandiflora, pure
white, growing 20ft., each 25.; and one deci-
duous variety, Obovata purpurea, deep purple,
growing about 10ft. high, 2/6. Packing and
carriage are extras. (3) Any of these should
grow in Broken Hill, planted in a warm shel-
tered position.
How many times was Gene Tunney defeated
during his boxing career, and where was he
born? —6919.
Tunney lost only one decision, to Harry
Greb, in 1922. He was born in Greenwich
Village, New York, on May 25, 1898.
How to strike Westralian Geraldton flower?
Is it grown from seed or cuttings? —6s9s.
From cuttings. Take mature tips and insert
them in pots containing clean washed sand.
Enclose in a glass frame.
Information regarding the Kermadec Islands?
—6870.
They are a rocky group lying 600 miles
northwards of Auckland, M.L., and are a
dependency of the Dominion. The principal
units are Sunday Island (7,200 acres), Macaulay
(764 acres), Curtis (147 acres), L’Esperance (12
acres) and Herald Group (85 acres). All are of
volcanic origin, and thermal activity is present
on Sunday Island.
(1) What are Japan’s economic reasons for
establishing Manchukuo? (2) What provinces
are included in the new State? (3) Is the agri-
cultural and pastoral development of Manchu-
kuo likely to enable Japan to be independent
of Australasia for raw material? —6617.
(1) For one thing, because the territory is
suited to the cultivation of the soya bean.
(2) Shengking or Fengtien, Kirin, Heilungkiang
and Jehol. The political situation with regard
to some of these is still unsettled. (3) Can’t pro-
phesy, but Manchuria is capable of extensive
development along all those lines, and the
Japanese are well aware of it.
(1) What methods are employed by fakers of
old paintings? (2) What methods are adopted
by modern scientists to detect such forgeries? —
6853.
(1) The most common frauds are the painting
of a composite of figures and draperies copied
from old masters’ known paintings, or the
copying of some famous painting exactly, the
buyer being assured that the master painted
several replicas of it. (2) Tiny spots of paint
are extracted from pictures with a hollow
needle. These are examined under the micro-
scope; also submitted to chemical analysis. It
is thus possible to determine whether the paints
correspond to those used at the time of the
old master. It is also possible to gauge approxi-
mately the age of the paints used. Another
method is by the use of the X- or ultra-violet
rays. Very often the faker paints over an old
painting of no merit, so as to get a genuinely
ancient basis. X-rays show up any picture on
a canvas over which a later picture has been
painted. Photo-micrographs of the brush-
strokes are also helpful. An artist’s brush-
stroke under the microscope is as expressive of
his identity as penstrokes, viewed similarly, are
of any individual’s handwriting.
(1) Qualifications of a Victorian Justice
of the Peace? (2) Would a J.P. lose his com-
mission if convicted of contempt of court? (3)
Has he the same power in a police court as a
Magistrate? (4) What power has he away from
a court? —6775.
(1) Mainly good character. (2) He may be
removed from office for such misconduct. (3)
Yes, save that he must sit with a Magistrate or
with another J.P. (4) He may receive informa-
tions in respect of offences and of complaints
in civil matters, may issue summonses or, where
the information is on oath, a warrant. He may
commit for trial or, where he thinks fit, accept
or refuse bail; may in certain circumstances
hold inquests, and may act as legal witness in
a number of minor circumstances.
(1) What is the object of a condenser in a
steam engine? (2) How to convert the reading
of the vacuum gauge into lb. per sq. in.
measured from absolute zero? —-6829.
(1) To remove, as far as possible, the effect
of atmospheric pressure from the piston, thus
creating a partial vacuum, and to enable the
steam acting on the piston to be expanded to a
lower pressure before leaving the cylinder than
can profitably be done when the steam exhausts
into the air. (2) Subtract the gauge reading
from 30 and divide by 2. If the vacuum gauge
indicates 26, then 30—26 equals 4, which,
divided by 2, equals 21b. absolute pressure.
This is the pressure opposing the piston, instead
of 14.71 b. per sq. in. which would be the back-
pressure due to the atmosphere if there were no
condenser.
(1) Value of Church of England property in
Victoria? (2) What portion of such property is
subject to municipal taxation? —6274.
(1) Registrar of C. of E., Melbourne, advises
that, as church property is not ratable, its mar-
ket value is unknown until the land is sold for
other purposes; therefore reliable figures are
unobtainable. (2) That portion used or partially
used for other than religious purposes. Ditto
regarding rates.
Brief Answers.
W.A.T.: (1) Any leading Melb. bookseller
can give you a list of Bach biographies. (2)
Krehbiel’s “How to Listen to Music’’ may help.
DJ.: (1) Yes, using a strong, well-rooted
sections; manure the ground heavily before re-
planting. (2) In September... .N.M.: Write
Secretary, Children’s Welfare Dept., Railway
Buildings, Flinders-street, Melbourne.... M.H.:
Presume that it is a dance peculiar to the Kkat-
tak, a Pathan tribe in the North-west Frontier
Province of India. No details available in stan-
dard reference books C.A.E.: The Ivory
Coast is a French West African colony; area,
121,590 sq. m.; pop., 1,886,166 G.S.S.:
Practically impossible for an amateur to repair
mirrors. Send the work to a mirror-maker or
buy a new glass... .E.S.D.: If there is too
much oil, some of it can be removed by rub-
bing turpentine with a thick flannel and polish-
ing vigorously with a clean, dry woollen cloth.
When this has been done, continue to keep the
leather in good condition with soft soap. Rub
in lightly with a flannel and polish... .N.A.:
Adele Crane plays the role of Ada in the “Mira-
belle” operetta sequence in “Cavalcade”....
A.C.: The “Big Five” English banks are
Barclay’s, Lloyd’s, the Midland, the National
Provincial and the Westminster... .E.C.F.: (1)
The lowest average cost (£5,558) per mile open
is in West Ausf., and the highest (£20,849) in
N. S. Wales, as compared with an average of
£12,843 for all States. (2) West. Aus. has the
3ft. 6in. gauge, and there were few costly
engineering difficulties; then the fact that
contractors were permitted to ca*ry traffic
considerably reduced expenditure in respect
of goldfield contracts... .W.G.: The ex-
treme points of Australia are Steep Point
on the west, Cape Byron on the east,
Cape York on the north, Wilson’s Promontory
on the south or, if Tasmania be included,
South-East Cape L.M.: The wood of C.
ramiflora yields a purple dye. In India the
seeds are used medicinally in skin diseases,
and the hard, coarse-grained wood is used for
houses and native carts... .W.S.S.: The cor-
rect title is “Australian Dictionary of Dates and
Men of the Time.” It was published in Sydney
in 1879... .C.K.N.: The crescent honeyeater
(M. pyrrhoplera ) derives its name from the
black band on its breast. It is also called
“egypt” in imitation of its notes... .S.M.G.:
Introduced rabbits existed for a while on Rab-
bit Island (hence its name), but never on the
main island (Lord Howe).. . .J.L.J.: “Northern
Standard” and N.T. “Times and Gazette”
are published at Darwin... .F.W.: (1) The
Distinguished Flying Cross (D.F.C.), insti-
tuted in 1918, was designed for bestowal
on officers in the Royal Air Force for
“acts of gallantry when flying in active
operations against the enemy.” (2) The
Air Force Cross (A.F.C.), also for R.A.F.
officers, is for “acts of courage or devotion
to duty when flying”... .H.J.P.: Summer time
is in operation in Britain, Irish Free State,
France, Belgium, Netherlands, Portugal, Rou-
mania, Finland, Greece, Soviet Russia, U.S.A.
and Canada (adopted in some but not all pro-
vinces), British Honduras, Argentina, Brazil,
Chile and M.L H.T.: The aboriginal name
for Fort Denison, Port Jackson, was Matta-
wunga... .J.T.T.: Try cincturing the trees about
a week after petals of the flowers begin to fall.
Cincturing consists of entirely ringbarking the
tree through the bark, without injuring the
wood underneath, to the thickness of a saw-
cut... .E.R.C.: A woman who has married a
person disqualified from receiving an old-age
pension is not thereby disqualified 8.G.: A
trader’s license in the Solomon Islands costs
£lO p.a., and a boat license (up to 10 tons) £5
p.a., increasing according to the size of the
boat J.D.C.: “The Cause and Cure of
Speech Defect,” by R. Sonnett Greene
J.H.: On your mother’s death you should
make a fresh will in favor of your father....
S.C.: William Westgarth’s writings include
“Australia Felix” (1848), “Victoria, late Aus-
tralia Felix” (1853). “Victoria and the Australian
Gold Mines” (1857), “Australia, Its Rise and
Progress” (1861), “The Colo,ny of Victoria”
(1864), “Personal Recollections of Early Mel-
bourne” (1888), and “Half a Century of Aus-
tralian Progress” # (1889)... .W.J.W.: The first
Australian to win swimming races abroad was
Percy Cavill, who in 1897 won the 440-yards
and long-distance championship of England....
F.S.: (1) The Stirling Castle was lost on the
Eliza Reef, east of Port Bowen (Q.), May 21,
1836. The survivors, on reaching the mainland,
fell into the hands of the natives and were
divided up among several tribes, several of
them, including the captain, being murdered
by their captors. (2) See John Curtis’s “Ship-
wreck of the Stirling Castle” A.N.8.:
Imperial Service Club, 15 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .M.S.M.; Write to (1) N.S.W. Pub-
lic Service Board, 33 Hunter-street, Sydney;
and (2) C’wealth Public Service Inspector,
C’wealth Bank Bldg., Martin-place, Sydney.
H.R.S.: The mother could renounce pro-
bate, but has no power to appoint another
person in her place. The son would become
the sole executor 8.J.: Yes, C should pay
L, not E W.T.F.: (1) Write Frances Scully
School of Dancing, 40 Palings’ Bldgs., Ash-
street, Sydney. (2) Write A. Dattilo-Rubbo, 15
Bligh-street, Sydney... .D.K.: No, but you can
write to the Deputy Commissioner and request
him to instruct an officer to discuss your case
with y0u....J.R.: Mix equal parts of cream-
of-tartar and citric acid, powdered together.
Lay the stained part of the carpet in a dish,
moisten with hot water, and with the back of
a spoon rub the powdered mixture well into
the stains until they disappear. Rinse in clean
water G. 0.5.: For violet hektograph ink:
methyl violet, 2 parts; alcohol, 2 parts; sugar,
1 part; glycerine, 4 parts; water, 24 parts. Dis-
solve the violet in the alcohol mixed with the
glycerine; dissolve the sugar in the water; mix
both solutions. For black: 10 parts methyl violet,
20 parts nigrosin, 30 parts glycerine, 5 parts gum
arabic, 60 parts alcohol. Mix the violet, alcohol
and glycerine; incorporate the other items. For
red: 10 parts fuchsin, 10 parts alcohol, 10 parts
glycerine, 50 parts water. Mix the fuchsin and
alcohol, add the glycerine, then the water. It
is cheaper to buy them ready made J.E.P.:
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) Any hard varnish should
be suitable. (4) Burr’s Threeo oil M.R.:
Use a good packet dye made specially for silk.
If cream is unprocurable, thin down a tan, buff
or yellow... .W.E.M.: He must pass the Law
matriculation exam, and be articled to a solici-
tor for five years. He is also required to pass
three other exams. If successful in each, the
fees should amount to about £20... .W.P.W.:
Run the line through marine copal varnish and
let it dry before using... .0.C.H.: There will
be a change in the pup’s coat as he grows
older, but the dark patches probably will
remain (Many others mailed.)


.'{jasteaigSsaa
l?s«^ysS£i-SS
tflO
0£
O b <
o*
m
i
4*
t**S
ttlN
sgsSip^
o
V»tO
4.**
o
o.^
m
t£&
H 2
Life*
Ti-r.
•tti'jr:
}fr a;
r
ssa
EOffit Si
stsa
->■■
«F
4!j#
ś
ŝ
ş
Take an edge so keen that words can’t
describe it—so smooth that it glides like
velvet over the tenderest skin. That’s the
new Seven o’clock blade —for all double-
edged razors. Try one. Did you know
that a safety razor shave could be so clean
and quick? Then remember that a shilling
and sixpence buys five of these amazing
blades. Every dealer sells Seven o’clock
razor blades. Get yours to-night.
BLADES
b&UBLE EDGED
MADE IN ENGLAND
<
“They say this I 933 model is the best value
obtainable anywhere, and I believe, too, that
it’s the most popular 2-ton truck in England”
. . . said the Tall One
i
“Well, the long and short of it is that we’ll
buy a British Bedford”
. . . said the Short One
ŝ
Model W.L.G. ... 2|-Ton
Chassis . . . 157" Wheelbase
Designed to suit Australian condi-
tions, the British Bedford offers the
maximum in dependable and econo-
mical service. Available on G.M.A.C.
plan. Bedford Truck Chassis in
157" and I 3 I" wheelbase.
ş
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 Georgs
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
SfeeWTSo Old At
Vitality comes this
simple way
TIRED-OUT with constant pain ! Back
breaking, limbs like pieces of lead, head-
ache, tragic daily torture making you look
so old—wouldn’t it be glorious to end this
misery and throw away the age-giving
mask of pain ?
The cause of your trouble is told in two words—
Kidney Trouble. The kidneys are failing to purify
the blood. Poisons are accumulating which cause
dreadful pain and suffering.
You will never regain health, youthful vigour
and vitality until you have prompted the kidneys to
healthy action. The best and quickest means to this
end is a short course with De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. They make you feel so gloriously fit,
feeling, looking years younger.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
Take two at night, then one before meals. In
24 hours you will see they are doing you good.
Persevere and your troubles will end. Invaluable in
all cases of Rheumatism, Joint Pains, Chronic Back-
ache, Urinary Trouble, Sciatica, Kidney and Uric Acid Troubles. They can be
taken by the very young, the weakest, the oldest and women at all times, with
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation that will
do you good from the very first dose.
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lies within the system, through
faulty kidney action.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers which enables
us to state that if you will commence a course with this simple, straight-forward
remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be
ended for good.
It does not matter how long you have suffered or what disappointments you
may have had in the past—get a supply of this tried and trusted, 45-year-old
remedy to-day and start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your nervous system
and building once again the real foundations of health.
Why wait to get too-old looking ?—why wait for total health breakdown ?
when De Witt’s Pills can so surely and certainly banish the poisons, such as uric
acid, in your system, which are the cause of your pain. You cannot have De Witt’s
Pills and illness —which will you have?
Years Roll Back
THIS REMEDY CAN, WILL
AND MUST BRING HEALTH
AND HAPPINESS!
We wish we could show you the thousands of
letters from grateful sufferers that tell you how
simple, inexpensive and how sure are the results
achieved by De Witt’s Pills. Many bed-ridden,
thousands suffering “untold agonies,” have enjoyed
a new lease of life and happiness, thanks to this
remedy.
If you persevere with this tried and trusted
remedy, you will find your old, tired, ‘ ‘ worn-out ’
feeling replaced by new vigour and vitality. Your
day’s work will be a pleasure and your spare-time
pleasures doubled. No more sallow, spotty com-
plexion, no more sleepless nights, no more stabs in
the back, no more rheumatic pains, bad back,
bladder troubles.
Remember the name. See it printed on each
package. With complete confidence we state there
is no remedy that will so quickly, so surely rebuild
your health and strength. Surely you do not want
to stay in pain and weakness when there are thou-
sands of now happy men and women to tell you how
splendidly De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have
given them new vitality, new health, new hope of
happiness. Make up your mind now. Say “ I will
get back my youthful strength and vigour. I will banish the pain that cripples me,
making my life a constant misery.” Do it now. Go to your chemist right away.
He knows all about this remedy and can tell you how good it really is.
See that you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the special
white, blue and gold box. Beware of imitations. Most certainly there is nothing
just as good.
De WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder Pills
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDERTROUBLE
Invaluable in all cases of :
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA


RABBITS CLEARED OUT
ft v 2 D AN ACRE
“Langvarwil” Exterminator has solved the problem of the rabbit pest —
it is the only machine for the complete destruction of rabbits.
These are not our words—they are taken from the statements of Aus-
tralia’s most prominent station-owners who have cleared their property
with the “Langvarwil” Rabbit Exterminator.
Read this advertisement right through—every word is corroborated fact,
Which proves that the “Langvarwil” Exterminator is better, cheaper and
quicker than any other method of rabbit destruction.
FACTS ABOUT THE
“LANGVARWIL”
The first capital outlay is practically
your only cost.
No chemicals required.
Operated solely on air, water and fuel for
the fire plus a little petrol and oil for
the Power Model, at right.
“Langvarwil” is completely guaranteed in
every way for efficiency, quality of all
materials and workmanship, and for all
claims made for it.
It is the only method that is 100%
efficient.
It is the only method to effectively clear
your land at 2d. an acre.
It is the only method that has never failed
in any test to give 100% kill.
It is the most deadly poison for rabbits,
yet is harmless to the operator.
It leaves no carcases exposed to attract
blowflies.
HARDWOOD
PLATFORM
\'A H.P. ENGINE
BALL-BEARING
HIGH SPEED
BLOWER
THE LANGVARWI]
COOLING '
PIPES
STEEL WHEELS
AND AXLE
GAS
•PRODUCER
ason
aaNi'i
SOISHUSV
CAST
IRON
WATER
CONTAINER
HOW
“LANGVARWIL”
IS OPERATED
Both the manual and the power models
use the same “Langvarwil” patent
method of producing carbon monoxide
gas.
When the fire is lighted and the fan
mechanism commenced, air is drawn
down from the top of the cylinder
through burning charcoal. This trans-
forms the air into deadly carbon mon-
oxide gas, which is then passed over
water and forced into the flexible steel
asbestos-lined hose.
The nozzle of the- hose is introduced
into the burrow or warren . . . the open-
ing is closed around the hose . . . and
the gas is belched in hu-ge quantities to
every nook and corner of the warren.
As the gas issues from other inlets of
the warren these, too, are closed, and
the operation is finished. Every rabbit
killed. Not a single warren will be
reopened from the inside.
m
BLOWER
GAS
PRODUCER
CAST I ROM
WATER CONTAINEI
ASBESTOS
LINED HOSE
REDUCED PRICES.
Interesting Booklet Free
Commencing with the publication of this advertisement,
all Langvarwil” prices are reduced.
Send coupon for an interesting booklet con-
taining detailed particulars of “Langvarwil”
models. On reading its pages you will see
that compared with any other method of
rabbit destruction, you can save the
cost of your “Langvarwil” Rabbit
Exterminator in your first 14
days’ work. Fill in and
send the coupon now.
Post coupon to your
nearest office.
\%*
4s+
r rV f *
€%° o
"fo
Xsi--
% j
s
9*
V < y.
? <?•
-3
-T> O'
V^v
V"
% %^ c
%
*p
•
*&
<k*'o,%
■® %
<*>j%
c
'^l,\
\> O,
3v%>
%%.
•<£>
o jr-3>
%.
<?a “<%
o r r>
'<P
UNCONDITIONALLY
GUARANTEED
Material and workmanship of the “Lang-
varwil” Exterminators are fully guaranteed
by the “Langvarwil” Company.
Every “Langvarwil” Exterminator is guar-
anteed to be 100% effective—the only
rabbit exterminator to be backed by such
a comprehensive guarantee.
MONEY BACK IF NOT
100% EFFECTIVE
Every claim made for the “Langvarwil”
Exterminator is entirely unexaggerated, and
is based on the machine’s performance in
actual tests and use. If when you purchase
a “Langvarwil” Exterminator you find that
it will not fulfil to the utmost every claim
made for it, the company will accept its
return and your money will be refunded
in full. No fairer offer could be made.
No other demonstration could so forcefully
demonstrate the company’s confidence in
the “Langvarwil.”
EVERY OWNER HAS
PROVED ITS SUCCESS
Besides being proved effective by practically
every Government department dealing with
Lands, any of the many owners all over
Australia will be glad to give you their
independent opinion.
When you receive our booklet you will see
that it contains a list of owners to whom
we invite you to apply to seek their advice
and substantiation of any of our claims.
: ' ■
A TEST BEFORE
GOVERNMENT OFFICERS
A practical demonstration of the “Langarwil’* Exter-
minator was given on Mr. H. Watson’s property at
Sunbury by the Company’s Chief Demonstrator to
an interested audience of over 40 Government officers
and private landowners.
A warren was selected covering approximately one-
fifth of an acre, and treated with an ordinary stock
model “Langvarwil” Exterminator.
When the work was completed the warren was
placed under the official supervision of Mr. A. H-
Baylis, Rabbit' Inspector of that district. He reported
to the Secretary of Lands that after two days’ work
with seven men the warren was completely dug up.
The warren took 56 hours to dig out, and 171
rabbits, all dead, were obtained. The dead rabbits
were distributed all through the warren, not more
than one being found at a time.
RESULT: 100% Efficiency.
Cost of “Langvarwil” Treatment, in-
cluding labour 1/3
Cost of Digging Out £5/12/-
LANGVARWIL
RABBIT EXTERMINATOR
Langvarwil Exterminator Pty. Ltd., 446 Little Collins St., Melbourne,C.l.


LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C. '
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
*
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader—classified or display ad-
vertising—is in
OPhe Brisbane (Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher. 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Newspaper House,
Collins St., Melbourne. F 3906.
LIFE—A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
for in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
is spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system, of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
Cbmmonwcaltl) savmQs JM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
*
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C tid.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication —Every Friday—2d.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITY'S LINSEEDMEAL
A SMALL FARMER’S ENSILAGE.
“J.W.W.”: Eleven or twelve cows can
be milked on a very small farm when
everything that’s grown is saved and fed
judiciously. Here is the record of Percy
Williams, an ex-Mallee farmer, of War-
ragul, Gippsland (Vic.), who has a farm
of 21 acres.
Mr. Williams learnt by bitter experi-
ence to save all spring growth for the
following winter, and use at least half
of it as ensilage.
In the last week in September he shut
up nine acres for fodder —half for hay
and half for silage. Except for hiring a
man with a mower, he did all the work
himself. The stuff was cut in damp
weather, carted in wet, and stacked on
a space of 20ft. by 12ft. The height was
about 12ft. First of all, he carted three
layers of the green herbage, then he
sprinkled the stack with a thick dressing
of coarse salt. He kept the salt off till
three layers were down, as he was afraid
that the bottom layers would get too salty
through seepage from above. He salted
every layer after that and put a heavy
dressing of salt on top, but no ballast or
weight of any kind.
In six weeks he had nice tasty ensilage
which improved with further keeping.
The loss in opening up was negligible. He
fed eleven cows, one horse and a grown-
up heifer on it right through the winter.
Three cows were dried off; the other
eight gave 6691 b. of butter-fat in 3|
months of Gippsland’s coldest period.
This farm is in second-quality hill coun-
try consisting of grey and medium-weight
red volcanic soil.
There’s no need for an expensive silo
in these parts.
FORCE-FEEDING PLANTS.
“Salmon Gums”: It is an accepted fact
that the art of feeding stock lies in keep-
ing their appetites keen while supplying
them with a maximum of body-building
foods. The same principles apply to
plant life, and the farmer who realises it
scores. I could quote many Westralian
examples.
Certain fertilisers, such as fowl- and
stable-manure, which require to rot and
from which the plant can draw through-
out the period of its growth, are best
ploughed in prior to planting. This places
the manure where its strength will be
fully conserved, and forms a rich root-
bed at the best depth. Such manures
supply food requirements of most plants,
and are an excellent base for all.
The growth of a plant under the soil
(i.e., the root growth) corresponds very
nearly with that above. A well-grown
tomato-bush is estimated to have devel-
oped fourteen miles of roots. So the
fertilisers must be applied in such a man-
ner as to encourage root expansion. Fer-
tilisers which are administered as top-
dressings prior to planting out should be
broadcast over the entire patch and
worked in. It is a mistake to place a
handful at each planting-place. You
either too heavily manure that area, so
that the roots are repelled from it, or
you encourage a confined root system in
place of a well-developed one.
Top-dressings should be regarded as a
tonic and a stimulant as well as a food.
They should commence on an ex-
tremely small scale about a week after
planting out. There is a danger, at this
stage, of injuring the plant by over-
manuring, particularly where sulphate of
ammonia or nitrate of soda is used.
Increase the quantities each week until
the plant reaches maturity, when a heavy
final dressing should be applied. Spread
the fertiliser allowance over as many
dressings as possible—within reason. In
short, regard the plant as you would an
animal being prepared for market.
HERD-TESTING DIFFICULTIES.
“F 34”: Many C.Q. dairymen seem to
have a curious misconception of the
value of herd-testing work. To quote
one, “It is almost impossible to test ex-
cept a few odd cows at the best part of
the year.” The reason given was scarcity
of labor, but that phrase “at the best
part of the year” gives the real clue.
Under the Government’s herd-testing
scheme the farmer weighs and samples
the milk of each cow for two days at
intervals of sixty days approximately,
sending the samples and records of the
weighings to his butter-factory. For-
merly they went to the Dept, of Agri-
culture and Stock. The total time for the
work is about five minutes per cow, or
half an hour a year —little enough for
the benefit of knowing the good pro-
ducers from the duds.
The reason that isn’t given for failure
to test is that under our methods testing
is no indication of a cow’s latent produc-
tive capacity except at the flush period
of pastures, and also that, with few
exceptions, in Central Q’land oyr stock
are a very ordinary lot. It is safe to say
that half the herds in the district do not
average 801 b. of butter-fat per head per
annum.
C.Q.’s erratic rainfall is a factor, and
improvement can only be gradual, since
conserving of fodder for six or eight
dry months of the year, as well as Occa-
sional droughty summers, requires a
good deal of capital for buildings and
machinery. Quick-growing catch-crops
and permanent improved pasture grasses,
lucerne, cow-cane and elephant-grass, all
of which make some response to small
falls of rain, will help the situation.
And herd testing can play a double
part in improvement, by picking out the
cows best adapted to conditions and by
giving us a gauge by which we can adapt
the conditions to the cows.
SHOW AND SALES.
“Valerin”: At the Sydney sheep show
and sales, though kempy and breechy
sheep were less noticeable than last year,
all mixtures of hair and wool in the
robust types were too plentiful. It is
inexplicable that noted breeders should
perpetuate a serious fault which must
eventually damage Australia’s reputation
for quality wool.
A strange feature of the sales is the
number of graziers who purchase for use
in their flocks selected and flock rams of
wide and varying types. This practice
must result in an uneven clip which the
best classing cannot unify. The direction
of breeding should be towards uniform
sheep and even quality. With this in
view, sheepmen should confine their ram-
buying to a particular type and strain.
FARMERS’ CLIPS.
“Jumbuck”: The reason that any
farmer with only a few hundred mixed
sheep does not prepare his wool for mar-
ket in a manner to secure full competi-
tion is not that the lines are too small;
rather that irregularity of staple length
and quality and condition keeps buyers
from even valuing such lines. The farmer
is at the mercy of the dealers, who buy
and re-sort. The dealer gets what is due
to the farmer. Still, brokers are continu-
ally stressing the way out, which is this:
Let each farmer with a few hundred
sheep skirt the fleeces free of all dirty,
stained and fribby wool, and roll and
bale the skirted residue. Skirtings, bellies,
stained pieces and locks should be baled
separately. Brand the bales with the farm
name and number and consign them to
the woolbroker to be re-classed and sold.
The broker will interlot or offer in bulk
as he considers wisest. Owners usually
will find that full market value for the
wool will be obtained and complaints
will be reduced to a minimum.
COUNTING SHEEP.
“Venture”: “Jumbuck’s” advice to
count in threes does not appeal to me.
It would be all right, no doubt, if the
sheep would come through in threes, or
in any regular stream; but often they
won’t. Let “Jumbuck” try the method on
a lively mob of weaners or hoggets who
stop and start, baulk and rush, come
halfway through the gate and then go
back, etc., and he will find himself in
trouble.
The best way is to learn to add up,
then count the sheep however they
come —now three, then five, two, and so
on —and regulate the width of gate
according to your skill. If it be beyond
you to add, say, seven to forty six with-
out having to stop and think about it,
then close the gate a little bit. Check the
tally-man by turning in a finger at each
hundred and opening the hand again at
five and ten.
And don’t —if you are counting for
delivery—try to show off by having the
gate too wide. It may cost you money
or humiliation.
FEED ’EM ON GRAIN.
“Granova”: As “Golightly” (B.
28/6/’33) says, trucking starving sheep
to agistment is expensive. In N. S. Wales
freight for a 200-mile journey and back,
with train-load concessions off, would be
Is. Bd. a head.
A Barmedman grazier, during the 1902
drought, saved his sheep on 4oz. of wheat
a head per day. With wheat at the pre-
sent price of 2s. Bd. a bushel at country
sidings, this would cost 4d. a head per
month. Sheep could be fed for five
months for the cost of freight to agist-
ment and back.
Little extra labor is needed to feed
sheep on grain. Take several bags out
in a sulky and lay a trail of it along the
ground. The sheep soon learn to follow
and pick up everv grain.
DRAFTING CATTLE.
“Beefo”: Avoid using a yard for draft-
ing grown cattle, if possible. Fats get
bruised and unnecessarily knocked about
when worked in a yard, and they horn
one another more than on an open camp.
When weaning a yard is needed, but for
the ordinary routine of cattle work there’s
no need for one. Even calf-branding is
easy in the open.
When drafting, have the cattle held on
camp so that they won’t keep poking out.
No matter what beasts are to be drafted
out —fats, stores or cows and calves—
work them out quietly. Galloping only
stirs the rest of the mob up. Have suf-
ficient hands to hold them until they
settle down, so that they won’t get boxed.
The art of all cattle work is to do the job
quietly; it saves horseflesh and prevents
harm to the cattle.
If a yard is used, get the cattle
in overnight and start drafting first thing
in the morning. During the heat of the
day cattle take longer to put through.
Whether drafting on an open camp or
in a yard, look out for beasts that need
attention. In-growing horns are too often
neglected. Rouse out “lumpy” beasts
and give them a bullet, and be sure to
burn the carcase. You can break cattle
into knowing a drafting camp, so use
the same camp every time and the cattle
will be less trouble to handle. They get to
know what’s wanted. And don’t use dogs!
PREVENTING FROST DAMAGE.
“Woorinen”: Frosts do most damage
in early spring. Orange-trees and other
growing crops are liable to be hurt by
extremes of deep winter frosts, but these
must be unusually severe before damage
results.
Mr. E. S. Creaton for 20 years has
studied spring frosts in relation to vines,
his property lying in a part of Mildura
which is definitely a frost pocket.
Facts gleaned in his experience are:
(1) Frosts do most damage on blocks
which are dry, have been freshly culti-
vated, or are sheltered by wind-breaks,
hills or clumps or trees.
(2) Much can be done to minimise
frost losses by irrigations designed to
keep the land moist during the danger
period, by avoiding cultivation in.weather
which promises frost, and by getting rid
of anything which obstructs the natural
drift of the air. Clumps of trees should
be taken out if close to the frosted area.
(3) The danger period is from Septem-
ber 1 to October 15. All cover crops or
weeds should be knocked down before
September 1. Mr. Creaton states that on
his place he formerly had to use smoke-
pots about five times per annum, but,
since the clearing of an adjacent forest
patch, the number has gone down to one
per annum.
To foretell a frost, have a minimum-
recording thermometer, reading about
120 deg., in 9in. Read this just at sun-
down. Temp, of 47deg. and under is
very dangerous; 48-50 deg. is dangerous;
54deg. or over is safe. Read again at 10
p.m., and a drop of lOdeg. may be ex-
pected. Then temp, of 37deg. or under
is extremely dangerous; 44deg. or over,
quite safe.
Young vine shoots will stand a frost of
2 deg. if it only lasts for a few hours, but
most probably a temperature of 37 deg.
at 10 p.m. means one of 29 or 30 deg.
at about 3.30 a.m. If so, there will be
a further fall up to daybreak and possibly
six degrees of frost registered.
On very few frosty nights is there abso-
lute stillness in the air. In 20 years’ ex-
perience Mr. Creaton has only lit his
smoke-pots on one occasion when there
was no air-drift. The appearance of
clouds in the sky or an increase in the
speed of air-drift in the early morning
means a rise in temperature of two or
three degrees—and safety. If the wind
will blow out an ordinary safety match
there is enough drift to prevent loss. If
the flame burns straight up at 30 deg.,
light smoke-pots, with which the tem-
perature can be raised about three
degrees. They are made to hold a gallon
of tar or crude oil, with a burning sur-
face of 50in., and will burn for 2\ hours.
They should be placed 50ft. apart, and
their smoke range is seven chains. About
120 pots will raise a smoke-screen for 20
acres. Crude oil and tar are about same
cost per night’s work, and the 20 acres
would cost about £2 per night to treat.
The pots can be lit in the quickest pos-
sible time by having a piece of bag
soaked in kerosene lying on the tar. They
can be put out by smothering with a
piece of bag. If the pots contain crude
oil, see that no water gets into it or they
will bubble up and run over. Tar has a
tendency to run into a clinker and must be
stirred once or twice while burning.
BANANA-GROWING.
“Johnno” (a well-known Q’land grower
with 30 years’ experience): It’s all a
matter of ground and rainfall in growing
bananas. If the soil is fertile, the loca-
tion suitable and the rainfall adequate,
first-grade bananas will grow, even if cul-
tivation methods are not all they should
be. Apart from adverse weather, the rea-
sons why so much inferior fruit finds its
way to the market are that worn-out
lands are being cultivated and land un-
suited to banana production is being
planted.
Soil rich in potash, lime and nitrogen
is needed; it must be fairly friable, and
(Land Page continued on page 34.)


LZi*
m
HERE’S COMFORT!
Feel how light and pliant the Abbey-
Riding Boot is. . . .how smoothly it
slips on. It’s lined inside with soft
leather, and the stout elastic ankle-
pieces keep it fitting snug and smart.
Your foot is never cramped in an
Abbey Riding Boot. . . . flexibly soled
with the toughest leather we can
get.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 342.
vaEktm
♦ LEGGETTS ♦
Wj
kk
f
2 0,000
MILES
in 4 months
“Our Nash car has
just completed 20,000
miles in 4 months on
one set of Leggett
Plugs. They improved
engine efficiency, and
performed better than
any plug we’ve used.”
MITCHELL ’S
MOTOR SERVICE.
Hotter Spark
Principle
The Leggett Dynamic
Spark Plug produces a
hotter spark—ensures
instant and complete
combustion of fuel,
giving easier starting
—more miles per gal-
lon —dynamic power.
Change today—at all
garages, 4/6.
Dijnamie
SPARK
PLUGS
A P OW E R
ALL 'AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,'’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Iteading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone ami
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
40:1-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
E^rmers...
?uralTopics.Dairying.
STOCK BREEDING POULTRY.
lorticulture. Veterinary
Etc All in i.'
E AUSTRALASIAN
SALE ALL STATES G>°
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
vour fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JUST ONE HAND
TOO MANY /
P
■p>
4r
r AX/\ T
'ON
A
W
Qa
m
You can't dodge your taxation, your interest,
your insurance, etc.; but when you’ve paid them
you’ve surely paid enough! There’s absolutely
no need to pay for fence repairs, too.
You can do away with all that by putting up
“Cyclone” instead of the “old-style” fence.
“Cyclone” stays permanently repair-free and
permanently stock-proof. No sagging or stretch-
ing made from high quality galvanized wire
all maintenance costs absolutely finished with.
“Cyclone” is practically everlasting!
And you save a clear £8 on every mile of
“Cyclone” fence you put up; the materials cost
you no more than for the “old-style” fence, but
the “Cyclone” fence# takes just a little over half
the time!
“Cyclone” is not a “type” of fence, but is fence made
exclusively by Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. Pty., Ltd.
SO*#
m
<X
DM'
rm
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE C°P"L T ?
Cyclone House, Hardware St.,Melbourne Cl
And at Sydney and Adelaide.
COUPON: Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and
priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences, and
comparison of costs.
Name • v
“B'tin” 19’7
Address
high enough situated to escape even the
lightest of frosts. The plantation should
not be exposed to heavy winds; but the
Cavendish variety, at least, should enjoy
moderate breezes, otherwise heavy losses
will result from sunburn during heat-
waves unless the bunches are protected
from the direct rays of the mid-day sun.
The less the ground is disturbed, apart
from chipping, the better a plantation will
usually produce. Deep cultivation, even
when practised from the beginning, is
not good for the root system. Neither
extra-large bunches nor extra-large fruit
will be produced by a plantation in which
the ground is constantly being stirred up
to any depth.
TRAINING CATTLE-DOGS.
“Tabrax”: Cattle-dogs not strictly
under control are worse than useless. Get
a well-bred pup and keep it chained up
except for exercise intervals until it is
time to teach it to work. The owner
only must feed the pup. Teach it
obedience first; to come when called by
name and to come to heel.
When old enough, carry it out in front
of the saddle to a mob of quiet old bul-
locks —never attempt to break a dog in
with cows and calves. Start the bullocks
moving along and drop the pup. Check
any tendency it has to bark, and then
leave it alone. It’ll start to heel on its own
account; but as soon as it does, call it
behind. Half an hour of this will suffice
for a start; give it a little each day
for a week and keep other dogs away
altogether.
Now teach it to go round the wings
of the mob. The main thing is not
to allow it to get out of hand. If a beast
breaks and the pup takes after it, call it
off. There’s time enough when the dog is
older and more experienced to allow it
to take a gallop out of a refractory steer.
Silent cattle-dogs are useful, but
barkers invariably cause trouble. A bark-
ing dog behind a mob of cows and calves
will cause a dozen or so of the cows to
turn around and face the barker. A
bustling dog hurries the cattle unneces-
sarily and is better out of the way. Don’t
use dogs when yarding unless the cattle
are notorious “breakers”; then only when
absolutely necessary. A good gallop
around with a couple of good heelers
often teaches the scrubber a lesson, so
long as the beast is yarded in the end.
If the dogs “send it bush,” it is certain
to break next time and perhaps remain
a scrubber for ever. Trying to work
uncontrollable dogs with cattle only
knocks up horses and makes hitherto
quiet cattle wild. If a cattle-dog can’t be
controlled, give it away or shoot it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Details of method of treating dry
tree-stumps with chemicals so that they
can be burnt right out? —6705.
There is no reliable chemical method
of making a stump inflammable. Build
logs and brush around it, fire in the ordi-
nary way, and cover the burning material,
when well alight, with clay. Such a fire
will smoulder for some weeks and will
gradually destroy the stump.
(1) Would “Star” steel posts sft. long
driven .18 in. in the ground and 22ft.
apart, with No. 12-gauge barb on top
and wooden strainers 15 chains apart,
make a suitable fence for sheep, such
posts to carry spring coil fencing of five
lines standard? (2) Which is the more
suitable type of spring coil fencing to
use —ring knot or hinged joint?
(1) The wooden straining posts should
be not more than 7 chains apart; other-
wise the specification is suitable. (2)
Hinged joint.
(1) Where to procure peanut seed in
N.S.W.? (2) Price? (3) Current prices
of peanuts? (4) Are there many growers
in N.S.W.? (5) Localities where peanuts
are grown in N.S.W.? —6702.
(1) and (2) Arthur Yates and Co. will
give you a quotation. (3) 3|d. to sd. per
lb. (4) The market is limited, and growers
are not numerous. (5) Mainly in the
North Coast district.
Would a herb farm be profitable in
Vic., and where could I get information
as to suitable soil, varieties of herbs, cul-
ture and marketing? —6s9B.
For various reasons the growing of
medicinal herbs is not likely to be profit-
able. There is a limited market for fresh
mint in Vic., and a fair amount is grown
near Geelong. Thyme is also grown in
small lots, but there is a very small de-
mand for it. Some time ago there were
some five or six men growing herbs for
sausage-flavoring, but they have now
ceased production, as the synthetic flav-
oring can be produced so cheaply. In
the 1912 Journal of the Vic. Agriculture
Department a series of articles on “Small
Rural Industries” dealt with the produc-
tion of essential oils from lavender, mint,
roses and geraniums; and in the 1920
Journal there was an article entitled “The
Production of Mint for Its Oil.” But
leading pharmacists, seedsmen and botan-
ists have failed to establish herb culture
on a payable basis.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Beady”: In loose black soil staple the
selvage of the underground portion of
rabbit-proof netting to the posts; it never
works up.
“Fencer”: A tip for those not
acquainted with wire tension, when erect-
ing new fencing. Hand strain your wires;
tie them as tight as you can; leave them
for a week, and then do the permanent
job, when the wire will have relaxed to
weather temperature. Unless pressed,
never strain new wire at once. It will
always slack off.
“O’CampbeH”: Always water draft
stock before it eats. Surprising how
few new hands know!
“Outback”: A N.S.W. North Coast
teamster never uses harness dressing. He
has an old boiler big enough to contain a
collar or saddle, and each new piece of
harness goes into this for a couple of days
in neatsfoot oil. All the harness gets
an annual bath, and he works in all
weathers. The boiler is skimmed after
use and kept covered.
“Carben”: Where dingoes are bad in
portions of Monaro it is found to be a
good plan to run a male goat with the
flock. When the dingo starts to rush
the sheep William engages his atten-
tion. In any case he prevents the dog
getting the mob in a corner. The sheep
soon learn that he is worth following.
“Wrash”: A cheap preservative black
paint for fencing-posts or culvert girders
may be made by mixing linseed oil and
powdered charcoal. Tar mixed with yel-
low ochre gives a good serviceable green.
“Rotom”: When a brood mare has
been worked in the plough or team, keep
her foal separate until the mother has
cooled. Scours in the youngster will re-
sult if the mare suckles while heated.
“Tenrag”: An hour or so after piglets
are born, nip off the teeth close to the
gums with a pair of bone forceps. They
have eight sharp-pointed teeth (two on
each side in both upper and lower jaws)
which are apt to bite the sow’s teats,
causing her to refuse to suckle her pigs.
“Bufforp”: Eggs being saved for incu-
bation should be turned daily, even be-
fore they go to the machine. Keep them
in a dry, even-heated place, prefer-
ably for not more than a week. If not
turned, the yolk is inclined to sink to
one side of the shell and become at-
tached.
“Tamornie”: The ancestry of four
giant potatoes grown at Balook, Gipps-
land, this season and weighing 31b. 60z.,
21b. lloz., 21b. 6oz. and lib. 15oz. goes
back to two bags of Up-to-date seed pur-
chased 15 years ago in Melbourne. A
heavy crop was produced from these, but
all except one plant, carrying fourteen
tubers, was attacked by blight. The four-
teen potatoes were planted again, and in
time produced tons. It is claimed that all
the strain is blight-resisting, but experts
say that it needs another blight year like
the season of 1922 to settle the matter.
“C.J.8.”: “Tellem’s” remarks concern-
ing the selection of seed maize (B.
21/6/’33) are, in the main, correct, but
you won’t find cobs sft. above the ground
in varieties such as Wellingrove and
Funk’s Yellow Dent, the stalks in a good
crop of which do not exceed seven or
eight feet. Set the cobs reasonably low
down, between 2ft. 6in. and 3ft. 6in. At
this height they are satisfactorily fertilised,
do not put so much strain on the stalk
in wet weather or heavy winds, and are
handier for the puller—especially in view
of the growing practice of pulling and
husking the cob in the one operation.
The ears need not necessarily hang down
on the plant. On Wellingrove, Fitzroy
and Large Red Hogan cobs usually
remain erect at maturity.
“X”: A recent report by the Common-
wealth C.S.I.R. has upset a lot of fixed
ideas about immunisation of cattle
against redwater, which has always been
associated with tick areas. The report
describes a redwater parasite, A naplasma
marginale, which, though it is widespread
in other tropical and sub-tropical con-
tinents, has never before been described
in Australia. Its discovery here is to be
regarded as significant, since, in America,
it exists outside the tick areas —a fact
which helps to explain some of the
curious anomalies noted in Queens-
land in the results of pre-immunisation
against redwater. Immunisation experi-
ments with four strains show that A.
marginale can produce severe reaction in
inoculated cattle, and subsequent high
resistance to the disease; but the treat-
ment is too severe for general use. The
Council is now in search of a milder
inoculating organism which is found in
association with the local brand of pest
in South Africa and is used there success-
fully.


ś
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes. Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
8001-let Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
b.iS.B, Memourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
Irom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from l 9/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The Worlds Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The World Conference.
What Will Be the Outcome?
Is Depreciation of Currency the
Way Out?
Tariffs, Trade, Exchange and Prices.
The Public Finances.
More About Forestry Bonds.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the July issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
SMOKE-OH!
It seems appropriate somehow that he
should pronounce it Rusevelt.
tf if
Surely bodyline is rotten enough to be
buried by now.
WHAT THE ROMANS MISSED.
“Hullo, everybody! Station BC broad-
casting the big Horatius fight from the
banks of the Tiber. A wonderful sight,
believe me. The Seven Hills are packed,
and you couldn’t find room for a lictor’s
rod in the chariot-parking areas.
“Ah! Here they come! Remember,
folk, all uniforms have been supplied by
Brace Bros., and Horatius is using a
super-chilled sword purchased at Block
and Derbys. Stand by a minute. Lars
Porsena and the Tuscan lads are having
their picture taken for the Bacchus Brew-
eries, Ltd., who supplied them with their
world-famous products during training.
“Horatius looks in the pink, thanks to
Mcßoman’s Yeast Tablets. What a dandy
shield he’s carrying! Brassbounders,
Ltd., certainly turned out a nice piece of
work there.
“Just a minute. Horatius is now tak-
ing up his stand at the bridge, supported
McTaAVISH: “I holed out in one yes-
terday.”
PODGE: “Gratifying, what?”
McTAVISH: “Rather. There wasn’t a
soul in sight.”
on the right by Spurius Lartius, and on
the left by Herminius. The Tuscan lads
are waiting eagerly for the gong. They’re
off!
“Bang! Crash! Oh, listeners, this
is great! Horatius is swinging a great
blade. The Tuscans are falling like nine-
pins. Oo! Larwood wasn’t in it with
this lad. Aunus is down; Seius has gone;
so has Picus! So has Ocnus! Lausulus
is out!
“Here comes the great Lord ot
Luna for his issue. Bang! The Lunatics
will need a new Lord. I’m afraid. Ha!
Ha!
“Stand by a minute, listeners, Hora-
tius is wiping about 14 Tuscans off
his sword. 1 thought so. The supply
of Tuscans has run out, and Horatius
has been declared champion Bridge-
holder of the world. A great lad! He
clipped 2 3-ssec. off the record. Good-
dav, everybody.”
D. McM.
* -v
“For the first time for several months all
the major planets are now visible in the even-
ing sky.”— Melb. “Herald.”
And yet another Star will appear in
November.
.y. >f
“How to chess on 6s. a week.” — “Sun.”
In orGhandi, presumably.
“Mussolini has launched a campaign against
thin women.” — “Argus.”
So he’s interested in bodyline, too!
>f if
“Over 200 commanders in various Chinese
forces have reached the rank of General only
to be retired.”— -“Sun.”
On this showing the Chinese should
have out-generalled the Japanese long
ago.
# *
FOOTSTEPS OF DOOM.
Radi-owe.
Pian-owe-la.
M-owe-tor-car.
Forecl-owe-sure.
HIDDEN HISTORY
Hale Horton, Joan Blondell’s publicity
man, has been writing in an American
magazine of the star’s experiences in
Australia.
“While playing in Sydney she went ‘Boo!' to
the proposals of a passionate rancher. She
was kidnapped and dragged to her unwelcome
suitor’s lair, from which she was rescued by
the sheriff and a battalion of Fords bursting
with deputies. During the rescue two men
were killed.”
It’s right enough, so far as it goes, but
Mr. Horton has left out the sequel.
Ivor Novello, who was in
Sydney as correspondent of
the “Levantine Dago,” hap-
pened to be interviewing Joan
at the time of the outrage.
“You da bada man,” he
snapped at the licentious Aus-
sie rancher. “I giva you da
gooda slap on’v you so beeg.”
So saying he ran bravely away
and told the sheriff.
Ivor not only saw the depu-
ties into Fords and bought
each hero a bag of fruit for
consumption on the long and
perilous trek to the rancher’s
Redfern lair, but went back to
his office and wrote a stinging
article about the Australian
accent. He has never liked
Australians since. D. J.
“The same perfect self-possession enabled
Philip Hargrave last night to recover from an
occasional error without even a monetary loss
of poise.”— “S.M.H.”
Is this what is known as box-office
technique?
* *
PRINTERS’ ERRORS.
Prominent among the merrymakers at
Government House last night was
Alderman R. E. Quintrell, the celebrated
Broken Hill loyalist and King's Man.
“Come back to the Hill as soon as pos-
sible and I’ll fix up a civic reception,”
said the alderman over a deoch an’ doris
in Sir Philip’s private sanctum at the
end of the party.
“The State lottery, ladies and gentle-
men, is' morally indefensible and econo-
micallv rotten. Conceived in infamy, nur-
tured in imbecility, and maintained at
the expense of the boneheaded, it is the
enemy of all that the U.A.P. holds dear.
Regardless of the votes of the degraded
sinners who approve of lotteries, the
Government of which I have the honor
to be a member proposes to wipe this
excrescence out immediately.” Mr.
Weaver at a luncheon tendered to Mr.
Whiddon by the Bigger and Better Lot-
teries League.
“I want you boys of the Inner Group
to put away your expulsion forms
“You haven’t the money for a taxi!
Flow are we to get away?”
“Don’ let that worry you, kid. The
joint’ll be raided any minute now,
and we’ll all be took.”
and tin-hare tips for a moment,” and
Mr. Lang beamed at the select Trades
Hall gathering over which he was pre-
siding, “and join me in a toast to a
couple of friends who are with us to-
night. To my respected brother-in-law
Bill McNamara, coupled with the name
of good old Alby Willis!”
Mimi Limeliter, of the Edgecliff
Younger Set, eminent as an indefatigable
charity-battler in every suburb where the
“Jabber’s” society notes are studied, was
entertaining a bevy of press-girls at a
cocktail party. “My matinee for De-
jected Laundresses comes off on Tues-
day,” she smiled as she handed round
photographs of herself, “and then there
is my concert on behalf of the Water-
side inebriates’ Union on Thursday, and.
of course, I’m selling programmes at the
Horrific on Saturday; but,” and she
shook an arch finger at her attentive
audience, “you really mustn’t put any-
thing I have told you in your papers. I
would be furious if you did. Furious!
Remember, nothing about me in your
society notes. Nothing! Absolutely.
PLEASE!!”
D.
MAXINE.
Maxine was a mannequin,
Who showed folks how to dress:
She wore delightful evening frocks,
And often even less!
if if
“Balmain and North Sydney finished with
nearly half their men injured.”
football seems to be getting almost as
dangerous as Test cricket.
“Tate suggests that instead of Tests, a knock-
out competition should be conducted.”
— ‘‘Herald.”
What else was the last lot of Tests?
“Circus hats are now the rage in London.”
We’re told upon the Woman’s Page
That circus hats are now the rage.
They are —for with blind rage they fill
The clowns who have to foot the bill!
Me.
THE MENAGERIE.
“ ‘They’re nothing but a lot of animals,' said
a man in Court, referring to his family.”
— “Sun.”
The missus is a fair cow, and Bert, me
eldest, is a swine. Jim’s a donkey, and
Egbert a grinning ape, while Albert’s a
gay dog. Sarah’s nothing but a parrot,
but it’s Vera I hate; she’s a snake, with
her hyena-like laugh. Me brother-in-law’s
a skunk, and me mother-in-law’s a dingo.
I call our place Noah’s Nark because
it narks me so.
H. M.
“Thai's 'The Judgment of Paris.’”
“Lumme! Are them flash dames on the
jury?”
Raising money in Australia nowadays
is a matter of pounds, shillings and sus-
pense.
THE CITY ODDSMITH.
“Unhappily, blacksmiths are rare birds
these days.” —Brisbane “Mail.”
Grieve not, dear friends, though gone is
he
Who once beneath a chestnut tree,
With brawny arms and manner bluff,
Struck horseshoes on an anvil tough.
The steeds he likes to strike are “dead”
These days. He hammers odds instead
In a neat city suite, where he
Conducts a lucrative S.-P.
D.M.
SPORT ON THE FARM.
"Old-fashioned competitions, such as corn-
husking and ploughing, are being revived in
country districts.” — “Sun.”
“We’ll get tea over early to-night and
hurry down to the barn for the corn-
shelling competition,” Dad announced
genially as we were finishing the milking.
“These old-time sports are great fun.”
I said 1 wasn't interested, but Dad
gave me to understand that I had to be.
Unsociable people, he explained, were
not required on farms. The prize was
a packet of cigarettes, and Joe Brown's
Pommy won easily.
Then we had a competition to see who
could cut the most seed potatoes ready
for sowing. Again the new hand won.
Next day we raced each other to see
who could sow the most potatoes. The
new hand won once more. I had to rub
his back with embrocation every night
for a week.
Of course, these competitions were not
allowed to interfere with the regular
farm work. Being of a recreational nature
they were held either at night or on
Sundays.
In one season the new hand acquired
a packet of cigarettes, a packing-needle,
a sixpenny pocket-knife and a hoe. His
pride was unbounded. Came a nigh I
when Dad said the barn was full of
wattle bark. What fun to have a bark-
chopping competition! The prize was
a ninepenny necktie. 1 told him I had
a necktie.
And that’s how 1 lost my job.
W.T.
THE LONGED-FOR SIGN.
Figures that the hopeful table, cheering
yarns that come by cable
Facie before the one and only econo-
mic truth / know:
That the world will not be stable and
prosperity no fable
Till our street again starts dealing with
its old-time hottle-oh.
M.


n
'in
hi
Mill
«mi i //a imm * l
in ,-n i 111
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
(NORTH QUEENSLAND)
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT
MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND, BARRON FALLS
AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Boole your Passage by CANBERRA, ORUNGAL, MANUNDA, KATOOMBA.
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE warm
NORTH
s
ś
Full particulars and pamphlets from Howard, Smith, Ltd., Adelaide S. Co., Ltd., Mcllwraih, McEacharn, Ltd., A.U.S.N., Ltd., at all Ports.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Bookmakers had a wonderful day at
Rosehill. Every favorite was downed
and the victory of Port Said in the Flying
Handicap was a clean sheet for McShort-
odds. Having his first run for some
months, Port Said, who carries the colors
of a southern districts sportsman, J. S.
Taylor, looked a long way below racing
condition. However, he was ridden a
nice race by R. C. Stanton’s apprentice
K. O’Bryan, a brother of Tommy
O’Bryan, and worried the favorite Dunerc
out of the big end of the prize. The
Menangle-trained La Vixen was third,
and N.E.F. fourth.
Polyeletan’s half-sister Akuna is prov-
ing a goldmine for pastoralist J. J. Leahy
and trainer M. Webster. Akuna was
never in danger of defeat in the Rose-
hill Handicap, leading throughout to win
easily from Bill Wedgewood, who is
trained on a farm at Maldon, near
Picton. This made Akuna’s third win
in succession; yet fours could be got.
Somebody thought that Peter Pan’s
stable-mate Lightning March was some-
Bert "Are you -taking, thw animal
WITH YOU, GER.T ?"
Gert \*y iaa, he's mv ts?a,vellimc;
"
SERT'/'Wwy pick, a, doc, like thw
QERT: Becm&e he pits so N>eei_v
UMOEft MV SUNK.''
thing to bet on. From fours, the little
chestnut was supported to 2 to 1. He
gave an inglorious display.
T. P. Kelly, of Harden, sprang a
surprise in the Carlingford Mile with the
big Mountain King gelding Mountain
View, who was a good winner when
trained at Rosehill by W. A. Ross.
Mountain View is now trained at War-
wick Farm. After a few small wagers
had been laid at eights, he closed at
twelves, most backers going for Rosendo,
the Queenslander Polly Speck and Wick-
low. At barrier rise one bookmaker laid
£5OO to £5O about Mountain View and
another £6O to £5. Mountain View
immediately went to the front and won
by four lengths from Rosendo, with
Polly Speck a fair third.
Western districts performer Penny-
hunter is one of the most consistent can-
didates racing. He was allowed to go
out at eights— tens had been laid —for
the first division of the Rosehill Novice.
Pennyhunter scored easily from Gayhawk
and the Windbag gelding Bombastic. The
second division provided a good finish
between Port Said’s stablemate Pyongi
and the Canter bury-trained Knotash.
They could not be separated by the judge.
For Moorefield on Saturday:
Kogarah Stakes: Barrierform; next,
Mineola.
Flying Handicap: Dunerc; next. Mul-
tudo.
Moorefield Handicap: Balgay; next,
Wallace Mimi.
Hurstville Mile: Trenette; next, Moun-
tain View.
* * * *
Though rising 12 years old, Moss-
trooper is far from having outlived his
usefulness. In the past five or six weeks
he has credited Gus Powell with £790
in stakes from one first, two seconds and
a third, the third being in the G.N.
Steeplechase. First money in the God-
frey Wilson Steeplechase at Caulfield
last Saturday was £4OO, and this brought
the total earnings of Mosstrooper to over
£14,300. No jumper in Australian turf
history ever won so much. He Las com-
peted in the G.N. Steeple five times, for
a second, a win and two thirds; in itself
a unique achievement. Mosstrooper also
made history by landing the Australian
Hurdle-Steeple double in 1929 and fol-
lowed that up next season by carrying off
the treble—G.N.Hurdle, G.N. Steeple and
Australian Steeple.
At the beginning of this winter it
looked as if Powell were pursuing a for-
lorn hope in keeping Mosstrooper in
training, but the old gelding appears to
have taken a new lease of life, and an-
other Australian Steeple may be within
his powers of achievement. There were
only six runners in the Godfrey Watson
Steeple, and 7 to 4 was accepted about
Mosstrooper’s chance. Bob lnkson, the
champion crosscountry horseman, had
his first ride on Powell’s prad. and they
got along together splendidly. In spectacu-
lar fashion Mosstrooper outjumped the
leaders at the second-last fence, and came
on to score by a substantial margin from
“S. A. Rawdon’s” representative Sarocto,
who was in a generous galloping mood for
once.
Mosstrooper conceded Sarocto ex-
actly 3st. In the Australian Steeple on
August 12 he comes down to list. 111 b.,
and will be in receipt of 161 b. from the
G.N. Steeple hero Redditch. The ex-
pressed intention of F. W. Hoysted is to
start Redditch in the Australian Steeple
(12st. 131 b.) in preference to the Aus-
tralian Hurdle (12st. 31b.), but he is not
displaying haste in scratching the horse
for the first leg.
Belar was withdrawn from the Leam-
ington Hurdle because of his invariable
pilot. R. Mclnnes having contracted in-
fluenza. Caulfield patrons thus were de-
prived of witnessing a further test be-
tween the G.N. Hurdler winner and
Zygon. who put up a time record in the
Doutta Galla Hurdle after missing a
place in the big event. Honors probably
would have gone to Belar, for Zygon
could not do better than finish third,
though shoved along with all the energy
that Don Wraight could muster. H. R.
Telford, of Phar Lap fame, trains the
winner Poidale, who belongs to P. G.
Hay. Poidale, like Belar, is a son of
Poitrel, and will be very hard to beat in
the Australian Hurdle. Dark Dawn, the
runner-up, is in the same stable as Red-
ditch. being owned by A. S. Chirnside.
Andrew Chirnside has found it very
difficult to win races since Blackadder
credited him with the A.J.C. Epsom Han-
dicap of 1924. He must regret having
disposed of Whitsome recently, for this
Rossendale mare has captured three events
for the new owner, W. Burke, with good
odds obtainable on each occasion. Sea
Rover was a warm favorite for the Mur-
rumbeena Handicap. Whitsome (8 to
1) shot past the pacemakers at the
home turn and came on to score by a
neck from the fast-finishing Ormolu.
Heroic Prince was third. He appears to
have more stamina than the majority of
the Heroic tribe. Sea Rover ran last.
Sad was the lot of Caulfield punters.
Only one out of eight first favorites
proved successful. The concluding event
went to Tadema. who paid close on 100
to 1 on the tote, although ringmen would
not lay more than 25 to 1. This Spear-
head filly is trained by a son of R. Brad-
field, who has prepared so many Cup
winners. McShortodds had a royal time.
The brethren who have gone out of busi-
ness of late must be chagrined that they
did not hold on a little longer.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Because Penchiff wrestled while Brown-
ing brawled at Leichhardt on Saturday
night, Penchiff won their mat-war on
points. The well-built Bulgarian often
slammed Browning heartily, but a Boston
crab made the Maorilander’s lighter-look-
ing foe yield a fall in the fifth. A short-
arm scissors evened the score. Browning
had done practically all the biting, kick-
ing, kneeing and punching, but these
pleasantries did not avail when the re-
feree had to give a decision.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s chief match on Saturday,
between South Melbourne and Carlton,
provided a good game and a surprise.
Having better pace and a superior ruck.
South set the Blues a problem from the
bounce. Bissett and Reville, with rover
Brain, completely controlled the close
play and, though Davey, Kelly and Val-
lence strove to equalise scores with long,
accurate kicks and good marking, they
were outplayed. It was South’s day out
and the Red-and-Whites won handily with
103 points to Carlton’s 60, Pratt booting 11
goals for the winners. Down at the Pivot
Geelong ran all over Colli ngwood,
ending with 96 points to ’Wood’s 61.
Richmond had a day out at Melbourne’s
expense, scoring 135 points to 85; and
Fitzroy held its place by notching 118
to North Melbourne’s 75. St. Kilda beat
Hawthorn by 63 to 51. and Footscray
managed to squeeze into the Four once
more by downing Essendon with 103
points to 91. With but six more rounds
to play the fight for the fourth place gets
fiercer. ’Scray has eight wins, ’Roy seven
and a half, and ’Wood and South seven
each.
* * * *
The Wallabies completed the first half
of their programme on Saturday by
winning from the Orange Free State at
Bloemfontein by 9-8, scoring three tries
to a converted try and a penalty. As
O.F.S. is a strong side, and the visitors
played only 14 men in the second half,
the win is a creditable one.
* * * *
Rugby Union games in Sydney on
Saturday provided no surprises, though
Manly was fortunate to maintain the
top-line position on the Shute Shield
table it shares with Western Suburbs.
Rand wick forced the Village to an 8-8
draw, each side scoring a converted try
and a penalty.
* * * *
The Rugby League grade games were
responsible for several turn-ups. At the
Sports Ground, an excellent wet-weather
arena, University scored 42 to 8 by St.
George. This is the Uni. League side’s
best performance for years, and both
backs and forwards showed excellent
combination, though the opposition, on
the day, was in the kindergarten class.
South, though still leading in the com-
petition, was downed by the very weak
Northern Suburbs team 16-12. Newtown,
after winning most of the way, suc-
cumbed to Eastern Suburbs by 16 to 12.
Balmain also achieved merit by taking
its match with Western Suburbs by 22
to 17.
(Continued on page 38.)
Racquet and Ball
Australia was passed out of the Davis
Cup by England at Wimbledon, tne
home team winning by three matches to
two. Crawford won the first singles,
beating Austin without difficulty, but
McGrath, who is now showing every
evidence of staleness, went under to
Austin and Perry in straight sets. Turn-
bull and Quist were overcome in the
doubles (four sets) by Perry and Hughes.
Lee was then thrown to the lions, and
though Crawford was not all out, made
a good showing, the sets going 8-6, 7-5,
6-4 in favor of the champion.
(Continued on page 38.)


r
<=r
M
/
m
JO 470
„ Wh&vhil
Siakty
To KNOW when you START on a shooting
trip that you will come back with a “ good
bag,” provided birds are about, is a big source
of satisfaction.
The keen shooter with a good gun who uses
ELEYs KYNOCH
ym-British CARTRIDGES
DOES know this because Eley and Kynoch cut
out the chance of lost birds, killing cleanly
and being absolutely reliable under all
conditions.
Perfect ignition, high velocity,
wonderful pattern and pene-
tration.—and long range—can
always be relied upon.
351 a.
NOBED
o
sk
ft
j *
I
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
Th e ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin ’ publication. Every Friday—2d.
EVERT I RE
FULLY AUTOMATIC
ELECTRIC LIGHTING
PLANT
Simplicity itself! Five or six lights are supplied by the
battery alone. As soon as an extra load is applied, either
by switching on more lights, an iron or fan, or the
refrigerator, the engine starts up automatically and
provides ample current. It stops automatically as soon
as load is off. Automatic safety devices make failure
impossible.
NEVEATtR
FULL
AuTonATi;
LlOrtTlWo
f^VERTIOE
BATTtfJ
-O— — ’
0
Gives you ALL the advantages of
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING
plus automatic Electric REFRIGERA-
TION for your home.
Plants from
£9B/10/-
DAN GAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
28%
Of Deposits Held by
One Bank
The December, 1932, quarterly Banking averages
show that the Bank of New South Wales deposits
in Australia amounted to £76,965,023 out of a total
0f£274,639,702 held by principal Australian trading
banks.
Thus 28% of the people’s money deposited with
the trading banks is entrusted to the Bank of New
South Wales, the oldest bank in Australia and
the largest in the Southern Hemisphere.
These deposits have enabled the Bank to finance
primary production, stimulate secondary industry,
and to provide the credits essential to Australia's
oversea trade.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and the Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
Over 700 Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific
Islands and London.
RAW THE POINTS
t/l£ C
OMPASS TOGETHER
SYDNEY..
AMERICA...
Ont/ie. />urife-&L47I&UA-.
MARIPOSA Z
ENGLAND
MONTEREY
THK world is yours, to see and to enjoy! These splendid new
ships, already famous, pierce the romantic centre of the South
Seas, arrive at California in 18 days, and establish the American
route as the shortest between the Antipodes and England!
America is at her brilliant best right now! A continent of infinite
appeal which rewards the traveller with a life-time of incompar-
able memories! And, as a glamorous aperitif for her display of
modern miracles.. .Auckland ... Suva ... Pago Pago ... Honolulu,
NEXT
Sailings to
AMERICA
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa,Hawaii
"MONTEREY"
From Sydney
JULY 26
From Melbourne
JULY 22
FARES to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY.
FIRST CLASS, from £125/10/. cabin class, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MF.LB.
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/. cabin class, from £9l
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
FARES to ENGLAND
From Sydney
first class ( Single) from £lOl Return: £lB5/18/.
cabin ci.ass (Single) from £ll/9/. Return: £l4l/10/.
From Melbourne
FIRST CLASS (Single) from £lO2 1.3 . Return: £lB9/2/.
cabin class (Single)from £79/2/. Return: £144/16/.
THESE FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji £35/0/
paco pago, Samoa . £33/5/. 65/0/. £24/5/. £47/10/.
Honolulu, llaivaii . . . 75/0/. ... 55/ 0/.
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE
To FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji
paco paco, Samoa . £35/5/. 69/0/. £26/5/. £5l/10/.
Honolulu, Hatvaii . . . 79/0/. . . . 59/ 0/.
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
May we send you interesting factual literature?
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
7M-2A
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . PHONE 87981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE 341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street
BRISBANE . . . 291 Elizabeth Street
ADELAIDE .... 54 Currie Street
PERTH ..... 15 William Street


6»
4
4
*
&
»
ŝ
t or 44 buts,’
— '' 4 ands
• te v v ithout ’ . ut through, or
Spacing S" ara ' ’ FUtc ball that ' s leg of play.
“ for any '
hecomes >ul l' -
1.
v
PROFt
ANO
cpoRTS
stores
Footbrawl
A move interesting to the Australian
football world was made last week when
the N.S.W. Rugby League and the V.F.L.
revived a proposal to amalgamate the
two codes. In union they see tremen-
dously enhanced gates, but it is unlikely
to come about. The rules of both
games are so diametrically opposed that
the evolution of a common code with-
out sacrificing the essentials of one or
other of them is out of the question.
There are other hurdles. In the case
of the Rugby League, a merger would
mean the cancellation of the matches
with the English Northern Union, which
are the principal source of profit to
both bodies. In Victoria, the leading A.R.
State, the League has a rival in
the older Association. Australia gets
along very well with four recognised
codes of football, and there seems room
for all of them.
* * * *
"Hotham”: The usual growl is going
up in Melbourne football circles
because the League has chosen two
players from each club for the inter-
state team to figure at the Australian
carnival in Sydney next month, instead
of selecting the best,players from the
senior clubs. By all accounts, the people
running things at the Sydney end arc
not pleased, either; they would have
preferred to have seen the pick of the
League in action. Placating clubs is all
very well, but the present system has
aroused criticism more than once from
other States, particularly South Australia.
* * * *
“Methuselah”: The receipt of a re-
quest from Stanford Uni. that a
team be invited to visit Australia next
season recalls the visit of an American
University team in the spacious days of
1912, while an Australian side, the
original Waratahs, toured the Pacific
coast the same year. Rugby was then
well entrenched in the Western Univer-
sities, but was eventually dropped
because of the difficulty of getting
matches with colleges further east. The
request goes on to say that the game
is again flourishing in California, Stan-
ford having the old All Black J. T.
Wylie for a coach. Expenses for 22
players and officials are asked for, but
the heavy cost may prove an obstacle.
* * * *
“J.D.H.”: The Rugby Union con-
tinues to gain ground in Melbourne.
Most of the Victorian G.P.S. headmasters
have promised the V.R.U. to give facili-
ties to their boys to play Rugby Union
as soon as the necessary grounds can be
secured. In May a move was made to
form a Rugby Union supporters’ club,
and a remarkable response followed,
nearly a thousand subscribing to the
funds of the new body. It is growing
rapidly, and has the benefit of some
shrewd organisation by people who
know their job. Both the League and
the Association are doing everything in
their power to block the growth of
Rugby, and enclosed grounds are hard
to get. But the people running the game
in Victoria are a determined lot.
The Nineteenth Hole
Queensland’s championship golf tour-
ney ended last week with the tussle for
the amateur title. The final went to
Victorian Ivo Whitton, who must have
a sneaking kindness for Bananaland
courses, sincq he won this same event
in 1931, and the open in 1928. The four-
somes was taken by Radcliffe and Francis,
both local products. Radcliffe had pre-
viously won the open and had reached
the semi-finals of the amateur, so he had
a good week.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Mosman (N.S.W.)
golf club has troubles of its own, many
parts of its course standing on edge.
while at some of the holes Sydney
Harbor yawns for over-pitched balls. But
an added curse has come in the shape
of rabbits. These have sunk shafts all
over the course, and when a ball is
looked for in one of them a snake is
sometimes found mounting guard over it.
Snakes are out of place on golf links,
whatever they may have been in other
Edens save, perhaps, at the nineteenth
hole on occasion. Furthermore, when-
ever a divot is cut and replaced, the
rabbits hurry to the spot and feverishly
dig it out again. Inventors of an effec-
tual combined rabbit-and-snake exter-
minator will be eagerly welcomed at
Mosman.
* * * *
"Brassey”: The golf-ball stealing in-
dustry continues to flourish in the
vicinity of most Australian courses. Last
week a lad was “bound over” at Heidel-
berg (Vic.) for pinching 15 balls; the
course professional saw him wandering
about the links and gave him in charge.
He said he had found the balls
in the Yarra, and had taken them to the
links to sell. This confession is the crux
of the whole trouble. So long as players
are content to buy balls ridiculously
cheap from any nondescript who may
offer them, so long will thieving con-
tinue.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The golf championship
among Adelaide doctors for the Swift
“My game’s improving, I fancy; can you see any difference?”
“Well, yer’ve ’ad yer ’air cut.”
Cup brought out an immense field,
there being a handicap event for the
Wilson Trophy decided along with it.
Nott and R. L. Verco, each 80, tied for
the cup. Next day was the lawyers’
turn. Haslam tied with Bednall, each
being four down on bogey.
* t- * *
“Commonwealth”: Victoria's country
golf championship drew a bigger entry
than ever this year, the winner turning
up in J. P. McCarthy, a left-hander and
member of many victorious Ballarat
teams. He won from A. J. Lucas, of
Flinders, by two strokes, his card read-
ing 81-85-166. McCarthy has been there
when the whips were cracking in many
of the country tourneys, and last year
tied for third place with W. R. Arm-
strong.
Car and Cycle
“ ’Chaser”: Few people realise how
well a motor vehicle going at a fair
speed can jump. A shire official in
N.S.W. was speeding along on a motor-
truck when he was unexpectedly con-
fronted with a 20ft. water channel.
There was no time to stop, so he “threw
his heart over,” as the hunting men say,
and followed with the truck. The leap
was 45ft., the truck landing 25ft. on
the other side of the channel without
mishap. At the Military Show in Lon-
don signallers and cavalrymen gave a
joint performance over the jumps, the
motor-cycles ridden by the flag-waggers
holding their own over the stiffest sticks
with the horses.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The annual 24 hours’ re-
liability trial of the Australian Light Car
Club, which comes off over a Victorian
circuit on July 29 and 30, has drawn a
record entry. The cars have been drafted
into four classes. The perambulators
are in A, under 900 c.c. From 900 to
1400 c.c. are B class, from 1400 to
2000 c.c. C class, and cars over 2000 c.c.
go into D. On this occasion more, points
will be awarded towards the 1933-34
light-car championship than on any pre-
vious occasion, and intending entrants
are asked to get in early. J. W. Condon,
of the L. C. Club, Melbourne, will supply
particulars.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Sydney motor-cyclist
Art Senior made a mess of a lot of
State and Australian motor records re-
cently on his 2|h.p. A.J.S. machine. Not
only did he better figures in the 350-c.c.
class; he broke some of the 1000-c.c.
quarter-mile records which have been on
the books for a couple of years. His
total at the end of the attempt was nine
N.S.W. and eight Australian records.
The outstanding performance was the
standing-start quarter-mile for 350-c.c.
machines. His mean time was 14.955ec.,
which broke the Australian best over this
distance for 500-c.c., 750-c.c. and 1000-
c.c. cycles.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Stanley Woods and
Tim Hunt, heroes of the recent Isle of
Man T.T. meeting, were again conspic-
uous in the * Dutch motor-cycle T.T.
events. Woods winning the junior over
172 miles, at an average speed of 81.14
m.p.h., with Hunt in second place.
Woods scored again in the senior, his
average being 84.2 m.p.h. Last year
Woods won the junior and Hunt the
senior, and this go makes the third year
in succession the Norton cycles have
taken this double.
Racquet and Bawl
“See, Now”: Not since the Gold
Cup disappeared from the Royal Enclo-
sure at Ascot has there been such wild
surmise as exists in N.S.W. tennis circles
over the whereabouts of the State
women’s championship cup. It was con-
fessed at a meeting the other night that
the mug had not been seen since 1927.
and that all attempts to trace it had
proved futile. The situation is interest-
ing in many ways, not the least of them
the manner in which the matter has been
kept dark all these years, though the cup
is played for annually. Perhaps those
male wretches who insist that women
cannot keep secrets will now have the
decency to revise their opinions.
* * * *
"Bournemouth”: Jack Crawford will
not bring the All-England championship
cup back with him to Australia, it being
the custom of the Wimbledon club to
keep that trophy under its own eye, who-
ever wins it. He will have something to
show in the shape of a trophy presented
to champions from funds provided by the
family of the famous Renshaw brothers,
W. and E., who were the unchallenged
kings of the tennis world throughout
the ’eighties. W. Renshaw won the
championship seven times, the first six
in succession, and with his brother took
the doubles many times.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: In winning the All-Eng-
land tennis singles for the sixth time,
Helen Wills-Moody has equalled Suzanne
Lenglen’s record, but has one more to
go to tie with the English champion of
the pre-war days, Mrs. Lambert-Cham-
bers, who, as Kitty Douglas and as a
matron, has seven wins to her credit.
However, Helen can boast a fair bag. In
addition to the Wimbledon event, she
has eight United States and four French
titles, half a dozen more than Suzanne
Leglen picked up in her palmy days as
an amateur. Worth noting, too, that
Helen was outed at her first Wimbledon
attempt, Mrs. Godfree, otherwise Kitty
McKane, beating her in 1924, the only
time she has ever lost in this event.
Miscellaneous
"Brain Wave”: Now that it seems pro-
bable—as it is desirable —that no cricket
team from Australia should go to Eng-
land this season, I venture to suggest, as
a substitute, a series of matches at one
or other of several old-English games
now unfortunately forgotten. There is
interest in sports with names like Buzz
and Bandy or Kirk the Gusser, to say
nothing of Trunket and Burly Wash. If
the rules have been forgotten, I’ve no
doubt our Board of Control could sug-
gest some new ones'. I would have
suggested Hammer the Lot, but it has a
Larwoodian flavor.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Though it doesn’t advertise
much, hockey is making steady strides
in Australia. August will see every State
represented at Brisbane, while an inter-
University series will also be contested
at that time. A Queensland junior side
playing in Sydney last week is evidence
enough of the game’s steady spread.
Youths from as far north as Innisfail
were brought down to strengthen the
Queensland side. A year or so ago the
sight of a hockey-player in N.Q. would
have aroused as much derision as the
pioneers of golf used to do there 40 years
gone.
* * * *
“Stamford Bridge”: The British ath-
letic championships provided something
of a feast for foreign competitors,
Britons winning only five of the 14 events.
Britain won the 100, 440, 880 and mile
on the flat, while holder Finlay took the
120 hurdles in 15sec., a good run.
Another was G. T. Saunders’s 100 in
9 l-10sec., a record for the event. Leh-
tinen, the Finn, who has succeeded to
Nurmi’s mantle, made a new British
record in the three miles —14min. 9
l-ssec. Athletes from Poland, Italy,
Hungary and Prussia divided the remain-
ing events. The home team was hardly
at full strength, the Oxford and Cam-
bridge cracks being in America, where
they were narrowly beaten by Yale-
Harvard. Each team nicked six firsts,
but the Yanks had nine seconds to three.


The Truth
About Catarrh
Remedies Galore
You have, uo doubt, tried dozens ’of
remedies, but you are still looking for the
one that will give you happy relief. The
one remedy you have not tried is waiting
for you—a preparation eontaining vola-
tile oils known as Catarrh-Clysmnc. This
new volatile oil treatment has proved a
boon to thousands of sufferers through-
out Australia. They have fouud its value
for chronic cold in the head as well as
for Catarrh in its more serious stages.
It has been so thoroughly tested and
proved so consistently true that the
money paid for the first package will be
refunded if it does not do what is
claimed. Catarrh-Clysmac can be bought
from any chemist for 1/9 or nearly three
times the quantity for 4/6.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
w
n
yH
und
m
m.
i*ion
to
Sunny Pacific Islands
"Where Winter Never Comes.”
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
by the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at most economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 Wi liam Street, Melbourne
hd UNION
p & o
š
ſ
DATES OF SAILINGS
ARE SUBJECT TO
SLIGHT ALTERATIONS
FARES, WHICH ARE
FREE OF EXCHANGE.
WILL BE QUOTED ON
APPLICATION.
PLEASURE CRUISES
BY ROYAL MAIL LINERS
The following Cruises are contemplated:—
TO NOUMEA
By R.M.S. "STRATHNAVER"
Leaving Sydney 18th November, 1933,
via Brisbane, returning by way of Norfolk
and/or Lord Howe Islands.
TO TASMANIA
By R.M.S. "STRATHAIRD"
Leaving Sydney 21st December, 1933,
via Melbourne, and return to Sydney.
TO NOUMEA
By R.M.S. "MONGOLIA"
Leaving Sydney 13th January, 1934,
via Brisbane, returning by way of Norfolk
and/or Lord Howe Islands.
TO NOUMEA
By R.M.S. "STRATHNAVER"
Leaving Sydney I Oth March, 1934, via
Brisbane.
TO TASMANIA
By R.M.S. "NARKUNDA"
Leaving Sydney 29th March, 1934 (day
before Good Friday), via Melbourne and
return to Sydney.
TO FIJI
By R.M.S. "STRATHAIRD"
Leaving Sydney 7th April, 1934, via
Brisbane.
TO NEW HEBRIDES
By R.M.S. "MALOJA"
Leaving Sydney 19th May, 1934, via
Brisbane.
TO PORT MORESBY
By R.M.S. "MOOLTAN"
Leaving Sydney 16th June, 1934, via
Brisbane.
ß
$
The Other Fellow’s Mind.
“M.G.”: A man has arrived in Mel-
bourne with an invention for plucking
poultry—loo birds at a time. The device
will doubtless be popular, except with
unfortunates who now get their living
by tearing the feathers from the chooks.
* * * *
"Copelen”: Farmers who have been
half-lured towards the ragged banner of
Freetrade might note that production of
rice in Australia has this year reached
35,000 tons. Ten years ago there was
no rice grown in the Commonwealth
except a few experimental plots, and
there would be none grown to-day but
for the protective duty.
*** # *
Coaldust”: Newcastle’s coal-loading
facilities are much behind those avail-
able at other coal-exporting ports. There
has been no attempt to keep abreast of
modern requirements since seven electri-
cally-operated cranes were erected on the
western side of The Basin about 15 years
ago. When things are slack you get
fairly rapid loading; 3000 tons were
shipped in eight hours into the Anglo
Peruvian. But Durban’s coaling plant
is capable of 600 tons per hour.
* * * *
“Shareholder”: “Trader” (B. 5/7/’33)
is right; Australian-made kitchenware is
dearer than it should be, and it’s “not
the manufacturer’s fault.” “Trader”
mentions the handicaps of short hours
and award wages. What about taxes?
A concern in which I have a modest
interest paid in wages last year £13,360,
in taxes £4822, in dividends £1531. In
short, our benevolent Federal and State
Governments got over three times as
much as those who are risking their
money,
* * * *
Western”: Years ago Perth fishshops
sold sea salmon at 6d. each. To-day
the label is “cod,” and the steaks bring 9d.
a pound. The ugly, tarry leather-jacket
is skinned of its rough coat and dis-
played as “silver flounder” at Is. a
pound. The fierce, gory-looking sting-
ray is nicely sliced and filleted, and adds
brightness to the fishmonger’s marble
under the title of sea-flounder or skate
at 9d.- a pound. It only wants a fancy
name and a pretty dressing to have the
octopus included in our menu.
* * * *
M. P. Dunlop: “Tweed River” (B
5/7/ 33), referring to a meeting of the
.Sydney Housewives’ Progressive Associa-
tion at which stabilisation of the price
of butter was denounced, asks, “Where
was the P.P.U. when it lets a meeting
like this pass without speaking up for
the farmer?” The union (of which I am
president) had already spoken up for the
1 armer, and with effect. With represen-
tatives of kindred organisations in other
States, its executive officers presented the
case for stabilisation to the conference
of Ministers of Agriculture; and legis
lation along the lines suggested is now
in preparation.
* * t- *
“Friar Tuck”: It’s all very well to
give Queensland railwaymen the 44-hour
week—and few object to enginemen get-
ting it —but consider soifie of the results.
Many stations on the North Coast line
are to be closed part of Mondays. At
one there will be no one on duty from
10.30 a.m. till 4 p.m.; this station is
also the district post office and has the
only telephone. Another is to be closed
from 11.30 till 2, and from 3 till 4. Yards
are locked, and if anyone gets in and
takes delivery of his own goods he is to
be prosecuted. Yet the by-laws say goods
stations are open for business from
8 a.m. till 5 p.m. And the stations are
still plastered with bills: “Use the Rail-
ways: You Own Them.”
* * * *
“E.V.”: The proposal to make Coota-
mundra the terminus of the air-mail
service from overseas is senseless. Hud-
son Fysh, of Qantas, who should know,
says the country round about “is not
generally favored by pilots.” If the
choice has been made to avoid inter-
city jealousies, what’s wrong with Can-
berra? No national air-mail terminus
exists anywhere else except in the en-
virons of a big city. A.N.A. and New
England liners- passing over Sydney
every morning have done more to breed
aerial confidence in the public mind than
any other medium; and the weekly
arrival to schedule of ships of the type
of the Astraea will not only help to
make citizens more air-minded, but will
inspire thousands of youngsters with an
ambition to become international pilots
And we may need thousands of inter-
national pilots.


BACON & CO. LTD.
PHOTO-ENGRAVERS, ARTISTS.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ SLIDE-MAKERS.
31a Pitt Street, Sydney. 83368
AY*
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTED
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park vet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O.* Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Punch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
- Manager: E. FlYEDMA .V.
WOODS'
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
Sold in 3 Sizes:
1/3, 2/1, 3/5
yfctMßiiV
jw*X
OfStiiiwM
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Poor Literature, the Cinderella of the
Arts in Australia, has been completely
overlooked in the City of Sydney Eistedd-
fod. There’s not even a guinea wasted
on the young poet or story-writer. In
the elocution section there are few Aus-
tralian-grown test pieces. Australians
have not yet wakened up to the fact that
its literature is a country’s backbone.
When a rich man wants to make a
bequest he invariably leaves art, music
or science scholarships; this Letter does
not know of one big money endowment
for the novelist, playwright or poet.
Anyway, the cups lor this City of Syd-
ney Eisteddfod are alarming in their
grandeur. There’s a gold cup nearly as
tall as a man, with Muses playing the
harp for side-pieces and other allegorical
figures disporting about its base. That’s
for the winning choir of male voices.
Two heavyweight silver urns also flash
back the light dazzlingly in Paling’s
window. Fortunately, these, too, are to
be won by choirs, not by individuals.
They'd be too terribly conclusive in a
family row.
The Theatre Roy al was gay and bust-
ling for the matinee in aid of the limb-
less soldiers. This Letter liked the Dolly
Varden sweets-and-programme sellers
who warmed up the atmosphere for the
Cries of Old London, which Hilda Mul-
ligan in appropriate raiment gave effec-
tively. Both brands of vice-regals were
seen; Sir Philip and his lady brought
small daughter Rosemary. Lady Isaacs
was in handsome black, and Lady Game
in caramel-brown tailorings. Each re-
ceived a posy of greeting at the hands
of secretaries Jane McDonald and Jean
Coburn.
The programme positively blazed with
stars, and eager applauders were the 50
Digger guests from Randwick and Gray-
thwaite. When they joined in the chorus
of Ada Reeve’s song, “Just a Little Street,”
well, even the youngest Dolly Varden
saw the stage through a sudden mist.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Mrs. M. Mcll-
rath each paid 20 guineas for a box;
Josephine Marks captained the pedlars of
sweets and flowers and programmes;
J.C.W.’s Charlie Westmacott proved to
be of the stuff that won him the C.8.E..
and the organiser of the whole smooth-
running success was A. E. Linney. Miss
N. Holloway, Mrs. Cecil Hordern and
Mrs. H. Samuel were others of the many
active helpers.
Artist Kenneth Macqueen and his wife
(she was Olive Crane, whose brush and
pencil coquetted with commercial and
legitimate art before matrimony claimed
her) spent six weeks at Dee Why last
summer, and the result will be on view
at the Grosvenor Galleries to-day from
three o’clock onwards. In the six weeks
Ken made 30 sketches, and now they
laugh and glow and meditate in blowing
cloud and wanton surf, in trees nun-like
in their calm, in massy cliff and head-
land, and altogether form a happy heart-
lifting show of water-colors. When Ken
is not painting he helps his brother run
a large-size dairy farm up Toowoomba
way.
Flower muffs are becoming the favo-
rite hand decoration for bridesmaids.
They appeared woven of deep pink hya-
cinths and forget-me-nots at the wedding
of Jessie Vicars to Felix Lehane. Jessie
is a daughter of the Robert Vicars
couple, of Yallambee. Cheltenham, and
they, of course, are of the firm whose
woollies help to keep Australia from get-
ting cold feet. The bridegroom came
from the south to claim his bride. He’s
the only son of the J. A. Lehanes, of
Brighton (Vic.).
The vows were blessed by Padre A.
M. Ogilvie in the Scotchbyterian kirk at
Beecroft, and here lilies, pink carnations
and hyacinths spilled from tall pedestal
baskets and decked the pews. A coronet
of real orange blossom topped the cas-
cade of white tulle veil which billowed
mist-like about the supple ivory Velvet
wedding frock, notable for its sweeping
square-cut train. Bride’s sisters, Kath-
leen and Margaret, ’maided in shell-pink
pleated velvet frocks, their heads
wreathed in pink flowers. The flowers
in the reception rooms at the Vicars’
home were worthy a lyric; here were
massed blue of delphinium and lupin,
the gold of rose and autumn foliage. The
marquee on the lawn was like some pavi-
lion of flora with its flower-decked poles
and panels.
T. W. Beckett, the tall organist of St.
Andrew's, who is so clever a dodger of
the limelight that scarcely anyone out-
side Cathedral-choir circles knows that
he is a Fellow of the Royal College of
Organists, is back in Sydney after nearly
12 months in England and Europe. One
of the joys of his holiday was linking
up with Goss-Custard (pronounced Cus-
tarr, and not merely like the top of the
rice-pudding), the man whose intimate
knowledge of the literature for the organ
gives him international fame. The two
were students together, and with the
stimulation of his early associations still
on him Mr. Beckett made a speech that
proved a most absorbing lecture to his
pupils after the dinner party they held in
his honor last week. Padre L. N. Sutton,
until recently the precentor at St. An-
drew’s and now chaplain at The King’s
School, was the toastmaster, and the
organiser of the dinner was Frederick
Robson, organist of St. Clement's
Church, Marrickville. The mellow old
instrument he plays was the first organ
installed at St. Andrew’s.
Returned to Sydney by the Mooltan,
Mrs. M. Spring, one of Australia’s most
widely-known arts and crafts workers.
Mrs. Spring has lived in England for II
years, and her work is prized in London,
where she has exhibited at all the prin-
cipal shows. The provinces and Scot-
land, too, know her Australian designs
and her beautifully worked Australian
leather, for Mrs. Spring has during the
years of her absence had all the leather
she used sent from here to London. She
won the open prize at the Royal Amateur
Arts Show, and both the Queen and the
Princess Royal have bought bags and
other clever specimens of her work. Her
bags are truly marvellous; a girl, who
has seen them, declares it is possible to
pack a week-end’s requirements in one
of them.
If you take the lift up to the
Mayoress’s rooms in the Town Hall you
will step out on a landing impressively-
presided over by the portraits of former
Mayors Matthew Harris and R. D.
Meagher; and then you turn to the right
and go through the council chamber,
with its fine woodwork; and so on to
the reception-room, with its damask cur-
tains and its gifts from still another dead
and gone civic father, Sidney Burdekin.
Perhaps because the afternoon was grey
and there were so many empty chairs
the room last' Friday seemed charged
with the presence of these former hosts
and hostesses .of the city. The occasion
was a musicale to benefit the Infants’
Home at Ashfield; Mayoress Hagon
lent her rooms and gave the tea, but
each guest produced a florin which went
to the cause. Mungo MacCallum’s lady,
president of the home, was an early
arrival, as were vice-presidents Mrs. R.
M. Sly and Mrs. Ross Nott. Helen
Turner arranged the programme, and
Mrs. A. L. Bain was the treasurer.
Sydney is breaking out in a mild rash
of jubilees. That of the Sydney Univer-
sity Medical School will be celebrated
by a ball on August 1 in the Blaxland
Galleries for the benefit of the Medical
Society. The subject of this Falk pic-
ture, Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, is president
of a committee on which all the office-
bearers are doctors’ wives. The Medical
Society has an interesting history, and
included in the minutes (the first records
are in the Fisher library) are names illus-
trious in the profession. Dr. Cecil Pur-
ser, just retired from the helm of Prince
Alfred’s Hospital board after 45 years’
service, was present at the first meeting
of the society in April, 1886. being then
“Mr. Purser, Librarian.”
There should be a sizable cheque for
St. Luke’s from the yearly dance that
filled the Wentworth to overflowing last
week. With all expenses clear the com-
mittee felt it was a night of nights, and
organisers, secretaries and treasurers
stepped out like conquerors. The Gov-
ernor and Lady Game came to the party,
she very festive in her shimmering blue
and silver brocades and carrying a great
ostrich-feather fan in sky-after-rain blues.
Royce Shannon was in attendance. The
Chief Justice and his wife were guests
of importance; the lady is president of the
Darling Point-Woollahra centre and is
one of the directors of the hospital, so it
seemed only a fair thing when she scored,
like her Ex., a handsome posy tied with
the blue and gold of St. Luke’s. The
dressing at this dance was quite of the
gold standard; it could almost be sworn
there hadn’t been a pint of benzine used
by that great roomful of chiffons, satins
and flat crepes for cleaning purposes.
They all looked crisp and new. Velvet
was a great favorite among the matrons,
and particularly smart were Mrs.
Claude Reading’s mist-grey frock and
short coat in this supple fabric. The
A. Hemsleys—he’s president of the hos-
pital board —were among the pointed-
out; Mrs. Percy Crossing and the Wade
lady were both sleek in black velvet, and
the hospital’s matron in flat black crepe
of sweeping line was among the night’s
hostesses.
Ernest Buckmaster, the young Vic-
torian painter who won the Archibald
prize last year with his portrait of knight
William Irvine, is holding a one-man
show at Anthony Hordern’s Gallery.
Portraits again occur in this exhibition,
and there are some decorative still-lifes,
but the backbone of the show is land-
scape. This is English, European and
Victorian, and is imaginative and clean-
cut. Percy Lindsay’s show is another
of the month’s art events, and if you
want to dream awhile in a world where
peace and beauty walk together the Mac-
quarie Galleries is your port-of-call.
Old boys of The King’s School had
their yearly night out last week and fore-
gathered in an atmosphere festive with
whirling multi-colored streamers where
there were old-fashioned dances and all
the flowers in season. The girls did their
part; they turned up looking as though
they had stepped out of a bandbox. Their
new frocks were sculped and swathed
and flounced from the latest materials.
New headmaster Parkinson and his wife,
she in flowered chiffons of leaf-green
and poppy yellow, were greeted by the
David Maughans (he’s president of the
union). There was the usual army of
ambassadors from other public schools.
B. B. O’Connor was treasurer, and with
the helping hand of his fiancee, Margery
Halloran, he entertained one of the
night’s happy groups. G. B. Sutherland
was the secretary and brought Mrs.
Sutherland, in sweeping golden taffetas.
Dr. O’Reilly, rector of St. John’s with-
in the Uni., is still on the sick list, so
the annual dance of the college was held
at Farmer’s instead of at St. John’s. The
medical Oscar Diethelms did the honors!
and entertained the professorial Faw-
sitts, knight John McKelvey and Dr. K.
Fagan. Douglas Miller was to have been
an official guest, but at nine o'clock that
brilliant young surgeon was just wading
into his lecture to the nurses at St. Vin-
cent’s. One of the night’s pretty girls
was Cyris McColm of Brisbane. Cyris,
who is small and blonde, wore a sunset-
pink velvet frock and helped medical -
student brother Nevyl entertain at a
table circled by 50 of the brightest.
Peter Dawson opened his concert
season to a crowded Town Hall on
Saturday night, and the applause rose to
a gale of enthusiasm when Martin
Farrow, president of the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Association, presented the singer
with a walking-stick from the members.
The other half of the programme, the
young, Chilean pianist, adds to the
charm of his melting eyes and flashing
teeth a real talent for the piano. His is
going to be among the treasured auto-
graphs of Sydney’s Bright Young Things.
Sydney journalists ceased to be galley
slaves last Saturday night and came out
into the open on the top deck of the
Monowai, where they made a night of
it for the benefit of the A.J.A. Benevolent
Fund. The G.-G. and his lady (the lace
in her frock was the tint of old ivory)
showed approval of the cause by their
presence. The Monowai, lent for
the occasion, blazed with lights, hung out
a gaudy line of bunting and had an
illuminated crown on her port side, but
only one giddy girl persisted in referring
to the ship as the Crown and Anchor.
The seven debs., marshalled by Mrs. C.
C. Faulkner, were a pretty posy of girl-
hood; dark-eyed Connie Albert’s white
flat crepe frock was inoulded to her
athletic young figure and then flowed in
grace away from her silver shoes. Alex-
ander Gordon’s lady, who was president,
aired burgundy laces. L. W. Lodge, T.
W. Spencer and W. P. Tiernan were the
deputy-presidents and Mrs. J. E. Daven-
port the secretary. The Mayoral Hagons
and the captain of the ship (who did not
play his ukelele) brought Mrs. Spring-
Brown, and the G. H. Morgans, of the
U.S.S. Co., were others who danced the
night away.
Odette Lefebvre is now the State’s
woman golf champion. This is the second
time the North Shore Line girl has held
this distinction. Una Clift, president of
the Ladies’ Golf Union, handed over the
cup to the French-Australian at the
Kensington Clubhouse on Friday (it was
France’s day, too) and there was a cock-
tail party, of which Miss M. Corry, who
was runner-up, and all the other in-
trepids who had got into the champion-
ship lists were partakers.
Still another Australian girl has been
joined in wedlock to landed England.
She is Audrey Pointing, one time of
Darling Point, Sydney, and the man in
the case is the Hon. Edward Partington,
only son of Lord and Lady Doverdale,
of Westwood, Droitwich. Audrey has
had a success on the London stage, hav-
ing appeared in “Bitter Sweet” and other
Noel Coward productions.


Ask to see the barker 'Monk' Shoe
The ‘Monk’ model shoe is Parker’s latest creation on England’s finest
walking shoe last. It combines every feature for which Parker Shoes
are so justly famous ... it is stylish in shape, built from the best
leather, beautifully made —and, above all, comfortable from the first
step. The ‘Monk’ Model Parker Shoe has a welted sole and a leather
heel, and is priced at 45/-
The new exclusive ‘Monk’ model by Parker is obtainable only on
request at the best shoe stores, who will get them for you immediately.
Or, to save any possible disappointment, write to our Service
Department, who will make personal arrangements for you through
your nearest shoe store.
G639M
s
Parker Shoe Co. Pty. Ltd.
247 Queen’s Parade,
CJifton Hill, Victoria.
Melbourne
Chatter
The winter trend towards plaid effects
seems likely to be carried forward into
the spring. Cotton goods now coming
on view are check-patterned, and
organdie muslins exhibit criss-crosses.
The mode is to use a plaid in combina-
tion with a self-colored crepe or silken
fabric. An example recently shown con-
sisted of a one-piece semi-evening frock
of black marocain, which went with a
jackette of muslin, figured in a grey-
black-and-white tartan, the sleeves being
double frills in circular style. In light
materials such as lace, stiffened chiffon
and muslins, dresses promise to be very
full and flared of skirt, with frilly bodices
and sleeves. An umbrella firm shows a
window' lull of sunshades and parasols
—all tartans, and some of them clan
tartans.
The Alliance Franfaise celebrated the
Gallic day with a dance at the Town
Hall. Against the dark-panelled walls
of the lower chamber the Tricolor
occupied pride of place, flanked by bunt-
ing representative of other countries.
Rene Vanderkelen and his wife received
the guests. The womenfolk received
floral shoulder-sprays and their partners
red-white-and-blue buttonhole ribbons.
Mrs. Vanderkelen’s gown was of
crinkled crepe of a deep wine tone, and
the vice-president, Mrs. Gay, sported
henna-tinted georgette. Mrs. Cockerton,
the hon. sec., had the faintest pink satin
top to her black crepe gown, frilled with
black velvet. Official guests were Acting-
Lud Mayor Stapley and consular repre-
sentatives. H. Bidone was present with
his wife, w'hose draperies were of dull
gold velvet. Mrs. J. W. Dye, wife of the
Consul for U.S.A., had emerald-green
drapery round the corsage of her beige
lace gown. Lieut.-Col. Wright ? Consul
for the Netherlands, was accompanied by
his wife, whose crepe frock was of petal-
pink tint. A ficelle lace gown with a
coatee of golden-brown velvet was aired
by Mrs. George Chirnside. Among the
dancers were Mr. and Mrs. Don Taylor,
of Adelaide, the Ashley Campbells, Mr.
and Mrs. W. Mortill, Mr. and Mrs. Then
Shall and Mrs. R. G. Casey.
A Broothorn camera drew this profile,
which belongs to an English girl, Betty
Ranking, who is to make Australia her
home, for she is shortly to wed Tom,
second son of our once-upon-a-time Lud
Mayor Harold Luxton. Miss Ranking,
who is still in her teens, is the younger
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Ranking, of
Tunbridge Wells, and became engaged
when her fiance was at Cambridge. Her
elder sister has promised to wed Lewis
Luxton. Miss Betty, who has been in
Melbourne some weeks as the guest of
her prospective husband's parents, is
looking forward to seeing her mother,
for Mrs. Ranking, accompanied by Lewis
Luxton, is now on her way to Australia.
Lewis, who distinguished himself as a
rower at Melbourne Grammar, has
stroked the Cambridge boat to victory.
Hostess of the Loreto Old Girls’ Asso-
ciation’s at-home, held at No. 9 Darling-
street, was Mrs. H. B. Willis, wearing
a gown of japonica-red silk crepe with
matching coatee of crushed velvet. She
received a bouquet of pansies and car-
nations from the organising committee.
Mrs. Gerald Coffey, in gown of black
lace and jackette of velvet, and Mrs. E.
M. McKenna, whose lapis-lazuli blue
frock had a cape bordered with grey fur,
gave a helping hand. The secretary of
the association, Genevieve McGrath,
danced in deep purple draperies of
crinkled velvet. The dance secretaries
were Mary Fanning, who wore black
velvet, and Helen Skehan, whose flat
crepe frock was periwinkle blue. There
was one deb., a dainty Ballaratite, Mar-
garet Baines, whose white satin gown
was equipped with a cape of delustred
ivory velvet. Very pretty was Elsie Whar-
ton’s white organdie muslin dress which
bore an embroidered design in tiny
flowers and was embellished with little
ruchings.
The staffs of the inter-State shipping
cos. had a jollo at Ormond Hall, profits
going to the R.V.1.8. About 280 people
patronised the hop. among the attrac-
tions of which was a gay ballet stepped
by a bunch of East St. Kilda girls. The
head of the dance committee was A. R.
Nichol. He brought Mrs. Nichol, whose
draperies were of ruby-tinted lace.
St. Patrick’s Old Collegians had their
hop at St. Kilda Town Hall, when the
school banner, picked out in electric
lights, was in the forefront of the decora-
tions. Rector O’Dwyer, with the presi-
dent of the association, R. P. Clerehan,
and Mrs. Clerehan, whose draperies were
of sapphire-blue velvet fashioned with
a cape, extended the greeting hand to the
guests, who included representatives of
several kindred organisations.
This is Mrs. Arthur Hordern, who is
one of the pillars of the Victoria League
and last year was the head of that body.
Her work for the league has been
chiefly associated with the hospitality and
education committees. She is also a
power in the musical world, being a
member of the advisory board of the
symphony orchestra, lately formed by
amalgamation of the Melbourne and
Uni. organisations. The debut of the
combined band is held up pending the
Arbitration Court’s decision regarding
payment for rehearsals. Mrs. Hordern
is also a keen worker for the Country
Women’s Association, and devotes time
to the Missions to Lanes and Streets.
The picture is from the Broothorn
studio.
The tables in the big dining-room of
the Lyceum Club looked charming at
the mid-week when covers for 56 were
set for the dinner of the Tintern Old
Girls’ Association. Pink carnations and
native heath peeped out of baskets and
crystal vases. Among the guests of honor
was the new headmistress, Miss E. Cole-
brook, who received a posy and the
association’s badge. Mrs. C. H. Edmon-
son, the president, also received a choice
spray of blossoms. Miss Mary Cook
and Mrs. Roe, daughters of the first
headmistress of the school, Mrs. Cook,
were present, and there were speeches by
Dr. Dora Davies and Mary Carlyle.
Uni. folk assembled at the Lyceum
Clubrooms on Saturday afternoon at the
invitation of David Masson and his lady
and Dr. and Mrs. A. C. D. Rivett, to
meet Sir Charles Martin and his wife,
passing through from Adelaide on their
way home to England. The Masson lady
wore black, with chinchilla furs, and Mrs.
Rivett also chose black velvet with a
touch of ermine. Gladioli, carnations
and wild heath decorated the big recep-
tion-room. In the throng were Uni.
Chancellor MacFarland, Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Harrison Moore and
his lady, Richard Stawell and his lady,
the Leo Millers and Prof. W. A. Osborne
and his wife, Dr. Ethel Osborne.
Betty and Rosalind Parbury, aided by
their mother, Mrs. William Parbury,
gave one of the now-fashionable late-
afternoon tea-parties at their Toorak
home. The many guests were pleased to
meet again another daughter of the house-
hold, Mrs. A. J. Happell, who is on a
visit to Melbourne from her home in
India.
A bridge party in aid of the St. Kilda-
Balaclava Free Kindergarten occupied 50
tables at the kindergarten. Miss D.
Harcourt was chiefly responsible for the
arrangements.
Velvet was worn by the bride and her
two attendants at the wedding of Norma,
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Dolphin, of the Bank of Australasia,
Collingwood, and James, son of the M.
J. Woodlocks, of Caulfield. The bridal
gown was of deep ivory tint, with a veil
of old Limerick lace mounted on tulle
flowing over the long train. Gowns of
leaf-green chilfon velvet were sported by
the bride's sisters, Mrs. G. L. Aspinall
and Margaret Dolphin, who topped their
array with wreaths of autumn-tinted
foliage. There were rejoicings after-
wards at Grosvenor, Toorak.
Profits of the Foy and Gibson Golden
Jubilee staff dance, held in the Town
Hall, went to St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Draperies and balloons in two shades of
gold trimmed up the ballroom to mark
the firm’s half-century, and about 900
dancers took the floor.
A zephyr from the West:
Smouldering logs in the fireplace welcomed
guests to the Perth Y.A.L. officers’ spree. Flags
and banners presented to the league upon its
globetrots were unfurled for the occasion.
Purple, green and gold decked the supper
tables, and jellies and other delectablcs were
bathed in the glow of candles. Mrs. Cyril
Peet wore white angel-skin lace ; Linley Wilson,
in pink, with partner Peter Goff gave a demon-
stration of the latest dance steps; Cecile Scott
wore a fluttery garment in bronze tones; Grace
Stapledon chose shell-pink satin; Dorothy
Powell was in cowslip-yellow; tangee lace was
Doreen Sheridan’s choice; Betty Smith was in
black; Muriel Broome lit on water-lily green
for her taffeta frock; Noel Perry’s pink chiffon
was oowdered with diamente; Peggy Stone's
white gown was touched with green, and pink
ruchings elaborated Blanche Hudspeth’s blue
pussy-willow.
Masses of banksia cones and vases ol tall
gladioli made the Karrakatta Club hall festive
for a morning reception in honor of Athene
Seyler and Nicholas Hannen. Kittie Gillies and
Mr. Musgrove made the introductions. Miss
Gillies wore navy blue and clasped a sweet-
smelling posy of violets. Miss Seyler chose
burgundy for her suit and hat, and dexterously
managed a teacup, a cigarette and a monster
bunch of v iolets while moving among the
guests. Hermione Seyler was arresting in her
sulphur rig and infinitesimal hat.
In honor of her sister, Myra Hackford, Mrs.
Henry Greig invited some friends to tea and
a spot of music. The guest of the afternoon,
who has lately returned from London, wore
navy blue with an ornamental cape collar of
ivory crepe. Mrs. Greig’s burgundy frock
showed beige reliefs.
The L.A.B. Club and the Music Teachers’
Association joined hands to do honor to Steuart
Wilson, adjudicator of the musical festival. Mr.
Wilson, who has at last time to take breath,
captivated his hearers with his singing. Mrs.
Cecil Mason, in an attractive fuschia garment,
Miss Young, in pearl-grey, and Mr. S. Morley
made the introductions.
Gossip from the South Perth Zoo: The seals
have at last something to swim in—a rock pool
of considerable dimensions. Mrs. Lion has
twins and the bears are looking forward to
emerging from their monastic cubicles. They
are to have an exercise yard with a batu
thrown in.
Wedding bells will ring at the end of the
month for Margaret Wansborough of Gerald-
ton and Kevin, younger son of Tom Kelly, of
Perth.
Mrs. Basil Murray, with youngest daughter
Mollie, waved farewell from the London-
bound Maloja.
Mrs. Abbott and Margaret are being made
welcome after a holiday trip to the Cold Land.
Adelaide j olios:
The Hunt Club’s Ball at the Palais Royal
drew a large crowd. The lancers, in costume,
provided the star turn, and the most assured
dancer in the set was Mrs. W. T. Mortlock,
one of the oldest members of the club. The
white satin gown, scarlet jacket, black velvet-
plumed hat and hair poudre were most becom-
ing. The Hore-Ruthvens attended, with Rose-
mary Fleischmann and Mrs. Legh Winser, the
hunting set forming a guard of honor. Lady
Hore-Ruthven wore a - gown of oyster satin,
and Miss Fleischmann chose white georgette
with bands of white satin arranged diagonally.
The president’s -wife, Mrs. Harry Young, was
in black lace and a gold-tissue-brocaded coat.
Her daughter Nora took part in the lancers.
The Aquinas Society’s dance and bridge
party in the Uni. Refectory had a setting of
Lorraine Lee roses and sweet-peas.
Over 300 danced at the pharmacy students’
ball in the Uni. Refectory. Mr. and Mrs. M.
C. Moore, Zita Walsh and R. H. Elix received.
The black-and-orange decorations were most
effective. A surprisingly large number of
young women are taking up the study of
chemistry.
The Bankers’ Ball was at the Palais Royal,
where every bank was well represented. Mr.
and Mrs. E. W. Dempster, Bank of Adelaide,
made it an occasion for celebrating the coming-
of-age of their daughter Dorothy and enter-
tained a party. There were solo dancing and
acrobatic interludes. Mrs. Walter Kidman
looked well in scarlet chiffon.
Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Jose have returned after
a trip to New Guinea in the Maloja.
Mrs. H. P. McLachlan, of Glenelg, is spend-
ing a fortnight with Mr. and Mrs. Byron
McLachlan at Paratoo station.
Commander and Mrs. Maxwell Fowler will
arrive in Adelaide during September on a 12
months’ visit, accompanied by their son. They
have been Jiving for some years in Hydros,
France.
A miscellaneous budget from the
Speck:
The Institute of Engineers went gay and
gave a party at the Imperial. Chairman and
Mrs. Leckey received the guests in the lounge,
where a huge fire made a cheery welcome.
Bridge tables were provided for non-dancers,
and the younger guests had the ballroom.
Frockmg was smart and pretty.
Hobart Tech. School students repeated their
“Naughty ’Nineties” fancy-dress shivoo, in aid
ol the Free Kindergarten. The Masonic Hall
was well filled with dancers and onlookers.
Many of the costumes were charming.
Miss Goodheart, who has been spending
some weeks with her sister, Mrs. Alan Miller,
has gone back to Sydney. Mrs. A. Miller,
Mrs. F. X. de Bavay and Mrs. A. J. Miller
entertained her at cocktail and bridge parties
before her departure.
Mrs. Eustace Cameron, Mrs. Seddon and
Cynthia Cameron entertained the Midland
Hunt Club at Mona Vale before and after
the run. There was a big field and many
followed in cars. Fine, frosty weather was
invigorating, and Mona Vale, with its great
trees and beautiful grounds looked its best.
Sister Emily Francis Evans, for more than
a quarter of a century co-matron at Highbury
private hospital, Hobart, has passed over the
Great Divide, leaving a fine record of service
behind her.
The Wishart-Smiths’ young daughter Biddy,
and Charles Page, Elsmore, Fitzroy Place,
announce their engagement.
Launceston’s Good Sports Competition in
aid of the Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institute
closed with a valiant spurt of functions to
augment the funds. There were bridge parties
and dances. The competition was won by
Mrs. Atherton, representative of Music.
Kate Farrell, associated with journalism in
the north for over 30 years, has spiked her
last sheet of copy. She was editress of the
women’s column of the “Colonist/’ and since
then had been editress of the women’s and
social columns in the Launceston “Courier.”


NORTH OF TWNTY-EIGHT
Cairns and Its Products
“Pundi”: The oldtimer gets a lot of
surprises when he reads the 200-page
North Queensland Guide Book which
has just been issued by the Cairns and
Tableland Publicity Association. My
first trip across the Tableland was when
the Kidston-Etheridge goldfields were at
their height, and now 1 find that where
the scrub on the heights was so tall that
we did not see the sun or the sky for
a day on end, there are townships with
electric light and power and water-
supply.
The Chinamen who used to hoe
the maize fields on the Atherton seem
to have entirely given way to white
dairymen of the old Ulawarra stock who
have done much to colonise the coastal
scrub country. At the beginning of the
century, Jeremiahs were weeping because
certain short-sighted persons wanted to
get rid of the Kanaka and “the North
can never live without black labor,” but
let’s have a look at white Cairns and
Tableland figures to cheer the poor souls
who believe that other parts of North
Australia need dusky skins as an aid to
prosperity:
Area, Value of Value per Acre
Acres. Production, of Products.
Sugar .. .. 32,14!) V 1.709,800 £s:'. I 0
Tobacco . . . . 3,000 120,277 40 1 0
Dairy produce,
and bacon, etc. J 28,000 329,000 2 11 4
Maize .. .. 28,000 160,000 617 2
Total .. 191,149 £2,379,083
Average £l2 8 11
The total excludes mineral production
and timber valued at £131,000. It em-
phasises what I wrote the other day
about the need for finding and concen-
trating on our Belgiums and lspahans.
Ten areas equal to that for which the
figures are quoted would cover only 300
square miles (= 15 miles x 20 miles),
the space occupied by Sydney. Yet it
could be expected to add £23,790,000 or
10 per cent, to the value of the Common-
wealth’s primary production. At least
five such areas can be found on the
fringe of or adjacent to the Cairns-
Tableland district.
“T.T.”: Originally St. Helena (just
taken over as a park by the Brisbane
City Council) was a quarantine station
for the port of Brisbane in 1866, the
buildings being erected by convicts
housed in the hulk of the Prosperine, then
anchored at the mouth of the Brisbane
River. In 1866 a lock-up was constructed
and the island proclaimed a prison. Five
years later it became the principal gaol
in Queensland. It was noted for its work-
shops, embracing practically every trade.
Covering an area of 500 acres, the island
is peculiar for its conglomerate rock,
of which many of the prison buildings
were constructed. Sixty acres of fertile
gsound, however, have been in constant
cultivation by prisoners. The prison was
also famous for its Ayrshire dairy herd
—inaugurated in 1892—which several
times has been successfully represented
at the Brisbane Royal Show. The island
got its name when, years before it
was used officially, a troublesome
blackfellow, nicknamed “Napoleon,” was
exiled there from Dunwich.
* * * *
“Tobi”: How quickly international
rancor dies! .When I was last in Rabaul
ten years ago I was reproved severely and
publicly for speaking German to an
old planter who had just sold the fruits
of 22 years’ pioneering and some spear
wounds to the Expropriation Board for
about 3d. in Australian money. My re-
prover, who said that “all Germans
should be wiped out,” seemed to have
the whole of public opinion with him.
too, especially that section which was
hoping to get an ex-German plantation
cheap. How different when the Koln
went there the other day! “The greatest
friendliness has been shown by all the
residents. Dances, picture shows, motor-
ing, racing and sporting events have all
been arranged with a view to giving our
visitors a good time.” The Germans
were able to lay wreaths on the graves
of our dead killed at Kabakaul, and the
president of the R.S.L. and Captain
Schniewind spoke to each other “as one
soldier to another.”
4= * 4:
“Mareeba”: The tobacco business is
growing in North Queensland. Over 1400
growers are now registered north of
Mackay, and a lively and active lot they
are, as witness their persistent fight for
tariff protection ana the continuous
seethe in which they live over market-
ing. The two associations at Mareeba
and Townsville vie with each other in
aggressiveness, and each has its pet
scheme of salvation conceived in the
names of the two separate North Queens-
land Tobacco Growers’ Associations.
Mareeba plumps for a marketing board
and organisation along lines of the sugai
industry, and while this scheme has been
approved by Bulcock, the Agricultural
Minister, further legislation is needed be-
fore it can be fully applied. Growers in
the Far North are making contributions
to a defence fund to handle tariff affairs
in view of present declining prices. Mean-
while, Townsville, which is in the
minority, cries out for a united body
representative of the whole industry.
* 4= 4= 4:
“ Cal ” : Apropos “ El. V’s ” query
about the development of the Cook-
town (Q.) country (B. 28/6/’33), an effort
is being made to reinvest the old district
with life. J. M. Johnston, of Stratford,
Cairns, one of the best-known timber-
men in the North, has secured the
timber rights of about 100,000 acres of
Crown lands in the district, estimated
to contain over 30,000,000 super, feet ; of
marketable timber, including kauri,
cedar, silky oak, maple and hickory,
and intends forming a co. He is also
establishing share farms on a large scale
“You won’t heed my warning, Jacky, but time will tell the tale."
“My knock him plurry head off my catch’m at it."
just south of Cooktown, where a great
variety of crops can be grown. Roads
and bridges and sawmills are to be
built in the timber area, and there is
some talk of a cannery to market wild
pigs. The great fish wealth in the
coastal waters is also to be exploited.
A Queensland co. recently started shark-
fishing in this locality, and is doing well,
according to reports.
* * 4= *
“ N’lmporte ” : The Barron Falls
hydro-electricity scheme, the first in
Queensland, is well on the way to com-
pletion, despite delays. There have been
two fatal accidents and other troubles
due to the depth and slippery nature of
the big gorge, but things are working
smoothly now, and by the middle of
1934 it is believed that the scheme will
be supplying electricity to the whole of
the Cairns district. Two of the table-
land shires (Woothakata and Tinaroo)
are likely to come in for a supply too,
which means that Atherton and Mareeba
(68 and 46 miles respectively from
Cairns) will be drawing on the plant.
# * * *
‘Thursday”: The bumping of a reef
by the steamer Dalcroy on her way
through the Nor’-eastern Channel, in
Torres Strait, suggests that it is time
some further survey work was done in
these waters. It is many a year since
the charts were made, and even so, the
survey on which they were based
was incomplete. The natives declare
that the Waters are shoaling in many
parts of the Strait, including the area
between Dove and Coconut islands.
Luggers which formerly travelled certain
passages have now a chance of hitting
bottom at low tide. There is also a
suggestion that the ocean bottom may
be gradually rising here, as is said to be
the case in the mid-Pacific. But in any
case the gradual growth of coral, of
which the reefs are formed, must
amount to something respectable over
a period of 30 or 40 years. Along the
southern coast of New Guinea coral
outcrops have been reported lately where
the chart shows clear water.
* * 1 Sji *
“Lofty”: Dent Island, in the Whit-
sunday group, 30 years ago was well
and Variously timbered. Then came a
big drought in 1903, and after that the
white ants. Now there is not a stick
of green timber on the north end of the
island, and the south end is gradually
being cleaned up by the termites, which
soon will have no timber left to feed on.
The island is well grassed, and it will
be interesting to see if the ants will turn
to the grass as a last resource when the
wood supply runs out.
4: * 4= *
“Mish”: From time immemorial the
natives of the Markham River valley
(N.G.) have interred their dead in caves
on the mountain-side. With the widening
of the white man’s influence came the
Government Patrol Officer, who informed
the “luluai” (chief) that cave burials
must cease, and a cemetery be made in
each village. The luluai murmuring “Me,
me no savee,” was escorted to Salamaua
and shown the cemetery there. Three
months later, the officer was surprised
to find a neat little graveyard in each
village, replete with mounded graves,
headstones and crosses—but corpseless.
New' cadavers had been neatly tucked
away in the same old caves.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
With bountiful rain all over the State
and the biggest Royal Show we have
ever known approaching, every female
of the species here is mustering up her
courage to ask for a new frock and a
little more pocket-money.
Faces which we never expected to see
will be here after all for our lovely
spring carnival, and even our Mr. Forgan
Smith, who usually is a gloomy soul with
a mendicant eye turned upon Canberra,
has raised his voice to rejoice that this
State has fewer unemployed than, any
other, and that prosperity is just around
the corner —where it always lives.
The week has seen the usual round of
charity, art and music. The highlight was
to have been Philip Hargrave’s recitals.
What a solemn mite he is, and how
gravely he went through his reception,
looking about a hundred years older
than Judith Greene, Betty Ham and the
Nixon Smith youngsters, who came to
lend an air of youth to the welcome!
His first appearance was an affair of
some tonnage, with a theatre crowded
with everybody who was anybody, but
though he gave his usual finished per-
formance, he looked so ill and weary
that nobody was surprised to hear next
day that the doctor had ordered him to
rest.
At the Q.T.C.’s annual charity meeting
jonquils, violets or sprays of wattle were
pinned to many otherwise sombre
toilettes, and furs, so seldom needed in
sunny Queensland, were well to the fore.
Mrs. A. E. Moore was in a bracken-brown
suit and hat. The Cameron lady’s date-
brown suit was worn with a feather-
trimmed toque. Mrs. A. H. Whitting-
ham chose navy, and Mrs. Isaac Moore
was in nigger brown with long coat
heavily collared in musquash.
Hot scones and honey made on the
premises were served to Lady Allardyce
when officials of the Victoria League
entertained her at Mt. Coot-tha. Con-
versation was made to the accom-
paniment of twittering birds, and the
guest of honor was quick to show keen
appreciation of the view from our hill-
top. Easy to speak to and delightful to
listen to, Lady Allardyce charmed her
hearers when she spoke of the work done
by the Victoria League.
Royal Queensland put on a dance for
the visiting golfers, and the fine old golf-
house looked its best, decorated with
masses of poinsettia and wattle. The pre-
sident’s wife, Mrs. George Brown, and
the associate captain, Mrs. J. D. Cook
did the receiving, both wearing black lace.
Treasured pieces of china of more than
200 years old were shown at the Arts
and Crafts Society, when Mrs. H. Barker
talked to the members about old
china. One piece exhibited was a tea-
cup believed to have been made in the
Yung Lo period, over 500 years ago.
Worshipful Master Bro. W. H. Green,
head-serang of Freemasonry in Queens-
land, was quietly married to Miss F. G.
Cockerill. He and his bride left on an
official visit to Cairns, then to Moresby.
A ’plane will take them to
Wau, in the goldfields of
New Guinea, where Bro.
Green will consecrate a
new lodge, to be named
Morobe. Subsequently, they
will fly to Salamaua, and
then home to Brisbane.
The Royal Queensland
Art Society has formed a
building fund reduction
committee. With Mrs. D.
F. Cowell Ham, wife of the
president, and Jeanette Shel-
don, Hilda Burston, Alice
Bott, Augusta Hobday, E.
Carter and others working
like Trojans, 25 per cent, of
the first quota is in sight.
The Repertory movement
is waking up again in Bris-
bane. Barbara Sisley stage-
managed the local society’s
readings of Ben Levy’s
three-acter, “Mrs. Moon-
light,” on Monday night,
with the help of Mrs. Pat
Trace, Colleen Scott, Har-
riett Clarke, Kathleen Mac-
gregor, E. E. Pendleton, T.
Stephens, J. Reading and
J. Stable.
The United Service Ball
in Show Week (Aug. 7) is
to be a great affair, with a
flood of debutantes. They
will include pretty Noel
Stephens (the R. C. Ste-
phens's chick), Peggy Richards, daugh-
ter of our Professor of Geology, Mary
Lucas and Joyce Davies.
Oscar Seppelt gave a dinner of some
tonnage at Lennon's during the week.
Guests included the Twine and J. D.
Bell couples, the S. A. Bests, Malcolm
Campbells and a dozen more.
The ambulance is to benefit by a mil-
lion-penny drive, but no one will grudge
it even a pound of copper for it is a
wonderful institution. Even in the days
when it lived with its one white horse
in Wharf-street, before the Great War,
its bearers thought nothing of a hundred-
mile walk in the wet behind a stretcher.
Now that it has become a complete and
widespread institution its funds take a
lot of keeping up. A ladies’ com-
mittee with Home Secretary Hanlon’s
wife as president, is working hard on
the drive, which was helped along a day
or two ago with a musical lunch organ-
ised by the honorary secretary, Mrs.
Goodchap, and Mrs. Harry Naylor.
The William Golds celebrated their
golden wedding amid a flood of younger
generations. The old gentleman, who is
the grandson of a Waterloo artillery
general, came to Queensland in 1869.
Mrs. Gold was one of the Gordons, of
Samsonvale, and the pair lived in that
thriving district for nearly 40 years.
Over 100 dancers turned up to the
C.E.G.S. Old Boys’ dance at the Carlton
cabaret, and the list of guests read like
a complete directory of the Younger Set.
Our one affliction just now is influenza.
Tf this letter does not arrive, you will
know it is because half the post office
seems to be down with the beastly thing.
As I write, 63 officers are away with it


The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
Brisbane, July 12, 1933.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One hundred 'and eighth Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditor’s Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30 last, after allowing for
Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
interminable inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of
Income, Land and other Taxes payable during that period,
reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £2500.
making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts and *all known
Contingencies and including Recoveries, amounts to £73,039 1 I 3
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
June 30, 1932 £18,644 15 8
Making a total of . . . . . . . . • • • • • • £91,684 6 1 I
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4% per
annum for the Half-year ended December 31, 1932, amount-
ing to . . £35,000 0 0
Leaving for Distribution . . . . . . . . . • • • £ 5 6/>B4 6 1
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 4 % per annum for the Half-year ended
June 30, 1933 . . . . . . . • • ■ . • • • £35,000 -0 0
(tree of Queensland Income Tax and without deduction in
respect of Federal Income Tax payable by the Bank)
Balance to be carried forward . , . . ... . . ..£21,684 .. 6 II
£56,684 6 11
We have had little demand for accommodation by way of overdraft during the
period under review.
Notwithstanding that our policy has been to discourage large deposits, carrying
no collateral advantages, the difficulty of profitable employment of our funds men-
tioned in our report of last year, has continued, and, in order to conserve our
connection, we have had to accept more deposit money than we can handle produc-
tively. You will notice our total deposits show a reduction of £263,071 compared
with the last balancing period, deposits interest being £422,801 lower,
and those not bearing interest £ l 59,730 higher. As an outlet for our funds, and
with a view to reducing interest charges, during the year we have purchased
from the market and cancelled £76,573 /14/4 of our Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock, at a profit of £12,770/7/10. £48,059/2/11 of this Stock was inscribed on
the London Register, the interst on which, with the present high rate of exchange,
was costing us approximately 4§.% per annum.
We have continued to the utmost, compatible with the retention of some profit, the
reductions of rates of interest on overdrafts gradually through the year, especially
in necessitous cases in the primary industries.
have not been drawn upon during the current year.
This being another lean year, £2500 is recommended for writing down the book
values of the Bank Premises and Furniture.
Reference to the Balance Sheet will show the extra details required by the provisions
of the Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
Since last Balance date the Branches at Burketown (Q.) and Casino (N.S.W.) have
been closed.
By Order of the Board,
/ M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
* The additional information starred is published in accordance with the provisions
of the Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
The Queensland National Bank Limited,
BALANCE SHEET, as at June 30, 1933.
Capital .. £2,000,000 0 0
* Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid
up .. 1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 860,000 0 0
Profit and
loss .. 56,684 6 11
Interminab 1 e
Inscr i b e d
Deposit
Stock .. 3,015,095 10 1
£5,681,779 17 0
Bills Payable and other Lia-
bilities 302,531 8 5
Deposits 7,872,213 17 2
*The additional information
it starred is published in
accordance with the pro-
visions of the Queensland
Companies Act of 1931.
£13,856,525 2 7
Coin. Bullion,
Aitstrali a n
Notes, and
Bankers . £1,522,708 3 0
Commonwealth
Trea s -u r y
Bills (short
dated) *(face
value) .. 1,130,000 0 0
Commonwealth
Loans
(under
mar k c t
value) .. 1,372,885 7 9
Cash Balances 91,228 17 2
Bills remitted
and in tran-
situ .. 470,689 15 4
Money in
London at
call and on
short notice 25,000 0 0
£4,612,512 3 3
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts *(exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) 8,694,760 5 3
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery *(at cost less
amounts written otf) .. 549,252 14 1
(Of the Bank Premises figures
£ 170,000 is revenue producing)
£13,856,525 2 7
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, for Year Ended June 30, 1933.
Cr.
To Interim Dividend paid Feb.
16, 1933
~ Balance at June 30, 1933 ..
£35,000 0 0
56,684 6 11.
£91,684 6 11
By Balance from June 30, 1932 £18,644 15 8
„ Net Profit for Year ended
June 30, 1933 73,039 11 3
£91.684 6 11
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. •. £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
Ihe total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in
London and Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year
ended June 30, 1933, was £2651/5/-.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
F. E. LOXTON, Director.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
*We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on June 30, 1933. We have
obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
July 12, 1933.
R. H. CUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A.
LANSE A. JONES, F.F.I.A.
Auditors■
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the
Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, August 17, 1933,
at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended June 30,
1933. To elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of Mr. Michael Joseph Ryan,
who retires in accordance with Clauses 85B< and 86 of the Articles of Association,
but is eligible for re-election and offers himself accordingly. To. elect two Auditors
and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
OUR LATEST PRODUCTION
FOR LONG HOURS IN THE SADDLE.
ś
THE
TUMBA
“PRIDE”
OF THE
ROAD”,
£lO/10/-
Complele with
Leathers, Girth
and good N.P.
Stirrups; and
freight paid in
N.S.W. for cash.
Very firm capped
Pads set high up,
and combined
flap and skirt.
Write for Catalogue of Saddles, Harness,
Whips, Horse Rugs, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 395 George Street, Sydney.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
If Your Message is of Interest to
Women, Choose the Perth
WESTERN AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL PAPER.
The Journal with a Remarkable
Appeal to the Women of
Western Australia.
The women’s section of the “Sunday
Times” is unequalled in the West. Social
Gossip, Recipes, Illustrated Fashions,
Beauty Hints, Marriages and Engage-
ments create a real live section absorb-
ingly interesting to Western women.
Study the advertising in this section and
you will appreciate the popularity of the
paper in its appeal to women.
Net Sales 39,000 Copies Weekly
A.B.C. Certificate.
State-wide Coverage in a Weekly
With the Circulation of
a Daily.
Sydney Representative,:
HAL, JOHNSTONE. sth Floor, Wingello
House, Angel I*l ace. ’Phone: 85690.
Amusements.
W i LL i A M SON, LTD.,
1 MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE QUAKER GIRL.
KINO'S THEATRE :
ISOBEL ELSOM in
WHEN LADIES MEET.
Legal Notices.
TO HENRY RICHARD MOORE WEEDING HUS-
* BAND OF MARY ANN WEEDING WHO DIED
INTESTATE AT NELSON IN NEW ZEALAND ON
THE 22ND AUGUST 1932 AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY THROUGH OR UNDER HIM.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
to me on or before the Ist day of August 1933 your
claims to the estate of the abovenamed Mary Ann
Weeding failing which such estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of July 1933.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Position Vacant.
DARWIN TOWN COUNCIL,
Northern Territory.
APPLICATIONS are invited from competent
and experienced electricians for employment
with the abovenamed Council for a minimum
term of two years.
The Council is purchasing electricity in bulk
for retailing to consumers, and the successful
applicant will be required, upon arrival in
Darwin by the September steamer, to commence
immediately the overhaul, renewal and extension
of the reticulation of the Town’s electric supply.
He will, thereafter, be charged with the gen-
eral maintenance of the Council’s distributing
plant and equipment, being responsible for the
smooth and efficient conduct of the service be-
tween the main switchboard and consumer’s
premises. He will be required, further, to
carry out all elactrical work connected with the
distribution and supply of electricity to con-
sumers.
Applicants must be thoroughly conversant with
the Electrical Wiring Rules of the Institution of
Engineers, Australia, and must submit satisfac-
tory references as to character and ability,
together with full details of previous experience.
A second-class steamer fare to Darwin will be
provided, and the completion of two years'
satisfactory service will entitle the appointee to
a second-class return fare to Melbourne.
Applications, which should be in sealed envel-
opes endorsed “application,” must state the
salary required and the age of the applicant,
and must be in the hands of the undersigned
not later than the 2!st August, 1933.
R. LEYDIN,
Town Hall, Darwin, N.T. Town Clerk.
Position Wanted.
STATION OVERSEER, 30, active, desires re-
engagement. Count, draft, mark, shear, own
dogs. Drive, repair cars, engines, windmills.
Break-in, castrate colts, used stallions, also
cattle. Competent book-keeper. Used big
stations, stud properties. Excellent references,
well-known stations. Riverina, Far West and
Nth. West experience. Reply W. PURCELL,
Post Office, Brisbane.
AN experienced lady teacher, primary final
standard, requires position Sub. School. —No.
258, Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
JOHN HENRY WILSON.
IF JOHN HENRY WILSON, or his issue, last
heard of in the sawmills, Worsley, Western Aus-
tralia, in June, 1910, a son of John Peter
Wilson, late of 28 Acland Street, St. Kilda,
but formerly of Buninyong, Victoria, Gentle-
man, Deceased, communicates with the under-
mentioned company on or before the First of
August, 1933, he will hear something to his
advantage.'
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria.
John Glasson, Manager.
Now you can buy
100% Pennsylvania Motor Oil
at its best .... no extra price
r
/
rx
TTERE’S good news for every motorist! For the first time, you can buy ioo%
x Pennsylvania Motor Oil from a great oil company . . . 100% Pennsylvania
VEEDOL as made by the world’s largest refiner and marketer of Pennsylvania Oils.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is refined from the cream of Bradford Pennsylvania crudes
by a new and secret process with ultra-modern equipment that makes it heatproof
and coldproof.
With Pennsylvania VEEDOL you can challenge the world. Better motor performance
. . . more mileage . . . greater economy . . . fewer repairs ... yet you pay no more for
Pennsylvania VEEDOL ttian ordinary motor oils.
ALWAYS
ASK FOR
X/EEDOL
w MOTOR OIL
V 7.
100% PENNSYLVANIA ... AT ITS BEST.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LTD.—ALL STATES.
Distributors for .. . TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY.


AS WE SAID DEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that del’ghted an earlier one.
When “Bobby” Lowe was at Oxford
he was president of the famous Union,
and once fined an obnoxious speaker &
A GUILTY CONSCIENCE—NEW VERSION.
TEACHER: "Who made the heavens and the earth?”
BOY {who had broken a window): “Twarn’t me, sir.”
[Hop —2/4/’92.]
pound for disorderly conduct. The un-
ruly one paid up —and became after-
wards Archbishop of Canterbury.
[3/10/’9l.]
Charles Dickens always had his eye on
the Australians. In 1849 letters were re-
ceived in Sydney from him stating his in-
tention to settle in Australia. In the
’sixties, again, he cast lingering looks
thusward. But he didn’t come. Only
his sons came. [3/10/’9l.]
Charles Rasp was six years ago a
boundary-rider over the country contain-
ing the great Broken Hill Proprietary
mine, at a salary of thirty bob a week.
He now receives in round figures about
£50,000 per annum, and, so far as science
can prognosticate, his shares will yield
as much or more yearly until the child-
ren of to-day are grey-haired. Rasp
stuck to the big mine from the day he
secured his first syndicate share for help-
ing to peg out the claim. [26/9/’9l.]
There is one large factory in Mel-
bourne where none but red-headed
people are employed. The proprietor
has a head like the glare of a danger-
signal at midnight, and every man,
woman and child on the premises is
thatched with vermilion. The place is
watched over at night by a red-headed
watchman, and a red-headed contractor
removes the ashes out of the back yard.
Even the dog is the reddest dog that
could be obtained for love or money.
[26/9/’9l.]
Two years ago an experiment was
started at Thursday Island (Q.) for the
production of pearls by artificial means,
and the scheme has turned out a success.
By setting up a process of complicated
irritation the unhappy oyster is made to
grow pearls against his will, which is
remarkably good for the grower, and
remarkably bad for the oyster. Brutality
to an oyster is just about 10 degrees
worse than brutality to a horse, for the
oyster can’t kick, neither can it bolt.
The tinned oyster is a tender and delicate
vision, and should be treated with kind-
ness; and the oyster stew is a reflective
thing which sits and thinks at the bottom
of the sea. The brutal, sordid speculator
who would inflict lifelong suffering on
this gentle and soft-voiced fruit is a de-
graded wretch and unfit to live.
[26 / 9 / ’9l.]
Wragge, Queensland meteorologist and
weather-prophet, when he is at home is
one of the sights of Brisbane. He is an
absent-minded skeleton in a slop suit, and
always looks as if he had mislaid himself
and couldn't remember where he did it.
He is pretty safe around Brisbane, for
somebody always finds him and takes
him home, but when he visits Sydney he
is generally accompanied by a small
Hebraic-looking gentleman whom he
calls his “chum,” and this individual
takes care of him. When Wragge stops
right in front of a tram-car to calculate
the perihelion of a comet, or hails an
omnibus and then
forgets to get in
because he wants
to make an esti-
mate of the pro-
bable weather in
the next 24 hours,
the “chum” seizes
him by the back of
the pants—he can’t
reach any higher
—and dashes him
into a place of
safety. Also, he
has to fish the
naked astronomer
out of baths, for
Wragge will stand
for hours under the
shower trying to
arrive at the den-
sity of Jupiter, or
he will camp with
one leg on a rail-
way platform and
the other in an
express train that
is two hours over-
due and howling
to get away, and
there become en-
tirely oblivious. He
is a profoundly
learned man with
odd boots, and if
he were on his way to see an
eclipse he would run over a Governor
and tread him into the mud and never
turn a hair. [26/9/’9l.]
The first vice-regal flight into the
regions of amateur theatricals [writes
Sappho Smith] occurred on 27th ult. on
a very realistic stage erected in the red
drawing-room, the rest of which, with
the ballroom, was crowded with a full-
dress throng. As there wasn’t one candid
gallery-boy present, the applause was un-
interrupted—and though unqualified rap-
ture at the performance of the purely
Government House troupe was only to,
be expected, still it is soothing to know
that everything really went off very well.
The curtain-raiser was a fairy tale,
“Creatures of Impulse,” in which' the
olive-branches of the house of Jersey
cavorted with considerable aplomb—the
youngest daughter looking very pretty
and fairylike. After that came “Little
Toddlekins,” wherein secretary Goschen,
as a bouncing, golden-wigged damsel in
a turkey-red skirt and jacket over a blue
blouse, small, perched sailor hat and
ecru parasol and fan. was very near to
nature-on-a-public-holiday; his love-pas-
sage with Chumley,- at the finish, let
the curtain down to shrieks of laughter
from the guests, who then dispersed in
search of the refreshment buffet. Lady
Jersey (who acted as promptress) wore
ivory-white silk draped with black lace;
Mrs. Fitzgerald fa guest at Government
House), a very fetching black lace and
silk costume; and 'mother striking cos-
tume a black silk gown, the bodice
covered with white chiffon frills and
puffed sleeves of white chiffon to the
knuckles —worn by Mrs. Vandeveere
Greene. [5/9/’9l.]
THE PROSPECTING VOTE.
OLD DIGGER: "What, sinking! You
won’t get any gold here!”
SECOND DITTO. : "Won’t I? But I’ll get a
hunk of prospecting vote.”
[A. J. Fischer —6/8/’92.]
In St. Kilda cemetery there is a touch-
ing tombstone showing above the in-
scription a design, in slight relief, of a
hand holding a jug at the angle one likes
to see it held at on a warm day. The
stone was erected by a Mrs. to the
memory of her husband who kept a pub,
and was cut down like a flower in the
act of filling a jug of beer. He had just
finished putting a head on it with his
right arm, “the strong arm,” when the
awful summons came, and the beer, pre-
sumably, began to slip from ‘his nerve-
less grasp as depicted on the tombstone.
[l9/9/’9l.]
ACTRESS AND GOVERNOR.
A lady correspondent forwards a
bright and lively tale about an imported
actress and an Australian Governor, and
sundry troubles which arose between
them about 20 years ago.
The exciting part of the story is where
the actress got into Government House
and refused to go out. She was accom-
panied by someone who was supposed
to be her husband, but who was only a
temporary husband, borrowed on a
steamboat, and they had both been at
the vice-regal mansion some time before
the row began. Then another imported
artist —a musician —asked what the Gov-
ernor meant by introducing him to these
immoral individuals, and the Governor
tore his hair, and sent an aide-de-camp
to tell them to quit. They both re-
sponded cheerfully that his Excellency
“had better peel, and see if he could
chuck them out,” and intimated that
there would be the most awful razzle-
dazzle ever seen on these premises if b e
tried.
When they were gone the Viceroy sent
another miserable aide to tell them that
their invitation for the ensuing day was
cancelled. The message he brought back
was that the lady was coming whether
her invitation was cancelled or not, and
if necessary she would fight her way up
the stairs with a sledge-hammer. She
arrived early, and went away late, and
while she was there she pervaded the
place, and froze the whole festivity.
She backed respectable gentlemen into
corners, and talked to them affably; she
bailed up the Governor in a recess, where
he couldn’t escape, and conversed in a
friendly way and with a heavenly smile
on her countenance; she collared the aide
who had tried to throw her out, and
treated him like a long-lost brother; and
she even seized on the musician who had
given her away, and fraternised with him.
and whenever she pursued and captured
one of her enemies he thought his last
hour, had arrived, and he made such a
spectacle of himself in his efforts to
escape that the whole assemblage
laughed.
The actress took a fiendish joy in the
business, and at last she would chase an
old, moral, fat man for 20 minutes for
the mere pleasure of arresting him behind
a door, and then going away with an
unconscious expression on her face, as
if she had never heard of his experi-
ence. It was a pleasant night, altogether,
and the Governor was worn to rags be-
fore it was ended. [5/9/’9l.]
A GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE FIGHT.
Duncan Ross and Donald Dinnie want
to arrange a partnership with John L.
Sullivan and C. McHardy, the four to
meet any six men Australia can produce
in a go-as-you-please fight. The idea
pleases us.
The parties would rush each other and
bash'promiscuously, and the man who was
up would tramp on the man
who was down, and the man
who was down would bite
the legs of the man who was
up. The man with the long-
est legs would kick the most
opponents on the ear, and
the longest opponent would
keep his ear out of the range
of the most men with long
legs, whereby the short man
would have his ear kicked,
and the long man would keep
his listener in a place of
safety. There would be a
mad scurry at the beginning
of the proceedings, and the
party who first got an enemy
by the hair and knocked his
head against the floor would
have the best show; and if
Donald Dinnie fought in kilts
and two of his opponents got
hold ol" the back of the kilts, and kicked
like fiends incarnate, he would probably
be knocked out.
Everybody would try to maul his
enemy from behind, and the man whose
antagonist was disabled would go and
help to welt the other fellow’s antagonist,
and everybody would be spitting out hair
and ears, and tearing off his opponent's
clothes. Then in the mad rush and clat-
ter the parties would gallop on each
other, and the bruiser who was just on
the point of victory would be distracted
by six men running over him, flattening
him out; and the courageous pugilists
would rave and howl in the forefront
of the battle, and those who were not
courageous would prowl in the rear, and
pound the dead and wounded.
Towards the end of the show there
would be six cripples hung out to dry
on the fence, and four naked survivors
scratching and clawing in the middle of
the ring, until at last only one was left;
and while he was bowing to the applaud-
ing multitude one of the others would
recover and stun him from behind with
a big wooden chair.
Yes, a go-as-you-please fight, with 10
men in one ring, would be a bright and
original entertainment, and only the
united denseness of two Scotchmen
could have suggested such an idea. More-
over, the principal Scotchman can't
fight; he is a professional lifter of heavy
weights and a tearer-up of tree-trunks,
but boxing is not in his line. Conse-
quently, his one idea would be to pick
THE BRIGHT LEXICON OF BUST.
HEAVY MELB . FATHER: “With energy
and perseverance every young man
can succeed. There’s no such wor
as fail!”
HOPEFUL SON: "You’re right there,
father—it’s reconstruct.”
[Tom Durkin —14/4/ 94.]
up one of his enemies, and swing hini
round in the air, and brain the rest wi
his feet; or else he would chuck his toes
out of the ring and throw them a B al P s
the wall; and all would be mad contusion
and howling and rags and gore.
The proceeds, we presume, would
to the hospital fpr -iiicjurab|es..
[5/9/ yt-j
TWILIGHT.
She lingers at the appointed spot,
Her sweet, young face is very fair,
Her dark, dream-haunted eyes are soft—
And sunset’s gold is on her hair.
The twilight’s gathering gloom reflect'
The glory of her lovely form,
The matchless grace of attitude—
The full ripe red of rich lips warm.
She listens to the murmuring sounds
Attending twilight shadows deep;
And soft the purple sunset hues
In beauty o’er her features creep.
Her car is strained to catch a sound,
A footstep’s sound she knows so well,
As far across the trees and flowers
The hour that’s chimed, from distant bell,
Throbs softly on the breeze and fails
In sweetest silence, as the bloom
And glory of the sunset p&les
Into the twilight’s gathering gloom.
She cares not for the distant chimes
That, swell and die along the breeze,
Nor for the murmuring stream that rhymes
In silv’ry incoherencies:
She waits beside the rustic seat
And listens while the deepening night
Blends a resplendent arch of stars
Above the sunset’s dying light.
The lengthening shadows force the gloom
Athwart the flowers and pathways dark.
The gilded moonlight, creeping slow,
Rocks like a stranded fairy bark —
And still he comes not! Dull and slow
The big, bright teardrops glistening fall;
The fitful shadows darker grow
Deep in the silence —that is all!
But hark! his footstep sounds at last!
Her heart with rapture leaps to meet
The. gladsome music of his voice,
' The echo of his hastening feet.
Fond foolish love that could not wait!
Her bright head on his shoulder slips-
And ah! her soul in ecstasy
His kiss draws from her pouting lips!
“I was detained, my love,” he said,
“By that which would not brook delay;
Impatiently my fond heart chafed
Ere I could tear myself away!”
Oh, doubtless cause of his delay!
Ne’er as he said to part ’till death,
Alas! for all he had to say
She smelt the whisky in his breath!
[5/9/91.]


CitA&f&W
yJ*
£S
That* why I prefer
WATSONS N? 10
SCOTCH
ms
n.
A Se & Quality Guaranf
BY
_ PRo P> ,? Er 1 PINT 6 fL. «*■ . Afj
1N SC or LAO
I’m not easily pleased where
Whisky is concerned but
Pm more than satisfied with
Watson’s No. 10. It’s a good
mellow Whisky—and its fine
quality never varies.
A PRODUCT OF SCOTLAND
ş
š
W.10.5.X.


6N*
mmm
A
r
k
Ti TA NJ'
OF THE
TIDE/
TRAVEL “HOME'
via AMERICA
Cross the Atlantic by the
White Star Line
Choice of . . .
Express de luxe Service
or
Superb Cabin Class Fleet
You may reserve your Atlantic accommo-
dation before leaving Australia.
HITE /TAR LINE
TLANTIC PAX/ENGER /ERVICEX
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.
NT/ THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA & N.Z
The “WEEKLY COURIER”
(EST. 1901).
The
National
Weekly of
Tasmania.
Famed throughout Australia for its illus-
trations, which cover every part of beautiful
Tasmania; acknowledged to be the Social
Weekly of the Island; and recognised as the
journal of the Man on the Land. The
“Weekly Courier,” with its Tasmanian circu-
lation, is
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF THE STATE.
Full Information, Cooies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF TASMANIA.
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston. <
Proprietors also of “The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening’
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembia Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Fiela
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICE 2d.
ſ
l is
tar
Tart
pair
park
art
their
I left
per
bad
Uppers
have
vbich
Owner
morn
cveO'
once
led
Sydney
Km
Half
Bay
\pats°n
fed
w
q Kiwi Black and Tan Polish will make a good
• shoe last . . . and give a good shine to boot.
% It preserves and waterproofs the leather.
BLACK
■iMildiM
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
■J.WfciiM
It any illustration in THE BULLEiTIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Seymour” Post Hole Digger
Let the Seymour Post Hole
Digger do the Digging!
Your time is too valuable to have a
man spending any longer than is
absolutely necessary in erecting a
fence.
The Seymour Post Hole Digger in
making a fence 72 chains long,
saved' no less than twelve days.
Sizes 3in. to Sin 16/6
~ Tin. 17/6
„ Bin 19/6
„ 9in. and lOin. . . 21/3
(Includes Sales Tax; Postage or
Railage Extra.)
NOTE CONSTRUCTION.
EASIER! QUICKER!!
The old methods of post-hole digging are
laborious and costly.
Other labor-saving equipment and tools are shown
Latest Catalogue. Cut off and send coupon for a
MLPKersons)
Proprietary Limited
Established iB6O.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
592 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
in our
copy.
/
/ .
/<js
v
try
& jp
c <r?
&


My Tropic Cruise.
BY THE MELBOURNE OFFICE FLAPPER.
Well, I have been to Papua, and, be-
lieve me, every girl ought to go and see
our Australian empire-builders in their
native habitat, so to speak, as a matter
of duty.
I mean, we are apt to get all sorts
of wrong ideas about it if we leave
it entirely to Hollywood. I mean, 1 saw
a New Guinea picture once in which
Ronnie Colman, or someone, penetrated
the mountainous hinterland at great ex-
pense and found a
rajah with a perfect
Oxford accent in a
replica of the Taj
Mahal, feeding his
(Ronnie’s) best girl
to the sacred croco-
diles because she de-
clined to enter his
harem because of
the lack of seating
a c c o m m odation.
Well, it seems either
this never was or
else Judge Murray
has changed things
for the better.
Well, a voyage to
Papua is just one
disillusion after an-
other. I mean, when
I got back to Mel-
bourne I learnt from
the “Herald” that I
had been among
cannibals and head-
Law and order.
hunters, and that the white people at
Port Moresby cower in their houses
while the natives walk about with
thqir (the white people’s) bleeding heads
in their hands. Well, all I saw was
bovs in short skirts walking around with
tea-trays.
Faster than Larwood.
I met “Feng-Shui” and he told me
that he was once stationed on an island
in Borneo when 700 American tourists
arrived, and they staged a Dyak head-
hunters’ dance and after it was over the
dancers took off their greasepaint and
put on their clothes and went back to
their jobs, which was being telegraph
messengers and clerks in the Govern-
ment.
Well, another disillusion was getting
to Papua. I mean, the usual way 1 under-
stood was you ship as supercargo aboard
a schooner or brigantine under Captain
Bully Haze with a shanghaied crew of
British Peers of the Realm who all swim
ashore at the first tropical island passed
en route in search of fresh sap for their
effete family tree, and you end by being
flung on a coral reef. Well, I went in
Maritime scene.
the Otranto, which weighs 20,000 tons
and contained a captain not a bit like
Bully Haze, a staff commander who
danced devinely, 140 seamen, 17 cooks,
a chef from Paris in a tall white hat with
pleats, four butchers, seven bakers, 248
stewards, a steam laundry, an automatic
egg-boiler, automatic toaster, automatic
potato-peeler and automatic jazz band.
The only thing on the ship which wasn’t
automatic was the carrot-slicer, who was
a man. Probably next year a rival com-
pany will put on a ship with an auto-
matic carrot-slicer and get all the trade.
Also the Otranto should have had a
glass bottom so that you could view the
wonders of the Great Barrier Reef with-
out leaving your bunk. Otherwise I had
no complaints except about the food. It
seems the Orient Company had made a
mistake and shipped too many cooks,
and it was feared that if they had no-
thing to do they would get discontented
and start a mutiny, so there was prac-
tically what amounted to a continuous
river of food. I mean, it was practically
impossible to get away from it anywhere
in the ship unless you locked yourself
in your cabin, and then you probably
found you had shut yourself in with a
couple of custard-apples and a grape-
fruit or two. By the end of the voyage,
such is the force of habit, many of the
passengers lived in terror of starving to
death between lunch and afternoon tea.
I won’t decant about the beauties of
the Barrier Reef because that has already
been decantered by Mr. Bamfield, E. J.
Brady and others, and besides 1 didn’t sec
it and didn’t meet anybody who ever-
had; in fact, I’m inclined to think it is
a myth invented
by the Orient Com-
pany, though Mr.
Murphy, the Morn-
ington whaler, told
me it is really
there, and that it
is a thousand miles
long and was all
made by millions
and millions of
coral polyps, all
exactly the same.
It seems they have
the habit of hard
work ingrained,
and they just go
on working with-
out any clear
idea what they are
making or why,
like a nut-turner
in one of Ford’s
A dancer.
factories. There are so many of them
that the sea floor sinks under the
weight, and then they die because
they can’t work under more than 30
fathoms, but their children take up the
family ideal and go on building on their
parents’ dead bodies, all terribly unin-
teresting, I thought.
There was an old lady on board
who had more sense. She spends 49
weeks of the year scrubbing the floors
of bachelors’ flats but she saves up the
price of a fare on a boat like the
Otranto and just sits back for the three
other weeks thoroughly enjoying herself
watching the 248 stewards scrubbing the
Otranto's floors. And she wasn't the
only person on the Otranto who was
more interesting than a coral polyp, by
any means.
Ease.
I mean, there was a man who con-
fided to me that his wife never let him
alone, even on the golf course, and he
thought he was going mad so the doc-
tor ordered him a sea trip and his wife
said she must accompany him to watch
him or he would never get well, and he
got perfectly well after a few days and
started playing deck billiards and jazz-
Orchestra.
ing with the girls, and she fell so ill of
seasickness that he had to take her
ashore and call off the trip, though the
sea was as calm as a millpond at the
time. I mean, coral polyps may be all
the colors of the rainbow and all shapes
and sizes but they don’t tell you much.
Well, we arrived at Port Moresby at
last and believe me, Papua is a beauti-
ful place, but I won’t tell you about
that because Mr. Turnbull, The Bulle-
tin writer, and Miss Beatrice Grimshaw
are on the spot and I didn’t have time
to join the local branch of the Union
of Romantic Writers of the South Seas,
I had other work to do. I mean, “Feng-
Under the oppressor's heel.
Shui” came up, very excited, with the
following from the wireless news:
NEW GUINEA “SLAVERY.”
Australia’s civil administration in New
Guinea lias been discredited seriously in
Canada. According to articles in the “Toronto
Star,” by Gordon Sinclair, a system of slavery
reminiscent of Darkest Africa has been sanc-
tioned by the Commonwealth's representatives
in the Mandated Territory.
Well, of course we don’t know any-
thing about Mandated New Guinea be-
cause we weren’t there, but as far as
Papua is concerned we can confirm Mr.
Sinclair up to the hilt. 1 mean, the first
white man we got into conversation with
on disembowelling at the wharf re-
marked gloomily. “Everything here is
for the native- —the whites don’t count.”
Well, I mean, this was obviously an
attempt to throw dust in our eyes. Well,
our suspicions aroused, we went to the
offices of the Administration where we
found a number of the white oppressors
sitting in little cubicles just like a typist’s
in Melbourne, oppressing the natives
with typewriters.
Said “Feng-Shui,” “This brutal Gov-
ernment won’t allow the native to in-
dulge in the luxury of a tin roof, and 1
can prove it.” He proved it by showing
me an article in the “Papuan Villager,”
a newspaper the Administration publishes
for the purpose of perverting the native
mind. On another sheet T read: “1 know
Fatigue dress.
a boy with a good body, plenty of fat
and muscles, and a nice, clean skin.
But to-day I saw him in a new singlet.
It fitted him very closely all over the
chest and it was a bright pink. He had
spoiled himself. A villager who wears
European clothing without a permit is
breaking the law. Remember that. You
may have to pay a fine or go to gaol.”
“So,” cried “Feng-Shui,” “this callous
Administration, indifferent to the inter-
ests of the Australian clothing industry
as to the urges of Papuan snobbery
actually dictates to the native what he
should wear, or rather, what he
shouldn’t wear.”
“I see,” “Feng-Shui” went on, “this
organ even prints photos, showing
a native in his national undress along-
side another in a European sac suit and
billycock hat. When you think for a
moment of the beauty of European
dress, how splendidly it is adapted to a
climate of 90 degrees moist, and how the
Papuan belle would fall for a native
beau dressed like Mr. Bruce arrayed for
a garden party at Buckingham Palace,
you realise to what lengths Australian
despotism will go. No wonder the
Papuan native, since he is not permitted
to wear the white man’s hat, itches to
take his head. If the Roman and Nor-
man conquerors of Britain had imposed
the same law we would still be going
around in costumes of woad.”
“That wouldn’t be bad,” I said, “on ;
day like this.”
Well, pursuing our investigations into
Papuan tyranny further, we visited
Hanuabada, a sort of native surburb of
Port Moresby. Here about 2000 natives
groan under the oppressor’s heel. I
went into one of the houses which was
clean and orderly, lighted by electricity
and erected on stilts. Inside, besides
yams, fishing-nets, spears and other
objects unknown to science, were a
Bible, some photos, in frames, Kodak
films, an alarm clock, some petrol-tins
and other foreign articles, and there was
a dog-fight going on underneath. Out-
side there was a Ford car without tyres
but still in commission. “Presumably,”
said “Feng-Shui,” “these objects are hid-
den away when the oppressors come
along.”
The girls in the village were all rolling
in fat, and a small boy with whom we
conversed said they had a fast bowler
who could knock Larwood into a
cocked hat. None of the villagers fled
when we approached. On the contrary
they seemed to regard us as walking
delegates of the Commonwealth mint.
Well, on our return we passed a Euro-
pean bungalow, and a native gardener,
perspiring furiously, was squatting in the
shade breaking up little bits of soil
abstractedly between his finger and
thumb. This was the only example we
investigated iff the sweating that goes
Gold-diggers.
on in Papua, but “Feng-Shui” thinks
there are probably worse instances to be
found. We met a native policeman in
Port Moresby and he looked milder than
the mildest Melbourne traffic cop ever
charged with abusive language, but
probably that was camouflage. Doubt-
less he was hiding his sjambok under his
shirt.
The expression on the faces of all the
oppressors “Feng-Shui” interviewed was
kindly, in fact, almost sentimental, he
said, and when they spoke about the
natives a maternal gleam came into their
weary eyes. That only makes things
worse, of course. I mean, to their other
vices the Papuan oppressors evidently
add that of hyprocrisy.
Well, this is all I will say about my
adventures on the Otranto, not that I
couldn’t say more. I mean, one could
write a book about the food alone. I
mean, Mr. Hogarth, a most charming
man who looks after all the rivers of
food on all the Orient ships, took me to
see the automatic cow on the Otranto,
A diver who scorns pennies.
and 1 learnt to my horror for the first
time that it puts the butterfat back into
the milk and I had been slimming on a
diet almost exclusively composed of
ship’s ice-cream.
Girls, there is now 41b more of me
for a future husband to have and to
hold.


The Killer.
BY RODERIC QUINN.
We were driving home from a visit to an
out-station when we saw them. They
came out of the mulga where the scrub
met the saltbush level, over which we had
been travelling since sunrise. The level
of the plains ended at the foot of the
hills, and it was down from the hills that
they straggled —a mob of sheep, done
nigh to death with all-night running, an
unseen fear at their heels.
As they passed us, stumbling, reeling,
without enough breath left in them to
bleat, Graham reined in his ponies and
cursed. When the last of them had dis-
appeared in the scrub at the far side of
the wheel-rutted track, which sloped up-
ward to the crest of the hills, he cursed
again, cursed with vehemence, using
oaths which, I am sure, had never fouled
his tongue before. We drove on, and
had covered a mile and more before he
spoke again:
“They’ll run till they die. They're
pretty well dead now. It’s the way with
sheep when they’re overdriven by man or
panic.”
A while after, eyes set straight ahead
of him, and as though not talking to me
so much as to himself, he said, ‘i d give
ten years of my life to get him; and I’ll
get him yet.”
“Get who?” 1 asked.
“The Killer,” he answered, and said no
more on the subject till we reached the
homestead, in the grey of the evening.
Then, as Mack, the book-keeper, came
up to greet us, he growled, “He’s been at
his work again, Mack. Big work this time
—biggest yet.”
The light of greeting went out of
Mack’s eyes, and something like a glint
of steel took its place.
“The Killer?”
Graham nodded, and Mack replied
grimly, as though biting one word from
the other —setting his teeth between them.
“Well, that’s Hell. Hell itself.”
That night as I lay abed, too tired
to sleep, Mack came to my room, as he
usually did when work allowed him. An
English University man who had some-
how failed to make a niche and a name,
he was an interesting talker. He knew
books and life, and—best of all his know-
ledge—the way to make himself a good
fellow when good fellowship was needed.
Lighting his pipe, he smoked for a
while without talking. Then he said,
“The Boss is out to-night. Feeling pretty
bad.”
“Yes,” 1 nodded; “I don’t wonder, con-
sidering what he saw to-day”
“That, too,” Mack assented; “but
something else is troubling him. Some-
thing much more serious.”
He put his pipe aside, and then went
on. “His wife is a sick woman —very
sick. She has been in England under
specialist treatment for close on a year.
He’s never been the same since she went
away. To-day he got news that she’s on
the Australian coast on her way back.”
“Cured, I hope.”
Mack was silent for a moment. Maybe
he was watching through the open door-
way a star setting over the South Aus-
tralian border.
“No; incurable. She wants to be with
him to the end, and she wants the end to
happen here, where she was born and
married and was pals with him for so
long.”
He rose, lit his pipe, wished me a
sound sleep, and stepped out into the still-
ness of the Barrier night. As his footfalls
died away in the distance it struck me
that Mack had been short of good talk
for once.
On the following night Mack spoke of
The Killer.
“Since this countryside was settled he's
the biggest trouble it has known,” he
said. “He’s a dog, but a dog with more
than the cunning of the fox and more
than the fierceness of the dingo. He kills
for the sheer love of killing, and kills
when and where he pleases. Yesterday
you saw some of his work near at hand;
to-morrow the odds are that we’ll get a
ring up from fifty miles away that he's
been playing havoc there. He’s a silent
killer, too —has never been known to
bark or howl as he runs from sheep to
sheep, tearing the throats out.
“The squatters all up and down this
side of the Darling have put a price on
his scalp that would give a man a good
holiday. But it seems as though he just
sits on his haunches and grins at every
attempt to realise it. The last year or so
men wise in the ways of his kind have
exhausted all their ingenuity trying to
get him; but it’s no good. He not only
fools them, but over and over again has
left evidence to show that he has fooled
them.
“Time and again, when they visit
their baits, hoping to see his long yellow
body stiffened out, the sight of other
bodies will set them cursing. Scenting a
bait or sighting a trap seems to set his
teeth on savage edge, and the nearest
flock pays the penalty.”
Mack paused to light his pipe, and
perhaps to let the hot mood that pos-
sessed him cool off a little.
“Yet,” he resumed. “Graham has him-
self to blame —if anyone would have the
heart to blame him under the circum-
stances—for The Killer’s doings.
“You know, the blacks'come here to
camp every year when their hunting is
over, and hang round the homestead till
the lamb-marking and shearing are done
—sometimes for months at a time.
Shearing-time is always a time of full
paunch and full pipe for them. When it’s
finished, off they track again, with a
howling mob of mongrels at their heels.
Well, when this happened a couple of
years ago The Killer, then a puppy, tried
to follow them, but couldn’t. A lame
paw, badly bruised, prevented him.
Abandoned by the blacks, he limped
about the deserted camp till Mrs.
Graham found him and took pity on
him.
“He was a snarling little rotter that
should have been knocked on the head
offhand, as. Graham intended doing.
But Mrs. Graham intended otherwise.
You know they lost an only child, lame
from birth.... Graham let her have her
way.
“She was of the type that is born
gentle, and illness had made her gentler.
The fierce young brute took kindly to
her, though to others he showed only a
flash of teeth and hair that bristled along
his spine. Till his bruised paw grew right
again she bathed and bandaged it, and
for nearly a year, visiting the blacks'
camp -every evening, she called him and
gave food to him. Then she left the
station for England.
“The night she went The Killer van-
ished also. Vanished into the mulga
with a cry that we heard often. It wasn't
a howl, nor a yelp, nor a bay; it re-
minded one of the call that a kelpie gives
out when a sheep is in trouble and needs
help. Maybe The Killer has something
of the kelpie in him. If so, it is very deep
down, for the kelpie is no killer —-of
sheep, at any rate. That was the only
time, as far as is known, that The Killer
raised voice; for, as I told you before,
he runs and slaughters in silence.”
Mack rose and knocked the ashes from
his pipe—a pipe on which while talking
he had wasted many matches. At the
door he said, “We got a wire to-day
that Mrs. Graham's ship will arrive at
Adelaide next week. If she’s fit to make
the journey she’ll come straight along
here on landing. She’s under the care of
a trained nurse, poor thing. Good night.”
All that week, from sunset to dawn,
The Killer ran ravaging. From out-station
to out-station he left a track strewn with
dead sheep, dying sheep and sheep that
fled in panic through saltbush and mulga
—sheep that fled and fell, appalled, to
death. Strangely enough, the whole of
his savagery seemed . concentrated on
Graham’s station. Every morning the
telephone at the homestead told of some
new butchery overnight.
Then one week-end Mrs. Graham came
home, frail and pitiably pale. The next
morning messages poured in from the
out-stations; kind words of greeting for
Graham’s wife. None of them men-
tioned The Killer.
On the morning after and the morning
after that it was the same. It was as
though The Killer had passed away like
a nightmare. That he was still alive, how-
ever, still a stealthy yellow menace, a
boundary-rider, on the fourth day after
Mrs. Graham’s home-coming, reported.
He had seen the dog at dawn speeding
full-stretch through a belt of mulga on
an outer boundary. The Killer was not
dead. He had simply stopped killing.
Afterwards, while Mrs. Graham lay on
her bed, drawing near to the end, no man
saw him, and there was no further report
of sheep or lamb dragged down by him.
It was as though his fangs had been
drawn and his nature gentled.
»l*
It was the end of a hot day, and metal-
lic lustres in the west showed where the
sun had gone down. Over the brow of
a mulga ibis were flying from a dry land
in search of water. These I watched—
forcing myself to watch, for I knew that
something was taking place in the
western room of the homestead.
As the last of the lustres faded out and
the last of the ibis vanished in the south
Mack touched me on the shoulder —very
gently.
“Come in to dinner, he said.
“Graham won’t care to eat to-night.’
I questioned him with a look.
“Yes,” he answered; “and he's all
broken up.” i
To reach the dining-room we had to
pass by the room where death lay.
Though the window was wide open, wc
passed it with averted eyes. Though a
sound came from the still interior, we
closed our ears to that also. Then we
sat down at the dining-table, and ate, and
talked of things that did not seem to
matter much.
We went out on the verandah after-
wards and smoked. The air was moist with
thick dew, and the *sky was studded with
stars, some of them so large and bright
that they seemed almost accessible. Wc
saw the light of a fire, too, built by a swag-
man down on the blacks’ deserted camp-
ing-ground. At times, when the drifting
smoke allowed, we saw the swagman
standing by the fire and staring out in
the mulga, as though he sensed some-
thing that lurked there.
Presently Graham joined us. He said
nothing, and Mack and I, although we
talked "of everyday matters, passing the
tense time as best we could, made no
mention of the subject that kept him
silent. Head on hand, he sat beside us,
but in thought he was many memories
distant.
Suddenly from the western room a cry
rang out. A woman’s cry, hoarse with
fear, a cry that for a moment paralysed
us. Mack, whose dropped pipe scattered
sparks in the darkness, rose and ran for
the western room.
He entered it as the nurse, white-faced
and wild-eyed, left it. Then Graham
and I saw him pause at the doorway,
saw him stand there an instant staring
at something, with drooped shoulders
and head thrust forward. Standing thus,
his bulk obscuring what was to be seen
in the room, he called to us:
“A gun, quick—quick, a gun!”
But Graham, breathing hard, pushed
past him into the room, and there stood
stock-still, rooted to the floor by the
incredible.
Across the body of his dead wife
lay the yellow length of The Killer.
Seemingly unconscious of our presence,
apparently unaware that we existed, with
a strange mildness in his unwinking eyes
he lay there, his muzzle resting on her
crossed hands.
For a little space nothing moved in
that western room —nothing but the cur-
tains of the open window. Came a sound
of hurrying feet, and a man, carrying a
gun. thrust himself through the doorway.
Graham waved the gun aside.
“Take it away!” he said.
Moving to the side of the dead woman,
he lifted the dog’s head and looked deep
into his eyes.
Sledgehammer Joe.
BY CON DREW.
If everyone had their rights, Sledge-
hammer Joe should have been head
serang in a vinegar factory. The Stork
brought him to the wrong address, and
he grew up a heavyweight scrapper.
Sour? Think of all the lemons you’ve
seen and paid for when monkeying
around with them fruit-machines and
you’ll get a fair idea of how sour he
could be when anything upset him. Not
that he was bad-hearted, mind you.
When things were going sweet he’d give
you the shirt off another man’s back. It
was his sour temper that was the trouble;
but I’ll tell you about that later.
They called him Sledgehammer be-
cause he had a wallop that would skittle
an Ayrshire bull. He could punch, all
right. I have to hand him that. Once he
knocked out a nigger by thumping him
under the armpit.
I hitched up with Sledgehammer the
year of Windbag’s Cup, and matched
him to fight the local champion in a
western town called Mulgal. It looked
ace-high, tucked away in the bend of the
river, with one long street and three or
four pubs. The inhabitants were plough-
pushers, stump-diggers, milkmen and
mosquitoes. It was the kind of place
where a man could make a good living
selling porcupines for back-scratchers.
When the train pulled in at the station
I seen Sledgehammer screw up his nose,
and knew he was working up for a
grouch.
“Is this the place?” he says, eyeing the
landscape through the winder.
“It is.” says I.
“Humph!” he grunted. “Thought it
was the morgue. It’s deader than Julius
His Carriot.”
“Oh no, it ain’t,” I says—to humor
him. “Most of the people are away push-
ing ploughs and things like them. Just
you wait until after sundown and the
street’ll be crowded.”
“Bah!” he snorts. “We ought to get
our heads inspected for coming here. I’ll
bet th6y feed us on grasshopper stews.”
“Not so,” says I. “The pub we’re go-
ing to stay at is noted for its cootsine.
Grab hold of that bag of yours, and
we’ll make our bow to our public.”
The fight was for the heavyweight
championship of the West, and a posse
of sports in cartwheel hats turned up to
meet us. They had a kind of junk-waggon
waiting, and we drove up to our pub
with it boiling like a kettle. After a
couple of spots with the locals, which
was as good as an address of welcome in
itself, I asked to be shown to our room,
and the landlord took us up.
No sooner had he gone than Sledge-
hammer starts to grumble.
“Nice place to fetch a man!” he
growls. “There ain’t enough people in
this dump to fill a boy-scout tent, let alone
a boxin’ hall.”
“Oh, it ain’t too bad,” I tells him.
“The horny-handed stump-diggers will
roll up strong ter-morrer night to see the
local champion in action. They’ll be as
thick as Mikes in Ireland. You'll find it
ain’t too bad.”
“What?”
“I said it ain’t too bad.”
“What ain’t too bad?” he says, glaring
at me.
“The place.”
“Rats!” he snorts. “If I’d had any
sense under the bone that carries me hat
I'd never have let meself get carried
here.”
That was Sledge all over. He’d get
those sour fits on him and you couldn’t
do nothing with him.
“Now, listen here,” I says. “If you do
what I tell you, we’ll pick up a pinch of
change.”
“Change?”
“Yes. Change, chips, mazuma. We’re
neither of us here for the good of our
health. I supposd that’s admitted, ain’t
it?”
“Yes, that’s admitted.”
“Right,” says I. “So a little honest
money earned on the side, as it were,
won’t hurt no one. Now this bird Mur-
ray you’re going to fight”——
“Murray!” he breaks in. “He ain’t
got no more chance than a curate in the
lap of a Darlinghurst widder. I’ll kill
the cow. That’s what I’ll do to him.”
“I know you will,” says I, “and the
locals will put up a monument; but try
and listen to what I’m telling you. Now
this bird Murray is only a third-rater at
best, and most of the local sports know
it.”
“So what?”
“So when you step into the ring the
betting will be two to one on you.”
“It ought to be four to one on. That's
what it ought to be. I’ll punch him as
full’of holes as a sponge-cake.”
“You ought to be four to . one on,”
-Says I, “bilt you won’t.”
“For why?”
“Because there’ll be a percentage ol
the local hyenas nutty enough to back
Murray. Two to one on —that’s what
you’ll be.”
“And so?”
“Well, seeing that our roll is down to
a whisper and we ain’t got enough coin
to lay the odds on you, what’s wrong
with us having our wad on Murray?”
That done it. “What?” he yelled, and
his eyes stuck out like waistcoat buttons
on a Cabinet Minister. “What? Me let
a tenth-rate lizard beat me? ME?
Sledgehammer Murphy, who knocked
out Banana Joe in half a round? ME
let- Bah! You’ve been standing
around in the sun without your hat.”
“Grab hold of yourself,” I says. “Grab
hold of yourself and listen. 1 ain't asking
you to let him beat you. All I want you
to do is to carry him along for awhile.
And while you’re carrying him along I’ll
send round the ring on the quiet and
back the other chap to stay five rounds
with you. I figure we’ll get our sugar on
at even money.”
That made him think a bit, and I put
in my run.
“It ain’t as if 1 was asking you to do
something that would affect your reputa-
tion as a boxer or a gent,” I goes on.
“Nothing like that. All I’m asking you
to do is to just waltz along quietly for
five rounds. It means big money, lad.
You’ll come out with your pocket full
of frogskins.”
“And what’ll I do when the sixth round
comes?”
“Dong him, if you want to. Just please
yourself. Only don’t forget your lines
and knock him out before the sixth.
Will you take it on?”
“Oh, all right,” says Sledge. And that
was that.


m
m*m
# "I never shirk
gear changing now”
“To give added weight to my views, I
may say that not only am I an engineer
but I have owned and driven cars of
various makes for over io years, and not
till I purchased my Vauxhall have I realised
the full joy of motoring ... A really sweet
change on the old type of gear was a real
joy to the driver; you are experiencing
that pleasure all the time and every time
on the Vauxhall. Moreover, whilst I have
shirked changing gear on my other cars,
I certainly change gear more frequently
now. In fact, modern traffic conditions
demand it, and with Synchro-Mesh, the
easy gear change, you can tackle any
traffic without worry or discomfort.”
That’s an experienced driver’s honest
opinion of Vauxhall’s Synchro-Mesh, the
easy gear change. There’s magic in the
gearbox. Just move the lever across
“you choose your time instead of timing
your choice,” as a well-known motoring
writer expressed it. The power and flexi-
bility of the Vauxhall engine, perfect steer-
ing and decisive braking give you confi-
dence and perfect control.
There is true comfort in the roomy
coachwork, and everything about the
appearance of the Vauxhall expresses
good breeding.
You must try this magic gearbox—any
Vauxhall dealer will arrange a trial run.
And you can purchase on the considerate
G.M.A.C. deferred payment plan.
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall Dealer
FS36M
SYIKHRO
fll€SH
€ASY
CCflßCHfln^
VAUXHALL
Not only because it is British, but because it’s a better car
Sledgehammer Joe ( Continued from page 48.)
Well, we put in all next day assas-
sinatin’ time. At half-past eight in the
evening 1 took Sledge down to the hall.
The place was packed, and everything
looked lovely. Just before the boxers
entered the ring 1 chatted to a chap 1
knew, and he went round among the
jackals to get our money on. After a
while he came back and told me every-
thing was set, and I took Sledge in and
seated him in his corner.
In comes Murray. He’s a big lump of a
chap with ears like jug-handles, and he’s
wearing green trunks. When I seen them
trunks I knew we were in for trouble;
for Sledge was Irish and wore green
himself.
Sledge glared across at Murray.
“What’s he wearing green trunks for?”
he says.
“I don’t know,” 1 says. “Maybe he’s
Irish.”
“Rats!” snorts Sledge. “You never
seen an Irishman with hair like a wet
collie-dog. He’s only tryin’ to make out
he’s Irish!”
“Now, now,” 1 says, putting on his
gloves. “What’s it matter what he
wears?”
“But it do matter,” Sledge insisted.
“What’s a goat like him want to wear
green for? It’s like his flamin’ hide.”
“All right, all right,” says I. “If you’re
narked about them trunks put in a
little punch now and then to even things
up. But don’t flop him until the sixth.
Now, in you go and do what I tell you.”
Well, there don’t nothing happen in
the first round. Sledge waltzes along
quite gentle, taking Murray’s punches on
his gloves or ducking underneath them.
To tell you how well he acted, the crowd
thought Murray had him rattled, and a
gent who evidently believed in miracles
yelled to Murray to knock him out.
Oh, yes, the first round went all right.
And so did the second and third. But
just as the fourth was ending, Murray
slammed Sledgehammer a beaut, on the
brisket. I could hear Sledge grunt from
where 1 was, and he came back to his
corner glarin’ like a searchlight.
“See here!” he says, flopping himself
down on the seat. “Does this act call
for me takin’ everything that comes and
givin’ nothing in return?”
“Now, now!” I says, cooling him
down with the sponge. “It’ll be all over
soon, and you’ll forget it.”
“Never mind about now, now, or then,
then, either!” he snarls. “Does this act
call for me to get punched full of holes
without returnin’ a wallop? Does it or
don’t it? Yes or no?”
“Of course it don’t,” 1 says. “It was a
fluke punch he got on to you when you
were careless. It won’t happen again.”
“I’ll bet it don’t!” roars Sledge. “If
that bird welts me again like he did, I’ll
flop him.”
“Aw, you wouldn’t do that,” 1 says.
“Wouldn’t I? If you’ve got the idea
that I’m goin’ to be a choppin’-block for
him, get it out of your head, even if it
leaves it empty.”
“Listen,” I says. “Be reasonable. Is
forty quid going to be kicked downstairs
for the sake of a couple of cracks? Now
is they? I’m asking you. Are we going
to leave this mosquito-haunted swamp
they call a town with only our share of
the gate and nothing on the side? Of
course we ain’t, and there’s only another
round to go. Just you clown around in
the ring like you’ve been doing, and ,
everything will be onkeybaloo. Forget ;
that punch for a while and waltz along
quiet. Do anything, but don’t knock him
out until the next round is through. Is
it a go?”
“Aw, just as you say,” agreed Sledge;
and the gong sent them in for the fifth
round.
Well, it happened half-way through ,
that round. Everything had been going j
as smooth as the business side of a
banana-skin, when suddenly Murray un-
loosed a terrific swing. Sledge came in |
under it neatly and slammed a gentle !
punch or two into Murray’s ribs. They I
fell into a clinch, broke clear, and worked i
their way to the centre of the ring. A !
second later, in trying to avoid a wallop. ;
Sledge slipped and Murray chinned him.
Sledge’s head must have rung like a !
gong, and I knew we were in for trouble. 1
It came all right, and came with bells i
on. The echo of the punch had hardly
died down before Sledge whipped over
a hook that would have strained the
rivets of a boiler. Murray stopped it with
his point and was knocked as stiff as a
head-waiter’s shirt.
* * * •*
I parted with Sledge at the door, and
told him T’d done with him for good.
Before I left I shoved a score of frog-
skins into his hands.
“What’s this?” he says, surprised.
“It’s your share of the bet,” says I.
“I backed him to stay four rounds with
you, not five. I knew that hair-trigger
temper of yours. But never no more,
Sledge: never no more.”
And with that I turned and left him.
A Mug’s Game.
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING
1.
The third of the eight Kavanagh children
put his head round the kitchen door.
“How long’ll Dad be, Mum?” he asked.
Mrs. Kavanagh’s haggard, anxious face
looked up from the sink. “I dunno. Not
long, 1 expect.”
Michael lingered in the doorway.
“Gee, Mum,” he said at last, “I’m
hungry. Can I have a piece?”
“No, you can’t,” she snapped. “Stop
worryin’ me, will yer? Yer father’s
bringin’ something good home for tea,
an’ yer can wait till then. Besides, there's
none too much butter."
She returned firmly to the sink.
Michael still waited wistfully. “Couldn’t
1 run round and get a half o’ butter?”
“No, yer couldn’t. Be patient till Dad
gets in.”
Other junior Kavanaghs were hovering
anxiously in the strained atmosphere of
the kitchen and back verandah, their eyes
lighting expectantly at the mention of
Dad’s return with the materials for tea.
Mrs. Kavanagh dumped the cleaned
lettuces out of the sink into a bowl of
fresh water. “If he’s had a good day,
you'll all be right.”
Nellie, the three-year-old baby, looked
up at the hovering group. “Lobster for
tea,” she announced portentously.
“Gee,” a general murmur answered
her. “That right, Mum —lobster for tea?”
Mum glanced at the group, a smile
flickering into her eyes. "And a bit of
salad. And whatever else he takes a
fancy to bring. He won’t be long now.”
But he was too long for the young
Kavanaghs. Robin and Michael and
Colin she could easily handle. But when
Patty, who was 16 and big for her age.
and Bernard, near as tall as his father,
said they were hungry, it was different.
“Yer got to wait,” she said again.
“He "ad two certainties.”
“Lobster, lobster for tea,’ crooned
Nellie, lifting their flagging hearts.
“I shouldn’t wonder if he d bung some
lollies and a bit of fruit, Mrs. Kavanagh
said impersonally. “ ’E’s not one to stmt
when things are right. You know that.
The minutes dragged again.
Mrs. Kavanagh glanced at the cl#ck
beside the blue vase on the dressex. This
was getting her down. “Slip out on the
front balcony, Mollie,"' she said, “and see
if he’s coming down the street.’
Mollie sped out of vigil, and presently
was hanging over Riley-street. Her
voice came back to the kitchen. Here
he is, Mum —just turned the corner ’
Seen from the front balcony, he wasn’t
any too good. He carried no parcels;
and he walked slowly and looked tired
and listless. The adventurous light van-
ished from Mum’s eyes, a firm, capable
gleam taking its place. “Slip out on to
(Continued on next page.)


-primary
cause of 95% of
present-day sicKness
. . . explains Consulting Physician of
Buda Pesth
Dr. EMIL LEVAI
lUST as rust coats a water pipe, so through faulty
bowel action fragments of food waste become
encrusted on the walls of the intestine. This waste
matter is “human rust.” In it breed germs and
poisons which enter the blood stream, leading to
dreaded self-poisoning (autoxima). Self-poisoning,
the result of “human rust,” is responsible for most
of the ill-health which afflicts modern men and
women.
Clear “Human Rust” with
Coloseptic
You can clear from your system the virulent poisons
that undermine health and sap vitality. You can
banish constipation, headache, gas in the bowels and
stomach, catarrh, backache, rheumatism, neuritis, and
all the hosts of ailments that come from self-poison-
ing. Take COLOSEPTIC. It first loosens and
dissolves, then smoothly washes out the decaying
waste. It rids the body of all poisons and blood
impurities through Nature s four outlets -the large
intestine —the kidneys—the pores of the skm —and
the respiratory organs.
Regain Your Youthful Vigour.
Every morning take COLOSEPTIC in hot water.
COLOSEPTIC actually “ tones” and cleanses your
entire digestive tract —helps your body throw off
its waste matter regularly. No longer are you
depressed, tired without cause, subject to headaches
and colds. Your pulse leaps to the thrills of life —-
your old vim and vigour return. Aches, pains, and
ailments vanish for ever.
m
S s
mm
8
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
Influenza Relieved
“Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
“I have to tell you that l felt great benefit from Coloseptic.
1 was suffering from ‘flu.’ I had been ill foi a month.
After taking but a few doses I felt much better. The dry
cough left me entirely. Am telling my neighbors about it
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of the Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
COLOSEPTIC —Regular full-sized jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself Fill in the
coupon and send it in, together .with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney
COUPON.
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
24 Jamieson Street', Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (stamps
or postal note). Send me one SPECIAL DEMON-
STRATION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
the back balcony, will yer?” she said to
the group, smiling casually into their
questioning eyes. “And leave the kitchen
clear: yer Dad looks tired out.”
Denis Kavanagh s narrow lush tace
was a mask of despair. Without looking
at her, he threw his hat on the table and
sat down.
“Did yer have a bad day, Denis.
“I did.”
The visions all vanished permanently.
“Well,” she said sharply, “I told yer how
it’d be—l’m sick of telling yer
The mask of despair fitted and stared
haggardly at her. A woman 11 always
be kickin’ a man when he’s down. ? And
he with the black torment on him.
“Ah, it's a mug’s game,” she said.
“ ’Tis God's truth is in your mouth,
Nora.” He stood up and threw back the
narrow, handsome head. It is a mug s
game. And that’s all it is. Well,” his
quick, fiery eyes glowed with resolution,
“it’s the end. I’ve seen me last race.”
She watched him. "You've said it be-
fore and you’ll say it again, Denis,” she
told him. “If only you’d take a job.”
“I will, woman.” The fiery eyes danced.
“I said good-bye to the mug’s game to-
day, and to-morrow I go to see that
Plunkett devil.”
Mrs. Kavanagh put the lettuces into
the shaking cloth. “What happened yer
certainties?” she asked.
The fiery eyes fell dead. “One
came third, the other nowhere at all.
It’s a curse is on me, Nora. The safe way
for me . a f ter this'”
The drama and heroics fell from him.
“I mean it. And 1 can do it,” he said
quietly. “Coming back in the tram 1 felt
meself here in this kitchen all the way.
With no lobster, no lollies, no pineapple,
nothing. Me heart broke.” His voice
dropped a tone. “Wild horses couldn t
drag me to another meeting. 1 m
through.”
Mrs. Kavanagh sighed. Surely it was
too good to be true. “Got any money,
Denis?” she asked half apologetically.
He put a threepenny-piece on the table,
his face bleak and haggard again.
She eyed the small coin for a tragic
moment. “Oh, well,” she said, smiling at
him, “we’ll have to make out. Look
under that blue vase, Denis.”
Under the blue vase beside the clock
he found eighteenpence.
“Michael!” she called.
Michael appeared. "Run round to
Marty’s,” she told him, “and get a shil-
ling's worth of corned beef, not too fat.
And ask him if he'll oblige me with a
half o’ butter, and I’ll pay for it on me
way back from Mrs. Forsyth’s to-
morrow.”
Denis looked up, the fiery gleam in his
eyes again.
“Slip off, Michael,” she went on. “And
you take this and the brown jug”—she
pushed the ninepence towards Denis —
“and get it filled at Doolan’s.”
Then, as Denis hesitated: “Shake it up,
Denis dear,” she said. “You'll find
Doolan’s closed on yer.”
11.
The Plunkett devil told Denis he had
six months’ work for him while he kept
a civil tongue in his head. Denis listened
in respectful silence and went to work.
Every Friday he had one, or perhaps
two, at Doolan’s and brought his pay to
Nora. Colin and Mollie were shod; the
back rent was slowly reduced; Marty came
within a couple of pounds of a balance:
meals were regular and abundant. I ran-
quillity banished the haggard lines from
Nora’s face.
The ’Loo laughed in its mocking way;
but it admired, too. Mates tempted
Denis with glittering certainties; one ot
the carpenters on the job started an un-
lawful “book. ’ But Denis s eyes were
cold now; it was a mug’s game, he told
them. He had his two pots, and took his
pay home. . ,
The reward of this fortitude came, as
is the way of rewards, unexpectedly.
Nora had her first warning of it when,
she saw Denis standing in the doorway
of the kitchen, a vivid dramatic figure.
The snout of a beer-bottle poked out
from each pocket of his coat; in his arms
large and small parcels were haunted by
mystery. , , ,
As he stood in the doorway he had
an air at once rakish and romantic.
“Why, Denis” she gasped.
He slid his parcels along the table.
“There! Lollies —cakes pineapple
lobster —beer. It’s the lot, I think.
He beamed at her. But she looked
from him to the sumptuous table and
back to him. . ~ , ,
“Do ye remember Bill Pollock that
was near being sold up one time in
Crown-street?” he asked.
“I’m not likely to forget him, nor the
fiver you gave him to pay em ofl. What
about him?”
“He went to Queensland." 1 his drama-
tic Denis glowed. “And he came back
for a trip. And it’s meself that met him
in Doolan’s, and him lookin’ for me.
And he gave me the fiver.”
“Well!” she sighed, her gaze falling
again to the rich table, “it’s hard to be-
lieve it’s true.”
Denis put two notes beside a lobster.
“Mrs. McVitie was below and I paid her
the back rent. And there’s the two
pounds over/’
“It'll just clear me with Marty. I’ll
send Michael round with it. Did yer
bring a lettuce, Denis?”
“Three. In the newspaper.”
Mrs. Kavanagh looked at the food and
the two pounds. A long sigh of content
escaped her; that old light flickered in
her eyes.
“Patty! Bernard! Michael! Robin!
Mollie!” she called, the laugh running
through the words.
To the young Kavanaghs the feast
brought back the old times that seemed
to have gone for good.
To Nora, there seemed to be a glow in
the place. There they all were! Barney
was talking with his mouth full, and
Michael’s hands were not fit for a pigsty;
but they were having the time of their
lives. The smell of the food, the ceaseless
chatter, the radiance that shone round
Denis, acting the goat at the other end,
the feel of the kitchen—oh, it was a party!
There was Patty slipping lollies into her
pocket—she’d be eating them in bed when
she ought to be getting her sleep. Robin
was nodding over his third helping.
Nellie, in the clothes-basket, sleepily
waved a scarlet lobster-claw that no one
had cracked for her; Colin was cram-
ming a cake into his mouth.
Mrs. Kavanagh finished her beer and
beamed on the company. There wasn't
a happier, merrier party in the ’Loo that
night, she’d guarantee.
111. . ;
She woke first, as was her habit; but
the light was still greyish. Presently
Denis’s tumbled head shifted on the pil-
low, and he opened his eyes.
“Good-morning Denis. Ow do yer
feel after yer party?” '
“Never better.” He smiled at her, be-
fore a small shadow seemed to veil his
eyes. He stared at ,the ceiling. “Did
ye send that two pounds to Marty?”
“No, I forgot. I’ll send Michael round
with it before school. Why?”
“Oh, nothin’ —nothin’ at all,” he told
her. “It crossed me mind, that’s all.”
The silence descended again, the light
becoming a shade less grey.
“Ernie Lanigan had a tip in Doolan’s
last night,” he murmured.
She turned on her pillow and looked at
his expressionless face.
“It was a strange thing how he came
by it,” the melodious murmur went on.
“He has a cousin works in Pyrmont, and
a lad in the stable fell sick, and Ernie’s
cousin took his place.”
“Well?”
“The horse is named Pyrmont,” said
Denis softly, “and Ernie was born in
Pyrmont. And married there. And his
cousin came over Sunday was a week
and told him Pyrmont was red-hot.”
“Oh!” Nora was impressed.
“Ernie’s eldest boy found a shilling on
Pyrmont bridge on Monday,” Denis s
voice crooned on.
“Lord save us!” she exclaimed.
“The horse runs to-day.” His voice
faded gently into the silence.
Magic was astir in the room. Nora
watched the ceiling, while Denis peered
rapt into the old visions. “One day, or
the half of a day,” he said at last, “won’t
make all that difference to Marty. What
do ye say, me girl, if I go out and play
the luck for the last time to-day?”
“ft’s a mug’s game, Denis,” she said.
“It is, it is,” he assured her. “But
it’ll be the last time. From to-night, win
or lose, I’m through. But it’s for you to
say, Nora. Will I go, or will I not?”
For a space she watched the ceiling
again, feeling the shifting sands of peril
under her feet. The peril, the chances of
the day and the staid tranquillity of
these months. She laughed softly.
“Yes, go on, Denis. You take the two
quid and go and play your luck. If
there’s any luck in the world, you ought
to have it to-day.”
“That’s me girl!” He kissed her.
Denis having departed, Nora changed
her frock. She hadn’t been out much of
late, and it was time she had a look
round, she decided.
In the kitchen she found Patty, faintly
surprised to see Mum in her going-out
clobber. Mum had her purse in her hand
and was idly fingering its contents.
“I’ll be going out for a bit, Patty, she
said “I’ll go round to Joe’s and get
Michael’s shoes—he said they’d be done
to-day. And if I see a bit of blue silk to
match yer taffeta, and it’s not too dear,
I’ll get it for you.”
“Thank you, Mum.” .
Mrs. Kavanagh was looking into her
purse. “Oh, and if old Chang comes, get
him to leave a couple o’ nice lettuces, will
yer? Yer father’s bringing home some
sucking-pig to-night, and he likes a bit o
salad with it.”
Mrs. Kavanagh paused, apparently lost
in thought. Presently, her eyes abstracted
and expressionless, she walked across the
kitchen and lifted the blue .vase.
Under it she put a two-shilling-piece, ■
and turned again to the door.
“So long, Patty,” she said.


k
A
k
07
A
k
■
\
*
I
V
*
v J
k
a
r #i
m mk
.
w»«*artiß
::
/*■¥
y '’f£4§pwjr ' #■ - i^P''A ! ss® 5 " .
;
■ /V
: .
0r \ P
•’ '
.M■ s «
■
' : '• ;
IS
i i
M
■ i
>: v v* •
•:::•. a' >
¥ :■:•<
&
'' 1 s
HHhM^■ .•"•••'' :
■
:»■■■,
. V
ms?- wt
Jf-V-.’
■
vv > : :
■; : ®
SIMONIZ
ESSEX AGENTS ENDORSE
VALUE OF SIMONIZING.
Mr. H. J. Lane, Director of Neal’s Motors, Victorian
Hudson-Essex Agents, writes as follows: “Essex Sedan,
Reg. No. 93071, was delivered new, August 31, 1928,
and after inspection to-day we were surprised to find
the original duco in extraordinarily good condition,
equal to new. To our knowledge this car has travelled
over 100,000 miles, including 10 trips to Sydney and
back, twice to both Canberra and Adelaide and back,
and has followed reliability tests and 24-hours’ trials
as official car. The only attention it has received to
maintain the duco finish in such condition was peri-
odical Simonizing.”
IF YOUR CAR IS DULL AND
FADED.
It doesn’t matter how dull or faded the duco is on
your car, Simoniz Kleener (green tin) removes all
dullness and restores the original color. Then
Simoniz (yellow tin) imparts a lustrous protective film
which keeps the finish beautiful for thousands of miles
immune to dust, dirt, mud and weather conditions.
Buy a tin of Simoniz Kleener and Simoniz to-day;
keep your car in the same condition as Essex No.
93071.
Simoniz and Kleener are sold by good motor stores
at 5/- pair small tins, 10/- pair large; single tins,
small 2/9, large 5/6.
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd
J. N. Taylor, Ltd
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles. Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd
Bennett & Barkell.. Ltd
Hislop Lloyd. Ltd.
Westcott Hassell, Ltd
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A.. Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd
Ai!
?, u o uf«?
ran?
pit*
SIMON
■mes
yCO
t*s
?ST'" T
ouco
■»UTV and morse
iMo
Ml
;6N£
SifER
DUCO
FREE
SAMPLES
FOR TRIAL ON YOUR CAR
ß
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
s
GENERAL: — Postage
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT
By A. B. Paterson, illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay,
2nd edition. 2s. 6d. (2d.)
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD
By Ambrose Pratt.
Illustrated. ss. (2d.)
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY
By Charles Chauvel.
Illustrated. 6s. (3d.)
A MESSAGE FROM “BAWRA”
By Harold Sims. 32pp. Is. (Id.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE
By Ena Burrows. Revised
Scoring. 2s. (Id.)
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
VO
A
V V,\ e
5
c°
❖
* -
G e
X*
&
K<
M
v, > .\o>
r <TA> %
\>
&
o°
<»
Ae^ %
o'VV* *V
,\\ e v>' 1
0°
e „o>
#
o vV
* *


'! M ■ yONG
-'U^aom
6V
'V, ‘■Miiiniu^
I,
mi
w* ih
TO
V/,
Ik >
4
1
;<2
V
irj
fl
I"
//////
a
{J»jji; *»«•>«
luiiiiliiiiiii'lllii'i'iilllilfiiii
IIUIuIiIJJIIIIIJ/!
iMiiUiiililliiiuiii’iiiiiii
V
MIP«
ffARuV .1.
WiiSTC* 4
M
IN THE HEART OF
THE FAMILY CIRCLE
and wherever quality is the first
consideration, Gilb e y ’ s holds
pride of place.
For years and years Gilbey’s
Gin has been, and still is, the
recognised standard by which
all Gins are judged.
Don*/ say Gin , say
GILBEYS
DRY G IN
