

T
m
1
• am
HH&»SKPNire&' ’" '
:
I
: UTCi
'.■■:.k,:,y','--- ■■:■:
7
■K5* iL “-A. ..:
- ' . ' •■•
&_ sr'WffW|
A CORDIAL INVITATION IS EXTENDED
TO MELBOURNE SHOW VISITORS
To See How Matches are Made at
BRYANT&MAYS
There are few sights more interesting than
the Model Factory of Bryant & May, where
countless millions of matches are made
each day.
Come and see it. See the Peeling Machines
that veneer thousands of feet of Queens-
land logs. Come and marvel at the giant
machines that, with wonderful
efficiency, handle millions of
matches in a single operation
—dipping them, printing and
making the boxes, counting
the matches, packing them,
etc. See the taper for Waxies
being woven at a rate of
sixty miles per hour; and
quite a number of other
interesting things.
Melbourne Show Week gives visitors an
opportunity for visiting us, although we
would remind you that we have the
“Welcome” sign out all the year round,
to city and country visitors alike. Come
then on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday
of Show Week at 9.30 a.m. or 2.15 p.m.
%
*>*
No invitation — other than
this — is needed.
To reach us, take the
PRAHRAN Electric Tram
from the Princes Bridge
Terminus, and ask the con-
ductor to put you down
at BRYANT & MAY’S,
RICHMOND.
The Bulletin
Ifa CxAjl Hz JaJu^
Vol. 54.—N0. 2796.
Wednesday, September 13, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•"THE Now Library Catalogue for 1933 is
A now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
HanMga
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ' ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
G.B. 253
Cuticura
SOAP, OIMTMENTand
TALCUM POWDER
QMLeptLJdn
Clear and HeaMui
& '
Kl
Cuticura Soap cleanses the
skin — Cuticura Ointment
soothes and heals blemishes, rashes,
and pimples— Cuticura Tal-
cum gives the skin a pleasing fra-
grance and leaves it refreshed and
cool. Begin now to use Cuticura
Preparations regularly.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and2s. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 112,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYr:2 & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
X'J'tfeAxiAyZTciC&sS,
JuUutes'&c£&rLce t
S'&xCcj, SC***
S'S&ce&n Turfed, ra
-Cne. v&ritn? ZFb\
TheAUSTRALASIAN
.ON SALE ALL STATES 6?
The Expert
View
Cbe HX Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee”
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Clk (Hcrcury
(TASMANIA'S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFY
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson. Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
QAIbP SISjtUOIKXK?
—1
That the Soundest State
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGDADH
/ BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
P/<H$ <3 a/
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Above Criticism
A Red Page contributor recently
accused Australians of being adolescents.
They are, in the respect that they hate ad-
verse criticism. Any globe-trotter can
cause thousands to boil with fury by tell-
ing a local stunt newspaper that Austra-
lians have bad manners or a Cockney
accent. Americans were the same when
Dickens paid his famous visit to the
U.S.A. They have grown up since, and
now their most popular writers, such as
Dreiser, Sinclair Lewis and Mencken, are
their most devastating critics.
If an Australian had written “Pen-
guin Island,” with Australian political
scandals substituted for those of France,
he would have had to flee the country ;
the French, being national adults, were
delighted with it. England has been
impervious to criticism for centuries.
Shaw, Belloc, Aldous Huxley, John
Strachey, Evelyn Waugh and a score of
others are the heirs to Swift in this con-
nection, in the same way as Noel Coward
and Maugham are the heirs to the Res-
toration playwrights. The English are
only tquchy on matters of sport; but
then a characteristic of the average
sportsman in every country is that he
remains a schoolboy till death.
Anglicanism
The Pilgrim’s Regress, by C. S. Lewis
(Dent; 55.), is a sermon in allegory. The
protagonists’ names are not nearly so
well chosen as Bunyan’s, Mr. Lewis,
like many another earnest preacher, being
short of humor. The Creator, for ex-
ample, is the Landlord, and we find
Reason, on being interrogated by Pilgrim
John about mother-complexes, remark-
ing: “Some have thought that all these
loves were copies of our love for the
Landlord!” The Lady, for the Virgin
Mary, isn’t a success either.
The frontispiece, Mappa Mundi, dis-
closes the countries through which John
wanders in search of spiritual enlighten-
ment. The Tableland, which he reaches
by way of Claptrap, Ignorantia and
Superbia, is the home of High Church
practices: England. “More than half
of the country north of the Road,” says
History to John, “is now held by the
Enemy’s [Devil’s] tenants.”
“They had to import everything, for that is
the difficulty of the Tableland. It never has
been able to support life, and it never will.
Its inhabitants have always lived on their
neighbors.”
“They must always have been very rich
men.”
“They always were very rich men. I don’t
think l remember a single case of a poor or
common person going there. The Tough-
minded nearly always go to the Tableland as
colonists from Mammon’s country.”
“Can you tell me, Father, why these Tough-
minded people behave so oddly?”
“Well, for one thing they know very little.
They never travel, and consequently never
learn anything. They really don’t know'there
are_ places outside Mammon’s country and
their own Tableland.”
After this we are not surprised to find,
by reference to Mappa Mundi, that a
tragically short bypath leads from the
Tableland to Mania. John’s goal, the
Western Island [Heaven], is approached
by a devious bridle-track which starts
from the dwelling of Mr. Wisdom, well
south of the Road, and passes through
Wisland, leaving the vicarage, or what-
ever it is, of evasive Mr. Broad to the
east.
Mr. Lewis is hopelessly pessimistic
about the Northerners. Their Drudge
has revolted.
All over the plateau, and in Mammon’s
country, their slaves are escaping and becom-
ing dwarfs (Marxomanni, Mussolini and Swas-
tici), and therefore the masters are turning all
their attention to machinery, by which they
hope to be able to lead their old life without
slaves.
The Pilgrim’s Regress is an acute and
biting criticism of modern English ethi-
cal standards, and of what the author
calls, with characteristically parsonical
waggishness, Mother Kirk ; but it would
have been easier to read in almost any
other form. The clumsy dog-Latin names
distract the attention like gangster slang.
Another Pilgrim
Poor old Eng-
land is also scari-
fied in Winifrid
Holtby’s The
Astonish ing
Island (L ov a t
Dickson ; 7s. 6d.). A young Christian
man from Tristan da Cunha is wrecked
at a seaside resort, struggles ashore in
nothing but his trousers, and is promptly
warned that he mustn’t sun-bathe —•
though there is no sun. The natives talk
to him of the Empire:
“It is very important that you should never
mix up Colonies and Dominions, because if you
call the Dominions Colonies they get cross, and
arc likely to barrack at Test matches, because
in spite of coming from temperate countries
they are very excitable and speak with accents
and have rather bad manners and don’t always
play cricket.”
His Progress begins with some lessons
on Good Sportsmanship. He is nearly
deafened by barrackers at a Cup tie,
and at a boxing match he heats a num-
ber of Islanders “promise to pay one
another money if one boxer hits the
other senseless within a certain time.”
He tries to discover a member of the
working classes. A man engaged in
sweeping up manure explains haughtily
that he is a civil servant. A woman sell-
ing bootlaces denies the suggestion that
she is a worker, in words which the in-
vestigator hesitates, as a Christian, to
record. She is a gipsy; has never
worked in her life and never will. A
smart young woman with golden hair is
equally indignant. “I’m a mannequin—
in the season,” she explains. “And if I
do sometimes invite a gentleman to call
does that degrade me to the lower
orders?” Finally, he strikes a young man
on a soapbox surrounded by banners
inscribed “Workers of the World,
Unite!” The orator blushes when ques-
tioned. Is it his fault, he pleads, that
his father was a capitalist and a baronet?
The Pilgrim learns why God made the
country—to provide the Islanders with
beauty spots on which to erect adver-
tisement hoardings and hideous cottages
and dump empty bottles and the remains
of picnic lunches. Also, how University
Men are made.
“We broke twenty-seven windows, and lit a
bonfire in the Quad and burned about ten
suites of furniture, and I should have been
arrested myself if I hadn’t shinned over a
couple of walls.”
The Islanders’ strange ideas regarding
Religion, Culture, Progress and Pleasure
are expounded to him, and then he gives
it up in despair and returns to the rela-
tively sane and moral atmosphere of
Tristan da Cunha. Libellous, of course |
but they will only laugh at it in England.
There are a dozen full-page drawings
by Batt, and some amusing decorations.
RED PAGE.
Incompatibility of Temperament
For the purposes of The Queen and
Mr. Gladstone (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymocks; 255.), Philip Guedalla has
had access to over 6000 letters in the
possession of the Gladstone trustees.
There are 625 in this volume —from the
Queen to Gladstone, from Gladstone to
her, and from her private secretary to
him. They, and Mr. Guedalla’s witty
and penetrating summary, cover the years
between 1845, when the Peel Government
was about to fall, and the death of Prin-
cess Alice in 1878.
As revelations of character the letters
are valuable. Mr. Guedalla has a theory
that there were three distinct and totally
different Victorias: the impressionable
flapper whom old Melbourne flirted
with; the priggish echo of the Prince
Consort who approved of Peel, Aberdeen
and Gladstone, and classed Disraeli with
“that detestable Ld. G. Bentinck”; and
the lonely, pompous, power-jealous
widow whom Disraeli won and held by
cynical flattery.
In the nature of things the Queen
only appears here as she appeared to
Gladstone, but there were no subtleties
in her nature. She would have appeared
in the same light to Disraeli. He got
different results only because he treated
her differently.
The outstanding feature of her mind,
as revealed in her letters, is its triviality.
She is desperately eager to understand
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


ClShUnaDtedf-
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—for Business Integrity
“THE SENIOR STORE”
THE NEW SEASON SILKS AND COTTONS
Exclusive Striped
Crepe de Chine
211
Striped Crepe de Chine, as illustrated above, of
a pure silk quality that adapts itself to sports
and smart daytime frocks. The stripes are ex-
clusive to Anthony Horderns’, and the very
selfsame quality in a 36in. width was made to
sell at 5/11. This group is 29in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard .. 2/11
This ultra-smart Jacket Frock is featured in
Striped Silk. Follow the directions of But-
terick Pattern No. 5107 and fashion the identi-
cal frock for yourself. Priced at i/9
Printed Crepe de Chine
- at
Printed Crepe de Chines have their say this
spring! There’s designs in Field Flower, Plaid
and Check effects, printed on an all pure silk
quality. Double width.
4|ll
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, yard
Plaid Taffeta
4/11 and 5/11
now for
Plaid Taffetas in a glorious array of designs and
colour combinations. An all pure silk unloaded
quality that is smart and durable in wear.
8/11
Double width. Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard
New Printed Marocains
.. 8/11
now
Printed Marocains... .the designs are specially
selected in popular two-tone colour combina-
tions. Frocks of Marocain are essentially smart
3/11
and positively correct for present wear. Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 3/11
Printed Croquelle -
now at
Printed Croquelle... .exquisite designs in a
superior quality. These were chosen by our
London Stylist as the smartest of huge range of
7/11
British and Continental designs inspected. Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, yard 7/11, 8/11
New Season Sand Crepe
The Silk with a multitude of uses, being ideal
for sports wear.. . .afternoon frocks, children’s
wear, etc. Showing in a range of this season’s
newest colours. Double width.
4/11
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard 4/11
Smart Pebble Crepe for
Pebble Crepes promise to be in great demand
again this season for inexpensive frocks. A
serviceable quality that will drape effectively,
2/11
-KM
and wear well, too. All wanted colours. Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 2/11^
• Silks—-Ground Floor, Pin Street. Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.fV.
The Ideal Sewing
Machine for the
Home Dressmaker
CLOSED
Ms
“Sit-Strate” While
White Rotary Cabinet
£3O
A reliable Sewing Machine is essential if the
desired results are to be obtained. You will
find the White “Sit-Strate” thoroughly de-
pendable in every way. Automatic drophead
cabinet, and offered with a full set of sewing
attachments.
Vibrator, Price, £2O. Rotary, Price .. £2l
® Sewing Machines—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Fret Delivery City and Suburbs only.
USE
BUTTERICK
PATTERNS
5302 size 20 38 sust
BUTTERICK PATTERN
45c
A DttlNfATOft STY L |
ciooinc t«t N4w onto*
m. jfo
.
8 r -
The celebrated Butterick Patterns are now
made in Australia, and are offered at substantial
reductions on the former price. Anthony
Horderns’ always have a complete stock of the
latest style.... there’s a pattern and size for
every figure. Prices were 1/9 to 2/11.
Now selling at /........ 1/- to 1/9
Butterick Pattern No. 5302, illustrated - above, is
priced at 1 19. The directions are simple ta follow.
...COTTONS
delightfully Smart and New
Fleurite and Fleurshelle at
All smart new designs on pretty coloured
grounds. Fleurite and Fleurshelle Art. Silk
Fabrics that will give plenty of hard wear and
are always smart in appearance. 36in. wide.
5/11
5/11
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard
Uncrushable San Toy for
What a convenience a frock or two of San Toy
would be... .the uncrushable fabric. The latest
printed designs are showing on medium and
dark, grounds. 36in. wide.
7/11
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard 7/11
New Uncrushable Voiles at
This Anti-Crease Voile is showing in delightful
floral designs, and is 37in. wide. . Frocks made
of this Vbile stay clean longer, and there is no
3/6
worry about appearance.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard
Swiss Organdie Musi
Swiss Organdie Muslins available in delightful
tonings of. Helio, Sky, Lemon, Saxe, Beige,
Salmon, Almond, Deep Sky, Apricot, Vieux Rose,
also Black and White. 38in. wide.
2/6
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard 2/6
Fast Irish Dress Linens - at
Irish Dress Linens available in a range of fast
washing colours, including Saxe, Nattier, Almond,
Apple, Cinnamon, Nigger, String, Sunset, Pink,
Apricot, Fawn, Lemon and Navy. 36in. wide.
2/6
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, yard 2/6 and 3/6
• Dress ' Materials—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to alt
seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
v
ML
mt
m>A?>
- ?
m
' r pßr —j
H
The New
CREOLISTA
36
“Creolista,” one of this season’s favored fabrics
of Art. Silk. Lovely new printed designs, as
above, on grounds of Fawn, Forest Green,
Lido, Brown, Navy, Saxe, Grey, also the ever
popular Black and White. 35in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per yard .. 3/6
The above frock is made from Butterick Pat-
tern No. 5297, priced at 1/9. It’s a delightful
summery style, that fits to perfection.
HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
HEENZO,
mm
f
mm
m
m
* m
mm
m
mi
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
B
: :
■
, :S
wy/m
SSI
•• V. ■ •
■
f ; ;\ g|g|
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eioht ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £I.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


t: W
USs
O
o
jjp
c
TO
TO
TO
clocl^
7
o
RCC!
TRADE
MARK
PATENT
NOS
272629
272763
i
How they are rushing to
try these new Seven
o’clock blades! And how
they are praising them! So
keen that they seem only
to glide over the face—so
smooth that they seem to
caress the skin. Never was
so much comfort packed
into a safety razor blade.
And the price —five of
these blades for a shilling
andsixpence! Get a
packet of Seven o’clock
blades for your double-
edged razor to-day. Every
dealer sells them.
DOUBLE EDGED
MADE IN ENGLAND
what her Ministers are doing, and to
guide and assist them as a sovereign
should, but she lacks the mental mach-
inery. Not once does she offer a helpful
or original suggestion or criticism,
though she is a most pertinacious inter-
ferer. Futile complaints, destined to be
acknowledged with profound respect
and then shelved, are her strong suit.
She writes letter after letter with the
object of getting Mr. Ayrton out of the
Cabinet.
The Queen must repeat that she does feel
very strongly on the subject. She never wld
have agreed to his appt. had she been aware
that he had made the very offensive speech
he did.
Mr. Gladstone is soothing, but Mr. Ayr-
ton remains. The woman’s rights move-
ment appalled her.
She feels the danger to be so vy serious that
she is determined for the salvation of the
young women of the country—and their rescue
from immorality to do everything she can to
put a check on it.
But she is at her emphatic best on the
subject of “the vy alarming and increas-
ing insecurity of the Railroad.”
The Queen’s own family are put to the most
grievous inconvenience by the inexactitude of
the trains. Pcess. Louise and Ld Lome arrived
2 hours late; Pee Arthur’s last train was 1 hour
and 4 late —the Pee of Wales’s children 2 hours
late.
She writes to her badgered P.M. that
she “is perfectly determined to insist
on the subject meeting with the most
serious consideration of the Govern-
ment”; but nothing happens. And
through all her letters petulant references
to her colds, rheumatism and neuralgia
keep recurring.
Every large community has its inor-
dinately rich old ladies. Some remain
kind, considerate and altogether charm-
ing to the end ; but others “can’t stand
their oats,” as the saying goes. The older
they get, the more they are deferred to,
the worse their megalomania becomes,
and the ruder and more inconsiderate
they are to their dependants. Invariably
there are people—usually men—who can
humbug and handle them, and others
who have a knack of exasperating them.
Disraeli knew how to handle Victoria 111.
She was a stranger to Gladstone, and in
any event his whole nature and training
made it impossible for him to compete
against Dizzy’s gigolo-like methods.
So the breach widened, till a time came
when the Queen could hardly bring her-
self to write to the man whom she had
regarded as a paragon in her husband’s
lifetime.
J.D.
A Great Publisher
When Bertram Stevens died, the
writers of Australia lost a sort of High
Commissioner for Letters, whose plea-
sure had been to praise them because
they were Australians, and to see that
each one of them got as much encour-
agement to begin with as might be avail-
able. So, if he had the chance, he took
them to Castlereagh-street to meet
George Robertson, in the hope that the
only worth-while publisher in the Com-
monwealth—Rowlandson confined him-
self to bringing out paper novels, and
they weren’t doing very much in Mel-
bourne at the time—might see some-
thing in them.
In the big bookshop they were
introduced to a burly and bearded man
who immediately sized them up as
human beings with a shrewdness they sel-
dom suspected, and told them of the
hardships of publishing and the small-
ness of its profits. They received an
impression of a kindly and benevolent
sage who was a personality. They never
quite lost that idea of him, or the idea
that he wanted to be as friendly as he
could be. It was not possible to meet
George Robertson without realising this
much about him. And they also realised
that he looked a big man, and was one.
There could be nothing small or petty
about a man with his presence.
Afterwards, they might come to under-
stand that he was capable of driving a
hard bargain, but they would realise as
well that he was incapable of taking an
advantage. Of anything that the enthusi-
astic Bertram had done for them, they
became certain that the best was the
introduction to “G.R.” And that not
because he might be an easy mark for
MSS. —they soon dropped to it that he
wasn’t. It was rather because he was
unique, the only “G.R.”
Later on they learned to love the man
as he loved his fellow-men. The twink-
ling eyes behind the spectacles were the
windows of a wit that could be biting
but was never unkind. The big body
housed a big soul, and in the soul was
a spirit of patriotism that made him
count in all his productions the benefit
of Australia as being more to be con-
sidered than the benefit of his banking
account. Some of the most valuable
books he published saw the light of day
only because he knew they must be pro-
duced—even at a financial loss —because
Australia wanted them and they would
be good for Australians. It was the very
smallest consideration with him that the
financial loss would be his.
He had some quaintly surprising ways.
Once he bought for cash a book by
the present writer, and had it set up
and illustrated and the final proofs cor-
rected. When the author called in to
inquire about the probable date of pub-
lication “G.R.” said:
“I’ve read it again, and I’m not going
to bring it out. I don’t think it would
show either of us at our best.”
Good-bye, “G.R.”!
J.H.M.A.
The Function of Criticism
“T. the R.” expressed in verse (B.
23/8/’33) his view of certain opinions,
on the subject of that adulation which is
called “Shakspeare criticism,” to which
I had given utterance in the course of a
lecture delivered in Adelaide under the
auspices of the English Association of
that city. These verses were entitled
“All Out of Step but Our Jock.” To
their tone I wish to take no exception,
especially as there was in them no show
of malice; but to the idea underlying
them I desire to take the strongest ex-
ception. The demand seems to be for a
regimentation of thought, an application
of military discipline to the things of the
spirit, that appears strangely out of place
in the columns of The Bulletin.
Is the scholar to be reduced to the
level of the politician, whose purpose in
life is to find out what the majority of
his constituents are thinking, and then
make himself hoarse in the advocacy of
such views? To ask a scholar, a student,
to utter only conventional views, the
accepted views of the great majority, is
to endeavor to put a brake on the intel-
lect, to stereotype art, to force learning
to travel in a rut, and to damn all pro-
gress. Had such ideas prevailed for the
last thousand years, we should still be
sunk in that depth of credulity and igno-
rance to which Europe was reduced
after Christianity had effectually wiped
out the old learning and the old spirit
of learning. We were rescued from the
superstitions (or some of them) of the
Dark Ages by the gradual dissemination
of views opposed to those generally held
and authoritatively sanctioned.
My own views upon the subject of
Shakspeare-worship are probably of
little account; but freedom of thought
and the free expression of such thought
are, I venture to say, of much more value
than the eternal repetition of conven-
tional eulogies by men who do not care
or dare to think for themselves. It is a
mistake to represent me as standing
alone. That is far from being the case.
It is not all who practise the Shakspear-
ean goosestep who fail to recognise the
folly of it. If they keep in line, it is
mainly because of their material inter-
ests, which tell them it is inadvisable to
raise their voices against established
views, because their careers are in the
hands of those whose only guide in
matters of thought is Authority.
As a teacher of the young, I make
no attempt to force my ideas down the
throats of students ; but I do strive to
give them a freedom from purely conven-
tional ways of thinking and to enable
them to form opinions of their own
With all respect to your contributor, that
is better than instructing them to all
keep in step, as if they were so many
military automata.
E. H. C. OLIPHANT.
The Indian Tariff
There are at least a dozen standard
works on the Indian tariff. Yet Hiren-
dra Lai Dey, Lecturer in Economics at
the University of Lucknow, can still find
something extensive to say about its re-
lation to industry and taxation in The
Indian Tariff Problem (Allen and Unwin .
7s. 6d.). Customs and excise provide
53.38 per cent, of the revenue, or 70.72
per cent, of Imperial income outside land
revenue. Over 42 per cent, of tariff in-
come comes from tariffs on necessaries
of life and the means of production—
mainly from customs duties on sugar and
cotton and excise on salt.
The author points out that indirect
taxes upon the means of production
impinge upon costs, and thus tend to under-
mine the competitive strength of the unshel-
tered and unprotected industries in the home
market and of the exporting industries as
well.
Futhermore, consumption-taxes tend to
bring about a redistribution of the
national dividend in the direction of
greater inequalities of income among the
different economic and social groups.
He believes that bounties possess
special merits over import duties as a
means of protection for large-scale
national industries, because the adminis-
tration of the former system is calcu-
lated to be more careful and rational
and subject to greater public scrutiny,
while it distributes the burdens over the
whole of the taxpayers instead of un-
equally among income groups.
Though the Indian tariff problem is
vitally different from the Australian one,
this book could be read with advantage
by every political student in the Com-
monwealth and might well serve as a
model for a concise, up-to-date study of
our own system of Protection.
M.H.E.
A Satchel of Books
The World We Live In, by R. G.
Casey, M.H.R. (Specialty Press ; 25.). A
collection of speeches, mostly on world
affairs, by one of Australia’s best-in-
formed Parliamentarians. Mr. Casey
has a simple, unaffected style which
makes him as easy to read as he is to
listen to.
The Magic Voice, by R. T. Littlejohns
(Robertson and Mullens; 55.), is the
second illustrated book about the lyre-
bird to appear in Australia during the
last few months. This work, which is in-
tended to be complementary to a sound-
film featuring some of our most famous
bird's imitations, has a learned foreword
by A. H. Chisholm.
Money Street, by J. K. Ewers (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Dymocks ; 7s. 6d.). A
romance of life in Westralia. Elman
Day is the hero, Crabs is his faithful
cobber, Betty is the girl, and her sinister
aunt is the blot on the landscape. After
many tribulations, which include the
death of poor Crabs, the young people
are united and face a happy future. The
characterisation is sound and the genre
pictures of the households of Money-
street, which is in a residential quarter
of Perth, are entertaining.
Jacko, by Brooke Nicholls (Angus and
Robertson ; 4s. 6d.). Jacko is probably
the only kookaburra who has made a
transcontinental theatrical tour, and he
has done a great deal of broadcasting.
In the first half of this amusing book
he tells his life-story from his birth in a
Watts River (Vic.) gum-tree to the
present day ; and in part II his friends
take up the tale. He emerges as a most
human character. There are scores of
charming drawings by Dorothy Wall and
a foreword by J. McCrae, Vic. Director
of Education.
Edmund Vale’s See For Yourself (J.
M. Dent; 5s.) is modestly sub-titled “A
Field Book for Sightseers.” Actually it
is a little classic which should be read
in conjunction with the works on Eng-
lish architecture of such writers as Addy
and Williams-Ellis. His chief charms
are that he is a great lover—he sees
beauty everywhere—and he can make
you see it: in short, he can write. Could
anything be more absolutely right than
this about Norman architecture?
It was not beautiful to begin with, but
has become so partly from attrition, partly from
contrast with what is modern and what has
intervened, but chiefly from the radio-permea-
tion of sentimentality.... Stupid and yet subtle,
hard and yet tender, secular and yet de-
votional —Norman is, after all, essentially true
to its builders —it is soldierly.
The Countryman for the quarter end-
ing September has an article by the Duke
of Montrose which discloses that Buch-
anan Castle, the family seat near Glas-
gow, is to be turned into a guesthouse.
There won’t be lifts to every floor, nor cock-
tail bars round every corner, nor saxophones
and jazz bands in every lounge, nor page-boys
in buttons, nor beauty parlors, nor constant
dancing.
There may be a hint here for some of
our necessitous graziers. The place of
honor is given to the diary of a seven-
teenth-century Quaker girl, Rachel Stick-
ney by name, and there is some charm-
ing stuff about birds and dogs. A great
half-crown’s-worth.
Every movie fan knows Goat Laven,
of New York, whose autobiography
Rough Stuff has just been published at
7s. 6d. by Falcon Books. Goat gradu-
ated as a burglar at 14, and he has
remained at the top of his profession ever
since. Gus the Gorilla, the Kansas City
Kid, Georgie the Jap—these and many
other underworld celebrities have had
the pleasure and privilege of calling him
friend. Goat has visited the hoozegow
(five years was his last issue), and,
though a wide boy who would kick a
joint and torpedo or sleeve a small-town
clown as readily as he would use a gat
on a fink, yet he is not all tough. He
claims to have loved his late mother.
There are eight full-page illustrations, in
several of which the gangsters look less
like malefactors than the detectives and
lawyers.


h
T/ieavu
'■-»**=*
B *SEf»PEtT & SONS UM«
SOUTH AUSTRAUA
ima&aU'
Jammda,
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2796
September 13, 1933.
PROPOSED PUNITIVE EXPEDITION.
"Whitepfella Gubment angry ’cause blackpfella fight for land and lubra blackpfella’s way. Sendum trooper, shootum. Whitepfella Gubment no more fight
for own land and lubra. S’posum blackpfella walkabout ’long Canberra, spearum Perkins, spearum Parkhill, spearum all plurry politicians, finish.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
VVestralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA V. BUCK-EYE.
What shall we do with Buck-Eye, King
of Caledon, the man who slays
Japanese? Something must be done to
him, because he is becoming a menace
to our peaceful relations with other coun-
tries. But what? We know that our
action must not be punitive, because the
press will just now have no violence. It
must not be conciliatory, either, because
Buck-Eye is an old jungle rogue who
has been hearing for 12 years what
Poynton, Pearce, Parkhill and Perkins
intend to do to him, and, taking no
chances, prefers to deal with dead am-
bassadors. The thing is a problem which
is not the easier to solve because half
the constabulary of the Territory already
have been in Arnhem Land, and one of
them has lost his life.
Early in 1923, Buck-Eye and his men
killed six lugger men, all Japanese.
Authority viewed the matter calmly. A
couple of police went to Point Alex-
andra, walked the beach without seeing
a native and came home. Next year the
local monarch was accused of being in
possession of the women passengers lost
in the Douglas Mawson in March, 1923.
The evidence, brought from two differ-
ent points, impressed Urquhart, the
Administrator, who had been Queens-
land Commissioner of Police, and before
that captain of the finest squad of black
police the North has ever seen; and
Urquhart urged the sending of an ex-
pedition. After three months’ delay, the
expedition left in H.M.S. Huddersfield,
and for days the world was edified with
the story of that tragic old tub’s gallant
effort to get out of sight of Darwin
against a current which reduced her
speed to a mile an hour.
It would take a coalition consisting of
Mark Twain, Zane Grey, Max Adeler
and Artemus Ward to describe the Hud-
dersfield party’s operations in their true
perspective. They never saw Buck-Eye.
But last year Buck-Eye turned up again
with his merry men and wiped out five
members of the crews of two trepang
luggers. In its tardy way the N.T. Gov-
ernment sent out a patrol party of police
to interview him. They left Mataranka
on June 23 five policemen, who
travelled 600 miles down the Roper and
then northward to reach their destina-
tion. On August 23 Groote Eylandt
Mission, communicating through Camoo-
weal, a thousand miles away in Queens-
land, advised that one of the constables,
McColl, a young Victorian, had been
speared in thick jungle on Woodah
Island in Blue Mud Bay, and that an-
other member of the party had had a
narrow escape —a spear went through
his hat.
Since then proceedings have been up
to sample. The flapper press shrieked in
its usual fashion. The south has heard
the opinions and knowledge of the in-
habitants of Darwin —who know as much
about the daily happenings at Caledon
as do those of Sydney about the daily
doings at Lake Eyre, which is just about
as remote. Groote Eylandt Mission is sup-
posed to be in grave danger, and the
Government is in a flurry about it all.
It matters little what immediate action
Ministers take. They are scarcely likely to
catch Buck-Eye and his friends, except at
immense cost. And if they do catch him,
the only way they can effectively deal
with him is to add a few more deaths
to an already long roll.
The whole native position in the Ter-
ritory is disturbing. If Arnhem Land
affairs are not enough to emphasise the
fact, those of Central Australia are. In
February this year Sydney “Sunday Sun”
published an article in praise of “Mur-
ray, Scourge of the Myalls, the Man
whose Gun keeps White Men Safe in the
Wilds.” The land where Murray is keeping
Australia safe for the whites is between
Arltunga and Barrow Creek. There is a
pub in Barrow Creek. A telegraph line
and a motor road run through it. Since
1920 it has been deemed so safe that any
casual woman tourist is allowed to potter
about in it. “The whites” are a few
cow-cockies and prospectors, living in
tin shanties ; and if they are not safe now
they never will be, because so far back
as the ’seventies, when two telegraph
employees were killed, troopers rounded
up the whole of the local Barrow Creek
tribe at Skull Creek and massacred them.
Now, 50 years afterwards, according
to the “Sun” story, it is necessary to
keep in the region a man whose whis-
pered name “is enough to turn the stock-
boys pale with fright and send the myalls
in a wild scatter to the bushland,” and
who told an inquiring Judge at Darwin
that he shot to kill “every time.”
The events quoted by the “Sun” were
all related by Murray himself. His
only companions were armed abori-
ginals, and there has been no official
denial of his narrative. A “kindly old
prospector” named Brooks had been
murdered at “Brooks’s Soak.” This
tells its own story to the initiated
—restriction of native water rights
in that land of thirst and sand is
enough to make any black kill. Murray,
sent out with two armed police boys to
catch the murderer, came upon a camp
of blacks and “surrounded them at sun-
down as they returned from hunting,
armed with their spears.”
When I shouted to put down the spears
they sat down in the long grass and, as I got
down from my horse to take a boomerang from
a boy who was poising it threateningly, the
others swung in on me. The firing broke out —
I don’t know who started it, but the whole 17
were dead when it finished.
Murray may have been justified—the
Judge felt on his evidence that he was.
But it did not deter the tribe involved
from attacking another settler, an outrage
which led to another Murray expedition,
with this result:
I rammed a spear clean through his chest
Again the firing broke out. This time we took
no prisoners.
It all happened less than 1000 miles
from Canberra as the aeroplane flies.
And it is nothing to what is likely to
happen if punitive expeditions go into
Arnhem Land, where the natives,
touched with Malay blood, are more
cunning, savage and of better stamina,
because better-fed, than the wretched
desert blacks of Barrow Creek and
Coniston.
The matter is comparatively easy to
settle without bloodshed. The Central
Territory has been occupied since the
’sixties. The first settlement in Arnhem
Land was in 1828, and still there is not
a white on the Gulf side except a few
wandering pearlers, a missionary or two
and some fugitives from justice. This
country —32,000 square miles —is a native
reserve and nobody has any business in
it. A fort should be established in the
Caledon region with a sea patrol which
would keep off trepangers and other in-
truders who interfere with native women
and native rights. And in Central Aus-
tralia a tract should be set apart on which
the tribes could roam at will, maintaining
their precious soaks and burning the
country annually, as their hunting cus-
toms demand.
Under present conditions it is impos-
sible to blame natives who shoot con-
stables or constables who fire in self-
defence. But almost every death is a
needless one. The man who knows and
respects native customs and hospitality
is normally as safe as in Bondi—even
there innocent citizens are sometimes
shot on the footpath by robbers. But
while foreign nationals are permitted to
go to places where they may innocently
or otherwise offend native opinion so as
to risk death, the responsibility of pro-
tecting and avenging them is ours.
CASE AGAINST THE TARIFF.
The Bulletin heartily agrees with
K. W. D. Humphries, of the Upper
Hunter Primary Producers’ Unions, that
farmers and manufacturers should “get
together and pull together.” It is glad
to see that the N.S.W. Chamber of
Manufactures has arranged to meet rep-
resentatives of the Federated Tariff -Re-
form Organisations with the object of
“arriving at an agreement on the fiscal
issue,” and so paving the way for a
U.A.P.-C.P. understanding. It has no
sympathy at all with the paid officials
of the disunited parties who are barking
at one another in the newspapers. It
has already expressed its opinion of the
Prime Minister’s reply to the Sydney
deputation of business men and graziers
who placed before him their case against
the tariff, and, for exercising a right
which should be ungrudgingly conceded
to all aggrieved sections of the people—
the right of carrying their wrongs, real
or fancied, to the head of the Govern-
ment —were informed that they had
“insulted” him.
Mr. Gordon Bennett is no longer
president of the N.S.W. Chamber of
Manufactures, and perhaps that accounts
for the new spirit of sweet-reasonable-
ness. In his zeal for the important interest
which he represents, Mr. Gordon Ben-
nett has said some very foolish things.
When he turns to the subject of national
defence and the manufacturer’s relation
to it, he says wise things. For example:
It is a matter of vital importance for every
country which values its independence to de-
velop in its own territories, in time of peace,
all industries necessary to supply the needs of
its armed forces and population in time of
war. For Australia, this means wider develop-
ment of existing industries and creation of
several new industries.
True; and for the development of
existing industries and the creation of
the necessary new ones, Protection is
essential. It would be a crime against
Australia to expose indispensable tariff-
helped industries, of which the Broken
Hill Prop, steelworks is a shining ex-
ample, to the danger of being snuffed
out by foreign competition. If the crime
were consummated because we sacrificed
to Freetrade clamor the means of carrying
on a defensive war in our own country,
posterity might have reason to curse us.
Nor are city factories alone necessary
to a self-contained scheme of defence
against invasion. As Mr. Gordon Ben-
nett points out, development of cotton-
growing and -spinning is also necessary ;
so likewise are development of sugar-
growing and -milling and the manufac-
ture of power alcohol from the waste.
Here again there must be Protection.
The only alternative, if we are not to
leave this country naked to possible
enemies, is bounty-feeding financed by
heavy taxation of land values, and land
men who cry out against Protection
would cry out louder, against that.
But there is a case against the present
Australian tariff ; and no tariff should be
regarded, even by Protectionists, as if
it were the Ark of the Covenant. Every
tariff is the work of fallible politicians,
and tariff-making is a much more difficult
and delicate job than it was in David
Syme’s day—for one reason, because the
technique of retaliation has so immensely
improved. Moreover, as the Americans
have painfully learned, there are limits to
what a tariff can do, even in a country
with a great home market and an enor-
mous accumulation of gold, neither of
which Australia possesses.
The Australian tariff is naturally
judged as one instrument: primage,
revenue and protective import duties,
excise duties and all. White, the Minister
of Customs, acknowledges the. strength
of the case against it every time he
protests —as he so frequently does—that
most of the customs and excise millions
are the proceeds of revenue duties.
The Treasurer acknowledged it when
he announced that customs and excise
receipts for 1932-33 had exceeded the
estimate (£27,600,000) by £5,392,000, and
that customs and excise revenue for
August, 1933, was £65,000 more than for
August, 1932. The Lang group declares,
in a manifesto which has come as a rude
shock to some Sydney manufacturers:
Apart from those duties that are frankly
revenue imposts, a large proportion of the pro-
tective tariff schedule has been inflated for
revenue purposes, and the resultant increase in
the cost of living has not been returned in pro-
portion to the workers in industry.
Mr. Gordon Bennett himself has
denounced the retention of the prim-
age exactions. Primage is not Pro-
tection, and by sending up the price of
raw materials it has proved a serious
handicap to some manufacturers who
have to import raw materials or go out
of business. Neither are the taxes on tea
protective, nor the duty on sewing cotton
(every housekeeper complains, with
reason, that these necessaries are shame-
fully dear); nor is the cause of Pro-
tection served when a man has to pay,
even in Sydney, 9d. for a pint of beer
and for a nip of Australian brandy, lOd.
for a tot of whisky, and 6d. for a packet
of fags. It would be to the advantage of
both manufacturers and land men to
secure a sweeping reduction of the duties
which are the cause of these prices and
others equally outrageous, which inflate
the cost of living, wages and administra-
tive expenditure.
During part of the depression period
it was necessary to restrict imports to
what we could pay for out of our sadly
diminished income, and to make corres-
ponding readjustments in customs and
excise duties. The job was done in a
hurry, and we paid in loss of overseas
trade for blunders committed. The great
need now is for a wholesale reduction of
taxes that are patently burdening indus-
tries, country and city alike. Primage
and revenue duties of customs and excise
are in this category, together with sales
tax, land, income and unemployed-relief
taxes. City men and land men should
unite to secure a 50 p.c. reduction ot
these taxes for two years, the loss of
revenue to be made up by premium-bond
issues for that period. They should unite
also to secure a renewal of the Nat.-C.P.
alliance under the man who led a Nat.-
C.P. Government, without sacrificing
Protection or wrangling with the Agra-
rians, for nearly seven years —Stanley
Melbourne Bruce. A Bruce Government
could keep Lang out; Lyons will only
let him in.
“KAPAI TE MAORI!”
According to statistics, the Maori race,
after declining in numbers for a full
century after first contact with the
pakeha, has taken fresh root in the soil
and is beginning again to increase and
multiply. It is a case almost unique in
the history of colonisation.
It must be admitted that, though the
better sort of pakeha tried to be fair,
the Maori had a hard row to hoe in that
first century or so when his country was
becoming the property of an alien race.
He was himself a colonist. He had con-
quered and well-nigh exterminated the
Moriori. He had high intelligence, but
his social organisation was primitive. The
arts of writing and figuring, gates to vast
knowledge, were to him unknown. His
attempts at graphic art were grotesque.
But the Maori had developed a lan-
guage and a faculty for poetry. He
had music of a sort. And he brought
with him a warrior tradition as fine, in its
way, as that of the Japanese Samurai.
His chieftains and tohungas were men
of character, imbued with the essence of
statecraft.
The first pakehas were not at all
ethical —rough whalers and adventurers.
In the train of these came go-getters
who wanted to buy land in exchange
for blankets, tomahawks and looking-
glasses. The big chiefs looked at
these persons with a hard eye. “Land
lasts for ever,” they said. “Blankets
wear out; steel blunts; glass breaks.”
So the go-getters sought out younger
sons and got them to make marks
on documents. It is now well estab-
lished—Sir George Grey, Bishop Sel-
wyn, Sir William Martin and, as lately
as seven years ago, a Royal Commission
are witnesses —that the cause the Maoris
fought for in the wars was good in
equity.
In warfare with Europeans the Maoris
were beaten, but if there are any inter-
national medals for sportsmanship they
are due for a bushel of them. It is not
recorded anywhere in Old World history
that an army laying siege to a fortress
sent food and ammunition to the gar-
rison to make the contest better sport,
but a Maori Galahad did just that. The
“Ake, ake ake!” of another chieftain
who was caught in his fort by British
troops not so chivalrous and declared
that he would fight “for ever, and for
ever, and for ever” rather than sur-
render imported a zephyr of mediaeval
romance into the prosaic nineteenth
century.
The Maoris were beaten, but they did
not whine. They sent the sons of rangitiras
to Oxford and to Cambridge, and fitted
them to become Ministers of the Crown.
Seddon found the golden-tongued Timi
Carroll the best lieutenant a Premier
could hope for in a land adventuring on
experiments in democracy, and a sage
adviser as to native problems. Peter
Buck and Apirana Ngata, men whose
character and ability would single them
out for distinction in any community,
have had Cabinet rank as an aid to their
leadership of their race. The task of
these and a dozen other good Maori
patriots has been to adapt the Maori
race to its new conditions. They have
succeeded.
The race goes forward. It engages
sympathy. It has humor without venom.
It can fight as well now as it did a hun-
years ago, as Gallipoli bears witness.
And though it has a popular reputation
for laziness, it has a very much better-
authenticated reputation for industry
under congenial conditions. There is a
Maori poem, a song for fortress sen-
tinels, written centuries ago, which ex-
presses, very melodiously, the notion that,
after a long night in which the minds of
the old are full of doubt, trouble and
fear, there comes, with an end to pertur-
bation, the dawn.
This interesting people had its pro-
phets.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The High Cost of Export.
A British freighter of 8719 tons gross
recently called at all mainland capital
ports, going on to North Queensland.
Her owners had to pay Commonwealth
light dues, State light dues, berthage,
pilotage, fumigation and removal charges,
and income tax, Commonwealth and
State. These payments amounted to
£2388, made up as follows:
N.Q. ports .. .. . . £4lB
Brisbane .. .. .. 485
Sydney .. .. .. 730
Melbourne .. .. .. 370
Adelaide .. .. .. 205
Fremantle .. .. .. 180
Customs duties on ship’s stores, primage
and sales tax were additional. A
steamer of 5436 tons gross, trading
between Australia and Asia, was hit
up for £984, exclusive of customs duties
on stores, primage and sales tax ; and
she called at four ports.
The pilotage slug is the special grievance
of shipowners who use the port of Syd-
ney. A vessel pays a set fee regardless
of her gross tonnage and the amount of
cargo in her holds. This is characterised
as iniquitous.
In anticipation of tax reductions the
overseas shipping companies have agreed
to reduce freight-rates on wool and re-
frigerated cargoes shipped out of Aus-
tralia to the extent of £400,000 a year.
A bit of relief has been promised by
Commonwealth and N. S. Wales Gov-
ernments, but not in this particular direc-
tion ; as far as the third set of tax-
gatherers is concerned, there is no sign
of a lowering of the bushranging charges
which make Australian ports the dearest
in the world. These charges are, of
course, passed on to the Australians who
send goods abroad, and severely handi-
cap. them, particularly in their competi-
tion with foreigners—already favored by
geography, lower taxes and wage-rates —
in the British market.
0 —_
Suppressing Sharks.
Mullan’s Usury Bill, introduced in the
Queensland Parliament, goes farther
than any other Australian legislation of
the kind. It extends the jurisdiction of
magisterial courts to loans up to £2500.
Hire-purchase agreements are to come
within the scope of the measure, and
every person who lends at more than 8
per cent, becomes a moneylender.
Interest in future will be due only
on monthly loan balances, so that Shy-
lock will have to lose his bad habit of
taking security from unfortunates to re-
ceive £lOO for, say, £6O lent. Further-
more, rebates in interest must be allowed
on loans repaid before the due date, and
the Court will have power to declare in-
terest rates excessive and transactions
harsh and unconscionable. Money-
lenders must, moreover, be registered,
their books open to inspection, their pro-
curation fees abolished ; and any of them
who breaks the regulations twice in a
year will lose his license. Nor will
parties to transactions be able to con-
tract themselves outside the ambit of the
Act.
It is a bit of legislation which might
well be extended to other parts of Aus-
tralia where sharks batten on the unfor-
tunate. There are, of course, decent
moneylenders; but hitherto, except in
South Aus., the small householder in
genuine misfortune who desires to bor-
row at a reasonable rate of interest and
under reasonable safeguards has been
left very much to the mercy of Shylock.
♦—
League of Nations Costs.
Senator R. D. Elliott has been won-
dering aloud whether the League of
Nations is worth to Australia the price
we pay for membership. Last year our
contributions totalled £63,000, plus
£2OOO to meet the expenses of delegates.
Total cost of the League to us so far has
been:
Contributions £458,000
Exchange 28,000
Other exes 70,000
£556,000
It would provide 2000 workers with a
year’s work at £278 each. Even if the
annual expense of membership does not
increase, we shall have put £4,000,000
into the League in 50 years’ time.
Though Woodrow Wilson’s creation has
nice lady-like ideals, the same amount
put into Australian defence would be a
great deal more use to us, if events in
the North Pacific can be taken as a cri-
terion of the effectiveness of Geneva
when a scrap is in the offing.
France also contributes, but hasn’t
stopped building a line of fortifications
down the German and Belgian frontiers.
If its League expenditure became a
burden to it, there is no question about
wriere it would economise. In a struggle
of concrete dug-outs and machine-gun
posts against League idealism, the latter
would be knocked out in the first round.
♦
Motor “Criminals.”
A country visitor called at The Bulle-
tin office a few weeks ago to say that he
had just paid his 22nd traffic fine for
illegal parking in Sydney. It is quite
easy to be so fined. Every week during
1932, on an average, 486 persons were
haled before the beak in Sydney and
charged with motor offences which
ranged from dangerous driving to over-
staying a 20-minute limit beside the foot-
path. Every quiet sunny street in the
heart of the city has its constables armed
with chalk and notebook, and the roping-
in of the annual 25,800 or so misdemean-
ants is a simple matter.
Why it is necessary to enforce “no
parking” regulations in some Sydney
streets no man other than a policeman
could imagine. Though it may be unjust
to suggest it, motorists believe that the
number of charges is sent up because
constables are rewarded from the Police
Reward Fund for getting convictions.
It is a stupid business, and if the
Government doesn’t put a stop to it there
will one day be a scandal arising out of
it which will smell like a cargo of emu
eggs adrift on a raft in the tropics. The
Ma State frequently sees murderers
escaping unscathed and burglars getting
away with their spoils, but if the C. 1.8.
were as efficient as the motorist-catching
branch, there would be little ground for
complaint. It is time 90 per cent, of
the traffic policemen were given a chance
to show whether they are as good at nob-
bling gunmen as they are in their pre-
sent sphere of action.
Sugar Farmers Fared Best.
The Forgan Smiths screwed £1,744,429
out of the income-earners of Queensland
last year— £llo,l79 more tax out of
2940 fewer taxpayers. An analysis of
those who paid is interesting.
Though dairy-farmers probably out-
number cane-farmers by five to one, the
total tax paid by the dairying industry
—only 1027 farmers made enough to be
taxed at all —was £4727. Cane-farmers
to the number of 3121 paid £87,218 on
incomes averaging £373 per head.
The dairyman’s taxable average earn-
ing was £llO. Only 1313 ordinary
farmers had enough income to tax —
their average was about £l3O per annum.
And the whole vast pastoral industry,
which is the State’s mainstay, could find
but six-elevenths of the taxable income of
the cane-farmers. There are only 1068
Queensland pastoral taxpayers in the
list against over 3100 sugar-farmers ; the
1068 had taxable incomes amounting to
£723,000 against the cane-farmers’ in-
comes of over £1,000,000.
In studying these figures it must be
remembered that the sugar industry
occupies 225,000 productive acres, and
the value of the output is about
£10,000,000. The pastoral industry occu-
pies 200,716,000 acres of Crown lands
alone, for which rental of about £350,000
p.a. is paid. Queensland’s wool was
worth £7,479,000 in the worst year of
the depression.
Only manufacturers and merchants
exceed the gross taxable income of the
handful of sugar-farmers. Not even
30,000 State public servants and a large
number of Commonwealth public ser-
vants in Queensland come within
£400,000 of their total taxable income or
within £2BO of their average taxable in-
come per head.
On top of the income tax collected
from them, the pastoralists paid £35,000
in land tax. In fact, from pastoralists,
dairy- and “other” farmers and fruit-
growers came £45,000 of the £50,000 col-
lected in land tax. The sugar-growers
pay so little that their names do not
appear in the list.
Plainly, it -is better to be a sugar-
grower, with an import embargo and a
fixed price, than a woolgrower with
neither.
-♦
A Study in Isolation.
Parkhill, Lyons's offsider, is proud of
the Post Office. He told a meeting of
sympathetic political women so the other
day.
Why he should be proud, Heaven only
knows. Certainly there is no room lor
pride about its finances or its efficiency.
On its telephone branch, as Parkhill
himself admits, it has dropped “over
£1,500,000” in five years. It sometimes
takes 48 hours to deliver a letter to city
suburbs, and its telegraphic methods are
comic.
For instance, during the week-end, the
dispatch of a telegram a couple of miles
as the crow flies from the Sydney G.P.O.
is a mighty and expensive undertaking.
When somebody in The Bulletin office
tried to wire to Longueville—which is in
sight of the Sydney G.P.O. tower —at 2
p.m. last Saturday, the whole G.P.O.
was disorganised. A clerk left his cash
register and produced a tome over which
he pored for four minutes by the G.P.O.
clock. Various other people gave up their
occupations and helped. An important-
looking person was summoned from the
interior of the edifice and made a long
and whispered speech. At the eleventh
minute, the verdict was delivered: “You
cannot send an urgent telegram to
Longueville before Monday morning.
The office is shut!” Five more minutes
of argument and conning of regulations,
however, produced a new angle, and
eventually the telegram got away loaded
down as follows:
Ordinary rate .. .. .. 9d.
Plus urgent rate .. .. 9d.
Plus porterage Is. Id.
Total 2s. 7d. v
Otherwise, 2yd. per word to telegraph
less than two miles as the crow flies!
You can, of course, telegraph to Mata-
ranka, Cape York, Thargomindah or
Wiluna on Saturday afternoon without
extra charge beyond double rates. Elec-
tors who have perishable relations or
who expect happy events should be care-
ful to see that they live in these or simi-
larly situated places. In the suburbs of
big cities they are completely cut off tele-
graphically from midday on Saturday till
9 a.m. on Monday, unless they are
prepared to pay through the nose. *
«
(Donkey) “Work for 40,000.”
The “United Australia Review,” organ
of the Lyons-Stevens party in N. S.
Wales, spares half a column or so of
its last issue to elaborate the heading
“Work for 40,000.” The State Ministry,
the “Review” says, has found the
scheme under which it has “replaced the
dole” for 27,000 men by work at “basic
rates an unqualified success”; so the
thing is to be extended for another 12
months, and is to embrace a further
13,000 men, all at “basic rates”:
Single men, instead of receiving food relief
valued at ss. 4+d., work six hours weekly and
receive 9s. in cash. Married men without
children, who are entitled to food relief valued
at Bs. work 10 hours weekly for 15s. 7d.
Married men with children, who have been
receiving food relief valued at 13s. 3£d. to
255. 2d. weekly, work from 13 to 24 hours,
according to scale (from one child to seven
children), and receive from £1 Os. sd. to
£1 17s. sd. per week.
The work is being carried out by muni-
cipal councils, which are required not to
displace their own men. It is asserted to
be “useful,” but it is palpably expensive,
since 90 per cent, of those engaged must
be strange to it.
The Indian coolie has always been re-
garded as the lowest-paid worker in the
British Empire. But the rates of pay
under this work-for-the-dole scheme for
single men and childless married men
(many of them Diggers) even a Sholapore
cotton miller would blush to impose on
his hands.
The Bank of N. S. Wales at the
moment is advertising widely that it has
“ample funds for projects for produc-
tion expansion that come within the
scope of sound banking practice,” and
offers to finance “any producer who can
profitably employ more labor,” at a
maximum overdraft rate of per cent.—
“the lowest maximum rate on record.”
The position would be laughable if
it were not tragic. Here is a private in-
stitution offering to finance men back
to work and solve our Governments’
difficulties for them. The Governments,
instead of taking advantage of the
scheme, keep the load of taxation on the
backs of producers and banks alike, so
that there can be neither profit against
which to finance nor reduction of interest
to enable profit to be made.
4
An Australian Dicktater.
From the Melbourne Office Flapper:—-
I haven't appeared on your political pages
before, and I hope you will excuse me for
butting in, but all my men friends are posi-
tively getting furrows on their brows over this
Hitler business, and a girl must say something
about it. I mean, the Dramatic Critic seems to
be the only one who seems pleased. He says he
was never so gratified in his life as when he read
that Mr. Hitler had revived the public headsman
and that the gentleman had to don a top-hat
and dress clothes for the occasion.
The top-hat seems somewhat out of place,
I think, but I suppose the executioner re-
moves it while he is making the country safe
for dicktatership, but the axe strikes me as a
splendid idea, especially as a dicktatership is
confidently expected in this country, if Col.
Eric Campbell is any judge in these matters.
I mean, the Australian axeman is world-famous
for his skill, and I have myself seen one shave
a hair from a girl’s chin without so much as
disturbing the wart it was growing in.
Well, I think, if Col. Campbell is right and
Australia is going to get it in the neck, too, I
think we ought to start preparing things, and
the sooner the better. A list of newspapers
which have said nasty things about the pro-
posed dicktater ought to be made immediately
so that the public fireman can get busy the
moment the revolution happens, or there will be
a new dicktater in power before he is finished.
A pogrom is an indispensable adjunct to a
Nazi revolution, so the Australian Hitler and
his advisers ought to get together now and de-
cide on which section of the community to
bestow the privilege of martyrdom.
I may be mistaken, but it seems to me that
the Jews are unsuitable for this purpose. I
mean, none of the young men and girls of my
acquaintance have what you could call an
instinctive loathing for them. In fact, Mel-
bourne at the moment is engaged in subscribing
to a monument to a Jewish soldier whom it
persists in regarding as one of its greatest
citizens. This, however, might be remedied by
a little propergander.
The same applies to the Greeks and Italians
and other Mediterranean people, whose cook-
ing alone has established them in popular favor.
That could be got over, I think, though. I
mean, it might be suggested that they are in
the habit of kidnapping and fricasseeing Aus-
tralian babies. The D.C. says that similar sug-
gestions concerning Christian missionaries have
been quite successful in stirring up public
indignation in China; and the Australian has
as much patriotic feeling lying in wait inside
him as a Chinaman, surely?
To be successful and ekernomical a pogrom
requires a small and helpless minority so that
there will be more enemies of the State killed
than patriots. What about the Finns? There
were only 554 mentioned in the 1921 census.
Then there are only 1418 Unspecified. If either
of these two classes is selected it will be neces-
sary to think up a case against them.
Another indespensable" adjunct is a hated
foreign nation who is the cause of all our
troubles. This is difficult. I mean, America is
too far away and Britain has so many troubles
of her own. Maoriland is nearer and her in-
sulting behavior in refusing to share the bless-
ings of Federation could be remembered
against her. But I suggest the Javanese. No-
body knows anything about them, so there
would be plenty of scope for the Nazi buroo
of propergander.
The D.C. says I haven’t mentioned the great-
est obstacle lying in the path of the Australian
dicktater, which, according to him, is the Aus-
tralian sense of humor. The Australian sense
of humor, he says, is peculiar, and one of
the forms it takes is an acid distrust of the
pretensions of self-deluded blatherskites. Mr.
Lang, for instance. To remove this defect
from the Australian character, he says, will
require a dicktater of unexampled genius.
Well, that is all I have to say about the
Australian Nazis for the moment. If they want
an emblem, I would suggest an Australian bear,
rampant.
HINKLER IN ITALY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My daughter-in-law and I agree that
its resting-place in Italy.” —His mother.
High on the shoulders of the Apennines,
Where only grey wolves roam,
They found our Hinkler ’mid the twisted
pines,
Ten thousand miles from home.
Only the pale stars, and the wailing winds
That lay the pine-trees low,
Knew where he slept through the long
winter nights,
Wrapped in his shroud of snow.
Where foaming torrents scar the moun-
tainside
And lift their voices wild,
Far from his kin and country, Hinkler
died,
And, like a weary child,
Lay sleeping while the spirits of the
storm
Held revel overhead,
And the chill fingers of the Alpine winds
Strewed snowflakes o’er his bed.
Perhaps the lordly eagle, as it flew
Above the stony fell,
Swerved in its course, high in the track-
less blue,
And flung a last farewell.
Perchance the spirit of the Airman passed,
Swift as an arrow flies,
From world to world, free as the air at
last,
To conquer other skies.
it is best that his body should remain in
Down the steep mountain, over gap and
crag,
Peasant and soldier stept;
They wrapped his body in Italia’s flag,
And men and women wept.
And while they honored him in Tuscany,
Upon that selfsame day
His people mourned him in his own dear
land,
Full half a world away.
His was the vision splendid, his the joy
Of hopes fulfilled, his goal
Attained, the dreams he cherished as a
boy
Come true. O valiant soul!
Above the turmoil of this fretful world,
Beyond our utmost sight,
O’er mountains and o’er troubled seas
uphurled,
He wheeled in lonely flight.
Down the long airways to his native
shore,
On pinions wide and free,
Yearning for home, the Wanderer speeds
no more,
Nor shall he come by sea.
Others who hear the call to rise and fly
Will hearken and obey;
But we Australians —we will not forget
The man who led the way.
BERTHA SOUTHEY BRAMMALL.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Strict Veg.”: Rev. Irving Benson, of
Melbourne, was conducting a service
when a lady entered the church somewhat
the worse for liquor. The nearest steward
hastily approached the bibulous one, and
the congregation held its breath. There
was a whispered colloquy, and then, to
the general surprise, the pair left the
church with every indication of being in
complete agreement. Afterwards the
preacher sought out the official and
asked him what magic words he had
uttered. “Oh, I just said to her ‘Come
outside and have another with me,’ ” the
steward replied.
* * *
“Black Mountain”: There was a muni-
cipal by-election, and one of the candi-
dates was exhorting his comrades to vote
solidly for the party candidate as a means
of improving the status quo. Some of
his hearers seemed a trifle puzzled, and
when the phrase was repeated there were
murmurs. The orator broke off. “Not
know what status quo is?” he queried.
“Why, it’s just Latin for the flamin’ mess
the present council’s got us into.”
sN st * *
“The Dip”: After all, it’s simplicity
that wins the odd trick in the war against
crime. Costly wireless patrols have
failed to check motor bandits and smash-
"George is not keeping up his alimony payments."
“The brute! It would serve him right if the Court swooped down on him and
took back the divorce.”
and-grab artists, principally because by
the time they get into action the crooks
have gone to earth. But the color cap-
sule—a discus-shaped bomb containing
a highly-colored, corrosive paint within
a thin casing of specially-constructed
bakelite —looks like having a salutary
effect on this form of crime. These can
be thrown with great accuracy and. mark
indelibly the car or clothing orf whicfi
they burst. In England banks, jewellers,
post offices and so on are being equipped
with the capsules, and. if they’re the
success anticipated, they’ll be handed out
to the uniformed copper.
“Nakh”: A Y.A.L. troop was being pre-
sented with the freedom of a Victorian
township. The Mayor took charge, and,
after delivering the usual dose of official
oratory, gave the command “Right turn,
quick march,” intending to lead the lads
indoors and regale them with bodily
nourishment. A third of the troop turned
to the left, seeing that the civic head
had got his directions muddled, another-
third obediently turned to the right, and
the remainder, comprising the younger
members, broke rank and started to dis-
perse in all directions. It is a rule of the
organisation that the command “Right
turn” shall signify “dismiss.”
* * * *
“M. de Paris”: While congratulating
“El Verdugo” on his scholarly disserta-
tion on the ethics of beheading (B.
6/9/’33), I take exception to his uncalled-
for reference to the executioner of Anne
Boleyn as a blackleg non-unionist who
did not use a block. The gentleman in
question was the most noted sworder in
the civilised world of his day, and would
never have dreamed of omitting such an
essential of his job. His importation from
France certainly caused some heartburn-
ings among the profession in England,
but Anne had specially requested the
favor of his offices, and Henry, like the
good fellow he was, hadn’t the heart to
disappoint her. The real show was
remarkable for its excellent stage-man-
agement. Always considerate, M. de
Calais hid his sword in the straw which
littered the scaffold, and Anne never saw
it, the weapon being withdrawn after she
was blindfolded and her head laid on
the block.
“Shanghai”: In my capacity of issuing
clerk at a Government clothing store,
I struck my greatest surprise in a young
woman who required, not feminine
garb, but one pair of men’s trousers, size
five, one pair of cossacks, size five, and
one navvy’s grey flannel. She wanted no
socks ; said she didn’t wear ’em. The
applicant’s desire was gratified. She
worked a backyard farmlet in one of the
outer suburbs.
“The Old ’Un”: Looking at the Syd-
ney of to-day and recognising here and
there the relics of an age in which I
spent more time, I often wonder what
the city would have been like had the
“march of science and invention,” as
they call it, stopped in 1883. Sydney was
a jollier, more homely, more congenial
place 50 years ago than it is to-day. The
architecture and appurtenances of busi-
ness premises in those days reflected
something of the personality of the
people who conducted the business.
/Esthetically they were sometimes pretty
dreadful, but (I speak as one who drew
plans for that generation) there was
generally some touch of individuality
about the place. I cherish an affection for
those banks, shops and offices that have
a balconied dwelling-house on the first
floor, and am sorry to see them dis-
appearing. Many of the most affluent
of our tradespeople could afford a sub-
urban or country home in Sydney’s first
half-century, but the impression of
stability and rectitude given by living on
the premises wasn’t impaired by the
exceptions. The pioneer bank of Aus-
tralia, the “Wales,” has gone back to the
old style by providing its g.m. with a
George-street residence, the windows of
which overlook the G.P.O. I suppose
he regards it only as a town-flat appan-
age to a more remote establishment, but
it is a heartening tradition and one that:
a lot of us old fogeys would like to see
reintroduced to Pitt-street, where so
many financial gentlemen are a.w.l. at
critical moments.
* * * *
“Thakur”: In his comment on the
recent instance of suttee in India (B.
6/9/’33) “Nakhoda” omits the most
compelling reason which actuates the
Hindu wife to “pass through the fire”
with her husband. This is that no woman
can hope to rejoin her spouse in the
“Can you beat a man travelling thirteen thousand miles to get married?”
"No; but I’d like to”
nebulous hereafter of Brahmanism unless
she takes this road, which endows her
with an immortal soul. There is good
evidence that in out-of-the-way places
suttee is still practised, and even in the
tiny proportion of the teeming millions of
India which is under the eye of the Sirkar
other methods of self-destruction are em-
ployed. As to the widow ban, this seems
to be fast losing its strength in modern
India. In Calcutta “Forward,” the most
important of native papers published in
English, one may read hundreds of matri-
monial advertisements in which well-
endowed widows seek husbands, and
needy swains of good caste ask for well-
tochered wives—widowhood no objection
provided the money is good.
* * * * *
“S.T.S.”: Broken Hill’s competition for
a song to celebrate its jubilee was judged
by an Adelaide musician. And now the
local committee objects to a line in the
winning effort. The poet had sung, with
splendid loyalty, “There is beauty every-
where you look.” It is complained that
this is liable to be taken as “satirical in
the extreme.”
H= * * *
“L.H.R.”: A man with a lot of experi-
ence confided to the Melbourne police
the other day that, while tobacco was not
difficult to come by behind the bars,
matches were treasured
beyond rubies. The rate
of exchange inside was
one match to an ounce of
tobacco. But, he averred,
an expert with the aid of
a pin could divide a match
with a straight grain into as
many as 16 lightable parts.
Modestly admitting that
he was only a novice, he demonstrated
the truth of his assertion by taking a pin
and dividing a match into eight, each
with a head.
* * *
“Old Junk”: Melbourne Art Gallery
may be full of faked antiques (B.
30 /8 / ’33), but the fact remains that even
experts are liable to err. A few years ago
the contents of an old mansion in the Isle
of Wight were advertised for sale, and an
antique dealer, whom I know well, went
to see what was there. Amongst other
items was a set of six Chippendale chairs.
My friend went over them thoroughly
and, with all his experience, they puzzled
him. They were perfect in every detail;
in fact, he thought them too perfect to
be genuine. Other authorities from Lon-
don concurred with him, and, in the
absence of competition, the chairs were
knocked down to a local general dealer
for £l2. My friend’s confidence was a
little shaken when he heard that a Lon-
don solicitor, a known authority, had pur-
chased the chairs from the dealer for
£3O and re-sold them for £6OO. They
changed hands several times after that,
always at an increased figure. Finally,
they were pronounced by the best
authorities to be the finest set of Chip-
pendales known, and my friend told me
that if I cared to see them I might go to
a certain famous antique shop, where
they were on view, marked up at 4000
guineas. The explanation of their too-
perfect condition for chairs of that age
was that two or three generations of their
owners had been living abroad ; the chairs
had been well looked after by careful
housekeepers and had known no wear-
and-tear.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Runa”: Queer diseases crop up peri-
odically in Maoriland, most of them the
penalty of her nearness to the U.S.A.;
a microbe taken aboard at San Francisco
will be virulently active by the time it
reaches Auckland. Though M.L. is not
blaming Uncle Sam for the present out-
break of encephalitis, that disease being
to a certain extent endemic in its own
dampish climate, the Isles of Unrest have
in the past had smallpox, infantile para-
lysis, the 1919 ’flu and one or two other
trifles handed on from the U.S.A. And
there was a case of pellagra, which seri-
ously perturbed M.L.’s medical com-
munity. Though the Americans protested
there was no pellagra in Gahd’s own
country, M.L. has always had dark sus-
picions as to the origin of the only case
of that disease ever recorded in the
Dominion.
* ❖ * *
“Kerys”: An Australian aviator was
commissioned to take up three directors
of a co. which proposed to build a fac-
tory on a site remote from the city and
wanted them to view it from above. All
three were elderly, and before they were
packed into the ’plane and whirled aloft
they confided to one another that they
had never been up before. It was a cold
and tempestuous day, and before long the
trio became violently ill. Suddenly the
machine dropped steeply, flew round and
round half a dozen times, and then sailed
off to the nearest landing-ground, where
three wilted and elderly gents, were
assisted out. Asked what they thought of
the site, they stared dazedly. “You re-
member,” said the pilot encouragingly, “I
dropped down quite low to let you have
a good look.” None of them had under-
stood the drop—all, as they admitted,
supposed they were about to crash, and
didn’t much mind. “Well, I saw your
lips moving, and I thought you were
speaking,” remarked the disgusted air-
man to the chief of the trio. “I was,”
said that individual grimly. “As I couldn’t
recall a prayer at the moment I found
myself saying ‘For what we are about to
receive may the Lord make us truly
thankful! ’ ”
VILLANELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mf. A. B. l’iddington, K.C., after fighting the
referendum that decreed the abolition of tin! nominee
Leg. Council through the 'Stcfte courts, threatens an
appeal to the l’rivy Council.”
O sore and scnt-for M,LC.,
Forget not, while you moan your fate,
What Piddo sought to do for thee.
Had there been more as staunch as he,
You’d never have been shown the gate,
O sore and sent-for M.L.C.
Un-urged he left no single plea.
’Tis writ upon the legal slate
What Piddo sought to do for thee.
“The People’s Will? I’ll not agree,”
He told the Judges square and straight,
O sore and sent-for M.L.C.
The axe descends. But gratefully
Thou may’st recall at any rate
What Piddo sought to do for thee.
’Twill live, a pleasant memory
Amid these storms of hiss and hate,
O sore and sent-for M.L.C.,
What Piddo sought to do for thee!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Soso”: At a Sydney suburban court
a man, separated from his wife, applied
for suspension of the maintenance order
on the ground that he was unemployed.
The lady opposed the application, and
said she would like to ask her ex-lord a
couple of questions. They were told the
case would be listed for 2 p.m. In the
meantime the wife went to the police
and said the brute was earning good
money as an s.-p. bookie. “Not a bit of
it!” the police replied. “We know every
bookie in these parts, and he’s not one”;
and they refused to go and look over his
place. But the wife did. She found no-
thing, but learned that, suspecting trouble,
the man had left his betting materials at
a friend’s house. She visited the friepd
and got them. When the case came on,
after hubby had sworn he had no in-
come, the wife produced his bag, with
its collection ;pf betting material, cheque
butts and the like. She tipped the lot on
the court table. “What about this busi-
ness?” she asked. Application dismissed.
* * * '“V *
“X.S.”: Betty Melville, a 19-year-old
damsel of Toorak (Vic.), has seen her
parents’ home broken into three times
since Easter, and presumably she is get-
ting used to it. On two occasions she
put the thugs to flight unaided. The
second time she found the intruder in
her bedroom. She grappled with him,
chased him into the passage, closed with
him again and only let go when he
applied a thumbscrew. Finally she
chased him through a window. The girl
conducted her campaign in dead silence
to avoid frightening her mother, who was
in the parlor listening to the wireless.
* * * *
“Bombila”: Mary Gilmore, who has
had first-hand experience of it, is advo-
eating the growing
in this country of
mate, or Paraguay
tea, which has
made its way all
over the world
from its South
American home.
Samples can be
bought in Sydney.
Many Australians
first came across
it in South Africa,
where the Argen-
ti n e and Para-
guayan gauchos
who brought over
thousands of mules
for the British
forces seemed to
live entirely on
mate. Every one
carried his own
teapot, and with it
a metal tube with
a strainer at the
end through which
he sucked the boil-
ing liquid as soon
as it was infused.
The gauchos
claimed it was both
food and drink
and a notable
stimulant, but I
cannot recall that
the milkless, sugar-
less brew weaned
any of us from the
product of India
or Ceylon, though
the Army service-
issue tea was
enough to make anyone long for a
change.
* * * *
Kellner Hall”: The proposal to bring
to Melbourne for the centenary the full
band of the Coldstream Guards has set
Australia s multitudinous brass-band
admirers on tiptoe. But this band differs
from ours. In addition to the brasses
familiar in Australian band contests, the
bands of the Guards regiments and
others, such as the Royal Marines and
Royal Artillery, contain a full comple-
ment of reeds and strings. Australian
bands, like those of the North of Eng-
land, are confined to brass players be-
cause of the difficulty of finding good
players of .the more difficult reed instru-
ments. Paying for experts is out of the
question, since these brass bands are
largely made up of amateur players.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An odd lawsuit over
brands in S.A. seems to be at an end.
Sidney Kidman was sued by the Brooks
family for libel, in writing to auctioneers
that bullocks sold with “diamond, a tail
and half-circle” brand were really his
own diamond-tail; he added that “evi-
dently the half-circle has been wrongfully
attached by someone, and we shall be
glad if you will let us know who placed
them in your hands for sale.” Then the
Law played heads-and-tails thus: (1) A
magistrate said “Libel; damages, £50.”
(2) The Supreme Court said “No libel.”
(3) The High Court said “Leave to
appeal refused.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The souveniring indus-
try in Melbourne isn’t the exclusive
monopoly of. the people
who rush parties on over-
seas liners. A plumber in-
stalled a new cistern in
the lavatory of a gas-
works. He finished the
job at 5 p.m., and was on
his way home when (in
keeping with the custom
of the trade) he discov-
ered he had left a tool
behind. Hastening back,
he was passed by a man
carrying a bright copper
ball and portions of a
brand-new valve and rod,
and by another with a
chain in his hand. When
he got back to the job he
found nothing left of his afternoon’s
work but the cast-iron cistern.
* * * *
“Clef”: It’s a good thing, for every-
body save the lawyers, that musical folk
are seldom litigious. After the Sydney
Eisteddfod there was a little squabble
about a discrepancy of points in one of
the awards* It was explained on behalf
of the adjudicators that they first arrived
at their totals and then allocated marks
under various sectional headings. It
seems a queer way of doing things,
and a K.C. could make great play with
it. At the Wellington (M.L.) competi-
tions there was a section for “Vocal
solo, N.Z. composer, own selection.”
Several competitors chose songs by
Charles Willeby. The judge, Dr. Cyril
Jenkins, when announcing the results,
said that Willeby was an American, and
that therefore his works were outside
“Does your husband always go our between dances?”
“No, but he sometimes comes in between drinks.”
the competition, adding, “It has been a
pleasure to hear some of the charms of
one of your own composers, Alfred
Hill.” In spirit the judge was right. Hill
has a strong claim to be considered a
Maoriland composer—it is only neces-
sary to put “Waiata Poi” in as evidence
—and Willeby has written nothing with
the slightest flavor of Fernland. But the
biographical facts are that Willeby,
though born in France, was brought up
and educated in M.L., and spent his early
manhood there. Hill, born in Mel-
bourne, musically trained at Leipzig,
spent only seven or eight years in M.L.,
and for the last 35 years has lived in
Sydney.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: Touching these unclaimed
fortunes (B. 6/9/’33), the wildest yarn
of all got an airing last week. In 1930
a par. went the rounds of newspapers
in Central Europe to the effect that a
Hungarian named Gasper Horvath had
" I'm thinking, dad, of doing one of those ocean cruises. Have you any objection?”
“Certainly not You’re welcome to keep on thinking.”
died in Sydney some years before, leaving
a fortune estimated at a hundred mil-
lions, and that if no heir could
make good his or her claim, this im-
mense pile of boodle would become the
property of the city of Sydney! Horvath
being about as common a name in Hun-
gary and parts adjacent as (say) Harvey
in English-speaking communities, hun-
dreds of people pricked up their ears, and
ever since then Consulates and solicitors
in Sydney have been inundated with re-
quests for information on the subject of
Gasper Horvath from persons who are
convinced they are entitled to the whole
or parts of his fabulous wealth. The
trouble is that the Curator of Intestate
Estates has no record of any Gasper
Horvath having died in Sydney and left
as much as sixpence. It is unlikely that
it will ever be known who started the
story ; personally, I can’t help suspecting
some freelance pressman.
* * * *
“Deadwood”: “X.S.” Wants to know
why Australian Judges and lawyers don’t
scrap their insanitary wigs (B. 6/9/’33),
and almost simultaneously comes news
from England that the Church is begin-
ning to have doubts as to the suitability of
some of its traditional raiment. There is a
movement, it seems, in Anglican circles
to invent a new rig-out for bishops, or
at least for their lower limbs. These
episcopal gaiters were devised in an age
when prelates got around their dioceses
(like the abbot in the “Lady of Shalott”)
on “ambling pads,” and there is some-
thing jarringly incongruous in the asso-
ciation of gaiters and motor-cars. In
these regards, the Army seems far more
progressive than either the Church or the
Law ; it moves with the times—except
perhaps in the case of some of the older
British regiments—perpetually shedding
some of the ornamental lumber of the
past. Those of us who live long enough
may even see the schoolmaster abandon-
ing his cherished mortar-board —surely
the most unsightly and uncomfortable
headgear ever moulded by the hand of
man.
* * * *
“Fordlaw”: Allow me to differ from
“L’F” (B. 23/8/’33) about the correct
holding position on the steering-wheel of
a car. Gripping the upper sector of the
wheel is (1) less tiring, as the arms are
in a position of relaxed muscle-tone ; (2)
safer, because the comfortable and ready
position allows automatic neuro-muscular
response. The lower-sector position is
bad. It induces fatigue, owing to
the cramped position of the arms, and it
doesn’t allow quick muscle response to a
subconscious stimulus —and that is what
an experienced driver reacts to in emer-
gency.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Students of Trinity Col-
lege, Melb. Uni., are to lose their buttery
or “beer cupboard,” the existence of
which has caused friction with authority
for years. The word “buttery” has obvi-
ously been borrowed from Oxford and
Cambridge, where it implies a good deal
more than a beer cupboard. Practically
every college and hall has its buttery, but
there was one at Oxford in my time that
possessed a distinctive feature of its
own. This was New Inn Hall, a kind
of refuge for undergraduates who had
been passed out of colleges where disci-
pline was stricter, and an institution
which also presented considerable attrac-
tions to men who didn’t want to attend
lectures or submit themselves to any
other irksome regulations. They merely
kept terms, and occasionally one would
collect a pass degree, but there was no
pressure. At New Inn Hall the buttery
was supposed to be always open ; hence
the place was colloquially known as “The
Tavern.” The hall itself had quite a re-
spectable antiquity, but I fancy that
modern progress swept it away towards
the close of last century.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A few weeks ago Minister
for Unemployment Kent Hughes offered
Melbourne unemployed the option of
working for sustenance on the Shrine
of Remembrance and Domain Gardens
scheme or being struck off the 'dole
list. The men argued that the money
they would earn would not buy them
enough food to make them capable of
working, and they also complained that
the project was tantamount to an attack
on the workers’ standard of living. When
the call for hands was made a few re-
sponded, but the jobs were picketed,
there was trouble with the police, and
for a while things were at a standstill.
But Kent Hughes stuck to his guns, and
gradually the men capitulated. I re-
cently surveyed the result from the top
of the Shrine, and the impression I got
was that Hughes had scored a Pyrrhic
victory. The shovels rose and fell and
the barrows trundled with such delibera-
tion that the effect was similar to a slow-
motion photograph. It was obvious the
sustenance workers were determined not
to give the Minister for Unemployment
more than his money’s worth. While I
was there a continuous stream of visi-
tors poured through the Shrine, while
a guide expatiated on the glories of the
£250,000 memorial. The comments of
some of the Diggers shovelling dirt for
sustenance outside of this spectacle
would be worth recording.
* % * sfc
“Physiologue”: Oxygen administra-
tion is not a particularly strong point
with the medical profession at any time,
but I read with surprise that a young
medico with such excellent and recent
qualifications as Peter Bordington (B.
30/8/’33) should have pumped oxygen
under the skin of one of his patients.
Not only is the amount which can be
injected a mere fraction of the bodily
requirements, hut Prof. Argyll Campbell,
of the National Institute for Medical
Research, London, has shown by animal
experiments that it requires several days
before it is absorbed. Several years ago
I tried it myself on dogs —fully anaesthe-
tised, of course —which had been partly
asphyxiated. Although the quantities
of oxygen were far greater than could
possibly be used on humans, the effects
in relieving the oxygen lack were pre-
cisely nil. Yet, properly administered,
oxygen is of course a most valuable life-
saving remedy.
THE PERFECT MEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have feasted on succulent snails and frogs in
the attics and garrets of gay Montmartre,
And my Viennese Nights were responsible for
many an Austrian meal;
When in Naples, my talents refused to shine,
So 1 lived on bananas and sour wine;
And once, on a cruise in a Swedish brig,
they served me with roasted seal.
I have toasted my friends on the boulevards in
the colorful liquors of bright Puree,
And when taken to dinner by English pals
I finished on Gilbey’s “and two.”
On my visit to Denmark l tasted clock,
And in Rio Janeiro my drink was hock,
While up on the Yukon 1 shouted rum for
dangerous Dan McGrew.
But my wild cosmopolitan wanderings have
been unsuccessful in causing me
The minutest estrangement from homely fare
—and I trust that fhey never may;
For although I am known as an epicure,
Of this paramount truth I am ever sure:
That the man has no soul who could wish
for more than a bottle of stout and a
Cray.
VICTORIA.
D.H.


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
The diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality Blue
White Gems.
Fine Diamond..
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Sapphire and Diamonds
£lB
The illustrations represent the actual size
Hand ■ made throughout with Pure
Platinum settings
e Diamonds
£l6
Fmt Di
£2O
e Diamonds
£4O
Fine Diamond
£7O
RINGS
These Rings represent the best value in
Australia Write for a selection on
approval
Fitw Di
£l6
e Diaraon
£2O
Diamonds
£36
A Catalogue of Rings, jewellery. Silver-
plate, Silver and Wedding Presents, sent
post free on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
SYDNEY
BRISBANF
MELBOURNE
POLITICAL POINTS
The demand for Bruce as head of a
Nat.-C.P. Government has been met by
the Ministry at Canberra with the offer
of the High Commissionership, and with
after-dinner speeches in praise of Lyons.
There will be another story when Earle
Page reassumes the leadership of the
Cockies and the session opens next
month. With men like Hawker
stampeded into opposition, with Scul-
lin pushing a Queensland programme,
with the New State movement active, with
a rebellious Senate and a nondescript
Ministry of left-overs and novices, the
session will be a purgatory for the U.A.P.
unless it changes its leader and secures
agreement with Page.
The Agents-General are about to com-
plain to Bruce (who, if Canberra can
bring it off, is to be named High Com-
missioner) that his conduct is “autocratic
and secretive.” It has to be. A.-G.s’
suites are gossip-shops. They negotiate
no loans, serve no diplomatic purpose
whatever. But they cost a lot of money.
The country’s future commitments in re-
gard to them should be limited to the
cost of a duplicated cable saying: “Come
home next boat.”
Rev. Norwood, of the Gheringhap-
street Congregational Church, Geelong,
is the latest cleric to advise Australia to
hand over the N.T. to Japan as a goodwill
gesture. He invited Geelong Rotarians
to give the suggestion calm and careful
thought. Calm and careful thought might
also be given by them to a proposal to
hand over the Gheringhap-street Congre-
gational Church to the Holy Rollers
or the Jains. It doesn’t belong to Rotary,
of course; but then North Australia
doesn’t belong to the Norwoods.
Coincidentally with the row over the
Caledon Bay killings, the Westralian
Government is appointing a royal com-
mission to inquire into alleged maltreat-
ment of natives and the administration
of the Aborigines Act. The inquiry will
get nowhere, as usual. One experienced
native commissioner with power to act
could do more than 50 royal commis-
sions.
According to Arthur Robinson, ex-
Minister and one of the soundest finan-
ciers in Australia, “relief from the crush-
ing burden of Federal and State taxa-
tion is essential before a firmly-based
recovery is possible.” Every wage-payer
realises this ; but the politicians don’t. “To
reduce taxation at present is utterly in-
conceivable,” Premier Argyle says. And
so far from lightening the immense bur-
den of Government expenditure, the
feeble Government at Canberra is pre-
paring to add to it by increasing public-
service pay and appointing a flock of
overseas trade commissioners, each with
a staff.
Fleeting is the favor of flapper jour-
nalism. One of the papers that helped
to raise Lyons to his undeserved emin-
ence sent its leader-writer to see a news-
film in which its former hero held forth
on the rise in wool prices; and it let the
leader-writer have his fling:—•
Passion? Inspiration? Conviction? All
absent! A wooden with a wooden ex-
pression tells his countrymen, in indifferent
tones, of things that mean life or death.
And only a year ago the idol thus
jumped on was a Great Statesman —the
Man Who Saved Australia!
Italy and Russia have long settled
down to dictatorships. Germany is get-
ting used to Hitler. Now Dollfuss, the
man who rules Austria, is reported to be
preparing to skip over the frontier to
make room for a dictator ; and English-
men who have lent money to Dollfuss’s
country are feeling ill. Dictators invari-
ably arrive on the scene just as a country
is about to go broke.
John Chinaman abroad is intensely
patriotic—far more so than John China-
man at home. When China suffers an
affront to its dignity, money pours into
the national coffers from the Celestial
overseas, and a lot of it comes from Aus-
tralia. But where the cash goes to after
it has been poured into the said coffers is
not known definitely. Since the bom-
bardment of Chapei it is estimated that
Chinese overseas have subscribed 20
million dollars for the national defence
army. The national defence army got
1,700,000 dollars.
Menzies, Vic. Minister of Railways,
was billed to address the residents of
Lilydale, where Melba had a country
house, on his Transport Bill, and Clapp
put on two extra carriages to accommo-
“Hitler has restored the axe and block as a method of execution in Germany. For certain
purposes they might well be adopted here.”
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY: “Come on, Misery ! Unwrap your long neck and
get it over.”
date the expected multitude. Only six
availed themselves of the facility, and
Menzies wasn’t one of them. He hasn’t
explained whether he walked, went by
aeroplane or set a bad example by using
an automobile : but the situation would
have drawn a characteristic comment
from Dame Nellie.
Butler’s Budget shows a deficit of a
mere £932,986 —a couple of pounds for
every inhabitant of S.A. above the
toddling age. He has reached this figure
by leaning on the Commonwealth to the
extent of £730,000. Butler promises
the removal of company supertax,
and an arrangement under which
farmers may deduct direct losses in-
curred last year from this year’s receipts
when making up income tax. Meanwhile
he is trying to get legislative authority
for remaining in office for five years ;
but the bill had no easy passage through
the Assembly, and at the week-end
Council was expected to kill it. If the
Council doesn’t, the people will.
While he would like to see the life of
Vic. Assembly prolonged from three to
five years, because it “would make for
stability of policy,” Premier Argyle is
not going to follow Comrade Butler’s
example. If he turns seriously to the
question he will seek a mandate from
the electors first. The average tenure of
Vic. Parliaments since the institution of
responsible government 77 years ago has
been two and a half years.
The Forgan Smith bill to provide that
'the Queensland Upper House shall not
be restored unless the people vote for
it by referendum is all ready to be shot
through the legislative machine. The
measure is amusing in its way, coming
from a Premier who was a party to the
destruction of the Second Chamber after
the people had given a strong referen-
dum vote against abolition.
Vic. Parliament is debating a bill pro-
viding more drastic penalties for the
starting-price bookie. Better results might
be got by halving the tote tax and adding
a “doubles” machine. No amount of
restrictive legislation will make Vic-
torians feel that betting “under the lap”
is a sin while they are importuned by
Governments in other States to buy lot-
tery tickets.
Queensland Labor’s amendments to the
City of Brisbane Act provide not only
for restoration of the adult franchise
but for rearrangement of the ward boun-
daries so as to bring them into line with
those of Brisbane State electorates,
most of which returned Labor candidates
at the general election. The State rolls,
and not those for Greater Brisbane muni-
cipality, are to be used. So if Labor
doesn’t dominate the next City Council
after years in the wilderness, it won’t be
the fault of Caucus.
Stevens may be finding a bit of pick-
and-shovel work for a few thousand men
on the dole, but trade-union figures
show that skilled men are not get-
ting their jobs back. In the second
quarter of 1933 46.5 per cent, of miscel-
laneous manufacturing union employees
were out of work in the Mother State —
a figure which compares unfavorably
even with Tasmania’s 29.9 per cent.
While the general reduction of unem-
ployed unionists in N. S. Wales has been
3.6 per cent, in 12 months, in Victoria
it has been 4.7 per cent., in Queensland
4.3 per cent., in S.A. 5.2 per cent., in
W.A. 4.3 per cent., in Tasmania 8.4 per
cent.
Sales tax has brought the Common-
wealth £21,000,000 in revenue. Since it
was first imposed it has taken the equi-
valent of 14 per cent, of the value of
the wool output. Canada introduced
sales tax as a substitute for income tax,
and there was a case for it as such. Here,
of course, it was a burdensome addition
to income tax, which was lightheartedly
increased, that being the Australian poli-
tician's way.
Queensland Government is breaking
new ground with a bill which is to divide
the State into tobacco-growing districts,
so as to control the interchange of plants
and distribution of seed. It is the first
legislation of the kind in Australia; it
has been found that diseases have been
rapidly spread by indiscriminate distri-
bution of infected seed and plants. So
that the right varieties may be made
available to growers, pure-seed areas are
to be established, a step rendered neces-
sary by an American embargo on export
of tobacco seed.
Macßobertson, the confectionery man,
will think long before he ever gives a
Government anything again. No sooner
had he signed a cheque for his £lOO,OOO
centenary present to Victoria than the
Commonwealth Taxation Department
pounced on him with a demand for
£40,000. Had he given the amount to
a so-called charity on which a large staff
lives luxuriously, there would have been
nothing to pay. Charity gifts are exempt;
but there is “no provision for gifts to
the Government.”
In spite of difficulty in finding the right
types, Australia’s once-flourishing export
trade in horses is showing signs of re-
viving. Beginning this month some 4000
Walers are to be sent to India, mostly re-
mounts and gunners for the Imperial
Army and lighter sorts for native cavalry,
while some nolo ponies will be ampng the
shipments. ‘ N. S. Wales, Queensland,
Victoria and South Australia are all con-
tributing to the shipments, which are 25
per cent, in excess of last year’s.
Queensland is following its opposite
number on the other side of the conti-
nent in flinging the flag of secesh to the
breeze. So far the fight is just a private
one, the instigator being E. J. Llewellyn,
Labor member for Toowoomba. Claim-
ing that his State had far more urgent
reasons for breaking away than West-
ralia, Llewellyn told Parliament that the
shameful treatment meted out to it was
not to be borne. Possibly the Fiji banana
iniquity rankles in his mind, though
everyone else has forgotten it.


The pioneers ridiculed,
AS ALWAY S
Domestic
worries
ARE LEFT
1/ TO DAD,
Even to
the makeup
But it catches on
' T GROWS-AND Gf?r\w<v.
VJntiuthe COMMANDER
mentions discipline ,
'"What happened -to their. Maxi stunt * sx
they sacked their and they
ALL WANTED TO SUCCEED , N '
THE GIRLS HAVE THEIR NAZI MOVEMENT.


WJA
h
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH —r— SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100%VIRGINIA
G635M
C/LCuMb W cm mobcUi JgectiwL to sore tfviouti
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The family of Elliott Lewis, who be-
comes Lieut.-Gov., is deeply rooted in the
soil of the Speck. His grandfather landed
there in the year of Waterloo.
R. G. Casey, who is mentioned as a
possible addition to the Lyons Ministry
in the place of Massy Greene, is one of
the few politicians in Australia with ex-
perience in foreign affairs. A young
man with substantial private means,
he was engaged by Bruce to go to Eng-
land as liaison officer in the Foreign
Office, and after several years in the job
he returned and won a seat in the Reps,
at his first attempt. A hard worker and
a man of sound principles, he has been
a power behind the scenes since his first
session.
Frederick Blaxland, last surviving
grandson of Gregory of that name, is
dead, at Cooma (N.S.W.), at 85. Grandad,
who was one of the party to make the
first crossing of the Blue Mountains,
arrived with his brother John in 1805.
They were scions of an ancient Kentish
family, and they brought with them
some of the first pure-bred English cattle
—Sussex breed —seen here.
Federal Parliament will not seem quite
itself without C. H. P. Robinson, chief of
the reporting staff, who starts his retir-
ing leave this week. He has been in the
gallery since the foundation of the Com-
monwealth and before that was for 13
years on N. S. Wales “Hansard.” He
knows more about inner Parliamentary
history than most people. J. S. Weather-
ston, his second in command, succeeds
him. Weatherston comes from Westralia.
Gilbert Murray Wallace, editor of pub-
lications in Vic.’s Education Department,
had a long experience as high-school
teacher in Queensland and Victoria, re-
ceiving his education at the university
of the latter State. He was born at
GILBERT WALLACE, editor of the
school paper (Vic. Education Depart-
ment), and father of the idea of a
children’s library and club for Vic-
toria.
El Dorado (Vic.) in 1869, which means
that he will retire from active duty in
another year. He is the son of a Scotch-
man, and has plenty of Scotch caution.
Together with C. R. Long, M.A., he has
written two books, “British Worthies”
and “Notable Deeds,” and he originated
the idea, which has been adopted, of
establishing children’s school libraries
with part of the Macßobertson gift.
G. M. Colledge, who becomes Under
Secretary for Public Works in Queensland,
is an old Government servant —he has
taken civil-service pay for 44 years, all
spent in the department which he now
controls. He is probably the best bowler
whom the service has produced ; he has
twice been State singles champion and
once in the winning pair and rink.
SEYMOUR PANK, founder of “The
Good Companions” and a well-
known Adelaide identity.
S. B. T. Allan, new C.P.S. and Cham-
ber Magistrate at Balmain (N.S.W.), has
two souvenirs of the war: one his obitu-
ary notice in a country paper, the other
a sympathy card which was sent by a
friend to his mother. Allan was reported
“missing, believed dead” ; he was really
sometime prisoner of war in Germany.
In the prison camp he was tried for bog-
ging into a guardsman. He won the case,
his defence being that the man was not a
soldier. He was warned not to act in
that manner towards a soldier, as the
penalty would be death.
G. E. Wise, who died suddenly at
Townsville on a holiday tour a fortnight
ago, is the only chairman of directors
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., have had
since the inception of the Sydney co. 32
years ago. Wise, who was 84, came
from Cork, Ireland, to Australia as a
young man. In 1889 he commenced a
business at Wellington which soon
spread to other N.S.W. towns and be-
came known as the Western Stores and
Edgley’s, Ltd. He was an active member
of the Sydney R.A.C.A. and the Millions
Club.
In C. V. Potts the Sydney Chamber
of Manufactures has got a new presi-
dent who looks the part. Tall, dignified
and measured in speech, he is the em-
bodiment of everything that is sound and
reasonable in Australian industry. Be-
hind him he has the weight of Australia’s
best advertisement for a protective policy
—the Broken Hill Pty. Co., which he
serves as sub-agent in Sydney. He is a
man of simple tastes and few words.
“El V.”: Death came suddenly to
Feisal, King of Iraq, while he was revisit-
ing Europe. Feisal did not look a Haroun
al Raschid. He was a long, sallow Arab,
but wiry and reserved. It was easy to
believe, after a first glimpse at his limp-
ness, that his heart might kill him ; but
his manners tasted of barbed wire when
anything went wrong. His later life was
a little soured —as was that of Lawrence,
his offsider —by the breach of the promise
made by the Powers that he should rule
over Syria after the war; but it was just
as well that there was a breach of faith
there, because the French find it hard
enough to keep their hands off Johnny
Turk next door —it is his habit to fire on
the colonel of their border post for luck
when he goes walking of an afternoon.
If Feisal and his impulsive Hedjaz guards
had been in their place, not all the
Leagues in history could have kept the
peace.
“S.T.S.”: John Ridley, of S.A., inven-
tor of the reaper, has his memorial at
last—a fine archway, opened with cere-
mony at Adelaide Showground, which hap-
pens to be quite close to the scene of the
first public field-trial. Langdon Bonython,
chairman of the Memorial committee, ex-
plains that Ridley absolutely refused all
fuss or reward in his day. Some sort of
machine became necessary, and a com-
petition was mooted. He said: ‘Tm not
competing, but I've, done it”; and,
when later a purse of £6O was pressed
on him. he made it up to £lOO and
handed it on to form the nucleus of the
Public Library.
Cliff Rutledge, who resigned the man-
agement of Chillagoe State Smelters to
take charge of the co. which controls
Mount Wandoo and other shows in the
North, has been retained by the Queens-
land Government as consultant to ihe
Smelters. This is a fine tribute to Rut-
ledge, and evidence that Mines Minister
Stopford is not swayed by party feeling
where conduct of a State enterprise is
concerned. It was upon Rutledge’s in-
vestigation and report the Moore Gov-
ernment relied when it gave the State’s
guarantee to an issue in London of
£500,000 of debentures by the Mt. Isa
Co. E. Noel Goode, who takes Rut-
ledge’s place at Chillagoe, is another
good Australian metallurgist. In the past
he helped to solve many of the problems
associated with Mt. Perry and Mt.
Morgan.
Captain Emil Christensen, of the Wil.
Wilhelmsen line, whose picture appears
here, leads this year’s wool Derby with
the first of the season’s clip. He has
brought the newly-built Tricolor, one of
the most luxurious wool ships Sydney
has ever seen, to do the job. It is fitted
with devices which would have made old-
time sailer-ship skippers fall down the
hold with astonishment, and it has a
miniature liner deck amidships, to accom-
modate 12 passengers, in which every
cabin has its own bathroom and the
smoking-rooms are decorated like the
Governor-General’s suite at the Com-
monwealth Bank. Christensen already
CAPTAIN EMIL CHRISTENSEN, who
takes away the first of our new
season’s wool in his luxury ship, the
Tricolor.
has broken one wool race record —in
the Temeraire —but his speed that time
was nothing to that which he hopes to
make this time. He is planning to be in
Dunkirk in 30 or 31 days.
Auckland would scarcely be Auckland
without the concise accent and shrewd
advice which John Alexander doles
out to it as senior partner in one of
the biggest legal firms in the Dominion.
JOHN ALEXANDER, one of Auck-
land’s leading citizens.
He has been president of the Law Society,
member of the Prisons Board, president
of the Auckland Savings Bank,.past-presi-
dent—now patron —of the Navy League.
But above all he was first president of
the Ulster Society.
H. T. Stanley, chief architect of Vic.
railways, who built Flinders-street sta-
tion, has just retired after 32 years’ ser-
vice. He helped to plan the illumina-
tions and decorations in honor of the
visit of the King and Queen in 1901, and
had the same job when the Duke and
Duchess of York arrived 26 years later.
In earlier times he was one of the very
few practising architects on the Cool-
gardie and Kalgoorlie goldfields.
Lieut.-Commander A. S. Rosenthal, of
the R.A.N., who has been appointed offi-
cer in charge of the navy personnel which
will bring out the destroyer flotilla
lent by the British Government, re-
ceived his training at Jervis Bay Naval
College. He is a son of Charles Rosen-
thal, who commanded the A.I.F. 2nd
Division. Young Rosenthal formerly
was on the Australia. He will take com-
mand of one of the five destroyers upon
his return to Australia.
“El V.”: George Harrap, who has
passed his 90th milestone, is Queensland’s
oldest school inspector. Thirty years
ago I, in common with the other 12 mem-
bers of a Central Queensland provisional
school, returned from lunch and found
two of him or thereabouts sitting in the
bough-and-bark schoolroom. The reason
was that our childish curiosity had led
us to sample a brew of mead which we
had discovered in a camp. The inspec-
tion was an ordeal, but the only remark
Harrap made to the master was: “Mr.
So-and-so, isn’t it strange that all the
children in this camp lisp?” The school-
master made no remarks whatever. He
was one of the strong, silent sort who
did his talking with an emu apple switch,
and he had not lived a year in a timber
camp without knowing where the lisp
came from.


HR
s^.
2%^
5%s
ii
£8
2Sw
/Wf
i
.....
»
j§R|
SSAK*
SP*
mr,
iu. ' m mSKBSPn : .
HEAT RESISTING?
• • ••'[ fT fft f r Tv — :
✓ < f
mi
BUK
3$
i
ii
ZsPZ
m
mm
Wm
SK2S
®g%sj
ISi
T
ft-?*
.^4
TRUCK AND
BUS OWNERS!
REDUCE YOUR PROFIT-EATING OVERHEADS
KEEP YOUR BUSES RUNNING TO SCHEDULE!
Barnet Glass Truck Tyres are built for one purpose only. With a tread of the
resiliency and strength of tempered steel... powerful armoured walls ... they definitely
resist the gruelling, biting wear of modern high-speed industrial and transport condi-
tions. By miles longer lasting, these amazing tyres substantially* reduce overheads .. .
prevent truck owners time-losing delays . . . help bus owners to keep moving strictly
to schedule —saving resultant loss of business through running late. Fit a set
and make a test yourself!
Barnet Glass
ARMOURED WALL
TRUCK TYRES
• . . CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
MT18.FP.33


Longer Service with
PIONEER BELTING.
In all weathers in tropical climate
and on the most difficult drives
Pioneer Leather Belting has
established records of economy
and endurance which have never
been equalled. You pay no more
for the guaranteed dependability
of Pioneer Leather Belting.
Write for Catalogue, Price List
and expert advice.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St v Sth. Melbourne,
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO& CO.PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street. Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarravilie (Vie.).
Telegrams: Victor Beggo. Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience*
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N, YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
CECIL IT DOYLE J. H. S. ANGUS
J. \V. BARNES, Manager. E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Unioi. Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. VVril-
Feb., Profits. (15 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 562,894 460,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487.500 4,242.902
1926.. 027,611 525,000 50,000 4,295,513
1027.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000 (
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. j ’ ’
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
(12* p.c.)
1930.. 525,055 500,000 25,000 4,930,991
(7 p.c.)
1931.. 283,019 280,000 4,940,010
(4 p.c.)
1932.. 100,954 160,000 4,940,964
(5 p.c.)
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
The board of this Anglo-Australian con-
cern is a conservative lot, and always
has been. Moreover, as the eye sweeps
down the dividend column, it should
be remembered that share premiums
make the div. worth no more than a
trifle over half the declared rate on three
of the four millions of capital. The 4
p.c. div. in 1932 is the lowest the co.
paid for over 90 years ; the highest was
36 p.c., paid during the gold rush in
1854. In 1893 8 p.c. was distributed, fol-
lowed by 6 p.c. and then 5 p.c. to 1898.
The rate reached 14 p.c. again in
1907, and 15 p.c. in 1920, and remained
steady until the close of accounts in
1929.
The improvement of £48,605 in last
year's net result was due to savings
amounting to £80,107, of which £34,182
was on account of taxation (£239,668, or
£30,109 more than the declared profit).
After setting aside something for -con-
tingencies, gross earnings were figured
£31,502 lighter than the previous year’s:
1929 1932. 1933.
Gross profit .. £1,5.36,950 £1,1.38,538 £1,107,036
Exes 925,018 977,584 897,477
Net profit . . £611,932 £160,954 £209,559
The £209,559 was 5.2 p.c. on capital as
against 4,7, 13.1, 15.2 and 17 p.c. back
to 1928. So a point was added to the
div., making 5 p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
Partly because of this, and partly be-
cause of the brighter outlook and the
co.’s visible strength, the market prices
the £lO shares paid to £5 at £9 4s. as
against £8 a year ago. In Australian
currency the return at £9 4s. is a wink
over 4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. On
capital as it now stands, 6 p.c. would
call for no more than 2.6 p.c. on total
funds (capital and reserves combined).
The banks, however, will not get the full
benefit of existing conditions for another
12 months or more, when their old de-
posits, carrying high rates of interest,
run out. Any relief coming from remis-
sion of taxes may be partly offset by
further cuts in the charge for advances.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture, and other things, are seen in the
next table:
Liabilities.
IQ9Q IQQ9 IQQQ
Notes .. .. £579,729 £463,480 £495,304
Deposits .. • . 35,644,360 35,844,650 35,215,930
Bills, etc. . . 3,507,051 1,457,276 985,734
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 18,127,290 16,064,158 13,745,751
Advances . . . . 30,454,431 30,341,367 31,642,634
Premises .. . . 385,745 380,845 379,107
The most encouraging feature there is
the growth of £1,301,267 in advances.
Of the deposits about 70 p.c. is interest-
bearing. When the books closed liquids
were 37.4 p.c. of the outside liabilities,
and the bank was holding only £4 2s. of
the public’s money for every pound of
its own. It is all indicative of strength,
but means low' earning power.
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62,398
1928.. 52.030.2,250 12| p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426. . 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996.6,193 12J p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,94 4 12,000 10 ~,, 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154,449
It was 1920 when the Coleses first set to
work to build up a chain of stores in
which the top price would be 2s. 6d.
Each year since additions have been
made to the chain, fresh capital has been
gathered and turnover has bounded along,
despite slump. Indeed, owing to lighter
purses, many who used to pass by Coles's
now go in. Consider these figures:
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 j 1929.. 14 £1,592,890
1925.. 5 372,409 j 1980.. 17 1,838,414
1926.. 6 563,466 ; 1931.. 20 1,917,250
1927.. 8 837,621 | 1932.. 25 2,130,542
1928.. 10 1,052,882 | 1933.. 27 2,715,699
Two new stores —one at Perth (W.A.) and
the other at Balaclava (Vic.) —were opened
during the last term. Also, in Sydney,
the co. bought part of Snow’s Liverpool-
street freehold, where another large
store (the staff will number 300) is near-
ing completion, and part of Albert’s-
King-street premises has been leased, the
idea being to make an arcade through to
the co.’s Pitt-street shop in one of the
busiest parts of the city.
The spring in the year’s sales was
£585,157, compared with £213,292 and
£78,838 in the two preceding terms. Gross
earnings (£697,564) were £153,518 better
at 25.6 p.c. of turnover, about the same
percentage as for the previous year. Exes.
(£589,879, including £25,000 set aside for
taxation) took £129,918 of the increase,
leaving enough to pay the pref. div.
(£12,000) and then show 16.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 14.1, 11.5,
16.8, 18.7 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1928.
Appearances are, therefore, that the div.
could be lifted to 12| p.c. again without
cutting things too fine. Competition in
the chain business, however, is becom-
ing very keen, and the prop for capital
is none too substantial.
To finance the year’s expansions, in-
cluding the building programme, etc.,
£128,662 of fresh capital was gathered,
raising the total to £634,872 in 150,000
fully-paid prefs. and 708,600 ords. at
June 30. The new scrip brought with it
£44,050 of share premiums, £25,500 of
which was used to rub goodwill out of
the accounts (the intangible has never
been treated as an asset herein). The fol-
lowing comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows how the extra funds were
employed:
1928. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Ord. capital. £288,165 £480,000 £506.210 £634,872
Pref. capital 75,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 11,679 3,642
Sundry creditors 30,613 37,146* 46,337* 47,694*
Freeholds .. 86,300 331,817* 331,817* 418,317*
Leaseholds .. 25,205 61,214 96,703 98,758
Fittings, etc. 31,857 94,087 125,940 177,007
Stock ■ • 237,914 224,345 245,364 291,683
Debtors . . 1,356 1,448 1,566 525
Cash. etc. .. 1,773 40,489 24,435 48,229
*Nct including £130,000 due Dec.. 1937, on
Bourke-street freehold.
During the year £139,622 was added to
the book values of fixed assets. Includ-
ing unpaid purchase money, they ac-
counted for 70.7 p.c. of the balance-sheet
total at June 30 as against 49.8 p.c. five
years earlier. The average amount of
stock per store was £10,803 compared
with £9814 and £11,217 at the two pre-
ceding balances, and the lot appears to
have been turned over about nine times
during the year.
Since the books closed a new store has
been opened at Launceston; another
at Hobart and the new Sydney shop will
commence business next month.
Quick turnover for cash is the pillar
upon which the chain system rests. This
means keen buying and attractive display ;
it helps to keep the capital investment
per store low, and removes many of the
difficulties and dangers usually associated
with stocks and book debts, while small
personal service—salesmanship is reduced
to a minimum—spells low overhead.
The market prices the ords. at 395.
3d. as against 365. a year ago and 265.
12 months before that. The return at
395. 3d. is 5.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
At 31s. 6d. the prefs., which carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, return 5.1 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £6 15s. prefs., 245. 4d. ords.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
Junc, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 33,740 8 p.c. = 16,860 16,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 ~ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 81,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written oft, £6OOO 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.a = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 • . 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.c. = • 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7,. „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ .. 30,000 7,7210 143,445
1932.. 89,162 6 „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
.1933.. 41,017 6 .. „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
This co. does a large pastoral-finance
and agency business in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. Considering the fall in
prices, the extent to which the co. had
borrowed to lend, and the none too stout
a prop for the half-million of capital
the board has done well to pay a steady
6 p.c. div. with widening margins over
the last three years. It has been able
to do so because advances were largely
against wool and other readily-realisable
products, because substantial savings
were made in exes., and because the
business continued to expand, thanks
partly to a run of good seasons. Over
the last eight years sales of wool and
sheep more than doubled:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 . . 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 . . 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 117,550 232,501 32.676
1927 .. 188,075 441,919 30,168
1928 .. 175,682 352,199 19,869
1929 . . 189,190 841,399 30,714
1930 . . 182,221 485,958 37,243
1931 . . 186,801 518,125 26,099
1932 . . 214,126 481,507 21,901
1933 . . 253,647 567,935 24,980
During the last term an extra 39,521
bales, 76,428 more sheep and 3079 more
cattle were put under the hammer, and
a greater number of hides and skins was
handled, too. Also, prices were better.
The average per bale for wool com-
pares as follows:
1927-28. 1930-31. 1931-32. 1932-33.
Sydney . . £25/ 7 /4 £ll/ 6 /3 £lO/15/2 £ll/ 5 /-
Brisbane . . £26/14/7 £l2/12/5 £lO/ 8/6 £l2/19/8
So, despite a cut in selling charges, net
earnings sprang £1855, reaching 8.2 p.c.
on capital as against 7.8, 7.3, 8.7, 11.9,
14 and 15.8 p.c. back to 1927.
Though the current season’s clip will
be lighter, the rise in price promises a
better gross return than for the past
season. At the opening sales in Sydney
last month the staple averaged £l6 19s.
6d. per bale ; last week the figure reached
£l9. Also recent rains have further
brightened the outlook. Appearances
are, therefore, that another 6 p.c. div. is
assured, with prospects.
The market prices the pound shares
at 295. as against 235. lOd. a year ago
and 14s. 9d. 12 months before that. The
return at 295. is 4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
The cover is 265. 6d. in net tangibles.
Flere is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1920. 1928. 1932. 1933.
Capital . . £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 461,352 553,490 292,059 376,578
Freeholds .. 160,856 199,965 200,624 200,624
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 31,656 25,643 29,733
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 700,866 714,251
Investments and
cash .. 21,396 21,865 21,321 94,810
Consignments 1,916 11,212 15,783
The year’s growth of £84,519 in liabili-
ties is due chiefly to June sales, the pro-
ceeds of which (£73,489) were put in the
bank and paid in July. The more or
less liquid surplus (£448,266) improved
£6926 over the twelvemonth.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923 .. 39,991 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 52,672
1924 . . 18.014 IQ „ „ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2/50 45,174
1926 . . 19.953 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 49,988
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73,048
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 ■ • 42,000
1927 . . 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 43,954
1928 . . 17,801 10 ~ „ 12,419 2500 46,836
1929 .. 20,690 10 „ ~ 12,419 7500 47,607
1930 .. 11,747 8 ~ 9,935 2500 46,919
1931 .. 812 5 „ „ 6,210 41,521
Trans, from contingency res., £2000.. 43,521
1932 . . 4,587 5 p.c' = 6,210 41,898
1933 .. 5,055 4* „ „ 5,589 41,364
The small profits earned during the last
three years came from investments out-
side the business. These stood in the
books at £101,721 at June 30. For the
12 months to that date gross earnings
(£12,033) improved £309; exes. (£6978)
were £l5B lighter, leaving enough to
show 4 p.c. on capital as against 3.6,
0.6, 9.4, 16.6, 12.3, 11.5 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1926. So reserves had to be
tapped for £534 to pay 4\ p.c., and there
is nothing in sight at the moment upon
which to hang hopes of a lift in the div.
That is because the Government has
failed to give this and other cos. the pro-
tection they deserve in respect of the
manufacture of Diesel engines. The duty
on these has been lowered from 55 p.c.
to 45 p.c., and all engines over 100 horse-
power are admitted free. One result is
that Walkers have suspended manufac-
ture of high-powered engines, and £2852
had to be written off to cover loss on this
class of work last year. The Government,
with which the board had taken up the
question of manufacture of these engines
at the end of 1926, had encouraged the
co. to proceed with the remodelling of
its plant. The alterations cost the co.
about £40,000 ; this was written off out
of reserves which the prudent manage-
ment had created for the purpose. The
idea behind the change-over was to
bridge the gap caused by the restricted
demand for locomotives and sugar-mill
machinery, which had been the back-
bone of the business for over 20 years.
Before that mining equipment and
boilers had been the co.’s mainstay.
Exactly what the future holds for the
co. it is difficult to say at the moment;
much depends upon the use it is able
to make of its plant.
Financially the position is very snug:
1918. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities .. 33,890 74,756 63,696 44,335
Fixed assets.. 47,350 24,425 33,540 36,889
Stock-in-trade 25,873 42,968 36.931 35,517
Investments .. 52,050 86,730 101,721 101,721
Completed work,
cash, debtors,
etc. .. 58,316 101,681 88,646 63,343
When the books closed the value of
work in hand was £10,725 ; book debts
(£52,562, down £31,035) are mainly
balances owing on t.-p. contracts. There
was little change in the more or less
liquid surplus (£163,692, including
stocks), which is equal to 265. 4d. per
share. This largely explains why the
pound shares remain steady at 17s. on
the market. The return at that figure is
5.3 p.c. on a 4\ p.c. div. basis.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends. .
Net Prefs. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 p.c. = 9,000 7,344 17,181
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 „ ~15,000 9,875 7,306
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 ~ ~12,000 3.346 3,960
Reserves.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 „ ~12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 .. .. 27,089
1926. . 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised. £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 „ ~14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~12,600 543 14,564
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 „ ~ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 „., 9,000 1,162 17.382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 .. ~ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 6 „ „ 5,400 15,896
The breakfast bacon-and-eggs have be-
come more and more a luxury lately,
despite cuts in prices for hams ; and this
co., which took over George Farmer’s old
business in 1919 (it paid £112.000), has
felt the fall in demand very keenly, while
the price of pigs has been moving up-
ward and adding to costs. In 1932 gross


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
Or AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
** ASERS > of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores
‘ 1 I rw^ rate r' Sllver : Bullion, Blister Copper. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates’
Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper. ’
G °JY’ c °PP er . “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BLARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
primers- 18 t 0 Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications,
i RINTERS METALS.— -Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
~ , Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W
Sydney Office: 2a O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
J Send y ?,Y r J rold by post ( insur efi) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
fine. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
•ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THe Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
GOLDMINING CAPlTAL.—lnvestors interested
sound Queensland Opportunity, please communicate.
Working Party of character, knowledge and experi-
ence about to commence operations on proven ground
under lease. No Wild Cat salaries or expenses in
this show. Quarterly returns on Capital not exceed-
ing £l6OO. Sums of £lOO accepted under strict
legal agreement. Details from “NEMO,” C/o Box
No. 1, Gympie.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions
advice. Davies A Com.ison, 483 Collins Street!
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc, and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.L—Advt.
NOBEL:
s
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.VV.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SIDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Clias. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
earnings slipped £5301. Last term there
was a farther slide of £5385 (to £25,880),
and as exes. (£17,669) were cut back only
£1093, net profit (£8211) was down
£4292. Though the ord. distribution was
lowered from 8 to 6 p.c., after handing
the prefs. their requirements reserves
were drawn upon for £1989 during the
year, reducing them to £15,896.
Since 1926 there has been a persistent
slip in profit-earning. Before that it was
a great money-spinner. Balance-sheet
movements lately have been in the right
direction:
1922. 1929. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £120,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 1,838 0,829 1,887 2,013
Premises .. 10,105 50,248 46,700 45,597
Plant, etc. .. 15,386 30,875 30,080 29,539
Stocks .. 23,928 40,767 22,142 18,197
Poole debts .. 29,416 36,609 26,326 26,896
Gash, invest-
ments, etc. 31,470 22,694 51,997 53,701
The year’s profit was written after taking
stock into account at £3945 lower. Fixed
assets (£75,136) were also reduced by
£2310. Debtors (£26,896) were practi-
cally unchanged, but cash, etc. (£53,701),
was £1704 stronger. The more or less
liquid surplus (£96,781) was £1797 lighter
than at the previous balance.
The ords., covered by 235. 7d. in net
tangibles, are at 31s. 6d. Return on a
6 p.c. div. basis is 3.8 p.c. At 30s. 6d.
the 8 p.c. prefs. return 5.2 p.c.
Zinc Corporation
r- Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Old. Total. serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1927.. 259,278 40 40 = 228,905 30,373 252,228
1928.. 255,534 40 40 = 228,905 26,629 278,857
1929.. 246,050 37i 35 = 206,433 39,617 318,474
Exchange reserve, £20,000.. .. 338,474
1930.. 68,381 23f 74= 82,844 324,011
1931.. 108,441 224 5 = 71,609 36,832 360,843
Equalisation reserve, £17,000 .. 377,843
1932.. 94,838 22-4 5 = 71,609 23,229 401,072
Certainly the average price of lead in
London was approximately £1 lower than
in 1931, but that was partly offset by
a rise in the price of spelter and silver: —-
Silver
Lead. (fine). Spelter.
Average four years,
Dec., 1929 ..£24 19 7 28.58 d. £2B 3 11
12 mths., Dec., ’3O 18 1 5 19.06 d. 16 16 9
12 mths., Dec., ’3l 13 0 7 15.75 d. 12 8 11
12 mths., Dec., ’32 12 0 9 19.24 d. 13 13 IQ
The difficulty was that this co., like all
others at the Barrier, had been unable
to sell its output. Whereas in 1931
settlement was received for 45,454 tons
of lead, or 7859 tons more than that
year’s production, in 1932 settlement was
only for 32,682 tons, or 16,966 tons less
than the year’s output. Hence the co.’s
lead stocks at the end of 1932 mounted
to 38,844 tons, an increase of 16,966 tons
over the twelvemonth. The zinc con-
centrates are sold under contract to
Electrolytic Zinc and Imperial Smelting
Corp.
So, despite bigger production, better
recoveries and lower costs, the profit on
mine account was £15,108 lighter at
£37,412. It would have been lighter still
only that lead sold during the five months
to the end of May last was taken in at
the actual figure realised, the re-
mainder of the metal at £lO Bs. per ton,
and silver at Is., both sterling. Exclud-
ing a special dividend of £17,000, sent
direct to reserves, the net return from the
£720,440 invested in associated cos.
(£473,025), subsidiaries (£52,082) and
other securities (£195,333) was £1505
better at £57,426. The net return from
all sources was thus £13,603 lighter at
£94,838. So the prefs. got their cumu-
lative 20 p.c. (£49,138), and participated
with the ords. in another 6d. per share.
The £23,229 that remained lifted reserves
to £401,072.
A better idea of surplus assets is to
be had from these figures, which include
holdings in associated and subsidiary cos.
—£525,107 at the end of 1932:
1930. 1931. 1932.
Assets other than
mine and plant £1,397,116 £1,127,724 £1,077,920
Liabilities .. 696,780 366,807 313,168
Excess assets .. £700,336 £760,917 £763,857
The mine and plant figured at £231,948
at Dec. 31, up £12,720 during the year.
Extraction of crudes and working costs
compare as follows:
1927. 1930. 1931. ' 1932.
Crudes raised,
tons . . 261,766 237,041 264,979 350,284
Working costs,
per ton .. 35/1 29/8 26/5 24/7
Development costs,
per ton .. 2/6 1/10 -/I -/6
Last year’s reduction of Is. lOd. a ton
in working costs is due mainly to bigger
tonnage. The ore contained the same
quantity of lead (15.4 p.c.), but slightly
less silver (3.50 z.) and zinc (9.7 p.c.).
Treatment and recovery figures show
these results:
1927 1931. 1932
Crudes treated, tons.. 263,202 265,740 350,100
Lead concentrates, tons 57,466 63,098 69,355
Assay—Lead, p.c... 64.6 72.9 73.7
Silver, 0z... 13.5 17.3 15.9
Recoveries—
Lead, p.c. .. 92.7 94.6 94.9
Silver, p.c. .. 87.0 91.1 89.7
Zinc concentrates, tons 48,586 40,377 51,168
Assay—zinc, p.c. . . 47.9 52.8 52.9
Recoveries —zinc, p.c. 80.3 79.4 80.0
The improvement in the grade of con-
centrate and the percentage of recovery,
which mean lower costs, is a tribute to
the metallurgical staff.
Over the next two years the board
proposes to spend approximately £60,000
on development and £90,000 on plant, the
idea being to increase production and
treatment to 50,000 tons crudes per
month. Ore reserves are figured at
2,800,000 tons in the main lode and
249,000 tons in the zinc lode, and there
is a lot of stone not yet measured up.
There is £572,262 of capital to feed in
245,692 £1 prefs. and 653,139 10s. ords.
The prefs. carry a cumulative 20 p.c. and
share rateably in any surplus profits
with the ords. The market prices
the prefs. at 975. 6d. The inves-
tor at that price who looks for 8 p.c.
on his money counts on a 39 p.c. div.,
or 3s. 3d. a share more than was dis-
tributed last year. At 355. 9d. the ords.
would return 10.5 p.c. on a 3s. 9d. dis-
tribution.
After touching £l3 16s. 3d. in July
the London spot price of lead had fallen
to £ll 15s. last week-end, with a ten-
dency still to ease.
Alluvials, Ltd., a London concern with
interests in Malaya and New Guinea,
proposes to spend £lO,OOO test-boring
800 acres in the Upper Nevis Valley
(M.L.). If results are right, there is talk
of putting two or three big electric
dredges, each capable of handling
3,000,000 c.y. p.a., on the property. Syd-
ney and Melbourne interests are also
said to have an eye upon an adjoining
lease (1045 acres, which run for four
miles along the valley), held by the
recently-formed Nevis Diesel Electric
Dredging Co., which asked the public
for £39,000 in Is. shares. Here half a
dozen bores showed ground averaging
2s. 4|d. per c.y. The wash is blue
moraine, 30ft. deep, with 20ft. to 25ft.
of reddish-yellow wash beneath that. No
boulders were met with.
* * * *
Of Lancefield’s 1,250,000 shares of 4s.
each, 900,000 were underwritten—7oo,ooo
were taken firm, and there was a
scramble for the other 200,000, which
promptly went to a premium on the
market. The vendors took 100,000 paids
plus £5OOO cash. The other 250,000 shares
are in pickle. Officially, there is 300,000
tons of 335. ore (gold at 845.) in the old
workings; another 150,000 tons of simi-
lar grade stuff has been disclosed by the
diamond drill, and development is ex-
pected to disclose additional tonnage.
Costs are put at 245.; with gold at £7
10s. an ounce, the prospectus figures on
a profit of £168,000 from treatment of
120,000 tons annually. The property was
first worked by a co. floated by Hoover
and others over 30 years ago. The
shoot was long and wide, and the gold
was there ; but refractory ore made treat-
ment unprofitable. After two reconstruc-
tions, a syndicate of Kalgoorlie mining
men got a little wealth out of it, but an
arbitration award froze them out.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) has sold
its old and somewhat derelict Iron Duke
lease, Kalgoorlie, to Goldfields Aus-
tralian Development for £lO,OOO (cash)
plus a 25 p.c. interest in either cash or
fully-paids on resale of the lease or for-
mation of a co. to work it. The deal
was put through on the strength of
sampling by Brindsen, g.m. of S. Kal-
gurli. Austral, a small Adelaide con-
cern with more assurance than cash, took
six months’ option on the show last year.
* * * *
Western Gold Mines, controlled by
Collins House and other interests, has
stabbed Reedy’s Mararoa (W.A.) in
several places with the diamond-drill, and
rhay exercise its option before the end
of this year. If it does, Reedy’s Mararoa
shareholders should get either about
6s. 6d. a share cash or a scrip interest
in a new co.
* * * *
White Hope, floated in the 1920 Hamp-
ton Plains boom, may be given another
chance. The market at one time valued
the show at nearly a million. But
it proved to be one of nature’s auriferous
delusions at shallow depth.
* * * *
Metals Investigation has taken an
option over Dr. C. W. Laver’s three
leases (Chaffers South, Chaffers South
Extended and Golden Cinderella) which
adjoin the Chaffers’ lease of Lake View.
The co. has also made an offer, said to
be around £30,000, for the Blue Gap,
a six-acre lease which has been worked
on a royalty basis by Boulder Persever-
ance. Last year 2000 tons from this
projperty averaged 48s. The show is
developed to 600 ft.
* * * *
The Norseman treated 1200 short tons
in August for 3380 z. of gold by amal-
gamation. Tailings assayed 245. per ton.
With the exception of 100 tons, the ore
came from development. The average
value of all ore treated was £2 2s. Bd.
per ton.
* * * *
Owing to the rise in the price of tin,
several shows are being worked again
at Greenbushes (W.A.), where some
sluicing and dredging are being done.
To date the field has produced about a
million pounds’ worth of tin, but very
little of it has been unearthed of recent
years.
* * * *
Dr. Wade is to make a close survey of
the structures on the Freney reservation
(W.A.), and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will do its bit by lending photo-
graphs, mosaics and other things.
* * * *
“Veritas”: The Cracow Northern has
taken options over the Rose’s Pride for
£2OO, the Blue Bell for £lOO and the
Golden Sunshine for £2O0 —£500 in all
for 18 acres and other mining rights on
the Cracow (Q.) field. Nominal capital is
£75,000 in ss. shares, of which 100,000
are to be allotted to Cracow Northern
Options, 100,000 are in pickle, and
100,000 are presumably offered. This
means that the public would be paying
£25,000 for what cost the promoters
£5OO ; and then it would only have a
half-interest.
* * * *
At the Crescent, on May Downs, in
the Isa district (Q.), where 12 tons bulked
£6 ss. per ton on mill extraction, ex-
haustive sampling of the lode in the cross-
cut at 45ft. has given an average of
18dwt. per ton over 17ft. 6in. On
account of its size, there appears to be
little doubt that the lode will live in
the proposed 100 ft. crosscut. They are
down 90ft., and in a week or two should
be driving a 25ft. crosscut. If samples
come up to those from 45ft., arrange-
ments will be made for a dam and local
battery. At present the Government is
carting water for the necessities of the
miners.
* * * *
The July crushing at the Pioneer, Lol-
worth (N.Q.), was 161 tons for 620 z.
of gold over the plates, an average of
about Bdwt. The bulk of the ore on the
field is on the low side so far. Still,
Silaya sent 16cwt. to Chillagoe, the return
being 9oz. 16dwt.; at the Pioneer 40
tons returned over 15oz. How far the
rich blobs will sweeten up the field re-
mains to be seen.
* * * *
At 50ft. in the Hawkwood (C.Q.) the
drives both north and south have en-
countered unpayable stuff and have been
discontinued. Still, the work has dis-
closed a valuable lense of good grade
ore, estimated to block out at 600 to 700
tons. On the 100 ft. level ore has come
in occasionally, but results have not been
up to expectation. Further driving will
be done on the recommendation of
R. W. Powell, who recently vacated the
manager’s chair on account of ill-health.
* * * *
A body of low-grade ore, 600 ft. in
length and up to 20ft. wide, has been
proved on the old Scottish Targinnie
claim, Gladstone (Q.). Assays average
Bdwt. down to 30ft., values increasing
slightly with depth. The Scottish Tar-
ginnie was first worked about 25 years
ago; crushings averaged ioz. of gold
per ton.
* * * * *
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Co. pays for gold at the London price,
plus the t-t. buying rate of exchange. All
silver in excess of 8 p.c. weight of the
bullion is paid for at the day’s price for
fine silver. Refining fees range from 7d.
to Is. per gross ounce, minimum charge
for refining being 7s. per parcel. Trans-
port and realisation costs are 255. per
cent, of the gross value.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Memnon: (1) Should be worth holding in the
long run; but for profit-taking the present is
a good time to sell. (2) Cannot say. Write
Victorian Attorney-General, Melb H.W.G.:
List of co.’s shareholders may be inspected at
Registrar-General’s, Sydney, on payment of 2s.
. ...K.J.G.: Hasn’t commenced whaling, and
no regular market for shares F.J.: No in-
formation... .F.R.K.: Cannot be described as
“financially sound.”


SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Great Jasper” (R.K.0.), which
heads the bill at Sydney Capitol, enables
Richard Dix to pursue the vein opened
up in “Cimarron.” Richard drives a
tram in the days when trams were drawn
by horses, and, though married, is the
Don Juan of his small town. Among
the women who find him irresistible is
the wife of the owner of the trams.
Because of her he becomes a strike-
breaker as well as a heart-breaker, and
wins promotion and wealth. (Members
of the A.L.P. with anything dicky about
their blood-pressure had better not see
this picture.) But the rich old man finds
out, and Richard has to seek fresh woods
and new pastures. Edna May Oliver,
a seeress of distinction at Atlantic City,
though she isn’t as beautiful as she once
was, still has a heart. Richard engages
it, and when Edna died she leaves Rich*
ard the fortune-telling layout. In the
background is Florence Eldridge, who,
as Richard’s wife, exhibits a Puritan con-
science. Less in the background are the
legitimate and the illegitimate son of
Richard. The love affairs of the boys
get tangled, and then there’s a flavor of
“Ghosts” that makes Richard regret a
gay life. The psychology isn’t always
convincing, but the acting is smooth, and
there are patches where Dix and Miss
Oliver achieve an almost complete illu-
sion of reality.
“Blondie Johnson” (First National),
second string at Sydney Capitol, is a
gangster which gets its effects in ensemble
and atmosphere rather than in detail.
Plot is a permutation of “Within the
Law,” and although the posters say thqt
injustice made the principal lady (Joan
Blondell) daring and love made her beau-
tiful, a hard eye and a sharp tongue are
her best assets. The technique of gang-
sterism and racketeering is well done.
There is a code of manners among these
film crooks that is rather impressive, and
the bursts of machine-gun fire, heard
off-stage, so to speak, that mark the
bumping-off of various characters are
the essence of drama. 6londie and her
fancy-man Danny (Chester Morris) go
to the pen at the fade-out, resolved to
make a new, straight start when they
emerge—a lapse into hooey badly out of
chime with the 100 p.c. Americanism of
the rest of the piece.
v * #
“The Man Who Dared,” at the Hay-
market, is the story of Anton Cermak,
the Mayor of Chicago, who was shot in
mistake for Roosevelt a few months
back. It opens in the ’seventies, and,
in the manner of “Cavalcade,” gives
a series of glimpses of the main events
in the city’s history from then onwards:
the great fire; the 1893 World Fair;
the entry into the World War ; the 18th
Amendment; and then Cermak’s death.
Preston Foster, who when first seen
is an infant newly-arrived with his
parents from Bohemia, rises from pit-
boy and hawker to party boss and finally
to mayor. A sincere and credible study.
Frank Sheridan as the old Irish Sena-
tor who first turns Foster’s thoughts to
politics, is perhaps the best of the others.
There are nine principal villains in
“Puppets of Fate,” and they don’t really
get down to business till half-way
through the film. Then Villain 1 sets
out to murder Villain 2 in his little house
on Dartmoor ; on the same foggy night,
Villain 3, who is quite unrelated to
the other two, escapes from the adjacent
prison. To make things more exciting
an express chooses the same hour and
place to wreck itself. However, the hero
is used to fogs, and, though he comes
into the story rather late, clears the
whole thing up in record time, even for
a hero who is an amateur ’tec and has a
brother at the Yard. A pity they put it
on practically at the end of the school
holidays.
# * *
A young wife, whose blackguardly first
has started divorce proceedings, marries
a rich old idiot who thinks he loves her
but isn’t sure. The first then drops the
divorce proceedings and turns to black-
mail. The idiot encourages the lady to
go for a trip on a liner alone, and em-
phasises his imbecility still further. by
engaging a handsome gigolo to shadow
her.
Kay Francis, as the wife, is polished
and beautiful as usual, and-George Brent
is the gigolo-detective who falls in love
With her. The first husband is accident-
ally and providentially killed ; the second
is left to do as he likes ; and the name
of the film, which is at the Regent, is
“The Keyhole.” Heaven knows why.
George Brent would certainly never fall
so low as to look through a keyhole, and
he is the only member of the cast who
might be expected to seek information
on such lines.
“The Secret of the Blue Room” is a
thriller which seems to have been writ-
ten up to the point where the murderer
is caught. Apparently the author then
placed another character in the hands of
the police and re-wrote the thing with
the new man as the assassin, mixed the
two, lost patience, threw the script
at the producer, and resumed his
interrupted game of draughts or what-
ever it was. The system has the effect
of mystifying the audience, if it docs
nothing else. Paul Lukas is one of three
lovers, and Gloria Stuart is the lady. The
solution satisfies them, so it must be
right; but this critic would still like to
know where the cat came from.
Sundry Shows
Peter Dawson demonstrated that he
had not outstayed his welcome in Sydney
when he turned up again, rather unex-
pectedly, at the Town Hall on Saturday
night and gave a charity concert. Associ-
ated with the baritone were two young
sopranos, Grace Simpson and Elsa Corry,
both with well-trained, pleasing voices.
Isidor Goodman interpreted Chopin and
Liszt very gracefully, and Leslie Mc-
Callum played the flute as an accompani-
ment to Miss Corry’s singing.
"ROAD HOUSE.” AT SYDNEY CRI.
(Top to bottom, left to right): John Fernside as Sam Crookston; John Longden
and Dot Brunton in an 1889 interlude; Frank Bradley and John Wood as
johnnies.
The literary method of Beverley
Nichols involves the bravery of the mos-
quito who stung a dead elephant. Syd-
ney Players’ Club, at St. James’s Hall,
produced on Saturday “When the Crash
Comes,” in which Mr. Nichols gives his
idea of what would happen in London
if the left-wingers of Labor managed to
get a majority. The answer is that the
Hon. Robert Poole (played by Jack
Needham) and Lady Poole (by Beatrice
Wines) would make them look ridiculous.
Maxton, the chap with the Hitler mop of
hair who Jeads the Tynesiders in the
House of Commons, comes on the stage
thinly disguised as James Maxwell (Wil-
fred Blacket), a small Lenin. The fan-
tasia opens as farce, develops as smart-
dialogue society comedy, and winds up
with a vain effort to keep the story in-
teresting but inoffensive. The Players
seemed to find the first two acts con-
genial, and the principals employed a
good deal of imagination and resource
to soften the dull, damp thud of the
denouement.
%• * *
Some bright things are in sight in Mel-
bourne, and they will burst upon a
startled public simultaneously next Satur-
day (16th). “Music in the Air” will be
music in the Royal. At the Garrick
Frank Harvey will lead the attack on
Patrick Hamilton’s “Rope,” a caustic
study of war and murder, and Theo Shall
will be “Baby Mine” to the Palace mul-
titude. “Ten Minute Alibi,” the first
mystery play for years, will endeavor to
make itself clear at the King’s on the
following Saturday.
* %■ *
Harwood’s “Transit of Venus,” given
three showings at Adelaide Repertory,
deals with a British diplomatic outpost
somewhere Persia way, and the visit of a
man-hunting Englishwoman. The A.D.C.
who is her special quarry frankly runs
away from her tent, and the local sheik
repudiates her advances, explaining
angrily that he has plenty of women
already, “and fatter than you, too.” The
Mrs. Potiphar motive is always funny on
the stage, and Muriel Marks cleverly
accentuates the wiles of this impossible
heroine. Notable in a good all-round
cast are Ronald Simpson as a complacent
husband, Joan Skinner as a matter-of-
fact girl, Hunter-Watts as a brainy offi-
cial, and James Glennon as the sheik.
* * *
Sydney eisteddfod roused the sporting
spirit of musical Sydney, and the con-
cert given by Richard McClelland’s
choir, which won the choral champion-
ship of N.S.W., attracted a big Sunday-
afternoon audience to the Lyceum Hall.
In addition to the “Hallelujah” chorus
by full choir, with organ, there were
part-songs by Schumann and Coleridge-
Taylor and pieces for various solo
singers. Edna McClelland, mezzo-
soprano champion in the recent tourney,
sang the page’s song from “Les Hugue-
nots”; Bessie Cooke, contralto prize-
winner, showed that the voice is as flex-
ible an instrument as the fiddle in an
arrangement of Kreisler’s “Caprice Vien-
nois,” and Kathleen Kenna, junior
soprano champion, performed a similar
feat with a Strauss waltz.
The Palette.
The Society of Artists’ show, which
lives on the top floor of the Education
Department’s building in Sydney, con-
tains, as well as much good work on
conventional lines, some exhibits that are
a little out of the usual line. Tak-
ing them as they come in the cata-
logue, Geoffry S. Collings, in “The Pros-
pect of Whitby Wapping,” presents a
jolly study of a street of shops. Maud
Sherwood water-colors a vista that in-
cludes a Spanish viaduct so beautifully
that the scene seems familiar to people
who never saw* Spain. Percy Lindsay's
“In Lavender” transcribes not only the
letter but the spirit of the Sydney water-
side, and Richard Aston’s “A Nor’-east
Breeze” gets the guts of the joys of sail-
yachting in something less than 300
square inches. John D. Moore, in “Land-
scape with Figure,” scores a fugue.
Principal theme is a female figure, dark
and brooding. Background is a sky more
diversified than human eye ever gazed
upon. Meteorologists would recognise in
it at least seven kinds of weather, but
the effect is intensely dramatic. If the
germ of opera is isolated it should look
just like that. Arthur Murch, who
specialises in folk with a Malayan cast
of feature, presents a mothen and child.
They live, but they are unfamiliar. Nora
Heysen in “Ruth 7 ’ and d’Auvergne Box-
all and Douglas Dundas in head studies
present types that are hybrid of Asia and
Africa. They are well-painted. Hasten-
ing on, one reaches E. A. Harvey's
“Odalisque.” Any sort of face might
have redeemed it, but above the squat
neck and unseemly collarbones comes
a fan. After these excursions into dark
places, John Rowell’s picture “Sandstone
Cliff” and H. Badham’s “Hyde Park”—
direct, sunlit, conveying directly their im-
pression—come gratefully. Most original
thing in the section for sculptors, in
which Barbara Tribe, Rayner Hoff and
Butler-George exhibit worth-while model-
lings, is Eric Bludhorn’s “Das Alte
Weib.” The lady is old, wide and hard —
the sort that ought to be done in chipped
granite. Norman Lindsay and Fred Leist
are represented by some characteristic
examples of their technique.
“Old-un”: I’ve often wondered why
nobody rises up to explain modern art —-
I mean the “modern” sort of modern art
—in terms a fellow could understand, and
I had high hopes when it was announced
that a speaker before our Rotary Club
in Sydney, the second city of the Empire,
would discourse upon “Art and the Man
in the Street.” But he left me no further
forrard. He deplored an upbringing
amid inartistic surroundings, and sug-
gested that kids reared in more luxurious
circumstances would be better able to
appreciate true art. There may have been
great painters and great sculptors who
were born rich, but so many were born
deplorably poor that the rule doesn’t
seem to be applicable. The tendency of
the man-in-the-street, this gentleman said,
was to like pictures that told a story ; that
were realistic; that were well-drawn.
Unless some positive influence for right-
thinking came into the lives of these poor
mutts they were doomed, said the lec-
turer, to go down to their graves know-
ing nothing about art. This ruled me
right out of the realms of true art-lovers
—l’m set in the heresy that if a man
draws a pot it should look like a pot;
but there was worse to come. The lec-
turer told a Sydney audience that its
‘ artistic background” was a “pretty poor
one,” all mucked up with the “deaden-
ing influence of dull, commonplace
things,” and advised his hearers, if they
wanted to get a glimpse inside the portals
of the Temple of True Art, to have a
look at the Kuring-gai Shire Council’s
Hall. I haven’t been along that way
lately, but if the hall is a nearer approxi-
mation to True Art than the glorious
glimpses of landscape on the route it
must be a better hall than my poor be-
nighted eyes will ever see.
A. E. Newbury (Melb. Athenteum},
who used to be notable for the small
landscape in which poetry was mixed
judiciously with realism, still turns out
this line of goods with his old facility,
but of late years divine discontent
appears to have eaten into his vitals and
driven him in the direction of large areas
of gum and mountain, where more con-
trol is needed than he has at his disposal.
The results are panoramas on which the
eye finds it as difficult to rest as on his
latest still-life, where the natural hues
of Nature are made to sing staccato.
“Fog,” “Little Boats” and “The Mirror
of the Sea,” of which sincerity is the
keynote, are engaging examples of his
earlier manner.
Of R. W. Sturgess, the Williamstown
(Vic.) water-colorist, who died a couple
of years ago at the age of 40, it was said
that he was a plagiarist of Hilder. As
a matter of fact, he had never seen a
picture of the Sydney artist’s until his
own romantic style was developed. Stur-
gess had a retired and sensitive soul that
loved the sort of weather when mist or
evening light had reduced the scene be-
fore him to a few simple elements.
These he often captured with rare deli-
cacy. The more complex problems of
full light usually baffled him. “Fog
Phantom” is the best example in this
show (Fine Arts, Melbourne) of his
ability to make the dingy seaport look
like an Arabian Nights’ entertainment.
“F.S.” : Vic. Nat - Gallery, which, per
Felton Bequest, recently acquired a
£7OOO Gainsborough from England, has
been offered a reputed work of the
same master which is in local hands at
a much lower figure. It is a portrait oi
Mrs. Thrale. Max Meldrum and John
Longstaff are impressed with its genuine-
ness. Gainsborough or not, it is a better-
painted and more attractive picture than
the £7OOO- one.


VAUXHALL forges ever forward:
New body style shows elegant contours and graceful lines . .
f
New colour blending achieves superb appearance
s
7 he Spot
Roadster
m
m
The . .
Tourer
a
m
■
The Coupe
ĥ
For healthful driving and passenger comfort Vauxhall now
offers No-Draught Ventilation and Foot Wells; for improved
design and external beauty Vauxhall embodies Valanced Wings
and Aero-Tail; a Canted Windscreen and a range of inspiring new
body colours give the final touch of perfection.
Vauxhall has led the English car registrations in Australia every month
this year. This national recognition of Vauxhall value is eloquently proved
by the official figures which show that over 25% more Vauxhalls have
been registered during the past six months than any other English car.
The Vauxhall range now includes: a smart Sports Tourer, a speedy
Roadster, a dignified Coupe, and the new improved Sedan. Each is fully
equipped with every time-proven Vauxhall feature, including Six Cylinder
26 h.p. Engine, Synchro-mesh Easy-change Gears, Silent Second Gear,
Bumper Bars front and rear, and Radiator Guard. A Commercial
Roadster completes the range.
You say you desire a car which carries the stamp of English design
and craftsmanship . . . with lithe, trim lines . . . alert and alive on every
road . . . fresh in colour scheme and refreshing in performance? Then
one of the Vauxhall models is the car you need!
h
AUXHALL
Not only because it is British, but because it’s a better car
Buy from your Local Authorised Vauxhall Dealer
SYVICHRO
fll€SHy^
I €ASY
Q€flßCHfln«
No-draught ventilation
of the front windows.
Valance divings prevent
mud splash on body.
The canted windscreen
—motif of modernity .
Aero-tail adds beauty
to the body by Holden .
Adjustable foot wells
for back seat comfort.
H781MB


ABORIGINALITIES
“Erua”: When Henare called in to say
that his wahine, Torotia, was very ill we
diagnosed her complaint as colic and
handed over the castor-oil bottle. Henare
reported next day. “I ko all round and
tell everypody apout Torotia,” he said,
cheerfully. “I ko to te store and he kive
me te prandy. Ten I ko to te toctor and
he kive me te prack stuff in te pottle.
Ten I ko to te parson and he kive me te
salts. Ten I ko up te road to Timi Prown
and he kive me te whisky. Ten I ko
home.” “But you didn’t give Torotia all
those things?” we asked in horror. “No.
Not so sirry,” said Henare, sternly. “I
make Torotia take te castor oil and te
salts and te medicine in te pottle. / trink
te prandy and te whisky. Torotia orright
to-day.”
* * * *
“Fido”: Though the larrikin pushes
have disappeared from Australian cities
the spirit of them survives in canine
circles. In the remote Sydney North
Shore suburb where 1 live it is the dogs
who redeem the place from an otherwise
too-overpowering respectability. Their
leader is a bull-terrier named Peter, who
is attached to the family of a retired
“Is he Scotch? Why, when he’s had his fun out of a hone he sells the
chewed-up bits for fertiliser.”
Judge, and who, save for a couple of
hours in the morning, is a model of
decorum and addicted to hauteur. Peter,
I have reason to believe, breakfasts at
seven. He then trots to the front gate,
sniffs the flavor of the weather and
sets out to round up his friends. Through
gates if they’re open; over them if
they’re shut, he flies. Soon he has the
gang assembled—two or three foxies, an
Airedale, a couple of spaniels, four
Sealyhams (yes, we’re a very tony sub-
urb), a retriever, and (on rare occasions)
Boris the boarhound. More often than
not, however, 1 find Peter informing the
rest of the push that Boris is on the chain
and not available for circulation. The
troop, assembled, careers joyfully hither
and thither, chasing cats, picking fights
with strange dogs, frightening pigeons
and ambushing butchers’ carts. Then
the sedans and limousines of our Best
People begin to roll cityward down our
tree-lined main avenue, and Peter stages
his star turn to an accompaniment of
rapturous applause from his associates.
Racing alongside, level with the front
wheels of the vehicle, Peter bores in until
the tyre of the wheel actually brushes
his neck. This used to put the wind up
nervous and humane drivers and cause
them to invade the footpath and collide
with trees, but unless there’s a newcomer
in our midst all that happens is that the
chap at the wheel does his darndest to
run over Peter. It’s never been done yet,
and Peter and (I suspect) the motorists
get great fun out of it. When the
last lordly chariot has passed the dogs
disband. They may be seen later in the
day giving exhibitions of perfect canine
deportment, each on his proper estate.
* * * *
“Kerys”: When the new owner arrived
at his outback Westralian station his first
pained request was that the dusky ladies
who presided over the domestic arrange-
ments should be asked to take a bath
immediately. He then retired to a seat
under the only tree and dropped asleep.
His awakening was due to delighted yelps
and shrieks coming from an adjacent
slope, where his horrified eyes fell on
a quartette of unclad gins happily sling-
ing canfuls of water over each other. He
hastily removed himself and indignantly
sought the manager. In answer to his
demand as to why the ladies had elected
to take their bath in his vicinity the
manager was able to offer a quite
reasonable explanation. “They wanted to
let you see they were obeying your in-
structions,” he said. “These people be-
lieve only what they see, and they know
now there can be no doubt in your mind
about their being clean.” The owner
decided to interfere no further in these
delicate matters.
* * * *
“Nakamura”: Two years ago, a chap
who lived at Naduruloulou, a little vil-
lage near Rewa River, Fiji, was the
proud owner of Baby Jane, a trim little
British car. Neighboring car-owners
smiled at the brightly-colored midget,
but the owner knew this was mere
jealousy and envy. Then came the flood.
Baby Jane, parked in the path of the
oncoming waters, was swept away. The
flood subsided; but Jane had dis-
appeared. The other day a Fijian
swimming in the Rewa River chanced
to stub his toe on a piece of
metal, half-hidden in the sandy bed. He
dived to examine it closer and found it
to be part of a motor-car. Eventually
a battered car was hauled out, presently
to be identified as Baby Jane. The
bonnet and a door were missing, and up-
holstery was lacking. But after drying
out the engine turned over and the gen-
erator ran freely; two tyres were in-
flated, and there was petrol still in the
tank. The relic was taken to Suva and
exhibited as testimony to what a British
car will survive.
* * * *
“Cafe Royal”: I am convinced that
the Bohemian artist is a myth, as far as
Australia is concerned, at any rate. For
years I have studied bacchanalian draw-
ings depicting the homecoming of the
classical drunk with the no less classical
cray. One would have thought that
artists, who are popularly supposed to be
au fait with the technique of revelry,
would be able to depict a crayfish with
DAVE (leaving Sydney’s city railway at Museum station ): “Where’s all the
stuffed tigers an’ elephants?”
their eyes shut. In my experience this
is not the case. Every drawing of a cray
I have studied for years past shows the
convivial crustacean with huge claws like
the Atlantic lobster—-a type not found in
Pacific waters. The cray does not sport
anything resembling them. The only
Australian creatures of the kind which
possess large grasping claws, apart from
the crabs, are the scorpions and the
Murrumbidgee “lobster.” Scorpions are
not sold in our fish-shops, and the Mur-
ray cray is a rarity. Evidently nine-
tenths of our black-and-white men know
not the crapulous cray, drink tea, and,
if they stay up late, do so to listen to
the home radio.
• * * $ *
“Jabiru”: “S. M. Herald” advocates
the cultivation of the emu as “an inter-
esting pet.” Of all the devastating brutes
to encourage as a pet the emu probably
tops the list. His appetite is insatiable,
ranging from cakes to chickens. As a
developer of acute neurasthenia in horses
there is nothing to rival him, and he
fully appreciates the fact. I have known
several emu station pets at various times
and all of them developed to perfection
the practice of rushing at a tied-up horse
and chasing him down the paddock,
leaving a smashed-up bridle behind him.
One of them abjured this playful cus-
tom after some time and reserved him-
self until a rider was just hoisting him-
self into the saddle. Then he would rush
from his care'fully-chosen concealment
and the air would be full of flying horse-
man and regrettable language. This chap,
like all his brethren, died suddenly, but
not untimely.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: I can assure “Dr. Nil”
(B. 16/ 8/’33) that the common or garden
turkey has no more brains than the fowl.
I planted some trees in a gully, and
around them put a 6ft. netting fence.
Three weeks later I went back there,
and inside the netting I found a dead
turkey, which, as its tracks showed, had
wandered around the fence until it had
starved to death. But there was evidence
that for many nights the turkey had
roosted on the top of a sapling 2ft. higher
than the fence, from which it could have
jumped outside any time it cared to.
-5- ❖
“Altitude”: The proposal that emus be
cultivated in Russia for food purposes
brings up the question of acclimatisation,
since the notion is to run the birds on
the steppes, which are snow-bound for
a great part of the year. Australia, which
made such a great success of acclimatis-
ing the rabbit and the merino sheep,
came a thud with the alpaca. This South
American animal is a valuable fleece-
producer, and over 70 years ago Charles
Ledger imported a herd to N.S.W. In
spite of every care the alpacas speedily
died out, and the experiment was aban-
doned. Ledger forgot that the alpaca is
an inhabitant of the Andean tablelands
and ranges, living at an immense height
above sea level. Its introduction to com-
paratively low-lying Australia was fore-
doomed to failure.
......
“Ema”: I note that my old friend
Prof. Manteuffel, of Moscow Zoo, has
returned to the charge with his project of
supplying emu meat and eggs to the Mus-
covite proletariat. There is a lot to be said
for the idea, for the emu is a most satisfy-
ing article of diet. It seems a pity, how-
ever, to go to the expense of importing
and acclimatising the birds, since syn-
thetic emu meat is within the reach of
everyone. Here is my recipe, founded on
personal experience of the real thing.
Take a quantity of aged rubber tyres and
amalgamate with several lengths of dis-
carded and well-frayed wire cables.
Soak in a sufficient quantity of motor-
lorry sump-oil and boil for several days
in the outflow from a Botany fellmonger-
ing works. Serve with gas masks. Rus-
sia, which invented caviare, may be
trusted to take kindly to the new pro-
vender.
* * * *
“O.B.”: In the days of my childhood
’possums were plentiful on the banks of
the Swan at Guildford (W.A.), as there
were then plenty of lofty gum-trees for
them to nest in. One day, with a noose
on the end of a broomstick, we caught a
full-grown female ’possum in the space
between ceiling and roof of our house.
She died gamely and we discovered a
young one in her pouch, which thrived
on condensed milk and grew up. While
young he was a great pet and had a very
disturbing habit of shinning up one’s leg
inside the trousers. The effect on visi-
tors unprepared for this sort of attention
can well be imagined. He lived in a par-
rot’s cage, the door of which was left
permanently open. The pride of our
fowl-run was a sturdy little bantam roos-
ter who persisted in breaking bounds
and wandering about the garden. One
day, attracted by a commotion in the
garden, we were astonished to find the
rooster staggering around while the ’pos-
sum rode it newchum style, its front
paws around the bird’s neck. The ani-
mal seemed to enjoy itself, even if the
bird did not. This happened on several
occasions and it cured the rooster of his
straying habit. The ’possum, when about
three years old, answered the call of the
wild, and we never saw it again.
* * * *
“Venture”: Recent discoveries of large
quantities of ’possum skins, illegally pro-
cured, demonstrate the farcical nature of
the pretence that these animals are pro-
tected. It is a fine thing for crooks, this
protection. Crook skin-getters sneak
into back paddocks and lay cyanide baits,
incidentally poisoning large numbers of
stock, crook buyers handle the skins and
pass them on to crook exporters. Honest
men get nothing out of it but loss. A
neighbor—a young man struggling to
make good under adverse conditions —
recently lost 50 out of his flock of 600
ewes from cyanide poisoning. Any man
who has ’possums on his property is
liable to a similar loss. I say “Thank
God for the fox, which keeps the ’pos-
sums down.”
THE SHEPHERDS’ DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve ridden over saltbush hills;
We’ve crossed the greying plain,
Where stinging sand the hot wind spills
On creeks athirst for rain;
We’ve urged along the woolly mob,
Where only patience wins;
And at the yard the merry job,
The shepherds’ dance, begins.
The sheep, close-packed on dusty ground,
Are stubborn, tired and shy;
They jib and jamb and scurry round,
But pass the gateway by.
And musterers and yardmen all,
With capers that entrance,
With yodel, yell and blatant call,
Join in the shepherds’ dance. y
With swinging bough and rattling tin,
The footmen run and shout;
The hoof and stockwhip swell the din
When sheep are breaking out;
Whilst barb and kelpie, “speaking up,”
As oft they’re told to do,
Dart in and out, old dog and pup,
And o’er the woollies, too.
Dust rises in a choking cloud,
The voices crack and drown;
And ’neath the thick pervading shroud
The white backs turn to brown.
The dogs are coughing, and anon
Grow weary of the din;
But still the dizzy jazz goes on—
Till some old ewe leads in.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


“Roga”: While tidying up the Chel-
tenham (Vic.) railway station recently
workmen found in the roof of the offices
a veritable maze of nests, sparrows hav-
ing converted much of the space into
tenements. Twenty bagfuls of grass,
twigs, leaves and nest ddbris were re-
moved. All this had been carried by the
birds through a small opening barely
two inches in diameter.
* # * $
“Dr. Mivart”: I am incurably addicted
to cats, and my friends ask me “Why?”
They say “a nice dog” would be much
more suitable. Well, I’ve owned dogs—
three of ’em —and —never again! Kip-
ling puts it succinctly when he quotes
“Deliver me from the power of the dog.”
The first dog I loved lived long—a fat
old foxie older than I. When he died,
at an age estimated at 31, I was 12. He
was, like Brunton Stephens’s Chinese
cook, both lazy and sly, and not above
a bit of prigging, though otherwise a
perfect gentleman, and the most ingratiat-
ing scoundrel I ever met. When he went
he tore a piece out of my heart, though
he wasn’t my dog. Number two was a
spaniel who was my very own and knew
my mind and my mood better than I did
myself. Poor little bitch, she was caught
in a rabbit-trap! I got someone else to
shoot her. Third was a common little
bluey I bought from a travelling show-
man as a pup. Not intensely brainy,
but eager to learn and tremendously
loyal. When he got paralysis and crawled
pathetically about, still trying to learn
and still indefatigable in his loyalty, I
got the best veterinary advice obtainable,
but couldn’t save him. His death was too
"Fond of pottery, Mr. Trehuzza?”
"No, but my dotter is. She d’ recite brave bit up to Band of ’Ope.”
much of a wrench. Give me cats. They
love you in a fashion of their own ; their
gratitude is a lively sense of favors to
come. More human.
*, . „* * *
Atanuaipa : A mend has trained his
cocker-spaniel Terry as a valet. Every
night when Smith has finished his dinner
TerrvdarKnff to hu? , “ sli PP ers ”
1 erry darts oft to his master s bedroom
and returns with a slipper in his mouth,
By this time bmith has his boot off and
Terry is bade He brings the
remaining slipper and puts 'away the
second boot. Then he is due for a bis-
is ° C “Biscu^’% n °!i but il
n „ ntn ,. s^u .l semis him to the
P ry >P P o the back gate for the
evening journal; “bath” makes him slink
to the washhouse. He will search every
corner of the house until he finds one if
Smith says “ball.” A few minutes after
“firewood” has been uttered he is to be
found staggering up the back steps with
a heavy billet between his teeth. No
matter what he is doing, when Smith says
“sh-h-h” he will be as quiet as a mouse
and stay like that until given permission
to rise.
* * * • *
“Frig”: A rarity in the bird world is
a white hawk. One was caught recently
near St. Helen’s State school, Mary-
borough (Q.), and none of the old-timers
of the district could recall ever seeing
one. The white hawk is an occasional
form of the grey goshawk (Astar novie-
hollandice), found all down the Pacific
from New Guinea to the Speck. At one
time the whities were thought to be a
distinct type, but it has been proved that
they are not.
* * * *
“Opi”: Possibly the legend of that
“familiar” butterfly of N.Q. which is sup-
posed to follow travellers (B. 30/8/’33)
is derived from the fondness many
butterflies in outlandish places display
for human beings in a state of perspira-
tion. On dry stages in the Papua of an
early day 1 found it no uncommon
thing at a halt for a butterfly to come to
roost, after fluttering about, on a bare
arm. The attraction was not only the
moisture, but the salt in it. The small
wild black bees of the same country have
the same habit, much more maddening
in their case. They will crowd all over
a pedestrian wherever the skin is ex-
posed, and attempts to brush them off
add a sticky smear of honey to the other
discomfort. This in its turn attracts
more bees, until at the end of a long
march in bee country a bath is an abso-
lute necessity.
* * * *
“Y. Ben”: “Mack” (B. 19/7/’33) is
in error in saying that the barque Watjen
was wrecked on the T.I. coast. She was
a derelict picked up by B.P.’s Airlie, from
Singapore to T. 1., and towed to the latter
port, where B.P. used her as a coal hulk,
moored at the eastern end of Madge
Reef, for many years. Before the end of
the war she was run ashore on Goode
Island, having become unseaworthy. I
can remember 30 years ago fishing over
the stern when “Stary” Williams was
caretaker.
* * * *
“Mrs. Apteryx Mantelli”: If “Akeake”
(B. 9/8/’33) really wanted to say some-
thing nice of me after his insulting in-
ference to my “ungainly appearance and
ridiculous strut,” he would have gone be-
yond such a trifle as my hearing, which
after all, is not as remarkable as my
sense of smell—the most highly-devel-
oped in the bird world. He would have
mentioned the one thing that appeals to
the social pride of any aristocratic fowl
I and my kiwi sisters, australis, haastii
and owenii, lay relatively to our size by
far the world ’ s biggest egg, just as Mrs.
Cuckoo lays the smallest—hence her
shame and social ostracism. I weigh
just over 41b. but my egg scales 14oz. to
15oz. and averages 44in. by 2in., my best
museum specimen being one sin. by 3in.
Now where is your Aussie emu? If
Madam ° strich laid an e SS proportion-
ately as large, its eggeup would have to
be a hogshead. As for Grandma Moa,
hers would have needed a tank. My
outsize egg has more than mere social
prestige. It enables my chick to mature
in the shell, to emerge fully fledged and
developed and ready to come with me to
the happy worming grounds. I have few
home ties even during incubation, for
hubby is so proud of me that he does
nearly all the sitting.
* * * *
“Speargrass”: Did Binghi use lad-
ders, ropes or scaffolding in connec-
tion with his artistry? If not, how is
“ There’s no night in Heaven.”
"It must be a crook place for car sales.”
it that one finds abo. paintings in most
inaccessible places? In a gorge on the
Leichhardt's western bank, between
Mount Isa and Kajabbi (n.-w. Q.), is a
huge face of rock on which is a num-
ber of drawings, notably one of a 40-
foot python. This is at least 35 feet
from any ledge above or below, and vines
or saplings long enough to reach it are
not to be found in the district.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: The proposal to build
two weirs on the Murrumbidgee, at
Maud and Redbank, reminds me how
the waters of the old river have
dwindled within the last few decades.
The four steamers and their barges now
carrying wool down to Echuca don’t
go beyond Hay. The highest port of
recent times was Bringagee, 134 miles
above Hay, but old hands remember
when steamers went up to Narrandera
and Wagga. The places are not a great
distance by road, but a long way by the
tortuous course of the river. One of
the chief ports below Hay is Balranald,
86 miles down by road, and 205 miles by
water. The continuous shallowing of the
stream is no doubt the result of cutting
away the riverside timber, causing ex-
cessive drying and loosening of the
shores, erosion, evaporation and silting.
I have seen this result, through the clear-
ing of the scrub fringe, on other streams,
such as the Richmond, which drains a
part that has a good regular rainfall.
Its feeding creeks now very soon stop
running, whereas they were ever-flowing
before the clearing of the timber.
* * * *
“A.C.8.”: Another instance of the
strength of a eucalypt seedling. Near
Leura (N.S.W.), in a gully, is the concrete
floor of what was once a house. The
floor is still well preserved in most
places, though it must be nearly 100
years old. Right through the centre,
however, a gum-tree has grown, probably
germinated from a seed deposited before
the concrete was put down. I have
known tree-roots to shift boulders, per-
forate drain-pipes and lift pavements;
but it’s another matter to penetrate six
inches of concrete.
* * * *
“Nip”: Anyone familiar with the Aus-
tralian parrot will admit that not even
the fauna of Sydney’s Macquarie or
Market streets can surpass him for power
of jaw or biting capacity. Melbourne
naturalists are greatly intrigued by speci-
mens of a goshawk and a red lory, the
with its beak firmly fixed in the
hawk’s leg. When discovered the par-
rot was dead and the hawk fluttering
on the ground, unable to rise. The hawk
had evidently struck the parrot on the
wing and the dying bird had fastened on
to its captor’s leg and hung on grimly
in death. The lory was about eight
inches over all, and the hawk had a
wing spread of 31 inches.
* * * *
“Lofty”: My nomination for the driver
of the longest bullock team (“Dai R.,” B.
9/8/’33) is Archie McCaughan, of
Pound Creek (Vic.), who drove 120 bul-
locks in three strings along the beach of
Anderson’s Inlet in April, 1927. A yacht
of about 25 tons, while on her way from
Melbourne to Sydney, was blown ashore
about a mile north of Inverloch. Owing
to rough seas and the fact that she was
lifted high and dry by a spring tide, it
was found impossible to refloat her. She
was therefore pulled on rollers along the
beach for five miles to Lower Tarwin,
and there refloated in the Tarwin River.
The job could only be tackled at low
tide, when the sand was hard, and many
chains were broken, many rollers
smashed, and many, many swear words
used before the boat reached the river
three weeks later.
“Walkabout”: George Jenkins, the
Paroo River bullocky, with his team of
90, wasn’t the driver of the longest string
in Australia, “Never-Been-Bogged” Bill
was. Bill was conducting along the
Flinders River, taking a load of fencing-
wire to a station up north, when flood
waters held him up ; but Bill didn’t loaf.
Whilst his wife, an expert with the axe,
cut bows and yokes, Bill and his off-
sider ran in a couple of hundred
scrubbers. Making chains from the
wire loading, Bill yoked up, but the com-
bined efforts of his own fifty and the
couple of hundred scrubbers pulled out
the pole. Nothing daunted, Bill hitched
on to the axle and got through the flood
waters and bog, but arrived at the station
with an empty waggon. He’d used up
10 tons of wire on the scrubbers to stop
’em going bush.
* * * *
“Runa”: Mention (B. 30/8/’33) that
the secret of the varnish used on old
violins was lost ages ago recalls that
Maoriland once had hopes of remedying
the loss. An Austrian violin-maker was
induced to try a varnish made with the
best-quality kauri gum on some of his
instruments, and he reported enthusi-
astically that it was the best modern in-
gredient he had encountered. Just then
the war came along, and that was the
end of the chanter.
* * *
“5.8.”: In the Snowy River country,
near the Vic. border, a bullock has lived
to the age of 45 years. The owner died
in 1870, and in 1915 the bullock was
killed by Geo. Barry, Richard Wood-
house and Thomas Golby, who were
mustering in the hills. The beast had
spent all his life in a wild state. In
those days these regions were full of
wild cattle.
❖ 4 * * ❖
“Jacasse”: The “Empire Review,”
which might be supposed to have a glim-
mering idea of conditions in the
Dominions of which it professes to treat,
has come out with an article on upsetting
the balance of nature, in which one Shep-
stone quotes the sad case of the kooka.
He says that a few years ago Australia
determined to rid itself of the “exceed-
ingly annoying bird,” which he describes
as emitting “uproarious screams not un-
like a human idiot.” When the kooka
had been wiped out, the story, goes on,
“came a plague of snakes, and it learned,
too late, that the laughing jackass was
the world’s champion snake-killer.” It
is possible, of course, that Shepstone has
been reading Jardine’s discovery of the
Australian barracker, and has mixed his
cases. In any case the A.B. is harmless
to snakes, whatever he may be to in-
ordinate self-esteem.
SCAVENGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our coats are black, and blacker still
Our hearts, so all who know us say;
Yet not our own but Nature’s will
Gave us our horrid role to play.
Why blame us if with claw and beak
We tear at carcases that lie
Along the bank of swollen creek,
Or rot beneath a rainless sky?
What matter those small, helpless lives
We end in rabid, ruthless way,
Or whether every one survives
Of all the thousands born each day?
The famished sheep, too weak to rise
Will die in any case—why wait
Till Life deserts those staring eyes
That read in ours their coming fate?
Despite traps, guns and poisoned baits,
So long as this old world whirls round,
Where Death in many guises waits,
The scavenger will still be found.
Of all vile things men hate us worst;
But when Death’s hand comes beckoning
To where man perishes of thirst,
We hold our day of reckoning.
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


AT HOME O ABROAD
For nearly a century the Bank of
Australasia has been developing
and strengthening a structure of
financial communication and
exchange which links all parts of
Australia and New Zealand with
the rest of the world.
h
r *g
(Incorporated by Royal Charter. 1855.)
The scope of the services which this
long experience has brought into
being can help the Australian or
New Zealander no matter how
widely his interests are scattered
and no matter how far afield he
operates or travels.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund . .
Currency Re-
serve
(Reserve Funds
used in the busi-
ness of the
bank)
Reserve Liability
o f Proprietors
Under the
Charter
£4,500,000
2,475,000
2,000,000
4,500,000
£13,475,000
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALASIA:
394-96 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Superintendent: George D. Healy.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
SMOKE-OH!
In the grazing world things are now
.looking up where they recently looked
all up.
* *
What we need is a leader who can re-
duce the unemployed without reducing
the employed.
* v-
Ford’s reluctance to sign Roosevelt’s
code was probably due to fears that
the price of tin would be increased.
« *
KNOCK-OUT.
Kindly hands yanked the editor from
the floor. A pale-faced sub. rushed for
brandy. Presently the stricken official
MINING INSPECTOR: “It’s a serious breach of the regula-
tions, Pendennis. What’s going to happen when the
Chief hears about it?”
Tributor: "’S like this, maister. If ’e doan’t know no
more’n what you and us do tell un, ’e don’t need
never to know nawthin more’n ’e do know.”
passed a hand weakly across his brow
and shuddered violently.
“I’m afraid you’ve had a bad shock,
sir?”
The editor pointed silently to a letter.
To the Editor,
- The “Sunday Bore.”
Sir, —While perusing the ten pages of Society
notes in last Sunday’s issue, I was distressed to
see a large 2-col. photo, of myself over the
caption “An Indefatigable Charity Worker.”
I wish to protest against the use of this
photo. It was taken 26 years ago, and so
gives a more flattering impression than is proper.
Moreover, I am strongly averse to my charit-
able work being made known. Please don t
give me any more publicity. —Yours faithfully,
Gertrude Gushalot,
Vice-pres. Edgevue Bay Younger Set.
S. K.
* *
Evidently Australia’s defence policy is
not O.K. at Brig.-General Lloyd’s.
* *
With or without his cold, Winooka’s
a snifter.
.V. X.
“Magistrate says gaol is often only a meet-
ing place where offenders hatch further crimes.’
Pen-friends?
* *
POLITICAL PHYSIOLOGY.
Head. —A dome-like excrescence, tend-
ing to temporary enlargement after elec-
tion. Completely solid, as a rule, except
for small cranial cavity where brain
should be.
Bone. —See “Head.”
Neck. —Chief organ of homo politi-
cuss, without which it is impossible for
him to carry on his lucrative trade.
Backbone. —An embryonic structure,
weak and spindly, giving little or no sup-
port to the “neck.” Some authorities
aver that this jelly-like substance defi-
nitely places the politician in the cate-
gory of the invertebrates.
T o n g u e. An
organ of great
length, strongly
built to withstand
the enormous
strain of Empire
Unity speeches,
censure motions,
etc. When not in
active use it is
kept in the
Cheek. —This is
second only in im-
portance to the
neck. Very tough.
Skin. This
p a c h ydermatous
covering is the
thickest of all ani-
mals, higher or
lower, the nearest
to it being the
rhinoceros. Abso-
lutely impervious
to verbal barbs.
Referred to collo-
qui a 11 y as the
“hide.”
Elbow. —A knob
half-way up the
arm, used chiefly
for work in the
Parliamentary bar.
Palm. Space
between prehensile
digits and the
wrist possessing a
chronic itch.
Nose. —A pendulous organ attached to
the face, the keen olfactory sense of
which enables politicians to smell safe
seats several months off. Also used for
snoring through Parliamentary sessions.
S. W. K.
* *
“The U.S.A. ‘Brain Trust’ means to force
Americans to spend money.”
It’s merely a matter of passing more
buy-laws.
Wool prices indicate an early spring
for the pastoral areas.^_
TRAFFIC BREACH.
Dragging the dilapidated pram its
wheels buckled, its hood torn, its glisten-
ing bodywork dinged—and with his
howling son tucked under one arm, the
wretched husband approached his domi-
cile. His wife, noticing the wrecked
“Yes, I’ve been associated with some big movements of
capital in my time.” „
“Shifting it from one trousers pocket to the other, I suppose.
vehicle from the verandah, rushed to the
gate.
“Heavens! What has happened?
“Sorry, dear,” he explained, “but 1
tried to pass a car on the wrong side,
and my license has been suspended. I
can’t drive a pram for the next two
yCarS ” P.O.M.C.
* *
THE PATRIOT.
“Gentlemen, I cannot believe that you
are going to do such a terrible injustice
to these men, who have
given their all, asking no-
thing in return.”
The voice came clearly
through the thin partition
to the listeners in the next
flat.
“A Parliamentarian?”
queried Bilson, and his
companion nodded. “Perks,
M.L.C.”
“Not for money have
they so nobly served their
country”—the voice on the
other side of the partition
shook with emotion. “They
heard the call of duty, and
they responded —‘the goal
unknown, the cost un-
weighed’ —striving to do
their humble part in guid-
ing aright the destinies of
this great Commonwealth.
No, gentlemen, I will not —
1 cannot —believe that any-
body enjoying the privileges
of living under the grand
old Union Jack could find
it in themselves to com-
mit” —
“Don’t laugh at the poor
old blighter,” remonstrated
Bilson. “He may be a flag-flapper, but
obviously he’s out to help the unem-
ployed soldiers. What meeting is he
rehearsing for?”
“Unemployed soldiers be jiggered,”
came the answer. “That's his speech on
the motion dealing with the superfluous
M.L.C.’s gold pass.”
J. P.
“A scientist declares that silver and copper
coins kept in the same generate
an electrical current.” — “Argus.”
To obviate the danger, taxation was
invented.
* *
FAIRY STORY.
“I suppose you imagine,” she sneered,
“that I took the money that you say
is missing from your pocket.”
“No, no!” he
cried. “My faith
in my wife is such
that I would rather
imagine it an hal-
lucination that l
ever possessed the
money than that I
should think her
capable of taking
it.”
His loyalty so
touched her that
she dissolved into
tears, fell on her
knees and con-
fessed. She then
handed him the
purloined money.
More, she rushed
to her bedroom
and produced all
the money she had
ever taken from
his pockets, and
he was able to re-
tire from busi-
ness and-i
All of which, he
reflected, as he re-
turned to conscious-
ness, after having
been knocked
senseless by a
blow from a saucepan, shows the wild
dreams that may come to a man when
his spirit is voyaging in the illimitable
and mysterious void of the Unconscious.
H. M.
* *
Our wool growers are again able to get
their wool off at prices that don t make
them get their wool off.
* *
“Barrackers are an essential part of our sport-
ing life.” — “Telegraph.”
They make a howling success of it,
too.
“That lady visitor mustn’t sit on your bed.”
“I’ll have to tell her to bring her pyjamas."
SOLACE.
“When human affairs are at their lowest ebb
there is always some thought to keep us from
despair.”
When Fate’s account is due we seek
To get some discount on the bill;
A glad thought glimmers through the
reek :
There’s something in the bottle still.
Friends, jokes and meals all cheer the
mind;
But most, when everything goes ill,
True comfort in this thought we find:
There’s something in the bottle still.
And even if the bottle’s dry.
The phoenix hope soars like a hill:
Somewhere we’ll find, if we but try,
There’s something in a bottle still.
HAMER.
COMBLY.
She somehow mislaid her pet comb ;
The result was her hair used to romb
All over her face.
It would not keep in place.
So she pulled it all out of her domb.
R. B.
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
At the door of the Department of Taxa-
tion he espied
A notice, and he scratched his head in
doubt.
‘‘Although the ‘Way In’ sign is plain
enough to see,” he cried,
“I’m looking for the one that reads
‘Weigh Out’!”
K.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
rCjd The service is entirely free. All you have to d.o is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover
BUL To lN avoid ha c n o d ntusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. rp«*rved
The right of selection and rejection is
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Scot (40), exp. with cattle and pedigree stock
in Australia, Argentine and Scotland, capable
book-keeper, wants job on cattle station. —7861.
Ex-State school-teacher (Vic.), eight years’ exp.,
can teach drawing and painting, wants position
as tutor. Refs.—77s2.
Young man (25), N.S.W., live years’ exp. sheep
station work and droving, Q’land and western
N.S.W., wants employment anywhere. —7833.
To buy Volume V of “The Lone Hand,”
May-October, 1909. —7843.
To buy small collection of early Australian
b00k5.—7822.
To buy a copy of magazine printed by the
troops returning on the Movada in August,
1919.—7848.
Particulars of poem “The Judgment of Val-
halla,” and where to obtain. —7858.
Information Sought.
(1) Is there any danger of poisoning from
eating fruit which has been sprayed with
chemicals? (2) Wliat symptoms would indi-
cate poisoning from such a cause ? '7716.
(1) Apples, pears and similar fruits are
sprayed at certain periods of growth with
arsenate of lead. Only rarely does this
chemical remain on the mature fruit, and it
can always be guarded against by wash-
ing the fruit, particularly at stalk and “eye of
fruit, or by peeling. There is no record or
poisoning from this cause. (2) Symptoms of
acute poisoning are abdominal pain, vomiting,
diarrhoea and collapse.
/ have a bronze French coin which on one
side has a head with the inscription “Napoleon
111. Empereur 1856,” and on the other an eagle
with outstretched wings, and immediately be-
neath it the letter D and the inscription
“Empire Frangais Dix Centimes.” What is its
value ? —7859.
If in good condition, 3d.
What are the latest rules for contract bridge
with regard to a misdeal ? —7782.
The international laws of contract embody
the old Portland laws of auction relating to an
imperfect deal, but there is one alteration. This
is in law 10 (g), which provides: “There must
be a new deal by the same player with the
same pack if, before play begins, or at any
time during the hand, a player holds more than
the proper number of cards and another less;
but if it can be shown that two cards have been
played to a trick from one hand and none from
another hand, law 48 applies in place of this
law.” Law 48 reads: “If during the play of
a hand it is found that a player has a surplus
card, due to omission to play to a trick (a)
where the offender has led or played to a later
trick, the declarer or the opponent on the de-
clarer’s left, as the case may be, may claim a
new deal, but this penalty may not be enforced
against the dummy’s hand; (b) where the play
continues, the offender must forthwith remove
a card from the redundant hand, and, if prac-
ticable, the card must be one which he could
properly have played to the defective trick.”
(1) How many rolls of wallpaper are required
to paper a room 12 by 12 by 10? (2) Recipe
for suitable paste ? —7760.
(1) Ten rolls of paper 21 in. wide; it runs 11
to 12 yards to the roll. (2) Take 21b. plain
flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with one
quart cold water added gradually, the lumps
being carefully smoothed out; dissolve loz.
powdered alum in sufficient hot water. Bring
half gallon water to boiling point, gradually
stir in the flour paste, add the dissolved alum,
and boil for a few minutes.
Could a hydro-gas generator be fitted with
satisfaction on a Fordson tractor ? The tractor
runs a little differently from a car, in that the ab-
used is somewhat moist, being drawn through
water in the air washer. Would this affect
efficiency of hydro-gas generation ? —7781.
The makers of the generator state that it
has been fitted to most makes of tractors run-
ning on petrol or kerosene, including the Ford-
son, and has proved itself very satisfactory.
The very small amount of moisture collected
by the air from air cleaner is no more injurious
than that carried in with the charge in foggy
weather.
What methods, suitable for a country
slaughterhouse, are used to remove the color
from tripe from animals fed on green feed ?
7726. , „ „
Most usual method is the removal of the
inside coating by soaking in lime water. Hydro-
gen peroxide and sodium peroxide have also
been used as bleaching agents. The latter,
however, is not considered good practice,
because unless the free caustic which remains
in consequence of it is thoroughly neutralised
and washed out, it is likely to have a harmful
effect.
What was the name of the steamer from New
Caledonia which brought bubonic plague to
Sydney? —7919.
The history of bubonic plague in Australia
commenced on January 19, 1900, when a car-
man employed in carrying goods from city
warehouses in Sydney to Central Wharf fell ill
with the disease. The source from which the
disease entered Australia was never accurately
determined. Overseas centres of infection
w'ere at this date very numerous. The danger
of importation had never been absent from
May, 1894, when plague was declared to be
endemic in Hong Kong. During 1899 Mauritius
(February), Japan (December), Honolulu
(December) and New Caledonia (December) had
all become infected. Dr. Thompson, who was
chief medical officer for New South Wales at
that date, stated: “Beyond pointing out the
several ports from which plague might have
been introduced into Sydney and the great
number of vessels which arrive from these ports
during each year, nothing can be said as to the
way in which the disease was actually intro-
duced.” In spite of this statement there was
a suspicion that the disease had come from
New Caledonia! The steamers from Noumea
between the dates October 21, »
January 20, 1900, were the Rockton, St. Louis
and St. Antoine.
Recipe for brown bread •'*"72519.
Take 2}lb. wholemeal, Jib. white flour, l*
pints tepid water, about J pint milk, 2oz. <-
dessertspoons) yeast, 1 dessertspoon sa Jt’ l
dessertspoon sugar. Sift flour, add meal, mak
a hole in the middle, sprinkle salt round edges,
put in the yeast, sprinkle sugar over it, uud
\ gill tepid water, and mix a little in the middle
with a wooden spoon until it becomes a tmcK
batter. Put away in a warm place tor 15 to
20 minutes. Then mix to a dough with the
warm water and milk, and put away again m
a warm place for 50 to 60 minutes to rise. Cut
into loaves, knead, three-quarter fill greased
tins and put away again until the dough rises
to the edge of the tins. , Bake in a hot oven
for 10 minutes, lower the heat by opening the
door for a minute, then bake gently up to 60
minutes according to the size of the loat.
What is the nearest approximation of the
gravitational constant that has been made t
7738 • -
In most textbooks on physics the fraction 6.7
divided by 100,000,000 is given. The Li.S
Bureau of Standards, however, as the result
of very careful measurement, gives the figure as
6.67 divided by 100,000,000.
(1) What is the Jewish population of the
world? (2) hi what countries are Jews most
numerous ? (3) How many live in Palestine .
7740
(I) A recent estimate is 15,630,000 ’2)
U.S.A., 4,230,000; Soviet Russia, 2,672,000;
Poland, 2,845,000; Roumania, 900,000; British
Empire, 720,540; Germany, 564,000; Prance,
538,000: Hungary, 477,000, and Czecho-Slo-
vakia, 400,000, head a list made in 1930. (3)
An estimate made last year was 187,000.
What is pernocton? —7741.
An anaesthetic used in maternity cases. Its
use was originated two or three years ago at
the Sloane Hospital for Women in New York.
(1) What was the date of the earthquake that
wrecked Napier ( M.L .) ? (2) Were there seismic
or volcanic disturbances anywhere else in the
world about that date ? —7742. ,
(1) February 3, 1931. The shocks continued
till February 9. (2) There were severe earth-
quakes in southern Mexico and western Argen-
tina on January 14, and in central Java on
January 21. On January 24 and 31 there were
sharp shocks in Albania.
Which is the fastest train in the world ?
The Flying Hamburger (Diesel-electric) two-
car train, running between Hamburg and
Berlin, scheduled average speeds of which are
77.4 m.p.h. one way and 76.3 m.p.h. the other.
The fastest steam train is the Cheltenham Flyer,
of the Great Western Co., England, which runs
between Swindon and Paddington at an average
speed of 71.35 m.p.h. Actually this distance
was covered at 81.68 miles per hour when the
Montgomery Castle did the run on June 6, 1932.
Recipe for an economical paint for hessian
so as to give it the appearance of canvas ?
7636. . „ -
Heat a kerosene-tin three-quarters full ol tar
to nearly boiling point, then stir in gradually
enough air-slaked lime to make a creamy mix-
ture. When it froths it is ready to apply.
(1) How can totalisator dividends be calcu-
lated ? (2) What percentage of the money
handed in is retained, and how are dividends
distributed among placed horses ?—7425.
(1) Since percentages deducted and methods
of distribution vary so much, no rule can be
laid down for Australia. (2) The amount de-
ducted from the pool in N. S. Wales is 12J p.c.
In the metropolitan area this represents 9 p.c.
Government tax and 3J p.c. allowed to the clubs
to cover totalisator expenses; fractions of six-
pences are also deducted. On Sydney courses
other than Randwick, the pool is divided: 60
p.c. first horse, 20 p.c. second horse, and 20
p.c. third horse, when there are eight or more
starters. If there are five, six or seven starters,
the pool is divided: 75 p.c. first horse, and 25
p.c. second horse. If there are fewer than
five starters, only one dividend is paid. At
Randwick there are “win” and “place” (equal-
division) machines.
(1) What rules are laid down by the Standards
Association of Australia in connection with earth
leads (a) in electric-light systems; (b) for
wireless sets ? (2) Book dealing with this
subject ?
(1) ( a ) The earth-wire should be short and of
low resistance. If connected to a water-pipe, it
must be joined close to the point of entry of
the pipe into the building, using an earth clio
for the connection. As an alternative, a gal-
vanised-iron pipe, of not less than Jin. internal
diameter, may be driven vertically into the
ground to a suitable depth. Gas and hot-
water pipes or pipes containing an inflammable
liquid may not be used for an earth. ( b ) Per-
manent earthing conductors should be of a
stranded copper not smaller than 7/.029. In
addition to conforming with the provisions laid
out for lighting systems, the earth lead must
be insulated, the insulation being 600 megohm
grade. (2) S.A.A. Wiring Rules, Is., from
Standards Association, Science House, Essex-
street, Sydney.
Are sandy blight and kindred eye complaints
prevalent in western Queensland and N.S.W.,
and, if so, in what areas ? —7496.
The term “sandy blight” is used for two
conditions: trachoma, a chronic eyelid inflam-
mation, and epidemic ophthalmia (or “pink
eye” or “bung eye”), an acute inflammation of
the eyelids lasting only a few weeks. In N.S.W.
trachoma does not occur east of a line drawn
through Tenterfield, Tamworth, Wellington,
Parkes, Cootamundra, Junee, Wagga and
Albury. It is constantly found in 5 p.c. to
20 p.c. of school children westward of a line
drawn south-westerly from Boggabilla to
Nyngan, Euabolong, Hillston and Hay. The
southern limit runs westward from Hay through
Balranald to Pooncarie. This line corres-
ponds closely to the limits of the sheepbelt.
In the intermediate area only occasional cases
are met with. The bush fly and, to some
extent, the house fly, together with toilet
articles used in common, help its spread, but
its persistence appears associated with diet de-
ficiency (lack of vitamin A).. Epidemic
ophthalmia occurs in certain years in the tab e
land area. Similar findings have been made .n
Queensland, but no map is available. See
“Geographical Control of Disease,. Harvey
Sutton, page 484, Australasian Association for
the Advancement of Science, Hobart Congress,
19'>9
ni Is it true that the modernist painter
Edouard Goerg is an Australian ? (2) What are
his best-known works ? 7918. 10Q ,
(I) He was born in Sydney on June 9, low,
but spent his childhood in London. At the age
of seven he was taken by his family to France.
(2) “Le Pirate,” “Le Gourmand, Le Bar,
“Don Quichotte,” “La Fenetre and Le
Mariage.”
What is the cheapest and best met hod of
burning charcoal for a tractor gas-produce!
(1) pit. (2) stack. (3) retort; and which pro-
duces the best article ? —7219.
(1) Charcoal can be burned in a pit satis-
factorily for use in gas producers. . ,s a
simple method, but there is some waste in burn-
ing. (2) Charcoal burned in a kiln is ideal
for gas producers, and the waste ol wood in
burning is low, but experience is required in
building the kiln. (3) Retort-burnt charcoal
is very clean and free from tarry matter, but
the charcoal is usually very soft and will pos-
sibly not have sufficient body to hold the charge
in a gas generator of small diameter, where the
velocity of the gases is great.
(1) Has medical science given a special name
to the type of person who is forbidden the use
of iodine ? (2) In what respects (besides the
reaction to iodine) does such a person differ
front normal persons ? (3) Is the use of iodine
in medicine, tabloids, salts, etc., as harmful as
external application ? (4) Are iodides as hat in-
fill as the tincture ? (5) Is iodine contained in
any particular class of foodstuffs ? If so,
which ? —7594.
(1) No. (2) Differs in no other way than
his peculiar susceptibility to iodine. (3) Both
may cause a reaction in particular and raie
cases. (4) No information available. (5) Found
in minutest quantities in certain foods, not
definite enough to define here.
What are the chief causes contributing
to loss of power in car engines ? —7878.
(a) Loss of compression due to worn cylinders
or piston rings, pitted or warped valves,
weakened valve springs, leaks around spark
plugs and valve caps. ( b ) Deranged valve
action, usually resulting from valve tappets not
having been given sufficient opening or too
much opening, or from the valves not being
properly timed, (c) Faulty ignition, which may
•be due to a weak battery or magneto trouble.
(J) Improper carburetion mixture. Other
causes include clogged muffler and gasoline
passages; dragging brakes and accumulation of
carbon in cylinders.
(1) How is oil extracted from sharks? (2)
Marketable value per gallon ? (3) Names of
Australian buyers ? —7574.
(1) Oil is extracted from the livers of sharks
by means of steam, run either through the
broken-up livers or circulated round them in
a steam-jacketed kettle. (2) The oil from per-
fectly fresh livers, when filtered at a low tem-
perature to remove the stearine, brings about
2s. 6d. per gallon. (3) James Hardie Trading
Co., 378 Kent-street, Sydney.
(1) Is the erica a native of Australia or does
this heath come from Scotland? (2) Where
can I get plants or seeds of the Melbourne
heath that is sold in the streets of Sydney ?
7678. ,
(H It is not a native of Australia, but two
species have been naturalised in the moun-
tains of N.S.W. and Vic. at an altitude of
3000 ft. or more. Several species native to S.
Africa are cultivated in public and private
gardens, also two species from Europe (in-
cluding Scotland), but the latter are _ not
common in gardens. (2) Forward a specimen
to the National Herbarium, Sydney, for iden-
tification, as there are several so-called
“heaths” sold in the streets that are not true
heaths.
(1) Where can I get a slab of sandstone suit-
able for growing rock-lilies on? (2) Will they
grow in moss ? — lll 1.
(1) Plant merchants will provide them or
help you. Advertisers in the newspapers offer
sandstone for rockery-work daily. (2) Rock-
lilies do not thrive in moss owing to its dry
nature, but lichen placed on rock-lilies grown
on stones will keep them cool and assist growth.
I am considering publication of a newspaper
in a small district. (1) Fair cost for plant,
second-hand if possible? (2) Would you sug-
gest weekly or bi-weekly ? (3) Approximate cost
of materials for 300 copies ? (4) With sale of
200 copies per week at 3d. per copy, which,
with promised advertising, would bring the
revenue to, say, £3OO a year, could I make this
pay its way ? (5) Any books which may assist
in producing a paper of this description ? —7785.
(1) Second-hand machinery practically un-
procurable; new machinery would cost about
£4OO. (2) Weekly. (3) All depends on the size
of the paper. (4) No. (5) Leading Sydney
booksellers should be able to supply a list.
(1) Number of species of mosquitoes known
in Australian tropical possessions ? (2) Any
species found there and not in other countries;
if so, name and where found ? (3) Any new
mosquitoes found there in recent years; if so,
species, and where and by whom found ? (4)
Has any mosquito survey been made by Com-
monwealth authorities or others in recent years ?
—7570. . .
(1) Forty-nine species and five varieties. (2)
Tripteroides atra Taylor, Papua; T. bimacu-
lipes Theobald, Terr. New Guinea; T.
littlechildi Edwards, Papua; T. ornata
Taylor, Papua; Hodgesia spoliata Edwards,
Papua; Uranotcenia nigerrima Taylor, Papua
and Terr. New Guinea; Mansonioides papuen-
sis Taylor, Papua; Finlay a albitarsis Taylor,
Papua; Finlaya littlechildi Taylor, Papua; F.
papuensis Taylor, Papua; F. wallacei Edwards,
New Ireland; Armigeres lacuum Edwards, New
Britain; Geoskusea fimbripes Edwards, New
Britain; Mochthogenes cataractarum Edwards,
New Britain; Culex ornatus Theobald, Terr.
New Guinea; C. pallidiceps Theobald, Terr.
New Guinea! (3) Since 1923, Tripteroides
littlechildi Edwards, Papua, and Finlaya little-
childi Taylor, Papua (H. O. C. Littlechild);
Finlaya wallacei Edwards, New Ireland (Dr.
Wallace); Geoskusea fimbripes Edwards, and
Mochthogenes cataractarum Edwards, New
Britain, and Hodgesia spoliata Edwards, Papua
(G. F. Hill). (4) Survey, 1922, G. F. Hill,
Papua and New Britain (no report furnished).
Partial survey, Rabaul. 1932-33, F. H. Taylor,
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine.
(1) Who was “the Queen of Scotland Island ?
(2) Where, exactly, is the island ?— 7867.
(1) and (2) Scotland Island lies in Pittwater,
Broken Bay, north of Port Jackson. In the
middle 1800’s it was occupied by a Belgian,
who called himself Joe Benns. He brought to
the island a somewhat remarkable woman,
announced as Mrs. Benns, who must have been
of exalted standing before coming to Australia.
She possessed wonderful jewellery and a line
manner. This latter feature brought about the
title, by which she was always known. Legend
has it that her jewellery is still on the island,
where she hid it.
Which is the oldest street in Sydney—George
or Pitt ? —7857. . . n .
The oldest “named” street in Sydney is Pitt,
but the street first brought into being was
George. It was not known by that name until
1810.
(1) Is Prince’s Bridge the original bridge of
the name across the Yarra at Melb. . (2) What
year was the present bridge built, and (if not
the original ) what was the date of the previous
structure ? (3) Who designed the original 7
7849
(1) No (2) The present bridge was opened
for traffic in 1888; the bridge it superseded
(the first over the river with the exception ot
a temporary wooden staging) was opened on
Nov. 15, 1850. (3) David Lennox, who had
been appointed from N.S.W. as superintendent
of bridges at Port Phillip.
Brief Answers.
H. 1.: (1) and (3) Any paint store will give
you proportions appropriate to the materials it
can supply, but at present prices ready-mixed
paint is better value. (2) Dark-brown, paints
contain neither zinc nor lead. (3) Can t trace
a reliable recipe. Plenty of good preparations
on the market... .C.F.: The Australian licensees
of the patent decline to disclose further details
of the process.... P.H.W.: You are right. The
gravitational pull has effect from the instant
the bullet leaves the muzzle H.A.W. : bee
T C. Roughley’s “Cult of the Goldfish, 65.,
Angus and Robertson; available at Sydney
Public Library....A.J.O.: The only painter of
that name listed is S. Brentana, a Venetian ol
the seventeenth century. His subjects were
mostly religious, and examples ot his work aie
to be seen in some of the Venetian churches.
.. J.T.: The interest should be included in the
husband’s return, to which should be attached
a statement setting out full details of the items.
M.V.S.: Yes. Apply to Chief Librarian lor
enrolment as a country member ... .E.S.H.:
The editor reads all accepted contributions. Ihe
MS. is not returned if accepted R.S.: You
don’t state height of tank... .W.P.: It has no
collector’s interest, and would be very difficult
to sell on account of its weight and bulk....
FWC ' Get bulletin on tobacco-curing issued
by Vic. Agriculture Dept., sd. posted Details
of manufacturing processes are trade secrets.
...T.P.A.: Write to Department ot the in-
terior, Canberra E.G.K.: (1) Any of the
larger Sydney booksellers could arrange that lor
you. (2) Send copies to the newspapers with
a request for review. (3) None; save a share or
the responsibility for seeing that the book con-
tains no offensive or libellous matter....
C.D.C.: Your Airedale seems to be suffering
from “wet ears,” caused by too much washing
or swimming. Rub ears once daily with equal
parts of vaseline and eucalyptus. Keep dog
always dry and warm, don’t overfeed, and give
one fresh beef-bone daily... .S.J.C.: The dog
is getting mange, and needs a change ol diet.
Give only one feed a day, and rub parts
affected with a dressing of fat and sulphur.
Also give him balls of sulphur and fat, and
one raw fresh beef-bone daily... .M.K.: Ihe
fowls are suffering from tick fever. Stock should
be removed to new clean premises. Burn old
houses of little value; if they are too useful
for destruction, paint or spray thoroughly with
some preparation with a creosote base, seeing
that all cracks and joints are treated 8.R.K.:
No subsidy is paid to parents who supervise
their children’s work under the N.S.W. corres-
pondence system of teaching... .D.D.: lhe
makers decline to give away their trade secrets,
but if you know the knot there isn’t much else
to learn. Any cheap fish line will do for a cast-
net L.8.C.: No information available
C.J.V.: (1) It is not listed in the British Phar-
macopcea or standard works on therapeutics,
and official authorities decline to comment on
it. (2) A formula recommended for worms m
horses is powdered arsenic, sgr.; flowers of
sulphur, 3dr.; powdered sulphate of iron, 2dr.;
aniseed, 4oz. This constitutes one powder.
Six of these should be obtained and one powder
given in the feed each morning for six days.
This treatment should be followed by a laxa-
tive drench such as turpentine, 20z.; raw lin-
seed oil, li pints....J.W.McD.: The Shanghai
International Police Force is composed ol
British. Sikh, Chinese and other races. British
are mainly recruited from Great Britain. Write
Municipal Council, Shanghai International
Settlement... .S.E.R.: Full directions will be
found in an article by Miss N. B. Adams in
“Museum Maga.,” Vol. IV, Part 5. Jan.-March,
1931, Is. Id. posted, from Australian Museum,
Sydney. No elementary book dealing with the
mounting of beetles v . .J.8.C.: (1) A growers
license must be obtained and the Customs De-
partment, Brisbane, advised. (2) Yes. (3) Yes....
K J M.: Get in touch with State Fisheries De-
partment, Sydney.. ..P.V.H.: Some kinds of
asthma respond to injections. If you are not
satisfied with your doctor, consult a specialist.....
E.F.G.: No sure rule. Mendel provides no'in-
variable formula... .M.K.8.: (1) Stanley Gib-
bons’s catalogue, British and foreign, 305.,
Swains, Ltd., Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Stamp
Collecting for All,” obtainable Hobby Shop, 4
Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
2s. 6d W.E.N.: Liver is used in the treat-
ment of pernicious anaemia, and is usually sold
as “liver extract,” but there are many prepara-
tions on the market. Details of manufacture are
not available..'..P.H.: Whitham and Co
McEwan House, Melbourne G.F.: Omrah,
January 31; Ormuz, February 13; Orizaba, Feb-
ruary 28, 1903....D.8.: Qualification for the
invalid pension is total and permanent incapacity
for work of any kind. A person capable of earn-
ing anything is not entitled to this pension....
B 8.l (1) Latest available estimates: Sydney,
1 256 230; Melbourne, 1,080,750. (2) Can.
say ..Musical Form: (1) The matter is dealt
with in Iliffe’s “The 48 Preludes and Fugues
£>
Van Roon, heralded as a forthcoming pubh
cation” nearly foura §°’ ha^ 4 n g
been published F.E.M.. No. 14 is VV.
Cooper, a resident of Sydney. The initial H
is an error.... (Many others mailed).


THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
GRADING THE SMALL CLIP.
“Mouton”: Complaints from overseas
buyers seem to be confined to small clips
Small growers should pay more attention
to their marketing.
Many cockies with five to ten bales
make no effort to market their clips de-
cently. In most cases they do not know
any better ; they believe that wool will
bring its average value however much it
is mixed. They must realise that there
are two great commercial sections in the
manufacturing trade—worsteds and wool-
lens. Wools used in these two sections,
if mixed, cannot realise their full value.
The worsted section uses the long superior
types and the woollen manufacturer the
short shabby sorts. Wool grading con-
sists of separating the inferior from the
superior and packing them separately.
No sheep produces a fleece uniform in
value, so a grading must commence with
careful treatment of the fleece. In fact,
the classing of small clips consists of
proper fleece treatment. Most wheat-
farmers use their sheep on the fallows.
Thus the back portion of the fleece be-
comes earthy, low in condition, warty
and tender, and is suitable only for the
woollen trade, while the sides and shoul-
ders are clean, light, sound and bright
and suitable for the higher-grade
worsteds trade. So it is imperative to
completely remove the back to separate
the two trade types. The classing of
treated fleece is easy. When the clip is
small, main line only is made, rejecting
any very short, heavy, discolored, coarse
and tender fleeces. A 15 per cent, rejec-
tion will leave the remainder reasonably
even. When the clip is large enough, two
lines can be made. The superior fleeces
brand AA and the inferior A. Never
mix crossbred fleeces with merino.
It has been estimated that the Aus-
tralian farmers are losing approxi-
mately 20s. per bale by not grading their
wool. This fact makes the grading of
small clips a national affair.
SHEARING LAMBS.
“Kalkadoon”: When lambs have
reached the two-tooth stage without
being shorn, the weight of the wool will
warrant a separate shearing. At this
age the wool yields better.
There are times when wool blind-
ness causes weaners nine and ten
months old to be wigged ; make one job
of it, and have them shorn. It is best to
wig weaners of these ages when the
time does not coincide with general
shearing ; the last two or three months’
growth of wool will give it the good staple
length of a grown sheep and increased
condition. The return per head in wool
values has to be considered. The grower
who waits for the hogget stage is on the
right track.
There are times when lambs have to
be shorn ; an excess of grass seeds may
make it necessary. There are also times
when it’s just throwing money away to
have the small amount of wool taken off,
COWS AND DRAUGHT HORSES.
“The Breaker”: “Benign” (B. 16/8/’33)
shows by figures that it is better to run
a few cows than draught horses. But he
does not prove the rule when he states
that the three-year-olds from his cows
will return at least £4 per head. A mob
of six-year-old bullocks trucked recently
to Queensland meatworks netted £3 10s.
per head, from which had to be taken
at least 30s. for droving and rail freight.
A six-year-old draught should bring
double the price. I’ve yet to learn that
draught horses cause the trouble cows
do with fences.
The demand for heavy horses of
quality will last until fuel for tractors
can be grown. The limited supply now
offering will not in years to come increase
to the extent of making draught-horse
breeding anything else but a payable side-
line.
PEANUTS AND PEANUT CHAFF.
“Hortus”: In my opinion, if an animal
entered a yard in which there were two
boxes of chaff, peanut and any othef
variety, the peanut would be eaten first.
It is more tasty, especially if a few nuts
are left in it, and more nourishing.
There’s a good living in the pea-
nut industry, even if carried out on a
small scale and under primitive condi-
tions. One N.S.W. man near the sea
sows down each year about two acres of
nuts, grows nothing else, goes in for a
fallow rotation, and makes a good liv-
ing. Everything is done by hand, and
nuts are roasted in the oven of an ordi-
nary fuel stove.
With such excellent prospects as there
are in Australia for nuts of good quality
for roasting and confectionery, and for
nuts of second quality for oil manufac-
ture, more peanut cultivation should be
advantageously carried out and less im-
portation of nuts and oil encouraged.
Peanuts are easy to grow. Any frosty
climate can be banned. The northern
and central coastal districts of N. S.
Wales are ideal. What is wanted is an
early spring and a summer of even tem-
perature, with light rainfall. Well-drained
soil is a necessity. The best is a light
sandy, calcareous loam, but any soil that
can be worked down to a nice tilth, i.e.,
that slips through your fingers easily and
does not cake readily, is suitable.
Plough about 6in., and cross-plough.
Leave in the comb for a while to let the
sun, air, rain and frost carry out their
work. Break down with heavy harrows,
and keep on working the ground to
avoid caking and setting right up to
sowing time in spring. There are several
seed varieties. Valencia does well in
the North, but the larger Queensland nut
has not met with much success. It is
not as sweet and crisp as the others. Sow
about 251 b. unshelled or 101 b. shelled
per acre in drills 3ft. to 4ft. apart and
seeds about 18in. in the drills.
Constant intertillage is essential to
check weed growth and to maintain a
good surface mulch. Keep the surface
loose, for peanuts will prove a failure
if moisture evaporation takes place, due
to soil caking. The crop matures in
about four to five months from sowing
under normal circumstances. After lift-
ing plants let them wilt for a while, and
then stack them in a shed.
It is best to pick them after they are
“cured.”
TESTING AND CULLING.
“Mercury”: The practical dairyman’s
slogan, “breeding, weeding and feeding,”
will hold good wherever successful dairy-
ing is done, but the weeding must be
done with intelligence. A real dud in
a herd is easily picked out. The cow
that seems to be doing well must be
made to show visible evidence of her
production. The only way to get it is
by testing, and that must be done over
a period.
There is no excuse for a dairyman of
average intelligence to be ignorant of
the first principles of herd-testing. Litera-
ture on the subject is simple to under-
stand. The production of cows cannot
be tested by “setting” some of their
milk in bottles. The acid test is the
practical test. I was testing some cows
for a neighbor who, at different times,
had used two cows as “house cows.” The
cream on their milk showed a marked
difference. It was concluded that the
cow on whose milk the cream made a
good showing was the better producer
of butter-fat. But the Babcock tester
soon placed these cows in their right
positions. The cream in the milk of
some cows does not rise as it does on
the milk of other cows. In this instance
the doubtful cow showed a very high
test.
The color of the milk from these cows,
both of which were good, was a mis-
leading factor. The milk from the better
cow was quite white—she was Short-
horn ; the other had a splash of Guern-
sey. But the color of milk is no cri-
terion.
To prove a cow’s production, test her
at least once a month for 9 to 12 months
of her lactation, and an average cal-
culated on the quantity of milk yielded
over the period. A single test is gener-
ally misleading.
MENACE OF WILD CATS.
“Wandi”: The domestic cat that has
gone bush threatens to become a great
scourge. Throughout N.S.W. eastern dis-
tricts, and even on the western plains,
they have been breeding unchecked for
a good many years. They have been
common for long in Central Queensland,
and in Central Australia grow to a great
size. Pastoralists say that in some dis-
tricts they are in millions. In rabbit
country the cottontails provide them with
food, but wherever the rabbits disappear
they attack lambs.
Also, besides killing useful ground-
feeding and ground-nesting insectivorous
birds, they climb into the trees at night
and catch those that roost in the branches
or in nests.
The pests multiply more rapidly than
the fox and dingo, but they are easier to
deal with, as they have not the cunning
of the canine and vulpine marauders.
They can be caught in rabbit-traps, and
poisoned with almost any kind of flesh
bait. The cat is not particular whether
the meat is fresh killed or not, or how
much it has been handled. The most
tempting bait, however, is a piece of
fish, or a little of the oil left in a sardine-
tin. Mutton fat and fish oil mixed and
poisoned with strychnine is also good.
The best place to set baits is near water.
Birds won’t touch them.
Every cat or colony of cats has a cer-
tain limited range. Within that it may
have regular drinking places, if water-
holes are not plentiful or there is no
permanent creek or river. Look along
the edge of the water for cat tracks,
especially near where a lamb has been
killed. The cat will return to such places
and a bait there will get it.
Examine the entrances of old rabbit
burrows, too. Cats make their homes
and nurseries in such places. If these
are absent, hollow logs, holes at the roots
of stumps and trees, piles of debris, a
cluster of bushes or vines, even thick
grass alongside logs, provide it with a
shelter where it sleeps during the day. In
winter time, if it hasn’t a burrow or
a hollow, it likes to coil up in a secluded
sunny spot.
The cat, being a sly, nocturnal prowler,
is difficult to shoot at night. But this
may be done in the daytime with the
help of dogs.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Cam H.”: To lessen eye-strain in
sheep-counting, make a frame of light
wood, the height of two sheep and the
length of two sheep. On it tack any
stout black but light roofing material
and place it at the gate.
“Dai R.”: Keep your mould-board
absolutely smooth and shiny and'it will
act in the wettest ground. When storing
the plough at the end of the season rub
the board thickly with mutton-fat.
“Mulgo”: Keep citrus fruits for
months by burying them in sand before
they quite ripen. Sun and rain on the
covering don’t harm them. Also keep
carrots, parsnips, and turnips fresh in
this way.
“Murphy”: Chickens not old enough
to scratch will eat all the caterpillars in
the vegetable garden. Make a coop for
them. As long as they can nest beneath
the parental wing now and then, they
will keep up a persistent attack. But
iwatch their growth. Once they commence
to scratch they are more nuisance than
they are worth.
“Albarmount”: Old tanks cut down
the sides and across the top and bottom
so as to form two huge trough-shaped
pieces make ideal salt-trough sheds.
Cutting is easy. Bolt a rough handle to
a discarded chaff-cutter knife and hit it
down through the iron with a hammer.
Place each half-tank edge downwards
over a frame made to fit its inside
measurements. Nail all round. A coat
of tar or cement paint will prevent rust-
ing.
“J.A.S.”: Blood spots in eggs, common
with young pullets, are caused by the
rupture of small blood-vessels in the
ovaries. Testing can be done with a
strong light. Old birds which habitually
lay blood-spotted eggs should be sent to
market. The cause may be removed in
younger ones by widening the ration
somewhat. Either lower the meat or pro-
tein-meal proportion or cut down the
mash and increase the grain. Handle
pullets gently. Rough handling causes
blood-spots.
“El V.”: B. H. Edgell told the Tas-
manian Stockowners’ Conference that, as
the Speck exports 4,000,000 rabbits p.a.,
its bunny population must be at least
8,000,000, which works out at 307 to the
square mile. And 50-50 doesn’t mean
one-horse-one-rabbit between Port Arthur
and Circular Head. The country is
shared in the proportion of one horse to
266 rabbits and there are four cotton-
tails to every sheep. No wonder island
agriculture isn’t what it was.
“Agri”: When sharpening plough-
shares, scarifier or combine points, cool
them off in old sump oil for extra tough-
ness. Have the oil in a container deep
enough to immerse the share completely.
Do not remove it until it has cooled off,
or the dense vapor rising up will burst
into flames.
“Valerin”: Where fumigating is used
to get rid of rabbits dog the area to be
treated so that “floating” rabbits may be
forced into burrows. Outside rabbits
open up the burrows at night. Keep a
man with dogs riding about, hunting up
bunny. If the paddocks are not too large
work from the boundaries towards the
centre. And ram the openings securely.
“A.C.8.”: To be a successful farmer
it is necessary to appreciate that stomata
or pores of leaves play an important
part in plant life. The roots take up food
(carbon and nitrogen) if water is used
to bring them to a state of solution ; but
no plant can grow unless it gets air
nourishment. Dew and rain provide
nourishment for the roots and clean out
the small pores of the leaves, making
breathing possible. Portion of the water
brought up by roots is given off by
leaves. Thus the balance of things is
retained. Keep the soil stirred, or the
heat of the sun will absorb the moisture
before it has turned the plant foods into
solutions for the roots to absorb. Root
points are a spongy substance which con-
veys the food solutions upwards. In dry
districts dust chokes the leaf pores of
the plants, but the wind enables them
to partly clear the obstructions. A heavy
dew is often as acceptable as rain. Dry
farming makes use of this knowledge. .
“Grassy”: Blue Panic, an indigenous
grass which has been experimented with
in the Gayndah district, Queensland, is,
despite drought, providing great quanti-
ties of succulent feed. It has responded
to burning, cutting or feeding-off during
all seasons of the year. Blue Panic is
now being planted in many areas.
“Beefo”: Cattle-breeders in Queens-
land’s Gulf country don’t get much
chance to pay off overdrafts. Buffalo-fly
restrictions compel them to send their fats,
intended for coastal meatworks, extra-
long mileages to Kajabbi, to be sprayed,
thus increasing droving expenses and rail
freights. A 6cwt. bullock at meatworks
parity (Jss. first-grade frozen weight)
barely nets the owner £2. The same
beast’s southern market value is £lO.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Recipe for wax for grafting citrus ? —7851.
Melt paraffin-wax in a can and stand it in
another containing hot water. Apply with a
small brush.
I am in the Gregory Ranges ( N.Q. ), between
the Percy and Gilbert rivers. Rainfall averages
13 in., falling between Oct. and March. Occa-
sionally we get light showers in June. Coun-
try is red loamy flats, timbered with ironbark.
bloodwoods and gums, and sandstoile table-
lands, very shallow soil, from 2 ft. to nothing,
with patches of thick lancewood scrub. The
grasses are button, wire and kangaroo. Can
you suggest suitable grasses, and state where
obtainable ? —7703.
In stated conditions of soil and rainfall the
establishing of either introduced or indigenous
grasses is not likely to be profitable. Small-
scale trials, however, might be made with
buffel grass ( Pennisetum cenchroides), which is
very hardy and adapted to dry conditions. On
the loamy flats, Rhodes grass could be tried,
but it would be necessary to skim-plough the
land prior to broadcasting the seed, and then
roll. Both varieties are procurable from Arthur
Yates and Co., Sydney, who will advise as to
time to plant.
Loquat-tree varieties ? —7682.
The N.S.W. Chief Fruit Instructor states that
the loquat can be either budded or grafted. The
ordinary shield bud, as used for other deciduous
trees, can be used for the loquat when the sap
is flowing freely during the spring or summer.
The bark graft can be used in the spring.
(1) Is the caponising of fowls and turkeys
likely to be profitable in M.L. ? (2) Where are
the appliances obtainable ? —7476.
(1) Opinion of the leading M.L. poultry ex-
perts is that there is nothing to be said in
favor of caponising so far as M.L. markets
are concerned. Under present conditions, if
poultry-keeping is to pay, egg-production must
be made the special line, the table side .of the
business being treated merely as an adjunct.
The wise policy is to use every possible foot
of space for the growing pullets, and get rid
of the surplus cockerels while young. To pro-
duce a well-primed capon the bird requires
to be kept for eight to ten months before kill-
ing. In view of the high cost of production
and the price that would be received for the
bird, this may more easily mean a loss than a
gain. (2) Wingate and Co., Auckland, supply
caponising sets and instructions.
(1) Poultry-farming prospects in N. S. Wales ?
(2) How many birds would a man need to
make a living ? (3) How much land ? (4)
Could I get a well-stocked farm in the Hills
district for £1500? —7618.
The Agriculture Department’s Poultry Expert
says: (1) Prospects of the poultry industry are
not bright now owing to the lower prices for
eggs and tendency to higher feeding costs. (2)
One person with sufficient experience and apti-
tude could manage and maintain a flock of
800 to 1000 layers. At present prices the return
from a well-managed flock of this size would
be £2OO to £250 per annum above cost of
feeding, but les's interest on capital depreciation
of plant, etc. (3) Four acres of land would be
sufficient to run enough layers to make a living,
but at least five acres is advisable to permit
of extension on systematic lines. (4) It is
doubtful.
(1) Cause of and (2) cure for scaly legs in
fowls ?— 7458.
(1) A parasite ( Sarcoptes mutans ) which is
found on the legs of the fowls and on perches.
(2) Mix equal quantities of raw and paraffin
oils together and apply with a brush. In a bad
case it may be necessary first to wash the legs
with warm soapy water.
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
The Tree Lover, journal of the Australian
Forest League (N.S.W. branch), first volume.
The league hopes to issue it quarterly with in-
formation for members.
The Grading of Western Australian Timbers,
a report by F. Gregson, 8.E., and R. F. Turn-
bull, 8.E.. based on their investigations during
1932. (Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research.)
Observations on Soil Moisture and Wate r
Tables in an Irrigated Soil at Griffith, N.S.W..
by Eric West, B.Sc. (Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research.) ,
(Land Page continued on page 27.)


m
Light and pliant. .
and leather-lined
Pull on an Abbey Riding Boot and
satisfy yourself about its good quali-
ties. It fits easily and closely.
Strong elastic ankle-pieces hold it
snug to the foot. The Abbey Riding
Boot is long-wearing and smart
looking. Its resilience gives the
muscles fullest play. Wear a pair
for extra comfort.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 350
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
troni kntrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from I 9/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
h
l
STOP PRIN!
ffi&Hurvt, coX+ia.
'tHii 4&lie,cj£4it&.
1. Soak foot 10 minutes
in hot water, wipe dry.
2. Apply Blue-Jay, center-
ing pad directly over corn.
How it works: A is the
mild medication that gen-
tly undermines corn. B is
felt pad that relieves pres-
sure, stops pain at once.
C holds pad in place, pre-
vents slipping. 3. After 3
days, remove plaster, soak
foot, lift out corn.
Used by millions. At all
chemists.
BLUE-JAY
BAUER & BLACK S ..
CORN REMOVER
THIS SETTLES '/'ALL
l HO II
EEMIVO
AKHNEVr*
COSTS:;
HIGH
TENSILE
RINGLOCK
FENCE
Now
£l7-15-0
a mile
£l7/15/- per mile! The lowest price
yet for this really modern, stock-
proof fencing that requires no main-
tenance! “Cyclone” High Tensile
Ring-lock Fence is made from wire
specially manufactured for the pur-
pose. Tremendously strong... .cap-
able of standing terrific strain. It’s
Tlot ‘.‘springy” It’s flexible and
easy to handle! Absolutely guaran-
teed not to snap in frosts or under
sudden or severe strain. Won’t break
with constant handling.
It comes in 10-chain r 0115... .which
means 10 chains between strainers;
3 posts to the chain. It’s lighter than
10-gauge lower freights!
Ask your storekeeper at once about
“Cyclone” High Tensile or post us
the coupon.
mm
v ' ■.-
•••;:•■
?***x
:-•':•■■
SSSSSeSs
??«9©o£
#1
ip#
-:•/:•
*3
IN THREE STYLES
Per mile. Per chain.
5 line, 26in. £17/15/- 4/8
6 line, 28in. £20/10/- 5/6
6 line, 36in. £22/15/- 6/-
“Cyclone” is not a “type” of fence,
but is fence made exclusively by
Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. Pty.,
Ltd.
Ouclone
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY., LTD.,
Cyclone House. Hardware Street, Melbourne, Cl.
And at Sydney and Adelaide.
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return maibyour free illustrated and, priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal
Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and comparison of costs
NAME - -
“li'tin” 1 1>/£>
apt" Cooks Endeavour
It is only 163 years since Captain Cook first
reached these shores and Australians may well
be proud of the progress made in the de-
velopment of their country's resources in
this short time.
For several years after Governor Phillip
arrived in 1788, to form the first settlement,
progress was very slow. There was no bank
and trade was hampered by the absence of
adequate currency.
In order to place the trade and industry of
the community on a sound basis a group of
leading colonists established the Bank of
New South Wales in 1817.
This Bank has been since its inception the
leading financial institution in Australasia and
the one most intimately associated with every
phase of the country's development.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian
Bank of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
ADVENTURE
AND LUXURY
* • • CBxwn CvmjHimjont
I
H
W
k
art tAt-
1
2E5
VSI
Xt\
"MARIPOSA" and "MONTEREY"
TO AMERICA and ENGLAND
WE iccadilly . . Maidenhead . . Devon! England, within
-*-28 days! A voyage of surpassing scope and interest, a
continent-to-continent panorama of magnificent America!
The shortest route, the economical route, the richest in
experience!
The brilliant new liners “Mariposa” and “Monterey” speed
to California in 18 days . . . visit New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii ... imbue this passage with the finest traditions
of modern ocean service!
Complete itineraries to any point in America or England
I •-
r mi '/r
FAKES to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY.
first class, from £125/10/. cabin class, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
first class, from £129/10/. cabin class, from £9l
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
FAKES to ENGLAND
From Sydney
first class ( Single ) from £lOl Return: £lB5/18/.
cabin class ( Single ) from $,ll/9/. Return : £l4l/10/.
From Melbourne
first class ( Single) from £lO2/13/. Return: £lB9/2/.
cabin class ( Single ) from £79/2/. Return: £144/16/.
these fares subject to exchange
SOUTH SEAS
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY*
first class cabin class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/
paco paco, Samoa.. £33/5/. 65/0/. 24/5/. 47/10/.
Honolulu, Hawaii . . . 75/0/. . . . 55 /0/.
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE
,p FIRST class cabin class
Single Return Single Return
Suva, Fiji £39/0/
PAGO paco, Samoa.. £35/5/. 69/0/. 26/5/. 51/10/.
Honolulu, Hawaii . . . 79/0/. . . . 59/ 0/.
these fares not subject to exchange
Interesting literature free upon request
ĥ
NEXT Sailing to AMERICA via New Zealand, Fiji,
Sa?noa, Hawaii, " MONTEREY," from Sydney
SEPTEMBER 20, from Melbourne SEPTEMBER 16.
THE
9M-1A
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . PHONE B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE 341 Collins Street and 461 Bourlte Street
BRISBANE . . . 291 Elizabeth Street
ADELAIDE . . .54 Currie Street
PERTH . . . .15 William Street


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
-THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELLcC&
f
If
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Springtime at Jenolan Caves
A Delightful, Inexpensive Holiday
TWO-DAY TOURS LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY
Specially Reduced
Inclusive Rates at
Week-ends.
I
/ H
** 1
Covers Travel and
Hotel. Stay may
be extended.
ASK FOR JENOLAN PICTORIAL FOLDER.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, opposite G.P.O. : : : Sydney
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
meets modern conditions of
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAY BEST OS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
NOW! a U H.P.
Semi-Automatic
Lighting Plant Electric
lii
s
R
Another
RONALDSON
TIPPETT
SUCCESS.
Bringing Electric Light and
Power to Your Home at a
MUCH LOWER COST.
Ronaldson-1 ippett T| h.p. Semi-
Automatic Lighting Plant
Embodies all the Good Points of their Larger Plants
—only Costs Less and is Cheaper to Run.
Is specially suited for homes where only two or
three lights are kept burning continuously each night.
Provides ample power for operating small Electrical
Appliances.
ENGINE DYNAMO, SWITCHBOARD AND BATTERIES
(as illustrated),
Price - - £125
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
h
N-QBranch
STUBIST
TOWNSVILLE
fMf INrrPINC Supply C9of AISIRAIIA H
ĥ
,
m
h
GROW IT WELL
SHOW IT WELL
SELL IT WELL
CONSIGN YOUR CLIP, THIS SEASON,
TO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN
MERCANTILE AGENCY Co. Ltd.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Rockhampton Townsville
woot.
AND
CARSON
Capita], because it
outstanding selling
for growers, and also
it produces highest
monetary returns for
supplies
services
because
possible
the clip.
A Capital
Combination
SEMD YOUft WOOL TO
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.
and reap the advantages arising from the association of the clip with
such a specially energetic, capable and successful firm of selling brokers.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE OFFICE:
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney. 99-101 Eagle Street.
Woolgrowers!
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS’
CO-OPERATIVE GRAIN INSURANCE
AND AGENCY CO. LTD.
WOOL AND STOCK SALESMEN
Now selling the new clip at the highest prices of the season.
All wools displayed and sold under the best conditions.
CASH BONUSES ON WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
CONSIGN TO YOUR OWN ORGANISATION.
“THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS’,” SYDNEY
Support the Sydney Auction Sales
THE WORLD’S BEST ORGANISATION
FOR THE SALE OF WOOL.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT&Co.Ltd.
SYDNEY
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney
WILL GIVE YOUR CLIP EXPERT ATTENTION IN EVERY
DETAIL AND SECURE THE FULL MARKET VALUE.
LIBERAL ADVANCES MADE AGAINST WOOL AND
STOCK.
WRITE FOR MARKET REPORTS.
WE SPECIALISE IN STATION SUPPLIES.
WOOL - PRODUCE - STOCK
Telegrams:—GOLDSßßO Box 484 AA G.P.O.


PROPERTIES WANTED,
3-5000 acres Breeding and Fattening—North preferred.
8-10,000 acres Woolgrowing or Breeding.
Grazing Property—capacity 30-40,000 Sheep.
Smaller Grazing and Farming Properties.
We have buyers ready to entertain any suitable properties as outlined above. Also numerous
inquiries for properties to Lease —almost any area.
Owners are invited to furnish full particulars to —
Ooldsbrough, Mort & Go., Ltd.—Sydney.
H .
V!
f&i
t V s
WURM-EZ-OL
The SURE and CERTAIN DRENCH for Stomach and
Intestinal Worms in Sheep. Administered by Syringe.
VITA-LICK GROWS MORE WOOL
Manufactured by VITA-LICK, LTD., 107-109 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Associated with Vita-Lick Pty., Ltd., 493-495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
AGENTS in oil Sheep Districts in all States.
Inflation and Doubt.
The first week of seasonal wool sales
has seen a change in opinion about
prices which is all to the good. Prices
improved, bringing the average from the
first day’s figure at 11.8 d. to 12.5 d
the best price in Australian currency since
the 1928-29 opening week, but in present
terms of sterling worse than the 11.4 d.
of 1929-30. The jubilation of the first
day, however, has given way to an out-
look which is all the more sober be-
cause of the uncertainty about the bulk
weight of the wool crop as a whole.
Some producers are reporting a 40 per
cent, drop in clip quantities. In terms
of bales, at any rate, the clip will be
down 300,000 bales, but some authorities
place the decline between that figure and
750,000 bales, which shows how far the
whole business is pure guesswork. The
main fact in the outlook is that the
grower who expects the clip of the
Commonwealth to average at the figure
obtained at the first Australian sales is an
optimist. Brisbane and Adelaide will re-
duce the per pound average, and Westra-
lian figures are not likely to be much
better than Sydney. On the whole, Aus-
tralia can consider herself reasonably
lucky if she gets 11.7 d. for the whole clip
—and that is scarcely nationally payable.
* * * *
So far opinion does not seem to have
fully formed itself about the seasonal
market as a whole, but one thing is very
evident. There is bewilderment among
growers and the press on factors which
ordinarily should be easy to estimate.
Part of this is due to distrust of official
information from London, which has
proved to be more than once inaccu-
rate. Part arises from the apparent
failure to take political factors and their
reactions into account. There has been
a timid stand over Japan, for instance.
Brokers seemed to question, before the
season opened, whether her financial
position—she is the country at the great-
est exchange disadvantage —would allow
her to increase her buying. Actually,
necessity overrides finance. She has to
buy.
* * * *
Japan has a fairly large force in Man-
chukuo, and is establishing large num-
bers of farmers there. Last winter
the Manchurian cold took a disastrous
toll of her men. She can incur no risks
in the coming winter. The Chinese posi-
tion is uncertain. Though the Peiping
Government’s forces have been beaten
back the country is full of drilling men.
Cables this week detail the arrival of new
American-trained bombing squadrons,
and Japan must be ready for eventuali-
ties.
* * * *
There is, moreover, universal naval
activity on both sides of the Pacific,
largely arising from the feeling that there
may be trouble with the Soviet over the
Eastern Railway. North Asia is full of
war possibilities, and it is evident that
Japan is organising against emergencies.
It is, therefore, no matter for surprise
that she has outreached the estimates of
many authorities by her keenness in the
auction-room. Her bidding has given a
high tone to the market for certain lines
of merinos, but it remains to be seen
whether it will be maintained. That
seems to depend entirely on the course
of action which General Araki thinks
necessary. A war with China on a large
scale during the coming northern autumn
or spring would mean a lot to the Aus-
tralian woolgrower.
* * * *
In Europe the same influences are at
work. Trotsky and others are preaching
openly that Germany means war; and
it seems beyond doubt from the tone oP
Continental papers that, even if France,
Italy and other surrounding countries do
not necessarily believe this, they are nol
going to be caught napping in the un-
likely event of trouble breaking out.
Preparation for protective measures and
the clothing of armies which might—but
which everybody hopes won’t —be needed
may again have something to do witffi
buoyancy, combined with nervousness
about the shortage in this year’s world
clip, and Germany herself is buying wool
keenly. The European wool-stock posi-
tion certainly does not seem to justify
the rise, and neither does the employ-
ment position, nor is there a general
commodity rise over last year to keep
pace with the wool movement.
* * * *
The price index numbers issued in
Britain by the “Economist” and pub-
lished on September 11 by the “S. M.
Herald” show that meat and cereals on
September 8 stood exactly as at Sep-
tember 28 last year, and 2.2 points below
June, 1931. Other food products are
4 points lower than September 28 last
year. Textiles stand at 52.8 in the index,
against 52.4 last year. The complete
index is up (August 25 last) 1.2 points
for the period —from 64 to 65.2. The
buoyant factors are mainly metals and
some miscellaneous items, which seems
to support the supposition that interna-
tional nervousness has a great deal to do
with the present state of wool prices.
* * * *
A market based on conjecture is a
very uncertain affair, and the past few
years have shown ufc many ephemeral
war scares. With the extension of the
sales to other States, and the probable
settling down of the world situation,
there could be only one result —a dying
down of Japanese and Continental effort
and a growing reliance on Bradford for
staple types. With it would undoubtedly
come a sobering of the market, though
Bradford tops at present are at the
highest figures recorded since 1929 —70's
merino are 13 pence higher than in June,
1932 ; 64’s, 13id.; 60’s, 13d. In cross-
breds the rise has not been nearly so
marked, except in fine lines, which are
50 per cent, better for the period. Forty-
sixes, coarse crossbred, stand at llid.,
against 9d. 15 months ago.
* * * *
Even at the worst, however, shortage
must continue to hold the market up, but
the man who counts on an average price
of 12d. for the whole clip is an optimist
—though he may be right.
“Much Cry, Little Wool”
“Valerin”: The statistical position of
the wool clip does not justify the extrava-
gant views being expressed. It is doubtful
if the monetary returns will show any
worth-while advance. Shrinkage will be
a heavy cut on last season’s N.S.W. pro-
duction ; there is considerable diversity
of opinion on the percentage, but I pre-
fer to accept the actual figures from
representative stations, and these show
a decline of up to 30 per cent, in weight
—and not bales. The losses of sheep are
much higher than those announced, and
the lambing was a comparative failure.
Thousands of sheep in western areas
were shorn in autumn in order to salvage
what little wool they carried, and this
was included in last season’s production.
The shrinkage will be at least 25 per
cent.
i|C ')fL % ifc
What is there to boast about in prices?
The average to date is about 12jkl. per
pound, which is a big advance per pound
on last year, but well behind 16|d. in
1928-29. Towards the present average
Australia has to find, through the ex-
change rate, much money, seeing that
gold-standard countries like France and
Belgium are buying at less than 7d.
lapan and Britain are paying only the
equivalent of 94d. per pound.
Butter Prices
Last week butter men were pleasantly
surprised by cabled information which
showed that the overseas market had im-
proved out of sight, Australian butter
having increased ss. a cwt. to 975. The
reason for this is somewhat difficult to
understand in view of heavy stocks re-
ported. At the beginning of the month
(the stocks were greater by 10,000 tons
than at September 1 last year. This im-
provement seems to suggest that the trade
'in U.K. is pretty certain that the quan-
titative restrictions on Australian imports
will shortly be arranged. With the hold-
ings in cold storage there is no other
reason for the optimistic tone of the
market. There have been large holders
in Australian butter who, in ordinary
circumstances, would have unloaded at
least two weeks ago. Their hanging on
to stocks, which has cost them a sub-
stantial storage figure, seems to indicate
that they have inside information,
covered by the word “restriction.”
* * * *
Mention was made last week about
Australia’s new “patting” venture and
the proposal to send a representative
abroad to launch an attack with new
marketing methods. One M.L. company
—perhaps the largest in the Dominion
—has for many years packed its own
butter in prints for sale on the London
market, but the relatively small increase
in the turnout over a number of years
indicates that it has not been a great
success. It is amazing that something
has not been done before to handle Aus-
tralian butter in London ip a way that
will get it to the British consumer. With
good management it should be success-
ful —but grading and higlT quality are the
keys to victory as usual.
“Pippin”: Tas. orchardist Henry Shoo-
bridge says he exported 3193 cases of
apples which were sold in London in
April for £BO5 17s. 9d. —about ss. a case,
or ljld. per pound. Expenses were £969
13s. 9d., but the loss of £163 16s. was
reduced by exchange (£l5O 18s. 9d.) to
£l2 17s. 3d. The London agents said
that too many apples came on the market
at the same time and caused a glut.
Shoobridge, however, claims that all his
apples went into consumption at 3d. or
4d. a pound. The Shoobridges have been
shipping apples overseas for over 50
years, and it is strange that now they
should have to complain of imperfec-
tions in their London selling organisa-
tion.
Our Export Balance
Australian exports for July were the
highest in value since 1930 —they were
worth £5,682,902, or about £1,240,000
better than the same month last year.
The trade balance was £1,284,363 on the
right side, and, for this, growth in the
outgo of most of our staple primary
products was responsible:
Wool improvement .. .. .. £1,340,750
Wheat improvement .. .. .. 180,000
Hides 334,900
£1,855,650
Butter decline .. .. .. .. 365,272
Chief primary products— net improve-
, ment £1,490,378
Stock Prices
“Strathfield”: The rise in wool values
at the end of last season and recent rains
in east and central N. S. Wales and in
other States have wrought considerable
changes in the stock market.
Following June wool improvement tens
of thousands of store sheep, largely
young wethers, changed hands, mainly on
off-shears delivery. Cast-for-age ewes,
too, have been in demand in the south
for restocking, prices standing at an aver-
age of about 7s. for six-year-olds and
6s. for seven-year-olds, off shears. A
lull followed early in August, but rains
and the wool sale have started the buy-
ing going again. Mutton and lamb
values at Homebush have virtually
doubled themselves in the past 12 months,
and it will not be easy, after the adverse
season which the country has been
through, to meet the demand for export,
especially if the quality is to be im-
proved, as it should be, seeing that we are
upon our trial in the British meat market.
Cattle, too, have shared in the improve-
ment —only the importation of chilled
Queensland beef has saved Sydney and
the south in general from paying famine
prices. As it is, prime vealer beef is £1
a hundred dearer, and even fair to good
trade lots are 10s. better than at the
same time last year. Fat cattle are
scarce at Homebush, and will continue
to be unless there is much more rain—,
most of the State has been sadly short
of feed.
Pig-selling Costs
“Poddy”: I join with “Porcus” (B.
16/8/’33) in his protest against agents’
pig-selling charges. Feed, droving and
yard dues amounting to Is. a head should
be cut by half. The same yard due is
made on a pig that brings 6s. 6d. and one
that brings £8 ; it should be on a ld.-in-
the-£ basis.' To charge 5 per cent, com-
mission these times is scandalous. They
are all spot-cash sales. There are eight
firms at our (Vic.) market to sell an
average yarding of 3000 pigs in two days.
One co-op. firm, with the sellers’ support,
could handle the lot and reduce costs
50 per cent.
The same thing occurs at Newmarket,
where 27 agents assure us of “their best
attention at all times. The butter busi-
ness is even worse. There are 51 licensed
butter exporters in Melbourne —all wax-
ing fat on the man who keeps cows.
Examine, too, the rubbish some millers
have the hide to call pollard. It is partly
ground sweepings and oat-hulls. There
is supposed to be an Act to prevent
adulteration of bran and pollard, but
the Agricultural Department sleeps on
the job.
Sultana Grading
“Mildura”: J. Irving, of the Red Cliffs
Soldiers’ Settlement, Victoria, has re-
peated what The Bulletin has been say-
ing about grading of Australian sul-
tanas. He declares that while London
merchants consider our sultanas the best
in the world, the variations in grading
are so pronounced that our product is
selling at £4O per ton against the £7O to
£75 which Smyrna products bring. In-
cidentally, it is hard to understand why
growers do not develop a greater-
local market in raisins. In every village
street in Turkey there arc two or three
raisin stalls, at which it is possible to
buy any one of a dozen varieties for the
merest trifle. They sell like hot cakes.
One penny per week spent in raisins by
every adult Australian would mean
nearly £1,000,000 a year to raisin-
growers. It looks worth developing.
“More Per Acre”
“Mac”: Climatic conditions are a
prime factor in the regulation of primary
production. This year Australia has
an area planted to wheat about 15 per
cent, to 20 per cent, below last year. Ad-
verse seasonal conditions between now
and harvest may easily result in a half-
crop, even on this reduced area.
Australia must depend on primary pro-
duction to meet its overseas commit-
ments. Therefore to interfere with the
full production of which it is capable is
dangerous, and would result in the
strangulation of an essential activity in
farming settlement which is necessary to
further development. Australia has not
yet a local market capable of absorb-
ing a substantial proportion of its prim-
ary production. She should be, and could
be, the cheapest wheat-producting coun-
try in the world.
The slogan of the primary producer
should be ’’More Per Acre.” This is one
of the surest means of reducing costs.
Wool Statistics
“Uaerub”: Every good Aussie will
agree with “Yerbua” (B. 30/8/’33) re-
garding the importance of collecting all
available information statistical or
otherwise—concerning wool, but he is
wrong when he states that the State
Marketing Bureau “costs the N. S. Wales
taxpayer £7500 annually in wages alone.”
The correct figure is £5471. It is untrue
that the bureau does not glean infor-
mation outside Australia, or that no in-
formation of real value to the major
primary industries is supplied. It is only
natural that the bureau should devote a
lot of attention to the collection and dis-
semination of local marketing news, as
large numbers of producers in this State
rightly regard the local market as their
best market. For many it is their only
market.
“X.T.”: What nonsense some of these
papers talk about marketing! The other
day one of them said in Melbourne that
“any heavy cut in our apple export would
be a heavy blow to Australian orchard-
ists.” The only people it would be a
heavy blow to would be the taxgatherers
and overdraft holders. To the average
grower, with freights at 4s. 2d. per case
and expenses another 4s. per case, it
would mean a saving of money.
PUBLICATION RECEIVED.
Dalgety’s Annual Wool Review (35th issue:
Is.) is, as usual, one of the most comprehensive
publications dealing with wool. It contains
vital statistics on the industry in Australia,
Maoriland, Canada, South Africa, South.
America and the United States. It deals, also,
with closer settlement, pastoral research, pastoral
pests, Continental trade movements, features of
the Australian season, cotton and silk and Eng-
lish textile trade. An article, “Looking Back-
ward,” is a detailed review of the Australasian
sales from 1899 to 1933, stating production,
shipments and average prices obtained.


h
First Honours
WHDN COMPARISONS ARE MADE
|yjany tiling's are possessed JS>y a
Fayrefield Hat which nothing less
than actual acquaintance with, its
silKen smoothness and magnificent
curl and curve can ever reveal.
Its foundation is rich furs, as speci-
fied toy a century old formula. It is
manufactured by craftsmen whose
sKill came cfown to them from their
forefathers.
Fayrefield style is inspiring, always
new, always fitting, always a little more
elegant and tasteful.
Y so-!
Touu Kata&l Tlocfc^
J * ** "alway; ahead
Fayrefeld Hats may be
had at better class stores
for Twenty-five and for
Thirty Shillings.
pf'l
:% \
E* V >
l ‘ I'i
-=- .11
.' MS
m 2&JJ
fpk
%\\[
TTI
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Can Randwick trainer Jack King win
his second Epsom? In 1930 he prepared
Cathmar, who beat Holdfast and Killar-
ney ; and in this year’s big mile he has
a decided chance of scoring with Tur-
bine, who will carry Bst. 31b. In Tatt.’s
Tramway Handicap on Saturday Tur-
bine (14 to 1) met many fancied Epsom
candidates, and in a desperate finish
fairly worried Shakuni and Vista (both
outsiders) out of the big end of the prize.
He has grown into a very handsome
horse, and there was great merit in his
performance. He went wide turning for
home, and lost ground by shifting out
near the judge; yet he came home full
of running in lmin. 23£sec., an Austra-
lasian record for seven furlongs. As
Turbine can be improved, he will be
one of Chatham’s chief opponents in the
Epsom.
Bronze Hawk, the favorite, gave a
shocking display. He was always in the
last lot, and evidently the hot pace in
the early stages did not suit him. Out-
side the placed division little Carefree
and Bold Boy did best. Bold Boy, after
meeting with no luck in the early stages,
was running over the opposition in the
last furlong. Dermid was galloped on ;
he had eased in the betting from fives to
eights.
Bert.'‘'ln the spring a young MANS P&NCY
Lightly turns to thoughts op
GEi;T ; IVE HEARD ''
Bert; "a kiss i«a an education in
ITSELP <SEERT"
free scholarships"
Muswellbrook pastoralist Hunter Bow-
man brought joy to the bookies when
Serabite, owned and trained by him, won
the Novice from the topweight, Recog-
nise, and the favorite, Broad Arrow. Start-
ing at 16 to 1, after 20’s had been laid,
Serabite, a good type of gelding by Moab-
ite, took charge after going a few fur-
longs, and Kelso’s apprentice Parr kept
him going to the end, to win easily.
Broad Arrow had every chance. He had
been supported for the Metrop., in which
event he drops from Bst. 101 b. to 6st.
101 b.
Winner of this year’s Sydney Cup with
Bst. 101 b. and last year’s Caulfield Cup
with 7st. 121 b., Rogilla demonstrated in
the Chelmsford Stakes that he will have
to be reckoned with in the Metropolitan.
Going out at sixes, he carried 9st. 81b.,
the same as in the Metrop. Darby Munro
literally scraped the paint off the rails
to get him through in the last 50 yards
to beat Topical (10 to 1) by half a neck,
with Silver Scorn a neck away, and
Lough Neagh a close fourth. Had the
last-named not hampered Rogilla at the
Leger the Newcastle chestnut would have
won more easily. Still, Topical covered
himself with glory. He carried 9st. lib.,
and drops to Bst. 51b. in the Metrop.
Limarch proved best of the three-year-
olds. The hot favorite, Blixten, who
escaped a penalty, gave a poor display;
and it looks as if one of the Victorian
three-year-olds, probably Hall Mark, will
take the blue Riband.
The Spring Handicap of ten furlongs
included a number of Metrop. candi-
dates. Balgay was always favorite, but
Master Brierly, from M.L., who is
trained by R. S. Bagby, was the medium
of a plunge, being supported from tens
to sixes. It was his first run here, and
after being in the rear division for most
of the way he could only finish sixth.
However, he did considerably better than
Balgay, whose apprentice rider appeared
to be all at sea. The favorite missed the
jump out, was checked several times be-
fore the mile-pole was reached, and was
hopelessly hemmed in as the cavalcade
swung for home. He finished second-
last. The winner Pretzel (12 to 1) car-
ried his 9st. 31b. like a good horse. He
drops to 9st. in the Metrop., but it will
trouble him to concede weight to Topi-
cal. He was ridden by Darby Munro,
who waited on the rails till he got an
opening, as he did on Rogilla. Maltdale
(7 to 1) looked a winner a furlong from
home, when he stalled off Satmoth, but
he tired near the judge. Maltdale car-
ried Bst. 21b., and drops to 7st. 121 b. in
the Metrop. He still looks a bit burly.
Regal Son (5 to 1), who gave good
promise as a two-year-old, but did not
train on as expected, made hacks of the
opposition in the Welter Handicap. He
is a stable-mate of Jacko. The Moore-
field-trained Prowler was favorite; he
did not get away well, but took charge
at the top of the straight, only to be
run down by Regal Son, who was pro-
minent throughout. Regal Son has 7st.
71b. in the Epsom, and judging by his
easy win over Foxhunter and Prowler he
should be heard of again.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:
Camellia Stakes: Bold Boy; nest,
Carefree.
Rosehill Guineas: Limarch; next,
Shakuni.
Spring Handicap: Maltdale; next,
Magnitas.
Hill Stakes: Chatham; next, Hall
Mark.
Highweight Handicap: Loch Garry;
next, Prowler.
Epsom (Vic.) racing was chiefly inter-
esting because of the Purse success of
Highway (Saltash —Lady Flier), a first
acceptor for the Caulfield Cup (7st. 51b.)
and Melbourne Cup (7st. 41b.). Sold for
40 guineas after the death of F. J. Mars-
den, Highway had won at Kilmore, Gee-
long, Kyneton and Ascot (twice) be-
fore being saddled up at the week-end.
Golden Horn started favorite for the
Purse, but gave a poor display ; High-
way took charge before entering the
straight and easily stalled off a challenge
from Sky Writer, a Windbag gelding.
Highway has been backed at long prices
for the spring handicaps.
Dave Price produced Flail for the
Epsom Handicap. The Comedy King
gelding had only five opponents, but there
was no wild desire to back him. Pur-
veyor, another Saltash gelding, scored
with great ease from the favorite, Last
Court, whose stable-companion, Ka Ka
(by Magpie), had been vanquished by
Silveroak in a division of the Trial
Stakes. A first-up betting coup on Silver-
oak was pulled off; after long odds had
been laid in parts of the ring, he firmed
to 10 to 1.
Another first-up victory was achieved
in the Epsom Plate. Dame Isa scored
six wins last season, but was given a
long spell and had not been seen in pub-
lic since March. This accounted for the
little mare being allowed to go out at
25 to 1. In the most exciting finish of
the day Dame Isa prevailed by half a
neck from Stardom, with Vauntry half a
head farther off. Dame Isa is held on
lease from C. B. Kellow, who intends to
breed from her.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Although Billy Meeske has never lost
the heavyweight wrestling championship
which he won from the late Clarence
Weber, that title was allegedly at stake
when Lurich locked horns with Walter
Browning at Leichhardt on Saturday.
Lurich had another engagement on Mon-
day night, so he took good care not to
get hurt. Nor did he hurt Browning,
although that performer nearly hurt him-
self in the seventh by missing with a
flying tackle and rushing out on the press
seats, head first. Immediately he re-
turned to mid-ring he fell an easy victim
to a forward slam and a body-press. An-
other press, following another slam,
pinned him again in the eighth. Lurich
the “champion.”
The Nineteenth Hole
The open golf championship furnished
a surprise, a 20-year-old professional
from Goulburn (N.S.W.) club, M. L.
Kelly by name, winning with a total of
302—73, 76, 73, 80. It was Kelly’s
first entry in the event. He began his
golf as a caddie, of course, Bonnie Doon
being one of the clubs he was connected
with. The youngster went to Canberra as
assistant pro. and thence to Goulburn.
Three players, J. Ferrier (N.S.W.) and
R. Jupp and A. W. Jackson (Vic.), filled
second place with 305 apiece.
o Continued on page 30.)
Racquet and Bawl
Jack Crawford, Australia’s hope for
the American tennis championship, went
down to F. J. Perry, of England, in a
five-set match. Crawford won the first
two sets, 6-3, 13-11, and lost the next
three in a row, 4-6, 0-6, 1-6. The cables
describe him as practically collapsing
after the second set, and probably an
attack of the asthma which has always
been his bane was responsible.
(Continued on page 30.)
Footbrawl
Ideal football weather greeted the
40,225 persons who paid £1893 13s. to
watch Carlton and Geelong decide Vic.
League’s first semi-final. Getting early
into its stride, Carlton, by long kick-
ing and fine marking, acquired a substan-
tial lead. But in the second half the Sea-
skiers altered their methods ; keeping the
game open, with accurate short passing,
they held the Blues to a poor three points
while themselves added 16. In the last
quarter Geelong put on a little more
pace, but what told most was the clever
use of the high cross wind when attack-
ing. That and the good shooting of Trough-
ton and Molony and the smartness of
Quinn and Leo Hardiman finally gave
it a well-deserved win by 84 points to
Carlton’s 71.
* * * *
The Rugby Union premiership final at
Sydney Cricket Ground saw North Syd-
ney defeat Randwick 15-9 (three tries
and two penalty goals to two tries and a
penalty goal). North adopted Springbok
tactics, keeping the game as much as pos-
sible to its solid forward block. Rand-
wick escaped twice from the cordon and
scored a try each time. The game was
very rough and dirty in the second spell,
when the referee got laryngitis “warning”
players. The winners meet Manly in a
grand final.
* * * *
The Wallabies were beaten 4-0 in their
last match in South Africa against a
Western Province side which included
nine Spingboks. The match was played
at Capetown, and the inevitable dropped
goal from Osier’s boot did the trick.
% # $ sjc
The Rugby League wound up its first-
grade season in Sydney on Saturday,
when Newtown defeated St. George in
the premiership final by 18-5, or four
tries, three converted, to a try and a
penalty goal. This is Newtown’s first
premiership since 1910, the year the club
quitted Union for the League.
* * * *
The Kangaroos scored the best win of
their tour to date by whipping Oldham
38-6, leading 15-4 at half-time. Oldham
usually occupies a fair position in the list
of League clubs, and has more than once
defeated touring Australian teams.
o Continued on next page.)


3N0
For one penny
more, PLUME
gives you:
Easier Starting
More Power
More Miles
Fewer Repairs
Longer Car Life
Greater Resale
Value
Only a penny difference
in price
but WHAT a difference
- in VALUE/
You can now buy PLUME for only Id. more per gallon than
the lowest grade petrol you ca n buy.
Fill up with PLUME to-day, and get all the advantages of
using the highest grade motor spirit in Australia.
PLUME
is the best motor spirit you can buy
-VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. I.TO
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: It seems to me, as an old
supporter of the game, that Australian
football is losing some of its zest, even
in Victoria. The other day a junior
country team down Geelong way con-
cluded that the umpire, as well as the
boot of fate, was against them. Did they
adhere to the ancient tradition by chasing
the offender up a tree and soohng the
local crows on him? Devil a bit; they
just walked off the field in silence and
abandoned the match.
* * * *
“Hotham”: There was considerable
heartburning in Melbourne when the
V.F.L. resolved to charge an extra bob
for early admission to the semi-finals and
finals at Melbourne Cricket Ground, but,
having clicked with the ground trustees,
the League has slapped the extra poul-
tice on. Its excuse is that early birds get
all the best seats anyway, and that it
might as well gather in a few worms for
itself. An even better plan would be to
reserve seats, but the League says, as
Sydney Cricket Ground authorities did
last year, that the scheme is impractic-
able. Brisbane, foi one, has made
a success of reserving seats for big cricket
and football matches for some years, and
in Britain the principle is applied in
cricket, football and tennis,
* * * . *.
. Richmond : The V.F L is to wind up
its season with a match tor the Lord
Mayor s charity fund on October 7, when
cncket wdi be well in. The game will be
at Melbourne Cricket Ground between
the Victorian side which won the cham-
pionship at the recent inter-State tourney
in Sydney and another which journeyed
to Adelaide and beat South Australia
there. Melbourne football is showing an
increasing tendency to boil over into the
cricket season, and the flannelled folk
are grumbling at this latest proposal,
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The Wallabies, who were
to have left South Africa last Monday,
have had their departure delayed for a
week owing to alterations in shipping
dates. They are to leave on September
18 by the Ceramic, and will not arrive
in Sydney until October 12. The Vic-
torian Union has announced a match in
Melbourne about October 9, though it
is probable the arrangement will be can-
celled. The Vies, drew with the team on
its way to South Africa and would prove
a formidable lot for an out-of-training
side to tackle after a three-weeks’ sea trip.
* * * *
“Break Off”: Two at least of the Wal-
labies will not return to this country
with the team. Dr. Sturtridge is going to
England, where he will take a further
medical course. The other absentee will
be forward Geoff Bland. He is employed
by an insurance co. in Sydney and goes
for a term to its London office for ex-
perience.
* * * *
The All Blacks will probably be seen
in Australia again next season for a
series of matches which should this time
include at least a couple in Victoria. The
Pig Islanders are due in Britain in 1936,
and the tour should give them a first-
class opportunity of trying out many of
their new players in high-class football.
It is also probable that Australians will
visit M.L. in 1935, and the M.L. team
should thus be able to invade England
with its collective teeth well whetted for
the fray. The tourists will probably re-
turn through Canada and California,
playing there.
# * * *
“Valetta”: The death at Malta of
Ray Morris is causing the Australian
Rugby Leagues concern in more ways
than one. The Maltese authorities were
instructed that the body should be em-
balmed and sent to Australia, the people
at this end guaranteeing expenses. The
bill, as presented, comes to the staggering
total of £316, though Morris was only
ashore a day or two. The surgeon who
(Continued on next page.)


7?
ARE YOU DEAD
to your opportunities ?
It’s easy to drowse and dream away the hours-
but where does it all lead?
Isn’t it better to work at a congenial job—on tasks that are interesting
—so absorbing that time seems to fly?
The Radio Industry has just such positions available to trained men.
Let us give you that training.
Our 44-page book, “Radio and Sound Projection Engineering,” gives
full details of the TEN courses in Radio Engineering. It is yours for
the asking. Send for it now. Read every page.
Our TEN Courses include: h P oints the wa y to better P 3^
• Radio Practice
• Radio Engineering
• Sound Projection
• British Diplomas
• Service Engineering
• Morse Code
• A.O.P.C. Certificate,
etc.
EASY PAYMENTS. EQUIPMENT FREE.
NO BINDI iG CONTRACTS.
fftHOOLRADIO
ENGINEERING
WEMBLEY HOUSE , RAILWAY SQUARE , SYDNEY. B 13/9/ > 33<
YOU’VE WASTED MONEY
in shares and other speculations, and are likely .to do so again Make sure .that. one of your
investments is safe; be certain of some provision for your dependants should they lose JO
support. A good and safe way is to take out a policj with the
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., UTD.,
which has ample funds to meet and is now paying liberal
bonuses in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. Ihe
office is solid and progressive. For review of actuary s report see
“Bulletin,” 30/3/ 32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E J MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street Me.lbournes C
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King llia " ‘-‘A 4 q; or ., e - s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
WESTERN <».
operated charged 111 guineas, the coffin-
maker £lO5, and the embalmers £55, with
sundries making up the balance.
* * * *
“Gate”: Though the mystery of where
flies go in winter is still unsolved, League
footballers who have finished the metro-
politan season are more easily traced
when spring comes round. After the
semi-final games there was an exodus of
players from eliminated Sydney clubs to
the great open spaces, where the men are
men and the football dashed willing.
There for a few weeks they will be able
to pick up an extra quid or two to face
the long summer with.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The Australian golf
championship meeting in Melbourne
opened last week with the inter-State
matches. Victoria, beating South Aus-
tralia six matches to one, and N.S.W.
five to two, came out on top. A feature
of the series was the defeat of Australian
amateur champion Mick Ryan by Jim
Ferrier, of N.S.W., by 3 up and 1 to
play. The professionals’ match between
Victoria and N.S.W. was won by Ma
by five matches to nil, but Victoria got
its own back by walloping the .South Aus-
tralian contingent 3-2. State champion
Fergus McMahon and Rufus Stewart
both won for South Australia. The Aus-
tralian foursomes were taken by C. H.
Fawcett (N.S.W.) and A. W. Jackson
(Vic.) with 154 for the two rounds. The
N.S.W. Ferriers, father and son, were
second with 155.
* * * *
The women’s Australian golf cham-
pionships in Melbourne were somewhat
marred by the influenza epidemic which
affected some of the stars, notably Mona
McLeod and Susie Tolhurst. But it is
doubtful if either could have threatened
the ultimate winner of the title, Miss O.
Kay, of Maoriland. The All Black, on
plus 2, is the lowest handicapped player
in the southern hemisphere, and her win
in the final from Cornstalk Joan Ham-
mond by 9 and 8 indicates that M.L.
handicappers have estimated her quality
correctly. Blustery weather conditions
suited the winner better than it did the
Australians, but she gave a faultless ex-
hibition both with woods and irons right
through.
* * * *
“Yarra Yarra”: An interesting per-
sonality taking part in the Australian golf
championships in Melbourne was L. D.
Hardie, once champion of the Victoria
G.C., who for years has had his abiding
place in Singapore. There he held the
championship of Malaya and that of
Singapore from 1924 to 1931. The courses
up that way, with their well-grassed
greens and fairways, compare well with
any in Australia. Albert Robertson, well
remembered by Victorian golfers as pro-
fessional at Sandridge club, is in charge
at the Singapore club, and has greatly
improved the course since he went there
three years ago. The club has 650 mem-
bers, of whom 200 are associates.
* * * *
“Ped.”: A recent Bulletin contribu-
tor, having confessed his ignorance of
what constituted a game he quoted,
named “bandy,” I hasten to instruct him.
It was much played in Merrie England
in the very long ago, and in a statute
of Edward 111. banning sports of doubt-
ful reputation is referred to as “cam-
buca,” from the crooked stick with
which it was played. My readers
will already have guessed that it
was nothing more or less than golf,
the colloquial English name for it being
“bandy ball.” This effectively acquits
the Scots of the charge so often hurled
at them that they invented golf. Unless
evidence is put forward, as it probably
will be, that the Chinese played the game
2000 years ago, it is on perfidious Albion
that the blame must lie.
* * * *
“Veritas”: Even the golfer who plays
his round in company with the book of
rules would be tricked by a recent hap-
pening on the Mt. Lawley (Perth) links.
A player mashied high into a gum-tree.
The ball came down, dislodging another,
both being the same make in similar con-
dition. One ball was perfectly stymied
by the tree ; the other offered a straight
shot to the green. No rule being found
to fit the circumstances, the issue was
settled by tossing a penny.
Racquet and Bawl
“Craque”: Writer has heard some
excuses from defeated athletes, but that
offered up by Henri Cochet after Craw-
ford beat him in the French champion-
ships is awarded the cake. He says he
can never win French championships in
an odd-numbered year. As a proof he
cites his successes in 1922, 1926, 1928,
1930 and 1932, and his failures in years
ending with the odd number. Apparently
the Australian champion took a mean
advantage of the French crack in pick-
ing on 1933 to show the finest form of
his career.
* * * #
“Cash Amateur”: Rumors of impend-
ing secessions from the amateur to the
professional ranks are still agitating the
tennis world. Martin Plaa says his part-
ner in business, Cochet. will shortly repre-
sent France with him in a match against
Tilden and Barnes, representing America.
After that there will be another go with
OWNER (to jockey, left at post): “Get after ’em, you black mug!”
ABO .: “No fear. Better wait till they come round.”
Tilden and Ellsworth Vines. Plaa also
says that Vines confided to him that he
would definitely turn professional in
1934. Vines, who has just been white-
washed by the U.S.A. tennis heads, says
that the remarks of Plaa are just blah,
and that he is too busy to consider pro-
fessionalism “just now.” The qualifica-
tion sounds ominous.
# * *
“Shirley”: Australia sees too little of
Maoriland tennis players, though some
years ago E. D. Andrews won the N.S.W.
junior championship, beating Jack Craw-
ford and Hopman, and gave that fine
player Kalms a hard run for the State
title at the same meeting. This year
Cam Malfroy, the All Black champion
and Davis Cup representative, is coming
over for the Australian championships
in Melbourne, and with him Murray
Angus, who has often figured in the
M.L. doubles for the winning combina-
tion. The pair will be pitted against the
Englishmen in the Melbourne tourney,
but will not team in the doubles.
“Kooyong”: Norman Brookes is try-
ing hard to revive the G.P.S. tennis
championships, which were a few years
ago a feature of the game in the Cab-
bage Garden. He has offered a valu-
able cup for competition. The G.P.S.
heads object to tennis being tacked on to
the long list of school sports, like row-
ing, cricket and football, on the ground
that there is not too much time for
schoolwork as it is. It is felt in tennis
circles, however, that dragging in the
question of work is right over the fence.
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: This week-end sees the
opening of the petrol-consumption and
reliability test conducted by the Light Car.
Club of Australia over a course from
Melbourne, through Warrnambool, Gee-
long, Colac and Camperdown, and a re-
turn by a different route to the starting
place. There are four classes and man}!
prizes, and last year’s event drew a big
entry from the trade and private drivers.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Victorian Auto-
cycle Union is holding a 24-hour relia-
bility trial on October 14 and 15,
trade teams being included. The run
will be some 250 miles in length,
beginning and finishing in Melbourne
with a wide circuit through the country
centres in between. The event is one
of the most important in Victorian
motor-cycling, and always draws a big
field. Machines will, as usual, be classi-
fied according to engine capacity.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Half a million people
attended the Ulster Tourist Trophy race
over a course almost as twisted as the
national political situation. Although
but nine finished out of 25 starters, the
only excitement was a neck-and-neck go
between the winner, Italian T. Nuvolari,
and H. C. Hamilton. Nuvolari raised the
hair of the crowd with his miraculous
cornering in his M.G. Magnette, his aver-
age being 78.65 m.p.h., and total time
shr. 56min. 34sec. The fastest lap was
83.06 m.p.h. by T. E. Richards.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Australia’s biggest profes-
sional cycling event, the Warrnambool-
Melbourne race, and its amateur counter-
part, the Colac-Melbourne run, will be
held concurrently on October 14. The
pros, have to cover 169 miles and the
lily whites 100, the value of prize money
and trophies running over £4OO. Dunlop-
Perdriau are running the show, and
entries close on September 18. Handi-
caps will be declared on September 27.
Last year there were 578 nominations
and 465 starters, 400 of whom won time
medallions.
* * * *
“Spocket”: The Dunlop - Perdriau
people are staging the Goulburn-Sydney
road race, the Ma State’s premier event
for the pushbikers, on September 16.
The race will be divided, as usual, into
amateur and professional sections, and
a new feature will be the junior test
championship of the State over a 15-
mile stretch for N.S.W. lads under 16.
Miscellaneous
“The Galfer” : Jack Donaldson, of Vic-
toria, famous among peds all the world
over as the “Blue Streak,” died last week
in New York, where he had lived for
years. Donaldson was probably the
greatest runner over the legitimate sprint
distances —the 100, 120 and Sheffield 130
—that the world has known, and his
records for them still stand after over 20
years. His time for the 100, 9 3-Bsec.,
was made in South Africa, where he also
put up his 1 l£sec. for the 120. His most
wonderful run was over the Sheffield 130
in 12sec., or 10 yards better than evens.
This was done on the grass at Sydney
Cricket Ground and, though almost un-
believable, the record was properly
checked and accepted.
“Old Q.”: That depresh
breeze (B. 30/8 / *33) has
been tempered to the shorn
cricketer in Queensland
also. The local cricket
heads have resolved to
damn the expense, and
their inter-State players are
this season to receive 15s.
a day while touring, instead
of 12s. 6d. Formerly, tour-
ing players who had their
salaries —if any—docked in
their absence had the dif-
ference made up by the
Q.C.A. Under the new
rule this indulgence will be
cut out, but married men
will draw a dollar a day
extra.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: George
Headley has signed up with
Haslingden. He is to get
£650 per annum, plus the
customary bonuses and
“showers” from the specta-
tors, and his contract in-
cludes the proviso that dur-
ing West Indian tours he
will be free to play for his
countrymen in the Tests.
Headley is a solicitor in
Jamaica, but evidently Costs there are
not what they used to be.
* * * *
“Shell”: Bobby Pearce’s win from
world’s champion Phelps at Toronto has
produced the usual crop of challenges,
one from Alf Burns, of N.S.W. Nothing
is likely to come of it. Pearce says he
only turned pro. for this race to win
the remaining world’s title open to him,
and, as he has been holding a first-class
job in Canada for some years, he is
hardly likely to drop it for the will-o'-the-
wisp of professional sculling. It is years
since there was any money in the game,
for the big backers and heavy betting of
other days have vanished like the rain
on the river.
* * * *
“Swan”: The Westralian eight-oar
championship over three miles was won
by the West Australian club from Swan
River, the title-holders. The crew included
the veteran George Rogers and sculler K.
Langley, who made Bobby Pearce stretch
himself in the Australian championship
sculls in 1929. Rogers has a wonderful
record as oarsman and coach, having
stroked 19 crews in inter-State and cham-
pionship races, with 15 .wins to his credit.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 7.
A Jigsaw Puzzle from La Perouse.
The N. S. Wales Golf Club is quite
a pup compared with many of its con-
temporaries round and about Sydney,
but it is a vigorous one and well able
to keep its tail up. The club had its
genesis in 1925, when General Herring,
now the secretary, was told of an ideal
area for links near Henry Head, La
Perouse.
The site was inspected and approved,
and solicitor E. Murphy, the finder,
secured a lease. A strong committee
was formed, consisting of General
Gordon Bennett, W. C. Goodwin, Gen-
eral Herring, S. G. Littlejohn. E. Mur-
phy, T. A. Magney and A. Snashall, with
I. K. Harrison as sec.; and then a co.
Advantage was taken of the visit
of Dr. McKenzie to Australia to
secure his services for laying out
the course. It is 6158 yards long, beau-
tifully situated on undulating, well-
grassed land, with a fine outlook over
the Pacific. In 1928 the club was duly
opened by its first patron, Lord Stone-
haven, then G.-G.; it is splendidly
housed. There are close on 400 full
members and 200 associates, while there
is a special A.I.F. section.
Young as it is, the club boasts many
handsome trophies. The best-known is
the N.S.W. Cup, presented by W. C.
Goodwin. This is an annual competi-
tion, open to amateurs and professionals.
No. 1 on the screen, with the Valen-
tino brush-back, is W. Longworth, widely
known as “Billy” among swimmers, bil-
liard players and racing men. A holder
of many swimming championships in his
day, he has carried his billiards skill into
golf, as his 6 handicap indicates. He is
one of the many Digger members.
In second place is R. H. (“Bob”) Bond,
whose proudest boast is that he has never
once won a competition. He has gone
close to breaking his record a couple of
times, however, and still has hopes. Bob
is a brewing expert with Tooheys.
Running into a tote dividend is Fred
Harris. He is a hard trier and, if he
could only play golf as well as he tracks
down and tells the latest story, would be
a strong fancy for the Australian open
championship. He also is an A.I.F. man,
and in non-golfing moments is concerned
with I.X.L. jams.
General Herring, in fourth place, is
club secretary. He was one of the first
Expeditionary Force, and when the fuss
was over commanded the 13th Infantry
Brigade. Another Digger, Frank Cox.
follows; the honorary secretary of the
RA.I.F. section, and a capable one.
No. 6 is Dr. Lyle Buchanan, who
has also sought the bubble reputation at
the cannon’s mouth. A leading Mac-
quarie-street surgeon, he is famed in the
club for his antipathy to weeds and
the many successful operations he has
performed on them. Charles Campbell,
who comes next, is the club professional
and a notable performer in his day.
Brian Clancy, on No. 8, is a Digger
and a very keen member of the A.I.F.
section. He is a notable figure at the
N.S.W. Bar—not the club one, of course.
R. A. Manzie is ninth in the proces-
sion. In his spare moments he super-
vises the Federal Mutual Insurance Co.
in Sydney. As a player he is on the 14
mark, and when in the mood is capable
of some hot golf. Dr. Darby Louden
is all the way from M.L., as anyone who
has seen him shake the plaster off the
ceilings in a haka will realise. He is on
the 10 mark, and has captained the B
grade team on many occasions.
Eleventh, we see P. T. Kavanagh. As
a golfer he cannot be rated with the im-
mortals, but if fondness for the game
counted he would be a plus- marker.
P.T. is a manufacturer.
The round dozen is completed with
General Gordon Bennett, president of
the club since its inception, and a mem-
ber of the general committee. As presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Chamber of Manu-
factures, he trod on many corns. He had
a distinguished record in the war.
A. S. (“Stan”) Fox is the next before
us. He is one of those golfers who blush
unseen on the limit mark, but he works
hard for the club, and is very popular.
He is a dentist at Bondi.
No. 14 is Fred Berry, whose name
is familiar throughout the Australian
motoring world as an authority on the
sport and an expert in everything con-
nected with it. He plays off the 18 mark,
and is distinctly in the useful class.
R. Barwell, who next heaves in view,
did good work on the greens committee
for some years. He is connected with J.
C. Goodwin and Co.
D. Cullen Ward, who follows, is a
member of the general and greens com-
mittees. When away from La Perouse, his
interests lie in the Aus. Gas Light Co.
No. 17 is H. C. Daymond. He is an-
other of the long-markers who are,
nevertheless, wrapped up in the royal and
exasperating game.
Eighteenth is R. G. Gale, one of the
club’s leading performers and a member
of the greens committee. He was run-
ner-up in the club championship this
year, and is one of the A.I.F. men.
H. L. Hollander is a dentist and trea-
surer of the Australian Dental Associa-
tion. He is a 22-mark player, and special-
ises in four-ballers. H. G. Ashton, who
is twentieth in the procession, is the club
champion, and gained similar honors
at Wollongong. He is in the E., S. and
A. Bank.
R. L. Bond, on the 21 stand, is a son
of “R.H.” He plays off the 12 mark,
and is a shandygaff golfer, mixing bril-
liant rounds with darned bad ones on
occasion. He is a Sydney accountant.
The player who has drawn the double
2 is Dr. D. Adcock. He is an 18-
marker, but is much longer than his han-
dicap, overtopping two or three ordinary
members piled one on top of the other.
He also practises in Macquarie-street.
Moving along behind him comes W.
C. Goodwin, captain of the club, mem-
ber of the general committee since the
kick-off, and ideal host. V. L. Hardy,
who is ranked No. 24, is in the fair class
of players, with a place at present on the
same mark as his number in the draw-
ing. He is a timber merchant.
No. 25, J. H. Gulson, is the envy
and admiration of all the mug putters.
He is deadly near the green, and can
sink the pill from any old angle.
Leo Prendergast follows. He is a 20-
marker, but one of the best of them.
Leo’s life work apart from golf is manu-
facturing rope. Next in order is A. A.
Henriques, whose station in golf is on
the 18 mark. He is in much request as
a partner in four-ballers, and his busi-
ness interests lie with Mauri Bros, arid
Thomson. On 28 is W. S. Miller. He
has recently returned from a trip to
London, and is always ready to pour
the latest golfing wisdom into the ears
of anyone willing to listen. He is con-
nected with Snows, of Sydney. Hans
Robertson is another member who has
gained fame as a swimmer, while he is
also mighty useful at billiards. On the
14 mark, and well up to his handicap.
J. Gordon Jones is a member of the
house committee, and is another devotee
of the four-ball game. He is a hat manu-
facturer. Last on the list is F. H. Brown,
a mepiber of the house committee, and
a capable performer off the 15 mark.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
Sydney
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
Specially
Reduced
Fares
First,Class Return £99
Cabin „ „ £7O
No Exchange Charges
Usual Fares £125-10 and £B7 respectively
Reductions apply to December, January
and February sailings only
Full details from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 GEORGE STREET,
SyDNEY
59 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE
and Union Line<
JIBuiPiEA'Lp i t
'Cil IRttUAJT I'DRf *
THE PERTH
The LARGEST NEWSPAPER
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A.B.C. Audited Net Cir-
culation, 6 months ended
March 31, 1933,
40,122
COPIES WEEKLY.
THE MOST POPULAR ADVER-
TISING MEDIUM IN THE WEST.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House.
’Phone: 85690.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN ALLAN, 271 Collins Street.
’Phone: F 5302.
4*=
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
h
The
Flying
Scotsman
un-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH.”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR EUXURV, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEr & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
HIGH AND LOW
Share-market influences discussed.
Are stocks worth present prices?
Wool and Share Prices.
The June 30 balance sheets are coming
out now.
The wool sales are on.
Metal prices are rising.
If you are interested in these things,
you can’t afford to miss this month’s
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY 5 ’
SEPTEMBER ISSUE NOW ON
SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIi ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
In the Matter of The Mortgagees’ Rights
Restriction Act 1931.
(L.s. H.s. 9/8/’33.)
BETWEEN WILLIAM JOSEPH MARWICK
and SYLVESTER JOSEPH MARWICK
Applicants
And AUGUSTA PAULINE CLARA
TOMNEY Respondent.
LET all parties concerned attend before the
Judge in Chambers at the Supreme Court at Perth
on Thursday the Twelfth day of October 1933
at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon on the hearing
of an application on behalf of the abovenamed
Applicants for an order that the Applicants be
at liberty to continue the proceeding or appli-
cation for foreclosure lodged by them with the
Registrar of Titles at Perth on the Fourth day of
August 1931 No. 1161/1931 in respect of the
mortgage registered No. 11396/1928 given by
the Respondent to the Applicants over ALL
THAT piece of land being Cold Harbour Lots
6 and 16 the whole of the land comprised in
Certificate of Title Volume 454 folio 119.
DATED the Ninth day of August 1933.
TO THE RESPONDENT
This summons was taken out by FRANCIS
WALPOLE LEAKE of the firm of Northmore.
Hale, Davy and Leake of Halsbury Chambers.
Howard Street, Perth, Agent for H. L. Evans
of York, Solicitor for the Applicants.
TO MARGARET MAY HAYES of Tarec
in the State of New South Wales Married
Woman (l.s. h.s.).
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
the Twenty-seventh day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-two has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of EDWARD TIMOTHY HAYES of
Popanyinning in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Railway Employee praying for dissolu-
tion of marriage IN DEFAULT of you so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce sen-
tence therein AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within FORTY-FIVE days after the date
of the last publication of this Notice to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Central
Office of the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose.
E. E. FEWINGS,
Acting-Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, of Nos. 38-39 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
To be advertised :
(a) The “Sydney Morning Herald,” published
at Sydney in the State of New South
Wales. Two advertisements with inter-
val of seven days between each advertise-
ment.
(b) The “Bulletin,” published at Sydney in
the State of New South Wales. Adver-
tisement in two successive issues.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1226 of 1933.
BETWEEN VIOLET MURIEL HALL Peti-
tioner and THOMAS HALL Respondent.
TO THOMAS HALL formerly of Ballina in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
MURIEL HALL has commenced a Suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a Dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
Appearance to the said Suit at the proper
Office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirty-first day of October next and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the Suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-three.
For the Registrar,
E. L. DICKSON (1.5.),
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ASHER, OLD AND JONES, 16 Spring
Street, Sydney, Sydney Agents of Ralph Taylor,
Solicitor for Petitioner, Tenterfield.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO FRANKING MACHINES.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7152/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
DANIEL PHILIPS, late of Much Hadham,
Hertfordshire, England, or his nephew, Mr.
Ansell, last heard of about 1910. Inquirer,
FRED SMITH, 56 Cardigan Street, Luton, Bed-
fordshire, England, son of the said Daniel
Philips’s sister, Ann Philips.
NOLAN.—MRS. P. D. NOLAN, nee Alice
Tonkin, late of 8 Harcourt Street, North Mel-
bourne, last heard of in Canobin, W.A. Re
Property, send address to J. MARSHALL, 20
Molesworth Street, North Melbourne.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
1933 No. 292.
BETWEEN AMY LAWSON Petitioner
And HERBERT RICHARD LAWSON
Respondent.
To HERBERT RICHARD LAWSON for-
merly of Gembrook in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE' that your wife AMY
LAWSON has commenced proceedings in th£
Supreme Court of Victoria for a Divorce on
the ground that you have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted your wife and
without any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted during three years
and upwards. Unless you enter an appearance
in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before the
Twenty-fifth day of September 1933 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the suit
of your said wife you must cause an answer to
be filed in the said Office of the said Protho-
notary on or before the Sixth day of October
1933.
This advertisement is inserted , by MESSRS.
ROS IRON ROY and SON, of 440 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Public Notice.
MOUNT COOI.ON GOLD MINES
NO LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
one shilling (1/-) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company. The dividend is due and payable at
the Registered Office of the Company on Thurs-
day, the 26th day of October, 1933. Transfer
Books and Share Registers will close at 5 p.m.
on Monday, the 25th day of September, and
reopen at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, the 27th day
of September, 1933, and the dividend will be
payable to shareholders registered in the books
of the Company on Tuesday, the 26th day of
September, 1933. Dividend Warrants will be
posted direct to shareholders. By Order of the
Board, HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.—6th Sep-
tember, 1933.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
“MUSIC IN THE AIR.”
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54/. Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes, Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS.
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday—2d.
STORIES BY “KODAK"
A SELECTION OF “KODAK’S” BEST
ILLUSTRATED BY LOW.
Bulletin and “Lone Hand” readers cannot think of “Kodak” without a chuckle—his arguments
with “Jimmy Pannikin” were once a feature of the Abo. page, and his BULLETIN and “Lone Hand
stories were the funniest ever written.
This collection—including such old favorites as “The Lobster and the Lioness,” “The Bishop and the Buns,”
“The Automatic Barmaid,” “Force of Habit,” etc. —is a laugh from beginning to end.
SllllllllllllllllllllllllllillliMllliHMlMlillliillli
PRICE 5/- (Cloth Bound) at all Booksellers; or from the Bulletin Offices in all States (Postage 3d.)


Mjg-XjEJ
1
:
1>
v/vmmmgm
mmmm
KiLiUluiS
Change to-day
with confidence i
to Leggett Spark j
Plugs for easier j
starting, sweeter i
running, more
miles per gallon, j
dynamic power.
Choice of lead-
ing motorists.
Popularly priced
at All Garages.
4/6/33
J
A “KEMP” STYLE POLEY
BM
No. 145
“KEMP”
STYLE
POLEY,
£B/5/-
BARE
Bevelled leathers,
folded girth and good
N.P. irons 20/- extra.
Complete, £9/5/-
An excellent saddle for station work, and
very reasonably priced. It has pigskin
seat, long-wearing, kip flaps and skirts —
and note the position of the pads. For
cash we pay freight on N.S.W. railway.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
wr
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
6d.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited
BALANCE-SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1933.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised ..£12,000,000
Capital issued ..£12,000,000
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon .. 8,000,000
Paid up .. £4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 3,350,000 0 0
Currency reserve 1,500,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 220,523 0 1
— £9,070,523 0 1
Circulation . • £495,304 0 0
Deposits •• 35,215,930 9 1
Bills payable
a n d other
liabilities .. 985,734 17 1
£36.690,909 6 2
£45,707,492 0 3
ASSETS,
Specie on hand and cash balances. £8,235,256 13 4
bullion and advances on bullion 4G,701 8 7
Money at call and short notice
in London .. .. .. 400,000 0 0
Investments:—
On account of
reserve fund:—
British Gov-
e r n m e n t,
securities .. £1,000,000 0 0
Other invest-
ments:—
British Gov-
e r n m e n t,
O o m m o n-
wealth of
A u s t r a lia
Govern-
ment and
New Zealand
municipal
securities .. 1,442,718 5 5
2,442,718 5 5
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office,. .. .. 2,621,074 12 4
£13,745,750 19 8
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London £31,642,634 9 2
(After making provision for bad
and doubtful debts and con-
tingencies.)
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. . . 286,600 0 0
London leasehold
, premises at cost £142,304 19 4
Less: Reserves
against same
and accrued in-
terest .. . . 49,798 1 11
92,506 17 5
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 29th February, 1932 £170,963 15 10
Uss: Dividend, July, 1932 . . 80,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. . • • • • • • • • • • • £90,963 15 10
Profits of the past year, after making provision in respect of bad
and doubtful debts, and other contingencies .. .. .. ..£1,107,036 5 1
1932. Less:
Salaries and allowances to the Australian
£508,647 and New Zealand staff .. .. ..£479,608 8 9
General expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including rent, rates, stationery,
128,101 etc. 118,184 18 10
9,667 1 Directors’ fees .. .. ..£9OOO 0 0
3,071 S Income tax paid thereon .. 3208 10 0
12,208 10 0
Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general
54,249 expenses .. .. .. .. .. 47,807 11 7
United Kingdom, Australia and New
273.850 Zealand taxes .. .. .. . • 239,667 11 8
__J__ 897,477 0 10
£977,585 209,559 4 »
£300,523 0 1
Less: Interim Dividend, January, 1933 .. .. .. •• •• 80,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date .. .. .. . • • • • • • • £220,523 0 1
E. IV. PARKER, HUGH FLOWER, A. MAXWELL, Directors.
W. A. LAING, Manager. ,S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
London, 4th July, 1933. ~~
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of . Section 134 of the Companies Act 1929, we report to the
members as follows: , , , , , ~
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books at Head Office and have had access to the
Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the
correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in
London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such Balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state or the
Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given* to us and as shown
by the books of the Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, 4th July, 1933. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
A USTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT
GENERAL MANAGER FOR AUSTRALASIA
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
MANAGER AT MELBOURNE
W. A. LEITCH
F. C. BISHOP
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Philm”: At least one branch of com-
merce views with favor the pleasure
cruises sponsored by the overseas ship-
ping cos. A Perth florist told me that
on the day a cruiser sets out she does a
normal week’s business supplying the
demand for floral farewells. “In fact,”
she added unthinkingly, with an eye on
a wreath, “things haven't been better
since the ’flu epidemic in 1919.”
* * * ¥
“Formula”: Motorists in Queensland
may have to take out policies covering
accidents to pedestrians. Assistant-
Treasurer Cooper has presented a report
on the subject to Cabinet. Canada and
the U.S.A. have laws under which a
motorist cast in damages and unable to
pay them has his license suspended until
the judgment is satisfied. Something of
the sort is favored by the Queensland
motor authorities.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The old South Australian
hotel, opposite Adelaide railway-station,
has been passed in at £56,000 at auc-
tion by Goldsbrough Mort, acting for
Sidney Kidman and other owners. A
few years back it was considered worth
£lOO,OOO. The old place has a fine dining-
room, which was the original Bank of
S.A. ; and, backing on to the Theatre
Royal as it does, it has always been a
great home for visiting actors.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The 60ft. mast now going
up over the Victoria Barracks in Mel-
bourne is to be experimentally used for
the wireless direction of aircraft. The
latest equipment is being installed, and
it is claimed that it will enable aero-
plane pilots to establish their exact posi-
tion in any sort of weather. The R.A.N.
and the R.A.A.F. are combining in the
experimental work. If it is successful
enough similar stations will be erected to
serve all the principal civil air routes, as
well as military establishments.
# * * *
“Soso”: Why don’t daily newspapers
pay more attention to prosecutions
for breaches of the Pure Food
Act? In Sydney there are dozens of
such prosecutions, but many are never
reported. At one suburban court a
milkman admitted that he had added 50
per cent, of water to the stuff he was sell-
ing as milk —for sevenpence a quart. No
mention of the case was made in any
newspaper. Lately numbers of sub-
urban butchers have been fined for
adulterating meat and minces with'sul-
phuric acid and other concoctions. Again
no mention in any newspaper. .
* * * *
“Ex-Counterjumper” defends them:
There is a ratty smell about the agitation
against chain-stores, their crime being effi-
ciency and good management in an era of go-
as-you-please and trust-the-Government-to-get-
you-out-of-the-mess. Analyse any chain-store
stock and it will be seen that it covers only a
relatively small range of commodities picked
from the conventional stocking of a dozen
businesses; nothing that requires expert
handling and true salesmanship to forestall
loss and leakage, like weighed, cut and perish-
able stuff. When I spent five unpaid years
trying to be a tradesman we learned the busi-
ness. Came the day when the wholesale
handler of goods did all the learning and
merely handed to the retailer in a sealed pack-
age the fruits of that learning. So the trader
became merely someone not too dull at hand-
ing out a package. The chain-store, all pack-
ages and hand-out girls, is the logical outcome.
* * * *
“El V.”: The concessions which N. S.
Wales railwaymen get in the way of
free travelling were presented to them
under a gazetted regulation which
says:—
Every person on the permanent staff, when
on annual leave, may be granted a free pass
for himself, his wife and family....
Free passes, not to exceed four in each year,
may be issued to employees.... At places
remote from trade centres each employee, or
his wife or housekeeper, may be furnished with
a free pass once a month to the nearest con-
venient market. In each case household sup-
plies not to exceed 2cwt. may be carried free.
What did you say the losses on these
railways were? Ah, I remember —
£18,546,500 in seven years.
* * £ *
“Sploge”: “Sixenate’s” complaint (B. .
30/8/’33) that a debt-collecting agency
dunned him with an imitation court
form reminds me how I once earned the
thanks of an impecunious client. He
received, per registered post, a similar
form and brought it to me. I showed
him Section 4 of the Unauthorised Docu-’
ments Act 1922, N.S.W., which reads: —-
Any person who, without due authority
(proof whereof lies upon the person accused),
prints, issues or uses any document or form
resembling court process in order to recover or
assist in recovering a debt, shall be liable to
a penalty not exceeding £2O.
Armed with my copy of the Act
and an air of righteous indignation,
my client called on the offender, col-
lected an abject apology, and eventually
agreed not to prosecute. He did not pay
the other fellow —or me.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.S.: It got several readings B.O.B.: The
idea isn't new and the telling is crude
F.W.J.A.: Laboriously artificial... : It
has humor, but even a sketch needs some con-
structive skill as we 11... .G.H.8.: You introduce
your two leading figures with a deal of nourish,
plant them firmly on the stage—and leave them
there.... A. 8.: Not a bad climax, but the
Odyssey is too rambling H.A.G.: Not quite
redeemed by its artistic ending... .J.E.M.: Fails
to grip J.W.: Your imagination leaves us
staggered R.D.N.: Bright enough, but the
incidents are over-riotous S.H.C.: That
grotesque stubbornness tires, even in a humorous
story... .1.G.: Nothing in it... .0.E.H.: Why
send it all this distance when it would have a
better chance in England?... .M.S.W.: The
rhyme and metre both pass muster; now find
something worth saying... .F.C.: “Dedicate to
poetry at 20,” are you? Then try to get vague
mysticism out of your system, and phrases
like “airy-footed wind” and “skyey deep” out
of your vocabulary, and tune your lyre anew.
John H.: A rough fragment; it needs a
lot of polishing... .F. 5.8.: Over-classical. And
we haven’t space for masques Z.A.: An
idea, but the craftsmanship is lacking....
Embah: Might do for a repertory one-acter.
....M.D.: Some good local color, but courts
of justice aren’t run that way, not even in
Darwin X.X.X.: Can’t place it H.W.8.:
It doesn’t go in a pugilistic setting E.W.:
Opened promisingly, continued tediously, ended
wearisomely A.O’C.: A bit too lachrymose
—like Job Trotter J.T.L.: Just a parlor
Deadwood Dick P.S.: You ride your joke
to death L.T. : We’re tired of bellowdrama.
C.P.K.: Not even a dog story in it
P.A.: Too much license in verse on “Freedom.’
S.B.: The only merit is in its brevity...
F.A.S.: Too high-f10wn.... R.H.T.: Can’t dc
anything with them H.K.W.: An old theme
for enraptured gallants H. 0.: Try some-
thing less hackneyed... .P.T.: Poor stuff, and ii
seems to have been written in gall rather than
ink 1.M.G.: It has a pleasant tinkle, but
there are too many outworn similes L.C.:
Not without appeal, but lines like “Nature’s
amelioration permeates all” don’t fit into any
verse-scheme Drover: Stick to droving;
there's no future for you as a rhyme-slinger....
H.L.W.: One verse, if only to demonstrate
that there’s poetry in a motor-bike carrying
two:
Now a monster hurls past on the road like a gale
Or a comet that shoots through the ether,
With a girl at the back hanging on to the tail
While the road rushes by underneath her;
Clinging Beauty behind, gallant Youth to the fore,
As it was from the first and shall be evermore.
H.S.: Too much double-crossing in youi
story G.D.: You can’t hang two columns
on that little peg T.K.: Shows an abysmal
ignorance of Australian conditions M.C.:
Sheer tediousness kills it.... J.A.8.: The way
of getting out of a jamb by winning a sweep
is overworked... .E.D.: Wonder if you know
how much catching a hare takes... .W.D.: Par-
able unsuitable Q.C.: Beauty isn’t the only
thing for a poet to sing about.... M.H.: No
“bloom nectareous” in that....J.E.8.: A boot-
less jest L.McL.: What between the “earth’s
brown breast,” the “frost’s young feet” and the
“night’s warm breath” you seem liable to get
tangled up in a maze of metaphor... .H.H.:
Australia is our Mother!
Australia is our Child 1
Australia is our Heaven
.Tust for a little while.
It sets us thinking of “Ten Thousand a Year"
and that contribution to a lady’s album:
Tittlebat Titmouse is my name;
England is my nation ;
London is my dwelling-place,
And Christ is my salvation.
....A. de R.: Bit misanthropic, aren’t you?
W.J.W.: Can't see the suggested re-
semblance to Grey’s “Elegy”.... R.M.: Night,
we gather, is the moon’s lover —“and from their
close embrace There spring the countless stars.”
A prolific couple J.E.: No go Pen:
Blank verse, to be impressive, needs a master
hand L.M.: Descriptions of foreign cities
are usually chestnuts unless exceptionally well
done; MS. waiting for you at Melbourne office.
. ...L.H.R.: Even simplicity can be overdone.
... .Smoke-It: You miss the point. It was that
the cult of the cigar began in England after the
Napoleonic wars and that of the cigarette after
the Crimea W.D.H.: An old theme with
nothing new in the handling... .D.W.G.: Clay-
frog breathing a benison of love over the gold-
fish left breathing G.M.: Obviously modelled
on Bon Gaultier’s “Get thee o’er the wide
Atlantic, worthless London’s puling child”....
P.8.V.: Neither scored as much as an outer.
. ...A.C.A.: You lay on the paint with a
trowel instead of a brush Wattle: It might
sound all right in German —or Russian —but
it runs awkwardly in English. .. .F.A.H.: Can’t
do anything with it N.G.: Lightweight
W.H.: There must be 60,000 words in one
story and 40,000 in the other. The serial season
has closed K.W.: Hardly fare for grown-
ups M.M.: Martha, however aptly named,
drags a trifle 8.W.: That .sort of stuff went
out" of fashion before Queen Victoria was
middle-aged R.W.J.: It’s not in the least
like Kimberley J.S.H.: Doesn’t make a
story... .M.E.L.: You hang a bit too much on
“The-customer-is-always-right” tag K. J.L.:
We never met a bar-loafer who could spin a
yarn of that length... .L.W.8.: Very dull
attempt _to be bloodcurdling.... .H. 8.: That
ambergris is a little too providential... .A.E.H.:
Crude W.R.Q.: Curb that exuberant fancy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.C.H.: “Suggested sketch” received coldly.
Why not get the suggester to make a draw-
ing? Nank: Jokes old and jaded; illus-
trations wooden 8.K.: Mouthless images
returned J.A.H.: No promise T.J.0.,
W. 0., A.F. and R.W.J.: Didn’t they teach you
anything about drawing at school? K.D.:
A long way to go, but there’s a sparkle of life
in the faces... .J.G.: Unlike and amateurish.


o
Tor
/SMILING
GOOD
HEALTH
-
f J
•fir.
:' V
m
m
:
■/J&I ' V
■i.
...
x :
\
* "I
A- ';M
.. . V.s
1W
■
■
'X; • ,v:;; ■ ■f. : ; ~.■.
■i^
Hr
... .
■P:
mmm
m
:■: I
m
»I 0
JM
B
*
. ■
,■
-
#
: x-
H
I
1
A
mSSmm
BBIiBIIIIIIIHIIIII 1 HHli
■ lilSlSßfcillHi
TOOHEYS
OjxJbqUuxj^
OATMEAL
STOUT
properties of ordinary Stout
Jlus th.e Nutritious- Value of Oatmeal,
great body-builder without preservatives.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Five Queensland Politicians
Frith made the drawings at Par-
liament House, Brisbane. Firstly, there
is James Stopford, who is Minister for
Mines. He was born and bred in Mt.
Morgan, where he acquired a histrionic
reputation by his lunch-hour imitations
of murders by strangulation. This put
him in the running for a union job. The
union job led to politics, and, when he de-
coyed the directors of the G.M. Company
on to their own Iron Island and per-
suaded the crew of their own ship to
strike and leave them marooned until
they capitulated in a dispute, it became
certain that he would achieve greater
things. Jimmy is one of the few remain-
ing relics of the old Ryan regime—the
largest Minister who serves under Forgan
Smith, with a heart to match.
Next door is Bayley, U.A.P. member
for Wynnum, who formerly represented
Oxley in the Federal House and was
Chairman of Committees in the Reps.
He is one of the few University gradu-
ates iff the House, a keen debater and
altogether popular. He was educated
partly at Leland Stanford University,
California.
Then comes George Barnes, the War-
wick miller. A just, upright commercial
man, partner in one of the biggest pro-
duce firms in Queensland, his voice has
a religious lilt. His father was one of
FIVE QUEENSLAND POLITICIANS.
James Stopford.
J. G. Bayley.
G. P. Barnes.
A. W. Fadden.
Forgan Smith.
the best-known of the old Cobb and Co.
drivers, and he and his brother W.H.,
who died a little while ago, carried their
business habits into politics. W.H. was
one of the most frugal Treasurers Aus-
tralia has known.
The two gentlemen glaring at each
other at the end of the line are A. W.
Fadden, the Opposition member for Ken-
nedy, and Forgan Smith, the Premier.
Fadden the other day accused Forgan of
being the McDougall of deficits —the
man who topped the score; to which
Smith replied that Fadden was the Lar-
wood of debate—a natural bodyline
speaker. Smith, a Perthshire-born house-
painter, is not really happy as Premier,
though nobody could be more genial in
office. Hs forte is picturing the other
fellow’s sins, and his attacks on an enemy
Budget sound like a cross between the
indignation of a Glasgow football crowd
and Job describing his boils. Fadden,
however, would gladly relieve him of his
present job.
Idle Lands in Queensland
“Fallow”: Queensland landowners
are taking a lively interest in the Govern-
ment’s proposed legislation for the de-
velopment of unutilised private lands.
Details of the bill have not yet been
published, but it will deal only with pri-
vate lands, Crown property not being
affected. It is estimated that there are
10 million acres of land which will come
under the scope of the bill, and that areas
are to be found in every district. Those
most likely to be profitable for develop-
ment lie in agricultural country where
there is a regular rainfall, and they may
be found along the whole extent of the
coast and in some cases west of the
Dividing Range.
One of the preliminary steps taken by
the Government will be a census or sur-
vey to decide what areas come within
the ambit of the bill. The Land Court
will decide whether areas have been
reasonably developed, and if resumption
is decided upon will also assess the value
to the owner. Holders will not be taxed
out of their property, as has happened
under other legislation of the sort, but
the properties will be compulsorily re-
sumed by the Government and the value,
as determined by the Land Court, paid
them.
As landholders regard it all, the catch
lies in the methods the Land Court will
be empowered by the bill to employ in
fixing the amount of compensation, it
being uncertain whether the practice
at present prevailing in the case of
compulsory resumptions will be followed
or a new basis of valuation and allot-
ment of compensation decided on by the
framers of the bill. There is an uneasy
feeling that the second alternative will
be part of the legislation, and everyone
interested is waiting to see just what sort
of an axe is going to fall on him.
Tropic Population
“Eacham”: Are the tropics progress-
ing? Look at the growth of population
of northern cities if you don’t believe it,
and reflect that N.S.W. country towns
are having difficulty in retaining their
people:
1016. 1933., Increase.
Townsville . . • • 22,000 31,000 41.0 p.c.
Rockhampton . . 25,000 30,000 20.0 „
Toowoomba . . .. 23,000 26,887 . 8.5 ~
Ipswich •• •• 26,000 26,000
Maryborough . . .. 12,900 , 12,000 —7.0 ~
Cairns . • • • 8,000 11,000 37.0 „
Mackay 7,000 9,400 34.0 „
Only Charters Towers shows a substan-
tial decline, and that, of course, is an
old mining town. Those who talk about
giving North Australia away because it
can’t be colonised should reflect that at
present 281,782 white Australians —that
is, 60.000 more than there are in Tas-
mania and more than the population of
W.A. in 1911 —live in the central and
northern districts of Queensland, mainly
above Capricorn. Queensland is the
only State except N. S. Wales whose
population has doubled itself since Fed-
eration. Brisbane, with 334,000 people,
is now the largest white city—places like
Rio are mainly inhabited by mixed
bloods —within 28 degrees of the tropics,
and its population has been built up at
an average rate without precedent for
a white city in history. It has trebled
in size in a generation. Moreover, de-
spite the pessimists, the death-rate of
Bananaland (8.05 per 1000) is lower than
that of any State, even though the past
year has been almost a record in mor-
tality, due to epidemic causes.
“Titre”: The cane-sugar industry
has reached the over-production stage,
and in view of the imminent in-
troduction of export quotas overseas —
there is already a measure of restriction
under the Chadbourne scheme to which
Australian growers are not parties—
the outlook is regarded seriously by the
Queensland Cane Growers’ Association.
That body has recently announced that
land under cultivation can provide
enough sugar in ordinary seasons for a
population of 12,000,000. Land assigned
but not in use is capable of bringing
production up to 1,000,000 tons annu-
ally, or enough to supply a population
of 20,000,000.
* * * . *
“Physiologue”: Little is known about
the ability, if any, of man to train him-
self to tolerate water shortage in hot and
dry places such as Centralia. In such
circumstances, during the warm months,
an average adult carrying on a moderate
amount of work would lose about two
to three gallons of water daily by evap-
oration from skin and lungs. During a
recent trip to Centralia (Jan. and Feb.,
1933) one gathered from local authorities
that 36 hours was about the limit of
human endurance. McGee, who has
studied the question in Arizona, states
that half the victims of desert thirst perish
within 36 hours. The world’s record
for human endurance in this respect
seems to be held by Pablo Valencia, a
Mexican, who wandered about in the
desert of southern Arizona for eight days
with a single day’s water supply, which
was drunk by the middle of the second
day. For the rest of the period his
entire intake consisted of one scorpion,
a few agave stipes and some insects. He
rode in the saddle 35 miles and walked
or crept somewhere between 100 and
J5O miles. He lost about 35 or 40 pounds
in weight. The case is fully authenticated
and recorded by McGee in the “Inter-
State Medical Journal” (U.S.A.) of
March, 1906. McGee was on the spot
when Pablo went out, and rendered first
aid when he returned. Can anyone beat
t* llB -
“Mareeba”: Evidence given "before
the Tobacco Investigation Committee
shows what the Queensland grower is
up against. The Senior Instructor in
Agriculture in N.Q. testified that the cost
of producing an acre yield of 6501 b. of
cured leaf is £3l ss. 10d., exclusive of
taxes, rates and interest. Nyassaland
costs, inclusive of everything, are £6 15s.
per acre. Production of Australian leaf
dropped from 10 million pounds in 1932
to six million pounds this year.
* * * *
“Lawn”: Queensland’s Gulf country is
considered by many to be unfit for
white men, but it has few unemployed.
The spirit of independence is strong
even among schoolboys, who show keen-
ness in getting jobs for themselves —
horse-tailing, herd-minding, etc.—during,
off-school hours. At Burketown recently.
I met a ten-year-old lad in charge of a
team of nine goats drawing water from
the town bore. “Things are a bit tough,
Takes a man all his time t’ earn ten
bob a week these days,” he told me.
Then, as he started off, he added: “Aw,
well! I daresay tilings’ll brighten up
Giddup there, boys!.... Up, Tiger!....
Whoa, Mike!.... Inter it, Snotter! ” And
so he disappeared from view.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
Minister Hynes has given his eldest
daughter Kathleen to the safe-keeping
of George King. The knotting was at
St. Stephen’s Cathedral, with a reception
by the bride’s parents at the Jenolan
Cafe. A classical frock of white flami-
sol with lace veil and flowing train was
the bride’s choice, and May Hynes and
Tess Castor attended her. Premier
Forgan Smith and Mrs. Smith were
• t r . i
SSeSnS, y P 8 P
T , . r ‘
Kathleen Lilley, principal of the Girls
Grammar, was filled with pride at the
inter-secondary school sports as she sat
on the grandstand at the Exhibition and
watched her girls win three cups. They
have been the best team for two
years. Creche and Kindergarten girls
served tea and home-made cakes to the
officials, who included Miss Jarrett, of
? ri i bane High School, and Sister
Elizabeth from St. Margaret’s.
It is right and proper that every tour-
ist should be taken a ride in our Town
Hall lift to view the city from the tower,
By this means a revenue of more than
£lOOO is supplied annually to the City
Council, and during carnival month in
August **as collected.
To collect money for trophies was the
why and wherefore of a dance held at
Victoria Park clubhouse. Our ex-Lud
Mayor, W. A. Jolly, is president of the
committee, and he arranged for the
clubhouse to be gaily decorated with
colored lights and Chinese lanterns,
Many golfers would like to own the
fox-terrier belonging to Alex. Gemmell,
professional at Virginia links. This valu-
able animal is a pastmaster at finding
lost balls. In one week he recovered 65.
The governor of Rotary for the 76th
district, W. B. Darker, was among the
many happy Rotarians dancing at the
Belle Vue for the Rotarians’ annual hop.
As W.B.D. is just back from an interest-
fiig trip to U.S.A., where he mingled
with world Rotarians, he was much
sought after; he had a host of stories
t Q tell. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J.
\y. Greene, who left the next day for
Sydney, did not hurry away, and was
accompanied by the Lud Mayor,
Rotarian-treasurer Colonel F. W. G.
Annand came with Mrs. Annand. In
buttercup georgette, Mrs. W. A. Jolly,
w j t h Mr. Jolly, did the receiving,
Proce eds of the A to Z dance revue
wiU be divided between Sir Leslie Wil-
son’s Scout fund and the Ambulance
Transport Brigade A bit extra was
gathered by a sweets stal and the sell-
lng. pr °, gra ST S u Robertson
and B renda McCullough wer* respon-
?> b le f?c the entire show. Str Leslie and
Lady W,lson attended the first perform-
anP" tt r» r> u •«
. M' s - H ’ , B y B °" ne c y bas . ™ tte . n . a
Australia to England by Air
« hlch _ wlll be published next mon h.
Bonney is returning to Australia
Y oa • . , , „
A pleasant interlude from the serious
side of the Catholic Women’s conference
was the garden party at Archbishop
Duhig’s residence, which Lady Wilson
attended. All present agreed with his
Grace when he spoke of the myriads of
unselfish women working for the benefit
of others. Lady Macartney and Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart were noticed among the
300 guests.
When Mrs. I. H. Moss, of the Austra-
lian National Council of Women, stepped
off the Orama, pleasure-bound' for
Noumea, the N.C. here extended her a
welcome. Freda Bage joined in the wel-
come, and Florence Micheli was respon-
sible for a programme of music.
At the fancy-dress dance held at the
Uni., the president of the Uni. union,
W. P. Hamon, cantered into the ball-
room in a red pinafore, looking for
a game of basketball with the secretary,
but as sec. L. G. Fraser was dressed as
a dainty fairy the game did not come off.
The sweet girl grads, and undergrads,
came along in dainty evening frocks.
Dame Mary Barlow, a life president of
the Catholic Women’s Association in
Sydney, arrived by train with other dele-
gates to attend the conference of Catho-
lic Women of Australia. Waiting on the
station were Mrs. O’Brien and Mrs. Staf-
ford and other office-bearers of the
organisation here. From Melbourne
came Mrs. E. Macdonald and Mrs. C.
Ryan, while Mrs. Michael Magan has
come all the way from Adelaide. Busi-
ness was put aside some days for a round
of sightseeing.
On Sunday the visitors were taken to
Redland Bay, there to admire our pine-
apples and strawberries, stopping on the
way to visit Nazareth Flome.
We had nearly 500 added to our popu-
lation when the Orama was here, bound
for Noumea. There was a dearth
of handles —we’re so used to titles nowa-
days that we miss them. Still, society
was well represented by Mrs. R. Laid-
law Davidson, from South Australia, and
Judith and Jurte Chirnside, from Mel-
bourne.


FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark. t
Whatever your margin on any one weeks salary, it wont provi e
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one wee s
salary will provide education for your children, heavy me ica
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
CbmmoiTWcaltl) Savmas Jank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was not the usual kick about the
opening of the Society of Artists’ show
this year. It wasn’t altogether that pre-
sident Syd Smith is away picking violets
on Fiesole or winners at Longchamps in
the intervals of sleuthing art treasures for
our National Gallery. Acting-president
Norman Carter lived up to the standards
of the S.O.A. in his address, and graci-
ously led forward Harvey, C.J., who gave
a masterly summing up to the jury. It
was the hats of the assembled maidens,
wives and mothers that caused the open-
ing to fall a little flat. Only occasionally
one crossed the vision that caused the
mental eyebrow to lift in the query,
“Where did she buy that?” Of such
was the wide black lid worn by surgeon
McKelvey’s lady ; in conjunction with a
great bunch of freesias tucked into the
belt of her black frock, it looked the
complete spring song. Mrs. Tom Rolin’s
little beret-like turban of cinnamon
brown with its jaunty cobalt-blue wing
also made itself felt. One girl had absent-
mindedly thrust her crimson quill pen
through her little blue bonnet. Violet
Roche tied off her toque with a buccan-
eering black bow, and under a neat brown
sailor Alexander Gordon’s lady bowed
to almost everybody.
The Harvey lady came with her C.J.,
and later on in the tearooms of the Edu-
cation Gallery bit the scone of sociability
in company with Maud Sherwood (just
elected a member of the society)
and those firmly-established importants
Julian Ashton, John Lane Mullens and
Howard Hinton. John Lane M. brought
daughters Barbara and Hilda, and How-
ard Hinton brought his latest girl. She
hangs on the wall in the inner room, an
English beauty painted about 100 years
ago. There’s a look of Lady Hamilton
about the curling hair and rounded cheek,
almost as fresh and glowing as when the
long-dead artist captured her loveliness
a century ago.
Justice George Rich hobnobbed with
B. E. Minns, who is responsible for some
of the show’s loveliest, and admired Mac-
Nally’s “Gunnamatta Bay.” The Ramsay
twins, one in blue and one in green,
accepted congratulations on their offer-
ings ; Mrs. T. A. Anderson’s blouse was
a spot of royal blue in a black costume;
J. J. Hilder’s son Bim and young Peter
Lindsay, of the shining head, were in
the melee ; so was Peter’s father Percy,
whose “Wynyard Square” and “Botanic
Gardens” are too modestly priced. Rah
Fizelle, Grace Crowley; Dagmar
Roberts, who came with mother and
sister ; Mrs. Julian Caro, Mrs. H. Weigall
and Renee Caro ; sculptor Theo Cowan,
Eva Wunderlich, furred to the ears in
brown; Dora Jarrett, Alison Rehfisch,
Gruner, Will Ashton and poet Dora Wil-
cox were a few who lingered before the
Heysens and smiled good afternoon to
Mungo MacCallum’s lady, who sits in
dignity, fingering the family pearls, in
a portrait by Harvey.
Sopranos Elsa Corry and Grace Simp-
son made their first Town Hall appear-
ance at Peter Dawson’s concert on
Saturday night. Both budding prima
donnas wore black lace, Elsa, tall and
fair, adding a sash bow of green at the
right, and Grace, brown-haired and
dimpled, a sash bow of pink at the left.
Both received rousing encores and
floral clefs and baskets of blooms and
ladders of fame, and each had in the
audience admiring relations and friends.
Mrs. Peter Dawson’s jade-green coat
struck a dominant note in the front row,
as did the glittering earrings of pretty
Mrs. F. J. Davy further back. Mrs.
Lashmar in black lace listened with the
ear of a musician. Isidor Goodman
played the music of Chopin and others
with charm, and Hubert Greenslade
accompanied as expertly as might a
cherub instructed by Saint Cecilia.
Fires and stock and plum blossom
burned in the rooms of the Hans Fay
home last week when the lady of the
house gave a music party, as all the best
Sydney hostesses are doing this season.
The* home of Norway’s Consul is at
Darling Point in one of the old houses
with square rooms and long, high win-
dows. It is judiciously furnished with
treasures from many lands, among them
old chests of Spanish wood ; and old Nor-
wegian brass candlesticks, fat enough not
to bend when even the most stalwart
young Viking used them to light the way
to bed. Violinist Gerald Walenn, pianist
Haagen Holenbergh, ’cellist Athos Mar-
telli and basso Stanley Clarkson were the
night’s musicians, and they, were
applauded mightily by the richly-dressed
women who, with their escorts, tenanted
rows and rows of gilt chairs. Into the
hostess’s emerald-green chitfons was
woven a starry design in gold, and her
silver tissue shoes had pink rosebuds
painted upon them. Her hand posy was
edged with gold lace, and the long stems
were bound together in gold tissue, giving
the effect of the old-fashioned filigree
flower-holder. Between the music and
supper you could stroll in a flower-filled
garden and look down on a harbor sil-
vered with moonlight. When this diver-
sion began to prove chilly, there was a
supper of champagne and caviare and
sweets and savories of Norse flavor to
warm your blood.
The making of Australian films has
opened up a wide and starry avenue to
the Commonwealth’s attractive daughters.
Among the latest to sign a contract with
Cinesound is Audrey Nicolson, recorded
by The Bulletin photographer last week.
Audrey, who will appear as the twin
sister of the Dean in “The Silence of
Dean Maitland,” has up to now been
seen only on the amateur stage, mostly
in the plays presented by her old school,
Doone. A few weeks ago she played
very successfully the part of a middle-
aged woman in the Doone Players’ pro-
duction of “Nine Till Six,” a perform-
ance so uniformly good that the A.B.C.
is arranging to broadcast it.
East met West last week at the Eastern
Fair in the Presbyterian Assembly build-
ings. One of the large rooms was lined
with stalls which were loaded with
Chinese embroideries and handicrafts,
the work of worshippers at the church
for the Chinese in Campbell-street and
other Chinese friends of the Mission. A
group of little girls, Sunday-school child-
ren, sang. They were at once grave and
happy-looking as, the light catching their
colorful costumes, they lifted their voices
under the direction of teacher Miss Flem-
ing. Premier Stevens’s daughter Gwen
opened the fair, and received a basket
of flowers from a small daughter of
China. China’s Consul-General Chen
and Padre L. S. Leung were among the
afternoon’s visitors.
Two young men interested in the open-
ing of Cinesound’s new studio are Jimmy
Coates, son of the M.L.C., and Frank
Chappie. Between them they have writ-
ten the theme song for “The Squatter’s
Daughter.” This is called “Still of the
Night,” and the inspiration came to the
two during one starry evening on the
Mountains. Jimmy is not following poli-
tics like his dad; he’s a slim stripling
who runs his own jazz band, in which
friend Frank Chappie is the pianist. Two
other mates, the Landeryou boys of
Manly, now star turns in London on the
Coliseum - Hippodrome circuit, keep
Jimmy and his saxophone fed with jazz
material hot from the presses of London
and New York.
By the time this Letter reaches you
pretty Margaret Hagon, of the soft voice,
will have changed her name to Mrs. John
Collins. Margaret is a daughter of the
Mayoral Hagons, and is a slim blonde
beauty with the simplest manner in the
world. Last week she told this writer
all about her wedding frock, which was
of white Chantilly, made with a very
long train that was cut from the front of
the skirt and drawn to the back, giving
an almost double-skirt effect. Her veil
was tulle, and the long frock, closely
moulded to the figure, was edged with
the same souffle. Sister Mrs. Roy Fur-
ley was cast for matron of honor; for
the five attendants, white lacquered chit-
fon frocks were chosen.
Two settlers who come to Sydney at
the express invitation of Governor Sir
Philip Game, and who may arrive in
time for the spring races, are Mr. and
Mrs. Ourang-Outang, from Batavia.
They are expected on the next trip of
the Nieuw Holland ; should their fare-
well junketings detain them, they will
come by the Tasman. A special suite is
being prepared for them at Taronga.
Out at Carthona, his Darling Point
home, Earl Beauchamp has installed a
cocktail bar. It’s in a little room off the
right of the hall, once a butler’s sitting-
room, and is dominated by a cask of
prodigious dimensions. Two old-
fashioned bedsteads have been broken
up to supply the brass foot-rail ; there
are high stools around the bar, just as in
the American bars of the hotels in the
South of France. The Earl, very hand-
some, and looking very fit except for a
poisoned finger, has settled down from
his Island trip, and plans a surfing
summer. Son Hugh arrives in November.
The horticultural show at the Town
Hall last week really belonged to the
daffodil and sweet-pea, but, of course,
the carnation, the gerbera and the Ice-
land poppy crashed in, together with
the fragrant narcissi displayed by Dr.
Poate. Mrs. O. Vaughan heightened the
garden gladness by a bowl of early roses,
and amid the table decorations Dutch
hyacinths and stocks turned smiling
faces to the visitors.
When nature gave Elsa Corry the
voice of a dramatic soprano, it was
kind enough to endow her in addition
with the tall, graceful physique necessary
to an Elsa or a Tosca. Elsa has just
been sprung upon a delighted Sydney by
teacher Ruth Ladd, who has been de-
veloping and barbering and planing the
voice for five years. Elsa got her
chance under the Repatriation Depart-
ment’s scheme for helping war orphans
find their path in life; and she has been
working at music and languages for some
years at the Con. Now a committee,
headed by the untiring Alexander Gor-
don lady, has decided it is time the young
singer went to Europe, and those who
heard her “Vissi d’Arte” at Peter Daw-
son’s concert on Saturday night will
agree with that decision.
No member of Sydney High School
Old Girls’ Union was more keenly inter-
ested in the school’s jubilee celebrations
than Nancy Norris; but she did not live to
see their completion. The public-spirited
woman was president of the union,
and president also of the Ex-service-
women’s Club, which she helped to
found. The Rachel Forster Hospital was
another of her cherished interests, and
she also gave a hand with the secretarial
work of the Bush Book Club and the
Victoria League. From 1915 to 1921
she was in charge of the King George
and Queen Mary Victoria League Club
for Overseas Soldiers in London, being
the first woman to hold such a position.
Her father was Major C. G. Norris, of
Sydney.
For 11 years the Randwick Race Ball,
an outstanding effort for Catholic chari-
ties, has been one of the highlights ot
the spring meeting festivities. There has
never been an attendance of less than
1000, and in the boom year of J 929 the
ball cleared just under that number of
pounds, that splendid total, of course,
being helped by preliminary entertain-
ments. This year the committee—practi-
cally unchanged from the original mem-
bership—has decided on October 3 for
the date of the ball, and for the eleventh
year the Palais 'Royal will be the ren-
dezvous.
The knights of the pestle have achieved
a flourishing group of sisters. In Sydney
and suburbs there are at least 80 of them,
competent and ready to make up pill,
powder or potion. In other words, the
women pharmacists are something to be
reckoned with, and a few nights ago they
met and compounded themselves into an
association. One of their aims is to
secure representation on the council of
the Pharmaceutical Society (an Eveless
Eden so far); another is to help unem-
ployed women chemists to obtain jobs.
The worth of the woman dispenser in
hospitals has been proved by the work in
this year of grace of Miss S. Rowley, ol
the Coast Hospital, and in former years
by that of Misses Macpherson and
Parkes at the Paddington Women’s Hos-
pital and the Rachel Forster. Mrs. M. S.
Clarke is president of the new associa-
tion, and Miss H. M. Bradley, of Homer-
street, Earlwood, the secretary.
One of the gayest of the week was
Zara Aronson’s sherry party at the Chel-
sea Book Club. Sydney of to-day and
yesterday turned up to wish this veteran
presswoman many happy returns, and the
first thing this Letter saw on entering
was Frith grapevining amid the throng,
a tray of drinks on one hand, a plate of
savories on the other. At the top of the
room Mrs. Aronson, looking very hand-
some in black velvet, her arms filled with
flowers, was turning an attentive ear to
pretty and witty speeches from the Con-
sul for Switzerland, Earl Beauchamp,
former Town Clerk Layton and John
Lane Mullins. The whole Cazabon
family came to the mild spree; so did
Don Finley and actors from nearly every
amateur group in Sydney; women
writers rallied round, and Mrs. Wallace
and Mrs. Suttor, who steered the ship ot
good wishes, looked proud and purry.
Singing-teacher Richard McClelland is
feeling justly proud of his pupils. A|
the recent eisteddfod four of his gir
students scored first place. In the grand-
opera competition Ruby Zlotkowski
topped all women competitors ; Edna
McClelland and Bessie Cooke walked off
with the mezzo-soprano and contralto
firsts, while Kathleen Kenna won the
State championship (under 21) tor at.
voices. Finally McClelland’s students
choir came first in the inter-State chora.
championship.
Edith Mary Humphris drops a line
from London to let old Sydney friends
know that she has been given a Civil List
pension of £5O a year in recognition ot
her literary work. Miss Humphris live,
at one time in Sydney with the padre
F W Addams couple, Mrs. Addam
being her aunt. It was Bertram Stevens
who published in the old ‘ Lone Han
some of the writer’s early efforts, among
them an article on Adam Lindsa.
Gordon. .
Three years ago a group of women
friends of the Catholic Seamens Insti-
tute in Kent-street organised al ball to
swell its funds. Last week this Maritime
Ball notched its third yearly success,
drew between four and five hundred
dancers to the Wentworth. There was a
guessing competition, with a trip to tas
mania in the Strathaird as the P™: e ’ a “
Ivy Shakespeare’s gilded curls and wa\es
allied to a violet chiffon frock wer
great success. Lacquered head-dressin
is the newest vogue. Flower ships t
sailed the deep of the official table helped
by suggestion to bring the sound ol ..
sea and the scent of the driving
and one of the secretaries, Mrs. Noon-■
stressed the work of the institute l w
flower-decked poster, “Jack s
Mrs. W. R. O’Connor, the ball s presi
dent, wore black lace, and Mena O Con
nor, who shared the secretarial burden,
was frocked in parchment chiffons.


mi
mi
h
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CARLYON'S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
• one week or more. Complete board from ' 10/6
day. 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. The Manager,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY’S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from . . 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from .. . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information.
wm9
A
WOODS'
GREAT
/
CURE
<K
S*
cP
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s un-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Thirty old Melburnians brought part-
ners to dance in Caulfield Town Hall.
Melbourne Grammar’s flag curtained a
wall at the back of the stage, pink and
mauve spring flowers bloomed on the
dais, and the panelled woodwork of the
attractive ballroom threw into relief the
gay satins and laces and beautifully coif-
fured heads of the dancers. Mrs. A. R.
Stewart chose crinkly crepe for her dawn-
pink gown ; Elizabeth Luxton looked like
a blossom blown from a peach-tree in
her organdie with its frilly shoulders;
Jill Ryan was a slim maid in flamisol
with a touch of green ; Betty Matear was
in lilac. A swirl of frills adorned Beth
Anderson’s black organdie, and Ethel
Bate favored the midnight shade for her
velvet gown. Audrey Fink, Peggy le
Plastrier and Peggy Finkelstein were
among the party’s attractions.
Dancing pumps and high heels trod a
farewell measure on the polished boards
of Wattle Path. This rendezvous for
dancers has now been handed over to
carpenters and electricians, who are con-
verting it into a movie studio for Efftee.
F. W. Thring gave the party his support,
and Lola Thring was there in a glimmer-
ing frock of buttercup satin.
Chicken sandwiches, lobster mayon-
naise, oodles of thick cream and layers of
dainty sweets went into picnic hampers
for the Findon Harriers’ Point-to-Point
at Bournfield Park, Woodstock. Hylda
McCardel on Enid Thompson’s Royal
Blood galloped home with colors flying
in the Ladies’ Foray. Joyce Cameron per-
suaded her Nugget to amble in first in
the Draught Horse Scdrry. Mrs. J. L.
Byrne, wearing beige and brown plaid,
accompanied the Master of the Harriers.
Victorian links have seldom been
trodden by anything as smart as Odette
Lefebvre. She strides along with vigor
borne of confidence in her youth and
skill. The little drummer-boy caps of
the moment are especially suited to her
good looks and flattened bun of dark
hair.
Such galleries there were at the cham-
pionship golf! The crowds were held
at bay by business-like feminine officials
with clubs and other weapons. No one
dared breathe when a champion was
getting ready to tee off. If you had a
tickle in your throat or a sneeze coming
you had to bury your face in the bushes
and smother. Shooting sticks were popu-
lar, but the umbrella people were envied
when the rain came on the wings of
sharp squalls.
In one of her favorite woolly jumpers
with broad diagonal stripes, Oliver Kay
was cheered as the champion woman
golfer of Australasia. The bulky trophy
will not be a tempting spoil for burglars
—it has a bunk to itself on the M.L.
boat. ,
Melbourne sassiety may not have the
privilege of scrambling for the Gaud
Mayoral trifle and fruit salad this year,
Gengoult Smith having practically de-
cided to cut out the annual hop, which
usually occurs in August. Reasons given
are his Worship’s recent illness and lack
of time, but there is a growing disposi-
tion to regard expensive functions as im-
politic these days unless they bring in
funds for charities.
The W. R. Richardsons, of Caulfield,
handed only daughter Dorothy into the
care of Reid Horne at St. Stephen’s, St.
Kilda. The bride’s gown of ivory flat
crepe had a train attachment from the
waist. Quantities of tulle veil fell from
a Grecian headdress to mist over a bou-
quet of japonica and lily-of-the-valley.
Mary Stevens and ’groom’s sister Peggy
were paeans of spring in their leaf-green
garb. Their quaint little capes had
crossed-at-the-back sashes with ends just
whisking the floor. Wreaths of sweet-
peas and violets garlanded their hair.
Margaret, youngest daughter of Mrs.
Bostock and the late James Bostock, of
. Warrnambool, has accepted the heart
and hand of Harvey Kelly, who hails
from Perth.
Bells will peal at the end of the
month for Kathleen Currie and Dr. Alan
Mackay. Another September bride is
Lorna Dureau. Her husband-to-be is
Jack Goulding, and her bouquet is
ordered for the 28th.
Laryngitis had John Brownlee in its
grip, so he had to disappoint the well-
filled Town Hall for Alan Eddy’s con-
cert. Paulyne Bindley—in cowslip-yellow
with a twinkly girdle—used her lilting
soprano in excerpts from “Norma.”
Raymond Lambert and Marjorie Prock-
ter, the latter in cream with pink velvet
bows, assisted with piano and fiddle.
At Buckley’s hats were shown to
the accompaniment of Mendelssohn’s
“Spring Song” and other seasonable
ditties. There were beehive hats, pan-
cake hats and some hats that looked
like meringues gone wrong. If you wear
the largest-brimmed specimens you
should have an apartment to match,
modelled on .those of the movie stars,
who seem to do most of their acting in
rooms as big as aerodromes.
Prof, and Mrs. Whitfield (he is Vice-
Chancellor of Westralia’s Uni.) were in
Melbourne for .a powwow with vice-
chancellors from the seats of learning in
other States. After a few days in Syd-
ney they travel Perthwards, with a break
in Adelaide as the guests of the Moulden
lady.
With a hot wind churning the streets
into maelstroms of grit and flying papers,
members of the Women Citizens’ Move-
ment found snug refpge up above the
Block Arcade. Luncheon was spread
among Iceland poppies and boronia.
President Mrs. Britomarte James did the
introducing and made everyone feel at
home. H. H. Olney, the only man
present, spoke cheerfully upon “The Gen-
eral Outlook.” Fluent orator Dr. Ethel
Osborne offered a vote of thanks which
was seconded by Mrs. Lavers.
Melbourne is mourning the passing of
Mrs. Wall, better known by her stage-
name of Beatrice Day. Here is the actress
as she looked in the Efftee studio only
three days before she was stricken by her
sudden and brief illness. Theatregoers of
three generations have acknowledged her
charm. Recently she had been asso-
ciated with Gregan McMahon, in whose
school she did wonders with young and
inexperienced mummers. Back in the
dawn of the century she was touring
South Africa with the Herbert Flemming
co., and helped to cheer the folk of
beleaguered Mafeking. A son mourns
her in Westralia.
Mrs. W. S. Ham, of The Wattle, died
suddenly last week. If this city creeps
into the chatter of travellers in other
parts of the globe, one of them
always says, “Melbourne is where you
go to tea at The Wattle —that lovely
place, all soft lights and golden flowers.”
But The Wattle has not always been so
big and beautiful. Mrs. Ham started her
venture 21 years ago, and The Wattle of
to-day is the fruit of her artistry and
clever business head. She was a daughter
of John Cochrane Smith, of Ballarat.
One hundred and forty stolen canaries
lifted up their voices recently at Preston
police station. The Government sleuths
had nosed out the lair of their captors.
But the police had to cope with over
200 bereaved canary-owners, so many
were sent empty away.
Judging from early displays of summer
dresses there is to be a return to the pet-
ticoat of years ago, with its wealth of
lace-trimmed frills. This seems a neces-
sity with the introduction of very wide
skirts and the muslins, chiffons and
ninons which are now being made in
a stiffened form. Among the dress
etceteras also are detachable sets of
collars, cuffs and fronts, not only in filmy
materials and lace, but in plain and
figured silks and satins. All these extras
must be spotless, and to keep them so
should mean plenty of work for the
laundries and dry-cleaners.
“The Brooks of Morning” will make its
appearance upon the bookstalls this
week. Here’s a Broothorn portrait of
Mrs. Elaine Whittle, who compiled the
book from the literary sketches of her
father, Donald Macdonald. The lady
served a journalistic apprenticeship;
when, after nearly five years’ study of
medicine, she had to relinquish that am-
bition she turned her hand to writing
dramatic criticisms and humorous
sketches. She has also had jobs as steno-
grapher, ad.-writer and teacher. Mrs.
Whittle loves her garden and, like her
father, has an affection for all the wild
things of nature.
The latest developmental project is a
floating dance palais, to be moored on
the broad and mellifluous bosom of the
Yarra. The peripatetic ark will be towed
to and fro between Prince’s Bridge and
Dwight’s Falls, above which navigation
is impossible. The only trouble about
these aquatic enterprises is that as soon
as patronage falls off the seagoing effi-
ciency of the craft is apt to be neglected.
It acquires barnacles and becomes the
home of the borer. Then one night it
gently sinks into the mud, carrying the
bandstand and the jazz decorations with
it, and there is woe in the land, and the
salvage operations become a problem.
Something of the sort once occurred in
the mighty Torrens, in Adelaide.
A pupil at a Melbourne grammar
school has solved the pocket-money
problem. He has no roof to his mouth,
and by charging a penny a look he
manages to rake in a regular income,
without sales, entertainments, or unem-
ployed-relief tax. The interest of fellow-
students in his idiosyncrasy is unbounded,
and he maintains the atmosphere of
mystery by resolutely keeping his mouth
shut on all ordinary occasions. . His
worst commercial handicap is a bigger
boy who breaks the rules by trying to
open the doors, so to speak, with a
glove-stretcher, and giving free entrance
to non-payers.
Some Adelaide happenings:
The Uni. refectory was crowded for the
Dance Club’s jollo. The joint presidents, Dr.
and Mrs. Rex Matters, gave a dinner party
to committee members at their house before the
dance. Mrs. Matters wore a modish toilette
of black crinkled crepe with lace sleeves.
Lady Hore-Ruthven, accompanied by Rose-
mary Fleischmann, was present at the basket-
ball match between Vic. and S.A. Later her
Ex. visited the daffodil and sweet-pea show at
the Freemasons’ Hall.
His Ex., accompanied by Rosemary Fleisch-
mann, was present at the first performance of
“Personal Effects,” a war play by Lieut.-
Col. G. D. Shaw, performed by clever ama-
teurs, and produced by Frank Part. John
Duncan was well cast as the comedian of the
show.
The marriage of Miriam, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. R. W. Ralph, of Eastwood, to C. J.
O’Connor, of East Malvern (Vic.), took place
at St. John’s. Only relatives were present. The
bridegroom’s sister came to Adelaide for the
ceremony.
Henry Barwell and his lady, with daughter
Mary, leave by the Moreton Bay on September
18 for England, where they will reside. The
last week of their stay in Adelaide will be
spent at Buckland Park with Mr. and Mrs.
E. A. Brooks.
Perth’s social affairs:
The Anzac House Ball, in Government House,
had the record crowd for the dancing season,
and the loge set aside for official guests was
overflowing. Archdeacon Riley and a Wedg-
wood-brocaded Mrs. Riley guided the v.-r.
party. Mrs. Arthur Jacoby’s black ninons and
beige lace were steered adroitly through the
crush; Mrs. C. P. Smith’s ice-blue laces were
glimpsed in the throng; Colonel Olden’s better
half had a spray of crimson roses on the
shoulder of her black georgettes; an orchid-
satin bow adorned Mrs. Geoffrey Mclntyre's
cyclamen silk crepe; Marie Freedman’s snowy
confection was a glittering combination of
satin, chiffon and diamente; Vi Blythe’s black
georgettes were held in place by lashings of
rhinestones; Poppy Bowers trailed a grey-and-
black feather boa over her softly draped oyster
satin; Bonny Spencer clasped diamente at the
throat of her apple-green ninons.
A vast collection of roses adorned the dining-
room of the Embassy when a dance was held
there to swell the coffers of the S.P.C.A. The
rapid succession of ballets, adagios and ball-
room dances culminated in a scena by beasts
who leapt from the Noah’s Ark which formed
the stage setting. Mrs. A. E. Macgregor, in
black floral satin, judged costumes with Mrs.
J. Breydon, who was garbed in black chiffon
velvet. Mrs. Carcary sprinkled diamente over
her petunia satin; Mrs. Kitching’s laces were
cloud-grey; Grace Stapledon glided in dawn-
pink satin marocain; Ailsa Carcary’s green
tulle merged from gold lace; Phyllis Simpson's
ensemble was carried out in ivory satin; parch-
ment Mechlin lace covered Dorothy Sales’s pink
foundations, Kitty Boyd’s reseda-green organdie
billowed airily, and Norrie John’s floral taffetas
were shot with gold.
The Mitchell lady’s Atlantic-blue silk crepe
toned with her hyacinth and love-in-the-mist
bouquet when she thanked members of the
Karrakatta Club for their reception in her
honor. President Mrs. S. J. Anderson, smartly
tailored in magpie stripes with matching head-
piece, greeted guests with vice-president Mrs.
Keenan, whose ensemble was of navy blue
cloth. Helen Vincent, Edna Curtis and Joyce
Mortlock made music.
Milly Lightly celebrated her return from
Europe by announcing her engagement to Jo
Monaghan, eldest son of the Brunswick Junc-
tion clan. Another engagement, with wedding
to follow in a few weeks, is that of dark-eyed
Phyllis Kiver, librarian of the Booklovers’, who
will exchange vows with David Dvoretsky, of
Cottesloe.
The stained-glass windows of Perth College
chapel threw rainbow hues on Nancy Uren’s
cream chiffon velvet as she knelt to have her
finger ringed by Douglas Baker. A silver girdle
clasped her waist, and on her arm was a sheaf
of scarlet flowers, harmonising with Mary
Barnett’s ’maid frock of vivid satin. Toasts
were honored at the college studio.
Angel-skin lace flanked by bunchy crimson
velvet sleeves swathed Mrs. Henry Moseley
when she stood by her magistrate husband to
greet friends of their son Doyle. Niece
Dorothy Moseley defied convention by making
her debut in green floral organdie set about with
pink frills and wide shelf sleeves.
Hobart continues to bask in vice-regal
smiles:
His Ex. and Lady Clark attended St. Virgil’s
Ball at the City Hall, the lady’s dignified figure
looking well in black lacquered satin, set off by
diamonds. Decorations were in green, gold and
blue. The v.-r. party was received by Arch-
bishop Hayden and the principal of the college,
Bro. Garvey. Fourteen debs, were presented by
Mrs. Leo Doyle.
The golf club dance at the King Meadows
clubhouse was one of the jolliest of the season.
Pink shaded lights and pink blossoms decorated.
The organising committee was headed by Mrs.
D. Hollis.
The staff of Andrew Mather and Co. ran a
very successful dance at the Continental in aid
of the Free Kindergarten. Supper tables, were
titivated with sprays of peach blossom and
wide pink ribbons. President Ella Giblin was
in pale beige lace. *
Latrobe had a very swanky ball in aid of its
show funds. Mrs. G. H. Parsons, of Thirlstane,
and a hard-working committee were responsible
for the shivoo, which was in the Moriarty Hall.
The Queen Mary Club polished the best
teacups and dusted the chairs for a tea-party in
honor of Lady Clark. Mrs. W. Wolfhagen,
president of the club, introduced members to
the chief guests, and tea was served in the
lounge, which was fragrant with spring flowers.
News comes from the Cold Country anent
Gunda von Dechend, whose mother was Maggie
Curran, one of Hobart’s earlier belles. She is
studying dramatic art and has attracted the
notice of Sybil Thorndike and her husband,
who have given her a small part in a forth-
coming production. Mrs. Von Dechend has
taken a small flat in London to make a home
for her daughter during her years of study.
Phillis, younger daughter of the A. J. Coxes,
Hobart, and K. W. Nicolson, of Geelong,
announce their engagement. Both are shining
lights in the Hobart Repertory Society.


h
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous of their past > jealous of
their present/ jealous of their
future•/ they etch the ' name
STUART on every piece ol the
crystal they lashion so lovingly/
so that it is known and admired
wherever beautiful glass is sold.
And because their skill is heredi=
tary/ handed down from father
to son for many generations/ you
can still pay as little as a few
shillings lor a genuine example.
m
v ?
5T
I
<#»*r7
«!
iLJ&ramrtfk,
W%mm m : m
m
m
m
a
r>-
*%■
M
9C
#
3*
-jfteagf^Bjffip 1 ” 1 '' -
«i|
w
Be sure to look for the registered name “Stuart” on every piece you buy.
\ uVf
raSSh
Sg3*L^
PLENTY
of
WATER
DURING SUMMER MONTHS
with
“Macson”
Double-Acting
Piston Pumps
The “Macson”
has become
very popular
where pumps
are required to
give a large
flow of water
at considerable
pressure.
M
s^jP
“Macson” Pumps are used in Factories, on Farms and Stations with
great success. They are strongly built at our own Works and have
several features which are distinct improvements on other makes
of similar pumps. „ „ „ . _ . ,
Made in five sizes: for 1h 1 2, 2\ and 3 inch piping, giving
outputs ranging from 400 to 3500 gallons per hour.
Full particulars will be sent on request.
lersons,
ppopridatu limited
able Goods Since iB6O.
51 Bathurst Street - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins Street - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street - ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Chevrofprd”: America's latest sen-
sible device is a motor-car drive-in
cinema theatre. Car-owners simply drive
into the auditorium and watch Ronny
Colman making love without getting out
of their vehicles. The theatre covers
250,000 square feet, and can accommo-
date 400 cars. The ushers scoot about
on push-bikes. Approval of a film is,
of course, expressed by a deafening fan-
fare on the horn or klaxon.
* * * *
“Spring”: A celebration which should
endear itself to the hearts of all Hielan’-
men is taking place in Skye in the Heb-
rides. This is the unveiling of a mem-
orial to the McCrimmons of Boeraig, for
three centuries hereditary pipers to the
MacLeods of MacLeod, and a family
combining the abilities of all the Beet-
hovens, Wagners, Mozarts, Liszts, Rubin-
steins, Paderewskis and other composers
and executants —in a strictly bagpipe
sense. It takes seven generations to make
a piper, and the McCpmmons have been
at it for much longer than that, the re-
mote seclusion of their birthplace pro-
bably giving them every opportunity of
practising in safety.
* * $
“The Antiquary”: Outside of Spain,
where it was introduced from South
America, the cigar’s pioneer (B. 30/8/’33)
in Europe was Hans Heinz Schlottmann,
who opened the first factory in Ham-
burg in 1788. The public scorned the
local product, so the ingenious Hans
sent his cigars on a six hours’ voyage
to Cuxhaven and brought them back
as “genuine imported.” That settled it,
and the factory could hardly cope with
the demand. Incidentally, the popularity
of the cigar in Britain was responsible
for (he first smoking-room at the House
of Commons, a special room being set
apart toward the end of the 1820’s.
* * * *
Brigadier-General Percy Fitzgerald,
who died in London the other day, was
an Australian ; a son of Nick Fitzgerald,
notable in his day as Speaker of the
Victorian Assembly. Educated in Eng-
land, he went into the 11th Hussars
and served in the South African War,
being besieged in Ladysmith. In the big
argument with Fritz and his friends he
went to Egypt after service in France,
and will be recalled by many Austra-
lians as head of the school for senior
cavalry officers which was set up at
Zeitoun, near Cairo, after Romani. He
was in Australia for a brief visit early
this year, and his sudden death was quite
unexpected, for he was a fine specimen
of manhood, and only 58.
* * * *
Old Queensland hands, and especially
those of the South-West, will hear with
regret of the death in Jersey, at 88, of
Ebb Smith, for many years part-owner
of Weribone and Talavera stations, be-
tween Surat and St. George, and a pro-
minent figure in the Rabbit Board
administration of that part of the world.
“Ebb,” as all hands and the cook knew
him, had many interests in life apart
from the pastoral, and neglected none of
them, while his charm and personality
made him welcome in a wide circle of
acquaintance. On his retirement some
years ago, he settled in the Channel
Islands.
* * *
A stout old warrior is Captain W. J.
Newby, who recently celebrated his cen-
tenary in Auckland. He came to Maori-
land in 1864 and took an active part in
the Maori war of that year. He had
helped to make history before that, for
he was a member of the English Legion
of 1000 picked men who went to Italy
in 1859 to join Garibaldi in the war
which ended in the establishment of a
united Italy, and he is believed to be the
last’ survivor of that famous force.
Among the congratulations received on
his 100th birthday was one from Musso-
lini.
$ * * *■
“El V.”: We Australians have a lot
to learn about convenient food. The
best our bushmen have invented so far
seems to be damper, but Johnny Turk
can show us a point on that. He makes
a flexible bread that he can roll his
cheese in, just as you wrap up tobacco in
a pouch. And look at John Chinaman’s
patent lunch in the suburbs of Canton —
fishes’ eyes, the most flexible dinner in
the world! You get the wife to thread
them on a string—-it takes a long time
and keeps her out of mischief. Then you
wind them round your neck, so that
they can’t get lost or sat on in the tram-
car. When it comes to eating them, you
run them through your mouth sideways,
and in the end you still have the string.
It’s a great idea—no bones, no waste, no
worry. But it takes a lot of fish to pro-
vide a breakfast for a strong man.
* * * *
•‘Mirza Ali”: “Seljuk” on Turkish
motor-license regulations (B. 6/9/’33)
reminds me of the time I was tested by
the Persians. Two lads in shakos did it
in Kermanshah. We started early. The
leader said: “Drive through the bar-
rier!” I did. He said: “Drive on.” I
did —for 67 miles despite all protests.
Then we arrived at a village. Entering
a house, my friend appeared with two
grandfathers, five veiled ladies, a father
and some assorted youngsters. He
proceeded to pack them into the car.
I demurred. In effect, he said: “No pas-
sengers, no license!” We drove 20 miles
amid joyous screams. It was Persia’s
way of getting a joy-ride for the family.
On the way home the tester showed -his
knowledge by asking me solemnly:
“How does she go—where does the steam
go out?” When we reached Kerman-
shah, he remarked to an admiring audi-
ence: “I am not satisfied. Come back
to-morrow —we have another ride.” But
I didn’t —1 packed up and left, because
I was afraid that my motor-policeman
might be keeping up two homes. And
though I spent quite a long time in
Persia I never had a license. I could
only have got a second-class one any-
how, because first-class licenses are re-
served for Persians.
* * * *
“Carabineer”: May I correct “Guar-
dee,” who states (B. 2/8/’33) that “the
Cherubims” (11th Hussars)-haven’t given
up their horses. This regiment, after
being successively dragoons, light
dragoons and, finally, hussars, said
good-bye to their chargers in 1930 and
became an armored-car unit. Their
last horse-mounted parade was an im-
posing ceremony, featured prominently
in the London illustrated papers at the
time. Another crack cavalry corps, the
12th Lancers, has also been entirely
mechanised on the same lines.
* * * *
“Bourricot”: One of those inspired
people who are continually inquiring into
the beginnings of everything has dis-
covered the origin of the word “love as
used in lawn tennis. He says the word is
a corruption of “ loeuf an egg, that
being the term used by markers m Royal
tennis when chalking up the figure 0 to
signify no score. As cricket had its duck s
egg before lawn tennis was invented, the
derivation is probably the correct one.
* * * *
Tbe j atest a j d f or tbe ama teur cocktail
brewer j s a tray which not only supports
s t ia k erj bottles and glasses, but supplies a
variety of recipes. You turn a button
to a number associated with the cocktail
requ ired, and a list giving ingredients,
a p d quantities of the ingredients, appears
a j t b g gpd of the tray,
* * * *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: A shipping
ce p^ enar y which passed unnoted last
mondl was th e tragic wreck of the con-
v j ct transport Amphitrite off Boulogne
Harbor on August 30, 1833. Bound for
Sydney, she w a s carrying 106 female con-
v j c j s j 2 children, the surgeon’s wife and
a Cfew of ]8 The transport ran aground
j n f be a ft e rnoon, three-quarters of a mile
from shore> and the frantic convicts
broke the battened-down hatches
and fought their way on deck. In half
an hour a French pilot boat arrived, but
j be Amphitrite’s skipper refused assist-
ance jj- soon became clear to those on
g b Q re however, that the vessel could
no £ j on g withstand the pounding, and a
sailor swam out to the doomed
yessel A line was tbrown to him, but
the skipper issued orders that it should
not be paid out> h j s sense G f duty re-
straining him from permitting the con-
victs to be landed. The result was that
ever y convict aboard was drowned and
on jy three members of the crew suc-
ceeded jn reachin g shor e, one dying be-
n : n „
' t *
‘ * ; . „ „ oxll
Bodyline bowling has taken on a new
phase. By way ot pleasing b ,
Columbia Gramophone
issued a double record by b. ■
Foster and Larwood. Foster, a a .
amateur left-hand exponent o leg-t e .
when here with Warner in 191_, damns
th e modern last bowlers version. n
the other side, Harold Larwood declares
it to be the most sporting and delightful
practice in cricket.


The Holiday.
BY E. DITHMACK.
EMILY slipped out to the back of the
house while Jack drove the car
round to the front. She wanted to
look for the last time on the things
which had been part of her life for forty
years.
Her eyes rested lingeringly on the
brigalow-covered slope, on each familiar
object. Even the old camp-oven, which
had been discarded in a corner of the
outside fireplace for four and twenty
years, came in for attention.
No one, not even Jack, would ever
know what it was costing her to leave
this place. Once they were on the road
there would be no sign of the creek or
the grove of lemon-trees where, year after
year, the double-bars had nested.
There was the tree where forty genera-
tions of hens had roosted ; there the
old dray that had brought her, a bride,
to the slab house Jack had built.
Across the creek the cultivation lay.
It was now asway with vivid green of
lucerne, but Emily remembered how it
had looked when first she came. She
had only to turn back her mind to see
it all again—dense virgin forest marching
down those slopes to the house. She
had seen every acre of it cleared and
cultivated by the toil of her man.
She had thrilled to the first green
shoots, to their first crop of oats ; and
she had helped Jack to cut and bag his
first lot of chaff. Later, with prosperity,
he had installed up-to-date machinery,
and those days were gone.
She had revelled in the battle against
Nature —always revelled in it. Far back
they had driven the scrub, until now it
was halted on the mountain slope, the
tall trees standing dim and sombre
against the line of green crops.
Round, round her gaze swept in a
leave-taking. It seemed that her heart
had been left behind when at last she
turned and stumblingly made her way
out to the car.
“Ah, here you are, mother! I was just
coming to look for you.”
Jack was taking her handbag and
coat, helping her into the car, and talk-
ing all the time to distract her mind.
Nancy and Will would be over pre-
sently. Already they had planned to
pull the old house down and build a
modern one. Emily thought fearfully of
the passion vines clinging to the veran-
dah-posts—she hoped they would deal
tenderly with them.
Jack started up the car and they were
off at last. Emily insisted on getting
down to close the boundary gates ; then,
through a blur of sudden hot tears, she
turned to look back on the deserted
house, harborage of her life for so many
years. The afternoon sun lit up the win-
dows, throwing a light as though the soul
of the place remained.
Now they were driving on again—
down the old road she knew so well.
Everything sure and familiar slipping
away.... away.
“It beats me,” Jack said at last, “that
Bill Heyser doesn’t put up a windmill.”
“You’d think he would,” Emily agreed
in a muffled voice, staring blindly ahead.
“Ridiculous a bloke like that not hav-
ing enough water laid on,” Jack con-
tinued, puffing at his pipe. “I don’t know
how he manages.”
All the farms they passed had sprung
up about the same time as their own,
built by their generation. Now most
of them were owned by the sons of the
founders, or by newcomers who had
bought them. Into all the homes Emily
had been in the olden days—on a neigh-
borly visit, or when children had come
into the world. There had been other
visits, too, when she had seen the same
children married.
Now they were passing the little railway
station where Emily had so often waited
for the train. How she had loved to
sit at home on the verandah in the
gloaming and wait for its whistle as
it came round the bend.! On still, cold
nights, too, when every little sound had
carried. Then, far down the line, she
could see its red eye as it rushed through
the night, past the house, leaving her
tiny world silent and remote once more.
As she remembered she seemed to feel
the tang of winter in the air. Those crisp,
cold nights, when the stars would shine
down frostily and home would seem
so cosily beautiful! She had always
loved her humble home; would have
been content to end her days there, giv-
ing her bones back to the earth that
had nurtured them. But not so Jack.
This holiday was something he had
dreamed of for many years—a far-off
goal that he had striven desperately to
reach.
“Tired, mother?” he asked, noting her
silence.
“No, Jack, only Must we stay at
a hotel to-night?”
Even after so many years together
she could not bring herself to tell him
of her chief dread. To go into a big
room amongst staring strangers ; to have
to composedly order food from a card
and give back the same self-possessed
stares —no, she couldn’t. She’d bungle
somewhere —perhaps keep her hat or
gloves on, or spill her tea. When one
wasn’t used to outside ways it wasn’t
easy. It was so many years now since
she’d gone beyond the simple life of the
bush -one soon lost one’s composure.
If only t Jack would understand! Just
take her‘to the seaside camping, or
something like that.
“Must we?” she asked again, as Jack
remained thoughtful.
“Not if you don’t want to, mother.
What did you have in mind?”
“I thought perhaps we could put the
fly over the car and sleep in there. It
—it would be more like a holiday,” she
added apologetically.
“Yes, perhaps it would,” he agreed.
So they boiled the billy beside a deep
cool creek and ate the food Emily had
packed. Then night came over the land
very gradually and gently, so that Jack
had made up comfortable beds on the
grass with the car seats and cushions
before it was too dark to see.
They lay together and looked up at
the stars.
“Aren’t they a long way off?” Emily
said, drawing a little closer to Jack.
He stretched out his arm and drew
her into its crook. For forty years now
he had been doing that, and he still felt
a protective tenderness towards her.
“It won’t be long before we’re up
there, too, old girl. Best make the most
of the little while we have left.”
He began to stroke her head with
his other hand, guessing something of her
desolation.
“You know, mother,” he said gently,
“the house is given over to Will and we
can’t go back.”
“Yes, I understand.”
“And we have a heap of money to
spend on our two selves.”
“And I wish we hadn’t!”
“We’ve wanted this holiday for years.
We’re too old to work.”
“But it was our first home, dear, and
all the children were born there.”
“Well, it’s no use fretting now,
mother. You just go off to sleep, and
to-morrow we’ll put a hundred miles
between us and the old place. Perhaps,
later on, if we get tired of doing no-
thing, we’ll buy it back.”
He gave her a comfortable pat, ad-
justed his pillow, and rolled over to sleep.
But Emily couldn’t sleep. The little
stars twinkled down coldly ; across the
quiet night she heard the dear familiar
sounds she might never hear again.
Little earthy night noises; a squirrel
running up a tree ; an owl’s monotonous
hoot back among the ridges. Somewhere,
not far off, a horse cropped the young
grass.
To-morrow night there would be clang
and clatter of traffic ; strange feet pass-
ing up and down corridors; voices
keeping her awake ; the sense of being
uprooted.
Her mind clung to the old home. Only
twenty miles away, yet, after to-night,
gone for ever.
For ever? No ; she could not leave it!
Nan and Will wouldn’t mind having
her there. If she could find her way
back, Jack could go for his holiday
alone. She would muster up courage
to tell him then what she couldn’t voice
before.
He would understand after a while.
He was that sort of man.
She tugged gently at her coat and slid
from under the fly.
Everything was silent. In the light
of an early moon the long road gleamed
silverly.
She did not stop to think of the miles
she must walk before dawn should find
her at home. All she could think ? of
was her desire to escape before the mor-
row took her to a new life.
The road wound in and out among
trees ; passed through gullies and up their
banks; ran for miles beside the rail-
way-line, then branched off again. Occa-
sionally she passed scattered farmhouses ;
heard the distant barking of dogs and
the tinkle of cowbells. Then silence
again, when only her plodding feet
seemed to make sound.
She knew no bodily weariness. If
only she could get home before the
dawn! Once Jack realised how urgently
she needed its shelter, he would let her
be.
For hours she travelled at the same
plodding pace. Her feet were getting
sore from the stones she kicked so fre-
quently ; her breath beginning to labor
when she breasted a rise. Everything
looked the same in that murky light—
all the trees and every sleeping home.
Every watchful dog seemed to have the
same sharp bark.
There was the railway line again—the
rails gleaming in the pale moonlight. It
was a night like this when she had run
with little Nellie in her arms to catch
the train, and the guard had pulled up,
miles from the station, at her frantic
waving. The child had been dead when
they reached the town ; and again it was
night when she returned. All the other
children had been at the little station
to meet her, asking eagerly for their
baby sister ; but she had only been able
to point mutely to the empty shawl
dangling from her arm and accompany
them blindly along the road.
Night journeys to neighboring farms
to bring children into the world ; night
journeys to happy evenings and many
a wedding feast.
She had tramped the road home alone
when Joe had gone to the war. She had
tramped it distraught when news of his
death had come.
The moon was going down now be-
hind the big trees. Only when she came
to a cleared patch could she see its
orange face. But the stars still twinkled
fussily as though they would never wane.
She had always loved the stars —they
seemed so bravely cheerful.
She sat on a log beside the road to
rest her shaking legs. A long walk for
a woman of sixty-five. It wasn’t that
she minded, only that everything was
still so unfamiliar. And those hills!
Would there never be an end to those
steep banks that sent her heart pounding
so violently! Wasn’t there one soft grassy
patch where the stones would not bruise
her feet?
She wondered whether Jack still slept.
Before long it would be day and all the
birds awake. Then Jack would roll
over, put out his arm and say “Well, old
girl; time to light the fire, I suppose.”
Time for her to be getting on, too!
It wouldn’t do for Jack to miss her when
he got back home.
She passed a horseman pounding along
the road and returned his surprised
greeting. Someone hurrying for a doc-
tor, or going home from a dance.
Her steps were lagging now. She felt
cold, and pulled her coat closer around
her. She kicked up little spurts of dust
which drifted slowly to the grass on
the roadside. After another mile she
was forced to sit down again. She
tried but failed to shake off the exhaus-
tion which comes after a supreme effort.
She began to think of Jack. After
all, what a dreadful thing she had done!
Suppose he should wake in the night
and find her gone. What a beginning to
his holiday!
Emily began to cast back in her mind
to the time he had first begun to talk
of it. So long ago that she had for-
gotten. Always they seemed to be sav-
ing for a holiday—always it was the dis-
tant gleam in Jack’s life, spurring him
on to fresh endeavors when disappoint-
ments arose and the long road seemed
grey to the end.
There was that first time, years and
years ago, when the goal had seemed to
be in sight. The children big enough
to be left alone, the work well in hand,
the nest-egg in the bank. Then sudden
sickness and disaster, and the holiday
postponed.
Again the gleam had beckoned and
the way seemed right. It had been a
prosperous year; the rains had come
and the men had been kept busy mow-
ing, raking and carting in the hay.
Jack’s long-cherished dream had come
true —the day when he would see his
hayshed full to overflowing and know
that a dry time was provided for.
Emily would never forget waking in
the night to see the long flames licking
the golden hay; never forget Jack’s
ashen face in the gleaming light as he
stood and watched the work of years
demolished. No useless repining, just
that set, hard look, as though he were
watching the best of his life being eaten
away. Then, “That’s the end of our
holiday, mother,” and years of hay-mak-
ing to fill the barn again.
One adversity after another, until now,
with hope fulfilled and his ambition real-
ised, she would still cheat him of his
just reward.
Cheat him? Her husband? Joe’s
father? No!
She rose to her feet and wearily began
the long walk back.
She would not let herself think how
tired she was; how the rough stones cut
her feet. It was her Calvary, the road of
renunciation, the road back to where
they would still share the trials and joys
of remaining life together.
Dawn stirred. Already the stars were
beginning to pale; the birds to rustle
and twitter frgm shrub and tree. The
moon had gone—a pale, ineffectual mon-
arch, receding before the majesty of day.
Emily knew that she could never get
back in time now. Age had beaten her,
and she would not be there to save that
grey, stricken look coming into Jack’s
face —to let him think she anticipated
the holiday as much as he.
She heard the throbbing of a car, the
grinding of gears as it crossed a creek.
Hope flamed to life.
The powerful lights lit up the road
around and beyond her, showing plainly
the dusty figure drooping in its rays.
“My God!” The driver jambed on
the brakes and sprang to the road as she
tottered towards him.
“Anything wrong?” he asked kindly.
She shook her head, a little bewild-
ered. “I —I was going home, but 1 think
perhaps, if you’ll take me, I’d better go
back.”
“Certainly. Ts it far?”
“It seemed a long way. We camped
beside a creek.”
“Would you know the place again?”
he asked a little worriedly.
“Oh yes, and the fly’s over the car.
Jack will be still asleep.”
The miles she had travelled so pain-
fully were quickly covered by the car.
She did not explain her wanderings, and
he did not ask her to explain.
He pulled up a little distance from the
tent, with the playful admonition that
she was not to go walking in her sleep
again.
She crept under the fly and listened
for a moment to Jack’s deep breathing.
Then thankfully she stretched her tired
limbs and snuggled up to his warmth.
Dawn rode the chariot of the sky.
From a near-by tree the first bird chorus
trilled. The youthful flush of a new day
mantled the hills.
Jack rolled over and opened his eyes.
“Time to get up yet, mother,” he
asked, “or shall we sleep in for a while?”
“Just for a little while, Jack,” she
pleaded. “I feel so very tired.”
The Three Stone Faces.
There are flowers on the glittering altar,
And music adrift; and yet,
I am drawn to the three stone faces
At the base of the arches set.
One is the face of a zealot
Who worshipped a vengeful God;
Who trampled the weak, unheeding
Who stood where his footsteps trod.
And one is the face of a purist
Who revelled in petty strife;
Who looked upon joy and laughter
And love as the sins of life.
And between is the face of a woman;
And the watcher, with vision, sees
That she suffered, as women ever
Have suffered, because of these,
I think that the worker fashioned
A thing that he never planned;
For the soul of the long-dead woman
Stood near and guided his hand.
The face has the pain of all women
Who suffered through countless years;
And the deep-veiled eyes are heavy,
And tired beyond all tears.
She looks o’er the cross uplifted,
And the reverent heads low-bowed,
The gleam of the golden censers,
And the drift of the incense cloud,
Smiling as though she had fathomed
All wisdom of earth too late;
And the white lips question dumbly
If wisdom can compensate.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
The Wolf-wind of Spring.
He follows the rain,
The grey wolf-wind with the restless eyes;
And here again
He left a flurry of green where the beaded
grass .
Slipped free from the heavy drops as they felt
him pass.
The green of his trail
Is plain to see. In the undergrowth
He starts the quail,
And shakes the blue-grey gum on the shadowed
hill,
His eyes on the wrack of rain that he follows
still.
If he thrust ahead,
Outran this raider of leaf and lane,
He would reach, instead,
The shadow-edge of the storm; to his vast
surprise
Would find, beyond, the sun in his dazzled eyes.
But he follows the rain,
The grey wolf-wind, for his restless mood
Has come again,
The strange, strong urge that he feels may be
satisfied
Away in the mist of some soaking mountain-
side.
The golden dust
And warmth of summer has wakened all
His wanderlust. .
With eyes on the clouds, the drips on his wild
wet flanks,
He slakes his thirst in the rain on the bends
and banks.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


Old At
Vitality comes this
simple way
TIRED-OUT with constant pain ! Back
breaking-, limbs like pieces of lead, head-
ache, tragic daily torture making you look
so old—wouldn’t it be glorious to end this
misery and throw away the age-giving
mask of pain ?
The cause of your trouble is told in two words—
Kidney Trouble. The kidneys are failing to purify
the blood. Poisons are accumulating which cause
dreadful pain and suffering.
You will never regain health, youthful vigour
and vitality until you have prompted the kidneys to
healthy action. The best and quickest means to this
end is a short course with De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. They make you feel so gloriously fit,
feeling, looking years younger.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
Take two at night, then one before meals. In
24 hours you will see they are doing you good.
Persevere and your troubles will end. Invaluable in
all cases of Rheumatism, Joint Pains, Chronic Back-
ache, Urinary Trouble, Sciatica, Kidney and Uric Acid Troubles. They can be
taken by the very young-, the weakest, the oldest and women at all times, with
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation that will
do you good from the very first dose.
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lies within the system, through
faulty kidney action.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers which enables
us to state that if you will commence a course with this simple, straight-forward
remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be
ended for good.
It does not matter how long you have suffered or what disappointments you
may have had in the past—get a supply of this tried and trusted, 45-year-old
remedy to-day and start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your nervous system
and building once again the real foundations of health.
Why wait to get too-old looking ?—why wait for total health breakdown ?
when De Witt’s Pills can so surely and certainly banish the poisons, such as uric
acid, in your system, which are the cause of your pain. You cannot have De Witt’s
Pills and illness—which will you have?
Years Roll Back
THIS REMEDY CAN, WILL
AND MUST BRING HEALTH
AND HAPPINESS!
We wish we could show you the thousands of
letters from grateful sufferers that tell you how
simple, inexpensive and how sure are the results
achieved by* De Witt’s Pills. Many bed-ridden,
thousands suffering “untold agonies,” have enjoyed
a new lease of life and happiness, thanks to this
remedy.
If you persevere with this tried and trusted
remedy, you will find your old, tired, “worn-out
feeling replaced by new vigour and vitality. Your
day’s work will be a pleasure and your spare-time
pleasures doubled. No more sallow, spotty com-
plexion, no more sleepless nights, no more stabs in
the back, no more rheumatic pains, bad back,
bladder troubles.
Remember the name. See it printed on each
package. With complete confidence we state there
is no remedy that will so quickly, so surely rebuild
your health and strength. Surely you do not want
to stay in pain and weakness when there are thou-
sands of now happy men and women to tell you how
splendidly De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have
given them new vitality, new health, new hope of
happiness. Make up your mind now. Say “ I will
get back my youthful strength and vigour. I will banish the pain that cripples me,
making my life a constant misery.” Do it now. Go to your chemist right away.
He knows all about this remedy and can tell you how good it really is.
See that you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the special
white, blue and gold box. Beware of imitations. Most certainly there is nothing
just as good.
De WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder Pills
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE
Invaluable in all cases of
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA
The Balanced Diet.
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
MRS. CALVERT was thinking that
her garden had a most objection-
able air. Thoroughly smug and
self-satisfied —two nauseating qualities,
whether in gardens or in human be-
ings Nothing had ever earned the
right to look so righteous as this fatuous,
complacent garden basking in the after-
noon sunshine. It seemed to be priding
itself on its similarity to all the other
gardens in the street, to all the other gar-
dens in all the other suburbs. As if that
was anything!
Roses—grass —■ phlox —grass—asphalt
-r-roses —grass.... Bosh!
Mrs. Calvert turned her slim upright
back on this disgusting scene and went
on with her book. Sows’ ears being
fashionable, nobody ever even had a shot
at making silk purses out of them....
Though why a silk purse should be an
improvement on a sow’s ear she had yet
to discover. Flapdoodle and talk, as
usual. One said it, and the others liked
the sound of it and repeated it, century
after century. Damnable.
She settled down resolutely to the book.
The clicking of the gate-latch broke in.
Mrs. Calvert looked up. Marion. What
did she want? In some trouble, no doubt.
Marion never came unless she was in
trouble or wanted something. How she
seemed to blend into the complacent gar-
den as she came up the path Any-
how, she was an excuse for hurrying up
afternoon-tea.
Coming through the French windows
on to the verandah, Marion looked her
age —which wasn’t very serious: a mere
thirty-seven. Or was it thirty-eight? That
slightly dramatised suffering look wasn’t
becoming.
“How nice, Marion! Just in time for
a cup of tea. Sit here—no, turn your
back on that fool of a garden.”
Marion’s pathetic eyes widened. “I
thought how nice it was looking,” she
murmured. “So fresh. So happy”....
Mrs. Calvert noticed the little quiver
of the underlip and turned to the maid
hovering in the dining-room. “Bring the
tray out here, please, Annie,” she said.
“Take off your gloves,” she told
Marion. “You make me feel quite hot.”
She poured a cup of tea in silence and
handed it to Marion, whose underlip was
now desperately steady.
“Well, what is it now, my dear?” she
asked, her bright, strong old eyes watch-
ing Marion.
Marion’s white face was sincerely
tragic. “It’s Philip,” she answered.
“Well, what about Philip?”
“Rita Soames and he... .1 saw them”
She stared haggardly across the
little table at Mrs. Calvert. “On my own
verandah,” she added brokenly.
Mrs. Calvert waited in sympathetic
tranquillity until the storm was past.
“Philip and Rita Soames? That
doesn’t —er —really tell me anything, my
dear,” she said gently. “Rita Soames is
that Spanish-looking child, isn’t she?”
“Yes. Only she isn’t a child.” The
storm being over, Marion’s eyes were
cold and hard, and very bright. “She’s a
flapper—just a loose flapper.”
“Oh.” It seemed best to wait again.
“I had a bridge-evening last night,
and I —l caught them. Kissing. On the
side-verandah. Burning kisses”....
“Another cup of tea, dear?” Mrs. Cal-
vert suggested placidly. “How old is
Philip now?”
“Forty-four. We’ve been married fif-
teen years.” Marion was shocked, out-
raged by this reception of her tragic
news ; she stared, bewildered, at Mrs.
Calvert —Aunt Laurie, who was always
so kind and understanding.... “Do you
realise, auntie, the enormity,” she fal-
tered, “the horrible betrayal”
“Of course, my dear”
Suddenly indignation took the place of
tragedy in Marion’s stricken face. “I
can’t believe it—even now I cant believe
it.... For fifteen years I’ve —mothered
Philip. I’ve been a good and affectionate
wife, patient, always interested in his
business and in himself, loved him; —
always loved him.... I’ve nursed him
when he’s been sick (which is seldom: I
look after him too well); I’ve kept him
in health and happiness ; I’ve done every-
thing. Half of what he is he owes to
me”....
Her voice had gradually lost its indig-
nant note, had trailed away into sorrow
and despair again.
“What did you do?” Mrs. Calvert
asked evenly. “Have one of those little
round cakes —they’re good.”
Mechanically Marion took one of the
cakes, her hurt, bewildered eyes looking
at Aunt Laurie. “What did I doV ’ she
repeated.
“Yes. Last night.”
“I waited till all the people had gone.
And then I accused him.”
“What did he do?”
Marion flushed. “He was hateful,”
she said bitterly. “He looked half-
sheepish and half-triumphant. And as
handsome as a picture—l could have
killed him”....
“Yes. He is handsome.”
“I asked him how long it had been
going on” —Marion put down her cake
and stared out over the garden’s lengthen-
ing shadows —“and he said it had only
just begun! I asked him if that was the
first time he’d kissed the girl; and his
face got that black look: ‘Yes. That girl,’
he said”....
Her gaze came back from the shadowy
garden to Mrs. Calvert’s quiet face.
“Auntie” —her voice was dry, desolate —
“there are half a dozen of them! And
he says that there’s nothing wrong and
that I’m a fool!”
The storm broke again, a pent-up
storm of old dear memories, of early
struggles, battles fought and won to-
gether, of the bloom that used to be and
now was gone. “Broken faith,” her
heart cried through the storm —“my trust
in ruins at my feet”.... Aunt Laurie lit
a cigarette and stared at the glowing tip,
her calm eyes full of compassion.
“I’ll go!” Marion sat erect. “I’ll go.
There’s nothing else for me to do!”
Mrs. Calvert flicked the ash from her
cigarette into her saucer.
“It’s a matter of diet,” she said.
“Diet?” Marion peered at her.
“Yes. Men are hungry brutes. They
don't grow up, you know, my dear.
Women do. Very much grown-up,
women are, after about their twenty-fifth
birthdays. But not men; they’re greedy
boys to the end —greedy and conceited.”
“But”
“Yes,” Aunt Laurie went on tranquilly,
“their diet has to be balanced —-like the
diet of babies, you know. Their sys-
tems become so used to one diet that it
doesn’t do them any good at last, and has
to be balanced with something else.
What did you do after you —er —accused
Philip last night?”
“Locked my door. He slept in the
spare room —and went off to the office in
a black rage this morning before I was
up. Why?”
“A black rage. .... Then you’re right,
my dear. There’s no guts in a black rage.
He' 11 come round.”
“What do you mean, auntie?”
“So that a steady diet of meat, vege-
tables, and pudding—which can be called
the good wife’s static diet —comes in the
end to give them no more than a hungry
look in the eye. Especially after, say,
fifteen years of it. It’s a very awkward
situation, I know.”
“Auntie! ”
“Because there are —well, there are the
cream-puffs to be considered, in order to
balance the static, as it were. Blonde and
saccharine, you know. Affectionate and
docile. Greedy boys like them. And as
a rule there’s no harm in them. They—
er —balance. And we’ve generally taught
our boys fairly well while we were grow-
ing up to know that —well, that as much
as we want to, we can trust them.”
“Look here, auntie”
“And there are the savories. Anchovies,
red peppers, a small, hidden, cunning sting
—very attractive balancing diet for hand-
some middle-aged boys. A sort of
Spanish something.... You see, it keeps
them healthy, prevents them growing up
too much, and growing old. Like us.”
The gate clicked savagely ; there was
a sound of rapid footsteps. Mrs. Calvert
glanced across the garden.
“Philip,” she said, her strong old eyes
dancing. She picked up her book and
cigarette-box. “I’ll go round the kitchen
way and ask Annie to make some fresh
tea.”
Stepping off the verandah she heard a
fervent voice at the French windows.
“My God, darling—l thought you’d
gone for good! I came home early
t 0”....
The shadows were not much longer
when from the tree-seat Mrs. Calvert
saw Marion and Philip walking towards
the gate on their way home. He was still
protesting fervently ; Marion’s back had
a patient, self-sacrificing air—she seemed
to blend nicely with the pathetic shadows
on the garden.
There you are, Aunt Laurie's thoughts
ran. A good opportunity missed again.
She’s forgiven him; and he thinks he’s
in the wrong ; and she’ll see to it that he
goes on thinking so. Damnable....
Mrs. Calvert returned to her book.


h
re ap air °f S nark°' l ' an
\Th^ bad th f Uppe" perp
’lnch , nO mM- yi o» ner:
tcU w/ VP atson
• Kiwi Black and Tan Polish will make a good
• shoe last . . . and give a good shine to boot.
• It preserves and waterproofs the leather.
BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at Ixaidon, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business.
“The Courier-Mail”
Queensland's Leading; Newspaper
OX Monday, August 28, “The Brisbane Courier” and “The Daily Mail” were
amalgamated. The result has proved to be an immensely improved newspaper—
“ The Courier-Mail.” The pooling of the circulations of the two papers, after
allowing a liberal reduction for duplication, will give “The Courier-Mail” a
circulation of not less than
00,000 COPIES DAILY
This is by far the largest circulation in Queensland. The new advertising rates
give an economy to advertisers which was impossible while the two papers
functioned independently. Particulars, etc., from
ROBERT JACKSON. 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 81522.
For the treatment of
BLOOD AND SKIN DISORDERS
Rheumafic Complaints, Eczema,
Rashes, Boils, Ulcers and Sores
CLARKES
BLOOD MIXTURE
J
Avoid all Imitations
Of all Chemists & Stores
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
£4,739,012 10 0
4,300,000 0 0
4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
LONDON OFFICE: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank Ltd. •
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd. ’
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
A ictoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territorv.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
Forty Years Ago.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
FORTY years ago Sydney knew how
to make holiday. Holidays had not
become so frequent that they could
be wasted.
The narrow laneway that was Oxford-
street. a sea of vehicles in which trams,
drawn by their ridiculous, grimy steam-
engines, were islands, was gay with bunt-
ing. The omnibuses, packed inside and
out, with spare passengers clinging to
the iron ladders at the back, carried
flags ; so did the spring carts, laden with
holiday-makers, and many of the bug-
gies. Sulkies and an occasional brougham
gave a more sedate note, but some of
the hansom cabs were decorated, too.
In this sea, cyclists, sitting sedately up-
right behind high handle-bars —the low
bars had not yet arrived—miraculously
escaped death. The six-foot pavements
on each side carried a pushing army of
hamper-laden pedestrians.
The bunting, like the Sunday clothes
of the people, had come out for the
special occasion. The Sunday clothes
might last for years before they went
into second-best. A prodigal generation
has almost forgotten the meaning of Sun-
day best.
You wouldn’t think there was a depres-
sion from the appearance of that holi-
day-making crowd. It was a real depres-
sion, with no dole to relieve it; one of
its evidences was the hessian and kero-
sene-tin settlement that had gone up on
the Red Hill, Paddington. Residents in the
area now have their letters addressed
“Centennial Park” to give themselves a
standing over mere Paddingtonians ; and
part of it has gone into the Agricultural
Ground.
It was hard to say how the people on
the Red Hill existed. Charwomen from
there were glad to work a long day for
35., but were in no great demand. If
there was a family the Benevolent Society,
subsidised by the Government, issued
grocery orders up to four shillings a
week. A lot could be done with four
shillings in those days. And over towards
Kensington there was still bush where
fuel could be got free.
Partly because of the depression, Tom
and I were on one of those swaying
’buses, on which we had scrambled for
a place, feeling the festival spirit around
us. It was my first holiday free from
apron strings, which might have been
untied less readily if it had been real-
ised that Tom, of whom it was pro-
phesied that he would be a prolifigate
who would never settle down to any
definite place in life, was to be my com-
panion.
We might have made a start with
gathering five-corners in the bush at
Bellevue Hill, wandering down later to
the lagoon which occupied portion of
what is now the flat at Bondi, and then
to the big, bare beach. Or we might
have taken the tram, which then ran on
as a single track from the regular urban
terminus at Queen-street, past the tiny
village at the Tea Gardens (now Bondi
Junction), through the bushy wilderness,
with its few houses, direct. There was
an attraction in the Bondi Aquarium,
striding what is now the well-settled
Tamarama Bay, with its sideshows, besides
its fishes. The tram terminus was there
then.
But Tom and I had heard of the Eight
Hour procession. Out in dignified Wool-
lahra we did not pay much regard to
such things ; but the depression was felt
in Woollahra, too. People said that his
troubles had driven Blankly, who was a
neighbor, mad. That was why he spoke
with enthusiasm about this absurd new
Labor party, which, as everyone else
knew, was a mere political freak, and
would make no real difference in the tra-
ditional issues between Freetrade and
Protection.
Blankly was very bitter about the loss,
after a life’s service, of his position at
£4OO a year —in those days some-
thing colossal. He was bitter about
his three daughters, who had to work
in shops, 60 hours a week and more,
for about £1 a week among them ; about
his boys having to get the family fire-
wood, just like the boys on the Red Hill;
about his wife’s having to dispense with
her 1 Os.-per-week-and-keep servants. The
world was rotten; and when we had
heard him speaking to our elders of the
Eight Hour procession we made up our
minds to see it.
Of course, Blankly had been a bit mad
even before the depression. He had
ought acres and acres in the bush over
on the North Shore, where people would
not go to live in a hundred years; and,
of course, when he wanted the money he
couldn’t sell it.
Tom and I found an interest in every-
thing. For example, the four-storey bulk
of Kidman’s building, standing above the
cottage-statured shops in Oxford-street,
faced by awnings supported by wooden
posts. In that building was born
Sydney’s first grocery chain store, when
Kidman’s heirs failed to take an interest,
a smart leading-hand in the business,
whose name has now become a house-
hold one, being the chief spirit The
Cambridge Club Hotel (where Brasch’s
corner is now), with the bandsmen mass-
ing on the ground in front and march-
ing out, interested us, too. The country-
inn-like hotel, a great theatrical house,
kept by a musician, was the birthplace
of the Professional Musicians’ Union
and of De Groen’s Band.
The Eight Hour procession was worth
the scrambling by which we won to a
good position. The disappearance of the
horse has killed the public taste for pro-
cessions. A procession of motor vehicles,
however decorated, is dull; but here
were horses, banners, bands. There were
bursts of cheers, mingled with hoots and
jeering laughter, at one item which
wasn’t at all spectacular. The members
of the new Labor party were marching.
Having been fully informed, from the
conversation of elders, of how ridiculous
their trespass into public life was, we
found it easy to join in the derision that
was most in evidence around us.
“Just a flash-in-the-pan. Another elec-
tion and they’ll all be out,” remarked
someone sapiently.
There were a few scrambling fights
in the crowd after the passing of the
politicians ; but, after all, the procession
was the thing.
When its glory had departed, we made
our way to Paddy’s Market, down where
the New Tivoli and the Capitol Theatre
are now. There, and in Belmore Park,
where there was a circus showing glar-
ing posters of ladies in tights being shot
from cannons, were tents and bunting ;
but, with the exception of a few side-
shows and merry-go-rounds, the fun of
the fair had not begun. We could come
back later if we felt in the mood. A
double-decker tram coming along the
picket-fenced tramline that then cut
through Belmore Park from the old rail-
way station, we sprang abroad. Those
tram upper decks, rare at that time, since
capsizes of the top-heavy cars had
proved them dangerous in rounding
sharp curves, were the delight of the
boyhood of the day.
The tram puffed heavily along Eliza-
beth-street, with its suburban-looking
boarding-houses, some with trees and
grass plots in front. We gave a yell as
we passed a sulky with a mountain of
flesh weighing down the springs on one
side. It was Lucas, a political and busi-
ness identity of the period.
There was scarcely a shop in Eliza-
beth-street then, except such clusters as
are to be seen at suburban street intersec-
tions. Besides the “Select Boardinghouse”
signs outside most of the houses, there
were, when we passed King-street, a few
with professional plates, showing that
doctors or lawyers had their offices there
also. In the spirit of the time most of I
these houses were decorated with bunt-
ing, too.
At Hunter-street we hopped off, be-
cause at the corner of that street and
Castlereagh-street—also still semi-sub-
urban —there was a shop where ice-
cream was obtainable. The attraction
was partly the “hokey-pokey” (at a
penny a time) and partly the delight of
eating it in a shop that had trees grow-
ing out of its floor and through the roof.
The two Norfolk pines overshadowed
the old fruitshop, built round them,
which stood where the Blashki building
now rises.
Moreover we had to pick up our sand-
wiches —we had been given the money
for that purpose—at the Sydney Sand-
wich Supply, which had its headquarters
in a tumbledown weatherboard cottage
in the middle of a block of weed-grown
land where the Norwich Union building
now stands. A busy scene here, with
sandwiches being cut for the basket-boys
who were to vend them on the wharves
or in the Gardens and the Domain. By
calling, we got ours cheaper—a remark-
able pile for threepence.
It was real carnival on the Quay, where
the building line was really circular
then. In the centre the ’buses emptied
their passengers to mingle with the crowds
pouring down from the old tram ter-
(Continued on next page.)


Now you can buy
100% Pennsylvania Motor Oil
at its best .... no extra price
r
\
2
TTERE’S good news for evory motorist! For the first time, you can buy 100%
J 1 Pennsylvania Motor Oil from a great oil company . . . 100% Pennsylvania
VEEDOL as made by the world’s largest refiner and marketer of Pennsylvania Oils.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is refined from the cream of Bradford Pennsylvania crudes
by a new and secret process with ultra-modern equipment that makes It heatproof
and coldproof. \ .
With Pennsylvania VEEDOL you can challenge the world. Better motor performance
. . . more mileage . . . greater economy ... . fewer repairs ... yet you pay no more for
Pennsylvania VEEDOL than ordinary motor oils.
A LWAYS
ASK FOR
MOTOR OIL
V 7.
100% PENNSYLVANIA ... AT ITS BEST.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LTD.—ALL STATES.
Distributors for . . . TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY.
THE OLDEST DAILY IN TASMANIA!
“The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), 92
years’ service.
“The Examiner’' is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier’’ and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kernbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
IB
H
11
w
a =s=
hrCuat:
■
• •••: I be
m
HI
ml
; i EBi • | •
s 1 i
a
[H
OTCam^J
SEE
OJhisfe'
Scots
«4£s
J*g
Distributors to r the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.. Sydney. Lionel Samson & Son .
"co. Brt * b ”*'.. Macfarlane Bros . Cb.
Fremantle
.. Hobart
minus at the corner of Bridge and Phillip
streets —we had not missed much of our
tram journey. The ferry wharves, with
their single-storey entrances, were fes-
tooned with flags and streamers ; before
them touts shouted the attractions of the
various trips, and forced bills, with which
the street was becoming littered, into the
hands of the holiday-seekers ; and men
with baskets, selling all sorts of things,
moved in the hurly-burly, crying their
wares. A dozen bananas cost us tup-
pence.
Blankly, who pretended not to see us,
was one of the touts. There had been
wonder at seeing him pass, that morning,
with his brief-bag in his hand —the in-
variable accompaniment, in a day of cut
lunches, before cafes had become general,
of the man going to business.
Although its touts were yelling about
the bushflowers to be gathered at Flat
Rock, now Northbridge <fit could only
be reached conveniently by boat journey
to the upper waters of Middle Harbor),
we chose Mosman’s Bay —in spite of the
sneer of a Flat Rock “spruiker” • that
Mosman’s was played out for flowers.
When the ferry, small by later standards,
was sufficiently full of passengers, the
skipper; who had been helping the touts,
came on board and we moved off ; fares
were collected on the ferry.
We had a wag near us who kept his
party amused with talk about places on
the harbor. • His greatest hit was made as
we were passing Cremorne.
“I know a man,” he said, “who is going
to buy that point and build houses on it!”
“Oh, Jim, you are a trick!” cried a
girl as we, moved by the pure ludicrous-
ness of it, joined in the laugh.
Our intention, which had led us to
choose Mosman, of getting back to
Paddy’s Market was not fulfilled. The
wild bush at Mosman, after the pleasure
of its sands (now abolished by a sea
wall and reclamation), was enough. In
spite of the hostile tout’s jeer, there were
wildflowers in abundance; and Tom
added to the pleasures of the day by
killing a snake. The dead reptile created
an agreeable sensation amongst the
women aboard on the way back. In the
course of our explorations we had got
lost in the bush, jintil we met some people
who showed us the right track.
We felt we had'had a good day. Back
at the Quay it appeared that the touts
had a double job. They were shouting,
now, about the circus and the theatrical
performances that night, again handing
out handbills.
The ferry from North Sydney had dis-
charged a smart dogcart. The driver, who
knew us, invited us to scramble up. The
tandem dogcart was even a better way of
travelling home than on a swaying,
crowded four-horse ’bus, which would
do the trip from the Quay to Queen-
street in a quarter of an hour.
Just what a liquidator was was not
clear to me then, but Dash, who was
one, had plenty of work in the days when
more companies were in liquidation than
out of it. Out at Woollahra they said
that Dash was one of the men who were
coining money in the hard times. He
was a genial fellow, and, having made a
remark with a flourish of his whip to
Her Majesty’s Theatre as he passed it,
. he remembered that he had some theatre
tickets in his pocket that he wasn’t
going to use.
Excitement! Of course we were at
the theatre that night, all brushed up for
the occasion, while the gaslit signs and
the smell of the gas in the atmosphere
seemed to work up the excitement. The
theatre was besieged by crowds scramb-
ling about the doors with the sign
“Upper Gallery, Is.” But we were pluto-
crats who walked into reserved seats.
Strangely, I cannot remember the play,
though some of its scenes remain vivid.
It was a wildly demonstrative “house,”
cheering the hero and hooting the vil-
lain, and I think it must have wakened
me up in spasms —it had been some-
where about eight o’clock when our
adventures had started, and I was weary.
Afterwards I wakened fully for the joy of
the ’bus-ride home. From the theatre to
Glenmore-road the ’bus did not stop ; but
here quite a number of passengers
dropped off.
It was a matter of pies. There was a
little shop in Glenmore-road that was
making pies which caused this sort of
happening to be regular. People dropped
off one tram or ’bus, got their pies, and
caught the next vehicle. The little shop
moved into Oxford-street,' then to the
city; and it and its pies were destined
to become one of Sydney’s best-known
businesses.
Tom and I dropped off, too. We felt
the act was in keeping with our new-
found adventurous dispositions.
The postmaster, who had been talking
to a pensioner, came over to me with a
questioning look on his face. There was
something about him vaguely familiar.
Perhaps the reawakening of memories, !
caused by watching the pulling down of 1
those old houses in Elizabeth-street to
make room for the extended Maftin-
place, helped me in the recognition.
“Is your Christian name Tom?” I
asked. I had forgotten his other name.
Tom it was. “I recognised you the
moment l saw you,” he said.
“Same here,” I replied. “Or nearly the
same.”
“Did you see the old chap I was talk-
ing to when you came in?” he went on.
“That’s old Dash!”
The name at the moment conveyed
nothing to me. “Go back fdrty years
or so. Remember a man who gave the
pair of us tickets for a theatre once?”
Strange that while I was still ruminat-
ing over the passing of a bit of old Syd-
ney, I should encounter two people who
were involved in my memories of it. Old
Dash had left by this time, of course.
Tom told me that, although he had lost
his money ages ago, and drew his old-
age pension in the office of which the
boy he once befriended was now head,
he was still cheerful.
We went on talking of the day we had
together—that long-ago gala day in the
time of the last depression.
“What became of Blankly?” repeated
Tom. “You remember Blankly, M.L.C.,
don’t you? He died ten or eleven years
ago.”
“Not the rich Blankly? I never con-
sidered the possibility of that' being the
Blankly we knew!” I said.
“His land over on the North Shore
brought him a fortune, and he added to
it,” said Tom.
“But our Blankly was Labor. Blankly,
M.L.C., was anti-Labor!”
Tom laughed. “It’s the way of the
world,” he said.
Of course the changes of time do not
touch the city only.
Spring.
Through the dark forest of the heart
A silver hunting-horn is blown;
Like a white bird the sound has flown;
Like a bright, blood-tipped silver dart,
Waken and start
Oread, who slept alone!
Amid the tear-hung spider-thread
And the cold, sodden summer’s wreck,
She kneels upright, and stray lights fleck
Her unkissed breasts and listening head.
Love-buds, once red,
Lie brown about her neck.
Again the vital hunting-horn
And the hot cry of passionate hounds!
The entranced gloom is shot with sounds.
Beyond the cypress stands the mom.
Danger is born,
And joy’s the deer that bounds.
Did the curled Oread dream that life
Had sunk into enduring sleep?
On dead leaves she was pillowed deep,
Forgetting last year’s flute and fife
And golden strife,
Hearing the wet boughs weep.
Did she dream winter combed her hair
With its old, wan comb? That her veins
Had shrunk to carry tireless pains
On patient blood tides? Ah, the scare
That shakes’ her there
While every taut sense strains!
Though the dark forest may be wise
With many seasons, hung with tears,
The Oread knows no yoke of years
Nor any yoke. Her gold-brown eyes,
Where winter dies,
Are wild with new spring fears.
Who blows the hunting-horn that rings?
Whose are the red hounds of desire?
Through her run arrowy streams of fire.
In sunlight flashing hoofs and wings
Fricht sapless things.
The wind’s a seven-stringed lyre.
N.s.w.
DULCIE DEAMER.
The Last Song.
The king was pale and weary unto death,
And neither golden wine nor dancing girl
Could set a spark of sunlight in the black
Pools of his eyes. He felt within him surging
Dark billows of vacant water; washing,
swaying.
“My soul is sick,’' he said, “and all the joys
are tasted.
My life is wasted.’’
His harper came, and from his withered fingers,
From the taut white strings, there leapt a song
Of triumph; clash of steely armaments
And visionings of one who rode in glory
Upon a milk-white mare while people shouted.
“I want no more of conquest,” said the king,
“That empty thing!”
The music changed, and the smell of violets
And great red roses seemed to flood the room;
And there were hints of moonlight and red lips,
Laughter and folly and the wordless wisdom
Of lovers at night by a whispering, soft-eyed
sea.
The king said wearily, “That song was sung
When I was young.”
The music changed, and seemed to light the
room
Like a dim candle. The king heard carolling
thrushes
Make beautiful an ancient ivoried place.
There was a fountain there, and shimmery
whiteness,
Rushing wings and an ecstatic peace.
“WhaCtheme is that,” he said. “O comfort-
bringei?”
“Death,” said the singer.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


The remarkable value of Yeast for Better Health is everywhere recognised. The world’s leading
scientific men have unanimously reported in favor of it for intestinal and digestive disorders, skin
troubles, faulty elimination, “run-down” conditions and other ills. It is most important, however,
that the public should realise that yeast, to be ioo per cent effective, must be activated, and that it is in-
correct to suppose that any kind of yeast will give the same beneficial results as genuine Cream of Yeast .
£3
Brewers' yeast alone does not work at its best as a remedy
for everyday ills and “below-par” conditions. So the
greatest chemical organisation in the world manufacturing
medicinal yeast, after considerable research and experience,
evolved the special activated form known as Cream of Yeast.
This is a highly-compressed yeast, scientifically combined
with other perfectly safe medicinal agents of known thera-
peutic value in such a way as vastly to increase the value of
yeast for remedial purposes. In Cream of Yeast is offered a
handy medicine giving prompt benefit with absolute certainty .
Cream of Yeast gives you the following benefits
(PLAIN BREWERS' YEAST DOES NOT GIVE THESE BENEFITS)
Headaches relieved in 4 minutes. Acidity, Sour Stomach
and Indigestion relieved in 3 minutes. Rheumatic Attacks,
Influenza Colds, etc., countered within IS hours.
Depression and. if Brain Fag” relieved in 8 minutes •
Nerves steadied in 10 minutes. Energy increased within
IS minutes. Abdominal Pains relieved in 12 minutes.
iJUjt
Try this modern Remedy for yourself, but remember that you must get Cream of Yeast if you want the
best results. More Cream of Yeast is sold than all other yeast medicines combined, yet Cream of Yeast
costs very little, a flask of 24 Tablets being 1/11, 48 Tablets 3/6, or 125 Tablets 5/9. Since any good
chemist can supply you, why not let this remarkable remedy rid you of those ailments that now mar your
health and good looks ? The very first dose of Cream of Yeast will convince you of its merit.
Quickest, Surest, Best Results. Largest Sales •
75% More Beneficial than Brewers’ Yeast
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
Australian Fiction:
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6; THE SOW’S EAR, by
Bernard Cronin, 6/-; BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin,
6/-; STORIES BY KODAK, 5/-; “SATURDEE,” by Norman
Lindsay, 6/-; JONAH, by Louis Stone, 6/-; IN PURSUIT OF
PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer, 6/-.
Australian Gift Books and General Literature:
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. Paterson, 2/6;
IN THE WAKE OF THE “BOUNTY,” by Charles Chauvel, 6/-;
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt, 5/-;
CONTRACT BRIDGE, by Ena Burrows, 2/-; A MESSAGE
FROM BAWRA, by Harold Sims, 1/-.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
i-
v v n *>VW'
V>T> -* 0
\\ N\ v e V, x <
’ c>\ <v o\
V %
*
0
p
a
o
*V
e
\G
e
• •••
9V
e
nV' 5>


...... 'j
V*-
- ,
: :’x2
S'?''.’" I
_ ~ '
Sim
1
iscj&x
#
M
%..
WzZ>'
*■? •;.
Ms?
■1
■ ■
m mSm
;
■■*■;
§§ •
K 1
I££s 2 >// -
!
1
.
■v
I. mmmm: i'mf-
m
WF
*
M
mm
*
y -''&
: ■:■ : ■
Wm,
:
.
■mem
%
mu
mBmM
m-%
“This
smoke is
HSO
’5S*-SSOvSSS326fiaSBBS3B?3SB33BSBBBBBSB£BBBBSSS3BBSBS®^S®S3®SBS#B3BSBBBBBBB3BB3B&S>S2®SaScfeiSSSS:: : : : : : :ii!i:'iSffIBBBSE m 4
Solution!”.
said the Salesman
as he blew it through
the Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulator!
■
h
“You couldn’t do that with the wooden insulator!” he added.
“Only this Patented Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator
gives this perfect porosity That’s one good reason why
a Willard Battery lasts LONGER , and gives belter service!”
The Battery Insulator separates each positive and negative
plate . . . should allow free action of the battery acids
between these plates . . . and withstand continuous immersion
in a solution of sulphuric acid (H 2 S 0 4 ).
Wood does this—but rubber , with its higher resistance,
greater strength, and greater porosity, does it perfectly!
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulators actually outlive the
plates! Thoroughly porous, the battery currents pass freely
at all times —and maximum battery power is always ready!
Due to this Threaded Rubber Insulator, the Willard Thread
Rubber Battery gives longer life, requires less upkeep, gives
better starting under all conditions, and more miles of
uninterrupted service. Make your next battery a Willard
Thread Rubber. See your Willard dealer —now!
< »
mm
:: i
•fa This Illustration Explains the Porosity of the
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator.
Porosity means free flow of the battery acids
through the insulator. See the tiny threads which
carry the acid through. When the salesman spoke
of the smoke as H 2 S 0 4 solution, he wanted his
client to imagine that it was —and to see how easily
it came through! This greater porosity means
quicker starting —longer battery life!
No Wood in a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery!
Hard usage, vibration, and the
result of overcharging often wear
out wooden insulators before the
battery plates have been used up.
This is the most common cause
of battery failure. Insure your-
self with a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery. More Willards
are sold than any other make!
Motor Supplies Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.
