

h
FISK RADIOLA
BROADCAST RECEIVER
4
y
THE MOST ELEGANT CABINET YET MADE
THE NEAREST APPROACH TO PERFECT REPRODUCTION
THE HIGHEST RADIO TECHNIQUE
THE SIMPLEST TUNING DIAL YET DESIGNED
... \
A PERFECT COMBINATION OF SCIENCE AND ART
r •• '..V>
*
:
ĥ
ħ
PRODUCT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
The Bulletin
o*l m. VfeV<l£ <StcH'i\ .
Vol. 54.—N0. 2775.
Wednesday, April 19, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A Silly Devil
William Gerhardi and Brian Lunn have
been inspired with the grandiose idea of
writing The Memoirs of Satan (Cassell;
CEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DVMOCK’S book arcade, ltd..
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
11
u*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your fiew Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney -Bulletin.
My Rame
My Address
S.B. 233
ĥ
Do You
Realize the
Importance of
Pure Medicinal
Then Use
CUTICURA
Made cf the purest ingredients
and containing medicinal and an-
tiseptic properties, it guards the
skin well and does much to pre-
vent skin troubles.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. pe'r copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at_ the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
, DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep . * H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian aud
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home- papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney ; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne. _
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with -bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
Hli!
1
We
have found
by far the best
advertising medium
to be
The
Brisbane
Courier.
So wrote Mr. M. R. Hornibrook,
Chairman of Directors, Hornibrook
Highway, Ltd., the largest firm of
Public Works Contractors In
Queensland, who advertised for
capital to construct tlie Hornibrook
Highway. Letter on request.
“Courier" Representatives:
SYDNEY,— Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt
Street. 85007. •
MELBOURNE.—Louis S. Marks,
'Argus Bldg. F 3906.
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test 'THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market,
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
, Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 8:3241.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
The Leading Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the “Sunday Times has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and 3 j C ® s "
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Scorn of Humanity
It is often found in English lads of the
middle and upper middle classes. Modern
England has a large number of highly
articulate young Tories—chiefly because it
retains remnants of the feudal system, with
its tradition of-an ecqmomically sheltered
aristocracy, grafted on to an advanced 'edu-
cational system. Year by year thousands
of Old Etonians, Harrovians and Wyke-
hamists who, in previous ages, might have
applied their energies to king-making, or
fighting in the innumerable little wars
which were embarked on lightly by the
European nations till fighting became really
dangerous, or gambling in London, or hunt-
ing and shooting in the country, are driven
to compete in the struggle for existence
with Grammar-school and even Board-
school products. They get a certain relief
from this damnable state of affairs by
writing about it. Not angrily. The eupep-
tic young find it hard to be angry on sus-
tained lines about anything. The attitude
is more that of a wise, laughter-loving
old gentleman in the presence of gutter-
children. It is a phase in most cases. If it
lasts into maturity a sterner note intrudes;
in middle life and old age the critic passes
from vague pessimism to reasoned and
utter hopelessness. Here are three books
which exemplify the phenomenon.
Schoolboy Satire *
Shamus Frazer, author off Acorned Hog
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.), is still
at Oxford. His style is inevitably cramped
by the fact that he doesn’t know much
about life. His prejudices are public school-
boy prejudices; they don’t penetrate far
below outward symbols like clothes and
accents. He is at his best, naturally, when
satirising his old school and some aspects
of democratised Oxford. Most young men
of his type have a kind of shamed contempt
for the existences they so recently led, and
they feel resentment against those who con-
tributed to their humiliations. Philip Kin-
nelJ, an undergraduate at Winton College
(which reads like New), comments bn
scoutmasters to his friend James Linman,
who is writing a novel.
“Funny it’s always people with the ugliest
knees who run Scouts. Either much too
fat or too thin. Sublime asses!”
asses,” growled Linman, “like
schoolmasters. Make up for their celibacy
by heartiness among boys. My house-
master at Hatherly was like that. Gad.
I'm pulling him to pieces in toy book.
Bloody man.”
The story is a wild extravaganza, but while
Philip is at Oxford, and even later, when
the social revolution comes and he is trans-
ferred to Pawley railway station as a
porter, his creator obviously describes
people and places that he knows. Then
Philip goes to the U.S.A., and gets involved
in a movement which ends in a Holly-
wood star being called to the English
throne as Charles' III., and the comic charac-
ters and jokes become stereotyped. He
calls on Salmon (of Salmon and Kuben-
st'ein, film producers), and is handed a
letter.
Unfortunately have an appointment at the
White House, Washington. I’m handing
.the President a large-sized packet of my
mind. He’s refused to give an order for
“Spud” Previtafli’s release from Sing-Sing,
and “Spud’s” under contract to .play the
lead in my forthcoming production “Taken
for a Ride.”
And then there are jokes at'the expense
of jazz (“the moosical first-born of young
mother Noo Yark”), and saxophones', and
the reverence of illiterate American's for
England’s ancient institutions—all enter-
taining enough but all chestnuts. ’Like most
satirists of his generation, Mr. Frazer is strong
on coprological themes. Philip’s friend Lin-
man becomes an attendant in a London
subway under the scheme of the revolution-
ary Laxative, and the rest of his novel is
largely concerned with lavatories.
“Must you always bring in lavatories,
James?”
‘‘Well, it’s not that I like them personally,
Philip, but it’s in the interests of Modern-
ism. We can’t be too broadminded nowa-
days, and I want my book to be thought
up to date.”
Mildly shocking in the Aldous Huxley-
Evelyn Waugh manner, and witty in places
on the somewhat supercilious lines of an
English undergraduate magazine.
Dymocks; 7s. 6d.).
Innumerable poets,
playwrights and
novelists have
used Satan as
their central figure,
but Gerhardi and
Lunn were the first to think of presenting
the progress of the world through his eyes
from its creation to the present day. Of
course they have fallen down on the job—
a Milton or a Goethe would no doubt have
done the same—but they have done it in a
curiously exasperating fashion. The be-
ginning is promising. Some pieces have
chipped off one of the suns and are whirling
round in space. The All Highest sends for
Satan and mentions that He is consider-
ing the construction of a new planet on
rather different lines. Will Satan • take
control?
The succeeding events are related in a
spirit of facetiousness which is mirrored
in the chapter-headings—“I referee David
and Goliath—My first fade-out—Helen:
was she beautiful?” Satan passes into the
souls of a succession of great men—Alex-
ander, Tiberius, Caligula and Genghis Khan;
he is in Tell’s heart while the apple is being
shot at? and in Cromwell’s at Marston
Moor and afterwards. He meets Luther and
Mary. Stuart, Loyola, Mahomet and the
Saviour. But none of them has anything
new or significant to say. Almost any
industrious pair of researchers with an en-
cyclopaedia and a command of the Ameri-
can film-language could have turned out
an equally enlightening account of the
follies and miseries of the human face.
The reader is thoroughly sick of the slangy
inanities of this the most undignified Prince
of Darkness in all literature by the time
the mysterious Isadore is cremated at
Holders Green.
He had earned his rest. But as the coffin
burst into flames we felt—what was it? —
something cold and strange flutter about us
for a moment. Enter one of us perhaps?
General Indictment
Death Rocks the Cradle, by Paul Mar-
tens (Collins; 7s. 6d.), is different from the
other works in at least one respect; there
, isn’t a gleam of humor in it. Abysmal
gloom is its note from the first chapter
to the last. Specifically it is propaganda
against meat-eating and blood sports, but
generally it rails at all the ways.of man-
kind. At the age of 40 Morris Eflerbey is
accidentally transferred to another planet.
He is placed in a penal settlement reserved
for the morally and physically tainted stock
of the community. Leisure, rich food, rare
wines, elaborate cabarets aqd other worldly
delights are to be had for the asking.
Except for the astonishing number of hos-
pitals it strikes him as Utopian. He first
begins to feel uneasy when Elsa, the girl
who has been allotted to him, says she is
going to have a child. As in Soviet Russia,
the absence of responsibilities entails the
absence of rights. The child is taken to a
creche. They never see it again, and one
morning a form headed of
Death” arrives: “Age: Seven months. Sex:
Male. Cause of death: Cardiac failure.
Remarks: Under anesthesia.” He can’t
understand why those outside the settle-
ment regard the inmates, including himself,
w r ith loathing. At last a high official ex-
plains. Two thousand years ago the planet
Was peopled by criminal lunatics. They had
a craze for fighting, and millions were
slain in their wars; they spoke hundreds of
different languages, and were in mental sub-
jection to hundreds of different creeds and
Superstitions.
Their bodies began to fail, and a new
craft—the craft of medicine —arose which
gradually ousted the old craft of priest-
hood. Thousands of shops sprang into
existence for the sale of drugs to alleviate
sickness. In vain.
Disease and pain became a commonplace;
and a human lifetime, which had once
stretched to a hundred years, began to
shrink generation by generation, until men
and women died worn out and riddled by,
disease at an age which had once been the
prime of life.
A masterful reformer changes all this,' but
degenerates have to be allowed for in every
generation—witless savages who prefer the
old social life—and they are segregated in
institutions; like, thfe one in which Ellerbey
lives, with colonies of doctors adequate to
their manifold afflictions. The idea may
not be 'altogether, origihal, but the treat-
ment is. It, is a clear-headed argument
against human asininity set out with much
plausibility and imagination.
RED PAGE.
Gold from the Clouds
In Gold Dust and Ashes, a romantic story
of the New Guinea goldfields (Angus and
Robertson; 65.), lon L. Idriess gives for the
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Without Deviation at Anthony Horderns
“THE SENIOR STORE .
Guardi against the Chills of Winter
with warm, cosy, and inexpensive
WOOLLENS
DRESS FABRICS
• for Smarter Fashions
• in Warmest Weaves
• at Lowest Prices . . .
EVERY smart dress. . . .and suit. . . .and coat
is made of woollen this winter, and you will
want to have the smartest of them. .. .in-
expensively. Buy your woollens at “The Senior
Store”.... we have the newest weaves and
textures. . . .all very moderate in price.
Light Donegal Tweeds at
Donegal Tweeds with assorted flecks.
In a lightweight quality. Suitable for
ladies’ skirts and frocks. 54in. wide.
Price, yard, 7/11.
Tn
Boucl© Mat Coatings for
Boucle Mat Coatings. Soft and warm
material for ladies’ coats. In Navy, Nigger,
Wine, Beaver, Lido, Fawn, Burgundy and
Bottle. 54in. wide. Price, yard, 9/11.
h
All-Wool Crepe de Chine
All-wool Crepe de Chine. Fine soft grain
in Silver, Claret, Grey,. Bottle, Mustard,
Jungle Gold, Love-apple Red, Royal, Navy,
7..
Parma Violet, Nigger, Beige, Burgundy, Cardinal and
Almond. 54in. wide. Price, yard, 7/11.
D i a gonal W o o 1
Coatings
Diagonal Wool Coating, in reversible effects.
Ideal for ladies’ topcoats. 'ln Bottle,
Brown, Navy, Wine, Royal and Fawn.
5 4in. wide; Price, yard, 6/ H .
6n
All-Wool Waffle Cloth
All-wool Waffle Cloth. Solid weight. Soft
texture.- Small neat, self-colored effects in
Navy, Saxe, Brown, Grey, Beige, Bottle,
3»
Wine, Royal and. Cardinal. 36in. wide.
Price, yard, 3/Ifl . c ;
'.. . .
BUTTERICK
PATTE R N S- easier cheaper
• You can. make that winter
frock of yours better and
easier with a “Butterick” Pattern. They are now made in
Australia-—and reduced in price, too!
They were—
Now—
1/3, 1/6
1.7-
1/7, 1/8
1/6
1/10, 2/-
1/9
(Dress Materials and 'Paper Patterns—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Freight paid to dll seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.)
POR your warm winter wear you could not
choose anything more serviceable than
these woollens.... and the keen prices make
them even more attractive!
Striped Viyella, 6/11 yard
Striped Viyella. An ideal material for
cosy winter wear. Reliable and un-
shrinkable. Shirting and Pyjama designs.
3 1 inches wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yd., 6/11.
Winceyette, at 1/4 yard
Shirting Winceyette. This new material
is suitable for golf shirts and is procur-
able in neat check or stripe designs
on Fawn, Grey or Blue Grounds. 28
inches wide. , _ . , ~.
Anthony Horderns Price, yd., 1/4.
“Union” Flannel, 1/6 yard
Strong and serviceable “Union ’ Flannel
for men’s wear. Natural, Light or Dark
Grey. 28 inches wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard, 1/6.
Striped Lullaby, 1/11 yard
Striped Lullaby Winceyette, 3Gin. wide. This
delightful material is procurable in a number
of novel colorful stripes and floral Lingerie
designs. An ideal cloth for smart up-to-date
Ladies’ Pyjamas.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 1/11
Cream Viyella, from 5/11
Cream Viyella, obtainable in four quali-
ties.
Nursery Quality. 27in. wide. 5/11.
Standard Quality. 3 1 in. wide. 6/11.
Standard Quality. 36in. wide. 8/6.
AZA Standard Quality. 3 1 in. wide. 5/11
All. Wool Flannel, 1/11 yd.
All wool Australian Flannel. Heavy
weight for winter wear. Natural, Light
Grey and Dark Grey. 28 inches wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard, 1/11.
Colored Flannel, yard,
“H ordura”
“Hordura” Colored Flannel. Suede finish. Pure wool. Exceptional
Quality and Texture. The shades are: Pink, Vieux Rose, Praline Pink,
Cardinal, Wine, Maroon, Redwood, French Plum, Sky, Saxe, Royal,
Navy, Beige, Fawn, Beaver, Tabac, Brown, Nil, Jade, Almond, Talis-
man, Reseda, Myrtle, Bottle, Maize, Orange, Grey and Black. 28
inches wide. Anthony Horderns’ Price,yard, 2/6.
2 7 6
Twill Winceyette, yard,
“H ordura”
This famous twill “Hordura” Winceyette is unsurpassed for
Value, and is obtainable in the following shades: Cream,
Pink, Lemon, Sky, Saxe, Salmon, Apricot, Helio, Pale Green,
Camel and Navy. 38in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 1/5
175I 7 5
Mo lie ton Robe
yard,
C l o t h a t,
Molleton Robe Cloth for warm, cosy Dressing Gowns. Color-
ful—in reversible designs. In Blue-Grey, Fawn-Blue, Grey-
Helio, Red-Blue and small fancy checks. 56in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 3/6
.
h
Beacon Robe Cloth, at only, yard
Beacon Robe Cloth in exquisite tonings. Shading from dark
to light. In Blue and Red, Blue and Rose, Orange and Fawn,
Grey and Rose, Dark Blue and Light Blue. Reversible.
36in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard 5/11
51i
Esmond Robe Cloth, 4/11 yard
Esmond Robe Cloth. Warm and comfortable—and re-
versible. Two-tone designs. 36 inches wide. Colors
are Blue, Green, Red, Grey and Fawn, with contrasting
figured designs. Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard, 4/11
(Manchester Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
Freight paid to all Sea-
ports in the Common-
wealth and Railway
Stations in N.S.W.)
Country
You are invited to
the Second Floor—
your comfort and
Club is now open
Anthony
Visitors to Sydney
make full use of Anthony Horderns’ Country Club on
-George Street. It has been created particularly for
convenience and a warm welcome awaits you. The
and will be available until the end of the month.
Horderns’ Country Club
h
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
ĥ
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.CX


■i
m
mm
m
■
sm
mm
m
mm
“This
smoke is
H S O S<
J 99
said the Salesman
/
as he blew it through
the Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulator!
LJ
No Wood in a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery!
Hard usage, vibration, and the
result of overcharging often wear
out wooden insulators before the
battery plates have been used up.
This is the most common cause
of hattery failure. Insure your-
self with a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery. More Willards
are sold than any other make!
Motor Supplies Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
“You couldn’t do that with the wooden insulator!” he added.
i Only this Patented Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator
gives this perfect porosity That’s one good reason why
a Willard Battery lasts LONGER, and gives better service!”
The Battery Insulator separates each positive and negative
plate . . . should allow free action of the battery acids
between these plates . . . and withstand continuous immersion
in a solution of sulphuric acid (H 2 S O 4).
Wood does this —but rubber, with its higher resistance,
greater strength, and greater porosity, does it perfectly!
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulators actually outlive the
plates! Thoroughly porous, the battery currents pass freely
at all times —and maximum battery power is always ready!
Due to this Threaded Rubber Insulator, the Willard Thread
Rubber Battery gives longer life, requires less upkeep, gives
better starting under all conditions, and more miles of
uninterrupted service. Make your next battery a Willard
Thread Rubber. See your Willard dealer —now!
mmmm
mm i
Wml
- - ■
This Illustration Explains the Porosity of the
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator.
Porosity means free flow of the battery acids
through the insulator. See the tiny threads which
carry the acid through. When the salesman spoke
of the smoke as H 2 S 0 4 solution, he wanted his
client to imagine that it was —and to see how easily
it came through! This greater porosity means
quicker starting—longer battery life!
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.


TRAVEL HOME VIA
NEW YORK
AND THE
CUNARD LINE
Homeward bound, via U.S.A., Canada and
Cunard to Europe. See Honolulu, San Fran-
cisco, Vancouver, Montreal and New York,
and the fascinating cities of America and
Canada. A Weekly Express Service from New
York by the renowned
AQUITANIA, MAURETANIA, BERKNGARIA.
46,000 tons. 30,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
Also
The Largest Cabin Fleet in the World.
Connecting with the following Sailings from
Sydney:
S.S. Niagara Sailing April 27th
S.S. Mariposa Sailing May 6th
S.S. Maunganui Sailing May 11th
S.S. Monowai Sailing May 25th
S.S. Monterey Sailing May 31st
Return tickets issued by the Suez Canal and
Cape Lines are available for return by this
route. Apply to —
CUNARD LINE
(C. AND D. LINE),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY,
OR
GIBBS, BRIGHT &, CO„
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
family and residential hotels.
Make a note of these addresses
for yourself and your friends.
Within three minutes Hyde Park and
Tube. Daily terms as required. Pas-
senger lifts. Garages. Central heating.
Hot and cold running water. Exchange
telephone and gas fires in all bedrooms.
BRIDGE, BILLIARDS, TABLE TENNIS
and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 gns.;
Double from 7 gns. Bath, Bed and Break-
fast from 9/6. Tel.: Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 gns. Single; 61
gns. Double, Bath, Bed and Breakfast
from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Hotel of refinement with young and
cheerful society. Accommodation for 90
guests. Delightful Rooms arranged as
Bed-Sitting Rooms. Terms: 3 gns. Single;
5 gns. Double. Tel.: Padd. 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Owing to its popularity you are advised
to secure accommodation —if possible—in
advance. Terms: 3 gns. Single; 5 gns.
Double. Room, Bath, Breakfast, 7/0.
Tel.: Padd. 8022.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director , Mrs. J. E.
Stevenson.
MICK SIMMONS
“CLASSIC’’
EXERCISER
(Sole
Distributors)
ħ
Four
Strands
are
equiva-
lent to
100 lbs.
pull!
CHEST EXPANDER
1 Strand - 5/9 3 Strand - 10/6
2 Strand - 8/6 4 Strand - 13/6
Made of highly tempered, nickel-
plated spiral steel springs. Special
Duco Grip. Chart of complete
exercises and directions.
MUSCLE DEVELOPER
h
Two-in-One (Wall
Developer Cr Chest
Expander, with
Charts). Set, 12/6
Three-in-One (Wall
Developer, Chest
Expander and Wrist
Crips, with Charts).
Set - - - 16/6
(Carriage Extra on Athletic Equipment)
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia”
A”d All Branches
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
"THE BARRIER MINER’*
lmd its 45th birthday on March 1!
Forty-five glorious years in the most
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was. and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner/’ has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past 45 years. The only newspaper in
Broken HilJ covering the whole of the
Far West. Biggest sales West of
Sydney.
first time the authentic story of the finding
and development of the Bulolo and Edie
Creek. Part of the title is inspired by the
history of C. J. Levien, the first man to
realise the possibilities of what earlier
comers regarded, for all their experience, as
nothing more than a Tom Tiddler’s ground
for the alluvial miner. It was Levien’s
driving power that was responsible for the
first company to work the new field on a
comparatively large scale. He himself
superintended the development work which
paved the way for greater enterprises. He
it was who first visualised and inaugurated
the aeroplane service that wiped out the
field’s greatest handicap, its isolation. Sup-
plies could only be brought up into the
mountains by native carriers, who, perforce,
consumed a considerable portion of the
food they earned on the journey of a
fortnight or more to the coastal depot and
back. The coming of the aeroplane reduced
the long journey to a flight of an hour or
two, transporting at one time as much as a
hundred “boys” could carry and without
waste, while the physical terrors of the
journeys up and down along the slippery
and leech-infested mountain footpaths were
banished for white man and native alike.
The wild and treacherous mountain savages
who had hitherto levied heavy toll on the
carriers and their burdens impartially could
now do nothing but look helplessly at their
one-time prey journeying in safety far
above their heads.
This returned soldier saw further yet.
He first realised that portions of the field
were rich dredging areas and that future
aeroplanes could bring over the mountain
tops the huge machines without which they
could not be profitably worked. The . story
of how he learned one night by accident
that others were about to peg the dredging
areas he had located, and how he rushed
his native workers down the mountain
paths in the darkness to peg them out him-
self before daylight, takes high place in the
romance of gold-mining. All that Levien
foresaw and worked for came to pass, and
then his overworked body gave way. As
the first dredge “set in” on the Bulolo
flats he had located and pegged, his ashes,
sent from Australia at his dying request,
were scattered in the air over the goldfield
for which he had done so much.
The saga of Levien is the main theme of
Idriess’s book, but it does not obscure the
story of the field in general. The author’s
material was collected from the journals of
Levien and others, and from the lips of
many of the pioneers. Most of these were
men who had learned their trade in the
heyday of the Papuan alluvial diggings of
30 years ago. They furnished him with
long-forgotten details of the search for the
gold that they all knew lay hidden in the
German New Guinea of those days. There
is an impression that the Germans knew
and kept the secret of their treasure
mountains. The first-hand information col-
lated by Idriess shows that the contrary
was the case. At that time the Germans
eagerly enlisted the services of Australian
diggers from over the Papuan border, and
assisted them in their search, allowing them
to retain the gold they won, less a royalty.
Gold was found, of course, but not in any
payable quantity.
Yet it was one of these prospectors,
William Park, who, after many years on
the Papuan fields, plunged secretly and
illegally into the mountain fastnesses when
the war was over in search of the gold he
felt was there. How he battled alone, save
for a few native carriers, against fever,
hunger and bloodthirsty savages until he
found at last the foot of his rainbow, and
how, warned by his long absence, some of
his old Papuan confreres and then Levien,
at that time a Government official, finally
tracked him down in gold-laden Koranga
Creek, makes good telling.
In a crisp and effortless style the author
dwells on many other features of an inter-
esting story in which comedy and tragedy
walk hand in hand. The atmosphere of
the mountain jungles, of the “beach” at
Salamaua, with its mountains of stores and
its ever-changing inhabitants—smitten with
malaria, but recklessly getting what pleasure
was to be got out of what life was left
before plunging again into the jungle or
boarding the steamer for the South and
civilisation—lives again in his pages.
Neither is the technical side of the great
adventure neglected. The huge dredges in
the mountains and the hydro-electric plants
which drive them owe their existence to the
specially-built giant ’planes, conceived and
built in German workshops, which carried
them up, piece by piece. The ’planes in
in their turn were made possible by the
establishment of aerodromes and workshops
at Lae, where but a few years earlier was
only sandy beach. To and from Lae, land-
ing on patches hewn out of the mountain
forests, these ’planes and others fly daily,
and by their favor the goldfield and its
great enterprises exist.
This aspect of the development of the
isolated fields is another outstanding in-
stance of Australian resource and efficiency.
For the first time in mining history the
idea was conceived of using air transport
for the conveyance of masses of heavy
machinery to wilds hitherto inaccessible to
them. In other years Australian ingenuity
revolutionised the world’s tin-mining indus-
try by installing dredges on the rivers of
Malaya,
J. B. H.
A Satchel of Books
The Law Book Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
lias just issued an Index to the Laws of the
Commonwealth of Australia at £2 2s. It
is a complete index of Australia’s Statute
Law between 1901 and 1932, and all refer-
ences to cases and Statutory Rules halve
been brought up to February of this year.
The printing, binding and general get-up of
this 3257-page volume are of a notably high
standard.
Ramsay’s Melbourne and Suburban Busi-
ness and Professional Directory for 1933 is
now available from Robertson and Mullens;
price, 7s. 6d. There are nearly 500 pages,
and they contain upwards of 100,000 names,
the groups including every imaginable call-
ing from Abrasives- to Xylonite-manufac-
turers ; yet the volume is not much bigger
than the average novel. A masterpiece of
compression.
J. J. Hardie, whose “Cattle Camp”
appeared as a serial in The Bulletin, has
written another exciting and knowledgable
yarn in Lantana (Frank C. Johnson; 65.).
The hero is “Lanky” Walker, sometime Cap-
tain Walker, of the A.1.F., and now a
Tweed River banana-planter. He puts up
a hard fight but has to give in; “the lantana
has licked the bananas... .for a time,” he
explains to the girl he loVes. You can guess
her reaction. The love scenes are skilfully
handled, and the characters talk like Aus-
tralians.
Interpretations (1931-1932), by Walter
Lippmann (Allen and Unwin; 10s. 6d.),
consists of a number of essays by this emi-
nent American editor on such subjects as
the Versailles Treaty, French Security, Re-
parations and War Debts. There is nothing
startlingly new in them, but they are signi-
ficant as expressions of opinion by a repre-
sentative intellectual who is as nearly free
from nationalist passions and prejudices as
it is possible for an American newspaper
man to be. The essays have been selected
and edited by Allan Nevins.
The satire of “Pitigrilli’s” Mr. Pott (The
Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.) is likely to' be lost
on many Australian readers who are accus-
tomed to think of Judges as well paid and
almost as fixed in their courses as the stars.
In this novel Paul Pott, a Parisian presiding
Judge, begins by publicly insulting his two
incompetent colleagues as a prelude to step-
ping down from the Bench and retiring to
private life. A citizen comments on the
affair.
One mustn’t be too hard when it’s a matter of
judging Judges. They have to listen to the non-
sense talked by a great advocate who has made him-
self famous by intrigue, and who makes more in a
single day than they do in five years.
Pott becomes a successful clown —another
Grock —and the rest of the book is devoted
largely to his love affairs with Jutta, who
reads like a film-exotic. Warre B. Wells
hasn’t made a very successful job of the
translation from the Italian. It is so obvi-
ously and insistently a translation.
The Wicked Captain, by Alice Massie
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.). Ann Nevin is in Wales
on her summer holiday when she learns that
her secretarial job at the factory has gone
west. Captain Graham (the Wicked Cap-
tain ; but, of course, he wasn’t wicked at
all, but a darling) comes into her life at this
stage, and they get to love each other. Both
have some trying experiences with the un-
tutored natives before they find peace and
happiness. A first-rate love story, with
some interesting sidelights on the habits and
prejudices of the Welsh.
Rustlers ’ Paradise, by W. C. Macdonald
(Wild West Club; 7s. 6d.). Young Curious
Jenkins got a hunch that there was some-
thing wrong in Alamos Wells. Cinnabar
Thompson (aptly described by a critic as
“so low he could walk under a duck’s belly
with a high hat on”) proves to be the chief
menace to the peace and good government
of the district. A confirmed cattle-rustler
and murderer, by deputy and otherwise, Cin-
nabar bites the dust in the last chapter
when “a mushroom of smoke billowed from
Jenkins’ right hip as he crouched and com-
menced thumbing his forty-fives,” leaving
Curious free, if only temporarily, to stable
his mustang, remove his revolvers and marry
Ellen. A touch of the unusual is introduced
to this otherwise conventional “Western” in
the form of a camel.
And a Little Verse
THE SORCERESS.
Oh, I have woven charms,
And prayed the powers that be —above,
below—
For only just one hour in your arms,
And all the rest might go.
For this I had eschewed
All evil, doing all things very well,
Or I had surely sold, in gratitude,
My soul to Hell.
Vain, vain and bitter truth to me,
That naught avails me, either evil or
grace,
Powerless against the unconscious sorcery
She carries in her face.
VICTOKIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
OLD GUITARS.
The pawnshop is selling guitars to-day,
Diamond brooches and wedding rings,
And I’m somehow sorry for those guitars
That have lain so long with their idle
strings.
For lithe brown fingers in merry mood
May have swept their surface, and scat-
tered wide
Songs of passion and life and joy,
As petals drift on a moonlit tide.
Hidden high on a dusty shelf,
Doomed to silence, in darkness hid,
They seem as the souls of secret things
That cower away from a casual bid.
Diamond brooches and wedding rings,
Tarnished pearls in a silver star—
Nothing as poignant is to me
As the musics lost in a dumb guitar.
Not lost maybe, but just asleep,
As Cinderella who dreamed too long.
What is the worth of an old guitar?
Forgotten kisses that broke a song’
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
J.A.E.: “Barcarolle” 1 the best of the
bunch; and it’s on the light side Russet: A
picture spoiled by weak lines and a crash at the
end...:S.C.: Read and work, and let’s hear from
you in a year... .W.R.D.: The verse doesn’t live
up to the copperplate script... .U.1.G.: You moralise
overmuch; and the meaning is at times elusive.
... . J.S.T.: Awful... .W.C.L.: “Move-dude” ; “feat-
weak” ; “perch-earth”—-“how vilely doth this cynic
rhyme!”... .H.M.C.: True enough, but there’s no
ripple or lilt in it....X530: About as peppy as a
basin of arrowroot.... Le G.: There’s feeling in both
and music in one, but the workmanship is below
the mark... .C.W.: A bit too mystic for plain
tastes.... Sarge: Right about turn, quick march,
and take your gloom with you... .C.J.H.: Discussed
in “Raising Prices” (B. 5/4/’33) ... .Dal S.: Tackle
some subject that isn’t bluggy. Too much murder
in your stuff....W.G.D.: Person who did sums in
his sleep will remain obscure... .F.M.: Well
done of its kind, but this isn’t the shop for it... .
G.G.: Fifth-rate.. . .J. 8.: Neither crossed the barrier.
.. . .W.G.G.: Too short and sugary... .R.H.T.: Un-
polished. .. .G.A.W.: Daily-paper material. .. .L.V.A.:
An old trick, and not well told.. . .E.J.: Worthless.
. ...R.E.: Little in it....F.D.: Ancient. .. .W.R.:
Amateurishly done... . J.W.T.: Overlong and lacks
Australian interest.... .M.D.: Lady who took to
opium-smoking thrilled us not... .C.R.J.L.: Humor
very thin.... J.A.D.: Not glorifying your counter-
feiter... .R.J.0.: Incredible. .. .S.M.G.: Why didn’t
you bring the two main characters more into the
picture?... .A.G.: Missed by a mile... .F.J.8.: Too
long for us... . Thallon :
Once upon a time, that was in my palmy days,
I’d sling a hundred on a horse, without ever going
near a course,
And when the race was run, my valet I’d instruct
to ’phone and see if it had won.
It isn’t exactly poetry, but it’s first-class anti-
gambling propaganda... .The Dip: In “Whitaker’s
Peerage” (1932) it is recorded among the privileges
of the noble order that “if a peer is sentenced to
be hanged he has the consolation of swinging by a
silken cord.” The eighth Lord Stourton and the
fourth Earl Ferrers are‘mentioned as having availed
themselves of this privilege... .K.M.C.: Its morbidity
outweighs its small poetic value. .. .E.P.: A bit
cloying; you can do better... .L.A.C.: Why not
just enjoy the girl and the hour ?... .ILL.S'.: Don’t
quite know what it’s all about; but, anyway, we’re
glad “where rest and peace doth reign” your “soul
hath found repose” Dreadnought: Spirit seems
willing, but the pen is weak.... J.R.: All the worn
old commonplaces.... Jack W.: A wash-out; but
you are young and by no means hopeless C.L.:
A thin jingle R.A.D.: There’s a feeling for
poetry in it. Would like to see more before passing
a more definite opinion... .Johnny B.: Old in prose
and impossible in picture.... Dorset: Well enough
done, but quite unoriginal D.A.S.: Form of
“Dialogue” is cumbersome, and the end disappointing.
X.Y.Z.: Tell us this, for instance. If all prices
were reduced by half, how could The Bulletin
sell itself for 3d. and still pay its foreign paper
bill? And taxes would have to be doubled to pay
interest overseas R.C.W.: We have never suggested
putting 100,000 on the land. We have repeatedly
suggested putting them to work supplying their
own needs C.N.D.: Can’t follow your decimals.
V.C.W.: So far you don’t express yourself
coherently N.W., P.L.S., Helen O.: No, though
not without merit... .R.L.D., John C., T.K.M.,
Boronia, H.F.P.: Hopeless J.R.H.: Disappoint-
ing. There is poetry in them, but the form is
turgid and affected Juan: You are wrong; you
are not inarticulate. More likely you don’t work
hard enough 0.E.: Sentiments commonplace; and
they bump horribly A. de R.: Verses with refer-
ences to “Bacchic shouts” and “leering satyrs”
are handicapped Adet: Much obliged ; very useful.
L.G.: Don’t quite see what you’re after; but
it’s only jingle, anyway Jak: Turn to the idiom
of your own generation and you may do something
worth while... .J.E.H.: Faint shadow of an idea.
. ...L.0.G.: We are... .Veteran: Cut down and
dressed up a bit, “S’moke-oh” might welcome it....
Margaret B.: Obvious and ragged D.C.: Both
neat, but done so often... .A.W.11.: One glance
revealed that your ballad was about. Test cricket,
and even the basket yawned... .C.A.G.: Come down
off those stilts E.G.T.P.: Doesn’t score even an
outer... .A.M.J.: You urge a goatcart over tracks
where golden chariots have driven... .Beryl D.: Not
much g00d... .E.M.H.: No thought in them
Jay W.: All right as a yarn; but why cut it up
to make it look like verse? Knockabout: Plenty
of room for it W. J.C.: If you’re as young as
we think you are, there’s hope for you. You
haven’t much to say, but you’ve got an ear.
And you write of the little things you know. Keep
on J.J.S.: No zip in them S.S.: Try again;
there’s a gleam of promise, but more care is needed.
E.L.: There’s quality, but obscurity clouds it.
R.M.: Read the first time, it has a pleasant
tinkle; after that it sounds tinny F.McC.: The
cricket verses are sadly out of date; the others are
out of tune E.T.: Two lines that linger:—
Men like to frolic on the earth, aye, men both good
and evil,
And stately laws by them are spoiled, as biscuits
by the weevil.
But what are “stately” laws? Aichoway: No go.
G.F.Y.: You make heavy going of it....A.J.:
A very dull mystery story W.E.8.: It took the
count for the fourth (or was it the fifth?) time....
J. 5.8.: Beaten on the post M.A.I.S'.: Sincere
writing, but rather thin E.D.: Pity you finished
so feebly; you travelled well for a time N.M.D.:
Not in our line R.N.M.: Story of old China no
good to young Australia.... J.W.: Dug a hole for
“The Clutching Corpse” E.R.R.: Drab tale with
an obvious ending... .F.G.M.: N 0.... J.S.D.: Tale
of roguery crudely done... .E.H.: Suitable for a
paper with a children’s supplement C.R.Y.: All
that a story shouldn’t be... .E.D.M.D.: You’ll be a.
winner yet.. . .E.G.: Has no interest... .J.M.S.:
Starts well, but the finish is hackneyed L.M.A. :
Unconvincing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M. 8.: “Street Scene in Winter” would make no
autumn brighter F.H.: Joke’s like the eggs—
stale. .. .H.W.: Someone who loves you might admire
the drawing, but we don’t love you... .N.M.S.:
Only middling A.C.: In the flyweight class, and
no champion, either... .H.W.: Wooden... .F.J.:
They are more like prehistoric animals than cows.
L.O.F.: The oldest wood-chopping joke in
captivity W.F.S.: Hopeless, from ham hanging
from ceiling to dawg (if it is a dawg) in bottom
right-hand corner.... G.H.C.: Where’s the gag?....
F.C.: Choked with errors... .F.S.: Linework too
harsh.


G
r>
■
. i
m
a
MSIMHn
-
iH
isii
wmm
A J
.
■
\
Hi
M
mmm
I
J
./ • >
#
■
gill |
Hi
H
■
i m
s
■
■


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2775.
April 19, 1933.
THE BATTLE OF SECESSION.
“Having gained a victory at the referendum, the W.A. Secession party does not know what to do with it, as it is not possible for a State to vote itself out of the
Federation. To complicate the situation, the Premier, Mr. Mitchell, leader of the Secession party, was defeated at the poll.”
LITTLE PETERKIN TAXPAYER: “And what good came of it at last?”
OLD KASPAR MITCHELL: “To quote another famous man whose day was also done, ‘Why, that I cannot tell,’ said he, ‘But ’twas a famous victory.”'


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘'Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Netvspaper House, 2i7-2i9 Collins Street,
M elbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, lh Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘‘All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
REFLECTIONS AT A SHOW.
Sydney has been sending its hundreds of
thousands to its Easter Show to see easily
the finest collection of livestock and farm
and dairy and garden produce ever brought
together in Australia. And this at a
time of severe depression, when the rural
industries declare themselves in danger of
extinction. It seems a great anomaly;
but a greater anomaly is that much of the
trouble in which those industries find them-
selves is due to the very circumstances
which have produced these magnificent
show-exhibits. In plain truth, thousands of
men on the land in Australia are in trouble
to-day because the pockets of the land-men
were so easily filled in the years before the
smash. And, though of course the soaring
markets greatly helped, the country itself
was largely responsible for that rich pros-
perity. World forces have taken the prices
from us; they cannot take the country.
The Bulletin’s Land Page told the other
day of one man’s experience during the last
wheair harvest. From 1840 acres he and his
share-men got an average of over 29
bushels to the acre. One man, with the
help of one other, stripped 400 acres for an
average of 33 bushels in 13 days. The whole
farm’s crop of nearly 55,000 bushels was
taken off and delivered into silos in 19
days by 12 men, including four who bagged
and carted. It is true that that kind of
thing does not happen often. The crop and
the weather were both well-nigh perfect.
But in one or more respects better than
that has occurred: yields of 40 bushels have
many times been reported. It is not, how-
ever, that our average wheat yield is high.
Indeed, it is comparatively poor. But
there is surely no other country in the
world which equals our own for the ease
and cheapness with which the crop can be
grown and harvested.
And in regard both to the average yield
and the cost of production things have been
improving steadily and promise to go on
improving. There are no authentic figures
relating to the cost of production, including
harvesting; but this can be said without
hesitation—a bushel of wheat can be de-
livered with less than half the labor that
was required 40 years ago. As for yield
per acre the figures are definite. The aver-
age for all Australia in the 10 years 1890-
99 was 7.33 bushels. The average for the
10 years 1922-31 was 11.65 bushels. In
South Aus. in the earlier decade the average
was 4.69 bushels; in the last decade it was
an exact 10 bushels. And this improve-
ment, it has to be remembered, has been
accomplished in the face of an extension
of wheat-growing into districts—such as the
Murray mallee —once regarded as hopeless
for agriculture. There is still a wide vari-
ation in the yields from season to season.
But, it may be because of our better farm-
ing, we no longer seem to be afflicted with
those almost complete failures which were
common in the past. It is 13 years since
the average for all Australia has gone below
7i bushels; yet that was the general average
before 1900, notwithstanding that cultiva-
tion was then confined to what were re-
garded as the most fertile and best-watered
districts. Wheat-farming in many parts of
Australia is still a gamble, apart from the
price factor; but it is not the gamble it
was. Yet if it were not the gamble it
is, it might not be half so attractive to
Australians. Consider that crop of 33
bushels and what it means—at 3s. per
bushel, £4 19s. to the acre; and the 19s.
would much more than cover all expenses.
The land is worth probably £6 an acre.
There are many farmers who have “struck
it lucky” and paid for their farms in two
years.
What science and cultivation have done
for the wheat-farmer, science and breeding
are doing for the stockgrower. Artesian
and sub-artesian water has been discovered
over steadily-extending areas. Territories
in the Far West of N. S. Wales and in the
Murray basin of South Aus. believed to be
right outside the sub-artesian area have
been of late years yielding serviceable sup-
plies—largely because the engineer has
been overcoming the problem of damming
back sand drifts in bores. Meantime extra-
ordinary progress has been made in the.
cultivation and conservation of pastures.
At one time, only a very few years ago,
grass was grass, over which man professed
to have hardly any control. To-day over
a large area of Australia grass is a crop,
to be cultivated like any other. Not a
week passes without some alluring record
is published of the result. It is not only
that more stock are carried; they are also
healthier. This added to breeding is still
further increasing the wool-clip per sheep.
Coghlan estimated that in N. S. Wales it
moved from 3.281 b. in 1861 to 6.541 b. in
1899; Dalgety’s estimate for all Australia
is now 8.91 b. We have not yet done what
should be done in the improvement of our
dairy herds; but even here the figures are
encouraging. In Victoria, where most pro-
gress has been made, the average milk
production per cow was 324 gal. in 1919; it
was 487 gal. in 1931.
The burden which is being carried by
many of our primary producers is very
heavy. They are in much the same posi-
tion as the holders of Broken Hill shares
were 40 years ago. Following upon the
astonishing performances of some of those
properties in the early ’nineties, there was
a great boom in share values, and presently
thousands of people were left nursing scrip
which had crashed far worse than property
values have crashed of late. Yet the
record of the next 40 years was one of
almost continuous dividend paying. The
market crash could take the value from the
shares j it could not take the value from
the mines.
During the last two years or so, when the
atmosphere has been full of wailing, life
on the land has received a bad advertise-
ment. Such a show as that which has lately
come to Sydney may well turn thoughts
back to the richness and promise of the
land—may well turn thoughts to the great
consoling fact that it is not the land which
has failed us so much as commonsense ;
that it is not poverty which is at the
bottom of the troubles, of many of us, but
riches: the riches of a country which, as
correspondents have lately shown, lured
them into paying what to-day seem atro-
cious prices for property. But the riches
remain; and, with them, a thousand ameni-
ties of life which the pioneer could hardly
have dreamed of possessing.
THE REFERENDUM AND PARTY.
The ideal system of popular government is
one in which the people come together, as
they still do in parts of Switzerland, and
make their own laws. The Parliamentary
election is the best substitute for this that
we have been able to contrive: when it
became impracticable to bring all the
people together, a few were chosen to speak
for the many. But soon a difficulty arose:
though a member of Parliament had to
give an opinion on a hundred things, he was
apt to be chosen because of his opinions
about one or two things. So there was the
danger of Parliament passing laws on mat-
ters as to which the people had not really
been consulted at all.
In these days we hear a great deal of.this
leader or that having “a mandate from the
people.” What really happens is that a
man in the course of his election speeches
mentions a multitude of projects; and if
he is elected he claims that he has autho-
rity from the people to legislate upon each
and every one of them. Constitutionally
perhaps he has. But it certainly does not
follow that, even if he wins a majority,
it approves of every item in the man’s
long schedule. At the most the majority
says that it prefers this or that leader’s
proposals in the mass; and on that mass
basis people divide themselves into political
parties.
But in a true democracy no single piece
of legislation can be passed without having
the people’s approval: so it clearly be-
came necessary to add some other process
in order to get the people’s verdict on dis-
puted or doubtful items. The referendum
was the process added. Now, the very
essence of the referendum is that it is an
appeal to the citizen as a citizen and not
as a member of a political party. It is an
admission that our Parliamentary election
and our Parliament itself are makeshifts
and liable to error. Rightly or wrongly we
have cut ourselves up into parties; and
the referendum is a plan by which these"
parties may still exist while giving to the
individual a chance to vote honestly on
matters as to which he cannot see eye to
eye with his party. The referendum is thus
an appeal over the heads of party leaders
to the people. It is a matter for serious
consideration whether in a referendum cam-
paign party leaders should therefore not be
silenced altogether. If they are not—if
people are stirred up to vote on party lines
—then certainly the main purpose of the
referendum is destroyed.
If, however, party leaders insist on run-
ning true to type and making party capital
out of referendums, there is no reason why
the people should follow them. On the con-
trary the referendum is the one occasion
in the life of the citizen when he should be
able to say to the party leader: “This is
where you count for nothing and I count
for everything.” Unless that attitude is
adopted the referendum becomes a mere
machine for registering a party vote; and
Parliament does that already.
But there is a stronger reason still why
the referendum should be kept a non-party
instrument. So long as it has that charac-
ter —so long as the individual feels it to be
his duty to record his honest individual
and opinion—so long will men
feel- it necessary to have an individual and
personal opinion. Democracy and demo-
cratic institutions are in very grave danger.
They have failed pretty badly—so badly
that again and again of recent years they
have been thrown overboard, by Com-
munists and Fascists alike. But,, though
democracy has failed so badly, it still has
not the inherent dangers of either Com-
munism or Fascism. Both of those things
imply a dictatorship; and while a benevo-
lent and wise dictatorship may be the best
of all forms of government, the inevitable
tendency is for it to pass into the hands
of those who are neither wise nor benevo-
lent. Hence there is no form of govern-
ment so safe as an enlightened democracy;
the reason wly democracy crashed so
badly of recent years is that it ceased to
be enlightened. Men and women, instead
of making themselves competent citizen-
legislators, passed their power over to party
leaders. So we have had democracy in
name but not in fact. Vigorous referendum
campaigns, conducted in the proper way,
making an appeal for honest personal
opinions without regard for parties, may
save democracy. So far as The Bulletin
'is concerned, it would rather have a large
and widespread personal interest and a bad
decision, such as was come to in Westralia
the other day, than no personal interest and
an occasional right decision imposed on the
people by a dictator. But if the referendum
is permitted to go the way of so much else
and become a mere party tool, another nail
will be driven in democracy’s coffin. And
with the burial of democracy the way will
be open to tyrannies of every kind.
THE RED BARBARIANS.
Sabotage is no hanging matter in Australia.
I.W.W. agitators preached it, even during
the war, without being punished; it was
only when ardent spirits practised it in
the extreme form of incendiarism on a large
scale that they got into trouble. And
although the acts objected to were obvi-
ously to the advantage of the enemy, who
then seemed to be winning the war, the
accused were treated as persons under
arrest on criminal charges are normally
treated in this “capitalistic” Empire. They
were not prejudged by newspapers or mem-
bers of the Government; they were never
dragged from their cells to undergo merci-
less inquisitions; they had lawyers to pre-
pare their defence and appear for them,
and they were tried by jury. Those who
were found guilty and sentenced were
hailed as martyrs, and a Labor Govern-
ment released most of them as soon as it
could work the oracle. One of the gentle-
men, after opposing Labor candidates (for
which the penalty in other cases has been
disqualification for life), was admitted to
the party with unusual speed; he is now a
Sydney alderman and a member of the Leg.
Council, being among the 25 appointed at
the instance of Mr. Lang.
They order these things differently in
Russia. By all accounts the Union of
Socialist Soviet Republics is now in the
grip of a worse depression than any with
which its rulers taunted the “capitalistic”
world. The Five-year Plan has failed to
yield the fantastic results claimed for it;
the Communist farms, which were going to
put the U.S.A., Canadian and Australian
wheatgrowers out of business, have, under
doctrinaire direction, produced only a
chronic grain-shortage, and such commodi-
ties as can be exported for the building up
of credits (repudiators being unable to
borrow) have struck the universal price-
slump. In the gathering discontent vic-
tims have become necessary to the boss
Communists, or State capitalists, and there
are plenty to pick from. On March 11, as
is reported in an official White Paper, the
British ambassador at Moscow learned that
the 0.G.P.U., the secret police, had had 35
Russians arrested and shot, apparently with-
out trial, for “agricultural sabotage.” At
the worst the 35 Russians were guilty of an
offence which, in “capitalistic” N. S. Wales,
may be punished with seven years’ im-
prisonment : Section 209 of the Crimes
Act, 1900, reads:—
“Whosoever maliciously cuts, breaks or
destroys or damages, with intent to destroy
or render useless, any goods, article or
material, in any stage, process, or progress
of manufacture, or any loom, frame, machine,
engine, rack, tackle, tool or implement,
whether fixed or movable, prepared for or
employed in manufacturing or preparing
any such goods, article, or material, or by
force enters into any building or place, with
intent to commit any such offence, shall be
liable to perial servitude for seven years.”
According to Simon, the British Foreign
Secretary, one of the charges against the 35
Russians was “the deliberate propagation of
weeds in fields.” With his mind full of
the butchery of these poor wretches, the
British ambassador heard that six British
engineers, in the employ of the Metropoli-
tan-Vickers concern, along with a number
of Russian employees, had been arrested by
the same O.G.P.U. on a like charge. Judg-
ing that the men were in deadly peril, the
ambassador sought out Litvinoff, the
Soviet Minister, and said that “if the
Russian Government wished to continue
friendly relations with Britain it must
refrain from being drawn by the police into
trumped-up, frivolous and fantastic accu-
sations against a reputable British com-
pany.” This was not the language of diplo-
macy, but it very probably saved the
threatened men’s lives.
To the ambassador’s inquiry what the
engineers were charged with, where they
were confined and whether they could be
seen, no answer 'was given for a day or
so. In the meantime the men had been
subjected to the torture of the third degree,
with Oriental improvements. Monkhouse,
the head man—by birth a Maorilander —
was interrogated for 19 hours “by three
teams of examiners”; and, having revealed
nothing, was “examined” again for 17 hours
—all this “with no charge made against
him.” His experience was typical, and the
barbarous procedure went on; a man from
the British Embassy who after many days
was allowed to see the prisoners was shocked
at their appearance. Thornton was “worn
out”; he had been “interrogated daily, on
one occasion for 21 hours without a break.”
While undergoing this torment he was con-
fronted with MacDonald, one of his fellow-
prisoners, who accused him of being a spy.
MacDonald, who “looked awful,” became
embarrassed, andj the torturers put the pair
back to back. At the trial which was sul-
lenly conceded when the British Govern-
ment made preparations for passing a bill
prohibiting Russian imports, MacDonald
pleaded guilty. It is possible that he is
a weakling and a traitor to the honorable
brotherhood of English-speaking engineers,
whose machines are their children; but
he is not to be condemned on a con-
fession extorted from a mind driven by
cruel inquisition to the verge of insanity,
neither is any reliance to be placed on
evidence got that way. The trembling and
half-crazed creature who pleads guilty has
become a familiar object at these Moscow
trials, which—court, counsel, procedure,
judgment, talkie films of the show and
newspaper accounts—are all merely instru-
ments of Soviet policy.
More and more it becomes evident that
this Russian system, which Australia is
urged by rogues and fools to copy, is simply
a reversion to semi-savagery with a modern
veneer—a return to the state of things Avhen
the mass of the people, Orientalised Slavs,
were serfs to a privileged class governing
by methods of barbarism.
LIFE ON THE LAND.
“Womerah”: When we talk of life on the
land city-bred men and youths envisage
monotonous toil, life like a tethered goat’s,
the solitude of a hermit and the poverty of
a friar. That view is jaundiced and as
narrow as Pitt-street. Any man with the
dormant spirit of the old pioneers will wel-
come a situation which makes demands
upon his fortitude, endurance and initia-
tive; which promises to make him inde-
pendent of the caprice of a boss, and which
ensures his children support through his
own efforts—freeman in his own right,
bondman or beneficiary no more.
It is rightly affirmed that to succeed in
farming one must have specialised skill and
knowledge: this can be learned. The
greatest asset is business acumen and per-
tinacity: on a settlement near where I am
writing the most successful farmers have
been business and professional men, and
the few who have failed have been sons of
farmers.
Every Director of Education in Australia
realises the importance of persuading
youths to seek an agricultural vocation;
and, apart from school gardening and ele-
mentary agriculture, very definite contact
is made with the real interests of the farm.
A purple patch is the Junior Farmers’
Club, first established in Queensland, and
now general in N. S. Wales and some of
the other States. At the end of 1929 there
were 40 clubs in the Mother State, 60 in
1930 and 130 are in operation at present.
These clubs are composed of boys in rural
areas who engage in crop-growing, calf-
rearing, poultry-raising and the many activi-
ties incidental to farming life. Business
methods are stressed and costing is funda-
mental. Some of the leading pastoralists
and agriculturists of the State are patrons
or chairmen. In the wheat-growing com-
petition at Tamworth the judge from the
Agricultural Department stated that the
winning crop (that of a Junior Farmer)
of 42 bushels per acre would equal any
crop in the State for purity and quality. A
Wagga boy also won in the Open Wheat-
growing Competition. A lad at Albury has
gained so much expert knowledge through
club projects that he invariably wins in the
fat-lamb competitions at the Albury Show,
and is considered an authority on lamb-
breeding. The same boy established a State
record in maize-growing with a yield of
156 bushels per acre. Many Junior Farmers
are now making poultry-raising a profitable
employment; one boy consigns eggs to the
Sydney markets. Yet another junior has
30 cups for his wins at country shows and
in open competition; two more boys, at
Batlow, showed the adults how to grow
potatoes with a yield of 15 tons to the acre.
Junior Farmer exhibits are staged at over
30 shows in the country, and in some cases
the exhibits are so comprehensive that they
compare more than favorably with big
district exhibits, which are now regular
f GSitUFGS
There are 3000 Junior Farmers in the
State of N.S.W. who are potentially the
cream of our primary producers. They are
trained in exacting thoroughness in scien-
tific and business methods by expert super-
visors who are either ex-students of the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College or gradu-
ates in Agricultural Science from Sydney
University; they are unselfishly assisted
by local farmers. Those readers of The
Bulletin who appreciate-the national neces-
sity of a virile and intelligent yeomanry
will be cheered with the prospect of the
future, shaped in some measure by the
schoolboy farmers.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Five-year Parliaments.
Scullin went out and Lyons came in,
Moore went out and Smith came in, Lang
went out and Stevens came in, Hogan went
out and Argyle came in; in Westralia now
Mitchell goes out and Collier comes in,
and in South Aus. Richards goes out and
Butler comes in. In these days it would be
almost a miracle for a Government to sur-
vive a general election.
It is quite true there have been periods in
our history when changes of Ministry have
been more frequent. In less than three
years in the ’nineties South Aus. had five
Ministries, and before that, in the ’sixties,
it had 10 in a few weeks over four years,
and N. S. Wales had four in the one year
1877. But between those times and to-
day a very interesting change has taken
place. In earlier days there were for the
most part no very well defined party lines
in Australia, and new affiliations and com-
binations were continually being made.
To-day it is a rare thing for a change of
Government to occur except after a general
election. It is a rarer thing still for a
general election to occur without a change.
There are probably several reasons for
this, but the most important of all is that
the party politician, seeking office, invariably
promises more than he can perform, and
the Opposition scores off the Government’s
failures, blinding the public to the fact
that it would itself fail perhaps even more
egregiously. In this it is helped by man’s
large capacity for blaming something else
for his own shortcomings. We are assured
that Parliaments can make a new heaven
and a new earth; and when they don’t, we
raise our boot against the men who were
last in charge of the heaven-making
machine.
The frequent changes that were made
in former days did not matter very much,
chiefly because they caused scarcely a ripple
upon the public service. To-day with
almost every change of Government there
come other changes which mean new jobs,
new officials, new salaries; and though some
of these disappear after the next general
election, many do not. This is one of the
most fruitful causes of the bloating of our
public services.
But what can we do about it? In South
Aus. the new Premier declares himself in
favor of five-year Parliaments; and there
have been others who have made hesitat-
ing advances that way. The argument in
favor of this extension is that in a three-
year Parliament a Government never gets a
chance to show the real effects of its re-
forms, and is therefore thrown out of office
by men who would be its enthusiastic sup-
porters had they only waited for the policy
to bear its proper fruits. But suppose the
Government is the Government of a J. T.
Lang: can we reasonably ask the public
to be silent for five years while this gentle-
man is demonstrating that Lang is Right?
In every country where democratic institu-
tions are being clung to, the struggle is to
give the people more and not less direct
control over the lawmakers and their law-
making. One proposal accordingly put
forward in England has been for annual
Parliaments. But general elections are
costly and disturbing, and, after all, they
do not answer any one question with cer-
tainty. On the other hand, the referendum
can get from the public its answers to half
a dozen questions; so that five-year Par-
liaments plus the referendum would prob-
ably give the • people much more direct
control over their lawmaking than three- or
even one-year Parliaments without the
referendum. Moreover, Governments would
have a better chance of proving themselves
than they have under our present three-
year system.
e
Should Gaiters Be Imported?
The Anglican Church in N. S. Wales gave
itself a very doubtful testimonial the other
day when it decided to import an arch-
bishop from Western China. There could
be only two valid reasons for thus going
abroad. The body responsible for the
selection would be justified if there was no
one with sufficient piety, learning and
administrative capacity in Australia, or,
again, if there was so much jealousy and
pettiness within the Church in Australia
that no Australian appointee could be sure
of commanding the respect and loyalty due
to the high office.
On the first point, it may be that no-
body has quite so much piety, learning,
administrative capacity and other desirable
qualities as the selectors might desire. It
would be very remarkable if anybody had,
even candidates for archbishoprics being
human. But the question which it seems to
this paper no synod ever does fairly con-
sider is whether at such times the tendency
is not to give the outsider the benefit of
every doubt while the local man has to
stand absolutely on his own merits and de-
merits. Indeed, practically nothing but the
good is ever told of the outside candidate;
there is none of that fierce light which beats
upon the man who lives next door. Far too
often, as a result, Australia has been pre-
sented with bishops who have been over-
shadowed by many of their own priests;
and naturally the latter have not been able
to get that inspiration which they have
had a right to expect.
It may be that it is very largely the
bishops’ own fault. If on such an occasion
as the election of an archbishop they could
agree among themselves and choose one
of their own number for nomination —and
not necessarily one of their own number,
but at least one of their own fellow-
workers—there is hardly a doubt that the
nomination would be accepted. Until some
such plan is adopted it seems that the
Church in Australia will continue to say
that its own trained, tried and trusted
administrators are all very well for the
hard and ill-paid jobs of the backblocks,
but that it is safer to accept almost un-
known men for the well-paid big-city jobs
so long as they have not the disability of
having trained and toiled here where they
must work.
*
On Sticking to Your Guns.
One of the chief curses of Government is
what it calls “principle,” but which is really
pigheadedness or pride or obstinacy. Take
the elections in Westralia. It appears that
what defeated the Government was the ban
on crossword puzzles. Yet there was no real
principle involved—nothing that mattered.
But having said a thing it had to stick to
it, no matter how ridiculous it really was,
and no matter what the consequences. It
is the same over the secession referendum.
Nothing is more certain than that, now the
Groperlanders have registered their wishes,
events will not work out in the least in
accordance with the predictions of their
leaders. The Great War was another illus-
tration. Within a few weeks of that out-
break, every Government knew that con-
ditions were revealed which rendered all
their ideas about modern war illusory. The
Kaiser might have said, “Look here. I
now see that things are going to be quite
different from what I expected. I am not
going to be allowed to swoop down on
every European capital, declare myself
Emperor and loot you of your art trea-
sures,- like Napoleon did. So we’ll call it
all off and think of something different.”
Instead, all the belligerents settled down
to four and a half years of mud, blood and
misery in practically stationary trenches,
and the Kaiser is finishing up in Holland
a querulous old dotard, but as conceited
as ever, while the rest of the world is still
muddling along on the assumption that the
promises of the peace conferencers at Ver-
sailles will work out on the lines of the
various treaties. China is the only country
where it is the convention for Governments
to admit that they are fallible. The
Emperor always regarded himself as a child,
enlightened fitfully by Heaven, always
liable to fall into error, and, theoretically,
at least, with a mind always open to con-
viction. That is one of the reasons why
Chinese civilisation has endured longer than
any other. Even to-day the Republican
statesmen follow tradition, and, when their
policies fail, announce that it is their fault
and ask to be smacked for it. It is the
fashion of our statesmen to “stick to their
guns,” as they call it—really to excuse their
own failures and stupidities and ignorance
by putting the blame for the results on the
bad morals of people or something of the
sort; and under our indulgent democratic
system they can go on doing that for the
rest of their existence and make a hand-
some living out of it.
*
The Tung-nut Oil Industry.
Dear Bulletin, —As one who has been
closely associated with the experimental
cultivation of the tung-nut tree in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, I agree with Mr.
A. R. Penfold (B. 22/3/’33), and particu-
larly so in regard to his criticism of Mr.
F. Cotton’s data and conclusions (B.
8/2/’33 and 15/3/’33). The tree, especi-
ally A. Fordii, now being grown in Aus-
tralasia, is peculiarly selective in its climatic
and soil requirements, and the principal
difficulty in • cultivating it on an extensive
scale will be that of finding enough suit-
able situations. The Americans, after many
years of experiment, found that of their
extensive territory only Florida embraced
suitable climatic conditions, and this mainly
owing to the ameliorating influence of the
Gulf Stream. In New Zealand, too, the
scope is limited to the promontory north-
west of Auckland in the North Island. In
Australia suitable situations are to be found
in the east and south-eastern coastal hinter-
land, but their extent has yet to be deter-
mined by trial and experiment.
As Mr. Penfcld points out, there is still
much pioneering work to be done before
this can be regarded as an established indus-
try; but Australia appears to possess many
advantages, and, profiting by the experi-
ence gained in Florida, cultivators here
have been able to avoid many mistakes and
to achieve highlyrencouraging results.
Mr. Cotton estimates the cultivable
possibility at 55 trees to the acre. This, of
course, depends upon quality of soil and
cultivation. In Florida from 80 to 160 trees
were first set out, but the average is now
about 100 to the acre. In Australasia stock-
ing ranges from about 80 to 120, and pre-
sent indications are that this number is
not excessive for the plant food available.
Mr. Cotton estimates the annual yield
at under 40 gallons of oil per acre when
the trees are mature. We have no planta-
tions sufficiently advanced to disprove this;
but Florida records show that the highest
yield obtained there was equivalent to 97
gallons per acre, and that the average, in-
cluding both good and poor soil conditions,
was nearly 46. With better selection of
soil and improved cultivation, Florida
growers anticipate increasing this average
to at least 50 gallons, and the Australians,
with more recuperative conditions, hope to
do even better. An experimental planting
of 30-odd trees in N. S. Wales now enter-
ing upon their seventh year of growth
have this year borne a very fine crop of
fruit, which for weight and number will, it
is thought, prove even to be a world’s
record for that age.
With regard to Mr. Cotton’s estimated
price of 4s. per gallon in the European
market, value depends upon quality, which
is determined by analysis. China is the
only present source of supply, and it is well
known that the Chinese heavily adulterate
their product. For this reason values fluc-
tuate considerably, and have at different
times ranged from" about 3s. 9d. to 10s. 6d.
per gallon. An Australian user, I am in-
formed, recently paid slightly over Bs.
per gallon for a consignment of high-quality
Chinese oil.
Mr. Cotton says this is a cheap-labor
industry. In China it is a cheap-labor
industry. But there the nuts are collected
from trees in their wild state, ranging over
enormous tracts of mountainous country;
and the expression of oil and its transport
over long distances to market have to be
done by man-power and with crude appli-
ances. Under the Chinese methods only about
60 p.c. of the available oil is obtained from
the kernels, whereas by machinery 94 p.c.
is the average obtained. Another advantage
of scientific cultivation lies in the possi-
bility of growing nitrogenous cover crops,
which provide a fodder value, and are of
considerable benefit to the trees as a green
manure. Our most profitable industry, car-
ried on in the Chinese way, could pay only
Chinese wages.—Yours, R. Dalrymple Hay,
Consulting Forester, late Commissioner for
Forests, N.S.W.
♦
The Property Super-tax.
Dear Bulletin,— Although the Nationalist
Government headed by Messrs. Lyons and
Latham has been in power for almost two
years, it has not abolished the 10 p.c. super-
tax on property income. Interest rates have
been cut, and rents have been so reduced
that in many cases property ownership is a
liability instead of a source of income.
Dividends have been greatly reduced also.
Yet the Government still collects a super-
tax on property income which compels
people to pay treble the tax that would
be paid on incomes derived from salaries,
wages or businesses.
Here are two examples of the practical
working of the tax: —
(1) A taxpayer has a taxable income of
£5OO for Federal purposes. If that income
were solely derived from personal exertion
— i.e., from salaries, wages, commission,
director’s fees, or the profits of a business,
professional practice, or from pastoral pur-
suits —the tax would be £l2 15s. 2d. If,
however, the income were derived from rents,
interest or dividends, the tax would be in-
creased, firstly by reason of the income being
classed as property income, and then by a
further heavy super-tax of 10 p.c. on the
full taxable income of £5OO, less £250 flat
exemption for purposes of property tax (only
recently granted), making the tax as fol-
lows :
Ordinary tax on property income £l6 13 4
Super-tax 10 p.c. on £5OO £250 25 0 0
Total £4l 13 4
(2) A taxpayer has a taxable income of
£l5OO for Federal purposes. If the income
were from personal exertion the tax would
be £77 6s. lOd. If the income were classed
as property income the tax would be:—
Ordinary property tax £137 10 0
Super-tax 10 p.c. on £l5OO
£250 exemption 125 0 0
Total £262 10 O
From this it. will be seen that the tax
on personal-exertion income compared with
property income is: —
Personal
Exertion. Property.
On taxable income
of £5OO £l2 15 2 £4l 13 4
Ditto of £l5OO .. 77 6 10 262 10 0
The property tax is thus three times greater
than the personal-exertion tax.
The facts have been clearly pointed out
to the Lyons Government, but the suffer-
ing public have been told that the Govern-
ment could not amend the law at present
as it could not do without the revenue.
This means that an unjust tax, imposed on
one section of the community by an un-
sympathetic and desperate Labor Govern-
ment, is being continued by a spineless,
unimaginative Nationalist 'Government,
proceeding along the lines of least resist-
ance, preferring to take advantage of mach-
inery, no matter how unjust, created by the
party which it so roundly condemned,
rather than face the question of abolishing
the super-tax and raising fresh revenue in
a just and equitable manner. Any Nation-
alist Government worthy of the name
should have abolished this class taxation
within three months of coming into power.
In default of action by the Government,
the duty is cast upon Nationalist members
to bestir themselves and immediately insist
upon the total abolition of the tax referred
to, and so stop its application to the assess-
ments about to be issued on incomes earned
during the year ended June 30, 1932.—1 am,
etc., W. H. L. Walter.
«
The Settlement of the North.
Dear Bulletin,— The correspondent who
suggests a railroad from the Gulf (Q.)
to Wyndham (W.A.) is on the right
track, but I think better results would be
obtained if a line were built from Broome
through the hills, passing about 50 miles
south of Derby, where there is a coal de-
posit, and thence to Hall’s Creek,, possibly
on to Katherine River (N.T.), though, I
have no personal knowledge of the country
east of Hall’s Creek. Once off the coastal
flat, such a railway would open up an
immense tropical tableland, with a rainfall
well over 15 inches, and a climate and soil
very similar to those of Central Queens-
land. The greater part of this territory
would be very suited for short-season crops,
e.g., Indian corn, annual cotton and pea-
nuts, all grown by white labor.
Reverting to the subject of a recent dis-
cussion, I would certainly not try to grow
dates there, or in any other humid or semi-
humid tropical climate. Dates are essenti-
ally a crop for desert soaks: even a slight
cloudiness at fruiting time in Algeria will
halve the yield of fruit. Therefore I advo-
cate, not the Kimberleys, but the mouths
of the Ashburton, De Grey and Gascoyne
rivers for dates. There, though unlimited
water can be obtained by pumping, the
annual rainfall is only five inches, and there
is almost perpetual sunshine, just as in
Egypt and Barbary.
The emptiness of this huge area—both
Kimberleys and farther south in W.A.—
is a danger to the Commonwealth and a
satire on its statesmanship while there are
so many unemployed, married men with
families of boys for whom there is little or
no prospect in ordinary industry. But
obviously my own State (W.A.) has not the
capital for such a job without Federal
backing.—Yours truly. R. V. R.
L*
Murder as a Duty.
In Darwin the other day certain “wild”
aboriginals were charged with murdering
other natives in accordance with age-old
tribal law and were acquitted. But there
have been previous cases in which the
accused were convicted. Having this in
mind, in all probability, the entire jury
panel after this latest trial signed a peti-
tion which began by pointing out that the
aboriginal in such cases as that which had
just come before them was only complying
with rigid native convention. The petition
went on to suggest the establishment of a
specially-created Court to deal with similar
cnarges against aboriginals and empowered
to inflict milder punishments than those
provided by the ordinary criminal law.
The attitude of the jury was entirely
correct. But there is no necessity for
special legislation for setting up a new and
probably expensive jurisdiction. The end
desired by the petitioners is attainable
under the present laws. These provide that
if the Judge thinks fit he may hold a death
sentence in abeyance by “recording” instead
of pronouncing it, and, if the sentence is
pronounced, that it may be annulled by
pardon or commuted to a less drastic form
of punishment.
Papuan practice affords an illustration.
There, where natives have murdered others
in the course of complying with their social
obligations, they are tried in the ordinary
way under the Queensland Criminal Code.
If convicted, and circumstances warrant it.
the punishment may consist only in a brief
term of imprisonment. For many years
the Supreme Court of Papua has dealt with
cases of the kind in this fashion without
the setting up of a special criminal jurisdic-
tion. There seems no reason why the
Supreme Court of the Northern Territory
should not solve its problem in the same
convenient way.
It has the added advantage of tending
to bring the aborigines slowly to realise
that the old order has passed, and that to-
day there is the same law for the black as
for the white.
♦
A. G. Stephens.
A. G. Stephkns, whose death was reported
at the week-end, did very definite service
to Australian literature. He came to The
Bulletin when it was in the mind of the
paper to give greater encouragement to Aus-
tralian writers; and, while thereafter on the
one side J. F. Archibald offered his generous
encouragement—to Henry Lawson, Louis
Becke and a hundred others—Stephens did
perhaps equal service by offering his con-
structive criticism, in the Red Page, of
which he was in charge for many years,
and elsewhere. But his help went beyond
that. Archibald was a superb sub-editor in
the sense that he could compress a shape-
less 20 lines into a glittering half-dozen;
but when the story had to go out under
the name of the author, and where the
manner of the writer had to be preserved,
he very properly preferred Stephens’s work
to his own. What Stephens was thus able
to do for Lawson in those early days—and
for many another in less measure—demands .
public recognition; it was he and no other
who prepared almost all the volumes of
Lawson and his contemporaries for the
press. Fortunately or unfortunately, how-
ever, he had qualities of mind which un-
fitted him for staff work; but, though he
left this paper 20 years ago, he continued
to live a busy, independent literary life;
and when The Bulletin was preparing for
its jubilee in 1930, it was to A. G. Stephens
it unhesitatingly turned for a critical survey
of the paper’s influence on the literary life
of the continent. There was no other man
in Australia so well equipped for the task.


Snw(t£ ‘hbcixbu-keMi
CRAVEN A
in ine nea> moiAtWie’/Puicf
'CELLOPHAN E,,'PACK
Will Not Affect Your Throat
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD. 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY.
/
\
l
/
20
&
m
/A
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
At the Easter hullabaloo of the Lang
“party,” the “inner group,” which is chiefly
Garden and Graves, overwhelmed the
“socialisation group,” led by Lang’s brother-
in-law McNamara. It got its nominees on
the executive —president Keller, vice-presi-
dents Matthews and Howell and secretary
Martin—returned unopposed, expelled all
mutineers from the sosh committee and had a
resolution carried that unification and social-
isation of credit should be the principal
planks of the platform at the next Common-
wealth election. The gallery on the first
day was mostly for McNamara, and, as
usual, the propeedings were interrupted by
a rousing fight, in which Kelly, the door-
keeper, covered himself with glory. Asked
by a lady delegate whether lie was “solidly
behind” liis brother-in-law, McNamara re-
plied “I am behind the leader as long as
elie carries out the decisions of this party.”
Presumably “Labor Daily” reporters are
never admitted to family discussions of these
matters, but they must be thrilling.
Garden, who was a Communist candidate
for a Sydney Assembly seat in 1925, came
back from Russia pronouncing Lenin a
genius—“in fact,” he was heard to burble
in the Domain, “all the leader-rs of the R-re-
"Where are those Judges and banks? Let
me at ’em.”
volution are geniuses.” He now finds —as he
assured the A.L.P. conference —that a
greater than Lenin has arisen in the person
of a massive elderly gentleman with a high-
pitched voice who runs a house-agency at
Auburn, and can be seen almost any lunch-
hour eating two helpings of fried fish in a
Pitt-street cafe: —
Our leader-r is ahead of the god they bow the
knee tae. Our repor-rt goes further-r than the
policee advocated by Lenin. Mister-r Lang is the
greatest leader-r the kintra has ever produced.
This will not deter A.W.U. diehards from
insinuating that Garden writes Lang’s
speeches—or some of them.
Lindsay, the Westralian Minister of
Works, will be missing from the new. Parlia-
ment, along with Mitchell, his Premier, and
colleagues Scaddan and Parker. He was the
only Agrarian (there were a dozen) to be
unseated, and Warner, his conqueror in Mt.
Marshall, will probably be received into the
group, as was Piesse, who three years ago
defeated Thomson, then its leader. Latham,
Thomson’s successor, is bound to lead the
Opposition, since there are 11 Cockies and
Warner and only nine Nationalists against
Labor’s 30. This will be something new;
hitherto when Labor has occupied the Trea-
sury benches the Opposition leader has
always been a Liberal or a Nationalist.
Independents’ preferences saved S. R.
Whitford, the South Aus. Chief Secretary,
who, when the primary votes had been
counted, did not seem to have a 20-to-l
chance of retaining his Central Province
No. 1 seat in the Leg. Council. But the
Government party was reduced to a rem-
nant ; in the new Assemblv there will be
28 Lib.-Cockies, 13 Laborites, representing
three factions (six A.L.P.’s, four P.L.P.’s
and three Langsters), three Independents in-
clined to the Lib.-Cockies and two Single-
taxers. The Lib.-Cockies gained a dozen
seats and did not lose one; but Mclntosh,
formerly leader of the Cocky party and
Minister of Works, was hard put to it in
Albert. His margin over a Georgian for
the second seat was a dozen votes.
Of the six Premiers who signed the Plan
not two years ago, only McPhee of the Speck
remains as Premier. Scullin (Common-
wealth), Lang (N.S.W.), Moore (Q.).
Hogan (Vic.) and Mitchell (W.A.) were
all sw r ept aside by the electors, and Hill
(S.A.) would have shared their fate if he
hadn’t thoughtfully appointed himself Agent-
General. McPhee is in fact the only head
of a Government who has weathered the
storm of a general election during the depres-
sion years. He is, of course, eligible to
attend Highland gatherings—John Cameron
McPhee, son of Donald McPhee and Eliza
betli McLaughlin, his wife.
The Commonwealth Statistician, continues
to report that more people are going out of
Australia than are coming in; the net loss
last year was 4514 persons. Still there has
been a gratifying increase in the Queensland
Assembly electorate of Wynnum. There in
three months the electoral population has
increased by 10 p.c.—there were 9103 elec-
tors on December 31 and 10,115 at the
latest count. A by-election is about to be
held and Labor is in office.
The referendum figures reveal that the
Westralian secessionists are relatively
strongest in the farming districts and weak-
est on the goldfields. With a bit more
counting to be done, the farmers were
45,773 for and 17,42 S against secession; the
mining people were 6297 for and 7576
against, besides being 7578 for and 6070
against a convention. Pertli-Fremantle
voted 66,171 for and 35.174 against seces-
sion, 43,939 for and 57,076 against a con-
vention ; the far north and north-west boxes
showed 571 for and 511 against secession,
610 for and 479 against a convention. It
is doubtful whether the secessionists really
gained a majority in those remote parts ;
a good many northerners and north-westers
always vote by post, and secesh got a
smaller proportion of the postal votes (9308
for, 5063 against) than of the total for the
State (130,985 for, 67,008 against). Eight
per cent, of the ballot papers (actually
16,000) were informal. Thousands must
have been spoilt deliberately.
Austen Chamberlain has put it straight to
the new rulers of Germany, who are so very
like the old ones. He warns them, in effect,
that their explosion of “Prussian imperial-
ism, with savagery, pride and exclusiveness
added,” has so amazed and alarmed the rest
of the world that revision of the peace
treaty, return of colonies and disarmament
have been postponed indefinitely. No doubt
reports of atrocities have been exaggerated,
but the flight from Germany of men like
Einstein, Feuclitwanger and Reinhardt, and
the boycott of Jews in the trades and pro-
fessions, even on the sporting fields, tell
their own tale. Australians, who have found
the Jews splendidly loyal, deplore this sense-
less and wicked persecution of the race that
gave them their Monash, their Governor-
General, their G.O.M. of finance.
Without going into details, Collier, the
new Westralian Premier, has undertaken to
give effect to the vote for secession. He will
have his hands full trying to redeem his
party’s election promises—or the half of
them. Among the boons to be showered on
those who voted the right way are the full
basic wage (£3 95.) for a full week’s susten-
ance wmrk, half-pay for an idle week, aboli-
tion of financial-emergency wage-cuts, and
tax-exemption for all relief wmrkers and
those earning below the basic wage. And
there is, of course, to be increased taxation
on “those best able to bear it.”
JONATHAN: “Waal, gents., each takes what
wood he cuts, but, me havin’ the biggest
axe, I guess I’ll do most of the chop-
pin’.”
There are to be no scrutineers at the N. S.
Wales Leg. Council referendum. /It would
be better to have them, if only to stifle the
low insinuations of badminded blatherskites ;
but there is really no necessity for scruti-
neers. Each deputy returning-officer will
have a roll with the name of every voter
who has come to him marked off; it must
agree with the number of voting papeis he
has issued. He will count the votes in liis
booth, with the help of his poll clerk, imd
sign a certificate. The final results showing
the voting at each and every booth will be
open for inspection by anybody. To fake
a vote of such magnitude on a plain yes or
no could only be effected by a conspiracy
to which the chief electoral officer, dozens
of divisional returning-officers and hundreds
of deputy-returning-officers and poll clerks
would have to be parties.
MITCHELL: “Here’s a bouncing baby for
you, Collier. I’ll leave it with you.”
COLLIER: “No, no, don’t leave it here. Take
it away and try Ramsay MacDonald.”
Lang’s 10 p.c. tax on punters who picked
winners—it was imposed on the amount
staked as well as the rare profit, and there
was, of course, no allowance for losses —•
nearly settled racing in N.S.W. Stevens
substituted in October a 1 _ p.c. tax on
bookmakers’ turnover. He anticipated a fall
in revenue, but not a drop from £183,072
for the first nine months of 1931-32 to
£73,971 for the corresponding period of 1932-
33. Evidently the. dishonest variety of
McShortodds is continuing the manipulation
of betting sheets begun in Lang’s time; but
this is not the only explanation. The race-
course-admission tax yielded £51.070 as
against £53,906, the tote tax £70,053 as
against £89,185. Lotteries are absorbing
money that would in other days have been
taken to the racecourse, but it is equally
true that too much is demanded from the
public at the racecourse turnstiles and totes,
and the s.-p. harpy is reaping the benefit.
Tote-tax receipts in Victoria are increas-
ing every quarter. They would steadily in-
crease in N. S. Wales also if race-
course-admission charges and the tote tax
were reduced (5 p.c. ought to be enough
for any Government), and if the punter
could buy a tote ticket for ss. in the grand-
stand and 2s. 6d. in other parts—“straight-
out,” “place” or “double.” Rightly handled,
the tote would be a help to the horsebreeding
industry, as it has been in Maoriland, and
a potent weapon in the war on the s.-p. para-
site, Avho has baffled the police.
The goldfields vote against separation
draws attention to the fundamental
weakness of secesh in a federal union.
Roughly 91 p.c, of the secessionists live in
the south-west, or what the new geographers
call Swanland. If Westralia, dominated by
these south-westerners, is entitled to with-
draw from the Commonwealth, . which the
Constitution Act declares to be indissoluble,
then on the sacred principle of secesh the
goldfields are entitled to withdraw from
Swanland. They could, of course, remain
in the Commonwealth without even taking
a vote.
Scaddan used to be known in Westralia
as “Happy Jack,” but he can’t be particu-
larly happy when he looks back on his
cheouered career. It has been reserved for
Scaddan to lead the Labor party in the
Assembly when it gained its greatest victory
—that of 1911 —and to go down and out
with the Nats, when Labor, led bv liis lieu-
tenant and successor Collier, inflicted on
them their worst defeat.
Senator Daly has been expelled by the
bosses of the State A.L.F. for siding with
the Richards faction. in the S. Aus. Donny-
brook. It is not the first time h'e has in-
curred their displeasure, but hitherto the
Federal A.L.P. executive has protected him.
Daly made an excellent impression when,
as a new Senator, he was called upon to
lead the House for the Scullidore Govern-
ment. He was voted out of the Ministry
when the quarrel with the Langsters
occurred —he had championed Lang at the
N.S.W. election —and Reds as well as Pinks
turned on him when he supported the
Premiers’ plan. The A.W.U. may be able
to do something- for Daly if h e decides to
take his chance at the Senate election next
year; but the probabilities are that he is
as sick of Labor politics as his long-time
partner, the defeated Attorney-General Bill
Denny, must be.
Pearce’s astonishing luck sticks to him.
Since he left the carpenter’s bench to become
a politician he has been nearly everything
by turns: Freetrader, protectionist, revenue-
tariffist, pacifist, oonscriptionist,/ socialist,
individualist, member of Labor, Nationalist,
Nat.-Country-party and U.A.P. Ministries,
pro-Hughes, anti-Hughes, anti-Lyons, pro-
Lyons. H'e has timed his conversions so
happily that he has drawn Senator’s pay for
32 years and Minister’s pay for 20 —far
longer in each case than any other man.
Now for once in his strange history he has
backed the wrong horse. He had to oppose'
the secession movement, and by doing so he
has made himself the most unpopular legis-
lator in Westralia. There will be a Senate
election in 18 months or so, and if he had ro
contest it he wouldn’t have a hope—it would
be fatal to put his name on the ticket. As
it happens Fortune’s favorite was re-elected
in 1931 for six years from July 1, 1932.
Kingsmill is the Federalist Senator who is
ruefully contemplating the prospect of hav-
ing to ask a seeesh U.A.P. executive next
year for a nomination.
“Nationalisation of banking presents no
dceficulties” to Lang’s clumsy bear-leader
Garden. “Deeficulties” would arise all the
same. For example, if an electorate with
straws in its hair decided that the banks
should be placed under the control of the
Langs and Gardens, there would be an
almighty run on them before Parliament
could meet. Then the borjoice and capeetal-
ists would most firmly decline to deposit
funds in the Lang-Garden banks. If com-
pulsion were decided upon it would be neces-
sary to borrow the Red Army.
Queensland’s new transport legislation is
as drastic as that wished upon N.S.W. by
Lang. It aims at driving all privately-owned
motor-lorries and passenger vehicles off the
roads for the benefit of the railways. On
the Downs a firm has for six years been
running a two-way passenger service be-
tween Toowoomba and Warwick. The extra
cost per car under the new Act is 365. per
day in addition to tax and fees amounting
to £54 p.a., so the caravans no longer ply
for hire. The railways give no return
service between these towns on Mondays or
Fridays, and there is no same-day return
rail service between Toowoomba and Allora,
another centre served by the motors which
have ceased running.
“It is suggested that the differences between the
Socialisation group in N. S. Wales and Lang are
a put-up job in order to make the public believe
that Lang is not an extremist, in spite of what he
did when he was last in office."
“You wicked, tail, to want to hit someone
in the eye! I disown you completely!”
The Forgan Smiths are making much of
their intention to carry out extensive laud
settlement, particularly in the rich coastal
scrub lands of the Palmerston (N.Q.). This
part of the scheme, at least, was borrowed
from Moore; the restriction to leaseholds is
Labor’s own contribution. A lot of money
will be required for roads, but Foggy is
confident he can get it, “revival 1 loan” or no
“revival loan.”
South Africa has its secession troubles
also. When the new Administrator of South-
west Africa arrived in his bailiwick, he found
the Union flag pulled down and replaced by
the old German tricolor. The Germans in
this mandated territory were not tepatriated,
as they were in New Guinea and elsewhere.
The fact that their country has been dis-
covered to be rich in diamonds which the
South Africans will not allow them to mine
has not lessened their bitterness.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“General Prac.”: A Sydney doctor has
stated in the witness box that of all tests
likely to bowl out drunken motorists, the
handwriting, and especially the manner of
the writing, is the surest. Quite right;
I’ve seen drunks who could walk a chalk-
line, pick up pins, stand steadily on one
leg after closing the eyes and get safely over
such verbal hurdles as “The Leith police
officer arresteth us” fail lamentably on
handling a pen. Our local sergeant asked me
to look at a taxi-driver who had been the
leading actor in a nasty smash. The man
came through all the usual co-ordination
tests with flying colors. And then I asked
THE SPORT.
ARDENT RACING MAN: “Tell me, is there anything you fancy?”
THE NOVICE: “Well, I’d simply love a cup of tea.”
him to write his name*and address. He
waved the pen in the air with a bravura
flourish, chuckled happily, dived at the ink-
pot, missed, dived again, splashed ink on
himself and on me, and finally produced a
scrawl which suggested the wanderings on
paper of an ink-soaked blowfly. Yet he was
sober enough to know that he was a goner,
Yes, the handwriting tells the story every
time.
* * * *
“Failed Ph.D.” : The concerns from which
you can hire fancy costumes and the like
(B. 12/4/’33) venture into sartorial realms
far more eclectic; they will supply cleri-
es clothing, professorial gowns and exclu-
sive decorations. I was an envious onlooker
at members of the not-long-created Aus-
tralasian College of Surgeons filing into
conclave, a gorgeous concourse of kingly men
and queenly women in hoods all colors and
textures. I congratulated a fellow-grad, on
his Solomonic glory. “Lord,” he said, “it
isn’t mine. You don’t suppose more than a
few of the Old Guard waste good quids on
moth-food like this. Hire ’em? Of course
we hire ’em.”
* * *
“Rokko”: Surely “X.S.” (B. 12/4/’33)
is in error in assuming that the £3OOO worth
of false teeth stolen from a Melbourne den-
tist are made up into sets? The finished
article would have little attraction for a
thief who knew anything about dental
matters, while the loose product is nearly
always saleable and profitable. Just how-
profitable was revealed in the inquiry into
matters relating to the career of one Voss,
who was a passenger in the ’plane which
crashed in Belgium the other day, causing
the death of the two young Sydney students
Hugh and Katherine Mcllrath. Voss was
suspected of being involved in the smuggling
of dental supplies, amongst which were thou-
sands of pounds’ worth of loose false teeth.
“Molar”: One may meet with strange
spare parts as family heirlooms. “Can yer
make me plate fit?” he asked from the
dental chair. Examination disclosed a very
ill-fitting denture. How long had he worn
it? “’Bout nine munce.” I was dubious
in view of the disparities betiveen his oral
tissues and the denture, but he soon allayed
my professional curiosity—“they was me
dead uncle’s teeth.” The denture hurt a bit,
but after I had rectified that I was to be
sure to let him have the same teeth back;
“thought a lot of me dead uncle!”
Jjc '-l' ❖ ❖
“C.Q.”: Now' it’s the Melbourne Uni.
Debating Club which has affirmed its stern
resolution in no circumstances to fight for
King and country. Melbourne Uni. youths
always like to be in the fashions from over-
seas, even if they are sometimes 25 years
late in hearing about them. In that they
don’t differ from people outside. The debate
had its humorous aspects. A good-looking
young pacifist was asked what the club would
do if the Japanese arrived. He replied that
they could be told that they w'ere not in-
vaders but immigrants and received into the
family. Professor Bailey, who summed up,
pointed out that China had preserved its cul-
ture for 2000 years by being too proud to
fight and by absorbing its conquerors. It
w'as not explained how this would apply to
Australia, whose powers of absorption com-
pared to China’s are as 64 to 450, nor was
mention made of the fact that the Chinese
were recently eminently pacifistic at Shang-
hai, with the result that an area as large
as Balmain was laid in ruins ; but the debate
was not remarkable for logic. Another
youth said that as Scripture ordered us to
turn the other cheek lie would vote in the
affirmative. At first this was taken for a
typical undergraduate rag, but the orator
was deadly serious.
“Protozoa”: Sydney saw- an interesting
happening the other day when a man
arrested for drunkenness vras proved to be
suffering from an attack of malaria. The
mistake is not unusual in non-malarial coun-
tries. A severe and sudden attack renders
the victim practically speechless and unable
to walk steadily or even stand, while vomit-
ing is also conspicuous. , Captain Barton,
once Lieut.-Governor of British New Guinea
and at the time commandant of the B.N.G.
Native Police, once told the writer of an
attack which he sustained while going along
a Brisbane street bound for a Government
House garden party. He was arrayed in
silk hat and frock coat and had to sit down
on the kerb while he vomited into the gutter,
He was quite unable to explain himself to
an outraged constable who came along, and
but for the intervention of a couple of
friends the adventure would certainly have
ended in the calaboose.
“Runa” : One M.L. eccentric bequest that
has passed into legend concerns a consider-
able sum held in trust under the will
of an old identity, who left the money
to be used for the benefit of the first trip-
lets born on the northern side of Auckland
Harbor. It is still accumulating. The near-
est to success was a woman from the country,
who stayed for some time with relatives on
the North Shore, but unfortunately crossed
the harbor to a city hospital the day before
qualifying for the King’s Bounty. She missed
the local legacy by a few hours.
“Barellan”; The Boer War wasn’t the
only one in which a church bell was souven-
ired (B. 5/4/’33). I was sheltering from
shell fire with a mob of my company in the
crypt of Messines church when a shell
knocked down the
peal of bells. I
secured one, num-
bered 19, and at
present it is used
for a call to mass
in my district. . I
thought that as I
had got it from an
R.C. church in
Flanders I could
not do better than
return it to one in
Aussie. I carried
the bell round
France for two
years.
* ❖ *
“Eia”: Over
2000 lads applied
for 10 Government
cadetships in the
New Guinea ser-
vice. The poor
outlook for youth
in Australia had
probably much to
do with it, but the
urge for adventure
doubtless played its
part. Of the 10
selected, three are
from N. S. Wales,
two from West-
ralia, one each
from Queensland
and South Aus-
tralia, and the
balance from Vic-
toria. The kindred
service in Papua
was, in pre-Federa-
tion days, largely
recruited fr o m
Queensland, especi-
ally the north. In
those days there
was none of the
preliminary train-
ing which awaits
the New Guinea
cadets; officials
had to learn their
jobs as they went
along. Most of the
spadework in Brit-
ish New Guinea
was done by these
men, Sir William
MacGregor having
a strong predilec-
tion for the Banana-
landers. Many of
h i s lieutenants,
even if they were not native-born—-men such
as Mathew Moreton, Bingham Healy and
Ballantyne—had served a long apprentice-,
ship in North Queensland.
* * *
“Ciievroford”: Pillion-riders, especially if
they are female, are regarded with intense
aversion by motorists, but a Melbourne
Judge recently gave one of the species dam-
ages in connection with an unusual acci-
dent claim. The damsel was riding behind
a motor-cyclist who came into collision with
a truck-driver. He and his passenger
claimed compensation. ’Sonah found that
both the rider and the driver were guilty
of negligence, but as the girl was merely
a passive party she w-as entitled to £l4O
from the company employing the truck man.
* & * *
“Atcliung”: Recent discussions on uni-
forms remind that the German lower-deck
ratings on the cruiser Koln, now visiting
Australia, still wear for “best” the smart
cloth jacket which marked the men in pre-
war days. This is of blue cloth, cut some-
thing like the Eton jacket, and worn with
a white waistcoat over the col-
lared blouse. It is profusely
adorned with brass buttons, and
the petty officers mount gold
braid on the cuffs. There was
once a similar rig in the British
navy, but it has long vanished,
like the picturesque straw hat.
* * *
“C. Coral” : Medical men seem
to have decided to retain the
name “influenza” for epidemics
of the type which was sweeping
England recently, thereby asso-
ciating the visitation with the old
Italian word which in the Middle
Ages attributed it to the “influ-
ence” of the stars. The idea of
astral influence is perhaps fan-
tastic, but if “atmospheric” were
substituted there might be some-
thing in it. Influenza has baffled
medical science; cause and cure
are alike unknown. In 1782 the
disease attacked the men of the
fleets, far away at sea, contem-
poraneously with its outbreaks on land. And
in the epidemic of 1889 Central Asia,
Canada, Greenland and South America were
all affected at. the same time.
* * * *
“Tomyodai”: Mrs. Drake-Brockman in
her story “Men Among Pearls” mentions
the petty squabbles amongst the pearlers of
the nor’-west; for myself I prefer to remem-
ber how r they always rush to the help of
those of their number in danger or distress,
at the risk very often of their lives. I recall
with pride the way they turned out and
salved the schooner Battler when she went
ashore on the rocks at Mangrove Point, Roe-
buck Bay, although her owner at the time
w T as at loggerheads with practically every-
one in town; how Billy Hill, when his boat
sank under him, reached one of his Japanese
crew, who was unable to swim, and kept him
afloat in a howling sou’-easter for a couple
of hours until they were rescued by Cap-
tain Richardson (who now commands the
liner Jervis Bay) in the schooner Eva; and
how Syd Pryor, whose diver Takahaise had
both his lifeiine and airpipe severed through
being folded by a whale, saved his life. Syd
dived in from the deck of liis boat, secured
the end of the lifeline some two or three
fathoms below the surface, and brought it
up to the dinghy, which had been launched
with .the greatest possible speed; for a dread-
ful time the whale thrashed about and made
matters perilous for Pryor and Takahaise in
the water, and for the dinghy and boat, too.
Takahaise, too, was dead-game; though black
in the face when brought up on the deck of
A MUTUAL FEELING.
“Maggie, I’m surprised!”
“Lor’ , so am I, mum—I thought you was out.”
the boat, two hours later he donned dress and
gear and started diving as though nothing out
of the ordinary had happened. And I recall
memories of another kind. When a pearler
has put to sea right on the bread-line, cash
and credit exhausted, and has had the mis-
fortune to run into bad weather and perhaps
lose a mast or anchors and chain ; when such
a man comes ashore, not knowing how he is
going to refit, the odds are that the first
words with which he will be greeted will be
“Sorry to hear of your bad luck, old man.
I’ve got a few lengths of chain [or an anchor,
or a mast, as the case may be]- and you’re
welcome to them.” Big hearts those pearlers
must have; but they are mostly as soft as
they are big.
5jJ
“Nakhoda”: In a report to Canberra
Patrol-officer Niall relates the discovery of
a tribe in New Guinea which practises
suttee, widows being strangled by their
relatives so that their souls may join their
husbands. It would be interesting to know'
whether the widows like being strangled.
This is not meant to be facetious. It is an
actual fact that in Bali, Dutch East Indies,
where the custom persisted into the present
century, the wives of dead rajahs used to
hide in the jungle to avoid being rescued
from their grisly fate by the Dutch authori-
ties, which shows that convention can be
stronger than the fear of death. A few'
years ago I met at Bulelcng, in Bali, a
woman who had bolted from the funeral
pyre to the wdiite man’s haven. Her action
brought her into so much odium that she
had to remain on the other side of the island.
There she started a large sarong industry
and now owns a fleet of tourist motor-cars.
iji ❖ ***
“000”: In the year 1878 Dr. Henry Grat-
tan Guinness foretold from his interpreta-
tions of Biblical chronology that the years
1917, 1923 and 1934 would be eventful years
for the Jews. In 1917 Allenby delivered
Jerusalem from the Turk. In 1923 England
received the mandate for Palestine. In
March, 1924 (which comes within the pro-
phetic year 1923), the Caliphate fell. No
one knows yet what will happen in 1934,
but there are indications that hundreds of
thousands of Jew's will be driven out of
Europe in the near future. Where are they
to go? The U.S.A. will not admit them;
England is overcrowded; Palestine couldn’t
absorb a fraction of them. Meanwhile our
Federal politicians are becoming increas-
ingly uneasy about the future of the North-
ern Territory. Why not invite the Chosen
to develop it? They have immense financial
resources, and in Palestine they have shown
that they can successfully settle on the land.
“Nakhoda”: The Jews are not the only
people w'ho have been the victims of Govern-
mentally-directed pogroms. In the early days
of the Dutch East India Company commer-
cial jealousy and political considerations
moved the white authorities to let the Javan-
ese loose on the Chinese colony in Batavia,
and on one occasion 17,000 are said to have
perished. The Spaniards twice used the
same methods to reduce the Chinese popu-
lation in the Philippines to handier pro-
portions. In each case the result was as
it will be in Germany—serious economic
loss that fell on all classes of the community,
with Ah Sin more numerous and
more populous than ever.
OFF THE WAGGON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tis Easter and the earth rolls on
Its usual course, unhurried,
Though lots of us are peaked and wan
And more are pale and worried.
Still, in the clouds one rift is plain,
One gleam Depression’s crag on:
The breweries that long have lain
Disused are brisk as bees again
Now Uncle’s off the waggon.
He’s had a long and drouthy ride,
With never elbow bended
(Except by those that law defied) ;
It’s over now and ended.
The pot, the shell, the pint, the stein,
The schooner and the flagon
Once more in deep content they drain
From California to Maine,
For Uncle’s off the waggon.
H'e didn’t fall abruptly off
The water-cart that bore him,
As feeble souls, ’mid sneer and scoff,
Too oft have done before him.
He stuck it out a dozen years
And kept the t.t. tag on ;
Now vats and tuns in endless tiers
Can scarce supply sufficient beers
For Uncle—off the waggon.
The cablegrams are mostly full
Of bickering, snarls and fury.
The Ishmael Soviet sauces Bull;
The Nazis harry Jewry ;
The Japs are planning jolts and jars
For China’s patient dragon ;
But in the land of stripes and stars
There’s jubilation in the bars
Now Uncle’s off the waggon.
’Tis Easter and the tale’s retold ;
And on the world goes whirling,
Though lots of us are short of gold
And more are short of sterling.
I doubt Sam’s beer’s the sort that sets
Absorbent souls a jag on;
And yet the world may wake (what bets?)
To find it’s been forgiv’n its debts
If Uncle gets' sufficient wets,
Now that he’s off the waggon.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Chevroford”: Collingwood (Vic.) Coun-
cil, which recently had an acrimonious
debate as to the aesthetic and moral value of
a captured German gun as a decoration, for
Darling Park, is now considering present-
ing the piece of ordnance to the German
nation “as a friendly gesture, with fraternal
greetings for the co-operation of both nations
in future peaceful progress.” It is also
proposed that the captain of the visiting
cruiser Koln be asked to convey the olive
branch to the Fatherland. It is true that
what Herr Hitler seems to want is not
obsolete guns but thriving tropical colonies,
but I think the movement is a good idea
and ought to be extended. The guns cap-
tured from the Russians at the Crimea
might be handed back with our compliments,
also the Hotchkisses taken from the Boers.
If the movement becomes world-wide it will
lead to a shipping revival and probably
bring us out of the degression. Incidentally,
when I was a small boy with a passion for
Deadwood Dicks, a cobber and I stuffed the
obsolete Russian muzzle-loaders on the Adel-
aide parade ground full of newspapers and
fruitskins under the impression that they
were going to be used for Queen Victoria s
birthday salute. We turned up on the day
in order to see the effect, and were relieved
and disappointed in about equal parts when
the Garrison Artillery unlimbered some
modern fieldpieces and used them. This sug-
gests that the effect of these symbols of
war on the rising generation may not be as
deplorable as some of the Collingwood coun-
cillors imagine.
* * * *
“Lara”: These periodical articles about
the tenacity of the Hebrew race in preserv-
ing its identity through centuries of oppres-
sion always remind me of another tribe of
humans, who have perhaps achieved little
HE SHOULDN’T HAVE
MISSED A COCKROACH.
CUSTOMER: “You filthy person. There’s a cockroach in that soup!”
RESTAURANT-KEEPER: “Vena sorry, sair. Da cook ’e musta deesh it up vcet his eyes
shoot.”
and suffered nothin? in comparison, but
who have just as obstinately refused to be
absorbed—the gipsies. Approximately we
know when the gipsies entered Europe,
hut whence they came is still conjectural,
Perhaps the Romany strain, grafted on ro
others, has been responsible for . more than
it is ever credited with. In a biography of
Sir Richard Burton I read that he had gipsy
blood in him The statement wasn’t made
entirely on the strength of Burton’s obses-
sion with the Orient and his pilgrim-
age in disguise to Mecca; his name was
given as an added argument, “Burton being
one of the few recognised surnames among
British gipsies.” I believe that is true, and
there are others I have heard or read of.
Cooper is one, Lee another; Finn is some-
times given as a third, though Finn sounds
more Irish than anything else. My remote
experience of gipsies in England taught me
that they didn’t trouble much about sur-
names ordinarily, but I suppose such are
indispensable on occasions. Australia hasn’t
many gipsies, but the census may throw some
light on what they call themselves.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: .Another movement which has
been agitating Oxford for some years is
Burkmanism. Burkman is a new sort of
American evangelist with sufficient claims
to intellectuality to go down in Britain’s
premier seat of learning. He caused some
mild flutter in Melbourne six or seven years
ago by holding select seances in private homes
in the Dandenongs, where emotional young
men and women searched their souls and
publicly confessed their sins. Since his appear-
ance at Oxford he has swept some thousands
of frustrated males and females off their
feet and started a movement. They hold
regular meetings where members indulge in
self-castigation of a verbal nature and in
Freudian terminology. A characteristic of
the cult is its concentration on sexual
matters. It is nothing for a member to
stagger a perfect stranger by lifting the lid
off the most intimate family relationships in
the course of a general conversation.
Hi X * X
“X.S.”: The strange spectacle of the
police having to be called in to prevent dis-
order because men and women weren’t
allowed to pay their taxes quickly enough
has been presented in Melbourne. Angry
and baffled citizens had been gathering for
days at the State taxation office to hand
over their income tax, but the accommoda-
tion proved inadequate owing to legisla-
tion having increased the number of the
unfortunate from 140,000 to 500,000. Some
people stood in the queues for hours,
and if they went away and told the State
if it wanted their money it could come and
fetch it, it would be difficult to blame them-
Premier Argyle promised to have facili-
ties provided during the Easter holidays
which would make paying taxes a real
pleasure.
* * * *
“Jungor”: Journalism was pursued under
handicaps by the editors of the little news-
papers that sprang up all over the West-
ralian goldfields in the roaring ’nineties. The
galvanised-iron offices could be relied upon
to collect and condense all the heat of
summer and the cold of winter, and an irrup-
tion of flying ants on publishing night, when
oil lamps provided the only lighting facili-
ties, was only one of many dismal afflictions.
Some newspaper offices hadn’t even floors.
One editor of my acquaintance acknowledged
that he didn’t so much mind the dust that
his feet churned about when he was in the
throes of composition, but when it rained
and the dust became mud he reckoned it
was over the odds. Another, when his 6-x-8
sanctum became too much like a Turkish
bath, would drag a chair on to the sidewalk
and write leaders and such things on a blot-
ting-pad balanced on his knee. The plan had its
drawbacks, inasmuch as half of the passers-
by would stop to talk cheerful irrelevancies;
on the other hand, he might get valuable
suggestions from them if he was rocking it
into the town council or emphasising the
district’s claim for two or three more Gov-
ernment batteries—and those were the
staple subjects for editorials. Anyhow, the
sweat didn’t drip on the paper so madden-
ingly if one could get a mouthful of fresh
air now and then,
* .
“Spasebo” : If there is one thing more
boring than another it is the news from
Russia. One day we learn that Stalm is
gravely concerned about the failure of the
Five-year Plan, and next day an Amen-
can millionaire announces that it is a great
success. Next day it is printed that the
Soviet grain surplus is threatening world
prices, which is quite likely to be followed
by the announcement that a million people
have died of famine in the Ukraine. The
chatter correspondent of a morning daily
says that she found the people in Moscow
plunged in uneasiness, gloom and suspicion,
and an evening paper interviews a returned
professor who declares that he saw nothing
but smiling faces. I suggest that the next
HIS LUCK WAS STIFF.
“Johnny! What do you mean by coming to school with your hair in that disgraceful
condition?"
“No comb, Miss!”
“Can’t you use your father’s combV’
“No hair, Miss!”
time the Commonwealth Government grants
a passport to Russia it should stipulate that
the recipient should confine himself to such
questions as whether the beer is as good as
Carlton, whether the girls use lipstick,
whether Ronnie Colman is preferred to
Thomas Meighan and where the flies go in
the Russian winter.
“Corporal Wanst”: Those new army re-
cruits (B. 5/4/’33) will have a less rocky
road to tread than their predecessors in the
Old Contemptibles. It has been found that
the modern rookie is affected by rifle prac-
tice. the smell of the cordite and the con-
tinual noise giving him a headache and
making him jumpy. He is now to be trained
with a luminous target and a special rifle,
which makes a black spot on the target when
the trigger is pressed. There is no noise,
no recoil, and the cost of ammunition is
saved. It sounds all right for the piping
times of peace, though the man in command
of the firing party will have to think up
some new expressions to use when a care-
less recruit sends a spot of light past his
nose instead of a .303 bullet. Also, in real
battles there is apt to be a lot of noise,
together with assorted smells, and breaking
the man trained under the new system into
these will be a problem.
* * * *
“Darling Banker”: A pressman never
knows what a par. of his will lead to.
Short of copy, a Barrier scribe noticed
from the diary that the Moslem fast of
Ramadan was about to begin. As a fill-up,
notes on the fast were taken from the office
encyclopaedia and published. A court case
was the result, the evidence showing that
the cause of a violent quarrel between two
Afghans was the accusation by one of them
that the other had given information to the
press on religious matters.
❖ Hi H« ❖
“Purist”: That august assembly the
French Academy keeps a vigilant eye on
the national tongue. Recently it dealt a
felon blow at the modern flapper by decid-
ing that the word demoiselle, one of the
most beautiful in the language, must dis-
appear from current speech on the ground
that it no longer bears its old meaning. The
reason given by the “Immortals” is that, in
addition to being a title of honor, the word
described a young woman who was all shy-
ness and decorum. In their opinion the
modern flapper does not measure up to that
standard. Henceforth she will be known,
not as une demoiselle, but as une jeune fille;
and yet people insist the French are a chiv-
alrous folk!
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The “Age” has been having a
symposium of Adam Lindsay Gordon, his
blemishes as well as his merits. Attention,
of course, has been drawn to some of the
amazing blunders or misprints that have
persisted in edition after edition. “To-nighi
with Plato [instead of Pluto] we shall sup’-
is perhaps the worst, but there are plenty
of others. One commentator jabs a pen into
mors graturn as a hopeless error; in my
edition (Massena and Co.. 1891), it is mors
gratam, which is just as bad. Yet, curiously
enough, nobody has assailed Gordon’s slovenly
pronunciation of Latin in the same poem
“Ars Longa, Vita Brevis.” Nine times he
rings the changes o.n the last word with
“weave is,” “achieve .is,” and so on, as if
the first syllable were long. It is, of course,
as short as it can be —as short as in the
English derivative “brevity.” Gordon’s
Latin, although he often manages to work in
a tag effectively, is dreadfully rocky. A
schoolboy of his period in England who
wrote Fili Meus for the vocative of “My
Son” (this is in “The Road to Avernus”)
would have been lucky to escape a flogging.
It is said that the poet, when he was a
member of Parliament in S. Aus., was wont
to garnish his speeches with classical quota-
tions, doubtfully intelligible to anyone except
himself. Probably there was no “Hansard”
in those days, but one wonders what the
reporters made of it.
H* H* * *
“Viator”: How inexpressibly silly are
some of these Government regulations! At
Cooma (N.S.W.) the other day a motor
goods-lorryman admitted having carried some
cricketers to play in a country match with-
out a special permit. H'e was fined £1
and costs under the Transport Co-ordination
Act. Another lorryman, whose offence was
that he had conveyed a couple of passengers
from Adaminaby to Cooma (“against the
peace of our sovereign lord the King,” pre-
sumably), put up a fight. He contended that
he had a right to give the pair a ride, one
of them being a business partner and the
other a brother-in-law. The magistrate
gravely consulted authorities and pro-
nounced that the business partner had been
carried legally, but not the other fellow.
So the same fine was imposed. If the
brother-in-law had been a brother, he might
have come under the head of “a member of
the family,” and thereby have become a law-
ful passenger, but the “in-law” relationship
was inadequate. The paltriness of it!
* * * *
“The Dip”: The experiments of Sir
James Jeans (B. 5/4/’33) are a reminder
that very few people can observe accurately.
In every trial of any importance eye-
witnesses flatly contradict one another,
while even men to whom accurate observa-
tion should be second nature trip occasion-
ally. In a Maoriland case. two men iden-
tified a suspect as a thief whom they
had seen getting out of a window at a dis-
tance of 200 yards. The fact that they had
never seen the accused before was advanced
bv the prosecutor as a reason why the jury
should accept their evidence, and accepted it
was, though on that account alone it should
have been rejected. It is laid down in Dr. Vin-
cent’s weighty “Legal Medicine” that, given
normal eyesight, one should be able to recog-
nise in broad daylight intimate acquaintances
at from 50 to 90 yards, or from 110 to 165
yards if there are particular and very
characteristic signs; but that certain iden-
tification of casual acquaintances is possible
only from 28 to 33 yards, and of strangers
at not above 16 yards.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Touching the discussion on
Australian newspaper names, don’t forget
the “Torres Strait Pilot,” which is a daily
sheet published at Thursday Island. About
eight inches by ten, and sold at six-
pence, it is one of the world’s smallest
dailies. The “Pilot” office is also the secre-
tarial quarters for the pilot staff who guide
the ships in Torres Strait waters, and the
rendezvous of the pilot-captains when they
reach T. 1., so that a chance inquiry for a
“Pilot” may produce either the newspaper
or a cheery-featured officer.
“WE WANT GEORGE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is suggested that Senator Pearce, who has
been a Federal Minister, with only three brief breaks,
since 1908, might be happier as High Commissioner
in London, far removed from the rage of the Wc-st-
ralian secessionists.”
They’ve got it in for you, my lad,
For furnishing an instance bright
That Federation’s not as bad
A bane, nor half as black a blight,
Across the Trans., beyond the Bight,
As last week’s plebiscite insists.
Your name is Mud with them, too right,
Those ravening secessionists.
In truth you make a rotten ad.
For their insufferable plight;
Such fine and piping times you’ve had,
While theirs, protesting yells despite,
Grew year by year more lean and tight,
With Fed’ral gyves upon their wrists—
Ensuring you an impolite
Reception from secessionists.
You never tried to make their pad
A smoother one, their load more light,
While up the ladder, brisk and glad,
You climbed to be a belted knight,
Establishing on office quite
A lien by timely turns and twists —
Considerations which excite
The choler of secessionists.
Pearce, never doubt they’re sore and mad,
The way they shake their freckled fists!
They have it in for you, begad,
Those furious secessionists!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


AT LAST
QUICK RELIEF
FROM CATARRH
SPLITTING HEADACHE
DIFFICULTY IN BREATHING
AFFECTED HEARING
COLD IN HEAD
Is there anything more distressing than the
difficult breathing of Catarrh sufferers and the
inconvenience it causes ? END IT —for your
own sake and for the sake of those about you.
Those sickening pains in the region of the
eyes, the ringing noises in the ears—why
suffer when Catarrh Clysmac will give you
quick relief? Made from pure volatile oils, it
goes right to the seat of the trouble, bringing
soothing relief and leaving the head as “clear
as a bell.”
Get a supply of Catarrh Clysmac to-day. Every
package carries a guarantee, and all Chemists
sell it at 1/9 or nearly three times the
quantity for 4/6; or direct from Santox
Chemical Co., Ltd., Box 1035 H, G.P.0., Sydney.
YOU’VE WASTED MONEY
in shares and other speculations, and are likely to do so again. Make sure that one of your
investments is safe; be certain of some provision for your dependants should they lose your
support. A good and • safe way is to take out a policy with the
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LiTD.,
which has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal
bonuses in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. The
office is solid and progressive. For review of actuary's report see
“Bulletin,” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J.' MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
tVESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Why Stammer
or Stutter?
When you can be permanently and perfectly
cured of stammering, stuttering, etc., by my
own original scientific method. I am in no
wav connected with any other person of similar
' profession in Australasia, and my method is in
no way similar.
Testimonials from Doctors, Great Public
Schools, Education Dept., St. John’s, Cambridge,
England and many others cured by me may
be inspected. I guarantee a perfect, permanent
Cl,?C ’Phone, call or write for appointment.
MBS. E. G. PHIEEIPS,
Bishop’s Chambers, 60 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney. Phone. B\\
ĥ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Speck’s new Governor, Sir Ernest
Clark, is well up in years, having just kept
his 69th birthday. He was called to the Bar
40 years ago, but his life has been spent among
the red tape and entanglements of Govern-
ment finance. After the war he was_Assist-
ant Secretary to the Inland Revenue Depart-
ment ; then he was Secretary of a Royal
Commission on Income Tax; later he was
Assistant Under-Secretary for Ireland, he
came this way as a member of Duckham s
Economic Commission (1928) and he
finished up as Permanent Secretary of the
Treasury of Northern Ireland. Since leav-
ing Belfast he has lived at Reading, where
the biscuits come from, and devoted his
working hours to transport problems. His
recreations are golf and fishing. He is mar-
ried, but there are no children.
Dr. Walter Roth, whose death in British
Guiana at 73 was announced last week in
a brief cable, was one of the most excep-
tional men of science Australia has har-
bored. He was born in London ; his father was
a Hungarian exile of 1848 and his mother
English. After taking his medical degree, he
came to Australia in 1887, and was for some
time a master at Brisbane Grammar School,
going then to Adelaide as Director of the
School of Mines. After a term as master
at Sydney Grammar School, he went again
to Queensland, and there, as surgeon at.
Boulia Hospital in the far west of the State,
gathered the material for his “Ethnological
Studies Among the North-West Central
Aborigines,” a work that gained him a great
reputation in the world of science. Later
he was appointed Protector of Aborigines in
Queensland, and the result of his work in
that job stands to-day as his best memorial.
Westralia borrowed his services for aborigi-
nal research, and then again he shifted his
quarters, finally ending as curator of the
museum at Demarara. He was a man of
striking independence of character, a trait
which, perhaps, had much to do with his
restlessness.
A. G. Stephens, the first editor of The
Bulletin’s Red Page, and for many years
Australia’s most widely-known literary
critic, died in St. Luke’s, Sydney, unexpect-
edly, on Saturday. He was 67. Stephens
came from Toowoomba (his mother died only
last week) ; he was apprenticed there to the
printing trade in W. H. Groom’s office. He
soon satisfied himself, however, that he could
write better than most people whose MS. he
handled, and he went to London and Fleet-
A. G. STEPHENS, as he was when the
Red Page knew him—the drawing is by
Hugh McCrae.
street. His contributions from there greatly
impressed Archibald, who brought him on to
this paper, where he remained until 1906.
Besides editing most of the poets and prose-
writers of the ’nineties and early years of
this century, he wrote several volumes of
travel notes, critical essays and stories —-all
marked by that directness of manner which
he taught his disciples.
D. H. Bardolph, the leader of the Lang
party in the S. Aus. Assembly, and his two
followers come from the same electorate —
Adelaide, the Surry Hills and Woolloomooloo
of those parts. Circumstances favored them
just as they prejudiced Bill Denny, the
Labor Attorney-General, and his friends. A
former member, named Edwards, a local
hotelkeeper and popular person, was given
a long sentence for abominable practices
and is still serving it. With plenty of money
behind him there was appeal after appeal;
but every effort to get him free failed. Of
course he had his friends, mostly of the sort
that love to see bricks chucked at Judges
D. H. BARDOLPH, leader of the Lang
Planners in South Aus.
and Attorneys-General; and Bardolph and
his friends chucked hard. So Mr. Lang gets
three supporters in the S.A. Parliament.
Still it was no easy thing: even Bardolph
was not chosen till the tenth count of prefer-
ences. He has earned his crust of -late as
editor of the South Aus. “Worker.”
From an enginedriver’s job on the Golden
Mile Jack Scaddan climbed in six years to
the leadership: of. the Labor Opposition, in
Parliament, and within eight to the Premier-
ship, with a majority such as no Premier
had had and a seat that looked as safe as
the Bank of England. But his luck only
held until 1916, when, after a period of
agonised indecision, lie came off the
fe.nce on the conscription side. He lost
his goldfields seat, but a couple of years
later he found a coastal one at Albany,
and five years of office in a Nation-
alist-C.P. Government followed. Then
“Happy” threw up politics with, the idea of
becoming a captain of industry in the motor
business, and, finding the fates against him,
started from scratch again to woo metro-
politan electors. At first they proved deaf
to his blandishments, but presently he won
a seat and with it another three years of
office under Mitchell. Now he has once
again been engulfed in the waters of
adversity.
S. J. Harwood, of Queensland, must have
put up something like an academic record
when he recently took his degree at the
Queensland Uni. at the age of 74. , A Devon-
shire man, he joined the State teaching
service in 1888, retiring at the end of 37
years’ service, during which he held many
important appointments. Leaving the North,
he spent some years as master in Sydney
schools, including St. John’s, Darlinghurst.
Fourteen years ago he decided to go for a
degree, but illness prevented him achieving
his ambition sooner.
Some good old names have just come back
into S. Aus. Assembly. G. O. Morphett got
in for Murray; his grandfather (of Mor-
phettville) followed his g.-g.-father (Hurtle
Fisher) as President of the earliest Leg-
Council. Newland (North Adelaide) is grand-
son of the Encounter Bay farmer-preacher
pioneer; his father was in several. Minis-
tries, and wrote the classic “Paving the
Way” (and his brother Phil was in an Aus-
tralian XI as wicketkeeper). Playford
(Murray) is grandson of “Honest Tom” P.,
several times Premier, and carries on the
family tradition of a fruit-gardener in the
Hills.
Helped by preferential voting, the, political
Independent gets a larger chance in South
Aus. than in any other State; and, as a
rule, the Independent group contains some
notable men. Among them is Herbert Base-
dow, just back again for Barossa. Basedow
is a S. Australian of German descent (his
father w;as a former Minister for Education)
who has specialised in anthropology and is
a very high authority on black brother, with
whom he has lived for considerable periods.
Basedow is one of those versatile men with
extraordinary memories who can pass any
examination on a few weeks’ notice: he is
an M.A., M.D., Ph.D. and B.Sc., knows
almost half the languages of Europe and
can never quite make up his mind whether
he is a medical practitioner, a geologist (he
has led various prospecting expeditions) or
a politician. He is one of Adelaide’s most
popular radio talkers.
Among those whom the swing of the pen-
dulum has brought back to the S. Aus.
Assembly is W. A. Hamilton, who has had
the pretty rare experience of sitting in the
Parliaments of two States —Victoria (for
Bendigo) and his own. He has been study-
ing produce-marketing problems most of his
life: he was born on one of the first vine-
yards laid out on the Adelaide plains, and
the family still own and work it.
Scholar, politician and soldier, W. Ken-
nedy Smith, who was laid to rest in Rook-
wood (N.S.W.) cemetery last week, crowded
much into his 45 years. He left Scotch
College, Melbourne, for Ormond College
within the University, where he took high
honors. Politics attracted him, and the elec-
tors of Dundas sent him to Vic. Assembly.
Then the war called, and he received severe
spinal injuries at Polygon Wood. For 11
years or so after the war he taught in N. S.
Wales high schools.
Teddy Needham, the new M.L.A. for Perth,
has been in and out of Parliament since
1905, when Fremantle gave him his first
term in a very short-lived House. But
he had become well enough known to secure
a Labor nomination for the Senate, and
he won and held on to a seat there for 13
years. The conscription split left him on
the opposite side of the fence to his old
colleagues Pearce and Lynch; he went out
in T 9, returned in ’22, served another six
years and encountered the turned-down
thumb once more. Now after 27 years he
returns to State politics—surely a unique
achievement.
C. M. R. Dumas, of the Mt. Barker
“Courier,” has been asked -by S.A.’s Provin-
cial Press Assoc, to complete his 20 years as
its president, His son, Lloyd Dumas, is
editor of Adelaide’s only morning paper, the
“Advertiser.”
The 65-year age limit and the fact that
boys are no longer admitted to the civil
service at the ages that formerly ruled make
it improbable that “Jerry” (Arthur J.)
Ryan’s 51J years with the Postal Depart-
ment will ever be beaten. He joined the
service in Sydney as telegraph boy at 13;
he became a sorter, and remained one when
the travelling post offices were introduced on
trains. He has been a mail-train sorter ever
since, and reckons that in that capacity he
has travelled 1,870,000 miles.
H. C. Gibson, who has secured the job
of industrial appeals officer to Melb. Lord
Mayor’s Fund at £5OO p.a., has had a long
spell of service as a union advocate in arbi-
tration courts. He has been Federal sec.
of the Enginedrivers and Firemen’s Associ-
ation for 14 years, having previously been
branch sec. of .the same organisation, in
W.A. In 1928 he was at Geneva as workers’
delegate to the International Labor Con-
ference, He relinquishes his union billet
for his new post.
A J. KIRTON, M.L.A. for Mornington
(Vic.).
Frank Johnson, publisher of The Bulle-
tin prize novel “Cattle Camp,” is about to
bring out a collection of Les Robinson's
humorous and fantastic stories, some of
which appeared in this paper. The title
of the book is “The Giraffe’s Uncle.” Ken
Slessor h°s written a p’-efoce •'•'J —HI
be a suitably bizarre cover design by Unk
White.
The development of the < advertising “ser-
vice agent” has been rapid. In the begin-
ning, less than 59
years ago, when
every salesman
did his own adver-
tising, a few men
made a few
pounds writing-
catchy ads., most-
ly for patent
medicines. Then
some enterprising
person bought
(say) IOOOin. of
newspaper space
and farmed it
out, undertaking,/
if called on, to
supply the read-
in g matter.
Nowadays, though
a few big adver-
tisers have their
own publicity de-
partment, there
are many well-
organised agen-
cies which look
after clients*
advertising. One
of the first of
these agencies in
S ydney was
Smith and Julius,
both members of
the firm art-
ists, who special-
ised in “display.”
Later they joined
up with another
firm; now Harry
Julius has broken
away, and,
though Sydney
Ure Smith stays
behind, he is to
have a long spell
abroad—his first
visit to Europe.
Some fine artists
H. M. MAC KAY, man-
aging director of N.Z.
Airways and Motor
Services, who flew
across the Tasman with
Kingsford Smith.
have made a beginning with Smith and
Julius, among them Leason and Flanagan,
tin' latter still doing great work in the
U.S.A.
H. F. Richardson, a former Minister for
Forests, has announced that he will not offer
himself for re-election to Vic. Leg. Council
when his term expires next year. He has
already represented the S.-W. Province for
21 years and is approaching fourscore.
Marmaduke Coats, who has been awarded
the rare M.S.M. (Meritorioujs Service'Medal)
for efficiency in administration of military
matters other than combatant, was staff-
sergeant-major to the Footscray Regiment
in the early days of compulsory service when
regiments were given territorial titles. It
was he who pioneered a scheme for interest-
ing parents in their compulsorily-trained
boys, and when war came he went to the
front with a bunch of his trainees, soon
climbed into commissioned rank, and was
acting-major when he was invalided with a
smashed leg. When he had recovered and
the' war was over, there was no place for
the ex-major in the A.M.F. but as an S.S.M..
the fate of many an A.M.F. man who served
in the A.I.F. It was Birdwood, visiting
Australia, who recognised Coats, whom he
had known in the A.1.F., in a parade of
n.c.o.’s, and asked what a man of his type
and experience was doing in that galley.
Then the heads of the Armchair Army woke
up, and Coats, made captain and brevet-
major, was posted to command of the Foots-
cray battalion of which he had once been
S.S.M. He was a very lame c. 0., but as
live as ever.
Admiral Napier (ret.), vffio has been
less harbor in 1881 when a snotty on
11.M.5. Inconstant, flagship of the squadron
which brought our present King and his
elder brother to Australia in the course of
their world tour. In 1904 Sydney saw him
again as flag captain of the Australian
station in command of the Euryalus, and
later he was stationed at Garden Island as
Captain-Superintendent of Sydney Naval
Establishments. During the war he was in
charge of submarine defences on the east
coast of England, retiring from the service
in 1919. A scion of a famous naval and
military family, he is a descendant of that
English admiral whom Thackeray has
enshrined in a verse:—
I see Jerusalem and Madagascar,
And North and South Amerikee,
With the British fleet all a-riding at anchor
And Admiral Napier, K. 0.8.
Sam Leon, K.C., a former Vic. Crown
prosecutor, who died in February, left
£26,539. His son and daughter, to whom
the estate goes in equal parts, are Dr. John
Leon, of Fullerton, S. Aus., and Ethel Leon,
a pharmacist, of the Melb. suburb of Arma-
dale.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries
Nomi-
f Dividends To Re- nal Re-
Nov., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 14,777 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10,299 4,478 615
1923.. 16,349 10 „ 10 „ 11,824 4,525 5,140
1924.. 18,449 10 „ 10 „ 15,000 3,449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 „ 10 „ 18,193 2,622 11,211
1926.. 25,808 10 „ 10 „ 19,462 6,346 17,557
1927.. 34,178 10 „ 10 „ 22,917 11,261 28,818
1928.. 33,803 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,803 37,621
1929.. 33,934 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,934 46,555
1930.. 12,083 Nil Nil Nil 12,083 58,638
Deficit.
Written off assets .. £153,362 ) in* am
Reserves disappear .. 56,486 j
Loss.
1932*. 99 Nil Nil Nil 151,309
*Two years.
The latest figures cover the two years to the
end of November last; no accounts were
presented for 1931. Paid capital advanced
from £112,711 in 1922, when the co. was
formed to take over Prospect, Minnamurra
and Bombo quarries, to its present figure
(£339,413 in 64,407 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
275,006 ords.) by par issues. The expan-
sion was hastened by developments in road
and other construction work, which resulted
in a strong demand and good prices for
meta] and a run of 10 p.c. divs. Then slump
and curtailment of expenditure on public
works, etc., pulled the business up with
a jerk, leaving the co. heavily over-capi-
talised. To cover the estimated shrinkage
in the book value of fixed assets and shares
in other cos., £209,848 has been written off,
leaving £151,309 (=lls. per ord. share) of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books at the end of November last.
A more detailed view of what has occurred
in this and other respects can be had from
the following comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1922. 1929. 1930. . 1932.
Paid capital.. £112,711 £250,000 £339,413 £339,413
Owing on
M i nnamurra 20,925
Overdraft .. 5,996 23,165 24,041 22,471
Sundry creditors 5,052 26,185 38,008 11,015
Fixed assets.. 125,210 309,505 318,918 153,225
Stocks . . 3,325 7,354 6,063 2,886
Book debts . . 23,845 47,394 48,625 22,190
Gash, etc. . . 1,055 980 1,471 372
Shares in
other cos... 89,416 43,996
Thus, over the last two years, the book
value of fixed assets has been reduced by
£165,693, and that of shares in other cos. by
£45,420. These shares are Associated’s hold-
ing in Western Blue Metal, bought in 1930.
To knock £26,993 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors and £1570 off the over-
draft, debtors’ balances were reduced by
£26.435, stocks by £3177 and cash, etc., by
£1099. Excluding shares, the excess of out-
side liabilities over more or less liquids
was £BO3B, or £2158 more than the excess
at the close of accounts in 1930.
The co. got its full share of whatever busi-
ness was to be had, and the trading loss over
the two years was £99.
The board’s original proposal to slash
10s. off all shares and make the prefs. 5 p.c.
non-cumulative, with the right to advance
with the ords. beyond that point, was, of
course, rejected as an abrogation of pref.
rights for the benefit of the ords. A com-
mittee of pref. shareholders and the board
then drew up separate schemes. The direc-
tors now propose to write off ss. per share
of the pref. and 10s. per share of the ord.
capital, to make the pref. div. 5 p.c. cumu-
lative, with the right to advance beyond
that point to 74 p.c. with the ords., and
to cancel arrears of pref. dividend. The
committee has agreed to forego the
arrears and to reduce the div. to a
minimum 5 p.c. cumulative. It considers,
however, that the face value of the shares
should remain at £l, that they should
advance with the ords. beyond 5 p.c. with-
out restriction, and asks that the prefs,
also be given priority as to capital and
the right to appoint a director to the board
to represent them. In the circumstances
they are reasonable requests. Thus the
matter stands for the present. The posi-
tion in respect of the capital rights of pref.
shareholders has never been clearly stated.
The future for both classes of scrip
depends upon the earning capacity of the
plant and the quarries, and that is doubtful.
The market prices the prefs. at 3s. 6d. and
the ords. at 2s. as against 245. each three
years ago.
Permewan Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 6,850 8 p.c. = 6,000 850 49,680
1923 . . 9,704 10 „ „ 7,500 2204 51,884
1924 . . 15,486 12) „ „ 9,375 6111 57,995
Premiums on shares, £6250. . . . 64,245
1925 .. 15,811 12) p.c. = 9,375 6436 70,681
1926 . . 19,031 124 „ „ 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 . . 22,165 12) „ ~ 13,802 8363 85,575
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 91,825
1928 .. 24,693 124 p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 12) „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 . . 17,949 10 „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 .. 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO .. 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 . . 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 .. -. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .. 81,773
1933 . . 366 Nil 81,407
T<J staff fund, £B3l .. .. .. 80,576
This 49-year-old produce agency and carry-
ing business is scattered through the back
country of Vic. and N. S. Wales. The last
three years of the table record the co. s
worst experience since ss. per share was
written off capital following the big drought
early in this century. For the decade to
the close of accounts in 1918 divs. averaged
6J p.c.; for the next 12 years the average
was 11.3 p.c. Meanwhile £106,250 of fresh
capital was gathered and the board leant
heavily upon outsiders to finance clients and
carry more merchandising stocks. _ Then
slump brought a sharp contraction in turn-
over and a crop of bad debts, while stocks
had to be worked down on a falling market
in order to lighten the outside debt. Hence
losses have shown up; but the position is
improving.
After making “substantial” allowance for
bad and doubtful debts, last year’s gross
earnings (£54,387) were £494 lighter, mak-
ing a slip of over 58 p.c. during the last
three years. Exes. (£54,753) were pulled
back a further £1998, leaving the loss £1504
less than the previous year’s at £366, which
was rubbed out by a transfer from the tax
reserve (now £318). In addition, there
was a further loss on the sale of a sawmill
which the co. had owned for 21 years. This
loss was charged to the contingency reserve,
reducing it to £12,328; the drop in this and
the general lay-by totted up to £3285. The
contingency fund is said to be more than
sufficient to cover the shrinkage in value of
shares held in Murray Shipping, Ltd., in at
£lB,OOO.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1920. 1925. 1929. 1932. 1933.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 75,000 156,250 156,250 156,250
Liabilities. . 79,212 63,415 129,091 36,639 33,295
property d . 47,193 38,571 79,288 65 y 157 60,991
Book debts 90,583 119,109 212,150 120,625 109,036
Merchandise 32,883 44,244 78,706 47,244 43,965
Shares Mur-
ray Ship-
ping .. _ 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 13,306 27,280 38,449
The year’s contraction of £4166 in the
book value of fixed assets was due mainly
to the sale of the sawmill already referred
to. Excluding shares in Murray • Shipping,
but including merchandise, the more or less
liquid surplus (£158,155) was only £355
lighter than at the previous balance.
It has been decided to return per share
(£31,250), thus reducing paid capital to
£125,000 in fully-paid pound shares. The
market prices the scrip at 19s. 6d. After
allowing for the return of capital, the yield
at that price would be 6.2 p.c. on a 41 p.c.
div. basis.
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 13,201 10 p.c. = 8834 V 1110 2 944
Special tax provision, £3257 j
Reserves.
1923.. 12,804 10 p.c. = 8834 3970 1,026
1924.. 12,642 10 „ „ 9622 3020 4,046
1925.. 8,481 8„ „ 7993 488 4,534
1926.. 8,765 8J „., 8834 4,465
1927.. 7,876 8„ „ 8077 4,264
1928.. 9,066 8) „ „ 8582 484 4,748
1929.. 6,071 7„ „ 7067 3,752
Deficit.
1930.. 544 5)„ „ 5553 1,257
Added patents, £2B .. • • • ■ 1,285
1931.. 3,446 4) p.c. = 4542 2,381
Added patents, £43 .. .. •• 2,424
1932.. 3,216 4 p.c. = 4038 3,246
This co. was formed by Charles Ludowici
in 1917, when he broke away from the old
firm, J. C. Ludowici and Son, founded by
his father. For the eight flush years to- the
end of 1924 divs. averaged a trifle under
10 p.c. sweetened with' a one-for-three bonus-
scrip issue in 1920. To provide the gift
assets were written up; £13,000-odd was
added to the tangibles, and patent rights, not
treated as an asset herein, were given a value
of £6732 in the books. Then erratic markets,
mounting costs and industrial and other
troubles affected earnings, and for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1929 it
was a struggle to keep the div. around 8 p.c.
For the last couple of years exchange has
given the co.’s export earnings (it has de-
veloped connections in Southern Asia) a nice
lift, and exes, have been pulled back. So,
despite the dulness, and despite lower prices
and the primage on raw hides from Maori-
land, the co. has been able to pull through
with small profits—3.o4 p.c. on capital last
year as against 3.1, 0.5, 6, 8.9 and 7.8 p.c.
back to 1927. So reserves had to be tapped
for £822 to pay last year’s 4 p.c., raising the
amount of capital unrepresented by tangibles
to £3246 at Dec. 31.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it is as follows: —
Dec., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £88,333 £100,963 £100,963 £100,963
Liabilities .. 7,008 879 1,481 1,695
Property & plant 54,040 64,694 63,932 63,452
Stocks.. .. 39,123 30,928 31,743 32,746
Book debts .. 11,061 4,912 5,991 4,555
Cash, etc. .. 818 4,038 1,683 1,577
Everything depends upon the soundness of
the stock figures and the efficiency of the
plant. The more or less liquid surplus
(£37,183, including stocks) was £753 lighter
than at the previous balance.
The market, which doesn’t anticipate much
recovery in earnings, prices the pound shares
at 65.; sellers stand off at 13s. At the
middle price the return would be 6.3 p.c. on
a 3 p.c. div. basis. The book value of the
backing is 19s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Emu Bay Railway Co.
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Loss, dends. Assets).
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 295,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158,994
1922.. 295,000 282,815 10,703 Nil 169,697
1923.. 295,000 293,693 10,849 Nil 180,546
Asset reinstatement, £2546 .. 178,000
Capital written down, £78,000.. 100,000
Profit.
1924.. 300,571 397,964 11,310 Nil 99,921
1925.. 300,571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,996
1926.. 300,571 397,574 13,568 Nil 99,985
1927.. 300,571 397,574 12,885 Nil 99,990
1928.. 300,571 397,574 12,883 Nil 99,997
1929.. 300,571 397,574 13,327 Nil 99,996
Loss.
1930.. 300,571 397,574* 1,820* Nil 104,761*
1931.. 300,571 397,574* 51* Nil 104,812*
Profit.
1932.. 300,571 397,574* 1,501* Nil 103,311*
‘Exclusive of interest on debentures ( £14,726
at 31/12/’32).
The co. lost its main source of revenue (the
haulage of metals) at the beginning of this
century, when the mining boom at Zeehan
(Tas.) petered out, owing to the appear-
ance of refractory ore. The co. has since
been unable to keep up regular payments
of interest and rents. In 1924 £130,900 of
44 p.c. cumulative debentures replaced the
Emu Bay-Mt. Bischoff lease, which had
carried a rental of £lO,OOO p.a., and
£266,674 of 5 p.c. stock was substituted for
the co.’s own debentures and interest arrears.
Both issues are irredeemable, and the fives
are non-cumulative till the end of this year,
after which they become cumulative.
At the end of Dec. last interest on the
44 per cents, had fallen two years in arrears,
and the fives had gone hungry since 1929.
The prefs.—6l,soo 7 per cents, and 122,071
6 per cents., both non-cumulative —have not
had a div. since before the war, nor is one
in sight. Of the ordinary capital £143,000
has been written off, reducing the total to
£117,000; and all but £13,689 of this was
represented by intangibles at the close of
1932.
About three years back it looked as if the
long dry spell might be broken. The Elec-
trolytic Zinc Do., having overcome the treat-
ment problem in connection with the com-
plex ores of the Read-Rosebery field, put up
a mill on the spot, and the concentrates were
to be railed to Burnie. Everything was
ready for a start when slump made the min-
ing and treatment of lead-zinc ores unprofit-
able, and work at Rosebery ceased. Before
it can begin again a new staff will have
to be recruited ; and with costs as they are
metal prices will need to further improve
to make the venture worth while. Also, acti-
vities at Mt. Bischoff are only a shadow of
what they used to be, and prospects of a
large-scale revival there are not bright. Thus
the Emu Bay Co.’s revenue fell from £80,420
in 1929 to £41,242 last year. The trifle of
profit claimed came from readjustment of
taxes. Hope lies chiefly in the resumption
of work at Rosebery and in the possible
development of recent finds around Zeehan.
When the books closed there was £39,550
coming to creditors, including £34,799 on
account of three large locos., bought to cope
with the expected increase in the Rosebery
traffic. Including £lOO,OOO originally taken
by the promoters for rights, etc., the rail-
way figured at £704,524; stores, £10,952;
book debts, £2354; cash, £17,108; odds and
ends, £278.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
f Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 p.c. = 9,660 1,412
Loss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil 4,343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. ' 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927. . 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 . . . . 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. .970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit,
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 ,15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
The appearance of Coles and Woolworths
brought some of the trade back to Queen-
street, and other retailers in the neighbor-
hood benefited; but for this co., which is in
George-street, it has meant keener competition.
Still, turnover improved a trifle, though gross
earnings (£63,914) were £323 lighter, mak-
ing the slip £31,940 over the last three years.
Exes. (£59,501) were pulled back £2231;
but after £6091 had been struck off for
bad debts and the pref. div. (£720) paid,
there was a contraction of £2398 in reserves,
leaving them only £13,413 in excess of good-
will (£11,000) at the end of January.
When the co. took over the then 19-year-
old business of McDonnell and East in 1920,
it looked like becoming a steady 8 per center.
But stock values had to be twice readjusted
following the early but sharp post-war slump.
This misadventure past, the board decided
to build the co. a home worthy of what it
hoped the future would be; and it went
outside for most of the money. Meanwhile,
drought laid a heavy hand on the west of
Queensland, narrowing city merchants’ mar-
gins. Thus the co. got little out of its
bigger trading, and the ords. averaged only
4.5 p.c. for the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930; they have gone hungry
since, and, until the interest-bearing debt
is substantially reduced, there is nothing in
sight to suggest anything but moderate
returns.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:—
1926. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £170,338 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 16,200 53,000 51,750 51,000
Overdraft . . 28,862 77,343 66,296 65,000
Sundry creditors 32,045 38,336 15,356 12,538
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 64,107 131,730 129,828 128,869
Stocks.. .. 111,617 120,079 101,211 99,006
Book debts,
cash, etc. .. 94,825 117,216 100,624 95,972
Last year £1296 was knocked off the over-
draft, £2BlB off the amount coming to trade
creditors and £750 off the mortgage, while
debtors’ balances were reduced by £4652 and
the book value of stocks by £2205. There was
a contraction of £1993 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£66,440, including stocks).
Stocks are reported to be clean and care-
fully valued; much depends upon this.
The pound ords., covered by 21s. 7d. in
net tangibles, are offered at 6s. The prefs.
(there are 9000 of them, 8 p.c. cumulative)
rarely appear on ’Change.
Concreters, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
S, & &
1928.. 283 Nil 459
Nominal
Reserves.*
1929.. 8,204 15 p.c. = 4246 3958 3,499
1930.. 13,292 15 „ „ 4249 9043 12,542
1931.. 6,726 10 „ „ 2833 2893 15,435
1932.. 5,050 10 „ „ 2833 2217 17,652
‘Subject to patent rights, processes, etc. ( £20,008).
To capture contracts for the supply of drain-
age pipes to public bodies tenderers have to
quote a pretty low figure these days. That
is where this little concern scores over its
big competitors. It was formed late in 1927
to operate a patent for turning out concrete
pipes at low cost; and it paid away £20,008
of its £28,327 of capital for the rights, etc.
Nevertheless, it has been able to earn enough
to pay divs. totalling 50 p.c., as well as
replace £17,652 of the intangible item with
more-or-less solid assets at the end of Sep-
tember last.
For the 12 months to that date the co.
got its full share of the small volume of
business offering. The profit, though £676
lighter, was 17.8 p.c. on capital as against
20.2, 46.9 and 28.9 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. So the div., which had been
lowered from 15 p.c. in 1930 to 10 p.c. in
1931, was kept at 10 p.c.
The co. has practically no plant, and it
has not had to borrow much to finance its
contracts either :—•
1931 1932.
Paid capital £28,327 £28,327
Liabilities . . .. .. 8,441 8,324
Patent rights, etc. .. . . 20,008 20,008
Fittings 2,517 2,429
Stocks . . . . . . .. 997 545
Debtors 32,036 34,107
Cash, etc 346 309
The scrip, of course, has an active market,
the public being attracted by the speculative
value of the patents. Buyers offer 265. for
the pound shares, after previous sales at 30s.
At the middle price the return would be 7.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
18s. 3d. in net tangibles.
W. E. Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1922.. .. 6,381 6 p.c. = 6000 381 2,796
1923.. .. 7,515 6 „ „ 6000 1515 1,281
Reserves.
1924.. .. 6,532 6 „ „ 6000 1532 261
1925.. .. 5,376 5 „ „ 5000 376 627
1926.. .. 6,562 5 „ „ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 „ „ 5000 2387 4,576
1928.. .. 7,027 5 „ „ 5000 2027 6,603
1929.. .. 7,092 5 „ ~ 5000 2092 8,695
1930.. .. 4,284 Nil 4284 12,979
Loss.
1931.. .. 8,767 Nil 4,212
Deficit.
1932.. .. 4,963 Nil 751
Though two-fifths (£30,000) of the capital
was jettisoned in 1915, three years after the
present co. took over the business, the board
dropped into the common error and recon-
structed during the post-war boom. In one
leap capital sprang from £45,000 to £lOO,OOO
on the strength of artificial conditions. Still,
for the decade to the close of accounts in
1929, divs. averaged 5.5 p.c., equal to 12.2
p.c. on capital as it stood before the writing
up.
Now that slump has sharpened competi-
tion and lowered prices, and exchange and
primage have bumped up the landed cost of
imports, the business has become unprofit-
able. One problem has been to get over-
head down; the specialty house and small-
job printer can nearly always quote a bit
lower than the general stationer. Last year’s
gross earnings (£24,232) were £1679 better,
but they were little more than half the 1928
figure, and a loss of £4963 showed up. It
is difficult to say when shareholders are
likely to get into the picture again. Another
reconstruction of the capital account seems
to be in the offing.
The liquid position continues to drift, too:
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Stocks .. .. £50,577 £53,943 £44,813 £44,125
Book debts, etc. . . 22,245 19,293 14,202 16,767
Cash .. .. 4,942 1,889 2,701 1,005
£77,764 £75,125 £61,716 £61,897
Liabilities.. .. 9,920 53,334 47,396 50,426
Liquid surplus .. £67,844 £21,791 £14,320 £11,471
The debt includes a mortgage of £16,600
and £22.500 of 7 p.c. debentures got in to
finance the move to George-street eight years
ago. The book value of fixed assets
(£87,778) was reduced by £2115 last year.
The market prices the scrip at 4s. 6d.,
thus valuing the undertaking at £22,500 as
against a net book value of £99,249.
Australian-made Motor-cars (in Liq.)
Last week the Chief Judge in Equity in
N. S. Wales was asked by the liquidator for
leave to make a call on the contributories.
When he asked if there was any opposition,
about 25 of those on the list rose in the court
and objected. Most of these had taken shares
as a condition precedent to obtaining a job
with the co. The co. first came on to the
market about the middle of 1929, offering
half a million £1 shares. The declared aim
was to acquire land at Blacktown (N.S.W.),
and to build a “garden city,” where motor-
cars and aeroplanes were to be manufac-
tured. The land was bought, but the pro-
position went little further. It is now
disclosed that Edward M. Davies (one of the
promoters) and three other directors had
each formally applied for 500 shares, but,
though the shares had been allotted to them,
they had paid no application or allotment-
money. It is entirely satisfactory to note
that, nevertheless, the list of contributories
as finally settled contains the names of
these four gentlemen.
One contributory claimed to have been
issued shares to compensate him for money
he had been defrauded of by one of the co.’s
agents, and asked for exemption from calls.
“It seems hard,” remarked Justice Harvey,
“that after taking a man down in that way
he should have been prevailed upon to take
shares.” To this remark counsel replied : “I’m
afraid this was a hard company, your
Honor.” adding that many had taken shares
through misrepresentation. The Judge held
that, the shares having been applied for and
allotted, it was too late now for the_ appli-
cants to withdraw; but he gave, the liquida-
tor leave to compromise. Liabilities amount
to £4106 and assets to £94.
A welcome addition to the new N. 8.
Wales Companies Act which the Crown
Law authorities are now preparing would
be a provision placing restrictions upon
directors and others who have been deemed
by the Court to be guilty of gross irregulari-
ties, and who might want to do the same
sort of thing again.
(Continued on page 16.)


St^te^
f)<PR£S
vwy
S\
■Q
am
M
m
m
.n
SRWk
22>0
!
m
hn
Lv
cn
%
-A
m
vC
< -\
3®.
■7 V.
///.
//
Ladies, Gentlemen! His Majesty
will now smoke State ExpressThree-Threes!
Half the world doesn’t know how the other half orders Three-Threes.
We’ll show you three by three how |hS Princesses,
Captains, Judges, Actors, Teachers, W and other
Masters of y the Art of Stately Expression, insist on get-
ting NINE Three-Threes for sixpence. Three-Threes are higher
value than other cigarettes. point to 3 make clear
ordering cigarettes*^^^is, always,
be Three-Threes.
when
must
&
that they
fXPRfSS
m
m
ALSO FLAT FIFTIES, FLAT
HUNDREDS AND ROUND
AIR-TIGHT FIFTIES.
18 for V- 27 for Vb 9 for
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
5054-4.33


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.mson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
t'ollison and Co. (Melb.l. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt,
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try LEMPRIERE
AND CO., Sirius House, Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
A! The Metallurgical Works of
a VICTO R LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
AMICUS CCRTUS IN RE INCERTA |
on
“A sure friend in uncertain times!’
Low-cost assurance
CHILDREN
New ways in which parents can secure
great benefits for their boys and girls
THERE are many ways in which a father can give his children
the benefits of A.M.P. Assurance at very low cost, but there
are two comparatively new ways that are worth the considera-
tion of every man.
Under the Society’s Table ZN, a father aged, say, 30 can take out
a £lOOO Policy on his boy (or girl) aged, say, one year next
birthday, payable on the death of the boy at any time after his
21st birthday, for the small annual premium of £7/17/6. Should
the boy die before he is 21, all premiums will be returned' to the
father, plus interest at 4 per cent, per annum. Should the father
die before the boy is 21, no further premiums will need to be paid
until the boy reaches 21; after that the boy will pay the premiums
and the policy will be vested in him.
The great advantage of this Table is that, at 21, the boy secures a
policy for an annual investment of £7/17/6 that, in the ordinary
way, would call for an annual investment of £l9/14/2. It is a
great saving and the wise father makes it for his boy or girl.
Under Table ZNJ the policy is varied so that payment (plus
bonuses) is made at age 40, or 50, or whatever age is specified;
or, of course, at death, if that should occur previously after age
21. Under this Table a father aged 30 next birthday can assure
his boy, or girl, aged one year next birthday, for £lOOO, payable
at 50, for the remarkably small annual investment of £l2/12/6.
Full particulars gladly supplied by any officer or office of the
Society. Booklet No. 298 will be posted anywhere on request.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Mana
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
A/ew policies issued last year
£ i 3 « ® S O 9 3 2r ©
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
After a hectic career of a little oyer 34
years this Associated Co. is preparing to
jettison half (£1,052,120) of its ord. capi-
tal, which has been “lost or is unrepre-
sented by available assets.” The 1,489,619
£1 prefs., carrying a nominal 7 p.c. cumu-
lative, are not to be interfered with. The
board declares that “the co.’s earning power
has improved so materially that the direc-
tors feel that the time has come to face a
proper valuation of the assets.”
At the close of last accounts, Sept. 25.
1932, Associated’s own goodwill, etc., stood
at £572,771 net, being the balance of
£592,000-odd paid for the goodwill of the
“Guardian,” etc. The figures of the subsidia-
ries (Sun Newspapers, Ltd., and S. Bennett,
Ltd.) were not sent v out. A year earlier
these showed net tangibles with a book
value of £1,455,036, or £1,697,124 less than
the figure at which the shares appeared in
Associated’s books. Thus, subject to any
additions to or subtractions from intangibles
meanwhile, over £2,200,000 of Associated’s
capital was unrepresented by tangibles at
the close of last accounts. Allowing for
the proposed readjustment of capital, etc.,
appearances, then, are that the whole of the
ordinary and a shilling or so of the pref. capi-
tal will be still unrepresented by tangibles.
To protect the earnings of the chief con-
tributors to the pool (the daily and Sunday
“Sun”), publication of the “Guardian” (both
editions), the “Telegraph Pictorial” and,
after changes on the board and some re-
criminations, of the “Evening News,” too,
was discontinued. The board estimates that
the upkeep of property and plant and interest
on the overdraft in the Bennett Co. will not
exceed £7500 during the current year. Li
1931 S. Bennett, Ltd., registered a loss of
£53,875. Since the close of last accounts
publication of the “World” has been discon-
tinued, and a proposal to employ the plant
in producing a penny afternoon paper has
been abandoned. What this cost Associated
has not been disclosed.
Associated’s own p. and 1. figures compare
as follows over the three years to Sept. 25,
1932:
1930. 1931. 1932.
From subsidiaries .. £115,065 £103,908* £133,015
Exes 13,212 37,277 13,326
Net £ 102,453 £66,631 £119,689
*After deducting loss on “Guardian,” £15,777.
The trading loss on the “Guardian” in 1931
was £15,777; so an extra £13,330 was re-
ceived from the subsidiaries last year. The
pref. div. is subject to a statutory cut of
224 p.c. and a further deduction of 2s. in
the £ on account of the special tax on income
from property, leaving 4.88 p.c. net, equal
to £72,693 on capital as it now stands. The
balance of last year’s net earnings would be
4.4 p.c. on £1,052,120 of ord. capital.
The market lengthened its bid for the ords.
from ss. lid. to Bs. over the last few weeks.
Allowing for the writing-off and consolida-
tion of ord. capital, the return at 16s. would
be 5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 17s. 7d. return 54 p.c. on a 4.88 p.c. div.
basis. Goodwill is a very mercurial element
in a newspaper’s accounts.
The committee of experts appointed by the
Victorian Government to report on steps to
be taken to further revive gold mining in
the State has submitted its report. The
chief recommendations are that (1) five
geologists and a geophysicist be appointed to
the Mines Department—annual cost £5OOO
and £2500 respectively; (2) metallurgical
work be undertaken in order to evolve
methods of treating complex ores —-cost of
establishment £5OO, annual cost £750; (3)
a special survey of the Bendigo field be
made —total cost £2000; (4) the mining
laws be revised. Some of the committee’s
statements, including those that there is
still 100 years’ life in Bendigo, and that min-
ing there will be profitable down to 4000 ft.,
have the flavor of a prospectus. It seems un-
likely that the Government will provide the
£lO,OOO required to carry out the sugges-
tions, but it may go part of the way.
% H* * *
The Tasmanian Government is enlisting
the services of Herbert Gepp and Dr. Frank
Stillwell in connection with the development
of the copper-nickel lodes, five mile's north
of Zeehan. These lodes, which occur at the
contact of a basic r dyke and slate, have been
worked intermittently over a distance of a
mile- the average width is 18 inches, and
the length of the shoots 100 ft. Owing to
heavy water, little work has been done at
depth; still, there are indications that the
lodes become silicious as they go down.
The Imperial Geophysical Survey, under
Broughton Edge, located three important
lodes, which were subsequently tested by
the Department of Mines. On No. 1 a
trench showed strong gossan sft. wide; on
No. 2 a bore proved 4ft. of sulphides, assay-
ing 10 p.c. nickel and 7 p.c. copper, at a
depth of 140 ft.; on No. 3 the drill struck
3ft. of ore, assaying 5 p.c. nickel and 3 p.c.
copper, at a depth of 75ft. The rapid oxida-
tion of the ore, which causes crumbling and
spontaneous ignition, has been a problem
so far as shipment overseas is concerned.
This difficulty might be overcome by smelt-
ing into a high-grade copper-nickel matte.
# * * *
Mt. Lyell has installed a dust-collecting
system, whereby the fine concentrate, previ-
ously lost up the stack, is saved. Of recent
years the co. has reduced its smelting costs
by feeding four-fifths of the flotation con-
centrate direct into the blast furnace with-
out sintering; but this meant severe dust
loss. So a series of water sprays has been
placed in the flue leading to the stack, and
the dust, which assays 30 p.c. copper, re-
covered. Thus an increase in total recovery
from 91 p.c. to 93 p.c. of the copper has
been made.
* * * *
At present 7240 prospectors, equipped by
the Victorian Department of Mines, are at
work on old fields throughout the State, and
another 600 are being assisted with explo-
sives. Since May, 1932, over £32,000 has
been spent in assisting prospectors. Four
power-driven and 15 hand-operated boring
plants are- out on loan, and it would take
twice as many to meet the demand. It
speaks well for the work of the old-time
prospectors that, despite the present vigorous
search, no' finds of great importance have
yet been rcnde; but that doesn’t mean that
nothing will turn up.
On the old Speedwell at Ballarat (Vic.)
six tons from an indicator reef recently
■ returned sSoz. For some months this mine's
returns have varied between 2oz. and Goz.
per ton. Two narties near by are also
obtaining good yields at depths of 60ft. and
SOft. respectively. Incidentally, Ballarat’s
principal indicator seam was less than one-
eighth of an inch wide; it was traced for
three miles, and to a depth of 1200 ft. Other
indicators yielded four nuggets over IOOOoz.
each, and half a dozen over 500 oz.
Indiana Gold, a Melbourne co., lias taken
over the Higginbottom, near Yea (Vic.).
The reef, which is on the Providence line,
varies from 2ft. to 4ft. in width, and assays
12dAvt. for a distance of 70ft. A tunnel is
being driven to prove the ore at depth, and
a battery has been purchased. At Junction
Hill, in the same district, a plant is being-
erected to treat the rich tailings on the
W elcome.
* x x *
Western Deep Leads, a Melbourne co., has
taken an option over 2000 acres along the
run of the Durham lead, near Buninyong
(Vic.). A sum of £5OOO is to be spent in
testing the urea. Six alluvial nuggets of
more than lOOoz. each have been taken out
of the Buninyong district.
* * * *
Central Australia Silver, Lead and
Copper, an Adelaide co., has interested Eng-
lish capital in the development of the Home
of Bullion lead-copper mine at Barrow
Creek, 160 miles north of Alice Springs. In
addition, 12 mines in the Bendigo district
are to be taken over and developed. There
is talk of the erection of an ore treatment
and smelting plant, and a capital of
£1,000,000 is spoken of.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) crushed 2570 tons for
1400 oz. for the fortnight ended April 4. The
grade (lO.Odwt.) was the lowest to date, but
still highly profitable. Thus far results have
been disappointing on No. 3 level. In No. 5
winze, below the No. 3 level, stone assaying
295. per ton (gold 845.) was met between
30ft. and 60ft. Much will depend upon
developments on No. 4 level.
* * x *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), has bought
the Sunrise lease of 11 acres which' almost
adjoins it on the east for £5OOO cash plus
£5OOO in shares. There is a large quartz
formation on the Sunrise, the exact charac-
ter of which is masked by surface detritus.
This formation lies on the strike of the
Golden Plateau lode, and the intervening
country is to be tested. The contribs., 10s.
paid to 4s. (a call of 6d. was due April 12),
fetch 15s. 66. in the market.
* * * *
The New Development Prospecting Co.
has commenced work on the old Woolgar
goldfield, 85 miles north of Richmond
(N.Q.). A shaft, sunk to 70ft. (the water
level), on the Ironclad is on 31ft. of rich
stone, and driving has begun. The co. holds
options over the Yellow Jacket, Sunset,
Sunshine and Dawn on the same line of
reef. These were all regular producers in
the early days. Gold was first discovered
on the field in 1897, and up to 1920, when
the place was abandoned, some £50,000
worth had been recovered.
* * x x
Anglo-Australian Gold Development’s
technical adviser and engineer, Harry
Urquhart, who was associated with Claude
de Bernales in the flotation of Wiluna,
intends to leave London for Westralia early
in May. He will be accompanied by a
director, diamond drilling outfit and super-
visors. The co. has a working capital of
£lOO,OOO, and the sale of its reserved shares
is expected to provide an additional £200,000.
x x x- x
Sons of Gwalia is doing well. A shilling
div. is payable this month, and present
profits are almost sufficient to distribute a
similar amount quarterly. In 1927 the co.
talked of giving up; but a Government loan,
since repaid, induced it to change its mind.
The co. returned to the div. list in 1932,
after an absence of 12 years. Since 1898
it has distributed over a million sterling.
x * * x
Golden Horseshoe (New) has extracted
approximately 60,0000 z. of gold from portion
of the previously treated Horseshoe dumps,
and should get a lot more from the re-
mainder. A shilling per share of the capi-
tal has been returned, and another shilling
is expected to be returned shortly. Several
shillings more may go into shareholders’
pockets before the end comes, provided the
cash is not squandered.
x*. x *
Western Gold, which has been diamond
drilling on Reedy’s Mararoa at Cue (W.A.),
has proved the continuation of the lode for
a further 800 ft., making the total length
1300 ft. No. 1 bore cut 10ft. of it, assaying
455. per ton (gold 845.) ; No. 2,13 ft., value
325. per ton ; No. 3 disclosed a wide channel
of little value; No. 4,2 ft., assaying 38s. per
ton; No. 5,12 ft., worth 21s. per ton; No.
6 is now being drilled 200 ft. north of No. 5.
Diamond drilling, however, can only be
relied upon to prove the lode channel; it is
not an accurate guide to values. The strong
shear zone continues on the surface.
He * H* H<
Phoenix Gold, which recently purchased the
Mararoa at Norseman (W.A.) —this mine
must not be confused with Reedy’s Mararoa
at Cue —plans to retreat the old tailings
while the mine is being unwatered to the
440 ft. (No. 7) level. Most of the ore mined
was taken out over a length of 700 ft. be-
tween the Nos. 7 and 5 levels. There are
good prospects of finding ore payable at
to-day’s price in the north end. of the mine,
and above the No. 10 (bottom) level, which
is 200 ft. below No. 7.
X X X X
Great Boulder’s ore reserves are several
years ahead of the present mill, thanks to
developments at depth on the X lode and
other ore-bodies. Altogether £15,000,000 has
been extracted from this great producer.
Shareholders have received well over
£6,000,000.
x * * x
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has paid its
tributors about £60.000 in settlement of
their claims for a share in the exchange
premium on gold. Tributing on this mine
will probably be a thing of the past before
long.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Has manganese stone assaying 7S
p.c. any commercial value? (2) Probable
buyers ? —5254.
(D It is worth about £4 10s. per ton
in Sydney. (2) F. Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney; O. T. Lempriere and Co.,
Sirius House, Macquarie-place, Sydney; L.
Burkard, 250 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.S.C.: Hold Lake View and Star, North Broken
Hill and South Kalgurli; sell Princess Royal. At
present price, Norseman is worth considering....
E.F.M.: Neither bonuses nor dividends are anywhere
in sight. There is a possibility that the contribs.
will be asked for more... .E.F.M.: Disclosures at
the annual meeting mean that the co. hasi slipped to
a much greater extent than the directors have cared
to admit in the published figures. It promises to
be a difficult struggle to make up the leeway.
There is a possibility, therefore, of the contribs.
being asked for more. Neither bonuses to policy-
holders nor divs. to shareholders are anywhere in
sight... .T.J.8.: There is no figure fixed by statute.
The amount varies with different offices according
to the age and amount of the policy and basis of
valuation. Roughly, the value of a paid-up policy
in any of the solidly established cos. bears the
same proportion to the full sum assured as the
number of premiums paid bears to the total number
payable.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Banks and Advances
Dear Bulletin, —“Riverina Grazier” (B.
5/4/’33) states that if this country _is
to be saved from the evil of nationalisation
or socialisation, “those who control finance
must specialise in putting on a sound foot-
ing all of their customers who are producing
the right goods, and also make it possible
for all those who are game enough to en-
deavor to do the same thing to be accom-
modated.” But surely this is what is being
done. Borrowers who are engaged in balanc-
ing budgets in the face of catastrophic falls
in prices for their products would not be
helped by encouraging them to add to their
financial obligations. They need sympa-
thetic assistance in carrying the burdens
already pressing upon them, and this they
are receiving, in the shape of considerably
reduced interest rates, special carry-on
assistance and general encouragement.
“Riverina Grazier” states the banks, by a
policy of low advances and high interest
rates, are responsible for the prevailing
lack of demand for money which they claim
to have available. If this be correct, then
the banks are, for no apparent reason, hurt-
ing themselves. But it is not so. Various
expedients in the shape of cheap and plen-
tiful credit have been tried in different parts
of the world to stimulate industry, but with-
out success, for the root of the world’s
troubles is deeper. Generally, the ratio of
loans to security and the rates of interest
applicable to banking advances compare more
than favorably with those obtainable from
any other source, and actually the banks are
eager to provide accommodation for sound
enterprise; but until world conditions im-
prove, offering sound inducement to indus-
trial expansion, the demand is likely to be
lacking, and their earnings will continue to
suffer.
To recommend a policy of extending
accommodation to “those who are game
enough to endeavor to produce the right
goods,” without due regard to prospects,
capabilities and security of the individual, is
to recommend “nationalisation” or “social-
isation” of credit, and, if adopted, would in-
evitably mean heavy losses, destroying the
confidence of depositors whose money forms
the basis of all advances. The result would
be a cataclysm, compared with which our
present troubles would be nothing.—Yours,
Sound Finance.
Telephones at Sea
Two-way wireless telephone conversations
were carried on between the Katoomba at
sea and the Sydney Town Hall nightly dur-
ing the recent Radio Exhibition. The
demonstrations were made by Amalgamated
Wireless (Australasia), Ltd. On several
occasions during a period of some hours
persons _ on board the Katoomba conversed
with friends in the Town Hall. The con-
versations were transmitted with such
clarity that when the chairman of the exhi-
bition (Russell Greenwood) was speaking
to V. H. Mac Kinney, a member of the com
mittee, who was proceeding to Melbourne,
it was possible to amplify the speech by
loud-speakers until everyone in the hall
could hear the greetings as they were
exchanged.
The short-wave wireless telegraph-telephone
apparatus with which the Katoomba was
equipped was. designed and made at the
A.W.A. works in Sydney. It is not in-
tended to be used except for experiments.
Many transatlantic liners are equipped,
but the gear is so costly that a con-
versation with a shore station runs into
10s. a minute. To make a similar service
along the Australian coast pay it would be
necessary to find means of reducing costs.
Mr. Fisk (managing-director of A.W.A.) is
working with that end in view.
Cheap Power
“J..R.H.” ; The man who instals a charcoal
gas-producer in good hardwood country is
only making work for himself. A much
better plant is a down-draught producer
which uses wood as fuel, thus saving the
labor of digging pits for charring, bagging
the charcoal and carting from the pits to
the producer. The down-draught producers
were invented and first used in Westralia,
and their principal advantages are their
easily accessible fuel supply and the down-
draught principle. The air comes in above
the fire and the gas is taken off under the
fire-grate; so the gas on its way to the
engine must pass through the incandescent
bed of fuel, destroying all hydro-carbon
solids, such as tar, etc., which means that
a very clean gas is obtained. Any wood
may be used, but hardwood which chars well
is the best. The writer has access to the
figures of a co. using steam, crude oil and
suction-gas power plants, and has no hesi-
tation in saying that suction gas is the
cheapest, particularly at the present time,
when good hardwood is cheap. The suction-
gas plants operated by this co. are all down-
draught wood-users; the oldest plant ' has
been _in continuous operation for 18 years
and is still going strong. They are, more-
over, made in Australia.
“Max”: The canning of poultry in the
Parramatta district of Sydney (B. 29/3/’33)
is being investigated by a group of inter-
ested people comprising local poultry-farmers
and business men. A syndicate is said to
have been formed under the protection of
a large firm of Western Suburbs engineers,
and an egg-and-griller grower is being sent
to the TJ.S.A. to study the latest methods
of preserving chickens in tins and jars. The
factory is expected to be built somewhere
in the Clyde-Rosehill district. Poultry is
cheap enough to encourage the promoters
of the scheme, but whether it will remain
cheap enough to be canned at a profit is
doubtful. Many poultry-farmers in the
metropolitan area are finding it impossible
to make ends meet, and much of their stock
is being run on to the market in a desperate
effort to pay the feed bills of the balance.
A continuation of present conditions will
compel many to abandon fowl-farming, with
a consequent rise in the prices of table birds,
lhe only thing to save the poultry-farming
business from collapse is cheaper bran and
pollard. The metropolitan poultry-farmer
pays high municipal rates, from
wmch, as a rule, not a penny has been
taken despite the hardships of the past three
years; and the recent increase in the water
rate has been the last straw.
* * * *
“Du Barrier”; There was talk in Tiie
Bulletin a while ago about the priees
paid for Queensland cane farms; one man
said he didn’t believe £2OO per acre had ever
been paid. Actually there are some farms
which do such almost incredible things that
£2OO would be cheap for them. I know a farm
that grew 100 tons per acre (eight or ten
months’ growth). I know another goldmine
that grew 27 ratoons; which means that the
owner took off 28 crops on what is known
locally as the “volunteering” system, the
young cane each year shooting through the
heavy layer of trash (rubbish left on the
ground after harvesting), which kept the
weeds down until the crop “covered in.”
That cocky had little else to do but twiddle
his thumbs and refuse offers qf £2OO per
acre. But there are others—-oh yes, there
are others!
* * * *
A Hobart lady recently purchased a dress
basket for 2s. in a second-hand furniture
mart. When cleaning out some old paper
from the bottom of the basket after taking
it home, she discovered four £2O banknotes.
They were issued in 1901, and were duly
honored by the bank responsible for their
circulation.
* * * *
“Mokuita” (Trobriands) : In many parts
of the Western Pacific the principal cur-
rency is “trade” or twist tobacco. Being a
consumable commodity as well as a currency,
it needs constant replenishment. One hun-
dred tons per year would not meet the
demands of Papua and Mandated Territories
alone; and the British Solomons, Samoa and
Fiji import at least a like quantity. It all
comes out of U.S.A. Australia should go
after this trade, Strength being the prin-
cipal quality demanded, there surely are
soils in Australia to grow the required leaf.
As to price, £250 per ton ex bond looks a
good thing to me; and the valuable trade is
closer to Australians than to the Yanks.
* * * *
The radio industry in Australia has made
astonishing progress. Six years ago' im-
ported sets far outnumbered those made
locally; to-day hardly an overseas set is seen
—there was only one imported receiving set
at the recent Sydney exhibition. In Aus-
tralia there are now 25 established set-
manufacturers in addition to a number of
small shops; these establishments employ,
it is estimated, 5000 people, and the retail
turnover exceeds £2,500,000 a year. Amal-
gamated Wireless has had a great deal to
do with this quick development: an arrange-
ment between the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and the co. has made available to the
whole industry all the co.’s patent rights.
* H* ❖ ❖
“Si Anu”: Judging by The Bulletin
Service columns, numbers of Australians
seem to think that in tropical countries
like the F.M.S. the cocoanuts continue to
fall into people’s laps in spite of the depres-
sion; so they ought to be advised that the
European Unemployment Committee in
Singapore is so broke that it is proposing to
cut down grants of relief by at least 40 p.c.
As the maximum amount granted is 100
dollars a month per family—less than £10 —
the situation for the unemployed is serious,
A tenner in the tropics would hardly keep
body and soul together even of a bachelor
Below that racial self-respect vanishes.
Queensland mortgagors have been agree-
ably fluttered by the official statement that
any who have been paying full interest since
the passing of the State Financial Emer-
gency Act last October are entitled to a
refund. The Act reduced interest in respect
of any mortgage existing on July 1 by
224 p.c., provided the rate was not brought
below 5 p.c., and applied only to interest
accruing after it was passed. Certain ex-
ceptions were made, but in these cases mort-
gagors were given the right to apply to the
Courts for reduction. According to Premier
Forgan Smith a number of mortgagors have
not taken advantage of the Act—hence the
nnHfinntinn
V ' „. " „.
A good example has been set by the Too-
woomba (Q.) Show Society, which has
decided that Australian-made woollen prize
ribbons are to be used at its 1933 Show, in
place of imported Swiss satin ribbons used
at previous Shows. This one society uses
nearly a mile a year,
* * * *
“Yarry-goon-dool”: Re “Bismark’s” sug-
gestion (B. 15/3/’33) that old rams of g-ood
quality should be sold cheap to small holders
instead of being consigned to boilmg-down
depots. 1 hose rams have been costly to
breed, and the breeder has had years of
trouble and expense to create a demand for
ms optput Rams earn their reputation on
the strength of their progeny. When sheep
are listed for sale and described as sired by
rams from one of the recognised good Hocks,
tliere is a ready demand for them. As Bis-
mark” says, the small holder, as a rule, runs
a nondescript class of ewe; yet he would be
justified in listing his sale sheep as being by
So-and-so rams, if he had them. On
inspection his sheep would prove to be just
sneep, and down would go the reputation of
So-and-so rams. That is what the owner
of high-grade old rams fears if he lets them
go indiscriminately.
**’ * *
“Nerang”: To push the increasing stream
of motor transport off the roads, Queens-
land recently passed a drastic transport law.
But it had hardly come in force when a start
was made to use the Brisbane River for
carrying goods, and several small-scale
coastal-shipping enterprises also sprang into
existence. In the early days there was steady
steamboat traffic between Brisbane and
Ipswich, the latter then the depot for the
Darling Downs stations. There was a simi-
lar service through the passage between Bris-
bane and Stradbroke Island, as far as South-
port, which served, the stations and farms
near the coast, and this also has been re-
vived. Rockhampton is another centre which
is talking of starting river traffic again.
“Wen”: Quite a lot of unsaleable wool in
the Moree district (N.S.W.) is being put
to a good use. A local bedding manufac-
turer has turned out a large number of
camp-stretclier mattresses filled with scoured
W ool, while a better class of mattress is made
with a mixture of scoured-carbonised wool
and horsehair. The latter mixture makes a
wonderfully springy mattress, and results so
far are very satisfactory.
**' * *
, “ R " stic ™” : is interest not Hn-
Merest? When it is accommodation fee.
cas k P 1 ice my car was 1300 teims,
P a y in S. m .V hnal instalment a
small amount for interest on late mstal-
a.K'llte. w as demanded. In reply 1 nirii-
floned the Interest Reduction Act, which
came mto force just after I signed my hire-
Purchase agreement—the Act includes hire-
puichase agreements and claimed 4s. 6d.
!!] Y lO ? n h—>■ 10 company replied that
lure-purchase agreements are not subject
to , u ' ,y leason of the fact that h,.e-
™lclfsers ar « T debited with any interest
The accommodation- fee of £25 forms part of
tlie luring balance, and is amalgamated with
the monthly rental. Not being an interest
A ni * AT' witWn A" A ertDS
of the As I had no money to throw
I'T'n -t . te T in ? *h e TiA r ’
ni v 4 18 business, robbery, etc.
* * * :,!
“Eureka”: This morning there were five
bakers’ carts in our street at the samp time
serving different houses. The less than
100. houses in the street are served daily
by more than half a dozen bakers, almost
a s many ice carts, four wood-and-coul carts,
a t least a dozen greengrocers and fruiterers,
half a dozen cash-order collectors, and
Heaven knows how many hawkers. Four
adjoining houses are served by four dif-
ferent bakers. The primary producers eom-
plain that they can’t get their costs down,
Can we wonder at it? It is they who have
to carry the unnecessary middlemen and dis-
tributors.
* * * *
, .
B i a( £ Mountain : When I read m a
e 9 Bulletin . of Australian hardwoods
being used on a Brazilian forest railway, I
wondered whether it was because they had
the same kind of damnfool politicians and
P ubllc servants that we have In the middle
°f a northern (Australian) timber-belt I
lately found a direction signboard made of
poor-quality Yankee timber; and the roofs
of shelter-sheds at Canberra I found shingled
'Y 1 -*" 1 a WO °H which Americans wont use for
this purpose.
* * * *
“Kirk”: Can’t anything be done to reduce
the costs of distribution? Needing some
rivets to repair a binder canvas, I went to
the local store and was charged 2s. 3d. for
a half-pound assorted packet made in Aus-
tralia. This works out at £504 per ton.
Copper is selling at between £3O and £4O
per ton, and the conversion into rivets is,
I should imagine, a very cheap and simple
matter. In the passage from raw material
to consumer over 1400 per cent, was added,
Who gets it all?
THE UPPER HOUSE-CLEANING.
MRS. N. S. WALES; There's some mistake here. I want someone to clean up the house, not to break it up.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Waltzes from Vienna”
Criterion “While Parents Sleep”
Royal “Twinkle”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Our Miss Gibbs”
Comedy (com. Saturday) “Escape”
King’s Dante
State Movies and Talkie*
♦
The Man in the Foyer
What I want to know (said the man in
the foyer at the Garrick, Melbourne) is
who is he this chap Larwood anyway.
Nobody asked him for his opinion and if he
starts running down the country goodness
knows where it is going to end there’s
enough bad feeding about as it is what
with all these wars and revolutions and
I don’t say the Board of Control didn’t make
a flaming ass of themselves every man has
a right to his. opinion.
But what I was going to say no thanks 1
make my own the bought ones give you a
throat like the floor of a parrot’s cage what
I was going to say if this chap Larwood
starts throwing the dirty water off his chest
well let him this country can afford to
ignore it but there’s no call for him to go
teaching.us our business not that we care
what he says one way or another but if
this country is going to be defiled and abused
by every Tom Dick and Harry the Guvver-
ment ought to do something about it not
that I believe in going to extremes but
there’s some thing no decent self-respecting
country ought to stand and this is one of
them and who are these Englishmen any-
way practically aliens all of them not that
there aren’t some decent specimens there was
a chap up Noojee way a pommy but one of
the best when my place got caught in that
big fire he turned to like a Briton and if
it hadn’t been for him well none of us would
be here to. tell the tale I can tell you a good
bloke he was didn’t even wait for thanks
just pushed off and I haven’t seen him since
but he was an exception.
But what I was going to say look at this
Shaw play now “Too True to be Good”
they’re all Englishmen at least I think they
are and what a crowd they are all ;as barmy
as a lot of bandicoots talking and talking
just like Larwood its the trouble with, them
they talk too much and if Larwood goes
blowing off his steam we ought to have a
progrom not that I believe in that sort of
thing it may be good enough for Germans
they don’t know any better though I knew
one of them straight as they make ’em he
ran into my car and I was uninsured and
he said it was his fault and paid the dam-
age but he was an exception but its rotteu
to see the way those poor Jews are being
treated not that some of them wouldn’t sell
the boots off your feet and leave you stark
naked they’re that greedy though I will say
the chap that’s got the mortgage on 'my
house is a decent enough cove when I
couldn’t pay my interest he said don’t you
worry about it mister because I ain’t going
to and he’s a Yid but he’s an exception.
Well what I was going to say when this
chap Larwood starts calling decent people
names what I say is its time to put the boot
in and put it in good and hearty not that
I believe in violence leave that sort of thing
to these darned Reds a lousy push mess-
ing up a country nobody invited them to
come into they’re better out of it if they
don’t like it with their gassing -about the
dicktatership of the proletariat and their
Marks and Lenin and all those mouldy Rus-
sians preaching revolution if they get tarred
and feathered and run out of the country
they’ve only got themselves to blame nobody
asked them for their opinion and they’d do
the same thing to us if they were in our
place times are hard enough as it is what
with balancing the budget and the Premiers'
plan and these chaps in W.A. wanting to get
out of the Commonwealth let them get out
if they don’t like it nobody wants them
and I never did think much of them take
everything they can get and give nothing
though i" will say there was a chap from
Kalgoorlie a miner with pots of money and
didn’t mind spending it he used to run my
daughter round town and buy her everything
she wanted and asked nothing for it a real
sport he was but he was an exception.
Well what I was going to say look at this
Shaw play he’s got his head screwed the
right way on when he says what we all need
is to understand the other fellow’s view-
point and that’s the whole trouble what do
these Englishmen know about us bellowing
and roaring and calling us unsportsmanlike
just because they couldn’t get us out by play-
ing legitimate cricket not that I’ve got any-
thing against leg-theory I saw the match in
Adelaide and I never saw anything so pussy
as our bowling after the Englishmen’s we’d
have donkeylicked them if we’d adopted it
but what I say is it’s over the fence if these
Englishmen go home and start roaring us
up for a lot of crooks only after the gate-
money what do we care for their dirty
gate-money their chaps got far too much of
it anyway.
Not that I believe all I . read in the
papers a man’s a fool to it’s the papers
cause all the trouble pack of lies from start
to finish but there’s no getting away from
it that chap Larwood’s a twicer talking
about us the way he does not that. English-
men are all like him not a bit of it they’re
a decent crowd the lot of them there’s the
bell but Larwood’s an exception.
“Waltzes from Vienna,” which opened at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Easter Saturday,
is built around the composing of “The Blue
Danube.” The feeble story records an amorous
adventure on the part of the younger Johann
Strauss —“Schani” to his friends. “Schani”
(John Moore) has been forbidden to meddle
in music by his stern and famous papa, who
has no objection to his son paying court to
winsome Therese Ebeseder (Shirley Dale),
a pastrycook’s daughter. While papa is
* away on a concert tour “Schani” disobey’s
the old man by giving music lessons to
Therese and composing. The Countess Olga
(Miriam Sabbage) is charmed by the
young man’s ivory tickling and promises to
help him become famous. One evening,
when the elder Strauss is booked to conduct
a concert in a beer garden, the Countess
has him called to the Russian Embassy; in
the old man’s absence “Schani” mounts the
conductor’s stand and leads the orchestra
through his own waltz —“The Blue Danube.”
It is an instant success and papa returns
in time to congratulate his erring but gifted
son. The music is light and tuneful. Unfor-
tunately, Shirley Dale was suffering from an
attack of. laryngitis, but she stuck to her guns
and the first-nighters showed their apprecia-
tion. With her engaging stage presence she
should be a winner when her voice improves.
John Moore sang pleasantly enough, but was
rather too elocutionary when handling dia-
logue. In contrast Sydney Burchall, who
played Leopold Wesseley, was free and
easy in speech and carried off the
singing honors of the evening. Miriam
Sabbage gave a fairly good account of her-
self. The comedy is not of the best, and
there was only middling applause for Cecil
rvelleway (Ebeseder the pastrycook) and
Leslie Donaghey, wno took the part of a
liliputian tailor. Henry Wenman, as the
eccentric pyrotechnic expert, contributed a
fine character study, and Aubrey Mallalieu
played the elder Strauss with conventional
soundness. The show’s best points are the
settings, lighting, vivid costumes and the
arrangement and dancing of the ballets. Par-
ticularly fine was the premiere 1 danseuse,
Ivy Kirby, a well-developed young woman,
but of such extraordinary lightness of foot
that she looks as if she could pivot on a cob-
web without severing a strand. Producer
Frederick Blackman deserves a pat on the
back for his part in the production, and so
does Maggie Dickinson (ballet mistress).
“Twinkle,” presented to a crammed house
at Sydney Royal on Saturday night by
Clarkson Rose and his English company, is
a sparkling 1 sOng-and-dance show, * supported
by an Australian ballet, the “Twelve Rose-
buds.” Rose himself, who is responsible for the
words and lyrics of the sketches and songs,
is a versatile comedian and has an excellent
offsider in Ernest Arnley, whose eccentric
dancing rivals that of a flea on a hot shovel.
Olive Fox’s female character sketches are
also features of the production, while Betty
Kent as a dancing comedienne does capital
work. The serious side!of the programme
SOME OF THE TWINKLERS AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Hastings Mann. Clarkson Rose. May Thomas.
is presented by May Thomas, a soprano,
and Bernard!, a tenor of merit. Hastings
Mann, who provides the music for the show
.numbers, is also an adept at piano sketches.
Of the sketches, perhaps the most amusing
is the double presentation of Napoleon’s
Farewell to Josephine—the first as it might
have happened in reality and the second
version in pure Hollywoodese. Josephine’s
meek acquiescence in her final dismissal by
the Man of Destiny, “Okay, Chief,” left the
house without a dry eye.
* * *
This Easter Wirths’ big circus tent was
erected on a vacant allotment at the corner
of Riley and Goulburn streets, Sydney. The
programme Is . as diversified, colorful and
exciting as eyer. The Seven Flying Nelsons
keep people; thrilled with acrobatic stuff.
Aloy Peters (“The Man with the Iron
Neck”) is a daring trapezist who dives from
a hole in the top of the tent with his head
in a hangman’s noose. The £lOO he offers
to present to anyone who can perform the
same feat seems unlikely to be claimed. The
equestrianism is equally good; George and
the younger Phil Wirth and the girls,
Madeline, Eileen and Doris, reveal the
family’s flair for handling horses. The
clowns are good; and there are performing
elephants, lions, tigers, bears, a zebra, a
panther, leopards and monkeys. Last, but
not least, there is “Lizzie 2nd,” the one and
only blood-sweating African hippopotamus in
Australia.
* * #
Mo drew packed houses at Sydney’s New
Tivoli on Saturday. The show is called
“Laughter Unlimited.” There are 37 differ-
ent turns, and the Yiddish jester with his
absurd beard and his übiquitous bowler was
his old self in his 14 separate appearances.
Sadie Gale, Ronnie Hay, Len Rich, Russel
Callow and Stella Collier and the Exquisite
Eight assist.
# * *
At Melbourne King’s Dante is staggering
the sceptics nightly and- at matinees by con-
vincing demonstrations that quickness of the
hand will deceive the keenest and best-trained
eye. “Honi Soit” still rocks along its snappy
way at the Princess. “Our Miss Gibbs” (1933
model) skipped on at the Theatre Royal on
Saturday afternoon, dolled up in the best
J.C.W. style, and received nearly as warm
a welcome as legal beer in Gahd’s own coum*
try —at least Madge Elliott and Cyril
Ritchard did, not to mention Gus Bluett
and Marie La Varre. The Gibbs lady wears
almost as well as Kipling’s “Venus Anno
Domini.” The Seyler-Hannen Co. having
seen “The Middle Watch” out, was to have
brought “The First Mrs. Fraser” into public
view at the Comedy last night. On, Satur-
day “Escape” will take its place on the bill
o’ fare, with Nicholas Hannen as the evasive
convict Matt Dinant. Jim Gerald has opened
at' the Tivoli with “The Honeymoon Girl,”
a pleasant medley of japes and snatches.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory, the oldest in Australia,
celebrated its 25th year by reviving an old
success, “Pygmalion,” with Ray Walsh in his
old part to give off the endless arguments
and jibes of Shaw. Brenda Kekwick. a
new recruit, put over the famous Adjective
with effect, and Jack Ham was her plausible
immoral fathei'. Sound support by Arthur
Fay (lately of Melbourne), Nell Myhill and
Mrs. Campbell (not Patrick).
Shadow Shows.
The .writer went to “Cavalcade,” at -the
State (not having been ■ able to attend the
pre-view), in the expectation of seeing, “a
tremendous boost to the British Empire'; a
film which will do, more for England than
the payment of the war debt.” Another
Sydney paper called it “An Epic of Empire.”
It turned out to be perhaps the most damag-
ing criticism of the Empire idea that has been
made in dramatic form. Robert Marryot
(Clive Brook) and his butler Alfred Bridges
(Robert Mundin) go to the Boer War
with the C.I.V. None of the heroisms are
shown, only the things of which intelligent
Britons .are now ashamed. “Mafficking” gets
a long' sequence to itself, with a burlesque
on the inanities of a contemporary musical
comedy as a background. England did many
noble and enlightened things during the
decade which followed —gave the Boers self-
government, and the fellaheen of Egypt free-
dom and prosperity ; built great engineering
works, wiped out diseases and slums, pro-
duced men and women who were benefactors
to humanity.-, in nearly every walk of life—*
but all “Cavalcade” bothers about are the
wreck of the Titanic, a pretentious Mayfair
reception, the funeral of Queen Victoria
(which occurs “off”), Bleriot’s Channel
flight, and particularly the changes that have
taken place in the technique of stage enter-
tainment. The only Edwardian celebrities
shown are Roosevelt ( !), Mrs. Pankhurst,
and one or two more; a sand-modeller dis-
plays their faces on a beach. By the time
the World War comes the Mar ryots have
lost one of their two sons on the Titanic,
and Bridges has taken to drink, and been
killed by a fire-engine, leaving a daughter
who is a successful singer and in love with
and loved by the other Marryot boy. And
now the debunking begins in earnest. Prac-
tically everything is remembered which those
who were in the war and love England want
to forget. Doomed champagne
in restaurants; inane girls yelling recruiting
songs ; expeditionaries leaving unnoticed for
France (how different from that hilarious
departure for S’Africa.! )' ; a hospital train
arriving with its ghastly cargo; parted
lovers; distracted mothers —and through it
all, as the years thud slowly by, we see thou-
sands and thousands of young men continu-
ally marching and marching, with the idiotic
face of a singing-girl as their inspiration,
till they reach a figure of the crucified
Saviour on a hill, and salute it by falling
dead and mutilated, grimacing and cursing,
singly and in heaps. As in the previous
sequences the producer has omitted to show T
any of the inspiring deeds performed by Eng-
lishmen. We see German airships but no
British airmen going up to engage them;
soldiers wounded, dying, dead, utterly frus-
trated, but no soldiers advancing to victory.
Armistice Day is a repetition of Mafeking
Night, with Trafalgar t Square a howling
crowd of yahoos through which Lady
Marryot walks in stony-faced grief. She
has just heard of the death of her other son.
The rest of the film shows what England
(the Empire, by the way, isn’t referred to >
has got out of it all—hordes of disabled sol-
diers, unemployed and revolutionaries, empty
churches and a jazz mind.
As a production “Cavalcade” is magnifi-
cent ; the greatest thing by far that Holly-
wood has done. The dead yeai's spring to
life as one watches it. The players are all
so good that it is impossible to say one is
better than another, but some were cast by
Nature for their parts. For example. Clive
Brook (Marryot), Diana Wynyard (the
wife) and Herbert Mundin (Bridges),
Almost every class in England’s vast com-
plicated society lias its representatives, and
each is wholly English, and of the period
in every nuance of voice and manner.
* H- *
In “Pack Up Your Troubles,” at the St.
James, Laurel and Hardy are first seen as
park loafers. Place America; time 1917.
They are nabbed by a recruiting sergeant
and put into khaki. Their career of idiocy
at the training camp culminates in the de-
livery to a general of a quantity of kitchen
refuse. At the front they manage by acci-
dent to capture a platoon of Germans. A
runaway tank which Laurel is unable to
control does the trick. Back in America
they abduct the orphan child of a former
comrade-in-arms. Their efforts to trace the
infant’s grandfather will make you scream
—always provided you are in the habit of
screaming at the art of these farcical
comedians.
* * *
Sydney Lyceum has an ideal kids’ holiday
programme, which includes a revived Chap-
lin—“ Easy Street” —and “Little Orphan
Annie,” featuring Mitzie Green in imitations
of the Marx brethren.
“Bring ’Em Back Alive” follows. with
shots of Malayan nomads firing poisoned
darts through blowpipes • into a stalking
tigress, of monkeys, honey bears and a baby
elephant being fed with a “bottle” impro-
vised from a bamboo. Several beasts and
reptiles fight, notably a black leopard
and a tiger, 30ft. of python and a croco-
dile, and another python and a tiger. The
results are mostly draws, the principals
being gathered up in the traps of Frank
Buck after their battles.
* * H-
Clark Gable gives a thoroughly unpleasant
performance in “No Man of Her Own,” at
Sydney Empire. He is a crook gambler who
goes to the country to lie low, and is
trapped into marriage by a sophisticated
country lass. Later the lady by mixing his
packed cards causes him to lose heavily.
Deciding to reform he gives himself up to the
police, and after a three months’ sentence he
starts afresh with her, for she loves him and
he her despite all. Carole Lombard is the
wife. She puts in most of her time aping
Garbo.
Myrna Loy is the bloodthirsty star of
“Thirteen Women,” Slighted as a half-
caste, she marks down 12 old schoolmates for
revenge. They each receive forged horo-
scopes foretelling the worst. Some kill their
husbands, others suicide or go mad. But the
more the producer battles to work up the ex-
citement the more the show drags. The
relief is far from being of a wholly moral
nature when Ricardo Cortez, a detective,
bowls Loy out and saves Irene Dunn for
himself.
* # *
“The First Year,” at the Regent, is an-
other' Gaynor-F'arrell concern, this time with
the two struggling through the first year of
married life. All the usual tricks are in-
cluded ; they quarrel and make up as prettily
as ever, and there are the usual heartbreaks
when Janet goes home to mother and Charles
has his second cocktail —both in the one
night—but it all turns out right when Dudd-
ley Digges, a doctor and Janet’s uncle, tells
Charles his. wife will “need him soon.”
Digges is capital; so is Leila Bennett as the
girl who “can wait table, but washes better.”
In “Broadway Bad” Joan Blondell, a
chorus girl, is caught up in a sensational
divorce scandal, and decides to commercialise
the notoriety in order to make money for
her che-ild. Her fame increases in the same
ratio as the newspaper captions of her pub-
li'citv manager. The story is tripe, but the
acting and photography are Al.
* * *
Interesting studies in looniness are given,
by Cathleen Nesbit (as Lady Lebanon) and
Emlyn Williams (as Lord Lebanon, her son)
in “The Frightened Lady,” an Edgar Wal-
lace thriller at the Mayfair. The mother,
obsessed with her race and name, is ready
to commit any crime in their cause; the son
is three-parts insane from heredity and in-
breeding, The film has thought behind it,
and dispenses with the expected ending. In
it are Norman McKinnel and Gordon Harker,
who supplies the humor.
; Jessie Matthews, of “There Goes the
Bride,” has big baby eyes, a wide-smiling
mouth and a knack of saying chirpy things
iii a sparrow voice. She also—silly girl!—
sings. Bolting from her arranged marriage
with an Argentino millionaire, she encoun-
ters Owen Nares in a railway carriage. Then
comes a chain of . happenings, that makes
trouble for Owen with his fiancee, his friends
and his heart, which last is occupied by Miss
Matthews. Light fare, and the heroine’s eyes
and smile tend to become wearisome.
•* * ¥
“Red-haired Alibi,” at the Haymarket, is
a gangster in which Merna Kennedy has to
look pretty and pose’ as the Big Noise’s wife
—a job which she performs for two months
in all innocence! She does as well as can
be expected, and Theodor Yon Elst. as the
gangster, is good when he’s away from his
gang.
“Lond” : Ivor Novello’s “Fresh Fields,” at
the Criterion, shows the typical Australian
of English imagining. Three bounders from
Brisbane arrive as paying guests to an old
but stonybroke English family. The author
means to be kind to them, for the girl
(miraculously polished within a few weeks)
gets the son of the house, her mother is
accepted as a permanent friend, and the
rough uncle —a sheer caricature —fascinates
the most specially aristocratic aunt. The
whole thing is mid-Victorian in idea and
treatment.
’“Kleig”: Australians figure largely in re-
cent talkies. In “The Man Galled Back,”
for example, there are Mae Busch (born in
Fitzroy), Gilbert W. Emery (the original
Ginger Mick in “The Sentimental Bloke”),
John T. Murray, Boyd Irwin, Montague
Shaw and either May Beatty or her double,
while Winter Hall (M.L.-born and a pioneer
actor in early Australian-made films) plays
the role of a judge. In “Vanity Fair,” which
I. saw on the same programme. Billy Bevan
(of Orange, N.S.W.) is Joseph, one of the
most prominent characters in the story, while
Harry Allen does a bit as a Cockney trades-
man.


UPPER HOUSE REFORM
The Legislative Council Referendum issues are so simple
that they cannot be misunderstood.
1. No more swamping.
2. Limitation of numbers to 60
unpaid members.
3. Election by representatives of
the people—no more secret,
party appointments.
4. When Houses differ electors
will decide.
5. No more life appointments.
New blood every three years.
VOTE
l
YES
NO
Voting is compulsory—-a number must be placed in each square.
More Power to the People
Authorised by A. de R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The Sane Democracy League, a strictly non-party organisation, supports the Referendum proposals because it believes that a “Yes” vote will be
in the best interests of Democracy,
TO CARRY ON THE FIGHT THE LEAGUE NEEDS MEMBERS AND FUNDS.
■ - . ... i . i


YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Sayings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wrn. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through Hie leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Now in its 92nd Year
"The Examiner" is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
, . .Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Rokko”: A Sydney friend who keeps a
bulldog is wondering just what the regard
of a favorite dog may be based on. After
an afternoon’s gardening he decided to have
a bath before the family returned from the
beach. He was sitting in the bath with the
door ajar when the bulldog strolled in. I eel-
ing at peace with all the world, he addressed
the animal affably, and was astounded when
Pincher growled and gave every indication
of attacking him if he tried to leave the
bath. No amount of cajolery, abuse or
shouted orders had the slightest effect, the
dog clearly indicating that he failed to re-
cognise the two-legged creature in the bath.
It was an hour before the family arrived.
“Look out for Pincher; he’s gone mad or
something!” shouted Had from the batii-
room; but Pincher greeted Mum and the
kids in his usual amiable fashion, wheezing
and wagging his apology for a tail. Meet-
ing the boss fully clothed later, the dog
gave every evidence of pleasure at the en-
counter and has ever since been his normal
affectionate self. The incident left the
owner completely fogged, but it looks as if
for that particular animal clothes make the
man.
* * * *
“Finnegan’s Gully”: If “Callan Park”
really intends to go in for breeding outsize
frogs for the market (B. 12/4/’33) he might
do worse than communicate with Papua,
where the jungles harbor the giant of the
race which, in some cases, runs to over a
foot 'in length. Once upon a time there lived
on the Yodda goldfield an old German hatter
named Fred Paul. H'e had taken up a home-
stead lease, grew vegetables and kept
poultry. Fred was also a noted copk, and
few wayfarers omitted to call at his hut if
it was 'meal-time. One day a new warden
called. Hospitable old Fred prepared a
special dinner, and a delicious chicken ragout
(apparently) intrigued the official so much
that after several helpings he asked what it
was. “Ach,” said Fred, “he iss vot you
gall ein frog,” and, fishing round in the
pot he produced an arm about the size of
an infant’s. The warden fell violently ill,
and thenceforth always passed by L red s
abode. All the same, the yarn stuck to him
all through his time in Papua.
* =!= * *
“Parson”: A resourceful N.Q. constable.
Gallagher by name, solved the mystery of
the fate of the little girl who with her
sister (whose body was recovered) never
returned home from school (B. 22/6/ 66).
With a party he camped on Alligator Creek
at the ford crossed by the children. A wal-
laby was shot, poisoned with strychnine
and suspended from the branches of a man-
grove directly above the water. In the
morning the bait had disappeared, and a few
miles downstream the body of a 15ft. gator
was found. It contained the bones of the
poor child and portion of her clothing, also
•the remains of a calf, three- wallabie,s am.
a porcupine. ’Gator is our local term for
crocodile.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Grant Watson wrote some
fantastic stuff when he lived in North West-
ralia, and I suggest that when he wrote
in “Common Earth” (B. 12/4/’33) that the
skins of dead snakes cast off tiny scales each
spring, he was suffering from highly de-
veloped leg-pull. The “scales” of a snake
are not scales at all, but folds of the skin,
in some cases —as in the belly-plates which
helped the original co-respondent to move
along—highly specialised. It is thus impos-
sible to shed them, even if one could get
round the fact that dead matter cannot
reproduce itself. When alive the snake de-
siring new scales has to shed the balance
of his overcoat along with them. This would
not be necessary if they were each a sepa-
A PLEASURE TO COME.
PARSON: “Do you ever think of paying back your father for all he lias done for you?”
JACKY: “No use, boss. Dis pfeller not strong enough yet. Byme-bye, cripes, I bin pay
him all right.”
rate attachment, as in fish. What the
observer imagined to be small scales being
shed were. either decayed particles of the
skin wearing off or the shedding of the
many moulds or fungi which gather on such
things.
* * * #
“Bill R.”: The slender thigh-bones of a
kangaroo sometimes fail to withstand the
jar of an extra-vigorous bound. The animal
really prefers crawling through an obstacle
t 0 jumping it, but when hotly pursued he
forgets the frailty of his legs. Chased by
horsemen and dogs down the long slope ot
Wog Wog Mountain (N.S.W.), a boomer
once tried to clear the branches of a fallen
tree lying in his way. It was his last leap
—he was impaled on a snag that protruded
from the lower end. The measured distance
from his take-off to where he hung dead was
40 feet. The highest branch sailed over in
his wonderful effort was 11 feet from the
ground.
* * * *
“Kumusi” : There is nothing surprising in
the fact take elaborate care
in bringing home their trophies (B.
12/4/’33). One sees the same tender soli-
citude in a drunk bearing homewards the
midnight crayfish. With others I once dis-
turbed a large war party on the slopes ot
Mt. Lamington, in north-east Papua, they
left their luggage behind them; it consisted
of the inhabitants of a village they had
raided. The inhabitants were cut up in
small joints, which had been first partially
roasted to keep them fresh in the hot climate,
and then wrapped in banana leaves tied
neatly with split rattan. The interior
mechanism of the victims had been carefully
washed and wound round short sticks, which
were also tidily parcelled up.
“Ornis”: Sorry to shatter a cherished illu-
sion, but the bird which “Erua” saw danc-
ing” on a rock in the Como River (N.S.W.)
was certainly not an ibis (B. 12/4/’33).
This valuable insect-eater is almost entirely
an inland dweller. He certainly never
perches on seaside rocks, for he is a fresh-
water wader. The bird seen by “Erua”
opening and shutting its wings and postur-
ing was probably one of the cormorants, or
perhaps a darter. All these fowls are fond
of standing on rocks 'after a spell in the
water, and opening and closing their wings
to get the damp outer feathers dry. For the
same reason they puff out the body feathers.
Antics of tile sort, added to a little imagi-
nation. were what “Erua” took for dancing.
* * * *
“Cast”: That yarn about the newchum
who caught a goanna, e crow and a jack-
ass on three hooks of the same fishing-line
(B. 5/4/’33) may sound a bit far-fetched;
but listen to this. Fishing a Welsh trout
stream, using a tail fly and two droppers,
an angler landed three trout from one cast.
A little later he foul-hooked and landed a
heron, a powerful bird. The story is
vouched for by the “Field” ; the fisherman
was the Archbishop of Wales.
“Frigid”: Two South Grafton (N.S.W.)
anglers set three jewfish lines at the wharf.
On the first they caught a stingray, on the
second a conger-eel, on the third a Govern-
ment railways bicycle, missing for six
months. The cycle was returned to the
department worth a lot less than the £2O or
so which, I presume, was paid for it out
of loans.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Even the 'semi-civilised
Binghi of to-day is not proof against the
old belief in the death-bone. Some blacks
were wanted in North Westralia for spear-
ing another buck. During the long search
one of the black-trackers, it was reported by
the police from Derby, “decided to die, some-
one having pointed the bone at him.” He
died a fortnight later. The death-bone is
one of the things common to all tribes, though
it may vary in structure in different parts
of the country. A Queensland specimen that
I saw was composed of two parts, connected
with a cord. The first part —the business
end —was a thin, pointed bone, four or five
inches long; the other was cupped at one
end, in which the butt of the pointer rested
when in action. Like the magic stones of
the medicine man, it was carried secretly or
buried until wanted. No matter how strong
and healthy a darky might be, he wilted and
died quickly when he knew the bone had
been pointed at him.
* * * *
“Kooragai” : Though seldom heard of. the
little pouched mice are to be found m
many parts of the country, from the eastern
coast right across to the Nullarbor I lain.
One was dug up recently by a man not far
from Melbourne. Occasionally a nest is
ploughed up on farms, and the little natives
are often killed in mistake for the common
imported mouse of the barn and field. The
pouched mice are not harmful; their chief
food consists of insects, but the bigger species
will prey on the common mouse. Most
people look for them in the hollowk of trees,
but the smallest kinds live in holes in the
ground, under logs and rocks, and in crevices.
Some of these pygmies have as many as 10
young ones at a time. Such a family has to
get out of the pouch early, and then, like
the baby koala, they get on to mum’s back
and cling to her fur.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Queensland is finding it
necessary to protect the plain turkey or
bustard, one of Australia’s handsomest and
most valuable game
birds. Years ago
the plain and downs
country of Banana-
land was thick with
bustards in good
seasons, for they are
great migrants and
clear out when the
grass and the food
it shelters go. In
hot weather, when
the cover was good
and grasshoppers
plentiful, it was
often possible to kick
the big birds up as
they crouched in the
long grass, too lazy
to take flight. Closer
settlement has help-
ed to thin out their
ranks, but the fox
has been their worst
enemy. The adult
birds do not suffer
much from the red
marauder, but the
solitary chick in its
nest in the grass has
little chance of win-
ning to the flight
stage if Reynard is
plentiful in its neigh-
borhood. Until re-
cently the bustard
was only partially
protected. Now iD
some districts of the
State it has been
brought under the
wing of total pro-
tection.
$ * *
“Tenrag”: The
rare capture on the
coast of Otago
(M.L.) of a fish
known in Australia
as the frigate mack-
erel makes one won-
der how far fish
wandgr from their
known waters. Belonging to the same
family as the tunny and benito, the frigate
mackerel is an ocean fish; it appears occa-
sionally in Port Jackson. It rarely exceeds
15 incnes in length, but the Otago specimen
was 321 inches overall, and weighed 161 b.
* * if if
“Wyara”: “Cooramin” (B. 5/4/’33) says
some specimens of tiger-cats in N.Q.
are striped. Scientists do not agree with
him; Il'eber Longman, Director of the
Queensland Museum, avers that the five
species of tiger-cats in N.Q. are all spotted.
The largest is the spotted-tailed cat, which
is about the size of a fox; it is light-brown
in color, and covered with white spots. From
time to time it is alleged that striped cats
have been shot, but proof, in the shape of
the pelt, has never been forthcoming.
* * ■* *
“Polyp”: I am nominating the green
turtle of the Great Barrier Reef for the next
egg-laying competition. Recently on Lady
Musgrave Island, a coral atoll at the south-
ern end of the reef, I put the watch on one
of these amphibians. She deposited 69 eggs
in three minutes, and 218 in the following
12 minutes; 287 eggs in 15 minutes to the
second. Bring on your champion chooks !
“LADIES’ CHOICE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve tumbled to meself at last, an this is
what I find,
A poor ’arf-witted sort of bloke who doesn t
know ’is mind,
A human jellyfish. Of course, that s just
me own idear;
I wouldn’t let another cove say ’arf o that,
no fear! .
But what’s the good of mincing things, for
that’s jist what I am?
Yet somehow, strange as it may seem, 1
’ardly give a damn.
It shows ’ow low a man can fall when e
don’t even care.
But I rode down to Riley’s Bridge an
’Liza Jane was there.
They ’eld a dance at Riley’s Bridge, a reel
up-country ’op;
At them turnouts, till mornm’ breaks, the
music dare not stop.
But dancin’ wasn’t in my line —till supper-
time, perhaps, .
I’d look on for an hour or two an mingle
with the chaps. , . ,
No girls for me —I’d got fed up with bicker-
in’s an’ rows;
Endearin’ words ’enceforth I’d keep tor
poddy calves an’ cows.
Romance was dead, I told meself, an love
was but a snare;
But I rode down to Riley’s Bridge—an Liza
Jane was there.
I’d sworn we’d never meet again, but ’ow
was I to know
That she’d be waitin’ in the all, cheek-
flushed an’ eyes aglow?
To dodge ’er was me only chance, but as
I turned to flee
They called out “Ladies’ Choice, an
’strutli! Eliza picked on me !
On me—to whom all sich as ’er were ever-
more taboo —
In front of all the watchin’ crowd! v\ hat
could a feller do? .. . T
An’—well, when down the dawn-lit track I
stee’-cd the chestnut mare.
Beside me, on ’er iron grey, Eliza Jane was
there.
VICTOKIA.
ELLENVALE.


The “Keepdry”
GUARANTEED
OILSKIN
RAINCOAT.
Not just a shower-proof Coat, but
a serviceable Oilskin that carries
our guarantee for one year! Made
of Japparra Silk in Black or Yel-
low. Protective front, storm col-
lar and cuffs, and made double
throughout. Send Height and
Chest Measurements. Obtainable
in two styles:—
Walking, 79/6; Riding, 84/-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartrid" es
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
IfcuAvitQi,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The American Crisis.
Gold and Commodity Prices.
Outlook for Investors.
Are Bank Shares Too High?
Prospects for Base-metals.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the April issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane. Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“Mickey the Gun”: It is painful to a one-
time member of the profession to read that a
spinning-jenny artist was lumbered at Too-
\voomba_ (Q.) show for playing a game of
chance in public and fined, with the option
of two moons in the cooler. The little spin-
ning-arrow lurk is anything but a game of
chance. It needs skill and a delicate touch
to ensure that the arrow-point will stop on
the number or color which best suits the
manipulator’s purposes, even if The spring
brake concealed under the .cloth and mani-
pulated by gentle pressure from a careless
hand resting on the table is employed—-
though this method is scorned by experts,
the slightest change in the level of the
table will produce the required result, and
THE CALAMITY.
Ay, Sandy, mon, ’twas a terrible blow A motie-car ran over
ma dug an’ kilt him.”
"An you were vena fond o’ the dug. Ay, ay, ’twas vena sad.”
Mae, nae, Sandy. I wasna fond o’ the dug; but Ah’d paid the
dug license.”
there is no mechanism to give away the
owner of the table if some suspicious cow
insists on investigation.
* * * *
“Rotom”; “I’ll have to keep those blasted
cockatoos from the pertaters,” said the
J? oss - After deep thought he dressed a
forked limb in coat and trousers, gave it a
grotesque dummy face and whiskers with
painted bagging, surmounted it with an old
hat, put a rake in its extended hand and
set up the monstrosity in the middle of the
patch. He hopefully visited the scene of his
labors next morning. His language was
horrible. A mob of sulphur-crested mar-
auders was hard at work uprooting his
spuds, its sentinel keeping “nit” from a
perch on the scarecrow’s hat.
❖ * :|c , %
“Pick”: “Eureka” (B. 22/S/-33) is wrong;
the white gum is not the Monaro (N.S.W.)
manna-tree. The sugary substance found
plentifully in some forests of the highlands
exudes solely from the leaves and twigs of
the ribbon gum, a vegetable dressed in
roughened feathery bark of a chocolate hue,
and totally unlike the white gum of those
bleak hills.
* * * *
“Noel R.”: “Fetch the ol’ nag’s blinkers,”
howled Dave from the home paddock. Choom
arrived from the house about half an hour
later. “Where’ve yer been?” growled Dave.
“Wasn’t they on th’ first peg in th’ harness
shed?” “Harness shed,” stammered Choom.
He produced Dad’s spectacles from his
pocket. “I thought you said the old dag.’’
Unluckily, Dad arrived at that moment;
luckily, he hadn’t his other pair of specs on ;
otherwise he would not have missed the new
hand with the hoe.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare is ever a
generous fellow, but at hui time he excels
himself. At the recent Mormon hui held
at Nuhaka (incidentally, there were not a
dozen elders present, although you would
see 30 or 40 in other years), the kai was
free to all. Quite a thousand were fed
each meal-time ; not half of them were fol-
lowers of the Prophet Smith. The meals
were really banquets, and many Nuhaka
residents had breakfast, dinner and tea with
the natives. Two more huis (Anglican and
Presbyterian) are listed for April. The
communist spirit of the Maoris cannot be
killed by depresh.
* * * *
“Xot”: On the Bunya Mountains (Q.)
no person need have a dry dinner, even in
the driest summer, for there grow water-
vines. As thick as a man’s leg, they can
be found growing out of rocks and attach-
ing themselves to the highest trees. Cut off
pieces 3ft. long and you have an ample
supply of cool, palatable liquid. On the
outside the vine is dirty-brown ; the inside,
for an eighth of an inch, is pink.
* * * *
“Specker”: Pheasants have taken so
kindly to King Island that an attempt is
bei n g made to
establish them in
the Speck. Birds
have been released
in various districts
and many young
ones have been
seen in flight.
There are no foxes
to prey on them ;
the chief difficulty
lies in securing
adequate protec-
tion from hawks
and hunters.
❖ *
“Soor”: One of
the most dangerous
of our so-called
domestic animals is
the boar pig. Usu-
ally credited with
somnolent amiabil-
ity, he is formid-
able when he cuts
loose. Every
season we hear of
pig-farmers being
attacked and some-
times seriously in-
jured—there was a
notable case in
N. S. Wale a
recently when a
farmer was lucky
to escape with his
life. From Vic-
toria comes a story
of a pony killed by
a boar which had
got out of its sty.
The pig attacked
and so injured the
nag that it had to
be shot, a fate
which was also
visited on the mur-
derer. The neck
and shoulder
muscles of the
, . boar are tremend-
ously powerful, and the slashing upward
thrusts of his tusks are to be dreaded.
Horses are particularly vulnerable, as all
pigstickers will testify. If a boar gets under
a horse in his attack, disembowelment is
practically a certainty.
* * sjc
“Tosh” : A vendor of lottery tickets, hav-
ing obtained permission from the authorities
employed a pet rabbit to attract custom’.
W hen a ticket was bought it was proffered
to the rabbit, sitting on a table, and the
obliging beast nipped it with his teeth. The
owner was prosecuted for cruelty, because he
kept his assistant on the table without giving
proper rest.” Veterinary opinion was
called to certify that rabbits in a natural
state invariably sleep all day and Avork at
niglit. The owner proved that lie treated
Ins pet, which had the run of his house and
was as tame as a dog, as one of his family
and fed it sumptuously, while it had a special
blanket to repose on during its time off the
actual job.. He was let off, conditionally on
bunny getting a rest every hour, with no re-
duction in wages. All this in Sydney, where
MULTUM IN PARVO.
“She’m terrible small-minded tor a passon’s wife!”
“Yes, she be; I caan’t understand how it do take her so long for to make it up."
horses are worse treated, and in many
instances worked in a worse condition, than
in any other part of Australia where I have
been!
* * * *
“Hathi”: In a dissertation on elephants
a Sydney paper remarked that they have
never been known to lie down. Yet a rep-
tile contemporary had a few days previously
published a photograph of one having a
snooze in a recumbent position. The ele-
phant in question was a circus artist and
had been working during the morning on the
usual circus fatigues in a Sydney suburb.
At crib-time he seized the opportunity for
forty . winks and the photographer caught
him right out to it on his side, with sprawl-
ing legs and trunk curled out of harm’s way.
* * * *
“Pick”: A field spider comfortably en-
sconced within his central cocoon holds
communication with all strands of his
spiralled web. The radials sometimes reach
outwards for 30ft., but, no matter what their
stretch or direction, capture of an insect in
any of the entanglements is at once tele-
phoned to the hermit indoors. The “turn-
out” message comes not by movement but by
sound. A gentle tapping on one of the vreb-
si rands from a leaf or stalk of grass shaken
by ihc wind never disturbs the waiting sen-
tinel, but the faintest ping from a tethered
fly, moth or gnat brings him tumbling excit-
edly from his pantry, and he never fails to
follow the exact line of web on which the
captive is held. To work a joke on the lord
of the manor is to hold near one of his web-
lines a humming tuning fork. With frenzied
haste he rushes to the spot, but, finding the
cupboard bare, shuffles back dejectedly.
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: “Wandi’s’’ heilamon tree (B.
iy_4/’33) was common enough in the
Richmond and Clarence River districts
(N.S.W.) some years ago; on the Clarence
there is a Heilamon Island. More com-
monly known _ as the coral tree, and
bearing the scientific label Erythrina ves-
pertilio, the tree deserves more consideration
than is usually bestowed on it. In summer
its great leaves, like bats’ wings extended,
have a pleasing effect; its winter dress of
bright red blooms is a thing of beauty. It
grows quickly and makes a fine shade tree.
*
Z.’’; That mysterious illumination (B.
It)/3/ 33) in the neighborhood of Airey’s
Inlet (Vie.) may be caused by incandescent
petroleum. I beheld a similar phenomenon
over Murray’s Lagoon, Kangaroo Island, in
January, 1911; the previous year was the
wettest on record, so water pressure was
diagnosed. In March. 1912, coorongite (or
“petroleum dirt”) was found on the dry
shore, round the north-western corner of
the lagoon. The prevailing wind from
November to April is the south-easter.
H* # & jjj
“Ehoa”: The rosella parrakeet is well
established in Maoriland’s bird population
On the outskirts of Dunedin, along the
Leith Valley road to Waitati, where the bush
lias been well preserved, these handsome
Aussies, in their blue-green-scarlet costumes,
are a joyous sight for the poetic tramper
and bird-lover; what the farmers will say
and think as the birds increase is another
matter. When I first flushed a covey of
rosellas in this locality five years ago, they
left a stubble oatfield and flew to native
fuchsia btishes near by. I followed, imagin-
ing them to be Maoriland’s red- and yellow-
headed native parrakeets, which would have
been a find indeed. I was soon undeceived.
“Roga”: A sea-leopard was recently taken
on the Ninety-mile Beach (Vic.). It is a
rare visitor to Australia, its habitat being
the pack-ice of the Antarctic. Of recent
years, however, one was captured in the
Manly (N.S.W.) surf, another at Portland
(Vic.) and a third at St. Kilda. The St.
Ivilda specimen, which measured 7ft. 6in.,
was remarkably beautiful, with a coat of
snowy-white fur.
* * * *
“Gilbulla”: Brisbane’s floral emblem the
scarlet poinsettia, which was adopted by
popular vote a year or two ago, has recently
blossomed into “Queensland’s Native Flower,”
according to tbe printed card on which is
mounted a souvenir brooch now on sale in
the city stores. The poinsettia is, of course,
a native of Mexico.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: My choice for the quietest
bush bird is the tawny frogmouth, or podar-
gus (often in error called the mopoke). I
do not know of any other wild 'wtrd that one
can approach and touch in broad daylight.
I have done this more than once, gently
stroking the bird down the back. Podargus
remains perfectly rigid, giving his celebrated
imitation of a dead stick. The only move-
ment he permits himself to make during
the human touch is a slight tremor of the
almost-closed eyes. Then; he gives you two
winks and departs.
* * $ $
“Barangkali”: The inhabitants of Koala
Park (N.S.W.) have been seriously con-
cerned by the depredations of thousands of
beetles, which have eaten the tips of a
great many gum-trees that were planted
to provide food for the bears. The manage-
ment organised a drive on an extensive scale.
In the first month over 10,000 beetles were
collected and trapped weekly, and so success-
ful were the efforts that the sixth week’s
tally was only a few dozen. The trees are
now recovering, but as a further influx of
the pests is expected early in the spring,
the aid of the Government Entomologist has
been sought. He has promised that an army
of parasites wil] be ready to let loose on
the beetles immediately they reappear.
“Kokoro”: The domestic chook is no
slouch on abolishing grasshoppers, though
he or she needs more supervision than the
guinea-fowl (B. 22/3/’33). There has been
a plague of the ’hoppers at Glen Inues lately,
and a farmer there has conscripted his fowl-
yard for the battle against the pest. The
200 of them are drawn in coops to the in-
fested land and there turned loose, the
coops remaining for shelter at night. When
an area is cleared, the coops, which are on
rough sledges, are drawn to another, and so
the good work goes on. The chooks enjoy
the open-air life and grow fat on the grass-
hoppers. Fowls are also used in this fashion
on the N.Q. sugar plantations when new
ground is broken. There they follow the
plough for the fat white cutworms turned
up, and do equally good service.
ON THE TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You get upon my tripes,” said Bargo Bob,
“You downcast blokes!
Dunno’s I ever camped with such a mob
For growls and croaks.
If things are bad it ain’t no use -to curse;
Much better to reflect they might be worse.
At least you’ll never do, I’ll bet a quid,
The sort o’ perishes your fathers did
Between the times they’d strike a lucky
patch.
(Who’s gotter match?)
“It may be hard to land the kind o’ job
You’d like to fill;
But I’ve known times when that,” said
Bargo Bob,
“Was harder still.
No use to cities and to towns to cling;
Much better do a bit o’ fossicking:
There’s gold to find wherever gold’s been
found.
For me, I know a likely bit o’ ground
That chaps have never done much more than
scratch.
(Who’s gotter match?)
“Bad times and good alike,” said Bargo Bob,
“They come and go,
As any cove that hasn’t got a nob
Of wood should know.
An’ when your luck has landed you a clout,
Best take, a whirl at something further out.
New fields, an’ old ones too, it seems to me,
Have got this much in common with the sea:
AVhere fish has once been caught there’s fish
to catch.
(Who’s gotter match?)”
N.8.W.
PIPARDS.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
>*v. s
iM# iwllii
sSii&ttilliitUMi
i ,tj
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
m
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., -Jin. and ir
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
15he PLUM RAZOR
;. blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle I°/ 6
Real Ivory Handle •• • ■ • • • • / 1 /'
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged
provided free with each razor.)
each
each
each
case
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —•
Black 85/-, ■ Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for- use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
“I did my best to lift the depression.”— J. T. Lang.
And now we know what kind of a lifting-
jack he is.
“A French airwoman has crossed India in one
stride.”
What of it? Gandhi has frequently
crossed India in no strides at all.
* *
ANOTHER RUINED INDUSTRY.
Cornelius Z. Blastitall. president of
Mighty Morons’ Products, Inc., sat in his
Gothic castle at Hollywood and cursed.
To him came the vice-president, Zeb X.
Organblumm.
“Huh?”
“Huh !”
“Ain’t no doubt about the new booze law,
is there, Zeb?”
“Nope, Corn. It’s jake. Wodder we goin’
ter do about the four big flicks now under
perduction with Amurrka gone juicy again?
Guess there’s any chance of unloadin’ ’em?”
“Yeah! About as much chance as Solly
Cohen’d ’ave of openin’ up a pawnshop in
Unter den Linden.”
“What I want to know is, when is that boy o’ yours
goin’ to marry my gait”
“It’s no use gettin’ wild, Mrs. Himry. The boy’s doin’
the best ’e can —Vs took a ticket in the lottery
every time Vs ’ad the money.”
The president banged his fist violently on
the desk. “How the ’ell. can we expect to
keep goin’ now that talkies of beer barons,
hooch joints, racketeerin’ an’ rum fleets is as
dead as the silents!”
S. W. K.
¥ ¥ /
Hitler wants to dismiss the Jewry.
* #
The old germ is still in Germany—mean-
ing the Hate germ.
* #
KING’S CROSS VERSION.
Sound, sound the clarion till you hurst!
To all the world the message tell:
.1 crowded hinge in Darlinghurst
Is unadulterated 'Hell!
¥ *
“Janet Gay nor has obtained a divorce from her
husband, a lawyer named Peck.” —“Sunday Sun.”
He may have been henpecked. But was
that any justification for saying that people
called him the Gaynor now?
METHOD OF COMPUTATION.
To gauge value of Darlinghurst party,
first ascertain :
Number of girls.
Number of barrels and/or bottles.
Number of times landlady has to interfere.
Number of good resolutions broken.
Number of breakages generally.
Number of guests incapable of going home.
Add up and if total reaches 250 the party
equals approved average.
2f
There’s a rumor that the British engineers
in Russia were arrested because they refused
to change the firm’s name to Bolslievickers,
Ltd.
2f>
THE PET CHARITY SHOP.
“That popular Society lass Mrs. Jimmy Crasher
is quite wrapped up in her Pet Charity.”
—Standing tabloid item.
Public Hospitals : We have on hand a
vast number of these somewhat unspecta-
cular Pets. They involve plenty of hard
work, with, poor results and no thanks. Suit-
able for benevolent advertisement-dodgers
R.S.P.C.A.: A l-17th share in this* exclu-
sive Pet now available. The publicity, which
is of a seasonal nature, reaches its climax
at the annual Gymkhana, but there are
useful all-the-year-round results in the form
of Government House and cosy drawing-
meetings of the Right Sort. Don’t miss
this unique chance. (N. 8.: Applicant’s
father and/or husband must be member of
Union and/or Australian Club.)
Kindergartens : These winsome Pets are
all the rage just now among our younger
Climbers. Kindergartens were the inspira-
tion last year of six concerts, five art shows
and seven theatrical entertainments, en-
abling their fortunate owners to figure as
singers (!), actresses
( ! !), sellers of pro-
grammes, sweets, etc., and
thereby secure between
them no less than 27
columns of free advertise-
ments. Some further re-
sults were four engage-
ments, nine divorces and a
number of judicial separa-
tions. Total profits avail-
able for> Kindergartens,
after deduction of expenses,
£2 6s. 3|d.
Creches : Many experi-
enced ex-actresses rank
Creches, of which a large
supply is always available,
with Kindergartens as a
means of attracting press
attention. Invaluable to
outer suburbanites who
meditate a descent on
Edgecliff and environs.
Popular Mrs. Billy Cal-
cium (formerly Miss For-
wiid-Pleeze, of Haberdash-
eries, Ltd.) swears by
them. Oddly enough, her
husband, who met her at
a Crfeche Ball, doesn’t.
Red Cross, Boy Scouts,
Girl Guides : Large num-
bers of these hardy Pets
are now on offer. Get in
early. Their publicity value
is bound to go up if an-
other war starts.
SPECIAL OFFER! A
l-12th share in an Extra
Ghukka Ball. Great oppor-
tunity for families in
trade, the picture - show
business, etc., etc. May
lead to matrimonial alli-
an c e with depression-
ruined member of Squattocracy.
* *
“Mr. W. M. Hughes says W.A. is suffering from
an inferiority complex.”— Melb. “Herald.”
And to think that he did that to W.A.
inside a fortnight!
* *
The unions’ claim for the restoration of
wages reminds us of the need for the restora-
tion of the cut in restaurant knives !
* *
HOW THEY BROUGHT HOME THE
BACON.
NOw that the new Archbishop of Sydney
has been appointed the “Scream” is at liberty
to publish the inside story of the affair.
The activities of the so-called secret junta
had more than one Rural Dean talking of
lynch law. Feeling ran so high in the final
stages that special doorkeepers were engaged
to search synodsmen for gats. The body-
liners or Tammanyites, as one section was
called sat together, opposite the glowering
left-wingers, with the bishops ready to tear-
gas either faction at a hint of violence.
As the proceedings were in camera, holes
had to be bored in the walls to enable synods-
men to give half-hourly accounts to the
press. Speaking through the “mike” 10
minutes before the final vote. 6ZX announced
that Bumpkin was leading by a short neck,,
but that it looked as if Scowl would take
command at the leger. Bedstead, a dark
horse, was making a sharp run, after being
MODEL: “Good heavens! Someone's looking at me from that
window across the road.”
pocketed, but the cognoscenti considered it
unlikely that he would get up in time.
The position at barrier-fall was :
Scowl.
Add five points.
Bumpkin.
Add five points.
Carnt and Bedstead.
Add 15 points.
Joys.
Add 100 points.
Write youv o'W'ti ticket the others.^
& #
“A prisoner in a Moravian gnol was operated
on after having swallowed four spoons, a magnet,
three door knobs and a wig.” Melb. "Argus.”
Few Australians are even capable of swal-
lowing the story.
0 2f 2f
WHAT ARE WE DOING FOR YOUTH?
The boy listened in a kind of catalepsy
as the tram and his father rumbled on and
on. “Per hdad of population, my dear Harry,
and per acre of land, we are the richest
country in the world. Yet, we are heavily
in debt. You ask why. In fostering our
secondary industries, irrespective and indeed
in defiance, of economic principles, we have
neglected to control inland finance in accord-
ance with overseas conditions’
“Pardon me,” said the man opposite.
“Surely you don’t hold with the fallacies of
Yon der Glauber in reference to the subject
of a goods standard?”
“Er—no,” said the boy’s father. ‘What
I contend is that, unless we so modify our
tariff policies as to provide on the one hand
for the producer- and
on the other for the
consumer-interests” —
“I agree, but the
real point is, how will
our vital coastal trade
be affected by the dis-
armament confer-
ence
“As to that I was only
speaking—er —relative-
ly,’’stammered Harry’s
father. He turned to
Harry. “Well, my boy, I
want you to think oyer
these things, and think
carefully. You look
pale. Are you ill?”.
But Harry did not
reply. He was at the
end of his tether.
Uttering hideous curses, he leapt from the
tram and deposited his whirling brain be-
neath the wheels of a passing truck.
T. TV.N.
* *
She looked the milkman in the face.
Winked knowingly, then whispered:
u Please,
When you are passin’ by our place,
Me muvver wants a pint o' cheese."
* *
MUSINGS OF A PROLETARIAN.
“I once did a job o’ carpenterin’,” said
the man on the all-night tram. “It was
puttin’ a new roof on a school. They kept
the kids at work through it all, the cows!
'Ere’s us slidin’ about the rafters and the
kids underneath shootin’ peas and chewed-
paper wads at us. Gosh ! kids are fail ' o I * ll
these days! X picked up a iot uv kmAM»e.
The teacher useter tell ’em about a bloke
called Artie, Artie of Mallory s Maud Darter.
I’ve often wondered whether tins Mallo j
was the bloke that used to write the cricket-
ing notes for the ‘Sun. Any ow is book
was all about cricket— leastways they woit
ai “The captain was this Artie When
things got too ’ot, what with body-lme stuff
and all that, they’d have a Round JaWe
confab—jest like the Board 0 Control.
Artie sends one ot
his mob after the
Holy Gruel—simi-
lar to the Ashes, I
gathered. Here s
the teacher pratin
about shivrally an,
always bel n’
straight. Straight.
At this stage the
monologuist lugged
his ear into the
light. “Straight!”
(he pointed to a
scar). “One of the
little ’ounds did
that with a nib
and a bit of rubber.
They wuz a dam’
.sight too straight,
some 0’ them kids !
“T hen she
torked of a bloke
named Jeffries: 'e
must have been a
pretty fair bowler.
’E was called the
’An gin’ Judge;
made the ball float
a bit by all
accounts. ’E was
pretty nifty with
the bat, too. Swung
many a bloke high over Tyburn. But
I don’t suppose ’e was any better than
George Bonnor —’e stunned a tramttiy once
when ’e ’it a ball out of the Cricket Ground.
“Gosh ! them kids wuz more in good than
when I wuz at school! One day they ’eard
all about a bloke called Richard, ’im as wot
said : ‘A norse ! A norse ! My kingdom for
a norse!’ He couldn’t ’ave known much
about the racin’ game or ’e wouldn’t ’ave
wanted to start as an owner instead of a
s.p. bookie.”
“How did the lessons get on with the kids
playing up like they did?” I asked.
“Get on! They stopped ’em in the
end. The teacher said our foreman's
language was obskeen. Should say it ought
to have bin, an’ ’im with a dart from an
airgun in ’is ear.”
K.
* *
SOME BOOKS OF THE MONTH.
Bumpstarter’s Seeds Cdialogue. —This is
a sterling work of imaginative fiction,
redolent of flowers and bonedust. It begins
on a bold note of optimism (see chapter on
“Making a Living Out of Runner Beans”),
and continues in that strain to the end.
My Bank Book, by “Cashier.” —A veri-
table mystery story. It reeks of horror.
“Gladys doesn't think Tom is such a good
catch, after all!”
“He must have dropped her, then.”
Poignant to a degree, but its tragedy is
derogated from to an extent by its staleness.
Smith's Almanac for 1933. —The story
told is based on proved scientific facts. It
should be one of the most-quoted books of
the year. The fascinating tale of the phases
of the moon gives it a really cosmic flavor.
Bingmasser’s. Summer Sales Catalogue. —
A human document, if ever there was one.
Teeming with sex interest. How some of
the pictures of girls in their undies got past
our censor is a marvel.
Norbell.
PROFESSIONAL CHANT.
I glory in the sight of tombs;
On graves I like to ponder;
And I feel gay when through the glooms
Of musty morgues I wander.
Bray, do not think that I am mad,
An angry trouble-maker;
The fact is biz. is very bad,
And I'm an undertaker!
P.O.M.C.


mmmM ■* ■'-%
<#*3Bfc
5 4»
j a
>»x-x
IS
&
lix
5/.
MS
V-4
A
13 3?>
&
£5
sp* s *®
yC
m
MS
M
mm
Ji
w&.
:U
i ; :5
Nf
K
+ - •7* v i7 f >* , f 9 pk %
*?* ■ 't+Z :V• i'-ln 1 * ;* .
-> ,»"f> W. -S s-
few
m
i *
*»>
v«v. ■
v-j
6h
wr a Long
Pedigree’*
m
JHTARDW
MEDM
Pert 6
MRD£i>/ir
''EDAt* J
ERTrt
o*ad S
KSJ.
■itDAii:
u-fbaiS
Steles 7 6*
J s^n'Dewar
Q 3»
Pr«t.<3
r.V
IAPCR^
ftWcai
eJohnDe
ueur
Gfafcjirj
«Johr\ LW
©
'^PCRi/1L
wow\ Uttiri scm L*
0
npiic world will always have its
Newcomes and its Parvenus. But
lineage will continue to command
the respect and admiration it
deserves.
Dewar’s is a whisky of lineage. It
may be possible to beguile a
connoisseur from Dewar’s once, but
he will return to it, with a keener
appreciation than ever of what is,
beyond question, the real aristocrat
among whiskies.
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
Dewar’s is available in four sizes—including
flasks designed to fit the pocket perfectly
Bottled only in Bond under Government Supervision


m
m
w
SINCE 1&& 1
Atlantic reduces
oil consumption
these three
ways
V Atlantic holds its body
under high heat and there-
fore has less tendency to run
out of loose bearings or pass
through leaky gaskets.
g4| Atlantic shows no evapora-
V tion loss at 760 F. —twice
the temperature reached by the
parts of your engine which re-
quire lubrication.
Atlantic reduces loss of oil
caused by worn pistons and
rings, since lesser amounts can
pass into the combustion cham-
ber to be blown out of the ex-
haust.
Use also
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of Petrols, Industrial Oils, Greases, etc.
h


ĥ
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
Y EARS a §°> when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. «F AUSTRALIA LTD.
VX* D p re f°^ s A K - Trethowan, M-L.c. Managing Director :H. Fell
Head Office: P & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
55, Agency Co., Ltd.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS,
m
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
BULK HANDLING IN WESTRALIA.
T. 11.8.: Whatever opinions may be held re-
garding results in N. S. Wales, there are
features of the co-operative plan for bulk
handling in Westralia that deserve exami-
nation. The W.A. Wheat Pool and Westra-
lian Farmers have been experimenting with
shipments in bulk for a number of' years.
In 1925 a test was made by opening the
bags over the hatches and shooting the loose
grain into the holds. Bulk charters at that
time were 2s. 6d. per ton higher than for
bags, and a balance-sheet of cost showed a
disadvantage for bulk shipment as against
bag cargoes of a little less than fd. per
bushel. Ocean freight rates are now con-
sistently about 2s. 6d. per ton less for bulk
than for bags. Bulk shipments made in the
last two seasons by similar methods show a
net advantage in favor of bulk over bagged
wheat of 3-sd. per bushel.
Experimental effort of this kind was only
touching the fringe of bulk-handling require-
ments. With 15 years’ experience in hand-
ling wheat in W.A., the co-operative organ-
isations set out to evolve a scheme to meet
local requirements, especially economy in
capital cost, reception of wheat at a time
and rate most convenient for the farmer and
efficiency in handling at low cost. The
scheme concentrates on country storage in
bins, substantially built of wood and iron
with a minimum life of 25 to 30 years,
storage is on the horizontal plan as con-
trasted with the vertical type with fixed
elevating machinery. The elevators are
portable and can be shifted from point to
point. Five installations were erected at
“ve-radway points. In the 1931-32 and
1932-33 seasons they handled nearly three
million bushels without delay, and with cer-
tified savings to farmers of 2-]d. per bushel.
1 lans are n.ow in hand for co-operative
extension of these facilities to 46 other sid-
ings in the Fremantle zone. Progressive
extensions to other points will be undertaken
in subsequent years. The capital cost for
-country storage is estimated at 2.7 d. per
bushel. With an extended scheme in opera-
i or b • le saving to the farmer through bulk
handling will be at least 3d. per bushel,
without any fear of the taxpayers being called
upon to make up a deficiency such as a
costly State bulk-handling installation might
fasten upon them.
, ~? e P l ™ has the great merit of adapta-
, % i v hen delivery of wheat was con-
cluded this season at sidings provided with
bins, certain of the elevators were shifted
to other railway points without bins, the loose
gram was transferred into railway trucks,
a !?' d sapped in bulk at Fremantle. One
ot these elevators was installed at the rail-
way siding to which my own wheat is
delivered. Most of mine had already been
carted beforehand, but 250 bags were
accepted in bulk. The balance sheet of
advantage can be expressed as follows :
_ , DEBIT,
lo loss of value of bag (capacity 3
ibushels) as wheat .. .. . . .. ,361 d
To deduction for wheat delivered in bulk
#d. per bushel .. .. .. .. ,625 d.
Total per bushel .. .. .. ,986 d.
n . CREDIT,
ny saving of cost of sewing bags in field
and twine .. .. .. _ _ ,333 d
By value of bags retained per bushel .. 2.583 d.
„ . 2.916 d.
saving to myself per bushel .. .. 1.930 d.
Terminal elevator facilities at Fremantle
will be provided by the ITarbor Trust. That
body is likely to insist on a more elaborate
installation than ’was deemed to be necessary
fi.V tne authors of the co-operative scheme,
and in this respect the capital cost will
exceed the amount originally estimated. One
advantage of the co-operative plan is
that m areas which' later on, like the ter-
ntory along the Great Southern Railway,
relinquish wheatgrowing to a considerable
degree, the people will not be saddled with
costly country elevators no longer required.
; WHEAT-SOWING.
, ’ •’ Although sowing in a dry seed-
bed has its disadvantages, it is preferable
to sowing too late or not sowing at all.
more losses occur from hesitating on the
brink than from taking the plunge. Even
it, as a result of sowing dry, a portion of
the area has to be resown (as sometimes
happens when there is a small amount of
moisture present), the grower is in a much
better position than if lie has to sow the
whole area too late in the season. If it
proves necessary to sow dry, take good care
to place the grain near the surface. If it
is planted too deep, heavy rains may cake
the surface and prevent the young plants
from forcing their way through. Deep sow-
ing is only justified when the seed is put
down on the moisture and there is every
prospect of an immediate germination. To
sow deeper than 3in. is to court disaster.
In the case of a late sowing, be sure and
sow not more than deep in order to
secure as quick a germination as possible.
OATS FOR HAY.
“Glenfield”: The efficient Mallee farmer
pays just as much attention to his oat crop
for hay as he does to his wheat. There is
a pleasure in handling clean, heavy sheaves
of oaten hay at harvest time, and a feeling
of satisfaction in pushing them into the
chaffcutter, knowing that the team will be
well fed and able to stand up to its work.
On the other hand, the handling of light
sheaves, half rubbish and half oats, gives a
guilty feeling of a job ill-done, and the team
is always hungry.
Clean, well-worked fallow for the wheat
crop carries its benefits to the subsequent
oat crop, weed seeds being practically non-
existent.
Immediately after the stubble burn, work
the paddock up with the scarifier; oats pre-
fer a deep, loose- seed-bed. Then sow the
oats, about a bushel to the acre, across the
previous working with the drill harrows on
behind. That will leave a level surface for
the binder wheel to work on. There is usu-
ally a sufficient residue of super, left from
the wheat crop
Care should be taken in selecting the seed
to see that it is free from rubbish and tailed
so. that the oats will run freely through the
drill. It is best to secure down-country
seed, as oats from seed grown continuously
in the Mallee deteriorate in character.
TOP-DRESSING.
“Yeoman”: In experiments carried out by
Prof. Perkins (Director of Agriculture, S.A.)
at Ivybybolite Departmental Farm, in the
south-east of the Central State, it was found
that. virgin pasture top-dressed with a ton
of lime per acre for a 10-year period, and
lcwt. of super, per annum, lifted the carry-
ing capacity from .86 sheep to 2.85 sheep
per acre. Where lcwt. of super, only was
used, the lime being omitted, the carrying
capacity was doubled. But where the virgin
pasture was further improved by the intro-
duction of sub. clover and Wimmera rye-
grass, with a yearly dressing of lcwt. of
super., the carrying- capacity was lifted to
3.79 sheep per acre, an increase of more than
fourfold. Top-dressing is now a matter of
ordinary farm routine in the south-east of
couth Aus., and has made it the most pros-
perous section of the State.
LUCERNE FOR FATTENING.
Golightly” ; In September last I set aside
20 acres of grazing lucerne. To test its cash
value, on Oct 1 I purchased 120 shorn first
crossbred weaners for 2s. 9d. per head, growth
and condition only fair, put them on the
lucerne for five weeks and trucked them to
market and they netted back to the farm
ss. lOd. per head ; 110 weaners purchased at
2s. od. per head were then put in for five
weeks and marketed, netting me ss. 8d • 217
weaners bought at 2s. Od. per head followed,
117 going on to the lucerne for five weeks,
then trucked, and the balance treated like-
wise, the lot netting me ss. 7d. Five weeks
on the lucerne was not sufficient to turn
these ordinary conditioned lambs into prime
tats (Homebush described them as fair aver-
age), but they left the paddock in good,
sappy condition. The lucerne increased
their value by £72, or at the rate of £3 12s
per acre for six months, with valuable graz-
ing still to be had over the winter months
Ihe rainfall over this period was 14 inches
which was distinctly good; but heat waves
and continuous hot winds played havoc with
pastures. Incidentally, this lucerne area was
established three years ago without the aid
of a plough. The seed was broadcast early
in March on bare and dusty soil, and lightly
harrowed afterwards. An equal area of
natural pastures was included and the whole
divided into three paddocks, each available
to water.
ELEPHANT GRASS.
“F 34”: Another fodder crop well suited
to the erratic climate of the Central Queens-
land coast is elephant grass. In some respects
it is superior to saccaline; in food value
they are practically identical. It is a heavy
cropper, yields of over 30 tons per acre hav-
ing been obtained from three or four cuts
during the growing season. It responds well
to heavy applications of farmyard manure,
so a plot handy to the yards is well worth
establishing. And if Strawberry does find
the rails down, she won’t turn her toes up.
The soil should be worked 10 or 12 inches
deep, and any hard pan, if it’s an old cul-
tivation, should be broken up by sub-soiling.
The deeper the soil is worked the less sub-
ject to drought will be the crop. Sets or
roots may be planted; 3ft. apart in rows
Oft. apart will mean 2400 sets to the acre.
If the soil is not moist, put in whole plants
with the mattock. Break up an old stool
into pieces, each with both top and roots,
putting the roots well down and adding a
■ pint or two of water in the hole before fill-
ing in. The plants soon stool out, and after
being cut a few times produce lighter, finer
stems and leaves. Plough alternate inter-
rows each year, and if needed use the sub-
soiler as well. There doesn’t seem to be
any limit to the life of a plot.
A drawback is that elephant grass gets very
woody after it flowers. If a silo were avail-
able the cutting or two that aren’t needed
during the flush could be ensiled to help out
the plot during the dry spring. It should
be less difficult to cure into sweet silage than
saccaline, since the sugars of the latter are
converted into acids unless the temperature
is properly controlled, whereas the woody
fibre of the elephant grass is softened and
rendered more digestible. Since few C.Q.
farmers have silos, it is best to save it up
on the cow’s back by starting hand-feeding
earlier than is usually done. The finer stems
and leaves from old stools can be readily
cured into a coarse hay. But even if the
standover portion of the crop looks hard and
dry, don’t cut it and burn it as is sometimes
done. An inch of rain will make it shoot
at all the eyes, and with the sap flowing
freely it isn’t nearly so hard to put through
the chaffcutter.
ABERDEEN ANGUS CATTLE.
“Breeder”: Old prejudices against the
color originated with the dairy blacks, which
were as hard as a lemonade-bottle; but A.A.
blacks are soft as velvet. Many cattlemen
without experience of the breed say the
A.A.’s are very wild. I find them more
brainy than other breeds and not nearly so
touchy as “ballys” or Devons; and if the
weaners are “tailed” for two or three weeks
after weaning, they are never wild again.
They are great foragers, travelling big dis-
tances to feed, and get as much scrub as
any horny breed. Being heavy, thick, quick
maturers and fatteners. they beat the aver-
age Shorthorn by 12 months. Crossing A.A.
bulls on Shorthorns I have secured not less
than 76 p.c. of blacks and 96| p.c. of polls—
first cross; second still better. All this breed
wants is to be better known, with plenty of
good immune bulls available, and they will
go a long way to establish our export beef
as first-grade.
While on that subject let me blame for
our rough class of herd and beef the meat-
works tnemselves. They have bought for
years on the weight basis, so one got more
for a big rough-boned bullock (perhaps nine
years old, and not likely to be nice beef),
weighing, say, 7601 b. or more, than for a
prime three-year-old steer going over 6001 b.
Rough stuff paid the best, so the grower
stuck to it. Now the works are buying on
a “grade” basis; but it is all against the
grower. The stock offering is classed by a
meatworks employee, and the more he puts
into seconds the more profit to the works.
And we growers put up with' that.
THE VICIOUS BULL.
“J.W.W.”: Dehorning is no cure. A
Gippsland man was nearly killed recently by
a dehorned bull, and there have been other
cases. A friend and I, with our dog aboard,
were motoring towards Melbourne when we
came upon a bull (also dehorned) mauling
a swaggie. He told us he would have been
killed but for his double swag hanging back
and front. It took our burly half-staghound
with his best teeth in commission to make
bully retreat. Coming to a paddock with
cattle in, lie stuck his polled head between
good taut wires and walked through the
fence as if it were twine.
Hans Kjarguard, a Dane, had a contrap-
tion like a big strap round his bull’s neck,
with a kind of pad attached to it which jutted
out in front of the head. On this was hung
a bowed piece of wire with a tin blind or
curtain fastened to it. This hung just low
enough to allow the bull to see half a chain,
and was effective.
RUGS FOR STRAWBERRY.
“W.D.Mc.”: You can make them out
of three cornsacks. or three manure bags (a
stronger class of jute), or, best of all, from
second-hand woolbales. A bale can be bought
for 2s, (id., and will furnish two really good
rugs, which can be improved by lining with
a bran-bag or hessian, all over or across the
loins. Rugs made this way will turn a lot
of rain, and they can be rendered water-
proof by a cheap mixture used as a dressing.
Take iOlb. mutton suet, 51b. Stockholm
tar, lib. beeswax and lib. resin; melt all
together and apply as hot as possible with
a whitewash or similar brush. To complete
a really good job put in brass eyelets and
cut legstraps from scrap leather (you can
get a bundle for ss. from chandlery shops),
or make a soft rope from five strands of
binder twine; damp the twine and do not
twist too tight. It will not chafe and will
last through the winter. *
Some people remove rugs daily. This
entails a lot of work, but in the case of
canvas rugs it is necessary, as they get very
hot. With bag rugs it needn’t be done until
the cows begin to scratch or lick themselves,
and only then on fine days. My experience
is that a good rug will save a third of the
feed, and that is something in days when
every penny counts.
STRAW MULCH FOR WINDFALLS.
“John A. Thunn” : With very good crops
of apples and pears, orchardists in Vic. have
been buying straw in large quantities for
use as a windfall mulch. A firm market
exists at about £2 per ton, and numerous
wheat cockies by selling pressed straw are
practically beating 3s. a bushel for the grain.
This sounds all right; but is there a catch
in it?
In the ordinary course of events cocky
burns the straw, thereby losing a larger
amount of humus and appreciable quanti-
ties of nitrogen, but returning some humus
(fixed carbon) and the ash (phosphoric acid,
potash, etc.) to the soil. At the same time
the heat generated from a good burn destroys
pests and improves the physical condition of
the soil. The question arises: Does it pay
cocky to sell the straw at £2 or let it stand
in the paddock for a good fire?
Again, is he, helping the orchardist? This
year’s immense fruit crop means an enor-
mous quantity of windfalls, which are being
harvested in good condition per medium of
the straw cushion. Unfortunately, this has
resulted in the windfall crop being rushed
to the market, to be sold at a shilling or two
per case. A well-known orchardist, employ-
ing four permanent hands, recently garnered
17 drayloads of windfall fruit in one week,
consigned the lot to unemployed-relief depots
in the city, and advised all orchardists to
follow suit. His view is that it is easy to
decrease, but not easjr to increase, the price
of a commodity on the market. His idea is
that the retailer and housewife, becoming
used to apples and pears (unadvertised wind-
falls) at a bob or two per case, would
naturally resent the orchardist suddenly in-
creasing the price possibly 100 p.c. when
the genuine prime fruit picked off the tree
is sold.
One avenue for the disposal of windfall
fruit has not been exploited, and that is as
a fodder for the dairy cow. In the follow-
ing table the analysis of apples is compared
with that of pumpkins and grass:—
Ash Pro- Carbo-
(Minerals). tein. Fibre, hydrates. Fat.
P-c. P.c. p.c. p.c. • p.c.
Apples .. .4 .7 1.2 16.6 .4
Pumpkin .. .5. 1.2 1.7 5.2 .4
Grass .. 2.0 3.5 4.0 9.7 .8
So the apple is rich in fat producers (carbo-
hydrates). The protein content is low, but
it would provide a variety to the usual pro-
tein blend fed to Strawberry, and in other
respects the fruit, when fed, would prove
beneficial, particularly from the medicinal
standpoint. Care should be taken that the
fruit is suitably sliced prior to feeding;
choking has followed the lodgment of an
apple in the throat of a beast.
A final word on the straw mulch. The
orchardist should use lime as a top-dressing
in the early autumn, thereby accelerating the
decomposition of the straw into humus both
before and after tillage operations.
DATE CULTIVATION.
“Campagnus”: There are 10 or 12 palms
growing in Oharleville, and with the excep-
tion of two or three, which, I presume, are
males, they bear a very good crop each year.
They are not fertilised by hand, so either
the wind or insects do the job. The soil is
sandy, and as oranges grow well without
much attention there must be some mois-
ture underneath. As far a.s I can see there
is no reason why palms should not do well
on most West Queensland rivers. One thing
in their favor is the spiky nature of the
plant, which should keep off any animal in
search of a free feed, though the goats
which are a feature of all western towns
believe in trying everything once. The dates
themselves are a bit disappointing when
first tried in their natural state —they are
not so tasty as the preserved article—but,
as with many other fruits of hot climates,
a taste for them is soon acquired
“Meandu”: There is a date-palm in the
middle of a vegetable garden here (Moree,
(Continued on page 26.)


A strong boot
Built to Abbey standards of
durability and comfort, this
Cossack is a rugged boot for
all-weather service under the
roughest conditions. It has a
double sole and a leather-lined
upper. Buyers find that it
outlasts any ordinary work
boot. It’s extra comfortable,
too.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 —ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 329
V
*2fc
ħ
Read the B.P. Magazine
A DOOR TO THE WORLD—THE WORLD TO YOUR DOOR.
Australian artists —Australian writers.
Beautiful color and sepia pages.
Fine photographic studies.
1/- PER COPY.
At all bookstalls or direct from
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD,,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney,
CHEMIST TELLS RECIPE FOR FAMILY
COUGH REMEDY.
HELP PEOPLE SAVE MONEY.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading
chemist, that will enable people to make the
best family cough remedy, and at the same
time save much money. Everybody knows
that a good cough and influenza remedy
consists of two main sections: —
The first section is the undiluted med-
icinal ingredients; and the second is, of
course, the necessary water and sweetening.
The preparation of the medicinal ingredi-
ents requires trained knowledge, but the
water and sweetening can be added in the
home just as easily as in the pharmacy.
And you save a lot of money by doing so.
Now, prove these facts by trying this
HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either
treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and a large
breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till
dissolved, and when the syrup is quite
cold pour into a large bottle, and then add
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior in
qualitjr to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy, but,
if purchased in the usual way, would cost
up to £l. An outstanding feature about
HEENZO is the fact that it is a safe
remedy for babies as well as adults, and
over 12,000 people have written letters
proclaiming it the best I'emedy they have
ever used for quickly banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, and influenza.
Advt.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
h
SCHUTE,
BELL&Clm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Interested in Gardening?
Well, send at once for a copy of Yates'
Annual, 1933, just published !
5 o
l^Tr
ho
C A,o
’933
c 4.q
°**#
'hn
This, the finest of nil
garden seed and plant
publications issued in
Australia, is now avail-
able post free for all
who are planning better
and brighter gardens
and bigger and more
profitable crops.
Complete Lists of—
Novelties and
Specialities
Vegetable Seeds
Flower Seeds
Bulbs and Roses
Plants and Trees
134 Pages
8 Colour Plates
175 Illustrations
Qur packet seeds are obtainable frcm leading stores in every city and almost
every town and village throughout Australia. Any store stocking our
sealed and dated packets will also be pleased to obtain from us to your special
order Bulk Flower and Vegetable Seeds, Bulbs, Plants and Farm Seeds as
well as special varieties of Flower and Vegetable packet seeds not usually carried.
When writing for catalogue, please mention the name of this paper and
ask us for the names of the Stores in Your Town, or, if preferred, we
will supply direct from our Mail Order Dept., Sydney.
ARTHUR YATES & CO. LTD.
Australia's Greatest Seed House
(Box 2707-C, G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
N.S.W.), grown from a seed 20 years ago.
which has a good crop of fruit on at present,
and has fruited every year for the last 13
years. I believe it has been proved in
Europe that pollen from the male flowers
has been wind-borne incredible distances;
and as, so far as I know, there is no other
date-palm within scores of miles (perhaps
hundreds) of ours, it seems to bear this
statement out. At any rate, hand fertilisa-
tion in our case, as “Hod el Usbeg” claims
is necessary (B. 15/3/’33), is right out of
the question. Incidentally, I might add that
the local product is stoneless.
OILING FRUIT TREES.
“Panton Hill” : Great and still increasing
importance is attached to the oiling of fruit
trees, after pruning, by successful orcliard-
ists in southern Vic. The process destroys
noxious bacteria, insects and their eggs har-
boring in the bark; it discourages further
deposits and harborage of extra-late or early-
stirring enemies ; and it gives a mellowness
and elasticity to the bark which reacts upon
the growth and fertility of the trees to a
degrqe which has to be seen to be fully
appreciated. Some of our best- growers claim
that, after pruning, this oiling is the most
valuable single process in fruit-growing.
The labor of applying is the chief expense;
the crude oil, used is cheap, and a little
goes a long way. Ordinary crude oil is
mixed with 20 times its volume of water
(emulsified, in the usual way with the aid of
common soap) ; the mixture is then sprayed
on as soon after pruning as possible.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from, Service Department.)
(1) Formula of Tyler's remedy for worms
in sheep? (2) Is it considered more effec-
tive than carbon tetrachloride amd paraffin
mixture? (3) Name of a good book on the
diseases of sheep? —4B3s.
(1) It is directed more particularly
against stomach worms; the dose for adult
sheep consists of 125 mg. of sodium arsenite
and 500mg.'of copper sulphate. Other doses
are in a diminishing scale and measured with
different-sized spoons, according to age. (2)
For stomach worms, particularly, it is con-
sidered better. (3) A useful book for lay-
men is “The Management and Diseases of
Sheep in Australia.”
(D I have a silo full of oats , tipped
loose. Measurements are: Length 38 feet,
width 14 feet, height 10 feet. How many
bushels are there in it, and what’s the
method of reckoning? (2) Would there be
more oats on the bottom 100 cub. ft. than
on the top 100 owing to the pressure? —
5131.
(1) The silo would hold 4146 bushels.
The method of arriving at this quantity is
to obtain the cubic dimensions of the silo,
which are 5320 cubic feet, and divide by
the Cubic dimensions of an Imperial-bushel
—1.283 cubic feet. (2) No.
(1) How much hide does it take to plait
an Bft. stockwhip from kangaroo belly? (2)
Cost?. (3) Any book on plaiting? —sl3s.
(1) Thrfee-quarters of a pound for a 12-
plait. (2) About 7s. 6d. (3) All there is
to learn about plaiting could be put into
two pages, illustrated by diagrams. There
are no books devoted to the subject, nor,
so far as we are aware, are there chapters
in any book that deal with more than the
first elements of plaiting.
(1) Is there an open season for selling
’possum skins in Vie.? (2) Can I get a,
permit to kill and sell skins? (3) How
much icould it cost? (4) Can I get a per-
mit to destroy 'possums as noxious pests?
(5) Where to apply? (6) Value of skins
in winter? —5023.
(1) Not this year. (2) and (4) Only
landholders suffering from the depredations
of ’possums may obtain permits to kill.
Skins must be sold through the Fisheries
and Game Department, the landholder re-
ceiving 80 per cent, of the net proceeds. (3)
No charge. (5) Chief Inspector of Fisheries
and Game Department, 143 King-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l. (6) Prices are quoted in the
daily papers each week.
(1)7 am thinking of buying a small citrus
orchard in a north-of-Sydney district. _ Is
this to be recommended? (2) Would it be
possible to run such an orchard in conjunc-
tion with poultry farming? Possible returns
from the latter?. —5012.
(1) Not for the present. Future citrus
production will only be profitable on the
most suitable land cultivated by methods
above the average. (2) Poultry farming can
be carried on successfully in conjunction with
an orchard if the necessary labor and effi-
cient management are available, but the con-
tinual cultivation incidental to fruit-grow-
ing makes sidelines arduous. With suffi-
cient capital—say £lOO0 —to start on sound
lines, and with experience and aptitude,
a return of ss. per hen could be made above
cost of feed. In normal times the returns
from poultry flocks are much greater.
My grapes are covered with black specks
and have thick furry coats. They are be-
ginning to split open. Any remedy? —slo9.
The trouble may be oidium, a fungus
disease. Sulphur dustings are recommended,
and the job should be tackled as soon as the
symptoms appear.
Can carbide waste be used in the garden
(1) to take the place of lime as a fertiliser,
and (2) as a destroyer of insect pests? —
5053.
(1) Yes, if all lumps are broken up and
ground as finely as possible. (2) If finely
ground and made into a paste, it can be
used as lime wash to serve as an insect
deterrent.
Any machines on the market for cleaning
eggs? If so, where can I get particulars ?—•
5153. , .
The best method of cleaning eggs is by
sand-blasting, as the keeping quality of the
eggs is not affected. A machine for this work
has been installed by the N.S.W. Egg Mar-
keting Board, but the number of eggs re-
quired to be cleaned on the average poultry
farm would not justify the expense. The
only other method is to wash the eggs and
place them on netting or woven-wire racks
to dry. Eggs should not be exposed to the
air to dry any longer than is necessary.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Old Toolong”: For scours in poddy
calves try this old English remedy: Clean
a common dock root, cut it into small pieces
and pour boiling water on —say a pint on
a medium-sized root for a small calf. Admin
ister as a drench on an empty stomach.
Afterwards start calf again on half rations,
increasing each feed a little till the usual
amount is reached.
“Pennant H.”: After grubbing or burn-
ing out a tree, run out all the roots to a
depth of at least 12in ; , or they may work
havoc with your machinery later on.
“Deekay”: During sowing-time be caretul
not to let anything larger than a gram ot
wheat enter the wheat-box of the drill.
Pieces of paper or rag which have pluggea
up holes in a bag of seed have a way ot
getting into the wheat-runs and choking
them. It is a good idea to allow the runs
to empty right out several times a week to
make sure they are all free.
“Dunboy”: To protect your bags from
mice (B. 15/3/’33), a case is not essential .
I roll my bags in bundles of 15 or so and
thrust them into another bag, whose mouth
I then tie. With a .single strand of No. 8
wire I hang each bundle to the rafters in
the barn. I’ve used this method for years
and never known it to fail.
“Willeroo”: Cowhide makes a first-class
seat for a chair when the original cane seat
has worn out. Choose a clean piece of hide
with good, thick hair, and rub the flesh
side with a stone to soften it. Tack it on
just beyond the cane holes all round. Any
sort of tacks will do, but those with round
brass heads make the best job.
“Louden”: Don’t use solder to repair
breaks or holes in lead-piping. It does not
take well, and will not stand pressure. Run
in a bit of white metal with the soldering-
iron and you will have an effective and last-
ing job.
“Forty Winks”: When leading a horse
with winkers on, don’t hold by the catch on
the coupling. If the horse should suddeflly
poll back, there is a big chance of the little
finger being caught and a painful injury
being done.
“E.W.” : You can, of course, buy specially
made wedges that will not fly. Another way
is to throw, the hammer into a good fire till
it turns red and then take it out and let it
cool.
“Whooplesnitz” : To make a fencing gauge
for use when post-boring, cut a stick about
] in. shorter than that part of the post above
ground. For (say) a six-wire fence, mark
with a file or knife six rings round the stick
at the determined gauge. Tie a piece of
string 12in. long to the top end and attach
a small weight—a bolt will do—to the end
of the string. You then have something like
a fishing-rod with line and sinker. Stand
the stick alongside the post to be bored and
drop the sinker over the top; it stays put
and the place for each of the six holes is
plainlv indicated. .
“C.M.F.” : Soak a quart of coke overnight
in a cupful or so of sump oil. Fed a bit at a
time on to a fire that is burning well, this
will give an intense, lasting heat.
“Venture” : Many men when erecting _ a
fence running up and down a steep hill. 'will
put the posts in perpendicularly. This is
wrong, as it makes the fence too low. The
posts should be at a right angle with the
ground surface. Then the wires will be
the proper distance apart, and the netting,
if you are using it, will come to the right
height on the posts. The idea that the.posts,
if set in this way, will “fall down the hill'
is absurd They have no tendency to do so.
“Salmon Gums”: When feeding calves
in a pen, construct a grill, using incli-by-
incli sticks about 3ft. long, and spaced about
an inch apart. Taper both ends of each
stick to a near point, and fit into holes
bored into light timber. Twitch a piece of
wire over the end pieces, parallel with the
sticks at either end, to keep in position.
Fasten one end to the wall of the pen about
2ft. from the floor, and suspend the top
with a wire, picture-frame fashion. Fill the
space behind the grill with greenstuff. The
calves will eat it better and will not trample
what they don’t eat.
“Cooramin”: A man near Stanthorpe (Q..)
is trying ’possum farming. His selection is
stocked with about SO of the furred animals,
which are housed in boxes. The fencing
problem he has cheapened by using wire-
netting, brought over a couple of feet at
the top like an awning. Thus, if one climbs
up the fence, he bumps into the overhead
strip and goes' no further.
“Larrapinta”: The main honey crop is
taken in midsummer, but summer is the
worst time to dispose of it. Hold on till
the winter demand sets in ; it’s hard to do,
but unless it is done beekeeping can never
be made to pay. The best customers are
those who buy from you direct, and the best
thing a novice can do is to work up a trade
of his own. Some little country weeklies
are excellent advertising mediums; a 3s.
advt. in a paper circulating in the S.A.
Mallee brought me in £2O in orders.
“M.D.M.”: There is a cry for cheap
power; yet what w r e waste is incredible. On
the N.S.W. Blue Mountains, at the back of
Mount Victoria, there are fhlls that could be
used to light the whole of the mountain
towns at a very cheap cost. At Rous Mill
there is a Swede who, by using a small
stream that flows through liis farm, lights
his house and the homes of his children
and the local church, and also provides the
power for the milking machines, the saw-
mill and the flying-fox that pulls the fruit
from the gully to the top of the cliff.
“Karaway”: “Disc Harrow’s” advice (B.
22/3/’33) not to stand in line with the
blade when doing circular-saw work doesn’t
suit me. In cutting wood —for the engine
itself or other purposes—you have to hold
the junks with one hand on each side of
the saw, and if you stand a little on one side
your wrist or arm is in danger of coming
across the teeth. You can’t hold a round
or crooked piece of wood firmly and safely
on the bench unless you stand squarely in
front of the running saw. The most im-
portant point is to see that your log or stick
is well set on the bench before shoving it
on the teeth ; also to beware of splinters
and any forked piece that might touch the
teeth above the wood that you are cutting.
There should be nothing ovenhead that could
possibly drop on the saw, and no litter
underfoot.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Position as tutor by educated young man, experi-
enced Q. Education Department ; outside work if
necessary; book-keeping, music; excellent creden-
tials. —5353.
Youth (18), N.S.W., seeks position on station;
can milk, kill, ride and drive; good worker, go
anywhere.—s 332.
Publicity man, N.S.W., general writer, seeks
contact provincial Chamber of Commerce, Progress
Assoc., newspaper, special arrangement.—s2B6.
Youth (18), N.S.W., wants job as jackeroo on sheep
station.—s 246.
Wanted second-hand set golf clubs by medium-
height right-hand man.—-5252.
Picture of sailing ship Renfrewshire, which
brought out immigrants from Scotland to Bundaberg
48 years ago. —5261.
Canadian reader would like to exchange postcards
of scenic resorts with Australian readers. —5346.
Words of “The Priests,” beginning “Back in
the dawn of history in the night of forgotten
years.”—s342,
To buy “Fisher’s Ghost,” by Lang.—s 243.
To buy “Art in Australia,” first series, No. 1;
second series, 1 and 2; third series, 27 and 38;
“Australia Beautiful,” Easter, 1930. —5326,
Information Sought.
I intend carrying fish for sale to a Q’land
country town over 200 miles from the nearest
fish market. (1) Where would I get infor-
mation regarding insulated cabinets suitable
for the purpose? (2) Other methods by
which I could keep the fish in good condi-
tion? (3) Do freshwater fish keep as well
as salticater fish? (4) Best fish for carry-
ing purposes? —soBl.
(1) From J. Budge and Go., engineers,
Sydney. (2) Pack them between crushed
ice in wooden boxes, insulated with sawdust.
(3) Yes. (4) Whiting, mullet, snapper and
flathead.
What is the origin of the custom of play-
ing practical jokes on friends on April If—
-5037.
_ It is most probably a relic of the festivi-
ties held at the spring equinox, which, begin-
ning on the old New Year’s Day (March
25), ended on April 1. The custom in
Europe was derived from France, which
nation was the first to adopt the reformed
calender. Those who disliked the change
were fair butts for wits, who sent mock
New Year gifts and paid calls of pretended
ceremony 0 n April 1.
About twelve months ago there could be
seen in various parts of Australia unusually
magnificent and brilliant sunsets. Any
explanation ? —5117.
The phenomena were caused by volcanic
dust. In April violent eruptions took place
from a number of volcanoes in the Andes,
As in the case of the eruption of Krakatoa
in ISB3, the dust thrown up into the air
and carried by upper winds caused fine
sunset effects in other parts of the world.
Any method of fixing charcoal drawings
beside spraying them with gum fixative,
which is inclined to take the freshness from
the drawing?- —4950.
Make a fixative from Joz. of isinglass and
240 z. of distilled vinegar. Let stand for
24 hours and then pour in 1 pint of hot
water. Keep the mixture hot without boil-
ing until the isinglass is dissolved. Filter
the resulting fluid through clean blotting-
paper and place in a well-stoppered bottle
with _an equal quantity of rectified spirits
of wine. To fix the drawing, suspend it
face downward in a horizontal frame. See
that nothing touches the surface of the draw-
ing ; an old picture frame of suitable size
without the glass will do for this. Paint
the fixative over the back of drawing with
a wide, soft camel-hair brush'. Use enough
fixative to penetrate the paper and render
the chalk or charcoal of the drawing moist,
and take care to apply an even coat. Give
a second coat, using much less of the mix-
ture than for the first coat, and turn the
frame with the drawing face upward to dry.
Of what substance are castanets made?
llow are they played? Were they used in
early times? —4B3o.
They are used to click time in dancing,
and made of two hollow shells of hard wood,
fastened together by a cord, which is passed
over the thumb and first finger. They were
used by the Greeks and the Romans to
accompany their Bacchanalian dances.
Method for finishing-off woodwork after
a design has been stained on it? —4898.
Give a coat of fine varnish if a high
polish is wanted, or polish with beeswax,
which gives a low, soft lustre. Mix beeswax
with turps, or use one of the prepared waxes.
If a motor-car is travelling at 60 m.p.h.
can the occupants be struck by bullets fired
at a speed of 60 m.p.h. from a pursuing car,
travelling at the same speed? —sl9l.
Yes, if the car fired at was within range.
8o far as those two cars are concerned the
effect is just the same as if they were stand-
ing still. The bullets fired from the pur-
S WB car at a velocity of 60 m.p.h. have
added to their speed the velocity of the car
trom which they were fired. In relation to
the ground the bullets’ speed is 120 m.p.h.,
at f as t er than the car they are fired
Method used by the Japanese for dwarfing
trees and shrubs? —soo6.
It is more or less a secret, but these are
the principles; The seed or a tiny plant is
n lll a ver y small pot. The tap-root
is aliowed to grow through the hole at the
,V md is Periodically cut off level with
nt »!! T of the pot ‘ After about a year,
or according to the growth of the plant, it
is transferred to a slightly larger pot and
the same process of cutting the tap-root is
proceeded with. After another period of
growth it is again transferred to a larger
pot, and the root-cutting again carried out.
At the same time the main branches are
cut, causing the main stem to become en-
larged, and the branches are wired, enabling
them to be bent and twisted into any posi-
tion. During the whole process the poorest
soil is used, and the plant kept rather dry.
How to restore antique finish to a copper
fender that has been scrubbed bright? —
5063.
If you leave the kerb uncleaned for a
while it will darken like a penny. The
high lights may then be lightly rubbed to
lighten them if you wish, when the whole
should be given a coat of lacquer to pre-
serve the effect: Place some orange shellac
in a tin, and cover it with enough methy-
lated spirit to dissolve into a thin paste.
Let stand until it dissolves thoroughly, then
apply with a brush.
Any known stiffening for the brim of a
wool felt hat? —5045.
Place a dessertspoon of shellac m a
kitchen basin and pour boiling water over it
to make a thin solution. While it’s still hot,
pass the brim of the hat through it by hold-
ing it edge downwards into the liquid. When
it is quite saturated, place on a hat stand
and press the brim into the required shape.
Allow to dry thoroughly. Repeat with a
stronger solution of the shellac if not stiff
enough.
In buying a chow-chow pup what are the
points to note?— sll3.
It should have a black tongue; its coat
should be all of one color—black, red, yellow,
blue or white, but not in patches. The hair
under the tail and under the thighs may be
of a lighter shade. The head should be
broad and flat; nose moderate in length, but
short tipped; nose and mouth black; eyes
small and dark; ears alert and carried erect
and well over the eyes; neck broad and
firmly set; legs strong, bony and perfectly
straight; feet round and catlike; chest broad
and deep. The chow has a deep ruff around
the neck, and a hairy, full tail, curled over
the back.
What is the basis of the process whereby
a sheet of typewritten copy can be put into
type without the intervention of a linotype
operator? —sl24.
The copy is typed on a typewriter so built
that with each letter typed a symbol, in the
form of varying combinations of dots, re-
presenting that letter, appears on the paper.
The paper is placed in the carriage of a
linotype machine and the carriage released
by an electric switch. This carriage then
moves to and fro automatically, passing the
whole of each line of the dotted typescript
in succession under a tiny beam of light. As
each combination of dots passes under the
beam the light passes through the paper and
falls on a photo-electric cell, which converts
the light impulses into electric impulses, and
these in turn operate the mechanism regu-
lating the release of the proper matrix from
the magazine.
I am over 21, and have been working in
a Queensland hotel without wages for my
father, the proprietor. An A.W.V. organ-
iser told me that I had to take out an
A.W.V. ticket. Is that correct? —4580.
Under the Q’land Industrial Conciliation
and Arbitration Act, 1929, a child in the
employ of his parents was exempt. The
new Act which came into force on February
1, 1933, does not contain a provision to that
effect. If you receive wages or the equiva-
lent of wages, you are an employee under
the Act.
When did the Kwaiambe outrage occur in
the Solomon Islands? Who iverc the vic-
tims, and what happened to the murderers?
—5068.
The massacre occurred in October, 1927.
W. R. Bell, District Officer of Malaita, Cadet
Lillies and 13 native employees of the Gov-
ernment were murdered. In all, 83 natives
were indicted; seven were convicted and six
were hanged, one being reprieved. Seventeen
others were sentenced to terms of imprison-
ment.
Formula for glaze suitable for Australian
clays ? —4979.
Consult textbooks such as '“Pottery Dec-
orating,” by R. Hainbach.
(1) Why does the petrol rise into and flow
from the vent pipe in the vacuum tank when
the air vent is blocked in the main petrol
tank? (2) Does the petrol cease to flow
to carburetter when the air vent on petrol
tank is blocked on a gravity-fed tank? —
5032.
(1) When for some reason the petrol tank
gets heated the petrol vaporises. The vapor
expands and forces the petrol into the
vacuum tank and so through the vent pipe.
(2) Yes, within a few minutes.
(1) What is the procedure for the admit-
tance of a mental case to Broughton Hall,
Sydney? (2) Fees? —4997.
(1) Personal application by prospective
patient to medical superintendent. (2)
In accordance with a patient’s means, up
to £3 per week.
(1) When are exams, held in N.S.W. for
the issue of licenses to surveyors? (2)
Subjects? (3) Where can full details be
obtained? —sl39.
(1) In March and September of each
year. (2) Each candidate (who must jhave
been under articles for four years, and have
passed an exam, of Sydney Uni. matric.
standard) must submit his original field
notes and plan of a survey of at least 40
acres, survey of a town lot and section of a
road, railway or drainage work of not less
than ten chains. The written exam, em-
braces principles and practice of surveying,
computations, field astronomy and geodesy,
engineering surveys, miscellaneous, physics,
geology and forestry. In addition there is
an oral and practical examination. (3)
From Surveyor-General’s Office, Lands
Dept., Sydney.
Is there a rule determining the number
of goldfish that can be kept in various sizes
of tanks? —5144.
A safe rule is a gallon to each inch of
fish. If you had two fishes each 3in. long
you would allow 6 gallons. If you had a
great many fish you could measure them
without their tails.
(1) To what race do the Tongans be-
long? Are they connected in any way with
the Malays and how do they compare with
other Pacific Islanders as regards intelli-
gence? (2) Did the 'Tongans ever practise
cannibalism ? —4420.
(1) They are Polynesians and are reputed
to be, with the exception of the Maoris
and possibly the Samoans, the most intelli-
gent of Pacific Islanders. The most
plausible theory of their origin seems to
suggest migration from Asia. Most investi-
gators support the theory of the connection
of the Polynesians with the Malays. (2)
It was never approved of nor generally
practised in Tonga.
When, how and by whom was the Austra-
lian Loan Council created? What are its
objects and functions? —5128.
Consisting of the Treasurers of the Com-
monwealth and of the States, it was created
during 1923-24 as a result of representa-
tions made by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, being designed to prevent clashing in
the raising of loans. Prior to the passing of
the Financial Agreement Validation Act,
1929, the Council functioned on a purely
voluntary basis. That Act gave legislative
force to a popular referendum, and invested
the Loan Council with' full constitutional
authority. Up to June, 1925, the Common-
wealth and States issued their own loans in
London and elsewhere outside Australia, but
the amounts were limited to sums agreed upon
at the Loan Council. About the middle of
1925 the Loan Council decided that there
should be no competition for loans in the
American market, and that borrowing in
America, and borrowing simultaneously in
America and London, on behalf of the Com-
monwealth and of the States, should be con-
ducted solely by the Copimonwealth.
How to make a crayon suitable for
sketching outlines for designs on glass? —
5073.
Dissolve equal portions of asphaltum and.
yellow wax and add enough lampblack to
color it deeply. Pour the mixture into crayon
moulds if available; if not, pour into a
shallow dish so that the mixture is about
a quarter of an inch thick. Before it is
quite set cut into strips a quarter-inch
square, divide into suitable lengths and
allow to harden. When trimming these
bevel from the edge and a very fine point
can be secured. Clean the glass well with
a leather before sketching on it and avoid
as far as possible touching it with the hands
after cleaning.
A few hints on growing balsam? —5080.
Balsams require a rich, well-manured soil,
and plenty of water during dry weather.
Sow seed in boxes or seed pans in a hot-
bed frame, and harden seedlings off as they
advance. About the middle of August is
the best time for sowing; seedlings should
be ready for planting out about the first
week in October. As hot winds are apt to
burn the plants, the seedlings must be
planted out in a sheltered position. A light
wooden stake as a support is a help.
Can you tell me anything about (1)
Minotto’s cell? (2) De la Rue and Muller's
cell?— slo7.
(1) Minotto’s cell consists of an earthen-
ware vessel, at the bottom of which is a
layer of powdered copper sulphate support-
ing a copper disc provided with a copper
wire. Upon the disc is a layer of sawdust,
on which rests a zinc cylinder; the whole
is filled with' water, from which, however,
the wire from the copper disc is insulated.
The cell is a modification of a Daniell’s cell,
the porous cylinder being dispensed with.
(2) De la Rue and Muller’s cell consists
of a glass tube 6in. long, containing half
an ounce of silver chloride, the remainder of
the cell being filled with sal-ammoniac solu-
tion. The tube is closed with a vulcanite
stopper through which a zinc rod Sin. long
and a silver wire 6in. iong pass. The hydro-
gen generated reduces the chloride to silver,
which is deposited on the silver wire. E.M.F.
is about 1.03 volt. The advantage of the cell
is its compactness.
How dangerous is the sap of the milky
mangrove or river poison-tree? Has the
sap or the timber any uses? —5078.
The sap exudes a poisonous gas. The
symptoms are a burning sensation in the
throat, sore eyes and headache. A single
drop falling into an eye may injure the
sight. The natives of eastern Australia,
a well as those of New Guinea, use this
poisonous juice to treat leprosy, but in Fiji
the pati'-nt is fumigated with the smoke of
the burning wood. In India the sap of the
tree is called “tiger’s milk,” and is applied
with good effect to inveterate ulcers. A good
caoutchouc may also be prepared from the
milk. The tree has a light, soft wood, which
might be suitable for carving or marqueterie.
Method of eradicating ants from garden
paths? —-4944.
Pour ioz. of carbon bisulphide or cyanide
water (made by dissolving 4oz. of sodium
cyanide in lgal. water) into each hole; or
pour or blow in calcium cyanide powder.
In each case the holes and ground surround-
ing them should be covered over with heavy
sacking or damp earth to prevent the gas
escaping.
Recipe for a toothpaste that will cleanse,
whiten and preserve the teeth?— 4B44.
Finely-powdered or -scraped Castile soap,
4 drachms; heavy carbonate of magnesia,
loz.; precipitated chalk, 30z.; oil of pepper-
mint, 10 drops; glycerine, loz.; sufficient
rosewater to make a stiff paste. Mix the
magnesia with the. oil of pepperment, add
the dry ingredients, and finally the glycerine
and rosewater in that order. Mix all
smoothly ,in a mortar or strong basin, and
store in screw-top jars.
Brief Answers.
H.F.: Tlie first Australian repertory
theatre, established in Adelaide in 1908 by Bvyceson
Treharne as the Adelaide Literary Theatre, grew out
af a class formed for the study of dramatic literature
in 1907. The name was changed to the Adelaide
Repertory Theatre in 1913. .. .L.G.: Write N.S. W.
Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for “Farmer’s Bulletin,
No. 150,’’ entitled “The Cultivation of Cotton in
N.S.W.” (price 9d.) .. . . S.C.: First edition of F. E.
Manning’s “Old New Zealand” is worth about Bs.
6d A.W.: For 1931-32, imports from Czecho-
slovakia, £197,402 ; exports, £21,172 H.S.T.:
If an old-age pensioner loses his certificate, or if the
certificate is destroyed, he may apply to tfie Deputy
Commissioner of Pensions for a duplicate. Forms of
application may be obtained at any post office....
S.F.: (1) The Duke of Gloucester Islands are a small
group lying south-east of Tahiti. (2) They were
discovered by H.M.S. Act aeon, commanded by Lord
Edward. Russell, while on a voyage from Tahiti to
Pitcairn Island in 1840.... J.8.R.: A dime novel is
a sensational story in paper covers, published in
America, and sold for ten cents (a dime) ... . A.Q.:
(1) and (2) Neither Burke and Wills nor Leichhardt
passed through the district. (3) Neither exploring
party had a wheeled vehicle. .. .E.8.D.: The average
two-course pavements should consist of a base not
less than 4in. thick; one part Portland cement, two
parts fine aggregate and four parts coarse aggregate.
The top coat or wearing surface should be not less
than lin. thick; one part cement and three parts
fine aggregate... .H.M.: Darter Brothers and Co.,
Juta and Co., and Maskew Miller —all Cape Town,
South Africa. .. .V.W.: H. M. Nautical Almanac
Office, Royal Naval College, Greenwich, London,
5.E.10....A.J.M.: Areas of basins in sq. miles:
Pacific, 69,986,000 ; Atlantic, 31,530,000; and Indian,
28,350,000... .J.M.K.: London General Press, 6
Bouverie-street, E.C.4 ; National Feature Service, 102
Shoe-lane, Fleet-street, E.C.4 ; and Newspaper S'ervices,
143 Fleet-street, E.C.4 —all England... .N. 8.: The
black-throated coachwhip-bird of south-western Aus-
tralia does not appear to have been met with for
many years past, and is probably extinct... .F.J.M. :
General Bridges was born at Greenock, Scotland, on
February 18, 1861. He was in charge of the two
divisions employed at Anzac, and on May 15, 1915,
was mortally wounded by a sniper. He died in a
hospital ship four days later... ~H.J.: Can find no
trace of the date of their arrival F.8.T.: (1)
Profit on sale of shares is subject to special provi-
sions in regard to State income tax. For Federal
income tax purposes the loss incurred by reason of
the company going into liquidation is a loss of
capital and is not deductible against profits from
sale of other shares. (2) Yes. .. .A.0.F.: Write
Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney....
R.C.: (1) Steel fishing-rod centres are not made
in Australia. (2) Cane for rods comes mostly from
the Malay States. It is not grown in Australia....
J.R.: According to the Forestry Commission of
N.S.W., no Australian wood has been found suitable for
cricket bats. The value of the kurrajong as a fodder
tree makes it undesirable to ’ test it for bats..,.
F.M.L.: It would be unwise to come to Australia
seeking such a position; various State Education
Depts. have been unable to place student teachers.
. ...G.W.H.: Write George Roberts, 865 George-
street, Sydney... .D.J.K.: (1) Best patterns are-
made of fruit-case slabs, and are 24in. long, 12in.
wide and Sin. deep. Raise each end 2in. to admit
light and air in stacking, and insert a bar of
2in. X. lin. h.w. across the top to serve as a
handle for carrying. (2) Write Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney.,..
H.E.G.: As a corporate body it could recover debts
due by non-members, if that is what you mean.
Other debts would be recoverable by the respective
creditors. .. .J.L.: (1) Not aware of any general law
or local-government ordinance dealing with the ques-
tion. Get in touch with the local inspector of
nuisances. (2) The fact that he pays the rates is
insufficient. The only way to prove the title is to
make a search in the Lands Titles Office. ... T.D.:
When an order for the maintenance of an illegitimate:
child is made and the father disobeys it without
reasonable grounds he may be imprisoned until he
does comply with it. If he again fails to meet bis
obligation, which is a continuing one till the child
attains the age fixed by law, he may again be im-
prisoned. A year is generally regarded as the maxi-
mum L.S.: An agreement for the sale of land is a
mortgage within the meaning of the Moratorium Act
(N.S.W.). On your statement you appear to be
entitled to an extension of time for payment until
Feb. 28, 1936. All you need pay in the meantime is
interest, and that was subject to a reduction of nine-
fortieths (4s. 6d. in the £) from October 1, 1931. ...
H.S.H.: Yerbury’s “Georgian Details of Domestic
Architecture” (505.) and Ramsey’s “Small Houses of
the Late Georgian Period” (two vols., 765.)....
J.E.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning School,
Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney R.0.C.: Would
have to see what you have written before we could
express an opinion R.E.: (1) A chairman, 20
aldermen and 124 councillors. (2), (3) and (4)
See “Whitaker’s Almanack,’’ 1933, pages 689-692,
available Melbourne Public Library... .W.F.W.: At
the 1921 census there were in Australia 6604
persons who were born in the IJ.S.A R.E:P.:
Try Efftee Films, Melbourne E.D.0.: Our reply
was based on a statement furnished by the N.S.W.
Agriculture Department... .M. 0.: (1) No, (2) Some
volumes destroyed. Others scattered far and wide,
(3) Yes E.S.: The title of Princess Royal, which
is conferred only on the eldest daughter of a
sovereign, was last bestowed on Princess Mary, in
1932... .D.T.: Saheb is the native Hindu term for
a European; in current English vernacular it means
a gentleman L.M.: The Chambre Ardente was a
Court organised in 1535 by Francis I. of France for
suppression of Protestantism. It was so called be-
cause the punishment was generally death by burning.
... .J.H.: (1) It was undoubtedly a foul, as it would
have been if A had knocked down the 10 with his
cue, ball or clothing. (2) The same answer applies. . .
L.F.: There is no remedy. The whole world has been
trying for many years for an effective fly repellent
without success K.D.R.: Write Dept, of Lands
in each of the capital cities T. J.T.: The Scullin
Government was in office from October 22, 1929, to
January 6, 1932 F.M.: (1) Yes, the Common-
wealth Film Censor may refuse to admit into Aus-
tralia any advertising matter proposed to be used
in connection with, the exhibition of any film. (2)
Such control does not extend to locally-produced
publicity T.M.: Contributions from the Common-
wealth Consolidated Revenue to the Commonwealth
Public Service Superannuation Fund were reduced
by 20 p.c. from July, 1931 M.R.C.: Netherlands
India imports about 600 millions kilograms of rice
against about 17 millions kilograms of rice exported.
W.S.: Verjuice is an acid liquor expressed from
crab apples. It is added to cider to give greater
roughness and tartness, and in France is fermented
and sweetened to make a drink... .A.S.: The publi-
cation of Johns’s “Who’s Who in Australia” is
being continued by the Herald Press, 62 Flinders-
street, Melbourne, under the editorship of E. G.
Knox. The eighth edition should be available at
the end of July. The subscription cost is 7s. 6d.
and it is proposed to issue it annually in future....
(Many others mailed.)


/WEMBfS v
fcuoira t
JlBurieM' ®ir
OißctiA3n®»*
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
*
N"V
*
a
ħ
h
The Kismet Tyre Gauge is the most scientific
and accurate tyre gauge on the market. It is as
beautiful as it is accurate.
The calibrated hexagonal scale is easy to read —
the pressure being recorded in large figures and
rising in individually calibrated lib. units.
The external design makes it easy to fit the
gauge squarely on the tyre valve.
Supplied in neat leather wallet of handy vest-
pocket size.
Price
It pays you to
test your tyres
regularly once a
week —test them
with the All-
British Kismet
Tyre Gauge.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, C.l.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
x >
'&■
L
in addition,' if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the note
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sons of Windbag, sired in his first season,
have carried all before them in important
races of the spring and autumn up to a mile
and a quarter. Chatham won the Epsom
Handicap, the Craven Plate and the V.R.C.
Linlithgow Stakes. Winooka, third to Chat-
ham in the Epsom, has been defeated this
season only in the Oakleigh Plate and the
Newmarket Handicap, and the Newmarket,
by common consent of the men who reported
the race, he was very unlucky to lose. Sub-
sequently he made hacks of his opponents
in the V.R.C. Leonard Stakes and the
Quality Handicap -at Moonee Valley. At
Randwick on Saturday, carrying 9st. 131 b,,
he had the Doncaster won all the way up
the straight, putting up perhaps the greatest
performance in the history of the race.. And
yet, allowing that he was not at his top
in the spring, it is doubtful whether he
should be placed above. Chatham, whose
deeds were accomplished in spite, of a wind
infirmity which has relegated him to too-
early retirement. What is certain is that
these bays are brilliant horses, as beautiful
in appearance as in action; and it was a
fortunate day for the Australian turf when
it was decided to keep Windbag in Australia
instead of selling him to the Americans.
The 1391 b. burden notwithstanding, Mc-
Shortodds did not want to lay Winooka at
better than 2 to 1. Punters would not
take the price, which eased to threes. Seven
to two was demanded about Dermid, 7 to 1
about Lady Linden and Jacko; again these
rotten prices were refused, Dermid going to
fours and Jacko to 9 to 1. Autopay delayed
the start and then was left at the post,
Whittingham being also badly away. Tom
Pinch (20 to 1) was soon in front from
Winooka, and in that order they galloped to
near the four-furlong post, Tom Pinch mak-
Gert*. " "The (Judge wouldnt look at
HIM?
Bert:'Mm not surprised about that'
Ser.t; " But ws father has a
WONDERFUL. RECORD''
£>ert; * Ves, e>ut 'Nhat about
MpTHER/S ? "
ing the pace a cracker. There Lucre and
Dermid ran past Winooka, but Dermid soon
dropped back. Tom Pinch led into the
straight from Winooka, but it was seen that
Windbag’s son had his measure, and when
Pike moved on the favorite it was all over.
Tom Pinch, who had been squeezed by
Winooka, struggled on gallantly, and was
still second about a hundred yards from home,
but Jacko, with a good finishing run, moved
in to second place, getting to within a length
and a half of Winooka, and in the last stride
or two Parkwood (16 to 1) deprived Tom
Pinch of third position. Lady Linden, Whit-
tingham and Game Carrington followed them
home; Dermid was one of the last pair.
Thanks to the pace set by Tom Pinch
Winooka cut the Australian record for a
mile to lmin. 35|sec. Tom would have won
any ordinary Doncaster, and if Cook had
contrived to slow down the field instead of
being in such a hurry when he hit the front,
his mount would assuredly have been second
at least. Winooka is owned by two Rand-
wick bookmakers, Matthews and McDonald,
for whom he is trained by Poison. Pike
rode him superbly.
Cook gave another exhibition of impetu-
osity in the St. Leger. He was riding Oro
(15 t.o 1), and when the field had travelled
four furlongs slowly he drove his mount to
the front and soon had him ten lengths in
the lead. Pike on Peter Pan (2 to 1 on)
was not flurried, and the Melbourne Cup
winner steadily made up his ground. He
was almost level with Oro as they rounded
the home turn, headed him at the leger
and went on to win comfortably by a length
and a half. But Oro, thus tested, proved
himself a good game colt; he struggled on
and kept Kuvera (7 to 1) out of
plaqg, though McCarten momentarily had
to stop riding the latter, Oro having come
in. Braeburn was a disappointing fourth.
Peter Pan ran the 14 furlongs in 3mm.
2sec.
A son and a daughter of Heroic, both from
Melbourne, and both chestnuts, showed
marked superiority to the Sydney and Maori-
land youngsters in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Leila Vale (7 to 1) led for six
furlongs, then Hall Mark (5 to 1) and
Maid of Orleans (10 to 1) started to put
a gap between themselves and the others,
and they had the finish to themselves. Dun-
can rode one of his rousing finishes on C.
B. Ivellow’s colt, and that was the deciding-
factor, but Maid of Orleans contested every
yard, and was only beaten a head. Golden
Hair (10 to 1) was a poor third; the favor-
ites, Limarch and Sliakuni, shaped miserably.
It was a day of fast times, and Hall Mark
traversed seven furlongs in lmin. 24sec.
The Autumn Plate provided a very excit-
ing race. Lough Neagh (2 to 1) moved out
first, and Tanwan found he had to keep him
there most of the way, no other jockey being-
keen on riding a pacemaker. Lough Neagh and
Rogilla (9 to 4) were together with two
furlongs to go. His exertions in front, and
perhaps a touch of the kidney trouble which
had put him out of action for a day or so
earlier in the week, settled the Queens-
lander ; but Rogilla was tackled by Pretzel
(20 to 1) and Veilmond (3 to 1). He beat
them off, but it was a near thing, Pretzel
being only a neck behind him and Veilmond
another half-head away. Lough Neagh and
the others —Cimbrian, Shadow King, Topical
and Isle of Astur —were fairly close up.
A second favorite, Etonwood (5 to 2),
captured the Hurdle Race, covering two miles
in 3min. 35sec. —a world’s record, it is claimed
—and well-backed horses in Bayacre (7 to
2) and Panjandrum (5 to 1) were successful
in the divisions of the Vaurfuse Handicap.
Thus McShortodds had an unprofitable day,
but his indisposition to take risks made his
losses negligible. The tote, for all that
12J p.c. and fractions of sixpences are taken
from it, gave better returns on the whole.
The 10s. place machine paid out £1 6s. on
Winooka, 14s. 6d. on Peter Pan, £3 4s. 6d.
on Oro and £1 3s. 6d. on Bayacre.
. , ‘ _ . ’ , !
.A^ er , Saturday s running there were de-
cided changes in the Sydney ,Cup betting,
Braeburn lost his place as favonte, going
to 7 to 1, and Longh Neagh s price receded
to 10 to 1. These alterations were wai-
ranted, but it was strange to see Pretze
S fctto —S W
profession), wh il o 7to 1 could be got about
Rogilla. Certainly there was 61b. between
them whereas they met, at level weights in
the Autumn Plate; but in that race Rogilla
had beaten off challenge after challenge,
Moreover he is much sturdier-lookmg and
has proved that he stands racing better than
Pretzel, who is of the herring-gutted type,
Oro came into the market at tens and there-
abouts hut there was not much money foi
MW °f the others—-there were 18 runners,
Johnnie Jason went to the front early as if
intent on repeating last year’s performance,
hut he had to give way to Mr. Kerry, an-
other light-framed customer, who made most
of the running. Going out of the straight
for the first time, Oro was last and Rogilla
second-last. Robinson, on Rogilla, was not
perturbed. He let his mount settle down;
but from tlie back of the course to the four-
furlong post the chestnut made up his
ground rapidly; he actually led at that stage
and into the straight. He sustained his
long run splendidly; but Nord (33
to 1) this Page’s “best outsider,” gave
the Rogilla party some anxious moments,
Emerging from the ruck, he steadily gained
on the leader, and was going faster than the
chestnut near the judge’s box; but Rogilla,
sticking to the rails, reached the end of the
journey a half-length in advance of Nord,
who was two lengths in front of the fast-
finishing Gippsland (20 to 1). The others
came home in a straggling procession, most
of them being very weary. It was a sterling
performance on the part of Rogilla, who
covered the two miles in 3min. 23sec. A
five-year-old gelding by Roger de Busli—
Speargilla, he was bred by Hunter White,
who leased him to the Newcastle trainer L.
Haigh. Mince Pie (25 to 1), always pro-
minent, was second to Rogilla at the leger,
but faded into sixth place. Braeburn was
last. He seemed to have rather a rough
passage; but, on the whole, it was a clean
race, and the best horse won.
... * *
... . •
For the remaining days at Randwick.—
All-aged Plate: Winooka; next, Peter Pan
or Autopay. „.
Coogee Handicap: Parkwood; next, Babili.
Cumberland Plate: Peter Pan or Johnnie
Jason; next, Oro.
City Handicap; Agincourt; next, Nord.
If not overburdened, Tom Pinch will take
no end of beating in the Rous Handicap on
Saturday. Agincourt is a likely winner at
the meeting, and the Dangar Handicap may
Up i.pr rare
De ner race.
Twelve months ago Viol d’Amour captured
the All-Aged Stakes at Randwick, for which
lie started 8 at 12 to 1; Ammon Ra was favor-
ite at 5 to 2 on. Ned O’Dwyer’s horse squeezed
home bv a short neck from Waterline, with
Winooka (33 to 1) a head farther off. On
Saturday Winooka made history in the Don-
caster while Viol d’Amour failed to get
nearer than third in a mile race at Williams-
town and Waterline finished near the tail
of the field Viol d’Amour was favorite for
the Easter Stakes-worth £6OO to the
winner. He gallops as well as ever m
private but has developed roguish tenden-
cies, together with a habit of getting his
tongue over the bit. At the starting-post
he tried to “pull down the clouds” with his
fore-feet, and threatened to fall backwards
on Harold Badger. He got away all right,
but could not be persuaded to .do his best
along the sea stretch. After facing for home
he extended himself in earnest, and he would
have triumphed if he could have got through
on the rails.
The verdict went to Great Night by half
a neck from old Byron, with Viol d’Amour
a neck off, third. Great Night was. bred
by Gerald Buckley at Kyneton, and is by
The Night Patrol from Sweet Innocence
(imp.), by Roi Herode. He went out next
in demand to Viol d’Amour. and enabled
Garland, the Caulfield trainer, _ and his
patrons to have a royal win. Being a grey.
Great Night takes his color from the Roi
Herode family. As a jockey Garland was
connected with the stable of the late M. P.
Whitty, who landed a Sydney Cup with
Prince Bardolph. The last event went to
Trilacre, also trained by Garland. This
candidate opened favorite for the Jumpers’
Flat, but was supplanted by Ithuriel, brother
to The Dimmer. Taking charge at an early
stage, Trilacre, a grandson of The Welkin,
scored by a substantial margin from Bon
Haven, with Ithuriel a disappointing third.
Divisions of the Maiden Two-year-old went
to Tapageur and Centre Line. The former
belongs to Clive Leonard, member of the
V.A.T.C. committee, and is by Rosewing
(son of Sunstar) from Gay Angela, by Lm-
acre from Lady Capulet, half-sister to the
dam of Lord Cardigan and other great
descendants of Black Swan. Opponents ot
Tapageur included On Parade, who was liav-
ing his first public outing. This youngster
brought top price (450 guineas) at the sale
ot Percy Millers yearlings m 1932; he is
a full brother to Windbag Considerable
galloping ability was disclosed by On Parade,
and he should do well on the turf. Ihe
second division was won by Centre Line,
who carries the colors of another Vic racing
administrator—H. Alan Currie, of the \ .K.L.
committee. Much merit attached to the per-
formance of Centre Line but he was lucky
to beat the favorite, La Scala, who made a
dead-heat with Sehwart for second place
after running away from the whip at the
half-distance. La Scala is a beautifully
bred filly, being by Manfred from Frances
Tressady, winner of the Vic. Derby of 1923.
* ’ ’ ’ ’ L wn
The most striking performance at W 11-
liamstown wus that of Greenhorn m tne
Point Cook Trial Sent out at 2tol, t
Maoriland-bred three-year-old was almost
last three furlongs from home in a journey
Qf n furlongs> He put in an amazing run
from the home turn, and got up in time
to make a dead-heat with Dempsey’s mount,
q ul . A]ex who had led practically all the
wa y. Greenhorn belongs to W. R. Kemball,
a Maoriland picture-theatre owner. Kem-
ball began his working life in Melbourne, and
a few‘season ago transferred his gallopers
from the Dominion to the Victorian capital,
George Jones being the trainer. Greenhorn
has possibilities as a stayer. Simmons, who
won Caulfield Cups on Whittier ana
Wynette, did McShortodds a splendid turn
by running away with the Wernbee Welter
on Prohibition. Tote backers of the out-
sider obtained more than 40 to 1; top price
in the ring was 15 to 1.
* , . ...
“Hotham’ : \lctorla, tardy m taking to
the tote, is now convinced it is money from
home. The State s whack ?f the revenue
for March was £10,730, making £78,720 for
nine months of the financial year. It is
expected that the year s bag will exceed
£lOO,OOO. The tote has been mimmg on the
metropolitan racecourses for 18 months, and
in that time £2,500,000 has been shoved in
through the windows. In the same period.
£130,000 has been made available for hos-
pitals and other charitable purposes.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tommy Barber, sometime featherweight
champion, is back in the game. He out-
pointed Jim Richards at North Sydney on
Saturday, outstaying the younger lad. Not
half a bad performance on the part of the
old-timer.
The Australian Grand Prix motorcycle
championships on the 100-mile road circuit
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) were divided between
Victoria and the Ma State. G. Hannaford,
from across the Murray, won the senior
event in lhr. 37min. 41 4-ssec., with D.
Bain, of N.S.W., second. Both rode
499-e.c. Rudge-Whitworths. Bain won the
junior event on a Velocette, his time being
lhr. 43min. 34sec. Hannaford averaged 63
m.p.h. in the senior and Bain 58-£ m.p.h. in
the junior event.
* * * *
The Queensland eight-oar championship,
rowed at Rockhampton, on the Fitzroy
River, resulted in yet another win for a
country club, Wide Bay, which thus gained
the right to row for the State in the King’s
Cup in Brisbane on May 6. The time for
the three miles was 15min. 6sec., but there
were a following wind and a favoring tide,
while two or three of the other boats
became waterlogged towards the finish.


The Australian Art
Exhibition
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY
252 George Street, Sydney.
Visitors to Sydney are advised to
visit the Macleod Gallery and inspect
the exhibition of work by all leading
Australian artists.
New works by Hans Heysen, Will
Ashton, Norman Lindsay, Robert
Johnson, Dora Wilson and many other
prominent artists have recently been
added.
ADMISSION FREE.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
Reserve capital 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all ’other parts of the
world.
AH Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.*—lnspection invited. Particulars of
, , Safe Rentals on application.
New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,”
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES'6-
If any illustration in “i He Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian football season
is opening Avith the usual bickerings. The
problem of transfers of players from one
club to another has been fruitful of strife,
and another casus belli is the matter of in-
creased charges by clubs. Collingwood,
which is annually in trouble over the fine
ground in Victoria Park which it leases
from the local council, is in special hot water
this time, the Bumbles declining to sanction
higher charges. The League asked members
of the council to talk the matter over Avith
them. The deputation from the council
arrived at the fixed time, 8.30 p.m., but
after Avaiting for two hours cleared out in
an old-man rage. The matter may yet haA'e
to be fixed up by a Royal Commission, for
feeling runs high.
* * * *
“Richmond” : When the Victorian League
adopted the “Coulter Law” limiting the pay-
ment of players it Avas announced that the
days of big bribes had gone. The contrary is
the case. Poaching and special payments
are as rife as ever, but under the lap in-
stead of in the open. The League has power
under the rule to examine the books of sus-
pected clubs. The step may be taken this
season, when there should be wigs on the
green.
* * * *
“Hooker”: When the Wallabies are away
the Rugby Union players left behind Avill
have a far from empty season. The G.P.S.
matches in N.S.W. will not start until July
1, but, in addition to the inter-State fixtures,
the Australian universities will have to find
a team to tour Maoriland. It will kick-off
against the Auckland College on May 17. The
tour should give the players of the Queens-
land, Westralian, Melbourne and Adelaide
foundations a chance to prove themselves,
for the claims of all will be considered by
the selectors.
* * * *
“Drop Out”: There is considerable feel-
ing among Rugby Union men in N.S.W.
over the Union’s ukase that the players
selected for South Africa must turn out in
the official practices. For one thing, a man
can be injured as easily in a practice as in
an international match, and the prospect of
missing this great tour because of an acci-
dent in a petty trial game does not appeal
to the players themselves. Further, there
is nothing to be gained. The players will
be absent from the competition teams dur-
ing the . .season, and their presence in the
trials will not only be useless to their clubs,
but will prove a hindrance to untried men
Avaiting for their chance.
* :|:
“Shifter”: One of the problems the N.S.W.
Rugby League has had to tackle this season
is the residential qualification. In. the past
so many jokes were worked in this respect
-—and by Rugby Union clubs as well—that
the League passed a rule demanding 12
months’ residence in a district. An attempt
to. have the term reduced to six months has
failed, though there is something to be said
for it. In these days it is not possible for
everyone to be sure of a residential foothold
in. any one spot for 12 months on end, and
this applies especially to footballers. Some
of the clubs get over the difficulty by making
arrangements to keep their players in their
territory, but this is not always possible.
* * * *
“Northern Union”: Two Rugby League
players who Avere poached by the North of
England body in spite of solemn undertak-
mgs_ to the contrary are returning to Aus-
tralia. They are Eric Harris and Jeff
Moores, of Queensland, both of whom have
done well 1 on the other side. Harris says he
Avants a much better contract to induce him
to remain, and his club, Leeds, where the
Yorkshiremen are so generous that they’ll
give you the sleeves out of their waistcoats,
is hanging fire. Moores is also unwilling to
contract again without better terms, so the
return in both cases is likely to be perma-
nent.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The tour of the Maori-
land Soccer team has been brought forward,
and the visitors will make their Australian
debut on Sydney Cricket Ground on May
20. They will be paid £2 ss. apiece and
all travelling and housing exes. N.S.W. is
sending a side to Queensland at the end
ot this month, and it will play a game at
Lismore on the. way. Australia will return
the M.L. visit in 1934, the conditions being
similar. It is 10 years since the All Blacks
figured in Sydney, when they won two of the
three Tests against Australia. Prior to that
the Enzeds had not visited us since 1905.
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”: South Australians consider
they have a coming champion in young
Sclwartz, who made Hopman go for his
life m the final of the State singles. Still
under 21, he was called on to play five
matches on each of the last three days of
the State tournament, a job which would
have tried the strongest man, and would cer-
tainly have had our recent visitors from
America kicking. Schwartz’s play in the
senior and junior championships was splen-
didly consistent, and he lias the temperament
and shots of a real champion.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: A recent happening in Mel-
bourne calls attention to the fact that many
tennis-players—like performers in most other
games—are shaky on the rules. A player
caught a ball which Avas going out of court.
His opponent successfully claimed the point.
The rules say that a bail is in play until it
has touched the ground a second time, hits
the net, or strikes a fixture, such as back or
side stops, officials, etc.
* * *
“Junker”: The most interesting tennis
item of the week is the exclusion of Prenn
from the German Davis Cup team on the
ground that he is of Jewish descent. Tildeu
rates Prenn as far the best player in Ger-
many, yet he was ranked second to Von
Cramm on the ground that, as a “von,”
the latter could not take second place
to a .plebeian. Possibly the anti-Jewisli
leaven was even then working against Prenn.
His dropping-out cuts Germany, which
Avas reckoned the most formidable of the
European zone teams, out of the cup bet-
ting, for there is no one to adequately
replace him ; so Australia’s chance of meet-
ing America for the right to challenge
France now looks much rosier.
* *
“Top Spin”: India, which was to meet
Finland in the first round of the Davis Cup,
has skied the towel. Funds did not permit
the sending of a team to Europe and, as
in former years, reliance was placed on
mustering a side from Indians at the Eng-
lish universities. There are none of suffi-
cient class available, and nothing was left
but to scratch. It is hoped to ensure future
representation by holding an annual cham-
pionship in India on the lines of the All
England tourney at Wimbledon.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Yolande Yarra”: The official year-book
of the Australian Ladies’ Golf Union is
full of interesting matter concerning golf
FIFTY-FIFTY.
OLD LADY: “Excuse me—are you doing that for fun, or is it relief work?”
among the girls. Notable is the increasing
number of low-handicap associates in the
various States, no fewer than 35 being on
a 7-handicap or under. Victoria harbors eight
of these, N.S.W. 20, Queensland five and
South Australia and Westralia one each.
The Australian championships will begin on
the Victoria club’s course at Cheltenham
(Vic.) on August 29 with the foursomes.
The qualifying rounds of the singles will be
played on August 30-31, with the match-play
stages and final from September 4-7.
* &
“Marino”: South Australian golfers are
whales for special competitions. In addi-
tion to the annual A.I.F. fixtures, there arc
handicap events for students of recognised
colleges, for Fathers and Sons, and the
Veterans’ championship, this last, of course,
for men only. The very latest is a contest
for Husbands and Wives, endowed by J. D.
L. Craven, captain of the Mt. Osmond club.
It would seem to be beset with dangerous
possibilities, but time will tell.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The caddies’ tournament at
Moore Park (N.S.W.) ended in a win for
Leslie Connors, who beat his brother in the
final. The winner averaged 71 off the stick
for the eight rounds he played, a sterling
performance ' seeing that Bogey for the
course is 73 and standard scratch 69. Leslie
Cdnftors had to give his brother strokes at
three of the 36 holes and was 4 up at the end
of the first 18. Brother Percy came back
gamely till, at the 33rd, a stymie laid by
the AVinner ended the match 3 and 2.
* * * *
“Moucher”: Now that golf is getting into
its stride in Sydney, the ball thief is mak-
ing his appearance on the courses. A man
who had been warned off Moore Park on many
occasions has been prosecuted and con-
victed for stealing a ball under the eyes of
the owner. For every conviction there are
a hundred cases which do not end so happi.y
for the player. Anything driven over the
batt S to th the W ownef "
back to tae ownei.
iic< V • u w tt r>
Sandringham” : W Hope a British inter-
national golfer now located in Meibom 111,
lifts _ professed himself astonished at the
number of very high-class left-hand playeis
figuring m the game in Australia He cites
Alec Kae, Len Nettlefold and Hariy 1-
hams as able to hold their own with the
best of English right-handers, the chaps who
play the other ivay about being rarely of
any class on the other side. It is interest-
ing to compare this with Australia’s
supremacy in left-handed batsmen in cricket,
Really topnotch molly-lianders are seldom
heard of in English cricket. Australia lias
produced several of the best the game has
known. .
* * * *
“Hoylake” : With the Ryder Cup close at
hand, the English golfing fraternity is keep
ing an eye cocked for new professional
talent. It hopes it has happened on some-
thing choice in Allan Dailey, a young Scots-
man, who has had the hardihood to attempt
to earn a living in Yorkshire. Dailey is
professional at the Bradley Hall golf club,
and in the recent Roehampton tournament,
one of the star opening events of tlie British
season, beat C. A. Whitcombe 111 the final.
* * * *
“Carnoustie” : The argument as to whether
the best golf hole is one that is formidably
bunkered or one that calls for skill and
strategy by other means has been revived in
Britain. The opinion of Tom Simpson, a
noted designer of courses, is that there should
be as much room for mental agility as for
physical skill. “For a hole to be really great
it must possess the qualities of a man who
lives by his wits or sails close to the wind
in the conduct of his business.” The defini-
tion leaves it open to the Philistine to argue
that the really great golfer must therefore
partake of the qualities of the really great
hole- —a conclusion most of us would hesitate
to draw.
Car and Cycle
“Wliaffor” : Those who have been arguing
in The Bulletin as to the original motor-
car can now take a back seat. Charles E.
Duryea declares that the first car on modern
principles was built for the then Emperor
of China 300 years ago. The designer and
builder was Ferdinand Verbiest, a Belgian
missionary, and the car was driven by a
Branca type steam engine. Verbiest went
one better and built a motor-boat also for
the potentate. Cannot some of The Bulle-
tin’s Chinese experts throw further light
on the matter?
*1- *!* Ij!
“Differential” : Malcolm Campbell, who is
already thinking of his next attempt on the
speed record, will have an entirely new
chassis for his new car, and not one rebuilt
to suit the Rolls-Royce engine, as in the
case of the Blue Bird. His last spin showed
him that proper wheel adhesion is impos-
sible with a drive on the rear wheels. There
was no differential on the Blue Bird back
axle, with the result that when one wheel
was off the ground, the other had to carry
the whole power of the engine. The new
chassis will embody a drive on all four
wheels, and designers are now thinking the
problem out.
*** * *
“Formula”: British small cars scored a
rousing triumph in the llOOc.c. class of
the Italian 1000 miles, a mountainous run
which is considered the most dangerous in
Europe, M. G. Magnettes, driven by George
Eyston and Lord Il'owc, finishing first and
second. In addition to the mountain tracks
the run is through big cities and narrow
village streets, full speed being permitted
everywhere. There were several accidents,
one car injuring a number of people. The
big-car section was won by an Alfa Romeo,
with Nuolavari at the wheel. The small
cars averaged just under 60 miles per hour
each, while the Alfa Romeo’s figures were
67.46 m.p.h.
* * =:•- *
“Whizz”: The public roads have again
been used for a successful attempt on a
motor speed record. This time it was for
a light-car run from Sydney to Melbourne,
the distance being covered in 12 hours 34
minutes. The car was a 9-h.p. standard
Singer, and the driver A. Beasley. The
driver slowed down to normal cruising speed
when passing through towns, which in itself
is something of a record. Some time ago
a great parade was made by the Victorian
and N.S.W. traffic authorities of their inten-
tion of forbidding such runs. Like others
of the sort the good resolve seems to have
gone to improve the paving of Gehenna.
* * * *
“Wooden Rim” : The race for sidecars, first
run in 1923 and dropped again in 1926, is
to be included in this year’s Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy races. With spills becom-
ing less and less frequent the sidecarmen
provide a little of the excitement the fol-
lowers of the sport look for. Australia will
be represented in this event by Alan Bruce,
who has been doing his stuff in London.
Miscellaneous
“Barrackette”: The N.S.W. Great Public
Schools’ boatrace is upon us, heats being
down for this day week and the finals on the
Saturday following. Already flapper sup-
porters are in training for their part of the
show. Some are undergoing a special voice-
culture course, while anyone walking round
the Sydney block during the lunch hour can
see hundreds strengthening their jaw muscles
with chewing-gum. Last year’s winners, St.
Joseph’s, are favorites at time of writing.
* * * *
“Toowong” : The annual eight-oar race for
the championship of the Brisbane River was
won after a great spip by the G.P.S. crew,
composed of old boys of the State public
schools. The time for the two miles whs
llmin. lOsec. N.S.W. was well represented
in the champion sculls, Martin, of the Sydney
club, winning in 12min. 36sec., with Tip-
ping, of Nepean, in third place. The eiglit-
oar victory of G.P.S. was the third in suc-
cession for that club and the fourth win iu
as many races this season.
* * *
“Aileron”: Italy is claiming a new air-
speed record. Warrant-officer Agello aver-
aged 426.5 m.p.h. in five flights over Lake
Garda; the previous best, by Flight-Lieut.
Stainforth in the Schneider Cup race, was
408.8 m.p.h. Agello’s machine had an engine
of 2800 h.p., with twin propellers, revolving
in opposite directions.
*i : \
“Hotham”: Though St. Kilda was the
popular pick, Melbourne walked off with the
Victorian cricket premiership. Only two inn-
ings were played. St. Kilda did no better
than 234, L. Nagel taking 5 for 80. Mel-
bourne ran to 356, the ex-Australian Eleven
bowler a’Beckett dismissing 5 batsmen for
72. Ponsford finished the season with a
dashing 136. This is the big club’s second
win since 1920, and its fourth since district
cricket began in 1906.
* * =is *
“Tenth Slip” : The motion condemning
body-line bowling passed last Aveek by the
delegates to the N.S.W. Cricket Association
Avas flogging a dead horse. There Avas
significance, however, in the statement of
R. A. Oxlade, a member of the Board of Con-
trol, that the board might not dispatch a
team to England next season unless an
agreement on the matter is arrived at. There
seems small likelihood of an agreement, and
I hope the board won’t weaken. Personally,
I don’t want to see or hear of any more Test
matches for ten years.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
“The Ring” would have been an entirely
different composition if Wagner and the
R.A.S. had been contemporaries; To what
uproars of sound would the sight of the
Clydesdales with their beplumed hooves, the
Hereford bulls with the lowering heads and
their eyes of astute business men, the
slowly-pacing Friesians, the Junoesque mat-
rons of the pasture, have moved him! The
thought of a town hall big and strong
enough to stand against the onslaught
staggers the mind. The crowd’s taste is
catholic; in the ring they like their cattle
blonde or brunette, with short horns or
horns like a de luxe hat rack. The Duke
of Derrimut, Fairview Lady Jean and
Hobartville Starlight brought an equally
enthusiastic oh! of admiration. Loose m
a paddock these same would make not the
slightest appeal, at least to most of their
jvomen applauders.
Tlie opening day of the Show was a miracle
of sunlight and cool breeze, and in. the grand
parade of the nobility of the soil polished
hooves and horns and satin-sleek hides
flashed back the gladness of the day. Circle
within circle they paced. Here came high-
stepping hack and pony and stallion, pride
in their nostrils, Sion, Yalamita and the
milk-white Arab Shahzada being in the
beauty parade. The stands were packed
with humans, flags fluttered in the blue air.
The bright frocks of the women, the arena
where bulls paced 'and horses pirouetted
made a memorable scene of color and move-
ment.
Smartly turned-out girls rode like the wind
over the green, and took the jumps like
birds. Into the animated scene the mounted
police curvetted and stepped; handsome and
upright and so much part of their steeds,
they were the very spirit of the ring.
The Hall of Agriculture was like a tre-
mendous canvas of still lifes. Here was
heaped the plenty of Queensland, of our own
North, Central and South Coast and Table-
lands. Here potatoes out of a thousand eyes
(there were no fewer than 49 varieties in
one display and 54 in another) stared at
their admirers. Little sugarcane staircases
ran up to rafters of maize cobs and pampas
grass, and neat sugarcane fences occurred
again and again as a boundary between the
displays of this earth’s bounty and the g.p.
Sugarcane pillars and facades gave a flavor
of a South Sea island architecture to the
enclosures where butters and cheeses and
eggs breathed the joys of the farm, and pine-
apples, bananas and tropical fruits sent out
the fragrance of fiercer suns, of secret dew-
drenched nights. Everywhere the fleece
trailed its wealth. The winning exhibit
showed a map of New South Wales sur-
rounded by fleecy wool, but in the Western
Districts’ display wheat such as Boaz and
his unscientific brethren never dreamed of
formed the decorative scheme.
Nuts were here, preserves, crystallised
fruits and pickles, tobacco and honey, pump-
kins and marrows, cauliflowers and vege-
tables and fruits, in an amazing degree of
freshness and beauty considering the train
journeys they had taken. No wonder women
hung about the exhibits in the attitude of
devotees.
Little groups of men stood with pas-
sionate gaze fixed on the glass case
wherein the progress of potato diseases was
illustrated in specimen jars. Cases showing
bugs and beetles and moths vied for the
interest of the initiate with towering pyra-
mids of apples, shiny of cheek, emerald-
green and rosy red. They were not very big,
these apples, for your big apple is not so
good for packing, which suggests that God
did indeed make little apples and man made
them large. In a popular corner of the
Hall of Industries The Bulletin, with
little sister “Mirror” and small brother
Endeavour Press, held court.
Elsia, the lady, one-half of whom is a
man, was the great attraction among the
side-shows. Mum and Dad were arguing
as to which delight they’d sample first. Dad
was eager for Goliath, the biggest ox in
the world —he came from Narrandera—or
for Tim, tlie smallest pony. Mum, small,
lean and wiry, would have none of them.
She wanted to see Elsia. “My goodness,
father,” she said, ;u kindly impatience, “you
can see cattle or a pony any day!’ Due
who desired the attention of the pnsscr-on
attracted it by driving a murderous-looking
spear right into t'he body of an African
chief (or so he seemed). Around the corner
there were performing fleas, one of whom,
like Malachi, wore a collar of gold; and not
far off belles of Montmartre, sinuous jungle
snakes and the largest married couple in
the world could bo seen. You only had to
take your choice and pay your money.
One entry at the R.A.S. caused this
writer a bit of & jolt. It read “Archangel:
Cock or Hen”; but, after all, it turned out
to refer to pigeons!
From a gaily-awninged and flag-hung
official stand the Governor declared the
Show open; and here president of the
R.A.S. Sam Hordern and his lady were high
up in the list of notables. Beside them,
in the eye of the exhibitor, Priminster
Lyons and Premier Stevens were of secon-
dary importance. Sir Leslie Wilson, Queens-
land’s Governor, and his lady sustained the
public gaze, she in navy and white-spotted
silk and a wide navy hat banded in white;
Mrs Stevens was a study in brown and
amber. Joan Gifford and Joan Eden were
among the official group on the Council’s
stand, as were Mayor and Mayoress Hagon,
the civic lady impressive in black; Mar-
iorie Wilson, down with her parents from
Queensland, added royal blue to the dress
motif; Doreen Hordern wore silver . fox
furs with her black crepe frock; sister
Audrey was smart in green. Colonel ana
Mrs. Somerville, with daughter J° an > a ,
the Harry Budges were others who dran
their tea at the dahlia-trimmed tat» e s
the Council’s stand. Admiral Dalgnsl
wife and twin daughters Valerie ai«.
Marion and Sir Vansittart Bowater weie
among those who thoroughly enjoyed tn
Show.
The A.J.C. hatched its Easter egg .at
liandwick without the presence of the vice-
regal ladies. Sir Philip Game and, e Q e^„ s "
land’s Governor buzzed about, and the Harry
Budges were in the official stand, but, tai -
ing the usual eyeful of the Governmen
Housers behind their glittering railing, P u “ho
interest beat like a raging surf about t
probable presence or absence ot V iscou
Mandeville and liis Viscountess, who was
grown across the border in Victoria, -they
were there, they weren’t there. Somebody
had seen her in a green dress; somebody
had seen her in brown; somebody had seen
her wave her red-lacquered fingernails. . She
and her Viscount were up at Widgiewa,
the two were present, hobnobbing with the
Dudley Bruntons. The hunt for a time ran
red-hot, but woman finally decided that one
viscountess, even though she should arrive
in court train, tiara and all, didn t make a
race meeting, and settled herself down to
digging a bit of gold out of the bookies bags.
The hats were smaller than ever, and the
frocking was the usual mixed bag of the
Easter meeting. There were girls who
made a last rose of summer exit in chitton
or silk frocks and shady hats, and others who
came furred to the ears like Eskimos. J-be
fitting shoulder-capes were popular, team
Walder’s lady sporting one in beige ermine.
Indeed, despite the hot sunshine, every
third woman showed a strip of animal pelt
somewhere, just to demonstrate that clad or
husband was a pretty good hunter even m
depression days.
Hats weren’t hats. They were turbans
and bell-boy and half-Cossack sort of lids
when they weren’t quarter-cousin to Glen-
garry and forage caps, and under them all
women’s faces looked like something roughly
hewn by Epstein. Mrs. Ellis Fielding-Jones
sported a soft beige velvet toque, and Mrs.
Eric Sheller’s was of laurel-leaf green to
match her coat. Italy’s Marchesa Ferrante
was at once smart and cool-looking m a
rose-pink boucle sports suit. Mrs. ±om
Rolin wore a caramel-brown tweed suit, the
coat of which was knee-length, while daugh-
ter Mrs. Philip Parkinson was in huntsman s
green. Audrey Hordern was there, with her
fiance from Melbourne, and cousin Dinah
Hordern was smart in a terra-cotta outfit;
Mrs. A. H. Whitting-ham, from Brisbane,
was clad in black and white; Brisbane had
other representatives jn the O’Sheas. Eileen
Bucknell walked with the Reg Staffords,
from Cassilis; Margaret Hagon was a study
in delphinium blues, and her Mayoress
mother’s beige frocking was notable for its
high neckline and dark-brown contrasts. The
deep-blue outfit of Helen White was envi-
able; and Mrs. Nelson, of Hawkes Bay,
Maoriland, finished her black flat crepe with
a roll collar of white satin.
Everybody had a waistline,, whether she
wore coat, suit or the snug-fitting dress, one
of the smartest of the last being that ot
the wife of Norway’s Consul. Hers was in
stone-grey corduroy, finished off with a floppy
neck-bow of black and grey. With this went
a tiny skull-cap turban and gauntlet gloves.
Every color from the softest blues to mul-
berry tones seemed equally popular. Yellows
and reds appeared as often as beige; and
black or black and white were among the
smartest. Lady Allardyce, in black-and-white
chiffons and a black hat, topped her com-
panions by half a head; .Mrs. Michael King,
home from India on a visit, was among the
attractive; so were Irene Anderson, Helen
Stephen. Maybelle Markell and G.retel Bull-
more. The last wore a closely-fitting coat of
marine blue and her beret was stabbed by
the steel and diamente ornament which decks
the more expensive hats of the season.
Still the work of the Red Cross goes on,
and its mem-
bers are un-
tiring in their
labor of love.
At the con-
ference of the
N.S.W. divi-
sion held last
week there
were many
who have
been enrolled
under the
symbolic
banner since
1914. Mrs.
Macar thnr-
Onslow, the
sub ject of
this Dorothy
Welding pic-
ture, is one
of the society's
most consis-
tent workers,
though she was unfortunately not able to
attend the conference.
Lady Game, who is State president,
opened the proceedings and congratulated the
members on the work being done in the sol-
dier hospitals of Malahfde, Graytlnyaite,
Exeter and Bodington. Last year nearly
£BOOO was raised by the Red Crossers in
aid of the disabled soldier. There was a
great roll-up of importants at the Australia
on the opening day, Premier Stevens and
Mayoress Hagon among them. Indefati-
gab'les like Miss Rosa Piper, Miss Kate
Egan. Mrs. R. R. S. Mackinnon. Miss Con-
sett Stephen and Mrs. P. J. Leahy were
there, as were Dame Mary Cook, Ruby
Storey, chairman R. J. Hawkes and Dr.
Tasman Wilson, medical super, at Boding-
ton. Delegates came from Lismore, Illabo,
Nowra Tumut, Barraba, Wagga, Coraki,
Glen Innes, Parkes, Newcastle. and
from far-off corners of the State. It was
cheerful to note that none of the branches
expressed the least doubt of raising its
quota of the finances. A visit to Boding-
ton and -the official opening of that sana-
torium’s new talkie equipment were the
final ceremonies.
Two interesting personalities are depart-
ing for London on the Orama. Mrs. Mac-
Millan, widow of pressman Robert Mac-
Millan, is herself a lady of many activities in
club and league. Mrs. Mary Bell has had
a colorful career. As a young girl she mar-
ried the then U.S. Consul, Colonel Bell,
on his death a few years later, after hav-
ing travelled extensively, she went to the
U.S.A. and became a nurse in the war. She
offered her services to the British Govern-
ment. She was debarred through her Ameri-
can citizenship from getting to the front,
but when the U.S.A. took up the sword she
had another try, and this time got close up
to it before being incapacitated and shipped
home. Now she is setting forth again to
renew’ old friendships.
Last week one of Australia’s oldest mat-
rimonial unions was snapped when Mrs.
George Judah Cohen died at her borne in
Elizabeth Bay. It had lasted since 1868—
the year Prince Alfred visited New South
Wales. Up till 1880 the two lived in
Maitland; since then they have lived in
the same home in Elizabeth Bay. At the
time of their diamond wedding the King and
Queen sent the happy couple a cable ot
congratulation. Mrs. Cohen took her share
in looking after the welfare of the city. She
was an original member of the council ot
the Queen’s Fund, a member of the com-
mittee of the Blind Institution, of the Infants
home, Ashfield, and of the Children’s Hos-
pital. She was also on the council of the
Women’s College. A native of Tamworth,
she was a daughter of the late L. W. Levy,
M.L.C. Five sons (one of them S. Cohen,
president of the Kindergarten Union) and
two daughters share their father’s bereave-
ment.
The Anzac Fellowship of Women has
sow r n the seeds of what may in time blossom
into the great Australian drama. To keep
Anzac alive in the hearts of the young the
Fellowship inaugurated a festival of song
and drama for the eve of the historic day.
The winning Junior Choir will prove its
claim to the silver cup of remembrance by
rendering “Anzac Day,” written by Dora
Wilcox and set to music by Alfred Hill.
This year first prize for the play by writers
under 21 has gone to Miss K. Winter, of
Campsie, and her one-acter will be the star
event on the programme. Choral verse-
speaking is yet another item of the con-
tests. Sir Philip Game and the Stevens
couple have promised attendance at the Con-
servatorium.
The dance and bridge at Manning House
in aid of the University Settlement will
acquire some-
thing of an
Imperial atmo-
sphere from
the fact that
there will be
a reception to
three Gover-
nors (the
Common-
wealth’s,
Q u eensland’s
and this
State’s) in the
Great Hall by
the Chancellor
of the Uni.
Following this
the presenta-
tion of some-
thing like 29
debs, will stir
the grey walls
and high
rafters to
animation. Esmey Burfitt, the bright-faced
girl in this Dayne picture, is one of the
untiring workers for the settlement. Esmey
is one of the medical Burfitt clan which is
linked up with the medical Morans, who are
noted for their furtherance of the study of
Italian literature in Sydney.
Joyce Frew, though Fate has taken away
her physical sight, lacks none of the vision
of the true musician. At her violin recital
in the King’s Hall last week Joyce tackled
a tremendous programme, and her instru-
ment sang and soared its way through every
difficulty. The recital was quite a triumph,
and nobody was more beaming about it than
Frank Hutchens, who was the pianist of a
programme that included Bach, Cesar Franck
and Mozart.
The C-W.A. is holding a Handicrafts and
Home Industries Exhibition of the work of
countrywomen. Lady Isaacs opened the
great display and wished it luck through its
three weeks of existence. Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax is the president.
Lord Beauchamp, looking very handsome
and debonair, opened the W ater-color
Society’s show last week, having the day
before popped in and bought several pictures
by young artists, among them one by Peter
Lindsay. The show in the Education De-
partment’s Gallery is full of good things,
among which the blue and gold of B. E.
Minns’s brush holds the gaze. Everybody
turned up to the opening, and the rooms,
set about with shrubs in terra-cotta jars
and little orange trees in tubs, and spread
here and there with Persian and Chinese
rugs, evoked admiration from the sex. These
decorations came from the home of artist
H. W. Grace, whose “Cobbitty Farm” made
the girls think more kindly of the bucolic
life. Mrs. B. E. Minns, Julian Ashton and
W. J. McNally were in a group to which
Florence Blake, Maude Sherwood and Albert
Collins afterwards joined themselves. Albert
was in good mood because his “White Gum”
had just been bought by connoisseur Howard
Hinton. George Finey’s strong and sardonic
panel attracted a great deal of attention, as
did John Godson’s “Waterlilies,” McNally’s
“Autumn Road” and Dora Jarrett’s “Fruit
Stall.” Miss Estelle Beere and niece Joan
were with a little group of fellow-Maori-
landers; Mrs. Fred Aronson and the artist
Frith couple did the show in company with
Lord Beauchamp.
Alison Rehfisch and George Duncan are
holding a show at the Macquarie Galleries
from three o’clock to-morrow, when the art-
loving wife of General Anderson will declare
it open. George Duncan will leave almost
immediately for study in Europe.
Yalmai Searl, daughter of the floral Fred
Searl couple, is to be married on April 26
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral to Gordon
McKay, youngest son of the late A. E.
McKay and Mrs. McKay, of Wallendibby,
Delegate. The reception will be held at No.
11 Onslow-avenue. The bridesmaids will be
sister Lorna, Beatrice Meeks, May Crane
and Mildred Buzacott, and the flower
arrangements are to be the triumph that
father’s art and affection can make them.
It is more than 14 years since the war
ended, and how many are there with memo-
ries still green enough to take them on a
pilgrimage to the War Memorial Museum?
This Letter asked the returned Digger who
sells the catalogues there, and was amazed
to be told there were about four thousand a
week. When the holidays bring visitors
from other States, the numbers are even
greater.
There’s a hush about this Museum in
Alfred Park with its rough-boarded floor
and windowless walls. Nobody talks much.
Even the two Diggers who were doing the
rounds, each accompanied by a fine brace of
kiddies, did it almost silently. They left the
placards and the footnotes to tell the young
their own story of the exhibits. Perhaps they
were too busy with their thoughts; perhaps
bewildered to find the vivid, poignant reali-
ties of the war days now turned into Museum
pieces.
Pour girls in sports blazers stepped in
briskly. They mused over the medals, they
gazed on the trucks —15 or 16 years ago,
girls about their own age were driving trucks
loaded with wounded or supplies along the
roads of France where shells burst and
bullets rained. Two policemen were absorbed
in the Parer and Mclntosh ’plane. But it
was the wax figures of the nurses in their
masseuse and field-hospital uniforms that
riveted the attention of another group of
young womanhood. The handsome dog Roff,
who was captured carrying enemy dispatches,
and afterwards threw in his lot, happily
enough, with the Anzacs, and almost, but
not quite, became an Australian citizen (he
died in quarantine), was closely scrutinised
by a bunch of barelegged ten-year-olds. His
companion the carrier pigeon called for the
same attention ; as for Driver, the Australian
dog who went away in a transport, saw the
war through and came back to be duly re-
patriated, he appears to be a canine hero
with the young visitor.
There’s a great case of medals that runs
half-way down the middle of the big hall.
Apparently one of the chief industries of
Germany during the early part of the war
was the striking of medals —many unflatter-
ing to the tactics of the opponent. There’s
one twitting Sir Dudley de Chair (quite
without foundation) in the matter of a
blockade; near by is one with a really un-
neighborly message to the King of Italy.
There are numberless others seemingly cele-
brating victories. Further along are more
which catch the high light and blaze gold
and silver, jewelled and chased, crown and
cross, star and blazing meteor (Prussia and
Austria believed in a medal being a real
chest adornment). These were the decora-
tions or facsimiles of decorations of brave
men who died to keep alive a regime that
now is itself dead.
The trenches of France, the stark tragedy
of the heights of Gallipoli, and Lone Pine,
Ypres, Pozieres, Bapaume, Bullecourt, Egypt
live again in model and in picture. Lambert,
Streeton and Will Dyson, Coates, Power,
Hurley, Wilkins and other masters have
recorded the epic pictorially. Op the seats
about the room women with quiet eyes sit
amid the engines of death which during four
years made up the daily round in the lives
of their men. Soon Charlie Bean’s pen will
write the final word of that strange history,
and one day, perhaps, an Australian novelist
or poet will arise and, moulding these par-
ticles, set them for a star in the firmament
of Australia’s literature.
Queensland’s quillful:—
The Q.T.C. races at Ascot showed mostly summer
frocks on the lawn. The Governor lunched with
the club president, W. J. Healy. Lady Wilson and
her daughter came out in the afternoon and were
entertained at tea, with the Blair lady and other
guests, by Mrs. J. F. Lonergan, wife of the vice-
president. Lady Wilson was in Congo brown silk
with hat era suite j Marjorie Wilson was in flecked
grey silk; the Blair lady wore navy with touches
of beige and cherry; daffodil was chosen by Mrs.
B. C. Bell (Aroo) ; Peggy Bods wore lapis lazuli
and white; the Glasgow lady was in black.
An obelisk of granite, a memorial to the late
T. J. Rothwell, who inaugurated the Anzae Memorial
Avenue on the Redcliffe road, was unveiled by the
Governor at the junction of the Redcliffe and Decep-
tion Bay roads. Two thousand trees have been
(planted and it is suggested that the avenue be
continued between Kedron and Petrie.
Wilhemena (“Billie”) Stokes, daughter of the
late Dr. R. M. Stokes, of London, and of Mrs.
Stokes, Kangaroo Point, is engaged to George
Chaplin, Felixstowe, England. Billie played Jose-
phine in Charlie Chauvel’s film “The Moth of
Moonbi,” founded on M. Forrest’s book, and is an
accomplished actress.
Mr. and Mrs. H, Bonney and Dr. and Mrs. J. L.
Selwood, whose wedding day fell on April 7, had a
dinner party at Lennon’s to celebrate the double
event. A number of friends joined them afterwards
for a dance. Part of Mrs. Bonney’s equipment on
her ’plane is a dainty pair of rose-pink satin slippers
and some fascinating frocks.
The Aero Club entertained Mrs. H. Bonney before
the airwoman left Brisbane on her flight to England.
Bert Hinkler’s widow and mother were there to see
her off. A plaque of silver and ebony bearing the
inscription “Good Luck to my Little Ship rvas
affixed to the ’plane by the employees of Bonney and
Knight Donald Cameron and his lady had a rousing
welcome on their return. They have taken the late
Mrs. Cecil Palmer’s house, Palmarose, Hamilton.
There was a packed house for Edward Cahill s
concert in the Cremorne. Marjorie Ramsaj,
a niece of the late Judge MeCawley and a promising
pianist at 17, played with Eddie Cahill m the
“Hungarian Fantasia” for two pianos. Mrs. Macrossan
sang “Trees” and an exaerpt from ‘ Carmen.
Cahill gave Tschaikowsky, Chopin, Weber,
Brahms, Strauss and his own arrangement of the
“Londonderry Air.” The Brisbane Male Choir and
the Greater Brisbane Orchestra assisted. Lilian
Cahill was accompanist. Amongst the audience were
the Governor and his daughter, the C.J. and his
lady, and the Mayoress.
All Saints’ Church saw the nuptials of Roj H.
S'traker, from St. Kilda (Vic.), and Myra Hunter
Harding, daughter of Silas Harding, o
and grand-daughter of pioneer pastoralist Elias
Harding. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in Wedgewood blue with lvorj ,co ar an
cuffs and ivory felt hat. Mavis Harding mai e
almond green. A horseshoe table adorned with
yellow roses was set for the feast at ir * * s *
Mrs. Silas Harding receiving in nigger Brown.


mm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
<3rip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, (Jauitieiu,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
FARMS FOR SALE.
Atherton Tableland, Queensland.
CUGAR Farms on the Coast; Dairy,
Maize and Tobacco on the Tableland.
Highly-productive volcanic soils. Abund-
ance water, no droughts, cool nights. From
part-standing scrub to highly-improved farms.
Prices and descriptions, J. A. PLANT,
Box 8, Atherton, N.Q. Can be interviewed
23 Homedale Avenue, Concord, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
LJOURIGAN.—-Thomas and Joseph Houri-
E* gan, sons of Cornelius Ilourigan, late
of Rockhampton, in the State of Queens-
land. are requested to communicate with
Rees R. and Sydney Jones, of 178 Quay-
street, Rockhampton, solicitors, immediately,
when they will hear something to their
advantage.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MTSS GIBBS.
COMEDY THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
Melbourne
Chatter
Michaelmas daisies and gladioli trimmed
up the banquet-room of Menzies’ on the 12th.
when the A. de Bavay couple put on an
afternoon party for a farewell to their
daughter Vera, off by the Strathaird to keep
a matrimonial appointment with John Higgs
in London town. The bride-to-be wore most
becoming raiment of ensemble mode in cloth
of a deep-blue tint, topped by a velvet toque.
An apricot-pink-shaded blouse was quite an
inspiration in the color scheme. The hostess
had a .spray of orchids upon the fur-collared
black coat that, covered a black-and-white
chiffon gown. Marie de Bavay’s dark navy
woollen crepe frock was eyelet-embroidered,
and her hat was of matching felt. Among
the bidden were the Premier and his lady,
the Gaud Mayor, Admiral Hyde and his
wife, Mrs. Charlie Lyon, Colonel and Mrs.
Eric Harrison and the A. J. C. de Bavay
couple.
Captain O. Schniewind, of the German
cruiser Koln, and his officers fraternised with
members of the International Club in Kur-
rajong House over a cup of tea on an after-
noon of the week. Mr. Herbert Brookes, chair-
man of the Bureau of Social and International
Affairs, bade them welcome. Hostesses were
Mrs. H. Brookes, Mrs. I. H. Moss, Mrs. John
Dye and Mrs. Dreiheller. Beautiful flowers
and foliage from Mrs. W. Mortill’s garden
trimmed the room; the tea was dispensed by
representatives of the younger set of the
Institute of Pacific Relations and the League
of Nations Youth Movement.
At the Lyceum Club on a recent evening
Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Finley bade some 200
guests to a musicale, when the hostess, who
is a daughter of the late Madame Wieder-
man, of Melbourne, gave a programme of
songs by Hugo Wolf. The singer wore a
moulded gown of opal-green satin fashioned
with a draped cape, clasped on one shoulder
with a flame-colored rose, and an ostrich
feather fan of ombre tints was in harmony.
Mrs. Ernest Scott, who accompanied with
her usual artistry, introduced a touch of
color upon her 6cru satin upholstery in a
long jade-blue necklace. Knight James Bar-
rett and his lady, knight John Longstaff,
Major and Mrs. Rupert Fanning, painter
Arthur Streeton and Mrs. Streeton, Profes-
sor and Mrs. Cowling and a host of other
musical folk—patrons and performers—
were among the invited.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel had
a knot-tying when Joan Elvin and Alan
Holmes were made one. A gown of pure
white flat cr@pe slightly trained, with a
cloud of Limerick lace and orange buds,
suited tne good-looking leading lady, who
had bridesmaids three in her sister Wini-
fred, Lynette Henderson and Margaret Gil-
ruth. Their spring-like upholstery of pale
green tulle, fluffy, flaired and ruched, was
set off by bouquets of white and green
hydrangea and white gardenias nestling in
their hair.
A clerical wedding at the Methodist
Church, Auburn, was that of the Rev.
Pearce Beaton Barber and Rita Doreen
Allen. The bridal gown was of brocaded
silk and crinkle crgpe of deep vellum tint,
allied to tulle veil; and a sheaf of pale
golden gladioli was carried. Frocks of
primrose tint of satin were worn by the
’maids, the bride’s two sisters.
A popular miss changed her name at.
Christ Church, South Yarra, when Sadie
Scarlett became Mrs. Stuart Hancock. The
slim bride was in a regular picture frock
of billowy white tulle, made with long rucked
sleeves and train. A precious Brussels lace
veil was worn in cap mode with fixings of
orange buds and forget-me-nots, and the posy
of roses was in keeping. The bride’s sister
Nancy and two other maidens attended in
less ethereal gowns of lily-green matt velvet.
After-rejoicings were staged at Grosvenor,
Toorak.
Though a former diploma student of the
Albert-street Conservatorium, Dorothy Can-
berra—who, off the concert platform, is
Dorothy Thomas, daughter of a Melbourne
Methodist minister—did but little public
warbling here. H'cr coloratura notes are
scarcely remembered, for she departed about
seven years ago for the Continent, where
she continued her studies under Madame
Blanche Marchesi. She worked up a fine
repertoire of German opera in Berlin, and
one of her biggest recital successes was in the
German capital. She has also made good
in London and Paris. Consequently there
will be keen interest in the programme she
is to present at her welcome-home recital
on Saturday next at the Auditorium under
the J. and N. Tait direction.
M. Edward Lambert, the violinist, after a
short visit to his native Belgium, is back
again in Melbourne. He is leader of the
Melbourne broadcasting orchestra, and is
also on the teaching staff of the University
Conservatorium. His son Raymond is the
pianist with John Brownlee during the
singer’s tour of Maoriland.
Though the dry autumn has been all
against rose-growing, the National Rose
Society of Victoria put up a good show. As
you went up the marble steps of the T.H,
into the cool concert hall the scent of
many blooms gave gracious welcome.
The City Council sent palms and variegated
foliage plants for the platform. From Alister
Clark’s garden came two non-competitive
groupings of new and old favorites; Mr.
Clark has raised 5000 roses of his own
creating. The champion rose of all was
a perfectly formed flower that suggested
ivory with a tint of faintest pink, and
was named Mrs. Foley Hobbs. The Gaud
Mayor pushed off the show and thanked
the' N.R.S. for giving the proceeds from
the sale of the entries to the Eye and Ear
Hospital.
There was an au revoir gathering at tin
Wentworth the other afternoon in honor
of Mrs. Wallace Smith and her daughter
Barbara, who have since left on a trip to
Europe. Mrs. Smith is president of the
Balaclava League of the Mission of su
James and St. John.
Over morning tea at the home of Mrs.
Norman Brookes there was final tallying of
the takings of the “Sunshine Shop,” which
had a brief tenancy of a Collins-street build-
ing to raise funds for the Society of Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children. Mrs.
Brookes reported the gratifying profit of
£t>4o.
To add to Red Cross activities an extra
fold is to be created, the Red Cross Links
of Service. Boys and girls cease to be
eligible as juniors at 14 or after leaving
school, and cannot join up with the senior
divisions until they are 18; the new organ-
isation will bridge a gap for them. The
Irvine lady, president of the Vic. branch
of the R.C.S., designed the plan, which has
been taken up with enthusiasm, and has the
hearty approval of Lord Somers. A link
will be formed at headquarters of represen-
tatives from the near suburbs, and many
more subsidiary ones are projected.
St. Vincent’s Hospital appeal is getting
plenty of backing. Mrs. Norman Brookes,
with ' Marie de Bavay, organised a h'ighly-
suceessful bridge gathering at the home
of her mother, Mrs. Harry Emmerton.
Expenses were nil, since Mrs. Emmerton,
who was in upholstery of fine black lace,
provided the refreshments as well as lend-
ing her house. Mrs. Brookes, whose princess
robe was of vellum-colored satin, got a bit
more in for the cause by running a sweets
stall, where she had among her assistants
her trio of daughters and Vera de Bavay.
Professional and business women of Mel-
bourne are to put up their own special appeal
for St. Vincent’s Hospital, their aim being
to raise £2OOO for a women’s ward. At a
preliminary meeting the speakers included
Dr. Ethel Osborne, Dr. Lorna Bray, Norma
Parker, Muriel Heagney and Marie de Bavay,
Muriel Heagney, who rendered notable ser-
vice for two years in securing relief work for
unemployed girls, is drawing up the plan of
campaign. This energetic lady, by the way,
is among the seven candidates for the Boroon-
dara electorate vacated by the present
Agent-General. The election takes place on
the 29th.
St. Vincent’s Nurses’ Association helped
the hospital’s appeal by staging an evening
bridge party at the Wentworth, Collins-
street. Office-bearers of the association were
the president, Miss B. Considine, who was
unable to be present; vice-president, Miss
M, Hickey; Mrs. W. R. Burston, hon. sec.,
and Mrs. J. Gray, hob. treasurer.
An evening wedding was that of Enid,
elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Wilson,
of Glenferrie-road, Kooyong, and John A.
Gourlay. The bonds were forged at the
Presbyterian Church, Toorak, with after-
rejoicings at Grosvenor. The bride, who
was in satin of parchment hue and Limerick
lace, had her sister Mollie as ’maid, in velvet
of vellum tint. A halo wreath of opalescent
shells and a sheaf of flame-colored gladioli
were effective etceteras.
Some of Dr. Maloney’s friends gave him
a birthday luncheon at the Italian Club,
where a 79-candlepower cake was a feature.
Mrs. Desmond Leech—architect Muriel
Stott that was —is paying Melbourne a visit
with her husband. For several years she
was the capable hon. sec. of the Bush
Library of the Victoria League Club, as well
as being honorary architect of the V.L.C.
Her old friends and associates put on the
kettle for her one afternoon last week, when
Mrs. David Grant and Mrs. Arthur Hordern
voiced appreciation of her former service, and
wished her a pleasant time in South Africa,
where she and her husband expect to make
their home.
The cheer-
ful damsel is
Consta nee
Crawford
Gepp, daughter
of knight Her-
bert W. Gepp,
of Melbourne,
and his lady.
She was
snapped just
after gaining
the Bachelor
of Commerce
degree of the
University of
M e 1 b o u rue,
where her en-
gineer father
also studied.
She was the
only woman
grad uate of
this particu-
lar faculty.
The Australian Imperial Choir is to be
farewelled at Scott’s Hotel on the 24th, when
leading musicians, including Professor Bern-
ard Heinze and city organist W. McKee, will
be present. This will be the first time Aus-
tralia has sent a bunch of songbirds of
this sort to the U.K. The conductor, Graham
Burgin, has already received an offer of a
8.8. C. engagement.
The education committee of the Victoria
League offered hospitality at its rooms to
mummers Nicholas Hannen and Athene
Seyler, leads of the English co. now at the
King’s Theatre. Mrs. G. H. Cowling and
Mrs. Arthur Hordern received the guests.
An entertaining little chat on “The Stage and
the Cinema” was given by Miss Seyler, and
supplemented by Mr. Hannen. Both speakers
admitted that the legitimate stage was suf-
fering from mass production of the machine-
made article, but the actress found some
comfort in the reflection that dramatic stan-
dards had been raised by the competition.
All Saints’, Ivooyong. saw the mar-
riage of Clive Douglas Stott and Margot
Best, eldest daughter of the Robert Bests, of
Glenferrie. The church was decorated by
the bride’s girl friends; Arnold Coleman
played the wedding march, and baritone
Edward Beechcroft sang during the signing
of the register. Knight Robert Best handed
over his daughter, who turned down the
usual bridal trappings in favor of a go'wn of
crushed velvet of deep midnight, blue, with
a. largeish hat. Helene and Roberta, the
pretty twin sisters of the bride, were her
attendants, both in corduroy velvet frocks,
one fawn, the other brown. The Best lady
hostessed in gown of beige marocain and
ecru lace, topped by a shady black hat.
Mona Nugent, of Melbourne, a talented
pianist and singer and a Bachelor of Music
of the local Uni., went to Paris two years ago
and settled down with Madame Dinh Gilly
for further training. Her first concert in
the French capital is reported as having been
highly successful. Besides being soloist in
the American church there, she has been
studying opera under Lapiere and was due
for a debut at the Liege Opera House until
the Belgian Government put a ban on
foreign singers. Miss Nugent intends to go
shortly to Berlin to brush up her pianoforte
work.
Some people are born rich and lucky. A
lady who owns a pair of very valuable
diamond earrings was staying at a Melbourne
hotel, and when going to the bathroom put
the baubles into their case and then in the
pillow-slip on her bed. In her absence the
maid changed the linen without noticing
the jewellery. The owner of the earrings
forgot about them until some hours later,
when inquiries made it clear they had been
sent to the wash. She dashed to a big
suburban laundry, to find that no one had
noticed the twinklers. Then all boilers
were drained; at the bottom of one was
found a shrunken case and its precious con-
tents. A handsome cheque was handed to
the establishment.
Here, pictured by Lafayette, is Graham
Burgin, who will wave the conductor’s
baton on the
British tour of
the Australian
Imperial
Choral Union,
picked song-
birds from all
the States.
Mr. Burgin is
a business
man who
makes choral
music his
hobby. For
ten years he
conducted the
Southern
Choral Society,
which collect-
ed champion-
ships at Bal-
larat, Bris-
bane, Goul-
burn, Laun-
ces t o n and
elsewhere from ’22 to ’3O. Last year he
gave up the S.C.S. and formed a similar
body of singers in Mitcham, which is now
quite capable of competing with the long-
established societies of the metropolis. Mr.
Burgin comes of a musical family. His
father, the late Daniel Burgin, an outstand-
ing baritone, sang at the Sydney farewell to
Melba when as Nellie Mitchell she set off to
conquer the world. He will also be remem-
bered as a leading Gilbert and Sullivan actor
with the JX’.W.-Musgrove companies. Mrs.
Daniel Burgin was a soprano singer often
heard in duets with her husband. Graham
Burgin’s sister, Mrs. Ethel Cooke, is also
known as a soprano; so is his wife, profes-
sionally known as Ruby Dunstan. _ The
A.I.C.U. singers leave by the Strathaird on
Anzac Day.
At Adelaide: —
Mesdames A. W. Rutherford and F. T. Harcus
opened the dance season last week, when they were
joint hostesses at Brookdale, Unley Park. The
drawing-room and lounge were converted into the
ballroom and decorated with scarlet gladioli ; suppei
was in a marquee massed with Virginia creeper.
Mrs. Rutherford wore black lace, and Mrs. Harcus
chose black satin. About 200 guests were present.
Dainty frocks were worn by Mrs. Rutherford’s three
daughters; Nyroma featured a wreath of pink may
blossom round the corsage of her pale blue georgette.
At the A.R.O. meeting at Victoria Park, Gwen
Hall assisted her father, the chairman, in entertaining
at afternoon tea. She wore a smart tailored cloth
coat and small velour hat in a yellow tone. The
frocking generally varied from light spring frocks
to winter coats and furs.
His Ex. is Chief Scout of the State, and the
organisation will give a ball to welcome back the
vice-regal couple at the Palais Royal on June 8.
Mesdames Lavington Bonython and Herbert Rymill
are members of the committee, which includes
Messrs. H. M. Day, C. R. Moyse and C. R. Taylor.
Stella Sobels, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Sobels, of Kensington Park, will leave by the Strath-
aird for London with the Australian choir. A
member of the Elder Conservatorium opera class and
a pupil of Madame Delmar Hall, she has played
leading roles in all its productions. Lilian Walsh,
another member of the class, will also leave with
the choir.
The engagement is announced of Doris, eldest
daughter of the Alan Bowmans, of Forest Lodge,
Dashwood Gully, to Jack Bailey, younger son of the
late Tom S. Hawkes and Mrs. Hawkes, of Geelong,
Victoria. Jack is a former international tennis star.
The Adelaide University Dance Club began its
1933 festivities with a well-attended dance in the
refectory. Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters, vice-presidents,
received the students and their friends. Mrs. Matters
wore a clinging frock of fine white lace.
A garden party was held in the garden of Mrs.
E. M. McMichael, Kensington, to raise funds for
the C. W. Rutt Memorial erected at King’s College
by the Parents and Friends’ Association of the
college. The students were in charge Of the tennis
tournament and golf croquet.
Groperland garnerings:—
Joan, elder daughter of the A. F. Stowe couple,
of South Perth, is engaged to Jim Wall, of Geraldton.
Marie Bremner hostessed a delectable morning tea
with a background Of magnificent dahlias, pussy-
willow and deep red roses heavy with perfume.
The Esplanade was the meeting place. Miss Bremner
wore georgette patterned with • pale and dark green
and a large and floppy brimmed bottle-green hat.
Mrs. Watson-Williams and daughter Peggy were
extensively farewelled with tea and bridge before
they left on the Orsova, holiday-bound for Europe.
On the same steamer went Mollie Oldham, Winnie
Hinde and Maude Dingwall. The Repertory Club
gave Maude a valedictory afternoon, and the Shak-
speare Club had a party with a floral bouquet and
lots of verbal ones for the principal guest. In Maude’s
neat speech she had a word for Mrs. Seddon Vincent,
who founded the club and now lives in Kellerberrin.
Mrs. Vincent made a special trip to be present
at the party.
Now that there’s a nip in the air, nor’-westers
are making tracks for their stations. Mrs. Burt
said good-bye-till-next-summer to a host of her
friends in the Palace drawing-room. She was clad
in beige georgette and nutmeg millinery, and
daughter Mary’s choice also ran to browny tones.
Mrs. John Forrest, Mrs. Guy MacLeod, Mrs. Hubert
Parker, Mrs. Wiltshire, Mrs. Frank Davies and Mrs.
Manning were among the bridge players.
. Scores of jolly dances have been held in the
Willie Saws’ big home, and the party in celebra-
tion of Gwen’s coming-of-age was as merry as any.
Roses and dahlias glowed in the ground-floor rooms
and the ballroom below wore a festive touch of
greenery. Gwen did the honors in a blue medley
and Mrs. S'aw, in black lace, had a word of welcome
for every guest.
During this month Enid Wilson departs from
Wellington (M.L.) for the U.S. Some four years
ago she handed the reins of the Kindergarten Train-
ing College in Perth to Gladys Pendred and went
to undertake similar responsibilities in the city of
winds. After attending a summer school at Columbia
University and gleaning America’s latest ideas on
infant and nursery schools, she will have a look at
the Cold Land before returning to Wellington. Miss
Wilson is a daughter of the late Frank Wilson, a
former Premier of this State.
Senior students of Anita Fitz Gerald and John I.e
Tessier gave a sample of their more serious work
at a recital. In “The Sculptor and the Statue,”
Marjorie Butler, June East and Muriel Bird played
Pygmalion, his wife and his love Galatea.
Brilliant child Betty Higham was young Arthur in
a scene from “King John.” Anita Fitz Gerald and
•Sylvia George became Romeo and Juliet, and John
Le Tessier starred as Hotspur in an excerpt from
“Henry IV.” The verse-speaking choir adopted the
garb of Grecian maidens.
Yellow flags, the spoil of last year’s A and B
Pennants, flapped merrily on a perfect end-of-the-
summer afternoon which was Perth Golf Club’s
associates’ opening day. Some 170 entrants dug up
their clubs and golf socks and rallied along to
compete in four-ball competitions. Dahlias lifted their
magnificence among the array of titbits on the
tea-tables, and more dahlias and zinnias bloomed
in the lounge. Mrs. B. Barker and Mrs. Walker,
Mrs. Geoff Burgoyne and Mrs. Ford went home with
crystal trophies under their arms, and there were
lesser' prizes for clock and crazy golf.
Tag. jottings:—
Midland folk made a splash over the tennis tourna-
ments in aid of the Campbell Town club. Visiting
players gathered from Launceston, Ross, Cressy and
Tunbridge, and events were so many that they had
to spill over into a second week-end. The com-
mittee ran a dance at Powell’s Hall and there was
a croquet tournament as well.
Mrs. Eustace Cameron hostessed a party at Mona
Vale in honor of Mary “Taylor, whose wedding to
Geo. Keach is in the offing. Mrs. Seddon (formerly
Maisie Cameron) and daughter Cynthia helped their
mother entertain. The gifts were all bathroom
accessories,
At the Newnhain Race Club’s autumn meeting,
Chairman J. N. Archer and his wife entertained
at tea, she in a tailleur of satin-faced black cloth
worn with light furs and a smart little black velour
hat. Frocks were chiefly wintry and woolly, with
small capettes and ties, whose bows under the chin
or ear give a jaunty effect to the most severe
garment.
The Hobart Repertory Society staged Ben Levi’s
“This Woman Business” under the management of
Fred Brough, in the absence of the society’s regular
producer, Olive Wilton. There were good houses.
Mrs. Vowles had almost all the feminine work to
do and stood up to it womanfully.
Dark-eyed Lesley, daughter of the F. L. Bisses,
Fitzroy-place, and Stanley Prell, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), made their vows before Canon Wilson at
St. James’s, Augusta-road. The bride’s dress of
heavy white satin, with long plain train, was em-
broidered in seed pearls. The lace veil was mounted
on fine tulle and fell to the end of the train; the
bouquet was a sheaf of water-lilies. Two ’maids,
Alison Cook, of Melbourne, and Dorothy Prell, the
’groom’s sister, followed in soft pink chiffons (With
clusters of hand-made flowers and pink velvet Waist-
bands of a deeper tone. The festivities were held
at Lindfield, Hoiebrook-place, where there were
about a hundred guests who supped and danced.
A personable set of youths were the English public
schoolboys travelling in the Orsova. Various small
entertainments were given for them while the vessel
was in port. Mrs. Goddard, hon. sec. of the Victoria
League, with Mrs. Howard Buchanan and Mrs. Scott-
Power, ran a very jolly dance for them at the Town
HaR, and next day the lads were motored out
to lunch at the Springs.
Mrs. Douglas McLaren was responsible for the big
bridge party at the Continental which resulted in
some shekels for the Child Welfare Assoc. About
86 tables were filled. The rooms were gay with
deep red dahlias and autumn leaves and French
marigolds.
“Davies Bros., Limited,” christened their new
premises at the back of the present “Mercury”
building at a dance given by Mr. and Mrs. 0. B.
Davies. Guests included all the employees of the
“Mercury” and “Illustrated Mail’’ and numbers of
friends. The supper tables were decorated in purple
and gold, the racing colors of the late Hon. C. E.
Davies.


JAMES EDMOND IN VERSE AND STORY
The Rhyme of the Prodigals.
[The “As We Said Before” page is this week given over to the work of James Edmond
in prose and verse —-a characteristic example of his style in each.J
WE are going back to the husks again,
and glad to return are we.
We are going back to the swine once
more—to the swine and to liberty.
We have left behind us the fatted calf, and
a loathly beast is he.
We were younger sons who had seen the
world, and the world was great and
wide.
We drifted back as broken wrecks on the
backwash of the tide.
And each had a glozing lie to tell, and each
had a tale to hide.
Then long and grey came the crawling years
of respectability,
When we wore our tall glazed hats in church
for all the world to see.
And the cent we dropped in the parson's
plate had a hollow note and dree.
For they took us back and they gave us
meat, and they slew the tasteless veal
(Oh, the ox-tail soup is a gruesome thing,
and so is the boiled ox-heel),
And in their joy they gave us cow—we had
cow for every meal.
The feast was spread in our fathers’ halls:
each had veal enough for three.
And we tried to revel like Bacchanals and
to howl with the olden glee
As we solemnly passed from hand to hand
the big drab pot of tea.
The girls we knew in the old bad days held
the souls of men in thrall.
Their eyes were bright, and their lips were
red, and gracious were they, and tall.
The ones who have called of late hung brown
poke bonnets on the wall!
They were cheery sinners, the men we knew
in the days that used to be;
The men we know to-day are long, gaunt
streaks of misery,
And their monkey beards hang down like
moss festooned on an old dead tree.
We have left the hide of the fatted calf to
dry upon a fence;
We left his bones to bleach upon a hill and
gat us thence;
And we leaped upon the glazed top-hats
that we bought at great expense.
We are going back to the swine again—his
curly tail we see
Show up against the setting sun, a greeting
to you and me ;
And we’ll boil the husks in the pot to-night
where all the world is free.
And away'at home the Elder Sons will wind
the clock at ten,
And put the cat out carefully, and lock the
door, and then
Go off respectably to bed like sober-minded
men.
The Row in Our Boarding House.
THE trouble began on the night when a
newly-imported youth named Percy
appeared at Our boarding-house. There
were ten of us there before his arrival, in-
cluding Bern, the humorous Polish tailor,
who was vaguely understood to have thrown
bombs at all the royal families of Europe,
and then gone into exile. We paid seventeen
shillings a week each, not including wash-
YOUNG LADY (log.): “Yes, Mr. De Jones, my sister is
very beautiful —created quite a sensation at home.
She is considered to be like me.”
[Phil May —14/1/’88.]
ing; and we lived riotously on boiled mutton.
There were more empty beer-bottles in the
bedrooms, and more laughter, and more
grease slopped on the floor, and the candle-
ends got into the soup oftener in that board-
ing-house than in any other I ever heard of.
Also the neighbors got less sleep than any-
body ever did in the vicinity of any other
boarding-house. The dining-room had not
been papered since the beginning of history,
and the landlady had only one eye. Her
daughter had recently eloped with a non-
union printer. She (the landlady) was aged
about 40, and wo're a green dress, and m
the evenings she used to sing songs to us
with her hair down. These few details will
convey a reasonably good idea of the nature
of that Bohemian establishment.
One windy evening in March the land-
lady had agitated the bell on the stairs, as
was her custom. Her weapon was a sort of
cow-bell, and as she wrestled with it on the
murky staircase she looked like a witch
dancing on a heath. Her arms, her hair,
her feet, her green dress and her frodden-
down shoes flew in eight different directions,
and her one eye and the bell flew in two
more. Strangers coming down in the dark,
and meeting this apparition without notice,
generally took her for a heap of excited boa-
constrictor or an immense octopus leaping
on the top step. Poor old agitated female—
she is dead now. She broke her neck in
the passage one day rushing down to look
at a funeral. But if she had kept on ringing
that dinner-bell she would have been im-
mortal. Death couldn’t have aimed straight
enough to hit her in her gambols.
I rushed down to the dining-room at the
first signal, and meeting Bern and two more
coming tumultuously in the opposite direc-
tion we got jammed in the doorway. I was
just going to pass some uncomplimentary
observations when we all caught sight of a
spectacle such as the oldest individual in
that boarding-house had never seen before.
A great calm descended upon us, and we
disentangled ourselves and went in silently.
What I saw was an object like a naked
infant’s hind leg, resting in a careless, grace-
ful attitude along the back of a chair. There
was a bracelet on it, and attached to one
end of it was a woman. She was attired in
a silk dress which exposed her right down
to the fifth knob of her spine, or thereabouts,
and she had a necklace, and an eyeglass, and
sundry rings. There was a frozen expres-
sion in her eye—a look of cold derision that
seemed to fall like a curse upon the whole
company. This was Percy’s wife. Percy
himself was there in a tail-coat, and a tre-
mendous collar, and another eyeglass, and
he had a single bangle on his wrist. He
was the first male human being that I ever
saw inside a bangle, and I am prepared to
swear that he was the very first who' ever
wore a bangle in a boarding-house.
Between them they made just one remark
all dinner-time. It was “Haw!” I could
have said the same thing myself if I had
been dead.
We did not eat much that evening, and
there was very little conversation. We were
all paralysed by the spectacle of Percy and
his wife. They kept looking in a pensive,
perplexed sort of way round the table as
if they were searching for some of the com-
monest necessaries of life, such as were
to be found in stacks in their ancestral
castle; and then they would wake up as if
from a dream, and recollect suddenly that
they were castaways in a savage land, where
the aborigines never heard of the article,
whatever it might be. And when they were
finished the lady went and smote the piano
with an arm of might for about 38 minutes,
after which the pair retired and were seen
no more that night.
That was the beginning of the row in our
boarding-house.
Next morning the owner of the establish-
ment came down early, and refreshed her-
self with a few melodies before breakfast.
She was a strange, promiscuous, half-savage
female, and was wont at times to get up
before daybreak and thud out all manner
of lost chords on the keyboard, and she would
keep time with her slippers and her head,
and whirl her tangled locks in the air, and
cast the tails of her dressing-gown out be-
hind her in a frenzy of in-
spiration. After that she
would scuttle away with a
prodigious clatter, and clutch
the sausages that were to be
fried for breakfast, and for
about half an hour the air
would be darkened with a
chaos of food and dishes, and
it would blow a gale of gravy,
cruets, loaves and similar pro-
perties. When she entered
with the breakfast tray it
always made me think of
Napoleon’s commissariat de-
partment flying from Moscow,
for she generally arrived at a
gallop, shoving one-half of the
provisions in front of her and
dragging the other half be-
hind, and hissing to scare off
the cat, which ran with its
tail up in the rear of the pro-
cession, trying vainly to claw
at the alleged eatables.
Then she would fling her-
self on the hell like a hash-
house-keeper possessed, and
make a riot that was calcu-
lated to wake the lost souls
of all the dead boarders who
had shaken off this mortal coil
and were eating spectral ham
and eggs amid the fields of
Asphodel. On this morning I
found her leaping and gambol-
ling on the stairs as usual,
and I stopped to propound a
solemn question.
“Mrs. Jones,” I said stern-
ly, “who are the partially-
dressed intruder in the bed-
furniture and the tailor’s
advertisement with the jewel-
lery on his foreleg?”
“He’s in the gas office,” she replied in
gasps, as she threw herself up against the
air with the bell. “Newly married. He’s
English, and gets £lOO a year. I took them
in at a reduced rate.”
“Oh, you did! Now, look here; have
you any reason to suppose he’s a duke or
an emperor, or anything of the sort?”
“No!”
“Do you suppose, as a respectable Chris-
tian woman, that he’s got a castle any-
where?”
“No, I don’t s’pose he has.”
“Did he come in with the Conqueror,
now?”
“There wasn’t anybody with him when
he came in, that I saw.” .
“And did you know when you took them
in that she was going to stick so tar out
of her clothes?”
“No, I didn’t. H I’d knowed it I’d have
thrown her away.”
I went in to breakfast in a subdued mood.
Percy was there looking with a shocked
expression at the sausages, and shuddering
in a new bangle and a collar that was six
sizes taller than the previous one.. His wife,
with a fresh bracelet, was glaring at the
same viand, and the expression in her eye
seemed to say “Where am I? Is this a
horrid dream?” It was the only morning,
too. in six months when the sausages hadn’t
either fallen under the grate or been dropped
on the stairs, and this made their conduct
all the more uncalled for.
At lunch-time Percy’s wife appeared .in
another fresh bracelet, and with a profusion
of jewellery on her right forefinger. And
as for Percy, astounding as it may seem,
he had a third bangle on. Evidently he had
one for each meal, and this was his lunch
bangle.
In the evening the lady had another silk
dress on, and it exposed one knob more of
her spine than the previous one. Percy
wore his second clean collar and his dinner
bangle, and his small countenance, looming-
over his great expanse of shirt-front, looked
like a pallid bird of prey on the top of an
icy mountain. They talked together in
scraps of inferior French, and when the
meal was over M«s. Percy again smote the
piano, and then retired coldly to her own
apartments.
That night we held an indignation meet-
ing on the balcony. The landlady had de-
posited the vegetable dish out there through
the window when she was getting ready to,
make her turbulent entry with the pudding,
and had forgotten it. Inside there were two
candles burning, and one lamp with a broken
shade —the gas had been cut off for non-
payment. The bread was in a plate on top
of" the piano, and the dishes were in an
unwashed condition downstairs, and the
mistress of the house was singing a shrill
melody in the kitchen. And among these
surroundings Bern, the Polish tailor, passed
a resolution that he would drive Percy off
the premises, or die in the attempt. After
that our souls felt relieved, and we settled
down to harmony. Somebody found some
liquor in a bottle under his bed and brought
it down. The cards were fished out, and
we played nap, and gave each other lOU’s
on a lavish scale. The lamp flickered and
passed away with an awful smell. Then
one of the candles died amid a tremendous
blob of grease, and we gave up playing, and
smoked in the semi-darkness. The bread
cast a long, gaunt shadow on top of the
piano, and the vegetable dish was forgotten
on the balcony. And, finally, our landlady
burst in with the green dress partially open
at the back, and wearing a hat decorated
with six broken feathers, and fell over the
cat in the doorway, and she played some
tune that was all discords, while Bern sang
a dirge about some forgotten period when
he lived beside a river, and went out musing
with a female by moonlight. He was .so
moved by the recollection that he wept into
the last candle, and it went out also, leaving
us in darkness.
I woke on that third morning of the his-
tory of Percy with a vague, indefinable feel-
ing that somebody had died in the night.
There was a Sabbath calm brooding over
Jones’s boarding-house which was quite
foreign to that clamorous establishment, and
as I listened it suddenly occurred to me that
Bern must have carried out his threat, and
dynamited Percy in the darkness. All the
doors seemed to close softly, instead of shut-
ting with a soul-destroying bang as usual.
The landlady flopped about gently on her
trodden-down shoes, instead of bringing in
the breakfast with a crash and. a shriek, and
shedding dishes about in all directions; and
she rang the bell gently, whereas she usually
rang it like a dray-load of escaped lunatics.
I descended the stairs amid a prevailing
smell of ham and eggs, and went into the
dining-room.
Percy was breakfasting with a troubled
expression and a bangle, and his wife -was
glaring across the table. Opposite them Bern
was solemnly feeding in evening dress. He
looked absolutely vacant, and seemed to be
lost in profound thought, and the frantic
excitement, of the other eight boarders made
no impression on him at all. He wore a
pair of kid gloves and a bracelet, and his
moustache was elegantly waxed. Percy rose
at last, and walked round this apparition,
but the apparition never moved. Finally the
Pole got up, and thoughtfully dragged an
ancient, battered straw hat from under his
chair, and having jammed it hard down on
his head he went out of the room and out
of the house like a man who was lost in
profound vacancy.
Nobody spoke. A species of paralysis
seemed to have descended on that boarding-
house. But, after a moment,. Percy rushed
on to the balcony and glared in a cataleptic-
fashion. after this unaccountable visitant.
And outside, on the stairs, stood a petrified
landlady in a smudged green dress, and with
a hat that had six broken feathers in it,
cocked rakishly over one eye, and two misfit
shoes that seemed to have taken root in the
floor. She held a teapot in one hand and
a pie in the other, and she was unconsciously
pouring the tea into the pie, and the pie on
to the staircase.
* - * * x
Bern turned up in evening costume again
at lunch, but, though expectation rose to
fever-heat, nothing happened. Owing to
mental strain, however, the landlady fainted
in the sink in the course of the afternoon.
At dinner the Percy family began to show
signs of wear and tear. Mrs. Percy’s left
eyebrow was out of line, and her complexion
had shifted round to her ear. Evidently it
had been put on with a -eckless hand while
the wearer was under the influence of con-
siderable excitement. Her husband had an
enraged and harassed look, and his hair
was off the straight, and his tie was
crumpled. .
The landlady’s shoes were m the hall,
from which I gathered that she had lost
them in her agitation, and her hat was under
the table As for that joyous Bohemian her-
self, she was dodging round in a semi-hysteri-
cal condition, and when I entered she had
just given Percy the whole dish of potatoes,
and had shoved the entire joint on another
boarder’s plate, after which she deposited
the kettle in an abstracted manner on the
tablecloth. Then she fled unaccountably
round the table and supplied us all with
a number of other remarkable things too
numerous and too badly assorted to mention.
There was a dead and awful silence in the
company—a silence that was too awful to
be accounted for on the supposition that
Bern had appeared again in evening dress
and caused a panic. For one awful moment
the thought occurred to me that the insane
Pole might possibly have appeared clothed
in a marked scarcity of dress of any kind.
A BALD FACT.
VULGAR OLD CUSTOMER: “I’ve heard say,
Mr. Milkins, that loss of hair runs in
families. Do any of your sons take
after you?"
CLERK (testily). “Yes, sir, they do. They
are born bald.”
[Tom Durkin — 20/1/94.]
He entered at that moment, carefully re-
moving a shiny belltopper as he came in,
and depositing a pair of gloves m its in-
most recess. He was attired in grey pants
and a linen jacket, but he had taken the
sleeves out of the jacket and out of his shirt,
and he was “cut low” at the neck. Also he
wore a gold bracelet —in fact, he was a
remarkably good copy of Percy’s wife. Ihe
landlady uttered a shriek when she saw him,
and disappeared down the stairs. Ihe cat
escaped up the chimney, scattering last
night’s dead ashes out of the grate, as .it
went. The other boarders choked with in-
sane glee, but Bern only contemplated them
for an instant with a lack-lustre eye and
a funereal visage, and sat down. He was
the one unmoved individual in the company.
Then Percy arose, and shaking a fork in
the air with a palsied hand, he made a brief
oration.
“I give notice,” he shrieked, “that I will
leave this den of infamy at the end of the
week. I am accustomed —I mean, I am not
accustomed —British Constitution —degraded
parody upon a human being—l refuse to
associate —I —dash and confound the —the—
objectionable ruffian opposite—insolent out-
rage upon all gentlemanly sentiment —gorilla
on the other side of the table”
He gave out there, and choked. With a
wild howl he heaved up the table and cap-
sized the ruins of it bodily on Bern, and
then he tramped heavily over the debris and
engaged his enemy in mortal combat. The
Pole emerged from the wreckage, and with
his hair full of gravy, and corned beef m
both ears, and one eye stopped up with cab-
bage, and mustard streaming down his hack,
he flew at Percy like a wild cat. The candles
went out. Mrs. Percy shrieked in the. pass-
age. The landlady wailed dismally in the
kitchen. All was horror and confusion.
* * * *
There was an item in Percy’s bill when
he left, which read: “Broken crockery, 2i.s.
6d.” I believe he hypothecated his lunch
bangle to pay it. The gas has been turned
on again since then, and the landlady sings
weird songs to us in the gloaming, with her
hair down as of old. She wears the same
green dress, and drops her shoes all over the
house as before, but it isn’t the same land-
lady—the old one broke her neck on the
stairs as beforementioned, and her daughter
has inherited her clothes and the business,
and she rings the dinner-bell with even more
vim than her lamented predecessor. She
reminds me very much of her mother, for she
drops the meals on the stairs in a way that
calls up sad, pathetic memories; and rushes
in as recklessly holding out the gravy, in
front of her, and rushes out again as madly
to look for the vegetables, as her. deceased
relative could have done. Percy is in gaol
somewhere—there was a gap in his accounts
which even his jewellery could not fill. His
wife eloped with our new landlady’s hus-
band, the non-union printer. Also nobody
wears evening dress in our boarding-house
any more.


''UR NS PHILP TOURS
mv i
SSP
SOUTH SEA
HO LI DAYS
What a difference between
just an ordinary holiday and a
cruise to the Solomon Islands.
Four and a half weeks of novel
and amusing incidents and the
delights of a sea voyage under
the best conditions. Numerous
ports —coral lagoons—colourful
native life—wonderful scenes.
There are no hotel expenses on
the trip and the fares from
Australia are free of exchange.
At your request we shall
he pleased to forward
illustrated folder No. 22
Buums.PKiip
t CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . .
TELEPHONE 37901
STATION OR FARMER’S KNIFE
292— Baker’s Dairyman, Good Plain
Finish, Stag Haft, 10/6 each; with
Picker and Tweezer, 13/6 each.
710—Rabbit Knife,, Smooth Horn
Haft, 5/- each.
Rost Free for Cash with Order.
ILXUSTBA'CED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
w. JNO. BAKER LTD., 3 Hunter St., Sydney.
430 Contacts with
Australian Business
,URING the past seventy-four years the
National Bank has been closely associated
with the development of Australian trade and
industry. Commencing with a small capital in
1858, it has since added to its resources and
widened its establishment until it is now repre-
sented by branches and receiving offices in 430
towns and country districts, spread throughout
the several States. In all those centres a wide
range of banking facilities is made available
to every individual, every business and every
industry, assisting to further develop and utilise
the resources of the Commonwealth.
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
430 Offices in Australia.
If any illustration in "THE ( BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Fear.
BY H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN.
THE woman stood in the doorway of
her wood-and-iron house and looked
across to tlfe big shed. If anything,
the shed appeared rather better-finished
than the house. But they were neither of
them much: the buildings had only been
there a year or two —set back a little from
the creek, where the river-gums, as befitted
the only trees for miles, smirked at their
reflections in a dark pool; set back right
on the edge of the ranges, on the very rim
of civilisation.
The slanting afternoon sun made the
spiky, prickly tufts of spinifex grass look
soft, luxurious; then spent its golden virtue
in a riot of rainbow color over on the iron-
stone ridge. And the dry, aromatic smell of
an uninhabited land rose fragrant to the nos-
trils.
Behind the house, in the brush lean-to
serving as kitchen —it was cooler that way
and kept the flies from the house —the
woman could hear Edie and Sam at play
with pots and cans. She would have to
stop them,—too costly and difficult to get
others if small hands should do damage.
And they’d be getting into the store-cup-
board next —Sam was a terror for sugar,
just like the natives! Baby would be awake
in a few minutes, too: he was regular as
a clock for his feed.
Yet she continued stand there, staring
across at the shed. She was feeling rest-
less ; had she not been a woman of great
sense and fortitude, she would have called
herself nervous.
The sunlight streamed mercilessly on her
well-worn print dress, with its boned bodice
and ridiculous yards of skirt; but lightly
it caressed a young face long since drained
of color, tanned to golden brown. It had
drawn early lines round a pair of blue eyes,
too; she was for ever running out, hatless,
into the glare after the children.
All round about the few scattered build-
ings roamed the blue eyes. Except for little
noises from the children and the caw-cawing
of crows sailing over the killing pen, an
unearthly silence wrapped the place. Not
a native in sight. The kitchen gins had
padded off to their noon camp the moment
washing-up was over. Most afternoons you
could stand and listen to the tapping of
sticks or a drowsy corroboree chant. But
to-day everything was silent. She imagined
it must have been the silence which had
brought her out.
And where were little Johnnie, and that
Lloyd ?
She didn’t like Lloyd. She had told John
so many a time. But her husband just said
men were difficult to get: Lloyd was all
right, a good stockman and all that. But
she didn’t trust the fellow: he was alto-
gether too rough on the natives. John him-
self could be brutal enough at times, but
always, he was just; the boys respected the
boss, liked him—his kind of brutality was
their own, and only seen when the isolation
of the place rendered a firm hand advisable.
But that Lloyd—she could never forget
seeing him set the dogs on to the gins one
day, so the poor wretches ran screaming to
the trees, and scaled them like cats.
Horrible it had been. And Lloyd had
laughed fit to kill himself. Pity he hadn’t I
She had told John. That time he had
spoken to the man, said such a thing mustn’t
happen again. And it hadn’t. All the same,
she did wish it hadn’t been necessary for
her husband to go into the port to meet their
first mob of sheep, and so leave her and
the children alone with Lloyd.
The man she was thinking about came
suddenly round the shed, little Johnnie at
his heels. The small boy staggered along
under the weight of a saddle, the man car-
ried a knot of twine. The mother’s anger
rose. Just like him! There they had seated
themselves, backs to the shed, and Lloyd
was proceeding to mend a rent in the
leather. She would call Johnnie, she de-
cided, get him to mind the others. She
hated the way he was for ever trailing after
Lloyd... .but what could you expect? A
little fellow of seven loved to be out with
the men, and the sooner a child learned
to fend for itself in this hard country the
better.
Her lips parted for a shout which con-
gealed to a strangled intake of breath.
Once again round the corner came a
figure, a painted buck. Red and yellow
ochre and a. white lime pattern on his body
made of him a walking skeleton. And
quicker than thought the long shaft of the
spear already quivering in his womera flew
out.. It. missed the little boy by inches ail'd
buried itself, still quivering, in the man’s
outstretched arm. Before ever Lloyd yelled,
the native was gone.
The woman ran across the hard earth, her
tanned face livid, yellow. The child flew
to meet her. The man lay picking at the
spear hanging from his arm; his eyes
twisted, terrified.
But. there was nothing to see. Everything
was silent, except for the short sobs of the
boy and the cawing of the crows.
She left the four children with Lloyd in
the front room while she went alone to the
kitchen for hot water. Johnnie seemed calm
enough now, only interested, like the others,
in the barb stuck in Lloyd’s arm, and keen
to. watch the blood oozing out. “It was
Billycan that was,” the boy kept repeat-'
(hf <<Why ever s,toul( i ol( l Billy
Lloyd said nothing. He was white and
trembling. The woman, as she fetched the
water, decided she would have to give him a
little of the whisky she kept, hidden, just in
ase. Her eyes raked the plain and slid along
the creek-bed. She wanted to keep her mind
nusy with observation; but there was no-
thing worth observing. Still only the silent
country-side; she could sweep the horizon
. aTul see nothing. She found
_ thinking that the gins wouldn’t be
deserifa U ?t —probably the camp was
connwJ ’ t lcy haf l cleared to the hills. She
dav* L^ pect John for another couple of
5 , either. Hastily she dragged her mind
from such thoughts and ran back to the
house.
She had already broken the shaft from
the barb —only about a foot stuck out of
jLaoyd s arm now. “It’ll hurt,” she said
to him. “I’ll have to cut it out.”
Pie whined.
111 give you something first,” she said,
and, going into the bedroom, came back with
a tot in an old pannikin. “There’ll be
another when it’s over,” she said.
She sent the children away—told them to
keep baby quiet; lie was wide awake now,
and would begin fretting soon. Then she
ripped up a sheet.
She hated touching the man. And ho
shrank beneath her gentle hands, whined
again, begged more whisky. His beady dark
eyes, set in a face dirty with half-grown
beard, grew scared and shifty.
The woman said: “It’s got to be done,
L-loyd. Don’t be a fool.” And she did it.
A bloody job. But at last it was finished,
the wound bound, most of the mess cleared
away. Lloyd had another tot. Then de-
manded the lot. Said he needed it.
“No,” she said.
. “Yes, Missus. You make no mistake about
it. I’m having that whisky and then
well. I’m scooting.”
“Scooting?” she repeated blankly—her
mind was with the children
“Scooting.. Going. Clearing out, That’s
plain, ain’t it? I’m not stopping here for
no more blanky niggers to run spears
through me! I’m off into the town, I
am. The boss left one moke in the horse
yard, and that’s mine. Or soon will be. I’m
off! And I’ll tell ’em to hurry on out here,
if you like.”
She flared. “Thank you ! Call yourself
a man, do you?”
“Hell to you ! I’m going. Anyway, you’re
all right, Missus. The abos. ain’t no call
to touch you. Didn’t you reckon they’d all
be gone?”
“Yes. But if it was al] right, they’d still
be ( liere —they mean trouble when they go.”
“Well, I tell you I’m not staying," any-
how.”
She noticed he was still trembling. “Go.
then,” she flung at him. “You’re no use as
you are!” And so that he would not dis-
cover her fear, she turned aside.
Too late she realised he was banging the
door behind him and that the whisky bottle
was under his arm. Like a fool she had
let him take it!
But she fought down her fears, and with
a smiling face went in to the children. But
Edie said, as she was pushed aside from
the baby, “Oh, Mum, how cold your hands
are!”
Johnnie . immediately wanted to go out-
side, but his mother forbade him. They had
to stay and play quietly whilst she nursed
baby. And as she sat there, on the low
chair her husband had made, her mind flew
back and forth like one of the ever-hovering
crows.
Presently the beat of a horse’s hoofs
hammered the silence.
“Mum,” cried Johnnie from the window,
“Where’s Lloyd going?”
“Just a message for me,” she answered
tranquilly; but, sharp and bitter, her mind
recalled the chance-heard remark of another
man, an epithet applied to Lloyd. “It’s
right, too,” she thought. “Not got the
pluck of a louse, lie said. That’s just what
Lloyd is-—vermin. No good in him.”
All the afternoon nothing stirred outside.
The children grumbled at having to stay
with their mother: they wanted to go down
to the camp and play with the blacks; At
sundown the woman fed them well, and
put on what warm clothes they possessed.
The nights grew cold outside. Then she
made up a packet of food and filled three
water-bags. She went into the bedroom, re-
turned wearing a coat; in the secrecy of
the pocket her fingers closed on the butt of
a revolver her husband had given her when
first they sailed north.
Already it had grown murky outside, with
the swift falling of the Australian night.
“Come, children,” she said, “we’re going
walkabout to-night. It will be fun to camp
out in the spin if ex !”
She could not repress a shudder. Often
enough she had growled at her rough little
home. Yet how cosy it looked now, and
safe! Filled with things she had herself
fashioned from bits and ends, just to make
it bright. She lit the lamp, set it on the
table and drew the curtains.
She picked up the baby. As she went
out, followed by the children carrying the
water-bags, she wondered if she were being
a fool —subjecting them 10 unnecessary ex-
posure. Well, in that case they could re-
turn in the morning. But she felt she
couldn’t risk the night: the natives might
come after Lloyd again; they might come
after the stores; that one act of violence
might have gone to their heads—she didn’t
like to think the child-like people she had
so often looked after would set out to Farm
her children or herself. But she had to
remember that two years ago they had not
even seen a white man.
She did not make the children walk far:
if the worst befell they would have many
miles to go. Just a little way on towards
the distant settlement she took them ; then,
hiding snug behind an outcrop of rocks, she
settled them down. Even though it was
pitch-black by now, she knew that she
was still just within sight of the homestead.
Sam and Edie fell asleep. “Mum ” whis-
pered Johnnie, “are you frightened' of the
abos.? Don’t be scared, Mum, I’ll look
after you! Why did old Billycan do that
to ( Lloyd, Mum?”
“I’m not frightened,” she replied. (How
frightened she was!) “But I think they
might go a bit mad to-night... . Lloyd was
a rough, bad man, son, that’s why.”
An age she crouched there, it seemed to
the woman. Even Johnnie prattled himself
to sleep. She began to call herself a silly
nervous creature.
(Continued on next page.)


J x 5! \ l/> - >• jS
I*s*loll
IMTA.
P
if
•iiiif
A
f%%
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
Delightful Invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holidayl
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin ~ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £45
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Cabin „ «, £34
PAPEETE. TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin ~ „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . per-
fect service . . Every assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
THE “1.X.L.” LAMP
Gives a
Brilliant,
White,
Diffusive
Light.
Candle-power, 40
Burning Period,
5 hours.
Carbide Capacity.
ilb.
Approximate
running cost per
Height to burner,
1 1 inches.
Weight (empty),
Directions for use
with each lamp.
r?i*y%mk
iferv •-
..
■
■
PRICE 6/-
Postage paid to
any address.
Made in Australia.
Burns Australian-
made fuel.
Suitable for both
indoors and out-
of-doors lighting.
Will not blow out
in the wind.
Unaffected by
insects or dust.
The simplest and
cheapest means of
portable lighting
on farm and
station.
Requires no
mantles, wicks or
glasses.
Ideal for country houses, shearing and packing sheds, station
dairies, camps, week-end cottages and sea-side shacks, boats, country ha ,
•j By using this'lamp you will help to support Australian industries.
If unobtainable locally, send postal note to
H. JONES & CO. PTY., LTD.
G.P.O. Box 639 “D,” HOBART, TASMANIA.
Distributing Agents for Australia for “I.XX.” Carbide. __
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the ongma.
A tongue of flame leapt up in the dark-
ness ; and to the woman it seemed to leap
through her own reins. The shed! They
had fired it!
Instantly with the light came sounds.
The sharp staccato barking of dogs, shrill
native voices, yells, bursts of song.. As the
light gained she could just distinguish
figures leaping like black imps in the blaze
of a second fire. That was the house! She
knew now that the store-room had been
raided: she could see the black naked figures
posturing about, throwing things to each
other.
The noise increased. She shook the child-
ren. Time to move. As long as they feasted
and played with the fire she was safe: she
still did not like to think they would hurt
her—but they had burned her home; and
guilty consciences wrougnt terrible crimes
—they could track her so easily had they
a mind.
She looked at the heavens, took a bearing
by the sparkling pointers of the Southern
Cross, and vent stumbling off, with the
sleepy children dragging at her heels. There
would be a moon later, she remembered
with thankfulness, after Sam had been
picked up and the place kissed five times —
she had to take his water-bag, along with
the baby, then. But she stumbled on, reso-
lute, cheerful, with the children.
At last the moon rose; but its fading bril-
liance only unleashed her long-held fear.
The countrv lay spread about like a desert
peopled with terror, a void filled by shadows
having no substance. Cold, cruel, imper-
sonal, rejecting the soft alien woman and
her brood.
The baby wakened, began to kick and
struggle. Her whispers and the thin cries
of the children seemed to reverberate like
a laugh echoing beneath a church dome.
She offered no comfort when Sam and Edie
started to complain. She was sharp now.
She gave the baby to Johnnie, and he
staggered along as best he might, while the
mother took Sam pick-a-back. She found
the child’s weight did nothing to deaden
the nausea which was threatening to en-
gulf her, the sickness of fear.
At length the keen edge of her sensation
dulled. She no longer looked at every
shadow with a cold thrill of rigid expect-
ancy, she no longer strained her ears for
fancied footfalls.
She grew harsh with the children. A
slave-driver. Even Johnnie sobbed at her
rough words. And he was being so good !
“Don’t fret, Mum,” he kept on saying.
“They wouldn’t hurt us. Billycan’s a mate
of mine—they wouldn’t hurt us.”
The night was without end; the country
without end. Did there exist, anywhere an
this grey and silver emptiness, human
creatures other than black devils; were
there houses, helping hands?
Dawn at last —and an unbearable radi-
ance in the skies. A hal'd, rough land;
and a sun gaining hourly in strength. A
short sleep for the children. A drink or
water and a piece of bread. Then up and
on.
The woman felt safe from the natives
now. She could reckon they would not
attack until night fell again, if they were
after her—that was what the men always
said, anyhow. But if John were not already
on the way out! The ghastly . sickness
swept back —they would all perish long
before little legs could reach the settlement.
But she was too tired to think for long.
It took all her energy to watch. Up and
on, then; up and on ; „ through hegt, with
flies clinging and children crying. Hotter
and hotter and hotter.
They had come on to the track, faint
whpel-marks across the baked earth, soon
after sunrise. It was Johnnie who spotted
his father. The woman was trudging along
with . her eyes on the ‘ ground: slie was
carrying botli Sam and the baby. now.
Breathing burnt her chest. Yet not until
she looked into her husband’s face did she
realise how she must look: haggard, livid,
fallen-in it was. He had been riding, with
tw'o others, most of the night—that miser-
able Lloyd must have passed them, after
all!
“Anna,” was all her husband could say
for a bit. “My God ! Anna !”
The evil wrought by Lloyd was over, the
woman told herself; but as she sobbed out
her tale she knew it had only just begun.
The other men were petting and soothing
the children; Johnnie was boasting of all
he’d done, telling them Billycan was a mate
of his. Her husband’s hand on her wrist
felt safe, Ann, tender. “We’ll take you
into town, dearest,” he said. “Then we’ll
come back and teach those black devils a
lesson.”
“Lloyd!” she murmured.
“He’ll have to leave the North, I reckon,”
stuck in one of the men.
“It was all his fault,” she repeated. But
she knew it was no use arguing. The work
of years had been destroyed ; probably half
their cattle had been speared by now, too.
What devils fear macle of men, whether
black or white —an hour ago she had been
inhuman herself! But now, as she lifted
weary eyes to her husband’s grim mask, she
felt sorry for the natives.
Green-Grey Homestead.
BY STEELE RUDD.
IT will be a cold night at Green-grey home-
stead. the coldest you remember (you’ve
forgotten all the others), and after
you’ve had supper and washed up and put
the bread away and scattered the crumbs
from the table on to the floor with the dish-
cloth and made the humpy look shipshape,
you’ll be crouched in front of the fire, not
reading the paper as some would, but smok-
ing hard and thinking. It’ll run through
your head that now when fats are scarce is
the time to get a good price from the butcher
for the two steers he offered you a low figure
for in the middle of summer. Finally decid-
ing to sell them for a fiver apiece, you’ll
turn your thoughts to the bees’ nest in the
gully ' near your cultivation paddock. It’s
been there in that silver-leaf ironbark for
three years. Your neighbors know of it, too and
some have wondered why you never robbed
it. Just now you feel.you would like a feed
of honey; you’re tired of the same old
.i an } —melon jam mostly with pumpkin-seeds
in it, bought at the local store, You haven t
tackled a bees’ nest since you were a kid;
still, you were pretty good at robbing them
then; never getting more than a dozen stings
or so, and you 11 reckon that, tins old silver-
leaf being hollow.as a cave, there should be
a co.uple of kerosene-tins of honey m it at
least—more than enough to do you for the
rest. of the winter, and perhaps another half
a tin or so that you could pass to the
Murphys, lou can give liberally when its
your own honey that s not costing you any-
thing.
But just when you’re wondering if you’ve
got a piece bf mosquito-net anywhere in the
humpy to wear as a veil so as the bees won t
haye it all their own way, Curly Ginty,
from down on the plain, will walk in on
top of you, complaining of the “blasted cold,'’
and telling you you’re “all right in here,
Dick, beside a burning fire.”
Of course, your thoughts will be suddenly
scattered, and for the moment you’ll feel
kind of shamed that he caught you sitting
there thinking to yourself. For Curly, a
big fellow with longish hair and a constant
grin .and a loud voice, isn’t a close friend of
yours and has rarely paid you a visit before.
You’ll know, though, that he’s in with the
Rileys, who do a bit of horse-dealing and
horse-breaking, and you’ll go to rise to wel-
come him. But Curly won’t know any cere-
mony.
“Stop where you are,” hell tell you.
“What do you think I am —a prince who
can’t look after himself?” Then reaching
for a stool he’ll adjust it near the fire,
and he’ll look : curiously round your humpy
before beginning to talk. Then he’ll talk
loud, and laugh loud, too, and often. He’ll
ask what you did with the little jumping
horse you used to have. And while you're
trying to tell him and feeling* proud about
it, he’ll be standing up stirring the fire by
kicking it together with his boot and talking
about something else. Then he’ll sit again,
not having, listened to a word you said, and
start telling you of pranks the Rileys and
he got up to one time over the Range with
“Hungry” Hawran’s cattle and horses. He’ll
tell you how they took a mob of Old
Hungry’s cows, as' “coachers” to the scrub
one moonlight night and “lost. the. whole jolly
lot”; and how they used to ride the tails off
Hungry’s horses that were spelling over there,
and swim them in a waterhole next day to
wash the sweat marks off ’em.
You’ll. get so interested in all Curly is
telling you, and the way he’s telling you,
that you won’t notice the sparks that fly
out of the fire and lodge in your lap and
burn small holes in your moleskins. And
the number of times he’ll rise and swing his
arms about demonstrating and kick the box
over will make you laugh. And .when you
fancy—which you will —in the middle of it
that you heard a tree fall, he’ll remember
a song Dan Riley used to sing in the camp
at night, and break out loudly into the first
verse of it. Then you’ll laugh till you hear
the report of a gun somewhere, when you’ll
suddenly, stop and listen curiously. He’ll
listen with you.
“That • sounded in the gully somewhere,”
ypp’ll reckon wonderingly, with your ears
still cocked.
“If there’s going to be any shooting here
I’ll leave it to you, Dick,” Curly' will say.
“You got a gun. I haven’t. I’m off!” And
snatching his hat, out the door and into
the night he’ll go without even saying so-
long.
Beyond the report of that gun there’ll be
nothing, except fleas perhaps, to disturb your
rest during the night. But in the morning,
when you’re rounding up the milkers that
camp in the gully, you’ll wonder , for a
moment if you’re really awake or walking
in your sleep. The tree with the bees’ nest
will be cut down and lying across your culti-
vation fence, and robbed of the honey!
“So. that was your —— game, Mr. Curly
Ginty !” you’ll explode, and almost choke.
And in your mind you’ll see the Rileys fell-
ing the tree and getting the. honey while he
was entertaining you. Then you’ll hear the
gun-report again, signalling him that the
job was finished.
Turning away you’ll vent your feelings on
the loitering cows. “Get along, blast you,
get along!” you’ll hiss. And you’ll keep on
blasting them till they’re in the yard, and
you’re sitting .under one of them, squeezing
the milk from her.
Autumn Passes By.
Autumn came in by the garden gate.
The garden trembled, not with cold,
But happy, as it turned to gold.
Their fuzzy heads the asters bent
In greeting; and the scent
Of April roses spread
Dike incense. Autumn tossed her bead
And smiled; and back the garden smiled.
As happy as a wanton child
She shook her auburn curls
And scattered pearls
Of early-morning dew
Over the tips of sable box and yew,
And set afire the leaves of oak and elm,
And made the garden all her burnished
realm,
And gaily sang a song and set a-dancing.
Above, the pine-trees danced, and, downward
glancing,
Sent soft brown needles trembling to the
i ground
Where, later, on a sun-kissed mound,
Autumn took rest. i
Perfect the soft warm rising of her breast,
' And ruby mouth, with berry-stainM rim,
And swelling curve of every lovely limb,
As soft she slept!
Softly the garden watched, and leapt
AH quietly to ripeness. Apples fell
Red-gleaming, wrinkled; and the pleasant
smell
Of cider drifted through the crystal air.
All darkly, black and ;red, with lustre rare,
New berries gleamed from out the russet
leaves;
And from the sheltered eaves
Great clusters, blue and green, of glist’ning
grapes
Hung ready for the plucking. Softly shadow
shapes
Went creeping o’er the lawn, fantastic, grey,
And heralded the coming end of day.
Softly they came at last unto the bed
Of sleeping Autumn. Sunlight left her
head;
A coldness came; and Autumn’s reign was
done
As sank the April sun.
Waking, she .sped in haste, her time oer-
stayed, ~
And gold light changed to grey-blue ice-
touched shade.
And smoke curled bluely, cloudily, on high,
And frost set sparkling all the dying sky.
And so the garden trembled, sharp with cold,
And. sighing sadly, shed its gold,
As Autumn went out by the garden gate.
VICTORIA.
GEORGE WALTON.
Fire.
The burning stumps are living pools of light.
That glow, warm-hearted, from the clearing
now. _ .
They are the blood within the heart of night.
Dull-red and throbbing, warming breast
and brow.
They are the fires of change to make the new
Within the glowing ashes of the old.
Who knows but that the owl-that past us
flew . ...
May be the 'alchemist to bring the gold t
Red dark of roses, opal’s hearts of fire,
Are but the shadows of the blooms of night.
Each year the rose re-blows where last years
died,
Each opal burns for ever its desire;
Yet dearer than all these would be the sight
Of burning stumps upon the mountain-side.
W.A.
VICTOR WILLIAMS.


ECONOMISE
TN the present great need for economy an important point
A is to realise that economy does not mean going without
necessities, but an avoidance of unnecessary expense.
wm
IVhen buying be sure and ,
get DR. MOUSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are enclosed in this
familiar label printed in blue.
In the latter category a frequently
heavy item is ill-health, which in
addition to medical expenses often
involves loss of wages and even
employment.
Hence it is essential to keep a
careful watch on one’s health, the
first and greatest precaution being
to see that the bowels operate
regularly—at last once a day. This
is one of Nature’s laws, and woe
betide those who defy it.
To maintain the bowels and other organs of digestion in a
regular condition Nature often requires some assistance. For
this purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are specially suited,
and bear a world-wide reputation. They stir the Liver,
cleanse the Stomach, and stimulate the Bowels, thus opening
and toning the clogged-up system, and making it better able
to combat Life’s Little Daily Ills.
h
i
It
u
ĥ
Made in Australia—by Australians—for Australi
■
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing. is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they ar'e
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest sus-
picion a careful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or un-
easiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and biting, and
not infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing'''a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often disordered,
sometimes relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving,
or depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleed-
ing of the nostrils, and disposition to grind
the teeth during sleep are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the alimentary canal,
and various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the dis-
ordered digestion which they occasion.
Among the most common of these are
nervous affections; such as fretfulness, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the eye-
lids, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent in
children, and have been ascribed to worms,
and ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms, but cause no
injury to the stomach or bowels, and do
not weaken the system. The pellets are
prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but on the contrary inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary
sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Go.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4/- per packet (six packets 23/-)
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulle-
tin. " . /;■ , - .
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay. “Those
who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.” 6/- (postage 3d.).
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT” —“Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“JONAH”—Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all "BULLETIN” Offices.
XT
o
o
CjV
w
W
v v
p^a'o 0 ,**
+■ •«* * #*
p-
AN®
m
M
o° v
e $ >
$?«
.w 1
6«-D'
vV °:


WIRE PRODUC
WILL
IKBWTYft> y.4fOCK
k ' Made in
HYLANDS BROS>^t<
* rAusKl VD
WARATA++
* STAR 1
STEEL FENCING
POSTS ' m
The post that is rust-proof, fire-proof,
ant-proof, easy to erect, and practically
everlasting.
13M1J
ANIOraiONIH
mivtrtNi
galvanised
fEUCING
iAt?V "
*‘Once strained, always tight.” ATI
gauges, in Standard and special
soft qualities.
STEEL
W
/
m
X
s#S#S#?i
s#s#s#s
i#M#i
iiSsbmSmmml
i
g
1,
m
is;»j
l
r Jjl
a
US!.
Fa
1
!•!
i
#
•7«t
/V*»
mmsgi
WAPATAH
BARBED WIRE.
“Iowa” and “Waukegan” patterns. Waratah
barbed wire is true to gauge—of uniform
temper, suitable to all climatic conditions.
Renowned for strength and flexibility.
WARATA •
WIRE NETTING"!
Manufactured in all sizes, gauges and widths,
for rabbits, sheep, dogs, pigs, poultry, etc. .
Waratah Wire Netting is always full weight,
with regular mesh, good appearance, and per-
fectly galvanized for maximum protection
against
weather. Runs
out straight
* and flat.
SUPPLIED BY ALL LEADING
STOREKEEPERS,
AND AT
l Rylands Bros. (Aust.) Ltd. J
MELBOURNE and NEWCASTLE.
the eveb-open
cate
