

:
3: V :
K-
i
;V
fM
m
mm
«m<
/
v^Vw
“Wi’ a Long Pedigree
99
$
<\o
WM
o^l£oh
QIC' (©)
''S-SSstf
The seol placed upon
every Dewar's bottle under
Government supervision,
guarantees that >t con-
tains only genuine
Dewar’s Whisky, dis-
tilled in Scotland. 'G»
HTHE world will always have its Newcomes and its
Parvenus. But lineage will continue to command
the respect and admiration it deserves.
Dewar’s is a whisky of lineage. It may be possible
to beguile a connoisseur from Dewar’s once, but he will
return to it, with a keener appreciation than ever of
what is, beyond question, the real aristocrat among
whiskies.
SCOTCH WHISKY
Dewar’s is available in four sizes—including
flasks designed to fit the pocket perfectly
The Bulletin
JhjL 'lAmxCzAs 'JthSls .
Vol. 54.—N0. 2785.
Wednesday, June 28, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’Y’HE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424*426 George Street, Sydney,
Iy.earri
dance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! .
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,""
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Hook let, explaining how to Write tor Profit n.
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1 ‘
My Name
My Address ...!!!!"*****
S.B. 133
[a
U
□
Li
U
E 3
UIICUHA
Preparations
...
sed the world
over by
hose who
realize the
importance
of pure
urative Soap
and Ointment
nsurpassed
for their
eliable
Medicinal
ntiseptic
Qualifies
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W,
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
READ THIS
WONDERFUL LETTER
ABOUT
EADE’S PILLS
The World-famous Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, SCIATICA
or LUMBAGO.
24th Field Brigade > R.A.,
New castle-on-1 1 yne,
November, 1932.
Sirs, —Glad to say I had great relief in
four days after using your Pills, and I shall
certainly continue their use. 1 feel a new
man, and shall not fail to recommend the
treatment to anyone who is unfortunate
enough to suffer from severe Rheumatism.
W. BAKER.
Many thousands of people throughout the
world can testify to the remarkable efficacy
of Eade’s Pills. Hundreds of letters have
been received by the Proprietors, every one
‘genuine,, reporting the marvellous results
that have followed a few days’ treatment.
Packed in two sizes, and sold by every high-
class Chemist throughout the Commonwealth.
For certain results insist on getting Eade’s Fills.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out' Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 112,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
. 43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
fJ^iZeAxtxyycL££ss 9
w StdxieJ, SCtupe,
S' Screen Vurted, rujv&<i f&Z
■fare, v&rusriy SurCs&if. r n
TheAUSTRALASIAN
s ON SALE ALL STATES 6-
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of ,
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress, the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Or Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
Do You Know THIS?
Western Australia embraces a third
of the Commonwealth of Australia,
and could comfortably hold England,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales, France,
Germany, Hungary, Norway, Italy,
Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium,
with room to spare.
It could very nearly accommodate a
third of the United States.
THE BIGGEST PAPER
in the LARGEST STATE
is the PERTH
a
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL PAPER.
A GREATER VOLUME OF NEWS
AND ADVERTISING PER ISSUE
THAN ANY OTHER PAPER IN THE
GOLDEN WEST.
Sell through the Popular Western
Advertising Medium.
—BEST BY TEST—
Sydney Repres entat ive:
HAL JOHNSTONE, sth Floor, Wingello House.
’Phone. 85690.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday— 2d.
The Red Page
Quest of the Under-dog’s Paradise
Which is the best country for the very
poor? The Communists of Australia, most
of whom haven’t been outside Australia, say
Russia. They are equally sure that the
worst part of the world to be poor in is
England, the place the hard-hearted bond-
holders and bankers come from. Russia, so
the legend goes, is a land where brotherly
love prevails. The Russians are opposed to
militarism, as is proved by their appeals
to the workers of other countries to unite
against war. The only object of armies,
navies and air forces, the Communists point
out, is to perpetuate Imperialism: the domi-
nation of the weak by the strong. No
Communist denies that the kind of revolu-
tion which must precede the expropriation
of the propertied classes is bound to be long
and bloody. In a country such as Australia,
with a small class of plutocrats and a large
middle class, the struggle would be excep-
tionally severe. The claim is, however, that
the inevitable horrors would be worth while
in the long run—at any rate to the very
poor. The change from Capitalism to Com-
munism would solve the unemployment
problem, and allow hours of labor to be
shortened; the poor would get more and
better food, better housing, more and
cheaper amusements. Above all, they would
gain on the spiritual side. Released at last
from capitalistic, militaristic and religious
tyrannies they would stand forth as cap-
tains of their destinies and souls; free men
and women. Arguments of this kind
sounded convincing to many when the Rus-
sian experiment was begun some 15 years
ago. During the past five years the curtain
has been raised on the U.S.S.R. epic, and
world opinion is tending more and more
to the view that it is not an epic at all,
but a kind of tragi-comedy—so far, anyhow,
as the poor are concerned. The lecturer in
Economics and History at University Col-
lege, Nottingham, is the latqst to cast a
light on the men and women who are play-
ing the supers’ parts in the great Communist
show. He is no more like an anti-socialist
Jingo than the author of the book about
England which is also reviewed below.
Both writers are critical by temperament
and cynically suspicious of catchwords and
sentiment. Their testimony is valuable.
Russia's Untouchables
T. L. Jarman, author of Through Soviet
Russia (Houghton Publishing Co.; 3s. 6d.},
started for Leningrad in June of last year.
Like other tourists, he was impressed by
the comfort of the U.S.S.R. ship. Disil-
lusionment began on shore.
The sale of vodkha is an important ele-
ment in the Soviet regime.... It is this
evening that we begin seriously to doubt.
Queues with mounted police riding among
the people on the pavements, drunken men
lying by the roadside.
Some Russians are wealthy. At the Res-
taurant Bristol, “Oh, where are the starving
Russians?” he asks. “The place is so full
we cannot find seats.” He was soon to find
plenty of Russians who, if not starving, were
underfed. He was amazed at the dirt,
squalor, smells and “miserable specimens
of humanity in filthy rags.” Russia has a
serious unemployment problem. An Ameri-
can engineer told him that 80 p.c. of those
in.jobs were working on piece rates (and
were liable to be fired if they proved un-
satisfactory), and that 35 p.c. of all the
workers were women. Hence the large
numbers of derelict men. Above all he
was impressed with the badness and scarcity
of the food, and the size of the military
machine. Wherever he went he found
soldiers, who, as in all militaristic countries,
appeared to be a privileged caste. Officers
travelled along the routes he took, piavates
stood on guard with fixed bayonets outside
factories, children at play “charged with toy
rifles, followed by a Red Cross division with
stretchers.” He came to the conclusion
that the huge standing army was a blessing
in disguise; without it the unemployed
army would be proportionally bigger. The
Commissars and their friends, those in jobs,
and the soldiers, sailors and airmen repre-
sent one nation in Russia; another and
much bigger one is composed of verminous
and hungry untouchables whose condition
can have been no worse under Czarism.
British Tramps
Matt Marshall, author of Tramp-Royal
on the Toby (Blackwood; 55.). is a Scot-
tish vagrant, and proud of it. Incidentally,
he reveals the sur-
prising fact that
Scotland produces
more than its share
of tramps, and
that “you rarely
find a Cockney or a
Jew-boy on the toby.” His book shows
him to be a remarkable character: a bom
descriptive writer, something of a poet, a
wit, a philosopher and a relentless enemy
of society. It delights him to recall the
histrionic gifts which enabled him to fool
the charitable. Mendicancy with him is an
art. In the summer of 1928 he found him-
self in Worcestershire, which he had reached
by way of London and Land’s End. He
was, in his phrase, “road-hungry as ever.”
So he set out for Wales, and his tired feet
took him through much of it, and so back
■to London by way of Chester and Hull.
A spell in Brixton Prison, and he left for
Scotland, which he traversed from Dumfries
by way of Glenluce and the Mull of Gal-
loway till he reached the Solway shore,
where he was arrested again. On purpose.
His book is dedicated, in contempt, to the
Law, yet almost every page contains un-
conscious tributes to the Law, and to the
social system with which he is at war.
Britain, by his showing, teems with
tramps of all nationalities (he met several
Australians) who scorn to draw the dole;
and they never go hungry.
I opened the big poke of tucker which I
had been presented with, and made a leisurely
-and wholly satisfying breakfast of the bread
and cheese, meat pie and pickled herring
that came first to hand.
Later as I sat gorging sardines and tongue
and ham and tomatoes and cheese and pork-
pies and biscuits I laughed merrily to myself
at the thought of what a pitifully easy
mark that brilliant bloodhound of the law
had been.
At Rhuddlan an aged cottager treated -me
to a slap-up Sunday dinner, capping it
gloriously with cider.
Passages of the sort occur monotonously.
He has only one objection to Cornwall.
At every door I knocked at that accursed
saffron cake was handed to me—and always
by the bagful.
He paints an attractive picture of English
prison life. His cell “was no cell; rather
was it a furnished apartment for a single
gentleman.” The food was good, the
warders were civil, the work easy and the
amenities many. The first two books issued
to him were Marion Crawford’s “A Roman
Singer” and Wodehouse’s “The Indiscre-
tions of Archie.” One of the things he liked
about gaol was the chance it offered to
keep clean. Dirt is unavoidable on the
road, but British tramps hate it as a rule.
If you were to stop a dozen, he says, 11
would have soap. Well-to-do Britons are
extraordinarily generous. The worst faults
of the officials, such as magistrates and
policemen, even according to this enemy of
their kind, are stupidity and officiousness.
Soldiers in uniform are so rare that he
never refers to them. And this is the
country which is held up to obloquy in
Russia and elsewhere as an oppressor of
the poor and friendless! The average
reader will conclude either that Mr. Mar-
shall is a subtle propagandist on behalf of
Capitalism, or that- the British proletarian
would be mad to think of changing his
relatively luxurious existence for life in a
Communist State.
RED PAGE.
Fashions in Art
Theatrical managers always give due con-
sideration to the “curiosity value” of a pos-
sible star. Ramsay MacDonald might be
an indifferent vaudeville comedian, but he
would pull more money in an Australian
tour than the funniest man in England were
the latter’s name unknown. The same
principle appears to animate the Felton
Bequest authorities. Curiosity value rather
than merit is an outstanding factor in the
purchase of new works of art.
Few things are more difficult to ascertain
than the value of a work of art. The
masterpiece of one year is the tripe of the
next, and the artist who was so poor that
none would do him reverence during his
lifetime is discovered, when he has been
sufficiently dead, to possess super-qualities
which make the best things of Da Vinci
look like the efforts of an old or slow
worker.
I have in my possession a water-color by
Wilder which I bought at his first exhibi-
tion for £4 10s. Six years ag6, a dealer,
looking for a Hilder, approached me and
said we could talk round £lOO as a basis of
negotiations. More recently, I was offered
£2O for the picture and, if the depression
continues, I expect it will go for some-
where around the original price, leaving
nothing for lost interest, depreciation
sinking fund and the rest.
What I want to know is what is the real
value of that picture—£4 10s., £lOO or £2O?
(Red Page continued on page 5. >


FINE QUALITY FURNITURE REDUCED
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—aIways at Anthony Horderns’
£42/10/- “Devon” Bedroom Suite now
The “Devon” Bedroom Suite, in selected figured
Walnut and Maple. Wardrobe measures sft. wide,
and is fitted with 3 trays on right, with ample hanging
accommodation. The Dressing Table is 3ft. 9in. wide, and has reflex glasses.
The Lowboy, which is fitted with 3 trays and half hanging space, is 3ft. 3in.
Price £42/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Special Price £36/10/-
4ft. 6in. Bedstead to match. Price £B/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price £7/10/-
£36/10/-
n
II
WM
«
1
83
35?
Ip*
£39/17/6 “Moderne” Bedroom Suite now
The “Moderne” Suite portrays the trend in furniture
design, and it must be admitted it is handsome. It
is in richly-polished and Maple, revealing the
£27/10-
grain. Fully seasoned to last a lifetime, and is our own make. The 4ft. 6in.
Wardrobe has a full-length mirror inside door. The Lowboy is conveniently
fitted. The Dressing Table is unique. Price 1,- /,!//
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price £27/10/-
!&»' \
cs
«€
<<W
i
m c.
(SX
£23/10/- “Burwood” 3-piece Lounge Suite
The “Burwood” three-piece Lounge Suite,
comprising 6ft. Settee, well-sprung seat and 3
£l9/19/
spring-filled cushions. Upholstered in tapestry and plain velour.
Two roomy easy chairs, each with spring-filled cushion. Price,
£23/10/-. Anthony Horderns* Special Price, £l9/19/-.
r
m
i
£27/10/* “Monterey” Dining-room Suite
The “Monterey” is a most modern Walnut
Dining-room Setting. Comprises 5 ft. Side-
£l9/1 9/
board, fitted with two drawers and 2 cupboards, and neat oval
mirror in back; sft. x 2ft. 9in. Refectory Table, 4 small and 2
Carver Chairs. Price, £27/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, £l9/19/-.
£l4/10/-Dining-
room Setting
£lo|lo|-
The “Bijou” Dining Room Setting, in Oak, with
two-tone finish. Comprises: Buffet 30in. wide,
fitted with drawer and cupboard, dome-shaped top
has 2 shelves. Round Table, 42in.> diameter; and
4 Chairs with removable seats covered with Fabrikoid.
Made in our own cabinet works. Price, £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns* Special Price .... £lO/10/-
Visit Our Furniture Showrooms
You will be delighted with the wonderful display of
high-class furniture —furniture which has earned for
Anthony Horderns’ their famous reputation for
quality merchandise.
87/6 “Utility” Service Waggi
The “Utility” Service Waggon in Light-
brown Oak with quartered panel door to
cupboard, which lowers at right angles and
is secured by folding stays, forming a useful
57«
rest tray; top has serrated edges and safety headings.
Undershelf with rim surround. Turned legs. Size overall,
30in. wide. 32 Jin. high and 16Jin. deep. Price, 87/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, 57/6.
GLORY BOX
Glory Box, Upholstered, or plain
polished lid. 21in. high. 43in.
wide and 21in. deep. Fitted with
two drawers on right-hand side,
deep recess on left. Price, £5/10/-.
Anthony Hor-
der n s’ Special
Price
£3/17/6
BOOKCASE
Oak Bookcase, 6ft. high, 17in.
wide and Cin. deep; fitted with
five shelves, three being adjust-
able; cupboard at bottom. 22in. x
loiin.. with one shelf. Finished
in a Nut-brown colour.
Price, 00/-. Anthony
Horderns’ Special Price^
60/-
e
è
é
£5/10/- Walnut Writing Bureau
Walnut Writing Bureau, 39in. high, 25in.
wide and deep. Fitted with conveni-
ent pigeon holes and automatic slides for
flap of desk to rest on; useful
drawer. Price £5/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price,
79/6
39/6 Split Cane Lounge
Here is a saving of 14/- for thrifty-minded
shoppers. Split Cane Lounge of sturdy con-
struction. Extremely comfortable.
Price 39/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price,
25/6
Furniture—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Delivery City and Suburbs only.
Free
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.


INVESTIGATIONS OF CORK AND PLAIN
-the Cam tan Twain
4
■I I
§
m
X>
V
V/t
WU\U
5305-6-2
Dear lady, with that dewy spray /
Of flowers at your shoulder, '
We know which cigarette you wave
There m your dainty holder.
i
Fastidiously you make your choice,
•» «^«i
It’s Capstans that you favour.
The quickest selling s ’you know
Must have the freshest flavour.
lO to 1 it’s a
CAPSTAN
[lO for 6 d l
20 Jfor 1/-J
Ct±
CL
~APst
//
(Cop
V*t G
HT]
APSTANS contain
only long matured
pure Virginia Tobacco.
The blend is exclusive
to Capstans.


FLAWLESS
m
'P
0
I
aSIL
BL~
Y%;
wm
DISTORTED RADIO.
tlmli whm
HEALIN'
RADIO
icffie-il
NATURAL TONE
...not distortion
WHAT IS NATURAL TONE?
I N many Radios the amplifying of music for the loud-speaker
1 creates distortion and harsh unrealistic tone. If you are not;
content with this performance, hear Healing Radio and
appreciate its NATURAL TONE.
Write to us for literature and we will direct you to your
nearest Healing Radio Dealer.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors:
A. G HEALING Ltd.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin St.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
IF IT’S A
JJEMJNG
RADIO
irs THE BEST YOU
CAN BUY
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
Please send me illustrated folder on the new
Healing Radios.
NAME
ADDRESS
I know that Hilder was an artist of small
output who died young. That would
account for something, but not all. the
truth is that it was not his merit—great as
it was —nor the fact that the mould was
broken by his death that forced his pi ice
from £4 10s. to £lOO. It was wholly and
solely the fact that he had become fashion-
able, that to possess a Hilder was the hall-
mark of being a patron of the arts. Just
as the pious Mahommedan knows that he
belongs once he has visited Mecca, and the
Melbourne social climber rests back satis-
fied after having been to No. 9 Dailmg-
street, so did the man who sought for a
cultural reputation feel placed among the
Brahmins when he had a Hilder hanging on
his walls. .
I may be a trifle uncharitable, but it
seems to me that a similar principle governs
the Feltoneers. They long to bask in the
rays of admiration which shine on Mel-
bourne as the No. 9 of art. Ihe artistic
value of a Velasquez or a Rembrandt is
unaltered with the years. If the painter
sold it for five and the Metro-
politan Art Gallery of New York bought
it some centuries later for a million dahlars,
neither of those sums would represent its
real artistic value. That is something un-
definable but absolutely unalterable.. Lhe
advance in the prices of certain pictures
in recent years, old or semi-old masters,
changing hands in 1890 for £5OOO and in
1920 for £50,000. savors more of a corner
in South Blue Moon Extenders on the
Stock Exchange,- or the last-minute rush
to back a cert., than the considered acquisi-
tion of a work of art.
The money spent by the Felton Bequest
could make Melbourne one of the artistic
centres of the world. It could provide a
collection which would satisfy both the
artists and the public—a collection which
would be of the very greatest value in the
training of our own students and the edu-
cation of the people in things artistic. But
instead of being these things or any one of
them, it is largely a collection based on
curiosity value. Somebody discovers that
Hicronomus Dincombe, who died in the
year Henry 111. came to the throne, is the
greatest- artist who ever lived. Others back
him up, and Dincombe’s few surviving works
are disposed of for sums so immense that,
when the Bequest wakes up to the fact
that Melbourne must have a Dincombe, it
finds that it has to pay £55,000 for a canvas
two inches square. It does so proudly.
A few years ago I visited the Salon
d’Automne in Paris. If any Feltoneer had
been game enough to spend £5OOO there he
would have done more for Australian artists,
more for students and more for the art
education of the people than any of the
Felton pictures which have cost more than
£lO.OOO apiece.
There is an old story of the reporter inter-
viewing the son of an American million-
aire. “And your father paid 100,000 dollars
for this picture,” says the reporter, “to
show how much he cared for art.” “No,”
smiled Junior, “to show how little he cared
for 100.000 dollars?”
M.G.
The Bar to Peace
Norman Angell’s The Unseen Assassins
should be read by Australians who imagine
that world peace can be achieved by talk-
ing about it, and that in the meantime it
is safe to economise on defence. The argu-
ments, based on the rivalry of nations,
which are commonly advanced as unavoid-
able causes of war are analysed and dis-
missed as fallacies. Nations are not driven
to war, says this authority, by lack of
food or of opportunities to develop eco-
nomically; the impelling force is a deep-
rooted psychological impulse for power and
domination which has been curbed in the
individual but survives as a herd instinct.
The emotional satisfaction of asserting
national independence overrides the desire
for prosperity and welfare, which would be
gained by the recognition of mutual obli-
gations among federalised States. In this
connection he quotes Australia:—
The tendency everywhere, alike within and with-
out the Empire, is to choose separation and poverty.
Australia, facing a graver economic crisis than its
history has ever known, in danger of bankruptcy
and repudiation, and when every light link with
Britain, which has supplied its capital and constitutes
its chief market and means of recuperation, might
advantageously be strengthened, chose this particular
moment to sever one last remaining fink with Britain
—the British nationality of its Governor-General.
The essential need is to strip this “vast
human failing” of the decorations bestowed
upon it by poets, teachers, etc., and to
recognise that the false atmosphere created
by these ideas is incompatible with peace.
Religious persecution was an idea similarly
inculcated by the intellectuals, but the
commonsense of the public finally revolted
against it. In like' manner a change in
public sentiment will sooner or later sweep
away that spirit of aggressive nationalism
satirised by Chesterton:—
O ! How I love Humanity, with love so pure and
pringlish,
And how I hate the horrid French, who never will
be English.
Every war, Angell points out, is waged in
the name of justice by each nation engaged,
and the greater the suffering the greater
the nobility of sacrifice, but if an individual
is unfitted to arbitrate in his own quarrel
how much less is he competent to dis-
entangle the intricacies of international
problems! The conclusion that the average
reader will arrive at is that, desirable as
peace is, it is a long way off.
M.L.C.
Art Under the Eucalypt
Whenever I read a book which is aggres-
sively Australian in theme, a feeling of
melancholy steals over me. I have an idea
it is some obscure form of neurosis. Euca-
lyptophobia is my name for it. The com-
plex afflicts me so that, while I can fre-
quently read with pleasure a yam about
Liverpool, Haifong, Zanzibar or Rio, a
story of perhaps superior merit which has
a setting in, say, Mudgee, and which is
pervaded by the insidious eucalypt, de-
presses me. This may be merely prejudice.
Yet it appears to me that the Australian
scene is deficient in what one might call
story qualities.” Venice is a “story city”;
Buenos Ayres is not, unless one happens to
be interested in slaughter-houses. Simi-
larly, in Seville or Bangkok or Srinagar or
Bagdad or Macassar anything may happen,
while Sydney, Adelaide or Perth ‘is so effi-
ciently policed by the vice squad that only
the duller vices and virtues have a chance
to flourish.
Pastoral poetry is acceptable when it de-
scribes the Alpheus, but grotesque when
it relates to the Murrumbidgee. To apos-
trophise the ocean from Marathon appears
to be sound practice: from Coogee it is
almost hopeless. It is difficult to capture
anything approaching the Greek spirit amid
tire crude realities of Coonamble or Grong-
Grong. Woy Woy is little better. Raw
realism is about the only method open to
the writer who is forced to place his story
m such settings. Other countries, further-
more, have their national heroes, statesmen,
rebels, conquistadors and lurid things by
land and sea. Here the choice is restricted
mainly to blackfellows, swagmen, noble
toilers, politicians and eucalyptus-trees.
And whether treated romantically, realisti-
cally, impressionistically, symbolistically or
in any way whatever a eucalyptus remains
to me merely a leprous-looking gum-tree.
It appears, accordingly, that the prospects
of producing any original form of art in
Australia from native material are remote.
America has produced practically none to
date. Renan, I think, observed that deserts
and vast waste places, notably deficient in
poets, painters, and sculptors, frequently
produce prophets and Messiahs. If so, Aus-
tralia is more likely to evolve an Abraham
or a Moses than an HSschylus or a Milton.
ARMIGER.
A Satchel of Books
The pen came up—for a solemn minute it
remained poised in mid-air. Then with a flourish it
was done—across the name of Delore Marie Sorrell
was drawn an obliterating red line.
Brett Hardy, artist and dreamer, was the
cause of her trouble, and, though he referred
to her as his Little Inspiration, he omitted
to marry her. Indeed, it was not till he
reached his deathbed in Sydney Hospital
that this essential ceremony was performed.
And so old John Sorrell wrote her name back
in the family Bible, and. even more im-
portant in a materialistic sense, restored her
to his will before his lamented death. Not
a bad yarn of its kind, but some of the talk
is woefully ponderous.
Dv. Odin, by Douglas Newton (Cassell:
7s. 6d.). Odoric Odin’s hobby was kidnap-
ping beautiful London girls, and though his
habits were ungentlemanly he preferred
blondes. He took the ladies to a remote
northern island where it was his ambition
to create a race of Nordics. Fortunately
Professor Martin Sondes and Raphael Phare
of Scotland Yard intervened. A sample
situation: —
I heard Odoric Odin snarl and cry out like a
thwarted animal.
I opened my eyes.
Freya was standing ctose against me. She had
flung the man with the razor aside and stood
confronting Odin, tall and superb, a glorious color
in her cheeks, her eyes blazing. One arm rested
on my shoulder as though protecting me. One arm
was pointing straight at Odin. And it held a
pistol.
In short, the thing is an enlarged “penny
dreadful.”
The “Sporting” English? is offered by the
Macquarie Head Press as “A Commentary
by the Man in the Street.” It is largely
concerned with the row over bodyline bowl-
ing, and serves to show, amongst other
things, how bitter the feeling is on this sub-
ject in certain quarters. With an industry
'born of deep resentment, the author has
delved into all the available evideuce to show
that many Britons, far from being good
sportsmen, are squealers when licked, and
none too particular about the methods they
employ to win. But his angriest shafts are
directed at Englishmen who have decried
Australians as fighting men. In this con-
nection it is interesting to learn that G. Iv.
Chesterton wrote four years before the
World War that it would be as absurd “to
pit Australian armies against German as
it would be to pit Tasmanian sculpture
against French!” Many Englishmen are
again saying that Australians can't fight,
and never could. With sombre relish the
author tells of one —a back-area general—
who got a devastating attack on the Aussies
off his chest in Sydney and a few days later
was fined for not paying his fare on a tram.
Pathways of the Sky, by E. M. Baily
(Macquarie Head Press; 6s.), is Australia’s
first outback flying novel. Marcia, the hero-
ine, loves Howard, the heroic doctor-aviator,
but her mind has been poisoned against him
by wicked Yvonne. Fortunately Yvonne is
not all bad. Before her unregretted return
ro England she leaves a note which estab-
lishes that the doctor is not Fay’s father,
and so true loves comes into its own. The
bush people are well done.
Flames of Convention, by Frederick J.
Thwait.es (Jackson and O’Suilivan; 6s. 6d.),
begins on a note of tragedy. Mr. Sorrell, of
Taloona station, learns that his daughter
Delore has committed the unforgivable sin.
and reaches for the family Bible.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except ol a hostile character) will he taken o} communications insufficiently stamped. Nam*
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
riatman: Too milk-and-watery for a satire
....A.A.: Untidy verse, and untidiest when you try
to be epigrammatical.... Hesperian: You get tangled
up in your poetic conceits —fall over your own feet,
as it were G.D.P.: You can rhyme and you have
imagination; avoid mysticism and lazy line-endings.
Every contribution published is paid for, and every
unwanted one returned if a stamp is enclosed....
J.L.J.: Not a bad yarn, but the verse fails to do it
justice... .J.P.: Deplorably feeble ending... .H.C.:
No hope... ,D.R.:
Many a soldier who has faced the foe
Would to the front light-heartedly go
Sooner than face the dentist's forceps.
.Some even feel faint when going up his
doorsteps.
At least you’ll never be stuck for a rhyme... .D.E.P.:
On the toshy side... .P.S.: Two passable lines:—
The dove of peace has still a weary way
To fly. Poor wretch, she’s always on the wing!
.. . .M.R.S.: So you find a certain appropriateness
in the name of Darwin.
Called after him of great renown,
Australia’s northern coastal town,
Experimental species farm
For interbreeding, what’s the harm?
... .N.S.H.: Too sticky-sweet... .E.A.B. (Hobart) :
Thanks for information that “the blankard trumpeter
is now known here as a Jardine”... .Pax: Note what
you say about “frosty faces, humdrum hymns,
memorial tablets like bathroom tiles, roped-off pews
and side-whiskered sidesmen,” but can’t print your
article. This is a mild secular sheet, not a church
paper Mrs. C.C.: Too many weak lines and
rhymes. You are capable of better... .N.M.M.: For
an 18-year-old you’ve done well. Let us see some of
your later writings... .K.F.: It died on your hands.
.... J.E.: Dreary beginning ; drearier finish... .L.H.:
Won’t be sending you “a. copy of the paper in
which it appears” J.0.C.: You can create atmo-
sphere ; now create it for a story.... J.W.C.: “In the
Inn” won’t go in S.T.Q.: Nowadays, yarns are
not told that way... .W.S.: No, it’s not in your line.
J.H.: Many defects; the spelling is not the
worst F.A.F.: Only a par. in it 11.L.L.: Can’t
believe a man would drop dead because he thought
somebody had poisoned his whisky... .J.0.G.: Not
inviting a series on those lines.... D.H.W.: You’ve
overdone the melodrama. .. .M.G.V.: It’s ghastly....
G.A.8.: Below the mark D.M.A.: Immature
C.C.: Slight... .1.W.: An overworked theme,...
M.E.L.: Cat-burglar cannot clamber in here....
E.J.G.: Needs a more exciting finish... .R.L.: Get
dialogue into them... .E.S.C.: Dull. .. .G.11.L.: Old
plot, and dull ravings lead up to the denouement.
....E.W.: “There and Back” came here and went
back... .H.K.W.: Not worth the space G.M.:
Surely the girl would have explained before the
brawl began.. . .R.L.P.: Lofty is crooning his lullaby
in the w.p.b D.M.M.: Foolish G.H.S.: Abo.
is a fine character, but you present him badly....
W.E.P.: Variation of old tale about J.P. who fined
his fellow-reveller M.C.: Sam doesn’t ring true.
V.G.W.: Dead tired of pig-, cow- and foal-
chasing yarns.... Soustralian: The Bulletin 's atti-
tude tov/irds split infinitives is that of a character
in “The Belle of New York” in respect of trees' —
it climbs both kinds... .P.J.1.: More bark than
ring in “Ringbarking”.... G.W.: Don’t like that
unicorn line Ibis: “The crimson sun sinks in the
west” is a fatal opening. .. .T.N.K.C.: It is im-
possible to answer personally contributors who ask
for criticism. We can’t find any encouragement for
you A.H.N.: No chinks to fill with stale inanities.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: Don’t be so stingy with the ink N.J.:
Get more sweep into the lines and don’t overcrowd
the picture W.M.: Too fiat; strive for depth
A.V.: Our prescription? Three or four years
at an art school... .H.H.W.: Jokes too long, draw-
ings too much like designs for wallpaper 8.J.R.:
Borrow a spade and bury them. . . .G.N.: All have
a ghostly appearance T.P.8.: Promising
C.D.: Both look half-paralysed A.P.: No improve-
ment visible... .11. B.: Don’t imitate.. . .G.R.:
Ragged drawing, pussyfoot humor A.S.W.: Save
heard that Scotsman’s groans .before A.K.D.:
Stick to your studies and let newspaper work wait
awhile. . . .H.C.R.: Not paying for that G.L.:
Perspective all wrong, and you’ve got your shadows
muddled. . , .P.E.S.: bike ’em with a few curves
J.T.C.: Amateurish. .. .P.G.: Labored, and the gag
lacks punch M.J.: They must have jokes
N..M.5.: Still missing, but not by much 0.A.M.:
Hash of misplaced, almost invisible, lines J.V.L.:
Why do you encase your figures in a quarter-inco
black border? L.L.: Object on grass couldn’i
stand on those legs... .W.M.8.: Hopeless... .P.K..
Your wings won’t carry you that height... .G.H.R.:
You’ve made a little progress in the twelvemonth
... .S.S.W.: Scratchy penwork ; defective knowledge
of anatomy... .C.F.L.: Figures look as if they had
crawled out of a timberyard. ... J.L.: Use of
shadows is ugly.... J.R.: Try again... .G.S.P.:
Fairly good of their kind, but they have no news-
paper value. .. .C.V.J.: Consigned to the clink for
untidiness W.C.: That balcony wouldn’t hold a
sparrow. .. .S.T.: Badinage merely vulgar... .0.C.:
Just student’s work, but don’t give up hope
R. Afraid you’re bankrupt of humorous ideas
T.E.Mt: Looks more like a doss-house than a
church W.L.D.; Even radio gag-merchants have
discarded it F.K.N.: An artistic bear-garden....
S. J.L.: Too much like another man’s style E.W.:
Those bluejackets never stepped off an Australian
man-o’-war R. 8.: Every time we see that drunk
offering his cloak to the park statue we reach for
our gun .L.C.L.: It was one of the first joke
blocks printed in The Bulletin—Sam Beggs was
the artist P.H.G.: Conversation between hobble-
dehoy and his lady friend smacks of a funeral
parlor.... W.W.: Doris is a frump, and Algy’s body
calls for repairs K.A.: Fijian sketches well done.
but not quite what we want... .G.W.P.D.: Resubmil
line drawing with a new gag... .L.M.K.: Looks as
if you had the shivers when drawing the tramp and
his dawg.


a*".;
>: ,-t' ■■
■. ■ ■ ■■vv
I pplpflp
• : ' ~--^,-v>"
-
■ * SEBMII
:? ym*'%
.1.
n
i


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2785.
Mime 28, 1033.
WAR IS—WAR DEBTS!
“When the American generals reached Paris they marched to the statue of the Frenchman who helped their country to achieve its independence, and Perehm,,
[?]id. 'We are here, La Fayette!”' ALLY after); " H ere. again , La Fayette!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man."
HEAD OFFICE: 232 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
V ictoria : Newspaper House, £'i7-;U,9 Collins Street,
Melbourne
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 7.} Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 6 months, 12s. lid.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANV address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
G months, 15s. 6d.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “AU Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, l,d.
“INVEST! INVEST!”
[here was a U.A.P. rally in the Sydney
Town Hall the other night, and Premier
Stevens spoke. He urged those in the hall,
and those who were listening at their wire-
less sets, and those who would read the
report of his remarks in the morning papers,
to invest their capital, to “step out and ex-
pand,” to-day being “the day of the expan-
sionist.” “Don’t tie your funds up and
leave them idle,” he said. “Put them out
to productive use. Take some risk; the
risks will prove less than the records of the
past may have led you to expect.” The
advice is well meant, but the circumstances
are such that it is apt to be misinterpreted.
The Stevens Government runs lotteries.
Mr. Stevens hates them, but Mr. Weaver-
wants them, so they are permitted to go
on; moral courage has never been the
strong point of the parties with which Mr.
Stevens has been associated. Subscribers
to the Stevens lotteries are known as “in-
vestors,” and their subscriptions are called
“investments.” The lotteries are having a
mortal struggle with the Queensland Golden
Brisket, agents for which have been tracked
down by the Sydney police and prosecuted
for inducing N. S. Wales people to “invest”
in “foreign” lotteries. Judging by descrip-
tions of prize-winners published in the news-
papers, a large proportion of these “inves-
tors” are persons on the dole, mothers in
receipt of family-endowment money, old-
age and invalid pensioners. For the con-
venience of such people, philanthropists
sell shares in lottery tickets, a one-seventh
share for a shilling, the philanthropists
paying ss. 3d. It is common talk that for-
tunes have already been made in this ele-
vating traffic. Mr. Stevens’s remarks will
be construed by the “investors” as an
appeal to them to buy more and more lot-
tery tickets or more and more shilling
shares.
Tasmania also has Government-controlled
lotteries. Westralia goes in for crossword
competitions for money prizes, which are
locally esteemed as good or better. Perth
weekly newspapers which introduced these
competitions doubled their circulations. The
Mitchell Government, stirred up by news-
papers which objected to the competitions
and to the doubling of rival circulations,
tried to suppress them, and was itself sup-
pressed by an outraged electorate. A pro-
test meeting in the Pei’th Town Hall drew
the largest crowd ever assembled in West-
ralia, and so many supporters of the Gov-
ernment were defeated on the crosswords
issue that Labor came in with an unpre-
cedented majority. Moved in its turn by
objecting newspapers, it made a show of
enforcing the law. A magistrate came to the
rescue. In crosswords the letter “D” and
tw'o blank squares alongside represent a
domestic animal. What domestic animal?
The letter “E” and two white squares below
stand for something you do when you are
hungry. What can that be? By intense
mental effort you master 40 or 50 of these
abstruse problems and send your solutions,
together with a coupon and sixpence in
Westralian revenue stamps, to the news-
paper office; there the sixpences are pooled
and the coiipons, which may number
150,000, are reduced somehow to 30 or 40,
the senders of which divide the money. To
the immense relief of the Labor Govern-
ment, the magistrate decided that the West-
ralian Greeleys and Delanes who encour-
age these intellectual exertions are not con-
ducting lotteries within the meaning of the
Act, so the crossword competitions are rag-
ing once more.
If people must have their weekly flutter,
there is something to be said for these cross-
word competitions. The prizes, though sub-
stantial, are not big enough to tempt anyone
to go broke buying newspaper coupons and
sixpenny revenue stamps, and even the
moron is better occupied in struggling to
find the answers to posers like “M-t, a floor
covering,” and “Sa-d, a species of soil,”
than in brooding over lottery-drawing slips
or studying the weights. This fiercely com-
petitive lottery business is having bad re-
sults, and threatens to have worse. A visit
to the Sydney headquarters leaves very un-
pleasant memories of jostling rudeness,
forced jocularity, misery excited by the
prospect of wealth gained in a moment,
reckless folly, unconcealed greed. Here are
embryo embezzlers, repudiationists in the
making, recruits for the class war. And
one gets the impression that a lot of the
money pushed across the counters to girls
with faces set as hard as flint and corres-
ponding manners (they are not all like
that, but it is decidedly not a calling in
which young women should be employed)
should have gone to the houseowner, the
butcher, the baker and the grocer, and
(since tradespeople must live) that sober
citizens pay in their housekeeping bills for
this unhealthy craze.
If the craze continues and other States
come in, Australia will have a lottery a
day yet; there are already three drawings
a week, sometimes four. It is alleged by
two of the Governments in the business
that the hospitals benefit, and in appear-
ance they do, though it is no credit to any
country to let the sacred duty of minister-
ing to human suffering depend on the
extraction of the wherewithal, or part of
it, from the mug with the price of a lottery
ticket. But the money which goes to the
hospitals is veiy dearly bought. The in-
direct cost—in wasted savings, energies,
aptitudes, lives—is incalculable* the direct
cost for the year to June 30j 1932, was
reckoned at £69,064 in the case of Mr.
Stevens's lotteries and £43,430 in the case
of Mr. Forgan Smith’s. Payments to the
Treasury were £747,200 gross in N. S. Wales,
£103,000 net in Queensland. Reporting the
retirement of the septuagenarian Whiddon,
which _ it obviously regards as a national
calamity, Mr. Lang’s newspaper mentions
that “about 300 of the Lottery Department
staff attended the farewell function.”
“About 300” in one lottery shop or gaming
joint! And they are all qualifying for
superannuation benefits, which were not
allowed for in the £69,064; and superannua-
tion benefits cost the N.S.W. taxpayers
nearly £700,000 in a single twelvemonth.
The Queensland Government’s cuts from
the Golden Brisket diminished from
£258,690 in 1929-30 to the £103,000 in 1931-32.
The Brisket is now recapturing custom from
the Stevens enterprise, and as business is
lost the expense rate grows. This has been
the experience with the Irish sweepstakes.
The superintendent of the N.S.W. Com-
munity Hospital, who has taken the trouble
to get the figures, reports that the Irish
promoters received £4,128,480 and £3,101,320
respectively for their sweeps on the Derby
and the Grand National, and retained 7.2
per cent and nearly 11 per cent. “It is a
proven fact,” this gentleman declares, “that
wherever a lottery has been started for
charitable purposes it has had to be aban-
doned.” This has not happened with the
Brisket, which has been going for 14 years.
It seems probable, however, that a great
many of those who lose money in lotteries
would save up and buy premium bonds;
and it would be better for them and the
country if they could and did.
THE JURY SYSTEM.
Letters on this subject have been received
from all the States and from Maoriland,
and the flow continues. The weight of
opinion is against the substitution of three
Judges for 12 jurymen in criminal cases,
but most of the writers stress the need for
safeguards against verdicts such as those
which moved Maerossan, J., to admonish
two Queensland juries.
“Bill O’Costs” suggests that the example
of the State in which he practises should
be, followed:—
South Australia, that frequent pioneer
of legal reform, achieved a good deal six
years ago by purging the list of exemptions
from jury service and reducing the right of
“peremptory” challenge of jurors, though
challenge for cause shown was preserved.
Parliament took as its basic jury list the
electoral roll for the Leg. Council. This
meant, in effect, all householders in their
own and sole right and all A.I.F. men, the
latter being paid the decent compliment
whether householders or not. These simple
changes have gone a considerable way
towards the elimination of the youthfully
irresponsible as well as unstable and cor-
ruptible elements.
Another reform adopted by S. Aus. is the
acceptance of majority verdicts in certain
cases ; 10 out of 12 after four hours’ delibera-
tion, and never in capital cases. The best
test of public confidence in anything is ex-
perience, and so far S.A. has taken this
change, not only without perceptible protest,
but with a good deal of approval.
For my part, I suggest that juries should
always be required (they are sometimes)
to find the facts in issue and those only.
As it is, juries are told, in a necessarily
clumsy and often obscure fashion, what is
the law applicable to this and tha;t state of
facts and left to apply it as best they can.
In point of practical result, they find both
law and fact and cover up all traces of
their mental process with their one- or two-
word verdict. A simple series of questions:
“Did the accused do this or say that? Did
he intend this or that?” would help im-
mensely in the suppression of the perverse
verdict and the inexplicable disagreement.
The common involved method of explaining
the law to the jury is a fruitful source of
appeal if his Honor slips in the slightest
degree in over- or under-statement of the law,
or the omission of something which the jury
might have failed to consider.
An old Commonwealth politician takes
notes: —
I am for prohibiting excessive challenging,
and for adopting majority verdicts. While
waiting in court for a case to come on, I
saw a man charged with rape challenge
juror after juror; but he never looked at the
challenged person—lie kept his attention
fixed on his counsel. The gentleman in wig
and gown had a pencil in his hand. A man
would advance when called; up the pencil
would go, the prisoner remained silent, and
the juryman passed into the box. Another
would be called; the pencil was laid flat on
the table, the accused said “Challenge,” and
the man retired. The verdict was for the
accused. I was told by an officer that this
method of selecting a jury was by no means
infrequent.
Scotland has had majority verdicts for
centuries. The Scottish jury consists of 15,
and its decisions require a four-fifths’ majo-
rity. This neutralises the possible crank,
the rogue and the fool, and retrial is ex-
ceedingly rare. Of course, the third alterna-
tive of “not proven” may Ixave something
to do with this. Here again Scottish com-
monsense has asserted itself and Scottish
practice might with advantage be adopted in
Australia.
“H. 8.” dips into history:—
It is a hundred years ago this month since
Governor Bourke laid before the N.S.W. Leg.
Council a bill providing for trial by jury in
all criminal cases. It was passed on
Bourke’s casting vote, and juries in criminal
cases were made subject to the same rules
and regulations as applied, under an Act
of the previous year, to juries in civil suits.
That meant that there were exempt from
service “Judges, commissioners and officers
of courts; members of the Executive and Leg.
Councils ; Customs and excise officers ; clergy-
men, barristers and solicitors; coroners and
gaolers; physicians, surgeons and apothe-
caries ; military and naval officers; licensed
pilots and masters of vessels; schoolmasters
and parish clerks.” Subsequent legislators
have made no attempt to slice off the tumor
thus grafted upon the system.
_ There is nothing wrong with the prin-
ciple of trial by jury; it is in the method
of application that the fault lies, due to the
retention of a provision which was drafted
at a time when the pure merinos were afraid
of being contaminated by contact in the
jury-box with ex-convicts.
“Cicero” appears for the defence:—
No doubt numerous acquittals are regis-
tered by juries when the criminal is guilty,
but this fact is attributable more often to a
fundamental principle of our jurisprudence
than to the irresponsibility of jurors. Every
man charged with a crime must be acquitted
if there is any reasonable doubt in the minds
of the jurymen as to his guilt. A great
many cases in our criminal courts are based
on circumstantial evidence, and it is not
difficult for a skilful cross-examiner to raise
grave doubts as to the guilt of the accused.
Judges are too prone to disregard this as
merely the art of the cross-examiner, having
been through the mill themselves.
It is assumed that Judges are above sus-
picion of bribery. That is so at present,
but with politicians interfering in appoint-
ments to the Bench to a much greater ex-
tent than heretofore, will it always be the
case?
“Spen” commends an American custom:—
I knew a man who often sat on the jury
in a Circuit Court town in N.S.W. He
openly expressed his strong aversion to con-
victing, and it was some time before his
penchant became so well known that he never
escaped the order to stand down. In America
the jury is, in a sense, selected by the Judge.
A juror is examined by both sides, and then
the Judge may dismiss the man should he
deem him unfit.
Lastly, a Maoriland lawyer:—
The remarks, of Macrossan, J., are not
without parallel in this country. It was not
unusual for Chief Justice Stout to refer
caustically to the verdict when he disagreed
with it. On one occasion, when the prisoner,
charged with breaking and entering, was
acquitted in the face of the plainest evi-
dence, he told the jury that he hoped they
would have the pleasure of meeting the lucky
one in the dead of night in their own houses.
But it is mostly in civil cases and claims
for damages that juries insist on following
the dictates of their lack of conscience. “We
do not think the defendant was negligent,”
said a jury the other day, “but we have
decided to award thirty pounds to the plain-
tiff.” “Quite so,” said the Judge. “That
•will be two pounds ten from each of you.”
SYDNEY IN 1933.
Returning to Sydney after a long absence,
I am not impressed with the new flock of
urbanities it has developed. Its spirit of
amiable negligence is not Anglo-Saxon, but
Latin. Sydney’s big Day is ever To-mor-
row. Possessing the loveliest harbor and, I
believe, after inspection in four other conti-
nents, the prettiest women in the world, it
irritates you with a debonairness that is
only the movie counterfeit of a cultivated
attitude. It knows very little more than it
derives from its daily newspapers, none of
which is informed in the English or Con-
tinental sense. Sydney, I think, could
produce fifty thousand prize essays on
surfers and bodyline bowling; but it would
require a search party to discover a man
who could prove that Nietzsche was not a
seidlitz powder and Brahms a new form of
backache plaster.
The general ignorance is vaster here than
in any other Australian metropolis. For
every one who reads and has an ear
for a good orchestra there are a hundred
whose minds are fed on the radio or in
the talkie tunnel. I am far from despising
the latter popular passions, but they do
lead to a terrible sameness in after-dinner
conversation. The belief that Norma
Shearer and Bunk, the announcer of 2YY,
are overwhelming international identities is
current in colorable variations in other
Australian citiek; but it is thrust on you
more tediously in Sydney than in those
other places.
Sydney is the most American city in the
Empire. It is more American than Ottawa,
though it does not yet explode its views
in the most infamous twang in which
our mother tongue is delivered. But Syd-
ney will soon beat Ottawa in accent and
intonation. To th<? common Australian
slurring and slaughter of vowels it adds a
peculiar nasal malpractice, destined to pro-
duce an argot which will need a dictionary
to itself. I passed a group of lads in Wil-
liam-street, all devoted to the national
ambition of telescoping everything possible
down to a gaudy monosyllable, and among
the gems that fell from their lips I could
only recognise the conversational rhine-
stone “Wheryagoin?” I have spoken to
men who, measured by the local financial
yardstick, are presumed to be magnates and
have heard from them speech almost a>
barbarous.
Sydney has not the steadfast trustworthi-
ness of Melbourne, less agreeable to me be-
cause it is stonily stolid on matters which
I in my wanderings have counted precious.
Sydney’s trouble is that it is allowing itself
to become the Elysee of the nitwit, the
Sorbonne of the crook. Its placid accept-
ance of rascals, public and private, its
apparent indifference to the monkeyshines
exhibited in municipal council and legis-
lature, its ignorance of the fact that it is
blithely treading the racketeering path
which has made New 7 York a smell in the
noses of hQnest men, are evidence of a
lowered public morale. It has the same
easy tolerance for the fruiterer who intrudes
a worm-eaten fraud in every half-dozen
apples he sells, for the coiner’s agent who
slips a counterfeit florin into its change,
for the underling who suggests that a pre-
sent will improve the prospects of trade,
for the hawker of shares in mushroom com-
panies and the first robbers who promote
them. There is a disproportionate air of
roguery about; an odor, perceptible in the
lower levels of commerce, which ascends
and spreads until it is like Rose Bay at
low tide when the east wind blows.
Sydney is a city of astounding incongrui-
ties. It is the paradise of park-loafers and
park-pinchers. Lovely heights and noble
playgrounds are defiled with rubbish-tips.
Aesthetically conscious of the enchanting
lines of its bridge, devising a Hyde Park
that will eventually present an evening
stroll recalling in miniature the Champ?
Elysees, Sydney still endures a horde of
statues that are more deplorable than the
monstrous images in Pittsburg, Pa., and
an architecture that gratifies every fashion-
and fad. The while its City Council dedi-
cates its eloquence and cash-box to various
progressive enterprises, it forgets that the
top end of George-street, on which it has
spent nearly £400,000 on a widening scheme,
remains, as it has long remained, a wavering
collection of old and new' alignments
involving private owners in great loss. The
while Sydney sneers at Melbourne on the
rare occasions when it thinks beyond the
County of Cumberland, it allows Sydney
Cove to be desecrated with a collection of
wooden shacks more decrepit and forlorn
than Melbourne’s dreadful Spencer-street
railway station buildings. And the while
Sydney listens to Stevens it listens with dis-
turbing attention to Lang, a politician who
in any other Australian environment would
be sent flying with a. tin on his tail.
Sydney, full of charming, hospitable
people, full of magnificent gestures and
generosities, seems to have an abiding love
for the shoddy and shrill, the fake and pre-
tentious—a love for the bootlegged instead
of the real. A pity, for I confess that this
city holds an indisputable magic for me.
Exile.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why Pay Our Debts?
From “Downanout/’ who is a Victorian:—
Australia when she borrowed did not re-
ceive any money from overseas. She owes
about 600 millions, for gfoods, and she had
no say in the pricing of those goods. She
can only liquidate the debt by the sale of
goods overseas, and she is entitled to fix the
price, of these goods at a rate which will
permit of profitable production. If her
creditors will not accept them at the price,
they can do the other thing, and the repudia-
tion will be on their own heads. Do you
expect Australia to continue to pay interest,
let alone principal, from the proceeds of un-
profitable production ?
It is purely a matter of morals. If a man
can drink Bung’s beer, or wear a tailor’s
suit, or get the benefit of a man’s labor, and
then escape with payment of half the fixed
sum—well, there isn’t going to be much con-
fidence left in the world; and without con-
fidence civilisation will not get very far.
As to the story that Australia got no money
from abroad, only goods, and had no say in
pricing the goods, what happened was just
this. A Government which wanted money
to pay (say) for the culvert over Dog Creek
borrowed it in London. Private investors
there put up the cash, which was banked
to the credit of the Government in London.
Australian merchants wanted money in Lon-
don to pay for goods, so they bought the
Government’s money in London, paying
Australian money here for it. In other
words instead of sending their money to
London the merchants handed it to" the
Government here, and the Government
handed them its money in London, and
with it they did their buying in the ordinary
way of business. To suggest that nobody
was interested in the prices paid for the
goods is simply absurd.


A Great Time for Accountants.
Having got rid of Lang’s Metropolitan
Meat Board in a fashion so clumsy that it
will have to find £7OOO for the chairman
alone—there are two other gentlemen with
compensation claims —the Stevens Govern-
ment has promoted Joseph IMerrett from
the committee of management to the post
of Metropolitan Meat Industry Com-
missioner. Mr. Merrett is to get £2750
a year, less the financial-emergency cut,
for five years. He is an accountant, and Mr.
Stevens is an accountant, and Assistant
Treasurer Spooner is an accountant, and
Mr. Hartigan, the Chief Commissioner of
Railways, is an accountant, and Mr. Colvin,
the new Director of State Lotteries, is an
accountant. These are great days for
accountants. Mr. Weaver, the Health Min-
ister, who is reported to have set his heart
on the Merrett appointment, if not an
accountant is an agent, which is presumably
the next best thing.
Accountants have their merits as well as
Merretts, but their qualifications for man-
aging intricate undertakings like railways
and meatworks are questionable. The
Homebush concern over which this latest
accountant to be elevated will reign is one
of the biggest public utilities of the kind
in the world. If it were privately owned,
the idea of handing over the direction of
such a plant to anybody outside half a dozen
men of world status would be viewed with
amusement. In point of fact, there were
“190 applicants from all over the world.”
Doubtless there were among them men who
are more familiar with technical processes
and with the requirements of the export
market than Mr. Merrett, or even the great
Weaver; but obviously they were not
accountants. Mr. Merrett, it seems, was
“accountant to the Imperial Meat Board
during a period of the war in which
£6,000,000 of meat went overseas.” That
is no great recommendation. In Queens-
land, the State which sent away the greater
proportion of the meat, the secretary was a
newspaper importer who scarcely knew a
carcass from a mattress. In any case, the
board was a control-of-export board. It
never treated a pound of meat.
If the Langsters are returned to power
there will be another change, and another
big bill for compensation. Lang put two
Domain spouters on his board; Stevens
prefers an accountant. If N. S. Wales
doesn’t get efficiency in the management of
public utilities, it certainly gets .variety.
4 -
The Degenerate and the Law.
Last week Judge Curlewis in Sydney sen-
tenced to two years’ gaol a degenerate
named McMahon who had been found
guilty of interfering with small children.
The police records showed McMahon to
have been addicted to this horrible offence;
in fact, his reputation was so bad that when
a little girl was taken from Fawkner Park,
Melbourne, a few years back and was out-
raged and murdered, the police promptly
arrested McMahon as the most likely
person to have committed the deed. On
that occasion he was able to produce a
good alibi and the charge was withdrawn.
McMahon is, of course, irresponsible. His
is a pathological case, and should be treated
pathologically. That is not to say that he
is not just as much a menace to the com-
munity—probably more —than if he were
a sane man of criminal instincts. How that
pathological treatment should be applied
is a matter for scientists, not politicians
and lawyers. Sterilisation might be thought
necessary in one such case, medical treat-
ment in another.
The outstanding necessity is that
McMahon should not be permitted to serve
two years in gaol and then be discharged
to attack other children. Unless sterilised
or pronounced cured by those who know,
he should be kept in a place where he will
be out of mischief. The Judge told him
that he was a very lucky man not to be
sentenced to an indeterminate. He might
have added that it was a very unlucky com-
munity that had not seen McMahon sen-
tenced to an indeterminate.
4
A Statistician on Douglas Credit.
N.S.W. Government Statistician Waites
was commissioned to report on the Douglas
social credit system, and has. done the
job with the thoroughness that the public
has come to expect of Australian statis-
ticians, who, from the days of Coghlan,
have been an eminently capable breed.
Having analysed the Douglas specific for
social ills and the hypothesis on which it
rests, Mr. Waites has come to the conclu-
sion, on evidence which he sets out in
detail, that the remedy is impracticable and
the hypothesis unsound, a verdict in which
The Bulletin concurs.
Mr. Waites applied the Douglas theoiy
to a series of transactions involved in turn-
ing a quantity of wool into suits of clothes.
According to Douglas, the final cost should
have been £130,270, whereas, on exact, trace-
able figures, it was only £74,900. Proceeding
from the theoiy to the remedy based on
the theory, the statistical investigator found
that, to keep pace with the flood of pur-
chasing power which would be unleashed
under the Douglas system, production
would have to be doubled within a month,
trebled within two months, multiplied by
12 in six months, and by 56 in a year. Mr.
Waites leaves it at that, but it could be
taken further into fantastically colossal
figures.
The Government Statistician’s conclu-
sions are those of other investigators who
have tested the fine edge of the Douglas
theory on the rock of facts, but they are un-
likely to discourage the Douglas cranks. The
world has always a warm welcome for any-
one who professes to be able to pop a single
key into the door that locks up the problem
of poverty and throws open an era of uni-
versal prosperity, and the welcome is
warmer if the proponent of the new idea is
able to give an arithmetical expression to
his theory. A theory which, like Douglas’s,
can be expressed by an equation with terms
as simple as A plus B convinces many good
people who read about it that their prob-
lems and the problems of the world are in
the kindergarten class, which would be very
good news if it were only true.
As the conference which is struggling with
those problems in London just now realises
only too well, the world has got into a mess
through a variety of causes. Australia, like
a good many other countries, has been liv-
ing for decades on the pledged credit of
posterity. We can agree with the folk who
want to get out of the mess by altering all
the rules of the game when they say that
we could have progressed almost as rapidly
and a lot more soundly if we hadn’t per-
sistently pawned the earning power of the
unborn. We can’t agree when they say, as
Lang says, and as Major Douglas says, and
as Lenin said, that the only remedy for
debt is repudiation or currency jugglings
that involve repudiation. The objection to
that is not entirely ethical. The fundamen-
tal barrier is that to apply it would put the
world in a worse mess than ever.
♦
The Amended N.S.W. Constitution.
Dear Bulletin, —It is true, as Mr. Simon
Hickey, M.L.C. (B. 7/6/’33), states, that the
N.S.W. Leg. Council has never refused a
conference with the Leg. Assembly, but
when the conditions on which a precedent is
based no longer exist, the precedent becomes
valueless. Under the old Constitution there
was always the reserve power to swamp the
Council should it reject measures insisted
on by the Assembly. That power no longer
exists. When Mr. Hickey falls back on
the contention that a Council elected on
the new basis would not refuse to con-
stitute a conference, he is on a bad wicket.
Let us take a concrete. example. The
Council objected to the Fair Rents Bill and
met the Assembly in conference. As author
of the bill, I made a few trifling conces-
sions, and the Council gave way, because it
did not wish to take the risk of having a
new batch of Labor men inflicted upon it.
Had the new Constitution been in force, the
Council would have killed the bill by re-
fusing a conference. Opponents, of the
measure, who constituted a majority of
members, would have contended that, as
the principle of the bill was vicious and
alien to all existing conceptions of the rela-
tions of landlord and tenant, it would be a
waste of £30,000 or £40,000 to take a refer-
endum thereon.
Mr. Hickey’s statement that Section 150
of the Constitution Act would compel the
Council to agree to a conference is non-
sense. The section merely instructs both
Council and Assembly to adopt Standing
Orders governing the procedure at a con-
ference, should one be constituted. The
Council is a deliberative legislative body,
and no machinery could be devised to com-
pel its members to cast their votes in any
particular direction on any question sub-
mitted.—Yours etc., Arthur Griffith.
4
The Law and Clarity.
Last week Judge Curlewis and . Crown
Prosecutor McKean spoke their minds in
the N. S. Wales District Court about the
clarity of dole forms. His Honor said that
the forms were unintelligible to him. The
C.P., varying the Judge’s utterance on a
former occasion—he had said that the
Crimes Act appeared to him to have been
drawn up by a Chinese- market gardener—
remarked that it was hard to believe that
the questionnaire had been drafted by a
European.
Both, as a matter of fact, were doing an
injustice to Asia. Chinese, Pushtu, Malay
and Hindustani, as spoken and written by
the ordinary man, are all straightforward
languages, but English, as it is written in
Acts and regulations, is often an indistinct
jumble of tautology and inaccuracy, which
seems to aim at more and more lawsuits.
It is idle to suggest that there is not a
sufficient range of words in the New Oxford
Dictionary, which weighs about a hundred-
weight, to express exactly every distinct
admonition, commination, prohibition or
query which the mind of man can conceive.
It is not altogether fair to blame the
lawyers and the departments. By the time
a measure has run the gamut of a caucus,
been hacked about by a Committee of the
Whole, been pruned to suit vested inter-
ests and a divided Legislative Council, and
finally been gagged through both Houses in
the small hours in the face of a shrieking
Opposition, it may bear only a remote
likeness to the original draft. In the case of
the Stevens Government’s Farm Relief Bill,
Street. J.. has declared that the effect of
a particular subsection is to give a farmer
protection against actions for libel or negli-
gence, which was never intended.
"" Most of the Acts and regulations of to-
day would have shocked Griffith and
Barton, and the late Jack Want would have
invented deathless epigrams about them.
But a lot of the ambiguity would be cleared
up if they were one thing or another —if
they were written entirely by lawyers or
entirely by laymen.
- ♦ ?
Developing the North.
It has been pleaded that the Forgan Smith
Government has a right to expect the
capitalistic banks to finance an anticipated
deficit of £1,850.000, because it is saddled
with the job of developing the empty
North. Wilder bunkum was never talked.
No Government of which Forgan Smith has
been a member or a supporter has done
anything for the North, except in Labor
electorates and electorates which might be
wrested from the other side; and then its
operations have been directed to vote-
catching rather than to progress. The Labor
“policy” for the North led first to dis-
plays of arrogance which nearly involved us
in complications with. Japan; to a harassing
of settlers which drove Australians out of
some of the richest sugar districts (they
were replaced by Italians); to the throttling
of the northern mining industry, though
money ivas spent like water on political
railways and Chillagoe enterprises, includ-
ing Mungana; to the demoralisation of the
railway service by “direct action”; and in
between to something very like armed
revolt in Townsville that it took 200 police
armed with rifles to quell.
Beyond these performances, and the
purchase at astounding prices of cattle
stations stocked with what a Royal Com-
mission witness called “alleged Herefords,
like lemonade bottles on four sticks,” and
depleted steamer services, and shat-
tered Gulf towns, and crippling taxes,
Queensland Labor has nothing to show for
its “development” work in the North. The
Gulf country has fewer inhabitants than
in the early years of the century, and it is
the same with Cape York Peninsula. The
only parts of N.Q. which have progressed
have done so in spite of Governments.
In 1931 Moore gave the competent W. L.
Payne a commission to report on the oper-
ations of the Forestry Board in N.Q. Payne,
ever frank, reported that “if the Forestry
Board had its way not another acre of
Crown land would be opened for settlement
in N.Q.”—and at the time only twenty per
cent, of the fertile land along the northern
coastal littoral above Townsville had
been alienated from the Crown and half
the balance was vacant. “Stagnation
threatens the North,” Payne proceeded, “in
regard to both land settlement and forestry;
and yet, comparatively vacant though it
be, its wealth, actual and potential, is
immense.”
What is true of North Queensland is true
of the rest of North Australia. When it
was proposed to stock the Barkly Table-
land with sheep under an eight-year scheme
which would have involved an expenditure
of £7,000,000 by a British group, perpetual
Minister Pearce blocked it. And beyond
constructing a few jetties, the Poi't-
Hedland-Marble Bar railway and the Wynd-
ham meatworks, the Perth politicians have
done nothing for North Westralia, although
a considerable part of their tax-revenue has
always come from that rich province.
There will be no real northern progress
until southern politicians give up meddling.
Northern development is a vital question,
and the only people who can achieve it are
the Northerners, who know their job.
They should be given the power to deter-
mine their own subdivisions; released from
the crushing burden of citified taxation;
set free to make their own future. They
have shown what they can do in conquering
the Atherton scrub and many another area
which looked as if it would be unconquer-
able, and in establishing the pastoral
industry in the face of all sorts of disad-
vantages. They are capable of doing
things equally striking in • the domain of
local self-government if allowed the oppor-
tunity.
No Thirty-hour Week.
In Queensland the combined industrial
unions have asked the State Industrial
Court to fix a working week of 30 horns.
Their advocate spoke for an entire day. He
contended that greater employment would
result, but the question of how industry
could carry the burden of a 30-hour week
at 48-hour wages—an integral part of the
application—he did not touch upon.
It, was hardly necessary for wage-payers
to state their side of the case. President
Webb, for himself and his colleagues,
pointed out that to grant the application
would “paralyse industry”; the cane-sugar
industry, for one, would be destroyed
as is plain as a pikestaff. He added that
the 30-hour week was just about as prac-
ticable as a one-hour day, and told the
unions that “unchallengeable facts” were
against them.
Nevertheless, while refusing the applica-
tion, the Court tempered the blow. It
reminded the unions that the State Gov-
ernment had instituted a 44-hour week at
48-hour wages, and advised them to wait
a bit and see how it worked.
4
The Drive Against Freedom.
All the modern dictatorships, from Lenin’s
to Hitler’s, have been founded by irrespon-
sibles with a frank contempt for the old-
fashioned institutions of democracy. P ai ~
liaments, in the eyes of such persons and
their would-be imitators, are bodies whicft
exist to register the decisions of bosses in
Trades Halls and the like. Free speech is
given lip service; but, if it is not to the
taste of the bosses, Fascist or Communist,
the offenders are disciplined with _ castor
oil, thrashings or party excommunication
decrees, as the case may be. The vote is a
right which is not conceded if it can be
avoided.
On most questions the electors have
nothing that even remotely resembles a
corporate mind. 'They are divided on moral
issues (gambling, lotteries, tin hares); on
racial and sectarian issues; on issues relat-
ing to the Empire, finance,. industrialism,
the advisability or otherwise of strikes,
tariffism, immigration and many more.
The tactic of the Hitler in embryo and his
satellites is to ignore such questions as far
as possible and concentrate on a policy of
indignation—indignation against Romanoffs,
as in Russia during the war; against the
Kaiser, as in England and France after the
war; against Jews, as in Germany now.
The alleged enemy in N. S. Wales is the
capitalist, or, specifically, the trading banks.
Hatred is a marvellous welder of conflict-
ing interests, but it is necessary to present
the hate-fomenter to the public, not as
what he is—namely, a cunning and un-
scrupulous careerist—but as a pure-souled
and courageous battler against the forces
of oppression.
A report of the speeches made at the
last May Day demonstration in London
said:
It was the same old political twaddle.
The crowd had come to listen to an inspir-
ing message. What they got was a recital
of the unfailing chivalry of their leaders.
Labor leaders in Australia have similar
twaddle written and spoken about them,
and behind the smoke-screen which is thus
raised they are able to get on with the
job of controlling Parliaments from cellars,
so to speak. More than half the countries
of Europe have been robbed of their free
institutions on these lines.
Australians may value the vote more than
the Russians, and they may be less amen-
able to a political tyranny than the Italians,
but it is probable that they are as easy to
stampede on an indignation issue as the
Germans. Knowledge is the only prophy-
lactic. Let Australians examine, first, the
devices to protect them against power-
hungry adventurers which have grown up
during the past century, notably free-
dom of speech, the secret ballot and Par-
liament. They should then study the his-
tories of local institutions, such as savings
banks and insurance offices, which have
come into being for the benefit of the
thrifty under our democratic system, and
compare their records with the records of
the men who want to get an iron grip on
them by directing Parliamentary majorities
from Trades Halls and Inner Groups. If
the electors perform this public duty—
and it is nothing less—with intelligence
freedom should be safer here in the troub-
lous times that lie ahead of the world;
if they don’t, almost anything may happen.
4
“Splendid Force, the Police!”
Dear Bulletin, —Henry Bateson (B.
21/6/’33) criticises my article “The Modern
Policeman” (B. 14/6,/’33); but as regards
one side of the question he merely para-
phrases what I wrote. We are in agreement
about a matter on which every knowledg-
able person has been agreed since the Gut-
teridge murder: that the day of the under-
educated policeman is over. But I differ alto-
gether from Mr. Bateson when he says that
the whole secret of combating Communistic
propaganda in British police forces “lies
in a more rigorous examination before
admittance to the force and a tightening up
of discipline.” What about the Police
Federation, which, to quote Lord Tren-
chard, “deliberately foments discontent
against the Government in the ranks of the
Force, and subsidises insubordination j
Four-fifths of the members of London’s
police establishment of 20,000 have had
only elementary board-school educations,
and are proportionately amenable to the
class propaganda which is constantly being
directed at them.
In the dispositions made for coping with
the general strike of 1926 the police weie
hardly mentioned. Admittedly it is not
the policy of British Governments to bring
police into conflict with citizens when
it can be avoided. But admittedly, also,
many of the police were in sympathy with
the strikers. They have struck themselves
more than once in recent years, and, since
the political element came into prominence
in their ranks, they have often talked
strike.
The London bobby is, by practically uni-
versal consent, the best-tempered best-
mannered and straightest-going policeman
in the world, and his discipline, m the
parade-ground sense, is excellent. His
trouble as a servant of the State is .a ceitam
stupidity which makes him a fairly easj
mark for enemies of the State, coupled
with the fact that he is accessible to pro-
paganda in the nature of his job. A similai
situation exists in parts of Australia. Ob-
viously the only way to dish the hot-an
merchants is to raise the general level of
intelligence of the policeman.—l ours etc.,
The Writer of the Original Article.


Smoke *?ticb&U(-Ae&h
CRAVENA
i in tfte nea> moiitWie-pUrcf
CELLOPHANEPACK
Will Not Affect Your Throctt
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD. 145 YEARS* REPUTATION FOR QUALITY.
\
n
/
20
H'e
POLITICAL
POINTS
Rumor is busy transferring Stevens to the
Federal Treasurership, Latham to the High
Court Bench and Hughes to Geneva. If
Stevens goes Bruxner should succeed him.
Bruxner has the best moral claim and is
the strongest personality on the Ministerial
side. But there are gentlemen in Bligh-
street who would break the coalition rather
than accept a Country-party Premier.
On retiring from the N.S.W. Lottery De-
partment, W. H. Whiddon, as the “Labor
Daily” records, was presented by the staff
with “a replica of the barrel used at the
original drawing, and bound with the original
red, white and blue ribbon.” It is thought
that the Council of Churches will also weigh
in with a _ parting gift—a replica of the
Harbor Bridge, and of a stonebroke sub-
scriber throwing himself off it.
The Lang candidate, Gorman, .won the
Annandale (N.S.W.) by-election, beating
the “Labor unity” man, McDonald, who got
the U.A.P. vote, by about 2-J to 1. It was
the familiar Labor Donnybrook, except that
it was wilder than the one at Bulli. At
night members of both factions collected at
street corners and hurled savage insults at
one another, often in unprintable language.
The rabble enjoyed the exchanges, but decent
electors who prefer a ouiet life turned
away from the proceedings in disgust. How
can persons who can’t govern their own
vulgar passions govern a country?
While Lyons and Paterson career round
Queensland trying to make doubtful seats
safe for their parties, the Government’s own
supporters are walloping it in the Senate.
Eleven U.A.P. Senators combined with the
Cockles to press for a reduction of £1 8s
" I admit there are times when it would
be convenient to be a worm.”
a ton in the British preferential duty (now
£•‘s Bs. a ton) on barbed wire, and on the
previous day the Government had been
worsted on a Cocky motion for deletion from
the. tariff of the deferred duties on tinplate,
.things became so bitter that someone re-
ferred to Pearce as a worm. He denied it.
Queensland Labor sticks to pre-selection
ballots, though Sydney’s Inner Group has
discarded them. Fourteen candidates went
after the party nomination for Fortitude
V alley, and twelve have lodged protests
against the winner—Brassington, once mem-
ber for the vanished pastoral electorate of
Balonne. There will be no' Opposition candi-
date. A young fellow capable of giving and
taking knocks in a cheerful spirit would get
a good vote, but the Country-Nat. idea on
these occasions is that discretion is the
better part of valor.
At the invitation of Premier Butler, the
Vic. Argyles sent their bulk-handling com-
mittee to S. A u.s. to see what has been done
there. For this they have been slated by
Bnssau, _ president of the Wheatgrowers’
Association and M.L.A. for Ouyen. who savs
Victoria has been investigating bulk-handling
tor years, and has arrived at no conclusion
which is true enough. Still, Argvle is
naturally reluctant to spend £2,000,000 on
another Government enterprise that may not
pay. It costs can be cut by adopting simpler
contrivances, such as wooden storage sheds
instead of concrete silos, so much the better
he thinks: m any case, he wants to have the
evidence for and against.
. Taxation Commissioners’ annual reports
give ample proof of how imposts outrun the
power of the people to pay them. The Com-
monwealth review alone showed outstand-
ings of £7,439,454 at June 30, 1932—it is
roughly 40 p.c. of what income tax, land
tax and estate duties were expected to yield.
Feisul, King of Iraq, owes the glitter of
his current visit to London largely to his
hereditary enemies, the Persians. Their
attitude to the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. has
made Feisul’s friendship and oil rights doubly
valuable to Britain, and the air service to
Australia, the importance of which has been
brought home by the trial flight of the Im-
perial Airways liner Astra-a, has still further
rendered liis favor vital.
The Westralian Government is thinking
ot rooting up and writing off the debt on the
114-mile railway from Port Hedland to Marble
Bar, on which the accumulated deficit is
nearing £300,000. The line was built over
i y ears a S° to serve the production of
gold and other metals at Nullagine, but
hopes. were not realised; and motor trans-
port is available for the district pastoralists
at rates with which no railway can com-
pete. In that part of Australia, moreover,
sleepers and rolling-stock are more highlv
tried than elsewhere.
The Central Council of the Vic. U.C.P.
is making things hotter than ever for
the Argylo Government. It has issued
an ultimatum to the effect that unless
the Ministry comes to light with a “defi-
nite and comprehensive scheme of re-
habilitation,’* reduction of freight-, water-
and interest-rates and a few other conces-
sions, the U.C.P. Ministers will be instructed
to leave it. Another resolution sug-
gests changing the name of the organisation
to Country and Liberal party,” presumably
as a preliminary to a rural entry into city
politics.
One of the things that made the Queens-
land civil service turn against Moore was
the suspension of annual increases in
salaries. The Labor Government, grateful
tor past favors and with an eye on others
to come, announces that the increments are
to be restored, together with the 44-hour
week. The benefactions will come expensive,
but with the consent of the Loan Council
and the sanction of the brutal banks the
2T e o^ a itv for 1933-34 is to be increased to
£1,800,000.
Really the most astonishing sequel to the
Treaty of Versailles is the situation in
Austria The peacemakers went to all sorts
ox trouble to prevent the Austrians throwing
tl \ elr l?! with the Germans, and when
the Austrian-born Hitler became ruler of
Germany it seemed certain that they had
labored in vain. But the Government at
Vienna has quarrelled horribly with the Ber-
ln .Nazis, aud is now believed to be negotiat-
f°r the restoration of the Hapsburgs,
with the full approval of some of the Powers
winch smashed “the ramshackle empire” and
chased the last Hapsburg off the throne.
The peace of the Speck’s Assembly has
been rent by a cry of anguish from Opposi-
tion-leader Ogilvie because the Premier
would not adjourn the House while Labor
leaders trekked to Sydney for their “unity”
conference.. McPhee, however, was obdurate
—as Ogilvie would be with McPhee if the
position were reversed.
The. age-long fight between parties to jet-
tison inconvenient pieces of various electo-
rates and acquire sympathetic slabs from
other electorates has flared up again in
Queensland Moore has charged the Forgan
Smiths with having a cut-and-dried plan to
fix new boundaries for all seats, and says
the Government already knows what those
boundaries are to be. Smith retorts that
Moore must be suffering from a kind of
Clarence’s dream.” All the same, a letter
written by Percy Pease, Deputy-Premier, to
a northern council lends some color to the
Opposition s suspicions.
The Lang plan of unification is being held
one »V n th ° ~I W cBtrali. a ns “ as the only
? n ® which Wdl reconcile W.A. to remain-
ing part of a united continent.” A some-
what indistinct picture of the Auburn house-
agent appears in his newspaper with a cap-
tion describing him as the man “whose policy
will prevent secession.” Coming from per-
sons who a few months ago were forming
a secessionist army to “defend” N. S. Wales
against the Commonwealth, this’ is some-
what amusing; but it may also be truthful
A few years of Lang rule in Australia, and
there would be nothing left to secede from.
t Que l ns ]^ d i n< iustries are changing over
fiom the 48-hour week to 44 hours, at the old
rate of pay. Ihere have been many appli-
cations to the Industrial Court for varia-
tions; the only notable exception made was
m the case of Mt. Morgan, where 48 hours
will continue to be worked. At Mt Isa
though the co. made a strong appeal for
retention of 48 hours, the 44-hcmr week
vaut<f 7^ f ° rC u- TW ° thousand «vil ser-
vants, <OOO railwayinen and the Brisbane
ramwaymen revert to 44 hours. Forgan
Smith is sure that little extra cost will be
entailed by the change. Employers and tax-
payers are not so confident.
The whirligig pranks of time are exempli-
fied in Maoriland, where the farmers are put-
ting up a case for Freetrade (their own pro-
ducts excluded) before a Commission that is
examining tariff matters. Protection was
invented by farmers for farmers. It takes
its name from the Society for the Protection
of Agriculture, formed in England in 1844
to resist repeal of the Corn Laws, which
made their first appearance in 1361, being
designed to protect British wheatgrowers.
That Protection was relaxed for the first
time in 1770, because the British manufac-
tures needed a Freetrade world for their
expansion. A compromise between manu-
facturers and farmers, arrived at in Britain
in 1828—the “sliding scale” duties on wheat —•
is the principle on which protective duties
■on M.L. wheat operate to-day.
“In his absence in North Queensland, the Prime
Minister was described by a Vic. Wheatgrowers'
Association man as ‘going’ farther than Nero.’
“Marietta, hide-a da matches! Here come-a
da Nero."
A Sydney accountant has returned from
London with the astonishing news that the
Australian income-tax “system”_is prefer-
able to the British, which, the gentleman
asserts, is “archaic.” He complains that “it
involves a standard rate of tax with a huge
and elaborate system of refunds.” The re-
funds are mostly for business losses, and on
furnishing proofs claimants can get them
expeditiously, generally at the nearest town.
The returned wanderer will find it very hard
to convince victims of the Australian
‘ system,” with its seven avowed income taxes
and its unemployed-relief taxes (all addi-
tional income taxes), and with refunds made
once in a blue moon, that John. Bull’s
methods are worse.
Shouts of “cur” and “liar” rent the musty
air of the Commons a few days ago. Such
expressions are rarely heard within St.
Stephen’s; Commoners have learned the
knack of being insulting without being
violent. _ Australian Parliaments go in for
objurgation probably more than any others :
Queensland has a special section in the “Han-
sard” index to chronicle the phrases which
the Speaker rules out of order. Some of the
things said in Continental Parliaments sound
bad, but individual effort in them is nor-
mally choked through the belief which most
European deputies hold that no mail should
be left to yell alone.
Premier Butler has informed the South
Australians that his Government is negotiat-
ing with an English company for the develop-
ment of a large area in the south-east. The
unnamed co. has millions to invest, and if
it can come to terms with the . Government
is ready to spend them on drainage, sub-
division and settlement within a fixed period.
Other information is lacking,- but if the
projectors are not too greedy, and are pre-
pared to shoulder the whole burden of intro-
ducing settlers and supporting them till they
can fend for themselves, the matter should
be arranged. In view of developments in
tlie Pacific, Australia needs more people
urgently, and it can stand no repetitions of
crazy experiments in State paternalism like
the Westralian group-settlements and the
Dawson Valley (Q.) dud.
The Forgan Smiths have adopted the re-
commendations of the Dawson Valley com-
mission. Dissatisfied settlers may sell out
if they can find purchasers, who are to be
financed by the. Government— which means
the taxpayers—to the extent of the estimated
value ot improvements, repayment to be made
m 10 to 20 years at 5 p.c. interest. The
outgoing holder will not be allotted, in
priority, any Crown land elsewhere, but is
he “left to his own resources”—which
the settlers aver, are not worth talking
about, they having been ruined by official
stupidity. Areas are to be extended, one of
the chief reasons for failure being, in the
words of the'commission, '‘the absurdly small
dry "blocks” surveyed.
“The Lang is. Right” slogan lias given
place to “They Can’t Buy Me,” Time Some-
body asked for specific evidence that anybody
tried to buy him.
The Speck is the latest State to substi-
tute sustenance work for the dole. The
new. scheme was put into practice at Hobart
last week. Glass-consciqps friends of liberty
visited the recreation ground where the wage-
slaves were digging, and urged them to cease
work. They continued excavating.
The Queensland Government, as an-
nounced by “Mossy” Hynes, Minister of
Labor and Industry, contemplates subsidis-
ing from relief funds suitable public-utility
works, calculated to make more employment.
The Bureau of Industry is investigating the
position, and developments have been sharply
accelerated by a demand for a constructive
plan of re-employment fathered by Bishop
Dixon in his presidential address- to the
Anglican Synod. At, present, Queensland’s
unemployment .schemes are the usual Trades
Hall brand.
Indications are present that the National-
ists of Australia are likely to become more
democratic than the Laborites, just as the
Tories in England were responsible for more
ameliorative legislation than the Liberals.
\ inton Smith, M.L.A., gave the Women’s
National League at Caulfield (Vic.) a lec-
ture on economic matters which makes the
average Trades Hall orator look like the
capitalist of IS2O. Smith advocated a cen-
tral bank, the control of price levels so that
they -would never vary more than 5 per cent,
and other currency reforms, which simply
came round the outside of the Labor field
and ran away with the race.
According to Bremiers’-conference arrange-
ments for 1933-84, taxation, Federal and
State, will fall on an average ss. 9d. a head.
Combined income and unemployment taxes
should drop from £3 Is. Id. to £2 17s. 2d.
per head. N. S. Wales continues to pav
highest State taxes, at £5 11s. Id., and in-
come and unemployment tax at £4 and £3
10s. 7d. respectively, with Queensland a close
second. Victoria will pay State taxes of only
£3 16s. lid. per head, and income and un-
employment tax of £2 Is. lid.
Small collieries are now regarded - with
contempt by Teece, general secretary of
the Miners’ Federation, according to re-
marks made at a deputation to Bellemore,
of the N.S.W. Labor and Industry Depart-
ment. Yet they are the same “holes in the
ground (Mr. Teece’s description) which
during the 18 months’ stoppage on the
Northern field stumped up fat levies to keep
the Federation going and, incidentallv, pay
Teece’s salary.
To the gratification of Mr. Stevens, the royal
assent has been given to the bill for the reform
of the Leg. Council, of which the electors approved
at the referendum. Ministers, Mr. Stevens said,
did not expect it so early.”
“Yes-Yes! My baby said ‘Yes-Yes!’
I’m glad she said ‘Yes-Yes!’
Instead of ‘No-No!”
o f ,°X^ * : .1 ff'i'l keenly the. way Archie
iarkhili and his Crimes Act have interfered
with my seditious reading. Beyond the
Moscow News A “An Phlobaeht,” the “Red
Leader, ’ the “Labor Defender,” “Voks,” the
Little Lenin Library, “Imprecor,” “Young
Worker,” “Working Woman,” the F.O.S.U.
magazines, tin* W.I.R. and Communist
monthly, half a ton of boosts preaching revo-
lution, the sectional magazines of tramway
union cells, the emanations of the Minority
Movement and the R.I.L.U. and about 90
leaflets a week which nobody is game to
I can’t get: any literature at all pub-
lished by illegal bodies since Archie put down
his large repressive foot.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Singemoine”: After some 30 fruitless
attempts to win a prize in a Gox 7ern-
ment lottery. I decided to save my weekly
ss. 3d. and get a kick on other lines. My
COMPENSATIONS.
“Girls don’t take as much pleasure in their homes as their parents did.”
“No, but I think they get more fun out of them."
present procedure is to imagine a number
for myself when each list is published. In
about 100 attempts—for where I have had
the time I have often yielded to extrava-
gance and given myself half a dozen num-
bers and - even more —I haven’t spotted a
single winner. In nine attempts out of ten
I haven’t so much as selected the right
sequence for any of the major prizes. Say,
for example, that I choose 60,401 for the
next list: the odds are that no ticket in
the sixty thousands will supply a winner
except in the fiver, and possibly the tenner,
group. My failures arc easily explained.
The odds against winning so much as 100 s.
for ss. 3d. are 125 to 1; and .they arc
still the same after a hundred or a thou-
sand or ten thousand tries. And the odds
against spotting a first-prize number are
100,000 to 1. Why is every civilised com-
munity prepared to make a howling success
of this kind of swindle if given a chance?
* =:= * *
“W.E.F.”: The latest in publicity stunts
is the illuminated shirt-front. The idea is
to print your advertisement on the bosom
of a shirt made of translucent material. This
is worn by a man over an electric light
attached to a battery in llis pocket. As lie
walks along he flashes the electric light off
and on, and passers-by are thereby informed
that “It is Cheaper at Plonks,” or “Go to
Spinks for Spuds.” A seedy-looking gent,
acting as a modern variation of the old sand-
wich man carried a notice on his chest the
other night in Sydney advising people to
“Wear Blank’s Hats. They’re Smart.” His
own hat was 'the most dejected-looking
article I’ve seen for a long time.
“Biltong”: South Africa seems to have
borrowed at least one asinine innovation from
Australia. In a recent batch of Cape news-
papers covering a period of a few weeks
before the May election I notice the signed
leading article makes its appearance. It would
probably be difficult to show any good pur-
pose served by this bright notion of the
Fisher Government 20 years ago.- The idea
was that the influence wielded by an estab-
lished newspaper would lose something of its
force if some name (possibly utterly unfami-
liar to the public) were tagged on to the
editorial. Nothing of the sort has happened
and the pre-election law has never been able
to command a rigid observance. It has never
proved more than a nuisance and an annoy-
ance, and it was so easily evaded or side-
stepped or made a joke of that the wonder is
no recent Government has repealed it. Yet
it has survived long enough to be imitated.
“Duckwing”: Cockfighting has always
been kept alive in England, and in Aus-
tralia also. Recently a big increase in the
sport is reported in Britain, mains in the
West End of London being now attended by
“fashionable women.” The R.S.P.C.A. is
ottering £lOO rewards for convictions of cock-
fighters, and adds in support of its charges
of cruelty that the birds are “fattened for
three days before a fight and doped with rum
before they engage in a main.” If all the
society’s information is as correct as this, it
is unlikely to score many convictions.
Indeed, it is a fair bet that any cock-
fighting addict will be prepared to take on
for any money all the birds the society cares
to produce which have been trained on the
system it quotes.
“Youngest Inhabitant” : Although the old
gaol was for 40 years a prominent landmark
of Lower George-street, Sydney, no detailed
description of it has survived, and there are
apparently only two prints of it extant. One
of these, showing Lower George-street from
Grosvenor-street in 1826, merely gives a
glimpse of the front wall; the other, Peron’s
1803 view of Sydney looking west, shows
only the roof of the building with the wall
surrounding it. A stone structure, the gaol
was completed in 1801, but additions were
made up to 1810. By the ’thirties its dila-
pidated condition was notorious ; and though
only meant to accommodate 200 prisoners it
once held 345. The main building, standing
011 a raised terrace, consisted of two roonis,
each 32ft. by 22ft., and once 110 prisoners
were herded into one of these rooms and
112 into the other. Raised wooden platforms
served for beds. Lack of exercise yards
necessitated the women prisoners being
locked up from 6 p.m. at night until 4 p.m.
the following afternoon: the other prisoners
(debtors excluded ) were let out at 6 a.m.
and locked up at 3 p.m. In 1835 a Legis-
lative Council Committee reported that the
overcrowding endangered life, but not until
six years later was the gaol evacuated and
the prisoners transferred to Darlinghurst.
“Sedley” : Even the World Economic Con-
ference had its lighter side. There are no
companies in the world with older and more
cherished traditions than those London
guilds which date back in most instances to
the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, and
none' so splendidly hospitable. The mere
mention of the annual dinner of the Honor-
able Company of Goldsmiths or Fishmongers
or Vintners (inc. I 860) calls up to any
Londoner visions of turtle soup and venison,
Madeira and milk punch, and other luxuries
quite beyond the reach of the ordinary man.
But when 11 of these illustrious guilds—
there are 12 outsize ones —-rose to the occa-
sion and showered invitations to their hos-
pitable boards on delegates to the World
Conference the response was mortifying.
“Only a handful of delegates,” it is written,
“attended the 11 dinners; one historic com-
pany entertained four guests.” The absen-
tees had a notion that they were being used
for trade purposes. It will serve them right,
those emissaries from Central American
republics and Arabian deserts, if they
return to their homes without tasting the
A BLUSHFUL REGION.
“How red the gumtips are!"
“No wonder, my girl. Cors park there every night."
finest dinners and drinking from tlie most
magnificent flagons they ever dreamed of.
All the same, what an Arab sheik or a Nica-
raguan general would make of venison and
milk punch is a trifle doubtful.
* * * *
“Mells”: i Some of these ’Murkan slang-
coinages, however girded at by literary pre-
cisians, fill gaps which even eminent writers
occasionally notice. In one of “George A.
Birmingham’s” recent books an English
parson is represented as mildly surprised
when his young housemaid uses the word
“busybody” about a third person. Then he
remembers that the girl used to attend
Sunday school, and that “busybody” is found
in St. Paul, although it has almost passed
out of uSe in current English. I suppose
it lias. The busybody of the apostle’s trans-
lators has become the “stickybeak,” which
is more expressive, although the word hasn’t
yet forced its way into the dictionaries.
“Harlech”: J. T. Lang’s indignant out-
burst against people slow to rise when
“Advance, Australia Fair” is played has at
least served the purpose of throwing some
much-needed light on that ■ not particularly
stimulating composition. “Jermyn Street”
(B. 21/6/’33), of course, is quite right in
his statement that it is unknown to many
Australians and is rarely heard outside N. S.
Wales, and so is the “S. M. Herald” right in
refusing to recognise it as anything more
than a patriotic song, with no pretensions to
be regarded as an anthem. Someone who
further remarked that The words were
trashy and the tune cribbed from the Ger-
man ‘has been hotly contradicted in print by
the daughter of the composer. From this lady
one learns that the song was the joint work
of p. D. McCormick and T. W. Craven, and
that it was first sung at the Garden Palace
Exhibition at Sydney in 1880. It is fur-
thermore contended that the words can’t be
trashy because they arc known throughout
the Empire —which doesn’t seem altogether
convincing—and that there can be no question
of a German origin seeing that the effort is
the joint work of a Scot and a Lancastrian,
both resident in Sydney—an argument which
lias even less cogency, if possible. It may
be cheerfully conceded that the piece has
obtained a vogue, if a limited one ; its quality
and distinctiveness must .remain matters of
opinion.
“Hesketh Park”: “D.’s” reference to
people who wear Guards ties with black-
and-white golf shoes (B. 21/0/’33) fills one
with a proper horror, but here, I fancy, we
must blame Hollywood. In any case,
fashions of the kind change. I can recall a
rather popular boy at an English school who
was practically sent to Coventry because his
father came to see him wearing brown boots
—the first that ever burst into that com-
munity. Later, when brown boots became
general, they were supposed to be worn with
blue serge lounge suits only. Now, I am
credibly informed, brown boots with a dark
suit are twin marks of the sartorial beast.
•*Na Vodre” (Suva) : Almost every Aus-
tralian boat which pulls into Suva brings
a stowaway or two from Auckland or Syd-
ney. and all the return they get for their
enterprise is a few days in the local "cooler”
before being returned by the next south-
bound boat. In the far-off days of sail some
of our most noteworthy pioneers arrived as
unofficial supercargoes. But that was when
prices of island produce were booming and
work was plentiful. Those who could slip
ashore unobserved easily found a job, and
even the unlucky ones who were caught gen-
erally found amongst the planters and
traders on the wharf someone prepared to
advance a trifle of overdue passage money
in exchange for a promise to work for a
stated period. All that is altered nowadays.
The modern stowaway for these parts lrasn t
a dog’s chance, even if he is successful
in running the gauntlet of ship’s officials,
police and Customs. The fact that he has
“no visible means” immediately makes him
a marked man amongst the European com-
munity, and if he goes into the bush the
presence of a vagrant white man who can-
not speak the lingo quickly arouses the sus-
picions of the Fijians.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide University lias used
an odd windfall to erect a chemical labora-
tory, which will be one of the best in Aus-
tralia. It is called the Johnson Lab., with
its largest hall bearing the name of Itennie.
Prof, of Chemistry from 1885 to 1927. Judge
Angas Parsons, Warden of the Senate, ex-
plained at the opening that he and the iron-
founder Johnsons, of Manchester, and the
Angas family (who founded the Chair of
Chemistry) were all cousins. Ronald John-
son, looking into the wire-netting business
in Australia, acquired property in Adelaide
worth £20,000. Killed in the war at 2S.
he left it to the University or the City Coun-
cil or the Commonwealth —the Judge to
advise which.
“Jeyiel” : I disagree with “Aileron’s’’ view
that mysterious aeroplane disappearances
can no ionger be attributed to lightning (B.
7/6/’33). The lightning risk lies not in
structural damage to the aeroplane but in
the derangement of the instruments. Flying
through an electrical storm, a ’plane be-
comes charged with electricity and highly
magnetised, especially if trailing a wireless
aerial. This may not affect the engine, bin
often renders the magnetic compass and
radio useless, and has probably caused the
loss of many ’planes on long flights. At one
stage of its Atlantic crossing the Southern
Cross was affected in this way, and flew
in erratic circles for two hours, wasting
precious petrol, before the compasses steadied
sufficiently to give reliable bearings.
“D.”: There are many indications that
cricket is going the way Spain’s national
game first began to go in the eighteenth
century. Bullfighting was originally a sport
chiefly for amateurs, as cricket was until
30 or 40 years ago. There were a few pro-
fessionals who groomed the thoroughbred
horses which the aristocratic young bull-
fighters rode; gave lessons in the art of bull-
killing (as cricket pros, in England still
give lessons to schoolboys in batting and
bowling), and interfered, often at the risk
of their lives, when bulls threatened the lives
of their employers. As the crowds at. bull-
fights increased in numbers the admission
prices went up, and those who paid them
began to demand their money’s worth in
excitement. The amateurs began to drop
out; the risk wasn’t worth it. Nowadays
in Spain there are virtually only two classes ;
professionals and needy amateurs. The pro-
fessional element practically dominates cricket
already, even in England. That the magnifi-
coes of the M.C.C. should have allowed Lar-
wood to throw his weight about as he has
in the bodyline row would have been un-
thinkable in the days when Lord Hawke
said: “Please God England will never be
captained by a professional!” As it is. Eng-
lish captains take the advice of pros, like
I-lobbs, and the day is obviously near when
whole-time workers of vast experience will
be captains in name as well as fact. Unless
the improbable happens, and bodylining (viz.,
bowling at the man till he gets jumpy and
then at the wicket) is legislated against by
the M.C.C., cricket will become extremely
dangerous. Crowds like disfiguring sports,
but amateurs don't, which is why so few
have gone in for prizefighting who were in
a financial position to avoid it. All those
cricketers who can afford not to take the
risk of haying their jaws broken or their
eyes knocked out (to make no mention of
being killed) will take to tennis or golf,
leaving the field clear for those who decide
to live on the game. On Spain’s showing the
change will raise the standard of skill, and,
though the matches may be fewer, the attend-
ances, when there is a match, will be im-
measurably bigger.
THE LATEST IN EYELASHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Synthetic eyelashes, the latest invention from
Paris, are having a brisk sale in a Sydney beauty
specialist’s shop for three-and-sixpence a pair, with
spirit gum for attaching them thrown in.”
Her lips mayhap glow just a shade too redly
Not to suggest some adventitious care:
It’s art not nature, though its lure be deadly,
You (and the rest) are perfectly aware,
That glorious wave in her entrancing hair.
But those long lashes, exquisitely sweeping,
Through which her radiant orbs come shyly
peeping,
Or which she ofttxmes lowers on them
demurely
To captivate a lover just as surely,
You’ll be as disillusioned as I am
To be assured that any girl can buy ’em
For three-and-six a pair.
Old as the hills are substitutes synthetic
For female charms, and ageless as the
seas ;
They’ve fossicked out full many a cute
cosmetic
Favored by fashion’s guileless devotees
In Roman cities and by Punic quays.
Oh! there was precious little that iipplies to
Beautification that they weren’t wise to ;
Nathless I doubt if archseologic highbrows
Have happed on bogus eyelashes or eyebrows
In those dim vaults where Gyppo relics
glitter,
Or dug them from the subterranean litter
At Ur of the Chaldees.
Dice Averen’t the only articles they loaded
At dissolute Pompeii, devil a doubt!
Before irate Vesuvius exploded
And blew that gay and festive city out.
They paid attention equally devout,
Those Roman ladies, to their forms and
features
To constitute them fascinating creatures.
Their lords were scarce the sort, to raise
objections
To peroxided hair or sham complexions.
Aye, e’en in stately Babylon, one guesses.
Were art-assisted hips and borrowed tresses,
And reddened lips to pout.
Our mother Eve, it’s obvious, didn’t need ’em
In Eden, for she’d never a rival there
When she and Adam roamed in blissful
freedom;
And Helen’s own sufficed her, that I’ll
swear,
And so did those of Rosamond the fair.
But if the mode decrees and taste defends it,
Synthetic eyelashes are here—that ends it.
Only, my son, you ponder this intently:
Henceforth it’s up to you to kiss her gently,
And better give her brows avoidance agile—
These dinguses are likely to be fragile
At three-and-six a pair!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“A.E.”; When Sydney’s Cockatoo Island
dockyard was handed over to private enter-
prise, sheep were introduced to keep down
the grass, a job previously done by gar-
deners. An inspection by the directors
gave one of the oldest hands a chance to
maintain his reputation as a humorist.
Approaching one of the sheep that was lying-
down enjoying the sun, he poked the animal
in the ribs with the gruff admonition “Get
up and cat that flaming grass. You ain’t
working for the Government now.”
“10-2-4” : Some Sydney tobacconists charge
6d. for a packet of Gasps, but throw in
a dozen matches or so attached to a piece
of cardboard- —value, say, one-eighth of a
penny. Others madden me by charging
Cd. for the Gasps and omitting to soften
the blow with matches. A Darlinghurst
tobacconist charges sd. ami throws in
two lots of matches. There are .some
lines—Midgerino Cigars at Is. for a
packet of six, for example—-which don’t
deviate from a norm as regards price. With
them some tobacconists supply two goes of
matches free; some one: and a few none.
What beats me is how the last-named manage
to exist. My home is littered with free
matches. My wife has implored mo re-
peatedly not to bring any more back —be-
cause they are not needed, because they are
unsightly, because the baby chews them, be-
cause she has to pick them up from floors,
flower-beds and the like, and for other
FOR FATHER’S SAKE.
“Your school report is disgraceful, Bobby. Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?”
“Dad, you promised me ten shillings if I brought home a good report, and mummy
told me you couldn’t afford it.”
reasons. Yet on a recent night in a teeming
rainstorm I found myself slopping across
the street to buy Gasps. Why? Because I
knew the proprietor of the shop I was
making for was a two-matchbox man. How
deep-seated in mankind, dear friends, is the
lust for baksheesh ; the urge to get some-
thing for nothing!
“Unity”: The youthful son of a N.S.W.
family with a huge holding iu the Fitzroy
River (W.A.) district went recently on his
first visit to the property and took a camera
with him. But the pictures he sent home
didn’t show him in any of the usual station
poses'. He was seated under a tree, and was
apparently working a sewing-machine. Later
advices revealed that he had arrived just in
time for the semi-annual business of making
frocks for the station gins, a work under-
taken in self-defence by the manager and
his staff. The new arrival, being of an artis-
tic bent, proved invaluable in cutting and
designing, and promptly added the working
of the station’s saddle machine to his accom-
plishments. The popularity of the new
boss with the gins was instantaneous:
never had the dusky company been so well
and stylishly clad. Even his excellent
horsemanship and general aptitude for out-
back life didn’t impress them as did his
efficient dressmaking.
_ “Thule” : Though it is a far call to their
Norse forefathers, the Orkney and Shetland
Islanders still carry traces of the old stock,
as, indeed, do many other communities of
the west of Scotland (B. 21/6/’33). Light
Horsemen will recall that the 52nd Division,
which took part with them in the fighting
from Romani onwards, was largely composed
of territorials from Northern Scotland,
though it; was styled the Lowland - Division.
The fair-haired Norse type was common
among officers and men, and these acquired
the nickname of “Scandinavians,” of which
they always seemed rather proud.
* * * *
“914”: Touching “Exdig’s” story (B.
7/6/’33) of a clean bullet wound through
the leg from which, years after healing, a
bullet was removed, there is a far more
likely explanation than that of two bullets
finding the same billet. Certain types of
bullet have a well-known explosive effect on
the tissues, and I suggest that one of these
lacerated the skin ahead of the point where
the bullet stopped and made a hole resemb-
ling, in a hurried front-line exam., a point
of exit:. Foreign bodies frequently remain
for years in the tissues. Not long ago an
abo. woman of 86 came to me complaining
of pain in one foot for a year. Inquiry
showed that as a girl of 19 she had run
a needle into her foot behind the big toe.
Afraid to tell her mistress, she said nothing,
and forgot the incident for 17 years till tbe
pain came to remind her of it. X-ray re-
vealed that the needle had worked up to a
point just below the instep. It had also at
some period broken into three pieces, each
of which I removed, half-eaten through by
rust.
ft * ft ft
“Monty”; Vigorous debate is proceeding
in Melbourne as to whether John Batman
wore whiskers. Batman was clean-shaven,
as was all mankind in the days before the
soldiers began to return to their countries
from the Crimean War. The long ziffs pro-
voked by the Russian climate were the mark
of the returned man, and those who had kept
the home fires burning followed popularity.
Early Melburnians who knew Batman de-
scribed him as having no beard, as the one
sketch of him extant depicts him. Batman
didn’t court the attentions of portrait artists.
He suffered a nose injury in early life and
was permanently disfigured,
“Duty First”; That Queensland abo.
policeman who tried and fined himself for
assaulting his wife (B. 21/6/’33) had an
opposite numoer in a recent British Navy
court-martial. A lieutenant who is a keen
footballer got into a technical argument,
with a fellow-player who was a stoker, and
made as if to strike his subordinate. This
being a deadly sin in the silent service, the
two-striper apologised and then reported
himself to the nearest senior officer. For
his crime he was court-martialled, severely
reprimanded and dismissed his ship.
* * *
“Sixenate”: The Law grows accustomed to
audacious defences, but a Victorian Court
was startled out of its composure in a re-
cent: bigamy case. The accused was charged
with having gone through the ceremony of
marriage in 1931, in spite of having
taken a wife in 1930. Without deny-
ing this, he coolly submitted that, as he was
actually married in 1921, the marriage of
1930 was bigamous, and proceedings based on
it must therefore fail. As far as it went
perhaps the contention was sound, but the
Judge, when he recovered his breath,
adjourned the case in order that the police
might amend the charge.
* ft * ft
“Pursuivant”; The spur which forms part
of the new badge instituted for a K.B. (B.
21/6/’33) was really the pukka brand of the
honor when knights were bold. The fasten-
ing on a knight’s heels of the golden spurs
was even moro important than the accolade
or the belting with the sword. But why put
the modern knight on the lowest grade to
the expense of paying seven guineas? A
better plan would be to authorise the exalted
one to wear gilt spurs, like Guards field
officers. Of course, a little practice would
LAPSE INTO BARBARISM'.
“Just fancy! A baby! And she had such
an up-to-date education!”
be necessary, for, unless a man has worn
spurs since childhood, the unexpected is
always liable to happen.
* ft *
“Millbank”: The annual report of the
N.S.W. Comptroller-General of Prisons
should hearten social reformers. In 1890,
when the population of the colony was less
than half what the State holds to-day, gaol
entries totalled 16,497; last year they were
13,504. It may be argued that laws are
more lenient nowadays and convictions harder
to obtain, but, even allowing for all this, the
decrease is certainly a marked one; whether
or not the community grows more moral, it
has obviously become more law-abiding.
Shorter-dated comparisons are a trifle less
encouraging; for instance, there were 10.885
persons behind prison bars at the end of last
year as against 30,117 in December, 1931 —
a sinister by-product of the depression, like
enough. There is one ratio that doesn’t
appear to vary much; women furnish only
about 12 per cent, of the prison inmates.
“Pipi”: Another insult to Maoriland i
The London “Times,” reporting an official
fish dinner -at Greenwich, says that the
menu consisted of the usual varieties of
fish with the exception of the soup, which
was made “from a peculiar variety of Aus-
tralian shellfish.” This, of course, was the .
toheroa, which ranks in the proud lexicon
of M.L. natural history with the moa and
the tuatara lizard, though much nicer to eat.
It has long been familiar on the contents bill
of Sydney fishshops.
“Gamp” ; One of the peculiarities of the
Englishman is his habit of leaving his um-
brella in railway carriages. An. English co.,
sick of storing up thousands of the things for
an annual sale, had a brainwave. It opened
ji department for lending umbrellas for a
small charge to passengers caught unpro-
vided by a rainy day, with the proviso
that, when finished with, the ginghams would
be left at a station. The system was popu-
lar until it broke down. Few returned the
hired articles, and none was left in carriages.
“Oxmead”: A point not mentioned by
“General’ Prac.” (B. 21/6/’33) about hemo-
philia, the disease which the newly-married
Prince of the Asturias has inherited, is that
it didn’t come to him from the Bourbons, as
far as there is any available evidence, but
through his mother, who was Queen Vic-
toria’s granddaughter. The Queen’s young-
est son, Leopold, Duke of Albany, was
a known sufferer from it. In the un-
medical jargon of my young days it was
said that he was “one skin short” —there
was a vague idea, resting on some
vulgar superstition perhaps, that a normal
human should have seven cutaneous layers
of skin and that the hemophile had only six.
Leopold died when he was 30, soon after
his marriage to a German princess, and his
death in 1884 re-awakened a keen scientific
and popular interest in the disease. After
that it appears to have skipped a generation,
for it made no recorded appearance in any
of the Queen’s grandchildren. But the pre-
sent royal (or ex-royal) family of Spain are
Victoria’s great-grandchildren, and they are
not the only ones, (as the British medical
profession has plenty of evidence to show)
to whom the grim heritage has been handed
down. Hemophilia has sometimes been
called the scourge of royalty, but it is by
no means confined to royalty, though it natu-
rally gets the fullest notice there.
"Idle Imp”: Apropos of John Sul man’s
declaration that wide streets are no good
to retail trade (B. 21/6/’33), how is it that
almost every busy city street has a good
side and a bad side for trade? From Circu-
lar Quay to the railway, the left-hand side
of George-street commands twice as much
trade as the right, and casual buyers are
probably four times as numerous there. Yet
only residents from three or four North
Shore suburbs enter the city by way
of the left side of George-street (if they
don’t ,go via Pitt-street) ; the trams from
all the city-side suburbs run down the other
side of the thoroughfare, which also gets
most of the traffic from the North Shore
trains. In Castlereagh-street it’s the right
side from the Quay that does most of
the business. Even the smaller cities of
M.L. tel] the same tale. Business is brighter
and rents lower on one side of Auckland's
Queen-street than on the other, while in
Wellington wide Lambton Quay and narrow
,Willis-strect are both alike in having a good
and a bad side.
“lan C.”: More potent than the fascinat-
ing barmaid in bringing custom to a rural
pub is the cook, and if she be young so mucli
the better. This is the dictum of Luke
Murphy, one of Vic.’s most experienced
liquor licensing lawyers, who suggested in
court the other day that a clause should
be engrafted on the Act making it compul-
sory for every pub to employ a first-rate cook.
The specific question before Chairman Barr
was whether a man of 24 with a wife of IT
should have the license of a north-western
hotel, 60 miles from Bendigo, transferred to
him. There was no' objection whatever to
the applicant save on the score of his youth,
and the lawyer contended that this was off-
set by the “superior culinary merits of the
wife,” and for good measure he threw in
her two sisters, also skilled among the pots
and pans. The Court was sufficiently im-
pressed, not only to grant the license trans-
fer, but to wish “success to the venture.”
“Pat Busliie”: The U.S.A. has better
methods of traffic control than we have (B.
14/6/’88). Some of its regulations dealing
with breaches of the law might well be copied.
Firstly, speedsters are arrested and, if
proved guilty, usually sent to gaol. Secondly,
when a motorist is booked for an offence
he is forthwith required by the booking officer
to attend the next sitting of the Court. Our
system of issuing summonses often causes
months of delay before process is served; in
such cases the. defendant has little chance of
remembering the exact details of the incident,
let alone of obtaining witnesses to them. An-
other point: On a thoroughfare such as
(say) Parramatta-road, the American sys-
tem would allow for two lines of moving
traffic each way—first or outermost, slow-
moving traffic; second, fast traffic. The
motorist drives slow or fast, according to
the line of traffic he joins.
* * * *
“Retired TJrger” : The fondness of horses
for the wine that mocketh (B. 21/6/’33) is
no new tale. In the writer’s youth it was
a common custom to buck up racehorses with
a nobbier of brandy and water administered
from one of the old-fashioned soda-water
bottles. Most of them took to it kindly, too.
and there are instances of naes which refused
to leave the paddock without their spot. A
notable modern case was that of the French
crack, Epinard. A quart of beer was his
desideratum, and if he didn’t get it there was
no race.
“M.G.” ; It is customary for Australians
to growl about their ’phone service, and for
some of them to wax sarcastic about the short-
comings of State undertakings as compared
with those of private enterprise. Here is
my personal experience. Five years ago
1 ’phoned Melbourne from Newcastle
(N.S.W.), a three-minute conversation at
10 p.m. I was charged 2s. 9d. Six months
previously I had ’phoned San Diego (U.S.A. ;
from San Francisco —-almost precisely the
same distance under the same conditions. _ I
was stung for 17s. 6d. An ordinary wire
in U.S.A. costs as much as a red wire here,
and, in a strange, town, you have to seek
office buildings to find a telegraph office.
The post offices don’t send wires.
THE LITTLE THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little things old Time has turned to
ashes,
Fair aspirations and high-sounding hopes ;
But even now I see the scarlet flashes
Of lowries winging through the leafy
slopes
Ere summer set brown hands upon the
bracken.
And I recall the midnight breeze that drew
Tree music from tall boughs till, faintly
shaken,
It seemed a million stars were murmuring,
too.
And. card castles of dream old Time has
tumbled
To all the winds and left of harvest the
husks;
But I like to think of liow the river stumbled
Across the stones in silver summer dusks.
It seems I have forgotten small hells and
heavens,
Praise, blame and Love’s once precious-
seeming words.
But I remember quiet autumn evens,
Leaves dropping, and the small talk of the
birds.
The solid things, dissolved in dust and scat-
tered,
Deep-rooted things, uprooted, branch and
stem.
But the little things, that once so little
mattered.
How strange it is that I remember them!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZHIEL


I
You can’t be sure
of some things
but- =
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
YOU CAN
oc
o,
h“ d
QO
LL
o
LU
O'
D
(J)
LU
00
LT)
S. 14-16
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some July birthdays:—
Former High Commissioner Ryrie, 68, and Prof.
Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 39, on Ist; Prof. W. H-
Bragg, F.R.S. (formerly of Adel.), 71, and R.C.
Bishop Byrne (Toowoomba), 63, on 2nd; Theo Fink,
78, and Arthur Blakeley, M.H.R., 47, on 3rd;
Speck’s Premier McPhee, 55, on 4th; Justice Piper
(S.A.), 68 on stli; S. Aus. Gov. Horc-Ruthven, 61,
Vic.’s C.J. Irvine, 75, and Judge Perdnau
(3ST.S.W.), 53, on 6th; Percy Grainger, 51, on Bth;
Justice Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 63, and Harold
Boyce (British M.P., b. at Taree, N.S.W.), 38, on
9th; Chief Justice Belcher, of Trinidad (b. at
Geelong), 57, and Brig.-Gen. Lachlan C. Wilson
(Q.), 62 on 11th; Brig.-Gen. Leane (S.A. Police
Com.), 55, and A. M. Eedy (Mutual Life and
Citizens’), 63, on 12th; Spencer Browne (Brisbane),
77, on 13th; Lloyd Dumas (Adel. “Advertiser”), 42,
on 15th; J. A. Henderson (Aus. Metrop. Life Assn.),
60, and Evan Kyffin Thomas (Adel.), 67, on 17th;
ex-Federal Minister Forde, 43, Prof. Davies, Mus.
Doc. (Adel.), 66, and bibliographer Percival Serlr
(Melb.), 62, on 18th; Rear-Admiral G. F. Hyde,
' 56, on 19th; Prof, Brigden (Q.), 46, on 20th; E.
F. Mitchell, K.C., 78, Dr. Cunningham (“Argus’ ),
74, and “Smiler” Hales (b. at Adel.), 73, on 21st,
Minister of Mines Stopford, 55, on 22nd,
Rev. G. E. Hale (Adel.), 49, on 24th; Bishop Moyes
(Armidale), 49, and Lud Mayor Gengoult Smith
(Melb.), 43, on 25th; W. R. Alexander (Vic. Par-
liament), 62, and Justice Crisp (Speck), 59, on
27th; Randolph Bedford (Q.), 65, and Judge Foster
(Vic.), 47, on 28th; and surgeon Alexander Mac-
Cormick, 77, on 31st.
' C. Y Janes, economic adviser to the Bank
of N. S. Wales and lecturer at Sydney Uni.,
has gone to Perth as acting-professor while
Skann is away at the Economic Conference
in London. Janes, like Giblin and the late
George Knibbs, graduated into economics
with a versatile experience and some attain-
ments not usually associated with econo-
mists. Against Giblin’s seamanship and hob-
nails and Knibbs’s love of Norse poetry, he
can set an expert professional knowledge ot
child photography, but he prefers weighted-
average tables and scissors graphs to any
camera ever made. Formerly he was a lec-
turer in economics at Melbourne Uni.
Dr. Robert Campbell Begg, head of the
N.Z. Legion, was born in Dunedin, acquired
an array of medical honors in Edinburgh,
London and Germany, and hangs out his
plate as a surgeon in Wellington. Llis first
Dr. CAMPBELL BEGG, leader of the
Maoriland Legion.
professional experience was gained in the
Transvaal. lie served throughout the (Treat,
War in the R.A.M.C., most of the time in
Mespot,; was mentioned in dispatches, arm
gained a Military Cross. Exactly what the.
Legion he bosses stands for isn t revealed
it doesn’t seek publicity—but it seems to
be sib to Eric Campbell’s New Guard.
A. .T. Tanner, one of the newest R.A.S.
councillors, shares in a unique family record.
A few years ago, in one and the same month,
his elder brother Craig, one of the leading
Hereford breeders of the world, was in the
Argentine with the Prince of Wales judging
the Herefords at Palermo; A.J. himself was
the beef judge at Maoriland shows, and Jim, a
third brother, was doing a judging round of
the southern metropolitan Royals of Aus-
tralia. A.J. himself can judge almost any-
thing, from a Southdown or a black poll to
a pig. He is adviser to many leading beef-
cattle studs, and Australian secretary of
the Aberdeen-Angus Society.
Frank Penfold Hyland inherited his in-
terests in Penfold’s Wines from his S. Aus.
grandfather, Dr. Rawson Penfold. He was
born in Victoria 60 years ago, educated at
Melbourne Grammar and Oldham College,
England, and he lives in Sydney. The Sydney
office of the firm was opened over 30 years
ago, and Minchinbury, on the road to the
mountains, which was acquired about a
decade later, is now one of the show vine-
PENFOLD HYLAND , of Penfold’s Wines.
yards of Australia. Frank Hyland is a not-
able collector of furniture and works of art,
and there is no better bridge-player in the
Australian Club; but his chief hobby is busi-
ness. He knows his job from the ground
up—he started as inter-State representative
of his firm at 19. and established agencies
in Britain and India a few years later—and, (
though practically a teetotaller, he is a lirst-
class judge of most wines.
After 49 years in the public service, F. I*
.Tones, chief Commonwealth auditor in
Queensland, retires this week. He has held
his present job since 1915. Jones is a recog-
nised authority on sugar and metal finance.
It seems ironic that Cyril Leonard, one-
time private secretary to Judge Herbert on
Norfolk Island, should have been run down
by a car in the heart of London. The main
reason of his affection for the isle of pines
was its freedom from the dangers and dis-
turbances of this machine-made age. He
died of his injuries on May 27.
J P. Gibson, Australia’s oldest marathon
runner* shakes the dust of Sydney off his
shoes next week to return to Melbourne.
A year or so ago, when a couple of summers
over 60, he paced out 28 miles in Victoria
in good time, while younger blood dropped
out of the race. Gibson’s recipe for health
in age is a 12-mile run before breakfast.
265 swims a year and no alcohol or meat.
He came over from beyond the Murray last
year to convert Sydney to his cult, but Syd-
ney is too fond of its bed and its chop.
Australia has a good friend in Scotland in
Harold Ford, commercial manager of the
Clyde Trust, which controls the Port oi
Glasgow. Despite discouragement lie con-
tinues to hope that one day Glasgow will get
a large direct Australian trade. Every
now and then he fulminates about it in
the Glasgow papers; and then the panjan-
drums of Australia House assure Glasgow
that it is full of Australian produce which
nobody seems able to identify. But Ford
continues his propaganda. He likes Aus
tralia, which he visited in 1929, and you
can’t discourage a Hampshireman who got a
well-paid Scottish job against several hun-
dred Scotch applicants.
James Hudson, who forsakes the job of
railway superintendent at Cairns to become
general manager of the whole Northern Rail-
way Division in succession to the late A. J.
Crowther, has been 40 years in the Queens-
land sen-ice, 30 of which he spent at Towns-
ville, his new headquarters. He started as
a lad porter.
lan Mack, the young patrol officer who
died last week at Salamoa as the result of
arrow wounds received while rushing a block-
house in an attempt to arrest a native mur-
derer. was a Victorian, born at Geelong. He
joined the N.G. Administration in 1926.
When lie met his death he was engaged in
patrol work on the upper Ramu country,
which is now being opened up by prospectors.
Tenterfield’s Clerk of Petty Sessions, A.
D. Donnelly, was just 20 when sent as
C.P.S. to Balranald (N.S.W.). Now near
the retiring age, he looks back on 39 years
of unbroken service—a record for his depart-
ment.
J. A. Seitz, the new Deputy-Director of
Education in Vic., is a Rhodes scholar. He
joined the department 12 years ago, and has
been chief inspector of secondary schools for
nearly four years. He will retain his chief
inspectorship and deputise for Director
Mcßae when Mcßae is on leave or ill.
The greater part of the priestly life of
Monsignor T. O’Shaugnessy, dead at 85, had
been spent in the Cootamuiidra (N.S.W.)
district, whose fine church and school build-
ings and Catholic hospital are monuments to
his zeal. For some years he had been living
quietly owing to ill-healtli. In 1930 the
Pope created him a Domestic Prelate.
Consult a doctor anywhere in Britaiii and
the chance of striking an Australian is re-
markably high. Thomas Dunhill, who got
a knighthood for his medical skill this
year, is a Melbourne product; before qualify-
ing in medicine he was a chemist’s assistant
in a small Victorian town. A front-ranker
in London to-day, he is honorary surgeon to
the King. .
Australia owes something to Herman
Geisler, who has passed out in Adelaide at
72. A German, who came here in his youth,
he started a tanning business on the Murray,
and later went into the export trade, teach-
ing the European continent to demand kan-
garoo and wallaby skins for leather and
’possum skins for rugs.
F. A. Marzorini, just promoted assistant
chief inspector of factories in Melbourne, lias
spent the best part of his 42 years in the
State service in the Labor Department. He
is 57, and ranks next to the Sec. for Labor,
William Dempster. The deaths of W. H.
Gray and G. O’Toole and the retirement of
F. ,T. Goller opened the road to promotion
for Marz. after a stiff 25-year climb.
Licut.-Colonel William Lather, whose death
in his native Queensland is reported, nar-
rowly escaped N.S.W. nationality, for he
was born at Caboolture, north of Brisbane,
in 1859, just after the Northern State was
carved off N.S.W. lie was for 35 years
Town Clerk of Southport, Queensland’s lead-
ing seaside resort, having been elected to the
first divisional board in 1883. He at one time
commanded the Moreton Regiment and kept
up his interest in military affairs long after
his retirement.
James Mcßae, who has succeeded the late
M. P. Hansen as Victoria’s Director of Edu-
cation, was born at Ascot, near Creswick.
nearly 62 years ago. Creswick was the
birthplace of the Lindsays, Percy, Lionel
and Norman, and James was in the same
class as Percy at the Grammar School. He
himself had an aptitude for drawing—the
best school report he ever gained was on that
subject—but at 17 became a teacher, and went
ahead. He took an M.A. degree at Melb.
University and a diploma in Education. The
East Kew school had him for a period as
head, and he has been chief inspector of
schools, lecturer in Education at the Mel-
bourne Uni., and vice-principal of the
Teachers’ Training College. He is author of
a number of mathematical textbooks. Out-
JAMES McRAE, Vic.’s new Director of
Education.
side of office hours Mcßae barracks for the
Carlton football team and reads Bobbie
Burns. His only son, a graduate of
the same university as his dad. went to
the London University on an Orient Scholar-
ship, and there collected the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy.
Since the opening of the Commonwealth
Parliament in 1901, Dailey (N.S.W.) has
had five representatives: W. H. Wilks
(1901-1910), Robert Howe (1910-1915), W.
G. Mahony (1915-1927), Ted Theodore
(1927-1931) and John Solomon Rosevear,
wood-working machinist, of Leichhardt.
Rosevear and Theodore used to be bosom pals,
but few Sydney Labor friendships are lasting.
J.S. ROSEVEAR, Theodore’s successor as
M.H.R. for Dailey (N.S.W.).
Lang’s split with the Scullinites was for-
tunate for Rosevear, for, prior to becoming
a M.H.R., he had been unemployed since his
participation in the 1929 timberworkers
strike. He made himself good with the local
unemployed by his battles for them. A g nri ?-
faced fellow with a penetrating voice, he. is
a native of Pyrmont, and is in his 42nd year.
Wallace Sandford, who has been appointed
to Lyons’s Grants Commission, is the
only Swedish knight in South Aus. He
holds the gold insignia of the order of Vasa,
which lie received last year for long service
as Swedish Consul in Adelaide.
F. W. Bainbridge, just appointed sec. to
the associated banks of Vic., is a member of
a brainy family. One brother, J. P., is regis-
trar of the Melbourne Uni.; a second is
head of a life assurance co.; a third is
a senior officer in Vic. Public service. F. W.
who succeeds K. Sholl, has had over 40
years of banking training.
William Mackay, who is retiring from the
Queensland Lands and Survey Department
under the age limit, was born in Victoria 68
years ago, and was at Melbourne Scotch Col-
lege with young John Monash. Going to
Queensland in 1882, he had much experience
in the Gulf country before William Mac-
Gregor got hold of him and took him to
British New Guinea as private secretary,
surveyor, astronomer, magistrate and filler of
odd jobs. With Douglas Brown he made
the first modern map of 8.N.G., a work
which, though necessarily incomplete, was a
boon to the men who came after him.
Dr. J. E. F. Hoskin, retiring from prac-
tice in Deniliquin (N.S.W.), is to have a
unique send-off, in the form of a parade of
all those in the district whom he has brought
into the world in the last 33 years. As the
one-child idea has never been popular in
Deniliquin, it looks as if the mayor, who is
organising the function, will have to build a
new town hall for the occasion.
Northern Anglicans of the days of Bishop
White will smile reminiscently when they
hear that Harold Ayscough, once vicar at
Thursday Island, and also at Darwin, has
gained his degree as Doctor of Philosophy
at London Uni. Ayscough graduated from
the north, via a Sydney church and Durham
University, to the general secretaryship of
the C. of E. Temperance Society in Britain.
To-day he is rector of East Finchley, a
substantial north-west London parish; but.
North Australians will find it difficult to
picture in such surroundings the large six-
foot Queenslander who once, by dint of
prayer and a ticket in Tatt.’s, added a magic
lantern to a tropical church.
“Carat” : James Edmond forgot to record
in his autobiography in “Who’s Who” that
shortly after landing in Dunedin lie joined
a manufacturing confectionery concern,
which, like the two insurance companies in
Glasgow, went broke. The writer, whose
parents were known to J.E., was given a
job sugar-pulling at an official weekly wage
of 10s.. but the pay envelope handed to him
by Edmond at the week-end always contained
15s. This may have hastened the end of
the company, and I’m glad if it did, seeing
what befel Edmond afterwards.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc..
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, lemple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, Kent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL II DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman',
TIIOS. P.UCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Aset. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 ~ „ 145,027 789,942
Da got, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £ 186,113 976,057
Additions to reserves, 11280,947.. 1,257,002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500. . 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,525
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 ~ 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2} „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420,000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2J .p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
This co.’s pound shares are the most active
of the pastoral-finance stocks. The business,
which is scattered all over the Australian
States, is strongest in N. S. Wales, where
the co. receives nearly half the wool it
handles, does most of its livestock business
and is a large run-owner itself. It was a
fairly steady 15 p.c. proposition for the 20
years to the close of accounts in 1929. But
on the heels of quick development during the
post-war period (hastened by absorption of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin and of Badgery
Bros, in X. g. Wales, and of Bagot, Shakes
and Lewis in S. Aus.) came the collapse
of prices, thus reducing the earnings and
increasing the risks. Of the £2,400,000 of
share capital, over £1,149,000, which brought
with it £761,113 of share premiums, was
gathered during the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1930. The now money,
together with over a million of borrowed
funds, was put out largely in advances on
stock and station properties. To assist clients
who have suffered severely, £420,000 has
been specially earmarked as a contingency
reserve, to be used as required. The lot has
been deducted from the book value of
advances in the published accounts.
Thanks to a run of good seasons, which
bumped up the tally of sheep in Australia
to the highest yet, the co. sold and shipped
327,147 bales during the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts, or 46,864 more than
for the previous term. More livestock was
sold, too. Thus, after striking off something
for had debts, there was an improvement
of £9046 in the year’s gross earnings:—
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
; Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927. . 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
Badgery Bros., Ltd., purchased.
1929. . 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
1931.. 630.714 450,685 62,553 2500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2000 63,294
1933. . 508,675 367,137 62,553 2000 76,985
Exes, were pulled back £4645, despite bigger
business, leaving the net result at 3.2 p.c.
on capital as against 2.6, 4.7, 9.5, 15.9. 16.3,
17.7, 18.9, 21.8 and 23.3 p.c. back to 1924
—the persistent slip is due to the' inflow of
new capital and then slump. The div. was
kept at 21 p.c.
On the market the price of the scrip has
jazzed to the tune of a changing outlook.
After reaching 51s. 3d. four years ago, the
figure fell to ISs. 6d. before 1 Britain went
off gold. It has since fluctuated between
ISs. 6d. and 28s. 6d., having risen steadily
from 245. 6d. to 275. 3d. since the beginning
of this year. The investor at 275. 3d. who
looks for a shade over 5 p.c. on his money
counts on a 7 p.c. div. To pay the deben-
ture interest and 7 p.c. on capital as it
now stands would call for no more than
3.6 p.c. on total funds (debentures, capital
arid reserves combined).
Much will depend upon the co.’s experience
in connection with debtors’ balances. In
this and other respects the recent advance
in the price of the staple (fleeces are now
fetching from 3d. to 4d. a pound more than
they did a year ago) has brightened the
outlook. Certainly the coming season’s Aus-
tralian clip is expected to total about
2.942,000 bales as against 3,168,000 for the
1932-33 clip. But the carryover is small,
demand has strengthened, selling charges are
to be further reduced and rail freights light-
ened a trifle.
The oo.'s position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows:
Liabilities.
1920. 1930. 1932. 1933.
£,&■£,£,
Capital . . 733,010 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,504,648 1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,702
Sundry credi-
tors .. 118,411 1,309,596 780,286 633,687
Liquid assets 647,455 398,515 401,710 505,248
Advances .. 1,967,430 5,886,051 5,367,542 4,720,487
P r o perties
and stock 220,723 290,904 206,659 '252,331
P r e in ises,
etc. . . 212,803 649,158 632,828 625,245
Other assets 64,105 166,564 104,731 105,332
The year’s reduction of £647.055 in the book
value of advances was due mainly to the
special allowance for contingencies already
referred to. Liquids were strengthened by
£103,538, while £146,599 net was knocked
off the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Leaving debentures out of the reckoning,
liquids amounted to 15s. lid. of every pound
coming to outsiders at March 31, as against
6s. Id. three years earlier. The debenture
debt, a reminder of the ’nineties, is inter-
minable, except that the 00. has the right
to purchase.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
-Mar., Loss. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
it it £ £ £
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil _ 53,623
Deficit.
Assets apparently written down, £ 119,400 65,777
Profit. Reserves.
Capital reduced A 57.000 . . . . . . 21 223
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14.625 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926.. 66,670 12,598 6 „ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 71 p.c.--39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 18,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 . . . . 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,810 4,225 152,726
Wliat this big Fiji merchant and plantation
owner missed on last year’s swings it got
on the roundabouts. Copra and sugar are the
chief staples upon which trade activity in
Fiji depends. Here the C.S.R.’s outturn of
raws was the best yet; and the price stiff-
ened a bit. But copra remains in tbe dol-
drums, and it is difficult to say when it is
likely to emerge; much depends upon ex-
pansion of the soap and margarine industries
in Europe. Competition from whale oil and
slump sent the London price of South Sea
copra tumbling from £2B per ton in March,
1928, to £l7 four years later, and then to
£l2 at the close of last accounts. A fluctuat-
ing exchange added to the difficulties, as it
always does.
Nevertheless, there was an improvement
of £7790 in the year’s gross earnings
(£111,863), while reorganisation of the busi-
ness was followed by a saving of £10,991 in
trading exes. (£64,037), making the reduc-
tion nearly £24.000 over the last two years.
An extra £6251 was struck off for deprecia-
tion (£10,093), and £1569 was sent to the
staff fund. Including £2030 dropped from
somewhere into the insurance reserve
(£35,100), the improvement in the year’s
net result was £10,939. After handing the
prefs. their £13,152, enough was left to show
4.8 p.c. on the £520,407 of ord. capital as
against 2.7. 7.9, 11.5, 12.2, 11.6 and 11.3 p.c.
back to 1927. The div. was kept at 4 p.c.,
making the average for the last decade a
wink under 6 p.c.
1 isible reserves are not a very stout prop
for the £739,613 of capital—£2l9.2o6 of it
is pref. money, carrying a cumulative 6 p.c.
—but provision is known to have been made
for ordinary contingencies internally. Owins
to the drop in the price of copra, £35,000 has
been openly struck off the book value of
plantations over the last three years, and
reserves were tapped for a further £12.400
to wipe out hurricane losses in ’3l. The
co.’s fire risks are now covered outside in
the usual way.
During the year the business of three of
the subsidiaries—-Morris, ITedstrom (Lau-
toka), Fiji Shipping 00. and Hjorring and
Bailey—was taken over by the parent, in
order to lighten overhead. The rearrange-
ment was responsible for the year’s major
movements in balance-sheet figures:—
" 1922. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £795,887 £739,613 £739,613
Overdrafts . . . . 145,763
Mortgages . . . . 21,675
Deposits .. .. 35,985 25,532 12,420
Sundry creditors . . 66,088 22,512 18,228
Plantations .. . . 73,269 67,174 65,524
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 233,823 285,430 331’760
Stocks, etc 225,397 168,985 212,276
Investments and cash.. 248,212 245,664 142 025
Capital value of
branches, etc. .. 212,461 94,438 65 706
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 97,590 132,596
Thus £46,332 was added to the book value
of premises and plant, £43.291 to stocks
and £35,000 to debtors’ balances. There
was a reduction of £75,947 in shares and de-
bentures in subsidiaries, etc. (now £lO7 567).
and of £28,732 in the capital value oil
branches etc. Cash and public securities
(£o4.4nS) were drawn upon for £27,691 and
£17,396 was snipped off the outside debt.
IV hen the books closed-, cash and public
securities alone more than covered the out-
side debt.
At 17s. 3d. the ords. return 4.6 p.c. on a
4 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. are tightly held.
The visible cover in net tangibles is £4 Is. sd.
profs., and 255. lOd. ords.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
r Dividends—— — Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
March, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. -erves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,675 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment .. 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. - 77,570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 „ „ 80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 163,799 15,7.50 10 .. .. 91,094 56,955 196,183
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 ~ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 , ~93,048 76.070 342,764
1929.. 207,952 15,750 12-1 ~ ~116,310 75,892 418,650
Staff Fund, £2500 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 12ip.c.=116,310 55,194 471,350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
1932.. 92,137 15,750 71 „ „ 69,786 6,601 483,141
1933.. 122,439 15,750 9 „ .. 83,743 22,946 506,087
*l4 months.
This is one of the most prosperous of Aus-
tralia’s big industrial undertakings. The
tariff, enterprising management and techni-
cal and other efficiency have combined to
give the co. a tight hold upon the market
throughout Australia and Maoriland. Thus,
although slump caught it with heavy
stocks, built up in anticipation of demand,
it; has been able to unload without much
visible damage. Moreover, as the trading
and political outlook has become less clouded,
the figures have improved.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, gross earnings (£370,801) sprang
£87,095, making the improvement £132,132
over the last two years. Including an un-
specified allowance for taxation, etc., exes.
(£248,362) got away with £50,793 of the
increase. Still, enough remained to pay the
pref. div. (it was over 71 times covered)
and show 11.4 p.c. on £930,47S of ord. capi-
tal as against 8.2, 6.5, 18.4, 20.6, 18.2, 17.6
and 16.3 p.c. back to 1926. The div., which
was at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. for the first
half, was double that rate for the second
half, making 9 p.c. for the year. It had
been steady at 10 p.c. for the eight years to
the end of March, 1930. with a 21 p.c. sweet -
ener added during the, last two of them.
Anticipations of extra benefits sent: tin*
pound ords. from 275. in 1925 to 61s. in
Sept., 1929. A year later the figure had
slumped to 235. on a nervous and oversold
market; it has since climbed steadily to
495. 6d. There is'nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest withdrawal of buying
support. The return at 495. 6d. is no more
than 3.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis; so the
investor who looks for a shade under 5 p.c.
on his money counts on a 12 p.c. distribu-
tion. At 365. the return on tin* profs, is
5 p.c.
Though the manufacture of sheet glass*
has not met with the success that was antici-
pated, the co-. has, generally speaking, made
the most of the opportunities which the
tariff has afforded it. New processes have
been installed as discovered, to the benefit of
costs, while substantial additions have been
made to fixed assets and paid for out of
earnings, and then,, from the same source,
the assets have been severely written down.
Here is the position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1924. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities . . 87,507 109,461* 181,906*
Land and building’s 200,067 180.043 189,985
Machinery & plant 451,364 238,253 236,786
Stocks .. . . 316,225 371,156 420.754
Book debts . . 127,901 265,362 280,380
Cash, investments,
etc 18,816 578,514 008,769
includes “provision for taxation.”
Thus the contraction in the book value of:
fixed assets over the last nine years was
£230,660, notwithstanding substantial addi-
tions meanwhile. Finances are obviously
snug, though the real liquid position is
obscured by the lumping of shares in sub-
sidiaries, etc., with cash and loans at call,
the lot up £30.255 during the year. The
growth of £21,018 in debtors’ balances looks
encouraging. No hint is given as to what
contributions. _ if any, the Crown Crystal
Co. (the subsidiary which turns out blown,
pressed and cut glass) makes to the pool.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd.
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. servos. nal).
£ £ £, £
1923.. 29,606 7 p.c. = 20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in . . 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 .. 94,893
1924.. 33,896 8 p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105,138
1925.. 29,966 9 27.000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30,172 8 ~.24,000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ ..24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 „ .. 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 .. „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ ~ 21,000 ‘ 1,806 119,980
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
Special provision depreciation, etc.,
£25,025 88,978
Profit.
1932. . 2,625 Nil 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91,833
*Pref.
The board reports improvement in trade. But
the year’s net earnings, which benefited by
only £605, were little more than sufficient to
give the prefs. half their minimum require-
ments for one year, reducing their arrears at
the end of April to £15,000, or 3s. per share.
For over 30 years the original assets
figured at £148.500, depreciation being struck
off additions the co. itself had made. In
1924 goodwill (£40,000) was rubbed out of
the accounts, and fixed assets were revalued.
The new figures suggested that unearned
increment in the freeholds had just about
offset what should have been written off
plant, etc., In the earlier year. Then special
for depreciation, etc., amounting
to £25,025, was made at the close of accounts
in 1932. Meanwhile, the ice-cream section
had passed to a subsidiary, another offshoot
had been formed to handle dehydrated fruits
and vegetables, and an assault had been made
upon costs by electrification of the factory
and reorganisation of distributing methods.
Still, declared net earnings fell from 11.6 p.c.
oil capital in 3924 to 7.6 p.c. six years later.
Then slump dried up earnings and divs., and
the outlook for shareholders is not as encour-
aging as it might be. They have never had
much in the way .of divs. After the crash
of the ’nineties, it took IS years for the
rate to climb to 51 p.c. The war provided
uew opportunities, trade was opened up witli
Southern Asia and 10 p.c. was paid for
the three years to 1920. For the next
decade the average, was 7.4 p.c., with little to
spare.
Balance-sheet., movements are encouraging:
1924. 1929. 1932. 1933.
Capital .. e 300,000 €390,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft . . 45-835 79,137 91,521 79,930
Mortgages, etc. 17.000 25,900 24,000 15,500
Other debts.. 48,405 49,562 23,882 21,529
Fixed assets. . 326,778 400,920 343,560 329,546
Shares other eos. 674 591 48,716 48,71*
Stocks' .. 108,211 97,847 40,109 30,265
Book debts, etc. 92,732 53,667 98,391 103,029
Cash .. .. 307 254 232 237
Last- year £11,591 was knocked off the over-
draft, £B5OO off mortgages and £2353 off the
amount coining to sundry creditors. To do
this and carry an extra £4638 of book debts,
fixed assets were by £14,014 and
stocks by £9844. WScn the books closed, the
more or less liquid including stocks,
amounted to £16.572, an improvement of
£17,243 over the twelvemonth.
There are 100,000 profs,, 6 p.c. cumulative,
which advance with the ords. beyond that
rate. They fetch 16s. 6d. in the market.
The ords. are priced at 6s. 6d. The book
value of the net tangible cover is £3 18s. 4d.
prefs., and 295. 2d. ords.; all in plant, etc.,
worth what it can earn.
Westralian. T., E, and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Api'il, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1926.. 5623 15 p.c. = 4350 1273 59,061
Share premiums,- £6254 . . . . 65,315
1927.. 6981 15 p.c. = 7026 . 05,270
1928.. 7422 15 ~ „ 7439 —. 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 ~ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written off investments, £2500. . ■ 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931. . 6816 10 p.c. = 4959. 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off invesements, £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = ■ 2976 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
Broadly, earnings are derived from (1)
corpus and other commissions in the trustee
and agency section, and (2) returns frdni
the co.’s own funds. At the close of last
accounts there was visibly £63,582 assisting
£49,593 of paid capital. The lot. together
with £7OO coming to! sundry creditors, was
invested in freehold, etc., £67,247; mort-
gages, £21,570; public securities, etc..
£16,305 ; book debts and cash, £13,130.
Statutory aud other cuts in interest and
rents have resulted in a heavy* shrink-
age in returns from these sources, while
the same causes plus the evaporation
of capital values have affected commission
earnings. For the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts, the contraction in gross
earnings from all sources was £1615, despite
a net growth of £258,819 in the volume of
trusts on hand :
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1921.. £3,253,095 £20,197 £14,093 69.8 p.c
1923.. 3,420,826 22,939 15,912 69.3 „
1925.. 4,039,989 25,548 18,972 74.2 „
1927.. 5,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 ~
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7 „
1933.. 7,181,905 30,975 26,984 87.1 ~
During the year £790,214 of new business
was put on the books, or £99,669 more than
for the previous term; capital distributions
to beneficiaries totalled £531,396. Exes,
were pulled back £1623, notwithstanding the
bigger volume of business, leaving the net
result at 8 p.c. on capital as against 8, 13.7.
17, 16.9, 14.9 and 14 p.c. back to 1927. The
div. was kept at 6 p.c.; and another £lOOO
was written off the book value of invest-
ments. To pay 6 p.c. on capital as it now
stands, the co.’s own funds (capital and re-
serves combined) need net only 2.6 p.c., or
3.5 p.c. to pay an 8 p.c. div. And that is
leaving out of the reckoning whatever profit
there may be from the trust business, the
growth of which can be expected to con-
tinue.
In its early days (it was hatched in 1892)
the co. was able to supplement its trustee
earnings with nice pickings from the agency
business on account of absentees. Reserves
in excess of capital soon accumulated, and
divs. and bonuses together averaged approxi-
mately 15 p.c. for the first quarter of this
century. The bonuses (Is. per share) were
mostly capitalised, £ll,OOO being thus pro-
vided during the 15 years to the end of
Oct., 1925, when the gifts ceased. With
an eye to the future, and to provide funds
for the. erection of new premises, £19,593 of
fresh capital, which brought with it £24,458
of share premiums, has since been- gathered
raising paid capital to its present figure in
123,983 £1 shares paid to Bs.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


‘ITS A GREAT LIFE IF YOU DON’T WEAKEN.”
i
POOR TOM
SURE LOOKS
A WRECK
THESE T>AY$
PONT He?
L —
TERRIBLE- 1 7"
GUESS WEWOMT
SEE HIM AT r"
the party
toniqhtj
<GEE,BUT I'M
ALU INITONIQUT
BETTER HIT THE
Jh-iay right
Sr AWAY
PACKAGE FOR
YOU, TOH-
LOOKS LIKE THE
athaldo book
ALL THE BOYS
round Mere
ARE^ETTINQ
Li
*
t
m
rr=t‘
f
m
4*tfV
i
w
AJ'ff.
B
f\
By R . GORDON.
Hot rocks!
CAN THAT
BE TOM
SHITtfX
YOO-HOO.TO-tA/
COMING TO THE
PARTY?
Si
?A
1
iJ
4
mAi
Vi
m
£
hm>uh
THIRTY
MINUTES
latcr
I Never Put On Muscles
in all my life
THAT’S what one man writes: “I
never put on muscles so fast in
all my life!” And his words are
echoed by thousands of others all
over the world.
MIRACLES WORKED IN
MUSCLES!
Weak men made strong! Puny,
sickly chaps transformed into husky,
broad-shouldered athletes! Man, if
you’ve got an ounce of red blood
in your veins you’re going to find out
about this wonderful way to get
STRONG. All in a few minutes a
day at home. My Free Book tells
the whole amazing story. Send for
it TO-DAY.
A NEW BODY IN 20 MINUTES
A DAY!
Find out how you can be made over!
How you can quickly change into a superb
model of muscular MANHOOD —how you
can develop a powerful athletic build
how you can cover that frame of yours
with rippling layers of solid muscle! Man,
I’m going to fill you so full of glorious pep
and health that you’ll be the life of the
party wherever you go. Read what Ive
done for other men and be happy for
boy, you’re NEXT.
' S'
DON ATHALDO,
Man Maker—once a weakling, now world’s Super-man
oj Strength—who offers £lOOO to any man duplicating
his feats of strength.
**■
Mr. B. — Before.
it .■>39*fg L
H
■ Ik
'/*► *%
Mr. B. —After.
Look at those two pictures! Which ‘is YOU ? A puny, run-down weakling,
scorned by your fellow-men, avoided by the fair sex, ashamed to show yourself
in a bathing suit? Snap out of it, friend! Take a look at that big boy at the
right and cheer up! That’s the way Athaldo builds men. And YOU’RE NEXT.
“Muscles Seem to
Grow Overnight' 1 '
“And I could hardly believe
my own eyes at the great
change you have made in
me,” writes W. Coleman,
Lithgow. “My muscles
grow as fast as the beanstalk
in the story of ‘The Giant
Killer.’ YOU have made a
new man of me.
Let Me Make YOU Over
JUST give me 20 minutes a day,
J that’s all—and WATCH THOSE
MUSCLES GROW! See the amaz-
ing change in 30 days. Man, won t
you be PROUD of those big, rip-
pling muscles! But don t get a
swelled head when you hear the girl
friend raving about your handsome
athletic build.
1 don’t just promise you all these
good things—l GUARANTEE
results. I guarantee to put' a solid
inch of powerful muscle on your
arms, a couple more on your legs
—I guarantee to develop every
muscle in your body in proportion
—to broaden your shoulders and
add 3 inches to your chest —-to strengthen
your internal organs, too —I Guarantee you
new pep, new energy, NEW LIFE.
FACTS—NOT FICTION.
DON’T you BELIEVE that all this is
going to happen to you? Does it
seem too good to be TRUE? just take
another peep at those pictures opposite.
See what it did for that fellow in a few
weeks. That is what it is going to do for
YOU! YOU are going to be another of
those Athaldo-made men miracles in
muscle that the whole physical culture
world is talking about. AND, friend, I
don’t mean MAYBE!
free:
MIRACLES IN MUSCLES
SENT IN PLAIN WRAPPER.
Come on, friend, you’re next! I can’t begin to tell you
here what Athaldo Training has done for thousands of
men —what it will do for you—but my great new book
tells you the whole amazing story. This book will give
you the surprise of your
life—read how weaklings
have been changed into
strong, brawny HE-MEN
—see actual photos, of
magnificent models of
muscular manhood —dis-
cover how EASY it is for
you to get strong. This
glorious book is yours
FREE. Mail that coupon
NOW —no cost, no obli-
gation, no salesman will
bother you. There are no
strings to this offer.
wwrnsrmmmiigAMZ
m
mm'- is w
m BIRfHRiSfIT
r j%
' DON *:
ATHAIOO
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
YOU’RE NEXT! SEND
for my FREE BOOK!
Read now and get the
proof. See what I have
done for thousands of
others, and what I CAN do
for YOU.
ATHALDO
245 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Australia.
Mail This Coupon NOW!
ATHALDO,
245 Pitt Street, Sydney, Australia.
Dear Athaldo, — Okay, send me that won-
derful new book of yours, “Muscular
Power.” Get it to me by return mail
without the slightest cost or obligation
on my part.
SAME
ADDRESS
I
B


n ?STf NTO 1 RS ' Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.uson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.l.— Advt.
™A US rF RAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co.. Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
•v *
__ ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
TESTING of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination.
We advise regarding most suitable method of
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Plow Sheet.
A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO. PTY V LTD.,
Melbourne.
-• >
m
m
■
■
S Jw
m
M
>VN
A
mm
mmm
mm
Ml
Security for the
COUNTRYMAN
A MAN has to do something besides hard work
to win success on the land. He must plan
his finances wisely. He must aim always at
security. Safety first is a good motto, and it is a
wise man who lets an experienced A.M.P. officer
talk over his problems with him, so that he may
achieve security and peace of mind.
Tens of thousands of countrymen are members of
the A.M.P. They cover their risks of mortgage and
of death with A.M.P. policies. They use the Society’s
£90,000,000 worth of assets to back their own
assets.
If you, who read this, will let the nearest A.M.P.
officer tell you of the ways in which the Society can
help you, you will never regret it. You will have
the comfort of knowing that you are getting the best
service obtainable.
AM.P. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
BRANCH OFFICES AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
New policies issued lasl ye ar
£l3, 610 , 3X6
Geologist J. H. Reid’s report on the Great
Northern area, Gympie, resulted in a rush
for leases on this neglected portion of the
famous goldfield. As far back as 1923-24,
the “Wild Cat” drew attention to prospects
here; but gold was then more or less in the
discard, and the field’s fortunes were at a
low ebb. However, a thorough testing is
now assured. Stanley Hudson has pegged
two leases, and he is not likely to lack
cash for their development. The difficulty
was that a dome in the plumbago beds pre-
vented their outcrop on the Great Northern
area; thus there was no surface gold, and
the spot was marked down as barren by the
early miners. The plumbago outcropped
both north and south, with gold at the grass-
roots ; and old Gympie miners still dream
of the slugs got in the Lady Mary and
O’Connell reefs.
* * * *
There has been a reorganisation of Gold
and Rare Metals, Ltd., the British co.
that took over Mt. Wandoo (N.Q.). Alex.
Macdonald resigned and Cliff Rutledge
was appointed manager. Besides super-
vising Jit. Wandoo, he will direct the co.’s
prospecting and developmental activities,
which extend almost to the Gulf. Should the
price of lead strengthen, King Yol may be
developed ; it is a possible producer of some
scale for the Chillagoe furnaces. The Wan-
doo mill has been shut down, and the ores
go to Chillagoe by a fleet of tractors. Recent
values are payable, but they do not approach
the richness first reported.
■t ■■■ * «
Experiments in the treatment of oxidised
copper ores from North Queensland are
being carried out in Jlelbourne by F. M.
Murdoch. Should a commercially success-
ful method of extraction be developed, it is
proposed to erect small plants on the widely
scattered mines in the Cloncurry district.
Here the ore averages 5 p.c. copper or more,
but in no mine is the tonnage sufficient to
justify erection of a large plant. The
Queensland Government has shelled out
£3OOO to help Murdoch in his work, and
Herbert Gepp is keeping a keen eye upon
what happens.
The deep oil bore at Wellington Point,
near Brisbane, recently passed the 3600 ft.
mark. Oil sands are reckoned to be
about 4000 ft. down. The venture has been
supported by Brisbane business and pro-
fessional men who had faith in the machine
that divined the site. Lately, however,
finance has been a difficulty, and the Govern-
ment has given no support. There are still
some enthusiasts who believe that oil
wanders about underground in narrow
streams.
The New Queen’s Cross at Charters
Towers (N.Q.) has been taken up again.
This show, first worked in 1913, was a pro-
fitable producer until 1918, when it closed
owing to labor difficulties. The shaft, sunk
on the underlie to 650 ft., has been cleaned
out and repaired to 200 ft. When the mine
closed, its owners were working a 2ft. wide
reef of more than ounce stone.
For the three months to the end of Mav,
New Guinea Goldfields recovered 61370 z
from the alluvial claims and 33730 z. from
the mill. Additional equipment is now being
installed to enable 150 tons daily to be
handled. The profit for May was £12,000.
:J: :> jj ;
Bulolo Gold Deposits, which is equipping
a sluicing property at the junction of the
Bulolo River and Ivoranga Creek, New
Guinea, has found high-grade wash at levels
from 21ft. to 140 ft. above the river bed.
Check boring is being carried out. The sluic-
ing plant, capacity 100,000 c.y. monthly, will
be in operation before the end of the year.
* * *
A co. has been formed to test the alluvial
on a 45-acre lease at Chinaman Creek, 30
miles from Maleny (Q.), where a lot of gold
was won about 50 years ago. If results
measure up to' expectations a larger co. is to
be formed, and a lOin. sluicing plant
installed.
* * * *
There’s a possibility that the old gold-
mine at Bodangora (N.S.W.) will be re-
opened, John Blekemore having lodged appli-
cations. Old hands maintain that the place is
still rich in minerals The tailings, which
have been cyanided since the show closed
down, turned out to be a profitable invest-
ment.
At Yellow Glen, Yandoit (Vic,), driving
on the 145 ft. level has proved 80ft. of 13dwt.
stone. A 45ft. winze from this level has been
in loz. ore over a width of 6ft Yandoit
was formerly worked for alluvial on a large
scale; one nugget of. 5750 z. and several over
200 oz. were found.
A co. has been formed with a capital of
£7500 to develop the New Star at Harriet-
ville (Vic.). The main adit is to be ex-
tended in the hope of picking up parallel
reefs. A five-head battery, operated by
water power, is available.
Aus'tral Malay is hand-boring a large
area in the Savage River district (Tas.).
It has taken options from the President
Mining Development Co. over country
measuring about 24 miles by 20 miles. This
includes a new belt, containing tin, gold and
osmiridium, which has never been thoroughly
prospected.
An important find of fluorspar has been
made 35 miles north of Mannahill (S. Aus.).
The vein is 3ft. wide, and is being open-
cut over a distance of 30ft. The mineral
worth £3 per ton, is used as a flux in steei
manufacture and in pottery work. Fluorspar
also occurs in the Chillagoe district (N.Q.)
where 1220 tons was produced in 1931
and at Carboona (N.S.W.) and Walwa
(Vic.).
* Sj« .j.
With the completion of the 10-head Gov-
ernment battery there has been increased
activity on the Jlongolata goldfield (S
Aus.). Operations are in progress in
13 separate localities, and some rich parcels
have been crushed. To date Byles Mongo-
lata has won 6710 z. from 330 tons; Curlew
Gold, 2400 z. from 15$ tons; Takati Gold.
970 z. from 47 tons. The reefs are narrow
and patchy.
Persistent reports on Adelaide 'Change and
elsewhere that Lake View could not long
maintain present tonnage or grade have drawn
the fire of general-manager Thorn. He de-
clares (1) that no difficulty is being ex-
perienced in finding present tonnage or
grade for the mill, and (2) that the grade
of ore produced for the first eleven months
of the co.’s present financial year was
approximately 2s, a ton above that of the
average for the mine (345.). Efficient plant
and mine development have made possible
the treatment of ore that could not other-
wise have been worked. Thorn is no believer
in selective mining. H'is method is to take
everything as it comes, so long as the grade
in the aggregate is sufficient to show a profit.
Since he took up the reins in 1929,
monthly treatment figures ha ye stepped up
from 15,000 tons to 44,616 tons for May last,
when the average return was 445. per ton
(Australian currency) ; the profit was
£46,497 compared with £42,968 for April.
Great Boulder has fixed the site for its
new 12,000-tons-a-month. treatment plant,
which it hopes to have installed and running
in 12 months’ time. Official sources in Kal-
goorlie and London are whooping about the
wealth in sight, and what is likely to be
visible in the future. Some shareholders
consider that the future would be more
gilt-edged had the board accepted Lake
View's offer of* two shares for every five
Boulders. They contend that acceptance
would do away with the need for heavy ex-
penditure on new plant and mine prepara-
tion, while a first div. could be paid out of
cash in hand, followed by others from re-
treatment of millions of tons of surface
residues, and finally from a clean-up around
the old plant.
❖ * *
Wilunas have strengthened on reports that
earnings are about to expand, that a 3s. div.
may be declared in August and that ore
reserves have been increased by nearly
2,000,000 tons. Revenue should move up
when the ore treated is lifted in a month
or two to 40,000 tons; but outstanding liabili-
ties make a 3s. distribution doubtful. Ore re-
serves are certainly much greater than they
were 12 months ago, though the average
grade, wffiich has come down, is now probably
under 30s. a ton.
* * * ❖
Goldfields Australian Development, which
has been boring the Moonlight group, Wiluna
(W.A.), has stabbed two ore-bodies, one
wide, assaying 225., and the other 7ft. thick,-
averaging 38s. Years ago 50,000 tons of
ore extracted from shallow workings on the
Moonlight yielded gold valued at £120,000.
About Bs. a ton was left in the tailings.
Hampton Celebration, at Hampton Plains
(W.A.), is reported to have changed hands
for £2OOO. This show, floated in London by
Lionel Robinson Clarke and Co. at the end
of 1919, was responsible for the Hampton
Plains boom in the following year. It was
tipped to do wonders, but didn’t. Portions
of it should pay at the present price of gold.
❖ ❖ ❖ #
Gold-mining has again become profitable
m the Bullfinch area (W.A.). The Bull-
finch, discovered by Dorrie Doolette in 1910.
was for a time one of the richest mines in
the West. It was worked by a London crowd
until 1921, when, after production of about a
million pounds’ worth of bullion, sudden falls
of earth blocked part of the main workings,
and operations ceased.
Wavic Gold Development has crushed 90
tons from the Two Boys at Higginsville
(W.A.) for an average of 9dwt. per ton;
better was expected. The co. will now
extend the east and west drives from No. 4
shaft. The reef is on the underlay, and
three other shafts have been sunk upon it
with fair returns.
Granites Development has something that
might turn out to be worth while in its
North Wiluna lease. This used to be part
of the ’ old Caledonian, Blue Duck, Dark
Horse and Swan leases, which produced a
lot of high-grade stuff in the past. Boiler,
winder, poppet legs and other etceteras have
been railed from Kalgoorlie, preparatory to
unwatering, which will take at least three
weeks. A block of 10,000 tons of payable
ore is said to be ready for stoping.
* * * *
Metals Investigation Pty., Melbourne, is
preparing to sample and drill Lake View
South (W.A.). Extensive surface and
repair work, however, will have to be carried
out before underground operations are under-
taken. The owner, Dr. C. W. Laver, has
just crushed another 25 tons of ounce ore.
# $ $ *f;
. What may result in a much-needed addi-
tion to South Kalgurli’s ore reserves is the
stabbing of what is believed to be a continua-
tion of Great Boulder Prop.’s “X” lode on
the 1500 ft. level. Here the drill has dis-
closed a lode sft. wide, assaying Gdwt.
Driving has commenced.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is to extend
its bromo-cyanide plant in order to treat the
North Kalgurli Co.’s ore. At present about
2000 tons of this ore is treated each month
at the South Kalgurli mill. Boulder’s plant
capacity at the moment is about 7500 tons
monthly.
* =:-• * *
After inspecting numerous shows. West-
ralian Gold Development, a Melbourne syn-
dicate, has optioned J. A. Smith’s lease, 33
miles south of Wiluna. The property has
been worked to 100 ft.,. where two new
lenses of ore assayed from 14dwt. to 2|oz
per ton. It is hoped to intercept the lenses
by a crosscut from the south workings.
* * *
The third expedition to discover Whelan’s
alleged Eldorado in the Livesey Ranges has
returned to Kalgoorlie empty handed. It
is asserted that, when within two days of the
spot where Whelan said he found gold last
August, the members of the party so
violently disagreed with one another that
the lot were forced to return. The public
has now ceased to take much interest in
these jaunts.
* * *
To fill the vacancy created by the death
of Leslie Urquhart, the Earl Castlestewart
has been elected chairman of Mining Trust!
the London corporation which controls Mt
Isa Mines and New Guinea Goldfields Ltd
He has also been appointed to the London
board of each of these companies. Those
who know him well, say he has a brilliant
mind. The Earldom (Irish) was created in
1800, and the present Earl is the seventh.
He served throughout the war, obtained an
M.C. and is a Conservative M.P.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.W.8.: It is unlikely that a well-established
office would taka over the liabilities, unless sufficient
tangible assets, producing the desired annual income,
were transferred with them. Still, a deal might be
arranged on the basis of a modification of policy
contracts; much would depend upon the extent of the
drift. If contracts could not be transferred, what
policy-holders would get in the event of liquidation
would depend upon what the assets fetched J. 8.:
Stay where you are.... J.W.W. t Accounts reviewed
B. 21/12/’32 and “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” January,
1933 .... J.J.C.: (1) No. (2) Nobody can say
definitely at the moment. (3) Discuss the matter
with a representative of one of the well-established
offices; one that is paying regular bonuses....
F.S.R.S.: Keep the letter saying that your scrip
would be forfeited, and sit tight R.E.H.: (1)
South British bought Eastern United Assurance Corp.
in 1923. (2) and (3) Any name can be used which
does not infringe title of another co. Ask Registrar-
General in your own State if another co. is registered
under name proposed. (4) It may be more than
sufficient, provided preliminary exes, can be kept
down, and that depends upon management.....
Worried: Owner should return the bonds, state the
facta and sit tight... .W.A.F.: A very doubtful in-
\ estment. Lake View, Boulder or Norseman offer
better prospects... .F.S.W. (if looks like) : You may
have to pay unemployment-relief tax; otherwise
it is not taxable.


* WhATS the new BOOK-KEEPEk UKE ?"
* Thev tell me she can cook anvthing
EXCEPT accounts"
"Mo, she hasn't MUCH
OHj But HER BAlao
ORSSS'HGi IS DR.SAM.
HO HeL-EIN WILLS, \s> she ? St\ll. / she
CAN TOSS P/ANCA.W'E WITH THE BEST OF THEM •
DEAR
ONLV SE-TTtNGj RESHIPE
FROM fer
WUNNERFUL CPtSS
SHE MAKES?
VVhat \s it that makes
Marv so popular
" Oh ; she mixes q^king-
POWDER VVITH HER
COSMETICS''
" I HEA.R? VOUV6 LEFT THE WIPE
* SHE COULOmt SVEN Boil.
?
NOTHING ELSE MATTERS MUCH.


SHADOW SHOWS.
Gary Cooper seems destined to star in
films which make those who know anything
of the war, and of the way it was waged, grin
in the wrong - places. In the movie version
of “A Farewell to Arms,” at the Prince
Edward, this magnificent specimen of Ameri-
can humanity—one who would have been
jumped at by any combatant unit of the
A.E.F. —is seen playing for safety as a Red
Cross officer six months after his native
land ca.me into the war; and Caporetto
is described as “a glorious Italian victory”!
Gary finds himself near enough to the
danger zone on one occasion to get wounded
while sheltering in a roadside dug-out; but
for the rest ho lives as safely as Red Cross
oflicers did on other fronts. As in his other
war films he appears to have no C. 0., and
he spends most of his time making love. The
only farewells this soklierly-looking star ever
makes to arms appear to. be to the arms
of infatuated females. Helen Hayes plays
the nurse who has a child by him. and dies.
She is more like a war-time nurse in appear-
ance and ways than most of the Hollywood
beauties who have moved exquisitely amid
scenes of slaughter in previous war films,
but her behavior is as hard to swallow as
his. Adolphe Menjou, as the Italian doctor,
is just Adolphe Menjou in different clothes.
Anyone who wants emotionalism in full
measure and brimming over will have no
cause to complain; the picture is a
most harrowing affair. But that is all
there is to it. The dialogue of Hemingway’s
novel and everything that gave significance
and life to the action have been censored
to pieces, leaving little but rancid sentimen-
talism and a lamentable hero. There are
one or two original touches about the photo-
graphy, but the scenic sequences are surpris-
ingly bad. The mountain scenery should be
compared with that in “Tell Me To-night”
by anyone who wants to learn the difference
between the carpenter’s and Nature’s art.
* * *
“Lawyer Man,” at the Regent, is another
smack in the eye for New York’s answer
to the Sydney Inner Group. William Powell,
when first seen, is a slum lawyer. He wears
loud suits, winks vulgarly at strange girls
and is kept in order with difficulty ,by his
devoted typist Joan Blondell. A lawyer with
a superior practice, socially speaking, takes
him into partnership. He immediately be-
comes the William Powell of so many previ-
ous films—suave, dapper, a credit to any
restaurant party. But villains pursue him.
He narrowly escapes being convicted of
blackmail, and is thrown over by his aristo-
cratic partner; and next a boss tries to make
use of him for political ends. The boss even-
tually offers Powell a Judgeship, but he is
through. He wants to be his own man; to
figure again in the role of champion of the
poor but dishonest. The boss sends a couple
of bashers to discipline him in the interests
of solidarity. He hasn’t been reasoning with
the idiots for five minutes (there is an ap-
palling amount of talk in this talkie, by
the way) before they are literally eating out
of liis hand—the provender which they de-
vour like famished animals being cake. The
boss confronts him with two more sup-
porters of the movement, but the first pair,
who by now are his devoted adherents, enter
opportunely with drawn gats and create a
stalemate. _ And so he goes back to the old
life of service among the oppressed, a better
democrat for his experiences of the ways of
the master class; and staunch Joan Blondell
gets her reward.
The picture is nearly all William Powell,
but in this kind of movie audiences
can’t have too much of him. Hollywood’s
representations of political chiefs and crimi-
nal-court officials may be as unreliable as its
war films, but they seem right to the un-
initiated ; and no one is more convincing,
whether as prosecutor or defender (shyster
or otherwise), than Mr. Powell.
The basic, or key, joke of “A Lady’s Pro-
fession” is that the. bootleggers are Roland
Young- as an English baronet and Alison
Skipworth as his sister —one of those arro-
gantly stupid old Mayfairites who, in
movies, bring off bi’illiant business coups to
the confusion of business men. In this one
she gets rid of the family speakeasy just as
it is raided by the police. The English
sequences are absurd, as usual; a mongrel
pack of hounds, with a field dressed in “rat-
catchers,” jumping American post-and-rail
fences.
Roland Young is a hunting squire who,
when he drops his hat and his hunter
stands on it, doesn’t know how to make the
animal lift its foot. However, the action
doesn’t really start till he opens a night
club in a New York stable, with the ser-
vants dressed in hunt liveries to remind him
of home, and allows Miss Skipworth to help,
and gets drunk with George Barbier, the
millionaire father of a young American who
is in love with his strangely un-English
daughter, Sari Maritza.
The gangsters are refreshingly ridiculous.
If Roosevelt hadn’t half-ruined a great
underworld industry by legalising beer
the talkies would probably have laughed
America’s bootleggery away as quickly
as Cervantes laughed away Spain’s chiv-
alry. Things have come to such a
pass in Sydney that the mere appearance
of a steely-eyed thug with a hand thrust
menacingly into his coat pocket is the signal
for. loud sniggers. The contrast between the
strident imbecilities of the gangsters and
the well-bred composure of the English law-
breakers makes “A Lady’s Profession” a
great farce.
•¥ * *
“Man of Action,” at the Haymarket, is a
Western which has been given a generous
transfusion of detective blood. Ranger Tim
McCoy arrives in town just after the bank
has been robbed, a rancher friend shot—one
should mention that deceased was her father
—the robber killed and the moneybag recov-
ered, with nothing in it but stones. Before
Tim solves the mystery there are another
murder and sundry other happenings that
would have made anyone less dauntless than
himself decide to let the rascally sheriff solve
his own mystery. Still a pretty face (it
belongs in this case to Caryl Lincoln) has
over meant more to Tim than a bad man’s
bullets, so he goes right ahead. Reflection
during intermission : Why can’t the N. S.
Wales Labor party get hold of a cleaner-up
of Mr. McCoy’s calibre?
The other is an English football film,
“The Great Game.” The football, especi-
ally the Cup tie final at Wembley, is
interesting—also understandable for a
change. But the technique is woefully old-
fashioned. Randle Ayrton is chairman of
directors of the Stockford F.C. and anxious
to hire Jack Cook as centre forward. Neil
Kenyon, the manager, wants to play inex-
perienced John Batten in this important
position. Ayrton has His way, Kenyon re-
signs, and by half-time a starkly tragic posi-
tion has been created. The other side is a
goal ahead. Batten and Cook change places,
Stockford wins, and everybody is happy—
100re particularly Batten and Renee Clama,
Kenyon’s daughter. Every Soccer player
should have a look at it.
If future archaeologists delve into the
records of the first third of the twentieth
century and find some well-preserved talkie
films, they’ll probably get more delectation
from a few hundred yards of Mickey the
Mouse than from miles of Hollywood and
Elstree drama. Sydney Capitol has on its
current bill “Whoopee Party”—jazz, visually
translated with a wealth of weird humor
and imagination. The rhythm is magnificent.
“Soldiers of the Storm,” is a racketeer-
cwm-airplane-stunt drama in which Regis
Toomey undoes gangster Robert Ellis and his
(Top to bottom, left to right ) : William Powell in Lawyer Man” at Sydney Regent.
Warren Hymer, Alison Skipworth and Roland Young in "A Lady’s Profession”
at the Regent. Karen Morley in “The Phantom of Crestwood ” at Sydney
Capitol. Adolphe Menjou, Helen Hayes and Gary Cooper in “A Farewell to
Arms” at Sydney Prince Edward.
henchman Wheeler Oakman, and wins the
love of Anita Page, whose dad was silly
enough to get into the racket and be bumped
off. The air.stunts aren’t very convincing,
but the villains are dished with satisfying
emphasis.
“The Phantom of Crestwood” is based on
a type of detective story which Mary Roberts
Rinehart pioneered in the U.S.A. Poe.
Conan Doyle and other effete practitioners of
the craft of mystcry-mongoring were content
to. slue the public off on one false trail.
Miss Rinehart won fame by her ability to
juggle with six suspects, and “The Phantom
of Crestwood” carries the business of per-
mutations and combinations to the 13th
degree. Karen Morley was a gold-digger of
a particularly objectionable type, and that
she. met a violent end is not surprising. The
police of Hollywood and Los Angeles, though
given all the clues, couldn’t solve the identity
of the killer, and that isn’t surprising, either.
In these cases the author seems to take the
names out of a hat just before the fade-out.
However, the thing is well done H. B.
Warner, Pauline Frederick, Ricardo Cortez,
Anita Louise and others do their darnedest
to give the business an atmosphere of cir-
cumstantiality, and they succeed in making
some of the scenes very creepy.
Sundry Shows
, The Seyler-Haiinen co. kept the best apple
in its basket till the end of its Sydney sea-
son. ‘The Cat’s Cradle.” by Aimee and
Philip Stuart,, which opened at the Cri. on
Thursday, is. a neat piece of stagecraft and
an ideal vehicle for Athene Seyler’s powers,
both comic and tragic. The story, which
maintains its interest from curtain-rise to
denouement and rises to considerable
dramatic heights in the second act, is told
simply and naturally. There is no strain-
ing after “brilliancy” of dialogue—of all
boredom on earth this Showman finds a
parade of the cynical epigrams of Bright
Young Things the most devastating—no lug-
ging-in of improbable coincidences; no im-
possible conversions of character. Hester
Hastings, played with unforgettable intensity
by Maureen O’Moor, is the aggressive Chris-
tian-martyr type of hypocrite, and stays true
to type. Miss Seyler’s Angela Fane is a
cheery, good-hearted actress whose course
is so confidently steered between the Seylla
of farce and the Charybdis of melodrama
that nobody notices till afterwards that she
was tight-rope-walking. John Longden's
Michael Hastings, Christopher Hassal’s John
Hastings, Margery Caldicott’s Miss Matehem,
Sydney Bland’s fisherman and Cecily Clar-
ence’s flapper are all nicely drawn. Nicholas
Hannon is out of the cast, but stays on
duty behind as producer.
¥ ¥ ¥
Listening to “Collits’ Inn” (the Varney
Monk-Stuart Gurr play), which came over
the air to most of Australia last week, this
Showman got the impression that the thing
could be made into a very acceptable music-
talkie show. The rugged scenery of the Blue
Mountains, the historic flavor of the story
and incidents such as the fight between the
two rivals should all make good film ingredi-
ents. The music is, on the whole, better than
that of most imported musical comedies and
Howard Carr’s orchestral scoring is up to
the high standard he attained in “The Lihm
Domino.” The book needs revising, and there
is room for more humor. At present the
laughs arc fished for by a half-wit, and it's
difficult to laugh at the mentally infirm.
However, the plot is good and the working
out satisfactory.
¥ ¥ ¥
Ernest C. Rolls’s new revue, “Tout Paris,”
at Melb. Princess is a production on the usual
Rolls lines —a multiplicity of scenes and
costume changes, and a vast display of bare
legs. What it’s all about nobody seems to
care. In one of the scenes, billed as “The
Birth of Melody,” a single dancer, accom-
panied by a tom-tom, first takes the stage.
Then Beethoven, Liszt and other shaggy-
haired musical giants of the past come into
view amid 'white cliffs each side of the stage,
seated at grand pianos. They join in a
melody played by the orchestra, and gradu-
ally a couple of harpists and a number of
violinists, with whom are associated angels
with silver wings and golden trumpets, slip
into the picture and swell the volume of
sound. The ballet, in frothy white draperies,
dances madly as the tempo quickens, and
at last the dancers fall exhausted. Among
the principals of the show are Clarkson Bose,
.Tack and Sylvia Kellaway, Betty Kent,
Ambrose Barker and Peggy ,Wynn.
Scott Alexander’s New Sydney Reper-
torians Staged “The Way You Look At If’
at their Kont-strect playhouse on Saturday
evening. The play is of the sort that leaves
the audience guessing as to the author’s
intentions. It's about a young man who
becomes a gigolo, but renounces the fife after
meeting a noble-minded maiden. As the
high-souled damsel refuses to have anything
to do with him, his spurning of his patroness
brings him no profit. William Gates and
Millie Finns played the leading roles satis-
factorily, supported by Alan Stone, Francis
Corvm and Frances Cottingham.
V * #
Following, on the fading out of Theo
Shall’s endeavor to make Melbourne’s Gar-
rick Theatre a centre of the higher dramatic
culture, F. W. Thring, of Efftee Films, has
leased the playhouse for six months. He
proposes to run an Australian co. in a series
of modern plays, Gregan McMahon producer,
with an eye to the selection of likely film
subjects ami players.
* * *
Madame Anna Elischer was heard at Mel-
bourne’s Assembly Hall in a group of Schu-
mann works—“Aufscliwung,” the F Sharp
Major Romance, and “Widmung,” the last-
nameu in the Liszt transcription. The lady,
who is nearing 70, showed that she can still
play with great charm, and her audience
clamored for more.
Adelaide Repertory scored a success in
humor with its short-play evening. James
Hennon and Ruby Skinner (a new recruit)
were prominent in an idyll bv lan Hay. But
then the house settled down to probably the
loudest laughter in its history. With Muriel
.Marks m top form in a turgid husband-lover-
aud-rcvolvers play, Thomas Nave (who acts
too little nowadays) rose in the stalls to
announce himself as the author and demand
better acting. The subsequent riot ended
u itu the stage-hands removing the furniture.
.1 he playlet, “Same Old Thing,” of American
origin, should prove a boon to amateurs.
* * *
Adelaide Royal is waking up for the
winter. Clicfalo’s magic and a variety co.
ha\e been in; and now Nellie Bramley and
f mh a ,t’e starting a season, “Mrs. Chcyney”
being the hrst item.
* * *
Public interest' in young Philip Hargrave
having shown very little sign of slackening,
las Sydney season has been extended yet
another week. The little pianist makes his
final bow at the Town Hall on Saturday
mght. On the same evening the Seyler-
Hannen co. will wind up its season at the
On. The Rolls revue “Honi Soit” will then
vacate the Royal in favor of the Cri. John
Brownlee’ is booked for a recital at the
Assembly Hall, Margaret-street, on July 8.
ami ‘Music in the Air” arrives at Sydney
Royal on the same evening, under the Firm’s
banner.
¥ * *
“Hold My Hand” continues to bold the
stage lit Molb. Royal, and the Rolls show
1 out Paris ’ entertains patrons of the Prin-
cess. Dante, after a phenomenally Ion"
season for a conjuror, is packing up his 100
crates at the King’s as this paper goes to
press, but lovers of magic can switch their
attention to Chefalo, who is at the Palace.
At the Tiv. Jim Gerald is dishing up “Oh,
Mum. ’
V- * y.
In Hubert Wilkins the Taits will offer
Australia something new in virtuosi. The
Australian explorer will start a lecture tour
in Melbourne in September. After stumping
the Commonwealth and M.L., he will set off
for the Antarctic for fresh material.
Poverty Point
“Loud. : “lie ,Wanted Adventure,” at
London Saville, the successful musical ver-
sion of ‘Ambrose Applejohn,” has two in-
i crests for Australia. Marie Burke is the
heroine and half the music is by Jack
Waller.
“Helga”: Nellie Mortyne, now playing - a
part in Pat Hanna’s latest film production
at Efftee studios, claims to be the oldest Aus-
tralian actress still in the game. She is
72. Miss Mortyne first appeared with
Jennie Lee. Since then she has been asso-
ciated with companies headed by Nat Good-
win, Beerbohm Tree, George Alexander and
other famous stars in various parts of the
world.
“L.H.P.”; The Australian dramatist got
a look-in during the 46 years of existence of
the recently-closed Sydney Her Majesty's.
Sir Gilbert Parker, then plain mister, and
a Sydney scribe, had his “Faust” and “The
Vendetta” produced there. Two parsons sup-
plied plays, “Joseph of Canaan,” by the Rev.
George Walters, and “Parsifal,” by the Rev.
Hilhouse Taylor. Others were “A Transvaal
Heroine” and “To the West,” by Alfred
Darapier; “The Crimson Thread,” by George
Darrell; “Face to Face,” by Fred Wright;
“Her Good Name,” by B. Espinasse; and
“Matsa” and sundry pantos., by Bert Royle.
The only made-in-Australia opera was
“Tapu,” by Arthur Adams and Alfred Hill.
“Metronome”; After attending all the
Sydney recitals given by young Philip Har-
grave, I’m beginning to understand why so
many talented young musicians who come
before the public at an early age either die
young or fail to fulfil the promise of their
adolescence. Recitals involve a severe strain
on the nerves of the performer, and to put
that strain three times a week on a child
of ten, keeping him out of bed till a late hour,
must be harmful. At each recital the boy is
induced to extend the number of his encore
performances, until, towards the end of his
season, he was called upon practically to
duplicate his programme. One can’t quarrel
with the audiences, whose only w'ay of show-
ing exceptional appreciation is by prolong-
ing their applause. A note on the pro-
gramme or a word from the platform at the
outset of each concert should be sufficient.
“B Double Flat”: “Criticaster’s” supposi-
tion (B. 31/5/’33) that, the origin of a
musical composition is to be found in “some-
thing in the composer’s external world or in
his own subjective self or in both together"
sets me remembering. Most of the composers
I have known, and my experience has been
severely limited, since I have lived most of my
life in Maorilaud. had one worth-while opus
to their credit’. The one worth-while com-
position was produced in only two instances
out of seven by a person who had been
through drill in the mathematics of harmony
and counterpoint.- The others, having no
more acquaintance with music than is pos-
sessed by the non-theoretic student, were able
to produce a passable accompaniment to
their respective melodies by purely empiri-
cal means, as the scientists would say. pro-
viding proof of Schumann’s dictum that
what sounds right must be right. But none
of my seven had any record of having con-
scientiously endeavored to produce a musical
composition. The history in every case was
the same. The melody just “came.” It
haunted them until they simply felt com-
pelled to write it down. They played it to
their own intimate cii’cle, found it accepted
as original and interesting, and then, gener-
ally because some authority said they should,
sought a publisher and were astonished to
find that they had produced something worth
printer’s ink. In only three cases was the
melody coupled to words, in lyric form. The
others are styled, respectively, “March. ’
“Intermezzo.” “Valse” and “Bbrceuse” —the
last-named because somebody not the com-
poser suggested that ns an apn-opriate ex-
planation of the composition.


CHEMIST TELLS RECIPE FOR FAMILY
COUGH REMEDY.
HELP PEOPLE SAVE MONEY.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading
chemist, that will enable people to make the
best family cough remedy, and at the same
time save much money. Everybody knows
that a good cough and influenza remedy
consists of two main sections:—
The first section is the undiluted med-
icinal ingredients; and the second is, of
course, the necessary water and sweetening.
The preparation of "the medicinal ingredi-
ents requires trained knowledge, but the
water and sweetening can be added in the
home just as easily as in the pharmacy.
And you save a lot of money by doing so.
Now, prove these facts by trying this
HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either
treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and a large
breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till
dissolved, and when the syrup is quite
cold pour into a large bottle, and then add
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior in
quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy, but,
if purchased in the usual way, would cost
up to £l. An outstanding feature about
HEENZO is the fact that it is a safe
remedy for babies as well as. adults, and
over 12,000 people have written letters
proclaiming it the best remedy they have
ever used for quickly banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, and influenza. —
Advt.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
TULY ISSUE ON SALE NEXT
SATURDAY.
The World Conference.
What Will Be the Outcome?
Is Depreciation of Currency the
Way Out?
Tariffs, Trade, Exchange and Prices.
The Public Finances.
More About Forestry Bonds.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the July issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
• Svdney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
I+'
LINCOLN MEMORIAL, near the
capital city of Washington, D.C.
,Here is enshrined the memory of
America's martyred President.
a Picureioaue ol inApiAaturti
WHATEVER the traveller seeks, that may he
find between America's wide-spaced coasts.
THE GRANDEUR OF NATURE? Cloud-wrapped peaks that
stud the Great Divide . . . the solemn splendour of Yosemite . . .
changeling hues that softly paint the desert . . . the river Missis-
sippi, that halves a nation . . . the stillness of the Everglades!
THE PROGRESS OF MAN? Skyscraping buildings, ever reach-
ing upward . . . Hoover Dam, that bottles energy . . . Los Angelo;
harbour, dredged from land . . . mountains tunnelled and rivers
bridged . . . mines that plumb the earth, and beacons that light
the sky!
CITIES? San Francisco, Bohemian hill-dweller . . . mile-high
Denver . . . Kansas City and her spreading parks . . . the roaring
Loop that dominates Chicago . . . Boston, cradle of history . . .
exquisite Washington, and scintillant New York, the climax!
America’s railways reach them all! They offer travel at its
modern zenith of luxury, comfort, convenience, and pleasure.
Frequent trains, splendidly appointed, with Pullman sleepers,
renowned dining car service, maid and valet, join every point of
interest on rapid schedule, permit generous stop-overs, and stress
economy to its utmost!
America may be reached in similar luxury aboard the “Mari-
posa” and “Monterey,” swift, new Matson-Oceanic liners, linking
the Antipodes with California. Fascinating stops at New Zealand,
Fiji. Samoa and Hawaii. Your choice of routes across America
from San Francisco or Los Angeles. Trans-America is the shortest
ivay to England!
in the World’s Spotlight International Exposition
chicaco, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933. America invites you to visit this W or Id’s Fair.
Incredible reality! The sky-line of
New York. A water-level view from
under the famoui Brooklyn Bridge.
■
S: 'ljl
mm
MATSON-OCEANIC LINE
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RITRE A IJ
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY - PHONE 87981-3
Historically famous PLYMOUTH ROCK, on which
the Pilgrim Fathers first set foot in the New World
Business, Robbery, etc.
“O’Campbell”: The first week in -Tune
saw over £1360 paid out by the skinbuyers
in our northern N.S.W. centre for one Satur-
day’s rabbit-skin harvest. The following
Thursday the police station was idle on dole
day instead of looking like a talkie palace.
Highest price was 2s. 3d. per pound; aver-
age, about Is. 9d. The local labor agent
provides traps, and all decent chaps have
a chance of getting paddocks from graziers.
$ $ ♦
“Winfelice”: Tell “Marsh” (B. 7/6/ 33)
outback, graziers ore getting the benefit of
the Winton (Q.) Fellmongering Co.’s enter-
prise. Graziers sending their skins to the
works for sale arc relieved of all charges,
freight rates and attendant expenses. The
co. is drawing supplies from points as dis-
tant as Cloncurry, .Charters Towers and
Blackall; it pays net prices equal to, and in
many instances over, those paid on the Bris-
bane market for sheepskins. The present
number of employees is 17.
* * * *
“Fire Piston” : Two Australians, Chapman
and Sherack, of Sydney, have evolved an im-
proved Diesel engine which has passed tests
satisfactorily. The difficulty of starting
the ordinary Diesel engine because of its high
compression is overcome. Compression is
lowered by allowing air to escape into a
container; then, with' a splash of petrol and
a magneto spark, the engine is started by
cranking. The speed developed enables revs,
to reach the normal. The engine is of 15
h.p. and running costs are claimed to be
about 4d. per hour.
“Jaggery”: The Chadbourne plan for the
restriction of the sugar output by. agreement
among the producing countries is arousing
hopes in Australia, where the exportable
surplus this year is estimated at 225,000
tons. It is expected, in Queensland particu-
larly, that the result will be an increase in
prices above the £8 ss. received in 1932,
for world consumption promises this year
to exceed production. The plan provides
for the segregation of several million tons of
excess sugar stocks for five years. Under
it production has been reduced by 4,000,000
tons in the last two years among tlm parties
to the agreement, and further reductions are
anticipated.
* *
“Cutter”: India has gone in for. sugar
production once more. -Since 1930 its im-
ports of sugar machinery-have increased five-
fold, with the result that imports of sugar
have been halved, this being helped by the
recent doubling of duties. Thus India is
ceasing to be ‘ a customer for outside pro-
ducers and threatens to become a formidable
rival to them on the world’s markets.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: After having them ratified
by P.P. Boards, N.S.W. farmers may
apply to the Advances to Settlers Board for
loans at 3 p.c. for purchase of wire and
netting and hire of labor to erect rabbit-
proof fences. This money comes from unem-
ployed-relief funds. As a contributor, I
urge that a condition of the loans be a stipu-
lation that the borrower buy only Aus-
tralian-made fencing; materials. Any objec-
tion?
❖ * * *
“Eureka” : Thousands of tickets in every
lottery that is drawn are made up of shil-
ling shares which are retailed by agents.
For his bob the speculator gets a seventh
share; the agent makes Is. 9d. on every
ticket. It should be a simple matter for
the lottery office to sell these one-seventh
shilling shares itself. An extra Is. 9d. on
every full ticket sold in this way would be
a godsend to the hospitals.
* * * *
“Mark Patch”: Makers of shoes give too
much attention to “style” and too little to
“fit.” In other countries ishoes can be
bought up to five fittings; but, apart from
two or three high-priced lines, _ Australian
factories do not make shoes in fittings. Hence
perhaps the number of chiropodists you see
about. Ten years ago they were scarce. To-day
every public building of any size in our cities
has a foot specialist among its tenants, while
practically all departmental stores have a
special section for the treatment of crocked-
up feet.
* $ * *
“D.P.”: Recent Bulletin comment on
the time-payment system reminds one that
its ramifications are ever extending. America
introduced the time-payment funeral and
time-payment babies. The latest is the time-
payment cow, which has made its bow in the
hard-headed North of England. Small farmer's
needing stock pay a deposit on Strawberry
in the usual way and so much a week. The
cow is theirs for milking, but, as in the
case of other t.-p. purchases, it cannot be
sold until all the payments are met.
* * * *
“Hyram” : Links between Church and Stage
were strengthened when St. Joseph’s College
(Sydney) bought the marble staircase of
Her Majesty’s and part of the marble walls
of the foyer for £33 10s. The material is
to go into a chapel at the seminary. _ The
auction of the fittings of the old building
was a melancholy affair, bidders being few.
The fine wrought-iron gates which used to
adorn the portals of the _ theatre went for
455. a pair—less than their value as scrap-
iron. There was a little more competition
for the palatial brass railings on the main
staircase, which brought 665.
* * * *
“Coaldust”: Again we are promised “petrol
from coal” —at “a production cost of three-
pence a gallon” this time. I wish it were
true, but it is rubbish. London “Economist”
has been investigating the subject, and is
satisfied that it would cost 9d. a gallon at the
works to produce petrol equal in quality to
commercial petrol; tha t U.S.A. petrol could be
landed in the Thames for 3sd.; and that ‘coal
petrol could not be commercially sold unless
it were exempt from British excise of Bd. a
gallon.” The need for developing our
liquid-fuel resources, natural or by-product,
is self-evident; but the good cause is not
assisted by the circulation of gaudy stories
about the projected establishment of a plant
to treat 1000 tons of bituminous coal a day
for an output of 60,000,000 gallons of petrol
a year “at threepence a gallon.”


LEATHER
LUMBER
JACKET
40
TS
JO
O WEA
BRISBANE
BROWN CHROME-
m
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wra. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
. HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With othces at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all eeneral hanking business.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
è
30th JUNE,
1933.
A Census will be taken of all persons in the Commonwealth on the night
between Thursday, 29th June, and Friday, 30th June, 1933.
A Collector will deliver the Census Schedules at every Dwelling, but any
person who has not received the necessary Census Form on or before
Thursday, 29th June, is required to report at once to the nearest Post
Office or Police Station.
E. T. McPHEE, Commonwealth Statistician.
PENALTY--^lO
For refusing to supply
the required information :
&50
For untrue
statement.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
>?v-
Vl l * '
■■■RH , JM|l
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
■ 122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
ABNORIGINALOTIES
f ine : Another deer in N.S.W. National
lark has come to a curious end. Some time
ago two were found dead with interlocked
horns: the horns were firmly lashed together
with a long piece of fencing wire, which
could only have been entangled
during the fight. In the recent
case, the deer had its head trapped
in one of the rubbish receptacles
placed about the picnic spaces.
The poor brute had evidently been
nosing after breadcrusts and got
its horns caught in the wire-net-
ting. When found it whs in the river,
drowned, having obviously backed in
during its struggles to free itself.
ThE HIC-CIDENT!
Elephant (to salesman ): “I got the hic-coughs!”
“Spare Volt”: Those little tits in the tea-
tree (B. 14/G/’33) who were saved from a
marauding hawk when his wings caught in
the electric-light wires above the nest —-not
insulated, apparently, since he was frizzled
up—have reason to be thankful for their
up-to-date parents. But it is wonderful
how progressive birds are. At the end of last
autumn I noticed that the swallows which
make such a mess of my station verandah
seemed to be lingering unduly long. That
afternoon I turned on the radio and the
first number was Franz Abt's “When the
Swallows Homeward Fly.’’ Next morning
'here wasn’t a swallow in sight, only a dim
'•loud on the northern horizon.
“Homfrey Beale’’: The Apricot
Shearing at Gingie station in the
Walgett (N.SiW.) district is
still talked of by the ancients.
The cook had quarrelled with and
sacked his two assistants, engag-
ing a couple of swaggies camped
near by in their places. A few
days later he was called to town
as witness in a court case. “I
won’t, be back till late—give ’em
apricots for pudden,” was his
parting injunction. Obediently,
in the afternoon, the slushies took
a 561 b. bag of dried apricots from
the stores, and, emptying the con-
tents into a huge swinging boiler,
put it to boil. As the fruit began
to swell, the excess was trans-
ferred to a kero.-tin, also put to
boil. The swelling went on till
every tin in the camp was filled.
The cook was a man who
abhorred waste, and when he re-
turned and beheld the plethora of
fruit he decided that it must be
eaten before any other “pudden’
was served. The shearers were
a quiet lot, and it was a week
before they pursued that cook
with fervor and corybantic en-
thusiasm into the Barwon. Then
they took the remaining apricots
out and buried them.
"Dai B.”; Some queer instruments of
correction have been used on balky horses,
but the, strangest I’ve heard of was employed
by Jack Lange, of Bathurst. Jack was driv-
ing a sulky when his steed went on strike, its
frequent habit. In desperation he was fray-
mg his braces on the animal's hide when slow
spasmodic progress brought him to a broad
leather thong, lying as if Heaven-sent on the
road. Rescuing it and hopping back into the
sulky he applied it with enthusiasm. Pre-
sently something he took to be mud whizzed
over his shoulder; with the next stroke three
sovereigns fell into the vehicle. Money-
belts were common in those days, and realis-
ation came to Jack in a flasli. Tin assay
yielded £27, and a backward search of tlie
road was rewarded by another three quid
Though advertised, the belt was never
claimed. Thirty quid wasn’t worth bother-
ing about in those days.
* * *
Billy See’ : Steele Rudd’s yarn of the
emu snatching Dave’s cheque (B. 17/5/’33)
recalls a happening in lvanowna (W.A.).
Rill Polglaise’s missus was settling the
grocer’s bill, a fiver held firmly behind her
the while she disputed certain items. Nan,
the family goat, sighted the note, which looked
edible, and made a swift grab. Then the
chase began. Mrs. Polglaise, several of the
Polglaise offspring and the grocer pelted of£
in hot pursuit. Nan made for a wide-spread-
ing flat. Here she defied capture until Bill
himself, hastily roused from his night-shift
sleep and clad only in pants and singlet, took
command. Hemmed in on all sides, Nan
finally surrendered. But the fiver had dis-
appeared; Nan was ail expert at devouring
her plunder while retreating. William was
not to be so easily frustrated. With the
family carving-knife lie performed a major
operation which resulted in the goat’s demise.
A post-mortem followed. But alas! Nan had
belonged to the thorough-mastication school
of diners, and the note was merely pulp.
BOOSUM PALS.
“They tell me they were
brought up together.”
"Yes, often.”
“Wippegong”: In his latest book, “The
Animals Noah Forgot,” “Banjo” Paterson
credits Australia with possessing a wood-
pecker. Really the genus is one of the only
two important bird families unrepresented
in this continent—the other is the vulture.
“Banjo,” like many other people, has con-
fused our treecreepers with woodpeckers.
Then he gives an excellent sketch of the re-
markable camouflage of the tawny frog-
mouth, but calls it the boobook owl. NinOx
boohook is a plump little fowl which spends
the day in a dark tree, and, if disturbed
during daylight, just blinks at the intruder
after the manner 0 f all hawk-owls. It is
the frogmouth (Podargus sirigoides) which
sits stock-still and gives no sign of move-
ment until, as “Banjo” sings, “a portion of
the broken limb gets up and flies away.”
Both birds are popularly called “mopoke,”
but it is the boobook who makes the “mopoke”
call; the other chap’s repertoire is limited to
a repetition of a low, grunting “oom.”
“Hornby”: I heard the other day of a
black-and-tan sheep-dog which, becoming en-
tombed overnight through a
sudden fall of earth in a
rabbit burrow it was investi-
gating, was quite white
when rescued next morning.
I knew a chestnut mare at
Bourke (N.S.W.) in ’B9
that was similarly affected
by durance vile. She was
owned by Brooks Bros.,
storekeepers of the town.
Whenever either of the
brothers approached her she
would whinny a greeting.
One day after heavy rain she
mysteriously disappeared. As
her owners were tramping
homeward at the end of a
three-days’ futile search a
weak echo of the well-known
whinny caught their hearing,
and following its frequent
repetitions they found the
old girl bogged to the belly
in a gilgai. Every hair on
her was perfectly white. She 'lived for
another nine years.
“The 0.D.”: Ranking with the rides of
Turpin, Revere, Gilpin and the coves who
brought the news from Aix to Ghent is the
journey made by “One-bottle Joe.” During
the T 9 drought Joe was pumping water for
sheep from three wells on Hillview, a corner
of Magenta, west of Balranald (N.S.W.).
Came the day when Joe had amassed a £3O
cheque and a mighty thirst. He mounted
tommy, a rugged bay Waler, and set out at
daybreak on a February morning for Euston.
73 miles by the back track through Win tong.
By midday the heat reached 100 in the water-
bag, and Joe was at Prunglc, with 30 miles
to go. He watered Tommy and blew him
for an hour, had one pannikin of tea him-
self, anti rode on. That last 30 miles was
over sandhills and through whipstick malleo
and porcupine. At dusk a staggering horse
reached the trough in front of Medley’s pub.
Joe slid from the saddle, walked stiffly to
the verandah, and collapsed. His ride was
in vain, for, saving his thirst doggedly until
he could reach the proper place for its
assuagement, he had overdone matters. He
was under the bush nurse for a fortnight
and unable to look at beer till the following
Christmas.
% * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Black Brother of the
croc.-infested parts of Queensland had a
legend that the nasty saurian was specially
created as a compliment to Yarraoo, a fierce
and predatory chief, reputed to have unified
all the _ northern tribes. The Barwon cod
was believed by the tribes round the Bourke,
Brewarrina and Walgett districts to have
been similarly added to the planet’s life as
a monument to Goolna, a chief who devoted
his.days to improving his people’s fish-snar-
ing devices. I have heard a similar story
in Westralia regarding the black swan, and
another in Vic. touching the ’possum. Black
Brother wasn’t unique in these fancy flights.
Ray Lankester, in his “Science from an
Rasy Chair,” tells how, after a convention
of scientists had failed to elucidate the mys-
tery of the first-discovered fresh-water jelly-
fish (found in the Regent’s Park Botanic
Gardens, London, in 1880), “a leading
member of the Botanic Gardens Council
confided to me in a hushed whisper his . be-
lief that Providence created this new jelly-
fish in honor of the august patroness of the
Botanic Society—Her Royal Highness the
Duchess of: Took.”
* * * $
• “Nark”: In the House of Reps. Attorney-
General Latham lauded the possible trade in
furs as one of the advantages of taking over
a slice of the Antarctic. The only fur-
bearer in that part of the world is the
false or Weddell seal. Its fur is about as
useful •as bullock hide after it has been a
year in the sun.
* * * *
“Bono Matani” : Romance and real monev
are about as scarce as each other in tlie
present-day Pacific, but it was not ever thus.
About 70 years ago a seaman named Masters,
with three native wives, took possession of
the uninhabited atoll of Palmers tone. A
few years ago the population numbered over
« hundred—all named Masters ! As in the
case of many of these old-time adventurers.
Masters had religious leanings. He built a
churcli and forced every child to attend regu-
larly. These are the only South Sea
Islanders who speak fluent English as their
natural tongue—on Pitcairn and Norfolk the
folk speak a mixture of English and Tahitian.
MACQUARIE ISLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
btorm-stricken, rain-drenched, is that desolate
island,
Lone spot of earth upthrust in the Polar
stream,
“Judge-and-Clerk” to northward, “Bishop-
and-Clerk” to southward,
Bird-haunted, mist-caressed, wrapped in a
dream.
Harborless, homeless, is that narrow island;
Old sealers’ cottages, and never a tree;
Wide, shallow inlets, where of old tin'
schooners anchored
And the trailing kelp hides the rocks on
the lee.
Yet green are the hills there, green as hills
of England.
And like the hills of Scotland with purple
rich bestrewn,
TV hen the Polar sunshine paints the mist
with rainbows,
In the mild glow of its long afternoon.
How the breakers thunder in the island’s
winters.
With brief, bleak days then and long, wild
nights.
Yet when the clouds part, clear in the south
skies,
Awesome and mysterious, flame the
Southern Lights.
Wilkes saw this island, and Shackleton,
and Mawson,
And bold Bellingshausen in the stirring
days of old ;
Welcome was its greenness and silver stream-
lets flowing
To eyes long weary of the deathly realms
of cold.
Strange, mournful island l Tragic, wreck-
strewn island!
Though I love the sun’s face and the
flower and tree,
In my heart I love you too, your wildness
and your loneness,
Your caves and tarns and wheeling birds
that I shall never see!
MAOKILAND.
NELLIE MACLEOD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP , - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS *
rr JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
J&5455585, ONS U°W, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E C. 3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
»n m » world.
n A __ General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUAKU, easily adjusted, fits fin., fiu. aud |in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
Ghe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Heal Ivory Handle .21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
'■ ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—f in. and ' Jin.
razor «et ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.;
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney^
“Westerner”; When Bill Coulter went to
his death in 1926 for the murder of Westra-
lian detectives Walsh and Pitman it was
generally believed that he had several sizable
slugs of smelted gold in his possession. Dili-
gent police search failed to discover any.
Ooulter, it is said, was accustomed to plant
his loot in the lonely scrub just outside
Boulder, digging a small hole with a table-
knife and taking bearings which he carefully
memorised. Having a remarkable memory, he
had no difficulty in finding his way back to
his caches; but he took his secrets with him,
{should the Boulder district ever become
agricultural, some hard-up cocky may find
unexpected fortune springing from beneath
his ploughshare.
* #
“Avis”: Birds which cut electric-light sup-
plies by roosting on the wires are not in-
frequently heard of, but two Lithgow
(N.S.W.) sparrows thought out a new one
recently. They chose the electric siren at
the fire station for a roosting place, and
when the inevitable fire came along and the
siren was wanted it gave one choking shriek
and was dumb. The birds had been caught
in the blades of the spinning fan and effec-
tually blocked it.
1- 'Y -Y ❖
“Specker”: In animals, sound is produced
in the throat and the ears are located in
the head; in the insect world the organs of
hearing may be found in the queerest places.
NOT ONE OF THEY WISHT ONES.
“What do ’ee think of Jabez’s new missus?”
“Well, boay, by the look of ’er, she ought to last un a lifetime, with care."
Crickets, for instance, keep their ears in
their front legs, and some of the grasshoppers
prefer them in their tummy, where they can
be seen as clear, round spots just above the
point w’here their hind legs eriierge. Mos-
quitoes and midges hear with the extremely
delicate hairs on their antennae, which pick
up the vibration of the buzz of their mates
from an extraordinary distance. The high-
pitched excited note of the feasting mos-
quito, as well as the well-known “piping”
of the bee or the worried buzz of a fly
caught on a fly-paper, is produced by tiny
trachea; or tubes which penetrate the body.
Ordinarily, bees and flies hum merely by
the rapid vibration of the wings. Other
insects, like the cricket, use a fiddle-and-
bow method by rubbing the resonant edge of
one leg or wing against the file-like rough-
ness of the other. Most insects, particularly
moths, beetles, bees and butterflies, have a
marvellously acute sense of smell, which is
located in the antennae. This is not surpris-
ing, since as many as 40,000 “noses,”
in the form of minute pits and projections,
may be counted in one antenna of the beetle.
* * * *
“Barangkali” : During a search of the
Nellore (which has Chinese in its crew 7 ) on
arrival in Sydney, Customs officials discov-
ered a new way of hiding opium. The first
clue was a loose board near the forward
hatch. On removal a narrow deep cavity
was disclosed between hatch and bulkhead,
but no contraband. When replacing tlie dis-
lodged board one of the officials noticed a
short piece of cotton caught in a crack in
the woodwork; picking at this, he was
surprised to find there was quite a lot of it.
At the end of two yards of cotton appeared
a yard of string, then the string gave place
to strong twine. More hauling brought to
light a long, narrow parcel containing nine
tins of opium.
-!. Sjj
“C.H.F.” : Every year thousands of octo-
podes come up the Otago Harbor (M.L.) in
obedience to some mysterious prompting of
nature. Shoals of the creatures enter a large
lagoon near Anderson’s Bay, and here the
retreating tide leaves them stranded on
the bottom of the lagoon, where they die.
It is no uncommon experience to count hun-
dreds of dead in this lagoon. They vary
in size, but are rarely larger than about
6ft. from tip to tip of tentacles, Residents
in that populous vicinity dread the time
when these creatures arrive, for the decay-
ing bodies fill the air with a stench that is
most foul.
“Delia” : Reference in a recent paragraph
to an intelligent dog which tracked a swim-
ming wallaby all round a waterhole moves
me to say that Tasmania has a tyke to
match against him for water sports. When
this fellow T runs down a rabbit he doesn’t,
worry it. He takes bunny to the nearest
waterhole and holds it under until drowned,
then drags the corpse to the bank and leaves
it there. It is worth noting that before tin;
baptismal ceremony the dog releases the
body grip, and, holding the rabbit by the
hind legs, immerses the head only.
❖ ❖ * *
“Avon”; Evidence has been accumulated
that a Maori relic in an Auckland (M.L.)
museum antedates the arrival of the canoe
Tainui, v T hich traditionally brought the first
Maori migrants to their adopted land. It
is a ball-like mass of stone with a hole
pierced through it at one end, and Captain
Gilbert Mair. who bought it from the
Ngata-pukeleo tribe years ago, assumed that
it was a fishing-sinker. But tribal records
(oral of course) say it belonged to the
Tamaki tribe (who gave it to the Tainui
voyagers), who used it in H'awaiiki as a
cultivation charm, mauri or marutuahu,
before the migration. The custom was to
plant a mascot of this sort along with the
kumeras. so that they would be fecund. The
pre-pakeha Maori was a great believer in
lucky charms, and fishing, hunting, agricul-
ture, forest-travel, birth, death and other
aspects of life had their appropriate mascots,
cherished by almost every family.
“Te Kapo”: Much ink lias been spilt in
praise of the symmetry of the Maori green-
stone mere, but mighty few have stopped
to think of the immense amount of time and
labor the making of these weapons involved.
It was no mean feat to model a heavy, well-
balanced, well-rounded mere from a solid
block of greenstone,
which is harder than
steel and tougher than
granite. Moreover, it
hardens with exposure,
and II ena r e was
equipped only with the
most primitive tools.
The pounamu block had
first to be cut roughly
into the desired shape
with pieces of hard
stone, roughened with
sand and moistened by
water, a job that might
take as long as five to
six months. Lengthier
still was the smoothing
and polishing process, in
which the embryo mere
was alternatively nibbed
on fine sandstone and
then with a hard,
smooth stone. A Wanga-
nui Maori once showed
me a splendid, highly-
polished 13-inch mere
which, he declared, had
taken three generations
to complete roughly,
75 years.
“Nikko”: We had a
free and practical de-
monstration of the mar-
vels of electricity the
other day. For some
time the ’possums that
hold midnight gather-
ings on our roof and
thump and prance over
the tiles like an army
at the double had been
electrocuting themselves,
so we requested the
municipal council to
send someone up to in-
vestigate. A scornful
individual arrived, and
after remarking that the
wires were all safe (he
having put them up
himself) added that the
’possums had probably
died as the result of
poison or a family fight.
As we were insistent he
languidly climbed on to
the roof and began to
do a little investigating.
The next disturbing
sound, was a tremendous
splash, and we found
that haughty electrician
had fallen into the tank.
The shock he received
from a faulty wire was
not fatal, but sudden
immersion in icy water
nearly finished him.
The ’possum fatalities have ceased abruptly.
jJs -Y ❖
“ J.G.” : The ruin of “the island Venice”
on Ponape referred to by “Feng-Shui” (B.
8/2/’33) is another link in the chain of
evidence that makes the legend about a great
lost empire of the Pacific credible. Other
links are the colossal ruins on Malden and
Easter islands; the masonic pyramids sup-
porting hemispheres of masonry on Tinian, in
the Mariannes; the huge agonite money wheels
of the Pelews and the ancient fortifications
on Bab-el-thaob in the same group; Yap,
with its stone-.paved roads, stone platfprms.
graves and fish weirs ; the wonderful “Langis,”
or tombs, and the mysterious Ilaamonga
in the Tongas; the stone images of Rai-
vavae and the!entrenched forts pf Rapa, in
the Australs; arid the Marquesan stone
“Paepaes.” Recent events on Ponape had
their parallels in the disappearance, of an
island and a village in Blanche Bay, New
Britain, 50 years ago, and in the vanishing
of Tuanaki and its people in the Cook
Islands. •
“Ehoa-o-te-Manu”: The whole of West-
land province in Maoriland was . purchased
on behalf of the Crown by James McKay in
1861-62. As Government agent he had to
negotiate with all the Maori owners, and
to do this had to traverse an unknown region
of almost impenetrable forest and range,
covering a vast area from Buller River in
the north to Milford Sound in the south,
and inland to the crests of the Southern
Alps. His journey included a call on prac-
tically every native pah and hapu, and is a
classic of dauntless determination and diplo-
macy. He carried with him 400 sovereigns,
and "completed the deal for 300, having been
some 18 months on the journey, which was
all accomplished on foot. Within three
years the river banks and beaches which
had been traversed by McKay and. his
Maori guides were swarming with miners
who reaped a great harvest of virgin gold.
Though the Maoris have never been directly
compensated for the inequitable bargain
McKay made with them, they have derived
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
YOUNG COP: “Mind the step.”
OLD LAG: “Young feller, I knowed that step afore you was
horn.”
benefit from the fact that the areas .set aside
for them as reserves were in each case situ-
ated on the left bank, near the mouth, of
the large rivers. These spots, when the
tide of pakeha population flowed in. became
the. sites of towns, the citizens of which still
pay ground rent to the descendants of natives
who took gold from McKay.
* ■ * * *
“Second Barrel” : It raises writer’s bir.se,
As they say in Scotland, to read that N.S.W.
Governor Game, holidaying outback, took part
in a trapped-galah shoot and won a sweep-
stakes. Pigeon-shooting out of traps is
bad enough, but that one of the loveliest
of the cockatoos, and one peculiar to Aus-
tralia, should be murdered in this fashion
goes against the grain. Save, perhaps, in
cultivation areas, which he does not habitu-
ally frequent—he is a bird of the open
plains—the galali cannot be classed as harm-
ful. Like all his kind, he will probably dis-
appear from the list of Australian fauna
as .settlement spreads, and there seems no
need to accelerate the inevitable by wanton
butchery.
* * *
“Badger”: Some time ago The Bulletin
told’of a wombat which had escaped from
the open-air zoo at Whipsnade in England
and had been run into and killed by a pack
of hounds. Resolved to keep his mates on
the premises, the zoo authorities dug deep
trenches in the chalk and ran heavy steel
netting some three feet underground all
round the wombat enclosure. Two of them
went through chalk and steel as if they had
been cheese, and took to the wilds, whore
they were at last advices. As the pair are
male and female it is likely that, if they
are wise enough to stick to their usual noc-
turnal habits, a British-born wombat family
may make its appearance in some English
woodland.
A MISSING FIGURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the bright, lieroic figure
Hallowed in reams of doggerel rhyme,
Staves that were bellowed with vim and
vigor
In shearers’ huts of the olden time,
Or that rattled the dingy rafters’ grime
In the outback shanties where drinks decoy,
Or rocked the trees where the ’possums
climb ?
Where is the Wild Colonial Boy?
With the scope fast -fading for deeds of
daring
A swift and mettlesome steed aboard,
What is lie up to, and whither faring?
Does he skim the roads in a battered Ford?
Those nimble wits that with squatters
warred
Aforetime how does he now employ?
In what new fields are his triumphs scored ?
Where is the Wild Colonial Boy?
He had travels stirring as old Ulysses.
And risks as dire in the song they sang,
And he won his guerdon in gold and kisses
In those lusty lines to the roofs that rang.
He was just as ready for clash and clang
As tlie chaps who battled round storied Troy.
Does he play first lead in a basher gang
These times, the Wild Colonial Boy?
’Tis true, when it ran to a hundred stanzas,
The tale was a trifle apt to cloy;
But he weathered perils and struck bonanzas.
He had days of effort and nights of 'joy.
His high emprises set hearts a-quiver.
And now, forswearing the range and river,
Does lie skim highroads in a creaky flivver,
The modern Wild Colonial Boy?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,600,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
LIFE—A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
for in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
js spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system, of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
€brnmonwealtl)BavfnasßanfcofHustrali*
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
JlBwirieaij ®ir
CaißcuiiAirniDa**
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will g ft -
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: Blsl*
SMOKE-OH!
The Nazis are being Austriacized.
* *
Graziers are afraid the Alsatian will bring
the wolf to their door.
* *
“He admitted having struck her. She called him
‘a -wop.’ He was a Syrian.”
To call a gent, hailing from Joppa
Such a name was of course most improper;
Yon could hear a pin drop
When she termed him a wop-
It was that which induced him to whop Jier.
M.
“Tax on bulls.”— Brisbane. “Courier.”
A lot of poor cows are being taxed as well.
* ¥
INTERLUDE.
“Brisbane, is the most musically-minded commu-
nity in the world.” —Brisbane “Mail.”
H. Wahroong-Chatspymble was indignaiit.
Brisbane was putting- on airs, yet it had
nothing to make a song about. He person-
ally didn’t know Beethoven from beetroot,
PEDAGOGUE: “Name the constituents of quartz?”
HIS FATHER’S SON : “Pints.”
always thought an octave was a female octo-
roon and Strauss something you fed cows
on, but, by cripes, he had heard of Schu-
bert’s B Flat Impromptu speech,
Sydney was alive with oboes; people who
hummed the long day through. Was that not
clear proof of a well-defined musical instinct?
It would be a musical education for Brisban-
ites to stand in Sydney’s gathering dusk and
listen to Handout’s lovely music wafting
from bar to bar.
Glorious liquid notes and half-notes —to
say nothing of the spare silver. Thousands
of Sydney husbands were in the habit of
hemi-demi-semi quavering their way through
the front door late at night, and many
finished up by listening to their wives harp-
ing until dawn.
Musically minded? Had Brisbanites never
heard of Sydney’s ivlacquarie-street wind
instruments and roaratorios?
McM.
* #
“It’s here. The eight horse-pawer car by Ford.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Heaven knows what they’ll have these
Fords doing next!
H- *
“Mankind is always seeking new ways to find
happiness.”
True; yet most of us still rely on cork-
screws.
* *
Uncle Sam is beginning to realise that
monetary power can also be minatory.
“With a palsied tongue he dealt the cards.”
— “World’s News.”
In Government House circles this method
is preferred to a licked thumb.
SYDNEY’S GARDEN WEEK.
“Oct. 13 to 20 is to be observed in Sydney as
Garden Week.'”
It is hoped that the Week will be offi-
cially opened by Mr. Stevens, himself a great
believer in getting back to earth. If so, he
will be presented with a gold pruning knife
by the N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association. The
Stadium will be represented by a great
cauliflower-ear crop. Darlinghurst is ex-
pected to make a strong bid with its coining
plants. The improved condition of ’Change
should mean; a big entry in stocks. The
Trades Hall is preparing a number of
Garden plots that will have
to be watched, and Bligli-
street purposes entering
choice U. A.Peas. On the
last three days of the Week
the organisers will say it
with flowers in the Town
Hall. As an added attrac-
tion, on the first evening ses-
sion the University carillion-
ist will render “Tiptoe
Through the Tulips” on
“The Bluebells of Scot-
land.” Y. C. '
THE PACHYDERMS.
Runn Amok, chief of the
wild nomadic tribe of head-
hunters, was puzzled. For
many moons his name had
been a synonym for effi-
ciency in slaughter. He had
the strongest and sharpest
spears in the Island; they
were the envy of his many
antagonists. Yet for once
they had failed him. The
party of visiting white men
had passed with scornful
nonchalance through the hail
of metal which his braves
had thrown.
A fearful superstition
clutched at Amok’s heart.
Were these strange beings
“white gods”? Were their
cries of “Liar! Cow! Yah !
who robbed the poor-box?”
invocations to some mighty
power of which he had no
knowledge ?
Runn Amok is still puzzling.
How could he guess, poor
untutored savage, that he
had been launching his
spears against the pachyder-
matous hides of Australian
Parliamentarians ?
S. W. K.
“Two young Czecoslovabians, reliable workers.”
—“S.M.H.” advt.
We’ve often been bothered by the darned
word, too.
* *
TABLOID DRAMA.
He jilted a florist’s daughter,
And bolted off out West.
Came the florist bent on slaughter....
“No flowers, by request.”
O.
¥ *
“A proclamation was issued yesterday calling th‘
N.S.W. Parliament together for business on June 21.”
For what?
MAKING IT WORTH WHILE.
The census questions aren’t nearly compre-
hensive enough. Here are a few more that
might be asked
Do you find odd Or even numbers luckier in
lotteries? What success have you had in backing
odds-on favorites during the past year? How much
money have you invested with (a) licensed book-
makers, (6) "S.P. bookmakers, (c) the totalisator,
during last year? Which showed the best return?
What percentage of the rent do you spend at the
dogs ?
Other questions which would stimulate
public interest are :
How much do you owe? Would you pay up if
you could? What bridge system do you favor?
“Isn’t it sad, daddy? The composer of that song has just died.”
“Did they find the murderer?”
Have you a radio set? If so, how often do you get
(a) Iceland, (h) Siberia? Has radio improved or
otherwise (a) your nerves, (fc) your relations with
the neighbors? How often can you be persuaded
to change your set for a more expensive one?
A special feminine section might contain
such questions as
What is your favorite (a) scent, (6) talkie star,
(c) drink? How much do you get out of your
husband every week? Do you consider that cash
orders or lottery tickets give a better return?
It will be argued, of course, that the
addition of such questions would make the
cost prohibitive. Nonsense. A bright analysis
of the answers provided could be made into
a volume which could not fail to become o
best-seller. Revenue from this source would
not only pay for the census,
but would also leave enough
over to meet the cost of a real
slap-up boom-time Royal
Commission to investigate the
usefulness or otherwise of
Royal Commissions.
A. O’C.
BROKE.
Why am I chronically hard
up? I buy my clothes on
t.-p.—as an alternative to
going naked. I roll my own
cigarettes. My hair is rarely
cut. I clean my teeth with
salt. Why? Why must my
typewriter be denied a new
ribbon and my wife a new
hat?
The answer is simple. I
work. I am not on the dole,
and my family draws no en-
dowments.
5-4-3.
rr»
DINKUM OIL.
To a correspondent: Din-
kum oil (vee punteris) is a
Common Australian product
found in hotels, barbers’
shops, and sometimes on
breadcarts. The variety
obtained from racing stables
is prized by connoisseurs,
being obtained from horses’
mouths. A great demand
exists for this oil during the
early spring months. Care
should be exercised, as the
genuine article is often con-
fused with the spurious products manufac-
tured by urgers and tipsters. Dinkum oil
is used mainly to grease the wing-joints of
£ notes, thus enabling them to fly away
with greater expedition.
0. S.
* *
“In Cork there is no money for the dole, and
3000 County Council employees are out of work.”
Times are hard indeed when even Cork
can’t keep afloat.
* #
Recent events prove that Lang is still a
farce to be reckoned with.
There’s too much stopping about the Gov-
ernment’s starts to stop starting-price bet-
ting.
* #
The only people who don’t seem to feel
the pinch are s.-p. bookmakers.
* *
A Communist is one who looks down on
those above him.
* *
ORNITHOLOGICALLY SPEAKING.
“There is a great deal of the bird nbout the
average man.” — “Sun” nature note.
This is only too true. He has his parrot
cries, thinks he’s cock of the walk, and is
regarded as a goose
by the woman who,
before be married,
was regarded by him
as a duck, but whom
he now calls “the old
fowl.” There is no-
thing wrong with his
swallow, and as far
as liquor is con-
cerned he is always
asking for moa, but
i..s kept within limits
by the eagle eye of
the wife already
mentioned —a verit-
able vulture for
money. He has a
lark with the flap-
pers now and again,
but quails at tbe
thought of being
found out, being
naturally chicken-
hearted.
This kind of bird
constantly picks up
dead birds on race-
courses, bowls about
the bird of freedom
and is all too often
given the bird by
Fate.
H. M.
“Cricketer’s marriage.”— “S.M.H.”
He’d better be not out, now.
* *
“Cyanide Baits at Wag-ga.”— “S.M.H.”
Yes, Senator Hardy lives there, but no
U.A.P. member is suspected so far.
* # ■
DECEPTIVE r
“Strong!” said the salesman, nodding to-
wards the. little lady who was being remon-
strated with by his boss. “She’s 'as strong
as Samson.”
“But . she looks quite frail.”
“So much for looks. She’s a habitual
shop-lifter.” g
“Ever -pick a quarrel with your wife?”
“No, I leave it to her. She picks much better ones.”
“The Stevens Government is to spend £50,000 on
boots and clothing for the needy.”
This does not include the huge cost of
booting Lang appointees.
X A 5
1923 MODEL.
It goes, although its din
Would, scare away the crows.
Though it is mostly tin,
It goes,
I shiver in my shin
To feel its anguished throesj
And yet, once I am in,
It goes.
So, though it hurts like sin
(It shouldn't, I suppose),
If 1 can trade it in
It goes.
SONG OF THE HUNTED.
She showed me pearls and rubies red,
And shining diamonds in their case;
Then with a naughty wink she said:
“Those are my trophies of the chase.”
O. W.
DISASTER.
“Here, on this summit, high above the strand.
Dear one,” I murmured, “I beseech your
hand.
My heart is restless as yon surging sea;
End my suspense, I beg, and marry me!”
“Here, on this lofty cliff, my feet in clover.”
She flippantly replied, “I throw you over!”
P.O.M.C.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
THEENZC\
f
K¥SSSS®
KSSSS
1m
m
m
■
mm
lliii $ 1 i!
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
m
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


Hick Simmons
GUN*//] RIFLE
AND
AMMUNITION
I - sy ' i// /
SPECIALISTS
Fine Guns
for
Good Sportsmen!
No. 3 HOLLIS’ “THE
RELIABLE" D.B.B.L.
GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, re-
bounding locks, X bolt, snap fore-
end, half pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight about 7flb. . . £15/15-
Carriage Paid.
No. 5
G US,
barrels, both choke,
bolt; similar to No.
build; weight about
-71b.
HOLLIS* D.B.B.L.
Gr top lever, 32in.
bar locks, X
3 but lighter
£11/15/-
No. 18 THE CERT D.B.B.L.
GUN, steel barrels, left choke, ex-
tension rib, bar locks, X bolt,
walnut stock, pistol _ _ ,
grip £4/15/6
Carriage Paul.
No. 19 CERT D.B.B.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, 30in. steel barrels, choke,
Greener X bolt (A. &
D. actionj ........ £7/12 / 6
Carriage Paid.
W orid-F a. mo us
Sporting Rifles.
ê
MODEL. sla, 22-cal.
STEVENS SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE,
bolt action, 20in. round
barrel, blade front-
and V rear-sight . . 37/6
No. 12 WINCHES-
TER SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL 60,
for 22 short, long or long-
rifle rimfire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol grip stock, bolt action,
ladder rear- and gold bead
front-sight; weight
4iib 50/-
Postage 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 25-RE M I NG-
TON RIFLE, No. 33
MODEL, bolt action, 22
calibre, rimfire, 24in. round
blued steel barrel; weight
411 b.; ladder rear-
sight 50
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 33 SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22 cal., 24in. round steel barrel, bolt
action; handles short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; gold bead front-
and adjustable rear-sight; pistol'
grip stock; weight 4flb. 50 -
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 15 WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, 22 cal., 20-shot,
23in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear-sights, slide
action; magazine handles 20 short, 16
long or 14 long-rifle cartridges;
weight about 5 fib. . . *5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
There's Money in
ë
Fox SKins !
Original
FOX DECOY WHISTLE.
Perfect imitation of squealing rabbit.
Unfailing as a means of bringing the
fox right to the shooter.
Price 2/2, Post Paid.
All Letters to Box 18b, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
Mick Simmons Itd
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia,”
and all Branches.
iSSSSS
* «
J
A winning
personality
... all its own
“TheVauxhall is a powerful,
roomy, and comfortable car,
and it possesses two obvious
advantages. One, a silent
second, must appeal alike
to expert and novice. The
other, the Synchro-Mesh
gear changing is to novices,
like myself, a pure undiluted
joy. It is as near fool-proof
as anything of the kind
can be.”
So writes this Synchro-
Mesh enthusiast. Vauxhall
Synchro-Mesh with silent
second gear is a boon to
novices, and experienced
drivers would not be with-
out it. Try it for yourself
—you cannot make a bad
“change”! Smooth accelera-
tion, soft decisive braking,
steering that is effortless,
and power that fulfils every
need —all these you will find
in the Vauxhall.
You will use less petrol
than you’d expect and experi-
ence luxurious riding com-
fort. Modern lines, tasteful
colour schemes, headlights
and radiator flutes in gleam-
ing chromium, mark Vaux-
hall as a car of distinction.
Arrange for a trial run
with any Vauxhall dealer.
See how much happier you
will be at the wheel of this car.
VAUXHALL Models are
available on the easy
G.M.A.C. deferred payment
plan.
SYnCHRO
<n€SH^
l €ASY
d€RRCHnnC€
Consult your local authorised Yauxhall Dealer
VAUXHALL
Not only because it is British, but because ifs a better car
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “THE BULLETIN’S’* Land page have been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-keeping is carrl ®
along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept. Every entry is explained in the simp
and clearest possible language. . ,
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and keep it theie.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business and see w ere
a profit is being made and where a loss. l ttle
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was going bac a 1
further every year. Had he known in time he might have made changes that would ave save
the situation. ,
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts is that t ey ass
he knows something about bookkeeping. , ,
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce a cheap tex oo
in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybo y. twi
be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable to tra ers an
others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


e
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
mei } believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
th 1 5 r< J. man y bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
;j e ® v* Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
® a l soliition, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
0V , 14 ® adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
nt period. Discnss the matter with their representatives or
write to:
£/ CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD..
airman 9* directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
S W a P: y* O- Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
. Agents: Fanners & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and .
. Agency Co., Ltd. ~=
ml
On Sale Now at All Newsagents ,
The Land Australian Wheat Annual, 6d.
A brilliant publication of 64 pages; which covers wheat-growing
and wheat-marketing in all its phases.
The story of Australia's greatest agricultural industry, presented
in a most comprehensive and fascinating way.
A WEALTH OF BEAUTIFUL PICTURES WITH
ATTRACTIVE COLORED COVER.
Whether you are directly concerned with wheat-growing or
not, you should not fail to secure a copy. It is an ideal gift
for friends and business connections overseas.
LAND NEWSPAPER LTD., 59 Regent Street, Sydney
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A "Bulletin” publication. Every Friday—2d.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE ETUFF TO GIVE EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED
MEAL
YOUNG FARMERS’ CLUBS.
. “5.1.”: In the new courses of study to be
introduced in 1934 in all Vic. elementary
schools, Young Farmers’ Clubs will be given
special prominence. The idea is to relate
school work to pupils’ lives and interests,
to break away from a purely academic course
in rural schools, and to secure closer co-
operation between the .school and the com-
munity. Over 60 teachers interested in the
movement have been given special training
with a view to extending these clubs.
The Young Farmers’ Club consists of the
senior boys and girls of the school, each of
whom takes up a project in which he or she
is .specially interested. These projects may
include the rearing of a calf or a lamb or
a pig, the keeping of poultry or bees,
growing of cereals or cotton or fruit or
vegetables, according to the locality. Several
pupils may take up the same* project, say,
rearing a calf, and so for ra a Calf Club as
a branch of the main Young Farmers’ Club.
And so on with the other projects. Each
club has an adult supervisor who is an
expert on the practical side and works in
close co-operation with the teacher. The
experts are drawn from the locality, and give
rheir services free. Department of Agricul-
ture men co-operate with the supervisors
and teachers. The teacher guides each club
member in the working out of his project,
which for the time becomes the centre of all
the school work he does.
On a typical field day—held usually
twice a year—a talk is given on dairy
hygiene. The dairy cows of the club
members are bailed up, leg-roped and milked,
to the accompaniment of bright songs and
suitable poetry. Next the scientific testing
ot milk is demonstrated with the Babcock
tester, with full explanations ; the milk from*
the cows is separated, the cream is dis-
patched to the creamery, the residue got
ready fo r the feeding of farm animals. Next
the Poultry Club members, with Leghorns,
Black Orpingtons and Rhode Island Reds,
tell, of the good points of their hens, state
their egg-laying capacity and give an account
ot the export trade in poultry and eggs.
Similarly the Sheep and Lamb Clubs demon-
strate, with side talks on wire, wire-netting,
wool-classing, shearing and the food value
of mutton. Results of all types of related
arithmetical calculations are made known bv
club members, and pictures and prepared
.sketches are shown. A grand parade of all
stock then takes place on the school site,
and the young farmers demonstrate their
ability as judges by going over the good and
bad points of each animal. Their awards
are checked by experts, and their judgment
is usually to be commended. Club members
next show practically how to erect a model
rarm building and liow to make a chicken
coop.
Demonstrations in ploughing, in the. laying
, a sricultural drainpipes and in the pruning
of frmt trees follow. Experimental work
with pastures suitable for sheep and cattle
is explained, and the value of shelter belts
o. trees for farm animals is demonstrated.
Correct methods of watering 'vegetable plots
and of dusting cabbages for the eradication
ot pests are shown practically. Club mem-
bers answer all types of questions, showing
knowledge tbouBbt and sound, practical
Inside the schoolroom pastel studies of
?«? a i° f * rees and of farm and garden
scenes of all types of farm buihl-
“f equipment; maps showing the trade
..litres the.primary-production areas of
ItnduT? i T\ th their elated historical
i calculations referring to fencing, to
aieas, to trade and to the balanced ration—
y .-° tl l iers all show how eom-
feSted tn d school work has been
her? P i Upils mterests - The club mern-
fnU & elves ,.? re c . onfi dent and resource-
current wnrld adl y ? scus ? far . rn Problems,
oil e^ d eveats an d civic questions,
school !!’ t i ley ke onl y interested in their
itself ’ k eea nse to them education is life
to "stay! YOU " S Farmers ’ Clubs ha ve come
PROFITABLE WOOLPRESSING.
woioFr« eP ™Li ß i Uyers alw ays io°k for the
valuing. S i ed i 011 the woolpacks when
Tn? w’ r h ? lps tliem t 0 estimate yields,
a We- 1 dim. W ° ol, whether fleece or skirtings,
imnresshm fw m bale „ weights gives the
• thdt some of the packages are
carrying wool of heavier condition than the
lighter-pressed bales. Valuers make due
allowance for this. There’s no reason why
the weights of fleece bales of the one class
should vary more than a few pounds. In-
variably pressers will not count the fleeces,
but after having pressed and weighed the
first bale of each class careful pressers will,
if instructed to do so, bring up the bales
to within a few pounds’ sectional weight of
each other.
I 'have seen a line of station AAA
fleece wool, consisting of over 100 bales,
in which the difference between the lightest
and the heaviest bale was not more than
101 b. Unfortunately, it is common to see a dif-
ference of anything up to 1001 b. between
bales of the one class. Buyers are not likely
to overestimate the yield whatever the con-
dition. Bales of each class pressed evenly
in weights prove to them that the get-
up of the clip has been attended to in all
details, and over-pressing in order to save
a woolpack or two may mean a loss in the
long run.
I know of one line of station locks in bales
of just on 6501 b. average. It was sold for
2Jd. per pound, and bought by a local
scourer, who, instead of scouring, merely
repacked, the wool into bales of 3501 b. and
re-offered it for sale a week or two later.
The repacked locks were sold for 4£d. per
pound. Suspicion that the heavily-pressed
bales contained heavy dags had put buyers
off at the first time of offering. The re-
packer reaped what would have gone to the
grower had he prevented the pressers from
tramping the bales to their utmost capacity.
GET RID OB' 1 OLD SHEEP.
“Golightly”: An Inverell grazier sent
2700 old sheep to a meat company in Syd-
ney for boiling down, availing himself of the
special rail freight allowed when the con-
signment is 25 trucks or more. The ship-
ment panned out as follows: Gross return,
£545; freight, £174; treatment, £180; so
the net return to the station was £lB9,
or about Is. sd. per head. Last winter, with
sheepskins below to-day’s values, I skinned
and boiled down old unmarketable sheep on
the farm; the net proceeds were 2s. 4d.
per skin and fat 2d. per head. One man
treated 40 per day, at 10s., or 3d. per head.
My advice to sheepmen is to get rid of old
sheep at any cost. Make up trainloads
where practicable, or skin them in the full
wool well ahead of shearing time. Old and
cull sheep eat as much grass as younger
ones and don’t pay for their keep.
DIPPING AND JETTING.
“Kripple”: “Yarraman,” in his advocacy
of jetting in preference to dipping for blow-
fly treatment (B. 10/5/’33), bases his
opinions on unsuccessful experiments in dip-
ping which he carried out 15 years ago.
That is a long way back, and it docs not fol-
low that others using more modern appli-
ances cannot succeed in simplifying and
cheapening the processes, as implied. “Yar-
raman”. contends that no pressure is present
when dipping to get the liquor through the
wool. That may have been the case with
the method he used, but with the swinging
crate system (B. 3/5/’33) there is a decided
pressure at the moment the fluid makes im-
pact with the sheep’s stern.
. It is all for the better that this pressure
is not so severe as in jetting, as it does
not open existing wounds and drive poison
into the sheep’s system. Allowing that dip-
ping does not reach the skin on full wools
at the moment of dipping, it can still find
its way there by the natural process of
capillary attraction. This action is slow in
scoured wools, but is more active in the
yolk.
I have frequently seen in the shearing-
sheds how r readily yolk will absorb moisture.
On the machine handpieces it is common to
see the substance caked hard on hot dry days,
but when rain is about it becomes soft with
absorbed moisture. Features that may not
have been tried in the older dipping methods
are the raising of the temperature of the
liquor and the complete solution of ingredi-
ents (other than the poisons) to make it
more penetrative. These precautions, with
up-to-date dipping appliances, will keep the
blowfly at bay just as well as jetting, and
at much less cost.
Having often been called at considerable
expense to owners to fix up broken-down
jetting plants, I cannot agree with “Yarra-
we- ”." '■at mechanical troubles in such are
negligible.
“IF THE WORST COMES.”
J f the worst comes (“Dialec-
tica, B. 24/5/33), I am for trucking my
scarvers to agistment : there is always some
to be had ou the N.S.W. hills, tablelands or
coast. Present-day sheep prices make it look
a silly proposition, but a serious drought will
improve prices later, and it’s best to be on
the safe side and have most of your sheep
alive when the drought breaks.
Sheep from the west don’t do much good
until acclimatised on the sour grass that the
relief country usually provides, but will live
ail right and grow wool, provided they are
not overcrowded. It is a mistake to believe
that agistment country can satisfactorily
carry 10 sheep per acre when the sheep come
olt one- to ten-acre country. Shift starvers
by train rather than risk long journeys by
stock routes: someone is sure to have cleared
up the route ahead of you.
In the drought of 1914 I lifted 4000
ewes off-shears near Wagga (October,
lo) and, having good feed for them in the
Juigra Mountains, intended to rail them from
Gundagai. The agents and drover said it
would save money and feed at the other end
by walking them via Wee Jasspa; they had
both been over the route and it was open,
it was but other stock had got in ahead
ana I lost 15 p.c. of the ewes en route; yet
during the same period I trained 12,000
ewes from the Bogan to Monaro and back
with a loss of only 7 p.c. while away from
their run.
During the same drought, a sheepman
near \Y yalong, stuck with 2500 young cross-
bred ewes, started to cut their throats for
skin value. I bought the lot at 4s. per head
ted them on to and off trucks with lucerne
hay and landed 2400 on grass at Braidwood.
three months later, when it rained, 2300
were mustered and sold for £1 per head.
Having gone through the 1902, 1914 and
1920 droughts without serious loss, consider-
mg the number handled, I advise owners
whose sheep are facing starvation to get in
early on good hill country, truck the stock
and stay with them till it rains.
DRAFTING SHEEP.
“Yakhai” : “Valerin’s” par. (B. 24/5/’33)
suggests that he is not conversant with the
art of drafting sheep. The main line should
always be drafted straight up the race, under
the arm (not to the “off” pen). When the
gates are open, sheep can see straight ahead
into the middle pen, and their mates draw
them through. The man who keeps the sheep
moving through the race should use a stick
about 7ft. long so that he can stand back
when poking up.” It is most important that
lie should poke the leading sheep when it
Stops. If he uses a short stick, as “Valerin”
suggests, he must bend over the race to reach
the leader, thereby turning the other sheep
back.
A competent drafter notes the earmarks
just as the sheep enter the race, for
their heads are held high at this position.
The marks are mentally noted, and when
each sheep reaches the gates the drafter
opens them into an appropriate pen. To
save time he counts one line wdiile he is
drafting. The man in the forcing pen should
never have occasion to leave his position;
he should keep enough sheep near the mouth
of the race to secure continuity in the queue
without jambing.
Short drafting gates are a curse; when
they are used, sheep have to negotiate sharp
turns before entering the near and off pens.
Gates 4ft. long are handy; if you make them
longer the tendency when closing the gate is
to push a weak sheep which has gone, say
to the off.
SOME SHOW WRINKLES.
“Showring” : There is more in working up
cattle for show than making them look trim
and inducing them to lead. Get them used
to standing quietly while being felt all
?u Gr ’ le s k' n to texture, handle
the udder, swing the tail aside and get the
beast to stand steady for as much prodding
as possible. A critical judge wall go all
over a beast; a shy one may cause him to
lose his temper, and your entry will lose
howls and ducks for show should be used
to having a stick passed all pver them, and
educated to turn about easily, as the judge
wants, with his measuring-stick. Put them
m a small cage and handle them frequently
The quiet animal or bird that will allow the
judge to handle it and do what he wants
generally gets a place, all things being nearly
equal. A cranky or touchy exhibit is under
a big handicap.
THE FEED VALUE OF MOLASSES.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Here is the analysis of
molasses:—
Moisture' .. .. 24 p.c.
Crude protein .. 2.2 „" ’
Crude fat . Nil
Carbohydrates .. 63.8 p.c.
Crude fibre .. Nil
Adi.,. .. .. 10 p.c.
A full realisation of its limitations is neces-
sary if we are to get the full benefits of
this useful food. The actual feeding value
consists of readily digestible sugars, furnish-
ing heat and producing some fat, but yield-
ing no protein. The ideal use for molasses
is as an appetiser by sprinkling it over other-
wise unpalatable roughages whilst supplying
protein to balance the ration by means of
concentrate!! such as bran, crushed oats;
maizemeal, linseed meal or cottonseed meal,
a mixture of several of these being preferable
to one fed singly. Incidentally, molasses acts
as an antidote against poisoning by prussic
acid, which sometimes occurs from the feed-
ing of young Sudan grass and sweet-potato
vines at certain stages of growth.
As indicated by the high ash content, the
inorganic compounds in molasses act as cor-
rectives to the animal’s system, and it is
also mildly laxative. It is especially valu-
able as a binder for licks made from salt,
bonemeal. etc., the cattle taking kindly to
sncli on account of the palatability of the
molasses.
Unfortunately, suitable containers are be-
coming increasingly scarce and dear, and the
price which the cocky is asked to pay for
molasses is governed by the cost of such
containers and transport charges—cost of
the molasses itself is a minor consideration.
However, a Queensland firm promises to
place solidified molasses on the market if a
suitable method of dehydration can be'
evolved which would permit of its being
packed in a cheap type of container.
WINTER DAIRYING.
Tellem”: Bringing a large herd twice a
day to the yard in the winter is a profit-
less proceeding. Half tlie ' herd will be
merely stripping, but all take time to milk;
thus the cows in the yard are kept
away from feed and the profitable cows from
extra production. Cut the herd down to
twenty of the best and put the rest away
in the dry paddock. Tliev also will profit
by the extra grazing-time instead of loafing
in the yard, and will be in good condition
tor their next calving. By this method tin-
reduced milking herd gets extra feed, spends,
less time in the yard, and goes up in pro-
duction.
Cows should also be rugged, ('heap and
good rugs can be made from opened-out corn-
bags, the beasts themselves gradually putting
the grease on the rugs to make them water-
proof. Anyone who has rugged cows knows
the value of the practice, and it can be done
in a small herd where it cannot in a large.
1 he advantages of a reduced herd run on
these lines and also when lmnd-fed or turned
into crops are soon evident.
WOBBLY GAIT IN PIGS.
‘ Carbon”: C. J. Woollntt, stock inspec-
tor at Lismore (N.S.W.). recently noticed
some young wea.ner pigs with peculiar
symptoms, including a wobbly gait. The
legs appeared as if loosely connected to their
bodies, the heads rolled about and they would
squeal and shake their ears. It occurred to
the inspector that the trouble was a defi-
ciency of lime. He suggested adding this to
(heir food. A handful of lime was added to
the teed milk, and though it apparently was
not as appetising as usual, it seemed to- have
the desired effect, as all save one recovered
and the lot put on weight. Pigs fed on milk,
wheat, corn and grass also seemed to throw
off the trouble, which is evidently a defi-
ciency one.
BACON-CURING ON THE FARM.
The pamphlet “Bacon-curing on the Farm,” '
by E. J. Shelton, of the Queensland
Department of Agriculture and Stock, will
be read with especial interest by those Avbo
preter to kill their own pigs, cure their o wn
bacon and ham, and make up a variety of
smallgoods, for which the carcase of' the
humble hog is justly famous.
The opening chapters describe the best
type of pig for the purpose, the correct
weight and age, and other conditions to be
observed in making the choice of the animal
tor slaughter. Useful hints are given as to
killing the pig and dressing, cutting up and
curing the meat, and a series of line engrav-
ings will be found helpful in following the
printed details.
In addition, the book contains hints to
the housewife and recipes for making quite
a list of pork products, from the simple fry-
ing of bacon to the more ambitious of pork
dishes.
CAPONS AND CAPONISING.
“Jack Point”: Many wiseacres maintain
that, because there is little or no apprecia-
tion of the capon’s quality in this country,
it doesn’t pay to caponise. Actually capons
make greater gains at less cost than cock-
erels, and are no trouble to rear. Every
poultry-raiser who caters for table poultry
should caponise his birds just as certainly as
raisers of beef cattle unsex bulls.
Caponising requires only a good set of
instruments (which are always supplied
complete with simple directions) and experi-
ence. The novice can, after practising on
one or two dead birds, try his hand on live
ones without any serious misgivings, and
(Land Pape continued on page 26.)


An Expert’s Choice!
Here’s a perfectly-designed
last that embodies everything
needed to make boots extra
comfortable and smart. It
has been chosen expressly for
this exclusive Abbey model
... .in the best three leathers
you can get
This boot is pliant and long-
lasting. It is available in three
fittings. . . .narrow, medium
and wide.... for each full and
half size.
ORDER BY POST.
State both width and size re-
quired. Ask, also, for the cor-
rect Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf ..... . 55/-
Black Glace Kid 52/6
Black Box Calf 50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 339
%
IlSlillr
è
In the I 933 Pon-
tiac* the question
of Luxury is, at
last, set at rest
♦With chrome leather
upholstery
PONTIAC
THE LUXURY CAR
Consult
your local authorised
Pontiac dealer.
P. 3
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
é
SCHUTE,
BELL&CucI
(f you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the r l echnicai
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—-Every Friday—2d.
The new model Buick sets a new ideal
in motor car beaut/. Every line is trim,
modern, pleasing. When you open the
door and step inside you are pleased
afresh with its smart distinction, and
surprised indeed at its luxurious beauty.
And a new smart radiator gives promise
of wind-splitting performances that a
drive thrillingly fulfils.
uick IQ 3 3
The Finest Car Buick Ever Built
Consult your Local authorised buick dealer
will become proficient very soon. Even if
lie kills a few birds they don’t suffer more
than on the old-fashioned block.
Starve the birds for 24 hours before the
operation, and for the second 12 hours don’t
allow them any water. A good light is essen-
tial to success, as the glands to be removed
are very close to the main arteries, and even
experienced operators lose an occasional bird
through miscutting. Do the job in a well-
lit. room on a sunny day for preference.
Cockerels six to eight weeks old arc the
most suitable for caponising; and whilst any
breed at all will show great economical
gains, heavy breeds such as Wyandottes, Ply-
mouth Rocks, Rhode Island Reds and Orping-
tons are recommended. To produce super-
capons, cross an Indian Game cock with a
large breed of hen such as Plymouth Rock
or Jersey Giant, and you will have some-
thing like a young turkey without the latter’s
coarseness.
ORCHARD SPACING.
“A.G.R.”: There are two common methods
of laying out an orchard: the square and
the triangle or hexagonal system. The
square system explains itself. In the other
the first row is set out as usual, but the
trees in the second are planted each
equidistant from the two nearest trees
in the first row. Each tree in the third
row is equidistant from those in the second,
and so on. Thus every three trees nearest
each other form an equilateral triangle, or,
expressed differently, each tree (except those
on the outside) is equidistant, from six
others. Thus this method is also known
as 1 the “septuple” system. The triangle
system gives 15 per cent, more trees per
acre for the same spacing, but is more diffi-
cult to cultivate, as the orchard must be
crossed in three different directions to com-
plete the job, and two of these are rather
narrow. The greater number does not neces-
sarily mean a greater yield, as there will be
more competition for water and plant food.
STACKING EMPTY BAGS.
“R.8.M.”: Experience of several mice
plagues has taught me that the only sure
way of keeping cornsacks or chaff-bags is
to shake out all grain or chaff and stack
them. The bags should be laid flat on the
floor (wood or concrete, so that the mice
cannot burrow under them) and placed in a
heap on top of each other until a pile is
Aft. or 4ft. high. Fold a few bags up small
occasionally and put in the middle of the
heap to keep the stack flat. Be sure to
press the bags down firmly while building
it, and leave no open spaces for mice to get
in. The main thing is to keep the stacks
of bags away from one another or the walls.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) " What is the standing of the recently-
formed Wine Grape Marketing Board for the
N.S.W. irrigation areas? (2) In view of
the peanut decision, can the levy struck he
collected by the board?— 6ls9.
(I) The boaa’d came into existence as the
result of a poll of growers under the provi-
sions of the Marketing of Primary Products
Act, held on December 12, the voting being
210 for and 66 against. The jurisdiction of
the board is confined to the shires of Willim-
bong, Wade and Carrathool (Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area), and its membership com-
prises five elected representatives of the
growers and two Government appointees. (2)
That’s a matter for a judicial authority to
decide. Information as to the nature and
purpose of the charge the board is making
may be obtained from W. 11. Moses, M.E.C.,
Griffith, who is acting as secretary.
How to pickle or preserve olives? —6094.
Pick the fruit when it is plump; it must
be fresh and unbruised. Make up a brine
of water and salt strong enough to float
a fresh egg. Wipe the olives clean, immerse
them in the brine for seven days, then re-
move from the liquid and pack into jars.
Pour the brine into a pan, and bring it to
the. boil, removing with a spoon any scum
which forms; when clear add one teaspoon
brown sugar to each gallon of water. When
the sugar is dissolved, pour the hot brine
over the olives in the jars and cork or
seal tightly. Before serving, wash the olives
in clean cold water and dry in a soft linen
towel.
Recipes for making (1) apricot jam from
dried fruits, (2) orange marmalade, (3)
passionfruit jam, (4) lemon honey? —6342.
(1) One pound dried apricots, 411 b. sugar,
41 pints boiling water. Put the fruit in a
colander and let the tap run gently over
them for 10 minutes. Put in a preserving-
pan or large enamel basin, and pour the
boiling water over them ; let stand for 12
or more hours, then bring to the boil.
Cook gently for about 15 minutes, then add
the sugar and stir till boiling. Cook fairly
quickly for about half an hour; place in
heated jars, allow to cool, then cover. (2)
Eleven medium oranges, 2 lemons, 81b
loaf sugar, 9 pints cold water. Wipe
the fruit well and remove any blem-
ishes. Slice all very thinly, discard the
pips, put into an earthenware basin,
add the water and leave for 24 hours
to soften the peel. Next day place fruit
and water in a preserving-pan or deep sauce-
pan, ' bring slowly to boiling point, and boil
very slowly until slightly less than half the
bulk has boiled away. When this excess of
water has been driven off, add the sugar, stir
until dissolved, then boil rapidly for 5 or
TO minutes or until the marmalade sets
when tested on a cold saucer. Pour into
clean, hot jars, allow to cool, then cover.
(3) Empty seeds out of skins. Take one-
third of the skins, put in a shallow sauce-
pan, merely cover with cold water, bring
to the boil, and simmer until the insides
of the skins become plump and soft —20
to 30 minutes. Strain the water off, add
quite half of it to the seeds, scoop out the
insides of the skins and add them also.
Measure the whole, and to each pint of
fruit material and water add 111 b. sugar.
Boil fairly quickly for 30 to 35 minutes,
when the color should be pink. Begin to test
for setting after 20 minutes’ boiling. (4) Two
lemons, 2 dessertspoons butter, 2 eggs, -Jib.
sugar (large cup). Wipe lemons, grate the
yellow part of the rind only, squeeze juice,
slightly beat the eggs, add the sugar and
butter. Cook the whole in a double sauce-
pan or in a basin standing in boiling water.
Cook for 15 minutes after it begins to
thicken, stirring now and then.
1 —» ✓
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Hatter”: Try this ready-reckoner when
issuing rations :—.
Per Ton. Per Lb. Per Ton. Per Lb.
£2 6 8 .. id. £l4 0 0 .. lid.
413 4 .. id. 18 13 4 .. 2d.
7 0 0 .. |d. 28 0 0 .. 3d.
9 6 8 ..Id.
“Gumblegubbin”: To make your own axle-
grease, mix half a pint of Stockholm tar with
21b. of mutton fat, stirring it in while the
fat is hot.
“Sylvester”: When sowing small seeds,
such as turnip and carrot, place a little soil
over them before dusting the fertiliser on,
otherwise the young shoots may be burnt.
“Tena”: Quite a lot of horsehair is spoilt
by the careless throwing of it into some heap
or comer. Well-stored hair is worth two
shillings or more per pound. Hang a
bag up somewhere handy in the stable and
put all hair in it as soon as pulled.
“Gulliver”: Light battens spaced along
the top of the horse feeder will minimise
the loss due to the animals muzzling the
chaff in search of grain. Don’t put them
too close. About 12 inches between will
suffice.
“Dirnon”: Never throw tins or bottles
“down the gully.” They are always dan-
gerous to horses, cattle and humans moving
through the grass ; and bottles or broken
pieces have started bush fires on hot days.
Have a safe bottle tip, and bury the tins.
These rot away very quickly in the ground.
Or put them under the family hydrangea
and reap the reward of your tidiness in the
coloring of next season’s blooms.
“Petit Pois”: Pea-fed pork and bacon
rank among the best on the British markets,
and peas are especially valued for young
pigs, which’ they bring on in great style. A
ration recommended in an English agricul-
tural journal is 50 per cent, equal parts of
pfeas and baide.v or maize ground together,
45 per cent, middlings and 5 per cent, fish
meal. This has proved especially useful in
the period after weaning. Peas by them-
selves do not grind well, but mixed with
maize give no trouble.
“Valerin”: Silting tanks is a job for an
expert. Anyone can drag a scoop through
a tank, but that is not cleaning it out.
Most start by going through the centre of
the dam, which wears a channel into which
the scoop keeps slipping and puddling the
water. Try working the scoop around the
sides, gradually getting towards the middle.
Tanks which have gone dry and got filled
with water again are difficult to silt
properly, the battens having set too hard.
“Mimosa”: When treating a cracked or
greasy heel, wash the heel once and then
do it thoroughly with clean tepid soapy
water. Dry with a soft cloth or towelling.
In mild cases zinc or acetate of lead oint-
ment is sufficient to cure. My own remedy,
used on thousands of horses during the war,
is an ointment made of genuine Stockholm
tar, boraeic acid and lard (unsalted). After
washing as aforesaid, smear well the heel
with the ointment. Then cover with a clean
bit of rag or waterproof silk. Pack the
heel with tow, cottonwool or cotton waste.
Bandage, taking the first turn firmly around
the coronet and heel. Follow this treatment
with dry boracic acid dusted in. Provided
there is no suppuration, a week should clean
up a most obstinate greasy or cracked heel.
“Dairyhapd”: A local cow cocky always
puts a calf or two on to a cow with a sore
bag or chapped or cut teats in preference
to any medical treatment. His argument
is that it causes the cow less pain for the
natural withdrawal of the milk, and the
action of the suction, plus the saliva and
milk, generally works its own cure. His
treatment acts well on his own herd.
“Trac.”: Cheap and effective lugs or grips
can be made for tractor driving wheels out of
ffin. or lin. iron, Sin. to 4in. wide. The
iron is cut into lengths of approximately
two feet, with six inches of each end bent
at an angle of 80 degrees. The base of the
grip is then curved to fit the wheel, and
holes are punched in to enable the grip to be
bolted on in place of the original lug. The
grips are placed on the wheel so that the
bent-up ends are leaning towards the rear
of the tractor,
“Silage” : Many silage pits are now being
opened up, so take care not to feed mouldy
portions to the stock. This always causes
stomach trouble and very often death,
especially if the stock are weak or low in
condition. The mouldy matter can be carted
on to the cultivation for manure. Should
the whole of a pit be mouldy, don’t use
it until next season, but: leave it open to
sweeten and destroy the fermentation germs.
Mouldy .silage is often due to careless
location of the site or inadequate covering.
“Black Mountain”: In the Federal Capi-
tal Territory two sheepmen have blocks
almost adjoining. We will call them Y
and Z. Y always avails himself of an ex-
pert classer. His sheep are the same quality
as those owned by Z, although the latter’s
property is slightly better for sheep. This
year Y got over 12d. for his top lines. Z’s
Clip was sold on the same day; it had been
classed by himself and another grower. His
best price was lid.
“Speck”: One of the obstacles to success-
ful fruit-growing is frost. U.S. orchardists
are experimenting with a new spray which
coats buds with’ asbestos. The material
is powdered and is mixed with an adhesive
liquid; while the coating is heavy enough to
keep out the frost, it is porous enough to
admit the necessary air. It is guaranteed to
remain on the trees for four months in any
weather.
“The 0.D.”: Apropos the storm about
Alsatians, the crucial question seems to me
to be this: Are the dogs imported to Aus-
tralia as pets or as sheep-dogs? If the latter,
then why do we need them? Our own kelpie
or barb is far and away the best sheep-dog
in the world, either as shepherd or musterer.
And if the former, haven’t we imported
enough pets (including the rabbit!) already?


Our Service Department
Tliis page is set upart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hanu
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Cyanider, many years’ exp. Charters Towers, wants
assistant’s position.—64B4.
Well-educated Englishman, Vic. (23), commercial
and farming exp., wants position anywhere.—66ol.
Auctioneer, Sydney, wants position anywhere.—
6525.
To buy “The Intermediate Sex,’’ by Edward
Carpenter.—6s33.
To buy “The Australian Environment,” by Griffith
Taylor, and “Textbook of Botany,” by Lowson.—
6503.
To buy “An Introduction to the Study of Aus-
tralian Literature,” by Zora Cross. —6586.
To buy “The Red Pagan,” by A. G. Stephens.
—6587.
To buy “Australian Writers,” by Desmond Byrne,
mid “The Development of Australian Literature,” by
Turner and Sutherland.—6sBB.
To buy “Modern Caricatures,” by H. R. West-
wood, and “Phil May,” by James Thorpe.—6sB9.
To buy “Those Were the Days,” bv George A.
Taylor,—6s9o.
Words of poems “Not Understood,” “If” and “An
Eastern Prayer.”—6492.
Information bought.
I am Doing on a cruise to New Guinea in
the Strathaird, sailing at the end of August.
What clothes will I require? —64l3.
It would be wise to include some warm
clothing- for the commencement of the
cruise. On reaching the tropics the weather
will be warm, and the lightest of clothing
will be suitable.
Can honors he scored by an opponent of
the successful declarer in bridge ? —6548.
Yes. Both English and American authori-
ties are explicit that honors can be scored
"by either side holding them.”
I have an Essex car, ’27 model. While
driving on top gear I have to hold the gear-
shift lever all the time, pressing it down, or
the engine will go into neutral. What's
wrong ? —6408.
There may be excessive end play in the
shaft. To test this, take hold of the uni-
versal joint immediately behind the gear-
box and draw it in and out. There should
be about l-16in. play. If more, new thrust
washers may be needed. If car has done
a big mileage new gears may be required;
make sure that gears are going fully into
mesh. As another alternative, a heavier
selector spring may be required.
How to prevent a dog from licking a sore
(on his leg ) which lam trying to heal? —
6425.
Cover the sore with a thick pad of wool
or lint, kept in position by a bandage, and
muzzle the dog. Do not apply the bandage
tightly or the leg below it will swell.
What is the method of rating in munici-
palities and shires in N.S.W. and Q'land?
fs rating on land values compulsory in
cither or both of these States, or is the
method of rating on rental values followed?
—6486.
The Local Government Act (N.S.W.) pro-
vides that in the case of a general rate the
levy shall be made on the unimproved capi-
tal value, and in the cases of special, local
and loan rates on the unimproved, or the im-
proved, capital value. This applies to both
municipalities and shires. In Q’land also
the general rate is levied on the unimproved
capital value.
What depth of soil should be put on to
top-dress a tennis court; best soil to use, and
should there be a large proportion of sand?
—6454.
Use a good friable, _ loamy soil, with a
sprinkling of 41b. or 51b. of hone dust for
every barrowload. It should be thoroughly
mixed, and the top-dressing spread evenly,
about 4in. deep, and then carefully levelled
off with a spreader, made by fixing a light
2-to-l batten, 6ft. or Bft. long, on a suitable
There should not be a great deal of
sand in the mixture.
, W I am the proprietor of a printing
business (Vic.) in which my two sons are
employed. In the event of my demise icould
it be to the advantage of them and their
mother if the business had been made a
proprietary limited one? (2) What would
be the cost of registration ? —-6487.
Proprietary limited cos. in Vic. are usu-
ally family businesses or partnerships which
have been formed into cos. As such they
are exempt from complying with many of
the provisions of the Acts which apply to
other companies. Probably registration
would be an advantage in the circumstances
.you state. There is no fixed cost, but it
is not an expensive procedure.
/ am an old-age pensioner receiving 355.
per fortnight. How much can I earn in
12 months without, having to notify the
Pensions Department ? —6420.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act
provides that a pensioner’s income, together
with all pension, must not exceed £7l 10s.
per annum. When a pensioner commences
to derive any iucome he is expected to notify
the department.
Formula for a polish suitable to use on
Huco paint? —646o.
The whole object of Dnco finishes is to
avoid polishing; the bright surface will not
stand any abrading material, and requires
no treatment beyond washing with plain
water. An oil rub will sometimes improve
the appearance; mix together equal parts of
raw linseed oil, turpentine and kerosene,
apply very sparingly 0 n a soft cloth without
hard rubbing, following quickly with a soft,
dry polishing cloth.
How to repair a concrete fish pond which
is apparently porous, as it allows the water
to escape?— s937.
After draining the pond and cleaning the
inside, the surface of the concrete should be
treated with a mixture of one part of water
glass to five parts of water, painted on the
surface. Several coats should be used, allow-
ing eacli to dry thoroughly before the next
is applied. When completed the water
should be changed several times to remove
any excess alkali, which might endanger the
fish.
The proper wary to handle chrysanthe-
mums which have just finished flowering?
Any hints on their culture? —6489.
Dig up the clump's, divide them and re-
plant in rows 6in. apart the young strong
sections which have plenty of root-growth.
Apply no fertiliser or manure and give
very little water. In the cold months the
chrysanthemums will make much root-growth
and be firmly established by planting-out
time in October. Regular dustings with
lime are helpful.
I understand that a person intending to
stay for a period in Papua must give some
undertaking regarding his maintenance, and,
also, that a person' wishing to engage in
mining must put up a cash deposit. What
arc the facts? —6161.
On arriving he may be required to pro-
duce evidence to the authorities there that
he can pay for or has made satisfactory
arrangements for his maintenance whilst in
tiie Territory. If he desires to engage in
mining he must deposit £5O with the autho-
rities, and in addition should be able to pro-
duce evidence that he has at his disposal
cash or credit to the extent of at least
£2OO.
/ have reared some daphne shrubs from
slips. When can I shift them to the open
garden? Also, is there any special treat-
ment necessary ? How long before the shrubs
flower? —6480.
Any time in June or July is shifting-time
for daphnes. The soil should be thoroughly
dug and drained and rotted cow manure
added. Water tlie soil heavily before
attempting the work, to get as much as
possible packed about the roots. Note the
way of the root-growth when planting in
order that, when staking later op, the roots
will not be damaged. Daphne shrubs some-
times flower before they are three years old ;
often not before five years.
I wish to use a motor-car for the carriage
of drapery in either N.S.W. or Q’land.
What charges would I have to pay in (1)
Q’land under (a) the Main Roads Regula-
tions, (b) the Heavy Vehicles Regulations
and (e) the State Transport Regulations?
(2) In N.S.W. under (a) the Motor Traffic
Act and (b) the State Transport Act? —
6477.
(1) («) Fees at the rate of 2s. Bd. per
power-weight unit, if it be a pneumatic-tyred
vehicle, (ft) The fees payable would be at
the rate of 20 per cent, of the schedule
amount if the goods were picked up at the
nearest railway station only; 50 p.c. if
carried from a principal centre always; full
schedule rates are 11s. 3d. per power-weight-
load unit, (c) Fees at the rate of £5 per
ton p.a. (minimum, £5 per annum). Motor-
vehicle (a) and transport registration (ft)
fees are payable in one lump sum, while
heavy-vehicle registration (c) fees are pay-
able in thirds—the first, upon registration ;
the next after three months, and the final
third after a further three months.. (2)
(a) 2s. 3d. per |cwt. (British-make pneu-
matic tyres) ; 2s. 9d. per Jcwt. (foreign-
make pneumatic tyres), (ft) To license the
vehicle under the State Transport (Co-
ordination) Act, 1931, costs ss. Other
charges under it are £5 per cwt. p.a., sub-
ject to a maximum of sewt. of saleable goods
being carried in the vehicle.
(1) From what source is cod-liver oil
obtained? (2) How is it extracted? (3)
Has oil extracted, from common fresh-water
fish value as a food product?— 6397.
(1) From the livers of codfish obtained
from the fishing banks in the vicinity of
Newfoundland. (2) The fresh, cleaned
livers are heated to a high temperature and
kept closed from air as much as possible, the
resultant oil being drawn off. Special plant
is required and skilled treatment. Rough
boiling produces an oil impregnated with
stearin and other materials, which is used
in the soap trades. (3) Very unlikely, but
nothing definite could be said without an
analysis. Considerable research work on
these lines has been done in Sydney, and
you can obtain further information from
the Curator, the Technological Museum,
Ultimo, Sydney.
(1) What type of valve is most suitable
for the last stage of a receiver, a triode or
a pentode? (2) Should the type selected be
operated in push-pull? (3) Does a power
valve consume more plate current than, say.
a detector? (4) What determines the amount
of current consumed? —-6440.
(1) Depends upon the amount of RF
amplification and volume required. A pen-
tode will give a louder signal from a given
input than will a triode. When two AF
stages are used a triode is recommended.
(2) Sufficient volume is usually obtained
with a single valve. (3) Yes, generally
from 10 m.a. to 30 m.a., depending upon the
type of power valve used. (4) The design
of the valve and the value of the plate and
bias voltages.
Formula for making acid phosphate self-
raising flour in commercial quantities? —
6218.
No information available concerning an
“acid phosphate” process. The following is
a standard recipe which gives excellent re-
suits: 241 b. flour, lOoz. cream or tartar,
4oz. bicarbonate .of soda, and onz. salt.
Mix thoroughly in a revolving hopper, keep
closely covered and dry. The salt may be
omitted.
(1) How should a limited company he
addressed? Should “Messrs?’ he used? (2)
How should a private person employed by
a limited company he addressed? —6257.
(1) If the title of the firm includes the
names of persons, as “Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd.,” the usual practice is to prefix
“Messrs.”; in the case of a title such as
International Metals, Ltd.. “Messrs.” is not
used. In either case communications should
be addressed to the manager or some officer
of the company. (2) Mr. 11. Jones, c/o
International Metajg, Ltd., or c/o Messrs.
Babcock and Wilcox, Ltd.
Recipe for claret cup? —6ls2.
Assemble 1 bottle claret, 3 bottles soda
water, j bottle sherry, 1 lemon, sugar to
taste, and 1 sprig of verbena. Put the
wines and soda water into a large jug or
deep bowl, add a few strips of lemon rind
and then the lemon cut in thin slices. Add
sugar to taste and the verbena sprig. Put
on ice to become very cold. A few cherries,
raspberries or strawberries mav be added
in season.
Particulars of short-story competition
being conducted by the Fellowship of Aus
tralian Writers, Sydney?— 6s26.
First prize, £lO 10s. ; second, £2 2s. The
story must be on an Australian theme, by
an Australian writer, and not more , than
4000 words. MS. must be distinguished
by a pen-name and must be accompanied by
a sealed envelope containing real name and
address. Entries close with the lion, sec.,
Marjorie Liu inn, 76 Addison-road, Manly, on
September 30. Entrance fee, 2s. for non-
members and Is. for members.
(1) Consumption of bitumen, asphalts and
tar, per annum-, in each of the Australian
States? (2) Price of 180-200 penetration
bitumen, c.i.f., Sydney, in drums or barrels,
returnable? (3) Price of drums made in
Australia for carrying above-named commodi-
ties? (4) Are drums or barrels preferred
by users? (5) Name of gasworks in Bris-
bane turning out crude tar? (6) How is
municipal buying of road material handled
in Q’land?—6 323.
(1) Information regarding State consump-
tion is not available. The approximate
figures for the Commonwealth for 1930
were: Bitumen and asphalts, 18,900,000
gallons; tar, 8,000,000 gallons. (2) £9 19s.
per ton in Sydney, in 34- and 42-gallon
drums or barrels ; containers not returnable.
(3) Drums are not manufactured in Aus
tralia. (4) Barrels. (5) Brisbane Gas
Co. (6) Usually by public tender.
Method of cleaning papier-mache boxes,
tables, etc. ? —6456.
Make up a bowl of barely warm soap-
suds, then wash the objects with a small
sponge. Work very quickly, and do not
allow moisture to linger anywhere. Clean
up with a second bath of plain warm water,
and dry quickly with a cloth. If very re-
fractory to treatment, make up a paste of
powdered whiting and water, and brush it
on; when dry. brush it off. During the
washing process, a soft brush can be used
for crevices, etc. With either process, ex-
periment on a small part out of sight before
attacking important pieces; there are differ-
ent finishes on this material, and only a
skilled eye could determine the correct clean-
ing method.
How to pickle cucumbers, Jewish fashion
(with salt and nine leaves), or other method
without vinegar? —6433.
Can’t trace the vine-leaf method, but
you will find this satisfactory: Pick the
cucumbers before they harden, and if verv
small and young they need not be peeled';
wipe them clean and trim with a knife.
For large ones, peel thinly and cut
into suitable pieces. Place in hot water,
bring to the boil and cook until as soft
as liked. Pack into preserving jars, re-
taining the liquid in which they were boiled;
add salt, a little pepper, a little sugar, a
few blades of mace and several sprigs of
thyme. Bring to the boil, let simmer for
10 minutes, and pour over the pieces of
cucumber in the jars, which should have
been kept very hot in an oven. Seal in-
stantly with hot caps or corks and new
rubbers.
(1) What inks and colors are used for
printing monotypes? (2) Mow arc colored
monotypes printed? —64B3.
Winsor and Newton’s oil colors. Colors
generally used are ivory black, sepia, vandyke
brown, burnt sienna (for figure subjects)
and Prussian blue for seascapes and noc-
turnes. (2) Prepare a sheet of glass or
polished metal, the size required to print,
by washing it with methylated spirit, and
polishing it with prepared whiting. A simple
color scheme is desirable. Paint the pic-
ture on to the plate in solid flat masses
of color covering the whole surface. No
white is used and tones and highlights are
obtained by wiping the paint off the surface
of the plate. Work from the darkest tones
to the lightest, using a clean dry brush
to eliminate or thin each color, and no turps
or thinners of any kind. Colors may be
blended by drawing them lightly into one
another, also with a dry brush. The print-
ing is done on strong damp blotting paper,
either in a press or by rolling the back of
the paper, which is placed face downward
on to the prepared plate and well backed
up with a pad of w*aste paper, with a squee-
gee or even a bottle. Only one print can
be made from each preparation of the plate.
Information Supplied.
5746. —For a good home-made gun oil, try
this: To two parts kerosene (tested and
found free from acid) add one part each of
acetone, sperm oil and spirits of turpentine.
Clean the gun not later than tbe evening of
the day on which it is used, and swab out
the barrel again next day, using the same
solution. It is also good as an external appli-
cation for barrel and action. — Elfir.
6392. —Weddin Mount, near Eugowra
(N.S.W.), was formerly called WAoden
Mountains, because of the extreme density
of the timber. The present name is a cor-
ruption of the old one.—J. B.
Brief Answers.
R.M.D.: (1) First register under the
Dairies’ Supervision Apt to produce milk and cream.
Then register under Dairy Industry Act to manufac-
ture butter or cheese. Both Acts administered by
Dept, of Agriculture. (2) No. (3) Mostly traded
through storekeepers... .F.R.D.: It is best to let
the fungus die for the winter. You can start it
again from a very strong batch of ordinary cooking
yeast. It is doubtful whether these “plants” are
wholesome or clean.. . .D.P.K.: Write Charcoal Trac-
tion Engineers, 118 Toorak-road, South Yarra, Vic.
... .C.C.M.C.: The manufacturers are in the best
position to advise you. .. .O.B.B.: The quotation is
from Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s poem “Aurora
Leigh”.... N.H.: Paragon reverse gear, manufac-
tured by Paragon Gear Works, Paunpon, Mass..
U.S.A. No agent known in Melbourne... . R.E.R..;
Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-
street, Waterloo, Sydney.... A C.: “Diesel, Semi-
diesel and Other Internal Combustion Engines,” by
John Lamb;... H.D.; Gypsum added in sufficient,
quantity, will clear soapy water.... G.S.: Can’t
identify the disease from your description. Get
leaflet on tomato diseases from Q’land Agriculture
Dept E.C.: Submit it to C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt
street, Sydney, for an opinion. .. . S.M.S.: London
Book Co., 228 Pitt-street, Sydney... .G.11.L.: A boat
built on the lines of Dreuinship but to half her load
waterline would require much more than half her beam,
and probably more draught. With these dimensions
adjusted, she should be perfectly seaworthy and
efficient, though somewhat slow, and very lively in a
choppy sea. Get the advice of a naval architect.
Position of mast, amount of ballast and power of
motor depend on rig, lines of hull and whether you
require inside or outside ballast and offset or centre-
line engine installation.... D.W.: Would need to see
copy of contract.... R.N.: You could claim for the
unpaid balance of original debt.. . .T.M.: Lunacy, as
proved by detention in an institution for five years
within six years immediately preceding the filing of
the petition, is a ground for divorce in Q’land, but
not in N.S.W T.J.M.K.: The only persons who arc
at present eligible for assisted passages to N. S. Wales
are the wives and children under 14 of men in
regular employment here, and the' nominators must
have arrived in Australia from Britain prior to
January 1, 1930... .G.D.: Write N.S.W. State
Fisheries, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Macquarie-street,
Sydney. .. .S.Y.: We know of no book on the
subject... .A.J.D.: Write to Mr. Clarkson, Esk (Q.).
. ...E.S.G.: Get in touch with the keeper of the
Stud Book, Australian Jockey Club, B'ligh-street,
Sydney. .. . A.E.H.: The patent referred to is probably
No. 12033, dated March 1, 1928, in the name of
F. A. Clare. Any patent-attorney will obtain you
a copy of the specification so that you can see for
yourself what is covered thereby. Merely substitut-
ing iron for timber would not avoid the patent....
A.A.: Not aware of any... .P.M.A.: He has left Aus-
tralia ; address is care of Ivor Nicholson and Watson,
44 Essex-Street, London, W.C.2... .C.E.8.: Write Paul
R. -Reynolds, 599 Fifth-avenue, New York... .S.S.:
At the actual time of sinking the Lusitania no
warning was given. The Germans had hinted, how-
ever, before its departure from America that it was
marked down for destruction. .. .P.A.MI: Write to
the Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta....
W. 0.8.: Angus and Robertson. 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, or the Workers’ Educational Association,
Education Buildings, Bridge-street, Sydney, may be
able to help. . . .R.C.: No; you’ll have to write to
the Registrar, College of Arms, Queen Victoria-street.,
London, E.C.4.... C.H.S.: A full list will be found
in the “Pacific Islands Year Book” for 1932....
E.M.E.: (1) Yes. (2) No fii-m doing that class
of business here. (3) Cannot say. Send it in for
the firm’s approval... .M.G.M.G.: “Writing for the
Screen,” by Arrar Jackson, and “How to Write a
Film Story,” by Gertrude M. Allen... .H.C.M.:
Endeavor Press, 252 George-street; Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street; and Frank John-
son, 273 Pitt-street —all Sydney... .E.G.G.; There
is a long article on Indian architecture in the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica.” See also Fergusson’s
“History of Indian and Eastern Architecture” and
Burgess’s “Ancient Monuments, Temples and Sculp-
tures in India”.... F.R.H.: (1) Write to any of
the leading men’s outfitters in Sydney. (2) Write
Dept, of External Affairs, Canberra, F.O.T
A.A.8.: Mizpali means a “watchtower,” and was the
name of several towns or regions in ancient Palestine.
It has also a meaning, after Gen. xxxi., 49, as a
parting salutation. Kia-ora is a Maori word meaning
“be well” or “be happy,” often used in toasts....
M.H.; It is due to an infective process and loss of
resistance to it. An examination to see if the general
health is all it should be is desirable. Resistance
should be built, up with vitamin-containing foods,
and a little cod-liver oil daily would probably help.
. ...E.G.: (1) Opinions differ, but there is no doubt
at all that the Australian degrees are quite as high
as Edinburgh.- The London Uni. degree is looked
on as a standard. (2) Individuals cannot practise as
doctors of medicine in either Scotland or Australia
unless legally qualified. (3) Medical men in Britain
have a high opinion of Australian medical degrees,
and many Australians hold prominent positions in
English medical schools. Grafton Elliot Smith, the
famous London Uni. medical teacher, is an Australian.
... .F.L.: The tonic is to be found in food. Foods con-
taining vitamins which help to build up the body
against disease include milk, butter, . cheese, eggs,
fresh fruits and fresh vegetables (especially salads).
Cod-liver oil daily is also very helpful for a while.
. ...G.A.D.: Yeast, contains vitamin B, which is its
essential constituent. Vitamin B is found in certain
prepared foodstuffs like Marmite, Bemax and others.
. ...J.S.: Practically the whole of Arnhem Land is
included in an abo. reserve, and prospectors are not
allowed to enter. Some years ago it was reported
that some' white women from the ship Douglas
Mawson -were held by the natives, but the authori-
ties failed to find any trace, of them E.M.Mi:
Write to the Commissioner of Taxation, Warwick
Bldg., Hamilton-street. Sydney, explaining your cir-
cumstances D. 8.: Write Lands Dept., Bridge-street,
Sydney A.M.C.G.: It was a voluntary vote taken
among its readers R. 8.: Write to Registrar of
Probates, Queen-street, Melbourne. There is a fee
for inspection of a will; for a copy the charge is
per f01i0.... .F.J.: You are responsible personally to,
the owner of the car. You can sue the person by
whom the damage was caused in the Small Debts
Court... .A.P.: (1) Wash skin in water and then
soak overnight in clean water. Next morning remove
all flesh by scraping with a knife. Then again
soak in water containing 81b. salt for 10 gallons
water, leaving till next morning. (2) Tan in weak
solutions of tannin obtained from wattle-bark. (3)
When skins are tanned, give a light coat of oil on
the flesh side after washing out the surplus tan-
liquor. (4) Again scrape with a knife and clean
the flesh side.... C.H.W.: Try Fur Dressers and
Dyers, Ltd., 36 Chipen-street, Sydney... .R. 1.: Write
to the directors of the Australian Museum, College-
street ; Technological Museum, Harris-street; and
Taronga Zoological Gardens, Mosman —all Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
è
BRAKE
LINING
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on *
Edge .
RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
é
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Form points to Baanya winning the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle next Saturday. Since
he reached Melbourne the Tasmanian-oWned
gelding has scored three times in as many
starts. He led off by taking the Port Phillip
Hurdle at Williamstown on June 10, and fol-
lowed that up last week by winning on the
flat at Mentone and over the battens at
Moonee Valley. Baanya, in the Windarra
Hurdle at Moonee Valley, carried 171 b. more
than his G.N. impost; yet he reached the
judge eight lengths in advance of Poidale,
with Zetheus (Avho jumped badly) an in-
different third. Zetheus is a stable-mate of
Sub Rosa, who failed signally in the Jumpers’
Flat; that event went to Pitoota, owned by
Harry Connolly. Originally Pitoota was
raced by Ben Chaffey, his breeder.
National Hurdle candidates who came
under the acid at Moonee Valley included
Prismatic, Catkin, Ceilidh, Laniroi and
Lanour, in the Windarra Hurdle; and Bon
Haven and Prime Seal, in the Jumpers’
Flat. The form of Prismatic does not war-
rant any high hopes of the big prize going
to Sydney, as Prismatic never was pro-
minent and finished a long way back. His
preparation is in the hands of Fred Fouls-
ham at Caulfield. Prime Seal put in a
great run over the last tAA*o furlongs, of the
Jumpers’ Flat to finish third, and his G.N.
prospects may be preferable to those of
Poidale. Both Poidale and Prime Seal are
trained by H. R. Telford, being owned by
Mr. and Mrs. P. G. Hay respectively.
Fred Iloysted withdrew Nauru from the
G.N. Steeplechase because that horse was
insufficiently wound-up for a marathon jour-
ney over fences. On Saturday the Mentone
trainer’s representation in the cross-country
event was further reduced by the accident
which befell Solo King in the Travancore
Steeplechase. For some time Solo King has
Bert ‘."Struth Gert, whats the
(SERT : " IVS DRAWN SECOND
PRIXE IN THE LOTTERY."
Bert ’ // sore ? "
&ERT ’."YeS, lM ONLT OKIE OFF THE
VsMNKHWq NUNABER."
been saner mg from trouble in the near
foreleg. At Moonee Valley he tried to put
in a short stride at the fifth fence and
crashed into the obstacle. The affected leg
was so seriously injured that Hoystod imme-
diately announced his intention of scratching
Solo King for Flemington. Shooting Boy,
winner of the Travancore Steeplechase, dis-
closed a sudden return to form. Last year he
started favorite for the Australian Hurdle
and ran third. After that the chestnut from
South Aus. went from one failure to another
in the jumping department, and on Saturday
15 to i was freely offered against him. Yet
nothing had a chance with Shooting Boy over
the concluding seven furlongs. He is en-
gaged in the G.N. Steeple with 9.13, but the
Flemington fences are a different proposition
from those at Moonee Valley.
Waltzing Lily, having captured the Stand
ish Handicap and Newmarket Handicap as a
three-year-old, must be classed as perhaps
the fastest filly in Australia. She had 9st.
21b. in the Chandos Handicap at the Valley,
and was called upon to concede two years in
age and 101 b. in weight to the favorite, St.
Cisto. The inability of St. Cisto to gain a
place is explained by his having been badly
left at the start. Waltzing Lily squeezed
home by half a head from the diminutive
Watchful, who has competed in pony races,
hut may have outgrown his certificate in thai
respect.
Whitsome, formerly owned by A. S. Chirn-
side, who won an A.J.C. Epsom Handicap
with Blackadder, has improved marvellously
since her purchase by W. Burke. She
annexed the Deep Creek Handicap in grear
style. It transpires that the previous failures
of the Rossendale mare Avere due to kidney
trouble, which has been cured. Val Rose, a
five-year-old daughter of Beau Fils, was
among many outsiders to score during the
afternoon. Her turn came in the Green Vale
Welter.
Baanya may have most to fear in the G.N.
Hurdle from Belar, Zygon. Lynden and
Dunkeld. The Toolambool Hurdle at Caul-
field on June 17 was a tussle over the closing
stages between Belar. Zygon and Lynden. At
the second-last flight Belar took off too far
and unseated his jockey. The verdict went
to Zygon by half a head from Lynden, who
appeared unlucky to lose, owing to interfer-
ence from the riderless Belar. However, that
anting benefited Zygon materially. Last
week he did an exceptional long-distance
gallop on the tan at Flemington, coming
home the last mile in Irnin. 49sec., which
savors of a Melboui’ne Cup trial. If 4\ alter
Scott is sent to the post he will have to be
reckoned with, even though weighted at list.
71b. Of late he has been schooling over
fences, and the G.N. Steeple may be the
mission of F. E. Shillabeer’s prad. This Page
expects the places in the first leg of the
double to be filled by Baanya, Zygon and
Belar.
* « • *
If Peter Pan is really “another Phar Lap”
he should have a first-rate chance in the
Melbourne Cup with 9st. 7lb. He doesn’t
look built to carry weight, as the defunct
champion did; but his beautiful style of
galloping should stand to him. Perhaps Hall
Mark (7st. 81b.) and Nord (7st. 51b.) are
preferable at the weights; indeed Parkwood
(Bst. 31b.) or Mince Pie (7st. 121 b.) and
Nord looks a fair Cup double. If Chatham
can recover his ; fine form of last season, he
will take a deal of beating in the Epsom
with 9st. 101 b, Milantheon (7st. 121 b.) has
a nice weight for a four-year-old who was
good at three years; and may perhaps be
profitamv coupled for the Metrop. with
Topical ‘(Bst. 51b.) or Mince Pie (7st. 61b.).
$ * *
Wicklow (25 to 1) gave the bagmen a
much-needed lift in a division of the Flying
Welter at Moorefield, after four successive
faA'orites had separated them from a con-
siderable amount of coin. The gelding (he
is a three-year-old by Silvius —Lacefront)
came with a late run on the rails just when
the favorite, King Pin, seemed to have the
race won, and vanquished O’Rourke’s charge
bv a neck. Orpah (8 to 1) was a fairly close
third after being up with the leaders for
most of the journey. The winner had not
appeared in public since September 3, when
he ran sixth in the Canterbury Three-year-
old. His owners thought him unready and
did not put a shilling on him.
Some Boy went out favorite (at 5 to 2)
for the second division, but got away badly.
He had a good position, when they entered
the straight, but his earlier efforts had taken
too much out of him and he could not catch
the leader, Bonnie Valerie (5 to 1), who
beat him home by a couple of lengths. Barren
Corn (15 to 1), who notched a win at Can-
terbury last month, was third. A plunge was
made on Bassanton, the mare being backed
from outside odds to 6 to 1. She had
none the best of the going and never looked
dangerous.
Half a head only separated Brazenface and
Wallace Mimi at the finish of the Moore-
field Handicap, but the margiu was suffi-
cient to land the Brazenface party a hatful
of money. As much as 7 to 1 was laid about
Brazenface; he was backed down to 3 to 1,
three points in advance of Wallace Mimi.
Young Windred on Brazenface seemed half
a furlong from home to be due for an easy
win, but Wallace Mimi emerged from the
ruck and all but snatched victory from him,
.T. J. Leahy’s Balgay (10 to 1) was third.
This was the Cistercian gelding’s first win
over ten furlongs, and he seems to be im-
proving with age.
From the manner in which Nardale (4
to 1) accounted for an unusually solid field
in the first division of the Kogarah Stakes
(“five lengths” was the judge’s verdict) it
would seem that Fagan and Oatley’s three-
year-old has developed into a sprinter above
the ordinary. His nearest attendants when
the judge was reached were Bombastic (10 to
1) and Gladium (7 to 1). Martingale (5 to
2) scrambled home in the second division a
half a head in front of Family Pride
(lOto.l).
Trenette was a solid favorite, at twos, for
the Rockdale Mile, The Treclare mare took
out the money, but had to put in a sensa-
tional run to heat East Molong (10 to 1)
by a head. Talkie (7 to 2), who was always
prominent, found the last half-furlong a bit
too much for him,
For Canterbury next Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Dunerc; next, Some
Boy.
Canterbury Handicap: Akuna; next,
Phlare. „ , , _
Ashbury Handicap: Confab; next, Barren
Corn.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Muir did most of the wrestling at Leich-
hardt on Saturday, and Browning most of
the roughing. After throwing him with a
standing overarm headlock in the second
round, Browning pinned his opponent; Muir
got square with a short-arm scissors in the
fifth. Browning took charge in the last
round, in which there was more fighting than
anything else. Grasping the other lad’s legs
in a stand-up crucifix hold, he put Muir’s
shoulders on the mat long enough to win by
two falls to one.
Footbrawl
With only half the games played in the
first round of Vic. League football, four
teams —Essendon, Hawthorn, St. Kilda and
Melbourne —are definitely out of the hunt,
and unless they hog in to better purpose
North and South Melbourne, with Oolling-
wood, are likely to join them. On Saturday
F'itzroy clinched its grip on fourth place by
collecting 97 points to South Melbourne’s
78, the victory being chiefly due to shrewder
tactics and accurate position play, a high
wind helping these considerably. Colling-
wood found that out at Footscray, where the
home side, working cannily, captured a 29-
point lead in the third quarter. In the last
the Magpies, with the wind behind them,
played all over ’Scray, but, relying on long
kicks from the half-forward line, managed
only 3 goals 6 behinds to their opponents’
nix in that term, and so lost by five points
—6O to Footscray’s 65. C'arlton went across
to North Melbourne and found its hosts
somewhat overrated, holding them from end
to end in a scrambling, untidy game, and
winning by 80 points to 53. Richmond, at
home, had little difficulty in collecting the
bacon from Essendon, with 110 points to 59;
Geelong raked in 133 points—and a “gate”
of £l4B 3s. 6d.—while Hawthorn laboriously
gathered 24 points. St. Kilda scored its
second win this season by notching 90 points
to Melbourne’s 33. Melbourne started the
season in high hopes with a new sec. and
coach from Richmond, but apparently they
didn’t bring the luck with them.
* * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union side opened its
tour of Queensland in good style by defeat-
ing the home side in Brisbane. 19-14 (five
tries, two converted, to four tries, one con-
verted). The Queensland forwards made a
sterling showing, but the backs handled
badly until the closing stages, when they
settled down and developed an attack which
came near reversing the result. Speed and
clever combination in the N.S.W. back divi-
sion won the day, though the centres showed
slackness in defence, as was the case against
Victoria recently.
In South Africa, the Wallabies won their
second match against Rhodesia, at Bulu-
wayo, by 31 to nil. The tourists again
played the South African scrummage and
shaped better with the practice. The fact
that full-back McPhillips snapped a dropped
goal also indicates they are learning, for
the field goal, so neglected in Australian
Rugby, is a regular feature of Afrikander
matches, several having already been recorded
against our men.
In the Sydney Rugby Union club com-
petitions Western Suburbs had not tasted
defeat this season until University served
them with a double magnum of it on Satur-
day at ’Varsity Oval. The final scores were
40-6 in Uni.’s favor, the winners scoring
nine tries, five of which were converted bj
full-back Leggatt, who also landed a penalty.
Western’s contribution was a try and a
penalty goal. The sides were equally
balanced as far as losses to Queensland went,
but the return of the cream of the. Varsity
players from Maoriland made a big differ-
ence. Both forward and bock the winners
could do no wrong. To pick out <>ne only,
Barron, replacing the redoubtable McShane
at scrum-half, proved a most efficient substi-
tute. Pauling at full-back was. by far the
best of the Western backs, with Holland
leading in the forwards. Of the other games,
Randwick narrowly beat Drummoyne 17-13
at Coogee; Manly won a stodgy game from
Northern Suburbs on the latter’s ground
H-0; and St. George downed Eastern
Suburbs 14-8.
With the English tour imminent, those
Rugby League players selected for the trip
did not run too many risks m Saturdays
club games in Sydney. This was particularly
the case in the match between Eastern and
Western Suburbs at Sydney Sports Ground,
won by the latter 37-22. There seemed to
be a gentleman’s agreement with regard to
hard tackling obtaining, with the result that
sparkling runs were as plentiful and success-
ful as the scores indicate. It was an attrac-
tive display, and gave general satisfaction.
The game between Balmain and North Syd-
ney also provided plenty of excitement at
Drummoyne Oval, but of a different kind.
Balmain won by 19 points to 5. At the end
of the game North had nine men on the held
and Balmain 11, the others having been
either knocked or ordered off. Newtown won
a hard game from St. George by 13-6, and
South Sydney beat University 20-15, scoring
six tries to three, but converting only one
of them.
There was a stir in Sydney Rugby League
circles when two of the Australian team
chosen for England, Bishop and Norman,
were held up by the medical examination,
in each case for'leg injuries. Norman’s loss
is an important one, for he is the only really
first-class League five-eighth in sight. Bishop
is a hooker and goal-kicker, but his loss will
not be irreparable. He has been replaced by
Queenslander Glasheen, whose omission from
the original selection was strongly criti-
cised. Hey, of N.S.W., takes Normans
place.
The Queensland and N.S.W. players com-
posing the team leave; Sydney on Monday
for Melbourne to catch the overseas steamer.
Frank McMillan, of N.S.W., is captain, and
Queenslander F. Laws vice-skipper. 1 110
opening match is against St. Helen’s Recrea-
tion Club on August 26.
The Maoriland Soccer team went down to
Australia in the final Test at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, 4-2. The. visitors have
improved during the tour, and in the middle
of the second half, with the score two all.
looked like winning. Goalkeeper Zuill made
some remarkable saves.
(Continued on page 30.)
The Nineteenth Hole
For the third successive time the British
amateur golf championship lias gone to
a local product, Michael Scott, who first
climbed to golf fame by winning the Aus-
tralian open championship in 1904. He won
again in 1907, and at various times ch'aoe* l
up the amateur championship and took tin
Victorian and N.S.W. titles as well. Scott,
who is 55 years of age, won four up am
three from T. A. Bourn, winner m 194 U.
In a semi-final he outed the much-fancied
American G. Dunlap.
The final of the N.S.W. amateur golf
championship was won at Kensington on
Saturday by H. W. Hattersley, who beat the
youthful A. N. Waterson by three and one.
The youngster looked out of the game ar on
stage, when Hattersley was six up with te
to play, being evidently bothered by the ms
crowd and the windy conditions. He ma
a great recovery, but the handicap was
big.
(Continued on page 30.)
The tournament of the N:S.W. Polo Asso
ciation at Kensington, which ended on Rati r
day, was the first held there for three y . •
During the week a series of matches betuee
variously-named teams was staged the same
players appearing in several or them,
two main events were the Hordern Cup a
the Australasian Challenge Cup for wluc
last, in happier days, a Maoriland team
competed. The Hordern Cup went to ®
Campbelltown side, which beat Cobbity t •
two goals) from scratch by five - • •
four. On Saturday the game for ti e - m
tralasian Cup between the Ashton t >
Goulburn, and an Australian V.G side J.
won by Goulburn, 7-4, though play wa«
closer than scores indicate, CGulhu n o
one goal to a mishit by Curtxs Ski ne,
son Bob bit three of the A.P.G.s foul *


“KEROTIN”
SPRAY PUMP
IMPROVED PATTERN
The Kerotin has been a popular spray pump
throughout Australia for many years. From time to
time improvements have been made, and now we
claim it is without a peer for length of life, efficiency
and low price. This handy little pump is made of
Brass throughout. It is fitted with Ball Valves, and
the Air Chamber is our New Type, with Air-retaining
tube. The Kerotin is sent out with 3ft. of strong,
detachable hose, armored at Pump to prevent kinking,
fitted with a 6in. Brass Director and spray nozzle.
Price - - 22/6
Fitted with a special nozzle, the Kerotin is exten-
sively used as a Veterinary Pump by breeders of
cattle, etc. PRICE, 5/- EXTRA.
BRS
c
\ .di<
e
The “DANKS” Oil Pump
For pumping oil, benzine and other liquids;
readily attached to drum.
Easy to Operate. Very Durable.
Made in three sizes.
PRICES
FROM
32/6
WE ALSO MANUFACTURE
Centrifugal and other Power Pumps, Hydraulic Rams,
all kinds of Hand Pumps, Pumping Machinery and
Pump Accessories, and we guarantee everything we
make.
WROUGHT IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS
ALL SIZES
AT LOWEST PRICES
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■
33,
GREATLY
REDUCED
FARES
At your request tee shall
be pleased to forward
illustrated folder No. 25
Special Excursion Rates
per T.S.S. 44 MARELEA ”
leaving Sydney Sept. 9,1933
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES
JAVA £6s—no exchange
SINGAPORE . £74—no exchange
IDEAL WINTER TRIP
DUR ATION OF VOYAGE— 7 WEEKS
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY ::: Telephone 87901
Read the B.P. Magazine, 1/- per copy. All newsagents and booksellers.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MAKING BLOOMS,
SLABS AND BILLETS.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No 41)2/31 is prepared to negotiate
for the' sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVED PROCESS OF HEAT
TREATING HYDROCARBON OILS.
r TTIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 13623/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
FASTENING LUGS FOR NESTABLE
SECTIONAL STRUCTURES.
* I TIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 21.125/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, nse
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Wassrl
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication —-Every Friday—2d.
This is the cause of your
1j a cl\a eke
u H! OH! my back—it’s nearly breaking! 1 can't get straight again
m Wk once I stoop down. It seems just as though an iron hand is
■ ■ gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making me just sick with
pain. ...” That is the daily story of a host of people just' crippled
with pain. Thousands of women—and men, too —suffer for years
with chronic pains in the back, and believe it is due to sudden cold, a chill or
too much work or fatigue. As a matter of fact, the stabbing, weakening,
lowering backache, that dreadful down-dragging weakness is almost certainly
due to hidden kidney trouble.
There are thousands of men and women suffering daily “untold agonies”
because of kidney trouble in one form or another. It is rio use doping the system
with drugs. The only possible means of ending your trouble is to cleanse the
body of pain-giving poisons, and that is a function the kidneys must carry out.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers, backed
by our own 40 years’ experience, which enables us to state that if you will
commence a course with a simple straightforward remedy, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be ended.
In 24 hours you will see results. Persevere and your pain goes for good.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-destroying
pain? Why be weak and ailing when you can, at such little cost, start once
again building up full vigour and vitality?
No extravagant claims are made for these pills. They do not represent a
cure-all, craze-of-the-moment find. Solid testimony proves their efficacy in all
complaints which
are caused by weak
or sluggish kidneys,
especially backache,
rheumatism, bladder
trouble and general
weakness.
è
é
ê
! \ ....7
■
£k
m
-
'
*»
a:
■
5 HARP twinges,
stabbing pains —
Nature’s urgent
warning of serious
Kidney Trouble !
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering
when all else has failed. Men and women in dreadful pain for years say they
have ended that pain and brought back health, strength and vigour in a
marvellously short time.
If you will only give these pills a fair trial by taking them regularly for a
short time we feel confident they will end the cause of your chronic rheumatic
• n , or kidney trouble. If you would like to “try before you buy,” write for
the free sample offered below to-day.
Why put off until to-morrow the health you can have to-day? Tried and
trusted so many years, a safe, sure, family remedy De Witts will not fail you.
But be sure you get the genuine remedy, sold only in the original white, blue
and gold box. . „
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made specially
for the relief of kidney and bladder troubles. Refuse all substitutes, there is
nothing just as good.
DE WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder
Pills
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address be-
low. Use Id.
stamp.
Please send me, free and post -paid,
a trial supply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills
NAME
ADDRESS
C.A. 16
P.O. Box 26, MELBOURNE.


WOODS'great
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
e
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 92nd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full informationcopies, advertising rates “The Examiner” “Weeliy Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express’’ obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. \V, G. Dougan,
50- Hunter Street-,
Sydney.
/o**°
Sis
m
m
m
They
Never]
lei You Down
Eley & Kynoch Cart-
ridges are of a scientific
accuracy that assures
perfect performance un-
der all conditions—“ they
never let you down.”
High velocity, perfect igni-
tion, remarkable pattern,
low recoil, long range are
factors the keen shot expect*
in his cartridges, and these he
gets in Eley & Kynoch as in
no other brand.
[Keen Sportsmen Always Use
\OEHT
ELEY& KYNOCH
■cartridges
7&i SnAe Shooting
ALU
BRITISH
è
Obtainable
from your
local Dealer
Move
pomv*
to¥NI
CLYDE
batteries
The CLYDE ENGINEERING
CO. LTD.
61-65 Wentworth Avenue. SYDNEY
Footbrawl
“T. Boliun”: “Hotham” is in error in
describing the Australian game as an im-
ported one based by imported men on im-
ported games (B. 7/G/’33). It originated in
ISSB, when T. W. Wills, well known in those
d'ays as a cricketer, arrived in Melbourne
and advised that a start be made with foot-
ball. Though he was a Rugby player him-
self—he had just left Rugby School—he
warned those who gathered about him not
to take on the Rugby game but to evolve one
of their own. The late H. C. A. Harrison
took the leading part in framing the rules.
The presence of an Irish regiment in Mel-
bourne had some influence in working out
the new game, tor they had a recollection of
the Celtic code, and Wills embodied certain
phases of Rugby. But Australian football is
not nearly as like either of the foreign games
as the American code is like Rugby, its
putative father.
* * * *
“Erskineville” : The preparations for the
Australian-rules tourney which begins in
Sydney the first, week in August are in full
swing. Broken Hill is shipping its contin-
gent of players for the N.S.W. side to Sydney
by a special train. Westralia has notified
its arrival on July 30, when all the other
States should be in the Bridge City. The
matches will be played on Sydney Cricket
Ground, while Erskineville Oval, Trumpet
Park, S.C.G. No. 2 and Sydney Sports
Ground will be allotted to the visitors for
training. On August 1 Cord Mayor Hagon
will receive the inter-State teams at the
Town Hall.
* ❖ * $
“Outcast” : No one familiar with the life
of a -Victorian football umpire will fail to
sympathise with the fraternity’s recent abor-
tive attempt to have its wages raised. Even
the boundary and goal umpires, who run
much slighter risks, were justified in their
vain claim. As for the central official, it
may fairly be said he carries his life in his
hand. Even in his own football district he
is regarded much in the same light of awed
contempt with which our forefathers con-
templated the common hangman. There is
no Victoria Cross or Royal Humane medal
for these unsung heroes.
, * *
“Sisiquaqua”: The Wallabies played the
first of their two Rhodesian matches last
week at Salisbury, which only 40 years ago
or so was occupied as one of its first posts
by the Chartered Company. The Rhodesians
rank as second-class players in South Afri-
can football, so the visitors’ 24-5 win was
nothing to sing about. The Wallabies con-
tinued with the 4-3-1 South African pack
tried in Kimberley, the idea being to get the
hang of it before meeting the formidable
Western Provinces side at Capetown on July
1 and South Africa a week later. The
team is feeling the loss of its captain and
scrum half, Malcolm, the second string, Ben-
nett, comparing unfavorably with the
Waratah.
* * .# *
“Glenelg”: August 5 will mark a new de-
parture in the Rugby Union game in Aus-
tralia, for on that date a Vic. side will play
S. Australia in Adelaide, where the State’s
first R.U. opened its season officially this year
with seven clubs. The Adelaideans have
offered to billet 18 players and hand over
50 per cent, of the net takings. N.S.W. is
to contribute to the expenses as well. West-
ralia has been going strong with the game
for several seasons, and if the Tasmanians
continue with the start made last year it
will not be long before the code is established
in every State, for the first time in Aus-
tralian football history.
“Five Ways”: Somehow or other N.S.W.
players never go to Queensland for any
game without complaining of something.
This time it is the Rugby League, which
lifted up its voice in lament because when
it got to Brisbane it was informed that the
inter-State match would be played under
the rules prevailing in the North of Eng-
land. As the match was a trial for the team
which would soon be playing in Lancashire
and Yorkshire, one would have thought the
chance for a bit of practice in the variations
would have been welcomed. Far from it, and
the Ma Staters, having beeu defeated, de-
parted, calling on whatever gods may be
associated with professional sport to witness
they had been chiselled.
* * * %
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby Leaguers
still cherish the hope that they may per-
suade the French Rugby Union, which is
at loggerheads with the British International
Union, to adopt their professional game. An
exhibition match will certainly be played
in France, and it has been suggested that
one of the Tests with the English League
may be played there. This is hardly likely.
The Australian Leaguers of 1921-22 tried
one match against “England” in London,
and the takings were so shocking that the
risk is never likely to be incurred again.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Sydney has discovered a
unique golf prodigy who has not been in-
ured to the obsession from early youth,
having never beeu required to cut his teeth
on a number 2 iron or use a rubber tee for
a comforter. He is Allan Waterson, of
Moore Park, who first burst on the Sydney
golfing world in the N.S.W. amateur cham-
pionships. NVatersou began with an old
iron and ball on his own when 14, and there-
fore old enough to know better. He has
never had a lesson, which possibly explains
why he is so successful. If he is allowed
to go on iu this way, he will probably be-
come a great golfer.
“Lavender Bay”: O. A. Ireland, secretary
of the Singapore Golf Club, has been telling
a Sydney interviewer that the game over
his way has .suffered severely from the de-
presh. In the good days of rubber and tin
it was usual to find about 3000 lost balls
in the jungle surrounding the course annu-
ally, but since the hard-times stymie lias
been evident the number has sunk to a
paltry 200 or so. Someone ought to take
the Singapore man for a round of Moore
Park.
$ * * *
“Sturt”: Ackland-Horman, the 19-year-
old S.A. golfer, has shown early that his
promise as a schoolboy was no fluke. He
THE POLO MEN AT KENSINGTON.
Left to right: P.G. Smith (Tamworth ), Curtin Skene (Australian Polo Club) ,W.H.
Browne (Campbell[?]own), W. H . Mackay, jun. (Nomads), Dr. R. M. Crook-
ston (Knaves), Phil Ashton (Goulburn), N. Downes (Camden), C. W. Hooke
(Nomads), Ken Mackay (Nomads), Colonel Dowse (hon. sec.).
has won the championship of the Royal
Adelaide Club in a stroke competition with
303. The veteran Legh Winser was second
with 309; then came Toms, Astley, Swift
and Lemann.
“Carnoustie” : Of inventing many new golf
gadgets there is no end. All of them are
guaranteed to convert a limit-player into a
/diis-marker, but the biscuit-winner seems to
be one devised by the English professional
Henry Cotton. It is a shoe which gives
the w,earer a secure grip of the ground with
the inside of the foot while pivoting and, as
Henry vouches, makes the player swing cor-
rectly. He adds that with it anyone can
play par golf or better, so it would appear
that the millennium is just round the corner.
Racquet and Bawl
Having won their first three Davis Cup
matches against Japan in Paris, the Aus-
tralians did not ride the race out. Crawford
and McGrath were beaten by Satoh and
Nunoi respectively, each by three sets to one.
A feature of the' tourney was the bar-
racking of the French crowd, mostly directed
against the Australians. Our men now meet
England in the final of the European zone at
Wimbledon, beginning July 13. They should
be left in to meet America for the right to
challenge France, unless something serious
happens.
"Kooyong” : The Australian tennis heads
are looking forward in gleeful anticipation
to coming out of this Davis Cup tour with
a profit instead of the debit balances of the
last two trips. In addition to a good sum
from the French championships, about £l5O
was received from the game in England with
South Africa, and over double that from the
Japanese match in Paris. The guaranteed
cheque at Wimbledon is a solid one, and the
performances of the Australians to date
should reward the club for its enterprise.
After the Davis Cup there is a German
show, and one with England also. The match
with England at Wimbledon should be a
money-maker in itself.
“Garros”: The Frenchmen are continuing
to worry over their Davis Cup team to
defend the trophy, which has been in their
possession since 1927. Young players of
promise have been tried by the dozen, but
it is probable the old brigade will face the
starters for the challenge round in Paris.
Borotra and Brugnon will definitely be the
doubles pair. If possible the singles de-
fenders will be Cochet and Borotra. Though
the latter covered himself with glory against
the Americans last year, he has sworn oil
singles play. However, it is reported that
Lacoste, who is the non-playing captain and
sole selector, has insisted on the Basque
turning out. and he will probably do so.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The All-England tennis
championships at Wimbledon, which began
this week, saw Crawford ranked second on
the singles seeding list, with Vines on top.
Cochet occupied the unusual position, for
him, of third, while Englishman Austin is
fourth. Then come Sutter (U.S.A.) and Perry
(Eng.), Satoh and Lee, the last also
English. Helen Wills-Moody heads the
women’s list, of course, with Dorothy Round
and Margaret Scriven, of England, second
and third. The Australians are not in the
first doubles four, those named being the
old firm, Borotra and Brugnon, Vines and
Gledhill, Hughes and Perry and the Afri-
kanders Farquharson and Robbins. The
singles draw ensures that Crawford and
Vines, supposing they last so long, will not
meet until the final.
Car and Cycle
“Wayback”: The citizens of Collector
(N.S.W.) are still keen on getting Malcolm
Campbell to make his next attempt on the
speed record at Lake George. A letter from
Malcolm sets out the requirements. The
lakebed must be hard and smooth without
being slippery, and must have a rock foun-
dation. There must he no stones to cut
tyres, and he is anxious to know its height
above sea level beforehand. If all these
and some minor requirements are met, he
may come along, but wants to be dead cer-
tain everything is O.K. before incurring the
heavy expense. A matter that has been
overlooked is that this lake is sometimes full
of water aud fish. It would be awkward if
Malcolm found these conditions prevailing
when he came, for, apart from the water, a
Murray cod of the size always reported by
outback fishermen would be an awkward
thing to bump at 300 m.p.h.
“M.H.E.”: Campbell is a lean, lantern-
jawed person in the late forties who might
be taken for a Cornstalk, except for his
accent. He differs from other drivers in
that his nervous system seems to be ageless.
He plans races as other people plan to build
bridges. lie once summed himself up by
saying “I am not a driver; I am a speed
engineer.” If he comes, Australia will learn
a lot of wrinkles.
« * * *
“Whizz”: The Le Mans 24-hour Grand
Prix, one of the world*’s leading road
events for motor-cars, was won last week by
Italy, an Alfa-Itomeo car driven by Nu volar)
and Somncrs covering 1953.4- miles m the
time, and averaging 51.39 m.p.h., a record
for the course, which is full of turns am
twists. Another Alfa-Romeo was second and
yet another third, but this time driven to
Englishmen, Brian Lewis and R. Richards,
who filled the same place in last year s race.
The A.-R.’s won in 1931-32 also, but for the
four years before that England scored with
Bentley ca rs.
“Pedestrian”: Another light-car record
from Sydney to Melbourne went_ up last
week when J. Clements and W. IN arneford.
of Sydney, got through in 10 hours S->
minutes, bettering the previous figures by
20 minutes. The 5t?5 miles was covered at
an average rate of over 50 m.p.h. Recently
the Victorian police took steps to stop tin-
craze for record-making on public roads by
requiring a motor-cyclist to enter into an
undertaking to go and sin no more. An
extension of this principle to cars would be
popular witli the public who use the road-
for intelligent purposes.
Miscellaneous
"Incog.”: If London “Sunday Graphic
can be believed, there was something wait-
ing for Jardine on his return to England
which makes the secret trials: of the Nazis
or the Ogpu fade to nothingness. It will. be
recalled that, inspired by some wandering
imp, Jardine swopped caps with Ames dur-
ing the second match ivitli South Australia,
the Kent ’keeper being endued with the
sacred headgear of the Harlequins. ’When
it, heard the news the Oxford club held a
hastily-convened meeting with closed doors
and plugged windows. “It has transpired’
that Jardine is to be asked to explain by
wha t authority Ames was permitted to assume
the cap, the said assumption, apparently, mak-
ing the professional a member of the club.
“Tenth Slip”: The faithful arc reminded
that, though football still rages, the cricket
clubs are holding their meetings next month.
In England, the first English team to meet
the West Indies in the opening Test has
Jardine for skipper ; newcomers include Turn-
bull, the Glamorgan captain, who is being
tipped as England’s next leader against Aus-
tralia —if any. Turnbull was here with the
M. 0.0. team under Arthur Gilligan in 1929,
when he averaged 29, with a top score of 100
against N.S.W. Constantine’s owners, Nel-
son, of the Lancashire League, refused then-
hired darky permission to play with his
West Indian mates in this Test at least.
“Blade” : The N.S.W. Great Public Schools
athletic authorities continue to fiddle with
the idea of shifting the boat race from
the narrow and winding Parramatta to
the Nepean at Penrith. Apart - from
other considerations, the supporters of the
move urge in favor of it that the straight
three miles is wide enough to permit every
school crew to start at the same time, while
the vagaries of tide and wind are absent.
At present the system of preliminary heats
and finals on separate days hardly gives
every crew a fair chance.


For men who appreciate
Good Scotch Whisky
wBSm
mm 2
mm
mmwmMmm
<n.
Hi
;■ jj
"ft:.:.;'
m.
: : :
m
mm
mg
11
wmmm
■JrnmM-p.imAm':- ;
i
■I
•V.-,
MU
Hi
' ' *
M :
* l
Mm
V
MM
V.-',
:■
. ■
HI
*
■
111
I ■
Y- ■
/
WATSO
• —*J|
SCOTCH
<Sj£rv€>
e & Quality Guaraßf
BY
L&
6 gc°SW«
0, THE COMMO"* 1 * 1 *
Discriminating drinkers of Scotch Whisky
appreciate the careful blending and
mellowness of Watson’s No. 10.
WATSONS
N°IO WHISKY
A PRODUCT OF SCOTLAND
f
y/m
W.10.3.X.


é
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes. Grip Pacts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.ii.S, lleiDourne.
Governor’s Visit to Broken Hill
Sir Philip Game, the Governor of N. S.
Wales, is on a visit to Broken Hill as
the GUEST OF THE UNEMPLOYED,
THIS DAY. TUESDAY, JUNE 27.
This is another illustration of the origin-
ality and the versatility of the great and
famous Silver City. Again Broken Hill
makes History.
“The Harrier Miner.” which has been
published at least twice every day for the
past 45 years at Broken Hill, is one of
the Best Known newspapers in the
Empire, as Broken Hill is one of the
best known cities.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Special Exhibition of the recent paintings by Mr.
H. SEPTIMUS POWER, R. 0.1., who recently
returned from England, will be held in the Macleod
Gallery in August.
Mr. Power’s Exhibition in Melbourne—just concluded—
attracted thousands of visitors, and was described as the
“Show of the Year.”
LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C.
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader—classified or display ad-
vertising—is in
Che Brisbane Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher. 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Newspaper House,
Collins St., Melbourne. F 3906.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Polo seemed to have an intimate rather than
a general appeal on the opening days of the
N. S. Wales Association’s tournament. The
attendance at Kensington was sparse, there
was plenty of ear room, and a front pew could
be had anywhere right along the fence. How-
ever, the players’ friends and ardent fol-
lowers of the game who had cheered on the
recent matches at Cobbity lined up on both
sides of the field : an avenue of gay scarf and
jumper, of bright reds, rich blues, yellows
and greens. The trouble about going to the
polo from the point of view of the man in
the street is its expense. There are no
roofed-in stands, and to watch it in com-
fort a car is indispensable unless the weather
is kind. That means parking fees. Again,
although the girls at Kensington do not dis-
play the complete heafl-to-heel polo outfit the
fashion books dictate, maid and matron must
look smart and well turned out. And that’s
more expense for dad. Still, if money’s no
object the game provides its audience with
a nice long afternoon in the open air (this,
at least, is free) and plenty of exercise for
lungs and vocal chords when the play gets
exciting.
Under the foot last week the grass was a
chill pall on the earth, and the sky was a
soft blue on which white clouds drifted as
though in half a mind to get together and
turn into a cascade. On the green paddock
the ponies wheeled, swerved and dully thun-
dered, their riders a swift blur of vivid tones
in which the yellows and blues stood out.
Curtis Skene, who captained Campbelltown,
had the support of family cheers. Mrs.
Curtis Skene came in brown tweeds, and
Phyllis Skene wore a camel’s hair grey top-
coat over green. The Tony Horderns were
on the spot —he’s president of the associa-
tion—and so was Dinah Hordern in hunts-
man green. Mrs. C. M. Mackay was one of
the many lunch hostesses; and among keen
onlookers were Mrs. Gordon Brady, Dorothy
Capper, who wore the only calfskin hat pre-
sent ; Laure Faulkiner, of Widgiewa; Bar-
bara Clift from Breeza; Mrs. Jimmy Ash-
ton, the smart Mrs. Hans Fay and Suzanne
White.
Visitors going staidly to the Loan Exhibi-
tion of Antiques in Dymock’s Block bumped
or just dodged gay groups stepping out to
the Movie Ball in the Blaxland Galleries.
Once upon a time the Palais was the only
hall that could supply foothold for dancers
clamorous for' admission to the film-star
revel; but this year the committee decided
to issue only a thousand tickets, and the
city ballroom was sufficiently spacious.
Dozens and dozens of foolish virgins and
their beaux waited till too late to apply for
tickets, and thus were shut out wailing and
gnashing their teeth. There were prizes ft>r
the best impersonation of movie stars, so you
can imagine the Greta Garbos, the Marlene
Dietrichs, Joan Crawfords and the rest who
took the floor, in addition to the Columbines,
Pierrots and gipsies. A girl in frilly white
net pyjamas arrested the eye; so did the
dazzle of sequined capes that repeated them-
selves with insistence. One couple, as “The
Warrior’s Husband” (a forthcoming produc-
tion), caused a stir; the husband being
scented, curled and satined, the wife sheathed
in armor. This was supposed to be an in-
dication of what the future holds for the
sexes.
Victor Wilson was patron of the ball,
which was an effort on behalf of the Motion
Picture Benevolent Fund by the Forty-seven
Club, whose members are made up of the in-
dustry’s advertising men and artists. Audrey
and Joy Wilson came with their father ; the
H. D. Haywards brought a party and the
Dan Carrolls did likewise. Mrs. Dan’s slim-
ness sheathed in ivory velvet. Eric Baume
and his wife were two other good-lookers
of the night; and Frances Scully in azalea
pink added an ermine tippet to the dress
parade.
Our Governor-General’s lady keeps up her
reputation for wit. A few weeks ago she
Avas at a ball and was led out in the dance
by an important citizen. H’e was every-
thing a good citizen should be. and nothing
a good dancer ought to be. Friends on the
dais watched the two struggling through to
the last bar, and then taking up the white
man’s burden of the inevitable encore. After
the dance a woman sympathiser murmured:
“Oh, your poor feet! I saw him stand on
them half a dozen times.” “Yes,” replied
Lady Isaacs ruefully, “they played the ‘Blue
Danube’ for me—it should have been the
black-and-blue Danube!”
A wedding of interest to Dubbo and
Bathurst was quietly polished off in the
church of St. Mary Magdalene at Rose Bay.
The bride was Ruby Flcxman, a vivid and
popular little branette who with her mother,
Mrs. S. M. Tout, of Bellevue Hill, formerly
dwelt in Dubbo. The ’groom was Alban
(Peter for every day) McKillop, a son of
Mrs. Lachlan McKillop, of Brisbane, and
brother to the well-known surgeon of the
same city. Ruby, who was unattended, wore
an outfit in Guardsman blue wool crepe, and
later on toasts were drunk by a small group
of family friends at tho home of bride’s
mother.
The opening of the Loan Exhibition of
Antiques was a dull affair. The rows and
rows, of well-dressed citizens who sat
within the glass walls of a long room while
the palaver was in progress looked as though
they had borne the heat and burden of the
day and were now comfortably resting. The
Governor-General’s lady, who glittered
goldenly, made a neat and compact little
speech, which was led up to by Mrs. Win-
deyer, Sam Hordern and the president of
the Kindergarten Union (which the show
will benefit), S. S. Cohen. Mrs. David Cohen
supported her vice-regal parent, in wine-red
velvets; Captain C. Finlay was in attend-
ance. When the speeches were over
it was the turn of Bertie Kelly’s quartette
to sow beauty in the minds of the listener,
who was later to get an eyeful of it in the
rooms in which art treasures of the ages are
massed.
The long, wide room where the china and
crystal glow in glass case and old cabinet
drew the women even as the clover does the
bee. Here with her husband came Mrs.
Sterling Levis, who was responsible for
Saturday night’s tableaux of Old Chelsea and
Ming, Stafford and Willow. Jean Cheriton
and Mrs. Marie Irvine gloated over the case
of miniatures, lent by the Spanish Consul-
General Amoedo; Dr. Temple Smith stood
before the case of exquisite china owned by
his Macquarie-street neighbor, Dr. R. S.
Godsall; Mrs. Jimmy Burns, Linda Pauli,
the Lees, Eva O’Sullivan, the musicianly
Muriel Fletcher, Florence Sulman (in whose
mind the idea of the exhibition sprang) and
the two Misses Tildesle.y were others who
found joy in such dissimilar beauty as a
fan of painted owls’ feathers and the head-
less Venus, which dates from 200 B.c. and has
been lent to the exhibition by the Mar-
chesa Ferrante. Eadith Walker has con-
tributed some envy-arousing brasses, and the
W. G. Layton mantel will be minus two de-
lectable lustres during the four weeks of
the show. From the Bethunes, of Moss
Vale, comes a brassbound casket, originally in
the possession of Mary Beaton: it is believed
to have been given to her by Mary Queen of
Scots. Ernest Watt, Hangars, Merivales,
FitzHardinges, the Anderson-Stuarts, Mants,
Wentworths and hosts of other weJl-knowns
have dug out their treasures, and beautiful
old furniture, silver crystal, china and pic-
tures rich' in the art of other days make
room after room an enchantment.
Mrs. H. Bonney, the subject of this Falk
photo., is the little Queenslander who has
made history for her sex by being the first'
woman to fly solo from Australia to Eng-
land. By her flight she endorses all the
arguments the Feminists put forward about
woman’s equality with man; and then she
upsets their apple-cart by declaring to
the London press that she is awaiting her
husband’s wishes before deciding whether she
will return by ’plane or by steamer. That’s
a victory for husband the world over; but
then perhaps all husbands are not as indul-
geut as Mr. Bonney in letting their wives
spread their wings.
Pretty little Maureen O’Moor, of the
Seyler-Hannen company, was married to Dr.
Donald Blatchley one morning last week by
the Registrar-General. The upstanding
young man is an Edinburgh surgeon, and
the two met in Sydney six weeks ago. At
the end of his bride’s theatrical engage-
ment the pair leave for London, where the
doctor will hang out his brass plate. Maureen
will continue her poetry and play-writing ;
she has a book of verses in the publisher s
hands. Mrs. Blatchley, Athene Seyler and
Nicholas Hanuen were at the ceremony, ana
then the new bride hurried off to a rehearsal
of “The Cat’s Cradle.”
Two women of outstanding .personality at
present visiting Australia are Miss Van
Asch van Wyck. world president of the
Young Women’s Christian Association, and
Charlotte Niven, of the same great institu-
tion When you remember how many coun-
tries the Y.W.C.A. operates in, and that
each has its national president and each
branch its local president, you rather stagger
at the amount of work the quiet-eyed, fresh-
eomplexioned Miss Van Asch van Wyck must
get through. Her home is at Utrecht m
Holland, but most of her time is spent at
Geneva. The general secretary. Charlotte
Niven, is an aunt to the author of the famed
“Bridge of San Luis Rey.”
Daphne Harpur, here pictured by the
Brownwood studio, is a brilliant young stu-
dent of Sydney Con. She is a pianist who
graduated from the grey stone storehouse
of melody two years ago with the double
diploma, her objective from the day when
a small girl of 13 she slid on the piano stool
for her first lesson at the Gou. Daphne’s
recital last year brought forth a sheaf of
good notices, and now she faees Europe and
further study. Her farewell to Sydney will
be given to-morrow (Thursday) evening in
the Conservatorium Hall.
Miss Macarthur Onslow made the speech
of welcome, her eulogy punctuated by well-
bred applause, though really the good works
of the departing pair called for three hearty
cheers. When the tall bfown-clad lady sat
down, the C.J. stood up and made his speech
in reply—a very modest and human one. All
the clothes present looked expensive, par-
ticularly enviable being Mrs. Christian
Thornett’s lush sable cape, Mrs. Hartry
Dransfield’s alliance of brown velvet and
sable, Mrs. Roystone Davey’s short mole
coat with its ermine collar and Mrs. Lus-
combe-Newman’s short coat of satin-soft
squirrel. The Maitland lady’s gay little hat
was one of the bright spots among rather
sombre dressing, as was Claudia Beasley’s
wine-red coat, a modern version of the
pelisse. Mrs. M. Brigham wore her bright
Enzed complexion about silver-fox furs; and,
as usual, Mrs. Tom Rolin was one of the
handsomest.
The Victoria League and Bush Book Club
joined forces and gave a farewell to the Chief
Justice and his lady that made the Aus-
tralia ring. The large reception room was
packed with humans, and only occasionally
could the red roses on the tables in the
corners be glimpsed. A full I'oll-up of the
executives of both societies stood impressively
within the portals, and the early arrivals
saw spread before them a long, long trail
of welcoming white kid glove. The C.J
himself displayed a natty but not unusual
line of tailorings, while his vivacious little
wife wore a palely gold Arctic fox with trig
black frocking.
Mark Sheldon’s elder son Tom, in marry-
ing Elizabeth, daughter of Colonel Ovey,
D. 5.0., has entered one of England’s best-
known official families. Sir Esmond Ovey, who
was at the wedding, has had a distinguished
career in the diplomatic service; part of it
was spent in troubled Mexico, where he was
Minister Plenipotentiary during several
revolutions. The new Mrs. Sheldon’s
mother was a daughter of Captain Chapman,
D. 5.0., of the 19th Hussars. The head of the
Ovey family for many years was old Richard
Ovey, whose lovely place near Henley is
known to all who have visited the regatta.
Polo didn’t overshadow the Sheep Show
for everybody. When this Letter dashed out
to say hello to the merinos, the Cprnedales,
the Polwarths and the Dorset Horns, she
found an array of glittering and expensive
cars parked within coo-ee of the sheep pavi-
lion. They were just as handsome as those
seen out at Kensington on the shortest day
of the year, and one smart sports model m
buff and green was a strong temptation to
snatch a joy-ride while its owner was gazing
with absorbed attention at the sheepdog
trials. These sheepdogs are the loveliest
things, much more obedient than a foxy the
only trouble in managing them for a woman
with a short upper lip would be to master
the long sharp whistles which govern their
wheelings and turnings and sittings-down
They are, according to an onlooker with u
brick-red face, clear blue eyes, and a drawl
first cousin to Dave’s of ’‘Our Selection,
cliockful of initiative. “She’s doin’ very well,
but if he’d hide that whip she’d show more
initiative,” he muttered behind his moustache,
as a clever and game little creature was
being put through her paces.
The women visitors were keen on these dog
trials. Outback women in well-cut tweeds
(a decided preference for browns was
shown), in topcoats with good fur collars,
walked with their menfolk and looked on
with understanding as the stronger sex
leaned over a pen and ran a hand along
the inmate’s back, or, separating the strands,
peered into the roots in the manner sugges-
tive of a mother inspecting young Tommy’s
head. One mother and father brought their
twin daughters, upstanding and attractive
youngsters in brown from liead to heel; a
young mother wheeled a very incipient shep-
herd king in a blue pram down an avenue
of fat sheep; girls topped by blue, red or
white berets clustered with their young hus-
bands or best boys around the open-air en-
closure where the judges were deciding the
champion ram of the show. It was a grave
and solemn moment with them while curly-
horns was being selected.
Don’t believe it when people tell you sheep
are alike. They are quite different. Some
have bolster collars to their coats and long
woolly lappets under their chins. Those
from the hills are brunette, those from the
plains blonde. Some are gentle and turn
their backs to the beholder only from modesty
and shyness; some turn away with a slow
contempt as who should say: “Very superior,
aren’t you, but where would you be these
wintry days if you hadn’t stolen my coat?”
The thin sweetness of the dulcitone, played
by Mrs. Evelyn Grieg, was just the right
musical accompaniment to the. tableaux of
old china at the antiques exhibition on Satur-
day night. This was the entertainment for
the evening, and groups of girls pretty of
face and graceful of line posed on pedestals
as bits of Ming, Staffordshire, Dresden.
Willow, Chelsea and all the other delights
from the collector’s china cabinet. The palm
must go to the Ming and the Dresden groups,
although every one of the living pictures was
delightful and showed a wealth of display.
The harp and the fiddle and Lance Jeffree’s
singing added their music to the night. Later
on the audience took a stroll through the
treasures of the ages, some of the women
being deeply interested in Mrs. Christian
Thornett’s Eastern embroideries, and in a
dress of finest net and Limerick lace, claimed
by some to have been Jane Eyre’s and by
others to have been Jane Austen’s wedding-
dress. A shrill voice tinged with authority
settled the argument. “Jane Austen’s dress
my dear! You see Jane Eyre was a book
written by Jane Austen!”
On Friday Mark Foy’s ballroom was gay
with streamers of pale blue and white
mingled with multi-colored balloons, and in
this setting the hospital students of St.
Vincent’s danced dull care away, if they had
ever had it with them. The students’ second
yearly dance was a great success, and seated
at the tables, richly decorated with autumn
blooms, were the city’s well-known medical
men, in addition to many a budding saw
bones and his lass. Professor H. Dew’s wife
swirled cornelian-red chiffons, and black lace
formed Mrs. Oscar Dietlielm’s striking frock.
Feather trimming seems to have struck the
youthful fancy; coque feathers trimmed
Nance Doyle’s black satins, and pretty Mary
Morgan-O’Neill’s black lace frothed with
white marabout. Young things in ice-blue
and Nile green, in coraßreds, in white and
in tones of gold, were many other arguments
to the student why every medical man should
marry.
E. W. Knox, son of the founder of the
C.S.R. and himself its general manager and
managing director for 52 years, is dead.
Apart from the C.S.R. he had wide inter-
ests ; he was a member of the University
Senate for a quarter of a century, and was
once president of the Union Club. Their
is no son to carry on the great Knox tradi-
tion, but four daughters survive the grand
old man —Mrs. Colin Stephen, wife of the
chairman of the A.J.C., is one.


•5
KAT
e
è
fit-
Coughs 6-Colds
Be Warned against that Slight Chill
Kay’s Compound is Convenient
and Marvellously Remedial in all cases
of Bronchial Affections, Influenza,
Catarrh, Sore Throat. Quinsy, etc.
Enjoys a World-wide Reputation.
Every High-class Chemist Stocks it.
é
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
Personal and Missing Friends.
f?E MARY ANN COATES (or THOMAS).
JOHN PRICE Deceased, late of Birm-
ingham, England.
Any person able to give information as
to the whereabouts of Mrs. Mary Ann Coates
(or Thomas), aged 61. a daughter of John
Price deceased, who it is believed sailed to
Auckland, New Zealand, from Canada, in
1911, or of her daughter Ethel Mary, is re-
ouested to communicate with FIELD
ROSCOE and CO.. 36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London, England. Solicitors.
Amusements.'
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
HOLD MY HAND.
Melbourne
Chatter
Bitterly cold, with only occasional glimpses
of sunshine, was the weather for the Moonee
Valley races, Roses from chairman Alister
Clark’s garden decorated the tables at lun-
cheon, and sprays of hawthorn berries bor-
dered the official table. Dressing was mid-
winter style, a matter of furs and stout cloth
surtouts. Guests at the midday meal were
Colonel and Mrs. Eric Harrison, she in a
woollen cloth suit of dark fawn hue made
with a three-quarter length coat, a pale-
green vest and light-brown felt hat; Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Kimpton; Mr. and Mrs. T.
Church, and Mr. and Mrs. .T. H. Disney.
Mrs. A. G. Hunter was there, wrapped in a
flecked tweed coat with a huge collar of
opossum fur and a brown velvet hat. The’
Buxton lady topped her mink coat with a
brown hat. Mrs. D. Moore came with her
father. General Johnston. Mrs. J. J. Daly
and Mrs. T. J. Ryan were seeking winners
together. Mrs. A. V. TTiskens was accom-
panied by her daughter, Mrs. Harold Ander-
son, from Geelong. Mr. and Mrs. E. G.
Brook, the James Purves couple, the J. B.
McArthur couple and Mrs. Alec McCracken
also watched the racing.
Guests of honor at a party given by Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Brookes were Walter
Leitch and his lady. Defence Minister
Pearce, Premier Argyle and Mr. Brookes
delivered speeches of welcome. Uni. Con.
students Irene Bennett, Phyllis Ferguson
and Etta Bernard sang, accompanied by
Carrie Cairnduff. who arranged the pro-
gramme. Mrs. Brookes wore corded silk of
lapis-lazuli hue with a sapphire-blue velvet
cape. A satin gown fashioned with a cape
of a tint that hovered between cerise and
dahlia was sported by the Leitch lady, who
held a presentation posy of roses, and Jessie
Brookes was in geranium-pink delustred
velvet. In the throng were Mrs. Alfred
Deakin, in black draperies with a small
velvet cape; Mrs. Rivett, Lt.-Colonel T. W.
White and Mrs. White. Mr. and Mrs. W.
Brookes, the Frank Clarkes—the lady in
ivory lace, with pearls ; the Argyle lady in
black velvet; the Lawson lady, in powder-
blue lace ; knight Robert Best, the Harrison
Moores, Prof. Osborne and his wife, and
Mrs. Harry Emmerton and her niece, Mary
Emmerton.
The ball staged by students of Trinity
College at the Wattle Path, St. Kilda, was
remarkable for smartness of dressing. The
Warden of Trinity, Dr. J. C. V. Behan, with
Mrs. Behan, who wore deep apricot georg-
ette, welcomed the guests, who included
representatives of other colleges within the
University. Mrs. Agar came in black lace
draperies, and Enid .Toske, of Janet Clarke
Hall, wore a frock of black chiffon velvet.
A gown of clinging silver tissue was worn
by Dorota Flatau.
The Peninsula Polo Club, of Frankston,
staged its hop at the Embassy, in the city.
The affair was engineered by Marea Lucas,
who danced in georgette of ripening-corn
shade, and Peggy McComas. whose leaf-
green organdie gown was embellished with
a floral necklet. The vice-president of the
club. Cecil le Plastrier, was there, with Peggy
le Plastrier, the lass in ruby-tinted draperies.
Among the dancers were Mr. and Mrs.
McComas, she in black velvet; Mrs. E.
Corn foot and Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Dunstan.
The Victoria League and the Alfred Hos-
pital pooled the profits of* a varied enter-
tainment at the Green Mill. Bridge tables were
set in the big vestibule, and there was danc-
ing in the spacious ballroom. Scattered
around were stalls that purveyed all sorts
of things, from posies to oysters. Society
was well represented 'in the crush. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, who was wrapped in an
ermine coat, was president of the committee.
The lion, ticket secretaries were Mrs. R.
Haliensteln. Mrs. Stanley Addison, who
topped an ivory-tinted velvet gown with a
turquoise-blue velvet coatee, Mrs. Alfred
Couch man, who wore a frock of black lace,
and Joan Hill. Among the helpers were
the Stawell and Best ladies, Mrs. F. W.
Eggleston, Mrs. Colin Fraser, Mrs. Robert
Knox, Mrs. C. R, Cowper, Mrs. George
Langridge and Mrs. A. Oldham. Dressing
was interesting. An unusual color combina-
tion was a black tulle frock contrasted with
a. coat of scarlet taffeta. Fur jackets, much
abbreviated, made with long sleeves, were
considerably in favor: likewise small searf
wraps, worn toga fashion. Among the
dancers were the Clarke lady, knight-of-the-
briish John Longstaff, Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred
Brookes. William Brunton and his Indy, and
Mr. and Mrs. R. Wilkins.
The Y.W.C.A. staged a welcome party for
world-president Miss Van Wyck and secre-
tary-general Charlotte Niven, presided over
by Mrs. B. Stewart Coweu, president of the
Melbourne Y.W.C.A.; and another reception
was given by Dr. Georgina Sweet, Aus-
tralian president, at the Lyceum Club rooms,
which were decked with scarlet gladioli. Dr.
Sweet’s deep blue crushed-velvet gown was
fashioned with a cape. Steel grey lace
draperies were favored by Miss Van’Wyck.
and Miss Niven chose, 1 a gown of beige lace.
The British Music Society had a house-
warming of its new premises in Collins-
street on Thursday. The spacious L-shaped
room with its semi-circular stage and group-
ings of hydrangea, autumn leaves and
boughs of tiny oranges looked decidedlv
attractive. President Thomas Brentnall
1 landed out well-deserved praise to hon. sec.
Sybil llitll. Minna Schuler and violinist
Uorna Stirling, who Were responsible for the
arrangements. Dr. Felix Meyer made the
opening speech. Gertrude Healy, with Elsie
Fraser at the piano, played the Delius violin
sonata; Airs. Elizabeth Pinsehof-Finley sang
songs by Brahms, and Harold Browning
warbled an old Scotch ballad and English
songs by Roger Quilter and Dr. E. C. Bair-
■;tow. Rita Hope and Mrs. Harold Brown-
ing were the accompanists. In the audience
were Airs. R. D. Elliott, Mrs. E. C. Dyason.
Rene Vanderkelcn and his wife, Airs. C : . AV.
Wren and Prof. Bernard Heinze.
Uni. Chancellor John MacFarland put on
music and tea with a complimentary speech
or two as a farewell to Prof, and Mrs.
Ernest Scott, who started off on their IS
months’ holiday abroad on Saturday, bound
for the U.S.A. Melba Hall was turned into
a drawing-room for the occasion, Mrs. Agar
and Mrs. T. H. Laby helping the Chancellor
with the arrangements. The Hermia Barton
trio and violinist Elise Steele, with Mar-
garet Sutherland, furnished the musical pro-
gramme. Mrs. Scott was a study in deep
blue in gown and felt millinery, with a fur
coat.
For the benefit of the Travellers’ Aid
Society three short plays were produced by
Mostyn Wright at Kelvin Hall —Mr.
Wright’s own piece, “The Red Ledger”;
“Driftwood,” by Howard Reed, which de-
picted a day with a Travellers’ Aid worker,
and “Blue Blood,” by E. M. Webb. Bazaar
stalls were run by Mrs. Colin Fraser and
Linda Byron Moore, hon. sec. of the society:
Nest Malcolm, the organising secretary,
looked after programmes. A string quar-
tette led by Elaine Anguey performed during
intervals.
The H. H. Smiths had a luncheon party
at the Quamby Club in honor of the Walter
Leitch couple. Among the guests were
knight William Brunton and his lady, the
Alex. Camerons and Mr. and Mrs. 11. I.
Cohen. The hostess wore gown and hat of
prune-colored velvet with squirrel furs.
The Irvine lady launched the Y.W.G'.A.’s
“Opportunity Shop” in Swanston-street,
which is < to stay open for a week. Mrs.
Peter Tait is head of the salesladies.
The League of Nations Union and the
International Club combined to entertain the
Y.W.C.A. president, Miss Van Wyck, at lun-
cheon at the Victoria. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
gave the guest welcome, and the visitor
spoke on the subject , of disarmament.
Mrs. .T. S. Fraser, wearing flat crepe with
a sparkle of diamond clasps, staged a dance
at her South Yarra home in honor of her
nephew, Lieutenant John Caddy, of He
Royal Artillery, here on furlough from India.
At St. Columba’s Church, Cambridge
(Eng.), on the 10th, vows were exchanged
by Keith Guthrie, lecturer in ancient philo-
sophy 1 at Cambridge Uni., and Adele, daugh-
ter of the A. ,L. Ogilvys, of Melbourne. Miss
Ogilvy. a former student of Merton Hall, and
a graduate of Melb. Uni., went to Cambridge
on a scholarship about six years ago, and
in the intervening years has acquired many
academic honors.
At Christ Church, South Yarra, Florence,
eldest daughter of H. M. S. Cox and of
the late Mrs. Cox, of Wombat Park, Dayles-
ford, kept a tryst with Captain Robert A.
Ingham Brooke, of the King’s Own York-
shire Light Infantry. Captain Brooke was
on the staff of Sir Tom Bridges, a former
Governor of South Australia, and was in
Melbourne for a few months as aide to G.-G.
Stonehaven. The tall, good-looking bride
trailed a parchment satin gown, and some
lovely Honiton lace formed her veil. Her
'maids, Margaret Cox, Joan Ritchie and
Margaret Andrew, wore silk crepe of pale
primrose hue with sable fur trimming.
Girdles and wreath's of green leaves were
accessories, and they carried posies of red
roses and violets. Among the guests bidden
to Grqsvenor for the after-rejoicings was
the Irvine lady.
An engagement that will link two well-
known Western District families is that of
Elizabeth, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. M.
Bell, of Meekri, Camperdown, and John, son
of the late ,T. 11. Thornton, and of Mrs.
Thornton, of Mt. Myrntoon. Miss Bell is a
niece of Mrs. Stanley Bruce.
This is the wife of Justice Gavan Duffy,
lately appointed to the Supreme Court Bench.
She is daughter of Mr. and Mrs.. Frederick
Back, of Melbourne. Mr. Back was once
upon a time Commissioner of Railways in
Tasmania, The picture is by Broothorn
studio.
The Canberra and Australia will be within
coo-ee of Port Phillip from October 16 to
November 13.
Madame Anna Elischer gave a demonstra-
tion of her powers as an accompanist at
the Assembly Hall in a concert to which
her daughter, Madame Edith Elischer, con-
tributed some nicely-sung German lieder.
The older lady was pianist at the Dutch
Court once upon a time, and numbered Franz
Liszt among her teachers. She provides
lyrics with beautiful backgrounds, and her
personality is genial and charming. In the
audience were Mrs. W. Finlay, Mrs. H. H.
Smith, Mrs. 11. Wertheim. Mrs. Bernard
Heiuze, City Organist McKie ajjd Lucy
Rowe.
As a means of marking the city’s cen-
tenary it is proposed to remove the fences
that surround Parliament House and make
the garden and lawns on the Spring-street
side open to the public. The oyly part of
the grounds to be kept enclosed will be the
bowling green and tennis court. It is also
proposed to extend the anti-fence reform
to the garden of the College of Surgeons
(formerly Melbourne High School). So far
so good, but as part and parcel of this fervor
for making the city more beautiful dozens
of trees on the St. Kflda-road near the
Shrine of Remembrance have been ringed
with white bands as a prelude to chopping
them down.
A resourceful Melbourne out-of-work has
invented a new profession. He’s a window-
box gardener. Firstly lie supplies window-
boxes, with flowers all a-bloomingaud a-grow-
ing, and as the seasons change and the
blossoms fade he makes replacements with
seasonable horticulture. Flat-dwellers and
not a few folk in offices keep him busy.
Here is a Broothorn picture of the Leitch
lady, wife of Victoria's former Agent-General,
who returned with her husband recently
after _ four years in London. Prior to her
marriage, the lady practised medicine as I)r.
Bertha Main, and was on the staff of the
Queen Victoria Hospital, Melbourne. In
later years she was a great worker for the
District Nursing Society, and in war-time
was one of the matrons who looked after
the Anzac buffet.
There is lots of variety in the costuming
of ‘‘Tout Paris,” at the Princess. Peggy
Wynne’s black lacquered satin gown is
quite a masterpiece of modern fashion. Long
of sleeve and _ high of collar it looks like
armor, _ and with Peggy's fair bobbed hair
above it suggests Joan of Arc. Olive Fox
wears a moss-green velvet gown that has
splash of purple-blue sequins matching her
large handkerchief. Detachable puff sleeves
that slip about the elbows and a small cape
are accessories. In the “La Belle Vienna”
scene, the singer, May Thomas, wears a
modish'white gown, other show girls combine
trailing white chiffon frills in divided train
mode with immense white hats, and the
members of the ballet sport white skirts
dotted with silver sequins in peacock’s-tail
fashion.
The death of the male hippopotamus at
the Zoo occasioned a lot of regret. He swal-
lowed and failed to digest an old tennis ball,
and if; will cost £5OO, when the Zoo can
raise it, to replace him. Perth and Adelaide
zoos have, since 1931, suffered precisely
similar bereavements —same cause. It may
be necessary to ban tennis balls within a
mile of zoos, or .to insist that they shall be
manufactured in a more soluble form.
The newest appointment to the Vic. Coun-
cil of Education is that of Julia Flynn, assist-
ant chief inspector of Vic. State second-
ary schools. So Miss Gillman Jones, once
vice-president and acting president, will have
the first skirted member for company since
Miss Montgomery, head of Melbourne Girls’
High School, sat on the council.
Perth’s social annals :
Christ Church old boys held their hop at the
Pleiades Club. Mrs. Jim Battye wore black lace
with a billowing necklet of green chiffon, Noel
Burkett was in powder-blue lace and Flower South-
wood’s choice was a deeper blue. Biddy Dodd had
her floral taffetas beflounced with net, Nancy Ward-
Hughes was a youthful maid in sapphire and Louie
Shenton sported chilli-red velvet.
Tile Pagoda at Como was in festive array for
“A Night in June.” Colored streamers swung
under the roof and golden wattle camouflaged the
circle of pillars. There was bridge for guests not
bubbling over with energy, and a delectable supper.
Mrs. Hunt wore black lacc and georgette; Mrs.
Frank Strickland was in powder-blue; Mrs. Fred
Strickland chose an emerald gown; Mrs. Walter
Dwyer stuck to her favorite black, and daughter
Moliie was youthful in frilled white pique. Lorna
Smith sported blaek-silk velvet and Val RochfordV
choice was scarlet lace. Muriel Jacobs wore white
a-twinkle with sequins and Mrs. Rosman had a' pink
relief to her black frock.
Fairbridge Farm School was all of a bustle for
a double wedding and official openings of Middiemore
Cottage and anew club house for old boys and girls.
At the nuptial ceremony both brides and one ’groom
were old Fairbridgians. Clubhouse and cottage were
donated by friends of the movement in England.
Rene Rex, of Rottnest Island, and Louis Shapcoti,
son of the secretary to the Premier, took off on their
matrimonial flight. The bridal garment was of ivory
crinkly velvet with a Honiton lace veil descending
from a pearl-trimmed Juliet cap. Bride’s sister
Dorothy, ’groom’s sister Elaine and Elwyn Thomas
were garbed in water-lily green with matching satin
caps, sequin-trimmed, and they carried baskets of
deep red roses. Small Shirley Rex superintended
the bride’s satin-lined train. Toasts followed at the
Esplanade.
Pretty brown-eyed Dorothy Stenberg is affianced
to Keith Dureau. Another engagement is that of
Maxine Joel of Bunbury, who lias accepted the heart
and hand of Hubert Levi, who bails from Melbourne,
and a third is that of Florence Besley and Athol
Macgregor.
Staying at the Esplanade are the Louis Cutbills.
newly-wedded arrivals from the Cold Land. The
’groom is a member of a very old firm of London
brokers, Edward Cutbill and Co., and his bride,
Helen Brooks that was, is by birth an Australian.
She left this country in her early childhood and lias
relatives on N.S.W. squattages to visit.
Many charities, but particularly the Silver Chain
and the Y.W.C.A. will miss the kind heart of Mrs.
George Taylor.. Holiday-bound for Singapore, Mrs.
Taylor became ill and was transhipped at Onslow.
Pneumonia claimed her as a victim and she died
at Geraldton. Mrs. Taylor had a flair for politics
and was a staunch helpmate to her husband when
he was Speaker.
Gaieties of Adelaide
The ball at the Palais Royal in aid of the
Children’s Hospital proved a big success. Nurses
formed a guard of honor on the arrival of their
Exes. The v.-r. party included Lady Hore-Ruthven’s
niece, Rosemary Flieschmann, Mrs. Eden, who arrived
in the Ascanius, Mrs. Legh Winser and Mrs. Winser’s
daughter Janet. A stall at which claret cup and
punch were dispensed was run by Mesdames F.
Lloyd Dumas, W. Kidman, C. E. Barritt and E.
Tolley. Dr. Harry Gilbert (acting as president) and
his wife received the guests. Lady Hore-Ruthven
wore a flat silk crepe in a Spanish tile
shade, quite plain and tight-fitting. Her niece
was froeked in a pale yellow ninon shading to
tango. Mrs. Gilbert chose powder-blue lace.
Ex-students of St. Peter’s Collegiate Girls’ School
had their dance at Birks’s Piccadilly, and the old
girls of Girton House made merry at the college,
Kensington Gardens.
The Insurance Ball at the Palais Royal attracted
a crowd of 700, the Children’s Amusement Fund
benefiting.
Captain Digby-Beste, who commands the Indian
cadet training ship Dufferin, at Bombay, is a pas-
senger with his wife in the Comorin on a visit
to their son, who is sheep-farming in Vic.
Mesdames Lavington BonythOn and Goldsmith
organised a big bridge party at Birks’s Piccadilly,
in the interests of the unemployed. The committee
was a large one. Mrs. Harold Bickford was in
charge of a bazaar stall and the 14 pretty girls
who assisted her had a busy time.
There are to be 22 debs, at the Uni. Ball and
Mrs. Arthur Rymill is teaching the maidens how
to curtsey to his Ex., a kindly task she has under-
taken annually for the last 20 years.
Sirs. Charles Campbell, of Melbourne, is the
guest of Mrs. H. S. Hudd, at Glenelg.
Mrs. Reginald Walker, Kensington Gardens, gave
a luncheon party at Birks’s Piccadilly for her sister,
Airs. Clive Plomley, of Sydney.
Dr. and Mrs. Geoffrey de Crespigny have returned
from their honeymoon and have settled down in
their new home at Walkerville.
Tasmania speaking:—
V bright affair was the bridge party arranged by
the Women Graduates Association. The A.W.N.L.
rooms were decorated with golden chrysanthemums
and little place-cards and scorers, painted by Kath-
leen Ward, ornamented the tables. President Afiiss
Walker and Aliss Merle Weaver received guests and
presented them to the Chancellor’s wife, Airs. W.
J. T. Stops.
Mrs. J. T. AlcColl lias been attending an exten-
sive round of farewell parties, for the McColls, dur-
ing the commandant’s term of office here, have made'
many friends. Among hostesses who sped the part-
ing guest at bridge and tea parties were Airs. F. AY.
Heriot, wife of the District Naval Officer; Mrs.
Colin Perkins, Mrs. E. E. Grant and Airs. M. D.
AVilliams.
Hobart Rep. Soc.'s performance of “Nine Till
Six,” by Aimee and Philip Stuart, was produced
by Airs. Olive Burn. Beryl Brett had a heavy part
and stood up to it well. The futuristic furnishing
was the work of Keith Jarvis, Robert Montgomerie
and Roger Alace, all members of the society.
Aliss V. A. van Wvck, president of the Y.W.C.A.,
has been having a peep at the Speck. A civic wel-
come in Hobart was well attended.
Afiss Good, principal of Zereho’s business college,
is off for a long winter holiday, to be spent chiefly
in Queensland. Past students gave her a send off in
the school hall.
Mrs. C. E. Kadcliffe and her three young daugh-
ters. left last week for a long holiday in Sydney.
Mr. Radcliffe is in England, hob-nobbing with
brother narcissi -breeders.
Olive Wilton, Hobart’s Rep. Co.’s producer,
writes from England that she and daughter June
went to Stratford for the Shakspeare Birthday Fes-
tival. Mrs. Wilton took part in the ceremonies,
unfurling the Speck’s flag.
Charles Benson, Hobart’s prize baritone, writes
from London that his teachers are turning him into
a “tenore robusto,” and that he wjU probably sing
in grand opera in the near future.


NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT.
Our Belgiums and Ispahans
“Pundi”: Where other continents score
over us is in concentrating on spots which
are best suited to settlement. They waste
no time on spinifex and sand, or the local
equivalents. No continent the size of Aus-
tralia is completely habitable. India’s
320,000,000 people cluster along the rivers
and canals. England and Wales,, with
39,000,000 persons packed into 57,000 square
miles, still have their moors and wastes;
but if there is even a speck of fruitful land
in the midst of desert old countries make full
use of it. Ispahan, in Central Persia, is
in country like that round Oodnadatta, but
because underground snow’ waters converge
there it supports a population of 60,000
people. Yedz, on poorer land than Alice
Springs, has as many people as Ballarat.
And look at Belgium. It is slightly bigger
than, say, Alexandria station in the Northern
Territory, which is a mere dot on our maps;
but it manages to support a King at £75,000
a year, a population equal to that of Aus-
tralia, a Parliament of 400, one city the
size of Melbourne, one as big as Brisbane,
two the size of Perth and 23 others with
more than 25,000 population. It has four
famous universities, 2255 libraries, 500,000
people engaged in agriculture and 2,000,000
in industry and commerce, and its exports
are worth £200,000,000 a year. Yet agri-
culturally it is not as naturally fertile as
any one of half a dozen areas the same size
which are languishing in coastal Australia;
it is no better off than they are for minerals,
and its ports certainly cannot compare with
our natural ports; they are dug out of the
coastline by dint of hard labor.
What we want in our northern and central
parts are half a dozen Belgiums and a dozen
Ispahans.
“Vic”: Discussion has been proceeding in
Bananaland as to which was the first Aus-
tralian artesian bore. On the authority of
the late Simon Fraser, the pioneer was that
on Kallara homestead, between Bourke and
Wilcannia (N.S.W.), which went down in
1879. Then came the well-known Cotton
Bush hole on Thurulgoona (Q.), which was
drilled in 1886. That bore tapped the first
artesian fluid seen in Queensland —unless
Springsure beats it. The latter was cer-
tainly the first in Central Queensland.
❖ ❖ ❖ * *
“T. 1.”: A word needs to be said for people
who have to come to Sydney from Torres
Strait or thereabouts to see a specialist or
a horserace. Sydneysiders can do a return
trip to Colombo by the Aberdeen and .Com-
monwealth line, calling at all southern ports
and having about 30 days at sea, for £32;
but return from T.I. to Sydney costs £4O
first-class and £2B second-class. Seems to
be something wrong with the shipping arith-
metic, seeing that the return journey in-
volves, at most, about 12 days’ travel.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: The long-standing rivalry be-
tween Melbourne and Sydney is as nothing
compared with that which once embittered
the relations between some of the Queensland
ports. In an old Maryborough “Chronicle” the
writer recently came on a reference to the
“You’ve only paid one instalment off that radio set.”
“’ Ave a bit of sense, mister. We could on’y pawn it once.”
rival “port” of Rockhampton. Stating that
its Rocky reptile contemporary, the “Bulle-
tin,” had reported that a sculler had fouled
a crocodile in the Fitzroy River with his
outrigger, the “Chronicle” avowed that it was
evident the saurian was crawling on the bed
of the Fitzroy when struck. It declared
unkindly that the new dredge which had been
refused Maryborough and sent to Rock-
hampton might yet deepen the Fitzroy enough
to mako it safe for crocodiles.
“Dalwood”: lieccut Bulletin arguments
about Alsatians remind me that the dingo
is appearing in force in parts of Queensland
where he has been rarely seen for years. On
the Darling Downs many graziers now yard
their sheep at night, wire-netting fences
being no bar to the raiders. Even round
Brisbane, wild dogs are looting poultry-
farms, failing anything more dignified.
Experts wonder why. The dingo is the
shyest of beasts, save, perhaps, when love
calls, and was expected to give way before
closer settlement. So he did for a time,
but now he is back and bringing his friends
with him. Possibly a strong
infusion of “tame"-dog blood
is responsible for the indiffer-
ence to human proximity that
the up-to-date raider so often
displays.
* * *
“Maedel”: The reopening of
the Brisbane Turn Verein
awakens a lot of memories. On
a night in July, 1914, I shared
a bottle there to the toast of
the Kaiser with a man who died
lighting against the Hohenzol-
lern a few months afterwards.
A “song circle” performing
that evening for the last time
scored three enlistments, all
later wounded, and two sudden
internments. A few days after
war broke out I visited the
Bavarian districts 35 miles
from Brisbane. You could
travel 30 miles in a straight line
calling at every house and
speaking no English. Most of
the Queensland German settlers
belonged to a vintage long
before 1870, and many of their
families established fine war
records in 1914-18. The new
generation is almost entirely
merged into the genus Aussie.
* -t *
“Doondi”: It looks as if the
run of the season is going
against us this year in Western
Queensland and N.T., except
on the wonderful Barkly Table-
land. Elsewhere things are
going to the bad, even leaving
out the Windorah country,
which has been parched for
years. Along the Mungindi
tracks thousands of sheep have
died already, and the Paroo,
Balonne, Culgoa and Moonie
rivers have stopped flowing. I merely point it
out because it will give the authorities a
chance to show some foresight for once.
Ijsually they wait till whole districts are
struck all of a heap, and then it is too late.
If the outset of any obvious drought were the
signal for organised surveys of adjacent
agistment country, for concerted action to
shift stock and sympathetic adjustments of
taxation to aid the sufferers to carry on,
we could save a lot of useful national assets
which drought normally eats up.
* * * *
( “Baggins”; Riverstone meat works in N.
S. Wales had a strike the other day because
the management objected to employees tak-
ing too free an advantage of the custom
which permits
them to carry
a sheep’s liver
or sweetbread
home in their
bags. It re-
calls a Queens-
land happening
when Laming-
ton was Con-
sul. He was
shown over
Lake’s Creek
meatworks by
local potentates.
“Lammy” wore
the felt hat he
introduced to
Queensland; it
was called after
him. One of the
potentates was
so ill-advised as
to wear a silk
topper. When
the party was
leaving the
butchering floor,
the air sud-
denly became
thick with flying
livers. Lam-
ington went un-
harmed. b u t
the potentate’s
topper stopped
half a dozen,
and the rest of
his person got
the remainder.
An apologetic
management ex-
plained that this
was a sort of
initiatory
custom in vogue
in the trade
when strangers
inspected th e
floor. La in in g-
ton accepted the
apology in his
usu a 1 affable
manner s but the
less said about
the potentate the better.
* # -a *
“D. J.”: “What can they know of Aus-
tralia that only travel-books know?” E.
O. Lorimer, a London “Observer” reviewer,
has supplied the usual answer, namely,
“Dashed little,” in his notice of a recently-
published work about W.A. He mentions
that “the Nullabor Plain is alive with game
—kangaroo, emu. dingo, lubras,” and says
Broome is “15,000 miles from Perth.” For
some reason nearly all the worst bloomers
are made about W.A. Even Galsworthy
fell in when he put some short-story charac-
ters there.
* * * *
“El V.”: What has become of the scheme
which the Payne Commission put forward
two years ago to develop 6400 miles of terri-
tory, of which Cooktown is the wilting capi-
tal‘' The commission, composed of the chair-
man of the Land Board, the staff surveyor
at Innisfail and one of the Athertons, de-
dared that tho district possessed special
qualifications for peanut-, citrus- and
“If a man spends all his money on strong drink, Jacky, what can he have to jail
back on?”
"Mine linkit him fall back on him head.”
tobacco-growing, and that the reefs about
the coast teemed with fish and marine pro-
ducts. It was proposed that £1,000,000 of
British capital should be introduced, and
a term franchise given to a co. which would
be expected to mine all payable gold,
improve the port, open up roads and settle
1000 people within five years, in exchange
for Crown lands made available at a nomi-
nal price, exclusive of mineral and timber
rights and exemption from taxation. Proper
safeguards were outlined. But though the
report indicated that “if the development is
not undertaken shortly the whole settlement
will fade away,” the thing seems to be
pigeonholed.
“Old Q.”: G. Iv. Chesterton’s Flying Inn
found a parallel in Queensland when an
enterprising Brisbane man drove a car o«
to the Rocklea coursing ground and started
dispensing hard drinks by the glass and
bottle. His prices were moderate, and the
enterprise was rushed. But the police
stepped in, and the result was a fine of £3O
for selling liquor without a license, together
with the confiscation of beer, rum and
whisky, glasses, a draining board and a
bucket of water —the water was for wash-
ing the glasses, of course. The coursing
ground is a dry area.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
The Prime Minister and Assist-Minister
Francis called on his Ex. at Government
House. A civic reception was given to Mr.
Lyons at the City Hall. He seems a sociable
sort, and his mild manners made an impres-
sion on indignant growers of sugar and
tobacco in the north.
The Governor and Lady Wilson enter-
tained at luncheon the Donald Camerons,
F. AY. and Mrs. Bulcoek. Joan Heale and
her fiance M. A. Colebrook, and Captain
T. P. Fry, who has been recently appointed
lion. A.D.C. Daughter Marjorie is off to
Stanthorpe to stay with Joan MacLeod, while
his Ex. and Lady Wilson go to Mackay and
Rockhampton.
The vice-regals went to the Mater Hos-
pital Ball, held in the City Hull. Major Stark
attended the Governor and Marjorie Wilson,
the latter wearing dull-surfaced sliell-pink
satin; she was presented with white and
pink rosebuds by Alice Scanlan, and Mrs.
Windsor sent a bouquet of marigolds to
Lady Wilson, who was ill and unable to
come. Mrs. St. Ledger gave red roses to Mrs.
Windsor, and Mrs. Ellis Murphy presented
a sheaf of pink roses and carnations to the
Lady Mayoress, who wore snowdrift mari-
ette. Mrs. Ellis Murphy chose pink; Mrs.
11. J. Windsor, black with touches of blue;
Alice Scanlan was in grey; Mrs. Ahern in
saxe-blue. Palms and colored lights decked
the hall, and there were a dozen debs.; Misses
Laracy, Monro, Smith, O’Connor. Phelan,
Mara, Henry, Kiley. Murphy, Fitzgerald,
White and Hunter. Sisters of All Hallows’
provided the debs.’ cake; the top tier was
sent to Lady Wilson. Mrs. C. E. Sligo, who
is just back from Maoriland, was in sea-
green lace; Mrs. Macgroarty was in black
and white. Father Keating sent some beauti-
ful pink Radiance roses from Goodna, and
there were masses of winter blossomry.
Mrs. A. H. Wliittingham gave a dinner to
to the A. E, Moores at Lennon’s amid pink
and yellow poppies. Other guests were the
Lachlan Mackiunons (Melbourne); Mrs. wu-
liam Collins, Mrs. Casey (M cl oom nc i
Mollie Bronan, Captain T. P. Honnoi
Messrs. Chaplin (London) and J. Lircnaii.
Mrs. Wliittingham has gone on a cruise to
New Guinea. . .
To mark the engagement of Trixie Muntz
to lan Henderson, Mrs. Brownlie Henderson
had a party at Kinloch, Indooroopilly. Miss
Muntz wore shaded rose marocain, and roses
and poppies adorned the reception rooms,
Margaret Eleanor,_ daughter of Captain
and Mrs. R. S. Rankin, Glenrock, Gatton. u
going to marry Charles McFarlane, son of
the C. Cookes, Riversleigh, Pilton.
At the Golden Jubilee of the Brisbane
Turn Yerein, Dr. Asmis, German Consul for
Australia, spoke of the friendliness of the
Brisbane people. Mrs. Asmis says we don t
take enough notice of the local article
amongst Australian musicians.
“Waltzes from Vienna” is at His Majesty s.
The satin poke bonnets, _ the quilted
satin gowns, the pelisses and crinolines make
the stage very attractive with its whiffs
of potpourri and click of gallants’ red-heeled
buckled shoon.
Mollie do Gunst is staying with Mrs. AN .
G. Gibson, of Bingera station, ■ Bundaberg.
She is to give another concert in Brisbane.
Elwyn Browning, of Pelican, married Elsie
Moy, of Burraburri, in St. John’s C.E..
Dalby, Rev. I. Skelton tying the knot. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was
in white satin beauty ; orange blossom caught
her veil and her flowers were pink and cream
roses. Miss E. Browning ’maided in sea
green with a bouquet of pink Radiance roses.
Reginald Moy was best man. The feasting
was at Mrs. J. Blain’s home. Nut brown was
worn by the bride on leaving for a motor
tour.
The Catholic Daughters of Australia
feted Mrs. Dyons at the C. D. A. rooms.
Forrest-Pearson sang “Passing By” and “The
River Shannon.” Navy figured crgpe.de Chine
was worn by Mrs. Lyons: she received rose-
tinted sweet-peas from Mrs. O’Brien, the
president, who was in bronze crepe de Chine
and velvet. At the Women’s Club the
National Council of Women and affiliated
bodies welcomed Mrs. Lyons. Mrs. W. P. S.
Cumbrae Stewart presided. May Jordan and
John Steele sang, and those present included
Mesdames J. Williams, N. O’Brien and
M. Jones.
In “Peter Pan,” produced by Barbara
Sisley at the Cremorne, Peter came to earth
again in Bonnie Bell, who interested Dame
Sybil Thorndike in her promise when the
Dame was here. Nancy Renwick was a
charming Wendy. There were crowded even-
ing houses, and 1300 at the matinee.
The Q.W.E.L., in a pale blue and gold
setting at the Hotel Canberra, welcomed the
Prime Minister and Mrs. Lyons. Mrs. Scott
Mullin made the posy of poinsettia and
wattle which Mrs. J. H. Goldsmith handed
to Mrs. Lyons, who wore copper-colored
velvet. Mrs. Goldsmith was in vellum crSpe
de Chine. The Edward Macartneys, G. H.
Mackays, Jos. and Mrs. Francis were at the
official table; A. D. McGill, Senator and Mrs
Crawford, the A. E. Moores and the Glas-
gow lady were also there.
Members of the Press Institute gave a tea
to Donald Cameron and his wife in the ban-
queting hall at Rowe’s. Cream and pink
roses and crimson sweat-pea in a silver
basket decorated. General and Mrs. Spencer
Browne received the guests, Mrs. Spencer
Browne wearing ink-blue and a necklet ol
beige fur with a lapis-blue velvet hat. The
Cameron lady was in deep brown musquash
fur and brown tweed, with a brown fur hat
trimmed in red embroideries.
The F E. Loxtons’ second son Colin, who
is a student at Pembroke College, Cambridge,
has obtained second-class honors in the first-
year law examinations. His elder brother
Fred, who is also at Pembroke and taking
the same course, has passed the second-year
law examinations with honors.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page Is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The method of manufacturing votes' on
pollingiday in -.West Sydney is thus described
by Jawbone Ncild : “A building is hired, and
it is fitted up with a large number of spare
coats, wigs and „false whiskers, and people
WHAT HE’D DO.
LENIENT FATHER: “What'd you do if I boxed your
ears?”
INCORRIGIBLE: “Put out me tongue.”
[G. R. Ashton —22/11 /’90.]
get a shilling apiece for going to the polling
place and voting in the names of other
people. Some men get thirty shillings a day
for committing this offence against the laws
of God and man.” [29/8/’9l.]
Parlies was born tongue-tied, and till he
was seven years old he was considered of
by no means good intellect, owing to this
defect. Several doctors who saw him refused
to operate, but at last he was seen by Dr.
Rutter, who, with much trouble, persuaded
Parkes’s pa to let him unlock the flood-
gates of Henry’s eloquence. Years after-
wards this Dr. Rutter came to N.S.W. and
Parkes made him visiting doctor to some
Government institution. The doctor lived in
Parramatta until a few years ago.
|2O/8/’92.]
Drayton (Q.) is about three miles from
Toowoomba. In the early days the teams
bound westward spelled at Drayton, after
the long pull up the ranges, to enable them
to better negotiate the black soil flats beyond.
It was then a busy, thriving place, whose
future seemed to be assured. Toowoomba
consisted of a hotel built beside a swamp.
The District Court held sessions in the long
dining-room of a hotel in Drayton. One
day the Court offended the publican, who
flung it out. The hotel at Toowoomba was
then gazetted as the future place of session.
Other Government offices gradually came
into existence there, and Toowoomba grew.
To-day Drayton is almost deserted and the
other place is a large thriving centre. All
because an insignificant publican had an
evil temper, [2O/8/’92.]
Talking about “evening-dress” houses,
what makes me [Sappho Smith] so wild
(as Toole used to say) is when a delicate
girl with a cough like the exhaust-valve of
a woodcutting machine shivers into a theatre
with most of her clothes off at the top and
then sifs sneezing and choking and barking
and spoiling the whole thing for the victims
round about her. Sometimes she draws up
a little plush rag and drops it. over her
vertebrae, but this only makes things worse,
for when Gussie is looking it is allowed to
drop gracefully off while the cold breeze
goose-fleshes her bare bronchial regions and
the back row groans aloud. [B/8/’9l.]
Coppin’s best parts were Aminadab Sleek,
Cupid, Jem Bagga, Peckover (“Contested
Election”), Clirysos, Crack (‘‘Turnpike
Gage”), Paul Pry and Mr. Mould (“Not
Such a Fool as He Looks”). Wliat sickened
Coppin of acting was Iris Adelaide reception
about six years ago. They puffed him ertor-
mously, the. wonderful Coppin of 1846,
but truly the generation that knew not
Joseph had arrived, and the outcome was a
hoary frost. “How did Coppin acquire liis
nickname of ‘Artful Dodger’?” It was
through acting in a farce of that name, and
the last time was at Melbourne Royal, when
he and Mrs. Bryer sang and danced the
ever-popular duet, “The Best of All Possible
Dod -ges!” Coppin’s great songs were “Vili-
kins,” “Constantinople” and “Old Dog Tray.”
[B/8/’9l.]
Purves, Q.C., performed one of his sur-
prising feats as a cross-examiner in the
McMeckan will-case the other day, when he
got a doctor in the box, and made him faint
by reading to him one of the items out of
his own bill. That is to say, he grasped
the bill in his hand, and impaled the doctor
with his eye, and then lie read the item
through the horrible iteration. There isn’t
so very much in being a cross-examiner after
all, and Purves’s method is often very simple.
He gets a nervous witness before him,
and looks at him for a moment or two
with rage and thunder in his eye. Then
he leans towards him, and
says in a hollow, menacing
tone, like a dog barking into
an empty jam-tin : “Is that
letter in your handwriting?”
The witness answers prompt-
ly: “It is.” “Did you write
that letter?” The man in
the box looks a little sur-
prised, but replies again : “I
did.” “Do you mean to tell
me” but when he has got
as far as this the lawyer
stops as if overcome and
broken up and shattered by
the astonishing nature of the
situation. Then he pulls
himself together, and you
can hear the gurgle in his
aorta as he clutches a double
handful of papers, and starts
again in a Johnel Sullivan
voice: “DO you mean to tell
me that you you you
wrote that letter? Do you
say that you would write
SUCH (fearful howl on the
“such”) a document as
THAT?” (unearthly sereitm
on the “that,”). Here the
witness staggers and turns
pale and feels that he must
have ruined his reputation
somehow over the letter,
though there is nothing in
it but a bald statement that
he had lost the 9.30 train,
and, consequently, couldn’t
go somewhere till next morn-
ing. But ho feebly admits
over again that he wrote it.
Then the barrister turns
pale with excitement and
suppressed frenzy, and grabs
all the papers on the table,
and, with a shriek that
wakes his wife and family in the next pro-
vince, he wades in, and the place seems to
be filled with a tangled waste of barks and
vociferations. This time he speaks all in
big capitals, and the smallest words nearly
lift the roof. “DO YOU ACTUALLY
STATE YOU WROTE THAT LETTER?”
The testifier feels that the Last Day has
come, arid, collapsing in the box, says “I
did.” The lawyer glares horribly in the
empty air; wildly casts his papers at the
roof; and for want of anything else to
seize lie grabs the table itself, and with it
in his arms fires his last howl. “You
DID!!!” There is no answer, for the wit-
ness is in an insensible condition on the
floor. That is the way to be a Great Cross-
examiner. [l5/1/’9l.]
John Roberts, for about 18 years the un-
disputed champion of all-round British bil-
liards—prince of the “push,” in fact—has
concluded. a season, which became highly suc-
cessful with the lowering of prices, at the
Crystal Palace Hall, Sydney. Roberts,* the
“iron man” of billiards, is as square, as
hard-looking, physically and mentally, as on
his prior visit, and is perhaps even more
impassible, for any measure of impetuosity
that he may have once possessed seems to
have, been eradicated by a long course of
public appearances, and the steely-grey eyes
now light up an organism apparently as
chilly as that of a cold-water eel. They say
Roberts plays better than he did; the im-
provement was. not manifest to a merely
casual dropper-in, who missed the dash and
daring that made “young John” the hero of
the British billiard world when he and
Cook with Joe Bennett, Timbreil and
“Master” Stanley were revolutionising the
“royal game.” But the quick-sighted, de-
cisive directness, the unerring judgment and
confidence, the touch, delicate as a lady’s,
allied to the wrist-power of a blacksmith, all
remain, and as the experience is. of course,
enlarged, it is probable that Roberts does
play a better game now than at any prior
period of his career. In Sydney lie easily de-
feated James, Birkett, Parker and Weston,
who received starts from one-half to six-
tenths the game. Roberts’s largest break,
437, was made with Birkett, and Weston’s
94 secured for that player a silver cup.
[29/8/’92.]
By the death of T. K. Pater, P.M., the
Adelaide (S.A.) police court has lost its
presiding humorist —a man with strongly-
marked, fight-skinned features, guttered with
the visible egotism of conscious smartness,
and yet strangely sardonic in the grin over-
seen by the beaky nose. Pater’s humor
never oozed out of him; he pumped it up
with a force-pump, and he always let you
know when he was going to pump it. It
usually came up frothy and small beer.
Originally an Old Bailey barrister, Pater
opened out as a second-rate general prac-
titioner in Adelaide, utilised some side-
suckers politically, and was for six years
Northern Territory Judge. He returned to
Adelaide two years ago with “a fearful
liver,” and accepted the stipendiary magis-
tracy of the city, becoming a stern father
to the juvenile offender, and a rough doctor
to the chronic drunk. He was 54 years old.
[2O/8/’92.]
An alleged humorous paper, published in
Melbourne, has lately got rid of its editor,
who was the only humorous thing about it,
even in the best days. His proceedings
scared the proprietors into fits, and the
paper is now run by a species of retired
■undertaker upon orthodox lines. The old
editor had a turn for poetry, and once a
week he used to blast an appropriate coup-
let out of himself, and issue it along with
the weekly cartoon, and gently label it
Byron or Shakspeare, or even Homer. He
generally did these brief poems in -a tram-
car, or he would think them out while run-
ning for a train. Sometimes, by way of
variety, he would issue a mass of hiero-
glyphics that looked like a centipede drink-
ing on a barbed-wire fence, and put under-
neath the words “Obscure Persian Legend.”
But one day towards the end of his career,
lie published a frenzied blast of metre in
two lines, and described it as by “Sappho,
ancient Greek poetess,” and then a deeply-
outraged professor came down to the office
and remonstrated. “You must be aware, Mr.
--—,” he said sternly, “that the works of
Sappho are entirely lost, and this is mere
disreputable fooling with the great names of
antiquity.” The editor never turned a. hair.
He only smiled a heavenly smile and ex-
plained. “I know,” he said, “that the writ-
ings of Sappho are supposed to have been
lost, but this single verse was given by her to
an ancestor of mine, and lias been handed
down in the family ever since. It is now
revealed to the world for the first time.”
Then there was a long pause; in fact, the
pause has been going on ever since, and is
still in good working order. [22/8/’9l.]
No woman, says a fashion paper (in
effect), who cares a pin about her appear-
ance will ever go out without a veil. Now,
I [Sappho Smith] calmly submit that veils
are hampered by more inartistic drawbacks
than any other feminine fal-lal. Watch a
woman in a tulle fall getting through her
lunch at a cafe. She must turn it up over
her nose, when —especially if it's dark-colored
—it gives an ugly divided look to the pret-
tiest face. Besides, it comes down at in-
opportune moments and gets among the
soup, and when you have finished feeding
and go to fix it in a killing way, there comes
a crinkled grease-spot just on the tip of
your nose, and the only alternative left
you is to take it off or go home. Also in
paying calls a veil is utterly aggravating.
If you want to hypocritically kiss your
hostess’s last baby or sip your tea. in deadly
earnest, that filmy rag has to be hauled up
and disarranged, and, as a • result, you go
away with a sort of beard of draggled tulle
where once was a crisp straight line. And I
never yet saw a woman who could hook her
veil over her nose with one hand and accept
a cup of tea with the other without looking
greedy. [29/8/'92.)
A fellow-passenger of Sara Bernhardt, by
the Yankee mail to Australia thus wrote
from Honolulu: “The ship had not been out
three hours before she had explored it
EDUCATIONAL.
PROFESSOr: “Where did William the Con-
queror land?”
NEW STUDENT (from “the Rocks”): “On
the jawr.” [“Hop”—l6/7/’92.]
thoroughly from stem to stern and down
into the hold. One dark night she announced
her intention of mounting to the crow's
nest. It takes a man of good nerve to do
this even in quiet weather, and on this
evening there was a heavy sea running. The
captain and officers urged her not to attempt
it. but she laughed at them and ran up to
the foot of the topmast with the lightness
and agility of a cat. The members of her
company, the other passengers, the ship’s
officers and many of the crew had gathered
on deck and were watching her breathlessly
as she turned to descend. When half-way
down she stopped, and, clinging to the rig-
ging with' one hand and gesticulating with
the other, began reciting a poem from Vic-
tor Hugo. The wind blew her skirts with
tremendous force against the rigging, anc
the ship was tossing in a heavy sea, but
she held on and went through the poem.”
[l5/8/’9l.] '
“MARMONDELLE THE MOOR.”
[ Another of Tommy Walker's plays, as seen
by James Edmond. Walker was M.L.A. for
Northumberland (N.S.W.) when the thing
was produced, with the playwright in the
name-part.]
Thomas Walker’s new drama at Sydney
Royal, with Thomas Walker as the hero/is- —
despite a lot of really beautiful scenery—
BOW AND ARROW.
[1/2/’88.]
going to die very young for a good many
reasons. There is no plot at all in “Marmon-
delle the Moor,” and hardly any action, bar-
ring the fact that the papal legate loathes
and contemns the Moor through four acts
and the latter falls down dead in act V.
leaving the after-fate of the legate buried
in profound mystery, The hero seems to
be called Marmondelle only that his name
may rhyme with “hell” on various occa-
sions.
Marmalade’s petticoat is too short, and
his speeches are a great deal too long; lie
takes every possible and impossible oppor-
tunity to deliver 46 pages of soul-harrow-
ing oration about grief, honor, religion, his
lost child, and everything else, while Mr.
Rolfe, who is cursed with his friendship, bal-
ances himself uneasily on one leg and waits
for him to finish. lie is the sort of man who
couldn’t ask anyone to pass the salt at
diuner without giving a lengthy sketch of
the history of the world and gesticulating
till he knocked the cruet into the middle of
next week. Also, he is a dreadfully lachry-
mose old person with red stockings on a pair
of brief and transitory legs, and the abbre-
viation of his petticoat altogether spoils
the curse that he lets fly at his daughter-
no man can curse effectively when his skirt
is so short.
The most distinctive feature about the
drama is a certain grateful odor of nicely-
browned heretic, served up without vege-
tables, which seems to scent the air. There
is a much overdone, Protestant in it, and
much fried lady on a plate, and a certain
burnt-flesh odor hangs over it in an indefinite
fashion. Also a dreadful funny character is
inserted who falls backward into a basket
of eggs, and whose humor consists mostly of
the fact that he is reported to have violently
undressed an old woman to look for signs
of witchcraft.
Mr. Dampier takes a small character as a
monk, and contrives somehow to make him
look manly and natural among a crowd of
stuffed images who stand around and listen
to the long speeches of the Moor on things
in general. And that old-time favorite Miss
Blanche Lewis, whose youth hasn’t yet begun
to desert her, makes a pretty and thrilling'
heretic who evokes much public sympathy.
In fact, when Miss Lewis is found chained
in a dungeon and moaning on a bed of straw,
the house is troubled with a half-formed
longing to rise up and tear the Moor’s petti-
coat on general principles. [29/7/’93.j
All the old stage-coach drivers have not
become railway gatekeepers or minor tram
officials. Walter Hall, of Potts Point and
Mount Morgan; James Rutherford, of Litli-
gow, Bathurst and half a dozen other choice
spots; Frank Whitney, of Coombing Park,
Careoar, the beautiful home of the Icolys
in days gone by, where Sir Charles Fitzroy,
Colonel Mundy and other “bloods” spent
many a roystoring evening; Jacob Russart,
the wealthy host of the Royal Hotel at
Blayney and the local “Dick Whittington*';
“King” William Orbell, host of a golden
hotel at Dubbo; John Fagan. J.P. and
squatter, of Cowra (he drove the coach on
the morning Gardiner and his gang stuck
up the escort at Eugowra Rocks! ; the late
Henry Rotton, of Bathurst (M.L.A.), and
half a score other prominent citizens handled
the ribbons over the. Bine Mountains before
the iron horse found its way westward.
n/8/’9i.i
THE LAND BEYOND.
O, know you the land that is out at the back
of all dreaming,
The land that is truest of all, being nought
but a seeming,
A flashing of soul, and of spirit a brilliant
beaming?
lx», that is the land of all joys and delights
h. and all laughters,
With the blue of soft skies for a dome and
bright rainbows for rafters,
Which has never a past or a present, and
knows no hereafters.
IA that is the land where all aim has com-
■ pletest fulfilling,
Where the sweetest of songs from the glad-
dest hearts aye are trilling,
Where the harvests of heaven are reaped
without sweat of sad tilling.
There the wine-cup of pleasure is drained
without dropping of tears.
There love as a rose-colored flame in dead
darkness appears.
And ■ the living of life is a long march of
musical years.
Yea, such is the land that is out at the back
of all dreaming,
The land that is truest of all, being nought
but a seeming,
A flashing of soul, and of spirit a brilliant
beaming.
[2O/8/’92.]
STEELE GREY.


The Vangeance of Birkson
BY S. H. COURTIER.
THE air in No. 3 level was hot, the light
from the candle was dim, and Birkson
cursed as he searched in the toolbox
for his pliers. He cursed the heat, he cursed
the mine, he cursed the men who carelessly
tossed tools out of their way. Finally, he
cursed Magill, and savagely upended the box.
He found the pliers under a coil of fuse,
and, without replacing any of the articles
tipped out, proceeded to make a primer. He
was bitter, but his feelings did not prevent
him from taking care in his task. Fulminate
of mercury, as Birkson had already learned,
reacts violently to spiteful treatment. But
the incident had started him off. It had be-
come a daily habit. Given some disturbing-
happening, and his mind would start on the
same tortuous course, weaving through a
maze of self-torture and self-pity.
Somewhere in the mine, temporarily en-
gaged in other work, was his shift-mate
Magill, the cause of this mental turmoil.
Magill, who rvas everything Birkson was not
—quick-witted, handsome, the favorite of
men and women; the man whom luck fol-
lowed and petted.
The scars on Birkson’s face reddened, and
became swollen, as he thought of Magill.
Because of those scars, Birkson hated
Magill. They were a continual reminder of
what he had lost, and what he would have
given his soul to regain. He hated Magill,
because Magill had made his face the mon-
strosity it was. A dozen times a day Birk-
son went through the circumstances. He
had been preparing a charge. He had slipped
the end of the fuse into the detonator and
was clenching the copper cylinder with his
teeth. Concentrated on the job. he had not
noticed Magill approach until the latter
spoke.
“Jump to it, Birky!” Magill had yelled
in his ear.
Startled, Birkson had jerked the cap in
his mouth; his teeth crunched the fulminate
of mercury, and the next moment his eyes
were staring unbelievably, piteously, at Magill
from a face that had suddenly crumpled,
with rivulets of blood oozing from ears,
mouth and nose. The miracle was that he
had escaped at all. The surgeons did a
wonderful piece of work, but when he left
the hospital three months later his face was
a. twisted mockery of its former appearance.
Lips, nose and cheeks were drawn, scarred
and disfigured; which was why Birkson now-
used pliers in clenching detonators.
He completed his primer, inserted it into
the plug of gelignite and gently tamped the
finished charge into the hole prepared for
it. He was blowing out a heel of rock that
the previous shift had missed when firing.
He lit the fuse and retired to a cuddy-hole
a hundred feet or so along the drive.
Lately, his hate had taken a more definite
turn. Ugly thoughts of revenge were emerg-
ing from the darker levels of his mind. He
played with the idea of killing Magill. Why
shouldn’t lie? Magill had ripped the enjoy-
ment of lifo from him. Men and women
turned from him, barely concealing their re-
pugnance. It never dawned on Birkson that
they might have had other reasons for this.
All Birkson knew was that his blasted face
shut him away from the things he longed
for. But for what might come after, he
would have jumped with Magill down a
shaft. He shivered at the idea. Birkson
had no suspicion of his innate yellowness;
such a “thing never entered his mind. If he
could find some safe way of doing it....
The charge exploded, sending echoes re-
verberating along the drive. A rush of air
blew out Birkson’s candle. He relit it, and
after waiting a few minutes went to the
rock-face, turned on the compressed air and
watched the dust and smoke drift towards
the shaft. With a hammer he began to break
up the larger pieces of quartz torn out by
the explosion. Though he had not the slight-
est intention of ending his own life, he liked
to think about it. He chewed over what
would be the easiest and least painful of
methods. A piece of fracteur in the mouth
was, no doubt, the simplest
He stopped, erect. The glimmer of a plan
had darted into his mind. A plug of gelig-
nite between the teeth! Quick, certain, and
it would leave no trace. It would look like
suicide; but how to accomplish it? How?
The more he thought the more excited and
confused he became. He tried to quieten
the rush of hot blood that roared through
his ears. A cage clanged to a stop at the
plat. Birkson controlled himself with an
effort. Then he walked along the drive to
meet the shift boss. But hammering away
at the back of his head was that how, how,
how ?. .. .
Next day the answer came to him. He
wondered why he had not thought of it at
once, it was so simple. It was a job to be
done at night, just before coming on for
the night shift. He would wait for Magill
in a gully two hundred yards or so from
the mine. Birkson pictured the exact spot
in his mind. He would strike down Magill
as he came along the narrow track! The
rest then was easy. He would use two coils
of fuse so that lie would have plenty of
time to arrive at the mine before the charge
exploded, thus providing an unbreakable alibi
for himself. He would have to wind the
fuse about Magill’s head. He wanted no
tell-tale remains to cause the police to ask
why a man committing suicide should use
fifty . feet of fuse.
Only one thing might interfere with his
plans. Magill was popular, and often men
waited to accompany him to work. No
matter, Birkson thought; he could wait. The
night must come when Magijl would walk
up that gully alone. All Birkson had to do
was to be waiting ready. A blow with a
lump of piping, and Magill would go down.
Two more minutes would see the fuse spit-
ting, and Birkson would be on his way to
the mine. He would toss the piping down
an old shaft, and there wouldn’t be a mark
left to show what had actually occurred.
The stony bottom of the gully would not
show any trace of the struggle. The scheme
was perfect.
Birkson came into the changing-room at
the mine a few minutes before midnight,
although there was no actual need for him
to do so. He lived near the mine and always
changed his clothes at home. The men wait-
ing for the night shift to start nodded to
him and spoke in a perfunctory fashion. Ho
didn’t heed them, but inside him a flame
was burning.
«*# ' *
It was done! Now ho waited for the
consummating roar. It had been very easy.
Magill had strolled up the gully humming
softly to himself. He never knew what had
struck him. It was a few seconds’ work
to drag him into a rugged crevice in the
gully’s bank, where no one on the path would
see the sparks leaping from the fuse. Birk-
son thought of forcing the slack jaw open
to admit the fracteur.... He felt an exult-
ant elevation of spirit.... He wished he
could tell the others. He wanted to break
in on their talking, to give them something
to talk about —a stupid idea. He was con-
scious of a warm intoxicating sensation.
The sound he expected came at last—a
sharp, splitting crack that roused racing
echoes around the night-drenched hills.
The men were silenced at once.
“What was that?” one asked.
Birkson listened sardonically as various
explanations were offered. They would
know soon enough. He could see them
asking in dismay why Magill had done this
thing—Magill, who, everybody thought, was
the happiest man on the mine. It gave
Birkson a sense of superiority to hear them
discuss the explosion. Again he wanted to
toll them, to shout the whole thing at them.
He noted with detachment that none of them
connected the explosion with Magill’s
absence.
Birkson left the cage at the No. 3
level. He felt no inclination to work;
he wanted to feel the rush of triumph
through him; feel that the scars on his
face had been paid for. The afternoon shift
had bored holes in the working face, and
Birkson now had to fire them. It came
to him with a peculiar thrill that he would
be on his own for this shift. That pleased
him, made him want to run cheering along
the drive. He restrained the dangerous im-
pulse and went to get fuse and caps. He
looked in the tool-box for his pliers. By sheer
force of habit, he started to swear when he
could not find them. He laughed as he re-
membered—the pliers were in his pocket.
He slipped his hand in for them. £ot
there! He tried the other pocket.
there, either. His fingers, groping feverishly,
tugged only at the coarse lining.
“God!” ’
The word broke from Birkson like a moan.
Everybody in the mine knew his pliers.
No one except him used pliers, each man
depending on his teeth, as Birkson had d° n ''
once. The knowledge came sharply baca
to him that he had had his initials stampec
on his pliers.
“God!” he cried again.
He glanced wildly around. The arch of
timber supporting the rock took on tne
appearance of a scaffold..... He couiun i
have left the pliers with Magill. He was
sure he had put them in his pocket, tlv
must have dropped them on the way to the
mine. They might be in the changing-room.
Or the cage. Anyway, lie couldn’t stay n>
the drive. The air was stifling. He must
get out. He’d go up the ladders. Yes and
sneak down the gully and make sure, xnai
was the only thing to do.
At the plat, he tried to think it out again,
but he could not control his thoughts.
argument could drive away the grim spectre
that stood over him. The triumphant being
of a few minutes before had given place to
a weak, terrified victim —caught in a trap.
He held on to the skids for support and
stared into the blackness of the shaft.
A sound made him whirl round. Someone
was coming down the ladders! Birkson
could hear the steady rasp of boots on iron
rungs. Who was it? A cold perspiratiou
broke upon him. A nameless dread oi the
man coming down the ladders seized him.
The climber was coming closer. Birkson
could see his candle burning; then a mans
heavy bulk. . . . Down he came.
The boots came into the radiance of the
candle, then the legs, and the body, until the
man was standing on the plat. Birkson stood
as though bound to the timber. He watched
fearfully as the newcomer slowly turned
round. The face was hi the shadow of the
man’s hat, but Birkson could see the dark
red stain that ran down from the forehead.
Birkson’s heart knotted.
As the man by the ladders stepped for-
ward, Birkson, chattering and gibbering,
stepped backwards. Too late, he realised.
He struggled to recover himself, then went
whirling down the shaft.
“God Almighty!” Billings, the under-
ground manager, dived forward vainly. As
he did so, his hat fell off. The fluttering
light of liis candle showed where some red
clay had streaked his face. As he looked
down the shaft, listening to the sounds of
Birkson falling, his trembling foot kicked
something forward. As the object slipped
into the shaft, he saw it as a pair of miner’s
pliers.
For months afterwards, they talked about
the coincidence —of why Magill blew his
head off for some unknown reason, and how
Birkson went mad and jumped down the
shaft
Stiff LucK for the Colonel
BY CECIL MANN.
GOOD ~ morning, ; old chap,” , said . the
Colonel; “and how do you feel this
morning? Not too good?. My sym-
pathy, old hoy! Now, what do you say to
a mouthful of hair?”
“No, no. I rather think .not,”, said the
Colonel. “Far too early in the morning.” :
“Sally Martin to'that,” said the Colonel.
“What’s come over you? You’re losing your
punch, old fellow. ,Too. early in the morning
for a mouthful of the dog. that bit you !
Utterly absurd.! Come, now—just one! Just
two little fingers !”
“Well, h’m, perhaps one,” conceded the
Colonel.
“You will?” cried the Colonel, throwing
back the bedclothes and getting on to the
floor. “I knew you would! Do you good,
old fellow. I think it's over here.”
“But should I?” said the Colonel, stopping
half-way across the room. “It’s all very
well for the Archdeacon of Tootoo and such
irresponsible fellows, but should a man who'll
be dead within twenty-four hours begin such
an auspicious day with impious tippling? I
ask you—should he?”
“My answer to that,” said the Colonel,
“is my oath he should! What reasonable
grounds have you for supposing that in the
hell to which you are going it will be possible
to get whisky and soda? Yes, yes; I admit
it —we have no soda. We, poor unfortu-
nates, have only whisky. But come, come!
Don’t dawdle about any more!”"
Reaching the mantelpiece, the Colonel
ignored the mirror’s fat and florid reflection
on his appearance. From a half-empty
bottle he poured out a stiff nip, held it up
and through it regarded a distorted view of
the Domain. He. lowered the glass a little
without drinking, and over the rim of it.
looked, at the billowing panorama of Moreton
Bay figs with grass carpeting between.
His lips tightened; took on a taut grim-
ness.
“Hell,” he said; “winter in another
month! Doss down there? Not for mine,
thank you.”
Il’e raised the glass abruptly and drank.
It started him coughing, and his face became
redder as he doubled up, shaken with the
rack of it. He straightened his short back
as the fit of coughing passed.
“And, now,” said the Colonel, “what about
another? You won’t? Man alive, will you
stop arguing? Get it into you. if it burns
your rotten gas-bitten guts out!”
“Now then, now then,” said the Colonel
deprecatingly. “Easy on the language, old
fellow. This is not a parade. This is Easter
Monday in Sydney, a beautiful autumn
morning, and the sun is shining.”
“Quite right, quite right,” said the Colonel,
half-filling .the tumbler and looking into the
mirror. “Well, chin-chin.”
As he dressed he continued talking to
himself.
A woman came into the monologue, and a
girl, Betty. Then, the whisky having given
his blood new-fire, he sat’on the edge of the
bed with the glass in his hand and conned
some of his life over without favor or
mercy.
It was not all unpleasant thinking. The
career of Lieut.-Colonel Frank Rowdell was,
in fact, highly picturesque.
- Neither .thought of country and duty nor
of honor and glory took him to the war. He
went for the fun of it. His was no charac-
ter for a neurotic’s warbook. He enjoyed it.
He liked the travel; the thrill of being m
Emden waters; the white clothes and black
faces and bumboats of Colombo; the dirt
and secretive frowsiness of Port Said;
Mena and the Pyramids; dirty and stink-
ing Arabs sitting on the slabs of pulp
that would be turned into jam for the
troops; Australians tied to gunwheels ; Lem-
nos, drunk on the fiery cognac of that green
isle of peasants, windmills and fresh bread;
Gallipoli, a captaincy; France, major; the
Somme, M.C.; Passcnendaele, D.S.O. and
bar; then a good whiff of gas, and home
again.
“As fine a soldier as I have ever known,” a
Brigadier of three wars said of him. Black
Bess his men called him, because he was
masculine and they liked him.
Back in Australia he had a shot at Par-
liament, and won nicely in a five-weeks’ cam-
paign. Also, he acquired a wife, whose
attractions so won a critic that the critic, in
his review, advised painters to go to Her
Majesty’s if they wanted to give the Archi-
bald portrait competition a leaven of good
looks.
Quite good this —and from what? From
chasing cows barelegged through w T et
bracken before daybreak; school-leaving age,
12; at 16 cutting sugarcane from daylight
to dark (literally) ; at 17 felling jungle
scrub; at 18, with about as many pounds,
to the city; at 33 enlisted, passing for an
educated gentleman; at 87 an “Honorable
and Well-beloved.” The decline and fall of
the Colonel spread over seven years.
Uncharitably, it began at home. Fay
Beresford (nee Jenkins) was all the drama-
tic critic claimed for her, and also a little
more —or less.
It began after their daughter, Elizabeth,
was born. The first one was a handsome
actor fellow with magnificent legs and a
weak tenor voice. A procession of them
followed.
Barring the touch of gas, that was the
first, thing in the nature of obstacle that had
happened to Rowdell. He responded in his
own way. He had shown certain Johnos
and certain Fritzes that two can play at a
game. This new game appealed to him in
much the same spirit. Like the fiddler’s
rooster, he found it a hearty thing to do. He
drank with it; played it out quite in the
open; was open and unashamed about it.
A Judge in Divorce spoke kindly to a
loyely woman about the demoralising effects
of war, and said, in effect, that assuredly
she would retain custody of the child. In-
spired, the posters of the evening press rose
to sublime heights.
It cost him the excellent chance he had of
holding a safe Conservative seat. Judicious
electioneering propaganda, and righteous
electors turned him down, his war-worker
aunt among them.
Then he made a discovery, amazed that
he had not made it before. Randwick! The
races!
In the fascination of it he acted like a
bulky boy. His ambitious manner of urging
his fancy on won him in a few months the
status of an identity. All horses in his per-
suasive urging were of the gentle sex.
“Sweetheart,” he called them; “darling,”
“loveliest.” “Oh, you little sweetheart!” —
probably to a bony gelding with a head like
a coffin.
He did a bit better than well. He was not
a mere gambler—he was a game and good
one. It was not the horses that broke him.
He fell over a ditch flamboyantly called New
Guinea Oil.
The pieces were not worth the picking up.
Within three months it was being passed
around that Black Bess Rowdell was on the
hum. Most of the Old Crowd went to a
quid, some to a fiver, one to a tenner. He
divided it between whisky and Randwick,
betting weakly, like a bank clerk. His land-
lady began to have doubts. At Easter she
had received nothing since Christmas. The
Colonel was steadily drinking.
It was in this situation that he made his
decision, quite lightly, as his vital decisions
always had been made, that he would not
much longer honor the earth by treading
on it.
At 11.85 a.m., with not more than six
shillings in his pocket, he walked tentatively
into a spacious har in George-street.
A hectic “Strike a light, if it isn’t the
Colonel!” and # a great rough paw taking
hold of his thick and flabby hand set him
guessing after the identity of anyone likely
to greet him with rash enthusiasm. The
cyclonic one explained—Sergeant Blake of
the old Butt.; growin’ bananas; been
gatherin’, a few of the old mob together;
struck a whole batch of ’em after a week of
knockin’ round Sydney.
The Colonel looked the batch over with
some misgiving, but its greeting was cordial
enough.
There were fifteen of his old crowd in it —
all creditors. One of them whispered to
another, “What say we rig a few bob-ins for
the poor cow? You get him aside and I’ll
put the word round.”
The Colonel found himself carried con-
fidentially aside and a ten-shilling note
thrust towards him.
“They’re puttin’ the coin in an' the winner
shouts,” the benefactor said. “Might cost
y’ a bit. Thought y’ might be short.”
The Colonel said, “Thank you, Collins.
Very good of you.”
The amount in was two shillings. The
Colonel, sticking to his favorite while the
others all made it a beer, won seven in a
row. Then he lost one, and won four more.
They surged him out to the door with a
pocket moderately well lined. There were
beery and brotherly farewells. The Colonel
took the race tram to Randwick.
In the interval after the third race he
drank a throat-biting whisky and
His face was flushed, the veins at his
temples crookedly protruding. He had all-
up winning bets on a fiver start to his credit.
More than £BOO.
The betting, the excitement in the running,
had sobered him.
“And you,” said the Colonel, risking
another vitriolic whisky—“you were going
to put the kibosh on yourself by now ! A
damn fool idea, don’t you think so?”
“I can’t help agreeing with you,” said
the Colonel. “A positively childish idea.
How fresh and green the grass looks to-day!
How sweet are these sounds about you! How
marvellous is all this turmoil ! Can’t you
get the feeling, old fellow? All this living
humanity having its day out!”
“Sure thing?” said the Colonel. “Why.
she herself might be amongst it. She mighr
even have Betty trailing her.”
“H’m,” said the Colonel, ordering another
whisky. “H”m; you know, there’s an idea
in that. She’d sell that kid all right. How
much, though?”
“Eight hundred,” suggested the Colonel.
“Not on your life!” retorted the Colonel.
“Not a dribble less than a couple of thou-
sand.”
“What’d you do with the kid, anyway?"
questioned the Colonel, surveying the sea -of
heads towards the totalisator.
“Put her into a good school. Decent sur-
roundings. Something to live for,” said the
Colonel.
“Your luck’s in,” tempted the Colonel.
“You can win five thousand now in one hit
on Speardown.”
“I think so, too,” agreed the Colonel
shoving his glass over and going into the
ring.
The horses were thundering towards the
Leger when a Young Man from the Iron-
mongery said to his girl: “Crikey! Get an
eyeful of the fat bloke!”
The Colonel was worth looking at. He
was flogging the air, and shouting to the
bay Speardown, galloping sweetly five
lengths in front of a beaten field: “Come
on, sweetheart, if you love me ! Oh, you
darling! You little snifter! Come on.
lovely! Dove” . , • , ,
His voice stopped. His right hand jerked
to his head. He took a half-step forward and
fell sideways. . , .
The doctor called it a hemorrhage m the
brain. The Old Crowd called it ‘Jolly stiff
luck about the Colonel.”
Stiff luck for the Colonel, indeed.


\\\ \ V
\\ \\\ AW \
* \ ;? :/ \ \ . \ ' \
\\\ • . >
■'y;r \
-"■wt-s
x ‘ r\ ; ' „
i
4
7a
Pa
/%
K
76
5*
PS
.. says the
/a
m
it
XLL WEATHER
MOTORIST
because
it is the only double - range' oil"
Now is the time of year when
you should take special care
about your car’s lubrication.
The experienced, all-weather
motorist knows that there is
one oil that eliminates Winter-
time lubrication risks, and
that is the correct grade of
MOBILOIL.
MobiloiPs unique double-
range quality makes it the ideal
Winter oil. It circulates freely,
and lubricates AT ONCE; yet,
when the engine is thoroughly
warmed up it maintains its
body, and affords full protec-
tion, however hard you may
drive.
ALWAYS INSIST 0N...
Mobiloil
Mobiloil “C” for Gears
Mobilgrease for Chassis Lubrication
VACUUM Oil, COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Biggar and Better Times.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
IT was when a southerly buster made itself
felt, coming with a wild scurry round
the corner and knocking newsboards and
sundries flat, that I thought of Biggar, who
so much resembled that sort of tempestuous-
ness. Hardly had the thought occurred when
I was thumped on my back, my arm linked
into that of somebody I did not immediately
see, and I was blown into the bar of the
hotel I had been righteously passing.
Of course, it was Biggar. He had scarcely
given me time to order my drink before, com-
manding a total stranger to hold the loose
end, he started to unwind a roll of calico.
“What do you think of that?” demanded
Biggar.
At the angle at which I was standing it
was not easy to make out the big blue letter-
ing, but Biggar, with a roaring laugh, inter-
preted : “ ‘Vote for Biggar and Better Times.’
That’s a good slogan, isn’t it?”
“But what’s it in aid of?” I asked. “It
looks like an election sign to me.”
“It is an election sign. Behold Thomas
Carnegie Biggar, M.L.A.!”
My heart sank. Although it was refresh-
ing to meet Biggar with the ability—the
desire was always there —to shout for the
whole bar, as in a minute he was doing, his
announcement suggested that he had again
jettisoned a sure and safe job. When last
I had met him and his wife she had been
overjoyed that Biggar had achieved a billet
at £4 per week. He himself seemed satis-
fied.
“Gone in for politics?” I asked.
“Gone in for politics?” he echoed. “My
boy, lam politics! My mission is to put
patriotic, independent life into a moribund
Parliament. This country must be rescued
from the blight of Communism”'
“Hold hard, Tom,” I said., “I’m not a
political meeting. The last time I met you
you were doing well with Seaside Sites,
Ltd. You told me you were set for life.”
“Pshaw! That was merely a stepping-
stonq,” returned Biggar grandly. “ ‘There
is a destiny that shapes our ends,’ you know,
and destiny was shaping my ends in asso-
ciating me with Seaside Sites. Now I’m
going into Parliament. I’ll get in as a
National Independent on the ground floor.”
I had so often heard Biggar offer to let
people in on the ground floor of new com-
panies that I guessed what he meant; but
it was only bit by bit that I pieced together
the story of what had happened.
Doing well with Seaside Sites, he had
developed an ambition for a motor-car. It
was, he declared, absolutely necessary to
enable him to cover the ground (“covering
the ground” had always been one of Biggar’s
phrases'). I could quite understand the use
Biggar would have for the car in entertain-
ing his family and his friends. Miracu-
lously, one was provided by the firm, and
at once Biggar found Samuel Pompard,
M.L.A., who was on the hoard of directors,
an intimate friend. Pompard developed a
notion that the seaside sites in his electorate
deserved special consideration; and Biggar
said he would consider it a sacred duty to
help.
It was natural for Biggar to stress the
connection of Pompard, M.L.A., with the
eo. Nobody in the world could promise more
largely than could Biggar when he got going,
and the whole surrounding country heard
of what Pompard was going to do. for it
in the way of a railway, cheaper trains and
everything a suburban taxpayer might desire.
Biggar didn’t realise, apparently, how
much he was being used by a political self-
seeker until Pompard suggested one day that
he would like the car for Sunday, and Biggar
with it. Biggar was shocked at this misuse
of the" co.’s property. Besides, he, had
arranged to take his family for an outing to
Bulli Pass. He voiced his objection.
“Look here, Tom,” said Pompard acidly,
“there wouldn’t have been any car if I
hadn’t insisted on it as a member of the
board. It’s been useful to you and the co.,
and I’m entitled to something surely for my
—my foresight. I really want the car this
Sunday.”
He got it that, Sunday—and on others;
and the Biggar family did not go to Bulli
Pass.
“That’s how I got the strength of him,”
Biggar explained. “He’s not liked, you know;
just forced upon the electors by the machine.
People came to me and said I was the fellow
to hold the seat for Nationalism. The
electors were sick of Pompard, and their
votes would go to the Labor chap unless
there was someone else offering like myself.
So,” said Biggar with his roaring laugh,
“you see me as the future Tom Biggar,
M.L.A.”
“But what about your job? An election
campaign costs money.”
“I’ve thrown in the job, of course,” said
Biggar carelessly, for jobs were just casual
matters to him. “They’ve formed a com-
mittee for me, and it’ll find the exes. I
won’t need a snide job like that when I’m
in Parliament.”
His confidence was magnificent, and he
showed how ready he was to spend the money
with which his committee supplied him by
planking down the coin for another round
of drinks.
“I didn’t know you were much interested
in polities,” I commented; “and I always
had the idea that you were a Labor man.”
“I teas,” Biggar said significantlv:
“but we must lay the grim spectre of Com-
munism. which threatens to reduce Austra-
lia to the level of Russia. My policy is in-
dependence. I shall advocate more suburban
railways, more employment, 'more oppor-
tunity to private enterprise, less taxation.
Biggar and Better Times! That’s it in a
nutshell.”
“How are you going to do it?” I asked
cynically.
“Wait until I’m in Parliament and I’ll
show you,” he retorted easily. He became
oratorical, and probably would have been
content to remain in the bar airing his poli-
tical greatness if my remark that I had an
appointment liad not reminded him of one
of his own.
Pompard, I knew, was not a popular poli-
tician. Still, I wondered at an opposition
prepared to find enough money to put JBiggar,
as an opponent, in Easy-street until on the
steps of the Andreas Building we met two
men obviously waiting for Biggar. I knew
both Cowley and Knowles.
“You’re damned late, Tom!” said
Knowles. “Peterson went in a quarter of
an hour ago, and the appointment was at
four. He doesn’t like to be kept waiting.”
“I’ve been doing good work. Hamer here
has promised to come out and assist my cam-
paign,” breezed Biggar quite gratuitously.
“He’s going to give me some paragraphs. By
the way, Hamer, I’ll send you a photograph
you may be able to use.”
I saw daylight. Peterson was chairman
of a group of city interests eager for certain
political concessions which Pompard (whose
financial interests were different) had sedu-
lously opposed. Cowley and Knowles I had
often met at the Trades Hall. Their names
were seldom mentioned in Labor politics—
political wire-pullers do not court publicity.
Biggar, a baby in politics, believing him-
self a bulwark of anti-Communism, had
fallen into a nice little plot to split the
vote with Pompard, for whom one of his
rare dislikes had grown. It was skilful
work, no doubt, on the part of Cowley and
Knowles, who were giving the Labor man a
chance to win the seat, on money provided
from essentially anti-Labor sources. There
were probably other organisations besides
those headed by Peterson that would help in
giving the aggressive Pompard a bump. It
was one of those little intrigues that fre-
quently arise in election times, when money
to pull all sorts of wires becomes available.
Biggar was so innocent and so confident
that I did not like to make the matter plain
to him when I visited him in his electorate.
“I’m a stone certainty,” he roared at me
in his gusty fashion. “Here’s a test for
you. Hey, Parkins, meet my friend. He’s
not very sanguine about how I’m going to
get on. Who’re you going to vote for?”
“As far as I’m concerned, there’s only
Tom Biggar in it,” returned Parkins heartily.
“We’re sick of Pompard, and I’ve never
given Labor a vote yet.”
Biggar breezed us into a hotel. He seemed
popular in the bar. He -would be. As the
days went on, and I saw Mm blowing about
the town in his well-known imitation of a
southerly buster, I was almost infected with
his own confidence.
His committee-room was a hive of activity.
There I met Mrs. Biggar, sitting at a table
checking a roll with lists that had been
brought in, and two little Biggars—they were
writing out, in large, scrawling handwriting,
other lists of marked names from other rolls.
Mrs. Biggar looked a little wistful, I thought.
“How do you like the prospect of Tom
becoming a member?” I asked her.
“I think it might have been better if he
had stuck to his sure four pounds a week,”
she whispered, as if half afraid of disloyalty
in saying it. I felt sorry for the poor lady.
She corrected her disloyalty immediately.
“Of course, Tom is just the man for Parlia-
ment, with all his —his ideas.”
“You really don’t like the idea of your
husband being a politician,” I said. softly.
“I’ve heard such a lot about political life
spoiling family life,” she said, whispering
again. “You know, Tom sometimes gets
drunk. It’s only natural for a man who
has so many friends; but he always did come
home.”
(Continued on next page.}


as
%
w,
/
3
ll#
41
A
I
• '*l- <-'° ’>
rsar im i »,
y
iSI
und tJri
to
fion
Sunny Pacific Islands
“Where Winter Never Comes!’
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
by the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at most economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
For the treatment of
BLOOD AND SKIN DISORDERS
Rheumatic Complaints, Eczema,
Rashes, Boils, Ulcers and Sores
s
CLARKES
BLOOD MIXTURE
Of all Chemists & Stores
A.void all Imitations
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICAis a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
r l
S=»=
l
I
lb
■v.
EBV
52=
3fe
And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICE 2d.
I squeezed her hand as I said good-bye,
understanding her feelings exactly.
They were astonishingly good meetings
■ -‘j’iggar held. He put forward his policy
as it he were selling shares, throwing at his
audiences lumps of political meat; and they
barked approval.
“When you send me into Parliament,”
he declaimed, “a great blow will be struck.
It will be the beginning of the end of the
professional politician.”
That was like Biggar. The crowd cheered.
The newspapers, apart from the little help
I gave him in a friendly spirit, took no
notice of him. That did not worry Biggar,
whose optimism remained unshaken: but, as
usual, there was a fly in the ointment.
“That brute Cowley,” he said, “doles out
money as if it was his own. It’s not. The
money raised by the committee is my money.”
“Perhaps they don’t like you spending it
outside the electorate,” I suggested as he
planked down the cash for another drink.
“You’ve got to spend money to make
money.” (Biggar was full of phrases like
that.) “Cowley turned me down, so I came
in to see Peterson, who I know is backing
my campaign. All I could get out of him
was a quid, as a personal loan. A quid goes
nowhere. If”
“I’m darned liard-up to-day,” I said
quickly. “I certainly haven’t a quid my-
self.”
He gave one of his roaring laughs. “I’m
not trying to tap you. But Cowley hasn’t
paid the bill for our removing into the elec-
torate yet. Apart from that, the printer and
signwriter were both after me about their
accounts this morning. Of course, if the
committee doesn’t pay them —and it looks
fishy—l’ll be able to square things off easily
enough when I’m in Parliament. I told
them so.”
“Well, good-bye, Biggar, M.L.A.,” I said
to him as we parted. “I’ll be along to see
you before the elections.”
Langley. invited me to stay at his place,
which is in the electorate, for a couple of
days. I went down with him. It was the
eve of the poll.
“Biggar’s a good chap, in spite of his
peculiarities,” I said.
“I’ll probably give him a vote,” replied
Langley.
After dinner we strolled down to meet
Biggar, and afterwards we attended his
main rally.
Heckling started almost at once. Biggar
had spouted the phrase “The chains must
be broken from the arms of private enter-
prise,” when a voice shouted, “How about
an anti-depression pill?” The yell of delight
showed that. this reference to a commercial
exploit of Biggar with a quack remedy was
understood.
“Put me into Parliament and I will show
you that lam an anti-depression pill!” re-
torted Biggar readily. He got a burst of
applause for that; but he was soon flounder-
ing in deep water as he attempted replies to
thrusts he should have ignored. Evidently
patient investigators had been delving into
his history. The joy with which questions
regarding his unpaid debts were reecived
showed that the information collected had
been carefully spread.
I felt sorry for Biggar. standing, red-faced
and floundering, before his big sign, “Vote
for Biggar and Better Times.” He was having
the worst time he had ever had. He cer-
tainly retrieved himself when an egg bounced
against his chest. “That egg is as rotten
as my opponents’ arguments!” he roared.
I remembered having told him the story of
that retort made by George Reid in
similar circumstances. He had recalled it
opportunely, although he lacked the George
Reid manner.
There was more to come. When Biggar
had finished, amid a howling uproar, a man
started to his feet with a bawled “Ques-
tion !” which secured a momentary quietness.
“When are you going to pay the grocer’s bill
you left at Jonesville?” demanded the ques-
tioner. There was further pandemonium.
Sorry as I was for Biggar, there was one
for whom I felt more pity. I found her in
the deserted committee-room in tears. I had
noticed her earlier in the crowd struggling
for a hearing against the interjectors, which
had only added to the confusion.
“When they asked Tom if he had left
off beating his wife,” she sobbed indignantly,
“I wanted to get up and tell them what
liars they were. Tom has never been any-
thing but a kind, dear husband to me, aiid
it’s a criminal shame that just because
there’s an election they should say such
things. I can’t understand why Tom didn’t
say about that bread bill that he’d given
the baker a cheque.”
I understood. A stony-hearted banker
had returned it.
Poor Mrs. Biggar, thrown from her £4
per week felicity into this ! It was a relief
when her husband arrived, red-faced but not
cast down.
“The scurrilous vermin!” he cried. “But
they’ve overreached themselves. Their
attacks will only awaken sympathy for me.
I’m certain of that. I had a good chance
before, and now I’m a certainty. Cheer up.
old girl!” he added. “To-morrow night we’ll
have a victory.”
I turned out next day to do what I
could, and Langley offered his car. The
polling was as dull as polling usually is.
Biggar blew about, in and out his committee-
rooms and around the polling-booths. He
had started the day in an angry mood when
he discovered that his “How to Vote” cards
directed his supporters to give their second
vote to the Labor man, putting Pompard
last. However, he had got over that an-
noyance. He had got over the closing of
the hotels also, and he was confidence in-
carnate wherever he appeared.
“I lent Biggar a quid,” Langley told me
in the afternoon. “He said he had run
short of change and wanted to get some beer
for the committeemen. He’s all right, isn’t
he?”
“Oh, yes, lie’s all right,” I said hurriedly.
“You don’t seem too certain about it,”
said Langley darkly.
I hoped that he had voted, for Langley
is a man who can forgive anything but being
taken down.
I walked down to the headquarters com-
mittee-room about two hours after the poll
had closed to find out how the count was
going. The result for the centre of the elec-
torate, where Biggar had reckoned upon an
overwhelming victory, should al least .be
illuminating. The whole Biggar family was
present. Young Tom Biggar was repeating
as he held the telephone: “Pompard, 4-5-3-G.
Yes, 4-5-3-G. Lavery, 4-1-0-9. Yes. Biggar
.... Hey, what’s that? What? Biggar,
1-5-9. What? Only 159!”
It seemed ridiculous, a farcical ending of
all the hopes, to say nothing of the sacrifice
of the £4 p.w. job that had made poor Mrs.
Biggar happy.
Biggar flopped into a chair as if stunned.
My “Hard luck, Tom!” seemed to be a
futile comfort. It was Mrs. Biggar who
relieved the tension. There was a light in
her face that might have been relief. I
think she was relieved, yet sorry for the dis-
appointment and humiliation that was in
every line of Tom’s face and drooping figure.
She put her arms over his shoulders.
“Never mind, Tom; we are together any-
way. We will try again”---
“Never again,” said Tom. “I’ve finished
with politics.”
It startled me when he sprang to his feet
suddenly. “Pompard !” he exclaimed. There
was a note of fury in his voice.
Pompard came in with hand extended.
“It’s the hand of friendship, Tom,” he said.
“You behaved like a sport. I expected you
to hit back last night, but you didn’t. You
fought clean.”
He had said the right thing to relieve
Biggar’s worst emotion, his humiliation. The
fury passed from the defeated man’s face,
and he took the extended hand.
“My scrutineers,” said Pompard, “tell me
that you took Labor votes almost entirely.”
“That’s what I intended to do,” said
Biggar.
“It was not what you were intended to
do,” said Pompard drily. He looked round
at us and then, deciding that we were all
friends, went on: “I owe you something,
Tom. They tell me that there’s been a little
trouble in your committee about funds. Well,
there’s a cheque waiting any time you want
it for what you need, to put you straight.”
He went on hurriedly to avoid thanks.
“Meet me at the Seaside Sites office about
your old job on Monday. You were a very
capable man, and there’s no reason
Shall we say half-past nine?”
I saw the shine of gladness spread over
Mrs. Biggar’s face. Biggar himself seemed
rather stumped.
“There’s a drop of whisky in the bottle
in the car,” said Pompard.
Biggar was himself aaain. “Good for you.
Pompard!” he cried. “Bring it in and we’ll
drink to the winner.”
After These Years.
I did not think that I should come again
To this dark valley, where the narrow sky
Glows palely with strange light; where
waters cry
In hidden depths ; nox% coming here, that I
Should .seek that troubled loveliness again.
I stretched my hands to you and you were
there,
White in the shadows; a remembered grace
Like starlight in the shadows was your face.
You had returned to me; in that dark place
You were again to me as once you were.
I stretched my hands; but you had gone
from there.
I was alone, alone in the dark night;
I had come back alone through the lost
years,
Remembering those olden hopes and fears,
Youth’s love and youth’s strange vision and
youth’s tears.
I was alone, yet saw like a pale light
Your wan face through the deepening, dark
night.
And once again I cried that you were come,
And thought you answered; but again you
fled.
I heard your heart beat; through long
seasons dead
I heard your heart beat. Then I turned to
tread
The path from the dark valley, wearisome,
Turned backwards to the plain. You had
not come.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
The Street of Doctors.
Tall colored jars in windows high;
A skull upon a pedestal; a frog,
Pale bellied, in a tube; a string of herbs
Swaying against a spider-haunted wall;
Red pills, and bright-green powders; a glass
ball
Catching the light upon a velvet stand;
A feather pen stuck sideways in the ink;
An hour-glass of bright Saharan sand;
An evil-looking knife; the Mage himself
With great bald brow and horn-rimmed
spectacles,
A tall, thin, wizened man in cloak of black,
With satin smalls, and a high shabby hat,
With buckled shoon, and long, thin yellow
hands—
The grave apothecary of the town. I passed
him by,
And in a narrow lane that smelled of cats,
And sea, and fish, and tea and opium
I found the Chinese doctor. Pie sat still
As any Buddha on a woven mat.
The color of the silks of Shemakhan :
His robe was orange, and embroidered with
A jade-gay dragon, breathing yellow fire;
His heelless slippei’s were brocaded silk.
His eyes were black and hard as diorite;
He made me think of a tarantula
That hangs upon a thread and slyly waits
An easy victim; erimson paper prayers
Fluttered above a tray of purple beans;
There was a whiff of incense, where a joss
Gloomed in the shadow of a lacquer
screen....
Yet I passed both these wise physicians by,
Because I knew that neither pill nor prayer
Could heal the hurt Life left within my
heart.
QUEENSLAND
M. FORREST.


Livelihood Social Life ——Other Interests and Activities
E> ELMANISM trains men and women
to make the most of their abilities
and energies and to infuse every action
with the spirit of success.
Livelihood
Thanks to Pelmanism, I have instituted a
system into the harvesting which worked out
without a hitch, and have taken off a record
crop with less expense per ton, and in a
shorter time than ever I have before.— Horti-
culturist.
Last week I took the chair at the annual
meeting of the Medical Association, and
attribute confidence in myself to Lesson 4
of your Course.— Medical Practitioner.
It may interest you to know that my figures
for the first quarter this year show an increase
of 30 per cent. — Commercial Traveller.
I am conscious of much greater freedom
in preachings—also of fertility of ideas. Last
Sunday I preached four times to different con-
gregations on practically the same subject with
scarcely any repetition.-— Clergyman.
' I feel physically and mentally alive and
ready for my day’s work. I can find interest
in it now, when I was beginning to think I
had made a mistake.— Engineer.
Social Life
.... Considerable progress in my conversa-
tional efforts, which are now a pleasure and
relaxation, instead of an embarrassment. —
Assessor.
Whilst visiting many large centres and inter-
viewing numbers of business and professional
men, I have found repeatedly coming to my
aid the benefits of the Pelman Course.— Doctor.
Keener interest in life and improved greatly
in Self-confidence; Personality and Memory.
Conducting my social life confidently and
more efficiently— Clerk.
I took up the Course with main object of
overcoming a reserved nature, which precluded
me from taking part in discussions of policy
and in debates. I have achieved this object.
Also, I find myself rapidly acquiring a larger
circle of friends/— Farmer.
The Lesson on Personality is splendid; all
fears are gone, and I now enjoy my social life.
— Farmer.
Other Activities
Last month I won a Flying Scholarship for
which there were 216 entrants. I thank Pel-
manism for this success, chiefly because of
the wonderful manner in which it has increased
my self-confidence.— Clerk.
I have something to show for the Pelmar
Training. I have just won the State 25-mile
Professional Cycling Championship. The
Course, by increasing my confidence, certainly
helped me to gain this title.— Cycle Assembler.
My main object (the desire to overcome the
impediment in my speech) in taking up the
Course has been attained.— Sheep Farmer.
I am amazed at the manner in which these
printed Lessons time and again hit upon, and
deal with, what I have always considered as
my. own personal and particular problems.—
Engineer.
You are sure to be interested in at least
one of tbe people who, in “The Efficient Mind,”
speak highly of Pelmanism from practical ex-
perience. It may be a prominent personality
who has captured your imagination, or it may
be a neighbor who has earned your respect. Get
a copy of “The Efficient Mind” now—write at
once.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it
20 or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are 12 lessons in the Course. It is
intensely interesting, and the results begin to
chow within a week. It is taught by post.
PELMANISM
A Practical Training
in Achievement
PELMANISM helps men and women in their calling, in social life,
in sport and in all their activities. It deals with practical things.
It is the practical aspect of Pelmanism that makes it so interesting,
and so quickly effective. Each exercise has, as its object, training in
one direction or another. In most of them the student is shown how
to apply the exercise to his own particular work. Thus, whilst
stimulating and developing a faculty for general purposes, he is in-
creasing his efficiency in the work he is actually doing.
In the very first instruction paper progress in clearly defined directions is apparent. In this
first paper the student is also given advice on such of his problems and difficulties as can
be immediately dealt with. The two things, his sense of personal achievement and the
exhibited ability and willingness of his instructor to help him, greatly stimulate his initial
eagerness, and he pushes on to get the full benefit.
These two factors, definite progress on the part of the stydent and capacity on the
part of his instructor, characterise every one of the Pelman lessons. They make the
association a happy and productive one. The student s mental abilities, whether already
active and employed or dormant and awaiting development, are progressively exercised.
His personal qualities are strengthened so that he is able to make full use of his abilities and
direct them without loss of energy into the channels most likely to advance the object he
has in view. Amongst the abilities and qualities which are immediately exercised and
strengthened by the Pelman Course of Training are:
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
and a Reliable Memory.
Self-Confidence
Originality
The results of the Pelman Training are seen in the Pelmanist’s every activity. In his
calling, in his social life, in all his interests Pelmanism increases his force as an individual,
makes him stronger in purpose, more direct in thought, sounder in judgment, quicker in
decision and more confident and successful in action.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” j 6 pages,
post free. You can write us fully, or you can ma\e just a hare
application by using or copying the form below. In any case, your
inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the Scientific Development of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane (Corner of Market Street),
Melbourne, C.l.
The Headquarters oj
the Telman Institute
are in London. There
are branches through-
out the world.
650,000
World Pelmanists.
31,000
Australian and New
Zealand Pelmanists.
•Ava-oi
puc ‘XdOO MO ‘xno
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Eane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it, I incur no
obligation.
Name . .......
Postal Address' ............. .......
354
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
FICTION:— Postage
PAGEANT
By G. B. Lancaster. 6s. 6d. (4d.)
BRING THE MONKEY
By Miles Franklin. 6s. (2d.)
“SATURDEE”
By Norman Lindsay. 6s. (3d.)
JONAH
By Louis Stone. 6s. (3d.)
STORIES BY “KODAK”
Illustrated by Low. ss. (3d.)
GENERAL: — Postage
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT
By A. B. Paterson, illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay,
2nd edition. 2s. 6d. (2d.)
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD
By Ambrose Pratt.
Illustrated. ss. (2d.)
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY
By Charles Chauvel.
Illustrated. 6s. (3d.)
A MESSAGE FROM “EAWRA”
By Harold Sims. 32pp. Is. (Id.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE
By Ena Burrows. Revised
Scoring. 2s. (Id.)
All Booksellers and Newsagents j or direct from all Offices.
,o^
o' - a v
* ■
%y% z°/V
VC e%
P" o<LnS* V
*«
<^ e
h
\P
0
o
0°
e
6 e ;v e?
~ s
*><v* ,•
a,/#
W e
C-^ov^'
•O' .< . A’O 0
vv> ,i$> 1 ’
s5 v r
\,° v
V


ft
<&
s
\n
Ws.
£
A
i
rr
¥
m
It
3§V
7/
J~
I*
m
oP
s
**
f
©
1
sa
°lm
PUDDING
e
PROOF
oik
is in
PROOFS GOOD BATTERY
is in the usin6/
Vesta Battery Company is proud to announce that i©f the
All these Govt. Depts. use
Vesta Batteries:
Police Dept.
Public Works.
Water & Sewerage Board.
Irrigation Commission.
Main Roads Board.
Harbour Trust.
Education Dept.
Federal Capital Commission
Dept, of Transport.
Etc., etc., etc.
4th YEAR
Vesta Batteries have been selected for the use of all
N.S.W. Government Departments—sufficient
proof of VESTA SUPERIORITY
QUALITY BATTERIES
Central Distributors for Vesta Batteries:
AUSTRALIA
New South Wales . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.) Ltd., Leichhardt.
Victoria Rhodes Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Queensland . . . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.) Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia . . Motors Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmania . . . .. W. &G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
ê
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST
Malaya—Phillipine Islands . . Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore).
Hong Kong and Southern China Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong).
Dutch East Indies
(Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia).
Fiji Islands Morris Hedstrom Ltd., Suva.
Marlowes Ltd., Suva.
New Guinea Burns Philp & Co. Ltd- (Rabaul).
Papua Burns Philp & Co. itd. (Port Moresby).
Samoa . . Burns Philp (South Seas) Co. Ltd.
New Caledonia . . . . • • Maison Barrau (Noumea). .
New Hebrides Maison Barrau (Port Sandwich).
Norfolk Island G. S. Watt, Mokutu.
V 122.
VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
