

m./s : •
/■M
M
n
m
m
/ J
m
S
m
i-5®
Me
;
'-•x ■
vj
■
'■"V."
-I,;
■
li
***"!
MS
m
.
> •
v ■; .
RADIO ADOPTS THE
GOLD STANDARD
e
GOLDEN
RANGE
The Bulletin
nnsY MswcA, ft!s
VoL 54*—No. 2770.
Wednesday, March 15, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
n>
iCUwI
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Soohlet. explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bui.letix.
My Name
M- ■ I'/dress .!!!!
S B. 133
Cuticura
SOAP, OINTMENT AND
TALCUM POWDER
QMLpiLJcui
Clear and Healths
Cuticura Soap cleanses the
skin Cuticura Ointment
soothes and heals blemishes, rashes,
and pimples Cuticura Tal-
cum gives the skin a pleasing fra-
grance and leaves it refreshed and
cool. Begin now to use Cuticura
Preparations regularly.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian- Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast, of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine' news value.
Price 1 id. per. copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually,
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising- Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Tta&vie S&C&ruze ,
‘j?£<rt£ Si&xieJ, StZupe
& S&teer t ?KrCe4, ra&eZ fo%
t&e *
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The-
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)—
an industrial company,
doing business with work-
ing people—had an im-
portant message for those
people. How should they
make it known? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the homes
you visit?” The reply was
unanimous—•
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher —85007,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Iteading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE ...... 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
w7hat a market-
è
for the manufacturer is presented in
a hig centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane's Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so % with
you ?
LEADS
THE
WAY
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
America and the Depression
Here are two novels which show better
than any number of Blue Books why the
TJ.S.A. is having a worse time than
Britain. The democratic ideal on which
the Declaration of Independence was
founded seems to be largely responsible.
The theory that all men are equal works
fairly well in times of prosperity. When one
manual worker in five can run a car, and
one in three a wireless set, gramophone or
player-piano, and when half the population
can go to the pictures once a week or
oftener, there is at least an illusion of
equality. The illusion is heightened by the
absence of a titular aristocracy and the
prevalence of democratic manners. No one
is deferred to in ordinary social intercourse,
not even a millionaire. One result of the
wage-earners’ determination to enjoy the
luxuries of their employers, or colorable
imitations thereof, is that most of the
nation’s big businesses become dependent
cn the small incomes. In the U.S.A. the
motor-car and film industries were the firsi
to feel the breeze of unemployment. In a
country where one man is assumed to be as
good as another it follows that the Govern-
ment doesn’t feel impelled to legislate for
those who may demonstrate' at some future
time that the basis of the nation’s political
creed is rubbish. So the U.S.A. has no
unemployment insurance or dole. It is
awkward to be without money at any time,
more so when you have had plenty in the
past, and intolerable in conj unction with the
spectacle of people who, though no better
than yourself, are rolling in it. Hence
the appalling crimes—kidnappings, tortur-
ings and murders—that have been com-
mitted in the U.S.A. recently by democrats
who were determined to have money.
Workers
The dust-jacket of Catherine Brody’s
Nobody Starves (Collins; 7s. 6d.) claims
that the book “comes before the British
public already stamped with the success of
its American career”; and its accuracy as a
study of contemporary life in the U.S.A. is
vouched for by Sinclair Lewis and Upton Sin-
clair. The subject is the effect of the slump on
a worker and his wife. Molly, who has been
employed in a tile-making factory, marries.
Bill when he gets a job in a Detroit auto-
mobile works. She complains that she
never gets out of the house except to go
to the market. “No,” he retorts bitterly.
“You don’t get out of this house except to
go to a movie every afternoon.” The inevit-
able question of a car crops up.
“We could use the garage next door.”
Molly pointed out. “They won’t charge
hardly anything, I know.”
"Oh yeah? It’s around thirty a month on
a roadster 'and there’s the down payment
and gasoline and garage.”
“But look at what we’re saving on rent!
Oh, Bill, would you get a new car?”
“Well —why. you want a used one?”
“Oh, Bill, a new car! I’d like to show
them and their old rattletrap they're so
stingy with ! Ah, let’s get it before Ann
comes.”
Bill is laid off, their savings vanish, Molly
goes after a job. From now on the reader
is made to feel the anguish of those who
go in dread of the sack.
Sometimes Molly longed for the receipt
of that piece of white paper—the release
slip—as a condemned man must sometimes
long to be instantly shot. Blessed relief of
the white slip! Blessed momentary out-
pouring of all one’s suspense in regard to it!
She and Bill are practically on the bread-
line, but she has a few dollars in a bank.
One day he brings home the news that the
bank has closed. Their big row comes after
she has told him she is going to have a
child. They separate, and come together
again, but by this time they are both
hopeless. They know in their souls that,
there will never again be regular work,
and food and warmth and cars and movies
and freedom from unbearable. anxiety, for
them. Bill remembers Mr. Lemond’s rifle.
It did not appear to him as an instrument
of death, but as an instrument of great
relief for both of them (for he had no selfish
idea of relief for himself with Molly left
to suffer) ; something like an axe. only' much
quicker to hew the way out of the woods.
He shoots Molly, fails to summon up
courage to kill himself, and is led off to
gaol as a comic parade of business men on
holiday (“red Oriental fezzes atop flashing
spectacles”) passes with a coffin containing
the body of Old Man Depression.
Employers
The Ring of Eyes, by Hulbert Footner
(Collins; 7s. 6d.), gives a picture of life in
a different stratum,
and there is no
need for anyone to
endorse its accu-
racy. All the fan-
tastic events which
it describes the
detailing of special policemen to protect a
millionaire from his enemies, the kidnap-
ping of the millionaire, the wholesale shoot-
ings—have been dealt with in New York
cables during the past few months. The
menaced plutocrat is J. M. Lawrence —•
“J.M.” to his intimates; “the lion of Wall
Street; the real ruler of America.” There
is significance in the familiarity with which
he is treated by the young policeman who
gets the coveted job of looking after him.
“Aw; cheese it, J.M. You make me feel
foolish,” says Dan coyly when the great
man praises him. So should one upstanding
he-man address another in a republic which
has jettisoned the social Superstitions of
the Old World, but it makes for indiscipline.
It is an implied denial that the. possessor
of the enormous powers conferred by un-
limited wealth has a moral l’ight to them.
Actually, J.M. is a vulgar, posturing, undig-
nified old illiterate who in a wisely-run
community wouldn’t be allowed to domineer
over a troop of Scouts. His hobbies con-
sist in collecting faience—to spite a rival
magnate—and supporting Christie > Lauder-
dale (“the big chief’s girl”). His million-
aire friends—Barnes, the art-collector; Bed-
dington, president of the Nebraska Pacific;
Malata, the shoe king—are equally debased,
mentally and morally. Old Tommy Colfax
used to go to school with J.M. Now
he is a messenger in the great man’s office,
and secretly boiling with resentment at the
thought that one no better than himself
should have gone so far in the world. He
gives information to a gang of thugs which
enables them to kidnap J.M. with the
object of holding him to ransom. The
thugs, who are in the pay of Beddington,
mean to kill J.M. when they get the money,
but owing to the heroism and resource of
Dan he escapes. The story, though devoid
of literary merit, does much to explain
occurrences like the Boettcher kidnap-
ping case; the collapse of 50 to 60 per
cent, of American banks and trust com-
panies and the simultaneous investigation
by the Senate of an allegation that a bank
chairman had lent certain Senate officials
2,900,000 dollars without security. The book
is a natural complement to “Nobody
Starves,” and between them they pro-
vide a severe indictment of democratic
government as it has developed in the
country which claims to be the home of
democracy.
RED PAGE.
A Comic Masterpiece
Saturdee (Endeavour Press; 65.) is
Norman Lindsay, a humorist of genius, at
his best. Mark Twain himself never re-
captured the idioms of his childhood so
completely, and no one has penetrated so
far into certain murky recesses of the small
boy’s soul. Snowey Critchet is a bril-
liantly-observed character; one of those
half-loony lads who can be defied into
having a go at almost anything. This trait
caused him to try to leap Mender’s duck-
pond—lB feet across —and led to the affair
of Stumpy Bodgers. Snowey’s pea-rifle was
his chief claim to notice. He was aiming it
dreamily at the distant form of dreaded
Butcher Crowley, while his companions dis-
cussed the penalties of murder.
All that while in a pleasant sadistic trance Snowey
was sighting Butcher Crowley: Said Bulljo to him,
as enjoying, a little sadism at second hand, “Got him
on, Snow?” -f
“Got him on dead-level,” said Snowey.
“Bet ver can’t hit him, Snow.”
Crack / A scream went up as an enemy went down.
All escape but Oswald.
Snowey, it seemed, had bagged the wrong enemy ;
a short, stout lad who had taken his wound in a
section of his anatomy which debarred him from a
clinical investigation of it, and therefore made its
alarms unbearable.
“Yer in for it now, murderin’ Stumpy Bodgers;
he’s gain’ to put the police on yer!” roared Butcher
Crowley.
“I never done it,” quavered Oswald. “Strike me
breath I never”
“Yer did. It’s proved Stumpy’s got a bullet in
him might kill him stone-dead this very identical
minute.”
.Stumpy let out a piercing scream at this horrifying
diagnosis, leaping in circles to try and look around
at himself.
“It’s fair into me; how far in is it?” he yelled.
“It’s fail' into yer,” yelled the minions.
The vanities, exultations and frantic rages
of small boys are ruthlessly depicted. Dolly
with considerable difficulty lures Peter into
kissing her.
It exploded such a sense of power and achievement
in him that he let out a shrill 3'odel and hopped
round in a sitting posture on one leg, which is a very
difficult and graceful feat, and allowed him to bump
down beside Golly and ravish another dab from her.
“Ooringulay. coringulah, what, price me the bloke
for havin’ a sit?” chanted Peter, enraptured at the
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—The Morality of Commercialism. "THE SENIOR STORE."
Everything for the man on the land
and the home gardener
\
.'■•A
, ■■'n,
■ <****.
u
Swwj
• • iH*
■%
w:,h.
€
M ' .
.s «,
r\
*
P
tm
] W?
r s
«* # v
mm
v,
tfi
$
m
S
t •'.••;» JV . .. „
mo&m.
T-v •.
./ |r -.
V MMz&fciZ? f-%
Shanks’s Celebrated Lawn Mowers
for which we are Sole Agents.
£
8
/
K
Anthony Horderns’ are the
sole agents in New South
Wales for Shanks’s famous
Lawn Mowers. These Mowers
are guaranteed with the same
confidence which we place in
goods made in our own
factory.
m
The “Caledonia” Mower
Shanks’s “Caledonia” Lawn Mowers are ideal
for Tennis Courts and Golf Greens. The “Cale-
donia” Mower has a great reputation, and for
all-round work is especially used by gardeners.
The “Caledonia” illustrated is fitted with a
chain drive, which is of the roller type of
best cycle pattern. It is light and strong.
Sizes 1 Oin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Lip Blade £B/10/- £9/10/-
Close Cut £l2 £l6/10/-
The “Ivanhoe” Mower
Shanks’s “Ivanhoe” Lawn Mower. The cutter is
fitted with eight blades. Ball-bearings are fitted on
each end of the shaft. The wheel-gearing runs in a
dust-proof oil bath. To oil the wheel-gearing a
small hinged cover is provide*} on the gear-ease,
ready for access. The bail-bearingS on the cutter
shaft only require to be filled with grease every
few months. The main roller shaft contains a
lubricated oil reservoir.
Sizes 12in. Min.
Prices £l4 £l6
The “Qualcast” Mower
£2/10/6
The “Qualcast” Self-sharpening Model “H
Bronze and Ball-bearing Lawn Mower. The
“Qualcast” is made in Australia and is guaran-
teed for three years.
Ball-bearing. Bronze-bearing.
Sizes 1 Oin. 12in. Min. 12in. Min.
Prices 50/6 53/6 56/6 46/6 49/6
The “New Sprite” Mower
£4/17/6
The “New Sprite” Ball-bearing Mower is fitted
with 5 blades of finest crucible tooth steel, oil-
tempered, shear-cutting and self-sharpening.
The ball-bearing parts are of the highest grade,
and self-adjusting drive wheels 10 Jin. in
diameter. 12in. Price, each 97/6
The “Uni” Garden Seat
29/6
The “Uni” Garden Seat is made in good-quality pine.
Has 1 7 two-inch battens. Strongly made in two useful
sizes, 4ft. and 6ft.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 4ft. 29/6, 6ft. 35/-
“Brickfield” Garden Seat, similar to “Uni."
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each, 4ft. 19/6, 6ft. 22/6
JKLJKL
Obtainable at
“ Famous Low Prices ”
For generations, gardeners have been
patronising Anthc/iy Horderns’ for every-
thing. They have learnt that the goods they
receive will give long service and they will
be well satisfied. We can, with confidence,
recommend every one of the items listed on
this page to give the best service possible.
Indispensable in
any Garden!
e
The'Handy”
Sprinkler
The “Handy” Fountain
Sprinkler. Brass. Throws
water to front and sides,
giving a beautiful foun-
tain spray.
Anthony
Horderns’
l’rice, each
1/6
e
“Rain King”
The Standard “Rain
King’’ Garden or Lawn
Sprinkler is equipped
with adjustable nozzle
which can be regulated
to any desired form of
spray, movable
or stationary.
I*rice
11/6
The "Wizard Wonder” Spray
The “Wizard” Wonder Spray makes a hose
obsolete. Can be adjusted a:
solid jet 1 to the finest mist;
out of order. Price, each
3 desired, from
nothing to get
6/6
The “Cay” Rotary Sprinkler
The “Gay” Rotary Sprinkler is the leading all-
Australian rainmaker. For use on spray irrigation
plants and bowling greens, cricket ovals, golf
links, racecourses, tennis courts, croquet lawns,
grass paddocks, flower beds, etc.
No. 0, waters 20 to 30 ft. diam. Price, ea., 18/6
No. 1, waters 30 to 40 ft. diam. Price, ea., 307-
No 2, waters 35 to 50 ft. diam. Price, ea., 50/-
No. 3, waters 45 to 66 ft. diam. Price, ea., 70/-
No. 4, waters 60 to 80 ft. diam. Price., ea., 105/-
29/6
Galvanised Iron Barrows
Galvanised Iron Barrows. Capacity 3 cubic feet.
With pipe frame. Price, each, 29/6. Ladies'
Barrows. Price, each, 21/6. Wood Garden Bar-
rows, movable sides. Price, each, 35/-. Field
Barrows, movable sides. Price, each, 54/-.
Manure Barrows, movable sides. Price, each, 57/6
Steel Concrete Barrows. Capacity 3 cubic feet.
Finished with pipe frame.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 29/6
GARDEN HOSE
“Uni” 3-ply Wrapped
Hose, sold complete
with fittings for plain
or screw top and
nozzle. 30ft. Black.
Price, 15/-
30ft. Red. Price, 16/3
è
“Hordura” 2-ply Red Moulded Hose.
Prices, per foot £in. 9d., fin. 10|d.
Dunlop 3-ply Garden Hose.
Prices, per foot jjin. Bj|d., fin. 10|d.
Oceanic 3-ply Garden Hose.
Prices, per foot |in. 7£d., fin. 9£d.
Wearite Garden Hose. Price, per foot, fin. 7d.
All types of Hose Fittings are stocked.
(Agricultural and Garden Implements—Fourth Floor.
Free delivery city and suburbs only.)
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


HIGHER QUALITY
LONGER WEAR~|
PATHFINDER
now built into
PATHFINDER
TYRES FOR CARS
These List Prices Do Not Include Commonwealth Sales Tax
but no increase in the
e
Day after day, year after year, Goodyear
engineers test and experiment in a never-
ceasing effort to improve the quality and
value of Goodyear products.
So, to-day, the quality of the Pathfinder
tyre, by Goodyear, has been materially
improved ... it has been made longer-
wearing ... its carcass of Supertwist Cord
has been strengthened . . . but it still sells
at the same low prices you see here.
Don't take chances with old, worn tyres
that threaten skids and blowouts, when
such high quality as to-day's Pathfinder can
be obtained at such low prices.
Visit your nearest Goodyear Dealer and
examine the improved Pathfinder tyres.
They are big, husky, and thick of tread, and
they are made of Supertwist Cord obtain-
able only in tyres by Goodyear.
jttthfinder
MADE IN AUSTft A L I A
1
B
*
m


I WANT YOU NEXT!
ALFRED J. HBITON, Australasia's Leading;
Physical Director. Founder of “Health and
Physical Culture” Magazine.
I’LL MAKE YOU FEEL ALIVE!
I’ll give you a new and wonderful THRILL. I’ll put
glorious new LIFE into every cell, nerve and organ of
your body. . Man, things happen when I start working
on that body of yours. And they happen FAST. Floods
of vitality surge through you, your vital organs tune up,
and start hitting on all six; your muscles begin to
GROW. In 30 days you’re a changed man. You feel
better and look better than you ever did in your life.
Your body has been completely rebuilt —you’ll wonder
where those big, beautifully proportioned muscles came
from.
Another MIRACLE IN MUSCLE. Yes, and this time
it’s YOU. Just give me a few minutes a day in your
own home —and watch yourself.
I DON’T PROMISE ANYTHING
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid muscle on
your arms, to increase your chest five inches, to develop
your neck to a size larger collar, to add three inches
of powerful development, to your thighs, two inches to
your calves ; to give you a firm, slim waist-line that will
make you take in a notch or two in your belt. And I
don’t ask you to take my word for it —I don’t promise
anything—l back every statement with an iron-clad
GUARANTEE. I’ve done all this for others; I can
do it for you. Get the PROOF —send for my amazing
new book —now, it’s FREE.
New Sensational Extraordi-
nary! The greatest demonstra-
tion of muscle-building known
to the world of physical culture.
YOU can be next. Almost over-
night I’ll transform you into a
marvel of muscular power—give
you astounding new health,
strength and vitality. Read how!
MIIRACLES IN MUSCLE.
You hear everybody talking about them.
Physical culture authorities are amazed.
Think of. it. Men transformed —almost
overnight. Puny, sickly weaklings trans.
formed *into superb specimens of MAN-
HOOD. Strong men made STRONGER.
This astounding new method works its
wonders for ALL—young or old, sick or
well. Incredible? Yes; but this is an
age of marvels.
We speed across continents by aeroplane,
where once we plodded by stage coach.
We talk through the air by radio, where
once we depended upon slow-footed
couriers. And now BRITON brings to
physical culture the greatest advance of
the century.
B'RITON, the pioneer—the first in the
field —to-day, as always, is 'years ahead
of his time. ’ Briton training—the origi-
nal, the genuine, the system that has
built the world’s great strong men —still
sets the pace—startling new developments
make it the most modern system of body-
building in the world.
Ordinary systems become as old-fashioned
as the one-horse shay in comparison.
Briton training accomplishes almost over-
night what other systems can never ac-
complish in months and years.
80,000 PEOPLE HAVE READ
THIS AMAZING BOOK!
GET YOURS FREE!
I don’t ask you one penny for this great book, the book that has changed the lives of hundreds
of fellows. It’s the finest piece of reading you ever set eyes on. I swear you’ll never blink an eyelash
until you turn the last page. It’s crammed full of pictures of athletes who have taken the course,
pictures of myself; it’ll put that much kick into .you you’ll feel like a mule—if it doesn’t, you’d
better roll over —you’re dead. Come on, then, take out the old pen or pencil and sign your name and
address on the coupon. But get to it. Do it NOW. To-morrow you may forget. Remember, it’s
something for nothing, and no strings attached, no obligation. Grab it!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept., L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE, a copy of your
latest bodk, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—And How to
Acquire it.’'
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
B. 15/3/’33.
m
brilliance of his performance. “By jings, I never
knew it was such bonzer fun bein’ engaged.”
.. . .Peter put his arm round her and had another
explosion of conceit at his mastery of woodland
dalliance.
“Fun o’ the world, ain’t it?” he said. “By jings,
I’m on for bein’ engaged; I’m on for havin’ a sit
a million thousan’ times. Some blokes wouldn’t,
but by cripes I would. Some blokes ’ud funk it.
I’d like to see Bulljo try an’ have a sit with girls ;
by cripes, I bet he’d run like anything.”
How different are his emotions when the
teacher lets him off an expected hiding, and
he irrationally bursts into tears before the
whole school.
In a swirl of leering peering faces he snatched the
door open and pelted through it... .
So men run who would escape the intolerable
spectacle of themselves ; so the damned run, bearing
damnation with them. So ran Peter straight over
the allotment fence, and there in his lantana lair east
himself down to wallow in an abasement to all (he
furies. He rolled and kicked and beat the ground
and tore up grass and bit his wrists and banged his
skull and then leaped up to pelt himself again at
earth, to roll and kick and tear and bite and bang
with unabated frenzy....
He stretched his ging with such intemperate force
that he snapped its rubbers; he smashed his elder-
berry tube by jumping on it; he hurled alleys away
into the lantana. What use had he for such things
in an existence now worthless and given over to
misanthropy for ever? He was done with life, and
to hell with its disgraces; school, home, Ma, girls.
Henceforth he was an isolate, dwelling on the earth,
but not of it.
Lindsay “writes as the tiger springs,” and
so, while his prose is often as clear and
nervous as in the passage just quoted, it
sometimes contains sentences like “In short
he funked it; and once you set up a mech-
anism of funk it dwindles a perception of
potency in yourself while vastly magnify-
ing it in another.” The other objection to
Saturdee as a work of art is its refusal to
admit that children, the most sentimental
of beings, are swayed by sentiment. “Tom
Sawyer” is a classic largely because it con-
tains no such error in psychology. Peter
and his brothers never melt towards any-
body,—and least of all towards their mother
-—and the little girls are as hard as flint.
They are emotional imbeciles.
J. D.
Magic
For those Red Page readers who wish to
escape from our present perturbations by
the road of magic no better guide can be
recommended than The Tree of Life, by
Israel Regardie (Rider; Robertson and
Mullens; 15s. net). “A common expres-
sion,” says Mr. Regardie, “on the lips of
many is the reiteration that mankind to-
day, with all its ills and aberrations,
flounders blindly in a terrible morass.”
Death-dealing and with octopus-like tentacles of
destruction, this morass clutches him more and more
firmly to its breast, albeit with great subtlety' and
with stealth. Civilisation, curiously enough, modern
civilisation, is its name. The tentacles which are
the unwitting instruments of its catastrophic blows
reach out from the diseased structure, false and loath-
some, of the decaying social system and the set of
values wherein we are involved.
The way out of this admittedly bad state
of affairs is, according to Mr. Regardie, the
rediscovery and proper application of those
principles by which the great theurgists of
the past attained to supreme wisdom. Mr.
Regardie supplies a comprehensive hand-
book on the subject, with rites, spells and
incantations, and exorcisms,, should the
wrong demon respond to the call; plus a
complete set of diagrams, including the
pentagram sigil, the tejas of Vayu, the
circle and triangle, and the hexagram of
Solomon. He does not even disdain the
hesitating efforts of the witch-doctors of
primitive tribes, but he has nothing but
derision for the foolish efforts of some
scientists to bring his ancient art and
mystery into contempt by trying to turn a
she-goat into a youth of surpassing beauty,
an enterprise which he likens unto putting
a kettle of water on the stove without
lighting the gas. He also scorns the efforts
of spiritualists of the Cohan Doyle persu-
sion, whose excursions into his domain he
calls the feckless wanderings of astral
tramps; the portals of the unseen world
will not open to the knockings of these
blundering materialists.
The true magician is a philosopher who
seeks knowledge by community with the
divine essence of things. He prepares him-
self for the enterprise by a lifelong course
of study. A cursory acquaintance with the
subject is likely to lead to the most dis-
astrous results for the reckless practitioner.
For instance, a printer’s or calligraphist’s
error, repeated through the ages, may result
in the user of a spell summoning a lowly
and bad-tempered dogfaced demon when
what he wanted was a beneficent angel of
a higher grade. Even accomplished
magicians may fail through lack of techni-
cal facility. For instance, Mr. Regardie is
unimpressed by Eliphas Levi Zahed, the
eminent French magus, as a practical
magician, because “for one thing his so-
called Evocation of the shade of Appolo-
nius of Tyana eventuated in a complete
paucity of result.” The true magician also
prepares himself by practising austerities,
such as forbidding himself to scratch his
nose. If in the middle of the rites he
performs the forbidden act he must jog his
memory by slashing himself with a knife
on the arm. When the supreme moment
approaches “every sense and every faculty
is deliberately mobilised, and the whole
individual soul of the operator must enter
into the act. Each of the several fumiga-
tions, each minute detail of banishing, in-
vocation and circumambulation is actually
to serve as a reminder of the single purpose
which alone exists for the Magician, a
means both of concentration of his powers
and exaltation.” When the supreme
moment arrives, “every nerve of the body,
every force channel of mind and soul is
strained in one overwhelming spasm of bliss,
one ecstatic overflowing of the Will and the
whole of the being in the predetermined
direction.”
A careful study of The Tree of Life is
obviously prescribed for politicians wishing
to know how to pay off the national debt.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
Oasis, by Francis A. Waterhouse (Samp-
son Low; Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.).
Another yarn about a soldier of the Legion
by one who served in it. Gerald Graham, of
Canada, is the central figure, and his pal
is Buster, an American. The vile Lafrei
nearly gets him convicted of mutiny at a
court-martial, but he achieves the inevit-
able. discharge and nice girl in the end.
Exciting stuff, and many of the incidents
read as if they might have happened.
Bob Stanley is the avenger of Canyon
Rims, by Charles Wesley Sanders (Collins;
7s. 6d.) ; Grace Jordan the girl with whom he
comes to a mutually-agreeable understand-
ing on the last page. In between the assas-
sination of his father and his laconic pro-
posal to Grace, Bob passes through every
peril that the brain of Mr. Sanders can
devise, and always emerges unscathed. There
are no unusual situations, but the familiar
ones are handled with this writer’s custom-
ary skill.
The annual report and balance-sheet of
the Australian Ex Libris Society for the 18
months ended December 3i, 1931, is just
to hand. It must be one of the most re-
markable documents of its kind on record.
The paper and printing are exquisite; there
is a two-color linocut as a frontispiece and
scattered about among such relatively pedes-
trian items as the report of the lion, secre-
tary (P. Neville Barnett) and the address
of the president (John Lane Mullins) are
full-page reproductions of members’ book-
plates. The edition is limited to 250 copies.
. May Edginton’s Holiday (Collins; 7s. 6d.)
another variant on the Cinderella theme.
Gold Franklyn (“Corn-colored hair which
turned into a tossing aureole for her little
white face. How slim she was!”) goes trav-
elling with Mr. Torrance as his secretary, and
Barney Pierce is on board. Now, Gold and
Barney have loved each other practically
right from the first; but owing to various mis-
understandings which are guaranteed to fill
every admirer of Miss Edginton’s art with
anguish, they don’t come together till page
-51. The final explosion of emotionalism
m the course of which Barney, boiling with
unfounded jealousy of Torrance, tears poor
innocent Gold’s frock from her back is as
exciting as anything that this authoress has
done.
The Iff .Z. Frozen Meat Trade, by P S. E
Hereford (N. Z. Publicity Co.; 55.),’ is an
interesting brochure which traces the trade
from its beginnings in the ’seventies to the
present day. Not many know that the world’s
first freezing works were established in
Sydney by T. S. Mort over 70 years ago.
For one reason and another Australia had
to wait 18 years before its first successful
shipment of beef and mutton left Melbourne
for London. The sister Dominion followed
with a shipment in the Dunedin the follow-
ing year. Mr. Hereford’s little book con-
tains detailed information about the ships
and shipping refrigerating companies that
have made the trade what it is in M.L., and
there are many reproductions of photo-
graphs.
And a Little Verse
SUMMER DAY!
Play upon my senses, Summer Day!
Like lute-strings touch them lightly one
by one.
Oh, let my flesh dissolve and melt away
So I can be in every ray of sun ;
So I can pour like music to the air,
And in fierce bliss embrace the everywhere.
So, like a pebble to the water hurled,
I shall, in waves encircling the world,
The freedom and the light of ether know.
And in the same impassioned moment flow
Into the torrent of an ocean wind,
Into the trees held dreaming ’neath thy
spell—
No longer by the walls of space confined,
Nor in suspense held in this earthen cell!
Your warmth I thrill to, Summer Day!
Your jasmine-haunted breath is in the air;
I hear your skylarks—lo! I am away.
I am in everything and everywhere.'
Vic.
KATHLEEN A. JENNER.
THE UNICORN.
This is the very forest where
I saw a woman, breathless, run,
Half in delight and half in fear,
O’er hill and dale towards the sun.
And after her, in hunting mind,
With hoofs of gold and lordly horn,
His tasselled tail spread out behind,
There came a first-year unicorn.
Calmly he went, because he knew
The time and place where he might seize
The panting ladykin who flew
Headlong before him through the trees.
But she, for sudden dread, now turned.
And, seeing him draw faster on,
With pain, instead of pleasure, burned.
While in despair she wished him gone :
Then loudly to the gods exclaimed,
Who, mused with lustrous wines, were glad
To make this unicorn ashamed,
A sign for every sylvan lad.
Wherefore they changed her to an oak,
Which he—intent to have his dear—
Charged down upon ; and at that stroke
Was caught by his own forehead-spear.
And thus young bachelors to-day
Must take example of this case,
Lest, lucklessly, a-hunting, they
Grow victims to the thing they chase.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Answers to Correspondents.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will he tak en of communications insufficiently stamped. Vamt
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Helen O.: We envy you the sight; but
the verse describing it is not up. .. .A. 8.: The naked
streets are too long and meandering... .Carl W.:
Aim for simplicity in word and line. And see if
you can’t get some warmth into your work....
Impo: Nothing to make us remember it.... J.H.J.:
“What is Sin ?” Sorry, the Religious Editor is
away. All we can say in his absence is that the
question makes rather dull prose.... Francis M.: All
but.... Joyce S.: The jogtrot way of it is a heavy
handicap.... Roma D.; You can’t compare them that
way, because the basic wage for the Commonwealth
and for Queensland and S.A. is reckoned as for a
wife and three children. Vic. and Tas. accept the
Commonwealth basis, W.A. reckons on a wife and
two children, N.S.W. on a wife and one child....
R.S.H.: Thank your stars you are a poet and not
a milkman, or you’d, be fined a tenner for watering
it down... . K.J.; Not quite ; but you’re a welcome
visitor—you at least are always yourself... .R.J.N.:
First get your ear tuned. “Morn-lawn,” “dawn-
bom” —we might stand one, but two in so small a
thing are two too many. .. .H.F.8.; Yes, but per-
haps you have never been handy when a caged lion
got loose. We have been... .Wilfrid A.; Far too
long for us... .Haldane: “Dreams” nearly got past
the censor... .U.1.G.: Well done; but you’re on a
timeworn track T. J.M. : “Memory” interred with
a sprig of rue.... Les. P.: Has a good Swinburnian
swing; but it lacks the Swinburnian Are.... John G.:
It has its merits; but it isn’t poetry.... Sarpona:
Of course juries sometimes disagree; but'they don’t
disagree half as often as Judges d 0... . Hugh G.:
“Wisdom” carries a light freight. Vagabond songs
are at a heavy discount.... E.L.C.; Too crudely done.
.. ..S.H.: Where’s the p10t?... .L.P.: Absurd....
A.S.M.:
Despite all the paraphernalia
Of law lords, their aims to be good,
There’s something amiss with Australia,
What is it that’s not understood?
The art of writing readable'jingle, in your case... .
Nemingha: You’ve some facility for rhyming, but
you fail in the narrative department... .5.W.8.:
The facts are that the Commonwealth Bank was
holding gold against notes issued. The Govern-
ment paid for part of the Trans, railway with part
of this gold and substituted 3§ p.c. inscribed stock.
At June 30, 1930, the Commonwealth was still
paying interest on £6,361,911, the cost of the line.
Bellerive: Now for a little sport:—
CELEBRATED RACEHORSES OF THE PAST.
Looking back to old days
Of Flemington Course,
I recall to my memory
Many a victorious horse—-
Patron, Clean Sweep,
Prince Foote and the Grafter,
And galloping wonders
Whom shone out after.
Comedy King, Poseidon,
And the great Carbine,
Among foremost steeds
The best of his time.
Fine horses of yore,
Whom proved their worth
In important events
Of the Australian turf.
. ...V.G.: Type each par. on a separate sheet of
paper... .T.A.W.: You pander too much to the
sentimentalists... .M.S.: Those sweeps have provided
Australian writers with innumerable plots, but few
ever see print. .. .J.M.G.: Old Nick knocked at the
door harder than most... .H.H.R.: The end was
never in doubt... .J.8.T.: Makings of a good yarn
in it. .. .E.M.D.: Don’t like your heavy playfulness.
... .R.K.D.C.: Not paying for “The Woman
Who Pays”... .M.G.F.: Fijian idyll a wash-
out.... W'S. and R.D.G.8.: Not meaty enough.
. ...A.E.: “Grainger Returns”—to y0u....E.8.:
For one thing, you struggle too obviously
to make your rhymes... .E.A;S.; Sweetly sung; but
it hangs on a very thin thread;... J.W.: (1) Thanks.
(2) All a matter of space, whose other name is
money... .D.G.; Much obliged... .T.G.S.; You try
to cover too much ground... .T.0.M.; Sorry, but
we can’t get you all in... .W. 8.5.: The man who
packs his typewritten lines so tight that a sub-
editor’s pencil can’t poke in puts a very heavy
handicap on himself... .E.E.; The metre doesn’t
suggest dignity. But why do it; anyway?....
Guy B.: Wish you’d get on to .a newer track.
Moralising, even in the name of Cleo and Tony, isn’t
a marketable line... . E.M.C.': Some day, perhaps,
when he has found something to write about....
Joan T.; Intriguing; but it simply isn’t poetry....
M.S.H.: It won’t do. .. .Lilian B.; This is the wrong
side of the Pacific for little things like that....
S.M.E.: Syrupy... .V.P.: Anaemic p10t..,. .C.W.:
Prose has no newspaper (interest, though well done
of its kind.. . .W.H.A.0.; Presented too baldly....
D.S.; Amateurish, and your humor is too obvious....
Z.V.W.; Some "paper might take it as a fill-up....
. ...C.M.P.: Off our beat, but might do for a daily.
.....A.F.: Plot no g00d.... D. 8.; Always prepared
to consider original verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.M.; The old lady is upholstered in the wrong
places. .. ,’F.H.: Unfinished stuff... .M>.J.; You can’t
draw even a butter-b0x.... W.T.: Others thought of
encasing cricketgrs in armor long before y0u....
F.M.: According to the text, she is eating an apple,
but it’s more like a football... .R.G.; Sketch from
“the back o’ Bourke” can’t find a home. .. .M.M.:
Look again at the beer-eater’s right arm....F.C.:
Not far off H.S.A.; Can’t imagine any stage-door
Johnny waiting for girls like yours... .A.M.W.;
Clumsy... .U.M.8.: Don’t hide- all your characters
behind sunshades, sofas and lamp-posts... .T.L.:
Neither will appear in this “esteemed and valued
journal”... .M. 8.: The pose is so excellent and the
pgnwork so abominable that it arouses dark sus-
picions. .. .R.C.; Would add nothing to the nation’s
gaiety... .C.R.S.; Want more than a pair of heads
slapped down anywhere... .8.C.: Vile piece of
work perpetrated on dirty paper.... S.A.; Cultivate
a bolder and more flowing line... .V.P.: But all
your females look like upturned floor-mops. ... A. 8.:
Give the game a rest. .. .W.N.; Quite promising;
keep on. .. .C.E.D.; If that was printed, the cow-
farmers would heap ridicule upon us. . . .R. 8.; Stiff
and ungainly... .L.E.S.; Hopeless... .L.P.W.: Figures
are not alive... A.R.N.: Just scratches.. .G.M.: Your
cross-cut saw looks like the jawbone of a shark....
J.A.G.: Horse-power jest very 01d... .D.A.K.: Untidy.


9
■
■ ■
'• f
M
■
m
I
Wm
w
■i,
M
i %afEyu
#
wm
mm
m
Weslerfl
M
m
A—••-
w !
v'
■ ,■.
V
OUT


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2770.
March 15, 1933.
DEFECTIVE CIRCULATION.
DR. WORLD: You'll never be well till you get out of this and start moving around again."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
r Victoria; Newspaper House, 21,7-21,9 Collins Street,
' Melbourne
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
bouTH Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
, Australia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
.New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, H, Panama
Street, Wellington.
'London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
i veekly: 12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6id.;
3‘ months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
Vta France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHAT AILS THE EAGLE?
'I here is a story somewhere of a good,
honest fowl which, after dressing in fine
feathers, strutted magnificently, and was
pecked to death for its pains. The man who
invented the fable might have had Uncle
Sam in his mind. Riches poured in on
him during the Great War. In the long
months when he was too proud to fight
he was not too proud to keep the fight
going; and from being a great debtor he
became the greatest creditor-nation in the
world. Gold was and still is the one
article that will buy things everywhere, and
it can be moved swiftly and at very little
Cost. Germany and France had been in
great distress, and their future was uncer-
tain; Germany had written off its internal
debts by the simple process of inflation,
and France had managed to write down
ai great deal of its external debt as well.
Even Britain had a huge army of unem-
ployed, and for the first time in modern
history there came from it rumblings of
revolution. Russia had fallen into the hands
of the Communists, who were known to be
set on proselytising the world. The men
who could turn their wealth into gold knew
there was no place for revolution in a
country reeking with prosperity. Gold
therefore began to flow towards the U.S.A.;
and work had to be found for it.
Already the Uncle Sam bird had dressed
himself in two-thirds of a coat of fine
feathers; now he proceeded to put on the
other third. -Making money was easy as
whistling “Yankee Doodle.” All one had to
do was buy stocks on a small deposit and
wait for them to rise. It was so profitable
and easy that the demand for call money
grew, and more and still more gold flowed
into the only prosperous country. Then,
as always happens, somebody got nervous;
and by the end of 1930 the withdrawal of
funds was so definitely under way that
bank failures began to be reported. Under
the American system of little local banks
there always are failures—the lowest
number in any year for 20 years past had
been 354 in 1922—but in the one month of
November, 1930, no less than 160 went under.
But the bird still strutted as proudly as
ever.■ He told himself that the withdrawal
of this gold which didn’t belong to him was
the best thing that could happen. It was
true that hundreds of thousands of people
who had foolishly fancied themselves rich
were in reality very poor; but the country
tvas not, he told himself, a cent worse
off—a situation doesn’t get worse by letting
hot air out of it.
Early in 1931 it was recognised that there
was worse to be faced than the bursting
of a stock-exchange boom. The world-
depression became more acute. Prices con-
tinued to fall; and, the farmers having thus
lost their purchasing power, secondary in-
dustries began to get very sick. The
country had been looking forward to large
receipts on account of foreign loans; but
by the middle of this year payments had
begun to be very uncertain. Three months
filter Britain ceased to pay in gold. Sus-
picion instantly flew across the Atlantic,
and $700,000,000 of gold was withdrawn in
six weeks. Worse, the U.S. people themselves
began to lose faith, and hoarding of cur-
rency soon reached such proportions that
during the first week in October the net
increase in the circulation was $185,000,000.
In the second week of the month the bank
failures reached 166, and the month’s total
was 478. The Government’s answer was
the National Credit Corporation, established
with a capital of $500,000,000, to stand be-
hind banks and other institutions suffering
from frozen assets —the name under which
Uncle . Sam, like the rest of us, tries to
disguise his bad debts. For the whole year
the bank suspensions numbered 2150.
So the country turned into 1932, telling
itself, as it had been telling itself almost
every month for two years, that prosperity
was just around the corner. The trouble
was that while everybody said it, every-
body proceeded to put a bit by in case the
corner should prove to be another blank.
Between June, 1931, and February, 1932,
there had been an increase of currency
(which meant hoarding) of $782 000,000,
with an export of $602,000,000 of gold; thus
the combined drain on bank reserves was
$1,384,000,000. Now, loss of gold reserves
means a reduction of 10 or 12 times as
much lending capacity; and though to
some extent the loss of reserves was
counterbalanced by an increase of Federal
or Central Bank credit, there was in these
eight months a net shrinkage in the trading-
bank gold of $392,000,000, involving a
reduction of no less than $4,188,000,000 in
bank credits. No wonder the whole busi-
ness of the country was thrown into utter
confusion! Loans had to be called in;
securities had to be sacrificed. The posi-
tion was that of Australia in the early
’nineties, magnified 10.000 times.
After June things did seem to improve.
By the end of September gold reserves
had grown by $276,000,000, and the issue of
national notes had been greatly increased.
But the country refused to be in the small-
est degree more prosperous. There was no
shortage of currency; on the contrary,
there was a surplus of it. The bank reserves
were in a position to stand a large increase
of credit-issues. But there was no call for
them. It was made perfectly plain that
neither lack of currency nor lack of credit
facilities had anything to do with the situ-
ation. The trouble was partly economic,
partly psychological. “The fundamental
trouble,” one authority wrote, “is that busi-
ness itself has not yet been able to readjust
itself on a basis permitting a free inter-
change of goods. Until this is done the
large supplies of funds are about as use-
less as though they did not exist.” From
this point of view—and it seems the
soundest—the primary cause of trouble is
that costs in various industries are out of
balance; in particular, that the primary pro-
ducer is getting too little. But this does
not mean that the primary producer is
therefore the.worst off. The secondary pro-,
ducer, thrown out of work because the other
cannot buy his output, is in a more critical
state; he cannot, for one thing, grow his
own food.
Meantime the Presidential election and
the technocrats and other saviours of the
country had done it no good. As always,
the outs stressed the shocking condition of
things due to the ill-behavior of the ins,
and the theorists dipped the dark national
picture in pitch to show how urgent was
the need for calling them in to repaint it.
So mistrust, which had been slackening, was
revived; and events in Europe and Asia
added to it. The pressure on the banks
was renewed. Over a great part of the
country there had for some time been an
angry feeling which warned mortgagees
against attempting to take possession of
properties in large numbers. One after
another State authorities proclaimed bank
“holidays” to save bankers who were thus
between the Devil and the deep sea; between
creditors eager for their money and debtors
whom they dared not press. In such circum-
stances a breathing-space was called for,
and the new Government supplied it;
hoarding was prohibited, and an embargo
was put on both the export of gold and the
earmarking of it for export.
But that leaves the real problem quite
untouched. The correct solution is still
at many points uncertain; but from its own
experience America must now surely realise
how important a factor the recovery of
confidence is in meeting the situation. And
there can be no confidence while there are
vast and impossible international war-debt
settlements pending. There must come,
too, an adjustment of prices and costs. The
struggle to reduce the latter has been
only partly successful; the easier way will
be to raise prices, which among other things
will ease the present insufferable burden
of debt both public and private. To dis-
cover how best to do it should be the
chief purpose of a world-conference. If
that fails, then the British Empire must be
a world within itself.
THE GRAZIER AND HIS DEBTS.
On this subject many suggestions continue
to be made.
“Another Lawyer’—a Sydney man of
wide experience—argues that the whole
matter of debt-adjustment should be gone
into:—
During and after the war there was, as
you say, “inflation of the most violent char-
acter,” and, when the crash came, debts,
while remaining nominally the same, were in
reality increased up to 100 p.c. The next
generation will be amazed to think that
this one expected these to be repaid in full.
Leading economists have pointed out that,
unless there is a recovery or some kind of
inflation, drastic writing down is inevitable,
otherwise the whole economic structure will
crash. Plain commonsense demands that
there should be readjustment in the interests
of. creditors as well as debtors: creditors
might remember that if we had Communism
debts would not be worth the paper they
are written on.
T have had upwards of 20 years’ experience
with mortgages and real-estate dealings, and
my considered opinion is that uniform writ-
ing down of debts would be wrong, because
if there is subsequent world-recovery or in-
flation they would have to be written up
again. A much simpler, more workable and
equitable scheme would be for all debts to
be adjusted by uniform legislation throughout
Australia according to price-index numbers
at the dates when the debts were contracted
and are repaid. By this plan debtors would
pay and creditors receive no more and no less
than was actually borrowed or lent. The
Premiers’ plan was based on equality of
sacrifice; so with regard to private debts
there must be equality of sacrifice if a crash
is to be averted and capitalism saved.
A further interest adjustment is both
urgent and necessary, and could be provided
by giving debtors the right to apply to a
Court for further reduction up to a specified
maximum percentage of the agreed rate,
according to circumstances. This again is
as much in the interest of creditors as of
debtors. The increased value of money and
the speeded-up economic recovery would
largely compensate creditors. I am a mort-
gagee and would agree to all this in my
own case.
“P.W.” from Canowindra (N.S.W.): —
Remedial measures can only be applied
where there is some reasonable chance of
success and particularly where circumstances
warrant it. But who is to make the initial
move? Obviously it is up to the banks, which
in boom times practically defined land
values by the amount of advance they made
towards the purchase money, and each case
must be considered individually and on its
merits. Let me refer especially to the case
of returned soldiers —not “soldier settlers,”
but ex-soldiers who put their hard-earned
savings into land. No one can accuse them
of trafficking in land values. There was
only one market for them to buy in; and
now every man of them is a victim of the
slump. Surely here is an opening for the
application of the obvious remedy. The
present times are sorely trying thousands of
returned men who, when they came home
with a different outlook on life and their
ordinary occupation gone, took the advice of
our leaders of the day and turned to the
land.
As a Victorian grazier sees it: —
The prices at which the grower sells
being fixed by people over whom he has no
control, and those prices having fallen, the
only thing for him to do is to reduce his
costs. Those costs are for labor, taxes,
freight, interest. Labor costs, being within
his control, have been cut to the bone. The
others are outside his control —and what
about them? The land tax is the biggest
drain. There has been no official devalua-
tion of land, and the tax is payable regard-
less of income or anything else. This means
that the sheepowner is paying exactly the
same tax now, when he receives.Bd. for his
wool, as when he received 24d. Freights
are not so important in wool as they are
in lamb-raising. In the boom days I paid
the price of eight lambs as freight on 130.
To-day it takes the price of 25. That is
direct freight costs. As to interest, with
regard to reduction by the money-lending-
institutions, there must first be confidence
in the Government’s ability to rectify the
troubles of the industry in which the money
is lent. At present that confidence is lack-
ing.
“Dialectica” replies to critics:—
The general opinion appears to be that
I am one of a few unlucky graziers who
have made bad bargains and are in dif-
ficulties on that account. As a matter of
fact. I bought cheaply and refused a very
good profit a few months afterwards. A
long run of droughts and a big drop in wool
and fat stock have caused my bargain to be-
come a bad one, but these calamities could
not be foreseen. They were evidently not
anticipated by “Old Politician” and his tribe,
who continued to borrow and spend as
blithely as if there were no such things
as bad times and settling days. His verdict
that I have made a hopeless mess of things
and should be shoved off my property is a
piece of impertinence. It is largely because
of the bad bargains made by our old poli-
ticians that Australia is now in trouble.
If I have made a mess of things it has been
with my own money and not with the
public’s. And I am bearing the brunt of it,
whereas he is probably still drawing his
screw.
The sooner city people realise the position
the better. The great majority of wool-
growers will be forced to file their petitions
before long unless relief is given. This is
not a wild statement; the banks and wool
firms know how true it is. No doubt the
city man will wonder how we carry on if we
are really so badly off. We are taking advan-
tage of the Moratorium Act and not paying
our interest, and our creditors are not
pushing us because they know it would be
futile and/or because they are sympathetic.
But this cannot last for ever. Once (I am
speaking of N.S.W.) we are over two years
in arrears with our interest or our creditors
begin to push us, we can be put off or made
bankrupt.
From “Ex-Banker” of great experience:—
That very heavy losses have been incurred
by both mortgagors and mortgagees as the
result of adverse seasons, depressed markets
and depreciated values is well known even
to city men. But this is more or less irrele-
vant in dealing with the merits of “Dialec-
tica’s” case, and the chief issue raised by
me has been avoided. “Dialectica” crippled
himself financially from the very moment
he entered into an undertaking to pay £lO,OOO
for a property whose earning power was
totally inadequate to justify even half the-
price, and the real value of which he himself
stated was only £3OOO. I said it was up to
“Dialectica” to explain how it was that he
came to enter into such a contract, and, until
that point is cleared up, I for one decline
to accept “Dialectica’s” case as “typical of
thousands,” as claimed by him. This was
the aspect of his case to' which I took the
strongest exception. On his own showing
“Dialectica” displayed gross ignorance of the
business he was imdertaking, and this view
is supported by his grotesque claim that the
vendor (mortgagee) should work on the pro-
perty and share the risk of sheep deals.
What protection can Parliament afford men
of his stamp? Legislation cannot be made
foolproof.
Finally, as it looks from Tasmania:—
“Phalaris” is correct in his summing-up
of “Dialectica’s” position as hopeless ; but
his statement that “it will be all to the
good of the country if he retires from the
fight” is open to question. “Dialectica” is
producing a commodity in demand on the
world’s markets; the sale of it has assisted
in the restoration of Australia’s credit over-
seas; and, unless mortgagees continue the
production, it would be detrimental to the
country to displace “Dialectica” and others
in a similar position. I am aware that by
law the mortgagee is entitled to his £lO,OOO
plus interest, if he can get it, by realising
on the property and ejecting “Dialectica”;
but is it in the best interests of the country
that a law should be continued which pro-
tects money, as such, to its full amount,
whether prices for commodities are high or
low, when such protection brings ruin to
people who are saving the country in the
present crisis?
In the Federal House last week Mr.
Abbott introduced the matter and proposed
that graziers and mortgagees should be
brought together with the object of beating
out a plan to relieve the industry; he
suggested that, since somebody must be
an intermediary, the Government should
give a lead. The reply of Mr. Stewart, the
Minister for Commerce, was futile and quite
unworthy of the occasion—a mere political
recapitulation of what the Government had
done. What the Government has done
might well have been forgotten at the
moment; most obviously it has not been
sufficient, and nothing the Government can
do of itself can be sufficient. This is a busi-
ness, however, of which Mr. Stewart is
completely ignorant: it might therefore well
be passed over to Senator McLachlan, the
Vice-President of the Executive Council,
who does know something about it.
THE LOTTERY CRAZE.
It would seem that before long there will
be a lottery conducted or controlled by
the Government in eveiy State. West-
ralia is the latest to come into the picture.
Its Mitchell Government has set up a Lot*
teries Commission, with power, among other
things, to suppress newspaper crossword
competitions for money prizes, which have
had a great vogue. The Minister, Scaddan,
talks hopefully of running shilling sweeps in
case “half-crown consultations for charities”
are voted too dear. At the same time the
Minister or the Commission has banned
local agencies for other Government or
Government-controlled lotteries, which pre-
sumably means that newspapers circulating
in Westralia will not be permitted to refer
to those lotteries. There is a similar pro-
hibition in force in N. S. Wales and in
various other States. Maoriland politicians,
among them members of the Cabinet, are
also, it is reported, in favor of starting
lotteries, and estimate the profits at
£250,000 a year. Evidently there are still
optimists across the Tasman.
The receipts of these lotteries may be
regarded as easy money, but the cost of
collection is high. The N. S. Wales Auditor-
General reports that during the 1931-32
twelvemonth, £2,047,497 was subscribed to
Government lotteries, of which £1.280,394
was distributed in prizes and £747,203 was
paid into the Treasury. Administrative
expenses, “which are chargeable to Con-
solidated Revenue,” ran away with £69,064,
which has to be deducted from the £747,203;
and the £69,064 is not the whole bill. All
these Government lottery employees are
“organised” and make periodical applica-
tions for awards, which involve Govern-
ment expenditure. And they are all quali-
fying for superannuation rights—a still more
expensive business for the taxpayer.
The Queensland lotteries are just as
costly to administer, if not more so. In
the latest year for which details have been
published, receipts amounted to £704,372,
of which £416,000 was returned in prizes
and £223,209 retained by the Government,
£32,500 in the form of a tax. Office ex-
penses came to £30,272; “salaries, commis-
sion, etc.,” accounted for another £31,542.
It is held that the drawings are rogue-proof,
but it is questionable whether this is true
of any lottery. Two Golden Casket em-
ployees were recently convicted of having
conspired to obtain money by fraud from
the committee and were sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment. Sentence was sus-
pended on their entering into bonds to be
of good behavior for two years. It came
out that one man had four previous con-
victions, one of which was for passing a
valueless cheque. The modus operandi in
this case was to arrange for a boy in league
with accused to draw marbles from the barrel
used; he was intercepted with a marble in
his hand. During the trial queer things
were said about previous frauds, defalca-
tions and mysterious disappearances of
marbles, and reference was made to a
rumor about a lady “drawing a marble
which she had concealed in her glove.”
The public is, of course, assured that noth-
ing of the kind can happen under a “new
system” now introduced. No doubt it was
believed that nothing of the kind could
happen under the old system when it was
introduced.
It is asserted, as usual, that these lot-
teries fill a long-felt want. The want could
be filled without economic waste by pre-
mium bonds. Suppose the national Gov-
ernment issued a million £5 bonds at 4' p.c.
interest; 2 p.c. to be paid when interest on
Consols is paid and 2 p.c. retained for
periodical redemption of bonds, with and
without premiums. This would afford all
the excitement of a lottery and the sub-
scribers would not lose their capital. They
•would get it back, sooner or later, with
interest added, and the lucky ones would
draw handsome prizes, for 2 p.c. on
£5,000,000 would furnish a substantial fund.
No huge staffs costing in the aggregate, in
one way and another, perhaps £200,000 a
year would be needed, and there would
be small fear of dishonest employees work-
ing a successful conspiracy to defraud.
Neither would premium bonds foster th?
illusion that thrift is an exploded virtue,
and that happiness without work must be
pursued, even if it means selling the dole
counon for a lottery ticket and letting the
children go hungry.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Westralia under Federation.”
“R.G.S.” takes the secession side: —
As a Westralian now resident in Sydney
I challenge some of the statements in your
article “Westralia under Federation.”
(1) Your population figures—annual rate
per cent, increase—"have no bearing on the
subject. The West is one of the younger
States and admittedly years behind the
Eastern side in development. It is, there-
fore, only natural that a comparison of the
rate of population-increase between Victoria,
a small and comparatively closely settled
State, and Westralia, with its vast virgin
spaces, should be in favor of the West.
(2) Your comparison of Savings Bank
deposits per head denotes simply a growth.
It would be interesting to know what the
deposits per head were in each of the other
States when Westralia (in 1929) had
£29 3s. lid. per head.
(3) Having been in 1918-20 in the Nor’-
West, I feel there is justice in the com-
plaint against Queensland on the sugar ques-
tion. Up there we had to buy sugar from
Queensland, while the Java product was
embargoed—a definite extra cost.
(4) In 1925 a tin of stove polish of a
brand manufactured in Sydney cost there
Bd., while in Perth it could be bought for
5Jd. Is not this direct evidence of “dumping”
by Eastern States? It partly explains why
Westralia was not providing its own factory
goods.
(5) Re fall in average wheat yields.
Whereas in about 1908 the wheat-growing
area in Westralia was confined to a definite
“wheat belt” no further east than about
90 miles from Perth, in 1925 it had
extended as far east as Bodallin, 202 miles
from Perth. (They may now be growing
wheat further east than this. I speak only
of what I know personally.) The point is
that the rainfall is much less in the latter
district than in the old “wheat belt.”
As a Westralian who has no axe to grind,
and who certainly .has no personal quarrel
with Eastern Australia, I feel that the follow-
ing points are worth considering:—
(i.) The partnership agreement (i.e., the
Constitution) was drawn up 33 years ago
and much has occurred which could not then
have been foreseen.
(ii.) If Westralia has gained as much
from Federation as the anti-secessionists
maintain, and has done it in some respects
at the expense of the Eastern States, why
not let her go and stew in her own juice?
(iii.) No partnership <?an be successfully
continued while there is a disgruntled or dis-
satisfied partner.
In reply:—
(1) The point is that Westralia made no
progress worth mentioning while it had all the
freedom which the disruptionists now seek.
Between 1861 and 1891, notwithstanding its
“vast virgin spaces,” it gained only 34,091
people. Between 1920 and 1930, under
Federation, it gained 89,283. And you can’t
credit the goldfields with that, because they
were no longer a magnet.
(2) Westralia is alleged to be bled dry
by the Eastern States. According to a dis-
ruption manifesto, “secession means release
from the clutching hand.” The Bulletin
showed that after 35 years under freedom from
the “shackles,” etc., the colony had £7 2s. Id.
of Savings Bank deposits per head of popu-
lation. It showed that under Federation,
in 1929, the State had £2B 3s. lid. per head.
(It is regretted that in the original article
this_was given as £29 3s. lid.) Between
1925 and 1929 the Westralian average per
head increased £4 ss. 9d.; the increase for
the whole Commonwealth was from £32
6s. 9d. to £35 7s. 7d., or £3 Os. lOd. The
progress in the State that is alleged to be
“shackled” and “in bondage” was thus greater
than in the other States. This suggests that
the “shackles” and the “bonds,” not to men-
tion the “clutching hand,” are a myth.
(3) and (4) It is hard to understand
what these secessionists do want. One
moment they are complaining that the
Eastern States make them pay too much, the
next that they charge so little that there is
no hope of competing against them.
(5) Of course wheat-growing has extended
in Westralia. Rut so it has in the other
States. Since 1890 N. S. Wales has added
4.790,000 acres to its area under wheat, while
Westralia has added only 3,920,000. Yet the
average crop per acre has improved in N. S.
Wales, whereas it has steadily declined in
Westralia. You can’t blame Federation for
that; perhaps there is something else the
matter with Westralia.
There are a few Bulletin figures which
this correspondent doesn’t mention. He
doesn’t recall, for instance, that, though
the Eastern States are represented as blood-
suckers, Westralian bank deposits are
£10,371,000, whereas advances in Westralia
are the total amount of the deposits and
£9,641,000 besides. If that is the way the
Eastern States starve the West, these seces-
sionists have queer ideas about starvation.
The concluding remarks of “R.G.5.,”
which one finds repeatedly used in secession
literature, show an utter lack of appreciation
of the nature of the Federal compact. It
was not a “partnership agreement”; it was an
“indissoluble union.” It is not a question of
permitting any part of the continent to
break off and “stew in its own juice.” The
safety of this continent demands that it
shall be under one Government for defence
and certain other purposes. To be per-
fectly frank, it is not merely a question
therefore whether secession will suit West-
ralia best. They had a civil war in America
on just that point, so enormously import-
ant is it.
4
The Call for Vision.
If we turn up the N. S. Wales Mines
Department’s reports of 1880 we shall find
the first local effects of the great silver
discoveries in Nevada and Colorado. The
wonders of the Comstock had begun to
sharpen the eyes of every bush wanderer.
Silver discoveries were soon reported from
Moruya, in the south, to the Queensland
border; but naturally, since gold and silver
were neighbors in America, most attention
was given to the district in which gold had
first been found in Australia. Sunny Corner
was the earliest considerable discovery;
and within a few months the papers were
talking of a Comstock of the South. Old
hands then remembered outcrops of some-
thing that looked like silver in the Bar-
rier Ranges. From the Pioneer mine at
Thackaringa the napping-hammer was taken
to Purnamoota; and, after that, “German
Charley” led George McCulloch and his
syndicate of station hands to Broken Hill.
In time it was found that it was better
to take the ore to the seaboard than to
carry the coal and coke to the mine; and
that meant opening up iron-flux quarries.
Iron Knob, G. D. Delprat saw, held far
more flux than his company could ever
want. He had worked in Spain: he knew
how cheaply iron cargoes can be freighted
to coal. He found an idle, insect-haunted
swamp at Newcastle; it was drained and
on it the B. H. Prop, steelworks were built.
Prime Minister Lyons was there the other
day, and Leslie Bradford, the superinten-
dent—himself a product of Broken Hill—
talked to him :
You have to-day seen works which, taken by and
large, are as efficient as any in the world. In all,
£10,000,000 has been spent on their development,
and the amount paid in salaries and wages amounts
to over £1,000,000 per annum. We have since
March, 1915 —in a period of 18 years—produced
3,679,000 tons of coke, 3,825,000 tons of pig-iron,
4,000,000 tons of steel. This production has involved
the use of 6,500,000 tons of iron ore, 2,100,000 tons
of fluxes, 94!50,000 tons of coal. From the coal we
have recovered as by-products 39,000,000! gallons of
tar, 7,500,000 gallons of benzol, 250,000 gallons of
toluol, 500,000 gallons of solvent naphtha, 3500
gallons of xylol. In addition to the wages paid
directly, we have used stores, coal, iron ore, fluxes,
purchased coke and recarbonisers amounting to
£26,800,000, and the operations of these works have
given employment to thousands indirectly in the
supply of the commodities we have needed, besides
yielding much traffic to the Government railways
and steamship companies.
And it can all be traced back to Sunny
Corner, the forerunner of Broken Hill;
not a “Comstock of the South,” as it turned
out, but just an honest little mine which
in its day yielded a few thousand pounds’
worth of silver, and then was forgotten,
But not all the tracks from Sunny Comer
and Broken Hill led to the steelworks.
One led on to Zeehan and from Zeehan to
Mt. Lyell;. another to Chillagoe; a third
to the great electrolytic zinc works at
Risdon, in Tasmania. Out of the metal-
lurgical works has sprung the great chemi-
cal industry, from which agriculture has
benefited so enormously, and from which
the pastoral industry will yet benefit prob-
ably more. Add to all this the technical
training which has been furnished to some
hundreds of young men, to the vast benefit
of tin-dredging and a score of other indus-
tries.
The importance of Sunny Corner was
not to be judged by its size, nor is the
importance of any “back-yard industry.”
Whether such an industry calls for tariff
protection depends not on what it is but
on what it may be. To decide what it
may be calls for vision, and it is to be
hoped that during this session, and in this
grave crisis, the national Parliament will
show it—that no selfish short-sightedness
will stand in the way of progress, in the
way of justice to our young nation.
4
The Wheat Cocky.
A conference more or less representing the
wheat-farmers, held at Canberra, arrived at
three principal conclusions: —
(1) That there should be a Government-
promoted conference with Canada, the U.S.
and the Argentine “to discuss measures for
restoring remunerative prices to wheat.”
(2) “That this [Canberra] conference
recommends a flour sales-tax to provide funds
to assist growers or, alternatively, that the
rate of exchange be increased to secure to
growers 3s. a bushel net.”
(3) That a vote should be taken on the
question of a compulsory wheat pool.
The less dependence put on the first pro-
position the better. The one thing these
conferences do is to suggest the limitation
of output. No doubt a great deal too much
wheat has been produced. At various times
a great deal too much of almost everything
is produced. What is regarded as the
proper and natural course in such circum-
stances is for the least efficient producers
to drop out. Suppose there were three
farm-implement makers in the country and
there wasn’t enough work for them to do-
two good ones and a third bad one. What
would the farmers say if, in order to keep
the bad implement-maker in business, and
compel the farmers to buy from him, the
other two agreed to limit their output?
The wheatgrower is entitled to the bene-
fits of Protection inasmuch as he shares in
the cost of it; and that completely justifies
him in asking for a sales-tax on flour used
in the Commonwealth. There is no reason
why he should ask for anything alter-
natively. A higher exchange rate cannot
be charged on the proceeds of wheat ship-
ments alone. What the farmers ask for as
an alternative is therefore a bonus on ex-
ported commodities of all kinds, whether
primary or secondary, and whether they
have already been directly bonused or not.
And they are playing with high ex-
plosives when they ask for a compulsory
wheat pool. It is a monstrous thing that
the whole product of a man’s labor for
a year should be seized, and that he should
have no say in the marketing of it—no
say. in the price to be accepted for it 01
in the way it shall be offered. It is on
all fours with the scheme for limiting pro-
duction; each aims at hobbling the efficient
to the inefficient, and taking the control
of their affairs out of the hands of both.
-
Maoriland and 1 the Censorship.
Dear Bulletin, —Maoriland, much nar-
rower and stricter in many ways than the
Commonwealth, handles the problem of
book censorship far more satisfactorily
and effectively. Indeed, although she has
a list of banned books, she lacks a cen-
sorship in the true sense of the term. The
Customs Department works in conjunction
with an advisory committee which, until
the death of ex-Parliamentary Librarian
Charles Wilson recently, consisted of two
ex-librarians and a member of the book-
selling trade. When the committee recom-
mends that a book should be stopped, the
Customs issues a notice of seizure, and, if
the owner objects, he fires in a notice to
resist the process. The matter is then fought
out before either a magistrate or a Supreme
Court Judge. A good many works are ad-
mitted, however, on the understanding that
they shall be sold at the discretion of the
booksellers, who, if they display them in
their windows or sell to juveniles, leave
themselves open to prosecution by the
police. Apart from a number of filthy
French novels, some 30 Communist books
and a few other volumes, any book can be
imported and sold in M.L., provided it is
not sold or displayed indiscriminately.
There has never been a ban on the works of
Marie Stones or on Radclyffe Hall’s “The
Well of Loneliness,” or, for that matter,
on many of the books listed by the Com-
monwealth Censor. The system works well,
probably because it receives the support
of the bookselling trade, and rarely indeed
is there any squeal against the banning
of certain books or the admittance of
others.—Yours, Henry Bateson.
4
South Africa Falls Into Line.
The whole- Empire will view with satis-
faction the decision of the pro-British
S’African party led by Smuts and the pro-
Boer Nationalists headed by Hertzog to
form a Coalition Government. Until
recently such a thing seemed impossible.
That it has come about is due to several
causes, some of the strongest of them
based on personal interest. Hertzog’s
characteristic determination to adhere to
the gold standard for no better reason
than that Britain had left it came very
close to wrecking the small-farm indus-
try which is the lifeblood of S’Africa,
It was from this body that he drew most of
his votes, many coming from electors of
British sympathies, for Hertzog, though a
lawyer, has always backed the man on the
land, while the S’African party, Imperialis-
tic in outlook as it is, has been suspect of
Johannesburg affiliations. The fact that
the next general elections will see the
women exercise the franchise for the first
time, added to the recent adverse result
of an important by-election, has been an
additional factor in persuading the “slim”
Prime Minister to seek a way out. As for
Smuts, there is little doubt that the return
to politics of Tielman Roos, one of the
ablest of the Dutch Nationalist politicians,
influenced him to hold out the olive-branch.
Since the Great War Smuts has lost much
of his old standing with both sections of his
party—the Dutch who have stood to the
Imperial ideal since the formation of the
Union, and the British, who consider he
has served his purpose and should make
room for the younger climbers. To both
the advent of the well-liked and moderate
Roos as the leader of a Coalition bent on
restoring to S’Africa the trade-advantages
enjoyed by Britain and the other
Dominions, and on mitigating the cancer
of racialism which is eating into the vitals
of the Union, presented an attractive pro-
spect. Recognition of the Roos influence
has thus been behind the coming together
of the two old enemies, for it was no less
a threat to Hertzog than to Smuts.
The job before the Coalition is far from
an easy one. The question of the colored
peoples, the outstanding problem, has been
shelved for the present by mutual consent;
but the Dutch-republican element will cer-
tainly make it a burning question at the
next elections.
4
The Crash in Butter.
From J. E. Harding, hon. sec. of the C.Q.
executive of the Producers’ Association:—
The continued fall in the price of Austra-
lian butter on the overseas market is be-
coming a matter of national concern, in
view of the fact that butter is one of our
major exports and production is increasing
rapidly, with many new land-settlement
schemes dependent on dairying. Dairymen
in Central Queensland received Bd. per
pound for Al-grade butter-fat for the month
of January. During the first week in Feb-
ruary salted “Kangaroo ’ brand butter
realised in London only 765. per cwt., or
a little better than Bd. per lb. The cost
of manufacture (18s. per cwt., or 1.9 d.
per lb.) has to be deducted from this
figure, plus 17s. per cwt. (I.Bd. per lb.), the
cost of placing butter on the London market
from the Australian factory. If it were
not for the operation of the Paterson
scheme and other forms of control, the price
to the dairymen would be well below Gd.
Even with the assistance of the Paterson
scheme the price to the producer will pro-
bably soon fall another Id. unless the
London market improves, because many fac-
tories are losing money on the price they
now pay for cream.
Although an improvement overseas can be
looked for in a few months, butter values are
going to remain comparatively low. This
will have to be counterbalanced by better
cattle, better methods of feeding, better
marketing. Figures prove there is room for
vast improvement in production per cow.
According to tlm' FedfemLßairy. Investigation
Committee, the average yields of butter-fat
per cow per year are: S. Ajis., 2801 b.; Vic.,
222.371 b.; Tas., 190.71 b.; N.S.W., 130.91 b.;
Q., 118.81 b.; W.A., 108.81 b. Denmark started
herd-testing about 30 years ago and has
doubled her average production, which is
now a little over 3001 b. per cow per annum.
The Queensland Government has introduced
legislation for herd-testing and dairy-herd
improvement. It will be to the advantage
of dairymen to give their utmost co-opera-
tion.
In the matter of quality, Australian
butter compares very favorably with the best
from other countries, thanks to the efficiency
of our factories and grading. A close scru-
tiny of facts shows that the alarming fall
in the price of our butter overseas is not due
to any fault of production or manufacture,
but is caused by vested interests. Prior
to the Ottawa Conference the normal dif-
ference between Australian and Danish
butter in favor of the latter was from 4s. to
Os. per cwt. Since then the difference has been
as much as 395. A cable at the beginning of the
month reported Danish at 108 s. and “Kan-
garoo” at 70s. Maypole Dairies, which con-
trol a string of stores throughout Britain,
and are the largest retail distributors of
dairy-products there, deal exclusively in
Danish butter. The same interests that
control Maypole Dairies also have huge in-
terests in Danish dairy farms and factories.
Had the 15s. per hundredweight Ottawa con-
cession to Dominion butter been allowed to
operate, it would certainly have had a
serious effect on the sale of Danish butter.
It is often stated by responsible leaders that
Australian butter is not available on the
British market in pat form. A dairyman in
Central Queensland had a parcel of Aus-
tralian products sent at Christmas to a re-
lation in Norwich. The English recipient
was delighted with the quality, and tried to
purchase Australian butter similar to that
contained in the gift parcel, btlt there was
none on sale in Norwich. The only Aus-
tralian butter he could buy was of a pastry
grade at lOd. per pound. In the words of
Major King, manager of the Producers’ Dis-
tributing Co. of Sydney, “The reason for
the low prices of dairy products in
London is that there is organised buying
operating against disorganised selling.” The
result is that the Australian dairyman, in-
stead of receiving 15s. per cwt. benefit from
Ottawa, is 265. worse off. .
There is one big obstacle in the way of
marketing overseas in pat form under one
brand. The butter from different districts
of Australia varies in flavor and color. But
organisation can overcome this.
Action is urgently needed to make Aus-
tralian butter available in attractive pat
form to the British consumer, to establish
our own retail stores, and to blend Aus-
tralian butters to achieve uniformity of
color, flavor and texture. This is work of
an urgent nature and national importance
that calls for the energetic co-operation of
dairying organisations and Governments.
The importance of the industry to Aus-
tralia is indicated by official figures taken
out by the Queensland Butter Board: Capi-
tal value of Australian dairy farms and
plant, factories, buildings and land, and
dairy cattle, £159,000,000; total value of
butter, cheese and milk produced, £40,000,000
per annum; people dependent on dairy-
farming for a living, approximately 600,000.
4
Tung-nut Oil.
Frank Cotton in reply;—
Mr. G. de Vahl Davis, B.Sc,, launches
the accusation against me (B. 8/3/’33) of
“damning a new industry on inaccurate in-
formation.” In the briefest possible space I
desire to refute that charge. I was asked by
people who rely upon my judgment to make
a thorough and impartial investigation of the
possibility of establishing an Australian
export trade in tung-nut oil. I .called at
the office of the Tung Nut Oil Co., Margaret-
street, Sydney, and obtained samples of Aus-
tralian-grown tung nut and estimates of the
probable yield per tree when in full bearing.
I weighed samples of these nuts ’ and found
that they ran out (unshelled) at 150 to
the lb. When shelled the oil-bearing kernel
weighed UHoz. to the lb. of nuts. I checked
the estimates of the probable, yield of oil per
acre by comparison with actual commercial
results obtained in the Southern States of
America. Some years ago there was a tung-
nut boom in the United States, and the
principal inducement held out to 'investors
was that this industry could be located where
cheap negro labor could be utilised. Hold-
ings aggregating. 31,000 acres were planted
with trees at the rate of 55 per acre, and
these trees are now in full bearing. _ In
practice it has been found that 61b. weight
of dried fruits are required to produce lib.
of oil, which, sold at 12 cents per lb., gave
a gross return of slightly under $4O for each
55 trees. This means in Australian terms
a gross yield of about 3s. per tree per year.
The collection of the crop involves a very
large amount of labor. The fruits have to
be dried and husked before the nuts can be
obtained, and then these nuts must be
shelled before the kernels can be treated
at the oil-refining works. No export
trade is possible; indeed, the American paint
and varnish manufacturers still have to
import the bulk of the tung-nut oil they
use from China.
Having completed my investigations, I
submitted my conclusions to Grove John-
stone, the well-known commercial chemical
analyst, who has a reputation far wider thafn
Australia. He thoroughly agreed with my
conclusions that the manufacture of< tung-
nut oil is essentially a cheap-labor industry
and can only compete in the markets ot the
world when carried out under Asiatic eco-
nomic conditions. There all the members of
a peasant family work all the hours they
are awake for a collective pittance about
equal in value to an individual Australian
unemployed dole ration.
My critic’s glowing vision of a future Aus-
tralian export trade which wpuld enable the
return of the value of half its gross turn-
over to shareholders in dividends seem.s
scarcely worth serious comment. We have
all heard many stories like that.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DirsctoTs *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E. 0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
£| Fine Diamonds
1 £2O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2B
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
The “Polish corridor” was one of the
clumsy patches put on Europe after the war.
Poland demanded an open road to the Baltic,
and France, her traditional friend, was strong
enough to get it—a tract 50 miles wide run-
ning down to Danzig, and cutting Germany
in two. Heaven only knows how the trouble
is going to be adjusted; it is alleged that
Hitler’s wild mob is prepared to go to almost
any lengths to wipe the corridor out, and
if there is trouble between Germany and
Poland over it France must be dragged in.
But Britain definitely says she will not
be unless her own direct interests are
menaced.
Australian overseas trade figures for the
seven months to the end of January are
only fair. The surplus of exports was
£15,958,000. But this includes over seven mil-
lions of gold, which is much more than we
mined. Compared with last year merchan-
dise exports (for the seven months) were
£1,350,000 more; but imports sprang
£10,373.000 —and that is the line which must
be watched. In the seven months we imported
just on 35 millions of trade goods—at the
rate of 60 millions a year. It is far beyond
the limits of safety.
White, Gullett’s successor, made a good
speech in introducing the tariff alterations,
but his hardest task is to come. Duties have
been increased on edible fats, lard, wool-felt
hoods for women’s hats, foreign cinematograph
films, rubber (from Papua) and certain
types of motors, transformers, electric-fans
and fittings. They have been decreased on
51 items, chiefly in the metals and machinery,
and textiles, felts and furs groups. On fur
felt hats the reduction amounts to 12s. a
dozen, and the Minister will be hard put to
justify it. The same applies to the removal
of the 50 p.c. special duty on motor bodies
and matches. Scullin will now proceed to
show that the Government has gone too far
in these directions; Paterson that it hasn’t
gone far enough.
A lot of people began to feel uncomfort-
able when Unc. Sam put an embargo on
gold exports, and there was talk of a “com-
petition in currency depreciation.” To boost
the exchange rate looks a fine thing so long
as you are the only one doing it; but
when the other fellow follows suit and goes
a few pips better, it begins to look just
horrible. It is much the same as when you
have been paying a secret commission of 10
p.c. to get a job, and then discover that
somebody else has paid 121 p.c. and beaten
you to it.
“As a Westralian, Mr. Lynch is for seceding; as
president of the Senate, for preserving the Common-
wealth.”
“Oi’ve no toime for secessionists.”
“One of them Federalists, are ye? Then
may the divvle fly away wid the lot
uv yez!”
Frith, the Mayor of Lismore (N.S.W.),
led a field of six in the by-election for the
State electorate of that name, the Langster
being beaten by half the length of the
straight. Frith belongs to’ the Country
party, as did Missingham, the late member,
and if he is like sturdy old “Strawberry”
in other respects he will do.
Maoriland, which has hitherto declined
to start a silver coinage of its own, being
satisfied to use Bull’s, has changed its mind,
and will have a special issue minted. This
not out of any disloyalty to Britain, but
because there has been a brisk export of
silver to an adjacent Dominion, where it
could be exchanged at a good profit. So
rapidly was the English silver disappearing
that even Dunedin was hard put to it to
fiud thrippenny bits for the plate.
Farmers in the districts known to be hard
up—mostly districts where they should never
have been encouraged to plant wheat—are
being fished for by the city promoters of
“Socialisation units,” though of course they
don’t show their Red hands, and a bunch of
“immediate aims” is dangled. For instance.
“Rail freights to be reduced by 25 p.c., to
be met by wiping off of dead capital and not
by wage reductions.” They don’t explain
how “dead capital” can be “wiped off.”
There are only two ways of wiping off debt
(and this capital is, of course, debt) —one
bv paying it off, which we can’t do, the other
by repudiating it. But it would never do
to be frank with these honest cockies, and
tell them that what is proposed is to repu-
diate State debts.
Asked to hand over to the Sydney C.G.
trustees a large slice of the C.M.F. engineers’
training depot, in order that the cricket ground
might be enlarged, Minister Pearce refused,
saying that the depdt was needed for Defence
MMINISTER: “No, you can’t have it. We’ve
got to prepare for the possibility of
war.”
TRUSTEE: “But, my dear sir, cricket is
war!”
purposes. The trustees pointed out that there
was room for training at Randwiek rifle
range, four miles away, and several hours’
journey for budding engineers from Outer
suburbs, but even this did not impress the
Minister. Things are coming to a pretty
pass when Pearce turns stubborn and a
matter of national importance like cricket is
subordinated to mere Defence considera-
tions.
A £2,000,000 scheme for handling wheat
in bulk is being pressed on the Vic. Cabinet
by John Allan, Minister for Agriculture, and
leader of the Cocky group. It has been
recommended by a committee composed of
Mullett (Director of Agriculture) and rail-
waymen Canny, Box and Laing, who esti-
mate that £1,766,000 will be required for
160 rural silos (including four across the
N.S.W. border) and a terminal each at Wil-
liamstown and Geelong, £135,000 for altera-
tions to railway trucks, sidings and
approaches, and £103,500 for interest while
construction is going on. It is calculated
that a profit of £24,000 a year could be
made, with a saving to farmers of 2fd. a
bushel, compared with' bagging. N. S. Wales
experience doesn’t support these rosy anti-
cipations, but Argyle is examining the project
with an open mind.
So much butter has been sent to Britain
these last few months, particularly from
Australia and Maoriland (imports from the
Irish Free State and all European coun-
tries, except Denmark, have declined), that
prices, which kept up marvellously consider-
ing the collapse in the wool and wheat
markets, have tumbled at last. Prime Aus-
tralian butter can now bethought in London
shops at ninepence a pound. Britain, con-
cerned for its own dairy-farmers, has implored
Australia and Maoriland to curtail supplies
for a time. The export-control boards in both
countries are hostile, but the Governments
reluctantly agree that it will have to be done.
Earle Page sees in restriction a threat of
ruin to the industry which he is personally
engaged in expanding; and the Labor groups
in the Commonwealth Parliament see in the
Country party’s # dissatisfaction with the
Government’s attitude and with its pbst-
Ottawa tariff a chance of turning Lyons and
Latham out.
Britain, according to White, the new Min-
ister of Customs, buys 90 p.c. of the butter
we send abroad. It also takes 97 p.c. of the
pork, 96 p.c. of the lamb, 95 p.c. of the
wine, 88 p.c. of the mutton, 79 p.c. of the
fresh fruits and 63 p.c. of the dried fruits
exported. The butter situation is unfor-
tunate, but it is surely better to restrict
exports until the British market definitely
recovers than to continue to over-supply it.
If the London retail price remains at nine-
pence a pound the Australian consumer is
certain to be heard from.
Queensland pastoralists, while protesting
that the Forgan Smith Government doesn’t
realise how hard its taxes and railway
freight-rates are hitting them, are giving
it credit for renewing its assistance to the
campaign against wild dogs. Last year the
Government paid 2s. per scalp for dingoes,
and made special baits on a wholesale scale
at cost price. The money for scalps was
taken from the accumulated funds of the
defunct marsupial boards; over 8000 were
paid for, and it is probable that many other
dogs were destroyed. The campaign will be
resumed in the winter, and this time the
bonus on scalps will be 35., the improve-
ment boards and shire councils finding the
extra Is.
Amalgamation was forced on the two
A.W.U. branches in N. S. Wales by hard
times in the pastoral industry and the vir-
tual stoppage of railway-construction works.
It has proved fatal to the ascendancy of
the Bailey-Buckland group, which ran the
show for many years and set up the Federal
Labor organisation as well. The expulsion
of Bailey from the A.L.P. (he was M.L.A.
for Goulburn) made no difference to his
control of A.W.U. affairs, nor did the defeat
of the Conroy (Federal Labor) faction by
the Willis-Graves (State Labor) group; but.
the failure of the “World” was a shattering
blow.
Politically, the new A.W.U. general staff
in N. S. Wales is a queer mixture. C. A.
Dalton, the president, is a Langster, and so
are 11. Courtney (vice-president), J.
Maloney (committeeman) and E. J.
O’Donnell (organiser). Jack McNeill, the
secretary, was one of Scullin’s Ministers and
is his brother-in-law. Joe Clark (committee-
man) was an anti-Lang Assemblyman when
Lang split his party in 1926, but was a
Langster in the last Parliament, though it
was suspected that he would rather have
followed Mclvell or Dunn. There seem all
the materials here for another enjoyable fac-
tion fight, but it is confidently asserted
that the Federal and State Labor “parties”
will now amalgamate. Anyway, a “unity
conference” is to be held.
According to the story told by the secesh-
ers in Westralia, it is going to be simul-
taneously rum and ginger-beer under Secesh.
The farmers who want low-price goods are
going to have them through knocking the
tariff wall so flat that all the foreigner’s
cheap stuff can come in, and the industrial-
ists who want jobs in factories are going to
have them with the help of a tariff wall
that will keep all the foreigner’s cheap stuff
out. There never was a community suffering
from real disabilities which was so shame-
lessly side-tracked.
Another result of the depression is show-
ing up in South Aus., where six political
parties are asking to be sent to the Assem-
bly; and, judging by the way some candi-
dates are dodging their nominal leaders’ lead,
there ought to be qt least half a dozen more
parties. The fact is everybody has lately
had time to do some thinking, and in the
natural order of things he doesn’t come to
exactly the same conclusions as anybody
else; so no two people fit quite comfortably
into one party. If this movement goes on
The Bulletin sees a demand for an all-the-
year-round Parliament, in which every man
will sit for one day. He will be entitled to
“Wot I suggest is that everybody votes for
imself, so as everybody can be a
member fer one day!”
crowd as much speech into 24 hours as 24
hours will hold; meantime a small body, con-
sisting of perhaps 20 men, will be author-
ised to pass laws on the one condition that
they don’t make a single speech. Under this
rule S. Aus. will probably become the best-
governed and most-contented State in the
world.
Sydney’s “Labor Daily” has persuaded
itself that “many Americans can hear a lone
Australian voice, echoing over two interven-
ing years, warning them, as it warned its
own countrymen, of the evils of the wor-
ship of interest and of gold.” The voice is.
of course, that of the idealist who started
the Government lottery, and resurrected the
tin-hare bookmaker, and was twice posted
as a defaulter after giving solemn pledges
that he would never default. Roosevelt, it
is modestly suggested, is one of the Yanks
who have been listening to the Voice, “and
the question arises how far Roosevelt will
follow the Lang prescription for the mending
of the world’s affairs.” It is easily answered.
Roosevelt, according to his inaugural speech,
aims at restoring confidence, and “confi-
dence,” he said, “thrives only on honesty
and honor, the sacredness of obligations.”
Lang congratulated himself on having done
away with “that iniquitous thing, the sanc-
tity of contracts.”
“Colonel Eric Campbell said to a London corres-
pondent that the time was never so opportune for
the organising of Fascism in N.S.W. Not only Mr.
Lang, but the Stevens Government needed watching.”
“Don’t give ’em muck, as your g-rreat
Melba said, signor. Give ’em dis.”
The Lyons Government has clapped a
duty of 4d. per pound on Papuan rubber.
True, it says it will hand the amount col-
lected to the Papuan Administration, but
that does not mean that it will go back to
the planters. The Commonwealth might
turn its attention more usefully to the
gold-mining cos. of New Guinea. One of
these is now producing on a very large scale,
and the other is also publishing accounts of
high recoveries. Royalty is only 6 per
cent., and they have to meet no other taxa-
tion save the general N.G. Customs tariff
of 10 per cent, on imported goods. Much
of the money these companies are making is
going out of Australia.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Manning, who
is doing excellent work in the N.S.W. Leg.
Council referendum campaign, makes one
first-rate point. Under the old system, as
we discovered through half a century, it
was terribly difficult to abolish or even radi-
cally amend the Chamber: this could only
be done by “swamping” it, and a Governor
had to be persuaded to nominate enough
members to do that. In other States, under
an elective ■ system, it is just as difficult to
bring in reform, because the Council itself
nearly always stands in the way. Under
the scheme to be voted on next month the
Council cannot stand in the way of reform;
if the popular House says at any time that
the Council must go, and the people in a
referendum agree, then go it must, whether
it is willing or not. No measure ever put
control so absolutely in the people’s hands.
Japan’s claim that the British arms em-
bargo will not affect it, since it can and does
make better weapons, aeroplanes, etc., than
any other country can supply, is open to doubt.
In any case the Customs returns for 1931
show that Nippon’s imports of firearms were
seven times those of the previous year, while
last January’s were 30 times those for
January, 1931. Japan is an excellent coun-
try for snipe and duck, but it is hard to
believe that this big increase was due to
the sudden development of field shooting.
Dear Bulletin, —If the poll in W.A.
results in a verdict for secession, Lang will
be largely responsible for it. When you
probe to the heart of some of the anti-
Federal opinions you find a fear grounded
on what Lang and his cohorts did and con-
template doing. Such resolutions as have
recently been carried by these impatient
gentlemen don’t help to allay apprehensions
that the future is full of perils for people
over 2000 miles away from their centre of
control. These fearful ’Gropers say that
if there is going to be a Socialisation of in-
dustry, it had better have its own bit of
the experiment carried out from Beaufort-
street, under Phil Collier, than from Mac-
quarie-street under Lang.—Yours etc., Bill
Ding.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bloggs”: Of all the garments invented
by ruthless Fashion to show up ageing
females beach pyjamas and their variations
are surely the most effective. Pyjamas,
shorts and slacks look seemly and attrac-
tive when worn by the average girl in her
teens, and by some girls in their twenties.
MORE DISTURBANCES IN THE MONEY MARKET.
"That thruppence auntie sent me for my money-box has given me such a pain, Billy.”
But then girls and children can get away
with anything in the sartorial line. Most
Sydney women begin to thicken in the wrong
places at about 30. After 35 there are few
bizarre fashions they can adopt without look-
ing complete asses. Yet the beaches teem
every fine Sunday with misguided dames got
up in ape-like imitation of Mack Sennett
bathing beauties. I took the trouble to make
an inventory of the garments of one whose
car was parked near mine at Bondi the
other day, and noted among other comicali-
ties a colored hat with a brim about six feet
in circumference, shorts half-way up the
tlngh a completely backless bathing-suit and
sandals disclosing a pair of feet that half
a dozen decades of ill-treatment had irre-
trievably ruined. Absurdly got-up elderly
and old women are comparatively rare in
most countries. They are so common in the
vicinity of every N. S. Wales surfing beach
that when Eric Campbell comes back, over-
throws the Stevens Government and estab-
lishes a Hitler dictatorship, I mean to ask
him to make a start by forcing every Sydney
woman of 35 and over who bathes to wear a
neck-to-ankle garment in the water, and some-
thing correspondingly concealing out of the
water. It isn’t a question of ethics hut of
aesthetics.
* * * *
“Pursuivant”: With all respect, London’s
coat of arms, ancient though it be, is illegal
(B. 8/3/’33), the city never having paid the
necessary fees to the College of Heralds.
Otherwise the signboard is all right. The
crest did not derive from “the vertical fan-
shaped guard placed on a knight’s helmet,”
since there were a hundred different shapes
of helmets, and the heraldic knight’s helmet
was perfectly plain. It was purely a helmet
ornament, and was not introduced into
Britain until w 7 ell after the Norman period.
In Britain no one can assume more than
tw 7 o crests, and even two require a special
grant from the Crown. In Germany and
Austria, nobles of 16 quarterings can mount
the crests of the whole 16!
“Chevroford”: A
case in which a blind
man, while crossing a
road, was knocked
down and killed by a
motor-lorry moved the
Melbourne Coroner to
suggest that blind, or
partially-blind, people
should help motorists
by carrying white
sticks. I would go
further and suggest
that women who walk
on the sides of path-
less roads at night
should wear white
stockings and men
white trousers.
Cyclists should also
have a piece of ruby
glass or a white plate
affixed to the rear of
their vehicles. If
these classes of citi-
zens knew just how 7
hard they are to see
they would never ven-
ture on a road with-
out some device for improving the motorist’s
visibility.
* * * :fc
“The Langsuyar”; I see that Sir Oliver
Lodge has deposited with the British Psy-
chical Research Society a sealed envelope
containing a message which he proposes
to communicate through an appropriate
medium after he has passed over. Sir Oliver
may be an eminent scientist —I believe he
is the inventor of a lightning guard which
has seriously curtailed the activities of
demons dedicated to the destruction by elec-
tricity of churches and other buildings—
but he shows a gross ignorance of the condi-
tions ruling in the other world. There trade-
unionism, fortified by Arbitration-Court
awards, is the accepted order. I myself am
a financial member of the Amalgamated
Society of Graveyard Ghouls, operating
mainly in Malaya. Our society contains
demons of the most frightful aspect and ter-
rible potentialities. We would resent
strongly any attempt of non-unionists to
haunt cemeteries or intercept placatory offer-
ings, and would take the most drastic mea-
sures to circumvent such unauthorised acti-
vities, such as the boycott and picketing.
Unemployment is rife, 33 p.c. of our mem-
bers being on the dole, and work for sus-
tenance is absolutely prohibited as being
contrary to union principles; and Sir Oliver
will find the greatest difficulty in finding em-
ployment, even in the unskilled job of com-
municating with fashionable English
mediums.
* * * *
“Coif” : There is machinery for getting rid
of a peer (B. 8/3/’33), but it. takes an Act
of Parliament. The leading case is that of
a Duke of Bedford who was de-mnked in
Edward IV.’s reign because he was too hard
up to maintain the dignity of his position.
Incidentally, many a nobleman of to-day
would be in a tight place if this precedent
were followed. A peerage may be forfeited
on conviction by attainder, but not for felony
or misdemeanor. A peer may not volun-
tarily resign, either, once his patent lias been
made out, though he may if it hasn’t been.
The notorious Joe Robinson, the South
African millionaire, took advantage of
this. The offer of a peerage to Robinson,
already a baronet, caused such a storm of
indignation in Britain as well as South
Africa that permission was sought to decline
the honor. This was granted, as the patent
had not been made out, though Robinson
had accepted the title.
“Mells”: It is significant that the peer
who reappeared in the House of Lords after
having served twelve months’ imprisonment
for felony (B. 8/2/’33) hadn’t previously
availed himself of his prescriptive right of
being tried by that House. Obviously he
might have done, for the law 7 is clear enough
THE EYE-OPENER.
MRS. PILSNIPPET: “It says that some forms of blindness can now be cured.”
MR. P.: “Yes. One good way is to marry the girl.”
on that point. Even at the beginning of this
century a peer (Earl Russell) elected to be
tried by his peers, and not by the ordinary
Courts of Law, for bigamy. Probably it
made no great difference to the result, for
though the Lord Chancellor and some two
hundred peers sat as both judges and jury-
men, ten High Court Judges were called in
to give any professional advice that might
be needed. His Lordship was convicted and
given three months. That was the first
“trial before Peers” for 60 years, and there
was a general impression—well founded
apparently—that the privilege was hardly
likely to be claimed again.
* * * *
“Macti”: Although a fairly close check is
kept on the revolver- and pistol-buying public,
anyone can buy a pocket-knife and no ques-
tions asked. Yet, now that a noted crimino-
logist has demonstrated that every knife-
blade has its own particular characteristics,
and that no two knives cutting a small
branch, for instance, leave identical marks
in the wood, knife-blade markings may yet
play their part in the detection of crime.
In fact, they may yet prove almost as useful
as fingerprints.
“F.A.R.” (Holly-
wood) : The Immigra-
tion people in the
United States are full
of tricks. You know
how careful they are
over here to see that
a foreigner doesn’t
overstay his welcome.
Unless you can show
that you were admit-
ted under the quota
system or are in by
special permit, you are
liable to find yourself
on a boat, as Uncle
Sam’s guest, in the
third cabin—a return-
ed empty. Naturally,
there are thousands of
English men and
women busy dodging
the authorities;
wherefore the autho-
rities think up some
scheme 1 to beat them.
Noel .Coward insisted
that only English
people should be used
for his “Cavalcade”
picture; so the Fox
casting office rode through Hollywood
with a dragnet out for English people.
Everyone who had a broad “a” on his tongue
got a job of some sort. That was the big
chance for Uncle Sam’s men. Where the
English are gathered together, illegal immi-
grants are in the middle of them. So one
night Uncle Sam took out a net, drove a
waggon to the Fox lot, put in some extra
work himself, and then loaded 42 hapless
Englishers on the cart and drove ’em to the
dock, so to speak—all on a charge of over-
staying their time-allowance. It’s a hard
world.
* ■ * * *
“Hotham”: An unusual case came before
the Victorian Banco Court recently and had
an unusual finish. A returned soldier success-
fully tendered some years ago for one of the
expropriated German plantations in New
Guinea. He picked the place from the official
description and a map which showed it to be
an island —an important point, since the
mainland plantations were notoriously sub-
ject to cocoanut pests. After paying down
£lsioo the new owner inspected his purchase,
to find it was on the mainland and not
according to specifications in other respects.
Further, he alleged that the Government had
found its maps and description were in error
before the deal was completed but had omitted
to inform him. He claimed damages and
the return of his £l5OO. Judge Wasley
described the Government’s treatment of the
plaintiff as “shocking.” He desired to give
judgment for plaintiff, but would wait to give
the Government a chance “to do the decent
thing” before delivering it. That phrase has
often been heard in the lower Courts in cases
where ladies and gentlemen were concerned,
but it is something new in Banco
*** ' *
“Spasebo”: It doesn’t seem to have
occurred to any of the paragraphists who
have been recounting how they obtained rail-
way compartments to themselves that they
were doing a rather anti-social thing. I
am reminded of a trip I made across Siberia
with a dying consumptive aboard. There
were 16 people in a compartment designed
to accommodate 10, but the prevailing sen-
timent was one of interest in and commisera-
tion for the ailing man until an English
engineer got in. H'e immediately took ex-
ception to the presence of the invalid on
sanitary grounds. The Russians sympathised
with his ideals, but “Nicliovo,” they said;
“what could one do?” The Englishman com-
plained to the stationmastcr, -without result.
At the next station he wired to High Autho-
rity at Petrograd. High Authority wired
back instructions that he should be given a
compartment to himself; so a first-class car-
riage was hitched on, and he finished his
journey in splendid isolation. That was
before the war. The incident was typical of a
certain instinctive Communism in the Rus-
sian character which I hope the official
Communism of the revolution won’t destroy.
❖ Sji S|S
“Morehead”: How’s this for insult piled
on injury? I lost a copy of “South Wind”
while at a picture show. I was hopeful
that it would be returned, as my name and
the address of the newspaper which employs
me were both written on the fly-leaf. Imagine
my feelings when I received instead an
unsigned letter which ran as follows :
Dear Sir, —I found last Saturday a novel belong-
ing to you called “South Wind.” I read it during
the week-end and enjoyed it immensely. I wonder
if you could tell me something about the life of
the author and whether he has written any other
works. You can answer through the columns of
your paper under the initials “X.Y.Z.”
❖ :J: $
“Rokko”: The womenfolk of a Sydney
family were pleasantly interested when
their maid announced her engagement
two days after the daughter of the house
had become affianced. Thereafter when
buying trousseau items for the daughter they
frequently included one of lesser value for
Emma, who was a splendid maid. A week
before the daughter’s wedding the family
returned from a shopping expedition with
the usual small gift for Emma. Emma
was missing. So was a goodly portion of
the other bride-to-be’s expensive clothing. A
neighbor reported having seen Emma leav-
ing by car with three very large suitcases.
No young man corresponding to Emma’s
fiance has been discovered, but the girl con-
siderately left behind most of the trousseau .
gifts the family had given her, having pre-
sumably plenty of better quality to go on
with.
❖ * ❖ *
“Gelert”: At a deputation to the N.S.W.
Minister of Agriculture, an enthusiast for
the Alsatian dog declared that “the
genealogical tree of the Alsatian had been
traced back for 12,000 years and there was
no wolf in him.” It would be interesting to
know who did the tracing, and how. The
earliest record of the dog in historic times is
to be found in the figures on Egyptian monu-
ments, doubtfully more than 5000 years old.
And in these the greyhound mostly gets pride
of place, suggesting that it is far the oldest
of domesticated canine breeds. As for the
Alsatian or any other species of dog having
no wolf in his ancestral tree, Darwin thought
otherwise. His judgment was that all domes-
tic dogs are “descended from two species
of wolves (Canis lupus and Cams latrans),
from two or three other doubtful species
of wolves, from at least one or two South
American canine species, from several races
or species of the jackal, and perhaps from
one or more extinct species.” And from this
vast and comprehensive blend has been
evolved what Cuvier pronounced “the com-
pletest, the most singular and the most use-
ful conquest ever made by man.”
HE COULDN’T SEE HIS WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lyons suggested that he, Mr. Scullin and
Mr. Paterson should speak from the same platform
in Westraiia against the Secession referendum. Mr.
Paterson said he would first have to consult the
Country party; Mr. Scullin, after four days’ con-
sideration, could not see his way to take part in
such a campaign.”
“O who will o’er the Trans, with me, O who
will with me ride
To fight the cut-the-painter push upon the
other side?
O who will go with me,” said Joe, “to save
Australia from
These evil counsels? Hurry, Jim, and pull
your socks up, Tom !
The leaders we of parties three, allied and
talking straight,
What towers of commonsense we’d be, what
Ruperts of debate!”
Quoth Tom, “But, Joe, I first must know
What Cocky colleagues say.”
And Jim, he shook his whitening head
And helpless hands to Heav’n outspreau.
"I cannot see my way,” he said,
“I cannot see my way.”
“O say not so,” said pleading Joe. “We
three the bridge might hold,
As valiant Horatius and his cobbers did
of old.
In me they’d see, I’ll guarantee, a replica
of him,
And you’d be Spurius Lartius, Tom, and
you Herminius, Jim.
You twain would stand on either hand Seces-
sion’s ranks to rout;
With burning words, not flashing swords,
we’d lay their champions out.”
Said Tom, “Hold on! Each pro and con
My crowd must first assay,”
While Jim his handkerchief applied—
A frown to cloak? A tear to hide? —*
“I cannot see my way,” he sighed,
“I cannot see my way.”
“We see alike and think alike for once,”
asserted Joe,
“For saneness’ sake why shouldn’t we take
the stump and tell ’em so?
There’s stacks and shoals of harried souls
that sadly need advice,
And ours, if we combined, would cut con-
siderable ice.
Say, if we three in amity across the Trans,
should lob,
There’d be no telling the effect on that mis-
guided mob.”
Says Tom, “Maybe, but as for me
I’ve orders to obey.”
And Jim —ah! why are men so prone
To list to faction’s call alone? —
Can only wring his hands and groan,
“I cannot see my way.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.P.”: A frenzied feminine voice over
the ’phone reporting “A burglar in my bed!”
brought the Colac (Vic.) police hot-foot to
a house that had already been picketed by
helpful neighbors. Straight to the bedroom
they went and dragged from his slum-
bers a musical-comedy spectacle, a drunk
in silk stockings and nightie, to which
he had helped himself after disrobing
and before retiring. He went with his
captors quietly, if unsteadily, distribut-
ing an aroma of alcohol mingled with eau-de-
ON THE ROCKS.
UNCLE WILLIAM: “Oh, well —you and your young man can
have a good time now, but you’ll find you’ll have to
get down to bedrock when you’re married.”
BEATRICE: “Perhaps, Uncle! But those old-fashioned cradles
are terribly out of date, you know.”
Cologne. “Guilty, please, yer wash-ups,” he
mumbled in the court next morning. “Got
some onion-picking—spent me money in beer
•—don’ ’member nothink uv anythink.” Six
months was his portion.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: At a Sydney suburban
court the other day a defendant who had
been fined asked for time to pay. “And
will you accept a cash order?” he inquired.
* * * *
“Office Doctor”: A timely plea for con-
sideration for the insane has just been made
by a Melbourne specialist, who points out
that these patients are not wild beasts and
that there is no need for people driving
through ■ the grounds to stop their cars
to stare at them. 'He lays another
bogey with his assurance that mental
patients are no more likely to assault
or Kill anybody than the average citizen is.
Very many of them are only abnormal on
their pwn particular coniplex and. are per-
fectly sane on other matters; so much so
that the.. specialist asks certain of them
for advice on subjects with which they
are conversant. Another bubble that needs
pricking is that persons, who have been
mental cases are kept in hospitals long
after their sanity has returned. The
Melbourne doctor is convinced that, com-
pared with the difficulty of getting into
a mental hospital, getting out is childishly
easy. Relatives have only to apply to get
the patient home on “trial leave” and have
him seen by an outside doctor, who hasn't
even to certify that he is sane.
Hi Hi Hi
“Umzimkulu” : The death of one Solomon,
described as the paramount chief of the
Zulus and the grandson of the celebrated
Cetewayo, directs attention to a scrap of
South Africa where polygamy still flourishes.
The aptly - named
Solomon had 64
wives, and he must
have been well on
the right side of 40,
for he was born in
St. Helena, whither
his father, Dinizulu,
was transported for
rebellion in 1895.
Dinizulu had also
married extensively,
and one of his griev-
ances was that he
was allowed only
three of his wives in
the island prison
which Napoleoh had
occupied before him
and Cronje was to
occupy later. • An-
other Zulu chief, who
once confided to an
enterprising news-
paper man that he
had forgotten the
number of his wives
and had no idea of the
number of his child-
ren, was, strange
though it may seem,
a Scotsman, John
Dunn. John had
settled in Zululand
as a trader 20 years
before the Zulu War
of 1579, in which he
was able to give the
British some assist-
ance. After the war
he was confirmed in
his “chieftainship,”
and the fact that lie
had conformed to
Zulu ways in his
matrimonial enterprises was not held
against him—indeed, it is doubtful if he
could have become even a minor chief with-
out it. John died in 1895.
* * * *
“Fasti”: Quite a number of newspapers
drew attention to the recent arrival of a
day when one could date a letter (in the
modern commercial style) by the use of
only one figure—3/3/’33—and discoursed
pleasantly on the fact that a similar com-
bination of numerals wouldn’t arrive for
another 11 years. As curious as it is wide-
spread is tne intrigue of these calendar
commonplaces. Even a great poet may occa-
sionally get a glimmer of inspiration from
them. Tennyson put it picturesquely enough
in 1888:
The century’s three strong eights have met
To drag me down to seventy-nine.
It will be 66 years before anyone can frame
another metaphor on those lines.
“Whitehall”: Syd-
ney Ferries are talk-
ing of starting speed-
boat services across
the harbor. The ven-
ture is years overdue,
and one service at
least that between
the south shore and
the Zoo —should be a
goldmine from the
jump. Taronga Park
is easily the world’s
loveliest Zoo, and it
is among the best-
stocked ; but it is also
one of the most in-
accessible to the bulk
of a city popula-
tion. Speedboats,
built to accommodate
up to 30 persons in
sheltered comfort,
could whisk passen-
gers across from any
of the wharves be-
tween Woolloomooloo
and .Watson’s Bay in
a matter of minutes.
Schools would start
visiting Taronga in
mass-formation ; there
would be kids’ birth-
day parties, picnics
and treats by the
score; and thousands
of grown-ups who find
it too troublesome and
costly at present to
trapse round by road
from Potts Point or
Edgecliff, or to go to
the Quay and catch an infrequent ferry-
boat. there, would develop a habit of
dashing across by the short route for visits
of half an hour or so. Sydney Harbor
may be likened at present to a river with
only one ford. Also, to a magnificent road-
way which most people never cross except
at certain points. The bridge has really
done little more than the Milson’s Point
steamers to bring the eastern and north-
eastern suburbs together.
* * * *
“Soso”: Broken Hill runs on Adelaide
time, which is 30 minutes later than Sydney
time. A good many years ago, however, in
a quarter-sessions liquor case, a misinter-
pretation of the relative times took place,
the Judge ruling that The H'ill was half
an hour ahead of Sydney. The result has
been that since then the pubs have always
opened at 6.30 a.m., and closed first at
11.30 p.m. and (since the 1916 referen-
dum) at 6.30 p.m.. which time is 7 p.m. in
Sydney. Those 30 minutes mean a good
deal to the Barrier publican.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The question of whether the
stately spires planted on St. Paul’s in Mel-
bourne won’t some day prove too much for
that noble structure is worth consider-
ing. Already slight movements have been
observed, especially amongst the gables, some
of which have departed from the precise
perpendicular. The trouble as yet does not
amount to much but it is causing slight
frowns on the otherwise smooth brows of the
responsible authorities. St. Paul’s is one of
the finest examples of Gothic in Australia
and it is far too young to be showing signs
REAL ESTATE.
“I believe she turned him down till he showed her the
city property he owned.”
“Ah, yes; they told me it was a case of love at first site.”
of decrepitude. It was opened by Bishop
Gore in 1891.
* * * *
“Ken.net”: The League of Nations has
admittedly done some good work in matters
unconnected with wars, and one of the little
things it is now suggested that it might
overhaul is the management of the Suez
Canal, which has been described by a high
Indian official as a parasitic growth on the
world’s shipping, whose extortionate charges
enable it to pay 40 p.c. divs. France, it is
asserted, has absolute control of the enter-
prise, the ten British directors being merely
figureheads who draw £4OOO a year apiece
for attending monthly meetings in Paris and
being overruled if they differ from the
majority. Considering that Britain bought
176,602 shares out of 400,000 in 1875, it
seems strange that it has not secured more
voice in the administration of a business
towards which British shipping must have
paid more than all other countries put to-
gether.
* * * #
“Splash”: The sport of aquaplaning—
being pulled behind a speedboat while stand-
ing precariously on a plank—which has
become popular on Sydney Harbor and else-
where, has given naval experts a hint. The
Swedish navy has been experimenting with
a strip of canvas trailing behind like an
Irishman’s coat at a fair. When the ship
is running at a good bat this stretches out
flat and taut, enabling
aeroplanes to land on
it. These then taxi up
to the stern of the
ship, where the ’planes
are hoisted in again
with the usual cranes.
The dodge is only in-
tended for use in
Baltic waters, which
are comparatively
calm. A pilot landing
on the canvas in a
choppy seaway would
probably have the
pleasure of buckjump-
riding added to his
other experiences.
He s*s
“St. Giles”: One
result of the modern
revival of the mid-
Victorian craze for
what were then styled
lapdogs has been the
resuscitation of the
dog-stealing industry,
which once numbered
its practitioners in
hundreds in the West
End of London and
other f ashionable
centres. Most of the
“nice little dawgs”
stolen are swiftly sold,
this being more profit-
able than “finding”
the tyke and return-
ing it for the reward.
As a result there has
been a lot of litigation
in claims and counter-
claims to some of
these strays, and
someone has come for-
ward with the sugges-
tion that each dog
should have its nose-
print taken for identification purposes.
This expert asserts that the prints, like
those of human thumbprints, are indivi-
dual and are never duplicated. The scheme
has its points; still, the taking of the nose-
print of a pug or bulldog would be no light
job.
** r * • *
“S.T.S.”A sidelight on modern social
London. The good, clean old “Graphic”
has just died; the “Bystander,” which has
a distinct peerage appeal, has started a per-
sonal column of the kind that nearly every
up-country paper in Australia tried —and
chucked in disgust—a generation back. For
example: “Why has a certain ex-deb. been
barred from a Scottish house-party this
year?” “Burn those incriminating photo-
graphs, please, pretty lady, with oh! so little
brains!” “Who likes Mother’s Ruin?”
“Who has green sheets?” It is the sort of
column in which any cat can work off her
spite on another.
* * * *
“Wauwera”: No need to go back to the
early days of Australia for duels (B.
l/2/’33) ; plenty of Diggers will never forget
a difference that was settled with service
rifles in Palestine near the end of ’l7. The
combatants were two n.c.o.’s, and one of
them received a mortal wound. The sur-
vivor was court-martialled, ably defended by
a Maoriland lawyer who was at the time a
trooper in a Canterbury squadron, and
acquitted. Ilis advocate was killed in action
a few months later.
* * * *
“Mendelian”: At the recent International
Congress of Genetics in New York emphasis
was laid on the fact that the study of man-
kind’s hereditary characters and complexi-
ties is far more important than similar
research among the brute creation. Yet it
is not nearly so advanced because, “while
lower animals can be mated in any way
the experimenter desires, there is difficulty
jn getting selective human matings for gene-
tical study.” The difficulty is obvious, even
in an age which sees more people than ever
before ready to martyr themselves for
science. So far the only downright and
avowed experimenter in “selective human
matings”—in a civilised country, anyhow—•
seems to have been the father of Frederick
the Great, of Prussia, and as he was a
good deal of an absolute monarch he had
a pull over modern professors. Nothing
pleased this ruler more, according to his-
torians, than such selective mating as he
could compass between men and women of
more than ordinary physique and stature.
Still, Frederick only aimed at physical
results, such as ideal lifeguardsmen, and
how far he succeeded in those aims: we have
very little means of knowing.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: It looks as if London’s
welcome to American tourists and American
dollars (B. 8/3/’33) has been suddenly cut
off at the meter following on President
Roosevelt’s proclamation giving the Federal
Government sole control of American finance.
English shops and public institutions are
refusing American money, and cheques on
American banks are mere scraps of paper.
Even the Stock Exchange, while dealing in
all other national currencies, declines to
have anything to do with the once-almighty
dahlar. For the moment at least the situa-
tion from the American tourist’s point of
view is worse than it was in August, 1914.
Then, if he had no money in Europe, there
was comfort in the fact that there was some
in the bank at home.
* * * *
“Spokeshave” : Touching improved methods
of purchasing titles in Britain (B. l/3/’33).
I was in a Surrey private hospital in 1914,
and the owner-doctor was intensely inter-
ested in the progress towards Valhalla of
a local magnate who had made a fortune
out of tomato soup. He had subscribed
liberally to party funds, but the party man-
ager, anticipating Nurse Cavell, had told
him that “patriotism was not enough.”
There was nothing in the plutocrat’s past
that would have provided sufficient reasons
for an expression of public gratitude, so it
MATURED ADVICE.
“Yes, he vas engaged to pe married to my daughter, and he
ran away mit another girl.”
“Veil, don’t plame me. I told him to do ter decent thing and
leave it till aftervards.”
was decided that he should present an eques-
trian statue in copper of some eminent mili-
tary man—l have forgotten whom —to the
nation. The commission was given to a
sculptor, and the work got under way. The
job was practically completed when the war
broke out. The statue was never erected.
My doctor friend wmnt to France, and in
the course of operations on German wounded
may have renewed his acquaintance with
some of it. The soup man’s claims to con-
sideration had receded into the background
twice as. quickly as the price of copper had
gone up.
A RARE BARGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young, handsome, prosperous farmer, lovely home,
would like meet sensible girl.”— “Age” view-mat. ad.
What bids for a youthful bucolic Apollo?
Though cockies persistently grumble and
croak.
It doesn’t (observe) of necessity follow
They’re all of them wholly or partially
broke.
He’s still doing fine with his wheat and his
butter,
He’s no maledictions at Fortune to hurl:
And he’s made up his mind for a conjugal
flutter.
So all that he wants is a sensible girl.
His physical beauty but part of his pull is;
He’s parried disaster and weathered
Depresh.
I’ll bet that they’re pictures, his milkers and
woollies,
And his porkers are hillocks of succulent
flesh.
He’s lots in the locker, but lo ! he is lonely,
So he’s giving the best of all lotteries a
whirl,
And he can’t be accounted exacting who only
Demands for his soul-mate a sensible girl.
What bids for a thriving and rustic Adonis,
With an elegant homestead in Arcady set?
For plump or for slender no preference
shown is :
She may be a blonde and she may be
brunette,
Home-grown or imported, a fluttering
charmer,
Or of quiet reserve and discretion a pearl.
What bids for a comely and affluent farmer
Whose desideratum’s a sensible. girl?
Though tracks that are stony some cockies
are treading,
And others for Queer-street will growl that
they’re heading,
Here’s a flag with a signal of cheer to
unfurl—
A prosperous Corydon waiting for wedding
Who bargains for nothing but sense in
a girl.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“Competition has compelled other petrol
producers to adopt like methods of control,
but the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR
SPIRIT sets a standard of quality not only
in this country but throughout the world.”
from the Official Organ of the Institution at
Automobile Engineers
SHELL IS BETTER
SHELL
COMPANY
LIMITED.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
N. S. Wales, Victoria, Westralia and S.
Aus. all have home-grown Premiers, Sydney,
Kyneton, Bunbury and Moonta having pro-
vided them with their respective heads. The
Speck’s McPhee was born at Yan Yean
(Vic.), and Queensland’s Forgan Smith
hails from Perthshire (Scotland).
Colonel Tom ' White, promoted to the
Cabinet, has been succeeded as Chairman
of Committees in the Reps, by W. M. Nairn,
M.11.R. for Perth. Nairn is a lawyer who
was previously a journalist; his first job as
a reporter was on the (long-deceased) “Morn-
ing Herald,” of Perth, where he had as a col-
league James Weatherston, now in charge
of Federal “Hansard” —that was back in the
’nineties. The Nairns have a taste for poli-
tics ; an elder brother sat for a couple of
terms in the Westralian Assembly.
C. A. Dalton, who replaces Jack Bailey
as boss of the A.W.U. in N. S. Wales, was
born at Terawarra 34 years ago. H’e became
an active member of the old Railway Workers
and General Laborers’ Association; when
the A.W.U. swallowed that body he trans-
ferred his energies to the Railway Workers’
Industry Branch, in which ho held many
of the key positions. He has been an A.W.U.
rep. on works all over the State and has
conducted cases before the Arbitration Court.
He goes to Macdonell House from a job
in the railway workshops at Chullora.
After little Percy Coleman lost the
Reid seat at the last Federal election he
concentrated on the State fight against Lang
at Auburn ; beaten there, he returned to his
legal studies. He was admitted to the Bar
last week. Coleman left his M.L. home as
a boy to go to sea; later he entered the
office of the Seamen’s Union, and from there
went to the secretaryship of the Clerks’
Union.
Hard times suit only one business in a
thousand, and George J. Coles struck the
one. His co.—G. J. Coles, Ltd. —went into
the Australian equivalent of the American
5- and 10-cent store, and in 1932 made a
profit of over £BO,OOO. The Coleses (there
are four of them on the board) opened their
first little shop in Collingwood in 1913,
and then the brothers went off to the war.
Coming back they at once started to build
GEORGE J. COLES, armed with his
favorite weapon, takes home a dividend.
up a chain of half-crown shops; and last
week it was announced that the co. had
bought two blocks of land in Sydney, one
from Mark Foy’s and the other from Sydney
Snow’s, on which a £200,000 building will
be at once erected. Incidentally, Sydney
Snow’s take shares in the business in pay-
ment.
The N.S.W. Leg. Council has lost a
veteran member in George Frederick Earp.
A Nottingham man, he came to N. S. Wales
50 years ago and founded the firm of Earp
Bros, and Cb., colliery proprietors and ship-
ping merchants. He was a director of
several other enterprises, and worked for
many good causes, including health societies,
benevolent societies and hospitals. During the
war his activities were strenuous and com-
prehensive ; he was one of the joint treas-
urers of the Polish Relief Fund, and the
post-war Government of the, brand-new Re-
public made him Consul-General.
As far back as the mind of the Oldest
Inhabitant will carry him there have been
Tolleys in the
wine - and - spirit
business in South
Aus., and to-day
Sam Tolley is pre-
sident of the
State’s Wine-
growers’ Associa-
tion and a delegate
to the Federal
council of vigner-
ons. He is a direc-
tor of Tolley, Scott
and Tolley, Ltd..
whose T.S.T.
brandy is on the
shelves all through
the C o m m o 11-
wealth : their dis-
tilleries are at
Nuriootpa and
Stepney. As pre-
sident of the S.A.
association he has
had to listen to
many tales of woe.
Several firms are
right off the
market, on account
of their large
stocks, and one
estimate for the
Barossa district
alone makes the
probable surplus of
grapes this season
5000 to 6000 tons
—the total crop
will be about
SAM TOLLEY, of
Adelaide.
16,000 tons. Mr.
Tolley is S. Australian-born, an old St.
Peter’s boy, and came back from the war a
captain.
John McFarland, that sturdy Caledonian
octogenarian, who has already served in the
job for 15 years, has been made chancellor
of Melbourne Uni. for another year. His
fellow-knight. James Barrett, who is 71,
continues as vice-chancellor.
Tommy Maughan, secretary of the Mines
and Metals Association, who is to be
a delegate to the International Labor
Conference at Geneva next month, was for
years secretary of the Chamber of Mines,
Kalgoorlic. He is a brother-in-law of
Richard Hamilton, perhaps the most notable
mine manager the Golden Mile has ever had.
Maughan, as the first witness in an industrial
case, was cross-examined by the late Tommy
Walker as Labor Attorney-General. “Now,
Mr. Maughan,” Walker began impressively
and with withering emphasis, “I want you to
tell me exactly of what your Chamber con-
sists.” “Members,” said the other Tommy
drily.
McCallum Smith, proprietor of .Perth
“Sunday Times,” which has been mainly
responsible for the Secession movement in
Westralia, wasn’t always a ’Groper. As a
youngster he came to Sydney from the north
of Scotland and got a job as manager, pub-
lisher, accountant and office-boy of the
“Mining Standard,” in those days run by
a speculator in many things named Edward
Wilkinson Bathurst —its offices were in a
cellar where the Commonwealth Bank’s head
office now is. But Bathurst crashed, and
McCallum Smith took his fine business head
to Coolgardie, moved to Perth, got into poli-
tics but never allowed them to interfere with
his money-making, bought a few sheep
stations and was deputy-chairman of the
Bank of W.A. when the Wales swallowed it.
His “Sunday Times” has harbored some of
the most competent journalists in Aus-
tralia.
Melbourne IJni. has to operate some quaint
bequests. One was left by William Thomas
Mollison, of Westminster, about whom
practically nothing is known. He founded a
scholai-ship, worth £230 a year, for French
one year, Italian the next and Hindustani,
Arabic and Japanese in rotation in the third.
Hindustani and Arabic have since been
dropped. The winner of the last Japanese
year, which was 192.9, was P. A. Russo, who
went to Japan under the terms of the
scholarship and later landed a job with a
Japanese delegation to Europe. Bulletin
contributor Brian Fitzpatrick won the Hin-
dustani award in 1924.
Judge F. E. T. Krause, who has become
Judge President of the Orange Free State
Bench, boasts a distinction unique among
Empire Judges. Crown Prosecutor at
Johannesburg when the British occupied the
Transvaal, he was later indicted for high
treason —he had taken the oath of allegiance
to Britain —and of inciting the killing of
one Douglas Foster, the president of an
Uitlander society. The treason charge was
not proceeded with, but Krause was con-
victed of the other offence and sentenced to
two years’ gaol, which was served in Britain.
He was disbarred by the Benchers of his
English Inn, but on his return to South
Africa was readmitted to the Bar by the
Transvaal Court on the ground that his
offence was a political one “to further the
cause for which he had fought.”
Jack McNeill, new secretary of the
A.W.U. in N. S. Wales, was born near Mil-
licent (S.A.), where his dad settled in the
middle of last century. Jack left home at
18, and followed the life of a shearer all
over south-east Australia. In the early
’nineties he took to cockying at Woosnag
(Vic.) ; then the gold discoveries drew him
to Westralia. Returning to Victoria, he
was shearing at Melool in 1901 when
Ted Grayndler secured him as an organ-
iser for the Victoria-Riverina branch of
the A.W.U. Later he went north and
Worked for the Charleville (Q.) branch.
In 1913 he was shifted back to the Vic-
toria-Riverina branch to take over the sec-
retaryship vacated by Jack Barnes, who had
been elected to the Senate. In 1922 McNeill
won the Wannon (Vic.) Federal seat, lost it
in 1928, won it again in 1929, and lost it
again in 1931. For a time he was Minister
for Health in the Scullin Ministry.
Josiah Keys, was 103 when he died at his
son’s farm near Balclutha (M.L.). In ’47
he migrated from Ireland to U.S.A., and
was apprenticed to the engineering trade in
Philadelphia. Later he grew sugar in Cuba;
after several trips to his native land lie made
his final move to M.L. He had vivid recol-
lections of the Irish famine of “the hungry
’forties.”
Over 100 lawyers foregathered at the
Local Court, Perth, to join in a farewell to
G. T. Wood, R.M., who has presided there
for the last 11 years, and who is retiring at
70. There were more wigs and a sprinkling
of silks at a later ceremony. Wood was
Crown Prosecutor when an R.M.’s billet was
pressed upon him. He put in 12 years in
that capacity at Broome and reached Perth
after a spell at Bunbury. J. F. McMillan,
son of Westralia’s last C.J., steps into
Wood’s shoes as a Perth R.M.
Vic.’s new Sec. for Lands, F. T. A. Fricke,
is a bundle of energy, even at the three-
score years with which the public-service
list debits him. Joining the Lands Depart-
ment as a junior 44 years ago, he has spent
the whole of his official life there except for
four years, when he represented Vic. as
immigration and general agent in San Fran-
cisco. His brother, F.W., is second member
of the Country Roads Board.
Archbishop Sharp, of Brisbane, has
stepped into Archbishop Wright’s shoes as
Primate till a new man is appointed. Queer
how the two have grown up together. As
youhgsters they were neighbors in England,
one at Manchester, the other at Leeds. But
Dr. Wright had a pull the other didn’t pos-
sess : he had married the grand-daughter of
Lord Saye and Sele. Then Wright, having
been Archdeacon of Manchester, came on
to Sydney as Archbishop in 1909, and six
months later Sharp arrived at his old friend’s
as first Bishop of New Guinea. There was
Acting-Primate Dr. GERALD SHARP.
nothing more ahead of Dr. Wright; but after
11 years’ splendid service in- New Guinea
Dr. Sharp was chosen Archbishop of Bris-
bane, and as senior he becomes Acting-
Primate. It has been suggested that he
should follow his old friend at Sydney. In
any case, it is now possible for him t 6 be
Primate. No longer is the Primacy fast-
ened down to Sydney: th* archbishops are
directed simply to choose “one of their
number.”
A. H. Stuart, the “S. M. Herald’s” new
general manager, who took over from C. T.
Harris early this year, is proving one of
the most popular g.-m.’s the Old Lady of
Hunter-street has known. He is very young
for the job—only 39 —although Warwick
Fairfax, his chief, is 10 years younger still.
Mr. Stuart was born in England, got his
schooling at Edinburgh, and before coming
to Australia served his apprenticeship on
various English newspapers. After reach-
ing here he was on the “Northern Star,”
Lismore, before linking up with the Fair-
faxes 17 years ago. The late Tom Heney,
A. H. STUART, new general manager of
“S. M. Herald.”
then editor, saw in young Stuart something
better than the average, reserved him for
star assignments, and encouraged him to
turn his thoughts to leaders. He was given
a term at the sub-editor’s table, too. When
C. T. Harris temporarily vacated the assist-
ant managership in 1925, the late W. G.
Conley chose Stuart to fill the position. Then
for two years he managed the paper’s Fleet-
street office, and on his return joined the
administrative staff. Mr. Stuart is the fifth
general manager the “Herald” has had since
the creation of the office in ’7B. Hugh
George, the first, lasted eight years; Cook
stayed for 20 years; then came Billy Conley,
who died too soon, and C. T. Harris, who
was driven off by ill-health after four years.
All had been journalists except Harris, who,
incidentally, was the only one wholly trained
in the “Herald” office.
Good work in the architectural depart-
ments of both Vic. and Westralia was done
by F. 11. Counsell, just dead in S. Aus.,
before he settled in that State for private
practice some 30 years back. He leaves
two worthy monuments in Adelaide, the
Liberal Club and the State Bank.
Colonel de Lancey Forth, dead in Egypt,
was a Queenshinder with a fine military
record. He served in the Boer War with the
Queensland Imperial Bushmen, won a com-
mission from the ranks, and was seconded
from the Manchester Regiment to the Egyp-
tian Army, where he saw a deal of expedi-
tionary service before 1914. In the Great
War he commanded the Third Battalion of
the Imperial Camel Corps in Palestine, and
later a battalion of the Essex Regiment. The
D. and the M.C. were among his deco-
rations ; he had more than once been badly
wounded, and he died in his early fifties.
T. V. Soong, the Chinese Minister ‘of
Finance, who has ju§t broadcast a curse on
the generals who led their troops from
behind in the recent Jehol shindy, is one of
the few capable .statesmen in the Flowery
Land. Last year be balanced the Budget.
The extent of the achievement is revealed by
the fact that, until Soong came along, China
had never heard of a Budget and wouldn’t
have known the animal if it had seen it.
Soong learnt arithmetic in America.
General Sir Phillip Chetwode, who has,
been promoted to Field-Marshal, is at present
Commander-in-Chief in India. A Buckingham-
shire man, he began his army life with the
19th Hussars and served in Burma (1892)
and the South African War. A brigadier
in France, he had a great reputation as a
cavalry leadei’, gained during the retreat
from Mons, when he went to Sinai to take
over the command of the Desert Column,
the great mounted force, mostly composed of
Australian Light Horse, which was later
commanded by Harry Chauvel, Chetwode
going to the leadership of the 20th Arniy
Corps in Palestine. It was he who. drew up
the plans for the invasion of Palestine which
resulted in the destruction and capture of
the entire Turko-German forces in that
area. A very likeable personality, he "Was
a prime favorite with the Australians in
spite of the fact that he was always very
much of the beau sabreur in outward'appear-
ance. He is 64 —young for a field-marshal,
but well on to retiring age.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the coipmencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
ivr onobe!
£ amsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fus
Detonators
Cartridg, os
Your Last Year’s Will
iViay Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at- the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Call or Write for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Longer Service with
PIONEER BELTING.
In all weathers in tropical climate
and on the most difficult drives
Pioneer Leather Belting has
established records pf economy
and endurance which have never
been equalled. You pay no more
for the guaranteed dependability
of Pioneer Leather Belting.
Write for Catalogue, Price List
and expert advice.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE JOS.T
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDGWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
2C-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Di vi den ds
Pref. Writ- Re-
Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. ten Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1921. . 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10,550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926. .205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460.585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 . .
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
To cover drought and other losses to the
end of 1931, £525,000 was struck off the
ord. capital, reducing it to £75,000 in 2s.
6d. shares. The prefs.—there are 250,000
p.c. cumulative—were not interfered with.
Ever since Europe turned to “baby beef”
from S. America over 10 years ago, the
story has been one of lost markets, drought,
falling prices and rigid costs. When the
price of wool began to soar, sheep offered a
way out, and the co. converted Lucknow
and Cork at a cost of about £BO,OOO. But
the hot sun dried up the watercourses and
left the runs bare. Thus, by the' end of
1929, heavy mortality of livestock and the
cost of hand-feeding and agistment had
gobbled more than half the capital and sent
the co. to its bankers and others for nearly
quarter of a million pounds. Though nature
smiled in the following year, the collapse
of prices spoiled financial results, and re-
adjustment of the book value of livestock
produced another heavy loss in ’3l.
Last year drought stalked the runs again,
and cattle in the Gulf country sold at from
355. to 40s. a head. Thus, on top ,of
the losses of livestock, there was a slip of
£31,003 in the year’s sales:—
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Sales, etc. . . £187,938 £111,213 £103,008 £72,005
Expenses . . 146,073 97,430 127,574 86,845
Depreciation.. 22,413 28,716 24,915 14,191
The adjustment of book values in 1931 was
responsible for the apparent savings in last
year’s exes, and in the allowance for depre-
ciation. Still, the loss on the year’s opera-
tions was £29,030.
Drought expenditure added a further
£22,292 to the debt, raising it to £245,195: —
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £650,000 £850,000 £850,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 135,094 241,390 222,903 245,195
Freeholds .. 68,605 68,774 68.774 68,774
Leaseholds . . 325,524 237,070 216,014 208,287
Plant, etc. . . 85,285 70,780 66,748 65,684
Livestock . . 495,513 231,391 189,394 186,553
Wool .. .. 34,490 5,830 6,000 10,680
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 2,027 972 1,186
The need to reduce the outside debt, which
exceeded more or less liquids by £46,776 at
the end of Dec., seems likely to stand in
the way of the prefs. for some time. At
next balance there will be £140,000 (over
11s. per share) coming to them in accrued
divs.
Hopes are that the Ottawa agreement will
put a little stiffening into the now unprofit-
able prices for cattle and sheep. But the
seasonal outlook is mixed. Last month the
country from the Gulf to Cloncurry aver-
aged from 7in. to Bin. of rain; towards the
Diamantina the fall was no more than 3in.
to sin., and the dryness continued in the
south-west.
Norco Co-op., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
Proflt. Dividends. ten Off. serves serves
£ £ £ £ £
57 425
Oct., ’27 31,600 7 p.c. = 3225 28,499 5 7 ’ 3 o\
June, ’28*47,856 7 „ „ 4477 21,314 22,065 79’366
Dec., ’2B 20,536 7 „ ~ 3423 26,000 70 479
June, ’29 16,540 7 „ „ 3466 12,000 1,074 71V,3
Dec., ’29 18,779 7 „ „ 3865 13,000 1,914 73’' 4 f,7
June, ’3O 36,413 7 „ „ 3879 15,000 17,534 9l’ooi
Dec., ’3O 13,828 5 „ „ 2723 6,000 5,105 96,106
Loss.
June,’3l 2,710 5 „ „ 2621 _ 91 775
Profit.
Dec., ’3l 6,222 5 ~ „ 2638 3,584 94,359
June,’32 9,753 5 „ ~ 2559 1,000 6,194100,553
Dec.,’32 3,502 5 ~ ~ 2577 925101’478
*Eight months.
Last year’s outturn of butter in N. S.
Wales (123,106 0001 b.) was a record, being
4i p.c. heavier than the previous year’s.
But owing to a dry spell (now broken) on
the North Coast, this co.’s production (14,899
tons) was 945 tons lighter. Also, there was
a precipitous drop in prices, both in London
and Sydney, during the December quarter,
when production was at its peak. Hence
there was a contraction of £350.47S in the
co.’s butter sales :
1930. 1931. 1932.
Butter sales .. £2,619,845 £2,412,647 £2,029,282
Bacon sales . . 149,177 135,575 150.361
Sundry • income .. 12,538 9,917 9,534
Total income . . £2,781,560 £2,558,139 £2,189,176
Paid to suppliers. . 2,126,542 1,979,586 1,621,315
Thus, although bacon turned in an extra
£14,786, £358,271 less was distributed to
suppliers ; the average for butter was 10.3 d.
per pound as against 12.68 d. and 13.77 d. for
the two preceding years, and for A 1 pork
4.4 d. as against 4.9 d. in 1931. Selling exes..
etc. (£311,155) were reduced by £4835, and
the Patterson scheme levy (£243;351) was
£15,600 lighter, leaving net profit £9743
stronger at 12.8 p.c. on capital. The div.
was kept at 5 p.c.
The expansion of balance-sheet figures re-
flects steady growth of production:—
0ct.,’27. Dec.,’3o. Dec.,’3l. Dec.,’32.
Paid capital.. £92,047 £108,916 £105,510 £103,072
Sundry creditors 195,311 267,301 336,817 241,212
Overdraft . . 6,586
Plant, etc. . . 123,950 204,298 203,118 215,481
Shares in other
cos. . . 39,078 40,466 46,466 45,466
Stock . . 59,201 48,455 37,734 45,560
Debtors . . 153,141 211,811 191,489 156,571
Cash, etc. . . 48,040 44,174 68,842 1,211
Last year £12,362 net was added to the book
value of plant. To do this, carry an extra
£7826 of stocks and lower the amount com-
ing to_ sundry creditors, mostly consignors,
by £95.605, the board went to its bankers
for £6586 net, reduced debtors’ balance by
£34,91S and drew upon cash, etc., for
£67,631. Altogether, the excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids, excluding
shares in other cos., increased by £5705,
reaching £44,456.
The Ottawa agreement provided for free
entry of butter from the Dominions into
Britain for three years, and for a duty
of 15s. per hundredweight on non-Empire
butter. But the quick growth of consign-
ments to Britain, chiefly from Australia.
New Zealand and Denmark (the Danish in-
crease has been due mainly to German quota
restrictions), has overtaken the expansion of
British consumption and brought about a
glut in the London market. Under this pres-
sure prices have broken, of course. At the
end of 1931 Australian choicest fetched 108 s.
per hundredweight in London and 130 s. Bd.
in Sydney; a year later the figures for the
two centres were 83s. and 121 s. 4d. respec-
tively ; they were 725. and 107 s. 4d. respec-
tively at the end of last week. The London
price had touched 695., the lowest on record.
Moreover, the position threatened to become
much worse before it gets better. To relieve
the pressure the British Government has
suggested to the Dominion and foreign Gov-
ernments concerned restriction of their
exports. The Commonwealth Government,
at first unable to acquiesce in the sug-
gestion, now considers restriction of
some sort inevitable. Either 4 p.c. or 6 p.c.
is the figure spoken of. Double the restric-
tion accepted by Australia will be imposed
by Britain on non-Empire butter. Local
dairvmen, however, claim that prices might
be led to recovery if adequate steps were
taken to rehabilitate the marketing of Aus-
tralian butter in London. Estimated Aus-
tralian shipments for the current season are
put at 110,000 tons or thereabouts. At 725.
London the return to the Australian shipper
is 104 s. 7d. This is made up of selling
price plus exchange (18s.), plus export
bounty (285.), less c.i.f. charges (13s. 5d.).
The dairyman has to pay a levy of Ifd.
per pound, which reduces his actual return
to 88s. 3d.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
, Dividends Towards
Dec., Profits. Pref. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1927.. 16,717 16,717 Nil 4,649
1928.. 13.815 27,557 Nil 18,391
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 „ nQ7
1930.. 15,887 28,000 Nil j
Over-provision for taxation, £2692.. 9,405
Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 ) . r , Q „
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil 15,590 ) i0 ’ 4yd
Written off parent’s debt, £9308.. 6,185
Over-provision for taxation, £1741.. 7,926
1932.. 3,845 Nil Nil 3,845 11,771
This one of the Union group put up the State
Theatre and a shopping block of 11 floors
on the old “Evening News” site in Market-
street, Sydney, at a cost of over a million.
The old Union Co. took the half-million ords.
and a mortgage (£146,853) over the free-
hold, and the public put up £350,000 in
8 .p.c. cum. prefs.. largely on the strength
of* a guarantee as to capital and dividend by
Union and Australasian Films. The liquida-
tion of the guarantors has, of course, wiped
out the guarantee, leaving the Investment
Co.’s pref. div. (now two years in arrears)
dependent upon net rentals from the theatre,
shops etc.
Just as the new building began to turn
in something, slump strewed the path with
obstacles, and the guarantors had to put
up £22,537 to cover annual payments to the
prefs. for the two years to the close of
accounts in 1930. Then the guarantors them-
selves got into difficulties; and cuts in ren-
tals and growth of taxation dried up earn-
ings. For the 53 weeks to the end of
December last, the co.’s gross returns were
£18)445 lighter at £22,221. Only £3845 of
the £22,221 was profit, notwithstanding that
practically the whole building has been let.
However, the co. has been able to lease the
theatre to General Theatres Corp. (the new
concern which amalgamated the city houses
of U.T. and Hoyts) at £31,200 p.a., which
will give revenue a lift of about £ll,OOO p.a.,
the board says. On the basis of last year’s
figures, that means a net profit of £14,780
p.a., equal to 4.2 p.c. on the pref. capital.
It is chiefly to better rentals and
lighter taxes that shareholders have to look
for improved returns. An item likely to
take a bigger bite in the future is the
charge for renovations and repairs.
The prefs., which sold at 13s. before pub-
lication of the sheet, are now offered at 11s.
The return at 11s. would be 7.2 p.c. on a
4 p.c. div. basis. The book value of the net
tangible cover is £2 95.. 3d.
At the end of Dec. freehold, etc., figured
at £1,001,893; book debts, cash, etc., £18,250.
In addition to the mortgage already referred
to, there was £11,550 coming to sundry
creditors.
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance a nee
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548. . 219,214
1925.. 58,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1926.. 05,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 ) 38 49 o 405000
Trans, to Shareholders, £4278 ) 38,49,5 405,939
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 38,108 444,047
1931.. 96,332 40,546 18 327 1 3C , 459 480(506
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO ) ’ ’
1932.. 98,989 44,532 17,994 ). 35,463 515,969
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO )
Industrial Bran<!h.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. .. 279,872
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 . . . . 325,910
1926.. 137,552 35,518 55,004 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
1931.. 181,664 71,997 68,023 609,496
1932.. 183,361 101,928 69,286 621,643
This little 30-year-old Dunedin-controlled
office—it took over the then 14-year-old Pro-
vident and Industrial in 1903 —gathers about
two-thirds. of its income in the Dominion
and the other third in Australia. Of the
profits 90 p.c. in the Ordinary and SO p.c
in the Industrial branch belong to policy-
holders and the balance to shareholders, who
have had a steady 12 p.c. for the last four
years (2 p.c. of it is labelled bonus). The
divisible surplus from all sources was
£6017 for the five years to the end of 1919 ;
£30,338 at the close of the next quinquen-
nium, and £67,468 at the end of 1928, when
holders of Industrial policies shared in the
profits for the first time. Special bonuses,
ranging from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c. on the sum
assured, were granted on all Industrial poli-
cies that became claims before the end of
1933; on Ordinary contracts reversionary
bonuses of from 10s. p.c. p.a. on pure en-
dowments to 60s. p.c. p.a. on whole-of-life
policies were granted. The extent to which
funds may have grown in excess of bare
requirements under policies since 1928 will
not be known definitely until the actuary
makes an overhaul at the end of this year.
The business appears to have held well,
notwithstanding the difficulties. Combining
the figures of all departments, last year’s
net premiums (£223,245) were £3524
better; interest, etc. (£59,104) brought in
an extra £829. Still, the £47,610 added to
the Assurance funds, etc., raising them to
£1,137,613 at Dec. 31, was £30,493 lighter
than the previous year’s addition. The slip
was due to a heavy crop of maturities in
the Industrial section; the growth in sur-
renders (£22 576) was only £314.
An extra £54,537 of new business was put
on the books in the Ordinary Department:—
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
New Policies.. 1,104 1,138 1,342 1,846
Assuring . . £244,664 £318,482 £318,896 £373,433
First premiums 5,612 7,453 6,785 8,086
Renewal pre-
miums . . 29,191 47,938 48,808 48,601
Disregarding consideration for annuities, etc.
(£1825), last year’s exes, took 20.9 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 22.3, 23.7, 23.5
and 23.2 p.c. back to 1928, despite the
growth in taxation.
In the Industrial section there was a
growth of £76,720 in the amount of new
business written (£553,520) as against a
slip of £223,122 in the previous term. Owing
to maturities, net premiums (£149,973)
were only £893 better, and exes, made oif
with 46.2 p.c. of them as against 45.6 p.c.
and 48.2 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The year’s net interest (£52,403 after de-
ducting taxes) was 4.6 p.c. on mean funds
compared with 4.9 p.c. and 5.3 p.c. in 1931
and 1930 respectively, and the rate may drop
a little further yet. The office assumes that
its funds will turn in 34 p.c.
At the close of accounts the aggregate
book value of the assets was £1,185,682, of
which £964,238 was Australian and Maori-
land Government and public-body securities.
Premises figured at £52,250; mortgages and
loans on policies. £94,838; Farmer and Co.’s
debentures, £39,241; book debts, cash, etc.,
£35,115.
D. and W v . Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12 083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1920.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 ~ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £300.. .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit,
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Hardware and agricultural implements are
exceptionally difficult lines these days, and
the management did well to show even
a small profit last year. Sales were
better, ■ due to the improvement in the
building trade in Vic. and a stronger demand
for harvesting materials. Still, competition
lost none of its keenness, and prices had to
be further reduced. Gross earnings (£54,619)
fell away £1637, making the slip £29.344
over the last three years. But exes. (£52,537,
including provision for contingencies) Were
£7402 lighter, leaving a profit of £2082, an
improvement of £5765 on the previous year’s
result. Still, there was not enough to give
the prefs. half a meal, and there will be
£20,300 (= ss. 6d. per share) coming to them
at next balance; the ords. have had to do
without for the last three years, and it is
impossible to say when they will get into
the picture again.
During the post-war decade the business
was developed along mail-order lines, fol-
lowed, when sufficient turnover had been
secured, by the opening of branches at Warr-
nambool, Bendigo, Ballarat and Horsham.
Also, H’art’s old hardware business in Laun-
ceston was bought in 1929. But there was
little fat in the trade; after allowing for
pref. divs., the ords. got a steady 6 p.c.
from profits averaging 8.1 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal for the five years to the close of accounts
in 1930.
To carry more stocks and book debts, the
co. went a bit into debt itself, and gathered
£51,750 of fresh share capital since 1924: —
1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £176,750 £176,750 £176,750
Liabilities .. 15,741 73,190 58,660 54,744
Freeholds . . 25,933 43,312 43,312 43,625
Plant, etc. . . 13,313 25,293 22,841 22,198
Stocks . . 73,628 141,404 129,015 127,409
Book debts . . 24,302 30,197 25.949 25,321
Cash, etc. . . 8,324 1,460 1,47 i 1,728
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000
Last year £39lu was snipped off the amount
coming to outsiders, and the more or less
liquid surplus (£99,714, including stocks,
but not shares in other cos.) improved
£1939. Both stocks and debtors’ balances
are reported to have been closely overhauled.
On the market the ords. are priced at 55.-
and the prefs. at 17s. 6d. The net tangible
cover is 20s. lOd. and £2 10s. respectively.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
Ord. Pref. Total Re-
Jan., Profits. Div. Div. Div. serves.
£ £ £
1923.. 113,270 10 p.c.6&7 p.c. 90,898 73,725
1924.. 132,887 10 „6&7„ 106,392 100,220
1925.. 150,260 10 „6& 7 ~ 100,162 150,318
1926.. 190,078 10 „6&7„ 104,823 235,573
1927.'. 217,261 10 „6&7„ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6&7„ 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 ~ 6& 7 „ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 „6&7„ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 ~ 6&7 ~ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „6&7„ 110,208 811,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „6&7„ 110,208 881,893
For a co. enjoying a monopoly of a public
utility to pay anything more than an 8 p.c.
div. these days may prove to be an indis-
cretion. The board puts it this way: “In
(Continued on page 16.)


CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
JtJL
&gB
grass
K
/CATERPILLAR TRACTION-tested and
proved on many a battle-scarred
field —now available in principle in the tread
of the new Barnet Glass Truck Tyres. Like
the “Tanks,” they overcome every obstacle.
Heavy loads and steepest gradients merely
emphasise their sterling quality. The deeply
moulded blocks of tread rubber obtain a
positive grip of the road surface at all angles,
and convey without loss the engine’s maxi-
mum power.
Sinewy rubber-impregnated cords, made of
specially twisted treated cotton, form the
foundation of the massive carcass which is
armoured by powerfully buttressed side walls.
The buttresses protect the casing against cuts
and abrasion, prevent distortion, and rapidly
dissipate its greatest enemy —generated heat,
thus ensuring long life and greater mileage.
BarneiGlass
ARMOURED:
L WALL i.
TRUCK’TYRES
. . . HEAT RESISTING
i
t m
w
m
* W
5 'J *„
i.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison,/ 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ORES & METALS.—We have to advise that our
Smelters overseas are offering exceptionally favor-
able terms for Refractory Gold Ores and Concen-
trates. We are also buyers of Tin, Copper Lead,
Shiver, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Antimony,
Tantalite and other ores and concentrates. Write
Norman Hill and Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
—Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
2U{t3BSUBJ)
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
P roce sses for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m
■
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
MARCH ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Bonds and Debentures:
What are they?
Outlook for Investors
Life Offices and Public:
Legal Reforms Needed
Have Interest Rates Touched
Bottom ?
Trade Prospects
These and other vital matters
to investors are discussed
in the March issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin OfficeSt
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
the interests of shareholders a strong finan-
cial position is important, and recommenda-
tions are entirely in the direction of strength,
coupled with a reasonable dividend.” So
the ord. div., which had been lowered from
10 p.c. to 8 p.c., was kept at the reduced
figure, and the profit claimed for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
(£110,281) was £73 more than the pref.
divs. and the 8 p.c. called for.
The difference between the profit claimed
and that shown in the table represents net
additions to the various reserves. Chief
of these is the renewals, replacement and
contingencies fund (now £836,256), the net
growth in which was £68,357 last year. That
was after £52,254 had been charged against
the fund to cover renewals and the writing-
off of assets scrapped. Appearances are,
therefore, that these reserves are accumula-
tions largely in excess of current require-
ments for depreciation, etc.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
further strengthens the belief
1921 1932. 1933.
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,398,226 £1,398,226
Liabilities .. .. 42,200 50,718 37,494
Property, plant, mains,
etc 769,184 1,956,276 1,924,672
Stock .. .. 24,523
Cash, public securities,
etc 27,629 275,481 331,073
Book debts, etc. . . 47,869 83,925 93,450
Thus £31,604 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets last year, while
the growth in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£411,552, including stocks) was
£102,854. Most of the spare money went
into public securities, etc., up £55,592.
.Treating visible additions as profit, but
allowing for pref. requirements (£9950),
there was enough to show 13.7 p.c. on ord.
capital last year as against 12.9, 17.3, 18.5,
18.7 and 17.9 p.c. back to 1928. Subject
to the Brisbane Council’s statutory right to
purchase at various dates, the co.’s fran-
chises are perpetual. Still, there is the ever-
green possibility of interference with the
div. However, there is a fine pile of reserves,
more of which is becoming liquid each year,
and the business keeps on expanding.
The prefs.—2o.ooo 6 per cents, and
125,000 7 per cents. —are preferential as to
dividend only. For capital they rank equally
with the ords., after deducting reserved pro-
fits. On the market the 6 per cents, fetch
215., 7 per cents. 255. 4d. and ords. 28s. 9d.
On the basis of last year’s divs., the return
at these figures is 5.7 p.c., 5.5 p.c. and 5.6
p.c. respectively. The backing per pound
of paid capital is 325. 7d. in net tangibles.
Australian Mortgages, Ltd. (Sydney)
This co. started off in 1927 to help people
with little capital purchase their own homes.
An orgy of expenditure was the main feature
of the share-selling campaign; at last
balance-day preliminary exes, represented 28
p.c. of the paid capital (£44,804) and for-
feited shares accounts (£17,846) combined
Early in the piece the co. took a second
mortgage over a block of vacant land at
Narrabeen, part of the stock-in-trade of
Greater Sydney Estates, Ltd. Owing to the
nervousness of the first mortgagee the co.
soon had to buy the property outright. It
also became possessed of a large piece of
land at Mona Vale; and then, being short of
money, the directors called up capital beyond
the 10s. per share mentioned in the pros-
pectus. The scrip is now called to 145.,* and
another shilling is to be asked for.
The Mona Vale property was later ex-
changed for equities at Bondi and Darling-
hurst ; these, valued at £18,072, less mort-
gages j>f £9050, the auditor has been unabl ■
to verify. Altogether he has been unable
to verify assets totalling £19,309, less mort-
gages of £10,032 (£9277 net). The co.’s
balance-sheet shows real estate at £42,247,
less mortgages of £16,302, or £25,945
net. Mortgages due to the co., debtors, etc.,
total £21,834, less encumbrances £l4OO,
equal £20,434 net. Sundry assets amount
to £179, making the total net book value
of the co.’s equities, etc., £46,558. Against
this there is a price fluctuations reserve of
£26,418: sundry creditors figure for £6309.
After deducting the reserve, and assuming
that the assets which the auditor has been
unable to verify are worth their book value
to the c 0. ,( there are net tangibles amount-
ing to £13,831 (book value) to represent
£44,804 of paid capital.
For the twelvemonth to June 30 last in-
terest, discounts, etc., brought in £2190; net
losses on properties ran off with £702,’ bad
debts totalled £l3OO, and other exes, absorbed
£lOB2. The year’s loss (£895) advanced
the p. and 1. debit to £31,933. Preliminary
exes, figure at £17,679; these intangibles are
more than offset by forfeited shares reserve
(£17,846). With a call falling due, share l
holders are wondering whether the co. is
being conducted in their interests or the in-
terests of the mortgagees. They seem to
have several very solid reasons to complain.
The American Crisis and Gold
Though the American crisis was followed
by a sharp relapse in the price of gold
mining stocks, a substantial part of the loss
has since been regained, as the following
comparisons show:—
r Market Price ,
Company: 28/2/’33. 6/3/’33. 11/3/’33.
£ ul 010 . . . . 58/. 54/6 58/ .
Hercules . . . . 30/- 28/3 31/-
Lake View .. 23/3 20/- 21/6
Great Boulder .. 8/6 7/1 7/9
Mount Morgan . . 34/3 30/- 31/9
Mount Cool on .. 20/9 18/- 19/4
Placer .. .. £9/5/- £B/10/- £B/15/-
b’ons of Gwalia .. 20/- 18/3 19/-
The recovery was due to the comparative
steadiness of the price of fine gold in London ;
the sterling figure dropped only from £6 Is.
-d. per fine ounce at the end of February
to £5 19s. 2d. on March 10, though the ten-
dency was still to ease—recent quotations
have been based upon the French franc,
whereas the dollar/sterling exchange for-
merly determined the figure. The price at
which the Commonwealth Bank bought the
metal in Australian notes at the end of
February was £7 ss. Sd., and on March 10,
£7 7s. 3d. At the moment there is no-
thing to warrant the belief that the
world will completely abandon gold for
monetary purposes. England and France
continue to buy all the metal offer-
ing, and the U.S.A. Government, which
has prohibited the export of gold and im-
posed heavy penalities on hoarders, is obvi-
ously anxious to retain large reserves of the
metal. _ What will ultimately happen in
connection with paper prices in their relatiou
to gold will largely depend upon the course
of developments in the U.S.A.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd., shows pro-
mise of developing into a much more im-
portant concern than it now is. It was
formed in Sydney a couple of years ago by
J. M. Deschamps (he pioneered the electric
furnace method of special steel-making in
Australia) to turn out ploughshares at
greatly reduced cost. Last month the co.
produced 8000 of these ploughshares. On
the basis of agency agreements, which have
been entered into with well-established con-
cerns in all the States, the figure is ex-
pected to reach 20,000 a month or more
before the end of this year.
* * * *
J. A. Agnew has become chairman of
New Consolidated Goldfields. Ltd., and Con-
solidated Goldfields of South Africa, Ltd.,
two wealthy mining and finance corporations
with world-wide interests. New Consoli-
dated helped to finance the recent develop-
ment and equipment of Lake View and
Wiluna. Agnew is a Maorilander, who went
to Westralia in the early ’nineties. At one
time he was associated with Hoover in the
management of the Sons of Gwalia; later
the pair became interested in mining in
Korea. Agnew returned to Westralia, where
he successively managed several big mines and
eventually became general manager for B.M.
and Go. He relinquished this appointment
just before the war, and went to London, where
he joined the boards of Westralian and other
important gold-mining cos. After the war
he resigned most of his directorships and
became managing director of Consolidated
Goldfields. As its representative he now
has a seat on the boards of Lake View and
Wiluna.
* * * *
The British Auditor-General’s report fo’*
1931-32 puts the total loss on the Board of
Trade s contract for the purchase of Aus-
tralian zinc concentrates at £8,114.000 ster-
ling, of which £2,170,000 was on account of
interest. All stocks have been sold.
Obviously, this contract, which was entered
1917 and ran out at the end of June,
IJJOj was m the nature of a handsome sub-
sidy to the Barrier cos., which now sell their
zinc concentrates, under agreement, to the
E.Z. Co. and Imperial Smelting Corp.
* * * *
The Nepa Gold Mining Syndicate, recently
formed at Port Moresby, proposes to try
out the old Lakekamu field by the hydraulic
method. In its prime this field yielded a
lot of gold, all of it gained hv sluicing.
Since then fossickers have been getting gold,
but all the ground considered worth while is
said to have been cleaned up. It is hoped
however, that large-scale operations with the
nozzle will mean low costs and good returns.
In the past nothing less than an ounce a
day of £4 gold was reckoned worth the
trouble; and that left very little over after
expenses had been paid.
Some months ago Alluvial Tin decided to
investigate the possibilities of gold dredging
in New, Guinea. Thus Alluvial Gold
(Oceania) has now been incorporated at
Rabaul with a capital of £25,000, all of
which is held by the parent. The pup’s
headquarters are at Wau, the centre of the
Bulolo-Edie Creek goldfields.
**> * *
Peninsula Mines, Ltd., is increasing capital
from £20,000 to £60,000. The money is
wanted to work the Great Northern, on the
Coen field, Cape York Peninsula. There are
40,000 tons of lldwt. ore ready, and a 50-
ton-a-day crushing plant is t 0 be erected
Only one reef of the Great Northern has
been worked to date ; from 1593 to 1916 this
yielded 49,5920 z. from 23,196 tons.
* * * *
At Carpenter Creek, Stanthorpe (Q.), the
new ten-head battery of 10001 b. stamps is
complete. It is in two units, which can be
worked separately. The co. has also in-
stalled an ore-breaker, an S5-h.p. oil-engine,
compressors, classifiers, etc., built a concrete
dam and laid tramlines from the battery to
the various tin lodes. Also the dredges at
Kyoomba, Sugarloaf and Broadwater are
working full time. In the same district Red-
rock, Sundown and Silver Spur have pro-
duced a lot of silver and lead during the last
few months, while over 5000 tons of lime-
stone was sent to Darra, and some £lO,OOO
worth of black, white and mottled marble
was forwarded to Brisbane during 1932.
* * * *
At Reid’s Creek, about eight miles from
Mt. Perry (Q ), geologist H. I. Jensen has
traced two main lodes, each for 1800 ft., by
trenching. Samples varied from a few dwt.
to lOoz. to the ton. Jensen says: “It seems
as though a lode lias been located which,
worked 6ft. wide, should give between lOdwt.
and 20dwt. of go'd to the ton.” There is
plenty of water available.
:|: sjs ❖ ❖
The Sunburst Co. has dropped its option
over claims at Boughyard Creek (Q.) and
has done some pegging on Rockdale station.
Here costeening has disclosed nothing attrac-
tive to date.
* * * *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) Asia Amalgamated
is cross-cutting from the bottom of a 100 ft.
shaft in search of two parallel reefs. It is
figured that an 80ft. drive along the present
reef will make available 300 tons of stone
averaging and the proceeds are ex-
pected to cover exes, to date, plus the cash
purchase price of the mine. To finance
further development those on the register
have been asked for another £1 per share.
The small battery on tfie property is being
made ready.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
The Sheepshead Co., Bendigo, has crushed
66 tons from the 656 ft. level for 19Joz. of
gold. The lode, up to 20ft. wide, lies between
two east-dipping backs. Though discovered
by the original co., it was never developed
to any extent; it is now proposed to test
the eastern section by breaking across from
the level. In tfie Central Blue, the next
mine to the north, the continuation of the
reef has-been located on the 870 ft. level. The
co.’s area includes a section of the Sheeps-
head line not yet fully explored.
* * * *
About three months ago the Para Wirra
Gold and Bismuth Syndicate took an option
over some 70 acres at Stockyard Gully, 20
miles north-east from Adelaide. A fairly
well-defined ferruginous quartz reef was
traced for a length of approximately 700 ft.
on the surface. Samples from two shafts,
one 56ft. and the other 42ft., showed from
4dwt. to 12dwt. of gold and from 1.69 p.c.
to 2.03 p.c. of bismuth per ton. Prospecting
continues in the hope that gold values will
improve.
* * * *
Westralia has made a good start with gold
production this year. The first two months’
total is 93,036 fine oz. compared with 88,710
fine oz. for the corresponding period of 1932,
and 65,677 fine oz. for the first two months
of 1931. Kalgoorlie is contributing about
60 p.c. and Wiluna approximately 16 p.c. of
the State’s output, which is expected to
steadily increase for the rest of the year.
* ❖ H* H«
B. 11. Prop, is pushing ahead with the small
treatment plant tc; handle development ore
at_ Hannan’s North (W.A.). On its Enter-
prise leases (held under option) at Kalgoffr-
lic, the drill has stabbed a new lode channel,
but no importance is attached to the find.
The co. is also testing alluvial areas in N. S.
Wales on the Macquarie River, near Welling-
ton, and on the Gwydir River, near Bingara.
* * *
W. S. Robinson, Colin Fraser, Dick
Hamilton, H. E. Vail and their London and
Australian friends have formed Western Min-
ing Corporation with a nominal capital of
£•>00,000, of which £lOO,OOO is subscribed.
The promoters have their eyes on several
shows in Westralia, and the co. may launch
out on a large scale there.
=!= * .j.
In accordance with the Privv Council’s
judgment, Great Boulder Prop. (W.A ) last-
week paid £60,000 to 170 tributors, this being
50 p.c. of the exchange premium on tribu-
tors’ gold. Some of the other cos. contend
that they are not bound by this judgment,
owing to. the nature of the tributing agree-
ments they have entered into. To test the
validity of the contention in the courts
Boulder’s tributors have thrown 10s. per
cent, of the amount they have just received
into a fighting fund.
* * * *
oonoL den Horseshoe (New), Kalgoorlie, put
38,030 tons of dump material through its
re-treatment plant last month. With gold
at its old statutory price, the yield was
figured to be worth £6429. Working exes,
were put at £4615, leaving £lBl4 in the
kitty. The co. still has over a million and
a half tons of stuff to treat. It recently
returned a shilling per share, reducing paid
capital to £165,000 in 3s. shares. The market
considers that a div. (the first) is just
round the corner, and prices the scrip at
4s. lOd.
Trewartha James, consulting engineer to
Great Boulder Prop., now on his way to
London, takes with him an option over two
leases held by the Salvation Syndicate
(McKenzie and Hall brothers) at Grant’s
Patch, six miles from Ora Banda (W.A.).
He hopes to interest his directors or float
a new co. This is the fourth option taken
at Grant’s Patch, where prospects will be
improved by the new water-pipe line from
Kalgoorlie to Ora Banda, a contract for the
laying of which has been let.
* * * *
Hansel Mundy has been in many places
during the last 20 years, but inducements
have not been sufficient to make ifc stay in
•'my of them. It is now trying its luck in
South Aus., where chances are not very
promising, either.
* * * *
Kunalling Gold (W.A.), which is open-
ing up two mines at Kalgoorlie, has crushed
7000 tons, averaging an ounce. The pur-
chase of a portable rock-drilling plant is
expected to cheapen and quicken develop-
ment.
* * * *
The gold output of the Witwatersrand,
S’Africa, for 3932 was a record —
11,553,5640 z., or 679,4190 z. more than for
1931. The average grade of ore mined was
275. 6d. per ton (gold at 845.), and the aver-
age working costs 19s. 3d., as against 28s-
and 19s 7d. respectively for 1931.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Practical works on cyaniding and flota-
tion?—47s7.
“Cyaniding Gold and Silver Ores,” by H.
Forbes Julian and Edgar Smart; “Cyanide
Process,” by James Park; “Cyanide Hand-
book,” by J. E. Clerfnell; “Manual of Flota-
tion,” by A. F. Taggart; “Flotation Process,”
by H. A. Megran.
brief answers.
J.H.S.: You would need to realise 645. 2d. At
that price the return would be 5 p.c. on 16 p.c. div.
basis. At the present market price of 575. 6d., the
investor who looks for 5 p.c. on his money counts
on a 14 p.c. div. Last year the co. paid 10 p.c.
from profits, equal to 16.6 p.c. on ord. capital. It
is very doubtful whether a further advance of 7s.
or more in the market price may be expected before
publication of the next sheet.... J.A.: See B.
23/11/’33 H.J.L. ; Dux Electric Heaters (Qld.)
was wound up by order of Court early last year on
application of E. J. Holmes, sharebroker, Brisbane.
He could probably put you in touch with the
liquidator... .S.M.E.; Nurse the three of them for
a while. Instead of averaging it may pay better
to invest the new money in a new lot —Australian
General Insurance, Morris Hedstrom, MeWhirters,
Prestige are worth considering... .J.E.B'.C.: (1)
and (3) No. (2) and (5) Fair prospects, but earn-
ings and market price likely to fluctuate. (4) Yes,
provided you know when to get out... .8.E.H.: (1)
Castlemaine Perkins, Carlton Brewery, McDowells,
Melbourne Steam, Morris Hedstrom, Prestige. (2)
United Provisions, Electric Zinc, Associated News....
P. 8.: Migration from Finney Isles and Adelaide Steam
into Bank of N. S. Wales may prove to be profitable
in the long run, but you are not likely to benefit
by getting out of Castlemaine Perkins at the
moment. For the present sit tight on MeWhirters.
Hordern Bros.’ firsts and Robert Reid’s seconds....
C.C.: A fair spec. They are entitled to 10 p.c. plus
half the remaining profits, and are redeemable at
par June 30, 1941, or at the co.’s option after June
30, 1936 J.A.W.: Could better advise you if we
knew the number of shares held and price paid in
each case. .. .F.8.H. : (1) All depends upon the level
to which sterling dropped. (2) and (3) Yes. (4) No.
. ...H.S.H.: It is an English concern; we have no
record of it... .G.S.M.: The prospects are anything
but bright.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Postal Department
“Helston”: Recent Bulletin criticisms of
the P.M.G.’s department will be endorsed
by the majority of the public. Last year
what is known as the Bridgeman Com-
mittee of Inquiry recommended an advisory
council for the British post office, and its
appointment was lately announced. If the
British department had need of such a coun-
cil, there can be no question at all as to
the necessity for a similar auxiliary in Aus-
tralia. The suspension of Australian post
and telegraph services at holiday times, while
every other public utility is employed in
additional service to the public, is bad
enough, but the inconvenience and delay
experienced immediately subsequent to the
holidays is a public scandal. The re-
strictions upon the sales of • postage
stamps are childish and costly in time and
money to the public, and must be reflected
in loss of departmental revenue. The atti-
tude of the average postal officer is one of
disdain and contempt for the public and the
public convenience. The average suburban
postal building can be distinguished from
other establishments by its external un-
attractiveness and by its internal untidiness
and lack of facilities for carrying on busi-
ness. On pensions pay-days the crowded
offices present unique opportunities for
pickpockets and thieves. The postal box at
Sydney Central station must have been
placed where it is because a more incon-
venient spot could not be found elsewhere ;
and at Wynyard station there is not a
single postal facility. Why there- is no out-
cry about late and irregular deliveries of
mails it is diflicult to understand when simi-
lar experiences on the railways, etc., would
evoke a storm of anger and protest.
Cheap Power
“Quidam”: Cheap power for small bat-
teries, private or State, is essential, and the
day of the old wood-chewing, high-pressure
steam-engine has gone. Internal-combus-
tion engines have it beaten; but there is
much to be. said for suetion gas as against
its more modern and popular rival, crude
oil. In many Avays, and under many condi-
tions, crude-oil engines offer great advant-
ages, but were I the owner of a small show
inland, situated where good hard dead timber
is easily obtainable, I should plump for suc-
tion gas. Oil has to be bought, whereas a
man can always burn his own charcoal, and
this may mean a lot to a small man. Inci-
dentally, hardwood charcoal is the best fuel
obtainable for suction gas. A leading firm
of English makers, who did a big business
in Victoria years ago', sold their engines
under a guarantee as to horse-power, and,
assuming that Australian charcoal would be
inferior to anthracite, shipped larger genera-
tors to Australia. After several years of
this, the firm sent a representative to Aus-
tralia to see exactly how much inferior the
local fuel was. Ilis tests showed that it
was materially better than anthracite. Good
clean hardwood charcoal is about as pure
carbon as can be obtained, whereas coke
always contains much silica, and that means
clinker. As a cheap power-producer on
farms also the suction-gas engine takes a
lot of beating.
Unemployment Relief in Maoriland
“Emmar”; The Unemployment Board
has a scheme for assisting unemployed -to
prospect in approved gold-bearing areas.
Married men get 30s. p.w., single men 15s.
p.w., for eight weeks, which period may be
extended. Half of the married men’s money
must be paid to wives or dependants. As
some of the men are inexperienced, the board
employs supervisors, and also, where neces-
sary, supplies tents and tools. In return the
miners’ rights held by the men are endorsed,
so that if a subsidy only has been granted a
deduction of 10 per cent, of the value of all
gold sold is made by the buyer and paid into
the public account; if a tent and tools
have also been .supplied, the deduction may-
be up to 50 per cent. Where it is necessary
the board will survey and prove an area be-
fore placing prospectors on it. It has been
found that the men who have been placed
under this scheme are much more content
than if they were employed on the usual
relief work round the towns. They have,
within reason, a free hand as to how they
work, and there is always the possibility
of a “strike.” A fair number of good finds
have already been made in Central Otago.
Meat Flour
“Wyara” : Australia’s first meat-flour fac-
tory—at Gladstone (Q.) —is in full swing.
The process of manufacturing meat-flour
(trade name, “Carnox”) was discovered and
developed by W. F. Remus in Maoriland.
After experiments he visited Queensland, and
the Remus Meat Flour Manuf. Co. of Aust.
was formed and a factory was erected at the
Gladstone meatworks towards the end of
last year. The best class of forward stores,
notably lean cattle, are used. The carcase is
conveyed by gravitation from the chilling-
rooms into a boning- and trimming-room,
where the meat is trimmed, sliced and
minced. Hydraulic presses then extract the
fat and other juices, and in the compressed
form the meat is again minced, and any re-
maining moisture extracted in driers. -The
granulated meat is then finely ground into
flour, a fine screen being used for the pur-
pose. The product has thus far had a good
reception; trial lots have been . exported to
England, Africa, China and Japan. It is
claimed by the co. that the stuff will keep
almost indefinitely without deteriorating in
any climate.
Unclassed Clips
i( “Murrawong”; still another Japanese
' wo °l magnate” has heralded his arrival in
Australia with a complaint about the class-
ing of our avools, and reminds us of South
African competition. It is time something
was done to investigate these complaints so
that the blame may be attached to the proper
quarter. Faulty grading and packing of
e £B s > £ meat is treated as an offence,
and there is no reason why faulty classing
of wool should not be similarly regarded,
lkere are plenty of good wool-classers in
Australia—enough to ensure much greater
regularity in clips marketed. I know several
graziers who refuse to employ a competent
classer; they say they can get as much for
their wool unclassed—pressed holus-bolus as
it comes off the sheep. This is unfortunately,
m many cases, true, and the buyers, especi-
ally the Japanese, are to blame. This season
has been especially notorious for instances
of unclassed clips selling as well as neigh-
boring clips which have been well got up ;
and when graziers compare returns there
can be only one result. Until the Japanese
show their appreciation of classed wools by
paying an appreciable margin over the un-
classed clip, they are in no position to com-
plain. The remedy is in their own hands. I
would suggest an immediate conference of
representative buyers, brokers, graziers and
wool-classers to deal with the subject. If
the complainants will bring forward particu-
lar instances of faulty classing— not general
complaints—we will be able to work con-
structively towards placing the industry on a
stable foundation.
“Ex-Loco” (“almost in despair”) : I was
lately notified that my superannuation pay
as a retired Yic. railway employee had been
reduced from £lO4 to £96 6s. Id. per annum.
To rub it in, the fortnightly cheque at the
reduced rate accompanied" the notice. It
has brought home to me what a parlous state
the country must be in when it has to cut
down a pensioner, after 40 years of service,
from £2 to £1 17s. a week—a pensioner
who had contributed something towards his
pension, don’t forget. In my old Christian
home it was planted in my young mind that
if I worked hard, did not squander my earn-
ings, and was careful of my savings, I
would be prosperous and happy in my old
age. Well, I think I have worked fairly hard.
Forty years on one job does not indicate
much slackness. (And in that 40 years I
estimate I worked at least two years’ over-
time.) I was never able to save anything,
except what I paid into a life office; and
that I used to buy a little home after retir-
ing. How can one save when one’s wages
are regulated by the cost of living? It is
grim cynicism to ask it! I raised a family
of six, one of whom lies somewhere in
France. I begin to understand something of
the Bolshevik attitude towards religion. Such
actions as this latest of the Vic. Govern-
ment’s is good propaganda for the manufac-
ture of the Bolshevist spirit.
* * * *
At the beginning of 1932 the Federal
Institute of Accountants had 3655 members;
but only 675 were in N. S. Wales. Victoria
had nearly twice as many; even Queensland
had 200 more. But though the institute was
founded in 1894, the State branches did
not all start off from scratch; a truer indi-
cation of the institute’s poor progress in
N. S. Wales is the number of candidates who
put up for the final examination in 1931: in
Victoria there were 686 examinees, in
Queensland 496, S.A. 427, W.A. 299, N.S.W.
217 and Tasmania 62. Obviously there is
something very wrong somewhere.
* * * *
Longreach (Q.) woolgrowers, stirred up
by a local man, A. R. Cowen, are doing
something to push an idea mentioned lately
in Tiie Bulletin —the use of low-grade
wool in quilt- and mattress-making. At
present kapok and fibre are almost exclu-
sively used, all of it imported; over a
quarter of a million is paid in a normal
year for kapok alone. It has been
objected to wool that it has a tendency to
“mat”; but it is said that this can be over-
come.
* * * *
“Mimosa”: The banks may be doing all
they should for Australian industry; but
their way of doing it puzzles some of us.
Take our case. We are skin-buyers and
general storekeepers. The bank had £6OOO
worth of securities against an overdraft of
£3500. When the depression came we were
asked to reduce the advance, and we brought
it down to £3OOO. Then the bank wanted
more securities, and we lodged another £lOOO
worth'. Now it wants the debt reduced to
£2OOO. Well, of course, if the bank says
so, it has to be done, though our figures are
as good as ever and our balance-sheet sound;
but it means curtailing business and sack-
ing four hands. Meantime, we are told the
banks have plenty of funds which they
would very gladly let out if they could find
safe use for them. If they would show us
that bur securities are a rotten lot, we
should be satisfied that they are adopting the
right policy; but nothing of the kind has
ever been suggested.
$ s|: *
“Lone-Piner”: What better testimony can
Australian hardwoods have than this? In
Brazil is a railway connecting Porto Velho
and Guajara, over 200 miles apart. Close
by is one of the greatest forests of the
world, so thick in parts that travellers must
cut their way through it. It has a wonder-
ful variety of trees, softwoods and hard-
woods. Yet every sleeper of that 200-mile
railway was obtained from Australia.
* * * *
“Experienced”: Surely Governments have
wasted enough money on the Newnes oil-
shale field! So long as they will find the
money, however, we can be sure that other
people will find the schemes. Failures in
connection with the areas began with the
Commonwealth' Oil Corporation 25 years
agb. The difficulties the 0.0. C. met still
exist, though I believe they can be overcome.
At any rate, it Should not cost the Govern-
ment more than £5OOO to definitely prove
the thing one way or the other. Money
spent beyond that is money wasted.
“Bittern”: In evidence before the Tariff
Board a witness, supporting the retention
of the duty on imported axe-handles, sub-
mitted specimens made from spotted-gum,
which he claimed to be the equal of any
imported. Later he admitted “all sorts of
timber are used.” It is the use of “all sorts
of timber” that will ruin the Australian in-
dustry. In the last 12 months I have bought
three Australian handles, varying in price
from Is. 9d. to 3s. 6d. All are smashed;
so is my resolution to buy our own axe-
handles. Hickory for me next time, even at
ss. 6d.
* * * *
“Man of Kent” (Eng.) : On the borders of
this county and Sussex there is a farmers’
co-operative society, and in the first half of
1932 it collected, packed, graded and
marketed 61 millions of eggs, and paid out
to its suppliers upwards of £24,000. One
customer in Easter week ordered and took
delivery of 10,000 dozen. Yet, although
there are 140 packing stations in the U.K.,
the Old Country is still importing eggs at the
rate of nine millions a day. Latterly pulped
eggs have appeared on the London market
from Australia and met a good demand, and
now South Africa is experimenting in the
same direction. This trade, which is worth
Si millions a year, has so far been in the
hands of the Chinese, but with a 10 p,c.
duty on foreign liquid eggs there is a good
opportunity for the Dominions to supply
the “goods.
* $ :Jc
Queensland woolgrowers, who are much
more disposed to kick over the traces than
their southern brethren, are seriously dis-
cussing wool-freights; and the question
whether it would not pay to charter ships
has been raised. It is admitted that this
might involve selling the wool overseas; but
some growers believe that buyers would soon
consent to ship in the cheapest possible way
rather than let the business go from them.
It is admitted, however, that there are many
serious difficulties to be faced.
$ $ $ ❖
“Taltingan”: It is quite true that the
city hasn’t the ghost of an idea of the depth
of the bog the grazier is floundering in, and
the size of the writing-off that is ahead. I
know a N. S. Wales Conditional Purchase
block of 2000 acres, now worth 10s. an acre
at the outside, which has a mortgage of
£7OOO on it. For really sensational litera-
ture there is nothing to beat the files of the
C.P. inspectors. The advances to owners of
C.P. leases by the Rural Bank are simply
incredible.
* * * *
“Beta”; Re Queensland timbers, two
points. (1) Silky oak makes a fine job
when waxed: invariably it comes out' in
black streaks if French-polished. (2) Black
bean will not dry satisfactorily in junk
sizes, a characteristic not necessary to fur-
niture-making, but almost an essential for
joinery work.
THE NEW CHAUFFEUR.
“Hitler, the Eric Campbell of Germany, has won the German general election.”
FRAU GERMANIA: “I don’t, trust either of you much, but at least YOU speak the language.”


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE CAT’S CRADLE.
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN-
DREDGING CO., N.L.
NJOTICE is hereby given that a General
Meeting of Shareholders in the above-
named Company will be held at the office of
the Company. A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart,
on TUESDAY, March 21, 1933, at 12 noon,
for the purposes following, namely
1. To receive the Directors’ Twenty-sixth
Annual Report and Balance-sheet, which
will be presented for adoption.
2. To elect a Director. Mr. Kliaw .Too Tok,
at Penang, retires, but is eligible, and
offers himself for re-election.
3. To confirm the appointment, of Mr.
C. E. H. Ferguson as a Director in the
place of the late Hon. Frank Bond.
4. To appoint Auditors.
5. That the Directors be and they are hereby
authorised to sell by auction at their dis-
cretion all such Shares in the Company as
have been forfeited at the best price
obtainable for such Shares.
6. To transact any other ordinary business
- of the Company.
By Order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE,
Manager.
Hobart, March 9, 1933.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOIt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs,’’
Criterion “While Parents Sleep”
Royal Dante
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna”
King’s “The Cat’s Cradle”
State Movies and Talkies
»
A Nice Little Farm at Woolloomooloo.
Armed with a letter from the ship’s agents
Frith and the Sundry Showman presented
themselves at the gangway of the four-
masted German barque, Magdalene Vinnen,
which was lying at a wharf at Woolloomooloo.
They were met by Carl, dark-haired, rosy-
cheeked and IS. “But no,” said Carl firmly.
“Der schip is work,” and he pointed to a
blackboard which stated: “Visitors allowed
after working hours at their own risk.”
“Carl sped away down the wharf.”
Frith, who speaks all foreign languages with
equal fluency, flourished the agents’ letter
and demanded to see an officer. Carl sped
away down the wharf, and presently returned
breathless but smiling. “Ail right,” he said!
“No,” in reply to more questions. “No
officers. Two watchmen.” So to one of
these “watchmen,” Hans, blue-eyed, freckled.
18, and, as his cap-ribbon bore testimony, a
product of the “Deutsche Seemannscliule,”
the business of ciceronage was handed over.
In the gentian-blue eyes of Hans there
lived something that spoke not of bounding
billows, but of little farms. Flere, one felt,
was a soul that would take more delight in
a fine crop of mangel-wurzels than in the
prowess of the tallest ship that sails the
seven seas. The Magdalene Vinhen’s masts
tower 215 feet up into the blue; hence she
can’t pass under Sydney bridge without
lowering her topmasts. On the day of the
visit the powers that controlled her move-
ments were debating whether they should do
this and take her to Pyrmont, where her cargo
of wool was waiting, or bring the wool to her
at Woolloomooloo. But these high matters
were no concern of Hans’s. He was there
to demonstrate the many unique attractions
of the Magdalene Vinnen, and he took the
visitors straight to the poultry-run. This is
situated amidships, occupying an eminence
equal to that of the captain’s bridge, and it
is well stocked with Black Minorcas, Indian-
runner ducks and other nice poults. A
member of the crew, Fritz, fair-haired, sun-
tanned and 18, was giving four of the ducks
a constitutional parade on the after-deck,
and seeing that they absorbed their ration
of broken egg-shells. From this peaceful
scene an adjournment was made to the sheep-
folds. Apparently Fate had overtaken the
sheep, for they were represented by two
skins, drying in the sun, but Hans’s eyes
brightened as he recounted that there had
been “many scheep, und schwein, also.”
Passing from the sheep-ranch a halt was
made at the “baumegarten,” as Hans called
it with honest pride. It wasn’t much of a
flower-garden—abdut six square feet, under
glass, populated by nasturtiums and small
“Giving four ducks a constitutional parade.”
yellow flowers that looked like weeds. This
display occupied pride of place upon the
poop, and it was imparted to the visitors in
monosyllables, partly English, that these
horticultural gems were reared to decorate
the captain’s table. Underneath this lived
something referred to by Hans as “die steer.”
“It take four men to hold it when der waves
come high,” he vouchsafed, “and dere is
anoder von.” The visitors peeped through a
hatchway and saw what looked to them like
a helm, but if Hans deemed it to be a steer,
and gloried in its strength, why should they
quibble about it?
“Do you have any stowaways?” asked
Frith suddenly. Hans didn’t know that
word. So Frith, by pantomime, imitated a
man stealing aboard the ship, climbing into
one of the lifeboats, drawing the tarpaulin
over him, and then being discovered when
the ship was at sea. It was a beautiful
piece of language without words, watched by
Hans with rapt attention. Suddenly a
bright ray of intelligence shone in those blue
eyes, and Hans trotted the inquisitive news-
paper men along to see—the sleeping
quarters ! These are not in the fo’c’sle, as
in the bad old days, but amidships. As wind-
jammers go, the dormitories are palatial, but
. ri tn gasped to think of six men sleeping
in a space that didn’t look more than six
by six.
The barque has a 500-li.p. Diesel engine
somewhere in her depths, and a Diesel-
engined electric-light plant, but Hans skated
lightly over these features, which he deemed,
perhaps, irrelevant to the serious business
of husbandry. High up on the yards, Fritzes
and Carls and Hanses, all 18, held on by one
hand and spread paint with a brush held
in the other, sweating in the noontide
summer sun. An occasional cackle from the
hens and a quack from the ducks were all
that broke the stillness. So the visitors
shook hands warmly with Hans and departed,
humming in unison that very catchy air
from “Our Miss Gibbs”—“lt’s a nice little
farm, and you won’t do any harm if you
come along and visit us some day.”
That . Aldous Huxley is one of the Bright-
est Young Things' of English literature and
can supply a good evening’s entertainment
vvas demonstrated four nights last week by
the Melbourne Little Theatre’s performance
of “The World of Light” at the Fawkner
Kiosk. Huxley’s target here is spiritualism.
A young universitymetaphysician. Hugo
Wenliam becomes engaged ' to Enid . Deckle
to test his capacity for developing a
grand passion. Revolted at the paucity of
the result he. is persuaded by a friend,'Bill
Hamblin, type of the average sensual man,
to clear out in a flying boat to the West
Indies. The ’plane is lost at sea and Mr.
Wenliam, Hugo’s father, who is a spiritual-
ist, calls in a medium, Hubert Capes. Hubert
who is young and beautifully psychic,
speedily gets in touch with Hugo and . the
nightly seances become as indispensable to
Mr. Wenham and Enid as their dinner. After
a while Hugo . advises Enid, through tlm
mediumship of Hubert, to give herself to
the medium, and she does so out of a sense
of . duty. In the meantime Mr. Wenham
writes a book on the medium’s achievements,
which sells 16,000 copies and is about to be
issued in a cheap edition. In the middle of
a seance, when Hubert is in touch with
Hugo’s ghost, the fleshly Hugo turns up with
Bill Hamblin and explains that the pair had
gone into hiding for a joke. The joke has
gone against Bill, because he has fallen into
a cactus bush, has lost his eyesight and
other faculties, ( and has nothing left to live
for. Other victims of the joke are the author
“It take four men to hold it when de waves
come high.”
of the spiritualist best-seller, whose illu-
sions are destroyed; Enid, who is spiritu-
ally destroyed: and the medium. Hugo,
therefore, decides to fade from the scene,
which w T as the best thing he could do in the
circumstances. Enid devotes herself to
looking after the blind Hamblin.
If there is a muse of Cold Laughter he
or it must be Aldous Huxley’s chief fount
of inspiration. His characters are sharp
outline drawings done with the maximum of
technical efficiency and a minimum of human
sympathy. You laugh when his figures
develop a life of their own, precisely because,
like Mickey the Mouse, they are not life-like.
They are pure intellectualisations. Interest
in the performance centred in Paul Hill,
who perfectly understood the medium’s mix-
ture of fraud and belief in himself. The
seance scene, performed in the dark, seemed
like the real thing, so much so that one
gripped one’s chair to avoid slipping over
the border-line along with the characters
E. Lennard Roberts was excellent as the
blind man and Brett Randall was a broadly
funny publisher. The other participants,
Catherine Boyce, Hal Percy, Terence Crisp
and Mignon Munro, finished neck and neck
for second place in the merit stakes,
x # %
The British playwright used to write his
plays round Coincidence or Mistaken
Identity or the Overdue Mortgage. Nowa-
days he reaches down his Freud, looks up
Complexes, selects the (Edipus or the Elec-
tra or the Power or the Inferiority, invents
a character imbued with one of these con-
ditions, surrounds him or her with a number
of subsidiary characters (including a pro-
fessional psycho-analyst) and proceeds to
give a show which is entertaining or dull
according to his degree of observation of
human nature. The complex most in fashion
is the CEdipus. On this topic we have had
“The Barretts,” “The Silver Cord” and
others. The latest is “The Cat’s Cradle,”
by Aimee and Philip Stuart, put on by jtlie
Sevler-liannen combination at Melb. King’s
on Saturday. It is light refreshment of good
quality. A young man is dominated by his
divorced mother, who keeps him attached to
her apron-strings by • making'him work for
his living when he wants to be an artist. The
complexed young: man doesn’t matter half as
much, however, as Athene Seyler. who comes
into her own for the first time this season as
an actress. Miss Seyler is the lineal suc-
cessor to Irene Vanbrugh. She has that
lady’s vivacity and a charming personality,
and in emotional passages she doesn’t rant as
Miss Vanbrugh did. As the mother, Maureen
O’Moor is still and bitter, but conveys the
impression that she is burning inwardly.
Christopher Hassall, as her son, is undis-
tinguished. John Longden is a playwright
fleeing from success and looks like D. H.
“Climbing into one of the lifeboats.”
Lawrence. Nicholas tl'annen does not appear
in the present show but produces brilliantly.
# * *
There are two very good reasons why the
Firm brought the Kimmins comedy “While
Parents Sleep” to Australia. It ran for a
year in London, and it is exactly the sort of
thing Harvey Adams, Agnes Doyle, John
Wood and Mona Barlee excel in, as they
proved at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night.
Its foundation is the hypothesis that
the principal preoccupation of society is
adultery; it provides the spectacle of an
attractive young woman careering about
with most of her clothes off, and its younger
characters, who are supposed apparently
never to have learned any manners, specialise
in, the sort of repartee that is considered
smart by schoolboys. The picture that is
presented is not flattering to the civilisa-
tion of 1933, but civilisation in any age is
probably a great deal sweeter than its con-
temporary comedies, so there isn’t much to
worry over.
The piece emphasises 'the beautiful smooth-
ness of Harvey Adams’s stage manner; gives
Agnes Doyle yet another chance to demon-
strate her undoubted talents in the character
(after Adams’s the most likeable and natural
in the play) of a servant girl; allows Mona
Barlee to demonstrate for the nth time that
when she wants to be bad (in a moral, not
a stage, sense) she can be very, very bad;
and provides a perfect setting for Mr.
Wood’s personification of youthful exuber-
ance.
Extremely pleasing to the gallery must be
the demonstration that the only people who
have any connection with the society por-
trayed who have any morals or stamina are
the servants. Mr. Kimmins doesn’t believe
that; very few people in his audiences believe
it. The only people who have faith in the
moth-eaten theorem are theatrical entre-
preneurs, and they love it not for itself alone.
Comedies such as “While Parents Sleep”
suggest that if a playwright were to deliber-
ately reverse every current stage tradition
he would find himself perilously near to hold-
ing the mirror for Nature. Possibly that’s
why they don’t attempt the experiment.
* * ¥
Scott Alexander’s, players revived “Caste”
at the New Sydney R<ep.; but found it not
very congenial. Gilbert Unsworth, as old
Eccles, and Virginia Coyle, as Polly, were best
suited to their roles, and two newcomers,
Laura Morrison and Lynn Romer, showed
promise.
The St. Kilda Conservatorium of Music,
which kicked off last week in the delightful
surroundings of an old-fashioned home, is
the inspiration of that fine pianist Henri
Penn. The addition to Melbourne’s cultural
pabulum is the only organisation of its kind
which is built round a string quartette, an
institution that renders an extensive field
of lovely musical literature available to
audiences. On the opening night Beethoven’s
C Minor Quartette was beautifully played
by Reginald Bradley, Mischa Kogan, Elford
Mack and director Penn. Pauline Bindley
sang and Adele Levy, Mollie Warden and
Jessie Schmitt were on the bill.
The Palette.
The retrospective exhibition of paintings
by students of the Sydney Art School, which
covers a period of 43 years and is housed
in the N.S.W. Education Department’s Gal-
“Sweating in the noontide summer sun.”
lery, is a remarkable testimonial to the influ-
ence or Julian Ashton, whose pqrtrait by
George Lambert occupies pride of place.
Lambert, Hilder, Syd Long, Fred Leist,
Gruner, R. de Mestre, J. R. Eldershaw, S.
Ure Smith, B. E. Minns, Howard Ashton,
Joseph Wolinski and Tliea Proctor are
among the well-known names represented,
and the work of such promising newcomers
as A. H. Gallop, H. E. Badham and William
Dobell shows that the school still lives
strongly. There are over 350 pictures on
view. interesting .of all are some of
J. J. Hilder’s from Howard Hinton’s collec-
tion. If the whole harvest of Julian Ash-
ton’s teaching were Hilder’s one small draw-
ing, “Berowra Creek” —12 square inches of
captured magic sunshine—it would have
abundantly proved its value.
Sydney’s Grosvenor Galleries are occupied
just now with a show of color prints and
woodcuts, the work of various Continental
and English artists. They range in under-
standability from the colored-photographic,
through the recognisably-deeorative, to the
sort of thing for which an eloquent inter-
preter is needed to avert homicidal impulses.
Such an interpreter was at work when this
critic inspected the show, and from him it
was gathered (he had a loud voice) that,
when the drawing is rotten, the color a
nightmare and the subject a matter for dubi-
ous speculation, the artist should be credited
with 100 marks for directness; whereas if
the drawing is impeccable, the color pleasing
and the subject obvious, the thing to look
for and praise is subtlety. That might be
a very good theory if it were permissible to
camouflage sums in algebra as pictures 'and
call it art, but it isn’t. The best things in
this very interesting show can be hung on
the wall without doubt as to which side is
top, or as to whether the print represents
a pig or a peony.
Judging by the work of the budding archi-
tects shown in the Melb. Uni. atelier at the
State Electricity Department’s new build-
ing, an attempt is being made to consolidate
the architectural offensive on the Georgian
front. A row of model houses stretching
the length of a large room reveals a
tendency towards simplicity and the adap-
tation of the Georgian style to the Vic-
torian climate. There are two obstacles to
the new development. The Victorian climate
is several different climates at various times
of the year, and sometimes at various times
in the afternoon. Ahother difficulty is that
not more than one house in twenty built in
Melbourne has the services of an architect,
and in not more than one case in a
hundred is the aix-hitect given a free hand.
The remainder are erected by builders who
pick up the latest fashions at second-hand,
jumble them together and add a few features
of their own invention, to the complete
satisfaction of their customers and the
horror of the professional fraternity. There
doesn’t appear to be the slightest prospect
of any immediate improvement in this state
°f. affairs. Some people have suggested a
Ministry of the Fine Arts, but even if it
had dictatorial powers it wouldn’t know
what to do. There was a time in history
when a Government knew what to do in
matters of art. That was when Pericles
bossed Athens. Pericles was a big enough
man to be able to respect other big men, so
he employed chaps like Phidias to decorate
the capital.
Poverty Point
(Hollywood) : Our old friend
Muriel Starr has been running a bridge
club; but it lately blew out. People here
are crazy over contract; and a new genera-
tion . of bridge-players which knows not
Muriel has arisen. She has been even un-
luckier in the studios, , though women who
haven’t half of her ability get what they call
here a break.
“Cauboy” : Ernest Rolls took a night off
from his own fruity show at Melbourne
Princess and attended “While Parents
Sleep” at the Comedy. Harvey Adams
asked him what he thought of it. “I didn’t
like it,” said Rolls, shaking his head
solemnly. “It’s dirty!”
“Craiser ’: Somebody has faith in legi-
timate. The old transpontine Playhouse in
Melbourne is being reconstructed and an
extra storey _ added. The inside will be
transformed into a modern theatre to seat
SOO, the decoration will be chastely ornate
and the stage will be one of the best equipped
in Melbourne. . Gregan McMahon will open
on April 1 with the first performance in
Australia of Bernard Shaw’s latest, “Too
True to Be Good.” The name will be the
Garrick.


Missing Friends.
. —George Humble Mumby, aged
about 86, is inquired for by his
daughter. Any person knowing his where-
abouts or particulars of death, please write
No. 255, Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
■yVTTLL, McGRATH, JAMES DENNIS,
** son of the late James McGrath, of
Portsea. Victoria, Butcher, or his children,
communicate with MESSRS. WALSH AND
BLAIR, Solicitors, Wagga Wagga, N.S.W.,
or MESSRS. GAVAN DUFFY AND
KING, Solicitors, 125 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria, when he or they will hear
something to their advantage.
“THE BARRIER MINER *
had its 45tli birthday on March 1!
Forty-five glorious years in the most
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was, and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past 45 years. The only newspaper in
Broken Hill covering the whole of the
Far West. Biggest sales West of
Sydney.
m*
V!
ass*:
.9
5*2
mat
a
fg*
aK
(S»
»S
It’s light and compact—
easy to operate
and produces
legible typing
for every purpose
£l 9/19/-
Terms Available.
FREE DETAILS AND LITERATURE FROM
THE NEAREST AGENT
L. DOBELL & CO., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane.
IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO.,
22 Martin Place, Sydney.
GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide.
JOHNSON & HEY,
Hunter Street, Newcastle.
OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD.,
59 King Street, Perth.
The British Imperial ‘‘Good Com-
panion” Portable is the handiest type-
writer ever made. It halves the work
and does a better job in less time. For
the home, the small office, the traveller
and the professional man, it is indeed
a “Good Companion.”
THE
BRITISH IMPERIAL
“GOOD COMPANION”
PORTABLE
ẁ
AUSTERITY OF THE AGES IN
The fame of Stuart Crystal has f ITTR R f
been passed down through the
ages, gaining all through the ODWCT A I
years fresh glory and power. From V- 1\ Jr JlT\ L- ♦ ♦ ♦
generation to generation > father
teaching son > the tradition has
been carried on > every craftsman
etching the name Stuart on every
piece. Wherever beautiful glass is
sold an exquisite example of this
beautiful crystal may be purchased
for no more than a few shillings.
* .
m
mi:
fc..:.Kj; :: '^
.
C- I
<• ■<* ■*’s* JiJt&JatA
UM
m,
*m
m
*•**
r~i-:
t iM
ffifi
33f50£S
•**. • • ;u
,Wf
V
MM
1C i^ r •'» bCJ
Be sure to look for the registered name “Stuart” on every piece you buy.
Young CAN'T
makes a duck
Really you know, that little
Can’t boy seems born for
trouble. It isn’t only that he’s
bottom of his class —but now
he’s gone and let his side
down by getting out first ba'l.
And all because that mother
of his has never looked after
him properly never insis-
ted on one simple rule of
health. Anyone with half
an eye can see that child is
poisoned. It’s a shame!
Young CAN
hits a sixer
m
&
And goodness gracious,
if that isn’t young Can
hitting another sixer. That’s
the stuff! That boy will go
far. And do you know why ?
Ever since he was quite a
toddler, his mother has seen
to it that he never misses
his Eno. She knows how
ridiculous it is to bother
about grubby hands and face
and do nothing about
keeping clean inside. And
what’s the result. Well- —
just look at him!
Nobody young or old can possibly get the most
out of life while sleepy intestines are poisoning the
bloodstream. And nobody can make certain of
avoiding this condition without giving Nature a
little daily help. That is what Eno does. And it has
no substitute . For over sixty years its gentle ciej us-
ing and purifying action has been turning
Can’t into Can.
Au.2lb
Ef i
nos
*-(3he ■words <S no and " ruit Salt ” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents c &he < tf. fftitchie Go. £td., Sydney, SN'.S. c lsD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The widely different technique of typical
British and American low comedians can be
studied in two Sydney picture theatres tins
week. Laurel and Hardy (who are at the
St. James in “The Chimp”) always appear
in American farces, but they are entirely
English'in their methods. Laurel (an Eng-
lishman by birth) is, like Chaplin, a mirth-
maker in the afflicted Dan Leno manner, and
Hardy plays up to him. Nothing goes right
with them, but they meet their misfortunes
with Cockney fortitude. Their good humor
is disturbed by occasional fits of futile rage.
They recover quickly and go on making
the best of their intolerable lives. English
comedians of this kind, who never raise their
voices and express woe with complete ade-
quacy by a lift of the eyebrow or a hope-
less gesture of the hands, are to be found
depicting people in all classes of society.
Penley and George Grossmith, sen., appeared
in drawing-room farces, and Chevalier con-
centrated on coster parts. There is nothing
pathetic about the bespectacled member of
the Wheeler and Woolsey team or the wise-
cracking Marx brother. The raucous self-
confident clowning of such actors is as ex-
pressive of American blatancy as the lugu-
brious manner of the others is of British pes-
simism and reticence. Wheeler and Woolsey
are to be seen at the Empire in “Hold ’Em
Jail.” They begin promisingly as hawkers
of. toys, who force themselves on a truculent
warden and make friends with his wife and
daughter, before coming under his control as
prisoners. Nearly half the film consists of
shots of comic football matches. The Ameri-
cans have a commendable habit of laughing
at their own lunacies, amongst which appar-
ently are college football and the penal
system, but half the point of the satire is lost
in Australia, where national lunacies take
different forms. The audience obviously
wearied of “Hold ’Em Jail” towards the end.
“The Devil Is Driving” satirises another
U.S.A. phenomenon—the car-stealing racket.
Edmund Lowe takes a job in a garage, and
almost immediately finds himself involved in
a whirl of criminality which culminates in
a terrific street crash. A corpse is put at
the wheel of a car and sent rushing into the
traffic stream to divert suspicion from a mur-
derer. The horrors are lightened by a
generous supply of Bowery humor.
* * #
“Call Her Savage,” at Sydney State,
features Clara Bow as a half-caste; her
father was an Indian who killed himself
after a liaison with her mother. As a flapper
she horsewhips another half-caste—Gilbert
Roland. We next find her in exclusive
U.S.A. society engaging in a brawl with an-
other wench, whose suitor, Monroe Owsley,
she marries in haste and spite. Owsley
proves to be a drunk who neglects her for
another. So she gets drunk daily for six
months, is cut off without a dollar by Owsley,
and becomes a mother. Down she goes and
still down till we are offered the lacerating
spectacle of the wayward girl losing her
chee-ild in a tenement fire. Next she in-
herits her grandfather’s fortune, re-enters
society, and has a return scrap with her
husband’s mistress. In a deathbed scene
with her mother she learns of her Indian
blood, and as Roland opportunely turns up
she marries him. Awful! The young woman
is billed as “a different Clara,” but is as
vulgar and noisy as ever. The only discern-
ible change lies in the fact that she has got
rid of a little weight.
“That’s My Boy” is just another colle-
giate. Richard Cromwell is the mother’s
boy who becomes a football .star and ex-
changes virtuous poverty for luxury. He
hangs out for as much as he can get, and
his backers, in order to raise the dough, turn
him into a company and sell shares in him.
A broker squanders the share money and
commits suicide, and Cromwell is left to
face the fury of the speculators. He accepts'
a lump sum from a millionaire not to pester
his daughter, and uses it to meet his obli-
gations. His next feat is to win the game
of the season at the 59th second, and so he
is enabled to redeem the damsel he was
bribed not to see again. He is aided and
abetted in his strange goings-on by Dorothy
Jordan and Mae Marsh.
* ¥ *
“Nagana,” at Sydney Regent, might be
described as a Society jungle picture. Melvyn
Douglas and a Japanese doctor are engaged
in combating sleeping sickness in Africa. A
colleague deserts his post to pay court to
Tala Birell, who inhabits a mid-jungle man-
sion, with all the amenities of Fifth Avenue
complete, including an English butler. Doug-
las wrests the deserter from her grip,, and
she promptly transfers her love to him. But
his thoughts are centred on tsetse flies, and
he leaves her for a region where nagana is
at its worst. She follows, and provokes the
enmity of the natives by accidentally killing
their chief with nagana serum, which is just
the kind of thing such a pest in female form
would do. Not till Douglas has let loose a
vast herd of lions, tigers and leopards and
set fire to a village is he able to save her
and himself from being eaten alive by croco-
diles. The film mightn’t have been so bad
without the heroine.
In “Vanity Street,” also at the Regent,
Charles Bickford, as a detective, has to
arrest Helen Chandler, a jobless salesgirl.
She has smashed a plate-glass window to
save herself from starvation. Instead of
running her in he accommodates her in his
bachelor flat. Next, he finds her a position
as a chorus-girl. She loves him, but he can’t
see it, and in desperation she compromises
herself with a blackmailer. The next thing
poor bone-headed Charles knows is that he
has to arrest her for murder, the black-
mailer having been bumped off. The author
here had a chance to introduce a touch of
stark originality by sending her to the elec-
tric chair, and marrying Mr. Bickford to,
say, the real murderer’s mother, but he let
it slip. The acting isn’t bad of its conven-
tional kind.
In “Two Seconds,” at Sydney Haymarket,
Ed. G. Robinson is shown on his way to the
chair. The switch is pushed in, and in
the two seconds before he dies you are shown
how he got there. Edward was a riveter who
expected much from life and was tricked
into marriage by a worthless dance-hall girl.
Her faithlessness changed his character. At
the trial he argued that they were proposing
to “burn” him at the wrong time, that he
was now a man, but the Judge couldn’t see
it. Robinson provides some impressive emo-
tional acting and Guy Kibbee is funny as a
bookie.
The horse Duke takes the honors in “Ride
Him Cowboy.” John Wayne docs the riding.
The gyurl is Ruth Hall.


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital . . . . . . , . . . £241 341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . , . , . £3,660 000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . , £9OO 000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £5OO 000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
(Hbmmoiimltf) Savings JIM of Btistralia
(Guaranteed by the Commo?iwealth Government)
ABORIGINALITIES
RETALIATION.
“What I like about McHaggis is that after you’ve treated him
he always retreats.”
~ .
Figger”; Mention of a recent unsuccess-
ful attempt to ring in a racehorse on a
N.S.W. country course, the feeble attempt
at disguise being easily spotted, leads me
to wonder if the old-time Australian horse
coper is extinct. The tradition lingered
among some Australian mounted units in
the South African War, but in the last
affair even the Light Horsemen proved
tliemselves mere amateurs. What the cham-
pions of the past were capable of was illus-
trated in the case of The Never Never, nomi-
nated for the steeple at a Barcoo meeting
some time in the ’seventies. He was a queer
brute with odd ears and a very inadequate
tail, and his extraordinary head was ex-
plained by the alleged fact he had Panic
blood in him. The Never Never won hands
down, and the Ring, which had to come from
Rockhampton and Roma by coach in those
days, had visions of walking back. There
was an English duke touring Western
Queensland at the time, and he was
to' bestow upon The Never Never a
blue ribbon. As he was putting it on,
the gallant steed humped his back, stuck
his tail out and gave vent to one of the
most sonorous brays ever voiced by a mule.
He had been bred by a Warrego , squatter
who tried to establish the mule industry in
that countryside, and his owners discovered
ho was an extraordinary jumper who could
gallop for a week. Much time and trouble
was devoted to pruning his ears, strengthen-
ing the hair growth on his tail and other
artistic camouflage, and all was ready for a
big killing. Ingenuity was not rewarded,
for the beast was disqualified as having been
falsely described as a gentleman horse. The
owners were jugged, and the bookies rode
home per Cobb and Co. What became of
the duke and The Never Never is hidden
in the mists of time.
* * * *
„ “Pat Bushie” : I pulled up at a little way-
side pub and inquired of an old chap who
was lounging on the verandah a few facts
about routes to near-by settlements. “And
now, stranger,” he said, “before leaving,
how about coming and changin’ yer breath?”
* * * *
“Silentio”: Sparrows are hard to kill.
Found one that had been shut in a building
for 14 days with only water to drink. It
had scratched the window glass all over,
breaking its claws and beak right down.
Though its feathers were dropping it man-
aged to fly when liberated.
* * * *
“Pick”: Let me prance in to support
“Mulgo” (B. 25/l/’33). On nearly every
beach of the north and south coasts of
N.S.W. I have seen and joined wormers on
the hunt. A majority used long-nosed pliers
with strips of red flannel tied around the
jaws. “Lofty” expatiates upon the ease with
which a sandworm’s head drags off. He’s
talking about a reptile I haven’t met. The
leathery length of a sandworm can hardly
be pulled asunder witli a traction engine.
* x x. x
“Eyass”: Some Sydney model-aeroplane
enthusiasts got a shock the other day when
flying miniature ’planes. A hawk swo’oped
into the grass near
by and rose with a
young rabbit. As ho
went u.p he nearly
ran into a gliding
'plane. Dropping the
rabbit, he trans-
ferred his attention
to the ’plane, which
he wrecked in short
ord e r. Meanwhile
the dropped rabbit
had escaped, and the
disgusted fowl de-
parted to find a meal
elsewhere. Hawks,
and especially the
common brown kite
of the outback, have
a keen eye for any-
thing out of the
way. Writer saw
one swoop on the
red hair-ribbon of a
little girl on a
Queensland station ;
he got away with
the ribbon and a
fair lot of hair to
line his nest with if
he felt so inclined.
A favorite trick of
western Queensland
youngsters when the
usual mob of kites
were hovering over
the station killing-
yard used to lie the
throwing into the
air of a piece of
meat, attached to a
scrap of paper by a
string. A bird
would catch the
meat and the n,
scared by the follow-
ing paper, make a
frantic dash for. the
horizon in a vain en-
deavor to get away
from the fluttering terror which pursued
him. It never occurred to him to drop the
meat.
X * * jjj
“Dinornis”; Very slowly, but with great
patience and perseverance, Maoriland orni-
thologists are piercing the shroud of mys-
tery that surrounds the moa. As matters
stand at present the balance of evidence
tends to show that the largest varieties of
moa —five genera and 23 species have been
already catalogued and there is a great
disparity in size between some of these—
were extinct before the Maoris sighted Ao
THE DEPTH OF LOVE.
DAVE: “I gotter laugh when I think of the first time I met yer, Mag. Yer got me so
rattled I milked the same cow twice."
Tea Roa. The Maoris had two methods of
moa-killing—by setting the bush on fire and
by hunting them into pits, where they could
be dispatched with meres 1 or spears. A vast
accumulation of moa-bones has been found
in cooking-places—the Maoris regarded the
giant bird as a grdat delicacy—but no very
large bones are among them. It would be
unfair to what is known of Maori courage
and sportsmanship to deduce that they picked
on the little chaps and gave the monsters
a miss, so the alternative is that the smaller
birds were the hardier (possibly the more in-
telligent) and survived longer. Of course,
an indubitably cooked thigh-bone of Dinornis
stmtss. "ffa? &
the Evidence S
rfte euaonee resta at Present. *
“Tavke” • For 80 vears a mvsterions lieht
has been shining every night in the bush it
Bambra (Vic.). It begin* on the road to
Aireys Inlet soon after sundown, and the
glow lasts all night. The ghostly illumination
1, nl1P „ thmio.hr tn hf* n rnilwnv lio-ht hut
all S station fights are nut out at 830 pm
Their a phosphorescent-fungus theory heldthe
field, but a fire which swept the area recently
and which would have destroyed any such
growth did not banish the glim. There are
no houses or camps of any kind in the
vicinity. On closely approaching the light
it vanishes. There are plans afoot to ascer-
tain its location by theodolite.
* * * *
“Sea Pis” ■ Before the Test matches
destroyed the interest, Sydney was much
obsessed with the captive shark at Taronga
Zoo. especially with the brute’s habit of un-
ceasingly circling its pool, night and day
Brighton (England) Aquarium has now
entered a porpoise for the marathon stakes,
The lady has been on the move with-
out stopping for six weeks, having been
clocked to do 500 miles per week at a rate
of three miles an hour. During the swim,
the creature, which is described as gentle
and intelligent, has been taught to jump
through a hoop, which is more than the
Taronga wonder has learned to date.
* * * *
“Bramble Cay”: Mention of the Tugeri
head-hunters of south-western Dutch New
Guinea (B. l/3/’33) reminds me that in
their palmy days these gentry raided many of
the islands in Torres Strait which were within
the Queensland boundaries, coming: along
in huge fleets of canoes. It was Sir William
MacGregor who ended their long run
of butchery. He cut off a large flotilla and
ran them up a river west of the Fly, pur-
suing them in boats. The Tugeri turned to
bay on the river bank with many miles of
impenetrable sago swamp between them and
home. What Sir William and his native
police did to the cornered raiders would
send the squeamish folk who now misgovern
I’apua from Canberra into a fit. Very few
of the Tugeri ever saw home again, and
that littoral from the Dutch border to the
Fly knew them no more. Incidentally, the
ancient Nordenfoldt gun which used to
adorn the foredeck of the Merrie England -was
brought into play in the chase which ended
in the river. A special medal struck by
the Colonial Office for the police—British
N.G. was then under the C.O.—to com-
memorate this affair is one of the rarest
things of its kind,
x * * *
“Wai-hoi” • The Rrnhmnn enttle tint are
to be i mpo Ad? from the U.S.A. to North
2tr;r s ":
a feed in the luscious but empty Nnrth. The
first sma ]i ] ot 0 f Brahmans was landed at
Port E-ssington settlement in 1842, there
EXSTKtp infl , UX C ° WS /° U f
hnoh uf nmutnoiiJ n ™
J™ sl k r A f L?W rU T - y ,, f i mustered
on the Aaej£ude River. and the herd even-
! na ] ly totallod about So °- The Wof
Kuir.hT' rSw ‘Srf the
]; / en “ iailla an jd ie
A 1 ®”* tb M d '* and other
. ‘ ™P° rtadloas bnng-
-6 Herbert Bros., on
yab , ru i 1 ’ sout h-east of
‘ .’ bave plenty of Brahman crossbreds
on , . tbei f country; and in their homestead
which tops a long rise above the distant
Adelaide, lounges and chairs are covered
Hrahman hides. Oil ruth records hav-
uig .seen almost pure Brahmans on Marrakai
slat,on-
* * *
“V.S.M.”: White butterflies are very
pretty, but they play the devil among the
turnips, so Maoriland has declared war on
’em. The parasite Anateles glomeratus is
being liberated in Hawke’s Bay province at
the rate of 4000 a week, and is slowly
gobbling up the white butterflies there. A
second parasite, Ptcromalis puparum, is also
being put to work. This attacks the butter •
fly while it is in the pupa stage, carrying
on the good work of the first parasite,
which operates by puncturing and laying
eggs, in the living caterpillar. England’s
turnips have been freed by thffse allies, and
the farmers of Shakyland have high hopes
of a similar victory.
NOBODY’S HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dark stands the hill, with a star on the
crest of it;
Dark looms the forest, deep-bosomed and
still;
Loud sings the river, a star on the breast
of it,
Down through the hollow of Nobody’s
Hill.
Round by the ridge and the islands that
sunder it.
Swift where the waterfalls tumble and
spill
Over the stones and the rocks that lie
under it
Into the night beyond Nobody’s Hill.
Points the tall poplar, a mark for the morn-
ing star,
Planted lang syne by a hand that is still,
Sentry-like set where the dogwood and
bracken are
Hiding the ruins by Nobody’s Hill.
Roof-tree long fallen and windowless eyes
of it,
Heartbreak and hopelessness working
their wi11....
Comes there a ghost where the summer wind
sighs of it
Under the shoulder of Nobody’s Hill?
Comes there a ghost, ’mid the ghosts of the
apple-gums
Lifting dead boughs to blind Heaven, until
Over the ridge the rose of the morning comes,
New-born and sweet, over Nobody’s Hill?
Where by the hearthstone the rafter-beam
rotten is,
Filled with the fern spray that wanders
at will,
Leave them to-night and a name that for-
gotten is
Under the shadow of Nobody’s Hill.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIET.


jßTm** 1.
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
i Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
! procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is bv the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —7i hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., L,TD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
o
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston. i
Obtainable from
■ Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, otters you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
L
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
“Werrimee”: “Back to Bathurst” recalls
that the. residents of that district had some
quaint ideas of sport in the early days.
One of them, for a wager, carried a heavy
pumpkin on his head from Bathurst to
Kelso. Another carried a sheep 25 miles
on his back. Then there was Skillicorn’s
ride from Bathurst to Sydney, which he
backed himself to do in 20 hours for £l5O.
He did it with ten minutes to spare. But
a man had been posted at a wayside house;
he asked Skillicorn to have a drink, then
said he would walk along a bit with him.
Skillicorn walked about 100 yards before
mounting again, and thereby lost the wager.
Bathurst also had a hunting club, the mem-
bers of which rode out to chase the wild
dog in red coats, brass buttons and velvet
caps. The oldest inhabitant informs me
that the only dingoes they ever laid hands
on were those stamped on their beautiful
buttons.
* * * *
“Wynyard”: The depression has caused a
scarcity of fish in Port Phillip. Forced to
economise, people are calling for cheaper
fish, and use is being made of the fact
that gummy shark camouflaged as “flake”
or “fish cutlets” is quite palatable. Con-
sequently sharks are marketed instead of
being put back to feed on the crabs. Hence a
preponderance of crabs, which not only
devour the fishes’ food but also the sea-
weed which forms their cover. At Lakes
Entrance the battle between the crabs and
the fishermen raged so fiercely a few years
GIVED UN AS GOOD AS HE BRUNG.
NEW PARSON (from “Home”) : “Good-bye, Mr. Tredarrick, and may the better side
win, I say.”
JABEZ 'ENRY : “Same ’ere, m’ son; and it will, too, if us can get they other chaps
out ’foore they scoore too many runs.”
ago that the industry suffered severely.
The climax came when the fishermen found
their nets completely devoured in a single
night, only the corks and sinkers withstand-
ing the attack. On the other hand, Tas-
manian fishermen are jubilant rhis season
over the marked increase in all kinds of
fish, particularly the real and silver trum-
peter, and are wondering whether there has
been a rise in the temperature of the water
owing to a shifting of the warm current of
Eastern Australia. It seems more reason-
able to suppose that fish are being driven
out of Port Phillip, and are migrating south-
ward in considerable numbers.
H* si*
“Mulyan”: Still another man has learnt
the folly of petting a bull. J. V. Jones, of
Woodstock, near Milton (N.S.W.), has
had his confidence violated by a Holstein
that he ha<;l looked upon as a paragon of
virtue. After patting the animal he turned
to walk away, when the old pet suddenly
knocked him over and gored him. A dozen
similar cases have occurred within the last
12 months in N.S.W. farming districts, and
the villain in every instance had masquer-
aded for a long time as “perfectly quiet and
friendly.”
* * * *
“FY7”: Reference was recently made in
a South Australian paper to the fact that
coursing in that State originated from the
chase of a wallaby by the dogs
of a party returning ‘ from kan-
garoo hunting, the tgkes, includ-
ing several greyhounds, being
finally beaten by their quarry.
The “wallaby” was undoubtedly
the kangaroo rat, so called, which
used to be so plentiful in the
grass plains of the interior, for
the wallaby is a scrub dweller,
whereas the “rat” lies up in a
grass form exactly like a hare.
Many years ago on some of the
Barcoo (Q.) stations coursing these
“rats” with greyhounds and kan-
garoo dogs was a favorite way of
putting in Sundays. The rat was
walked up in the form, as the
hare is in open coursing in Eng-
land, and the dogs then slipped.
The little fellows had great pace
and endurance, and equalled any
hare in doubling. If the weather
was hot they often left the dogs
done in and all out.
“V.S.M.”: The first white settlers in
Maoriland discovered they couldn’t farm suc-
cessfully because the few birds around didn’t
understand their part of the job. So they
sent to England for sparrows, starlings and
the like. Most of these have since been
dubbed pests, but the sparrow has come out
of all trials without a stain on his char-
acter. It has never been convicted of dam-
age to crops, and there is abundant evidence
of the value of its capacity as a destroyer
of insects. G. M. Thomson, a noted autho-
rity, records cases of heavy rain in orchard
districts in summer causing a rush of vege-
tation, followed by an invasion of the green
fly. The appearance of large numbers of
hedge sparrows and the complete destruc-
tion of the aphis by them removed a very
serious outlook for crops. And yet quite
a lot of county councils pay for sparrow
eggs!
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Ware spiders! Three people
have been killed recently from the bite of
FALSE ALARM.
“I say, old chap, what about that horse you were going to sell me?”
“Aw, his leg wasn’t broke after all!”
a spider, known as the atrax or funnel-
web spider, which had not hitherto been
recognised as deadly. This is a medium-sized
spider, dark in color, with large downward-
pointed nippers, and it rears up on its hind
legs to fight when attacked. Its nest is
usually in a hollow log or under stones on
the ground, and has a funnel-shaped en-
trance. It has a habit of stalking its vic-
tim, and will take the offensive without pro-
vocation.
* * * *
“N.R.G.”: I’ve been trying the chalk-
line recipe for ant-stopping. I have a safe
hanging on the wall, and I surrounded it
with a neat chalk square. Night before last
the ants were lined up all round it, and
I thought they were fixed, but presently
I noticed them heading upwards. They
crawled across the ceiling till they were
directly above the safe, then dropped on
the top of it. I assume they dropped to
the floor when they wanted to depart, as
yesterday morning they were all gone. I
tricked them for the time being by drawing
a Complete line round the walls, but last
night one gang came along with a strip of
red-gum bark, and another detachment with
a lump of gum, and they’ve stuck a bridge
across my chalk fence. Now I'm drawing
a maze on the floor, and any ant that gets
in to-night and can’t get out by to-morrow
morning will die the death.
:-c * * *
“Willeroo” : During a search of French’s
Forest for an old man who recently dis-
appeared from Mosman, Sydney, a cave-
man was discovered whose identity and
residence had not been known even to
those who combed the bush for wildflowers.
The northern side of the harbor has shel-
tered many quaint troglodytes whose retreats
were only discovered by chance. The most
notable was Sarsaparilla Joe, who for nearly
40 years occupied a walled-in cavern near
Flat Rock Bridge. When his domicile was
known and he became an object of interest,
he rigged up a door to prevent inquisitive
eyes from peering in. He was reputed to
be rich (a search after his death produced
£200), and the curiosity of picnickers was
the bane of Joe’s declining years. He hated
public holidays and Sundays. Nearly always
at such times he was shut up, quietly boiling
.sarsaparilla leaves in an old pot in a manner
suggesting an old-time apothecary.
* * * ❖
“E.S.S.”: A curious thing about koalas
is that, while the lady of the species camps
by day in a tree hollow, the old buck is
a creature of the open. Almost any old
place suits him to sleep in. Occasionally
he goes to bed on top of a stump or a gate-
post, but usually he chooses a nice smooth
fork high up on a gum- or box-tree, where
he props his back against one upright and
grips the other with his powerful claws.
His fine dense fur is often marred by scanty
patches on the rump through that habit of
sitting in a fork, where he looks like part
of the tree. Sometimes he backs downstairs,
even at midday, for a little ramble on the
gro'und, or for something dainty to eat —
a sort of late supper. The female is never
abroad in daytime. At dusk she stretches
herself like a drowsy human, and then sets
off to see about some gum leaves. Her habit
of carrying the baby on her back precludes
her from sitting in a fork.
* * :!= *
“Bendemeer”: Tell “Oran” (B. l/3/’33)
that the bulbul’s chief iniquity lies not in
his passion for fruit so much as his pen-
chant for young buds. He doesn’t confine
himself to fruit trees either, but has an
unholy liking for rose-trees. In a locality
like Sydney, where rose-growing is an even
greater passion than Test-match cricket, this
has caused his name to be mud amongst
gardeners.
* # * *
“Whirroo”: How rapidly the Papuan
savage is becoming civilised is seen in the
story of a recent Donnybrook at Port Mores-
by, in which about 200 members of the local
tribes and a contingent of imported laborers
from the Gulf of Papua took a willing part.
Stones, clubs, spears, iron bars and knives
were used, and some 70 participators had
to face the beak and suffer fine and im-
prisonment. What caused the trouble has not
been ascertained, but it probably arose out
of the Test-match situation, the Port Mores-
by Papuans being nowadays much addicted
to cricket.
* sjs * *
“Kooka”: “Barangkali’s” account (B.
21/12/’32) of the Malay legend of the
progenitors of the human race has a parallel
in New Guinea lore. Growing tired of the
advances of warriors of her own tribe,
shapely young Timinavair stole a canoe
during the night and paddled across the fast-
running passage to the adjoining island,
which was uninhabited save for the Masili
(evil spirit) that lived in the form of a
snake in a cave. He showered gifts on
her. She took them till he had nothing more
to offer her; then she relented and married
him. Twins were born, a boy and girl.
From these two the tribe which inhabits this
island sprang.
* * ❖ *
“C. Coral”: The talkies are having their
effect on the naming of island canoes. These
big double-outrigger craft, hollowed out of
great trees, have to display a name for pur-
poses of easy recognition. The other day J
saw a gaily-decorated canoe with the namf
“The Outlaw” painted on its bows; another
carried the legend “Money Back.” In the
naming of native-owned dinghies classical
tastes predominate, “Venus,” “Oceanic” and
siiiiilar names showing up bravely. One
boy had chosen “Must Look” and another
considered “Bluise” (“Blue Eyes”) appro-
priate.
ON THE WAGGON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have squandered my money with noisy
friends in wild and riotous escapades,
And waked untimely with fuddled wits,
and prayed to Heaven relief might
come;
For the terrible pains in my swelling head
have made me quit my uneasy bed
And limp around in my undershirt, pro-
foundly cursing the demon Rum.
I have listened to earnest evangelists beneath
their flickering naphtha lamps
Perform on a cracked harmonium hymns
that sinners to reformation bring;
I have solemnly sworn “It shall be the last.”
Repentance, however, has always
passed,
Though, clapping my hands with the
newly-saved, I tried to testify and
sing.
The resolutions I used to make got torn
and patched (like a poet’s pants),
But at last I have conquered the inner
man, and I look on life with a glad-
some heart;
For I have a new job at the council yard,
and temperance, trust me, is not so
hard
When one has to drive through the town-
ship streets atoD of the good old
water-cart!
VICTORIA.
D. H.


The
ẅ
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower Quality? Certainly not! Reduced
rates mean nothing if they involve reduction of comfort or service.
The famous “Australia Hotel” standard of quality is maintained, but
at reduced prices, made possible by substantial reductions in prices of
raw materials
ROOM ONLY RATES:
Single Room from . . 10/6. Double Room from . . 20/-
“THE AUSTRALIA” BUFFET
OPEN NOON TILL 9.30 P.M.
Entrance Rowe Street, or through the
vestibule. Good meals within the reach
of all. No minimum charge. Leading
brands of wines, spirits and beers served
on request with all meals, at lowest rates.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel , Sydney.”
w
SMOKE-OH!
The Reds are trying to get the P out
of Prussia.
ff if
SCOOP OF THE YEAR.
“BO 1234? ‘Daily Blah?’ London call-
ing. Urgent call for the sporting editor.”
Sporting Editor : “Hullo, Yes. Yes.
What’s that! Are you certain? Just a mo,
Smithy—l’ll put you through to the news
editor.”
News Editor : “ ’Lo! Ye.s. Yes. Yes.
NO! Really? Wait a minute—l’ll get you
to repeat that to the Chief.”
Editor-in-chief : “Editor speaking. Yes,
Smith. Yes. Yes. WHAT! Dammitall, in-
credible! Repeat it slowly. Great Scott!”
Grabs handful of telephones arid yells:
“Hold the presses! Cancel that double-
murder story. Get ready for a special. Smith
of our London staff has found an old-time
cricketer who hasn’t made a, statement on
body-line bowling.”
V. C.
* *
There is talk of using a rabbit instead
of a kangaroo in future cricket cartoons.
* if
The trouble with Jack Lang is that he
thinks he was made to order.
THE CRICKET EXPERT VISITS
MANCHURIA.
Monday. —Marshal Chi-Li and his crack
Cantonese battlers certainly look the goods to
me. These boys should mop up the Cherry Isle
opposition in short order, provided fickle
Dame Fortune continues to smile. Make your
wagers now; the odds are bound to shorten.
Tuesday.- —The traditional uncertainties of
the game of games manifested themselves in
no uncertain manner this morning when
“Callots” Chi-Li and his men, though tipped
as absolute morals by the cognoscenti—the
betting in the reporters’-rnom of the Lung-
“Oh, my husband was a great lover of art, sir. Why, sir,
in the end he even hung hisself on the -picture-rail,
sir.”
Chow “Sun” was five to four on at zero-
hour —beat an instant retreat on coming up
against the fast- stuff purveyed by General
Wakaka’s fliers. The Tokioites palpably lack
class. Their effort was a flash in the pan,
and they were not entirely unassisted by the
appearance of Old Sol while the lads from
Canton were occupied trying to dodge their
bouncers.
Wednesday. —The Confucians are still
running hard, but the apparent retreat, as
all with inner knowledge realise, is merely
a piece of subtle strategy devised by that
master of craft Chi-Li to lure the Nippon
champs to their undoing. “ Callots ” Chi-Li
and his boys are undoubtedly superior in all
departments. Let Doubting Thomases, if any
there be, paste this slogan in their hats for
future reference.
Thursday. —Totally unforeseen circum-
stances led to a sudden bolt on the part of
Chi-Li and his merry men through a con-
venient hole in the Great Wall. This was
the same hole which
enabled “Lettucee”
Wow-Fli to make his
record-breaking get-
away in ’2O. Chi-Li’s
time was ssec. worse
than that of the Yel-
low Streak. Flight-
Lieut. Nogi beat the
record established by
Squadron - leader
Yobaga in ’3O, by put-
ting 74 Celestials out
with one bomb. This
bby will bear watch-
ing; he should go far.
The basket - bearers
are now in full flight,
and, when last seen,
appeared to be head-
ing for Burma.
Friday.— -As I have contended all along
the Cantonese are second-raters, and their
leadership has been consistently faulty.
Stack Chi-Li and his amateurish crowd up
against beginners and they look all right;
but in opposition to lads of class, pukka top-
notchers of the calibre of “Nogs” Nogi,
their feet of clay become painfully appa-
rent. I warn Chi-Li, here and now, that
he will have to make radical changes in
his following. Mcne, Mcne. Tekel Upharsin!
The Writing is on the Wall. He will neglect
this great paper's advice at his peril.
10-2-4.
* *
The .Taps are finding the Chinks in their
armor.
* *
GOVERNMENT LAROR EXCHANGE.
A VACANCY has occurred for a tram-
driver. Successful applicant must pass
test throwing two I2st.
drunks off footboards.
Raucous voice and no tie
an advantage.
EXPERIENCED
Council Engineer. Able
lay piping and erect sew-
erage ventilators con-
spicuously. Send samples
of recent defacements of
public property.
WANTED, City Cop.
Duties include driving
about in P.D. cars, in-
vestigating pubs, dining
at restaurants and danc-
ing at cabarets —all at
Government’s expense.
Faultless evening clothes,
also at Government’s ex-
pense.
A VACANCY has
occurred for a Minister.
Aspirants must be pre-
pared to undertake duty
of finding jobs for their
pals. Apply in own hand-
writing, unless illiterate,
stating previous lack of
education.
if *
There should be plenty
of legal pints in N.S.W.'s
Milk Commission.
* *
Perhaps the nations
would disarm if they held
an Armaments confer-
ence.
* *
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
Mrs. Nextdoor claims—
and rightly so—that hers
is a musical family.
Her daughter Susan
has a voice; her son Tom
has a dog ; her son Reggie
is a drummer: her husband blows his own
trumpet and has a pipe that hums; they
all dress loudly; her brother Sam is a
regular oboe; the family collectively owns
a gramophone and two cats and a player-
piano, and Mrs. N. is continually harping
on her grievances.
So we’re moving.
s 11. M.
if if
“Small boys think of nothing but their stomachs.”
It’s kno'wn as an interiority complex.
if if
“The Winter Garden theatre desires 500 live flies,
which will be paid for at the rate of Is. per dozen.”
—Brisbane “Courier” advt.
So now we know where flies go in the
wintertime.
if if
“Dean Inge declares that we are losing our claws
and fur.” — “Argus.”
Anyhow, the summer bargain sales are
practically over.
“I wanted to buy a wireless set with the
money, but ’course the missus got her
way.”
THE INTERVIEW.
Scene I.—Stateroom of Utopia. Mrs. Van
Ginkleweiss discovered talking to a “Daily
Guff” newshound.
“ And have you formed any particular
impressions of our city, Mrs. Van Ginkle-
weiss?”
“Yes. I think it is positively charming.
I love it already. Your shops! Your beau-
tiful streets! They remind me of Broad-
way, Fifth-avenue, the Rue de la Paix.”
“And our girls?”
“Positively I have never seen so many
beautiful girls. They would hold their own
for pulchritude, deportment, figure and dress
with any that I have seen in Boston
(Mass.), reputedly the home of feminine
beauty.”
“And what of the men?”
“Delightful! They are .so gallant, so well-
dressed ! They remind me of English Guards
officers, except that your dear men are
brainier and more manly.”
Exeunt reporter.
Scene ll.—Enter Mr. Van Ginkleweiss,
who has been shaving,
“Say, goilie, what’s all the chin-propul-
sion about?”
“Oh, some gink from a tabloid daily
wanted the usual boloney, and I obliged with
a stickful for his rag.”
“Huh! Anyway, when do we leave this
one-horse burg? I’ll be goldarned glad when
this tub hoists her hook and beats it for
civilisation. Wodger say, baby?”
“Sure fire, big boy! I never seen so many
bum janes, gawky guys or messod-up scenery
in a joint since we hit Dog Leg Bend in
Colorado last fall. And the highbrow herd !
Yew never see such a bunch o’ frumns and
gumboils!”
“Same here, kiddo.”
S. W.
* >f
“Farmers all agree that rabbits are now their
greatest curse.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Politicians are said to be bearing their
supersession philosophically
* H-
THE STOICS.
The main wrestling-bout was in progress
at the Bloodshed Bay Stadium. As Fritz
the Hun lifted Lop-eared Larry high in the
air and brought him down with a howl on
the press-table, tired sniggers emanated from
a group in the front seats. When Larry
gnawed a piece out of his adversary’s leg
the front-scaters yawned, and one, with a
bandage round his head- and his arm in a
sling, waved his crutch angrily and yelled,
“Shake it u.p, you cold-footers! Let’s see
some action!”
“What more do the blankards want?”
inquired Larry as he reeled to his corner,
and spat out half a dozen teeth, to the
accompaniment of a fusillade of raspberries.
“Don’t you worry about them, Lop/ said
his chief bottle-holder soothingly. ‘u.heir
standard of endurance is a bit higher than
wot ours is. They bin playin’ cricket
against Jardine’s boys.”
* *
“An English weekly has compiled a list of the
12 most beautiful words in the language.”— “Argu-v '
And it failed to include “Kumanavadi’ink !
* *
Anyhow, Lang’s ears must be red.
* *
“Arrangements will be made to select a certain
number from the discharged men for reinstate-
ment.”—“Sun.”
It is known as a cull-de-sacked.
OXJIi NEW DEPENDENCY.
Now Australia has the thing the question
arises, What’s to be done with it? One
sound suggestion is that pony-owners
should transport their teams south, and
there keep them permanently “on the ice, ’
instead of spasmodically, as at present. The
formation of a South Polar Tin-hare Cours-
ing Association, with “huskies” replacing
greyhounds, and the resultant wangling for
concessions and licenses, ought to cause a
gratifying exodus of politicians and ex-poli-
ticians.
Intending suicides could ensure fame by
bumping themselves off icebergs secure in the
knowledge that no one would be at hand to
stop them. Wear and tear to Sydney’s
bridge would thereby be obviated.
The vast quantities of “snow” available
should prove an attraction to Darlinghurst.
The threatened loss of “copy” by the “Sun-
day Sun” could be obviated by the dispatch
of a social reporter in the same ship as
the underworld habitues. The Sabbath sheet
would thus be able to keep faith with its
public, and at the same time give the gangs
their meed of publicity.
The new dependency could be incorporated
in a. Greater Sydney scheme, with civic
headquarters in the vicinity of King
George’s Land. There Labor and Civic
Reform aldermen could fight it out to their
hearts’ content until the R.S.P.C.A. inter-
fered in the interests of the penguins.
But perhaps the best plan of all would
be to hand our new dependency over to the
A.L.P. for the purposes of a great Socialisa-
tion settlement. The socialisers could live
there in that Utopian harmony which is so
nobly in evidence at the Trades Hall.
S. W. K.
if *
“Alcohol causes ulcers in the stomach.”
—Temperance orator.
Drinkers say this is all tummy rot.
* *
“Australian tobacco is equal to that produced
in most other parts of the world.”
Put that in your pipe and smoke it!
“Mr. Dodger, I’ve just heard that you
divorced your poor wife —tell me why
you did such a thing?”
“Easy! Because I couldn’t divorce her
mother.”
What’s the use of Lang trying to save
his bacon when he’s only got half a side;
if if
PROFESSIONAL.
“I saw him at a party, embracing every woman
he met.... I told my daughter he was no good.”
— Police-court report,
“lie is no good at all,” I said;
With logic cool I faced her.
“A man who puts his arm about
So many females, thin and stout,
Is palpably a icaister.”
VALEDICTORY.
Janc, you were all in all to me.
I loved you madly, more than life;
And now, despite my fervent plea,
You have become another’s wife!
Farewell! For you remains the course
Of wedded bliss, the social swirl.
For me there’s only one resource:
To get myself another girl.
T.W.N.


Are You Building, Renovating,
.... or Farming ?
TRY DANKS’
Australian Made Material
We have two warehouses and two factories pro-
ducing and selling material for the Building and
Plumbing trades, and Windmills and Pumps for
Irrigation Work. Founded in 1859, long experi-
ence enables us to supply these articles at' the right
price, and others which we distribute only. The
quality is that which you expect for good money.
Call or write for prices of lines you use. Some
of our lines are:
BILLABONG WINDMILLS, PUMPS & TROUGHING.
Tanks, Wire Netting, Fencing Wire, Barbed
Wire, etc.
PLUMBERS’ MATERIAL.
Water and Gas Pipes and Brassware, Water Cocks,
Cisterns, Sewerage Fittings, Galv. Iron, Guttering
and Downpipe.
BUILDERS’ MATERIAL.
Baths, Basins, Pedestals, Tiles for walls and floors.
Electroliers, Grates and Mantles, Electric and Gas
Cookers. “Ormonoid” Bituminous Roofing and
Flooring. Locks, Night Latches, Nails, Screws,
Bath Heaters.
PAINTERS’ MATERIAL.
Paints, Colors, Varnishes and Brushware.
WALLPAPERS.
The newest vogue from British factories.
“IDEAL” HEATING AND HOT-WATER SYSTEMS.
The most efficient and lowest in upkeep for
warming large buildings or supplying hot water.
TOOLS OF TRADE AND GARDEN TOOLS.
Hose and Sprinklers.
ENGINEERS' BRASSWORK.
Quick suburban deliveries and prompt country
despatch for country orders.
i\
§
Z
£
m
$55,:
\
Call in to our counters —or write for 'prices of lines you intend using.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD
324-330 Pitt Street ... - SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
You may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and coid water and telephone.
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
COME
PRICES OM
BRITISH
LIGHT:
ŵ
r-CAR
BATTERIES
tylow
ywuvw
Owners of British light cars,
can now have Exide start-
ing assurance and long life
from 60/-.
The increased popularity of
these cars, with the con-
sequent bigger demand for
light ear batteries, makes
this new price poss ble.
AUSTIN
MORRIS
SINGER
TRIUMPH
STANDARD
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane —EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q.) PTY.,
LTD. ; Sydney—EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co.,
Ltd.) ; Melbourne —A. P. SUTHERLAND ; Adelaide —UNBEHAUN AND
JOHNSTONE, Ltd.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN, LTD.; Hobart—MEDHURST
AND SONS PTY., LTD.
FCX 9
1
P-
m
hM
a
SSSSB*
£
Lj
und ori
m
mon
SPECIAL CRUISE TO
NEW ZEALAND BY
R.M.S. MONOWAI
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION CALLING AT
WELLINGTON AND AUCKLAND.
LEAVES SYDNEY MARCH 31.
RETURNS SYDNEY APRIL 10.
Inclusive Return Fare from . . £23
Passengers making the round trip may remain
on board in New Zealand ports.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TRUE BLUE AND BRITISH.
ẃ
The Emu, like the
Kangaroo, is “plus a
little something,” too !
They chose him for Australia’s
coat of arms because he has the
Empire spirit of endurance, plus
a surprising turn of speed—tire-
less and effortless . . . And if
that’s the performance you want
from your car, you must choose
the only true blue Empire
motor spirit . . .
u
♦
K!
PLUS WHAT ?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
“C.O.R” Plus is a fine quality motor
'spirit plus a special soluble compound
of lead which eliminates “pinking”
and meets the needs of today’s higher-
compression engines. For your pro-
tection it is clooured BLUE by the ad-
dition of a minute quantity of perfectly
harmless aniline dye, which cannot
separate from the petrol.
C5O/16/33
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Poolman Street. Port Melbourne. 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3261. 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agents for South Australia and Queensland: :: :: Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; Or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).


AN OUTBACK BRANCH OF
THE BANK IN THE SEVENTIES
This illustration of the Georgetown, Qld., branch of the Bank of New South
Wales shows something of the conditions the Bank had to face in providing
banking facilities for the early settlers.
Yet this was only 61 years ago, and for 55 years before that the Bank had
played an essential part in the development of Australia.
H. E. Teare in “Australian Banking Currency and Exchange ’’ referring
to the opening of the Bank in 1817, says, " The establishment of this bank
was generally considered to have saved the Colony from ruin.”
And to-day, in this period of economic stress, the Bank maintains its high
traditions of service;. safeguarding its depositors, and, to the limit of its
resources, helping primary and secondary producers on the way to ultimate
recovery.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian
Bank of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
THE SHORTEST ROUTE—
THE LONGEST MEMORIES!
SYDNEY to ENGLAND via AMERICA
on the new, luxury-liners
MARIPOSA' & MONTEREY'
1
n
*
I
ENGLAND within 28 days! These magnifi-
cent new Pacific cruisers—place the Mother-
land closer —provide a voyage of swift transi-
tion, never to be forgotten for its enduring
memories and vivid charm.
fl Coursing a smooth, sunny trail, you stop at
New Zealand’s Auckland, Fiji’s Suva, Samoa’s
Pago Pago, Hawaii’s Honolulu —each wreathed
in legend and rife with beauty and romance.
18 days from Sydney you arrive in California —
and before you stretches the great continent of
America!
B A fitting prelude to all this is your trans-
pacific voyage—on ships whose superb appoint-
ments and superior service provide a modern
argosy through age-old seas!
B Ship life is a blend of home-contentment and
resort-excitement! Staterooms each with over-
size beds and countless aids to comfort! Public
rooms of rare distinction. Every sports facility.
A talkie theatre. Free daily newspaper. Unend-
ing diversions to while away the short span
between each fascinating port.
FARES TO ENGLAND
FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS ( single ) from £lO5/10; Return £194/10
CABIN CLASS ( single ) from £B3; Return £152
FROM MELBOURNE:
FIRST CLASS ( single ) from £lO7/10; Return £l9B/10
CABIN CLASS ( single ) from £B4/10; Return £155/10
Fares subject to Exchange.
■
CHOOSE THE SOUTH SEAS
All the world dreams of a romantic holiday
among these magic isles. They are right on
your door-step! Rapid service and moderate
costs compel your consideration of this un-
rivalled vacation-field.
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- 65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 75/0/- 55/0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £39/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £35/5/- 69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 79/0/- 59/0/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
NEXT SAILING TO AMERICA
Via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
Sydney .... S.S. Monterey .... April 8
Melbourne . . . S.S. Monterey . . . April 4
m
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone B 7981-3.
AGENTS: DALSETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
'Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
3M 2A
w
PROSPECTORS’
AIDS
Quartz
Dishes
For carrying
quartz. Heavy
gauge material
with beaded
edges. Diame-
ter n.,
depth 3ji n.
Price, 5/6
each.
ŵ
Prospecting
Dishes
With galvan-
ised - iron rim
1i n. deep
machined on
to body. Out-
side diameter
inside
diameter
1 5jin., depth
Price,
4/6 each.
Cast Iron Dolly Pot
This solidly-cast Dolly Pot is made strongly enough
to withstand extra rough usage, yet light enough to
be easily handled. Diameter of opening is
Complete unpacked weight, 16^1b.
PRICE, 8/-. Freight extra,
FREE!
We have just issued a splendid Catalogue of Tools and
Hardware. In addition to nearly 250 pages of illustrations
and descriptions of over 1400 articles, there are many pages
of valuable information compiled by a competent authority.
To make sure that you secure a copy, fill in and send this coupon now.
NAME
ADDRESS
Proprietary Limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
s
\
m
\
\
/
C
) z
'
i
V V '"\
m
i
fa
Mi
To
r
fO
Uj Q?
O/k
"V
AMAZING
SUPERIORITY !
We honestly believe that the new English Gillette blades
are the finest safety razor blades ever produced in any
country by any process. Don’t take our word for this,
but try a packet yourself. Thirty years’ research is behind
this new blade. Ground, honed and stropped in the
long unbroken ribbon of steel, every Gillette Blade must
have the same uniformly perfect edge.
Gillette Slotted Blades for old and new type razors,
2/6 per packet. Of all dealers.
ẁ
GILLETTE INDUSTRIES LIMITED
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.I.
1 ' C-j


w
PERFECT INSULATDN#*!LONGER LIFE
U DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES /
I
re»r
«at
INS-t
The internal insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity orchemi-
cals may occasionally occur. from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a "new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
jiew way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en-.
tirely protected from leakage on sides!
and bottom. It is at the base of the cellsj
where corrosion is most dangerous. No
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation ” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
m
mm
RADIO BATTER-lES TOUCH R.EFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
m A SUPREME TEST OF SUPER.
“J.W.W.”: Like many other Vie. farmers
who owned good land, I used to believe it
a reflection on a man’s farming to advise the
use of super. Good tillage was enough, we
said, plus, in irrigation districts, judicious
use of water; super, was only for the man
who' would not or could not w T ork his land
properly. But, being of an experimental turn.
I started using super, in a small way, and
watched the experience of others very
closely. This led to our going in for lewt.
to the acre. Our crop was chiefly lucerne
for hay, our market being furnished by Mel-
bourne racehorse-owners, dairymen and
poultrymen. Unmanured lucerne gave about
tons per acre at four cuttings per season.
Our best yield with lewt. of super, was five
tons to the acre at five cuttings, with a
great improvement in quality, and, of course,
in price.
My son took over, and increased the super,
to 3cwt. to the acre. He went on experi-
ence gained in his farm work, on the recom-
mendation of the Department of Agricul-
ture, and on the results of a long series of
experiments carried out on a property in
the same belt of country—the Masters farm,
Swan Hill flats. The 3cwt. application gave
six tons per acre at as many cuttings, and
this year the yield is going to be exceeded
considerably. Four cuttings taken off up
to the end of January averaged l| tons per
cutting. At least two cuts more are ex-
pected; estimating these at a ton each,
the return will be seven tons per acre, and
a mu * ong stanc * to graze off towards winter.
These are not nearly the whole advant-
ages of the extra manure. The lucerne
stand was so' dense and vigorous that wild
millet, the curse of lucerne-growers on these
Murray flats, was ousted, and the sample
was pure lucerne. “Prime, green, leafy ” the
agents called it; and the beautiful light-
green stuff was snapped up at sight. There
was no question of finding a market; it
found us. Competition among chaff mer-
chants and agents (including the two big
co-op. selling cos.) in Melbourne was such
that we had no trouble in getting 2s. to
2s. 6d. a ton more than the highest quoted
market price each week.
That extra 2s. 6d. nearly paid for carting
the chaff to the railway station, thus allow
mg the grower time to use the scarifier and
prepare for the next cutting, which followed
so quickly on each other.
SUPER. IN PAPER-BAGS.
“O-K.”; The increasing use of multi-
walled paper-bags as fertiliser containers
(B. 15/2/’33) is a good thing for the coun-
try, since the bags are made in Australia. At
a rough estimate, £600,000 annually leaves
Australia to pay for Indian jute-sacks, which
do not last; super, deteriorates them. Over
45 million multi-wall paper-bags have been
used in Australia within the past few years,
and a canvass of farmers who have bought
altogether 4000 tons of fertiliser in this
form of container from N.S.W. manufac-
turers has shown that 90 per cent, have
endorsed the paper-bag. Among the reasons
are that the smaller package—containing,
as it does, 941 b. in place of 1871 b—is han-
aier to lift, is a great saver of time and
labor when drilling, and does not lead to
waste. The multi-wall construction pro-
vides ample protection from wet, and keeps
the super, in good condition.
THE BALANCED RATION.
“Alf Alpha”: “W.D.Mc.” (B. 8/2/’33)
is either a little hard or he has misinter-
preted my contribution (B. 11/l/’33) deal-
ing with the balanced ration. Taking the
theoretical requirement of a 10001 b. dairy
cow, producing three gallons of milk per
day containing 3.5 per cent, fat, to be
2.201 b. of digestible protein in food con-
taining 15.451 b. of total digestible nutrients,
certain common dairy foods of known com-
position were selected and blended, and a
calculation made, to show how easy it is to
balance the ration of a dairy cow. The
calculation proved 371 b. of the ration to
contain 2.191 b. of digestible protein, with
15.231 b. of total digestible nutrients, against
this particular beast’s theoretical require-
ment of 2.201 b. of digestible protein and
15.451 b. of total digestible nutrients.
It was fondly anticipated that the average
dairyman would understand the contribu-
tion and its objective. Nothing was further
from my thoughts than that anyone would
be silly enough to buy cows, buy the foods
mentioned, blend them as illustrated, feed
them to Strawberry, do the milking, sell the
milk and then look for profit. Such a man
(if there is one) knows as much about dairy-
ing as a sausage knows about dog.
“W.D.Mc.” will agree that the average
Australian dairy cow obtains at least 85
p.e. of its food from the farm. The scien-
tific feeder, by improving the pasture, grow-
ing approved crops and buying concentrates
judiciously, to fit in with his calculated
balanced ration, is producing milk and butter-
fat at a lower cost than a neighbor who
feeds blindly. It is highly probable that 301 b.
to 351 b. of a mixed meadow hay, well grown
and correctly harvested from a first-class soil
suitably top-dressed, would provide all the
nutrients necessary to produce three gallons
of milk per average cow; but facts such as
these do not preclude the balanced ration,
the calculation of which is not only of
absorbing interest, but very often of great
benefit in providing data for increasing the
yield and lowering costs —to say nothing
of the beneficial effect on the health of the
herd and the advantages accruing therefrom.
“Mac.” begins and ends his contribution
with “Cull, breed and feed.” Quite a good
slogan, but he should add the word “scien-
tifically” after feed. And his accountancy is
open to criticism. Let him recalculate the
daily ration illustrated, assuming that the
nutrients in 171 b. only (371 b. less grass,
201 b.) are necessary daily, and that every-
thing, excepting the meal and bran, is grown
on the farm. Some people can juggle
figures to show that it costs the cocky 4s. Sd.
to grow a bushel of wheat worth Is. Bd.
on the farm. I’m no Douglas, and I should
like to know whence comes the missing three
bob!
AGED RAMS.
“Bismark”: A squatter who bought some
high-class rams a few years ago lately re-
fused to sell the veterans at any price, and,
sooner than give them away to neighboring
cockies who were unable to buy good rams
themselves, cut their throats. These rams,
although getting old, would have been a
godsend to these small men. Another
station, offered £lO for some old rams, sent
them to their own boiling-down works rather
than sell them. Can Australia hope to keep
her place in the wool market, with South
Africa so close behind, if men continue to
do such things? While the big man’s flock
will continue to improve, the small man’s
will go back, as his financial position will
not allow him to buy the rams that he would
like to have. Consequently he has to get
along with the best available, and in many
cases it is very poor.
As many of our best breeders must have
aged rams that are only used for boiling
down, wouldn’t they be doing a national
service if they offered the animals through
their agents or the newspapers to men who
only run, say, 1000 sheep?
JOINING RAMS.
“Golightly”: I don’t agree with “Murra-
wong” (B. 22/2/’33) that in joining rams
the seasonal forecast is the main factor. A
glance at monthly rainfall records in N S
Wales shows that in the north and north-
west the biggest rainfall month is December
or January; in the Riverina and on the
south-west slopes it is June. Yet lamb-
raisers, north anfl south, are equally anxious
to have their lambing in March. I maintain
that the great thing is to avoid late lambs
until farmers have provided against grass
seed by having ample grazing lucerne estab-
lished. Grazing lucerne will 1 thrive in all
our N.S.W. districts.
The practice in N. S. Wales, a . small
portion of the Tablelands excepted, is to
join merino rams in October. Sheepmen who
follow it will come out best in the long run.
Better to hav<j reserve rabbit-free paddocks
for lambing ewes than to gamble on getting
rain.
WOOL-BRANDING FLUIDS.
“FY7”: For many years the practice of
branding sheep with one liquid stain or
another has been a source of ,irritation to
the manufacturer, with corresponding reper-
cussions on the grower. Some of the stains
used have contained ingredients injurious to
the fleece itself as well as to the machinery
—tar compounds are noted offenders in this
latter respect—and more than one clip has
been spoiled by the spreading of the injurious
matter in the scouring. For some time the
English Wool Industries Research Associa-
tion has been trying to find a satisfactory
branding fluid. This has now been done.
The association states that in spite of re-
peated and widespread warnings the use of
tar and' similar materials is still persisted
in by some growers. The position is gradu-
ally improving, however, and, as the know-
ledge that reliable marking fluids are now
in the market spreads, the use of tar and
pitch should cease.
The fluid specially approved by the
W.R.I.A. is made up as follows: Wool fat,
30 parts by weight; carnauba wax, 3 parts ;
kisselghur, 18 parts; resin, 20 parts; ignited
iron oxide, 6 parts; emco spirit, to consist-
ency. This fluid has been subjected to ex-
posure tests in all the wool-growing
Dominions, and in many cases the fleeces have
been sent to Britain and processed there.
All reports indicate that the preparation is
a success, being durable to weather and ex-
posure conditions, and easily removable in
the scouring. Red has been found to be the
best color, blue and green tending to become
covered with a greyish coat which renders
reading difficult. Individual fads have also
to be considered. One large wool-growing
State will have black branding and nothing
else. Investigations are being made into
the possibility of substituting for the iron
oxide in the formula some black coloring
matter that will give the same satisfactory
results while indulging the personal fancy
of the consumer.
The fact that wool fat is the basis of this
and several other branding fluids opens
up the. possibility of our scouring-works
attempting to utilise what is at present a
wasted by-product by supplying manufac-
turers of marking fluids.
A WIIEAT-PEA ROTATION.
“Hortus”: South Aus. farmers have tried
it with success, feeding the peas to sheep
and fat lambs. Satisfactory trials are also
reported in N. S. Wales. Hitherto most of
the peas used in the Ma State have had to
be imported, thus keeping the price rather
high.
The full rotation is fallow-wheat-peas-
wheat. As soon as the wheat stubble has
been grazed and burnt, the land is cultivated
in readiness for the peas, which should be
sown with the wheat drill about the middle
of May at the rate of 601 b. to 901 b. to the
acre. Super.—fcwt. to the acre—is added.
After the pea crop is harvested for grain, the
stubble will be very readily eaten by sheep.
Don’t leave it bare; work it up as soon as
possible, so that a short summer fallow
may be obtained prior to the wheat sowing.
An early-maturing variety of wheat should
be chosen to follow peas in order to afford
a little longer time for the preparation of the
seedbed. Bobin, Waratah and Nabawa are
very suitable for this purpose.
Many growers have steered clear of ex-
perimenting with peas because of the time
and labor expended in harvesting and loss
of seed. But a pea-harvester has come on
the market which enables the seed to be
taken off with the same ease as the wheat
crop. This machine not only picks up the
vines when lying flat on the ground, but
threshes them cleanly without loss, 'and with
a minimum of cracking.
Peas deserve more extensive cultivation
than they have received. As a fodder for
sheep, pigs and other stock they have been
found excellent. No English farmer would
be without his annual pea crop. But they
are more frequently grown with any of the
winter cereals, forming a very palatable and
well-balanced fodder. On the North Coast
(N.S.W.), where maize-growing, in conjunc-
tion with dairying, is so extensively prac-
tised, it is very common to see peas with
the maize. The peas are sown between the
rows of, late maize just prior to the last
cultivation. Very little growth is made until
the maize ripens. The big maize leaves dying
off allow more air and sunlight to get down
to the peas, which consequently make steady
headway. Cattle are turned in. after maize
has been pulled, and an immediate increase
in milk yield is the result. Apart from this,
this system prevents weed-growth, and helps
to maintain the fertility of the soil by
reason of the bacteria-forming properties of
the field pea—properties held by all legu-
minous plants.
MALTING BARLEY.
“Old Grower”; “X.X.X.” (B. 22/2/’33)
is in error in stating that the Archer Spratt
variety of barley was originally gro'wn on
the Darling Downs (Q.). As far back as
I can remember the Chevalier type only has
been produced there. For years Downs
barley-growers have averaged eight to twelve
bags an acre; individual farmers have got
up to 25 bags. This shows that the Downs
is one of the best barley-growing areas in
the world; but quality has deteriorated be-
cause there has been no change of seed.
The Archer variety is regarded by the
Irish and Danish Agricultural Departments,
as well as most of the brewing countries, as
the best barley that has been produced. In
Maoriland 51 tests conducted over the last
five years have sfiown it to be the most pro-
Stable barley ever grown in the Dominion.
A sample of Archer tested by the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture was found
to contain 96 p.e. sound-germinating grains,
8 p.c. good-germinating grains and 1 p.e.
dead, the sample being free from moulds.
Downs .Chevalier, on the other hand, was
found to contain only 60 p.c. sound-germi-
nating grains; 37 p.c. was also of bold germi-
nation but was infested with moulds; 3 p.c.
was dead. Two hundred bags of the Archer
variety are being imported from Maoriland
so that farmers on the Downs may try it.
DATE-CULTIVATION.
“H'od el Usbeg”: Date-growing in Aus-
tralia (B. 8/3/’33) has been tried tenta-
tively in more than one State. Years ago
Queensland had an idea of planting the arid
areas of the north-west with the palm, which
was to furnish weary wayfarers with shade
and sustenance. The scheme petered out
owing to the palms refusing to grow. Con-
trary to popular belief, the date-palm is
not necessarily a plant of the tropics, though
it does ask for considerable heat. In the
Arab phrase it should have its “feet in
water and its head in fire,” and the water
part of it is what too many who have tried
to establish it in lands alien to it have over-
looked. It does not seem to mind if the
water is brackish, but water there must
be where the roots can reach it.
The date-palm also calls for careful atten-
tion during, growth and bearing. One of the
most celebrated date-producing areas is the
northern section of the Sinai desert. Aus-
tralians who made that their home for most
of 1916 had. plenty of opportunities of ob-
serving the methods followed by the Bedouin.
In every grove was found the seed-bed with
the tiny plants just germinating. These
were later removed to planting-out beds, and
when large enough set in their final posi-
tion at the bottom of circular pits hollowed
out in the sand to a depth of Bft. or 10ft.
This was done with the double purpose of
setting the young palm where its roots could
easily find the soakage water, and of protect-
ing it from the hot desert winds. In time
the pit gradually filled in about the palm
as it grew.
Another important point is fertilisation.
The date-palm is male or female, and in
Sinai and most other date-growing areas is
almost invariably fertilised by hand. Men
and boys climb the female palms with the
male flower spathes when these have
developed the pollen, and fertilise the female
flowers. As far as the writer could find
out there is no known insect capable of
effectively fertilising the huge flower bunches.
This was probably the case also in the
Queensland experiments, for, though the
palms often developed well, except in rare
instances they never fruited. The question
is whether with white labor the long and
laborious process above outlined can be pro-
fitably carried out on a large scale —and in
the lands of its origin date-growing is a
very large-scale business indeed.
BUILDING WITH STONES.
“Mulyan” : Some farms and paddocks have
a superabundance of stones and gibbers
strewn about them, or have ridges where
removal of heavy stones would leave a sur-
face of soil and give grass and herbage a
chance to grow. These stones can be used
in ways other than making roads, crossings
and watering-places with them. When
timber is scarce and bricks are dear, many
sheds and even dwellings are built with them ;
outback they are called bush bricks. They
make a good, lasting shed which any handy
man can put up. For fowlhouses and other
small outhouses they are first-rate material.
Starting in a shallow trench, as with
bricks, you lay the stones with mortar, using
big and little and any shape, but keeping the
outside of your wall vertical and as level
as possible. Lay the big stones first where
they will fit, and fill in the gaps with small
ones. Sandstone can be fitted anywhere,
as it is easily broken to shape with the
trowel. Stones strewn about on the surface
of the ground are usually hard and small.
These make good filling, and also a founda-
tion for a cement floor, and when broken
up are the best material for making concrete.
If you use forms, you can build the whole
of your wall with small stones —any size
that you can drop into the forms. With
this material, consisting of all sorts and
shapes and sizes, you keep your cement and
metal separate. After shovelling some
cement into the forms,' drop the stones in
and tamp them down. If you are laying
stones in the same way as bricks, and are
not practised at the work, you can use half-
forms ; that is, erect a temporary board
wall and build your stone wall against it on
the inside. That keeps it straight and level,
and you can work quicker and without hav-
ing to do any plumbing. When you remove
the boards, to use on the next wall, you will
find that you have made a fine even surface
with your rough mixture of big and little
stones.
W T ith the same material you can make a
fence for garden or pigsty, a stand for the
(Continued on page 26.)


0
a
• a
Made for pliancy
and lightness
This welted Abbey Evening
Shoe has an upper of the finest
patent leather. It’s designed
to fit smoothly without strain
.... shaped to all the curves
of the foot. That reduces the
risk of unsightly creases. The
sole is light, tough and flexible.
Full and half-sizes are available
in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
45/- per pair.
Dancing pumps
Low-heeled, light and supple,
with complete patent leather
uppers. Full and half sizes.
257-
order BY POST: State both
width and size. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Patent Leather Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy new
cleaning outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
ADDRESS IN GEORGE STREET—
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 324
Send for specimen copy of
“Fruit Culture and Small Farming.”
Monthly 5/- per annum.
16 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping snd hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think or
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu&
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
w
HOTEL
metropole,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
iron, entrance to Domain and Crcular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day. or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Short Story
Writing
Free Lance
Journalism
NEW COURSES
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus,
1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IOIHIVd 3HJJ
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
‘'The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin Office,
all States. *
HERE’S
ONE
LEAK
YOU
COULD
STOP /
I ;
I-
CO
CC y Z
y =£ 3
x 5 o
< cQ o
■dm
mhZluu^
\
<S
*
%
y
2
1
m
m
rtc£
m
Yes! You can stop one leakage from your
bank account. . . .those expenses that are
always cropping up for your “old-style”
fences .... for new wire.... new droppers
.... for maintenance and repairs. And they
increase as the fence gets older!
You save all this with a “Cyclone” fence.
You erect it and forget it. Permanent. .. .
and permanently stock-proof. No repairs!
No maintenance! No new materials to pay
for! No sagging, stretching or loss of stock.
And “Cyclone” fence saves you money right
from the start.... saves you £8 a mile in
actually putting it up. Cost of materials is
the same as the “old-style” fence, but
“Cyclone” is erected in a little over half
the time!
“Cyclone” is not a “type” of fence, but is
fence made exclusively by Cyclone Fence and
Gate Co. Pty., Ltd.
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE C9P"L T ?
4 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
ol
Ring-Lock Fence*. »nd comparison
: =4
B. 15/3/3.'
9
=<B>3
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
water-tank, and a step for back- or front-
door. Steps are quickly made by using a
form (a wooden frame the size of the step
required), and it may be permanently colored
by adding a little red oxide to the top finish
of cement. The garden fence m'ay be a solid
wall, or have posts only of stones —which
can be very artistic. They may be rough or
smooth. If you want them smooth and all
the one size, using any sort of rough stones
just as they are picked up, the quickest way
is to make them in a form which has mor-
tice holes in the sides. Put pieces of wood
the thickness of your rails through the mor-
tices into the cement. Let it set before
removing the wood and the form. Make a
slot in the next to slip the rails in later on ;
the slot can be cemented up afterwards.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
. (Transferred from Service Department.)
Difference, if any, between Durham and
Shorthorn cattle? —4690.
The name “Durham” probably was applied
to a strain of Shorthorn from a particular
part of England. Old hands in Australia call
all Shorthorns “Durhams,” and the original
Durham strain is no longer distinct.
Quantity of boric (or boracic) acid it is
permissible to use, under N.S.W. law, in
butter-making ?— -4567.
One-half of one per cent., or 35 1 graitis to
’ the pound of butter.
My horse has gone off his tucker and is
moping. What’s wrong with him and what
can I do? —472>5.
Impossible to say without examination.
Consult your local stock inspector.
How to clear dam water? —4697.
A pound of alum will clear 2000 gallons
in about two days, and a pound ojji chloride
of iron wilL clear 3000 gallons in about 24
hours. Dissolve the chemical in water and
.spray the solution over the surface of the
dam.
How to rid a tank of green alga? Mix-
ture must not be harmful to stock. —4734.
Addition of -Joz. of copper sulphate (blue-
stone) to 1000 gallons of water prevents
growth of green algae and is not harmful to
stock.
/ am a M.L. farmer with a small tobacco
crop. Gan you suggest some literature that
would help me?— 4736.
Write M.L. Agriculture Department,
Wellington, for pamphlet, “Tobacco Culture
for Small Growers.”
Twelve months ago I ringbarked two trees,
Which I now want to save. They are both
dying gradually. Am I too late? If not, how
can I save them? —4437.
The only method likely to be successful
is “bridge-grafting.” This implies taking
several young vigorous twigs about as thick
as the thumb and paring them at either end
on two sides only, making the ends wedge-
shaped. These ends should then be inserted
between the bark and the sapwood on the live
wood above and below the rung portion.
The union should be as tight as possible and
care should be taken that the wood above
the cut has not died back, as might he ex-
pected after such a lapse of time since injury.
The graft should be taken back over all
dead wood into the live wood. About four
to eight of these bridge grafts can be made
and then the bark round them should, be
tightly bound with string and covered with
wet clay or bags. Should the trees fail to
respond, the only other method is to cut
them down to ground level before; they die
any further, in the hope of obtaining vigor-
ous sucker growth to build up other trees.
I employ a poultry-farm laborer at 30s.
per week, pay his house rent, provide eggs,
poultry, vegetables and some groceries.
Must I pay him the basic wage? —463o.
No. There is no' N.S.W. State award rate
applying to a person working as a laborer on
a poultry farm.
Cause of and remedy for grapes withering
and falling off the bunches after maturing?
—4664.
Fungus diseases such as oidium and downy
mildew will cause withering, but the trouble
may be caused by hot weather, the evapora-
tion from the leaves being greater than the
supply of moisture that the roots can absorb.
(1) Where can I obtain experience in
growing citrus fruit in N. 8. Wales? (2)
What uould training cost? (3) What js
the price of land in the Mangrove Mountain
district? (4) In the Paterson River dis-
trict ? —4515.
(1) Citrus fruits are grown at Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College arid Grafton ex-
periment farm, but it would not be pos-
sible to get a course of instruction in fruit-
growing only. The subject of fruit-growing
is also included to a certain extent in the
course in. Agriculture at the Sydney Tech-
nical College, particulars of which may be
obtained on application to the Superinten-
dent (2) Leaflet posted gives an idea
of the cost of education at N.S.W. Govern-
ment farm schools. (3) About £6 per acre,
uncleared. Cost of clearing about £2O per
acre. (4) Know of no suitable land avail-
able in the district, and can’t, advise as to
price.
Number of birds (laying) necessary to
make a profit from poultry?— 4492.
Specialists rarely have fewer than 860
laying birds, and unless poultry is raised
as /an adjunct to other rural pursuits, a
lesser number would probably be unprofit-
able. ’ : ?
(1) How can I remove the strong odor
from turtle oil, so as to render it more suit-
able for greasing leather? (2) Afethod of
tanning dried goat-skins? (3) Is it neces-
sary to use tallow or wax with oil when
treating the leather? (4) How should hides
be treated to produce leather suitable for
bootmaking ? —4623.
(1) Numerous methods are used for this
work, such as dry heating, treatirient with
superheated steam, and washing with water
containing a small amount of caustic soda.
(2) Try leaving the skins in the soak, and
lime liquor for longer periods. Mechanical
action such as scraping the flesh side of the
skin tends to separate the skin fibres —in the
dried, skins a desirable result. (3) Tallow is
used, in varying proportions, when prepar-
ing harness leather. (4) Consult “The Manu-
facture of Chrome Leather,” by Lamb, and
“Practical Leather Manufacture,” by H. G.
Crockett.
What are horsehides used for and what
are they worth? —4s66.
They are used for leather and bring from
2s. 6d. to Ts. each.
What is the best substance with which to
treat the inside of a galvanised-iron tank
to prevent bore water from destroying the
iron ?• —4407.
Cover the inside of the tank with a mix-
ture made by mixing cemeut with boiled
linseed oil. A coat of bitumen paint might
be tried as an alternative.
(1) Botanical names of the baobab and
boobialla trees? (2) Where does the boo-
bialla occur? (3) Will either stand drought
>i or frost? (4) Most suitable bamboo to
grow for poles? (5) What distance to plant
apart to form a solid plantation? (6) Age
when bamboo plants will produce suckers?
(7) How and when to replant suckers? —
4303.
(1) Baobab, Adansonia digitata; boobi
alia, Myoporum insulate. (2) Along the
coast-line in all the Australian States
except Queensland, and usually occurring
close to salt water. (3) No. (4) Bambusa
arundinacea. (5) Plant as closely together
as the supply will allow, but clumps planted
widely apart will eventually spread. (6)
After 12 months or so, depending on the
suitability of conditions. (7) They should
be cut off, together with portion of the root,
by means of a spade or mattock, and re-
planted during or after rainy weather.
HIKTS FOR THE FARM.
“Disc Harrow”: In designing the milk-
ing-yards, don’t be niggardly with space.
When animals are closely confined the quar-
relsome ones can get at the others, and in
wet weather a small yard turns quicker to
a morass. An extra panel in the fence is
well worth while.
“Werrimee”: When empty bags are left
unprotected in the shed, holes arc often made
in them by mice, which use the jute for
nest-making. Here an empty case is useful.
Fold the bags and stow them in it, but see
that the top fits down closely. Leather
hinges and a leather fastener will make it
secure. The case is also >a safe place to
keep tarpaulin and horse- and cow-rugs
when, they are not in use.
“Dimon” :. You can make your own gum
for sticking purposes with the resinous sub-
stance obtained from whitewood. leopard-
wood and some other trees. Grind the
resin to powder, mix with water, and add a
little alcohol to prevent it fermenting. This
will keep for years. Resin from pine also
makes a good gum, dissolved in methylated
spirits or alcohol instead of water ;• thinned
with turps it is an excellent varnish.
“Karaway”: A quick way to get the right
temperature for scalding a pig. Use a
bucket of cold water to three buckets of
boiling. Addition of a little washing soda
is a help in the cleaning.
“Deokay” : When working horses in roller
chains, always hook them back short. You
will have more control over the machine, and
no energy is wasted when the horse is back
close to his load.
“Dai R.”: A- grazier I know never goes
amongst his sheep without carrying in his
pocket tweezers and a shearer’s oil-can filled
with a good eye lotion. The tweezers are
for -removing grass-seeds from sheep’s eyes,
the lotion for after-dressing. He reckons
the practice saves him a lot of solid cash
per year; “blind sheep feed crows.”
“Hornby”: Many farm grindstones aro
scored at intervals on the grinding surface
or surfaced at a slant. The first condition
is duo to grinding narrow-bladed tools in
the one spot for the whole operation; it can
be obviated by working the tool slowly across
the whole surface during a grinding. The
second is Caused by putting pressure on one
end of an axe-blade instead of in the centre.
“Mulgo” : If you have to haul logs from
farm or paddock, a good help is a pair of
block wheels, 's'awn off a pole about 9in. in
diameter, on a wooden axle, for each end of
the log. Lever the log on. to them, tie it to
the axles, and then hook on to the log. This
is easier and quicker than dragging, and
does not damage your road or pasture. The
wheels can also be coupled to form a trolley
by bolting a couple of planks to the axles.
“Gumblegubbin” : If you run wire-netting
round a warren you can get every rabbit in
it without digging them out. Make a pen
on the outside, with a funnel-shaped netting
tube leading into it. Another method is to
puddle a small hole in a Y-shaped indentation
and fill with arsenic water. Put a wire
cover over it to keep off birds.
“Benbow” : When buying an axe, take the
head in your hand and look along edge and
handle. If axe-eye and edge are not in line,
you will not get true work or become used to
the twist, especially if a right- and left-
handed axeman —as all should be in scrub or
close timber.
“Dimon”: If you get your auger stuck
through continuing too long without with-
drawing it when boring a deep hole, pour in
a little water and it will come out easily.
“Beady”: If yon want a rough estimate
of the length of the bole of a tree before
cutting it down, stand at the butt so that
your shadow falls beside the tree’s. Mark
where your shadow 7 ends, stand there, and
repeat the performance as far along the
tree’s shadow as you would cut. Multiply
your shadow lengths by your height, and
you’ve got the approximate length of your
log. >
“Dai R.” : The mere fact of a bull having
an imposing pedigree doesn't warrant his
being kept for stud purposes. Keep him
long enough to test the quality of his daugh-
ters. If they are as good as (or better than)
their mothers, continue to use him; if in-
ferior. present him to the Zoo if you can’t
get rid of him any other way.
“Cayenne”: A. 11. Noon, of Upper Preston
(W.A.), wanted electric light for his house,
stables and pig pens, and got it by spending
a little over £3. Bush timber, galvanised
iron ftnd old cart wheels were fashioned into
a windmill. An abandoned Dodge provided
a generator; a motor-bike and a worn-out
Ford contributed the connecting gear. To
develop sufficient speed for the generator it
was necessary to gear up the mill, and most
of the £3 spent w r ent in sprockets and chains.
By taking down and reassembling two old
car batteries Noon made one with a storage
capacity 75 pc. of that of a new one. His
improvised plant is working well.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Tas. journalist, 23, desires secretarial, tutorial or
office work in Brisbane in return tor board from
end of March. Refs.—4693.
Young man (24), Sydney, wants work of any kind
at the R.A.S. 5h0w.—4635.
Minister,' Tas., middle-aged, married, without
dependants, L.Th. Melb. Coll. Div., would like to
hear from any evangelical church requiring a pastor.
Refs.—4692.
Lady, N.S.W., wants, position as companion-
housekeeper, good cook and needlewoman. —4663,
Queensland lady, lived for some time in England
(40), desires position anywhere as chapeion, com-
panion or secretary.—4666.
Words of poem commencing “The glasses all
stood on a silver tray when the evening’s work
was , done.” —4699.
Whereabouts of Hylton Luke, age 18, who formerly
resided at Pelaw Main (N.S.W.). Mother anxious.
—4686.
Words of verse “The Stockyard Liar.”—4633.
Information Sought.
Particulars of Broadcasting Commission's
A ustraiian composers’ competition? —4sBB.
£5O prizes: Orchestral suite, concerto or
symphonic work; composition for chorus and
orchestra; one-act operetta, for three or
more characters. £25 prizes: Composition
for string- orchestra, composition for brass
band, composition for military band, fan-
tasia or other work for modern dance band,
chamber music composition. £2O prizes:
Unaccompanied choral work for mixed
voices, unaccompanied choral work for male
voices. £lO prize : Two-part song for child-
ren’s voices—suitable for school use. £5
prize: Hymn-tune. Prizes of £5 offered in
each State .separately : Pianoforte solo, violin
or ’cello solo, song or duet.
I should like to read up on the Sino-
Japanese problem and the causes leading up
to the trouble. Any books on the subject or
informative magazine articles? —44B7.
“China, the Pity of It,” by J. O. P. Bland
(just out, 13s. (3d.; Robertson and Mul-
lens, Melb.) ; “The Problem of China,” by
Bertrand Russell (excellent, but a few years
old); “Round Table,” Dec., 1930;
“Harper’s,” Feb., 1933. Almost all the lead-
ing reviews are printing articles.
My 15 -months-old cockatoo has lost all
its feathers through picking at them, and
there are no signs of any new ones coming.
I feed it on bread and milk, sunflower seeds
and bones and fat. Method of treatment?
—4529.
Delete sunflower seed entirely from the
diet, together with all the bones and fat,
and put the bird on a diet of whole corn
or maize, with a little canary seed; also
allow thistles, apples and other fruit, green
food of any description, such as lettuce
leaves. Give the bread and milk very spar-
ingly. Place a few pieces of soft wood in
the cage so as to give the bird something
(o chew at and take its attention off the
feather-picking.
(1) How to become a marine wireless
operator? (2) Particulars and length of
course? (3) Prospects of employment? (4)
Salary?— 4s33.
(1) Take a course at the Marconi School
of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney. (2)
Two years, approximately; first 18 months
by correspondence and remainder by per-
sonal attendance. Cost of course is 50
guineas. (3) Not very bright, but they
may improve. (4) For junior operator, £lO
16s. per month, to a maximum of £2l 3s.
per month for an inspector.
I have a 1927 model Chevrolet, which will
start in second- or top-gear, but when I
attempt to start in bottom the engine stalls
on raising the clutch. What is the cause
and remedy? —4499.
Trouble lies in the gear-box. Remove top
and inspect cluster gear. Any wheels that
are damaged must be replaced.
How much does each State spend per head
on education and justice? —46l9.
The figures are for the year ending June
30, 1931. Education: N.S.W., 365. 7d.;
Vic., 31s. 6d.; Q’land, 335. 6d.; South Aus.,
335. 3d.; West Aus., 335. lOd.; and Tas.,
28s. 2d. Justice: N.S.W., 225.,; Vic., 13s.
7d. ; Q’land, 15s. lOd.; South Aus.; 15s. Id.;
West Aus., 17s. 4d.; and Tas. 12s. lid.
Are there wild animals in Papua? —46lB.
Ybs. Among the marsupials w’hich appear
in the territory are several species of
wallabies, a tree kangaroo, the cus-cus, a
native cat, various bandicoots, pouched mice,
and a flying opossum. There are numerous
bats, and rats and mice of several kinds
occur ; also a wild pig and a wild dog.
(1) Can a provisional protection of an
invention be re-applied for at the expiry of
its nine months’ duration? (2) If so, how
of ten. can this be repeated? (3) With regard
to the complete specification, what is the
approximate cost of securing local and
American rights?- —4524.
(1) and (2) Provisional protection can
be renewed,, but a patent issued on th<>
second or any subsequent application would
bear the date of such application, and its
validity depends upon the novelty of the
invention at the date of the application for
the patent. Refiling of a provisional appli-
cation is not a continuance of the first, but
an entirely new application. (3) £25 and
£4o respectively.
,(1) When did the N.S.W. unemployed-
relief tax come into operation; what was the
tax at first and what is it now? (2) Does
ic providing of board and lodging affect
the tax? (3) What requirements must
the employer comply, with? (4) When-were
stamps first used for N.S.W. family endow-
ment contributions, and what is the rate pay-
able by employers? —4496.
(1) On July 1, 1930 ; 3d. in the f was
payable by all employees earning 30s.
per week and over. From January 1, 1931,
the rate of tax wag increased to Is. in the
£ on £2 per week or over. The Act was
further amended as from October 1 last,
the rates of tax chargeable being: Weekly
earnings, £2 to £2 10s., tax Is.; £2 10s. to
£3, Is. 6d.; £3 to £3 10s., 25.; over £3 10s.,
Is. for each complete pound paid. (2) Where
board and lodging are provided for a general
employee the value is assessed at £1 per
week. If, however, an employee is working
under an award in "which the value of the
board is fixed, that is the amount upon
which tax must be paid. AVhere food only
is provided, the value is assessed at 10s. per
week. (3) He must keep a record of pay-
ments and allowances made to employees,
collect from such employees the tax due, and
affix stamps. The stamps should then be
cancelled. (4) From January 1, 1932.
The rate of tax is sd. in the £ and is pay-
able where wages amount to £3 per week
or over.
(1) 'Number and gross tonnage of steam,
motor and sailing vessels owned by Great
Britain and U.8.A.? (2) Percentage of (a)
number and (b) gross tonnage of ships
owned by Great Britain and 1J.8.A. in rela-
tion to number and gross tonnage of world's
ships ? —4021.
(1) Figures are for July 1. 1931. Great
Britain and Northern Ireland: Steam and
motor, number ?781 and gross tonnage
20,193,677; sailing, 376 and 109,228; total,
8157 and 20,302.905. U.S.A,: Steam and
motor, 2847 and 10,454,013; sailing, 586 and
642,829; total, 3433 and 11,096,842. (2)
(a) Great Britain, 25.80 p.c.; U.S.A.. 10.86
p.c. (b) Great Britain, 30.22 p.c.; U.S.A.,
16.52 p.c.
Directions for making a sea anchor of
canvas suitable for a small • auxiliary
schooner?. —4434.
Get a blacksmith to make a hoop of fin.
rod, about 2ft. 6in. diameter, and have this
galvanised. Make a cone-shaped bag about
3ft. long of the best-quality heavy canvas,
and sew the hoop in to the mouth. Then
bare the iron in three places equidistant
from each other to take the splices of a three-
ended bridle, which should be made carefully
so that all ends are exactly the same length.
Splice in bridles to the ring and carefully
guard the cut edges of•the canvas against
unlaying and chafing. (It is a good plan
to cover them', sail fashion, with greenhide).
A sea anchor larger than this should have a
small hole with a ring in the apex of the
bag; but, in either case, put some sort of a
becket there for attaching a tripping line.
What uses did the aborigines make of the
pituri plant? —4s49.
The natives of Central Australia chew the
powdered leaves mixed with finely-broken
twigs. The leaves are also smoked. For this
purpose they are damped, mixed with potash
prepared from the ashes of plants, and rolled
up in the shape of a cigar. In small quan-
tities pituri has a powerful stimulating effect,
assuaging hunger, and enabling long journeys
to be made without fatigue and with little
food. The blacks use it to excite them
before fighting. It contains atropine, hyo-
scyamine and other mydriatic alkaloids. It
lias been used by abos. as a poison for emus.
Wliat are the recognised means of treating
arthritis ? —4350.
Arthritis demands a thorough examina-
tion of the whole body to search for what
are known as “foci of injection,” such as
bad teeth, tonsils, simuses, etc. If such a
focus is found and removed, improvement
often results. Other treatments include the
modern one (still experimental) of surgically
opening diseased bones and scraping them.
(1) What are the symptoms of smoker's
heart? (2) Can cigarette-smoking cause
hay fever ? —4164.
(1) Usually swift pulse, palpitation and
shortness of breath. (2) Ilay fever is
caused by some particular substance to
which a particular patient is susceptible. It
may be pollen, furs or feathers. Have
not heard of tobacco causing the trouble, but
it is a possible cause.
White hairs are appearing on the back of
my black cocker spaniel pup, aged seven
months, spoiling her for show purposes.
Cause and remedy? —4344.
May be due to heredity, or, if appearing
in patches, to some injury to the skin. In
either case nothing can be done.
My Alsatian bitch, aged eight months, is
afflicted with a continual twitching of her
hind leg. Is this caused by tick-poisoning or
by distemper, and is there a cure ? I have
dosed her icith gall, sulphur and ground
coppei'. —434B.
Symptoms are those of chorea (St. Vitus’s
dance), which is a sequel to distemper and
is incurable. The symptoms of tick paraly-
sis are totally different. There's nothing
you can do. The dog may live for many
years. Drugs you have been using are
useless.
What are the characteristics of the “cat-
bird” and how did it get its name? —44ll.
Cat-birds belong to the genus Ailurcedus,
and are so called because their notes strik-
ingly resemble the mewing of cats. They fre-
quent tropical scrub country, feed on jungle
fruits, and build bulky nests in bushes, not
far from the ground. Their two or three
eggs are cream-colored, without markings.
They are not known to build any sort of
bower, although they are related to the
bower-birds. The two Australian species
are the green cat-bird of the eastern N S
W ales and south-eastern Q’land and the
spotted cat-bird of north-eastern Q’land -
a third species is found in New Guinea.
They are bright-green above and yellowish-
green below, spotted all over with white.
They have very stout bills.
Can you tell me anything about “Happy
Jim,” the man who discovered gold at
Clunes ( Vic.)‘t —4383, ' •
His name was James Esmond, a coach-
• driver on the Geelong-Buninyong run, who
left Victoria in 1848 for the California gold-
fields. He returned to Sydney in 1850 on
the same ship as E. H. Hargraves. Making
his way back to Victoria he met a Dr. Brubn,
who advised him to look out for gold.
Esmond, after examining the banks of Deep
Creek, found gold on July 1, 1851, on the
northern side of a hill opposite Cameron's
station at Clunes, and made known his dis-
covery in Geelong five days later. The Vic-
torian legislature awarded him £lOOO.
(1) A good tonic and (2) diet for a dog
suffering from debility, us a result of illness?
—-4388.
(1) Ammoniated citrate of iron, 4 drachm ;
tincture nux vomica, 40 minims; tincture
gentian, 3 drachms; water to 3oz. Give from
half a teaspoon to a tablespoon, accord-
ing to the size of the dog, three times a day
one hour before food. (2) Underdone or
raw meat, eggs beaten up in fresh milk,
apples, also spinach, cooked in the branch,
then cut up and mixed with Some cooked
meat and good soup or beef-tea. Some dogs
enjoy orange-juice when sweet.
Recipe for office paste which will keep
g00d? —4338.
Place one large cup of water in a small
saucepan, add a teaspoon of powdered alum,
and bring to the boil. Take a tablespoon
of common flour in a cup, and blend it to a
smooth paste with cold water; when all
lumps arc smoothed out, stir it into the
boiling water and alum, and keep stirring
until it thickens into a smooth, even mass.
Remove from the fire, and stir in one tea-
spoon of spirits of cloves. Store fin small
jars, well covered.
I sell photographs to newspapers in Aus-
tralia and M.L. Some buy the copyright,
but most pay for the use of the picture with-
out mention of copyright. In the latter case
am I entitled to sell the, same photograph
to other newspapers; and, if so, should I, as
a matter of courtesy, give particulars of the
prior publication!/—-- 4498.
If there i,s no question of copyright prints
may be sold for publication in a hundred
places. As a matter of fairness to the pur-
chaser it shouldn’t be sold to more than
one newspaper in oiie district unless speci-
ally asked for. All that courtesy requires
is that you shouldn’t mislead the purchaser.
What are the new steering orders laid
down by the Admiralty? —4ss7.
In accordance with the provisions of the
International Convention of V 1929, the
Admiralty has ordered that from January 1,
1933, the previous steering orders of “star-
board” and “port” are to be used in the
“direct sense,” i.e., opposite to the previous
meanings attached to those words. For a
transitional period of six months, the orders
will be given as “wheel to starboard” or
“wheel to port,” so that the men may become
used to the new meanings before reverting
to the single words. Under the new instruc-
tions an order of “wheel to port,” the wheel,
ship’s head and after-end of the rudder-blade
will all go to port. The word “helm*’ is not
to be employed.
Correct way to arrive at shade tempera-
turef Can it be computed by taking the
temperature in the sun and deducting a
fixed number of degrees?- -4510.
In the absence of a suitable screen for
exposing the thermometer, the temperature
of the air, that is, the “shade temperature,”
may be obtained by using a .sling ther-
mometer. To do this, attach a short length
of strong cord securely to the top of the
thermometer. Grasp the other end of the
cord firmly and swing it rapidly in a circular
movement for four or five seconds, and read
immediately it stops. There is no fixed
ratio between sun and shade readings. '
Recipe for resin soap? —4s2o.
Take 51b. clean fat which has been well
clarified, lib. resin, 5 quarts water. Bring
all slowly to the boil in a container large
enough to allow for boiling over. Then stir
in gradually, and in small quantities, a Solu-
tion of 11b. caustic soda in 2 quarts of water
which has been standing all the previous
night. Boil all slowly for half an hour, re-
move from the stove and leave till the next
day for cutting up. Allow it to dry well
before using.
How to play Irish or draw loo? 1 can
play the ordinary variety.— 42sl.
This is three-card 100, but any player
coming in may draw any number of cards
up to three. He .can effect only one exchange
of cards, however. The same laws as those
in ordinary 100 hold good, but to make the
game more lively what is known as the “club
law” is usually introduced. This means that
whenever clubs are trumps everybody must
come in. There is no “miss” in Irish 100,
but the dealer is bound to defend the pool
against a solitary opponent. Irish 100 should
always be limited, otherwise owing to the
greater number of players the pool, is liable
to reach extravagant figures.
(1) I understand that the earliest attempt
to organise Freemasons in Australia in-
curred the displeasure of the Governor at
the time, and that the first meeting of
Masons teas raided by the police. What are
the facts? (2) Is that meeting regarded
as the date of the foundation of Free-
masonry in Australia? If not, what is the
recognised date? —4414.
(i) Early in 1803 Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, an Irishman who had been trans-
ported to Australia on an abduction charge
in 1801, in conjunction with officers of
the Glatton and Buffalo and several resi-
dents of Sydney attempted to establish
a Masonic lodge. Governor King pro-
hibited the meeting and threatened Hayes
with transportation to Norfolk Island. The
meeting was nevertheless held early in May;
but the police raided it, and Hayes was sen-
tenced to deportation to Tasmania. Some-
how or other he evaded the penalty. (2)
This meeting is not regarded by Australian
Freemasons as a regularly constituted
Masonic gathering. Obediencfe to the law is
a principle of the craft, and clandestine
meetings are .irregular. The recognised date
is August 12, 1820, when the Australian
Social Lodge was established. t
Brief Answers.
D.E.L.: N. S, Wales family-endowment
tax is sd. in the £ on the total wages, etc., paid.
Stamps to the value of the tax due must be affixed
to wages record. In the case mentioned the
tax payable is 2s. Id. per week. Where quarters
only are provided, 1 the value of them is not taxed.
....L.G.: There was a loan exhibition of Elioth
Gruner’s works at the National Art Gallery of
N.S.W. from December 21, ' 1932, to February 21,
1933... .G.P.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept. ;of
Agriculture, Hobart. .R.C.: The Vic. Act: applies
to all leases for any term of not less than pile’ year,
entered into on or before January 1, 1931. Every
payment of rent made after deducting the statutory
deduction is a full discharge of the; lessee’s liability
for rent under his lease, and due tender of it
releases him from his liability.- The lessor, however,
is not bound to accept cheques or bank drafts....
E. 5.11.: George Jean Natli&n is 50. He Was born at
Fort Wayne, Indiana, and educated at Cornell Uni.
and Bologna Uni. Ho has been associated with the
“New York 'Herald,'” “Harper’s Weekly,” “Smart
Set” and “American Mercury”... .E.D.: The Ober-
anunergau Passion Play is performfed every 40
years in fulfilment of a vow made in 1643 when
the 'village was visited by a severe plagub....
P.P.: Billie Burke is an American actress, born
Washington, 1885. She married Florenz Ziegfeld,
junior. .. . U.W. : Cannot say without inspection... .
G.F.: The Customs marks denote that they are
manufactured in Victoria... .L.P. : (i) “Writing for
the Screen,” by Arrar Jackson (35.), and “How
to ? Write a Film Story,” by Gertrude M. Allen
(35.). (2) Efftee Films, Melbourne. (3) Yes, by
copyrighting it at the Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney....
A.N.A.: Yass (N.S.W.) Aboriginal School is under
the supervision of Inspector C. E. Hicks at Young.
Miss P. Osborne is still in charge of the Aborigines’
5ch001.... J.H.G.: Under the Financial Emergency
Act (Vic.), 1931. a mortgage was automatically
renewed during the continuance of the Act. Renewal
by the parties themselves Would not remove the mort-
gage from'the restrictions of the Act despite agree:
meat. Apparently reduction-of-interest provision applief
in this case. .. .Oik.: Write Moreland Metal $6.
Market-street, Sydney.... W.S.F.: Write Under
Secretary, Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne... .T;H.:
The M.U.1.0.0.F. in Australia has 138,134 members
and £3,774,814 in funds. Total membership .is
1,967,376 and funds aggregate £34,341,709, which
are .larger than .those of any other friendly society.
Official date, of formation is October 10, 1810, but
the lodges which formed the society operated for
many years previously. The Manchester Unity is
generally: recognised as the oldest friendly society.
... . W.P.J.: The price of sugar to jam manufacturers
and brewers was reduced some time ago by Is.
per ton. From both the old and the new price
jam manufacturers have been allowed a rebate by
the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee , on
the sugar content of their product. Prior to, the
price reduction the rebate was £6 ss. Id. per ton;
since the reduction, £2 4s M.V.: There seems
to be no standard recipe; it is a yeast in fungus
form tfhich induces fermentation in new liquids.
Bbil a handful of hops in a very little water for
20 minutes, strain, then add a small handful of
sugar and a little flour. Mix together and place
in a basin in a warm place to ferment. Freshly-ifiade
yeast or yeast tablets would be much cleaner and
quite as effective... .C.H.P.: The balloons are made
to any size or shape with very thin light slips of
baitnboo framing, covered with any strong, light
paper. They are then filled with hydrogen gas,
with a small fuse attached to the outside; 'the
fuse is lit, and t-he balloon released. They }; are
dangerous things for amateurs to handle.... J.F,A.:
A wyvern is a falbulous two-legged winged creature
like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon,
aiid- without spurs. .. .F.M.D.: Write Will Andrade,
17:3 Pitt-street, Sydney... .R.K.S.: Vacancies oceur
from time to time, but the number of applicants is
excessive; Unless ; you possess exceptional qualifi-
cations, chances are remote..F.F.: From W.A.
Society of Arts, Technical School Buildings, Si,
George’s-terrace, Perth... .D.S.: Real jet has a
black lustrous surface, is very soft, can be scratched
with a knife, and leaves a brown mark where
scratched,.. .M. 8.: Try C. J. Laseron, 5'6 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .M.S.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of .Education, Sydney... .A.M.R.: See “The
Australian and New Zealand Writers’ and Artists’
Year Book” (2s. 6d.).... A.S.H.: We know of no
such instrument.... H.D.F.; Question too vague. Tell
us exactly what you want to do and we will give a
formula... .D.S.: From six to 12 months, according
to your capability and the time you devote to the
subject.... H.F.R.: Write Secretary/Forestry Boat’d,
Brisbane. .. .T.P.8.: The condition may be due to
faulty teeth Or to an injury to the tongue. Diag-
nosis impossible without inspection.. . .W. 8.: Col-
lector’s ‘ value of a Jubilee sovereign is, if in mint
condition, 225. Disposal to collectors is : not. prob-
able, as they are easily obtainable. Disposal to
gold buyers’ would bring more than their collector’s
value... .T.D.; Six points of the seven-pointed star
beneath the Union Jack in the Australian , .flag
symbolise the six federated States and the Common-
wealth-territories. The five smaller white stars in
the fly of the flag represent the S'outhern Cross.
The six stars' do not represent the six States, as is
popularly supposed... .H.H.: Ned Kelly was captured
at Glenrowan (Vie.) on June 29, 1880, and was
hanged bn Nov. 11 of the same year... .AV.J.C.:
“Speak Out,” by Alex. Watson (3s. 6d.), and
“Speaking in Public,” by Charles Seymour (ss. 6d.).
... . K.M.: Harry Searle died at the Williamstown.
Hospital (Vic.) on December 10, 1889, from typhoid
fever, contracted on the voyage home from England,
where he ; had gone to meet O’Connor, the Canadian
champion ~. .J.E.: Separate parts have practically
no value. The entire set doesn’t bring more than
about £2 2s. ... .H.A.; Little to choose between them.
. ...G.A.: The Schouten islands form a large archi-
pelago north of Dutch New Guinea. Main centres
arb, Biak and Soepiori. Population, about 25j000,
belongs to the Papuan race, but 'there is a mixture of
foreign (elements. Exports: Damar, trepang, shells,
ebony, ironwood and cane... .E.P.: (1) Yes. (2) Only
two for 15 (3) All cards played are the exposed
cards. (4) Yes... .P.W.: You are right. In no-trumps
the joker cannot be nominated to a suit in Which
tjie player lias previously failed to follow suit....
J.A.D.: Dept, of Engineering, Sydney Uni G.H.R.;
The income referred to is subject to unemployed-
relief tax. Such dividends would not be subject to
Federal income tax if tax has already been paid
thereon in England. .. .M.C.-: Write N.S.W. Agri-
culture Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet on “Cheese Mak-
ing”. .. .D.N. and G.H.: No statistics... .K.H.Pi,: Int.
Correspondence Schools, 140 Elizabeth-street, Syd.
. . . .K.D. - The previous occupant was within his rights
in demanding that the newcomer should vacate the
seat. See N'iS.W. railway by-law 48. ".. .T.L.G.:
Write East Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst.
....G.H.: Chas. H. Wickens was Commonwealth
Statistician from August 1, 1922, to April 1.2, 1932.
He retired owing to ill health... .R.M. : The term
of apprenticeship with an optometrist is four years
and is concurrent with a course at Sydney Technical
College. Both apprenticeship service and college
course are essential (Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
By
H. Drake-Brockman
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, turned
down by his cousin Lettice on account
of his poverty, comes to Broome,
hoping to make quick money and
return. June Goer, daughter of an-
other pearler, is interested in Chris;
but it is Peter Fordyce, a wealthy
pearler, and not Chris, who is inter-
ested in June. Chris, whose affairs
have not been going well, loses his
diver through paralysis—a heavy
blow. Peter proposes to June, but
she staves him off; and he turns to
a new scheme for pooling shell. Goer
alone stands out, and June is upset by
the ill-feeling that follows. Chris, dis-
turbed by hearing that he and his
partner are heavily in debt to For-
dyce, puts the rest of his money
into a cattle-run owned by Ryes
and Munro. Friends warn him —
too late —of the character of these
men. Chris sees the announcement
of Lettice’s marriage, and begins
to drink heavily. He again puts out
to sea. Queenie, a young girl with
whom June has been friendly, wears
a very fine string of pearls, and it is
rumored that Goer gave them to her.
June, finding it to be true, is shocked
and angry with her father. An old
friend, Mr. Montgomery, persuades
her to go for a holiday to Melbourne,
hoping she will forget the affair.
Chris has a letter from Lettice; she
tells him of her marriage. June, who
is angry with Chris, also writes;
Peter sees the envelope, and begins to
wonder. At the next Lay-up Chris
stays on shore drinking.
CHAPTER XX ( Continued .)
IT was hot.
Chris lay in shorts on a thin mattress,
and the sweat poured from him. Which-
ever way he turned it was the same. He
knew he would feel cooler if he made an
effort—had a shower and a shave. But of
what use effort? There was nowhere he
wished to go, unless it were up to the bar
of the Buccaneer Arms, and he really
couldn’t afford even that.
This camp—how he hated it! The low
iron roof, the eternal proximity of the
colored crews, coming and going, coming
and going, playing cards and laughing and
jabbering at every hour of the twenty-four!
The sigh of the sea as the tide ebbed or
made, the clank of anchor-chains, the
scrape, scrape of luggers laid up on the
beach being cleaned and painted, the ever-
lasting smells of alien races! He hated it,
but he made no effort to avoid it. Really
he had not been able to think coherently
since, having first very obviously annoyed
young Fordyce by insisting on winding up
the pearling venture, he had discovered
what manner of men Steve Munro and his
partner Ryce were. In truth, he did not
want to think! The station, which had
flared like a beacon while he passed dreary
months cooped on the lugger he had grown
to loathe, had proved but a will-o’-the-wisp.
And now he was practically penniless.
A smart rap at the door brought him
to his feet. He opened it to admit Horton.
“Hello, me boy!” cried the pearler, pull-
ing off his coat and looking for cigarettes.
“Have a smoke? I thought you told me
once you didn’t like living in camp. Chang-
ing your little ideas, eh?”
Chris replied by a shrug. He hated it,
but of what use saying so? Earlier in the
morning the deafening hammer of rain on
the iron roof had echoed through the shack,
like machine-gun fire; he wanted to forget
he had drawn a blanket over his head and
shuddered and sweated beneath it like a
scared child.
“Well, what are you going to do now?”
went on Horton, seeing no answer was
forthcoming. “.’Member what I told you
about Steve Munro? A rogue-eyed feller
with his ears laid back, if ever there was
one! They’re saying he’s skinned you.
That so?”
“Near enough.”
“Well, it’s none of my business. Are
you thinking of shaking the putrid dust
of this little spot off your feet?”
Again Chris shrugged. In his first par-
oxysm of rage and disappointment he had
hungered to go; but what was the use?
He had no inclination to return home and
find himself obliged to sponge on friends
and relatives, to curry favor to find a job
—that was what it would inevitably come
to. Nor did the old life hold out any
appeal. Had not Lettice enjoined him
never to return? Nothing appealed—and
so he had sought oblivion the easiest way.
Not until yesterday, realising he could not
stay on in a camp no longer belonging to
him, had he troubled to interview his
banker. He had discovered he possessed
only a few pounds—not even enough to buy
a boat ticket. Montgomery was an under-
standing sort; he might, perhaps, lend him
what he needed. But Montgomery was
still away.
“Can’t you speak, me boy? What you
want is to take a pull and get up and come
and have a feed. I’ll give you a job, and
welcome, if that’s all you want. I’ve done
well this year—l reckon I’m about due for
a spell ashore. How about taking on the
shell-opening on a couple of my boats?
They can work close together. And I’d be
glad to have a man I can trust absolutely.”
Chris supposed he would; but the im-
plied compliment turned him sour. Horton
wanted a shell-opener who could be trusted
to'give a square deal; yet he wasn’t above
buying a snide or two himself.
But at thought of returning to the wide
bosom of the Indian Ocean, a cold, keen
sensation of horror, more vital than any
impulse he had experienced for days, swept
through Chris. “Thanks,” he said curtly.
“I never want to set foot on a lugger again.”
“You’ve got a rat!” retorted Horton.
“But I’ve got a shore job, too, as you’re
so fussy. Most obliging feller, I am. What
about managing that shi-poo for me? I
expect you’ve heard I bought it, and I’ll
need a reliable bloke there, too.”
Among the colored men; Chris remem-
bered the place with a shudder. The pallid
face of the joking barman flitted through
his mind like an accusation.
“My God, Horton,” he cried, “what next
—will you ask me to buy your damnable
snides?”
“Of course not, you fool!” The man was
too slow, Horton thought ironically, to see
that what he wanted was a fellow he could
depend upon not to take advantage of
any offers before they reached himself!
“What, d’you take me for? You’ve got
the blue willies, you have. Get up, man,
and come and have a feed. I overheard
Goer saying he needed another shell-
opener, and that he meant to try to rope
you in. Go to him, if you won’t work for
me. Take it or leave it, take it or leave
it—that’s what he’d say. And the same
here. But for God’s sake do something!”
Yet Chris really did nothing. He merely,
in the end, followed the line of least resist-
ance; once more, after the Lay-up, he
sailed out to the open sea. A pearler no
more, but a shell-opener working for his
tucker and £lO a month, plus commissions.
He endured it for six weeks—six years
of torture they seemed to him, with only
thought for company and a craving for
drink and oblivion which each crawling
hour made more difficult to master.
And in the very first week he found—
for Horton —a good pearl, small but perfect,
a little gem! It jeered at him, laughed at
him, plucked at quivering nerves already
screaming for relief. But it also reminded
him that the commission it offered would,
if he cared to go in, at least pay for
momentary respite.
CHAPTER XXI.
June and Chris.
Over the edge of the aeroplane peered
June, and beyond the wing she beheld
Broome. It was not the, rush and roar of
the wind which left her breathless, but a
catch at the heart. Like a doll’s town
Broome looked, exquisite, with white roofs
dotted regularly amidst green lawns, or
scrambling along the creek to Chinatown.
Exotic, enchanting, a little paradise set at
the edge of a sweeping bay, blue, blue;
and water so clear from the height that
one looked through golden-green shallows
to purple reefs. There jutted the rocky
head of Entrance Point, behind curved
Cable Beach with its froth of breakers.
That emerald fringe inside the bay was
made. by mangroves; those white specks
were luggers, small and pure, viewed from
the heavens, as the pearls they sought. A
toy steamer lay at the jetty; those queer
lines stretching into the sea like hiero-
glyphics upon a sheet of jade were nothing
but common or garden fish-traps.
Three days spent in an aeroplane,
cramped, deafened by roar of the engines,
had wearied June. At first the novelty
held her; the green sweep of wheat-belt,
small towns, rivers, low mountain ranges
sometimes hidden by soft, drifting winter
rain-clouds, drew her attention; but once
Geraldton dropped behind and the
entered in earnest
on its long stages
to the North, the
land unrolled ber
neath with un-
broken monotony,
more like a flat
tinted map than
June had thought
possible.
And drab!
There was scarcely
a glimpse of the
jewel sea, only
very occasionally
a dazzling band of
light away on the
western horizon; mile upon endless mile of
plains, sheep country at that time yielding
enormous wealth, but holding no other
attraction; low hills, looking nothing from
the sky; a few wide rivers crawling slug-
gishly, or dwindling into pools and banded
with trees which did not even look green; and
only four dusty little towns in nearly two
thousand miles! Not a single cloud, not
a shadow anywhere; the winter sun had
dried the lush grasses and sucked the color
from the earth. Broome, with its green
lawns and trees, looked like an oasis; not
until one reached the ground would it,
too, take on the dusty-dry mantle of
northern winter.
June had been glad of rugs and coats
each morning; but as the sun climbed,
golden and clear, she discarded them. It
did not grow unpleasantly hot in the ’plane,
and there was a sense of infinity which the
girl appreciated—unending vision, blurred
not at all by the crystal air. She begged
the pilot to stunt for her; he laughed and
bade her remember he was but an ordinary
mailman —only the irrepressible and intrepid
Kingsford Smith had revelled in jumping
telegraph wires and swooping down streets
and between the masts of ships in the days
before he left the Nor’-West to make history.
The aeroplane left Perth with four pas-
sengers; but one by one three of the seats
emptied and June was left alone. At Car-
narvon they had dropped a lively young
squatter who would have liked to go on,
in hope of becoming better acquainted with
the pretty fair girl who looked young to
be going all the way to Broome by herself.
Next to go was an eminent surgeon, called
by telegram from the capital, on the off-
chance of saving a life. And finally, the
large and genial publican, who had in-
sisted upon shepherding June, to the sepa-
rate annoyance of each successive pilot, had
been obliged to bid a reluctant farewell and
express a doubtful hope that she would be
safe on the last stage without him.
And now here was Broome.
Suddenly the world beneath swung up.
It seemed to June that the machine did not
move—she had never once been conscious
of motion, if it came to that; they had
appeared to stay suspended in mid-air
whilst beneath the earth streamed away
like unwound tape. They did not move
now; but the ball of the world bounced
up to hit them, turned topsy-turvy, and
spun. She gave a little exclamation, in-
audible as all speech beneath the roar of
the engines, as she realised that the pilot
was indulging her request for stunts. The
next instant they plunged. For breath-
taking seconds, June, dizzy, beheld the
ground tear upwards. The ’plane steadied,
righted, and it seemed to the girl but a
moment before they were taxi-ing serenely
across the aerodrome towards a familiar
iron hangar.
There stood her father, jerking his broad
shoulders, impatient as ever. There lounged
Monty, who had returned months before.
And the young man talking to the agent,
back nonchalantly turned to the oncoming
’plane, was surely Peter Fordyce!
Captain Goer made haste to help June
out. She hesitated and then hoped her
father would not notice, in the general
confusion of welcome, the almost imper-
ceptible reluctance with which she offered
her cheek for his kiss.
Nearly a year had elapsed since she last
saw him; but although June had voluntarily
elected to come back to Broome—not
elected; rather had been drawn by long-
ings too strong to resist—and although she
imagined she had stifled her aversion and
overcome her girlish dismay, a sickening
wave of remembrance swirled about her at
sight of familiar faces, at sound of accus-
tomed voices. She trusted her father would
not notice, either, the way she clung to
Monty’s hand in mute appeal for help.
And yet, even as she looked up into those
twinkling, welcoming eyes, at Monty’s baggy
white coat and battered topee, she felt as
if she had never been away. It was almost
as if she had died, and, coming back,
found everyone else unchanged. The most
dreadful things happened inside you, and
yet the whole time life went on as if no-
thing at all had happened! It took less
than a minute to erase the long months in
Melbourne. She might have said good-bye
to those people only yesterday.
Except, perhaps, she had forgotten how
good to look at was Peter Fordyce. He
came across, very casually, to shake hands;
and the first touch of his fingers set June’s
pulses fluttering with the old formless fear
of she knew not what. Peter? Herself?
She chattered away as excitedly as of
yore. Goer, who had worried and wondered
what her attitude would be, inwardly com-
mended hnr, imagining that, like a good
little daughter, she had quite forgotten any
unpleasantness, and was just as bright and
happy as ever. The trip had done her
good; she had come back looking older, of
course, but then she was a young woman
now, and a credit to him! He jerked his
shoulders and said he reckoned Dad would
have to stage some lively times to keep
up with Melbourne.
Lively times! One thing only had drawn
June back to Broome; and Monty alone
suspected the truth. He had not noticed
much change in her in Melbourne, but
now, after time away from her, he sadly
missed the trusting eagerness which had so
captivated him, had indeed constituted for
him June’s supreme charm. He sighed.
“She’s grown up,” commented Peter, as
he walked beside Monty to the agent’s car
after Goer had whisked her off. “Monty,
she. went away a girl, and she’s come back
a woman!”
“Yes,” answered Monty, absently, “it’s a
way they have.” But he knew quite well
that June had reached maturity before ever
she left Broome; mentally she had grown
up the moment she discovered that life
dealt with people, instead of people dealing
with life; when she realised it to be no
fairy-tale with a happy ending, but a
primer of cruel and difficult facts; when
she found that dreams were dreams, all
too ready to vanish, impotent and childish.
Everyone noticed a slight difference, and
commented on it, after the manner of
small towns. June was more sophisticated,
dressed better, possessed a poise and con-
fidence —cultivated, had they but known,
to hide an inward sense of despair.
She had been very grateful to Monty for
his unswerving solicitude (though they
never again spoke of either Queenie or
Kent), for his obvious determination to
make her see the amusing side of every
incident, to relish the adventure of life,
even though the fairy-tale glitter of it was
dimmed. And she had enjoyed Melbourne,
had made herself a welcome guest in more
than one household, had been the envy of
more than one girl at dances and parties.
Anyone, seeing her, would have thought
June a girl without care—unless they
chanced to catch her for an instant off
guard, sitting dull-eyed and listless, con-
sumed by an intolerable longing.
Christopher Kent failed to carry out his
intention of answering her pathetic little
note; and she was too proud to write again.
But, instead of lessening with the passing
months, the longing to see him, . the ache
for sound of his pleasant drawling voice,
the desire just to sit and watch and listen
to him, to be filled with the supreme con-
tentment his presence brought, instead of
drained by an exhausting sense of futility,
mounted into a torment beyond control,
until at last June gave up trying to delude
herself. She found it mattered not what
Queenie said, or what Chris did—there was
nothing he could do which could alter her
feelings. She wanted only to be near him;
where it would be possible to see him
sometimes; he was so considerate, so gentle.
No wonder women liked him. She could
forgive him anything if only he might love
her!
So June wrote to her father and said she
wished to come back to Broome. And the
Captain was so pleased that he wired im-
mediately, telling, her to return by aero-
plane ; he actually remembered she had
once, in her zest for new experiences, de-
clared that she longed to fly up the coast.
June was back. Toko turned up one
morning and asked to be taken on again.
In less than a week June felt she must
only have dreamed she had been away.
Mrs. Tweedie, to be sure, kept bombard-
ing her with questions about Melbourne
and Society, but otherwise the round of
bridge and tennis and scandal went merrily
on in the same old way. Mrs. Smith had
a baby again, and to June’s relief had for
the time being forgotten to entertain her
intimates with tales of her husband s
coarseness. And, surprisingly, Captain
Goer, immensely unpopular at the time
of his daughter’s departure for the South,
had become the centre of an enthusiastic
group pushing his undoubted claims to the
position of Mayor, against Captain Brittle,
in the forthcoming municipal elections.
Goer had been persuaded at last to fall
in with the shell-pool, had grown as keen
as hitherto he had been antagonistic. L
suited him to change his buyer; he had
rowed at cards with the agent of his former
one. Also his heart was set upon the
Mayorality; and, since Brittle was another
of the master-pearlers who had stayed alooi
from the Vandervelde shell-scheme, the
advantages of joining up were self-evident.
Some folks might continue to shun Goer,
but the majority were only too ready to
enjoy his determined hospitality, a gener-
ous instinct in him now very overworked
in election interests. Many a tongue
recently loud and bitter in denunciation
became equally vociferous in citing h ls
long and successful association with the
pearling industry. Mr. Montgomery
chuckled about it when he sat alone in his
office, attending to a dwindling busmen
which he constantly ragged Fordyce mi
stealing; at which the young man would
laugh, saying Monty was welcome to an
the pearls so long as Fordyce and bon
collected all the shell.
The fact that June chose to ignore
Queenie, vouchsafing only the stiffest an
coldest of nods when they first met at
dance, passed practically unnoticed if any
,one wasted a second thought on the ma <- •
it was but. to suppose that June acted on
her father’s instructions.: That affair


Escape
Care and Worry
and the Rigours of Winter*
Explore
The Pacific
and the field for happiness on a
well-found Orient 20,000-tonner!
Co Cruising/
By R.M.S. "OTRANTO," 20,000 tons, JUNE 8,
to Port Moresby by way of Brisbane and the
Great Barrier Reef.
Fares, for 13 days, range from 15 and 18
guineas.
Or by R.M.S. "ORONSAY," 20,000 tons, AUG. 3,
to Brisbane and New Hebrides—the islands of
Santo, Efate (Vila), and Tanna (volcano).
Fares, for 13 days, range from 17 and 20
guineas.
In the Spring the R.M.S. "ORAMA," 20,000 tons, will
make an 11 days cruise to Noumea, via Brisbane, sailing
September 2. Fares from 15 and 18 guineas.
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES
known to be “all off.” Goer, whenever his
path crossed Queenie’s, looked straight
through the roving dark eyes, the supple
form, never troubling to make even the
slightest acknowledgement of her presence.
He could ignore people magnificently, could
Goer, once he had broken with them!
For a time surmise had wagged busily
to find a reason for such a precipitate end-
ing to a liaison which had mysteriously
become common property, as far as any
intrigue can. But Peter held his tongue
for June’s sake; and Queenie did not make
a second mistake. She had learnt her
lesson; she took the cold-shoulder so meekly
that the women who offered it began to
feel they were being unjust. And presently
a new dark-eyed cashier from one of the
banks supplied a reason for the break to
such people as still believed there had been
something to break. Queenie, with Goer’s
pearls winking round her soft throat, dis-
covered unplumbed depths she had not im-
agined existed; there was dangerous fascina-
tion in stirring the passions of a boy who
treated all women, as yet, with a pretty
mixture of reverence and fear, but in whose
shy eyes she could read a smothered desire
to match her own.
The days passed, and still June did not
ask the question for ever in her heart. Her
father she could not approach—only the
most superficial and trivial of talk with
him, lest they be led to recollection of a
day best forgotten. Uncle Monty, she
thought, might too easily guess she still
cared; she did not wish him to —she was
proud. As for Peter—no, she could not
ask Peter. Yet each time they met she
longed for him to speak one name only;
time and again Kent’s name trembled on
her lips; time and again she dismissed it
—she yearned so much to know that she
could not ask. And perversely, it seemed
to the distracted girl, not a soul uttered the
longed-for word in her presence. She began
to wonder, with panic, if he had returned
to Europe.
And then one day she met him face to
face.
She was driving her father’s car. Very
fair and cool she looked, in tennis clothes,
her bare arms curving across the wheel.
Idly she noted a man slouching along the
footpath. She thought how seedy he
looked; how', she thought, could anyone
ever cease to be particular about his person?
The next moment the big car swerved
dangerously across the wide road, almost
on to the path. Kent awakened from stupor
to hear a clear voice call his name.
“Chris!”
June was not even aware she had
addressed him for the first time by his
first name: that little word had quickened
in her mind for months; it leapt now to
her lips with dynamic emphasis. She stared
at him, wide-eyed with horror.
For one ghastly second she thought she
had been mistaken, prayed she had been
mistaken; but the dirty topee was lifted,
naked and cruel the sunlight streamed on
haggard lines and sagging cheeks, on a
chin grubby with stubble, on hair in need
of trimming, and grey—grey! Her reluctant
eyes could not escape the grimed and frayed
white clothes, the debilitated, wasted frame
they covered. But there was no mistaking
the ghost of a boyish glance as the man’s
clouded eyes lit, or the accents of a voice
as drawling, as pleasant as ever, when he
greeted her.
The girl’s cry brought Chris from he
knew not what dark dreams; shadows were
everywhere these days, closing about him
even in the glaring, dazzling sunlight which
hurt his eyes. But he smiled; so young
she looked, so fresh, so untouched.
He met her gaze; his own shifted and
fell. Untouched? He was not so sure.
Anyway, he did not intend to probe for
the meaning of something inarticulate,
quivering and tortured, which might hurt
—he who considered himself beyond all
hurt. His fingers caressed his chin; he
had meant to get a shave this morning;
a pity he had forgotten, but, after all, it
hardly mattered. Impossible to mind about
anything now; yet he wished she would not
stare at him like that.
He asked about Melbourne, charmingly,
lightly; but he kept his eyes fixed on the
bonnet of the car, and his hands played
restlessly with the helmet he had for-
gotten to replace. He hoped she would
not ask him to the bungalow, for he would
have to refuse.
But June could scarcely even frame
answers to his polite inquiries; she was
fighting a burning flood of tears, striving
to keep a tremor from her voice. Pity for
him, for herself, choked her. So plainly, so
pitifully, she could see, beyond this wreck,
the Christopher Kent who had risen to meet
her that first morning in Broome. All her
young girl’s broken illusions, her vanished
dreams, her lost faiths, shrivelled to in-
significance: here was tragedy!
A few more banal sentences, and he stood
back. The car moved forward; June was
hidden by a trail of red dust. Chris
slouched on, down to the Buccaneer Arms,
where he could get a white man’s whisky.
June burst in upon Monty.
Her face told him. Foolishly he had
hoped that, bereft of her childish hero-
worship for Kent, she had lost all interest.
And he had taken great care not to stimu-
late any. But now, as he swept together
parcel of small pearls he was in the pro-
cess of valuing and stuffed them anyhow
into the safe, he imagined he would be
called upon to muster every ounce of tact.
But June had grown older. “Uncle
Monty,” she cried, “I have just been talk-
ing to Chris Kent. He looks dreadful. What
is the matter with him? Why does no-
body see him or talk about him? Can
you tell me?”
“Don’t they? I see him sometimes—he
comes down to yafn with me every now
and again. But I suppose he has dropped
out —Mrs. Tweedie would hardly be so keen
to have him calling, I guess. But he never
did go anywhere much, June, except to
your place and Peter’s. And there is a
little coldness—over business—between him
and Peter now. As a matter of plain fact,
my child, he’s done all his cash. Cleaned
out.”
June brooded. “Surely someone can
help, surely everybody isn’t so selfish as
not to”
“By no means. He did go out shell-
opening at the beginning of this season.
He could go again to-morrow, if he wanted
to.”
“Then why?”
“Says he can’t stand the life. I’m sorry,
June, but the plain unvarnished truth is
that he has grown too fond of the booze.”
June crossed and wound an arm round
Monty’s neck. “Other men have done that
—and got over it. But he looks so—oh,
so hopeless. What is he doing? You say
he is broke, but he must live on some-
thing—even whisky costs money.”
Monty took care to look through the
door as he told her.
“He’s dealing out drinks in that shi-poo
shop of Horton’s,” he said. “Over on the
marsh.”
(To be continued next week. )
The Void.
Pines to my left, and to my right
A curving stretch of sand
That dimly glimmers in the night,
At night’s mid-hour I stand.
Mute is the wind that, steed-like, sped
Daylong, its gallop curbed ;
And in its deep' and hollow bed
The sea sleeps unperturbed.
While on far shoals and .shell-strewn bars
The waves surge sluggishly,
.Cloud-covered are the midnight stars,
And unlit lies the sea.
No ship moves up or down the coast,
Mast-lamps, side-lamps agleam;
So strange is all, it seems almost
As though I dream a dream.
No wind and wave I hear at strife,
Calm, calm is all, as though
From earth had passed the breath of life
Long years and years ago.
It seems, so still is all, so dumb,
So lone, so lustreless.
As if the whole world had become
A vague, vast emptiness.
A realm it seems of lightless coasts,
By no ship visited—
A region haunted by the ghosts
Of things long lost and dead.
Curbed is the wind that, steed-like, sped
O’er ways that sunlit shone;
And in its dark and hollow bed
The sea dreams on and on.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
This Page picked Jacko for the New-
market Handicap and Topical for the Aus-
tralian Cup. Jacko was a close second;
Topical, who has inherited gameness and
staying power from Windbag, went one
better. On the course he became second
favorite, along with Metallurgy, but 9 to 1
could be got, Yarramba being a pronounced
first choice. Why Darcy Eccles’s prad
should have been backed from 7 to 1 down
to 5 to 2 is a mystery. Yarramba
acquitted himself splendidly in the spring,
capturing the Williamstown Cup after being
a close second to Peter Pan in the Mel-
bourne Cup; but his autumn form had been,
poor. Ante-post bookmakers laid heavily
against Yarramba in doubles with the New-
market Handicap winner, Waltzing Lily.
At the overnight discussions on the Cup
they were obliged to take cover, and this
restored the son of Spearhead to his original
position of Cup favorite; however, it was
not McShortodds but certain big punters
who inspired the last-moment rush for Yar-
ramba. He let them down with a thud.
The gelding met with a physical mishap,
and Ashley Reed dismounted after passing
the post.
Bill Kelso, the veteran Randwick trainer,
has not been much in evidence on Melbourne
courses since he won the Melbourne Cup of
1928 with his own horse, Statesman; but
his skill in the preparation of horses is un-
diminished. Topical, whom he trains for
Robert Miller, created a mild sensation when
he finished third in the Essendon Stakes on
the opening day of the V.R.C. autumn meet-
ing. He was beaten by Gossiper in the
River Handicap on the Wednesday, but
finished in a manner indicative of stamina.
It was by only a neck that Topical van-
quished Flail (25 to 1) in the Australian
Cup, Knox being rewarded for his patience
in waiting for a run on the rails. Flail was
recently bought by H. E. and H. L. Spry from
the trainer, D. J. Price. By finishing third
Eastern Chief did best of the three-year-
olds. He is closely related to the 1930
Metropolitan hero, Cragford, and may have
to be reckoned with in the Sydney Cup.
Bert:"You should never hold
a, G,UN THAT WKV V 6
qert: * WHy ?"
6>ERT:"VoU IVMGiHT HIT someone''
Gert:‘'&ut THERES no one
a.Bout "
As usual, many fancied candidates shaped
miserably in the big event. Oratory, the
St. Leger winner, was practically unsighted
throughout. Metallurgy, who ran Sol
Green’s colt to half a head in the classic,
ought to have been suited by the extra half-
mile; but he loafed with Duncan for the
greater part of the journey, and was too far
out of his ground at the straight entrance
to have any hope of even gaining a place.
Overtures for the purchase of Metallurgy
had been made on behalf of a leading Mel-
bourne sportsman, and King, the owner-
trainer, tentatively agreed to accept 2000
guineas. King intends taking Metallurgy to
Sydney He has by no means lost faith in
the Rossendale colt, who was nearly knocked
down at one stage of the Cup race.
Percy Miller, of the Kia Ora stud. N. S.
Wales, bred Topical, wdio is by Windbag
from Parody, by Absurd. It has been con-
tended that the progeny of Absurd are defi-
cient in stamina, but Parody runs back to
Rose de Florence (imp.), the dam of Mari-
byrnong. ,The descendants of Mar byr-
nong included Richmond, Calamia (Mel-
bourne Cup), Cunnamulla, Bosworth, Bargo.
Hamlet and Woodlands, besides other turf
celebrities. Sam Craeknell, who died in Vic-
toria a few weeks ago, won the Sydney Cup
of 1882 on Cunnamulla. It must be a
source of regret to Robert Miller that he
parted with Windbag, the sire of Topical.
In 1925 he landed the Melbourne Cup with
Windbag. That horse now is in the Sey-
mour stud of A. G. Hunter.
Winooka, another membtr of the Wind-
bag tribe, proved himself the best sprinter
at present in training by romping home in
the Leonard Stakes, while Chatham (also
by the Magpie stallion) showed a glimpse of
h’is spring form by finishing third in the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes. Mick Poison’s horse
scored, running away, by 21 lengths from
Parkwood (by no means a back number),
with Call Bird a good third and Jacko next.
Winooka reduced the Flemington record for.
six furlongs (established by Waltzing Lily
in the Standish Handicap on New Year’s
Day) to lmin. 10|sec.
Ridden by E. Baxter, who was associated
with the stable of J. M. Cameron when The
Hawk came over from M.L. nine years ago,
Gaine Carrington came out of his shell by
leading from start to finish in the ,C. M.
Lloyd Stakes. The favorite was Kuvera,
who, after being a long way out of his
ground, cut Chatham out of second place.
Shakuni, the juvenile brother to Kuvera,
appropriated the Ascot Vale Stakes, and
lowered the race record to lmin. llsec.
Despite the wet weather on Newmarket
Handicap day, it was a most successful
meeting. Tote receipts exceeded those of
the corresponding fixture in 1932 by over
£27,000.
* - * * *
The mating of Rossendale and Royal Pet
has given the turf good horses, but Ranier
is not one of them. Ranier is sturdily-built,
and is speedy enough to get to the front
in six-furlong races when the company is
not too select; but she is apt to turn it up
when tackled. She did this in the Flying
Handicap at Moorefield, for which she was
favorite, when hailed as the winner; Brazen-
face (7 to 2), who looks much brighter than
he did last season, and may conceivably have
regained his three-year-old form, which was
brilliant, settled her in a few strides.
Rogilla and Lough Neagh made their re-
appearance in this handicap. Both looked
as if the spell and the work they have done
since have agreed with them, but they went out
unbacked. Rogilla cannoned against Lady
Joy at the start, and was never prominent.
Lough Neagli, on the other hand, ran a
sterling race; sixth in the straight, he beat
Ranier for third place, and got within half
a length of Brazenface. This Queensland
horse went off after his capital win at w.f.a.
in the Randwick Plate at the A.J.C. spring
meeting. His preparation was then rather
hurried; with more time to get him into
good shape, he will not be neglected for the
Sydney Cup.
Elmaros did not keep her engagement for
the Moorefield Handicap. Progressive was
a strong tip, but this Satelles mare failed
to stay the distance —a mile and a quarter.
Nachara (12 to 1) singled out in the
straight; but Golden Flash (5 to 1) finished
like a shot out of a gun on the outside, and
beat the chestnut mare by a neck. The dis-
appointing Ramrod (6 to 1) was third.
Golden Flash is a three-year-old bay colt
by Pharon —Golden Goon in Dan Lewis s
stable; O’Sullivan rode him. Young horses
that show up at Moorefield in fair company
at this time of the year not seldom dis-
tinguish themselves at the Randwick Easter
meetings; so Golden Flash may be worth
bearing in mind.
Greenoak (10 to 1) accounted for the
well-backed Dunerc (5 to 2) in the Hurst-
ville Mile; the favorite, Whittingham, who
is “placed” and backed with poor judg-
ment, was a bad fifth. A mile is not his
distance. McShortodds moaned that this
was the only race on -which he showed a
profit; certainly all the other winners were
well supported. The divisions of the High-
weight Handicap, which closed the meeting,
went to 5-to-4 favorites, Jeannie McNish
and Tatyoon. And the ringmen who took
wagers on the Australian Cup laid a heap
of money against Topical at sevens and
eights; so it was a dolorous day for the
brotherhood.
* * * *
For City Tatt.’s meeting on Saturday:—
Randwick Stakes: Veilmond; next, Lough
Neagh. _
Denman Stakes : Whittingham ; next, Tom
Pinch.
City Tatt.’s Cup: Golden Flash; next,
Nord.
Club Welter : Cynical; next, Merryland.
* * * *
The A.J.C. handicapper is noted for tak-
ing care of the good horses nominated for
the Doncaster and the Sydney Cup. This
season he has aw-arded Winooka 9st. 131 b.
and Chatham a pound less in the Doncaster,
Veilmond 9st. 121 b. and Peter Pan 9st. in the
Cup. Still, Jacko is not badly treated in
the Doncaster with Bst. 31b., considering that
he won the last Doncaster at three years,
and was second in the Newmarket this
month. Nor is Topical (Bst. 41b.) over-
weighted in the Cup. Possibly Nord (6st.
71b.) in the same may be better
than Topical at the weights, and Golden
Flash (7st.) looks a likely three-year-old.
A double commencing with Jacko or Cynical
(7st. 51b.) and ending with Lough Neagh
(Bst. 51b.). Nord or Golden Flash may be
worth specking.
* H= * *
John McMaster, of Binnia Downs, who
died in Sydney the other day, was one of
the leading pastoralists and stockbreeders
of N.S.W., his Shorthorn cattle being par-
ticularly notable. As a breeder of thorough-
breds and an owner, he was equally success-
ful, his colors, black, red and gold, having
been carried to victory on many racecourses.
Among the best of his horses was Marvel
Loch, winner of the 1903 Metropolitan and
the 1905 Caulfield Cup, among other big
races; Lo'chano, winner of the Doncaster
and the Summer Cup, and Bundella, a
Breeders’. Plate winner.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The National Boxing Club has revived
Saturday-night fights at Sydney Stadium, but
had a poor crowd when Jack O Bnen (lust.
91b.) stopped Jack Roberts (lOst. 41b.) m
eight rounds. Roberts slung many rights,
but none of them landed. The Westralian
was * precise with his punches, and had
Roberts down three times before Wallis
stopped it. He is the makings of a good
man, and it is a pity to see him fighting
for a few pounds. But Pluto, who whipped
him in the West, could not get a match in
Sydney at all.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover” : No one who saw him in
Australia will be surprised to hear that
“Young” Stribling was disqualified in Pans
in a fight with a Belgian heavyweight,
Charles, for hanging on, in spite of numerous
warnings. He did the same thing here when-
ever an opponent troubled him, but the
referees let him indulge his fancies as a dis-
tinguished visitor. They do these things
better in France. Stribling has refused Lo
meet Canadian Larry Gains, who is a
“smoke.” Mistali Gains is indignant and
says he objects to an alien dictating to
“Britons” and assuming they must abide by
American rulings. He offers to fight Strib-
ling for a £lOOO side-wager.
* * * *
Lurich’s latest victim at Leichhardt was
George Penchiff. Time after time the Bulgar
had the Russ in the right position for a
fall, but could riot get his shoulders down.
As the fifth opened Lurich picked Penchiff
up in a crotch-hold, slammed him and pinned
him with a body-press. That was the only
fall.
Ins and Outs
The closing match of the English
cricketers’ tour against South Australia at
Adelaide roused little interest, even among
the players. Larwood, Sutcliffe and Ham-
mond were rested, and Jardine showed Ins
appreciation of the situation by sending in
Verity, who is a tail-ender in Yorkshire, to
open the English innings when he won the
toss. That is as far as the carefree feeling
went, for the side batted stodgily, losing 4
for 240 in a day. The innings closed at
298. Ames played a fairly lively knock
for 63, but Paynter (62), Wyatt (43)
and Jardine (48) verged on the funereal.
Grimmett (3-124) and Tobin (3-65) got
the wickets. South Australia’s innings of
191 contained two bright spots, Nitschke
(38) and A. J.' Ryan (61) batting attrac-
tively. With a lead of 200 and seven wickets
in hand, the visitors were in a safe position
on Monday.
A glance over the Test averages shows
Paynter heading the English batting list
with 61.33 for three completed innings and
a highest score of 83. Sutcliffe and Ham-
mond follow with a 55 average each for
eight completed innings. Both totalled 440
runs, Sutcliffe scoring one century (194 m
the first Test) and Hammond two (112 and
102 n.o in the first and fifth matches). The
only other centurion was Pataudi, who made
a streaky 102 in the opening match of the
series. Larwood’s 33 wickets for an average
of 19.51 easily headed the bowling. Allen,
who took 21 wickets, was well down the list
with 28.23. Voce and Verity took 15 at
27.13 and 11 at 24.2 respectively.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The match between Victoria
and England was possibly the venerable
Ironmonger’s final appearance in big cricket.
He finished the season well with 8 for 113
against the visitors. This is the first year
in which the ex-Queenslander has had a
steady job in the Australian Eleven. . His
average in this Test series is 27—15 wickets
for 405 runs. In all Tests he has taken 21
wickets for an average of 32.2. This season
in Sheffield Shield cricket he topped the
200 wicket-mark with 201, averaging
Grimmett and Ernest Jones are the only two
others to do this, though Jack Saunders, also
of Victoria and Australia, came close with 19b.
(Continued on next page.)
—— z~ :
The Nineteenth Hole
“Foozle”: Golf players, like racehorses,
run in all shapes, and one of their difficul-
ties is finding clubs suited to their stance,
The accepted rule is that players require clubs
of such shape that the sole lies flat on the
ground, but individuals differ so much in the
matter of legs, arms and other bodily pecu-
liarities that a universal design is impossible
for everyone. A Manchester professional
has attempted to meet this difficulty by invent-
ing a “measuring club.” This has a movable
liead, and when it has been adjusted to suit
the player a scale shows the angle most
satisfactory for him. It is an advance on
former methods, but the real desideratum of
999 per cent, of golfers, a club that will
automatically play every shot correctly with-
out heed to what the player may think about
it. has yet to be evolved.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: In one of the latest books on
how to play golf, Alex. Morrison, an Ameri-
can professional,’ stresses the importance of
swinging the club instead of using it as a
hitting implement. He urges the necessity
of learning to propel the clubhead m a per-
fect arc, and considers that in this he has
discovered a secret. It is as old as the hills-
The old professionals taught pupils that the
clubhead should follow the course of a re-
volving cartwheel, with the position of the
hands when addressing as the axle. _ it is
the tendency to hit, instead of swinging the
clubhead smoothly round an imaginary axis,
that so often confounds cricketers and others
who have begun by playing hitting games
before taking up the Royal and Antient
pastime. # * *
“Brassey”: There is considerable heart-
burning in Sydney golf circles because of
newspaper attacks on certain club com-
mittees which persist in interfering wit
the greenkeeper’s duties and advising him
in the performance of work of which, in
many instances, lie has made a lifelong pro-
fession. An interfering green committee is
on a par with the soldiers and sailors com-
mittees which were introduced into the Rus-
sian Army after the revolution. Australia
is notorious for the third-rate quality ot
its golf courses as compared with Europe
and America. Amateur interference with
expert knowledge is not calculated to im-
prove them. , .
“Brassey”: A body styling itself the
N.S.W. Overseas Golf Committee has been
brought to bed of a scheme to send a number
of young amateur and professional golfers
to compete in the British championships in
1934. It was hoped to send at least one Aus-
tralian” representative _ (from N.S.W., ot
course) this year, but time is short, runcu
may be raised for the proposed tour by giv-
ing exhibitions in N.S.W. Certamly ex-
hibitions by some of the N.S.W. goiters
writer has seen should draw standing-room-
only houses. There seems to be no attempt
to invite the co-operation of other States,
though it must be known to the committee
that golf of a sort is played in some of these.
* * * *
“Hervey Bay”: Maryborough in Queens-
land. once notable for its share in the trade
of importing Island labor for the sugar
plantations, has been seeking new renown
of late years on the golf links. The Mary-
borough club is out with _ an ambitious
Easter programme from April 14 to iTm-
clusive. The two star events are the A.I.JL
Cup, open to all ex-soldier players of the
Allied forces, amateur or professional, and
the Wide Bay and Burnett district cham-
pionship. In all there are 13 events _ for
men, including various handicaps, and eight
for associates.
(Continued on next page.)
“Splash”: One refreshing feature of the
visit of the American swimmer-diver com-
bination has been the uncompromising
manner in which diver Frank Kurtz has
roared up the swimming authorities of the
various States for their archaic methods and
appliances. At every centre he hhs visited
Kurtz has insisted on having the diving-boards
and towers altered to modern requirements,
and in some cases has got the materials and
done the job himself.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union,
which opens its season on April 8, has
decided in the face of considerable opposi-
tion to retain the Australian practice of
replacing injured players. The British
International Board has banned replace-
ments, and has requested Australia and
Maoriland to do the same. The All Blacks
have complied, and Australia’s failure to
fall into line is causing friction with the
Home authorities. Replacements are not
made in international games in any case,
and the reason for retaining them in club
and inter-State games is not apparent.
* * *■ *
“Jigger”: An experiment which proved
successful urns the constructioji for the
Royal Artillery mess at Lundi Ivotal in the
Khyber Pass, on the India-Afghanistan fron-
tier, of a billiard table with a reinforced
concrete bed in place of the conventional
slate. The table was built on the spot, and
the surface of the slab after laying was
rubbed smooth with a stone straight-edge.
The idea has its possibilities, and the fact
that it was built at one-third of the usual
cost should interest Australia, which pays
heavily for the imported Welsh slate.
1 * H-- * *
“Shell”: As was anticipated, H. Turner,
of Haberfield. Australian champion, easily
defeated A. M. Fisher, holder of the N.S.VV-
title, in the test sculling race on the
Parramatta to decide which should repre-
sent the State in the Australian Sculls on
the Brisbane River in May. The test was
the outcome of the unsatisfactory race for
the State championship on the Nepean,
when Turner was twice interfered with by a
third sculler. Turner won by 16 lengths in
17min. 21 4-ssec. for the two and a halt
miles. Nevertheless, in future races he will
do well to go ahead from the jump and get
out of the way. In the Australian event in
Melbourne he also found himself in dimcul-
ties with other competitors.


The Expert
View
Che nx Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee”
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman s Radio Log giving the
week s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
Referee leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
m
No. 130.
THE
“STOCKRIDER”
STATION
SADDLE.
Hogskin seat and
firm capped knee
pads. A good saddle
at a reasonable price.
Price, £5/2/6 Bare.
Leathers 6/-; Girth 5/-
Good N.P. Irons .. 6/6
Complete, £6.
Freight paid for cash with order to any
N.S.W. railway station.
Write for our 88-page saddlery Catalogue
No. 329, including Cowboy Saddles.
GOOD-BYE TO SORE BACKS
w
No. 300.
HAIR SADDLE
CLOTH.
Easy to wash.
Lasts for years.
Price, 21/-. Post., 1/- N.S.W.;
2/6 Q., Vic.
“KINGFISHER”
STATION STOCKWHIPS
All kangaroo, with inner plaited
belly for work among cattle.
No. B.—“ Kingfisher” Whip. 10-
plait handle and 7ft. 10-plait
thong 19/6
No. 9.—“ Kingfisher” Whip. 12-
plait handle, Bft. 12-plait
thong 25/-
Postage: 1/-N.S.W.; 1/6Q., Vic.
We list whips from 9/- each.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, Ltd., Saddlers,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opp. Dymock’s Block).
New Book Creates Sensation •
"Betting Systems Analysed/’
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6
Post Free
10/6
99a
“ NOSCERE,"
The Basement Bookshop,
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
OLD AGE STARTS
WITH BACKACHE
Backache is a sure sign that something
wrong has started. Often troubles like
painful urination, dizziness, swollen joints,
tired limbs, lack of vital force, soon follow.
Then you are old—before you need bel
Nine times out of ten the cause is simply
uric acid. This is easily got rid of at the
start, but with neglect it gets obstinate.
The quickest, surest remedy is Dr. Har-
rison’s Pills, which get rid of uric acid as
effectively as hot water dissolves sugar.
With the uric- acid thus banished, new vigor
comes; you feel brighter, younger, more
alert. All sorts of worrying symptoms dis-
appear, and you feel a new being. Every
good chemist and store carries Harrison’s
Pills—a well-known, established remedy, in
which the sufferer from aches, pains and
genito-urinary weaknesses can place every
reliance. Unlike “patent” medicines, these
pills cost very little, though “worth their
weight in gold.”
Ins and Outs
Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark
was presented at Melbourne Cricket Ground
when Victoria met England. Larwood was
on the sick list. What his absence meant
was seen when a strong English side just
escaped defeat. Play was only possible for a
short time on the second day and the game
was practically confined to three days. Dis-
missing the Englishmen for 821 and 183 for
9 wickets, Victoria made 327 and 177 for
three wickets. Tate (94 n.o. in the first inn-
ings) and Hammond (59 and 64) were the
outstanding batsmen for England. Darling
made 103 in Victoria’s first knock, but the
hero of the match was Rigg, who, with
Bromley, raced time on the last day in the
attempt to pass England’s total. With the
scores level, Rigg was caught off the last
ball of the last over. He had made 88 and
Bromley 56 n. 0., both men pasting the bowl-
ing in rare style. The Victorians had only
109 minutes to get the 178 runs wanted,
and it was hard luck they were one short at
stumps. This was the first tie in a first-
class match in Australia.
* * $ *
“Bramall Lane”: The tie between Eng-
land and Victoria in Melbourne is the
twentieth recorded in first-class cricket; and
only the second in which an Australian team
has taken part, the first being with Glou-
cestershire in 1930. Curiously enough, Surrey
county has figured in no fewer than six of
the 20 ties, and on two occasions Middlesex
and Kent have been the other parties. The
first recorded tie was between Hambledon
and Kent in 1783. The score was kept with
notches cut in sticks. Kent claimed they
had won and alleged that their scorer had
cut one notch too few in his excitement.
As Hambledon had taken the precaution of
destroying their stick this could not be proved
by comparing the scores.
* * *
“Old Trafford”: Rochdale club in Lanca-
shire has offered Don Bradman a big re-
tainer to play League cricket. According
to the club officials, Bradman has promised
to consider the matter when his contract with
Associated Newspapers and others in Sydney
expires early in 1934. Bradman himself
says he is anxious to go home with the Aus-
tralian Eleven that season, but is not keen
to leave Australia unless bad times force
him to look for better things in Eugland
Whether he proposes to stay in England
after the Australian tour is over he does not
say, but it is a question likely to interest
the Board of Control.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queenslanders are not sur-
prised to hear that the usual agitation to
have Brisbane deprived of its Test match has
begun in the South, though somewhat earlier
than usual. A Victorian journal announces
that the Victorians who played in the fourth
Test are satisfied the place is unsuitable.
One is inclined to agree when studying their
performances in Brisbane. But the Eng-
lishmen stated that the wicket and outfield
were the best they had struck in Australia.
* * * :!:
“Aigburth”: I have a dim suspicion that
some of these cricket experts are writing leg-
theory, so to speak. Neville Cardus, for
instance, by way of bolstering a contention
that until this last series fast bowling in
Australia has been expensive. He says that
Tom Richardson’s wickets cost 30 runs each.
Ijockwood’s 68, Hirst’s 42, Howell’s 66.
Fielder’s 27 and Foster’s 21. I do not quote
the Australian bowlers about whom he is
equally inaccurate. Here are my figures
from the official lists: Richardson 24 (aver-
age for two tours), Lockwood 32, Hirst 32
(two tours), Howell 18, Fielder 18 and
Foster 19.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Australia is fortunate in
drawing a bye in the first round of the
Davis Cup, since this will give the players
more time to settle down. Our first match
against Norway has to be finished by May 21,
but where it is to be played is as yet un-
known. The third round must end by June
13, and the fourth by June 23. All matches
in the European zone must be finalised by
July 17, and the inter-zone final begins in
Paris on July 21. The winners play France,
the cup-holders, in the challenge round at
Paris, beginning July 28. Other important
fixtures are the French championships (May
21-June 4), Wimbledon (June 26-July 8),
the German championships (August 5-13)
and the American (August and September).
From America the team goes on to Japan,
all being well.
* * * *
“Stiff”: Since it; was decided to send the
Davis Cup team out to collect some fame,
and incidentally some cash to help the
coffers of the Australian associations, the
luck has run badly. Germany, which, it
was anticipated, would furnish a few bob,
is thinking of anything but tennis just now.
If America wants to see the Australians
playing it will have to ask for free passes
by the present look of things, and .Japan,
with earthquakes and a war on its hands,
does not seem a likely touring ground, either.
All three countries were to have been in-
cluded in the Australian itinerary, but now
changes may have to be made.
* * *
“Ning Po”; The far-off trouble in Jehol
had its repercussions in Sydney tennis last
week. _ In the Eastern Suburbs Association
there is one club which consists of Chinese
members only, and another one which ih-
c|u(tes two Japanese in its side. Of course,
the little devil of luck must throw these
teams into opposition in the hard-courts
competition just at the present juncture. The
Chinese club suggested to the other that it
might give the two Japanese players a holi-
day. This was refused, so the Chinese
players forfeited soo,uer than meet the enemy
in the gate, or rather at the net.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone’’: Unlike some of liis
countrymen who have visited Australia as
athletes, Ellsworth Vines had plenty of good
things to say about Australians when lie got
back to the (bust) banks and braes of his
native land. The impartiality and sports-
manship of the Australian players and
spectators were his special admiration. Eng-
lish cricket experts, please copy!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Here’s something to add to
the list of queer golf happenings. Playing
at Roseville, Sydney, a man sliced a
ball high near the 12th hole. It dis-
UNSPORTSMANLIKE.
INJURED COLONEL: "Dammit, sir; you should be playing cricket.”
appeared entirely, but as the player was
giving up the search he was told by a pair
playing the other way, and parallel to the
fairway he was on, that his ball had
gone into the louvre of a tall, tubular drain-
age air vent on the course and that they
had heard it rattling down the sides of the
tube as it dropped. The happening would
be governed by rule 22, and a penalty stroke
incurred, for though the player knew where
his pill had gone it was obviously a lost or
unplayable ball.
“Divot Digger”: Until recently there
seemed a strong possibility that the annual
inter-Dominion match for the Kirk-Windeyer
Cup would have to be dropped owing to the
difficulty in getting a team together in this
country. However, that has been settled,
and N.S.W. at least will enter for the
tourney, which is to be played in M.L.
The cup was originally intended by the
donors to be played for by teams from the
various Australian States and an All Black
side. Queensland has occasionally come in,
but Victoria has sedulously held aside, tak-
ing the view that the matter should have
been arranged by the Australian Golf Coun-
cil and not by private individuals, especially
as one of them hailed from N.S.W. The Ma
State holds the trophy, which it has won
three times in five starts.
“Chiverton”: Warwick, on the Darling
Downs, is to be the scene of this year’s
Darling Downs and south-west Queensland
annual golf championships. The show opens
on April 11 and closes on Easter Monday.
The programme includes' the open and ama-
teur title events, and both attract the cream
of the Queensland professional and amateur
talent, while the associate championships
will also be staged. A qualifying round of
36 holes stroke will be run concurrently
with the open event, the first eight amateurs
to qualify for the amateur championship.
There will also be handicap events. The
course, under the care of Roy Keene, for-
merly of Sydney, is one of the best country
convincing grounds in Australia.
$ $ $ *
“Brassey”: Describing the annual com-
petition of the Oxford and Cambridge Golf-
ing Society, an English writer refers to what
lie calls a “unique” trophy which hangs in
the clubhouse at Rye. This is an old
putter which once belonged to Tom Ivirkaldy.
The winner of the competition is allowed to
attach to this by a silver chain a golf ball
in commemoration of his success. Seaton
club, in South Australia, has carried out
the same idea, the ball there being engraved
with the winner's name and the date.
Something of the sort is also to be found in
Brisbane, and there may be other Australian
instances.
* * * *
“Jeames”: Every Australian pro. who
comes back from England has the same com-
plaint to make: “Why don’t the, big Aus-
tralian golf clubs cater for artisan golfers?”
Don MacDonald, of Avondale, who returned
on the Esperancc Bay, mentioned that not
only were workers welcomed by some of the
biggest clubs, but special trophies were given
for them. If Royal Sydney were in England,
the local artisans would be encouraged to hit
off from the first tee between six and seven,
mornings and evenings. Artisans are catered
for at two of the Prince’s favorite clubs—
Sandwich and Sunningdale—and he has
more than once participated in artisans’
matches himself.
Car and Cycle
“Fitzcray” : Next week will see Australia’s
leading motor-ear race, the 200-milc Grand
Prix, run off on the Phillip Island circuit in
Victoria. The circuit is only 6-A miles and
has thus to be covered 16 times. In spite
of its angular nature, some good times have
been recorded. Last year W. B. Thomp-
son won from scratch in 2hr. 40min. llsee..
averaging 76 m.p.h., and doing one lap
at 82 m.p.h. The Light Car Club of
Victoria is, as usual, running the show,
which is on a handicap basis. There are 20
entrants, and the handicapping runs from
L. .T. Jackson (Rugatti), on scratch, to K.
McKinney (Austin), 35min.
* * * #
“Dinkum”: Let those who have been
arguing as to who drove the first motor-
car in Brisbane (B. l/2/’33) for ever hold
their peace, for the news comes straight from
the driver’s mouth. He is James Track-
son. and the car he introduced to.the streets
of Brisbane in 1895 was a steam Locomobile
with a kerosene-warmed boiler and a tvein-
cylinder engine. When it appeared, the
horse interests interviewed Home Secretary
Foxton and tried to have the car-driver pre-
ceded by a man on foot carrying a red
flag, but they failed. The car could do 25
rti.p.h., and the boiler had to be refilled with
water every i2O miles or so.
* ❖ s*c
“Trey”: Prize-money for the Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy races has been increased to
£2OOO and the grants to entrants from the
Dominions have been readjusted. Austra-
lian and Maoriland riders will draw £HS.
Only one rider from each Dominion will
receive the grant, but governing bodies in
each country may apply for assistance for a
second ; representative who has strong
claims; in this ease the grant will not
be more than one-half that paid to the
first man. The manufacturer of the machine
used must receive at least £25 of the grant.
Du try fee is £lO, entries closing on May 0,
but late entries up to May 13 will be
accepted if a £2O fee accompanies them. The
events will take place in June.
* * * * *
Kick Starter ’: Some time ago it was
announced that the English Autocycie
Union repudiated the dirt-track riders now
in Australia as an official organisation, and
objected to the holding of Test matches with
Australia. It has now cabled that the Aus-
tralian authorities’ action in ignoring’ tile
A.C.U.’s warning and in holding Tests has
the position serious,” and a full ex-
planation by all concerned is imperatively
requested prior to the heating of the boil-
ing oil.
Miscellaneous
. “Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
is fast losing its reputation for conservat-
ism. At the annual meeting it changed its
president again W. W. Hill taking the
place of H. D. Wood. These rapid changed
are making old R.U. hands quite giddy in
the head. The latest president is the fifth
m 59 years; he was hon. secretary of the
l nion from 1906 to 1915 and from 1910 to
3918, with another spell in 1919. He nlaved
for N.S.W. against Queensland in 1906. His
predecessors, besides H.D.W., have been J. J.
Calvert, 1874-1914; J. F. MacManamey,
1915, afid Henry Braddon, 1916-25.
❖ 5jC
“Bumpkin”: The Vie. Masseurs’ Registra-
tion Board recently announced that pro-
ceedings under the Act Avould be taken
against football clubs which permitted un*
authorised persons to rub down or massage
other persons. The secretary of the Footßiill
League retorted that there are 1468 affiliated
organisations, controlling 70,000 footballers,
and that this vast multitude of athletes has
to be rubbed down almost daily. ITe asked
where the registered masseurs to do' the
rubbing were to be found. However, the
board has obtained a conviction against one
person and prosecution of others is impend-
ing If its crusade is successful it ought
to be extended to individuals. I. have been
rubbing myself down in my bathroom since
I was a baby, and so have my family. The
results to date don’t seem to have been very
disastrous, but for all we know to the con-
trary we have been doing ourselves irre-
parable damage, and to save us from our-
selves is the obvious duty of the Masseurs’
Registration Board.
* * *
“Long Rest”: Playing Joe Davis in Eng-
land Walter Lindrum, in making a break
of 1164, put up a world’s record with ,529
nursery cannons. He went round the table
twice and was half-way round the third time
when he broke down. The previous best on
the books is 273 cannons, which also stands
to Lindrum’s credit; it was put up almost
exactly a year ago in England. The cable
does not say whether the latest feat was
performed under the “baulk-line” rules,
though this seems improbable. If it was
it must rank as a wonderful performance.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: This month marks the
60th anniversary of the death of J. Kent-
held, the first acknowledged champion of
English billiards. He was regarded as the
player without peer of his time, and when
he made his record break of 196 it was
doubted whether it would ever be surpassed
by mortal man. Nowadays most of the
amateurs figuring in big competitions are
capable of that and more—the highest recog-
nised is 461, unfinished, made in Syduey
by L. W. Steeples, in 1931. The profes-
sional best is Walter Lindrum’,s 4137.


w
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
To save delay in writing to
London, J.llott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langhazn Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON? — then The Langham!
There is no more central, more comfort-
able spot in London than the Langham.
It is known the world round for the
courtesy and quickness of its service—
unobtrusive, but intensely personal.
There’s running water, a telephone
and an electric fire in every hedroom.
And in the peace and dignity of its
spacious rooms you find something
which is essentially English.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Death came to Archbishop Wright in
Maoriland, away from the people he loved
and for whom he had worked for over 20
years. He was laid to rest on the heights
of South Head Cemetery on a day when
the Pacific sparkled like sapphires in the
sunlight.
Impressive was the procession, headed by
Captain Morgan, when the Marama reached
Sydney and the coffin, covered with the flag
of St. George from St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
was placed in the hearse. The ship’s officers
formed a guard of honor, and in their robes
came Bishop Kirkby, the Dean of Sydney
and Archdeacon Charlton. At the cathedral
ministers and members of the choir lined
the steps. A short service was held; then
began the hourlv watches kept by a guard
of clergy and laymen until one o’clock on
Wednesday, when the funeral service took
place. During all that time there was
a constant stream of people, old and young,
passing by in silent tribute. Long before
midday on Wednesday the cathedral was
filled to overflowing, and many with tickets
of admission had to content themselves in
the grounds of St. Andrew’s. At one o’clock
the bishops and clergy in their robes of office
marched from the Upper Hall to the Chapter
House through the cathedral amid a solemn
silence. In the huge congregation were the
Governor and Lady Game, attended by Com-
mander Gifford and Miss Crowdy ; the naval,
military, professional and commercial sec-
tions of the community were all represented.
While the Archbishop of Brisbane inside
the cathedral told in simple words the lov-
able qualities of the late Primate, while
the choir sang and the organ pealed out
Handel’s “Dead March,” 25,000 people lined
the streets, and for once the central roar
was hushed. There were many Diggers
among the mourners, men who remembered
the visits the late Archbishop never failed
to pay to the troopships just before
they sailed. Through these lines of sad-
dened people the long funeral procession
passed, the bishops wearing their robes.
It took six cars to carry the flowers.
At the cemetery the clergy were led by the
choir to the graveside, where already a group
of naval and army veterans had gathered.
Here Dean Talbot read the beautiful words
of the burial service. Thousands joined in
the hymn “Now the Laborer’s Task is O’er.”
Bishop Ivirkby pronounced the benediction.
Whenever the Far West Children’s Health -
Scheme is mentioned, those who attended the
Building Campaign Committee’s meeting at
Government House will at once remember
the pathetic figure of the small boy whose
shirt was removed so that the effects of mal-
nutrition could be seen. The little fellow
had infantile paralysis, explained the
Reverend Mr. Drummond, and it would take
two years to build him up.
H’ow popular is the scheme and how
people have recognised the necessity for more
accommodation than the Manly house can
afford are shown by the sum of £159 that has
already been given. Mrs. Danger Owen’s
offer to contribute £lO if five others at the
meeting would do likewise brought imme-
diate results.. Lady Game made an offer on
behalf of the Governor, the Street lady on
behalf of her grandchildren. Mrs. B. S. B,
Stevens and the Walder, McKelvey and Mur
doch ladies also responded, the last-named
lady also going surety for her husband.
Broken Hill has been particularly gen-
erous. In addition to paying the fares of
the hundred children who have been sent
down from that district, it has already
donated £6OO to the general fund. Mrs. Mac-
gillivray (wife of Broken Hill’s Dr. Mac-
gillivray), who was at the meeting, promised
£lOO in addition to the usual contribution.
Other offers of help came from the Croydon
Ladies’ Social Club, the Eastern branch of
the C.W.A. (in conjunction with Doris
Fitton) and the Younger Set of the Mosman
Auxiliary. Before the meeting closed it was
decided to hold a garden fete in the spring.
If good wishes mean anything, Alfred
Johnson and Carmel Duffy should be the
happiest couple in Sydney these days. Their
engagement has just been announced. The
romance started in St. Vincent’s Hospital.
After the William-street hold-up in Sep-
tember last, when Mr. Johnson, a postal
assistant, was blinded, he became a patient
in St. Vincent’s, and Nurse Duffy took the
greatest interest in the case. Soon this
interest became a personal one. They are
to be married in about a year. In the
meantime the bridegroom-to-be is study-
ing Braille reading and shorthand, and per-
fecting his touch typing.
In spite of the depression and consequent
increased demands for admission, the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital is doing its best
to give little Australians a fair start. 11ns
year it has been extremely difficult to adhere
to its policy of “not turning any woman in
need away without giving her the necessary
attention”; nevertheless, every woman has
had this, even when a stretcher had to take
the place of a bed. But it has been a heavy-
strain on the finances, and for the first time
in its history the hospital is working on an
overdraft.
At the annual meeting, Lady Game, who
takes the greatest interest in all work for
the welfare of women, said that as without
its pillars the Harbor Bridge would crash,
so would the hospital without its nurses, and
its women auxiliaries. Then the president
of the board, knight Henry Braddon, sent
out an appeal for help to make the exten-
sions that are so desperately called for.
At the same time he outlined the board s
scheme for carrying the hospital along
Crown-street; hopes are entertained that
assistance will come from the Government,
before which the proposal has been placed.
Woman has found a. new vocation, and
The Bulletin’s very littlest sister, Radio
News,” is trying to make it more widely
known. Wireless station 2UW (Palings)
is looking for the ideal woman announcer,
and “Kadio News” has joined in the hunt.
Entries closed on Monday; and then the
interesting part begins so far as the public
is concerned. The station will hrst reduce
the number of competitors to 50 (there are
hundreds of them), and then, by a studio
test to ten; and from these finalists the
listeners themselves will select the
all the finalists will be put on the
twice at times announced by Radio News
and 2UW. To stimulate interest in the
selection £25 in cash and other prizes are
to be given to listeners who name the l'J
finalists in the order of the voting or get
nearest to it. Voting papers will be printed
in the “Radio News” for the next couple ot
weeks. The over-the-air tests will commence
on March 23.
Even by leaving the Strathnaver at Mel-
bourne and training it to Sydney, Violet
Vanbrugh (Mrs. Arthur Bourclner) will
have little more than a week to stay with
daughter Prudence (Mrs. Jimmy Dickson).
This is Violet’s first visit to Sydney, but
she is hoping to come back professionally at
a not very distant date. Violet and Sydney s
friend Irene are often taken for one another,
but when seen together there is a perceptible
difference between the sisters. One thing,
however, the two have in common, a beauti-
ful speaking voice.
Mrs. Harold Weigall, who as Hilda Caro
was famous as a money-raiser during tne
war, is once
more organ-
ising benefits
for good
causes. Th e
concert at
Bondi Audi-
torium for the
Anti-T.B. cam-
paign over,
the lady is
deep in pre-
parations for
a fete to aug-
me u t the
funds of the
C. of E. Migra-
tion Council.
This will be
held in the
grounds of
Quambi, the
Kelso Kings’
Edgecliff home,
and, as “some-
thing different” is Mrs. Weigall’s motto,
a deck tennis tournament is already raging-
in many a suburban garden. The finals will
be played off at Quambi on April 1, the day
of the fete. Dr. Micklem reports that the
names of 5000 are already on this Empire
settlement list; although the scheme is
named C. of E. there are really all denomi-
nations among the would-be migrants. Pic-
ture from Dorothy Welding studio.
Everybody goes to Kosciusko sooner or
later, and that’s doubtless why so many young
things of both sexes found themselves at the
Department of Agriculture last week, study-
ing posters, examining skis and looking at
sports garments. It came as a surprise to
find that plain surfaced woollen jumpers are
the correct thing. They are more comfort-
able than the brushed-wool variety, and
give more protection from wind and moisture.
On view were long trousers in proofed
gabardine, colorful jumpers that will “zip”
right up to the throat, gay little socks that
fit snugly around the ankles, and, of course,
the attractive lumber jackets and caps with-
out which no outfit is complete. Turning
one’s back on such temptation was useless,
for one’s eyes would immediately catch the
posters by" the Technical School students,
and the good resolution crashed. Every girl
could see herself in the picture, and it won’t
be her fault if she’s not at Kosciusko for
the Australian ladies’ .ski-championships m
August. Lucky, too, will be the student
who wins the poster prize, as this means an
eight-day stay there during the gay season.
The Ski Council, the Chamber of Manufac-
tures the Retail Traders, the Government
Tourist Bureau and the Federal Forestry
Department have all had a finger in the
exhibition, which was opened by Chief Sec-
retary Chaffey. Object: to show what good
ski-ing equipment can be made in Australia.
Deep sympathy is being felt for Mr. and
Mrs. Tom Hoskins, who received word last
week of the death in London of their bril-
liant surgeon son Roy. The young man,
who was only 83, was last year appointed
superintendent of the Prittlewell General
Hospital at Southend : for a year before that
he was resident medical officer at Victoria
Hospital, Southend. From Trinity Grammar
School, Dulwich Hill, he entered the Sydney
University Medical School on an exhibition
gained in 1920, won the Sands surgery prize
and graduated in 1925. Before leaving Syd-
ney he was successively resident medical
officer at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
the Children’s Hospital and the Women’s
Hospital, and senior resident surgeon at the
Coast Hospital.
Mrs. Parkinson, wife of The King’s School’s
new head, greets Australia from this picture.
Mrs. Parkin-
son, who is
English, has
been here be-
fore, for her
husband was
born in Maori-
land, and the
two passed
through on a
visit to his
people two or
three years
ago. On the
traditions of
Christ’s Hos-
pital (the
famous Blue-
coat School),
where her hus-
band was senior
house master,
Mrs. Parkin-
son is very
e'n t ertaining,
and a point of interest to women (though
indeed Feminists might make it a grievance)
is that the school was once controlled by
Dames. The lady is both a musician and
an artist, and the historic associations of
Parramatta have made more impression on
her than even the heat of February.
Nobody would enjoy this joke more than
Monsignor King, just struggling back to
convalescence in Lewisham. Somebody said
in the hearing of a youngster at the parish
school that Monsignor King was at the
gates of death. The small boy went home
and duly reported. Mother expressed sym-
pathy, and then, trying to drive home a
lesson she added, “You know, dear, when
Uncle was in hospital last year he was at
the gates of death.” “Well, why did ne
come back here?” asked the infant m the
tone of one who sees a perfectly good excur-
sion gone to waste.
A picturesque and colorful wedding was
that of Barbara White and Douglas Munro,
second son of the Hugh Munros, of Bin-
gara. The church (St. Matthias, Denman)
was decorated with reel zinnias. The bride-
groom and best man, brother Gordon, wofe
kilts, the groomsmen sported buttonholes of
heather, and ribbon in the Munro tartan tied
the bridesmaids’ bouquets of autumn berries.
The bride, who is the eldest daughter of the
H. H. Whites, of Martindale, Denman, wore
a frock of deep magnolia satin, cut on
severely classical lines, the skirt forming a
long train. Her Brussels lace veil, lent by
sister-in-law Mrs. Nevison, was mounted on
tulle and held in place by a coronet of orange
blossoms. Barbara Davies, Margot Marriott
and Dorothy McDonald ’maided in Patou-
pink chiffons. Their Empire frocks had
cape sleeves, and carried tiny trains, and
on their heads they wore wreaths of autumn
berries. After the ceremony there was. a
great gathering at Martindale. Mrs. White
received the guests in a lupin-blue crepe
frock; the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs. Hugh
Munro, wore burgundy velvet.
Decima Bennett and Ainslie Roland Litch-
field exchanged vows before the Reverend
Hugh Baton at St. Stephen’s one night last
week. A tulle veil, a coronet of orange blos-
soms and a sheaf of white tiger-lilies were
picturesque accessories to the long-trained,
slim-fitting ivory dull velvet frock worn by
the attractive dark-haired bride, who is the
youngest daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs.
F A. Bennett, of Woollahra. Four brides-
maids, Jean Anderson, Rosemary Shepherd,
Peggy Bullmore and Joan Willoughby Dowl-
ing, two in delphinium blue and two in
Patou pink, carrying sheaves of delphiniums
and pink roses, added just the right note ot
color. The bridegroom is the second son ot
Mr. and Mrs. O. C. Litchfield of Spring-
wood, Cooma. No. 11 Onslow Gardens saw
the toast-drinking, Mrs. Rutherford Darling,
sister of the bride, receiving the guests in
cyclamen flat crSpe.
St. James’s quarterly Clothes Day is fixed
for March 17, and all day long there will be
someone at the crypt to receive parcels 01
clothing for men, women and children.
Most desperately needed of all are men s
boots.
Yet another club has arisen in Sydney—
The Scribes. Mr. Rathbone, who till re-
cently was president of the Junior literary
Society, is president, and Mr. H. Hewlett
secretary. Meetings are held every Tues-
day evening in the State Shopping Block,
and concerts and social events are being
arranged. Lectures will be given at intervals,
and an imposing list of names for those
occasions has been secured.
Our old friend “Vandorian” makes a dis-
covery in Tasmania: —
One of Tasmania’s artists in water-colors, Joseph
Connor, charms me by his handling of marine sub-
jects. His contributions to the 49th annual exhibition
of the Art Society of Tasmania, opened by Lieut.-
Governor Nicholls, simply- crowd out competition.
His “The Docks, Hobart,” a boat in the foreground
and a jam factory in the background, is an event
rather than a catalogue item. One of the most
modest of men, Connor makes bread and butter as a*,
salesman in a Hobart business store.
News drops in from London of lectures
by Mrs. Madge Donohoe, formerly Miss
Tilley, of Sydney. The widow of the Aus-
tralian war correspondent Martin Donohoe
has been chatting of “Life on the Other
Side.” Mrs. Donohoe, years ago, was
attracted by the lure of spiritualism in the
Conan Doyle style. Her lantern slides at
one London lecture showed Skotographs,
in which ancient history in the land of the
Pharaohs was impressed on the screen with
suitable messages from the dust of ages.
Brisbane bits: —
The Governor Went to the St. David’s Society
dinner at the Canberra, and, replying to the toast
of his health proposed by president E. A. Rawson,
mentioned that he had once been closely associated
with the Welsh wizard, Lloyd George. The Lud
Mayor and Minister F. A. Cooper were among the
speakers and there was a musical programme.
S'ir Leslie Wilson was one of the guests at
Middenbury, Toowong, which the O’Sheas threw
open for the annual garden party and /owing
regatta of the G.P.S. Old Boys’ Rowing Club. Pat
and Ella O’Shea welcomed the Governor; among
officers of the association were the Rev. Mervyii
Henderson, Messrs. E. P. Evers and W. P. Rowland.
Ella O’Shea wore a jacket ensemble of flat cr£pe
with a chiffon velvet toque. The lawns were looking
beautiful and the ancient trees gave kindly shade.
His Ex. went to Clifton'for the show, and with
his son and daughter was entertained at dinner by
the members of the Clifton Show committee. After-
wards, Dr. Heath presided over a meeting of
returned soldiers, where the Governor and party
were entertained. Some 400 people were at the
Show Ball.
Lantern slides and descriptive literary readings
were the items at the last meeting of the Lyceum
Club. Doris Waraker gave a humorous reading from
her own works, and Mrs. Amos read extracts from
J. M. Stevens’s book of native studies. There was, an
introduction to wildflower paintings by Mrs. Aubrey
Thomson. Mrs. W. Young received the guests,
wearing black net and a jetted coat.
In St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, Morgan Bruce Harry
married Norma, widow of H. W. Painter and
daughter of the late A. J. Draper, Cairns. The
bride was in beige marocain with a wide-brmime
ballibuntal hat. Her twin sister Molly Draper
’maided in Mary blue.
Muriel Rowe had a party to the Regent and a
supper dance at the Carlton in honor of Miss M-
Allen and Arthur Rowe, who are soon to be married.
Canon J. B. Armstrong officiated at the wedding
of Dudley Young, son of S. W C. Young, Por
Augusta, and Dorothy Kemp, in St. Augustine s,
Hamilton. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in white chiffon voile with a silver
sequin belt and Honiton lace veil. Patricia Kemp
maided in reversible green satin, trimmed with
beige and brown fur. The Golden Glow Cate saw
the reception.
Russell Brooke Tapp, the well-known Quantas
aviator, married Mildred Crombie in St Johns
Cathedral, Dean Barrett officiating. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in parchment
satin and old Honiton lace veil. Mary Alsop
(Sydney) and Barbara Hart maided in ivory satin
and tulle, with sashes and bandeaux of hydrangea
blue- little Mary Alison Sword was trainbearer.
The reception was at the home of the bnde’s uncle
and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Warren.


THE FARMER’S FRIEND
The paper for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
is
THE PERTH
SfttftWf
For over 35 years the leading weekly news-
paper in Western Australia has been in close
touch with the Man on the Land in all his
activities —it has been his friend and guide.
The farming pages of the big Western weekly
newspaper are a fund of information for
settlers, hence the reason why the circulation
of “The Sunday Times” in the rural centres
of W.A. is unequalled. Wherever you go in
the Golden West —the largest town or smallest
hamlet —you will find “The Sunday Times.”
The large subscription list for direct postage
is sufficient tribute to the popularity of the
paper amongst the farmers.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
If you have a message for the farming com-
munity of the West, it will pay you to use
“The Sunday Times.” You will profit as
hundreds of others have done, because you do
not have to experiment here. It is a medium
proved to be in close touch with the Man on
the Land, and remember, W.A. is the great
primary production State.
Cite mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY’’ is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Legal Notice.
yo CHARLES REGINALD McFEE late of 78
Onslow-road Subiaco in the State of Western
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
Fourth day of March 1933 has issued out of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of BEATRICE McFEE
of 78 Onslow-road Subiaco in the State of Western
Australia Married Woman praying for a dissolution
of marriage. IN DEFAULT of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereto.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within 90 DAYS from the
date of the last publication of this Notice to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Central Office
of the Supreme Court Perth and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
T. F. DAVIES,
LA VAN, WALSH AND SEATON,
29 Barrack-street, Perth,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
To be inserted once in each of the following papers:
“The Sunday Times” (Perth), The Bulletin
(Sydney), “The Australasian” (Melbourne),
yd GEORGINA DONALDSON NEE HOARE (ALSO
KNOWN AS GEORGINA JONES) : TO HER
CHILDREN AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING
BY THROUGH OR UNDER HER OR THEM:
PURSUANT to an Order made by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called 1 upon to
send to the Public Trustee of the Dominion of New
Zealand Wellington New Zealand on or before the
Ist day of June 1933 your claims to the estate
of Alfred George Donaldson who died intestate at
Wanganui in New Zealand on 13th December 1931
falling which the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims. DATED at Wellington
this 25th day of February 1933.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
a
vV \1
A
jm
those
present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! “All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
“Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name and look for the “Hec-
worth” brand on every article.
Melbourne
Chatter
Australian Cup Day at Flemington was
nearly as unpleasant as the previous Satur-
day, when we had a touch of the Antarctic.
On this occasion it was unseasonably hot.
The dress parade was a matter of summer
left-overs. Parasols came into their own
again, and small caps and berets were not
so much in favor as usual. A bit of apparel
that caught the eye was of golden-brown
velvet with a bodice of burnished gold lame,
topped by a velvet hat. Mrs. Edric Henty
looked cool in mushroom-pink broderie
Anglais and ninon, with a shady straw hat
of the same tint, and her sunshade was all
tiny frills of beige ’muslin and lace. Mrs.
Fred Thiel also seemed happy in pale pink
flat crgpe and a chalk-white hat. Mrs. E.
Kiernan wore light brown chiffon patterned
in foliage design in lime green, and her
straw hat was of nutmeg shade. Mrs.
Neville Fraser, in flowered georgette in tints
of brown and fawn and matching hat, was
one of the country patrons. Moya Rodgers
linked a bodice of white satin to a skirt of
black crinkled crepe. In the v.-r. box were
Major Wilkinson and'' his daughter Vaire,
whose aecordeon-pleated crepe de Chine
frock was of beige pink tint; her crochet
hat mingled tones of red. fawn and yellow.
With them were Mrs. Frank Murray and
Major and Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald.
Mrs. William E. Bates and her daughter
Mrs. Philip Kelynack entertained guests in
honor of Nan Cook and Anthony Wei gall,
then about to be married. The combined dance
and bridge party was held at the Bates
home, Larino, Deepdene, with masses of beau-
tiful flowers decorating the reception rooms,
and festoons of electric light about the
garden. Mrs. Bates wore white satin traced
with silver, and Mrs. Kelynack chose a
frock of filmy black lace. Mrs. Copland
Mackie, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Bates, was in draperies of jade-blue crepe.
Miss Cook (now Mrs. Weigall) wore floral-
patterned pink chiffon. Among the guests
were Mrs. Maurice Bates, of Brisbane, and
Mrs. H. Reid, of Sydney.
At Mrs. Vincent Price’s residence,
Kimotho, Toorak, Mrs. Price and Mrs. Spen-
cer Lawry were joint hostesses of a big dance
which introduced their respective daughters,
Judy Price and Judith Lawry, to society.
Another deb. was Barbara Hayden Smith;
the trio wore white. The ballroom and other
portions of the home were handsomely decked
with flowers. Mrs. Price wore black lace
with a subdued gleam of steel ornaments, and
Mrs. Lawrv chose a graceful gown of dahlia-
tinted delustred velvet. Draperies of light
tan hue were favored by Miss D’Arcy
Lawry. Among the dancers were Lud Mayor
Smith; Winifred Mills, in black chiffon:
Mrs. Robert Knox, in turquoise blue velvet;
the Edric Hentys ; Nora and Meta Power;
Major Landale and Jacqueline Mackinnon,
whose white satin corsage was allied to a
dark currant-colored skirt.
A dance given by Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson as a welcome home to the A. B.
Chirnsides after foreign travel served also
as a house-warming for the Gibsons’ new
home in Orrong-road—an ultra-modern man-
sion in which the electric-light filters
through many thicknesses of pale tinted
glass. The hostess wore, a robe of crinkled
crepe of Parma-violet hue, with a couple of
large roses of exactly the same shade at
the waist-line at the back. Mrs. Chirnside
was in burnished gold lace with crystal
earrings and necklet. Mrs. Gibson’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, were there, the
lady in black cire lace. Beatrice Kimpton
sported vellum-toned velvet. Mrs. Frank
Andrew came in a black gown brightened by
a shoulder spray of frangipanni. Among the
dancers were Mrs. Edric Henty, in reseda
satin; Mrs. William Seymour, in black
organdie with a taffeta sash Mrs. C. O.
Fairbairn, in powder-blue georgette; the
junior Raynes Dicksons, the Dudley Brun-
tons, Dr. and Mrs. J. Shaw and the J.
Officer Browns. Mrs. W. Lempriere, a
recent bride, halted the eye in a frock that
was pale amber in hue with a touch of
goblin blue on the corsage. Sandra Shackell
was attractive in a gown of pigeon’s-egg
blue, and Prudence Staughton had shoulder-
straps of black and white twisted ribbon
attached to her backless gown of black
satin. Elizabeth Moran’s black and white
striped muslin frock was topped with an
ostrich-feather boa in black and white.
The Rex almost bulged with the crowd
that attended the polo ball. Mrs. Harry
C'reswick, who wore persimmon-hued velvet,
was president of the committee, Mrs. Rex
Sweetnam, who danced in deep-blue velvet,
being hon. sec. Mrs. E. Hayne and Natalie
Wood were ticket secretaries. Lieut.-
Governor Irvine and his lady went along
after his Ex. had attended to the Scottish
antiquities. Her Ex. wore a trained gown
of sapphire-blue georgette and a black velvet
wrap trimmed with silver bugles. Mrs. J.
M. Pittendrigli, Mrs. L. Due, in black lace
frock, and Hylda McCardel, in black-and-
White-checked cotton, supervised sales of bal-
loons and cigarettes. The girls who acted
as vendors decorated their locks with tiny
balloons. A robe of carnation-pink satin
was worn by Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, and
Mrs. Lionel Weatherly, of Mortlake, chose
a soft black gown embroidered in silver. Mrs.
F. W. Porter, a visitor from Adelaide, was
wrapped in draperies of lapis lazuli blue.
The backless evening gown was mucli in
favor.
The Stradbroke Cup matches at Moonee
Valley racecourse attracted a rather larger
crowd than Melbourne usually allots to polo.
Players and onlookers were separated by a
light barrier that did not obscure the view.
In the final between Melbourne Hunt Club
A team and the Adelaide men, the issue
was in doubt till the end of the sixth
chukka, when, with the score at 4 all, the
M.H.C., captained by H. F. Creswick, scored
a goal and won the match. The defeated
teams’ match between Cooronwarrabul A and
B was lively, B winning by 19 to 16. The
chairman of the Moonee Valley Racing Club,
Alister Clark, presented the beautiful cup
to the winning skipper, and there were
miniature engraved pewters for each player
in the two teams that contested the final.
Among the onlookers were Mrs. H. F. Cres-
wick, whose black-and-wliite-patterned frock
was topped by a folded black toque; Phyllis
Bray, of Adelaide, in blue-and-white-figured
silk suit with a shady white straw hat; Mrs.
Douglas Shennon, smart in a navy and
white; the J. I. Winter Irvings, Mrs. Hugh
Bullivant (N.S.W.), Mrs. W. Bakewell
(S.A.) and Major and Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn.
Broothorn here pictures Judith Burston,
one of the debs, of Australian Cup week.
She came out at a dance given at Grosvenor,
Toorak, by her grandmother, Mrs. Edmund
J o w e 11, at
which another
g r a nd-daugh-
ter, Annette
Powell, and
M a r g a ret
Mack, a niece
of Mrs. Jowett,
also made
their entrance
into society.
The hostess,
w ho wore
black lace, had
the assistance
or her hus-
band. M i s s
Burston wore
white flat
crepe with a
little cape
b o r d e re d
with ostrich
feathers; Miss
Powell set
debutante conventions aside in a frock of
black lace and taffeta, and Miss Mack
sported Hindu-red flamisol. Mrs. Burston
was in pale yellow chiffon with a floral
design. Mrs. H. S. Rose, mother of Miss
Powell, had a touch of silver on her black
robe, and Mrs. Gardner Mack danced iu
sapphire-blue lace. Elyne Cliauvel, a daugh-
ter of General Cliauvel, looked handsome in
cherry-red.
The Scottish Antique and Historical Ex-
hibition in the basement of Newspaper
House was opened to the skirling of bag-
pipes. The Scottish Regiment formed a
guard of honor for Lieut.-Gov. Irvine, and a
tall Highlander piped the procession to the
dais. The Irvine lady collected a posy of
heather and rowan berries. Moderator-
General Cameron, Premier Argyle and
knight John MacFarland were in the official
group. The exhibits run the gamut of cloth-
ing, jewellery, furniture, china, silver, gold,
weapons, pictures and manuscripts, and
in numerous cases have historical associa-
tions. Many of the swords and claymores
and dirks are by Andrea Ferrara, and the
dirks in especial have beautifully-chased
hilts, topped with precious stones. Snuff
boxes make a great array, running from a
polished root of a tree to ornate gold- and
silverware. Also there are snuff mulls of
horn shape, with decorative round lids. A
poem in Robert Burns’s fine, straightfor-
ward caligraphy dispels the notion that an
illegible scrawl is the hall-mark of the poet.
The A.W.N.L. celebrated its 29th birth-
day by a party at which Premier Argyle and
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Linton were guests
of honor. Mrs. Linton, who wore black and
white floral chiffon and black straw hat
with ruchings of white ribbon, received a
posy. Mrs. Berry in an address traced the
progress of the league, and there were
speeches by various notabilities, including the
new Agent-General.
At Holy Trinity, Kew, vows were ex-
changed by William, second son of the W. F.
Weigalls, of
Gisborne, and
Nancy, only
da u ghter of
the Joli n
Cooks, of Bal-
w y n. Tli e
bride, pictured
here by Dick-
inso n-Mo n-
t e a t h, i s
known to her
friends as
Nan, and is
po p u lar in
hunt i n g
circles. She
wore a trained
gown of white
angel - skin,
and her tulle,
veil descended
from a circlet
of orange-buds
an d pearls.
Her ’maids, Pat Clarke- and Molly Finlay,
sported frocks of duck-egg green hue with
matching tulle veils caught with wreaths
of varicolored blossoms. The after-reception
was at Myambert.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Welsh, who sail
for Europe next week, had an after-the-polo
gathering at Menzies’ to bid adieu to their
friends. The cocktail party also served as
a farewell to Mrs. Clive Fairbairn and her
son, who waved good-bye from the deck of
the Otranto next day. Among the guests
were the Kenneth Bakewells, of Adelaide,
and Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Watt, of Sydney.
Speck spinnings:—
Madge, daughter of the late E. R. and Mrs.
Thomas, Launceston, and John R. Mackie, of Hill-
ston (N.S.W.), were made one in the little church
at Northdown, n.-w. coast. The bride’s frock of
white piqu6 voile was topped by a tulle veil held
in place by a coronet of orange blossom. Sister
Beth, in green and pink floral georgette, ’maided,
and a wee maid of honor was Betty Graham, all
in pink. Mrs. Thomas hostessed a reception at
Northdown after the ceremony.
The dressing at the Turf Club’s annual cup
meeting at Elwick should have given a boost to
the drooping spirits of the woolgrower, for wool
was the only wear —-wool crepes, wool lace,
tweed and cloth coats, all looking very nice and
seasonable in the cold wind and showers.
The Jones lady is taking her pretty; young grand-
daughter, Gwen Fitzgerald, with her to England in
the Nestor. Son Basil is also of the party. They
will tour the Continent as well as England. At
the last minute, Miss Alys Jones made up her mind
to pack up and join the family party.
Ruth Emily, youngest daughter of Mr. Frank
Scott, Cottesloe, Hagley, and Maxwell M„ second
son of the A. J. Millers, Hobart, announce their
engagement.
Lady Allardyce opened the big Rainbow Bazaar,
organised by Mrs. Fred Brough and Miss Shoobridge,
in the Child Welfare Association’s appeal for funds.
There were all sorts of sideshows. Baby Day was
fixed during the same week, with a popular
concert to wind up with, when the combined orches-
tras of the warships in the harbor and some of our
most popular singers gave their services.
Baby Week finished up with a great flourish at
the City Hall. There were about 500 dancers on
the floor, and prizes were given for the best cos-
tumes representing and advertising local firms. The
first went to Brownells Woollens; the wearer,
dressed entirely in brilliant-colored wools, led a
vivid lamb of the same material.
Nancy, daughter of the Andrew Downies, New
Norfolk, and Charles, son of the late Chas. and Mrs.
Mitchell, Sandy Bay, were united at St. Matthew’s,
New Norfolk. The bride’s frock of white chenille
velvet was worn over a pink slip. The veil of
embroidered tulle fell from under a chaplet of
orange blossom. Sisters Betty and Mary Downie
followed in delphinium-blue frocks, with sashes tied
in large bustle bows.
There have been aerial pageants at both ends of
the island. The northern show at Western Junction
drew a huge crowd. President Dr. John and Mrs.
Ramsay gave tea to a throng of friends in the
hangar, which was decorated with massed autumn
flowers in copper bowls. Capt. E. C. Johnston,
Acting-Controller of Civil Aviation, was there. The
pageant at Elwick found itself, like most outdoor
functions this summer, rather under the weather.
President Dr. Ramsay came down from the north, and
presented the trophies to the winners of the various
events at the dinner given by the Aero dub at
Hadley’s in the evening.
At Adelaide:—
Several private dances for debutantes are
imminent. Mesdames Alec Melrose and A. G.
Gebhardt projected a joint dance on April 28, but
found that Mrs. A. A. Simpson had issued invitations
for tjjat date to dance at Undelearra, when the
debutantes will be her elder daughter, Janet, and
Diana Skottowe. Consequently the Melrose-Gebhardt
dance has been postponed until May 5. Mrs. Melrose
has taken the Roy Burstons’ house while Mrs. Burston
is in England, and the party will be held at Robe
Terrace, Medindie. The debutantes will be Ashley
M'elrose and Margaret Gebhardt. On April 21 Mrs.
A. W. Jolly is giving a dance at her residence at
B'enall, North Adelaide, at which daughter Margaret
will come out.
Dr. Helen Mayo left by the Otranto for England ;
she expects to be away for eight months. She will be
present at an international congress of children’s
specialists in London, and later will visit Vienna and
Berlin if conditions permit.
Mr. W. P. A. Lapthorne, who has been in hospital
ever since his accident prior to Christmas, has
recovered sufficiently to return to his home at Marden.
Mrs. Lapthorne lias been in the same hospital for
some weeks with pneumonia, and will remain there
for another fortnight.
Sydney Kidman and his lady, with their daughter,
Mi*. Sidney Ayers, were to have left for England
bv the Orontes on March 23, but the knight’s health
has caused the trip to be cancelled. Mrs. Ayers,
however, will be a passenger.
At the American tea to be given under the auspices
of the Keith Sheridan Free Kindergarten at the
i esidence Of Mrs. Sidney Reid, Mrs. Lavington
Bonython, the president, has promised an entertain-
ing chat about her experiences abroad.
Lionel Hill, our late Premier and future
Agent-General, with his wife and daughter, is spend-
ing a fortnight at the Hotel Botanic, North Terrace,
prior to leaving for London.
Dr. and Mrs. A. M, Cudmore gave a farewell
evening at Pennington-terrace, ‘ North Adelaide, for
Mr. and Mrs. Rafe Cavenagh-Mainwaring, who will
return to England this week. Guests were enter-
tained, with bridge and moving pictures, the latter
being views taken by Miss Kathleen Cudmore during
her recent visit to- her sister, Mrs. Rafe Cavenagh-
Mainwaring, in England.
Westralia’s whack
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co. took its opening
plunge at His Majesty’s, Perth, with a gala night of
“The Gondoliers”—which does not imply streamers
and confetti, but higher prices and a speech by Ivan
Menisies at the final curtain. The big theatre was
packed to the roof, even the side seats of the circle,
from which one can see only a corner of the stage,
being in request.
Among good-byes for Mrs. Victor Secombe was a
delectable morning tea at (he Waldorf, hostessed by
Violet and Mavis Holmes. After spending six months
with her mother, Mrs. Hayes, Mrs. Secopibe, with
small son and baggage labelled for the Koolinda, is
off to join Captain Secombe in Darwin.
Nora Coalstad and Dr. Ralph Crisp stepped forth
on their matrimonial venture from an evening cere-
mony in St. George’s Cathedral. In the absence of
Captain Coalstad, the bride was escorted to the
altar by Dr. A. H. Gibson. Her gown of ivory angel-
skin was elaborated by a pearl-embroidered panel,
over which fell a mist of tulle veil. Upon her arm
rested pink-and-white Easter lilies, and around her
throat a diamond and platinum pendant. Bride’s
sister Heather, in water-green georgette, and small
Mary Gibson, also in pale green with a wreath of
leaves in her hair and a handful of red flowers, shared
the bridesmaids’ duties. Mr. Keith Barker had the
job of best man. Relatives and a few intimate friends
were invited by Mrs. Coalstad to honor a toast or
two at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Gibson in East
Fremantle.
- Mollie Brennan keeps her eyes on filmland, and
with that object has turned her steps Big Smoke-
wards. During the few hours the Mongolia spends
in Colombo, Mollie will see her sister Cecelia become
Mrs. Muirhead.


(i
11
—primary cause
of 95% of
present-day
sickness” . -
explains Dr. Emil Levai,
consulting physician of Bada Pesth
Just as rust coats a water pipe, so through faulty bowel
action fragments of food waste become encrusted on the
walls of the intestine. This waste matter is human rust.
In it breed germs and poisons which enter the blood stream,
leading to dreaded self-poisoning (autoxima). Self-poisoning,
the result of “human rust,” is responsible for most of the
ill-health which afflicts modern men and women.
Clear “Human Rust” with Coloseptic
You can clear from your system the virulent poisons
that undermine health and sap vitality. You can
banish constipation, headache, gas in the bowels
and stomach, catarrh, backache, rheumatism, neuritis
and all the hosts of ailments that come from self-
poisomng. Take Coloseptic. Coloseptic first loosens
and dissolves, then smoothly washes out the decaying
waste. It rids the body of all poisons and blood
impurities through Nature’s four outlets—the large
intestine—the kidneys—the pores of the skin—and
the respiratory apparatus.
Regain your youthful vigour.
Every morning take Coloseptic in hot water. Colo-
septic actually “tones” and cleanses your entire
INFLUENZA RELIEVED.
“Tew\esbury, Tasmania.
“1 have to tell you that 1 felt great benefit from Coloseptic.
I was suffering from ‘flu.’ I had been ill for a month. After
taking but a few doses I felt much better. The dry cough
left me entirely. Am telling my neighbors about it now.
“A E 7 "
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of the Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
digestive tract —helps your body throw off its waste
matter regularly. No longer are you depressed,
tired without cause, subject to headaches, colds,
etc. Your pulse leaps to the thrills of life—your old
vim and vigour return. Aches, pains and ailments
vanish for ever.
COLOSEPTIC—ReguIar full-size jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks regular
use. Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself
Fill in the coupon and send it in together with
postal note or stamps for 1/-, and receive an
interesting booklet and a Special Demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
COUPON.
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
Dept. F 4,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed 1/- (stamps
or postal notes). Send me one SPECIAL DEMON-
STRATION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
Name
Address
Marooned.
BY WILLIAM HATFIELD.
THE wind liowled and the rain lashed
and the river swirled and frothed and
roared and the roof leaked everywhere;
still it was far better inside than out, and the
five men in the rough slab hut sat humped
around the big open fire on pack-saddles
and tea chests and listened to the sweet
music of the flood. This ended many hart,
months of shifting cattle from one soupy
waterliole to another hardly less soupy, on
horses that could barely raise a canter.
Now, as soon as the ground became solid
enough to support a man and horse, they
could ride into town, a bare hundred miles
away, and get as wet inside as they were
out. Take a week or two to find horses,
perhaps, when they decided to go in; but
a week or two is neither here nor there
out on the Georgina. The talk turned to
floods each man had seen in the furthest
corners of Australia.
Old Bob North said: “I’m glad we re on
this side the channel. I wouldn t like
another go like I had twenty year back,
just up this same creek here about a coupla
hundred mile. I got over the right-hand
channel—vou know, where she does the big
fork—an’* I hits this side to find it’s
a roarin’ banker. Well, you know I can’t
swim, and the paira horses I had is about
as good as me —that’s with anything on
their backs —so I picks a high spot an’ calls
it a go. Bit of rubbishin’ feed there was, so
I didn’t hobble ’em, an’ sits down to make
the best of it on about eight pound o’ flour
an’ three cartridges. Must go down a bit in
a few days, I reckons, an’ I’ll get over an’
ride the few mile into Boulia.
“Well, them horses took it inter their
heads the feed was better on the other side,
an’ in the mornin’ there they are life-size
on the other bank, chawin’ off brown grass
stumps like it was a loosen patch they’ve
burgled. I was wishin’ they was the kinda
horses these coves always has in books you
read about the bush —you know, noble
animals that always rescues their owner;
comes whinnyin’ up at the sound of the
well-known whistle sorta thing. W elk f
can’t whistle, but if I didn’t tell them
horses a tale I’m not wet through this
minute. All they did was up with their
tails an’ off on the first stage to where 1
told ’em to go—an’ that wasn t Boulia.
“So there I am, an’ the river still risin'.
If on’y a cow or something would swim
ashore on to my island I'm sweet,, but pot
a thing. No rabbits up that far, an' what’s
the use of skittlin’ a swan out in the stream i
I got a galah, but you shoulda seen what
that .44 left of him. Ever try eatin’ an
eagle? Well, that’s as far as you’ll get,
believe me! An’ doo’r lot ’em tell you ibis
is worth a bullet, either.
“It don’t seem to matter I got no more
cartridges, cause there’s nothing to shoot on
that island for days. (Course I ate the
ibis; ate the ‘king o’ the skies,’ too; but
don’t make me talk about it.) There’s a
few ’possums on the island (was a few
along this creek them days), but whoever
set goin’ the talk about monkeys bein’ fly
never seen ’possums.
“It begins to look like tryin’ my dog-
paddle-an’-kick, that never carried me
more'n a coupla lengths, on that two-liun-
dred yards of yellow water makin’ about ten
knots past my camp, drowndin’ bein’ a lot
easier than starvin’, when I spots a log
edgin’ out of the current and slowin’ up
towards the island. There wasn’t a> stick
1 o’ dry timber handy, or I’da been orf before.
Well, this thing turns out to be an abo.’s
dug-out, and you can bet it looks like the
Mauretania to me. I got in up to me neck
to climb into it, and just has me chin over
the side when a six-foot black snake spits
at me like a cat with kittens.
“The shove I give that thing sends it
ashore, and I seen me past life three times
before I got out meself. Least, I should have.
If I’d been headed the other way I’d have
drunk meself across. Well, there’s all kinds
o’ snakes in that ark, and when I begin to
feel interested again they’re cornin’ ashore
two by two like the animals did that time at
Ballarat —or where it was. I broke a
green stick and knocked ’em as they come
orf, all bar a big carpet. Makin’ a bird of
him—there’d be. a dozen feeds on him, easy—
I toppled orf me balance an’ got another
drink. When I get out again that worm s
glidin’ up a coolibali as if I’d told him all
about them ’possums, ail’ before you know
it he’s got one out on a limb puttin’ the
’fluence on him—you know how they look
at things.
“I’m goin’ to pass the carpet one with
my waddy—l could just reach —when I says,
what’s wrong with the ’possum? Lou
shonlda seen the way the snake stared when
I nobbles the ’possum—he ain’t bin watchin
me at all. But lie soon wakes un to what's
on, and starts down the tree. I’m all for
givin’ him a clout, but (wonderful how quick
I’ve always been able to think in a pinch)
I change me mind, grab the ’possum and gut
it (I’m pretty slick at that —been rabbitin,
in me time), and sling him the skin an
offal. Seems to suit both of ns —he s got
no bones to dwell on—one good straight
swallow —and I’ve got a meal.
“Ever cat ’possum? Well, try rabbit
boiled in eucalyptus. Anyhow—you know
how easy it is to tame a carpet-snake. I
useter folder ’im about knockin’ them pos-
sums when he’d useter fix ’em with the
glassy, and whatya thinka this? —after a
week that snake’s catcliin’ ’em on his own
an’ fetchin’ em to me like a dorg! I can
have the miserable frame o’ the beast so
long as he gets the trine an’ the fur. He
kep’ me alive, that snake did, for two solid
weeks, till the flood went down an’ I could
go across an’ get mo horses, that hadn’t
gone more’n a coupla mile!”
Young Stanton said, “Why didn’t you go
over in the boat in the first place?”
“Awgh!” Bob growled, “it 'ain’t a snake
yarn you want, it’s a argument!”
Dreams.
The trees are like dark wings across the sky,
Etched by some artist on an eastern
screen; .
Soft purple blossoms falter with a sign
Where, shadowy stemmed, the jacarandas
lean. , .
The bright and sensuous hours float slowly
by—
Ah me, the sweetness of the might-have-
been ! .
Only the birds will watch the young Spring
Spring with her roses and her tarnished
green.
But she was radiant beyond compare.
Each sheer white day, each silver starlit
night,
boomed fraught with beauty and a magic rare.
The blossoms spilt their fragrance in
delight,
Lighting our hearts, it seemed, an hour or so,
With dreams that died a thousand years ago.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE JONES.
Island Fancies.
I’m looking at the islets brown
That flatly float away—
Great lily-leaves by Nature strewn
On Mallacoota Bay—
And longing once again, I own,
To see the palm-leav.es sway;
To feel a salty seaward breeze
That comes, with cooling boon,
Across the warm Pacific seas
Each golden afternoon,
To tease the slender coco-trees
By reef and clear lagoon.
A village with thatched huts recalls
A dream of younger days;
Some subtle tropic scent enthralls
My fancy to a maze
Wherein a crested pigeon calls,
And poincianas blaze.
I hear the shaded creeks outpour
From clouded hills above:
These, singing, seek a shining shore
By garden and by grove,
Enamored to rejoin once more
The virgin seas they love.
* * * *
I boarded at a sailors’ joipt—
'Twas donkey’s years ago—
With faded furniture appoint,
A somewhat shabby show
That stood on dusty Miller’s Point
With houses in a row.
And there I met a bearded, grey
Old island skipper who
Had been a trader in his day—
Mayhap a slaver, too.
His schooner at her moorings lay
In waiting by the ’Loo.
And he had come in late concern
The Southern Seas across,
With fortune made, his fate to learn,
A grim sea-gambler’s toss!
The coin was spun; he did not mourn,
Prepared to face the loss.
But (such a fickle thing is Life!)
As we twain closer drew,
He told me of his native wife
And of a daughter who
Would be an heiress when the strife
Of coming death was through.
One night across the table be
Put out a hardened paw
And asked a Sydney cub to be
His chosen son-in-law :
Then filled his tumbler mightily,
And quaffed the squareface raw!
God help us! God our sins forgive,
And let all ghosts be laid!
What Sydney clerk could ever live
With a Kanaka maid? ,
Consent but half-affirmative
Is not a compact made!
* * * *
At Barney Fegan’s Cockle Shell
I met in later days
With Captain Nagle, Walker, Bell,
Who knew their island ways,
And many tales they had to tell,
Invent or paraphrase.
But, when my half-romance was told,
They called for sodas neat
To toast a clown who’d cast of gold
Enough to buy a street
(With gesture fine —so proud and bold)
Beneath his clerkly feet.
a * * *
I gripped old Walker’s hand amain
When further years were o’er,
Right glad to meet a friend again,
And talk and laugh once more
Of things that lay between us twain,
Re-met in Singapore.
In tropic clothing at our ease,
With friendly drinks belike.
We chattered till that tropic breeze
No other wind is like
Was sighing in the florid trees
That shade the cool Van Wyjk.
Then Walker said: “I’m turning in.
’Tis strange how quickly pass
Our days of effort or of sin—
I drain this parting glass
Unto’’ (and here I saw him grin)
“A monumental ass!”
* * *
I’m looking at these islets low
That flatly float a-shme:
Across the bar the blue seas go
A-laughing to the Line;
I’m dreaming—somewhat sadly, though
A pleasant life is mine:
Though now, they say, tjie missions glum,
The soap kings and the Trade
Have sent it all to Kingdom Come
With all the Old Brigade ;
That prim and proper has become
The Polynesian maid.
I, half in laughter, half in tears
(And half in drink perchance).
Give wings unto a mood that hears
In music of a trance .
A song unsung of youthful years,
a stillborn half-romance. _ _ _
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


:
II
■
1
'll:
0
m
nil
■
i:
:
m
1
-
*
Ui?'
11
I mm
fill
"• l £nv :i.
3
t
1
I ■ i:; I
m
Hum
m
1
■
i
I
a
1
il j
■ii
iPliiliPK
MtM
-’Call
_7*st
m SHU—-
%
1
II
\
r
J •»■ SpP *
a
eiiii
tiifvruHCiH (loujidjS 1*07)
HWB
iSS
iifflliliipiiiiiilllip
- ! "Ml-n?- ‘ - ,7 = 'I
iijllll niiiiigllBmffiiiiniiSiHlHi aigiSSBIgltt
rte _ \:| irf :;: :- , ... • .ah': ..a?- I >
rH.;::::’
aw
- i L , - i
rfcl Haihiaa
mwffl Mi
BM
ea.: pm isa hi 3= : • jffii
r -L 1_L 35 _i- , r Hf -Pi#
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay.
“Those who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.”
6/- (postage 3d.).
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of
Culbertson Cup). 2/- (postage Id.).
Ready in March.
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT.”
“Banjo” Paterson’s new Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
li
o-
0-
\V
\> s
w „y\
S- **
w
t-
►
a? "o
*. v ° *
o'-' .///•
r
■Hr
(VW
o
*9
0°
\o e ,iV
" 6 V ,«■ •-
■ y +%P*
4 &>*V
a
\V'“


A CHEAT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
THEL
BR?KEN HILL PROPRIETARY
C? L T .“
-MINE. OWNERS- SHIP OWNERS.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS •
£ COLLIERY PROPRIETORS '
TH E
r s *.' ‘ "* ’ H *£*— tr* it™' J
. •*•„-■ . ' v . : • -. Xy-,V ■
lliililK* 8 l
;
Z^>'<
X> . ■
0m$ m
?SZ
.;-
i i
K
: *%»»,*; ’ ■~*«r
**ssss
B'HsHSI
r ...fjjetfff 1 *
jffIWSSMSI
sas
"- -■
isew
N
IRON
and
STEEL
Products
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
PLATES
GIRDER PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
(For Sheet Piling)
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
SQUARES
'FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL-TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
BUNKER COAL
FOUNDRY COKE
Views of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Steel Works at Newcastle, N.S.W., showing some of
the Efficient and Up-to-date Methods in Operation.
1 tj i». it. _ Wotor ‘^Tiowin 0 ’ on the whB.rf dunips of LifliGSton6 from iftsmßnm Rud lion. Oio from feoutli
aTSSi}? 2 llfv fnr Loate the Iron Ore at Spencer Gulf, South Australia. 3-The Rail Yard, showing the great
SSneteUftSg at oneopfrattonl? rails each 40 feet long. 4-The Three Huge Blast Furnaces with a total
innnrt tifwpptiv V-Thp Wharf at which the Iron Ore is discharged from the Company’s Steamers,
showing gian?2?e brWges Jnd ore gi'abs 6-The Blooming Mill, showing a bar of white-hot steel in
prowss of operation 7-Portion of the Rail Mill. From first to last all operations are carried out by machinery.
The Celebrated “B.H.P ” NEWCASTLE STEEL is used in the production of
FIELD FENCING
/Hinged \
* Joint /
It is CATTLE
“WARATAH”
Stocked by all Leading
Stores, or apply direct
PROOF, SHEEP PROOF, PIG PROOF, FIRE PROOF, RUST PROOF, WHITE-ANT PROOF.
Economical and Indestructible.
Fencing Wire (Blk. or Galv.), “WARATAH” Wire Netting, “WARATAH” Star Steel Posts,
“WARATAH” Barbed Wire, “WARATAH” Motor By-Passes.
* Made from “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL.
RYLANDS BROS. [Aust.] LTD., 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
