

m
crP
(Jp
u
BASE
paraff^
PURE
©IIL
from
of the
since
m
m
heart
crude
1861
-——«—-—,
Use also
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
Atlantic consists only of “heart oils” from
100% Paraffin Base Crude. It shows no evapor-
ation loss under severe test at 760° F.—
twice the temperature reached by the
parts of your engine which require
lubrication.
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LTD,
- V AH.2.48
The Bulletin
/3fu9-M : ‘dfeeii sj*Ax(. w.
Vol. 54.—N0. 2779.
Wednesday, May 17, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OEND for dtir Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
H
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
ttooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ;
My Name ~
My Address
SB. 133 ...
\p
v
Hot water and Cuticura Soap
remove the dust and grime and
thoroughly cleanse your face.
If there is any irritation, rough-
ness or pimples the Ointment
will quickly heal. Cuticura
Talcum is ideal after bathing
and shaving.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Shaving: Stick ls.6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE."
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE" FOR ADVERTISING,
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise*
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d,
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
lining
The Leading Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the ‘‘Sunday Times” has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times" has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
FACTS !
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding*!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM IS WOMEN]
ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
" H. 0. HItfCHCLIFFE,
X*J%t£AxXAsfs7ciC4z4,
JuUuAes’&ciertce*
If&nt StfrueJ, Sf** A
s'S&t£&rt ?urCZ4, ftt
&ic vfrusrt?
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pN SALE ALL STATES <3°
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
434-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this- Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous-
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
The “WEEKLY COURIER”
National
Weekly of
Tasmania.
(EST. 1901).
Famed throughout Australia for its illus-
trations, which cover every part of beautiful
Tasmania; acknowledged to be the Social
Weekly of the Island; and recognised as the
journal of the Man on the Land. The
“Weekly Courier” with its Tasmanian circu-
lation, is
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF THE STATE.
Full Information, CoDies, Advertising Rates, .obtainable from
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF TASMANIA.
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors' also of “The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
China and Japan
The position of the Japanese in Man-
churia is one of the world’s major problems.
Have they any right to be there? What
have they done to justify their presence?
Is China sufficiently organised as a nation
to do better, and, anyhow, has it any pro-
spect of getting them out? These and
many relevant issues are discussed by the
authorities whose books are reviewed below.
Their differences are partly a matter of
the different schools of thought to which
they belong. One was the “Manchester
Guardian’s” correspondent during the Boxer
rebellion, the other has been a contributor
to the “National Review.” One believes
in the inherent right of weak nations to
govern, or misgovern, themselves under the
segis of the League of Nations; the other
believes that some nations are incapable
of self-government and must be for ages,
and that intrusion by the League into their
affairs can only cause trouble. In short,
one is concerned with idealisms and the
other with realities. They are in agreement
on some of what might be called the pre-
mises—the anarchic condition of China,
Japan’s original claims in Manchuria, the
prosperity which has resulted from Japan’s
orderly regime there—and they are in par-
tial agreement on other issues, such as the
futility of trying to Christianise China;
where they differ is in most of their con-
clusions.
Pro-Kuomintang
H. C. Thompson, author of The Case for
China (Allen and Umvin; 10s. 6d.), be-
lieves, with the Chinese Nationalists, that
China is “as capable as Japan of assimilat-
ing Western civilisation.” The state qf
chaos and civil war which has afflicted the
Chinese for so many years is the fault of
the Western Powers. If Britain had not
intervened to put down the Taiping Rebel-
lion the Chinese would have regenerated
themselves as speedily and effectively as
the Japanese. In any event, the Chinese
are now “an organised people with a re-
sponsible Government”: the League Coven-
ant assumes this to be so, and that is
enough for Mr. Thompson. He recognises
that the Japanese have certain excuses for
being in Southern Manchuria. The Treaty of
Shimonoseki gave it to them as one of the
fruits of their victory over China in 1895,
and they saved it from Russia a few years
later by great sacrifices of men and money.
Under treaties made both with China and
Russia Japan has built railways, opened
mines and established industries at an out-
lay of more than £225,000,000. By efficient
administration she has made, bandit-infested
Manchuria a country so prosperous and
secure that many millions of Chinese have
flocked into it from the war- and famine-
ravaged districts of Northern China.
Manchuria supplies Japan with wheat, rice
and the soya bean, which is both a food
and a fertiliser for the mulberry-trees on
which the national silk industry depends,
also with coal, iron and other essential
minei-als which Japan lacks. The industrial
development of the country, into which
“Chinese settlers have been pouring in
millions” since the Japanese made it safe
for settlement, has transformed it into a
valuable market for Japan’s manufactured
goods. So the Japanese mean to stay.
They will stay, however hard the Chinese
fight, and they will stay if the Chinese turn
for help to Soviet Russia, which, accord-
ing to Mr. Thompson, “they have ample
justification for doing.” He quotes a
Japanese newspaper: “If Japan is forced to
fight the world [for Manchuria] she will
do so, and if she should go down she will
make civilisation shudder as she falls.” He
expects the League of Nations to solve
this tremendous problem, if only because
it can never be solved by China.
Mr. Soong in each of his budget speeches
has given a warning that, unless a large
proportion of the existing Chinese armies
are disbanded at an early date, China must
face bankruptcy. They are absorbing nearly
the whole of the revenue raised by the
Nationalist Government.
Britain must stand by the League and
give Japan clearly to Understand that no
feelings of friendship for a war-time ally
will enter into a question in which a matter
of principle is involved.
A Realist
J. O. P. Bland, whose China: The Pity
of It (Heinemann; 8s. 6d.) brings up to
date the studies he has been publishing at
intervals since his “China, Japan and
Korea” appeared in 1921, is probably the
greatest. living
authority on China
now writing in
English. He was
the “Times” cor-
respondent in
Shanghai for 14
years, and in Peking for four years.
Far from believing that China is cap-
able of being Westernised he attributes
its present troubles to “the sudden sub-
stitution of Western learning for the
old classical system of national educa-
tion in 1905.” China achieved in place
of its literati a restless, undisciplined
body of Europeanised students who strove
to graft repugnant political ideas on to the
nation’s deep-rooted social system. He
agrees with the Japanese that America’s
idea of dowering China with “the free insti-
tutions of a self-governing republic” is
absurd.
Elected assemblies and democratic insti-
tutions are wholly inapplicable, because un-
intelligible to the tlie race-mind of Asia.
He has no sympathy with the Nanking,
otherwise the Nationalist or Soviet-subsi-
dised, Kuomintang Government; though he
doesn’t believe that disparate China will
ever adopt Communism, or any other “ism.”
The Chinese could thrive under a strong
Nationalist Government of the right sort,
but they are being administered by “hun-
dreds of little branches of the Kuomintang
composed of self-appointed youths who
spout orthodoxy but use theft- opportunities
to rob the poor.” Hence: —
The dumb misery of the masses, the whole-
sale massacres committed by war-lords and
bandits, the horrors committed in the name
of Communism.
He attributes the present sufferings of the
Chinese almost entirely to the corruption
of the official classes. Here and there a
“model Tuchun” may appear with the will
and power “to maintain law and order a
Vorientals within the limits of his sat-
rapy,” but in the mass Chinese politicians
exist to tax the taxable up to the hilt
and steal as much of the proceeds as pos-
sible. The attitude of the Nanking Govern-
ment in regard to opium he regards as
typical. The “China Year Book (1931)”
shows that in many districts under Kuo-
mintang control Chinese are encouraged
and often ordered to grow opium, and
then taxed by way of “fines” for doing so.
The estimated revenue derived from opium
in Kueiyang alone is eight million dollars
per annum.
What is the world going to do about it?
According to English liberal theory China
is an oppressed nation rightly struggling
'to be free: in practice only about one
Chinese in 1000 has so much as heard that
the struggle is going on, and many of those
who have heard ask no better fate than
to be allowed to live and work under the
firm rule of the oppressor. He thinks that
the League of Nations may do some good,
but only by desisting from what he calls
“experiments in political idealism” and
helping to create a public opinion which
may eventually purify Chinese Govern-
mental methods. But he obviously hasn’t
much hope of reform on such lines. Life
will go on being a burden and a terror to
millions in China “until, in Heaven’s good
time, benevolent despotism in the hands of
a strong ruler shall have restored the
nation’s ancient ways of stability.”
RED PAGE.
Universal English
A world tongue that will enable a gaucho
and a Norwegian to become chummy with-
out prolonged study or strain seems to
have been achieved by C. K. Ogden, of
Magdalene College, Cambridge, and director
of the Orthological Institute of that city.
Ogden’s effort has not the ornate sim-
plicities of Volapiik which held the Philo-
logical Society spellbound nearly half
a century back, nor does it suggest Nea-
politan Italian with a cold, as Esperanto
does. Ogden’s language has the singular
beauty of being neither' artificial nor ambi-
tious. It is, in fact, Basic English—Bso
easy, mostly monosyllabic words, the pro-
nunciation , and behavior of which any
foreigner can learn in a month.
These 850 words, selected after much
experiment and striving over a period of
ten years, are the storm troops of an army
of 700,000 when Generalissimo Webster
takes the salute. Bluntly, they are the in-
dispensables of ordinary conversational
intercour.se. Since a child has a vocabulary
of from 1000 to 2000 words and a reader of
average intelligence is acquainted with at
least 20,000, it is obvious that the job of
fining our language down to 850 without
apparently losing clarity, euphony and force
is no mean feat. In this task Ogden had
the help of various scholars and philolo-
gists, but the idea and the labor are his.
Simplification for the purpose which he
had in view necessarily enforced the belief
(Red Page continued oh page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” has won us a strong public confidence.
“THE SENIOR STORE.'
For “Bringing home the Birds”
you need a reliable Gun!
Keen scent and keen eyes make a good hunting dog. . . .a serviceable
frame and accurately-bored barrels make a good hunting gun, and these
are the features of Anthony Horderns’ high-grade guns. And if you
obtain one of these guns now you pay much less than you would
at other times of the year.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
W. Cashmore s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun,
Cross Bolt Action, automatic Safety Bolt, English fine
Steel Barrels, Choke Bored, flat file-cut Rib, figured
Walnut Stock, Pistol Grip, chambered for 2ijin. Cart-
ridges, good finish, neatly engraved, specially proved for
Nitro powders, weight about 71b. Price £24
Autumn Sale Price £2O
12 G Bayard, Black Steel Barrels with Pieper Patent Solid
L , e ft Choke, Drop Forged Action, Top Lever System
vith Treble Grip Top Bolt, Improved Rebounding Double
Spnng Locks, Deeley and Edge Fore-end, Case Hardened and
ttn' M p- ntingl, A H ° rn Heel Plate, Engine-turned Rib.
S : ln « 1 P le Per Breech warranted” engraved on the Breech,
Scroll and Game engraving. Chambered for 2fin. cartridges
Jrrice £9
Autumn Sale Price
la ,
L.
Webley-Scott s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, 30in. special
Steel BarreJs chambered 2|in., flat engine-turned raised
Kib, Box Lock action, Top Lever, Treble Bite, Cross Bolt,
selected Walnut half pistol hand Stock, neat Scroll and
Border engraving, Nitro proved, made expressly to suit
Australia and New Zealand, weight 7flb 12 G
Price . . £2O
Autumn Sale Price £jy
ELEY’S
CARTRIDGES.
Gauge. Case, per 100.
Universal
Black
Powder . 12 207-
Grand Prix,
Diamond,
Smoke-
less 12 &16 2 Jin. 21/-
.20 Gauge,
Diamond,
Smokeless 20 2Jin. 21/-
Fourlong,
Smokeless 410 2Jin. 21/-
Fourten,
Smokeless 410 2in. 16/6
We also stock a full range
of Nobel’s cartridges.
w
V
%
Guns—Ground
George Street,
delivery city
suburbs.
Floor,
Free
and
7.
v/ yir^
W//A
MP
\
s%
%
i r
14%
1
H
H
B.S.A. Repeating Rifle,
.22 Cal., Slide Action,
Tubular Magazine to
carry Short, Long and Long Rifle Cartridges, Sporting Bead Fore-
sight, Open Backsight (screw adjustable), and Safety Catch at rear
of Trigger. Length over all 37fin., length taken down 23£in. Weight
41b. 13oz. Effective killing range 200 yards. Price £7/7/-
Autumn Sale Price £6/15/'
Savage “Sporter” Model
238.—.25/20 Calibre
Repeating Bolt Action
Rifle, 25 in. round barrel. General specifications same as model 23A
except rifles of this calibre have an additional rear locking lug on
bolt into receiver. Five shot detachable box type magazine. Weight
61b. Price £7/107-
Autumn Sale Price £6/15/-
SAVAGE “Sporter” Model 23C.—.32/20 (.32 Winchester) Repeating Bolt Action Rifle. 25in.
round barrel. General specifications same as model 23A except rifles of this calibre have an additional
rear locking lug on bolt into receiver. Five shot detachable box type magazine. Weight 51b.
Price £7/10/- Autumn Sale Price £6/15/-
H
Remington Slide Aetion
Repeating Rifle, Model
25A. Calibre .32 W.C.F.
. . ~ , is particularly adapted for
snooting game of medium size, such as Kangaroo, Deer. Fox Wolf Wild
Pig, etb. Forearm Slide Action, 24in. Special Remington Steel Barrel,
American Half Pistol Grip Stock, fitted with Steel Rifle Butt Plate, White
Metal Bead Frontsight, Step Adjustable Buckliorn Rearsight. Magazine
Capacity, 10 Cartridges.
Price, £B/10/- Autumn Sale Price £7
Browning Auto-Loading Rifle, solid
breech, hammerless, will fire Rim
Fire .22 calibre Long Rifle Smoke-
less Cartridges, 20in. round Barrel, weight 4£lb. Magazine holds 8
Cartridges. Price, 97/6. Autumn Sale Price 90/-
As above, for .22 Short. Magazine holds I 1 Cartridges. Price .... 97/6
Autumn Sale Price gg j _
H
Stevens’ Single-shot Rifle, “Favorite.” Takedown .22
Calibre, 24in. round Barrel. Weight Price, 67/6
Autumn Sale Price 60/-
.32 Calibre. Price, 67/6. Autumn Sale Price, 60/-
jßac
Wesley Richard’s 12 G. Hammerless D.8.8.L. Gun.
for rapid shooting. 30in. special steel barrel.
Autumn Sale Price
Level, flat, raised ventilated
Weight 81b. Price
top rib specially made
• • £32/10/-
£2s
Chas. Boswell’s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Special Hammer-
less Pigeon Gun, Anson and Deeley action,
Side Clips, 30in. Steel Barrels, both full
Choke Bored, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
high flat file-cut Rib, Greener Cross Bolt, proved
for Nitro powders, Walnut Stock. Price . . £35
Autumn Sale Price £3O
W. W. Greener’s Dj8.8.1,. Hanunerless Gun, made
on W. W. Greener’s Facile Princeps system of breecl!
mechanism. Side Safe, 30in. Steel Barrels Wh
Choke, Engine-turned Rib, with Greener’s Patent
Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, chambered for 2Mn l
cases, proved for all Nitro powders, Walnut Heart
$Tb’A"“ n S&S%!* ptoon g,m; «<*“•
P™" £39/10/-
Autumn Sale Price £32
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P


We’re still talking about something
that happened eighteen years ago!
THIS
WILLARD
THREADED
RUBBER
INSULATOR
In 1915, T. A. Willard discovered and
patented this Threaded Rubber Insu-
lator. Until that year, all Willard
Batteries were made with wooden
Insulators.
These had been found satisfactory,
hut T. A. Willard wanted the perfect
insulator. He wanted one that would
outlive the battery plates. One with a
higher resistance to the battery acids
than wood. One with greater porosity.
In short, he wanted an insulator that
would enable the Willard Battery to
develop its maximum power!
He found it in Rubber the perfect
Battery Insulator! Now, due to this
Patented Willard Threaded Rubber
Insulator, the Willard Battery gives
longer life, requires less upkeep, is
thoroughly dependable, gives better
starting under all conditions and
more miles of uninterrupted service.
You can have these definite advantages
—see your local Willard dealer!
1 :
, .* *!
, . ,-. . . : - -.■
/'X , ' v t *? >*'£*-' ' , '," ' ' **;
111
■ ' '
tXij K> , o ft irffr. t i ,> J,
"V
mm
m
m.
m
S
mm
■ •■ ••<•
Hi
„■■-■
.
nffi
wmmmm.
This illustration explains the
Porosity of the Rubber Insulator.
Porosity simply means free flow of the
battery acids through the separator be-
tween each positive and negative plate.
The illustration above shows clearly the
liny threads or ivicks which by capillary
action carry the acid through. There are
5,000 of these wicks to the square inch in
the Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator!
This means easier and quicker starting for
you. Practically 85% of all battery faults
are due to premature failure of conven-
tional insulators. Use a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery.
No Wood in a Willard Thread Rubber
Battery!
Hard usage, vibration, and the result of over-
charging often wear out wooden insulators be-
fore the battery plates have been used up. This
is the most common fault of battery failure.
Insure yourself with a Willard Thread Rubber.
More Willards are sold than any other make!
BATTERIES
Willard
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston,


BUILT LIKE A BATTLESHIP!
H
EVERY com-
ponent part of
the 1933 Healing
Radios is skillfully
engineered to give
you radio reception
of the highest
quality.
Examine for your-
self the reason for
Healing Radio per-
formance that has
brought real happi-
ness to thousands
of Australian
listeners.
When you install
this instrument in
your home, you do
so with the com-
ple t e confidence
that it is the very
best radio you can
buy.
Healing Radio
Dealers are located
in all parts of Aus-
tralia.
Write to us for
literature and we
will direct you to
your nearest Heal-
ing Radio dealer.
A. G.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn St.
HEALING Ltd.
MELBOURNE: ADELAIDE:
167-173 Franklin St. Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
H
“If it’s a Healing it’s the Best
You Can Buy!”
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
Please send me illustrated folder on
Healing Radios.
new
NAME ...
ADDRESS
COUNTRY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
that 90 per cent, of our words are luxuries,
except to the grammarian and stylist per-
spiringly seeking elegances of meaning
Palpably a vocabulary of 850 to a word-
painter like Hergesheimer would be equi-
valent to putting him on the dole, and it
is improbable that Wells could produce one
of his first-class Utopias from such limited
material. Nevertheless, I have read por-
tions of Poe’s “Gold Bug,” rewritten in
Basic English, and I have been touched by 7
the graceful directness of the performance.
Of course, the story is not Poe: it has none
of his persuasive verbal felicity; but in its
snappy, staccato cleverness it is literature.
In going through the dictionai-y Ogden
developed a sour eye for verbs. Proud
poppies expressive of movement fell in
swathes before his blade. “Accelerate”
was an early victim. He argued that
as “accelerate” was literally to go more
quickly it could be held that the great bulk
of the verbs were pretty and often highly
millinered superfluities that could be safely
sacked, their place being given to humbler
verbs, with adverbs, nouns and prepositions
to expand their usefulness and plausibility,
In this he was a' trifle drastic. He contended
that “to climb” was to go up. True
enough, but the richer original verb is
robbed of a poignancy in certain situations
and a suggestion of effort and hard breath-
ing. The difference between “He climbed
the wall” and “He went up the wall” is all
the difference between a moving picture
and a daguerreotype.
Still, remembering that his object was
to furnish a simple means of communica-
tions for the foreigner, Ogden was right in
his attitude. If he had once allowed him-
self to be vamped by subtleties appre-
ciable only to the professional merchants
of words, he would have been lost. So he
got the language down to 400 nouns, 100
adjectives, 100 verbs and “verb-helping
words,” 200 names of picturable objects
like “cart,” “house” and “chimney,” and 50
adjectival opposites such as “thick” and
“thin.” That makes up the 850. Titles,
names of sciences, numerals, geographical
names, words pertaining to measurement
and currency which are already in inter-
national use are not included.
Such is briefly the scheme of Ogden’s
Basic English, which he is careful to mention
is “by no means a final language, but is a
sure foundation on which to build.” It has
been endorsed by numerous international
identities, among whom may be noticed the
inevitable G. B. Shaw, and its virtues are
its comparative freedom from irregulari-
ties and the fact that it is “the least
possible departure from the linguistic
traditions of mankind.” It is further
alleged that it is nearer to the language
systems of the Orient and of Africa than
any language, natural or artificial, derived
from Latin. With such diplomas and sup-
ported by the potential enthusiasm of two
or three hundred million politically im-
portant people who do not have to learn
it, Basic English should rapidly retire
Esperanto among the curios and proceed to
conquer the world. All the world except
Russia, that is. It is conceivable that the
bravos of Moscow would find this vehicle
too slender for the conveyance of their
dreams. Such valiants need an enormous
variety of words that are earth-quaking and
pitiless—words that are jackboots, tanks
and knouts.
C. R. BRADISH.
Criticism in Australia
“The jury which sits in judgment on a poet must
be composed of his peers.”— Shelley: “Defence of
Poetry.”
One of Mark Twain’s funniest short
stories was about a country journalist who
turned agricultural editor without much
first-hand experience of agriculture. • The
office was besieged by primary producers
who had noticed his errors. There would
be similar trouble here if, say, the Sydney
Show authorities let inexperienced persons
act as judges. It is interesting to speculate
on what would happen if an untrained
youngster tried, for example, to judge the
wines. Wine-jargon is easy to pick up; it
is as simple and stereotyped as review-
jargon, art or book. Many English lads of
the upper-middle class have it off pat
before they leave school. The writer knew
a freshman at an English university who
was always holding forth in technical lan-
guage about champagne. He was given
some wine from a Pommery bottle of a
famous vintage. He said all the correct
things about the wine on the assumption
that it was Pommery of the year on the
label; in point of fact it was bad cham-
pagne in a Pommery bottle.
Australia will never have the experience
of seeing an impostor of this description
acting as taster at a show; the viticultur-
ists wouldn’t stand it, and the daily papers
would be the first to protest. The big
dailies themselves employ experts to pro-
nounce on all matters of serious public
importance. Their leader-writers are elderly
men who have spent years learning about
politics and politicians, their financial
editors could be trusted to manage banks,
and so on. The expert touch is particularly
noticeable in the solemn department of
sport.. Test cricketers like Noble, interna-
tional tennis-players like Anderson, inter-
national footballers like King and Greatorex,
are paid big salaries, and they earn them.
When Noble says a novice can bat, or
Anderson praises a backhand, discussion
ends; a Master has spoken. There are only
two directions in which the dailies depart
from their rule that none but experts need
apply—art criticism and book-reviewing.
Miss Thea Proctor complained in a recent
lecture that ‘‘the majority of art critics in
Australia did not help to educate public
opinion :
i should any body of men who have no know-
ledge of art judge for us artists what we should see?
hew Australian daily-paper art critics are
artists, or even persons who have studied
m art schools. With one or two excep-
tions, such as Sydney “Sun” (Howard
Ashton) and Melbourne “Herald” (Blamiro
roung), the highly technical business of
criticising pictures is given to some member
ot the staff who is not yet old enough to be
ti listed with. the law reports or racing—
departments in which displays of ignorance
would be identified by thousands. The
same with book-reviewing. Anyone of
average intelligence can pick up the patter
of art or book criticism in a week or so;
knowledge is a different matter. An artist,
with half a lifetime spent in the service of
his profession behind him, might be able to
distinguish between good and bad pictures
in many genres; a youthful amateur obvi-
ously has no more hope of performing such
a tremendous feat than he or she would
have of being able to buy yearlings profit-
ably on the strength of an interest in horse-
flesh and a correspondence course on the
figure system of breeding.
It is Australia’s indifference to aesthetics
that is responsible for the Censorship situa-
tion. The politicians notice what Miss
Proctor described in her lecture as “our
almost universal contempt for the opinions
of experts, particularly in aesthetic matters.”
And when they want a censor of literature
they toss the highly technical duty to some
obscure civil servant. What does it matter?
The aesthetes are few, and the millions don’t
know. The president of the Sydney Cham-
ber of Commerce came out with these
forthright remarks apropos the High Court’s
recent marketing judgment:—
If the judgment counteracts the socialistic idea
that Government servants can do the country’s
business through uneconomic pools better than it
can be done by trained commercial men through
legitimate trade channels it should prove a great
step forward in national rehabilitation.
That is the stuff Australian artists and
writers need to give Ministers and editors.
Until they become persistently articulate
all over the Commonwealth on such,
vigorous lines Australia will continue to be
afflicted with fledgling amateurs as art and
book critics, and with departmental obscuri-
ties as literary censors.
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
Robertson and Mullens have published
The Cartoonist for Tom Shield at Is. It
tells the ambitious beginner how to express
himself in black and white in a dozen simple
lessons. There are 172 elementary drawings
and many useful hints about the principles
which govern them.
The Muses Traduced ly Thomas Derrick
(Basil Blackwell; 3s. 6d.). A collection of
amusing studies of Calliope, Terpsichore.
Thalia and other eminent sources of inspira-
tion by one of England’s most brilliant
artists in line. They appeared originally
in London “Mercury.”
Sweet Danger, by Margery Allingliam
(Hememann; 7s. 6d.), is a first-class
thriller. Not so much for its thrills—the
plot js a little involved and improbable—as
for its humor and characterisation. The
young people .who come together at the old
mill in Cain’s Valley are delightful. They
demonstrate that the Mayfair wisecrack can
bo every bit as amusing and expressive as
its New York relative.
Credit and Peace, by Feliks Mlynarski
(Allen and Unwin; 55.), is another of the
countless books that have been published of
late on the subject of the world depression
and the way to end it. International action
to counteract the falling tendency of prices
is Professor Mlynarski’s cure-all. He was
vice-president of the Bank of Poland for
five years.
Imaginary Conversations and Poems, by
M alter Savage Landor; The Elements of
Euclid (with an introduction by Sir Thomas
Heath), and Nietzsche’s Thus Spake Zara-
thustra (with an introduction by Ernest
Rhys) are the latest additions to Every-
man’s Library. These books are published
by J. M. Dent at 2s. each.
Johnny Payne rather surprised them in
Fresno when he arrived from the University
of California and took a job as grocery clerk
and delivery boy. The fact was he needed
the money, his dad not having sent him any
for two years. And then he learned that
Denver Dave had murdered his dad and
pinched the family mine, so he lit out to see
that justice was done. How he fell in with
Cultus Collins, one of the straightest,
straightest-shootin’ guys in the U.S.A., and
got his man and won his gyurl is told by
W. C. (“Book a Month”) Tuttle in Loot
of the Lazy F (Wild West Club; 7s. 6d.).
Our Daily Bread, by T. W. ITaynes
(Houghton Publishing Co.; 7s. 6d.) —not to
be confused with the American best-seller of
that name by F. P. Groves—has for its
theme the importance of phosphate:—
Whoever holds the phosphate supplies of the
world holds the world’s food supplies, and wars in
future will not be for lands and riches, but for
“our daily bread.’’
The story begins aboard the Omeroid, which
is lying off Ocean Island in the Pacific, but
we soon find the heroine, Amy Doyle, at
“the Sydney Docks,” and thereafter the book
has a strong political flavor. This makes
for dulness, as the characters express much
the same sentiments and use much the same
language as a “S. M. Herald” leader-writer.
All ends satisfactorily, after the overthrow
of the Langite revolutionary Henry Hammed
by the New Guard, with the marriage of
Amy to the right man and the acquisition
by Australia of a Prime Minister who is
“a democratic autocrat —soft as a dove,
yet an iron hand when required.”
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.0.C.: It’s a good start. Now set her
to read for five years... .John P.: Of course, the
years pass. You’d get a jolt if they stood 5ti11....
D.McD.: Commonplace... .E.R.M.: You’re too recent
a reader of old Omar.... Acetin: Nothing there but
a pleasant tinkle... .J.K.: Well, we can only wish
you good luck... .0.J.8. (and others) : Much obliged.
The thing (B. 3/5/’33) was put badly. It should,
of course, read that “the creditor who, in 1920,
lent another person £lOOO would, if he were paid
back that amount to-day, be able to purchase with
each £lOO as much as £lB9 would have purchased
in 1920; if he lent £lOOO in, say, 1927, he would
to-day, if repaid, be able to buy with each £lOO
as much as £133 would have* bought when the loan
was made”... .D.R.L.: With all the goodwill in the
world, and all the “benign consideration” you invoke,
we can’t do anything with them. But don’t lose
heart; you may say or sing something worth while
when you can condense your words into reasonable
limits.... .S.G.: All featherweights... .J. 1.: Much too
horrible.... J. W.C.: Old Jasper is rather crudely
presented E.V.8.: You floundered towards the end.
.. .. H.H.: Excellent idea poorly worked 0ut....
F.C.H.: Have had too many dying swagmen on
our hands lately... .G.F.: Not revealing the hatter’s
secret to our readers... .H.G.: Yarn about the suit-
presser is the best, but it is below standard....
E.M.H.: Thinking of erecting a barbed-wire fence
against people who want to tell of the dreams they’ve
invented... .A.G.T.: Clerk who intends robbing his
firm and ends up by thwarting a bunch of crooks
with the same mission calls on us every six
weeks... .W.E.8.: Unimproved... .R.S.L.: Silly trifle.
... .G.C.0.8.: “The Flood” is dry H.P.M.: Both
lack punch.... A.F.: As we wish to retain the
respect •of thousands who really know the Islands,
we’re not printing it. ...E.S.: Haven’t space....
L. : Try to catch the editor of a woman’s
paper in a sentimental m00d... . W.J.R.: A variation
of the old tale about the intending suicide who
spoke so eloquently to his would-be rescuer that he
persuaded the latter to join him in the leap to
death... .11. M.G.: Seems rather muddled to u 5....
E.C.: No room for the discursive essay... .A.W.0.D.:
A dull trio... .F.H.8.: No boodle for 80d1e....
M. : Wonderful how often heart failure beats the
about-to-be-a-murderer to the job... .S.A.R.: Another
sunset piece to join the long procession... .M.A.C.:
Just a pitter-patter of words... .Mignon: Too art-
less M.P.L.: Too slight.... J.W.C.: Has all the
stage-props, of poetry— : roses, mermaids, elf-children,
etc. —but none of the poetry... .Mary B.: Room
for the last crashing stanza: —
Her great blue eyes just stared at me,
They held a gharsley look,
For my darling blue-eyed Nellie
Had been strangeld by a crook.
....Noel P.: Nice singing line; let’s hear again....
C.P.E.: Not for us M. 8.: Ditto... .N.W.5.8.: Not
badly done... .E.T.: P’luffy nothings...... J.D’A.": Your
r’oad to Arcady is in need of repair... .T.G.: Not
yet. Beware of bathos. .. .F. 8.0.: “Summer” is so
frequent a visitor we almost regard it as a perennial
guest... .E.8.P.: Where the meaning isn’t obscure
it is quite well done... .C.C.M.: Not this time....
Predikant: But it’s not true. The little Australians
born outside the wedding 1 ring are much fewer than
they were a few years ago; in 1911 ihere were
7074 ; 20 years later (1931), 5841. And the pro-
portion born within less than nine months of
marriage is less, too; in 1911 it was 364 of every
1000 first births; in 1931 only 344. .. .F.A.L. :
Tuneful, but too wispish... .R.F.W.: Afraid it’s not
even poetic prose... .Helen M.: “Vagabond” holds
promise... .Bellerive: Another of the Old Memories
series:—
DAREDEVILS OF THE OLD GAS BALLOONS.
At the Exhibition Oval
During fine afternoons,
A stirring attraction were
The huge gas Balloons.
In readiness for stunters
High cloudward ascents,
Aeronaut performer’s of
Novel thrilling events.
Forth from the oval
At a speedful pace
Would sail the Balloons
Into boundless space.
From a height at the
Risk of a tragical end,
The aeronauts in
Parachutes would descend.
. ...E.E.W.; Swap a few rhymes for thoughts, and
you’ll have a better chance... .K.K.: Don’t like it
very much. .. .C.C.: Realism smudged with melo-
drama. And “Prodigal’s” ending is weak. But “So
Young” nearly persuaded us. .. .N.J.G.: Keep going;
and try to plough a new furrow.... Kitty B.: Some
good lines. See if you can’t strain the preachy
note out of it... .V.F.: Just an also-ran Ross W.:
Too many boots have been worn out on that track.
. ...J.L.S.: It brought no breath of ozone... .Price
D.: You don’t get down to the facts, and people
won’t accept your conclusions without them. Or
they shouldn’t, anyhow. .. .A.G.S.: Yes, it has merit.
But not quite enough... .Joan T.; Be merciful and
buy your typewriter a new ribbon.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.M.: Have seen drunks do better with a blunt
fork dipped in gravy on cafe tablecloths... .J:E.S.:
Presume it is meant to be a view of a cab, though
we had only the gag to guide us. ...S.T.; At least
you’re impartial—you make Stevens look as evil as
Lang... .H.C.: An Australian who can’t draw a
rabbit-o gets small sympathy here... . H.A.:
You’ll never repeat the success of “Hop’s” “The
Heathen in His Blindness”... .P.W.V.: You’ll destroy
your goodwill if you continue that way....L.L.:
Drawings still stiff, humor still tame... .D.A.K.:
Too close to Boothroyd’s style. .. .V.S.: Unoriginal.
... .A.8.W.: Don’t try' to draw with a crossed nib.
... .L. 0.: Fair drawings, but gags are stale where they
are not humorless. .. .D.A.C.: Same wheeze was
heard in the Domain after one of those Meat Board
appointments... .R.C.; Stiff. . . .C.V.J.; No g00d....
S.M.: Ended among the flops.


FAMOUS
PORT
m
■
m
mm
/./ .
*sjps
...
■m
« ... * »
11
fe:.:.
HI
m
■
-
.VMS
' 1 '-. ■ '•' : i .
Illi^lliiil
.
.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54. —No. 2779.
May 17, 1933.
SANCTUARY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone in'.Hl.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 230 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. tict.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
<i months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” Id. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. To all other places, 3d.
THE FRIENDS OF THE POOR.
Amongi the most popular pictures in the
Public Gallery at Adelaide is one which
says that “poor are the friends of the poor”;
and probably no statement commands
wider belief in the quarter to which the.
story makes its chief appeal. It is indeed
almost the very basis of that class-con-
sciousness whose teaching has made such
progress during the last few years. Yet
there can be hardly another statement with
more rickety, foundations.
It is not, in most cases, that the poor do
not want to help the poor. They do. But
the simple fact is that for the most part they
do not know how to do more than relieve
the others’ immediate necessities. Among
Caucasians or near-Caucasians there have
been no people in the world in greater need
than the hundred million or so of Russian
peasants. But they could not give one
another any help that realty counted be-
yond the day. They had to wait even for
their Revolution until it was brought to
them by a handful of international Jews
who were no more peasants than the Czar
himself was. In very modern times child-
ren of the poor, having secured the benefits
of education, have no doubt been much
more prominent in direct efforts to better
the condition of those from whom they
sprang; but, even so, have they really done
very much so long as they have acted deli-
berately as reformers? In most cases, if
they have thought of themselves only as
uplifters, they have turned to politics; and
politics have accomplished very little com-
pared with what the chemist, the engineer
and the organiser of industry and trade have
done. At the most and the best the poli-
ticians, of whatever brand, have secured a
more equitable distribution of wealth; they
have done nothing worth mentioning to
produce that wealth. On balance they have
probably rather stood in the way.
After all, it is by no means absurd that
we should look away from the poor to
find the saviours of the poor. What do
the poor want? Obviously, in most cases,
to be less poor. They want, and rightly
want, the means to buy the things they see
others enjoy. But can they reasonably
expect to be put in the way of getting those
things by people who have never been able
to get them for themselves? More than
that, it is very doubtful whether some of
their politicians want them to get these
things. “Give ’em plenty of pubs and
plenty of race-meetings and keep ’em poor
and they’ll vote for us,” a cynical Labor
politician said years ago; and he was right.
The Bulletin can understand the Com-
munist. He says that the community
should concern itself not only with the dis-
tribution of wealth but with its production.
In Russia indeed they are very little con-
cerned at present with distribution; almost
the whole effort is towards speeding up out-
puts and harvests. That is the purpose of
the two Five-year Plans. They know there
is not much sense in dividing things up
equally or thereabouts; it is far more im-
portant first to see that things are so
arranged that there shall be a great deal
to divide. But what are our Labor politi-
cians doing? No State party shows any
real interest in production. Certainly the
Federal party has done so; but, notwith-
standing the admirable work of Mr. Scul-
lin and his colleagues for Australian indus-
tries, the Lang party in the Federal Par-
liament had no compunction about helping
to turn them out.
The Labor party has a great work to do:
it would be a calamity if it disappeared'.
But, if it is to live and serve the poor whom
it is supposed to serve, it must concern it-
self more with production. Either it should
be a Communist party aiming to transfer
all industrial activities to the State, so that
production might be given the first place
in the national programme, as it is in Rus-
sia; or it should see that private enterprise
is stimulated, and that labor gets a fair pro-
portion of what is produced. So long as
Labor is powerful and is only concerned in
getting more for the worker, whether in
the process industry is hampered or not,
so long will (he workers be poor.
The best friend of the poor need not,
then, be poor: if he is giving the poor an
opportunity to become richer, he may bo
their best friend even though he be rich.
On the other hand, the poor man who is
struggling honestly and earnestly, in politics
or out of them, to be the friend of the poor,
may be their worst enemy because he does
not know* what they need, or how to get
it for them.
So evil, however, have been the teachings
of class-consciousness that almost anybody
who can put himself into the garb of
poverty, or who can talk the talk of the
poor, is accepted as their friend. In conse-
quence we have heartless frauds, along with
grave disasters even where there is no heart-
lessness. The Bulletin is sprinkled with
instances of both. Only a week ago it
talked of the lay-by system and reported
another bankruptcy among the traders using
it; the unfortunate people who had been
paying up their money, week by week,
trustingly, will come in only as ordinary
creditors —that is to say, they may get back
two or three shillings in the £. That some
of these lay-by traders are rogues there is
not a doubt; and the most conspicuous
thing about them is that the worse their
reputation the more intimate their appeals
to the poor of the community. And unfor-
tunately they succeed in their appeals.
Actually many of those who cannot afford
to throw away a penny will turn into the
grimy stores of these rogues rather than
into the shops of well-known and reputable
traders because they have been brought up
to accept this story of the poor being the
friends of the poor, and to believe that the
apparently prosperous are their natural
enemies.
And it goes further than that. We saw
a development in Queensland the other day
when the Labor Government arranged to
test an alleged cancer cure and appointed
it medical committee to watch the proceed-
ings. On a previous occasion a Labor Gov-
ernment in the same State had taken up
another piece of shameless medical quack-
ery. There is the same underlying idea in
all these cases: the medical profession at-
tacks these gross and impudent frauds,
so the poor are told, because it wants to
continue to make money out of sickness
and poverty. So the quack is taken under
the wing of Labor and regarded as the
natural friend of the poor—the quack who
nine times out of ten is the same sort of
impostor as the lay-by trader who clothes
himself and his premises in the rags of
poverty the better to pass his rubbish on to
the poor at an unconscionable profit.
THE HIGHEST COURT OF APPEAL.
Before we forget all about it we ought to
make up our minds what we are going to do
regarding referendums. We have established
them as part of our system of democratic
government. Once every three years we
send men to Parliament to pass laws in our
name. Each represents or is supposed to
represent thousands of people; in some
cases tens and even hundreds of thou-
sands. Now, it is not humanly possible
for any man to interpret correctly all the
opinions and desires of every one of 10,000
constituents, even though they belong to
the same political party as he does. More-
over, a man may approve of every plank in
a platform, and yet disapprove entirety of
the way it is proposed to put one of them
into effect. Take, for example, this matter
of the abolition of the Second Chamber.
In N. S. Wales it has been on the Labor
platform for many years. But when it is
proposed to bring in a system which will
make abolition quite a simple matter if
the people want the Second Chamber abol-
ished, the Parliamentary leader of the party
fights it bitterly. In such a case how can
we ascertain the will of the people save by
referendum? Most obviously a dozen gen-
eral elections have failed to do it.
Our Parliamentary system is built on ex-
pediency. We cannot get all the people
together to ■ settle every matter and every
detail of eveiy matter which arises; and we
do the best thing practicable. But we know
it is so far from the ideal —which is the
calling of all the people together to transact
public business —that we have set up a series
of checks and counter-checks. What we
ought to realise and remember always is
that these checks and counter-checks are
upon the politician. To permit the party
politician to take charge of a referendum
and to direct the voting as if it were an
ordinary party matter is therefore to attack
the foundations of the referendum.
And the attack upon this great demo-
cratic institution is all the more serious
when the party politician leaves the par-
ticular matter with which the referendum
deals and sets out to traverse the whole
field of legislation and administration in
order to influence votes. N. S. Wales has
just had an example of that misconduct:
Mr. Lang has directed most of his efforts
not against the bill for the reform of the
Council but against the Stevens Govern-
ment. He has thus gone through the
country denouncing that Government for
“evicting” farmers in debt to the Rural
Bank and claiming that “during the admin-
istration of the Labor party foreclosures
by the bank were practically forbidden.”
Any effort to take the mind of the public
off the subject with which alone a referen-
dum deals is an offence against democracy;
and it ought to be punished. But of course
it will not be punished. The politician can
in these days do almost anything. and go
scathless—which shows how very necessary it
is for the people to be alert and take and use
the little power they still possess. What
they can do now, and what The Bulletin
urges they should do, is to determine that
at the next and every other referendum they
will be true to democracy, and refuse to
follow any party leader, realising instead
that a referendum creates the people the
High Court of Appeal from the decisions
not only of parties and their leaders but of
Parliaments themselves.
THE FARMER AND EXCHANGE.
It is incredible, but true, that farm
machinery has increased in prices, in spite
of decreased returns. An overseas firm of
manufacturers at least has advanced prices
considerably. Mowers have gone up about
£2 10s., and double-disc ploughs over £2.
Other implements' correspondingly. The
cost of machinery was high enough before,
in all conscience; now the farmer is having
the last drop of his life’s blood, wrung from
him to buy high-priced machinery. Where
and when will it all end? — North Coaster
(N.S.W.).
For two years past The Bulletin has
been trying to tell Australian exporters that
soon or late they would have to pay for
the high exchange rate with which they have
been favored. The fundamental fact is
that the exporting country gets—in theory
at least- —exactly the same for its exports
whether the exchange rate is 100 i or 130.
Every penny of the premium, whether it is
2s. 6d. or £3O per £lOO, has to be provided
by the exporting country. The overseas
buyer pays none of it. But it is quite pos-
sible that the buyer would be inclined to
give a little more if he did not think that
the seller was getting the advantage of the
exchange, and was being satisfied thereby,
Winchcombe Carson’s just-issued report on
the wool season to the end of March pro-
vides some interesting figures in that con-
nection. It shows that for the past three
seasons the average prices have been:
1930-31, 8.7 d. per lb.; 1931-31, 8.6 d. per lb.;
1932-33, 8.6 d. per lb. The evenness of the
figures is very extraordinary. But the re-
port goes on to say: “On a gold basis,
prices for the last two years have been 40
to 50 p.c. below the figures quoted.” It
may be that, without the exchange, prices
would have dropped correspondingly; but
it is at least possible that the buyers have
been influenced by the exchange to give no
more than was necessary to keep the aver-
age price nominally at about the old level.
Indeed, Winchcombe Carson add that
“rates of exchange have been of marked
help in maintaining regularity in results.”
It comes to this, then: that a high exchange
rate may be a factor in producing a low
price on a gold basis.
But unfortunately, as our correspondent
shows, results do not stop there. Exchange
is not a one-way traffic. The catch in the
whole exchange business is that we cannot
ask £125 in our money for £lOO of British
money without having to give £125 in our
money for every £lOO we owe in Britain.
So long, however, as the exporter does not
have direct dealings with the overseas sup-
plier or creditor, that fact is hidden from
him; he pays the higher prices through the
stores or by way of taxation without know-
ing that he is paying. It is only when he
makes a direct purchase of a British or
American farm-implement, for example,
that the truth is borne in on him. He can
be assured, however, that the importer of
every single article of goods from overseas
has had to meet precisely the same charge,
varying from 25 p.c. on British goods to
40 p.c. on American. If he could be sure
of having had the full benefit of the ex-
change when he sold his goods, he would
at least, be no worse off if he had to pay
the exchange when he bought goods or paid
his taxes, which are approximately
£8,000.000 a year more than they would
have to be if we did not have to pay
exchange on our interest remittances. But
if, as is not improbable, the exchange is
really used to hold buying prices in check,
then the export-producer’s benefit from the
exchange must in the long run be very small
indeed. He still no doubt does gain a
little. He pays fixed charges on the old
low- scale while getting paid on the higher.
But to tell him that he is getting anything
like a 25 p.c. advantage is a shame.
THE FUNCTION OF THE POLITICIAN.
There is a fashionable tendency to exag-
gerate the function of the politician in
a modern democracy. Thus one recent con-
tributor, “H. G. F.” (B. 3/5/’33), suggests
that, in order to cure the country’s ills,
we should abolish general elections and
have fortnightly by-elections. I suggest the
abolition of all elections, the closing of all
the 14 Houses of Parliament and the grant-
ing of invalid pensions to unemployed poli-
ticians in need of it. I would then hand
the government of the country over to the
bankers. The bankers are our actual rulers,
as can be seen every time there is a
Premiers’ or a world conference.
The world owes a great deal to the
bankers besides money. I don’t know when
they first assumed control of the destinies
of humanity, but in the last 100 years they
have doubled the population of the globe,
and spread roads, railways, factories, farms,
bridges, aqueducts and every sort of social
amenity all over it. Once-savage lands
resound with the thunder of steam ham-
mers, rivers of molten metal flow from re-
torts in China and India, the whirr of
gigantic dynamos silences the hum of the
cicada in the jungles of Malaya, and all
because of the bankers. They have taken
the mattock and the hoe out of the hands
of the toiling worker and placed therein the
splendid tool of modern industrial machin-
ery, which can do in a minute as much
work as a primeval man could do in a life-
time. While their money has been fash-
ioning this majestic weapon the politicians
have been fiddling. Some of the more
stupid, in despair at their own impotence,
have even proposed to destroy this tool and
get back to the horse, the hoe and the mat-
tock. Others demolish, retard and make
more difficult the work of the bankers by
instituting boycotts, embargoes and other
restrictions on trade, and by advocating
the sabotage of production through trade-
union strikes, go-slow movements and even
the destruction of essential foodstuffs. The
wiser of the bankers must sometimes wring
their hands when they see some fresh mani-
festation of the stupidity of politicians.
Admittedly the world appears to be in a
bad way at present. Part of the machinery
fashioned by the bankers, in alliance with
inventive genius and business enterprise, is
lying idle. There are 30 million .unemployed
and 100 million living on the breadline.
But this is not a reason for undue pessim-
ism. In a more primitive society these 100
million would have died of famine or taken
to eating one another. That they are being
kept alive at all is a tribute to the bankers.
The amoeba in the pond had to spend the
whole 24 hours feeding; the cow spends most
of its time grazing; primitive man had little
time for leisure. But modern society can
keep all its members alive although less
than 20 per cent, are working. This is a
demonstration of the power of evolution
which ought to arouse world-wide hope and
jubilation. If everybody worked, all could
either roll in unimagined luxury or do very
little work and yet enjoy reasonable ameni-
ties. I don’t know whether the world would be
any wiser if this adjustment between pro-
duction and consumption were effected, but
it would certainly be behaving more logi-
cally than it is at present. Since the bank-
ers created the machinery which the poli-
ticians have failed to learn to manage, it
is logical to suppose that, if they were
made responsible, they could show us how
it should be managed. At present they are
without responsibility.
Irresponsibility is a comparatively new
factor in society. When primitive tribes
elected a chief thej'- made him responsible
for everything, including .the weather, and
when the crops failed they chopped his head
off. Some even chopped their king’s head
off annually to encourage the others. Irre-
sponsibility developed rapidly with consti-
tutional government and the beheading oi
kings became rarer. The Stuarts invented
the divine right of kings as a precursor of
the divine right of politicians. As mechani-
cal ideas replaced humanistic ideas about
society, irresponsibility became a settled
principle. The real power shifted to the
holders of financial power, and kings were
allowed to escape over the frontier, as in the
case of the Kaiser, or to retire, as in the
ease of the Son of Heaven. If they were
beheaded it was only because it was feared
they might form a centre for counter-revolu-
tion, not because they were regarded as
responsible. The idea of irresponsibility
reached its apotheosis in the joint-stock
companies which ruled huge territories like
British India and the Dutch East Indies,
and whose directors were responsible only
to their shareholders, who did not exist as
a real entity, since their composition
changed every day with the buying and
selling in the stock market. The modern
party politician is the joint stockholder in
politics. W. M. Hughes lost a good deal
of this country’s money in the purchase of
some ships, but he was gratefully presented
with £25,000, and can return to Parliament
on any side he likes and nobody thinks the
worse of him.
Nevertheless, although individual poli-
ticians are not regarded as responsible,
political government is so regarded and be-
comes a popular scapegoat, which distracts
' attention from the real governors. The demo-
cracy is led to believe’ that, by turning one
Government out and putting another in, it
has achieved something. This is an un-
healthy condition and must eventually end
in such an appalling disaster as has just
overtaken Germany—namely, the complete
destruction of liberty. In Japan it has
reached its logical conclusion in the system-
atic assassination of politicians as a patri-
otic duty.
It is to avoid these evils that I suggest
a Government of bankers. When a Church
rules a State without holding responsible
office, religion falls into disrepute, morals
decay, the chapels become empty and the
priests are hated. The same thing is hap-
pening to-day under the irresponsible rule
of the bankers. Commercial morality is
decaying. States and individuals are repudi-
ating their debts, communities in despair
are manufacturing their own currency, revo-
lution is being brewed in holes and corners,
chaos deepens, and there is certainty no
love for the banker. If the bankers were
made responsible, they would be put upon
their mettle. It would not matter if they
were called kings, presidents, archdukes or
grand lamas. They have managed then-
own business in the interests of their snaie-
holders extraordinarily well, and there is no
reason to suppose that they lack the intelli-
gence to manage national affairs m the
interests of the nation. In the event o
their failure the public would know whom
to blame for it.
M. G. SKIPPER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Referendum: and Now?
The Bulletin has never professed any
affection for the Leg. Council provided for
by the Reform Bill which was accepted by
the people of N. S. Wales at Saturday’s
referendum. During the past two or three
years Mr. Lang has sent to the Council
half a hundred heelers, most of them for
the specific purpose of either destroying
the Chamber or putting through some
special bit of class legislation without
debate. Only three or four of these gentle-
men were known outside Sydney Trades
Hall; the most conspicuous of the three
or four was Donald Grant, who had been
sent to gaol for too zealously mixing up
social reform with incendiarism. That to
these gentlemen should be given the right
to choose members who may sit in the
new House for 12 years is a “reform” that
takes a lot of swallowing.
Only two things saved ithe bill. In the
first place, if it were not carried matters
would remain as they are. That is to say,
Donald Grant and the other gentlemen
might remain members not for 12 years, but
for so long as they lived. More than that,
if, as time went on, their numbers were
not sufficient, they might be added to so
that Government measures might be passed.
The practice of “swamping” had, in fact,
produced this result: there no longer was
a second Chamber in any true sense of the
word. And of course that was precisely
what Mr. Lang wanted. In the second
place, the bill provided a means of appeal-
ing to the people on any subject what-
ever. The old plank in the platform of
the Labor party provided for the abolition
of the second Chamber. That plank was
framed in the days when second Chambers
were the guardians of property. Since then
new forces have arisen, both Communist
and Fascist, which make it urgently neces-
sary to set up a Chamber to guard demo-
cracy. To this new Council we may at
least look with some' confidence to do that.
It will not —nor should it have—the right
to block any proposed legislation accepted
by the Leg. Assembly. But it will have
the right to require that any proposed legis-
lation of which it disapproves shall be
endorsed by the people before it can be-
come law.
The Reform Bill, having been accepted
on Saturday, will now be submitted for
assent; and, that given, the present Leg.
Council will have only one more duty to
perform. This will be to meet with the
Assembly and choose the 60 members of
the new House under a system of pro-
portional representation. In the natural
order of things there will be a small
Nationalist and Country party majority in
the new Chamber for the first three years,
if it should last so long. For it is im-
portant to remember that any failure of
the Chamber to live up to the hopes built
upon it may be followed by a further
reform bill and a further referendum.
Hitherto it has been necessary that such
a bill should come from the Council; in
the future the Council need not approve
at all. If the Assembly says yes, and the
Council will not agree, then the final word
will be w r ith the people. As a matter of
fact, what Saturday’s vote did was to iqake
the people the entire legislature in regard
to all matters of importance over which
the two Houses find themselves in disagree-
ment. No other country in the world,
excepting, perhaps, Switzerland, has come
closer to pure democracy.
♦
Yes’s Small Majority.
1 hat inveterate enemy of the people and
of reform, John Thomas Lang, has been
getting satisfaction out of the poor majority
gained for “Yes” in the N. S. Wales refer-
endum on Saturday. If Mr. Lang were not
such a conceited man, he would, instead,
be very much perturbed about the failure
of the Yeses to win by a tremendous majo-
rity. For until we can break down the
popular disposition to vote No on a refer-
endum, the progress of reform in N. S.
Wales is likely to be very slow. Hitherto
that disposition has not mattered a great
deal so far as the State is concerned; but
tor the future the people may be required
to settle differences between the two Houses
over proposed legislation, and henceforward
it will therefore matter a great deal.
In the Federal sphere, the disposition has
been most marked. In 1911 the Labor
party, finding its policy blocked in many
directions, sought an extension of the Fed-
eral powers. The proposals were accepted
by Parliament, but a majority of the people
voted No in every State except Westralia.
Two years later the party put the same
proposals into six bills, carried them through
Parliament, and submitted them to the
people. In not one case out of the six was
a Yes vote gained. Indeed, on only three
occasions from first to last has a Com-
monwealth Government been able to break
down this disposition of the people to say
No. Yet, if it cannot be broken down, the
path of reform in N. S. Wales is likely to
be much more difficult in the future than it
has been in the past.
Although Mr. Lang may get satisfaction,
then, out of the poor Yes majority scored
on Saturday, notwithstanding the very great
efforts made by its supporters, those of us
who know that many reforms are badly
needed will get small comfort from the
figures. The future would look far more
hopeful if the majority had been 200,000.
Russia and Japan.
“Feng-Shui”: There is a certain amount
of grim humor in the spectacle of Russia
and Japan threatening each other with war
over the possession of the Chinese Eastern
railway, which doesn’t belong to either.
If the Australian Government had granted
a concession, as a result of invincible pres-
sure, to Italy to build a railway from Dar-
win to Adelaide and the Italians had built
it with French engineers and credits raised
in America, said credits being issued by a
bank calling itself the Italo-Australian, and
if Siam had come along and seized the
Northern Territory, the analogy would be
exact enough for ordinary purposes. To
make the similitude more precise, the
Siamese would have to build the railway
for the sole purpose of conquering the rest
of Australia, especially Queensland, where
Siamese would be represented as groaning
under the tyranny of an incompetent and
barbarous Government.
In actual fact, the Chinese Eastern rail-
way was originally the property of the Rus-
sian (Czarist) Government, which controlled
it through the Russo-Asiatic Bank. When
the Russian Revolution broke out, the head-
quarters of the bank were transferred to
Paris and placed under the wing of the
French Government. In the meantime
some stray White Russians ran the railway
until the Bolsheviks became strong enough
to resume control, which they did under
an agreement with the Chinese Government.
The Chinese say the railway belongs to
them, the Russians say it is theirs, and the
French Government takes the view that
it rightly belongs to the French bondholders.
The so-called independent State of Man-
chukuo is in ostensible possession, and the
Japanese army is policing it. The im-
portance of the railway to the Soviet lies
in the fact that it is the shortest route
between Siberia and the Russian maritime
provinces, which include Vladivostok, the
only ice-free port remaining to the Slav.
The only other link is the Russian Siberian
railway, which makes a wide curve round
Manchuria and can be cut by the Japanese
whenever necessary. If the Russians let the
railway go, as it seems certain they must
do, since only a first-class war would re-
cover it for them, they will lose Vladivostok
and Eastern Siberia, also the. island of Sag-
halien and the valuable fisheries in that
corner of the Pacific.
Since the Russians, like some varieties of
fish, have a biological urge towards warm
water, they will now direct their energies
elsewhere, probably Southern China and
Persia. This will bring another set of ob-
jectors into the field and immensely com-
plicate the problems of peace in those areas.
It is popularly supposed by unsophisticated
proletarians that since the Russian bear
changed its fur coat for the leather jerkin
of Communism it has become a tame,
pacifist animal, but, as a matter of fact, its
Far Eastern policy since the Revolution has
been a logical continuation of the policy of
the late lamented Little Father. In 1924
it threatened China with war over the Man-
churian railway, and even killed a few
Chinese soldiers, and only desisted when
the Chinese Government gave it what it
wanted. If it does not go to war with
Japan now, it will only be because it does
not think it has any chance of winning. If
it accepts many checks of the sort it will
become unpopular at home and will be
driven into war through inner necessity.
♦
Homework and 1 Culture.
Dear Bulletin, —The Congregationalists are
demanding a thorough inquiry into the ques-
tion of homework. They have the support
of nearly all parents and most teachers.
The homework normally set is excessive
and out of all proportion to the teaching
hours. Class work occupies approximately
5i hours, but very few pupils get through
their homework is less than three hours.
This cuts out the whole evening (the aver-
age boy or girl plays organised games in
the afternoon) and leaves no time for the
pupil to develop hobbies or studies of a
cultural nature. Further, it leaves him no
freedom to develop along his own lines,
and, when he leaves school and has no
homework, there is a large gap which he
has very little idea how to fill.
Work done at home used to be called
“preparation”; now it is homework—work
done at home arising out of the day’s
teaching. This should be quite unnecessary.
If the pupil is properly taught in school,
where is the necessity for three hours’ addi-
tional work out of school? Reading, in
subjects that require it, such as history
and English, should be encouraged in the
spare time, and the onus of this rests upon
the teacher; but to set a large number of
mathematical exercises, French exercises,
history questions, English essays to be done
every evening is unnecessary and unfruit-
ful drudgery. If additional time is required,
surely the remedy lies in longer school
hours, with, perhaps, more frequent breaks
during the day, and shorter holidays. With-
out homework to do, the school hours could
profitably be increased from 5t to 62 hours
a day, and holidays could be reduced from
three months to six weeks a year. It is
only the intensive system of day and even-
ing teaching that has made 13 weeks’ holi-
days in the year necessary.
With his evenings in which to develop
his own individuality, the pupil’s cultural
and spiritual growth will be substantially
assisted, and he will respohd with better
and better work during the day, for
he will be fresher and happier.—Yours etc.,
L. C. Bell (N.S.W.).
♦
Laws that Aren’t Laws.
A youngster in Queensland —a veiy small
youngster—was brought before a Children’s
Court and charged with robbing a bird’s
nest. The crime was proved up to the hilt,
and his dad was compelled to pass into the
public purse £4 Bs. 6d.—more than a week’s
basic wage. Evidently dad was earning a
lot more than the basic wage, or he had
friends who were, for he lodged an appeal.
The Full Court of Queensland allowed the
appeal and mulcted the officer of the law
who laid the information in £l5 15s. costs.
The Queensland taxpayer, of course, will
have to find the money.
The reasons for the Full Court’s decision
don’t matter very much. The aspect of the
thing that matters to the average citizen,
who pays the cost of government, is that
his Parliament, without any shadow of a
mandate from its electors, can promulgate
a multiplicity of fussy little laws, spon-
sored by well-meaning and influential
minorities, and those laws will be adminis-
tered to the letter until someone appeals
and the appeal goes before a full Bench of
Judges who have no sympathy with the fad
on which the law was founded. As another
alternative, an Administration that doesn’t
approve of the law may refuse to enforce
it, and instruct its police to that effect.
That is what has happened to the law
against mendicants in most States in Aus-
tralia since the depression set in. The con-
scientious solicitor, advising a litigious client
who puts his trust in the letter of the law,
has to advise him that (a) the letter of the
law may be dead so far as the present Gov-
ernment is concerned; (5) that, even if the
Government is strong for it, the Judges
may have a derry on it; (c) the law may
not be a statute law at all, but a regulation
made under a statute law, and, if so,
probably not within its four corners; and
(d) in any case nobody in law knows
what any law means till the Privy Council
has had a go at it, and even the Privy
Council can change its mind.
It may be hopeless to expect Parliaments
to leave off stuffing statute books with fussy
little laws, often at the behest of some per-
sistent crank; but at least we ought once
every (say) generation to have a spring
cleaning, purging every State statute book
of every law the State’s Full Court will not
certify as both sound and essential.
—
Dishonest Bond Issues.
Justice Harvey, N. S. Wales Chief Judge in
Equity, was asked the other day to help
the liquidator out in the problem of wind-
ing up Australian and New Zealand Invest-
ments, Ltd. This concern set off in 1928 to
make large profits for its Hempland-bond
holders by growing New Zealand flax on
poor land, for which it paid or undertook
to pay up to £2O an acre. Apart from
the question of whether the bonds were
legal documents at all, the point on which
the liquidator wanted direction was the
respective right of creditors and bond-
holders inter se.
Forestry and other bond issues are in
many cases deliberate evasions of company
legislation, and the bonds themselves are an
unknown quantity until tested at law. The
Hempland bonds were declared legal; on
the other hand, in the Tasmanian Supreme
Court last year it was held that, under the
law of that State, a forestry co. and its 305
certificate-holders were'an illegal partner-
ship. Though the N. S. Wales Companies
Act is an ancient, moth-eaten piece of work,
it does to some extent cramp the company
promoter’s opportunity to unload assets at
too high a price (since details of all
material contracts must be made available),
while it holds the same gentleman’s rela-
tions wfith the co. to be of a fiduciary nature.
With bond issues the whole principle is
“Let the buyer beware!”—the buyer gets a
deferred right to a pig in a poke at his own
risk. He receives absolutely no compensat-
ing advantages for the dangers he runs,
either.
In the case of Australian and N. Z. In-
vestments, three lots of bondholders, “A,”
“B” and “C” series, paid £2l 10s. each for
one-third-acre lots planted with Phormium
tenax, to be brought into bearing, which was
estimated to take four years. About 8000
bonds were taken, and, though exact figures
are not available, something like £150,000
of money actually paid to the co. was dissi-
pated. Yet in not one series were the
original vendors of the land paid off, ex-
cept by drawing upon the amounts (£5
7s. 6d. per bond) deposited with the N. S.
Wales Public Trustee as a nominal pre-
caution against the parent falling down on
its job. If they are lucky, the “A” bond-
holders may get their land transferred to
them for what they agreed to pay; “B”
bondholders will have to pay off a mortgage
out of their own pockets before they can
take over their plantations; in the case of
the 2000-odd “C” bondholders, the head
vendor has repossessed part of the land,
and what is left is encumbered, unimproved
and of little value. All bondholders paid
highly for what was the right to share in
a gamble at long odds; but, apparently,
in no one case has the parent of itself
given a clear title to bondholders. So
much of the unfortunate “C” bondholders’
money went in making up for the extrava-
gance in administering the “A’s” and “B’s”
that there seems to be nothing of value left
to them except what little the trustee may
still have in his control.
Bond-contracts, which often do not
compel the company of straw issuing
them to present annual accounts to holders,
are plainly an attempt to sidetrack the
few protections which the investor may
have under the Companies Acts. It is a
scandalous thing that these concerns
should be allowed to flourish unfettered and
without Government supervision.
♦
A Heresy Hunt.
It has become the fashion to blame
broadcasting for many things. The latest
iniquity ascribed to it is the fostering of
the gambling spirit as expressed in starting-
price betting. Following on the report of
a country constable at a recent police con-
ference that the broadcasting of racing re-
sults greatly added to his duties, some of
the Churches, various societies for the sup-
pression of other people’s hobbies, and,
last, but not least, the press joined in a
heresy hunt with broadcasting as its quarry.
To listen to this consensus of commina-
tion, it might be thought that s.p. betting
was some new vice which owed its existence
to the discovery of radio. Lurid pictures
have been drawn of public-house bars filled
with drunken gamblers attracted by radio
announcements of race results and squan-
dering the rent and the money for the
sustenance of their families on “the next”
as soon as their fancy has been beaten “in
the last.” The campaigners ignore the
fact that these conditions, where they do
exist, had their being before radio was
dreamed of. The same news came to the
same sort of people by human agency, tele-
graph or telephone, and these offered, as
they all do to-day, just as easy facilities
for the encouragement of wagering and
drinking as the radio.
If, as has been suggested, the broadcast-
ing of those sporting events which are popu-
lar mediums for gambling be abolished or
drastically controlled by the Federal Gov-
ernment, it is only fair and logical that the
same Government which grants unquestion-
ingly special telephone and telegraph facili-
ties to the hordes of illegal s.p. bookmakers
should curtail its generosity and at the
same time discontinue the very profitable
telegraph and telephone services which
everywhere convey gambling results to the
drinking bars in the public houses.
But even if the broadcasting, telegraph-
ing and telephoning of these results were
prohibited or censored, starting-price betting
with its attendant evils would flourish as
long as the press panders to the very vices
which it unblushingly blames broadcasting
for. Even admitting that the radio now
has its share in egging on punters to take
further risks, it cannot be denied that it
is far outdistanced by the racing press. This
is especially the case in the matter of the
specious preliminary incitements which fan
the gambling spirit for days and sometimes
weeks before the decision of notable racing
events—incitements which usually bring
disastrous results to those unfortunate
enough to be influenced by them.
There can be no gainsaying that this type
of journalism is infinitely more to blame for
the fostering of the gambling fever than
any other public influence. It is an exceed-
ingly profitable line to the exploiters of it.
and even an altruist can hardly be blamed
for scenting, in the attack on broadcasting,
resentment at what some newspaper pro-
prietaries regard as an invasion of territory
they have grown to consider their special
preserves.
4
The Development of the North.
An interesting anniversary note, dated
May 7, from John Archer, of Gracemere
(Q.)
It is 80 years to-day since my uncles,
Charles and William Archer, made their
first camp here on the Gracemere Lagoon ;
the next day they discovered the Fitzroy
River. Since then the whole of the vast
rich territory of Central Queensland has
been settled.
But there is still plenty of development
work to do. Thousands of miles of rich
scrub land on the Fitzroy and Burdekin
watersheds have to be brought into effective
use and converted into rich pasture land.
There is a still vaster and probably richer
territory in the north waiting for us. A
railway, say, from Port McArthur on the
Gulf, running west to Broome (W.A.),
would tap an incalculable area of first-class
pastoral country, in addition to mineral
and agricultural lands, with a sufficient
and more regular rainfall than we are
blessed with here. If Australia could pro-
duce a statesman of vision and courage to
advocate such a development policy, I be-
lieve, if the scheme were properly presented
to the people, it would receive support from
all parts of the Commonwealth, and that
the capital would be forthcoming from the
Old Country. It should be of Imperial
interest, and would probably avert an
invasion in years to come. The unemployed
would be absorbed, a fresh market would
be opened for our manufactures and produce,
and taxation lightened by being shared by
the population that' would be attracted to
the north.
The concluding words in the joint state-
ment issued by Mr. Ramsay MacDonald and
President Roosevelt, after their recent con-
versations, were: “Enterprise must be
stimulated by creating conditions favorable
to business recovery. Governments can con-
tribute by the development of an appro-
priate programme for capital expenditure.”
A bold policy for the development of North
Australia would give fresh hope to the
rising generation, whose prospects are at
present decidedly gloomy; and all parents
should give such a scheme their support.


Snurke Jvtcb&ui-fuiMi
CRAVEN A
m the neu> moL&tute-pturtyf
'cellophane'PACK
Will Not Affect Your Throat
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD. 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY.
lO for 9°
lOTinslfe
50 ♦ ♦ 3'9
20
M
m
m
m
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
2UW, 2CII, 2KY, 2GN, 2KO and half
a dozen other private broadcasting stations
have been busy instructing the peox>le of
N. S. Wales regarding the referendum ; but
the three national stations have kept straight
on with their infinitely more important jazz
programmes. Still, to do them justice, one
of them did knock off for an hour on a
couple of nights so that Stevens and Lang
might speak. But at the end of an hour
the jazz and the foxtrot or the potted record
ealled again, and, the speeches not being
half over, listeners had to tune in to private
stations for the balance of the remarks.
J. T. Lang, contrasting the present with
the past, says “during the administration of
the Labor party foreclosures by the N. S.
Wales Rural Bank were practically forbid-
den.” That presumably is what Mr. Lang
and his friends mean by the non-political
control of banking.
The stories that the technocrats are tell-
ing of the almost-magical productivity of
some recent machines (here, for instance, is.
one that makes 2500 cigarettes per minute)
point one moral, anyway : the necessity for
guarding Australian industries against
dumping.
Tom White, who succeeded Gullett (now
out and about again) as Minister of Cus-
toms, has got most of his Government’s
tariff approved of by the House of Reps.
Last week he had British crude-oil engines
exceeding 100 h.p. placed on the free list,
though high-powered engines have been made
in Queensland, and he obliged importers of
Hollywood films by knocking off Bd. of the
ls.-per-foot duty on “news reels, topicals,
scenics, travelogues, serials [which are not
worth importing] and complete films of
2000 ft. or less.” If imports go on increas-
ing Mr. White will have to give up being
obliging.
An attempt will be made next week to
shift John Allan, the Vic. Minister of Agri-
culture, from the leadership of the Cocky
party. Lind, Allnutt and Hyland are openly
in revolt, and other Cocky Assemblymen
(there are 15) are keen on a change;
several want Dunstan, the Minister for
Lands, and others would like Old. Five of
the six Cocky M.’sL.C. are friendly to Allan,
and their votes may save him —if they are
allowed to vote.
Having got over the shock of learning that
its Hill Government had appointed Hill
Agent-General for five years, instead of the
customary three years, South Aus. received
another last week concerning the same Gov-
ernment (now pulverised) and person. Hill,
it transpires, was given an excessive amount
of passage-money and allowed exchange on
the transfer of private funds to England,
the deficit he left behind him being thus in-
creased by £1077. Two able public servants,
Auditor-General Rogers and Solicitor-
General Hannan, brought the facts to light.
The S.-G. was instructed to demand the re-
covery of the £1077, and to question Bar-
well, the retiring A.-G., about a matter of
£lO said to have been paid in exchange on
the transfer of private funds to him. Hill
refunded the money.
The country vote won the referendum for
Stevens. Nine metropolitan electorates
gained by the TJ.A.P. at the general elec-
“Out, out, brief candle!”
tion went Lang’s way on Saturday; only
four country electorates changed sides,
There are 23 straightout Cocky members in
the Assembly. Twenty-two of their con-
stituencies returned Yes majorities, four-
figure ones for the most part; in the other,
Cootamundra, the difference was only 200
or 300 votes in a poll of 11,000-odd. N.S.W.
country people have no use for Lang, but
they have obviously lots of time for Bruxner.
Collier, the new Westralian Premier, has
been informed by his Under-Treasurer that
the year’s deficit will be nearer £SOO,OOC
than £700,000, which was to have been.
Mitchell’s maximum. He suggests an in-
creased Commonwealth grant. He won’t
promise, if he gets it, to drop secession, but
another £200,000 or so will be taken as a
sign that the Federal octopus is conscience-
stricken, or something of the sort.
J. C. Williamsons own the freehold of
Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, but find it
much too expensive for amusement purposes.
So they have leased it for a cash-and-carry
store. The public will have to pay on
necessaries ;• it didn’t have to pay on amuse-
ments. The circumstance will set a lot of
people asking who gave the block its great
value, and whether those who were respon-
sible are not being now penalised for doing
it.
The Commonwealth Bank is still carry-
ing the States’ deficits, and charging 2h p.c.
on the Treasury bills issued as security.
Before July, 1931, the Governments were
paying 6 p.c. and upwards. It is something
“Another Labor split is threatened because Coates,
leader of the Federal Labor group in the Leg. Council,
supported the referendum, whereas Scullin and most
of his followers were against it.”
“Nice leader YOU are! Told the people
what teas in your mind, did you f A
leader’s not allowed to have a mind.”
to save 31 p.c., but the only goal worth
aiming at Is the saving of the other 2| p.c.
No Australian Government, however, is
game to make the cuts necessary to produce
a balanced Budget; so we go on piling up
debt for the infant to pay—not debt repre-
sented by assets, but incurred to pay current
salaries and “social services,” as they call
political bribes nowadays.
The note inflationists think you can put
almost endless notes in circulation and that
they will stay there. They will not.. Just
before Easter the notes in circulation in
Australia were £47,553,426. Then came the
Easter demand, and another million were
called for. But almost as soon as the Easter
spending was over the notes were passed
back again. On May 1 they were down to
£48,303,426. By May 8 they were reduced
to £47,803,426. A fortnight hence they will
be back just about where . they were before
the Easter demand set in.
Brother-journalist Ely, Minister for
Health in the last Lang Cabinet, was tre-
mendously indignant before the Commission
which is inquiring into the fishy smell of
the milk-distribution business in Sydney:—
I resent the imputations against my honor. The
inference is that I got some of the money. It is
in keeping with the political gang of sewer-dredgers
. ... Crooks collected a thousand pounds to trap
me. The law should deal with people who try to
trap a Minister of the Crown.
Which is all very well; still, one remembers
that the mouse doesn’t get trapped until he
starts sniffing round for the cheese.
It is very nice to have outspoken Judges,
but somebody ought to tell Chief Judge Deth-
ridge, of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, that he can do few worse services
to his country than to lessen the respect in
which its High Court is held. Speaking the
other day from the Bench in Melbourne, he
said that so-and-so was “the accepted view
until the High Court, with its fresh, un-
clouded vision, living in its own empyrean,
saw differently” ; further :
All the dull-sighted people who move in a lower
sphere would see it in that way. However, the High
Court has seen it differently, and as it has seen it
in that way, we have to lay aside our view and see
it likewise. What the High Court says goes, whether
it is right or wrong, until a higher and keener
vision ordains or sees it differently. That may
happen. One never knows.
It is the sort of clever thing one might
expect from a very young J.P. perhaps; but
it is deplorably out of place'from the Chief
Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court.
The Latins do some things better than
the English-speaking peoples. Witness the
magnificent ceremonies attendant on the
temporary burial of Hinkler at Florence.
Many bricks have been thrown at Fascist
rule, but, though it would not suit Britons,
Australians or Americans, it obviously suits
the Italians.. It has made them prouder
of being Italians, for one thing. When the
old flower-town paid its fine tribute to
Hinkler pride in the new Italy was happily
blended with pity for the valiant stranger,
dead on Italian soil.
Like the Japs and the Chinese, the Para-
guayans and Bolivians have been “unoffici-
ally” scrapping for months. Paraguay has
now embarrassed the League, of which both
are members, by declaring war on the other
collection of greasers. No doubt eloquent
speeches will be made at Geneva and the
belligerents will be bombarded with cable-
grams. It might be better to tell them,
once and for all, to go home and get their
hair cut and have a bath.
That somewhat fading ember E. G. Theo-
dore glowed mildly the other day when he
said, “If the people want Mr. Lang assuredly
they should have him, and assuredly they
must put up with the consequences.” Some-
how it recalls the policy of the Duchess in
“Alice in Wonderland” :
Speak harshly to your little boy,
And beat him if he sneezes;
For he can thoroughly enjoy
The pepper, if he pleases.
Menzies and Clapp, being both more than
average-sized men, have cleared up the Vic.
railway position considerably. “No,” tlie
Commissioner said in effect when the Minis-
ter urged a reduction of wool freight; “the
traffic can carry present rates and we need
the money. But if in the interests of the
industry or for any other reason you think
the rates should be lower, we don’t mind
lowering them provided you make good our
loss.” Menzies, of course, put it that re-
duced railway rates would catch traffic
that would go by road without them,- and
the Commissioners have agreed to treat, any
such gain as a set-off. So the amount of
Treasury subsidy the reduction will call for
may be anything from £50,000 downward.
It rather looks now as though John Bull
and Cousin Jonathan will agree to devalue
the £ and the s—that$ —that Is, that for the future
those coins shall contain less gold; which
will in its turn mean that the price of gold
will go up in terms of £’s and s’s. They
can do that without consulting anybody;
and it will not be at all revolutionary.
“The Disarmament Conference has been sitting for
about 15 months and the Economic Conference may
last longer.”
BOY (a.d. 1953): “Are you Rip Van Winkle
and his brother?”
VENERABLE RELIC: “No, my son. We're
delegates to the conferences that have
been saving the world these many
years. I’m Disarmament and he’s Eco-
nomic."
France’s franc went 25 to tlie £ before the
war; now at par it . goes 124 to the £. What
the world is finding out is that, though it
can cut some costs, it can’t cut fixed charges;
and the devaluation of the £ —in other
words, watering down the currency—is the
easy way round that obstacle.
In its great days Labor supported the
referendum as an instrument of policy. Its
new bosses, the Theodores as well as the
Langs, have abandoned it. Thereby they
have done the workers a great disservice.
Labor, with its concentrated vote, always
has a chance of winning a referendum or a
Senate election (the new bosses are against
the Senate, too). It loses most of the
advantage which the concentrated vote gives
at a State-wide poll when. the country is
cut up into electorates, as it has to be for
the Leg. Assembly or the House of Reps.
When 1,253,629 votes had been counted on
Saturday and Sunday, uon-Labor was only
22,395 ahead, of Labor. Yet Labor was
behind in 53 of the 90 Assembly divisions
and it fared just as badly in the House or
Reps, electorates. The workers oug’ht to get
a new lot of leaders who will give them back
the referendum.
“Mr. Eric Campbell, of Sydney, addressing the
Oxford University Fascists, claimed that the New
Guard was forming a ring around the outer circle
of the Empire.”
“Dat’s all fery well, Eric; but I haf it
shtraight from der pig’s mouth, as you
vould say, dat a Jew is Speaker of your
Barliament. Und anodder vun’s Go-ver-
nor-Cheneral. Ach, vot a country!”
The South African election has been cut
and dried by the agreement of the two leaders
to support each other’s candidates. In a
Smuts electorate there is to be no Hert-
zog opposition, and vice versa. There are
no other parties of importance. The only
element of uncertainty is the feminine vote,
to be exercised for the first time. Boer
women have the reputation of being haters
of compromise, and they may give the
Ilertzog-Smuts applecart a jolt.
The N.S.W. police acknowledged at their
recent conference that they can’t cope with
the starting-price bookmaker, the dice being
loaded in his favor; and ways and means
of dealing with the harpy have been dis-
cussed. One result; is that mention ot
betting is now forbidden in the reports
broadcast from racecourses. It will be .no
more effective than the ban on newspaper
publication of the odds on forthcoming races;
this has been law in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria for the best part of 20 years, and it.
has never done a penn’orth of good. So long
as weights and acceptances are published
s.-p. betting will go on. Still, it could be
kept within limits if the V. and T. Depart-
ment. helped the police instead of spoiling
their work. That department places postal,
telegraph, telephone and wireless facilities at
the service of notorious s.-p. bookies, and
no questions asked. It is the best friend
the brotherhood has.
Johnny Mull an, Queensland’s lay Attor-
ney-General, told a pressman who questioned
him on the subject that no complaints had
been made to him concerning the working
of the jury system. Johnny’s memory is at
fault. When Labor was approaching its first
eclipse for years, unpleasant revelations were
■made as to the condition of the jury lists and
the presence on them of the names of people
with criminal records. The police were fore-
most in protesting, and in the result many
names were struck off. It is an operation
that needs to be performed periodically.
There is talk of recalling S.A. Agent-
General Hill, who took the job when it
seemed best for his party that somebody else
should lead it in the general election. It
all comes of our professional politics: mem-
bers make a whole-time job of it, so that
when politics drop them they are mostly on
their uppers. The only people who seem
able to carry on whilst in the House are
the Gockies —which probably explains why
country interests are more truly represented
than any other. In the S.. Aus. case the
chances are that new Premier Butler wit
not join in the Hill hunt. But things will
not really improve until payment is made at
three or four pounds a sitting, with paid-for
sittings limited to 40 or 50 a year. ..Then
members will have to go on with their ol&
jobs.
No doubt about it, Unc. Sam can look a
long way ahead. If the dollar is devalued
—that is, if for the future, according to law,
a dollar is a coin containing 19gr. of gold
instead of the old 23.22—foreign debtors
who owe Samuel $5O interest will of course
have to produce only 950 gr. of gold insteae
of the old 1161 gr. But in many of his
contracts with the foreigner he specifically
mentioned that the debt was to be paid m
dollars of 23.22 gr.; and that makes the posi-
tion very awkward. Queensland is among
the debtors affected in this way.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“The O’D.”: Best boa-trace I ever saw
took place between old Jimmy Beggs and
the Packet of Crackers on the Murray River
near Euston in T 7. Jimmy was a "whaler
with a penchant for stiff collars and gaudy
ties. The Packet of Crackers worked for
10 months of the year fishing, wood-cutting,
trapping, and spent the other two on the
booze. One Saturday night somebody started
an argument about rowing, and the upshot
was the Packet offering to row Jimmy half
a mile upstream for a tenner. Jimmy was
broke, but soon got backers, and the match
was set. The Packet spent most of his life
in a boat, and he looked an odds-on shot. It
was astonishing that anybody put up money
for Jimmy. They got away together and
James immediately took the lead, to retain
it and win by over a quarter of a mile. The
stakeholder handed over, and jubilant winner
and backers departed. The Packet didn't
finish the course, but pulled into the bank
and examined his boat. Securely fastened
to its flat bottom was a bag of chaff. It
was then I learnt why he was called the
Packet of Crackers. He went off like several
packets.
* * * *
“Flop" : That story of the linguistic lady
of Melbourne who addressed Captain Schnie-
wind, of the Ivoln, as “Schweinhund" (B.
10/5/’33) recalls a similar break made in the
long ago by a Brisbane woman who also
credited herself with the gift of tongues.
She was bidding farewell to a visiting
French personage of some tonnage who liad
broken all Queensland conceptions of French-
men by travelling with his mother. The
latter was not present, but the linguist did
not forget her. “Donny voos," she said
impressively as she wrung his hand —“Donny
voos. toos mes complimong a mademoiselle
votre mere.”
THE OLD-FASHIONED GIRL.
"Frightfully old-fashioned ideas she’s got. Why ; she is actually waiting for her divorce
before going off with the other man.”
‘Acs; getting one of those decree obsoletes.”
“Souvenir”; Any mystery attaching to
the first theft of the Emden bell from
Garden Island (B. 10/5/’33) has been
cleared up by one of the principal actors. A
well-known German citizen of Sydney, he
was approached by two individuals offering
him tho mi u u
deH 1 b a for ./P‘ The bell was duly
dehveied and paid for, and the buyer, scent-
mg trouble too late, buried it in the Domain.
Later he offered to divulge the hiding-place,
and m company with police and half the
Garden Island officials did so. The authori-
ties, and especially the brassbound lads of
Garden Island, were so averse to the story
being made public that it was agreed to let
bygones be bygones, and say no more about
’*• 'vlien the news of the second theft was
out, the original buyer, probably overcome
by Ins loss of £l5O, blew the gaff.
, ‘‘°\ Y-” • “Cinquante-Quatre’s” doubts
(p. 10/o/ oo) as to the ability of any
Digger to carry a heavy church bell round
hrance for a couple of years and finally
import it to Australia were not less than
my surprise on viewing a one-man eolleo-
tion of souvenirs brought back from France
in Id. It included a heavy carved oak chest,
two suits of armor complete with lances,
several mediaeval swords and various ancient
weapons of offence, in addition to one of the
best assortments of brass shell-cases I have
seen. But, as the owner nonchalantly ex-
plained, ‘When your not-too-distant ances-
tors were pirates and you yourself belonged
to a motor transport column, nothing is
impossible!” After listening to some of his
yarns, I agreed. Indeed I was surprised
that Bapaume Town H'all wasn’t in the
collection.
* ❖ sjt
“Spasebo”: The U.S.A. Customs Depart-
ment has made the star contribution to the
history of censorship for 1933. A New York
importer of art objects received a notice that
two packages of photographs had been
seized, judged obscene and would be
destroyed. They were reproductions of the
frescoes by Michel Angelo on the ceiling
of the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, which
the artist executed under a commission
from Pope Julius the second!
“Clerk”: Talking about quaint railway
telegrams, one that attracted ribald atten-
tion in our office was an urgent message from
a well-known district officer concerning an
accident on a small branch line. The one
carriage on a “mixed” train had been de-
railed while shunting, delaying three blas-
phemous commercials, badly frightening two
elderly women and agitating a flapper into
symptoms of mild shock. The officer’s de-
scription of the mishap ended with the
statement: “I have taken the girl to the
local hotel for the night.” Being a lay-
preacher in his spare time, it took a long-
while for him to live down the episode.
“P.N.”: The resurrection of the Dean
case, through the death of George Dean,
recalls Judge Windeyer, who tried the young
Milson's Point mariner and sentenced him
to death. Windeyer was tremendously able,
but had an incurable habit of putting him-
self in the wrong by the fierceness of his
language and demeanor on the Bench. (One
of “Hop’s” most mordant cartoons pictured
Windeyer presiding, with 12 Windeyers in the
jury box.) Once upon a time his Honor was
on circuit in a district .where sheep-stealing
was so prevalent that it was almost impos-
sible to get a conviction, especially with Win-
deyer on the Bench. Accused after accused
had been acquitted, to his Honor’s obvious
disgust. Then a youth was charged with
the offence, and a very presentable lad he
was. As the jury filed out they saw the
old man sorrowfully nodding his head and
heard him mumbling in his beard “Dear,
dear, dear! And such a fine young fellow,
too!” “Ah!” said the eavesdropper to his
colleagues—“here’s a chance to win back
the reputation of the district. The senti-
mental old bloke’s soft on the kid. and if
we find him guilty he’ll only get about six
months.” They decided that a young chap
could easily spare five or six months in so
good a cause, and they filed in promptly
V l *!, a verdict of guilty. The old man could
fcdly restrain himself till the formalities
had been gone through; then when he barked
« Seven s ar3 r, thc y Realised how well and
t ru!y they had fallen in.
'** * *
“Bullet” : A Japanese trade directory in
the possession of a Sydney man contains a
delightful record of the innocence of an
Oriental compositor, and in rac.v English
gives the reason for the intended banishing
from the list of advts. of a universally-
known petrol firm. Under the name of this
co., in English, appears the following: ‘The
manager Avas impertinent. Cut the
blighters out.” Unversed in Western exple-
tives. the comp, had set the instructions for
deletion as part of the usual advertisement.
A frantic search resulted in the recovery of
nearly all the copies of the directory, but a
few of the unexpurgated edition escaped.
“Clievroford”: A new tourist attraction
has been found for Melbourne week-enders
in the shape of a giant mountain ash a
mile from the road
leading over the
Black Spur near
Marysville. The tre-
mendous density of
the bush hereabouts
is shown by the fact
that the Titan has
only just been located
by the Forests Com-
mission. The moun-
tain ash was long
supposed to be the
tallest tree in the
world, but the paim
has since been
awarded the Douglas
fir of the American
Pacific coast. The
Vic. monster ash is
63 feet in circumfer-
ence and 301 feet 6
inches high.
❖ &
“Spare Corp’’:
One of my own ex-
periences of stolen
whisky in war-time
was a very quiet
affair but entirely
satisfactory. Chang-
ing trains at Haze-
brouck we wen-
stumbling along in
the darkness when,
noticing two of our
figures, an officer
with a very English
accent said “H'eah!
Lend a hand, you
two fellahs !” I was
for passing along, but
Corporal Lewis (al-
ways a resourceful
n.c.0.) pulled me
back and we readily
accepted a case cf
goods apiece from
the Tommies who
were unloading a
truck. In our train
(it was bound for
Castres) we found
the cases had been
specially prepared to
make Christmas
pleasant for Tommy
officers; in addition
to an assortment of
choice edibles ' each
case held two bottles of whisky. It was one
of the nights in France that I always
remember with satisfaction; there were only
five others in the compartment.
“Cauboy”; I ’phoned the house of one
of Melbourne’s leading pianists. His wife
answered and I said 1 thought I could hear
the virtuoso playing. _ “Yes,'’ she said, “he’s
practising his improvisations for to-morrow
niglit.’’
“Lao-dah”: Herr Hitler has provided a
very simple solution of the European May
Day problem and one which I have always
marvelled no Government has hit
on before. He declared a public
holiday and marshalled his Nazis
in Berlin, where one and a half
million people hysterically cheered
the new regime. In other words,
he stole the day from the Marx-
ists and made it into a national
festival, like the Australian Eight
Hours Day. In all the other
capitals the celebrants had to go
on strike, and to keep them from
breaking up things the cities had
to be turned into armed camps.
I was in Paris one May Day
when this procedure caused innu-
merable riots, several deaths and
700 casualties. Not knowing the
quaint customs of the French I
caught a ’bus to the Place de la
Revolution. When we got there
a howling mob, not merely of pro-
letarians, but of respectable bour-
geoisie, dragged the driver and
conductor out and gave them a
beating with their walking sticks,
while the passengers had to bolt
for their lives. I learnt then that
the ’busmen were on strike for
the day and that the victims of
the crowd’s indignation were uni-
versity students.
“Ariota”: There are exceptious to
“Pawang’s” general practitioners (B.
26/4/’B3). One I knew sent patients into
liospital for observation with the following
certificate: “Complaint: G.O.K. Treatment:
A.D.T.” The initials stood for “God only
knows” and “any damn thing.” Some of the
certificates from his less candid colleagues
said more but meant no more.
“Pixie Prink”: Please do print the en-
closed two poems on “The Rustle of Spring”
and “What Is Love?” and don’t cut them
down if you can help it. because so much
depends on it. If you can do this for me
I shall be among the “famous, distinguished
and representative women of our day.” A
gentleman has written to me sincerely hop-
ing that he will be allowed to include mv
biography and photo, in a book which he is
preparing. “To be included in a ‘Who’s
Who,’ ” he tells me. “has always been the
hall-mark of distinction,” and to be included
in this volume will be more even than that—
it will be unique, because this will be the
first volume devoted entirely to women
“Naturally” they want my photo., too. But:
it seems that “owing to the huge cost of
production” it is “necessary to ask for sub-
scriptions of two guineas for biography or
three guineas for biography and photograph.”
So now you’ll sec how much it means to me
if you will print my two poems and send
me the cash as quickly as possible. It would
be a shame if I were to miss being among
"the famous, distinguished and representa-
tive women of our, day” just because I
haven't got a couple of guineas—or three,
with photograph.
* « * *
“Nakhoda”: Victoria is suffering its usual
autumn drought, and ecclesiastical circles
are concerned about the propriety or other-
wise of asking the Deity to intervene in the
matter. One cleric has boldly stated that
we should not ask the Almighty for material
A LIMITED VOCABULARY.
“Money talks, you know."
“Yes, but it only says-"good-bye.’”
benefits, but go and get them for ourselves
by such measures as harnessing rivers.
This is a trifle illogical, because if the
Almighty didn’t send rain, or perhaps snow,
there would be no rivers, but it is a sign
of the times that prayers for rain are being
superseded by scientific irrigation and water
conservancy boards, just as prayers for
immunity from smallpox and diphtheria
have been superseded by medical prophy-
laxis. Time was when man had no doubt of
his ability to produce rain, not by appeals
to a deity, but by magic, and in Java, where
there is often too much rain, he can even
stop it, A few years ago in Melbourne I
was witness of a curious conflict of interests
on the subject. An archbishop had sanc-
tioned an appeal for a cessation of drought
and all the churches were resounding with
it. The Chinese market-gardeners in the
valley of the Yarra, however, were burning
joss-sticks for a continuance of dry weather.
They all have pumping stations driven by
power from the Electricity Commission’s
great Yallourn enterprise, and the drought
had raised the market price of vegetables
enormously. Providence struck a reasonable
compromise. There was no rain for three
' weeks and then came a terrific downpour which
incidentally flooded the market-gardeners’
fields' and left them with a rich deposit.
“Sandig” : Medical men have all the hob-
bies that mail-ship captains affect, and
more (B. 10/5/’33). To “D.’s” list add
lace-making, dress-making and -designing,
millinery, fancy cookery, hairdressing and
cat-breeding. A good deal of variety is to be
expected when it is known that the profession
is recruited from barristers, clerks, teachers,
ministers of religion, mechanics, policemen,
navvies, seamen, miners, veterinary sur-
geons, fruit barrowmen and regular soldiers.
A recently deceased suburban practitioner
was frequently consulted to diagnose engine
trouble in motor-cars —but. then, is not the
etymology of chirurgery “hand labor”?
V ••• ijC
“P.R.”: While the Kbln was at Hobart,
one of the crew, wandering round the town,
sighted the two souvenired guns outside the
Returned Soldiers’ Club. Casting a specu-
lative eye over the ironmongery, Fritz in-
quired of a Digger standing near bv, “Ger-
man guns?” “They were,” remarked the
Dig. with a cheerful grin. For a moment the
inquirer looked sour; but then the League
of Nations got a victory, and Fritz smiled
and passed on.
* * * =,•=
“General Prac.”: Measles are “about”
again in Sydney; and in my mind’s eye
I see my wards filled with small children—
some with gangrenous patches round their
mouths, some with pneumonia, some head-
ing for tuberculosis, and some almost stone
deaf. What is this disease? No micro-
scope, however powerful, can put us on the
track. It comes and it goes mysteriously,
like the myriads of mice which ate the
farmers’ wheat a year or two ago. And in
a population previously uninfected, measles
can be a deadly pestilence. One day in 1875
11.M.5. Dido left Sydney for Fiji.’ Aboai-d
her were a couple of ratings suffering from
measles. Inside four months 40,000 out
of the 150,000 natives in the islands were
dead. We can’t cure measles yet; we can’t
cure a common cold, if it comes to that.
VILLANELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘My glass shall not persuade me I am old.”
My glass is not the glass of old;
It seems to lack persuasiveness;
It leaves me unconvinced and cold.
Once in the days of green and gold
For judgment youth might boldly press.
My glass is not the glass of old.
They say the years that past have rolled
Reflect their record—joy, distress;
It leaves me unconvinced and cold.
Mirrors within their compass hold
An art that- calls for no finesse.
My glass is not the glass of old.
A witness may be bought and sold,
And bias sway him more or less;
It: leaves me unconvinced and cold.
The pleasant tale that once it told
It tells not now, I must confess.
My glass is not the glass of old ;
I'm sure it lacks persuasiveness !
S.A.
BILL O’C.


“Pawang”: Melbourne Centenary Com-
mittee lias sent an invitation to Einstein to
attend our birthday celebrations. It can't
be because they would like lum to see the
fireworks, so it is presumably because they
would like him to discourse on relativity.
It is doubtful if there are 20 people in
Melbourne who would understand linn, and
as he always speaks in German the area
of appreciation is narrowed to less than
half a dozen, mainly physicists at the Uni-
versity. If the committee wants a lion, or
a lioness, they would have been more honest
and more logical if they had invited Greta
Garbo.
“Sixenate”: The revival of philanthropist
T. E. Rofc’s application for the reinstatement
of his name on the rolls, from which it, was
struck as the result of a youthful slip ot
40 years ago—though he lias always insisted
on his innocence—recalls a gaunt lady who
used to haunt legal offices in Sydney up to
25 years ago. Mrs. Butler, respondent m
the divorce case in which the conspiracy
occurred, and victim of the faked evidence
of unchastity, was not the sort of woman to
let the slur upon her good name pass un-
challenged. Her pursuit of “justice" became
a mania; hanging was the punishment she
considered only just sufficient for the princi-
pals in the plot; she even demanded the
removal from the Bench of Judges who, she
thought, had been too lenient, and the resig-
nation of Ministers who declined to take up
her case. As she usually made a storm,
accusing solicitors who would not take up
her case of “conspiracy with the criminals, ’
the lawyers were generally out when she
called. For 15 years she was a terror to all
legal offices.
“Verax”: John Dailey on Noel Coward’s
historical dressing of “Cavalcade” _ (B.
8/5/’33) reminds that a good deal of history
Is builded on distorted data. Writer had an
INCAPABLE OF IMPROVEMENT.
MODDAM: “I paid you fifty guineas for the beauty course, and now my husband says he
can’t see any difference in me.”
BEAUTY SPECIALIST: “But what a compliment, moddam!”
acquaintance who was fond of telling, when
conversation was blended with beer, how
his great-grandfather had been with Nelson
at Trafalgar, and was the man who caught
the wounded admiral as he fell. One day
an intrusive unknown interposed. Said he,
“‘That be hanged for a yarn; it was Hardy
did that.” “Hardy?” shrieked the raconteur.
“That sticky-beaking publicity-hound? If
you want to know what he did it was to
rush over and fairly snatch the Old Man
from my great-grandfather!”
“The Dip” : A par. I forwarded throwing
cold water on the yarn of Earl Ferrers and
the silken cord with which he was hung (B.
22/3/’33) was unpublished because “Whit-
aker's Peerage” lists this right as among
the privileges of peers (Answers to Cor-
respondents, B. 19/4/’33), but “Whitaker’s”
for once in a way has blundered. No legal
work lists the privilege as belonging to
peers; Stephen, Holdsworth, Reeves, Black-
stone and the rest either do not mention it
or specifically discredit the story about
Ferrers. Secondly, the silken cord is not men-
tioned in a solitary contemporary account
of the execution ; the most detailed is that
issued by the authority of the sheriffs but
while it'mentions that the scaffold was cov-
ered with black baize it does not mention
a silken rope. Thirdly, the warrant of
execution to the sheriffs is in the ordinary
form, and does not stipulate that Ferrers
was to be executed in any special manner.
The yarn of the silken cord first creeps into
accoxints of Ferrers’s execution pxiblished’
years after the event, and has been charac-
terised as a fable by such antiquaries as
Harry B. Poland, Horace Bleackley, Alfred
Marks, and a dozen others. Likewise, the
D.N.8., “Quarterly Review” (YoI.LXXXY).
and Abraham Hayward’s “Biographical and
Critical Essays,” in all of which the evidence
is marshalled and discussed, reject the yarn.
It probably arose from the manner in which
the gallows and cushions on which Ferrers
knelt when praying were tipped with black
baize ; the ordinary hempen rope may have
been similarly ornamented. What does
make the execution notable is that it was
the first occasion on which the now familiar
“drop” was used.
“Spare Debrett”: That Sydney “Book of
Social Reference” (B. 10/5/’33) recalls that
a similar publication was once mooted in
Queensland —indeed its history was a combi-
nation of mooting and scooting—the latter
by the promoters in the closing stages. There
were two methods of “approach,” as the
business experts put it. If in the country, the
inveigler pointed out that Queensland was
the last stronghold of the splendid old squat-
toeracy which had built up Australia and
that it was essential that its _ name should
not perish. In the cities the importance ot
the merchant princes and the captains of
industry was stressed. In each case the
fee for inclusion was ten guineas, with a
further disgorgement for a biography at
space rates —about five guineas an inch. It
caught on splendidly. Then, after 12 months
or so, subscribers began to ask when the
promised proofs would arrive. They never
did, and the ingenious individuals who had
promoted, the scheme vanished like the ram
in the river and left subscribers, and many
of tli'eir travelling agents as well, lamenting.
* * * *
“The 0.D.” : Touching “Bill O’C.’s” .state-
ment that fag butts cause tires (B. 5/4/’33)
and “R Volt’s” mild refutation (B.
26/4/’33), I challenge and defy anybody to
go out into a paddock of thick dry grass on
a hot day and start a fire by throwing butts
into the grass.
“Pitawa” : As was to have been expected,
the visit of Commonwealth Minister Marr to
New Guinea has been accompanied by a tre-
mendous amount of eyewasli. The old mili-
tary dodge of giving the inspecting official
a chance to air his hobby has, of course, been
followed. The Commonwealth, with one eye
on the League of Nations, is strong on the
welfare of the native. When Marr arrived
a star turn was the “unexpected” arrival at
the reception of all the alleged chiefs and
petty potentates of the countryside to assure
the visitor of their undying loyalty and their
intense affection for the local Government
officials. Everybody was struck dumb with
surprise at the unlooked-for rallying of the
chieftains—everybody, that is, except the
harassed officials who had been chasing them
up and drilling them for their spontaneous
appearance for weeks previously.
%
“Double Express”: A returned traveller
from Southern Africa lias been telling the
Sydney press that strict protection of game
has become necessary owing to the murder-
ous depredations of hunting parties, mostly
American in constitution. He tells of one
American gang which boasted that it had
shot 50 lions, with the result that another
Yankee mob prepared to set out to shoot
100 in the same time. For years game
reserves have been an accomplished fact in
South and East Africa, but there can be
no doubt that there is a lot to do in that
direction yet. The system is being extended,
but the modern personally-conducted big-
game shooter is so valuable a contributor to
the revenue that the authorities are apt to
turn a complaisant eye on his depredations.
In addition to game licenses, a lot of money
is spent in the country on fitting out and
conducting safaris, which is a lucrative trade
in itself. Sooner or later the East African
colonies will have to follow the South
African example and found national parks
on the lines of the very successful Kruger
park in the Transvaal.
“C.Q.”: The matron of a Melbourne
orphanage has solved the problem of trans-
porting her charges through the streets
Under modern traffic conditions. When they
go out for a
walk the nurse
takes with her
a length of
light rope. If
they have to
cross a road the
orphans deploy
on each side of
the rope. and.
holding it in
one hand, fol-
low their mis-
tress, two and
two abreast. Tin-
sight of the long
centipede pro-
ceeding across
a city thorough-
fare causes
amuse m e n t
amongst so m e
motorists, but
in that parti-
cular institution
street accidents
have been re-
duced to zero
and the nerves
of the super-
visors are much
better.
“Menior” :The
crew of the Ger-
man cruiser Ivoln
showed typical
lack of tact in
selecting May 7,
the anniversary
of the torpedo-
ing by their
countrymen of
the Lusitania,
for placing a
memorial wreath
on -S y d n e y
Cenotaph. A
f e w minutes
p rev i o usly a
party representing- the Australian mercantile
marine had laid their wreath in the same
place to commemorate the ill-fated crew and
passengers of the Cunard liner. A clash must
have been feared, for . a guard of police was
mounted over the German wreath and kept
there for some hours after it was deposited.
There is an interesting coneidence in the
fact that 50 years previously, on May .7, the
Orient liner Lusitania returned to Syd-
ney after serving as a trooper during the
Egyptian War.
t\t * * *
“Selma”: A N.S.W. country family who
each year rent a furnished house in some
fashionable Sydney Suburb pride themselves on
being ideal tenants ; every landlord has had
the highest praise for them. Their plan is
to bring a maid from the country with them,
and hire another in town. During a recent
city sojourn they acquired a treasure,
and when they went home they left Daphne
in charge to await the owner. The com-
ments of that person when transmitted to
the late tenants were torrid. It was gathered
that in the three days during which Daphne
had been in charge she gave a luncheon party
every day, a garden party each afternoon
and a dance every night. The evidences of
these festivities lay all around when the
owner entered into possession. Daphne was
missing. But she was honest in a way. An
inventory showed that she was the only item
that did not answer the roll-call. Her lapse
lay merely in excessive and untidy hos-
pitality.
“Saxon”: Grim humor originated the
British sailors’ term for tinned meat. In
England, years ago, a woman named Fanny
Adam was murdered, and her body cut up
into pieces. When a sailor opened a tin of
meat, he exclaimed: “Hullo, here’s a piece
of Fanny Adam!” And the name stuck.
“Fourwalls” : A regular visitor to a tattoo-
ist’s parlour in Melbourne, the wife of a
sea captain, is fairly covered with pictur-
esque designs, in-
cluding a ferocious-
looking dragon,
birds, butterflies,
stars, scrolls and
flowers. She en-
dures the pain o +
having these prettv
pictures pricked
into her skin to
please her hus-
band! Another
woman customer
has a complexion
that is a thing of
beauty, and, though
artificial, tbe love-
ly color having
been injected by the
tattooist, it. looks
quite natural. Not
so long ago the
same expert crafts-
man colored the
cheeks and lips of
a well-dressed
young man, impart-
ing to them a
healthy-looking out-
of-doors red. Very
proud of the handi-
work, he cannot
convince some of
his friends that a
tattooist was re-
sponsible for his
pretty complexion! . , ,
Such is the art of the man with the inked
needle! Unlike rouge, the color applied by
the tattoo artist is everlasting, never for a
second leaving the skin. But the operation
hurts like blazes.
“Three R’s”: One of the hurdles in the
recent examination for temporary census
clerks was an elaborate spelling paper that
was responsible for more than one candidate
throwing in the towel. It is questionable
whether accuracy in the matter of arbitrary
conventions of the sort is worth while. Eng
lisli spelling is largely a matter of memo)
ising the words visually, as m the. case ot
the Chinese ideographs. That explains wl
so many highly-educated and intelligent tone
THE MODERNIST.
THE DEVOTEE: “Of course I just love it. It's perfectly adorable. So
you’ll forgive me for thinking it might be even more delightfully
expressed in verse, or musically perhaps.”
who are afflicted with defective memories
for small details fall down in the literal
interpretation of the spoken sound. Our
ancestors wisely ignored the rules of spell-
ing as we regard them to-day. I doubt if
Chaucer would have caught a job on this
census; Shakspeare’s orthography was as
shakv as his writing, and anyone backing
Sir Thomas Malory for a pass could have
been safely told to write his own ticket.
* * « *
“Cromagnon”: This world is full of ex-
traordinary societies of whose existence
most of us are ignorant. There is, for
instance, the Geoplanetic Society, which
exists with ample funds in London to prove
that the world is Hat. The latest to swim
into mv ken is the Society for the Preserva-
tion of Aurochs. The aurochs is a kind ot
prehistoric bison which most people thought
vanished from the earth with the. cavemen
who carved his portrait on their dinner
bones. But there are a few left. The
society has just completed a world census.
There are 73 pure-blooded aurochs, 38 bulls
and. 35 cows. The largest herd is the Duke
of Bedford’s, at Woburn Abbey, in England.
Germany has 22, Poland l->, Sweden <,
Russia 3 and Austria and Hungary one"each.
;J! * *
“Ariota” ; “Larrapinta’s” advice to young
couples to start off in a two-roomed wood
and iron cottage (B. 26/4/’33) isn’t much
good to dwellers in Perth. In 1928 I wanted
to build a wooden house and found that
there were 61 gazetted brick areas in the
city. I was not allowed to build anything
but brick on my block, and the War Service
Homes Department, which X approached for
help, insisted on a tiled roof (extra cos!
£150). Recently when I sought relief .
was told bv an official of the department
that my position would have been better if
my house were wooden. I convinced him
that it wasn’t my- fault.
... :j: * *
“Kripple”: Should a giant earth mound
be set up in Melbourne’s Domain (B.
29/3/’33) it will not be the first of its kind.
THE SPEED MERCHANT.
“But Dick dear, if you don't know where we are why don’t you.
ask?”
“What the blazes is the good of that, you fool! Five minutes
from now we won’t be anywhere near here!”
Overlooking the town of Hawick in Roxburgh-
shire, Scotland, an artificial hill of that sou
] ia s been a landmark for centuries. in
appearance it gives the impression that a
monster oval-shaped bucket had been filled
with soil and upended to form the pile ;
which is perversely known as “The Moat
It stands some 100 ft. high and is coated wita
tntf. The local historian, have never h«
able to fathom why it _ was maid . ■ 1
archaeological societies that have sought t
investigate the inside of the hwp have been
sternly repressed by the town council.
TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve no business to kiss her—
What nonsense! When she’s such a
treasure,
I am loath to dismiss her.
(I’ve no business to kiss her.
She tells me.) Ah, might this her
Mind grasp : it's not business, it s pleasure.
I’ve no business to kiss her—
What nonsense, when she’s such a
treasure!
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,C00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
WHEN PROVIDING FOR YOUR DEPENDANTS
be sure you are in a sound, bonus-paying office.
Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance
Co., Ltd.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Look, Resident Secretary
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agenci es Throughout the States.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Of the 111 members (75 Reps, and 36
Senators;) elected to the first Federal Parlia-
ment 32 years ago only three are now serv-
ing—Pearce in the Upper House and Hughes
and Watkins in the Lower. This fact was
referred to when a group of seven of the
ancients foregathered in Melbourne on the
anniversary of the opening of the first ses-
sion by George V. (then Duke of Cornwall
and York) on May 9, 1901. As far as can
be traced 14 of the original Senators and
21 of the Reps, are still above ground.
Edward VII. made all the members of that
first . Legislature Honorables.
Arthur Henry Moverly, master-builder,
U.A.P. member for Randwick in the N.S.W.
Assembly, will be a busy man for the next
six months. In the absence abroad of T. B.
Cooper, president of Sydney’s Water Board,
he will step up from the vice-presidency to
the chair. He
was first
elected to the
board in 1927
and was un-
opposed at the
next two elec-
tions. For ten
years he was
an alderman of
the Randwick
Council, and
was twice
mayor. In get-
ting himself
elected to Par-
-liam e n t in
1932, by de-
feating Lang-
planner Flana-
gan, lie was
following in
the footsteps
of three earlier
mayors of his
suburb—Gold-
stein, Dun-
ningham and
Jenni n g s.
“Four Per
Cent.” Mover-
ly, as his col-
leagues call
A. H. MOVERLY, M.L.A.
for Randwick (N.S.W.).
him, was born
at Gulgong (N.S.W.) 48 years ago; his
father, a Lambing Flat pioneer, was a store-
keeper. The boy was apprenticed to car-
pentry, and, to extend his horizon, spent six
years in America, where he was employed in
reconstruction work after the San Francisco
earthquake. While in California he was
secretary of the State Rugby Union foot-
ball club, which played the Wallabies when
they visited there in 1909. He is one of
the keenest sportsmen in the House. No
Parliamentary cricket team is complete with-
out him, and he generally manages to top
the score.
Even in his curate days Dr. Mowll, Syd-
ney’s Anglican archbishop-elect, carried a
good deal of weight. The story is told of
him that one day, tired and weary, he called
on a member of his flock, recently widowed.
When offered a seat, the curate dropped into
it so heavily that an air cushion burst. The
widow burst into tears. The curate assured
the lady that he would replace the loss, but she
said she wasn’t crying because of the value
of the thing. “T-thanks all the s-same,” she
sobbed. “But no e-cushion could ever be
the same. The one that you burst was
blown up by my p-poor h-husband with
p-practically his last breath.”
Archbishop Wright left £8570. He made
a will 24 year's ago leaving everything to his
wife and he never altered it. Simultaneously
came the announcement that Lord Inchcape’s
executors will pay £103.000 on his Austra-
lian estate alone. Evidently there is more
money in being a shipowner than a pilot.
Westralian Premier Collier couldn’t get
over for the Loan Council meeting which
was summoned at short notice, so Millington,
the Minister of Agriculture, who was on his
way to a conference at Sydney, was ordered
to break his journey at Melbourne and see
what it was all about. Should the Loan
Council be in need of diversion Millington
can supply it. He is a first-rate mimic. After
a,day or two for contemplation he could be
relied upon to give a life-like imitation of
every other speaker, from Lyons down.
Robert Hamilton Russell, tragically killed
in a car smash in Melbourne, was house
surgeon under Lord Lister, and was pro-
bably the last of the great ones who served
directly under the master. His researches
brought him a fame enjoyed by few men,
and his death is a blow to the medical world
in general, Melbourne particularly. He was
73.
Eric Storey, who died at the Prince of
Wales Hospital, Randwick, was a Digger
and the youngest! son of “Honest John,” the
former Labor Premier. He had enlisted at
the age of 15, and saw over two and a half
years’ service, including the Somme battles,
before the authorities became aware of his
youth. John Storey, of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures, is a brother.
There is word from America of the death
of “Elijah” Dowie’s widow. This genera-
tion doesn’t know Elijah—Elijah 111. —the
prophet who left Australia to set up Zion
City in the U.S.A. and save the whole re-
public ; but to an earlier one he will be a
picturesque memory. His family connec-
tions were mostly with Adelaide, but he
had a couple of churches outside that Slate
—-one at Manly (Sydney) and the other at
East Melbourne—before he started out to
found his new sect. Mrs. Dowie fell out
with her prophet and died in poverty.
George Dean, the young Sydney Harbor
ferry skipper who was the most-talked-about
man in Australia 30-odd years ago, died a
few days back at Hay (N.S.W.) : he had
been doing station work in that district for
years. Dean, charged with wife-murdex-, was
found guilty and sentenced to death; but
he had made so many friends, and Justice
Windeyer who tried him had made so many
enemies, that a royal commission recom-
mended a pardon. Then Julian Salomons
announced that Dick Meagher had confessed
to him that he had defended Dean knowing
him on his own confession to be guilty. In
the subsequent proceedings Dean got 14
years’ for perjury and Meagher was struck
off the rolls —-and was kept off till a Govern-
ment passed a special Act to admit him in
spite of the Pull Court’s opposition.
Arnold Poster, the Maorilander who made
the biggest noise in the U.S.A., was killed
lately in a motor accident at San Francisco.
A few years ago he was vice-president of
the great Bethlehem Steel Coi-p., and he was
president of a steel products co. at the end.
Lionel Hill’s proposal that the S. Aus-
tralian taxpayer should stump up £916 of
exchange on his savings transferred to Eng-
land recalls an early general manager of one
of the great Broken Hill mines. He had
been brought from America in the days when
little was known in Australia of silver-
mining, and soon after his arrival the direc-
tors gladly jumped at his suggestion that
they should finance the purchase of a few
shares for him—it gave them more confidence
than all the reports lie could write. Not long
afterwards he prepared to return to America,
and suggested that the directors might pay
exchange on the transfer of his small savings
in these parts. They agreed—and then dis-
covered that the small savings amounted to
£BO,OOO or thereabout.
Lawyer Trevor D. Oldham, who won the
Boroondai'a seat for the U.A.P. against six
competitors, is a Melbourne Uni. graduate
who ; as a result of studying economics, has
cultivated a strong dislike of Government
T. D. OLDHAM Vic. M.L.A. vice "Big
Brother" Linton.
intrusion into the field of private enterprise.
He was one of the founders of the Young
Nats, and the Constitutional Club, and is
chairman of the U.A.P.’s central executive.
King O’Malley isn’t heard of much these
days; but Hobart “Mercury,” by describing
him as “the late,” has given the old “gilt-
spurred rooster” a chance to flap his wings
once more over the Commonwealth Bank,
which he claims to have alone hatched out.
No chicken now is the rooster. He was
member for Encounter Bay in the South
Aus. Assembly nearly 40 years ago.
-Albert Edward Barton, appointed by the
A. S. Wales Government an adviser in the
carrying out of its policy regarding State
enterprises, has been for a good many years
a trusted consulting accountant. Both
f ederal and State Governments and many
private organisations have engaged his ser-
vices, and he has been a member of or
attached to many royal commissions and
boards of inquiry. A native of Geelong
A. E BARTON, who is reporting to the
N.S.W. Government on State enter-
prises.
(Vic.), lie began work in the National Bank
of Australia. He first hung out his shingle
as a public accountant in Wellington (M.L.I
in 1905, and three years later moved over
to Sydney. Since 1920 he has been special-
ising in the field in which he is an authority.
H'e wrote the first notable Australasian
works on accountancy (1912) and auditing
(1923). Brother John S. added “The Aus-
tralasian Company Secretary” and “Twen-
tieth Century Commerce and Bookkeeping”
to the series.
When it was decided to build Newman
College within Melbourne Uni. 17 years ago,
the man sent around Vic. parishes to ex-
tract the necessary coin was Father P. M.
Parker. Having fulfilled his mission, he
was appointed priest in charge of St.
Brigid’s, N. Fitzroy, and he made it one
of the best-equipped parishes in Australia.
Two bishops and everybody who is anybody
in his church attended the requiem for him
last. week before he was laid in his little
lot in the general cemetery.
Though born at Ballarat, Leo Myers, who
died in London the other day, was by early
inclination an Aucklander. In 1890 lie went
to S’Africa and remained there seven years,
a member of the Johannesburg Stock Ex-
change. In 1910 he went on to the Big
Smoke, where he became a director of the
National Bank of N.Z. and chairman or
director of 14 transport cos. He threw him-
self into Kitchener’s recruiting scheme and
at 43 went on active service as a captain.
Leo was a younger brother of the late
Arthur Myers, a former Cabinet Minister.
Judge Backhouse, who gave George Dean
14 years’ for perjury after he had been sen-
tenced to death for wife-murder and wrongly
pardoned, is still enjoying life in Sydney.
Another of the Judge’s cases arose out of
the great Broken Hill strike 41 years ago:
Mr. Backhouse, a District Court Judge,
was lifted to the Supreme Court Bench and
sent to Deniliquin to try Sleath, Ferguson
and the rest. Away back in the days when
industrial arbitration was first talked about,
Judge Backhouse was appointed a Commis-
sioner to consider the subject; and on his
report the first Conciliation Commission was
set up. He will be 82 on the 28th inst.
The settled policy of Maoriland railway
administration seems to be to give the jobs
at the top to the men who have grown up
in the service. For the highest place of all
they tried importing an Englishman 20 years
ago, and a very good man he was too, but
the service never got used to him, and things
seem to work more smoothly when the chief
lias been through exactly the same mill as
his subordinates. Latest general manager
is G. 11.. Mackley (his predecessor, P. G.
Roussell, another product of the service, died
in harness). Mackley. iike Roussell, has
never had any other employer save N.Z.
Railways. He joined as a cadet at 17 (he’s
now 50) and in his 33 years of service he
has filled practically every second-division
job available. He came very prominently
under the eye of the heads when he was
selected as chief clerk at Wellington in
1928, and in three years he was promoted
to be assistant g.-m. He’s a fair man and
hates injustice. In war-time he jeopardised
his career by becoming the champion of some
inoffensive Dalmatians who were threatened
with internment. As a pillar 0 f the Railway
Officers’ Institute he earned the respect, if
not the affection, of It. W. McVilly, for so
many years the czar of the service. He
starts his term as boss with the approbation
of every man who worked with him, under
him, or over him.
Passed out in Sydney in his 75th year,
Christopher Francis Cullen, at one time a
member of the Irish Constabulary. When
Lord Cavendish and J. H. Burke were mur-
dered at Phoenix Park in May, 1882, Cullen
was one of the party who took the bodies
from the park to the Dublin Hospital. The
deceased’s family have had a Wicklow farm
since 1700, believed to be au Irish record.
After coming to Australia he linked up with
the police force, later becoming a commer-
cial traveller and a director of Hotel Sydney.
Many a Labor candidate defeated in the
South Aus. elections envies the good fortune
of Andy Lacey, who has become Leader of
the Opposition with an allowance of £255
He had a run of nine years in the House of
Reps., and enjoyed the plums of office on
the Works Committee, including the chair-
manship. Then he was defeated for Grey
in 1931, settled in South Aus., and got into
the State Parliament unopposed for Port
Pirie, while local hacks who have been ham-
mering at Parliament House doors for years
were defeated again.
The G.Q.M. of mining in Westralia,
Richard Hamilton, reached 78 last week. He
has been the mainstay of the Great Boulder
Prop, for over 40 years, first as general man-
ager, now as local director and attorney of
the co. For a while in his young days he
went fruit-growing in the Eastern States
(he. was born in Vic.), but mining called
again, and after a term in South America
lie took over the Great Boulder, which, under
him, produced dividends unequalled on the
Golden Mile. During his regime over a
million has gilded shareholders’ pockets He
has been president of the W.A. Chamber of
Mines since its inception. These days he
lives in Perth.
South Aus. has lost one of its chief pas-
toralists and sportsmen in Joseph Keynes,
only 38. He was the third generation to
grow high-class wool at Keyneton. He was
in the Field Artillery in the war (two
wounds), was one of the hardest-riding mem-
bers of the famous Mount Crawford polo
team, and was, incidentally a pillar of the
local Congregational Church.
TAPIA CABALLERO, the Chilean pianist
with Peter Dawson.
C. 11. Bradish goes back to Melbourne to
do publicity work for the Railways.
Bradish went into The Bulletin's Mel-
bourne office as an infant, grew up with
Edmund Fisher, left to join “Punch” and
then crossed over to taste Fleet-street. Re-
turning to Australia, he gave Monty Grover
a hand in running the “World”; and it
wasn’t the fault of either of them that the
venture crashed. The Vic. department’s
other professional spruiker is Richard
Hughes, who also learned things as a Bul-.
letin contributor.
J. J. O’Reilly, one of Bang’s appointees
to the Eeg. Council in ’3l, died on Saturday,
aged 45. O’Reilly got his Labor training
at Broken Hill; he was caught young, and
was conferring with the managers about
miners’ grievances when he was only 23.
Thereafter he held many local Trades Hall
offices; coming to Sydney he got a job with
the “Labor Daily,” and was Northern busi-
ness manager when Lang gave him a seat in
the Council.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
£ £,££,£.
1923.. 10,872 lOp.c. = 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ „ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25.762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in. £6OOO 31,762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. =: 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7500.10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 ~ ~ 7500 11,251 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 .. ~ 9981 10,548 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7000 Nil 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 ~ ~ 7000 1,233 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5000 1,056 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5000 2,300 49,977
Sales notched records in all departments
except cattle, thanks to a run of good
seasons which bumped up the tally of sheep
in the State to the highest yet. The co.
put an extra 8284 bales under the hammer
(80,512), sold 20,047 more sheep and
handled a larger volume of produce. The
wool figures hereunder include the carryover
at the end of each term (there were 10,380
bales at March 31 this year).
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1927 . . 80.157 334.162 20,035 83,969
1929 . . 82,562 286,196 15,165 91,392
1930 .. 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1931 . . 87,232 389,065 14,286 70,132
1932 .. 85,703 391,183 15,466- 65,451
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
Prices remained low —wool averaged £ll
6s. Sd. per bale for the nine months to
the end of March, as against £lO 18s. lid.,
£ll 3s. 9d. and £l3 ss. 6d. for the three
preceding seasons —and a cut of 10 p.c. in
the co.’s warehousing charge (now 6s. 3.6 d.
per bale) involved a reduction of £2256 in
revenue. Thus, after providing for doubtful
accounts, the year’s gross earnings were only
£374 better. Still, a tight hold was kept
upon exes. (£57,765, including provision for
taxation), and, after refunding 20 p.c. of the
wool commissions as against 10 p.c. in the
previous year, enough profit remained to show
5.7 p.c. on capital as against 6.7, 9.5, 7.4.
13.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1928, when wool
averaged £25 4s. 9d. per bale. The div. was
kept at 5 p.c., and it is doubtful whether
anything bettor may be expected for a while.
Shareholders averaged 5.8 p.c. for the first-
dozen years. For the next eight (to March
31, 1929) they, got a steady 10 p.c., and
clients, wlio arc mostly shareholders, re-
ceived £65,834 in rebates, while £27,042, or
more than one-fifth of the aggregate net
earnings, remained in the business. Despite
slump and the growth in taxation, etc., divs.
have continued to flow and bonuses to con-
signors were interrupted only in 1930, though
they are now on a lower scale than they used
to be. Last year's rebate plus the cut in
the warehousing charge was equal to Is. 3d.
per bale.
At the. close of accounts in 1930 the co.
was leaning heavily upon outsiders in order
to assist clients. But as the wool was sold
the position improved :
1923. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £25,142 £100,124 £100,124 £100,124
Mortgages . . 22,290
Sundry creditors,
etc 15,117 197,232 91,935 103,283
Freeholds . . 52,305 146,523 146,523 146,523
Plant, shares in
other cos.,
etc 5,566 19,322' 15,652 12,372
Public sec’ties 3,000 -
Debtors & cash 28,211 186,453 87,601 102,488
Last year there was a drop of £22,230 in
debtors’ balances (£60,678) and a growth of
£11,348 in the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. The cash holding (£41,810)
was strengthened by £37,117. The excess of
liabilities over more or less liquids was re-
duced by £3539, leaving it at £795.
The pound shares are covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 295. lid., all
in freehold, etc. The scrip is not listed.
Perkins and Co. (Q.)
Dividend and To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1923.. 24,675 64 p.c. = 24,555 120 29,409
1924.. 28,353 7 ~ „ 26,444 1909 31,318
1925.. 30,427 8 „ ~ 29,332 1095 32,413
1926.. 23,550 8 ~ ~ 28,443 27,520
1927.. 23,858 6J ~ ~ 23,492 366 27,886
Assets written up, £lB,OOO .. .. 45,886
Loss.
1928.. 16,561 Nil 29,325
1929.. 26.955 Nil 2,370
Profit.
1930.. 652 Nil 652 3,022
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 85,775 Nil 82,753
1932.. 4,070 Nil 86,823
1933.. 1,353 Nil 88,176
This co. used to be the most prosperous of
Queensland brewers, but it lost its grip
on the trade, and then plunged into debt in
an effort to revive turnover; and the trans-
fer of £222,222 from reserves to capital dur-
ing the five years to the close of accounts
in 1920 has not been a help either. The
outlook became so glum that in July, 1928,
the brewery plant and trade of the hotels
wore sold to Castlemaine and Quinlan, Gray
and Co., which thereupon altered its name-
plate to Castlemaine Perkins.
The vendor got 160,000 paids (face value
12s. od.), priced at 155., and later took up
another 40,000 at par. The book value
of the freeholds was written up £111.560
to offset the loss on plant, etc. Then,
to wipe out the overdraft and lighten the
remaining burden, half the holding in Castle-
maine Perkins was sold at 18s. a share,
together with some of the freeholds and
leases. Incidentally, it was provided that
T. W. Biggs, then chairman of Perkins, was
to be given a seat on the board of the pur-
chasing co.
Yet the drift continued. Many old cus-
tomers’ balances turned out to be bad debts
—£84,932, which was not enough, was struck
off on this account a couple of years ago—
and some of the remaining hotels and other
properties have got in the way of profits.
Last year an investigation of the co.’s affairs
disclosed some extraordinary things. For
instance, between May 1, 1923, and Jan. 15,
1924, 35 board meetings were held with
only one director (T. W. Biggs, the chair-
man) present. The Biggses had sold a
number of hotels to the co., and also made
advances to it on deposit, dating back to
1911. At the end of February, 1932, the sum
thus involved w r as over £45,000. As security
for this and another debt, 60.000 Castle-
maine Perkins shares and the deeds of the
Empire Hotel were transferred from Perkins
to T. W. Biggs, who resigned from the board
at the end of January, 1932. After much
acrimonious discussion amongst shareholders,
the board decided to make a settlement with
the Biggses by transferring outright 45,000
Castlemaine Perkins shares at 14s. each
in part payment of a debt of £44,670; the
balance (£13,170) to be paid by instalments,
with interest at 5| p.c.
Thus 15,000 Castlemaine Perkins shares
were re-transferred from T. W. Biggs to
the co.. making its holding 55,000 shares, all
of which appear to have been sold during
the 12 months to the close of last accounts.
Including something from the sale of leases
and £334 recovered on account of bad debts,
the profit on sales, etc., was £18,157. Divs.
turned in £2689 (down £2311) and rents,
etc., £8744 (down £2903), making total
income £29,590. No less than £10,989
(£6886 more than in the previous year) was
struck off for bad debts; management
charges etc., made off with £19,954, includ-
ing £6791 for depreciation, leaving the final
balance £1353 on the wrong side.
The position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows
1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £374,708 £378,966 £380,113
Seemed creditor.-; . . 91.356 85,056 44,522
Other creditors .. 23,253 17,698 10,732
Brewery freehold, etc. ] f 59,071 56,984
Freehold hotels- J- 288,720 ( 214,970 210,266
Leasehold hotels J ( 9,913 9,913
Stocks .. . . 989
Shares other cos. .. 62,704 62,704 4,908
Debtors 54,487 47,692 56,706
Cash 654 547 7,423
Last year the book value of shares in other
cos. was reduced by £57,796, while £40,534
was knocked off the amount coming to
secured creditors, £6966 off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, and £9014 was added
to debtors’ balances. Including shares, the
more or less liquid surplus (£14,772) im-
proved £6583 over the twelvemonth.
The trouble is that some of the hotels,
together with rates and taxes on the old
brewery property, etc., gobble surplus earn-
ings from the rest and leave a balance “of
some thousands of pounds a year on the
wrong side.” Including depreciation, last
year’s management charges exceeded rents,
etc., by £11.210. What shareholders will
ultimately get out of the business largely
depends upon how soon losses can be
arrested and what the properties fetch
when they can be sold; Castlemaine
Perkins has first refusal for the next
20 years. The board thinks there should
be 10s. per pound of paid capital in it;
that is £lOl,BBl less than the net tangible
book value at Feb. 28. The market is less
hopeful, and prices the scrip at 2s. lOd.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1925. .25,291 124 p.e. = 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926..25.347 124 „ ~15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926..28,446 15 „ „ 18,90 b 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 124 „ „ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927.-28,378 124 „ .. 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179,457
Feb., 1928.-28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 124 „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb.j 1929. .28,503 124 P.e. 15,750 Lq fzo 007 400
Staff fund, £2OOO .. _ } IU,753 207,499
July, 1929. .24,071 224 p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930. .29 016 15 „ 18,900 \ 212>32 7
Staff fund. £lOOO • • • - )
July, 1930..22,285 124 p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931. .21,437 124 „ ~15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
Julv, 1931.. 16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
Jan., 1932.. 19,491 9 „ ~11,340 8,151 239,914
Julv, 1932. .18,490 10 „ ~ 12,600 5,890 245,804
Jan., 1933.-20,873 10 „ „ 12,600 8,273 254,077
This co.. which runs a chain of drug stores
in Sydney, occupies an unusually strong
position; the hoarding of surplus earnings,
large-scale buying and general efficiency
have combined to set it there. Though
several new stores have been opened, the
bo,ard has been unable to find employment
in the business for all the surplus earnings.
These have been swollen by profits from the'
sale of freeholds, some of which were picked
up cheap early in this century and sold
before the boom burst.
The next table shows how stoutly ribbed
the co. is financially:—•
Jan.,’3o. Jan.,’3l. Jan.,’32. Jan.,’33.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £252,000 £252,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 50,253 37,222 46,914 57,810
Premises, stock,
plant, etc... 181,157 169,955 141.832 134,590
Book debts .. 166,741 159,185 149,275 149,985
Public securities 175,170 177,170 203,921 271,112
Cash, etc. .. 20,782 23,584 47,906 17,585
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 3,630 13,628 21,234 17,216
Last year £10,896 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. What the
etcetera is the “Wild Cat” does not know,
but the £lO,OOO-odd and all other money
that became or was made available was put
out again in Government securities, some of
which were bought well below par.
At the end of January Government
securities alone were £19,162 in excess of
paid capital. Exactly wdiat the board’s
intentions are it has not disclosed. What
the market notes is that a part return of
capital may benefit investors in more ways
than one, though old shareholders would
have difficulty in finding an equally sound
investment to yield anything like the return
they are now getting. On ’Change the
pound shares have advanced from 41s. Gd.
to 575. over the last 12 months. Allowing
for the final div. (25.), the return at 575.
is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; it would
be a shade over 5 p.c. on a 14. P-C- distnbu-
tion. The visible backing is 40s. -u. m net
tangibles. , „ , t , ~ ,
Net earnings for the 12 months to
closd of last accounts were 15.6 p.c. on
capital as against 14.2, 17.3, -2 and
22.7 p.c. back to 1928. Still, the div. was
kept at 10 p.c.: for the dozen years to the
end of Jan., 1931, it was steady at 124
p.c., sweetened at intervals with cash
bonuses, which raised the average distribu-
tion to 15 p.c.
Miller Anderson, Ltd. (Adelaide)
f Dividends ■, Towards
Net Pref. b c "
Jan., Profits. S p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £,£.£■
1928.. 11,565 4000 8 p.c. = 6000 1565 5,435
1929.. 10,339 4000 8 ~ ~ 6000 339 5,096
1930.. 7,116 5200 4,, „ 3000 6,180
Loss.
1931.. 3,296 3200* Nil 12,676
1932.. 11,835 Nil Nil 24,511
Profit.
1933.. 23 Nil Nil 24,488
*llalf-year’s div.
This Adelaide drapery business, which had
been in the Miller Anderson family for about
three-quarters of a century, became one of
the units of the Marcus Clark organisation
in 1927, Marcus Clark (Vic.) having bought
all the 75,000 ord. shares. The premises
were remodelled, and enough was earned to
pay an all-round 8 p.c. for the first two
years Then the parent took up a further
30,000 ords. and the public a like number
of prefs. at a premium of 6d. each, raising
paid capital to £185,000 in 80,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 105,000 ords., and enabling the
co. to lighten the debt, carry more stocks
and further extend credit.
Thus slump caught the co. with stocks
and book debts at their highest, and the
weight of the mortgage has made itself felt,
of course. After taking stocks into account
at £16,711 below the 1931 figure, a loss of
£11,835 was recorded for the 12 months to
the end of January, 1932. Last year prices
were steadier at lower levels, new depart-
ments were opened, and the carpet section
was extended. Still, only a handful of profit
was squeezed out of the business, though the
result was £11,858 better than the previous
year’s..
The position as balance-sheet, figures show
if is as follows: —
1928. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £185,000 £185,000 £185,000
Mortgages . . 110,357 98,333 92,500 86,667
Sundry creditors 22,733 13,911 9,237 24,315
Freehold . . 133,370 146,438 146,050 145,865
Equipment . . 19,133 25,020 24,245 24,809
Stocks . . 73,742 71,156 54,445 62,136
Book debts . . 28,003 40,998 37,284 38,526
Cash.. 3,407 956 2*02 158
Thus to snip £5833 off the mortgage, carry
an extra of book debts and add £7691
to the book value of stocks, the co. leant
upon sundry creditors for a further £15,078
last year. When the books closed, outside
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids, in-
cluding stocks, by £10,162, a slip of £356
over the twelvemonth.
Pref. shareholders are to be asked to
agree to a modification of their dividend
rights; to what extent has not yet been an-
nounced. The scrip, which now carries a
cumulative 8 p.c., and has priority as to
capital, is priced at 11s. 6d. on the market
as against 9s. 9d. a year ago. It is covered
by net. tangibles with a book value of 40s.
Id.; at the end of January the div.
had fallen £16,000 (=4s. per share) in
arrears.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 8465 10 p.c. = 7930 534 13,309
1923 .. 8117 10 „ ~ 7930 187 13,496
1924 .. 8744 10 „ „ 7930 814 14,310
1925 . . 8830 10 „ ~ 7930 900 15,210
1926 . . 8790 10 ~ ~ 7930 860 16,070
1927 . . 9131 10 „ „ 7930 1201 17,271
1928 . . 9730 10 „ „ 7930 1800 19,071
1929 . . 8540 10 „ ~ 7930 610 19,681
1930 .. 6032 74 „ „ 5947 85 19,766
1931 . . 1484 6J „ „ ' 4758 - 16,492
1932 . . 5028 7 „ „ 5551 15,969
Last year’s 7 p.c. includes a special bonus
of 1 p.c. to celebrate the 75th anniversary of
the foundation of the business, laid by John
Charles Ludowici. In 1891 the undertaking
was registered as a co., but it was not until
1911, when the founder retired, that the
public became interested. For 14 years,
including the short, sharp slump of 1921.
shareholders received a steady 10 p.c. Mean-
while the co. had built up an export trad?
with Asia in belting and the other leather
products it manufactures ; and it has main-
tained its overseas connections, despite dis-
turbed conditions.
The dulness locally, the recession in prices
and primage on raw hides from Maoriland
ate into the 1931 figures. But savings fol-
lowed an overhaul of production methods,
new lines were introduced and a branch was
opened in Melbourne. One result was a
spring of £3544 in last year’s net earnings,
which were 6.3 p.c. on capital as against
1.8, 7.6. 10.7, 12.2 and 11.5 p.c. back to
1927.
Balance-sheet movements are encourag-
ing:—
1925. 1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities 32,854 30,723 31,141 30,765 25,904
Freeholds. 50,576 50,881 50,881 50,881 50,881
Plant, etc. 7,994 9,450 7,360 7,677 6,653
Stocks . . 50,639 50,925 51,209 47,373 42,239
Book debts 21,965 21,732 21,762 21,744 23,751
Cash, etc. 1,499 1,315 2,840 2,259 1,786
Thus, last year, a drop of £5134 in the book
value of stocks was accompanied by a growth
of £2007 in debtors’ balances and a shrink-
age of £4861 in the outside debt. The more
or less liquid surplus (£41.872, including
stocks) was £1261 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance. Plant, on which £1024 more
was written off than was spent during the
year, is claimed to be in good order; much
depends upon that.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 245. in net tangibles, at 21s. as
against 15s. 6d. a year ago. The return at
21s. is 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Shamrock Brewing and Malting (Melb.)
Net To -Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
1923.. 10,660 14.6 p.e. = 11,484 20,029
1924.. 12,808 14.6 „ ~11,484 1324 21,353
1925.. 13,222 14.6 „ ~ 11,484 1738 23,091
1926.. 15.665 17 „ ~13,349 2316 25,407
1927.. 15,792 17 „ ~13,349 2443 27,850
1928.. 15,688 17 ~ ~ 13,349 2339 30,189
1929.. 16,106 17 „ ~ 13,349 2757 32,946
1930.. 9,775 12 „ „ 9,423 352 33,298
1931.. 8,387 11 „ „ 8,638 33,047
1932.. 8,913 11 „ „ 8,638 275 33,322
This is one of the half-dozen holding cos.
through which the public is interested in
Carlton and United Breweries. Of the
C.U.B.’s 1,950,000 £1 shares Shamrock
owns 83,409 —10,549 7 p.c. cum. prefs., which
advance with the ords. beyond that rate,
and 72,500 ords. These stand in the books
at cost, £84,780. At the end of last year
the only other assets were a solitary hotel
freehold, £4553, and advances, cash, etc.,
£28.154.
What the shares and the other assets have
turned in the next table shows: —
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Dividends. etc. Dividends. etc.
1921.. £9,157 £1349 | 1927.. £15,027 £1560
1922.. 10,009 1236 1928.. 15,027 1587
1923.. 11,912 1356 1929.. 15,027 1960
1924.. 12,431 1269 1930.. 10,874 ' 2262
1925.. 12,950 1102 1931.. 8,798 2090
1926.. 15,027 1364 1932.. 8,798 1628
Exes. (£1513) were £9BB lighter, leaving
enough to show 11.3 p.c. on the £78,525 of
capital as against 10.7, 12.4 and 20.5 p.c.
for the three preceding years. So the div.
was kept at 11 p.c. Shamrock’s proportion
(£1232) of C.U.B.’s undistributed profit for
the 12 months to June 30 last was equal
to another 1.5 p.c. on its capital.
For the 12 months to the end of June,
1932, C.U.B. netted 11.4 p.c. on its capital
as against 12.3. 17, 21.6 and 22.8 p.c. back
to 1928. It paid 10 p.c. as against 111 p.c.
and 15 p.c. for the two preceding years
and 171 P-e. for the three years before
that. Certainly business generally has
improved a little since the close of last
accounts, but the trade is subject to special
taxation, early relief from which need not
be looked for. Increased beer consumption
will depend largely upon the growth of
employment. Meanwhile, the co. has seized
the opportunity which the slump in the
value of hotel properties gave it to secure
more of the trade, and that should mean
much when better times come along.
At 375. 6d. Shamrock’s pound shares re-
turn 5.8 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div. basis. To
shareholders the div. is free from the special
Federal tax of 2s. in the £ on income from
property. Including the co.’s proportion of
C.U.B.’s reserves, the net asset backing is
425. 8d- per share; that includes Bs. Bd.
for goodwill in the C.U.B.’s figures.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
—Dividends To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit.* Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.!
it £ £ £
19 23. . 13,237 .8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8910) 3562 2 70g
Staff bonus .. .. £765 j
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924 ' ’cf If’ 6 *? 6 8 P ' C ' 10 P ' C ‘ c innn £ 3526 23,870
Staff bonus, .. ..£lOOO 1
1925 20,789 8 p.c. 10 p.c 9616 ) 9922 33,792
Staff bonus . . . . £1250 )
1926. . 18,935 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 11,563 1 6122 39)914
Staff bonus . . • • £1250 )
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 .. ■ ■ 37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 5236 42,673
Trade-marks, etc., £lO . • • • 42,663
1930.. 4,524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262. . 36,925
Loss.
1931.. 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Transferred to assets revaluation Deficit.
reserve, £56,486 .. .. .. 21,652
Profit.
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17,600
*After charging previous year’s taxation.
!Goodwill (£25,000) not treated as an asset.
During the decade to the end of 1929
Caldwell’s, who began collecting champion
ribbons and medals for their wines in the
I'BBo’s, gathered £83,398 of fresh capital and
added £42,752 net to the outside debt. The
money was used mostly to liven production
and to buy a number of licensed houses. But
slump and other difficulties brought a heavy
fall in the value of all licensed premises, and
made collection of some of the co.’s secured
and other tradq accounts impossible. So, when
the books closed in 1931, all available reserves
were tossed into an assets revaluation
account; this totalled £61,486, including
an investment reserve, of £5OOO, which has
not been treated as a free reserve herein.
Last year the £61.486 was used to bring
the book value of assets more into line with
what their actual worth to the co. is reck-
oned to be. This comparison of balance
sheet figures shows what has been done:—
1922. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £80,500 £143,398 £143,398 £143,398
Deposits . . 12,820 29,198 20,547 18,270
Mortgages, etc. 19,687 19,154 18,880
Overdraft • * 24,855 24,543 32,962 27,013
Other liabilities 15,631 22,660 11,001 15,942
Properties, plant, _ _ „„ „.
etc 45,773 162,309 171,716 132,109
Book debts .. 28,449 49,459 40,134 27,579
Stocks . . 65,469 50,311 33,823 29,899
Cash, etc. . . 551 2,781 2,322 2,365
Shares in other _ 18>900 18)900 13,900
Freehold and leasehold licensed premises
now r figure at £75,636, or £39.118 less than
a year ago. There has been little change
in the net book value of the vineyards,
cellars, etc. (£35,417), and plant (£21,056
—£3703 less than valuation). The reduc-
tion in secured debtors’ balances (£12,805)
was £5BBO. and in unsecured accounts
(£16,757), £7562. A sum of £oooo was
struck off shares in other cos.; stocks were
only £3924 lower. Goodwill, not treated as
an ‘ asset herein, is unchanged at £25,000.
The net reduction in the outside debt was
£3559, leaving the total £6363 in excess ot
more or less liquids, including shares and
stocks, when the books closed. The apparent
slip in the financial position was £17,8< t,
due to adjustments just referred to. These
adjustments will, of course, not affect tli*>
co.’s ordinary trade turnover.
The export bounty on wine, winch was 4s
in 1925, had dropped to Is., but was raised
to Is. 9d. for the five years to March,
1935 At the same time the Government
increased the duty on fortifying spirit by
100 i) c. • also cheap Continental wines flooded
the London market, so that stocks accumu-
(“Wild Cat'’ continued on page 16.)


i
mm
//
ARDATH
BLEND
is the secret
"ARDATH"
BLEND
There’s a very special
difference about
"Ardath blended"
tobacco "Three-
Threes" have it.
? ? ?
THE TIPS
Both the special Cork
Tips and the Plain Tips
of "Three-Threes" are
very pleasant to the
lips.
THE PACKING
The quadruple wrap-
ping (Tissue : Tin foil :
Carton : Outer Wax-
paper) ensures fresh-
ness of condition
always.
? ? ?
THE PRICE
"Three-Threes" are
extraordinary quality-
value NINE FOR
SIXPENCE.
“THREE :
THREES
s
•U
m
m
Yi
n
w..
0
Vi
• ■: J
/
a
r
u
Q
z *°n)
nun-
Princesses : “With these silver sixpences purchase
Three-Threes —nine Three-Threes with each gleaming coin.
Let not the King see ye, lest he hog
them himself. Haste in all secrecy
and return ye right speedily. If the
Captain of the Guard halt ye, sock
him one, yet tarry not/'
c
A
Al
O
rt
&
(Express
333
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
18(0,1'- 27 for.1'6 9 for 6 J
ALSO FLAT FIFTIES, FLAT HUNDREDS
AND ROUND AIR-TIGHT FIFTIES’


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trademarks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.wson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.l. — Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * # *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding • value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. Advt.
GOLD
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
-‘rR
m
'’KpS^
e/^v.
WflW
jAiwrcr
$1
PROTECTING
the nation's mothers
THE greatest protection that a man can provide for the
Best Woman in the World is to insure his life for an
amount sufficient to provide her with an adequate income
should he die before her.
What should that amount be? That depends upon whether
his wife will need one, two, three or four pounds a week to
keep her in comfort.
The sum of £l,OOO invested at 5 per cent, will give an income
of approximately a pound a week, and! a man in good health,
aged 30 next birthday, can secure a policy in the A.M.P. for
£l,OOO, payable at his death, for a half-yearly investment
equal to less than ten shillings a week. Where is the
man, in work, who could not save ten shillings a week to
provide for the future comfort and security of his wife and
family?
The day a man pays his first premium he creates a death
“estate” of £l,OOO. That is the wonderful thing about
assurance: it provides IMMEDIATE protection and, with the
A.M.P., the best result. Moreover, this “estate” grows by
added bonuses year by year. Many a policy has doubled
itself in value before it was paid over.
Delay is costly. Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. officer
and learn how little this protection costs.
AMP. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager:
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.I.A.
Assistant General Manager:
F. F. McBRYDE.
Actuary:
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A
BRANCH OFFICES AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout All States.
New policies issued iosfyecrr
£i 3. 6 10, 326
lated and broke down prices locally. Owing
to these and other difficulties none have
squeezed much profit out of the trade during
the last, four years or more.
Last year’s cut in the basic wage in N. S.
Wales further affected anything in the
nature of luxury commodities. Still, Cald-
well’s increased their turnover. Gross earn-
ings (£31,651) were £1267 better ; manage-
ment charges, etc. (£27,227) were £2930
lighter, leaving the declared profit (£4424)
£4196 better than the previous year’s. But
no specific allowance was made for taxation.
The £4002 of profit shown in the table is
arrived at after deducting the tax bill for
1931 (£422), paid in 1932 and charged
against the balance brought forward in the
accounts.
The prefs.—there are 40,000 of them—
carry a nominal 8 p.c. cumulative, reduced
to 6.2 p.c. by the statutory cut. At the
end of this year there will be £11,930
(= ss. lid. per share) in accrued divs. coming
to them. At the end of Dec. the net tan-
gible cover was £3 2s. lOd. The ords. are
covered by 16s. 7d. in net tangibles. Neither
class of shares has an active market.
The Metal Market
The market reflects the opinion of those
who buy and sell in it; and there are few
if any better indicators of the trend of
world conditions generally than the London
metal market. Here there has been a
sharp rise in the price of base and other
metals, as the following table shows; —
Lowest Since Average,
Copper Dec. 31,’32. April,’33. 12/5/’33.
(standard) £27 3 9 £29 15 5 £34 9 4
Lead .. 10 2 C 10 19 11 12 18 9
Spelter .. 13 10 0 15 1 7 15 10 0
Tin . . 141 2 6 158 0 4 187 13 9
Gold .. 5 18 0 608 633
Silver (fine) 1 44 1 6|- 1 8J
Thus, compared with the lowest figure
reached since the end of last year, there has
been a spring of 33 p.c. in the sterling price
of tin; 27.7 p.c., lead; 26.8 p.c., copper;
15.3 p.c., spelter. It has been due very
largely to developments in the U.S.A., where
measures to be taken to depreciate the
value of the paper dollar have brought about
a rush for commodities and sound industrial
securities, with, of course, an inevitable rise
in prices.
Rumors that Britain and the U.S.A. are
discussing a currency agreement involving
a return to gold at lower mint pars have
encouraged hopes that prices generally will
settle down at a level much higher than
that of a few months ago. Upon such an
agreement would largely depend' the future
price of gold. Much, however, also depends
upon the outcome of the World Conference
in London next month. Its decisions will
largely determine whether world trade_ will
take shape along the lines of closed national
economies or of economic internationalism.
All this and confidence that a favorable vote
on the referendum in N. S. Wales would be
recorded have been reflected in the all-round
rise in the price of Stock Exchange securi-
ties locally.
Tin
The following table shows the statistical
position of tin during April for the last
three years:—
/ —April
1933. 1932. 1931.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Stocks, end month . . 42,006 50,406 48,233
Deliveries ... .. 8,167 7,128 10,444
Total supplies.. .. 7,727 7,147 9,993
Thus stocks were drawn upon for only 440
tons last month, while deliveries were 2277
tons lighter than they were in April, 1931,
when the metal averaged £123 per ton. About
three months ago stocks held by the pool
were estimated at 21,000 tons, which was
to be disposed of gradually after the price
reached £360 per ton. Cos. operating under
the international restriction scheme are now
producing at less than one-third capacity,
and it may be a long time before they reach
full production. However, there is a ready
sale for quotas in Malaya, and the scheme
suits some cos. very well. Incidentally, the
Standard Oil Co. is reputed to be the world’s
largest individual buyer of tin.
Owing to the rise in the price of the metal
there has been extensive pegging of aban-
doned leases on the north-east coast of Tas.,
which is one of the most promising tin dis-
tricts in Australia.
The Tasman and Crown Lyell mine,
adjoining the Lyell Comstock, has been taken
over by the Mt. Lyell Co. The Tasman and
Crown was re-prospected by B. H. Block 14
Exploration Co. in 1929, when several lenses
of banded lead-zinc ore, somewhat similar
to the Rosebery ore, were proved in an adit.
The Mt. Lyell Co. is driving the main tun-
nel (now 1520 ft. long) under the Comstock
ore-body, which contains 650,000 tons of 3
p.c. copper ore. At present 2700 tons are
mined weekly from the Comstock, the ore
being taken in 10-ton trucks along a 2ft. sur-
face tramway.
North Australian Mines, a Sydney con-
cern, is on the market with 100,000 shill-
ing shares. It has taken an option from
Sino Development over an 80-acre lease
near the Pine Creek Railway and 140 miles
from Darwin. A 200 ft. shaft has proved a
reef 15ft. wide, with assays up to 30dwt„
and unwatering has commenced. Diamond
drilling has also shown good grade stone at
a vertical depth of 900 ft. Two vertical
reefs, 300 ft. apart, are to be tested. These
were worked by prospectors over 40 years
ago, but no adequate crushing facilities were
then available, and costs were high
* * * ; *
Bulolo Gold Deposits, which has a large
sluicing area on Ivoranga Creek, New
Guinea, has ordered plant capable of treat-
ing 100,000 c.y. monthly, and has enlarged
its four-mile water race from Wau Creek.
The plant is expected to be at work within
four months. Manager Moen says the ground
is ideal for sluicing. Values are put at
Is. 6d. a yard and costs at 2d. Meanwhile,
boring of the co.’s dredging area on the
lower Watut is proceeding under J. R.
Bturkey; he used to be with Anglo-Oriental
in Malaya.
* * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has driven a total of
72ft. east and west on the new' No. 4 level
in ore worth from 31s. to 445. per ton (gold
845.) over widths up to 7ft. The results
obtained from this level, which is 150 ft.
below No. 3, will be an important factor
in determining the value of the mine. The
ore is hard, and mining and milling output
and costs are affected thereby. During
April 4320 tons were crushed for 25970 z.,
an average of 12dwt. per ton.
* * ij:'
A party on the South End Glassford
mine, outside Many Peaks (Q.), has crushed
23 tons 7cwt. at Chillagoe for 370 z. of gold,
118 oz. of silver and 34 tons of copper; the
lot is valued at £3Bl. ”
$ * $
Golden Gate, Ltd., formerly Dawn of
Cracow, has taken a 12 months’ option over
a large low-grade property at Nundle, 47
miles from Tamworth (N.S.W.). Two lodes
have been proved for two miles. Conditions
are favorable for large-scale operations.
* * * *
Gold Mines Development, operating the
Yankee at Trentham (Vic.), is installing
new ore-bins, a jaw crusher and a Cornish
pumping plant. The classifiers and blanket
tables, recently erected, are working satis-
factorily. The mill throughput is to be in-
creased to 300 ton's fortnightly, and recov-
eries are expected to improve. The average
grade is 9dwt. The main shaft is now being
sunk 100 ft. below the 230 ft. level. There are
three parallel reefs to the west of the Yankee
that the co. will test at the first opportunity.
❖ ijs Jfc
Fourteen leases, including the Comstock
and Walkers, have been pegged in the St.
Arnaud district (Vic.) on behalf of English
interests. Fissure reefs, varying in width
from a few inches up to 20ft„ have been
mined to depths of 2400 ft. in this area, and
gold valued at £1,500,000 has been extracted.
The gold is associated with pyrite and
galena, and the bullion contains more silver
than is usual in Victoria.
At Monument Hill, Bendigo, a crosscut
on the 740 ft. level has intersected the west
leg of an old saddle reef, and gold is showing
freely over a width of 12in. The reef is
to be further tested on the S2oft. level. The
mine is on the Deborah line, which is one
of the lesser important anticlines.
* * * !■:
A Melbourne syndicate has taken over the
Catherine. Williams United, Belmont and
Saxby. on the New Chum line, at Bendigo.
The Catherine shaft is down to 2300 ft. All
four are to be unwatered and tested at
shallow depths.
The Far East, Gordon (Vic.), from which
some picked stone averaged 2-Joz., has been
purchased by a Broken Hill co. The shaft,
down to 70ft., is to be deepened, and driving
undertaken. A new reef showing high-grade
stone has been found to the north.
After an absence of 12 months, osmiridium
buyers are operating at Adamsfield (Tas.)
again. The price now offered locally is
£8 15s. per ounce. The London figure is
around £lO per ounce, which, including ex-
change, is equal to over £l2 in Australian
currency. The disparity suggests that it
might pay Adamsfield producers better to
adopt some kind of co-operative scheme, and
market the metal on their own account in
London.
* * * *
At Mathinna (Tas.) a reef 3ft. wide has
been traced on the surface for 700 ft., with
assays varying from 7dwt. to 23dwt. Driv-
ing at depth is to be undertaken. A shaft
has been sunk to the north of the old Golden
Gate, and the continuation of the lode met
a depth of 200 ft. There are also promising
indications at Tower Hill near by.
Holdfast Gold, which diverted the Whyte
River (Tas.) through a tunnel in order
to lay bare a large section of the river-
bed, found that gold values were not nearly
so high as was anticipated. Operations
have been suspended.
W. S. Robinson, Colin Fraser and others
have engaged geological and geophysical
experts to examine concessions in Westralia
north as far as Kimberley and south to
Dundas. They are also negotiating for
options over two or three claims on the fringe
of the Golden Mile. Lindesay Clark is their
geological expert, and H. E. Vail and Dick
Hamilton their . local consulting engineers.
If all goes well a big float in . London may
follow.
Great Boulder (W.A.) is hopeful that
deep level prospecting now in progress will
have a cheerful effect on share prices before
long. The new work includes crosscuts east
from the main workings towards the Lake
View boundary at the 1600 ft. and 1900 ft.
levels, and a crosscut some distance north of
the main workings to be extended from the
No. 5 level in an easterly direction. Some-
thing should be known about the end of this
month, when the manager is due in London.
$ #
Sons of Gwalia may presently have another
iron in the fire in the shape of the old Moon-
light lead at Kanowna (W.A.). This gold
deposit is mostly tenacious clayey pug, the
main constituent of which is kaolin. Treat-
ment has not been profitable so far because
of the extremely fine state of the gold and
the sticky nature of the pug, which make
crushing and recovery difficult.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What are the prospects for platinum? —
6009.
They are not bright. During the last
few years the sterling price of the metal has
fallen from £3O to £7 10s. per ounce. In
1932 production from the Acton Refinery
of the Mond Nickel Co.. London, was
26,2130 z. compared with 44.7250 z. in the
previous year. Copper-nickel oi’es at Lud-
bury (Canada) contain a small amount of
platinum arsenide, which is recovered
as a residue. This residue, which is
dispatched to London, is one of the most im-
portant sources of the supply of platinum
and allied metals —palladium, iridium and
osmium. At the important S. African
mines production is now on a small scale.
The peak platinum production in Australia
was 6400 z. in 1920, the metal being obtained
from Platina, near Fifield (N.S.W.). /With
the fall in the price the output has greatly
decreased.
(1) Practical works on cyaniding and
flotation? (2) 'Name of assayer, and cost
of testing sample? —46lo.
(1) “Cyaniding Gold and Silver Ores,"
by H. Forbes Julian and Edgar Smart.
“Cyanide Process," by James Park.
“Cyanide Handbook,” by J. E. Clennel.
“Manuel of Flotation Process,” by A. F.
Taggart. “The Flotation Process,” by H.
A. Megraw. (2) Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co., Port Kcmbla (N.S.W.). Cost
would depend upon requirements.
> BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.8.F.: (1) Try H. B. Selby and Co., Bulletin-
place, Sydney. (2) Try Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, or Tait Book Co., 39 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. (3) “Stamp Milling and Cyaniding,” sold
bv Tait Book Co., Melbourne; price 245., postage
Sd A.W.W.: F. C. Cuthbert and G. 0. Wilkinson
took the show over and formed the co., the New
Misima, which lifted its divs. from Is. to Is. 6d.
early this year .P.F.C.: (1) Lake View and Star
and Wiluna for preference'. Norseman at 13s. 6d. is
still worth considering. (2) Very doubtful whether
they will reach 23s F.J.T.: Keep up your pay-
ments; the office is quite sound... .W.O’K.: Yes;
but you would do much better in one of the several
big offices which pay regular bonuses... .M.E.IC.:
The bonds are a long-term speculation. If you
cannot afford to lose, keep 0ut.... Shore: Ask for a
paid-up policy.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
White Australia in the North
I have just completed an intensive tour
of far-northern and Gulf properties, extend-
ing west from Townsville to Normanton aiid
north to the Mitchell River, travelling over
90-odd station holdings. Everywhere the
predominance of very cheap black labor over
white is most marked. Surely some regu-
lation limiting the proportion of blacks em-
ployed should he introduced, if only in the
interests of our youths who are out of work.
The mating of the blacks in these parts with
other races also calls for immediate inves-
tigation.—D. R. A. P. (Q.).
Banks and Their Advances
In “The Grazier and His Debts” a gra-
zier correspondent (B. 12/4/’33) writes of
his agony of anxiety and suspense when he
visits his friendly bank manager because he
is always in dread of being told not to draw
any more cheques. In my experience, bank
loans are arranged for specified limits and
for specified periods, so, provided the bor-
rower observes his side of the contract,
there is no occasion for his nervous system
to be torn to pieces by uncertainty. It is
all .very well for another grazier corres-
pondent to suggest that the banks convert
existing advances into fixed loans of 33
years, but I suggest that he call in at his
bank and see what they have to say about
it. I think the reply would be: “That may
be very helpful to you, my friend, but how-
are we to lend for a period of 33j years
when our advances are based on deposits of
varying terms, from on demand to two years,
and what would be the attitude of our de-
positors should we even contemplate such
a proposal?” Should the banks act along the
lines of this correspondent’s suggestion,
there would not be much need for them to
worry about changes of Government and pos-
sible adverse legislation—they wouldn’t be
in existence to feel the effect. — Depositor.
Graziers or Gamblers ?
A large property was sold in the boom
years. The only payment made was approxi-
mately the value of the stock and plant;
this took all the money the purchaser had;
long terms were given for the balance. Now
the purchaser has defaulted on both interest
and principal payments. It was simply a
wild-cat gamble in land and stock, in which
the gambler has lost. Hundreds of other
properties were sold on somewhat similar
terms, and the sooner the original holders
are allowed to repossess them the better.
They could then sell at present-day values,
enabling them to meet the liabilities which
many of them have contracted. There has
been a lot of talk that if certain men are
ruined the grazing industry wall go down.
The industry is in no danger. It is only the
gamblers mentioned above who are in that
position. We have heard a lot, too, about
reduction of costs in the industry, arid it is
most necessary; but are we not trying to
prop up the capital value of land? Instead,
it. should be allowed to come down to what it
was, say, 30 years ago, or even lower, for
it will be impossible to get working costs
down to the level of that time. Owing to
the open market, stock have found their
price level; and land would have done the
same had there been an open market for it.
There are plenty of men waiting to purchase
grazing properties when they can acquire
them at a price to show a fair return on
present-day values. —An Old Grazier.
Immigration Literature and Fraud
As a migrant settler who gave evidence
before the Royal Commission on migrant
land settlement in Victoria, I feel there
are aspects of this case which have not
been sufficiently stressed. When Lord Kyl-
sant brought his appeal from the decision of
Justice Wright to the Appeal Court, reliance
was placed on an allegation that the alleged
false prospectus issued by Lord Ivylsant'was
not “false in any material particular.” Jus-
tice Avory, in giving the judgment of th"
Appeal Court, said that Justice Wright
rightly told the jury “the words in the sec-
tion, 'a statement.... false in any material
particular,’ were not limited to a case where
one could point to an account or statement
and say ‘Here are certain figures, here are
certain words which are false.’ That was
unduly to narrow the words ‘in any material
particular.’ ” Now, see what the Vic. Roya l
Commissioners (presided over by a High Court
Judge) have to say about the most widely-
read, most voluminous of the settlement
booklets scattered abroad in Britain to
attract migrant settlers, the contents of
which were, of course, the basis of inter-
views with Australia House: “....consists
of such turgid panegyrics of farming condi-
tions in Victoria —somewhat like the sales-
man’s puffing generalities which most people
have learned to discount largely when not
uttered on behalf of Governments —that the
expectations of intending settlers were
almost certain to be unduly inflated. To inform
the possible migrant of advantages the loud-
speaker is employed, but disadvantages and
difficulties are spoken of in an ordinary tone
—sometimes not even whispered. Such dis-
closure as is made is almost lost in the din.”
One wonders whether the position of those
who authorised the publication of “Victoria
the Speedway to Rural Prosperity” would
have been happier than that of Kylsant had
they been called to account before Justice
Wright or Justice Avory. But apparently
Governments are above the law, and may
issue fraudulent literature with impunity.
The Vic. Government is at this moment
leisurely proposing to see what it will do
to* punish itself and make amends. The
spectacle of a convicted murderer deciding
to do a couple of months in gaol would not
be more comic.— Nero (Vic.).
Overlapping in Distribution
The distributors are not altogether to
blame for overlapping and waste. Some time
ago, from my neighboring farm, I started
a milk round in my town. I called the
other three milkmen together and pointed
out the absurdity of overlapping. They
asked me to propose a remedy. I said:
“Divide the town into four sections as nearly
equal as possible in population and allow
one milkman for each section.” All agreed,
and the plan began on the first of the next
month. Meanwhile we advertised the
change. All went well with the first de-
livery, but as the day wore on there was
such a ringing of ’phones as never before.
Customers wanted to know if they were to
be “parcelled out like so many sheep.” They
claimed the right to be served by which-
ever milkman, baker or butcher they pre-
ferred, irrespective of what part of the town
they lived in, and insisted that competition
was better for consumers —“it keeps quality
and service up and prices down,” said they.
We told them the new plan would soon
enable us to reduce prices. It was no good
—they demanded the right of dealing with
whom they liked. There are only two ways
of escape. One is municipalisation or some
other form of monopoly ; and that wipes out
the valuable personal element. The other
is education of the consumer and the dis-
tributor ; and even then there must also be
some control by the trade over the distribu-
tor, to ensure that he does not abuse his
monopoly.—J. W. W. (Vic.).
Costs in Tasmania
The prices of almost all necessaries have
been considerably cut the last couple, of
years, some as much as 50 per cent. There
are, however, several in Hobart which have
shown no response—electric light, gas and
coal, among them. As regards light, the
rate is still sd. a unit. We are also charged
Is. 6d. a quarter rent for each meter, and,
as initial cost of same is 305., the depart-
ment charges 20 1 p.c. p.a. interest for money
borrowed in London. As regards gas, the
Hobart co. charges 9s. 2d. a thousand (less
I.od. if paid within a certain time) and has
made only one small reduction of sd. in
recent years, whereas mainland cos. have
made substantial reductions and charge
little more than half of what we pay. Twenty
years ago we paid ss. a thousand. Coal
used to be £1 a ton, but has for many years
been £2 and has not been reduced at all.
Bricks are ss. a thousand and timber 2s. 6d
a hundred dearer than they were five years
ago. There is something radically wrong
about it all, which I suggest calls for official
inquiry. I could offer reasons; it should be
enough for the present to state the facts.--
E. A. B. (Tas.).
The Demoralising Dole
The Bulletin used to tell of an old
N.S.W. squatter who promised a man a job,
but, being too busy to look a proper one up,
put him pro tern, carting dirt from here to
there. After all, he was a wise old bird.
To pay a man for doing nothing is the surest
way to make him dodge work when there is
work to do. I know many cases of this
demoralisation. A young man with a wife
and four children in our township is the
latest. He has been out of work for four
years and for the last two has been
living in a bag hut on the town common. A
job was offered him on a farm 20 miles dis
tant. Terms: Rent-free house; all meat,
eggs, milk, etc., free; and 255. per week. His
reply was that he could do better on the
dole. The municipal council could do noth-
ing except give him the option of accepting
the billet or moving from the common. Ho
shifted to a private paddock and is still
there.—O. T. C. (S.A.).
The Russian Trials
Is it, not possible that the trial of the
British engineers in Russia is a savage
revenge? The Russian has a good deal of
the Oriental in his make-up, and we all
know how dear revenge is to that blood,
and how humiliation whets the desire for it.
Now, although individual Englishmen may
profess sympathy with the Soviet experi-
ment, the British nation, on the whole, has
shown that contempt which an '‘old family
exhibits for the parvenu. This more than
the failure of the Five-year Plan is the
explanation of the attack upon the Vickers
men; otherwise would it not have paid
better to have attacked Americans engaged
in the same industries in Russia? America
is further away from Russia, and has not
an army and navy with the same prestige
as Britain’s, nor is she as close for trade pur-
poses. Her tariff barriers, too, are higher.
Therefore, unless blind, savage, unreasoning
hatred dictated the arrest of the British
engineers, it would have been a wiser policy,
if the Soviet wanted a scapegoat, to have
thrown into prison some equally innocent
American engineers.—A. R. C. (Q ).
Machinery and Unemployment
You say that “as one man can now
produce as much food as half a dozen
formerly did, and as one man can also pro-
duce as much clothing as a dozen formerly
did, it follows that the others can be main-
tained while they are doing something else.’’
This is good reading; but they are not em-
ployed doing something else, as evidenced
by growing unemployment. Against the
machines for farmers can be mentioned the
fact that machines consume petrol imported
from abroad, whereas the horse consumed
much that was produced on the farm, and,
incidentally, provided many other livings in
its maintenance. Where are the saddlers,
waggon-builders, smiths and farriers since
the advent of machinery? They of course
are looking for the other work that is non-
existent. Again, often enough the advent
of the machine has not cheapened the pro-
duct to such a remarkable extent. All the
harvesting machinery has made very little
difference in the cost of bread to the con-
sumer. Machines- are often idle many
months in the year, and therefore represent
idle capital on which interest is paid whilst
it is not earning any. All these extras are
charged up against the product, and we
therefore have the improved methods which
throw hundreds out of employment but
result in an uncheapened article. Machinery
is good while men are its masters, but it
would seem that at present it is becoming a
hard taskmaster. —Yours, Searchlight.
Woolgrowers’ Council
Beyond all doubt there is great discontent
amongst woolgrowers with the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council, and until some radical
alteration is made this body will be looked
upon as merely an offshoot of the Federal
Graziers’ Council, with a grand title assumed
to delude the mass of growers. It is an
excrescence of the war, with all the anoma-
lies war-time councils had. Although 81 per
cent, of the flocks are owned by men with
less than 1000 sheep, they have a represen-
tation on the A.W.C. of four members against
12 representing 19 per cent, of the flocks :
there arc, of course, some small flockowners
members of the Graziers’ Association, but
broadly that is the proportion. No member
of the council, moreover, should be a director
of any wool-broking firm.- — Fed Hup (W.A.).
HOUSEKEEPER’S ORDERS.
HOUSEKEEPER STEVENS: “Run along now, boys, while I put the House straight—and take your mischievous friends with you.”


And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things
you don’t know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most up-to-date and reliable short-wave and
technical information.
diidi icucn rvcDV coinAV PRir.F 9,A
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Waltzes from Vienna’’
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Escape”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Our Miss Gibbs”
King's Dante
State Movies and Talkie#
*
Ten Minutes on the Koln
A very different proposition from freckle-
faced 18 year-old Kadet Hans, who displayed
to Frith and The Showman the agricultural
features of the Magdalene Vinnen, was Kadet
Reechard, soon to be a midshipmite, who
was their cicerone aboard the German
cruiser Koln. Reechard has eyes of Saxon
blue, and his cheeks are rosy as apples.
Also he is 18, but he is all tact and discre-
tion, and, whenever necessary, can exercise
a pretty taste in fiction. If one has even
a nodding acquaintance with the German
tongue a German warship explains itself.
Almost every object, every lever, every but-
ton is plainly inscribed with its name and
purpose. Reechard, blandly explaining that
a row of what looked suspiciously like depth
charges were “mine-schweepers,” caught a
glimpse of the incredulous smile with which
Frith greets all he is told by foreigners, and
inquired hastily, in his native tongue,
whether he spoke German. “Oh, dear me,
no!” said Frith, all innocence.
Reechard has a line of gentle patter that
shows he knows his way very nicely round
the intricacies of the English language, but
ask him a question one shouldn’t ask in any
navy—almost all civilian visitors to war-
ships ask such questions continually—and
Reechard can misunderstand it with the
utmost facility. Frith wanted to know
whether the German flag, a fine specimen of
which floated at the stern, was going to be
altered by the addition of a swastika now
that Hitler was boss of the country.
“Altered?” asked Reechard, his eyes subtly
glazing. “Yess'! At five this evening he
comes down. At eight to-morrow morning
he goes up. Oh, yess, we alter him ever,'
day!” Frith wanted to know what Reechard
thought of Hitler. Reechard gave a good
imitation of a simple country lad who has
never heard of Hitler.
On matters that didn’t matter, however,
Reechard was all there with accurate infor-
mation. Lie explained the difference be-
tween a cadet like himself and an ordinary
seaman. The cadet has a gold star on his
sleeve —the seaman a blue star. The cadet
some day almost certainly will be a “See-
offizier” —the ordinary seaman, probably not.
There is a marked difference in the quar-
ters of the two categories, though both sleep
for’ard. Aft, where the officers live, the
accommodation is on floating-palace lines.
But everywhere there is comfort and cheeri-
ness, and indications that all hands are well
fed and well looked after.
Though the Koln is the property of a re-
public, she flaunts everywhere a shield bear-
ing three crowns, beneath which are 11 black
wriggles that look like newts. These are the
arms of the city of Cologne, beneath whose
mighty cathedral lie the graves of three
monarchs. The wriggles, Reechard ex-
plained, represent tears—“that which flows
from the eyes in grief,” but this wasn’t his
day for long archaeological disquisitions, and
he' left the meaning of the 11 teardrops a
moot point.
In the cadets’ quarters is a little testi-
mony to the fact that the navy cherishes
no grudges—a fine portrait of the Koln,
floodlighted by searchlights as she lay in
Madras harbor, presented to the Koln cadets
by the middies of H.M.S. Enterprise. An-
other trophy of these quarters which
Reechard displayed with pride was a bucket
inscribed “S.S.S. Niobe.” Frith, whose clas-
sical memories connect Niobe with grief,
suggested it was to hold the tears of the
three kings of Cologne, but Reechard said
(Left to right ): Ordinary seaman. Kadet.
it was a relic of a training-ship on which
he himself served. He regarded the bucket
with deep affection.
The most interesting thing Frith found
aboard the Koln, however, was the ship’s
barber. He is a barber it is worth
going miles' to see. There are a, lion’s cub
and a kangaroo, wallaby, wallaroo or some-
thing, but these are of a retiring disposition.
The strongest feature of the Koln is the
barber.
Out at the Back o’ Wirth’s
The front of Wirth’s, which, after years
of semi-civilisation in a permanent building,
went back under canvas at Easter, is the
same as it was when grandpa took to-day’s
elderly parents there —clowns, acrobats, wild
beasts, lashings of sawdust and a mort of
horses. The show was pitched in Sydney’s
Surry Hills, which aren’t hills and bear no
more resemblance to Surrey than Sene-
gambia does.
It was bordered by a corrugated-iron fence.
Gone are the days when small urchins could
ci’awl under the bottom of the tent. Young
Billjim would need a good burgling outfit to
get within sight of the sawdust ring nowadays
without paying. The Showman not only got
in without paying, but penetrated to the
backyard, which is a lot more interesting
than the ring. Hordes of young uniformed
attendants were busy marshalling and put-
ting the finishing touches to the units of the
Grand Parade. Littei’ed about, in seemingly
hopeless confusion, were waggons, cages,
boxes, hurdles and gymnastic gear. A guide
steered the S.S. through this ordered dis-
order and bundled him into the male per-
formers’ dressing-room. A small tin shed, it
contained acx’obats, clowns and dare-devil
riders, in various stages of undress. If one
wanted to sit down one used the wooden
boxes or canvas bags which shrouded the
artists’ personal belongings. The earthen
floor was strewn with small stones, cinders,
scraps of paper, cigarette ends and empty
Three kings and a bucket.
bottles. In the one full bottle there was
milk.
A German youth clad only in his
shirt and socks strummed a mandolin. The
Flying Nelsons were skylarking. An elderly
Russian horseman gazed dreamily at nothing
in particular. Danny D’Alma, the clown,
also stared into space, but brightened up
when introduced and spoke affectionately
of his performing geese--—dead, alas! these
maixy years. Danny has been a clown
for 40 years, and is as well known in Aus-
tralia as Grock is in Europe. A happy-go-
lucky, friendly little chap, he has en-
deared himself to thousands and thousands
of nippers. Gouspoudin Zilam.ham, leader of
the Russian Cossacks, is another entertain-
ing fellow. He was 19 when Lenin and
Trotsky took charge in his native country,
and he left them to it, preferring to follow
circus life in Finland and Germany. Like
the rest of the co. he is enjoying the cir-
cus’s long stay in Sydney. On tour life is
a bustle from dawn to midnight, and sleep
comes when, where and how you can get it.
With the approach of two-thirty pip-
emma the dressing-room was deserted by its
occupants, for they were due to sparkle in
the Grand Parade. In the backyard roly-
poly white mai’es rubbed shoulders with long-
maned ponies, and elephants moved into place
listlessly, each gripping with his trunk the
tail of iris brother in front. At a signal the
panatrope blared out the opening bars of
“Under the Double Eagle,” and the Grand
Parade moved into the big top. to be greeted
with loud hand-clapping. The circus had
begun.
Meet Captain Eric Flyger, the lion-tamer.
He doesn’t look the part, being more
like a footballer, a circumstance explained,
perhaps, by the fact that he hails from
Maoriland. He was Captain Lindo’s assist-
ant, and when Lindo died Eric Flyger en-
tered the lions’ cage a fully-qualified queller.
He, of course, believes in kindness to dumb
animals, and scorns firearms and red-hot
pokers.
Another surprise is the elephant-keeper.
No inscrutable Oriental he, but a dinkum
Aussie —Harry Mooney, from Fitzroy.
Harry has been associating with elephants
since the ’nineties and has had some of his
cornel’s knocked off, but he bears no malice.
His pet is Princess Alice. Alice mothers
(or perhaps one should say “aunties”), the
young ones; when Jessie, the baby, broke
away during a thunderstorm a few years
ago, the Princess also left home to protect
the wandering infant. There ai’e no male
elephants in Harry Mooney’s troupe. They
are too cantankerous for circus work.
In between turns the S.S. made the
acquaintance of Alec Christie, the ring-
master. Alec, who has gx-own up in the
game, spoke with zest of the thrill of circus
iife. He painted a graphic picture of the task
of transporting the circus while on tour.
Wirth’s employs over 100 men to handle the
animals and equipment, and then there are
the baggage, seats and kitchens to be looked
after. It is a big job and calls for organ-
isation.
To the backyard again. A youth in Orien-
tal clobber caressed Princess Alice with a
stable broom. A little girl, who had strayed
from goodness knows where, offered an ice-
cream to a zebra and was shooed away.
Acrobats in white trunks and soft-soled
pumps walked gingerly across a cinder path.
A Nubian lion bellowed for his dinner. The
lion-tamer appeared in mufti and regarded
a toothpick meditatively. Possibly he was
getting peckish. A young attendant attempted
to convey a message to one of the Russian
Cossacks, who cannot speak English, and
gave it up in disgust. A line of mild ponies
munched at their canvas mangers.
The Showman left this idyllic scene and
meandered into frowsy Riley-street. There
are worse places than circus backyards.
* * *
In Alberto Cassella’s “Death Takes a
Holiday,” produced by Gregan McMahon at
Melbourne Garrick last week, Death, being-
bored with shuffling people off this mortal
coil and having been heavily overworked by
the World War. takes three days’ leave and
assumes mortal flesh in a spirit of somewhat
reprehensible levity. During this period
people eat arsenic, get run over by motor-
cars and throw themselves from the tops of
lofty buildings without sustaining injury. In
the meantime their erstwhile master is mas-
querading as Prince Sirki in the drawing-
room of Duke Lambert. Here for a while
he adopts the role of a harmless practical
joker, but presently the necessities of the
flesh ensnare him in love, the object of Ids
sinister affection being Grazia, the Duke’s
daughter. Grazia reciprocates. The Duke,
being a reluctant party to. the joke, is
obliged.to contemplate in silence an infatua-
tion which can only end in a manner con-
trary to the normal desires and expectations
of a father-in-law. The passion of his pros-
pective son-in-law gathei’s. streixgth as the
last minutes of his furlough tick their way
into eternity, and finally sweeps Death off
his philosophic feet. He is reduced to the
condition of an ordinary young man, head
over heels in love, but with the difference
that if he takes Grazia to his lethal arms it
will only be to embrace a corpse. Since he
asserts that death is immeasurably more
beautiful than life, one would imagine that
lie would have no doubt as to what he ought
to do ; but he doesn’t seem to be sure of his
own creed. The Duke remarks that if he
lures the girl away without revealing his
true identity he will be taking advantage
of her innocence, and this point of honor
impresses Death. He resumes his sable garb
and, a grisly, vampirish figure lit by a mys-
terious green light, he invites Grazia to
come to him. She goes, and Love has tri-
umphed over Life.
Dramatically, the piece is excellent. In the
second act it out-Draculas “Draeula.” It was
a macabre idea to place the cutter of life’s
threads amidst a drawing-roomful of people
unconscious of the nature of their guest,
though why Grazia should transfer her affec-
tion from what she imagined to be an excep-
tionally good-looking piece of flesh-and-blood
“A barber worth going miles to see.”
in a cavalry officer’s uniform to what she
eventually knew to' be grisly Father Death
is difficult to understand. Here melodrama
came into its own ; nor was the elucidation
of the metaphysical aspect of the subject
helped. There are various reasons why
people may prefer death to life, including
boredom, pain, duty and honor, but none
of them applied in Grazia’s case.
Whether Mr. Cassella is the best of logi-
cians, however, is a question which may be
withdrawn in favor of a vote of apprecia-
tion of his dramatic power and of Mr.
McMahon’s faithful adherence to the poetic
spirit of the play. A note of admiration also
goes to Norman Wister for carrying the
heavy, and sometimes ponderous, bulk of
Death on his capable shoulders and never
letting up, even when the playwright let him
down. The same may be said with reserva-
tions of Lynette Dickenson as Grazia. John
Darcy, as Grazia’s fiance, showed genuine
emotion when Death took his betrothed, ahd
Aubrey Durham was a somewhat ineffective
Duke. There was very little characterisa-
tion in the other parts.
* * *
Philip Hargrave’s season at Melbourne
Auditorium, originally limited to a couple
of nights, has been extended to the length
of a full-grown virtuoso’s stay. It is pre-
sumed that the management knows its own
business, but the lad appears to be showing
slight signs of fatigue. There was to be
another recital last night, and on Thursday
the wonder boy from Adelaide is to sit at
the Steinway for the last time.
# * ¥
Adelaide Repertory’s first short-play
evening of this season was given to local
authorship. The Bulletin’s old friend
Alec Melrose imagined a bounder (Robert
Matthews) in a night club, where he does all
the wrong things, yet shows himself a
nature’s gentleman wffien the jewel-stealing
(by Muriel Marks) begins. Phyllis Somer-
ville had a witty trifle in which the husband
“Oh, yess, we alter him every day!”
of a nagging wife seems booked to desert
her for romance with the charming house-
maid (Betty Dawson). “Without Benefit
of Scenery,” by James Glennon, is all too
brief. In an empty theatre a young author,
who was about to emigrate to get some “ex-
perience” and “life,” finds love and a rescue,
murder and an electrocution, all thrown at
him on the spot. Playing about half an
hour, and with ten characters, this should
be a great find for any amateur body of
players.
The Williamsonian G. and S. co. has
made a worthy finish at Adelaide Royal of
its two-year season in Australia, and leaves
for S’Africa. Menzies, Manning, Miss Gar-
diner and the rest —there are some very
useful juniors coming on —had a warm
farewell on the final night. For it, the co.
switched from Sullivan to Schubert, Darnton
playing Ralston’s old part as the lead in
“Lilac Time.”
* ¥ *
The Theatre of Youth of the clever
Rayner sisters has an echo in a new
Threshold Theatre in Adelaide. One of the
T.O.Y. girls was Hazel Medland, who has
now founded the T.T. in her own State. It
has the same features of ballad and dance
briskly acted, with frequent changes of cos-
tume. Old English sources are mostly
drawrn upon, but there is a Russian folk
element, too.
# * H-
The New Sydney Repertorians’ produc-
tion of “My Sweetheart” (described as a
Pastoral Poem) on Saturday was below
standard. . Most of the players contented
themselves with reciting their lines. Ron
Roberts did best in a small part, that of a
drunken tramp; Virginia Coyle was the
unsophisticated sweetheart.
%■ * *
For its season of one-acters Perth Reper-
tory Club took bites of Shakspeare, Shaw.
Galsworthy and Tchekov. Tom Tracy was
autocratic as Capulet in an excerpt from
“Romeo and Juliet” and as the Inca in
“The Inca of Perusalem,” -with the support
in the latter of Ray Wolff as leading lady.
Nancy Lee did excellently in Galsworthy’s
morbid effort “The First and the Last.” In
“The Anniversary,” Viola Bathgate, as the
wife of Sliiputchin (Gordon Dean), Frances
Giles and Colin Maclagan produced humor
more appreciable than is usual in a Russian
play.
“Cauboy”: On hearing that his potboiler
“A Bit of a Test” had sustained an egre-
gious flop in Melbourne, Ben Travers yelped
that the Australians’ sense of humor where
they themselves were concerned was faulty.
Travers is misinformed ; his play flopped not
because it infuriated Australian audiences,
but because it bored them. That the thing
has run for six months in London means
either that it is better acted and has been
considerably improved or that the London
stomach will put up with tripe that even
Melbourne stomachs reject. And Melbourne
isn’t very particular.
“Hamfat” : There have been few breaks in
the continuity of the cast with which Bert
Bailey produced “On Our Selection” a score
of years ago; but the death of Alfreda Bevan
makes a gap in “The Rudd Family,” shortly
to be made into a talkie to follow “On Our
Selection.” Alfreda Bevan had played
“Mum” since the first staging; she began
as a child actress but became Mrs.
Greenshields, and of recent years had only
been induced to return to the stage by the
Bert Bailey revivals of the Rudd dramas.
She was in the first production of “The
Squatter’s Daughter” and “The Sentimental
Bloke.”


BURNS
PHILP TOURS
H
HOLIDAYS
In the South Seas
Cruise to the picturesque New
Hebrides by way of Lord Howe
Island and Norfolk Island. Next
sailings from Sydney, Ist June—l3th
July. Duration of voyage 19 days.
Short cruises to Norfolk Island and
return are also available, leaving
Sydney 20th May —Ist July. Dur-
ation of voyage about nine days.
Apply for ilt'is-
truted folder
No. 24
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST. - SYDNEY
TELEPHONE - B 7 9 0 I
and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE
ADELAIDE, Etc.
The Finest Car Buick Ever Built
f
f)
7
Notification! In {presenting tlie new Buick
series for 1933 it is sincerely believed tliat it is
tke closest approack to mastery over motion yet
accomplisked. In tke new Buick you see an
ackievement of collective craftsmanskip made
{possible only tkrougk Buick experience, Buick
traditions, Buick facilities and Buick resources.
Only a personal experience can reveal to you tke
amazing capabilities of tkis new motor car . . „
a motor car definitely different in appearance and
ability , . . yet still inimitably Buick.
AduLck • !())}
Consult Your Local Authorised Buick Dealer
SHADOW SHOWS.
The two films at the Regent this week
are interesting as showing how Hollywood
turns some popular features of old-time melo-
drama to its uses. Child-stealing has been
news in the U.S.A. since the Lindbergh affair,
so the kidnapping of Warren William’s small
boy is the main theme of “Three on a
; Match.?’ In melodrama the mother who
sacrificed all for her child used to be driven
with it into the snow by a villain’s machina-
tions. In this film Ann Dvorak gives her
wayward heart to a crook (Lyle Talbot),
and takes her child to live with him. Yet
the warning against sin sticks out as far
as in any nineteenth-century morality play.
The wretched woman falls lower and lower,
takes to drink and drugs, is divorced and loses
her boy, and is scorned and ill-treated by
her paramour. Her life has become unbear-
able when Talbot’s gangster friends arrive
with the child. They lock her in the flat while
they try to get money out of her former hus-
band, and the police search rages through
the city. She writes on her dress in lip-
stick that the child is on the fourth floor, and
jumps into the street. Typical melodrama,
except that no stage catastrophe was a hun-
dredth part so realistic as the sequence
which shows her taking a header out of the
window of her miserable apartment and hurt-
ling through a glass verandah to her death.
Joan Blondell (who secures the afflicted
hero on the rebound) and Bette Davis bare
their unimpeachable teeth and roll their eyes
persistently by way of demonstrating their
sweet natures, but the rest of the acting is
intelligent.
Most of the humor of “One Way Passage”
is supplied by that sure standby of the
Victorian melodramatist, the comic male-
factor with a heart of gold who fools the
police. The action takes place on a Pacific
liner. Frank McHugh is a pickpocket in
league with Aline MacMahon, confidence
woman. They befriend William Powell, mur-
derer. We don’t learn who his victim was
—probably someone who deserved to die such
as a nigger, a hyphenate or an Anglophil.
Anyhow, he is a charming fellow, and when
Kay Francis falls for him in a Hong Kong
bar we quite understand. The rest of the
play is concerned with the development of
their romance in face of the fact that he is
being taken back to the U.S.A. by oafish
Warren Hymer to be executed. All our sym-
pathies are with the murderer, and when
Miss MacMahon vamps the policeman, steals
the key of the ship’s clink and passes it on
to Mr. McHugh, who releases Mr. Powell
for a day’s philandering on shore' with the
heroine, we shout with joy as in the dear,
dead days of Bland Holt. The ending is
unusual. The handcuffed hero and doomed
heroine (she has heart disease) arrange to
meet again. In Heaven, presumably.
“Island of Lost Souls,” which can be seen
at the Empire, proliferates horrors. Charles
Laughton is marrow-freezing as 11. G. Wells’s
Dr. Moreau. Cages of animals are trans-
ported to a South Sea island, where, in a
well-set-up laboratory, Laughton, with the
aid of an exiled London physician, turns
the luckless creatures into semi-humans. And
now Richard Arlen arrives. He is revolted
at Laughton’s goings-on. Picture his feel-
ings when he discovers that beautiful Kath-
leen Burke has claws instead of fingernails!
She has been fashioned from a panther.
Moreau encourages the love affair of the
young people, and when Leila H.yams,
Richard’s fiancee, turns up at the head of a
rescue party he tries to get her off with oue
of his obscene subjects. Shortly afterwards
he is cut to pieces and the wedding-bells
ring out merrily in a figurative manner of
speaking for Richard and Leila. Technically
the production is superb.
“The Phantom President” is another
cruel satire on a celebrated U.S.A. institu-
tion. It also marks the talking-picture dfibut
of George M. Cohan, a leading figure on the
American stage for the past 25 years. Cohan
plays T. K. Blair, a prospective Presidential
candidate, and Doc. Varney, a travelling
quack doctor. Blair is an ideal candidate in
all but one respect. He has no platform
personality. When the daughter of an ex-
President refuses to accept his proposal the
campaign managers think of throwing in the
towel; Enter Doc. Varney, a man of pep
and Blair’s “double.” He is engaged to im-
personate Blair on the platform. As a poli-
tical orator he is a roaring success, and
Blair is nominated. Blair finds his position
insufferable, and arranges to have Varney
kidnapped, but his hirelings bungle the job
and abduct him instead. As a result Varney
deceives the public to the end. Cohan is
subdued as Blair and mirthful as Varney.
Jimmy Durante is Varney’s clownish off-
sider, and Claudette Colbert is the ex-Presi-
dent’s daughter.
* * #
“Madame Butterfly” is at the Prince
Edward as a film. Some of Puccini’s
music is used; also some deplorable jazz
music. Sylvia Sidney, who is of Roumanian-
Russian parentage, looks the part of Cho-
Cho-San. Cary Grant is the handsome
American naval officer who marries and
lightly deserts her. Charles Ruggles is
Grant’s flirtatious and amusing friend, and
Shiela Terry is the girl Grant left behind in
America and married after deserting his
Japanese bride. They make a heartrending
show of it among them, and the Prince
Edward’s elaborate furnishings have been
dank with teardrops for days. But the
tempo is deadly slow. The settings are cal-
culated to give admirers of modernism in art
severe pains in the neck. The geisha-house
scenes and the cherry orchard during the
height of the blossom season are shamelessly
pretty; worse, they are lifelike.
* * *
The central figure of “The Big Cage” (a
circus film), at the Capitol, is Clyde Beatty,
an animal trainer. An exciting, story has
been written round his lion- and tiger-taming
gifts. Raymond Hatton plays a trainer who
has taken to whisky. In a fit of drunken
bravado he enters the big cage and is torn
to shreds. Wallace Ford has been mauled
by lions in the past, and it has cost him
his nerve. Yet, when his sweetheart, a
trapezist (Anita Page), is threatened with
death by a lion he pulls himself together
and rescues her. The big moment comes
when the animal chute gives way and the
tigers and lions stampede into the ring.
Beatty gives a great exhibition of general-
ship in this crisis.
* * *
“Trick for Trick,” at Sydney Haymarket,
is merely a Dante show got up to look like
a film. The whole thing takes place in the
palace, temple or what-you-call-it of Ralph
Morgan, a famous magician, and it would
have been more interesting without the
thin plot. Sally Blane is kidnapped by a
Chinese and a dwarf (the producer alone
knows why!), and is reconciled with an
idiot fiance; all in about 90 minutes.
“Treason” concerns Shirley Grey, who,
after the American Civil War, set up a
republic somewhere in Texas. Buck Jones
is ordered to capture her for the Federals.
He does so, and when she is condemned to
death works as only Buck Jones can to get
her pardoned.
“Cine Ma”: The producers of “Bring ’Em
Back Alive,” the Singapore “jungle” film,
have been washing some discolored linen in
public. Clyde C. Elliott told Singapore
Rotarians that many of the scenes were
faked, and that the fight between the croco-
dile and the python, for example, was
arranged by wrapping a dead snake round
the saurian and rolling them both into the
water, where their bobbing up and down
did really look like the real thing. The
demise of the tiger was also a fake, the
animal having merely jumped at a chicken
and rolled on its back. Frank Buck is annoyed
with his colleague for blowing the gaff, and
says, quite rightly, that there is no more
reason why the public should know how an
illusion is produced on the screen than how
Dante causes ducks to come out of a hat.
Incidentally, Buck revealed that most of the
close-ups were made at Jurong-road in Sin-
gapore, which is as near to Wild Nature as
Pitt-street, Sydney, is to Bourke. Twenty
years ago I was in Singapore, and in a back
street there was a wild-animal depot kept
by an old Chinaman who did an extensive
trade in tigers, panthers, crocodiles and
pythons with European menageries. Burk
used to supply him with a lot of hi,s stock-
in-trade.


YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
Cbmmoiiwcaltb Savings JMof Australia ;
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Famous for Blood and Skin Disorders
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO
ECZEMA
ULCERS
RASHES
SORES
CLARKES
BLOOD MIXTURE
A —-
Of all Chemist* and Stores
H
ABORIGINALITIES
“L. R. Russ”: Little is heard nowadays
of the bush telegraph; but it still operates,
as a police trooper, stationed at Maree, near
Lake Eyre, discovered. Repairs to the Ood-
nadatta railway line were being- carried out,
and when the gang reached Coward Springs,
at which station was the only licensed house
in the two hundred-odd-mile stretch between
Maree and Oodnad.it ta. the trooper had
SAFETY FIRST.
HENNESSY: “Divil a bit can we shift it off the poor man wid the crowbar, Casey.
Ye’ll have to git a bit av dineymite.”
every reason to suspect that the six o'clock
closing; law was being treated with disre-
spect. He made a raid, which proved abor-
tive, not much to his surprise, as he strongly
suspected his native camel-boy of signalling
news of liis movements. A few weeks later,
the camel-boy having been away for a couple
of days on other business, the cop decided
to make another pounce on Coward Springs,
Starting before daylight, he set off in a
south-westerly direction as though heading
for another part of his territory, just in case
an unseen watcher might be about, and did
not swing north until well clear of the
town. Not a soul did he meet during the
whole journey, and he rode up to the hotel
just after nightfall, when by all probability
the publican should have been doing a roar-
ing trade. But no. The gang were all sit-
ting outside smoking and yarning, and Mr.
Publicliouse bustled out to meet the police-
man. “Come on in, Mr. Trooper,” he said
heartily; “we kept dinner for you, as we
were sure you would be hungry after your
long ride.”
“Huffin-Guffin”: Max Adeler, who was a
horrible liar, published the yarn about the
dog that didn’t recognise its unclothed master
50 years ago, and probably, as in the case
of Mark Twain’s jumping frog, which de-
rives from Aristophanes, the libel on canine
intelligence is centuries old. It is a libel.
I remember as a kid trying the theory on
our dog when we went swimming. Ponto
knew us, all right.
“O. W. Wairiki”: I noticed a large rat
run behind a bag of flour in Heiiare s
whare. Ilenare, who was lying comfortably
on his bunk, made no move when I men-
tioned what I had seen. “We soon scare
it,” he said. “Shout for te cat.” I called,
“Puss, puss, puss,” and the native joined
in heartily. No cat appeared, and I re-
marked that perhaps it had gone away for
a moonlight concert. Heiiare beamed. “We
bury him yesterday,” he whispered, “but te
rats never know it.”
“L.P.W.” : Chum got on a horse he didn’t
know and the horse resented it. For five
minutes the air was full of dust and excited
comment. Chum travelled about that
animal from its ears to its tail, and when-
ever part of the horse or its furniture bobbed
up, he grabbed it. Miraculously, when the
horse disgustedly turned it in, Chum was
in the saddle. “I rode .’im,” he grinned.
“Rode ’ini!” snorted Old Bill. “What yon
done was to survey ’im.” .. r .
❖ ❖ *
“Questo” : On Surprise Creek, .a tributary
of the Leichhardt, about 80 miles to the
north of Mount Isa (Q.), there is a repre-
sentation of a full-size cartwheel chipped
into a big face of rock, and -in a gorge
between Rifle Creek Dam and the Warrigal
Hole ’ the footprints of camels have been
marked into the rock. Both the wheel and
the tracks were done many, many years ago,
beyond the memory of the oldest blacks, and
before camel teams were known or wheeled
vehicles were common in these parts. Could
it have been Binghi’s method of writing a
bit of Australian history? Burke and Wills
and other explorers are said, to have passed
through this district.
“Le Glorieux”: It was before the war.
Jacky, aged 10,. came running excitedly from
his horse to where the boss and his wife
were standing. “By cripes, boss,” he yelled,
“big-feller walk about longa creek.” “What
name that feller walk about,” asked the
boss; “blackfellow?” “No, no more black-
feller; big feller.” “Yarraman he walk
about?” “No more yarraman ; big feller.”
‘‘Bullock?” “No more bullocky,” scornfully;
“big feller.” The boss tried all the “big-
fellers” he could think of, then he remem-
bered that Jacky was an expert at counter-
feiting tracks. “You bin make that one
big-feller track, Jacky?” Jack.v looked
thoughtful. It was a nice sandy patch ; but
he eyed his hands as though he realised their
inadequacy. Inspiration came. Whipping
off his belt, he dropped his pants and
plumped down hard in
the sand; rising to
point triumphantly
to an almost perfect
camel’s track.
“Frigid”: While
busy cutting up an
axegapper tree, which,
by the way, is the
hardest tree known.
Joe accidentally cut
a deep gash in his
abdomen. When he
was put into hospital
the surgeon took ad-
vantage of the acci-
dental incision and re-
moved his appendix.
“A. Clue” : Mention
of the grim relics
housed in Burketown
police station (B.
26/4/’33) reminds me
of the gruesome
museum in an attic of
the. Petrie Terrace
police-training depot
(Q.). It is doubtful
if half a dozen Johns
have seen or heard of
it, as the key is jeal-
ously guarded by the
inspector. Many hor-
rible stone weapons
used by abo. mur-
derers in Queensland’s
early days sit cheek
by jowl with gruesome
odd pieces of human
anatomy, preserved in
bottles and jars. No
additions to the collec-
tion have been made
of recent years and
one leaves the - secret
spot with a creepy
sensation running up
and down the spine."
“Uramao”: A friend
is sometimes more
dangerous than an
enemy. A Christ-
church bicycle thief
recently was; sen-
tenced to two months’
imprisonment through
his faithful dog. A
publican at' whose
hotel the theft took
place remembered see-
ing a man with-a dog
about the precincts
before the bicycle dis-
appeared. He noticed
the dog still round about, and,- Sherlock
Holmes-like, locked it up. Next day a
. couple of ’tecs released the dog and followed
it to the house of the culprit. It took half
a day to get there, Rover finding many diver-
sions en route;
“Willy Willy”: Secession seems to have
disturbed more than the human ' population
of Westralia. Sydney papers report that at
a place with the mellifluous style of Yal-
lingup a farmer observed a large, kangaroo
attacking one of the cows. The Too had
wounded the cow badly and was so busy
that the owner was able to sneak up close
and put a bullet from a” pea-rifle \ into him.
Australia’s noblest son departed in a hurry,
apparently unharmed, and when the farmer
came on the scene next morning was busy
on the job again, being evidently a deter-
mined kanga. and resolved on seeing the
thing* through. This time he was slain, but
his motive still remains a mystery. Maybe
he w-as a T’othersider marsupial and was
getting even with the sex as the. result of
the broadcast, news that the feminine vote
in Westralia had gone heavily in favor of
Secesh.
“Lacerta”: Writer at least is inclined to
back the theory that “goanna” is a corrup-
tion of “iguana” and not a genuine Sinhalese
or Indian name for the big monitor lizard
(B. 3/5/’33). It doesn’t sound like a Cin-
galese word, and it certainly isn’t Urdu, nor
is it likely to have been brought from India
by imported camel men, as claimed, for the
camel drivers in Australia are, or were,
Pushtu-speaking Gilzhais from Afghanistan
to a. man. As to eating the “g 0.,” our abos.
have long regarded him as a titbit, and white
men who have tried him say he resembles
tender chicken with much the same flavor.
That may be, but. having regard to the
beast’s fondness for a carrion diet, I have
my doubts.
# t * -t
“Eohippus” : That foal which when born
had five small stumps in place of a hoof
which later merged into a normal foot (B.
3/5/’33) might have been a throwback,
though it was certainly a devil of a long-
distance shy. The primaeval ancestor of the
animal which keeps bookmakers in diamonds
and peroxided ladies was a small beast about
the size of the modern fox. He had five
PESSIMISM.
MR. FUMBLE : “How's business, Mr.
Drumble?”
MR. DRUMBLE: "Same as usual. Nothin’
doin’ in the mornin’, and slacks right
off in the afternoon.”
separate toes, like the foal referred to. In
the course of the ages the outer toes degen-
erated and shrank out- of sight. The middle
one remained to become the hoof, and traces
of the others remain in the “splints” or
metatarsals which lie on each side of the
cannon bone. Some of the separate toes
still exist in those distant relations of the
liorse, the tapir and the rhino.
“J.A.L.” : A few weeks ago I was on the
train travelling west from Charleville to
Quilpie (Q.). There were whirlwinds about.
One, travelling from north to south, seemed
to take a fancy to the train and followed it
for nearly three miles, stones and dry grass
running alongside in an uncanny fashion.
The jig ended when the train crossed a cul-
vert, which broke the spell. Possibly the
rapidlyunoving train caused a partial
vacuum, which dragged the whirling rubbish
along with it.
S: * * ifc
“G.A.S.” : Among the aboriginal skulls in
the Australian Museum (Sydney) is one
split with a tomahawk. it belonged to
“Crammering Micky,” a gentleman noted for
his thieving proclivities. He was killed long
ago near Bo Bo Creek (N..5.W.) for reveal-
ing the secret of the bora stone. His gin
wheedled some forbidden particulars from
him and then, of course, told “next door”
that she knew all. Both were killed. The
gin was skinned by her slayer, and the skin
brought back into the camp and exhibited
as a warning to the inquisitive sex.
“Science III.”: Thirty-two Ouyen (Vic.)
farmers turned up with 144 horses and a
battery of combines in order to put in 300
acres of crop for a mate who is in Caul-
field Military Hospital. Some of them came
long distances and camped on the fax-m over-
night so that they might be ready to get an
early start in the morning, and a platoon of
women did their bit at the cookhouse. If
the owner is still in hospital at harvest time
it is an odds-on bet that the gang will be
back with headers to take it off for him.
That’s the spirit of comradeship that helps
to make life worth living in the bush.
WHEN THE KABBITER DROVE A
FOUR-IN-HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those people who skite of the bush to-day,
And speak of a country they call Outback,
Are all very well in their own small way,
But mostly there’s something their stories
lack:
Did they know Outback as a friendly land
With plenty of work and a bit to spare,
When the rabbiter drove a four-in-hand,
And the station-owner a humble pair?
Did they work in woolslieds when T.U.S.
And the shears of Burgon and Ward and
Payne
Were argued about in each shearers’ mess
From Wellshot and Wolfang to Coleraine :
When most of the sheds had an empty stand,
And shearers were whistled for every-
where ;
While the rabbiter drove a four-in-hand,
And the station-owner a humble pair?
Did they know the days of the big-gun team.
Of the big-gun shearer and drover, too?
I-Tave they seen the stock routes a living
stream
From Bourke to the banks of the old
Barcoo ?
Did they learn of Clancy and all that band,
Of Sweeney who reckoned he didn’t care,
When the rabbiter drove a four-in-liand.
And the station-owner a humble pair?
Did they know the days when a pound or
two
Was often the cost of a single shout?
I hadn’t a lot, and no more had you,
And yet there was plenty of cash about.
But the spirit was this, all through the land.
“You’re a friend, and broke —I’ve a bit
to spare,”
When the rabbiter drove a four-in-hand.
And the station-owner a humble, pair?
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


The “STRONGHOLD”
WORKSHIRT
FOR HARD WEAR
K*ere is no shirt to equal the “STRONG-
HOLD for farm, station, or orchard
work. Obtainable in guaranteed fast
colors of Plain Blue, Tlain Fawn, Blue
™ t! \ “White Stripe, and Blue with a
"Jack Stripe. Made from strong Man-
chester Shirting, well sewn and cut with
liberal length to ensure freedom and
comfort when working. Two breast
pockets with flap to button. Send collar
size and color preference
with order.
Price, each
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET , BRISBANE ;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
10/6
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
C. BRANOAUER & Co.'S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
H
H
i WORKS
: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil. •
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
“THE ‘WILD CAT 5 MONTHLY
MAY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Currency Depreciation and Tariffs.
Devaluation of the Dollar?
Its Effect on Gold Premium.
How Can Prices Be Raised?
Maoriland Flax.
Position of Bondholders.
Stocks Worth Watching.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the May issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Runa”: Most of the Maoriland bird sanc-
tuaries are inundated with uninivited guests
as soon as the shooting season begins. At
any of the parks which possess a lake or
have large ornamental ponds there is an
influx of wild fowl as soon as the first guns
are heard in' the land. This makes the im-
patient individual who begins his firing prior
to .authorised date exceedingly unpopular, as
It gives the wary birds time to get to safe
waters before the official opening of the
season A bird-lover I knew used to warn the
birds by walking round his farm and firing
at imaginary rabbits until he had scared
most of the birds in the district to .safer
quarters. A large lagoon near by, formerly
described as a sportsmen’s paradise, was bare
of water-fowl, though in the closed season
it was thickly populated.
“The Bridge”: That yarn 0 f the ex-
pedients resorted to by outback travellers
to replace vanished footwear (B. 3/5/’33.)
recalls one told me by one of the Skuthorpe
family who was then running a saddler’s
shop in St. George ; in'south-western Queens-
land. . rears before he had Set in on the
same job in some God-forsaken dorp on the
bpper Clarence. Bor days no one came into
the shop, and as he was thinking of folding
i tr t » nts • a lean individual with “cattle-
dulter written all over him lounged in. The
customer staggered Skuthorpe by asking for
a pan- of stringy-bark stirrup leathers.
When he recovered himself, the sliopowner
had to admit that he didn’t stock them. As
the youth lounged out, the man behind the
counter caught a glimpse of his legs The
lower sections were clad in leggings made
from two dried vegetable marrows with the
ends cut off. The shutters went up as soon
as the merchant could climb over his counter.
❖ -; s
w iree . Rivers”: Recently in north-west
w.A. a child of seven wandered away from
the station homestead. For two miles he
followed a road, then he left it, attracted
possibly by a flower or a bird. He tried to
nnd the road again but failed, and made
two circles in his attempt. He then struck
out n.-e. through thick, tall grass and herb-
age along heavily-timbered river flats. For
tour miles he kept an almost straight line,
and avoiding watery claypans and rough
opaline ridges did not put him off his line.
Jdie first night lie slept—without food—in
the branches of a fallen tree, and before the
flew lifted in the morning he was off again,
Keeping the same line -as the day before,
™ ii a ‘t tru -Y as an experienced bushman
eouhl have kept his direction. The lad
pushed on till he struck a sulky track, and
he had sense enough to follow it to an
out-camp, where he was found. What kept
him Avalking straight?
. “Searchlight” : A man is alive to-day who
vieuud death from two angles. Coming up
the Dorrigo cutting with an empty dray his
horse shied violently at a snake on the road-
side. the dray went over the cutting and
the man jumped a second too late. When he
recovered consciousness he found himself on
a small ledge a few inches wide thirty feet
below the road. It would mean death if
, slipped. Looking upward he was horri-
hed to note right above him the horse, held
»ly b y the harness and liable to fall at any
moment. He swooned again. Some team-
sters coming up the cutting saw the dray
and with a noosfed rope drew the man to
safety The vehicle had caught by the axle
on a tree stump and a few minutes' later it
slipped from its hold and hurtled below. The
uctim of these experiences escaped with a
eouple of fractured ribs.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.” : The specimens of abo. place
Bh? h / e “° wio ” su 'PPbed by
„ (B - 3 /5/33) must have been
written from a long, not to say shaky
memory, seeing how many of them'are mis-
spelt almost beyond recognition. The ter-
miual, by the way, is not “owie” but “cowie,”
with the “c” sometimes omitted for
euphonic reasons. The list also contains
many obvious “factory” names, the coinage
of early campers. Fortunately none of the
monstrosities like “Sublimowie,” “Soakowie,”
"Saltowie” and “Windowie” have survived.
"Hornby” is right to be sceptical about the
statement that the terminal means “place
of good spirits.” “Cow,” meaning water, is,
in some form, common to an enormous
number of native languages from the extreme
north to the far south of Australia. It
names the commodity usually first in the
thoughts of a nomadic people in a too-
often thirsty land. A large proportion of
native names in S.A. can be ranged into
three sections for simple derivation, without
the assistance of the wiseacres who tell you
words mean “torn shirt” or “spirit of the
clouds.” They are purely naturalistic:
“cowie,” water; “wirra,” a tree; “parra.”
a creek; “inga,”' “unga” and “onga,” a
watershed, or the stream itself. Hence all
the “cowies” ; and others like “Wirrawirra,”
many trees; “Parawirra,” creek and trees;
“Parawurlie,” creek and hut; with the more
obscure “Onkaparinga,” “Talnnga,” “Pata-
walonga,” and ,so forth. But “cow” and its
variants is a _universal abo. servant and
would be a basic one in any native “Esper-
anto” if one wanted to concoct it.
“Q. Goat”: It is surprising that the
Bananalanders don’t put goats on as water-
diviners, as is done;jin some parts of India.
Villagers, when they are anxious to sink a
new well, wait till-about midday, then throw
a bucket of water over a goat, thoroughly
soaking it. The goat, which enjoys this, is
NO SWAP.
WHITE BOY: “Gee! I’ll give yer me cricket bat for it.”
BLACK DITTO (with ’possum ): “Yer can’t eat cricket bats.”
then given its liberty, and a close watch is
kept on it. If before the sun has dried its
skin the goat shakes itself, the farmers are
excited beyond words, and digging is imme-
diately commenced at that spot. Their
theory is that the animal will not wish to
be dry in the intense heat unless it realises
that more water is close at hand.
* * * sji
"Modestas”: That cow which refused to
be milked by a woman until the latter had
donned her husband’s coat and hat (B.
3/5/'3B) may have been disturbed by miss-
ing the familiar scent, but I dunno. Once
upon a time writer knew two old maiden
ladies who themselves regularly milked a
cow they had reared from a calf - . In course
of time they departed from the district and
sold the cow to a neighboring farmer. At
his first attempt to milk his new property
he was kicked into the middle of the yard,
the bellowing female making frantic efforts
to get out of the bail and at him. After some
deliberation he dressed himself in an old
frock and sun-bonnet belonging to his
daughter-in-law and had no trouble in milk-
ing the now acquiescent beast. He was under
the impression that the earlier rumpus was
due to maidenly modesty. Under the cir-
cumstances I thought that out of the ques-
tion and suggested matronly reticence, a
solution that was accepted by the community.
“Mulgo”: A cattleman who spent many
years in the central and northern regions
told me that, while looking for cattle country
back in 1888, he came upon a company of
myalls who had never before seen a white
man, and among- them was one with a
wooden leg. He was an old chap, armed
and hunting like the rest. He gave them
no chance of a close look at the stump, but
apparently it was a good job. for the old
fellow wasn’t far behind the mob that bolted
for the scrub. Though this indicates that
wooden extremities were known to the wiki
blacks, it is the only case I have heard of.
There was an a bo. stockman on Durham
Downs, Koopa Creek, who had a wooden
leg, and was known as Waddy Mundowie,
which means “wooden foot.” But his peg
was made and fitted on by the station car-
penter.
“Ehoa-o-te-Manu”: During some wild
westerly weather in April, an Australian
dollar-bird arrived by air in Maori land.
The severe buffetings encountered on the
journey across the Tasman had been too
much for it, as its new-dead body, was
picked up on the outskirts of the bush
near Greymouth. The first known occur-
rence of this Aussie in Maoriiand was 53
years ago, bs landing place being Hoki-
tika, some 30 miles south of Greymouth.
Occasionally whimbrels from Australia are
seen on the same coast, and a few years
mm a white ibis established itself
amongst the domestic birds of a farm in
that locality. Fraternising and feeding
with the fowls by day., and roosting in
near-by trees by night, this bird was the'
pride of the neighborhood, till a Chinese
market-gardener shot it -for the pot. The
wrathful residents nearly lynched the
slayer.
“Wainui”: Surf-riding was popular
throughout the Pacific centuries ago, and
the Maori was one of the finest exponents
of the art. He used a board much thinner
and half the size of those in vogue on Syd-
ney beaches to-day. Shooting the breakers
in small canoes was more popular, and their
manipulation called for great skill and dex-
terity, as M.L. breakers are larger and
heavier than any seen around Sydney, and
dumpers more frequent. Two or three per-
sons would shoot the rollers in these canoes.
One, equipped with a long, thin steering-
paddle and standing with feet planted well
apart in the stern, would act as steersman,
and at his shouted command the others would
alter their sitting or crouching positions with
great nimbleness in order to preserve the
canoe's balance on the top of the breaker.
The speed with which these canoes flew
shorewards and the dexterity with which
they were handled would show Manly and
Bondi a point or two.
* :!; * *
“Akeake”: The bacchanal of the M.L.
forest is the pohutukawa or Christmas tree,
provided it can get plenty to 1 drink it will
thrive anywhere, clinging drunkenly to a
rocky cliff-face or hanging over the top of
a bank at a perilous angle, with its foliage
trailing almost into the water below. There’s
a magnificent wild irregularity, the hint of a
superb debauch, about its long, twisting roots
arid gnarled and knotted limbs. It sprawls
about like a drunk, but its sprawling is
ruggedly graceful. Even when growing on
level ground this irregularity is a notice-
able feature, but it is most pronounced when
the pohutukawa grows in groves along the
steep cliff-faces of the coast. This utter dis-
regard of ordinary tree conventions, along
with its ability to prosper under seemingly
impossible conditions, gives the pohutukawa
an individuality of its own : it’s like no other-
tree on earth, and no two pohutukawas are
alike.
* * * *
“Homby” : Nearly every mining field has
its legend of extraordinary treasure found
and subsequently lost. To mention only a
few in N.S.W. In Lightning Paddock, Tul-
lamore, is supposed to repose in a liollow
log a whisky bottle full of fine gold, accumu-
lated by an old prospector who died sud-
denly without disclosing where he had
planted the treasure. Somewhere in the
scrub surrounding Fifield, a few miles away,
is said to be a lump of pure platinum as
big as an “mu egg, left by its starvation-
weakened and thirst-
tortured finder, unable
to carry it farther.
Both these treasures
are sought by the kids
of the respective
towns in their spare
time. Parkes has its
legend of a lost man
who slept for a night
in a cave of pure gold,
which he could never
afterwards locate.
Inverell hugs a yarn of
a mountain creek-bed
liberally besprinkled
with diamonds. Bin-
gara’s lost bonanza is
an exposed reef heavily
studded with coarse
gold. Portland’s lost
reef of pure gold,
somewhere in the
mountains, was used
by the pre-white abos.
(from whom the story
trickled down) as the
site of important cere-
monies. Lightning
Ridge, among the
newest of the fields,
has a tale (based,
however, only on the
ravings of a sozzled
shearer) of boulders
of harlequin and black
opal somewhere in the
scrub towards Angle-
dool.
* * *
“Raeakiaki” : Unlike
Binghi (B. 3/5/’33),
t Ii e pre-civilisation
Maori didn’t carry a
fire-stick with him
wherever he went, al-
though on occasions he
might take Tilong some
smouldering moss
packed in a box. Gen-
tirally lie relied upon finding fire-making mat-
erials at band, and, kaikamako, makornako
and malioe trees being plentiful in the M.L.
bush, he didn’t have to look far. It was the
work of a few seconds to fashion a sharp-
pointed lOin. liika or rubbing stick and a
longer and thicker kauahi. The latter was
placed on the ground, being held in a slightly
raised position by an assistant. Then the
fire-maker got busy with his rubbing stick,
moving it briskly to and fro longitudinally.
The dust thus obtained , was heaped in one
spot, and the operation repeated, but with
increased speed. In a few minutes fire
would be obtained, and would be transferred
either to some dry moss, which when waved
in the air, would burst into flame, or to some
dry cabbage-tree leaves, which would be
fanned into a blaze. The use of a palm
drill was common also, but even with the
primitive method of the hika a native could
get a roaring fire going in eight to ten
minutes.
* * * *
“Alpha”: A little-known bivalve, found
in sand- or mud-flats along the N.S.W. coast,
is the finger-oyster (Solen correctus) . They
occupy mi elongated shell with razor-sharp
edges. They make excellent bait, and are
very tasty. The fun lies in catching them,
as they do not attach themselves to anything,
and dive into the sand faster than a steam
shovel can pursue them.
SAID BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Advice from me won’t ’elp you, mate,”
Old Bill remarked, “although it’s true
I’ve fossicked round an’ chased the ’weight
On every field from ’ere to Cue;
Me knowledge don’t amount to much
These hustlin' modern days, because
With cars an airyp.la.rtes an’ such
Prospectin’ ain’t the game it was.
“Our minin’ ways are out of date;
They sneer at us. old whiskered fools
Who ventured out an’ tempted. Fate
Without a map or book of rules
That tells you where to search an’ how;
But, spite of all-these *fellers ; know.
They sink as many duffers now
As we did in the long ago.
“There’s one thing sure,” concluded Bill —
“Your methods- may be good or bad.
But. luck’s worth twice as much as skill,
For gold is where you find it, lad.
Aw, well,; I ’ope you strike a patch—-
There’s plenty left, an’ that’s a cert.
Cartloads there is ! But ’ere’s the catch—
It’s mixed with tons of flamin’ dirt.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
H
fj
%
5* 9*
m i*
!!>t
31
13 a W
fll
i
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
mmmm
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM iiAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, tits gin., fin. and Sin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
Sfte PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle ln/6 each
Real Itory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN. 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
AIso'FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1 > 250 ’!!™
Reserve Fund .. . . .. •• 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, • •
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tne
Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills horn * ‘
collected and proceeds remitted. AU usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who wiil quote you price for the origina .
SMOKE-OH!
“Don Bradman has had 14 teeth out.”—’ “Sun.”
Let’s hope he finds Larwood easier meat
with the new’ lot.
* *
“An Austrian has achieved success with wings
driven by a small motor.”
Just as well. Most of us have small hope
of trying out the other sort.
* *
“Larwood’s book will include chapters on arrack-
ing in Australia.” — “Age.”
Arracking! Well, well, we’ll just have
to beer up.
OUR DEMOCRATIC FIRE BRIGADE.
The Fire Brigade in our suburb is entirely
operated by civil servants. If a householder
rings up and says “My place is on fire,” the
ST. ANTHONY.
chiefs first assistant tells him, or her, to
go to the local post office, obtain a form
and fill it in, giving all particulars, and then
send it to him for transmission to the
chief of the brigade, if awake. The chief
insists on knowing all about a fire before fie
takes action, one question in the regulation
form being, llow long has fire een t* n-
“If,’ l"" ! s t le n f;i'hriVndp or rives ”
IffiSvis' "0,1 this day
the holding of fires is forbidden. The fire-
men reserve the right to attend fires. Thus,
when the chief receives a form filled in accord-
ing to the regulations he lines up his men
and says, “There’s a fire at (say) Doolan’s
store. Would you like to go:’' The men
decide by vote. A good deal of our suburb
has been burned to the ground in recent
years, but, after all, if a community wants
to be democratic it has to be prepared to
pav the price.
J.K.
ADJECT IVA i. MEN DACITIES.
“Permanent” waves.
“Easy” repayments.
“Honorable” members.
“Temporary” taxation.
“Natural” complexions.
“Sure” winners.
* *
MORATORIUM.
“Alas!” the landlord muttered with a frown,
“With hitter sorrow life has filled my cup.
My house is let to folk who're settled down,
And will not settle up!”
¥ *
“The immigrant ’was very proud of himself till he
was cornered by a goanna.”— “Telegraph.”
An example of pride falling before a “go.”
* *
“S’he threw a mirror which broke against the
stone wall of the verandah.” —Divorce report ;
Moral: People who live in stone houses
shouldn’t throw glass.
* *
“Larwood is-about to publish a book.”— Cable. ■
It seems the only way to get him between
the covers.
¥ *
“A musician stationed at the street corner is
alleged by the police to have acted as a look-out
for a ‘two-up’ school.”
A case where saxophoning would lick tele-
phoning every time.
WHEN STEINS FOREGATHER.
Literary Modernist (Gertrude Stein
School) : “I have been seeing your pictures,
your pictures I have been seeing, in a
manner of speaking, being a bit
of a Modernist myself, I have
been seeing, then, or viewing, or
eyeing, being mfself a bit of a
Modernist, in ways of speaking,
I have been, then, eyeing, or see-
ing, or”
Pictorial Modernist (Epstein
School) : “Quite. Quite. And
you have, no doubt, marked with
the discerning eye of the Super-
Cultivated Person, the execution,
na'if, gay and impulsive in key,
and radiant in line and tone,
reminiscent of a post-cataleptic
Wopstein, of my ‘Woman with a
Thick Ear’?”
L.M.: “Well, well, well, then!
And I took it for a fire-engine,
a fire-engine, then, in a way, or
manner of seeing, or ap-
preciating, or visualising,
then, I a fire-engine took
the thing'for. .Well, well,
dear me, then.”
P.M. (indulgently) :
“These one-dimensional
Primitives, harking back
as they do in their asser-
tive and almost excessive
simplicity to the pre-
Stone Age era of the
Absolute in Art, fre-
quently baffle the neo-
phyte, while they at the
same time wholly
delight and par-
tially paralyse
those who have
inner, or subjec-
tive, or stable in-
formation in re-
spect of them. Ro-
ll r e s entationalist
Philistines - out-
moded and ineffec-
tual gropers after
Nature’s esoteric
truths of the stamp
of Velasquez and
Rembrandt pro-
duced nothing like
my ‘Woman with a Thick Ear. ’
L.M.: “True it is, and in ways of speak-
ing it is perfectly true, and, further, it is
true, and true it is, that neither Shakspeare
nor Bacon nor Milton ever evolved—not
being cultured Moderns—a literary style, or
manner 0 f wr iting, or stating, or putting of
wordg on p a p er f or the delight of eclectics,
which. was a style that in any way resembled
my style So it follows and follows it does,
and must, that you and I, and 1 and you,
as regards Art, of an advanced, or improved,
or renovated, or revitalised kind, are—er—
Artists.
u. J.
THE BODY-LINERS’ CLUB.
“Mr. Jardine and his men have formed a club to
perpetuate the 1933 tour of Australia. All the
members will wear the special club tie on a certain
day each week.” — Cable.
Rules.
1. The Clubrooms shall be at. The Ring.
2. The •Club Colors shall be black and
blue. , ~
3. The General Objects of the Club shall
be to encourage body-lining against Austra-
lians, and discourage it against Englishmen.
4. The Club Officials shall be as follows:
PATRONS, Lords Rothermere and Beaver-
brook. PRESIDENT, Larwood. VICE-
PRESIDENT, Voce.
5. Those eligible for membership shall
be English Test-
players who have
stated in press inter-
views at not less
than £5 per interview
that (a) the Austra-
lians got cold feet
when bowled at, and
that (6) the Austra-
lians never were
bowled at.
0. The President
and/or Vice-Presi-
dent shall not body-
line at any member
of the Club. Penalty,
Expulsion.
7. The President
and/or Vice-presi-
dent shall not body-
line at any English
amateur, whether a
member of the Club
or not. Penalty, For-
feiture of ONE (1)
month’s press earn-
ings.
8* The President
and/or Vice-presi-
dent may body-line at
English professiopals
(other than Test
pro f essiona Is),
always provided that
the captain of the
said professionals’
side —the same being
an amateur —has no
objection. Penalty, Sharp rebuke from
PATRONS’ Sporting Editors.
9. Members shall be limited to THREE
(3) Press Interviews per week, the same
not to include denials that the interviews
w r ere given.
10. Professional members shall not accept
less than £5, and amateur members shall
not accept less than £25. per interview.
11. Every member shall write at least
one book on the 1933 tour per year, con-
demning Australian players as cowards and
Australian crowds as Yahoos.
Club Policy.
The Promotion of a Spirit of Goodwill
throughout our Mighty Empire and the
Maintenance of Cricket as a Game for
Sportsmen and Gentlemen.
10-2-4.
* *
“An international billiard match with a record
prize is mooted.”
Walter Lindrum is bound to make a break
for it. ~ "
* *
“French farmers are burying their money.”
— “Argus.”
We do a lot of bean-planting in Australia,
too.
* ¥
“Heidelberg is entitled to the best police protection
which the finances of the State will permit*”
— Melb. “Herald.”
But the State can hardly spare a copper
these days.
* *
STRIDES OF SCIENCE.
“A German engineer has devised a scheme to close
up and drain the Mediterranean Sea, reclaiming
approximately 300,000? sq. miles and irrigating the
Sahara Desert. The work will take 250 years to
complete.”
Other schemes under consideration in-
clude
(a) Squirting portion of the Pacific into
the Atlantic across the Americas by means
of syringes, thus making the Pacific shal-
lower and enabling Aussie fishermen to use
shorter lines. The idea is the outcome of
30 years’ research by Professor Serge
Shingleshorttski, of Moscow.
(7>) To join the U.S.A. and Europe by
a single-arch bridge. Herr Izzy Ennigoott, of
Prague, has hit upon the idea of inverting the
arch. This will give greater strength by
allowing its apex to rest on the seabed. One
•of the difficulties still to be overcome is the
invention of a suitable submarine paint.
(c) To shift the Equator to the South
Pole, transferring the latter to the equa-
torial regions, will, according to the Bav-
arian genius Baron Augusthumpf von Knit-
wit, confer many advantages on humanity.
One effect will be to drive the -whales north,
thus centralising the industry in inhabited
regions. It would be of enormous benefit to
Australia, he contends, especially climati-
eally, during the period of the proposed
change-over (approx. 2132 years), and m
particular during the summer months, owing
to the cooling effect of the bergs as they
passed up the coast on the way to their new
grounds. Then there would be the tremen
dous saving owing to the abundance of cheap
ice. Queensland will grow bananas already
chilled for export, while Tasmanian apples
will be crossed with breadfruit. The Baron
is being given every assistance by his favo-
rite warder. _ „
S. Iv.
# *
“Man charged with driving car ‘under the influ-
ence.’ ” — -“Sun.”
But why in that case charge the man?
“Yer put the eucerlyptus in a howl of ’ot water, cover yer ’ead
wiv a towel, an’ ignore it!”
“Vic. Treasury officials every week discuss State
finances. over cups of tea.”— Melb. “Herald.”
It’s known as a scone-ference.
* H-
THE STRATEGIST.
“A man serving - a -12-year sentence for murder
disappeared frohi Belgrade Prison. Five days later
he returned. He said he had been to see his wife
and preferred prison.” —Neias item.
A warder had hurled Bill Basher out.
told him to go home and snapped the gaol
gates behind him. Imagine Bill’s feelings!
“I don’t believe me time was up,” he raged.
“An’ me that ’uinble an’ obligin’ in there
they coulda made a doormat ov me. Go
’ome!” Suddenly liis face set in a scowl.
“Orlright, y’ rotten swine,” he snarled, shak-
ing his fist at the gaol. “I’ll show yer that
Bill Basher’s ’ead’s no silly ’atrack.” And
he did. A month later he was back. In
mourning. Fifteen years for manslaughter
was his issue on this occasion. When they
push him out again he’ll, have no wife to go
home to.
* *
“A man in England still wears the jacket in
which he was married.” — “Argus. 1 ’
There’s certainly nothing new in that.
# *
EDUCATING MISS WOOZER.
“Sicli an interestin’ girl thet Miss
Woozer,” said Mrs. Jones appreciatively.
“Knows all the latest news about them society
wretches. They don’t seem to be able to
do nothin’ without ’er findin’ out.”
“Oh, she ain’t so smart!” Mrs. ’lggins
interrupted with a sniff. “Why, she”
“Vow, Mrs. ’lggins, I don’t like to see
that narsty spirit of jealousy in you. I'm
surprised, reelly I am, and me thinkin’ you
’ad such a temperance, I mean tolerink.
outlook on life. Why, only the other day
she told me that Lady Dogsbody was much
liattracted by a ’andsome young gigglyo she
met at the X. and Y. Steamship Ball. And
then there wuz the sad case of Billy Swin-
kins, who’s in love with some girl who don’t
return his affections on account of ’im not
usin’ Lifebuoy. Very fussy the young girls
is becomin’ these days; I’m sure I didn’t
worry meself about the kind of soap ’Erbert
used when ’e proposed. There ain’t no doubt
but what Miss Woozer’s becomin’ a reg’lar
society buttyfly! She knows ’em all.”
“Rubbidge!” broke in Mrs. ’lggins. “As
if she wouldn’t know, the ’ussy, and ’er spar-
rin’ up ’er cash reg’lar every week so’s she
can read the Sassiety exposures in the
‘Ghoul’!”
F.F.
NEW WIVES FOR OLD.
“To-day is the day of the up-to-date woman. The
extension hipped, triple chinned, middle-aged model
of the eighties has gone.”— Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Those triple-chinned models, of course, had
to go,
With their ponderous tonneaus and hip-
action slow,
And most of us found a decided improve-
ment
In the new one-chinned jobs with the smooth
dimpled movement.
Though present-day models are not built for
mileage,
They smash all past records for cuddlesome
smilage;
And as for their pace — why, they move ten
times faster
When landing a man on the road to disaster.
MoM.
MOTHER’S DAY.
Buy blossoms fair with which to say
Street things to Mum. ’Twould be absurd
To think of 'Dad, who has to pay;
He’s satisfied if Mum’s the word._
H. M.


the age old
SYMBOL
I
1 !
OF CELEBRATION
i
%
'l
m
To the Feasting Hall
of Valhalla on the
white horses of the
Valkyries...
Up . . . up . . . up, on their fleet white steeds the
maiden cup-bearers of Valhalla bore off the
heroes who had fallen in the day’s battle, to the
feasting halls of after-life. There, Scandinavian
mythology relates, a company of warm-hearted
warriors waited to pledge and do them honour.
Toast followed toast. So, in eternal feasting and
good-fellowship the heroes passed their days.
The days of the Norsemen have
passed, but something of the signific-
ance of the white horse remains. No
less to-day is the white horse associ-
ated with celebration and good cheer.
For more than a century and a half,
since the sign of the White Horse first
swung outside the old Inn at Edin-
burgh, men have looked to it as a
symbol to guide them to companion-
ship and content.
Look for the cirqular seal “Product of
Scotland ’ on the neck of every bottle
of White Horse. It is affixed under
the supervision of the Commonwealth
Customs, and is your guarantee that
the contents are “ Scotch! All Scotch!
And nothing but Scotch!"
White Ho
crntru
USE
SCOTCH WHISKY


SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
Work Well and Last. Long
The SUNTYNE
Hi
w l
m
ir
m
i*m
m
ms.
mm.
■
Combined Grain and Fertiliser Drill
and Spring Tyne Cultivator.
The Machine that prepares the seed bed
and sows the crop for the great bulk of
Australia’s annual grain yield.
The popularity of the Suntyne is based on the solid
foundation of efficiency.
It prepares a perfect seed-bed, bringing the coarse
particles to the surface and sifting the loose earth to the
bottom.
The bottom is consolidated, evaporation is retarded,
and the seed, which is placed with the fertiliser on the
compacted seed-bed, is enabled to take full advantage
of the stored moisture in the soil.
Sowing and cultivating can be accomplished
as deep or as shallow as desired.
The jointed floats have a stump-jump action that
reduces tyne breakage to a minimum.
For perfectly cleared country the floats can be locked
and rigid tynes can be fitted.
SIZES
8 row —17 tynes —cultivating sft.
14 row —29 tynes —cultivating
20 row —41 tynes —cultivating 12ft.
O' K>
row —25 tynes —cultivating
row —33 tynes —cultivating
24 row —49 tynes —cultivating 14ft.
H. V. McKAY’S
SUNSHINE
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
(H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., Ltd.)
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
Comer Murray & King
State Distribution from
27 George Street West, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Streets, PERTH. Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Backache
Stop That Awful Pain
This Easy Way
PAIN —awful pain—constant pain—nerve irritating pain all day and all
night, too Yes, the martyr to chronic backache soon begins to know
what the word “ pain’ means.
Why do you let Backache, Lumbago, Joint Pains, Rheumatism,
Sciatica ruin your health and make you a misery to yourself and all
around you.
Many people say “Oh ! I must have caught cold,” or “ I must have been
sittino- in a draught. My back feels like breaking. . . . That dull, down-dragging
weakness in the back makes me feel exhausted. . . . Pams in the muscles—l
just can’t get on with my work.”
WEAK KIDNEYS CAUSE YOUR PAIN
Actually it is kidney weakness that is the cause of the down-dragging
weariness and constant pain you suffer. If weak kidneys are sapping your
strength, causing body pains, rheumatic twinges or perhaps distressing bladder
trouble, bad nights, you cannot possibly do better than start with De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills at once.
They will banish your pain and their splendid tonic qualities will make you
feel and look years younger.
This splendid remedy, through the kidneys, expels the poisons such as uric
acid in excess and other impurities that are the cause of your suffering These
are not “cure-
all ’ pills. They
are prepared to
tone up the system
and give you back
your real manly
strength and
vigour.
£HARP twinges,
stabbing pains —
Nature’s urgent
warning of serious
Kidney Trouble!
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering
when all else has failed. Men and women in dreadful pain for years say they
have ended that pain and brought back health, strength and vigour m a
marvellously short time.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
No more “too-old,” worn-out feeling. You join with the youngest in all the
pleasures of life. In 24 hours you will see the action of De Witt’s Pills and know
how quickly they have reached the seat of your trouble—the kidneys. Why stop in
pain and weakness when here is health for the asking ? Thousands have blesse
the day they read about De Witt’s Pills as you are doing now. Let them bring
you health now. This splendid remedy is sold by chemists everywhere only in
the white, blue and gold boxes with signature name clearly shown on the side.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made spe ciall y
for the relief of kidney and bladder troubles. Good for young and ol an
women at all times. Refuse all substitutes,’there is nothing just as good.
Y v
t~ "
•rMii
':.-", " ’> "C 'Trt'l ‘ ; v>/;-
" i - ;
DE WITT’S
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address be-
low. Use Id.
stamp.
Please send me, free and fast faid,
a trial suffly of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
NAME
ADDRESS
F'A"’i6
E. C. De WITT & Co. (Australia) Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 26, MELEGUENfc..


A'UIDHH
JlBuipieau ct
Cilt^WUplD&i
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Ho m e Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
H
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
M
TANT men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to •
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Don. A. K. Trethowan. M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
sb. N.S.W. Agents: Fanners & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain ln.-.urance and >
SB,. Agency Co., Ltd.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&G Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 41 Bridge Street, Sydney.
H
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WOOL IN 1932-33.
In its review of the wool season just over,
Wincheombe Carson’s annual report strikes
a note of confidence—with an undertone of
caution. Experience has shown that, as
sheepmen are the first to feel the effects of
depression, they are among the first to
reap the benefits following the burden’s
lifting.
, Production during the past season was
3,100,000 bales, or 50,000 more than in the
previous year. Revenue will be greater,
too, for, estimated on average figures, the
1932-33 .clip should bring in £85,500,000, or
tour millions more than two years ago.
Greater . production, largely due to good
seasons, is responsible for the increase. “Re-
ductions in expenses have placed the sheep-
owner in a better earning position than in,
the earlier years of depression; but unless
prices in Australian currency rise 25 to 30
per cent, further, additional decreases in
costs, must be made before the industry’s
.position.can be regarded as sound.’’
The rise of 20 to 25 per cent, in prices at
the opening sales in August raised hopes that
were not realised. Later there was a drop
of from 10 to 15 per cent., but this was
counterbalanced in a degree by ready sell-
ing conditions. During the first half of the
.season 93 per,cent, of the Sydney offerings
changed hands at auction, and in January
there was a recovery, but it was lost again
owing to adverse trading conditions in
America and Germany, and because the can-
cellation of the South African subsidy to
growers rushed quantities of S’African wool
on the market. Nevertheless, demand has
been steady, and consumption has kept pace
with production. Merinos and the finer
crossbred wools have been more favored
than the coarser sorts, while superfine fleece
wools have brought higher prices in Aus-
tralian money than before the war, these
realising from 14£d. to 18*d. in 1913 and
from 16d. to 26fd. in 1933." Scarcity of the
finer sorts has been the reason, fine, bright
wools being grown much more plentifully
m the pre-war days. Prices for good-class
merino fleece and skirtings and for the finer
crossbreds have also been fully up to pre-
war prices. The low-quality stuff has kept
the average down. Average prices have been,
per pound: 1930, 10.4 d.; 1931, 8.7 d.; 1932,
0.0 d.; 1933, 8.6 d. But “on a gold
prices for the last two years have been 40
50 per cent, below the figures quoted.”
Of the buyers of Australian w’ool York-
shire heads the list for the nine months
ending in March, the purchases in N.S.W.
alone amounting to 276,548 bales, while on
past averages the consumption should total
from 750,000 to 800,000 bales for the whole
of Australia.. Japan again bought heavily,
and there, is every indication that this
demand will increase, probably to a million
bales annually, before long. For the nine
months Japan bought 535,000 bales, though
the cost doubled during that period owing to
the depreciation of the yen. With the ability
to turn out goods at low costs the Japanese
wool-manufacturing trade should have a
bright future. France, though her buying
showed a big advance on 1931-32, did not
approach her 1929-30 figures of 640,000
bales. The fine wools are still the favor-
it.es in this quarter. In spite of adverse con-
ditions, German buying improved as the
year went on, the export during the first
o'A n AvJ Tlonths being over 320,000 bales, or
• *O,OOO better than for the same period of
the previous year. The demand shows
signs of improving. Italy continues a solid
and steady buyer, averaging over 140,000
bales for the last three seasons. Belgium.
Switzerland and Poland have also bought
well, the Belgians being good customers for
the faultier wools for their carbonising and
scouring works. Both Switzerland and
1 oland are manufacturing on a fairlv ex-
tensive scale. America has been a negligible
quantity in the market, but the Australian
mills have once again been heavy buyers.
CHEAP POWER FOR FARMS.
“Argee”: A large number of small suction-
gas plants may be seen on farms in the Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) district. Award the credit
to a local engineering firm, which builds a
plant of its own design eminently suited to
country jobs. Used in conjunction with any
make of old ear engine, these plants will pro-
vide sufficient power to drive a 4in. pump with
a 25ft. lift on one bag of charcoal per six
hours. Charcoal costs Is. 6d. per bag, deliv-
ered ; so it is cheap pumping. Of course, the
plants will do bigger jobs; it’s merely a
matter of more charcoal.
This firm finds use for scrap from the
Railway Department; the generators and
scrubbers are made from sections of old gas
containers. These long steel cylind rs of
3-lGtli metal and 2ft. diameter are relics of
those far-off days when railway carriages
were lit with gas. The generator linings
are the work of local potters; they are
moulded in four sections so as to preclude
any possibility of air leak, which might spoil
the gas or cause an explosion. These people
discovered that fireclay from Bingara stood
up to tests bettor than any other; so a
couple of other inland industries receive a
helping hand.
Gas plants are simple and fascinating
things to operate. Pity more Australians
don’t realise the enormous amount of cheap
power available all around them in the form
of charcoal and wood-gas. A serviceable
charcoal-burning kiln may be made out of
a 60gal. crude-oil drum. Cut three vents in
the top and three in the sides, close to the
bottom, each about 6in. square. Cut the
wood into medium-sized pieces; load through
the vents. Light. up. when filled, and gradu-
ally reduce ventilation when contents are
sufficiently well alight by placing pieces of
tin over the vents. A little practice enables
the ordinary man to turn out excellent fuel.
A kiln of this size suffices for six or seven
bags.
WEANING LAMBS.
“ Jumbuck”: The owner who doesn’t wean
his lambs is not giving his ewes a chance.
No rule can be laid down as to the age for
weaning; everything depends on the season;
but in normal seasons. the practical grazier
weans at shearing time, having arranged
bis lambing to coincide with that time. By
making this one drafting, neither ewes nor
weaners are knocked about unnecessarily.
The young ’mis need keeping in hand for
a couple of days until they settle down, and
it’s wise to have a few old sheep (other
than the mothers) in with them for a time.
The weaners are then easier to handle and
they will be found little trouble to yard.
If feed and paddocks allow it, draft off
the sexes when they are drafted from their
mothers. The earlier ewe weaners are
separated from wether weaners the better;
the latter walk about more. When drafting
for shearing, look carefully for any stags left
amongst the wether weaners at marking
time; they might not be yarded again for
another six or perhaps twelve months. In
drought periods it is best to kill off the
lambs before the ewes get too low; better
to lose the lamb and chance saving the ewe
than lose both. Lambs reared in bad times
rarely grow into good, robust sheep. Sell
them off. as weaners at the first favorable
opportunity; they’re no good as breeders,
and being small-framed will not be heavy
cutters.
If the weather is hot at weaning time, be
certain to look in fence-corners. TVeaners
take a lot of trouble in watering after being
let go and the paddock fence needs riding
tor at least a week.
LOW-GRADE RAMS.
“yalerin”: There are sporadic complaints
about the use of scrub bulls and mongrel
stallions ; I want to put in a word against
the menace of low-grade rams. Many
breeders—not a.]] small . men. either—are
meeting a demand for cheap rams with an
inferior type—uneven, broad-wooled brutes
carrying “dog-hair” and calculated to ruin
a flock in a generation. Some ring in their
rejects on clients who can’t go elsewhere
for their requirements. It ought to be
somebody’s job to check this business. Bad
classing can be eliminated in a season, but
it may take an age to work out the defects
of bad breeding.
A BREAKING-IN BAIL.
“Mulgo”: In common practice, when
breaking-in a yoiing cow, one man hauls
her up with a rope round her horns and
an assistant urges her forward from behind.
But many a man has to manage the job
himself, and with a specially-made bail this
is easy.
The peg that usually holds the sliding bar
of the bail is dispensed with. The cap of
the bail is grooved a little way along the*
top; the groove is 2in. wide and 2in. deep,
cut with a mortising axe. A prop about
sin. wide by 2in. thick and ISin. long is
bolted loosely to the top of the sliding- bar,
which fits in a slot cut in the top end of
the prop. A tongue is cut on the lower end
of the prop to fit in the groove. To work
this, a small rope, the thickness of a plough-
rein. is fastened through a bored hole to the
top of the bar, which should be high enough
to reach 3in. above the bolted end of the
prop ; then passed through a ring or pulley,
secured to a rafter or beam in front, and
taken back along the rail to the post where
the cow’s leg is tied. This pulls the bar
forward when the cow’s head is in. and the
end of the prop drops in the groove and
holds it. You can get the right place for
the groove by marking the cap when the bai-
ls in its proper—closed—position.
To open the bail another cord is used.
One end is tied to a staple in the loiver
end of the prop, the other is passed through
a ring or pulley hung above it —a little to the
right of the perpendicular—then to the side
rails and back to the rear post; or it may
pass overhead directly from the pulley to
the rear. A pull on this cord lifts the prop
from the groove, and it slides back along
the cap. A pull on the other closes the bar
against the cow’s neck. Thus the cow can
be bailed and let out while you stand back
behind her.
The next thing is to fix up a roller for
the rope right in front of where the cow’s
head is when she is bailed up. This makes
easier work than a rail, and does not fray
the rope. The roller should be about 2ft.
in length and Sin. in diameter, smooth
hardwood, and shouldered at both ends.
These ends fit into holes in two strong posts,
so that the roller turns easily between them;
and a batten nailed across the tops of the.
posts prevents them spreading—though this
is not necessary if the posts are stout and
w-ell in the ground. When you have roped
the cow, you pass the other end of the rope
over the roller and back into the yard till
you get behind her. The roller does the
work of an assistant, while you urge the
cow from behind and keep pulling up the
slack till you get her head in. A pull on
the left cord closes and fastens the bail.
Without cord and sliding prop, you have
to go up to her head while hanging on to
the rope, and have a tug-of-war to keep her
there, and at the same time close the bail
and peg it—a comparatively strenuous job.
THE TAR-DISTILLATE SPRAY.
“7346”: For ten years or so green peach
aphis lias been a menace on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area. In the past it was
fought by spraying, before leaf-burst, with
nicotine sulphate. But I have seen affected
trees sprayed four times in 15 days and
hordes of aphides crawling up the trunk a
few hours after each spraying. Three sea-
sons ago one winter spraying with a tar-
distillate solution was tried with encourag-
ing results, and last winter a large number
of growers used it.
It had been supposed that the tar distil-
late was an insecticide. For some reason
not. yet explained it appears to be a fungi-
cide also. At least, there is evidence this
year, that peach trees thoroughly sprayed
with tar distillate did not develop leaf curl,
whilst neighboring trees not so sprayed did
—-the consequence in some cases being a
severe loss of crop. The tar distillate is
mixed with water in the proportions of
3 to 100 and is thoroughly applied to
every part of the tree at a pressure of
3001 b. per square inch. The tree must be
dormant; therefore the spraying should be
done in the first three weeks of July. The
object is to destroy the aphis eggs. If the
operation is delayed till the buds begin to
swell they will be damaged or destroyed by
the burning action of the tar. The' spray
has a burning effect also on hands and face's
of operators on the M.1.A., and such exposed
parts should be smeared with vaseline and
a handkerchief tied across nose and mouth.
In spite of these precautions some burns
and temporary unpleasantness will result.
Oddly enough, operators are reported to
suffer no ill effects in the U.K., where the
same proprietary line is used at even a
5 per cent, solution. Liability on the
M.I.A. is attributed to a difference in atmos-
pheric conditions and the actinic rays of
the sun.
The tar-distillate spray may be used suc-
cessfully in combating red spider as well
as aphis, and is therefore commended for
use on apples, pears, almonds, cherries and
plums as well as peaches. In all cases the
trees should be quite dormant and deciduous.
In no circumstances should it be used on
any plant life in leaf. This season 2000
tons of canning peaches were trucked from
Griffith' alone at £l2 per ton f.o.r. This ton-
nage would doubtless have been largely in-
creased if all peach-growers had used tar
distillate at the right time.
FAITHFUL PACKING PAYS.
“Golightly”: Some sheepmen who pack
their own wool dress their shop window by
putting a few of the best fleeces on top of
the bale. This is a mistake. A wool-grower
should look ahead and value his wool-brand ;
it is an asset, provided each clip has been
packed faithfully and evenly. From my ex-
perience, wool-buyers each year record and
remember the mark of clips that turn out
good or. bad; so the producer who consis-
tently packs his wool evenly as to quality,
condition and length from top to bottom of
the bale is a winner all along.
Last year a man in our N.S.W. district,
believing he was working off his locks to the
best advantage, carefully placed them in the
centre of his bales of fleece wool. It proved
a costly joke to him. 'plus the humiliating;
lesson that a buyer’s sampler probes all
parts of the pack before taking delivery.
In 1928 I had returned to me from Ger-
many a wrist-watch which had inadvertently
been packed with a bale of my wool. Some-
what similar happenings are known to other
woolgrowers. This should make it obvious
to producers that their identity is bound up;
in the wool they pack until it is manufac-
tured, The sale at auction does not end
the matter. Guard your brand- by packing-
even ly.
USES FOR SUPER. CONTAINERS.
“Rone”: Don’t throw away those paper-
bags in which you get your super. They are
not to be treated as waste material. Open
every bag at the end and, after the contents-
have been emptied into the drill, flatten the
sides in, making the bag like a big flat enve-
lope. Treated this way, bags are much less
likely to blow about the paddock. At the
first opportunity, preferably before rain, all
bags should be gathered in and stacked in a
shed for future use when the rush of seed-
ing is over.
Bags may be used as paper-mulch for con-
serving moisture around fruit-trees and vines.
In many wheat-growing districts, particu-
larly southern N.S.W;, northern Vic. and
the South Aus. Mallee, most of the year’s
rainfall occurs during the winter months,
and the long, dry summer proves too much
for trees in the home orchard.
In treating established trees, loosen up the
soil round each towards early spring and
lightly dig in the spring dressing of manure.
Then, immediately after rain, take out your
paper-bags, split down one side and along
the bottom—an old pair of sheep shears or
a sharp knife with a rough edge will do the
job. Take three sheets of paper at a time
and lay in this thickness from the trunk
of the tree to the radius of the outer leaves,
overlap the joining- she'ets of paper slightly
and fix down with some wire staples, bent
to be, say, 3in. wide and Sin. long. Draw
some soil over the outside edges to prevent
wind getting beneath and spoiling your work.
It’s easily done, and the moisture conserved
will many times repay the trouble by in-
creasing the yield and quality of fruit; and
there will be no need for periodic cleaning
of weeds or chipping during summer.
You can get earlier and better water-
melons, cucumbers and pumpkins by using
these bags. Prepare each hill during early
winter, and towards the end of the season
break them up finely, work a little super,
into each and after rain use the bags—two
sheets of paper for each hill. Lay them out
so that the middle is where you intend plant-
ing the seed, and punch holes for- the seed,
planting it venv shallow. Be sure a little
soil covers it beneath the paper.
You can get earlier tomatoes, too. Lay
the paper on prepared ground and cut a four-
inch cross through which to set each’ plant.
You can also roof the calf-pen, the fowl-
house or the dog-kennel with these bags.
Cover your rafters with old waste boards,
running with the fall of the: roof; then,
using 5-Bin. clout-head tacks, fix your paper-
bags (intact) flat on the boards, giving 3in.
lap at ends and 2in. at the sides. To form
the ridge, let a bag be divided in the middle,
half falling to each side. When the cover
is all on, secure some coal tar and keep if:
thoroughly hot whilst the roof is painted,
using a wide brush. Result, a waterproof
roof that will last for years.
CASTOR BEANS.
A Callawadda (Vic.) farmer inquired of
the. Service Department whether it is worth
while growing the castor bean as a sideline.
The question was submitted to the Tie. Agri-
cultural Department, which replies that for
successful cultivation a tropical or sub-tropi-
cal climate is required. The climatic condi-
tions of Victoria are unsuitable; the few
experiments that have been made have been
failures. In N. S. Wales and Queensland
castor beans have been grown on an experi-
mental scale, but the results - have not been
sufficiently promising to justify the com-
mercial cultivation of the crop. North Aus-
tralia is another pair of sleeves.
The bean, the department advises, is'
grown chiefly in India in the form of hedge-
rows around cotton and other crops. The
plant, although perennial, is pulled out after
three years. Older plants, although main-
taining the yield of beans, give a lower yield
of oil of poorer quality. For northern Aus-
tralia the method recommended is to plant-
three seeds together, thinning later to one
plant. The plants should be four to five
(Land Pape continued on page 26.)


I*
m
8m
V
m
ET
Enjoy this freedom
. . . . the . freedom of a perfect-fitting
shoe, pliant and made to the proper
width of your foot. Here’s an Abbey
Shoe that gives this comfort in full
measure. It fits easily, right from the
start. You’ll enjoy the difference
when you walk.
ORDER BY POST,
There are four widths.... narrow,
medium, wide and extra-wide. When
ordering, state which you need, and
ask, also, for the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE-
STREET ADDRESS No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 333
H
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying anil
Selling lust Pree.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
EXCHANGE EQUITY
A BOUT £SOO, in handsome five-roomed
bungalow, Manly, for small farm, pre-
ferably on. North or South Coast. Particu-
lars Box 937GG, G.P.0., Sydney;
Personal.
IV/lICIIAEL WALSH, one time of New
Zealand, and brother of Joseph Walsh,
deceased, late of Wairarapa, New Zealand,
and formerly of Dunedin, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Masterton, New
Zealand.
Public Notice.
nrilE New Zealand Government (N.Z.R.)
require 150,000 Hardwood Sleepers and
Ironbark Timber, as shown on quotation
form R 23.
Quotations c. and f. New Zealand ports
toll be received by the undersigned on or
before the 26tli May, 1933. For quotations
and all particulars apply to
L. J. SCHMITT,
Tourist and Trade Commissioner,
New Zealand Government Offices,
Cr. Martin Place and Pitt Street, Sydney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
EADE’S PILLS
Dispel Rheumatism
Eade’s Pills are indeed a famous remedy,
they make no extravagant claims to cure
everything, only to be what they are, namely,
a famous and marvellously successful
remedy for all Rheumatic Complaints.
Read the following letter; it is one of
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. The
sum of £5O will be paid to anyone proving
that testimonials published by Eade’s are not
unsolicited appreciations from the public.
2 Portland Terrace,
Moons Hill, Freshwater ; 1.0. W.,
October, 1932.
Dear Sir, —Thank yon for the good your
pills have done me. I have been taking
them for l f i years, and they have com-
pletely cured me of Gout and Rheumatism. I
take one Pill, and pain leaves me like magic.
I have recommended them to all my friends,
who have, also found relief, I would not be
without them for love or money. _ My wife
is note taking them for Rheumatics in her
arm.
W. KELLEWAY.
Every high-class Chemist in the Common-
wealth sells Eade’s Pills, which are packed in
two sizes.
t,
Dependablel
Craig &Aitken
P Wholesale
Sydney N.S.W.
The Most Widely Read Newspaper
in Queensland —
“THE BRISBANE COURIER.”
IT CARRIES FAR MORE ADVERTISING THAN ANY OTHER DAILY
NEWSPAPER IN QUEENSLAND.
Representatives:—Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Louis S. Marks, Newspaper House, Collins St., MELBOURNE. F 3906.
/
ftrrn
1
JOHN BRUSH lead in
Gentlemen’s Genuine Leather
Goats. Ready-to-wear, or made-
to-order. Expertly tailored and
lined with either Italian
Cloth or Twill Check. S'eamless
backs. Single or double-
breasted. Prices, £4/10/-,
£4/17/6, £5/10/-
i Super Quality. £6/10/- and
£7/10/-
Leather Wear
Tucked panels lend distinc-
tion to this smartly tailored
leather Coat, which has a
seamless back and silk lined.
Obtainable in all colors,
£5/5/-. Super Quality,
£5/10/-. Washable White
Leather, £6/6/-
Smart Golf Clothes must surely con
tribute to your confidence at „.
game. John Brush has many
five styles in suede or leather '
and Lumber Jackets from /
JOHN BRUSH, 371 George St., Sydney,
and 435 Queen
n-i«hallB-_
feet apart, each way. To prevent tall growth
and consequent inconvenience in harvesting,
plants are pinched back to encourage low
growth. Inter-tillage is necessary as m
maize, but the crop is exhausting and can-
not be grown long on the same ground.
Harvesting is expensive, since the spikes ot
beans do not all ripen together, necessitat-
ing several gatherings in a season. l . I '*'
ripened spikes or pods are cut with a knite
and heaped on a good barn floor. these
must be stirred daily to prevent heating
until the pods shoot out the beans, which
are then winnowed from the husks
Yields may vary from 20 to 40 bushels per
acre under favorable conditions. The present
price of beans is £lO to £l7 10s. per ton,
c.i.f., Melbourne; this latter price is for
beans of better quality than those from
India. Assuming an average of 20 bushels
(of 461 b.) per acre, this gives approximately
£0 10s. per acre gross return. So far as is
known, Lycett Pty., Normanby-road, Mon-
tague, are' the sole manufacturers of castor
oil in Australia, and are likely purchasers
of beans of satisfactory quality.
The duties on linseed and castor oil are
9d. per gallon, British preferential tariff,
and Is. intermediate and general tariffs.
Rates are higher for oil in containers if less
than 1 gallon. There is no duty on beans.
In September, 1930, the Tariff Board dealt
with an application for an increased duty on
castor oil and for a duty of £3 per ton on
castor beans, but decided that, in view of
the absence of satisfactory evidence that
castor beans could be grown in Australia,
the request should not be granted. In all
1200 tons to 1400 tons of castor beans are
imported per annum, and castor oil importa-
tions in bulk for the past few years have
been • 1926-27, 60,000 gallons: 1927-28,
61,000 gallons; and 1928-29, 103.000 gallons.
Tlie value was 4s. 9Jd. to ss. 71d._ per gal-
lon, duty paid, according to quality.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) When are peanuts fit to dig? (2)
Should the green tops first die off? (3)
Method of roasting peanuts ?- —5755.
(1) and (2) They should be harvested
when the foliage begins to yellow and the
lower leaves to fall off. At this stage they
carry the maximum number of pods. It
is a'good plan to dig a vine, allow it to wilt
in the sun for a day or two and examine the
kernels, which should be firm and un-
shrivelled. (3) Roasting may be done, for
home use, in an oven at ordinary roasting
temperature, for 15 to 20 minutes.
How to tan icallaby and other marsupial
shins? Have abundant supply of both wattle
and red mangrove bark. Which is the better?
-—5706.
The dry skins, after a good wash are
soaked in a solution of 41b. salt to lOgal.
water After the skins have been soaked
for a’few hours the flesh' and fat must be
removed by scraping with a knife. Time tor
soaking depends on the condition of the skins.
If the skins have just been removed from the
animals it only requires about 2hr. Dry
skins, after soaking, should be soft and may
be brought to this state in 24hr. to 48hr.
Tan-liquors are obtained by covering the
bark with water and removing the liquor
after 241ir. This is repeated several times
until the bark contains no tannin. Start
tanning with weak and finish with strong
liquors. For complete tannage follow the
color of the tanning as it penetrates the
leather. In the hands of the amateur,
wattle will probably do the better job.
(1) Best time to plant creeping saltbush
(“Atriplex semibaeatd”) ? (2) Will it grow
on any class of soil in Queensland? (3) Is
it a good spreader and seeder? (4) What
time of year docs it seed? (5) How much
seed to sow an acre? (6) Does it require
cultivated land or establish itself on ordi-
nary ungrassed land? (7) Would it be
suitable for the Upper Burnett and (8) the
Dolby and Roma districts? —5589.
(1) Autumn or early summer. (2) It
may be grown on a great range of country,
but in the natural state prefers the heavy
black soils typical of the Darling Downs and
similar interior localities. (3) Yes. (4) It
is in heaviest seed in April and May. (5)
About 101 b. to 121 b. (6) Saltbushes are
best grown in cultivated ground, hut can
be sown in the ordinary pasture. (7) No
reason why it shouldn't. (8) Yes. It is,
in fact, the commonest herbage there.
(1) Could a paint or lime wash be used to
coat galvanised-iron to prevent condensation
in a saturated atmosphere? (2) Any other
method? (3) Talcing the heat-insulating
qualities of wood as 1, what are tlie insulat-
ing qualities of (a) brick, (b) fibro-cement.,
(c) concrete? —5074.
(1) No. (2) The roof or walls must be
efficiently insulated to overcome the trouble.
(3) There is not complete unanimity among
physicists as to the insulating efficiency of
the materials listed. Mayer and Fitz in a
work entitled “Refrigeration” give the fol-
lowing values for the thermal conductivity ot
various materials: (a) 0.2; ( b ) not ascer-
tained; (c) 0.2. These values are for unit
thickness and area of the substances con-
sidered. Five inches of concrete would have
roughly the same insulating value as lin. of
wood.
I have a cow which has been milking for
nine months, and quite recently her milk
showed stringy particles. These particles do
not occur every day , but only at intervals.
What is the trouble? Is the milk fit for use
if it does not show the particles, and would
it be fit for use if boiled? —s639.
The animal shows symptoms of mam-
mitis (inflammation of the udder). The
milk from the affected quarter or quarters is
unfit for use, but milk from the non-affccted
quarters may be used with safety.
Cure for mange in a horse? The com-
plaint is long standing, and affects the back
and neck from ears to crupper. —s 433.
True mange in horses is not common, and
when it occurs is usually confined to the
loss It is more likely that the complaint
is° “Queensland itch.” The affected parts
should be washed with 1 p.c sodium bicar-
bonate solution to remove dirt and scurf.
Then “Odylen” should be applied twice daily
after grooming the affected parts with a
moderately-stiff brush. The'affection is diffi-
cult to cure.
Is the feeding of apples to milking cows
detrimental to production of milk and butter-
fat f —5525.
Nothing harmful about apples, but they
aren’t a gooff cow food, lacking proteids.
They can be used in a ration, but must be
supplemented with oil. cakes, linseed meal
or ground wheat. The low protein content
and the high acidity necessitate apples being-
fed in moderation and duly balanced, but up
to 301 b. a day per cow might be used in a
balanced ration.
Is the grass tree which grows near jS'pa-
ne g poisonous to cattle? —5490,
Perusal of N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s records does not reveal any cases of
poisoning attributed to this tree. Owing
to its coarse nature it is unlikely that stock
will eat it.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A.C.8.”: For honey, ordinary garden
flowers are inferior to bush blossom or such
flowering crops as lucerne or clover. Box
country gives capital honey.
“Wandi” : Soapsuds sprayed with a garden
syringe will get rid of aphides. A strong
jet from the same instrument will dislodge
white scale from the woody part of rose-
bushes.
“Floodmark”: If your horse is suffering
from worms try dosing him with 2oz. of
turpentine, well mixed with a pint of raw
linseed oil. Repeat in six days. Don’t work
the horse on the day he’s dosed or the day
after.
“Vet” : If you have to treat sick stock or
perform- an operation do the job away from
where you usually handle the beast for milk-
ing, harnessing or work. Animals are timid
and react very badly when subjected to
fright or pain ; they remember the spot where
it happened to them and are disinclined to
be driven there.
“Gumblegubbin”: A farmer’s wife makes
good household soap with this recipe:
61b. clean fat (free of salt), 11b. caustic
soda, lib. x’esin, 1 cup kerosene, and 2gal.
rain-water. After the mixture has been
brought to boil, let it simmer for a few
minutes, then set in clean tins.
“Sunny Hill’’: If you throw a bag over
the engine of your car when hosing it down,
don’t forget to remove it afterwards, or you
are likely to have a fire about 10 miles out
from home.
“A.R.N.”: A handy clip to hold letters
off the bottom of a mail-box can be made
from an ordinary spring mousetrap. Remove
tongue for holding the bat, and wire that
holds spring down; then screw on the back
of box. Any loose letters can be easily
slipped in, to be held in place by the spring
without fear of damage by rain.
“Bismark”: Plant a few kikuyu roots
under a tank overflow in the paddock, or
close to the house where stock can’t get at
it, but where it can be given plenty of water.
In the spring you will have enough roots to
cover a lot of ground in the paddock with-
out any expense. Don’t plant near the
garden, Or you will find it very difficult to
eradicate.
“Dixi” : Wash wheat, soak it and allow it
to sprout. Pour off surplus water and place
on trays in the oven until the sprout has
dried off and the grain is nicely brown. This
malted grain, put through the grinder, makes
a pleasant addition to or change from whole-
meal porridge, and the whole grain does for
broths instead of pearl barley or split peas.
The ground meal can also be used in the
making of bread, biscuits and scones.
“Garben”: To make a cheap 50-chick
brooder, take a milk case and enough flat
gal.-iron to cover the bottom. Take off box
bottom and, with clouts, nail iron in place of
it. Put a door in lid with leather hinges.
Bore about a dozen inch holes round near
lid top for ventilation. Place two or three
inches of clean washed sand in the bottom
and lay clean bagging flat on top. Put four
legs on corners high enough to allow an
ordinary half-inch brooder lamp to burn
-about two inches below iron. Run flame
just high enough to heat up. I’ve raised
hundreds of chicks in these.
“Liss”: When staying a strainer at an
angle in a rabbit-proof fence don’t employ
the stay with one end in the ground; rabbits
can climb these unless they’re well hooded,
and hoods are often damaged by livestock.
Erect a second post as heavy and long as
the strainer, about oft. away, and so that
the angle is bisected. Mortise a rail into
the top of the two posts.
“Cambalong”: When dummying wire
fences don’t stand the new post up alongside
the old one and twitch them together; it
makes an untidy job. Dig out the rotted.
post and erect the new one in the old hole
with its flat side towards the fence. Bore
a hole at right angles to the line for each
wire and staple them to the post, using
heavy wire for staples. If the old post is
split along line of holes it is easily removed
from wires.
“Dimon”: The instrument you use for
spraying trees can also be used for white-
washing the sheds—or the job may be done
with the garden syringe. Much of the
painting in factories is done now with
sprays, and spraying the fowlhouse is a
job anybody can do. It is easier and quicker
than putting the Avhitewash on with a brush,
especially if the walls are rough. But see
that the stuff is well mixed and free of
lumps.
“Liss”: To make a rock-salt rack for
sheep, erect two strainer posts, 4ft. apart,
measured between posts, and 3ft. out of the
ground. Join them 15in. from ground by a
stout rail, morticed into each, the upper
surface adzed flat. Let a piece 3ft. long
into top of each post at right angles to line
of the lower rail; this should also be adzed
flat and should fit flush with top of post. Two
rails, adzed flat, are halved into the ends
of these crosspieces lying between the two
ends on the same side, and will be carried
beyond the crosspieces about 6in. The top
is thus a rectangle 3ft. by about 6ft. The
rack is formed by joining the lower rail to
the two upper ones with six battens on each
side, forming a Y, the apex of which is the
lower rail, whereon the salt lies. The
battens should have their ends carefully
rasped to fit ljin. auger holes, bored in the
rails, and they will have to be fitted before
the upper rails are firmly fixed in place. All
joints are secured with wire.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to' hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
"Wanted to Sell*' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Strong young man, N.S.W., farm exp., wants
employment. Refs. —5717.
Two apple-packers, Tas., want employment orange-
packing, anywhere. Refs. —5684.
Person with many years’ exp. cyaniding tailings
will enter into partnership with anyone who has
tailings for treatment. —5681. \
Young lady, N.S.W., lifetime literary exp., desires
post as assistant in library.—s 722.
Motor mechanic and windmill expert, Q’land, wants
. employment on sheep or cattle station.—s 797.
Accountant book-keeper (returned soldier), N.S'.W..
with wife, five children, wants work of any descrip-
tion. Refs.—s79B.
Young engineer, Sydney, exp. with water-tube
boilers, turbines and pumps, seeks employment.—
5799.
Whereabouts of ex-police constable named Oleary,
who resided at Egan-street, Kalgoorlie, 33 years
ago. Impoi’tant letter awaiting him.—sBlo.
Whereabouts of W. Burns, fitter, late of Captain’s
Flat (N.S.W.). Friend, Harbor Board, Townsville,
inquiring.—5784.
Whereabouts of relatives of Rev. George Pritchard
(b. Birmingham, 1796 ; d. Brighton, 1883), landed
Tahiti in 1824 and eventually appointed British
Consul there and at Navigators’ Islands. He retired
in 1865. Some of his descendants are believed to
be living in Australasia. —-5634.
A correspondent with literary taste willing to
discuss plays and books, commencing with Ibsen's
“Wild Duck.”—s7so.
To buy J. H. Heaton’s “Australian Dictionary of
Dates.”—sB73.
Words of verse containing the lines “Over the
crust of the hard, white snow, Gaily the feet of
the reindeer g0.”—5802.
Words of old bush song (variation of a well-known
English ditty) containing the line “Wrap me up
in my stockwhip and blanket.” —5812.
To purchase “Pastoral Review” publication, “The
Stockowner’s Guide.” —5682.
To buy “The Road to Palestine and Other Verses”
and “Australian Light Horse Ballads and Rhymes,
by Trooper Gerardy..—s742.
To buy Bulletin, December 16, 1899. — 5716.
To buy Lindlohr’s “Philosophy of Natural Thera-
peutics. ”—5715.
To buy cheap 6-8 h.p, engine for ship’s lifeboat.
—5785.
To buy L. C. Cropper’s “Book-keeping and
Accounts. ’ ’—s 763.
To exchange commercial art course for short-
story course.—s 673.
Copies of Carson’s “Efficiency” magazine.—s6B9.
Words of chantey “Blow the Man Down”; of a
song each verse of which ends with “That gentle
nurse of the rowdies” ; and of “You Come A-waltzing,
Matilda, with Me.” —5710.
Words of verse by Walter -de la Mare beginning
“This is the image of my last content.’ —5769.
Words of poem entitled “Johnson’s Antidote”;
also poem in which is described a temperance debate
where each side convinces the other. —5765,
Information Sought.
(1) Did Jack Bowse beat Raironia’s
shearing record? (2) Was Bowse’s record
ever beaten? —5361.
(1) Yes. He put up a machine-shearing
record of 337 in eight hours, beating the
Maori Raironia’s tally, 332 in nine hours.
(2) It is on record that Bill Higgins, shear-
ing in the King Country, M.L., made what
is claimed as a world’s record tally of 372,
386 and 406 sheep shorn in nine hours each
day.
I am a returned soldier qualified to receive
war medals but have not applied. (1) Is it
too late to apply now? (2) Where should
I apply? —s399.
(1) No. (2) Officer-in-charge, Base
Records Office, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne,
S.G.I.
(1) Approximate date of settlement of
the scrubs between Brisbane and Gympie?
(2) Was there, any limitation as to amount
of scrub or forest country to be occupied by
any one man? (3) Were conditions imposed
on selectors as to developing and improving
their lwldings ? —5453.
(1) A considerable proportion was settled
between 1886 and 1898. (2) The maximum
area for one person was 160 acres in the
case of homestead selections and up to 1280
acres in the case of conditional purchase
selections. (3J The selectors were required
to effect improvements to homestead selec-
tions to the value of at least 10s. per acre.
Other selections had to be enclosed with a
good and substantial fence or equivalent im-
provements made.
Details concerning Maria Merian. a seven-
teenth-century flower-painter?— s73B.
Maria Sibylla Merian was the daughter of
Mathaeus Merian, the engraver. She was
born at Frankfort in 1647 and became a
pupil of Abraham Mignons. She devoted her-
self entirely to the painting o.f flowers, rep-
tiles and insects, and made a tremendous
number of them of great accuracy and beauty
in water-color on vellum. She illustrated
•and published one or two books on European
insects, and in 1659 she took a journey to
the Dutch colony of Surinam, in South
America, and stayed there two years, study-
ing the flowers and insects. Her daughter,
Dorothea Graff, helped her with her designs,
and on their return to Europe they pub-
lished two huge volumes of engravings which
they had hand-colored. She was the first
person to study the transformation of
the chrysalis, for which reason she has a
scientific renown as great as her fame as a
painter. She died in 1717. "
How to treat the seeds of the algorabo or
mesquite-tree to make them germinate,
when to plant, and suitable location? —soB6.
The seeds should be planted in the spring,
lin. to ,2in. deep, in seed-beds in warm situa-
tions. Keep the beds moist.
How to make a starch paste suitable for
mounting drawings and photographs? —s744.
Put two ounces of starch in a basin and
mix with a small quantity of cold water;
dilute with water to about one pint. Place
in saucepan or double-boiler over a slow heat
till the mixture gelatinises, stirring all the
time with a wooden spoon. While very hot
add one ounce of glycerine and half a dozen
drops of oil of cloves. Pour the mixture into
an earthenware container to cool, and, when
almost cold, stir in one ounce of methylated
spirit and mix very thoroughly. Store in
jars well covered. This paste will not harm
the finest print.
Value of the following for adding to soil
in which gladioli are growing: (1) Lime, (2)
salt, (8) animal manures, and (4) super-
phosphate? (5) What to do with gladioli
affected' with the fungus "Myriococcus
Fusan" ?- —5425.
(1) Is invaluable for sweetening soil, espe-
cially if applied during late autumn. (2) No
value. (3) Excellent if well rotted before
application. They should not be allowed to
come in contact with the bulbs. Place about
•'’in. below the corms when planting. (4)
Applied as a dressing at time of planting,
later when the plants are abput 9in. high
and again just before the buds appear, they
will help growth. (5) Soaking corms for
about 12 minutes before planting in a solu-
tion of 4oz. of commercial formalin to 15
gallons of water. Affected plants should be
burnt, and in future you should plant the
bulbs in fresh ground.
(1) Is there a market for seaweed? (2)
What is it used for? —5478.
(1) Depends on what you have to offer
and where you sell it from. (2) Fertilisers,
bedding, packing, iodine and some allied
chemicals, also agar-agar. Send samples of
the dried varieties of weed you have in mind
to the American Agar Company, San Diego,
California, asking for prices for bulk sup-
plies. The most favored species arc pacifi-
eurn, cartilagineum, amansii, comeum, Of the
genus Gelidium.
I lire near a> creek where water-rats are
very numerous. Is there a sale for their
skins, and at what price? —so2l.
Water-rat skins of good quality are worth
up to Is. each. Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Bridge-street. Sydney, are buyers.
Is it possible to get a joh in the advertis-
ing line, with no other experience than a
course with a coaching firm? Is it a lucra-
tive profession, ? —5071.
Possibilities do not depend so much on
passing through an advertising course as on
possession of sound general knowledge,
commonsense, a fund of ideas and versa-
tility of expression. The profession is like
most. others, overcrowded at the moment,
but is still as lucrative as any to a man
who is in it.
Our eat has been sick for two months
with something like a cold in the head and
he is stuffed up in his breathing. Treat
men t ? —5062.
Symptoms point to distemper, commonly
called "snuffles.” Endeavor to build up the
cat's strength by means of good feeding—
milk twice a day and raw meat once a day.
Insert into a piece of the raw meat once "a
day half a grain of calomel for three days.
Let the cat out in the sunlight, but try to
keep it in at night. A good feed of raw
meat at night will assist in this.
In February, 1931, I bought a property
in Queensland, the vendor holding a mort-
gage to cover the balance owing. Balance
is repayable in yearly instalments. Docs
legislation in Queensland afford me any
relief in respect of these instalments? —5686.
Under the Mortgagors’ Relief Act (Q.)
the mortgagee can’t foreclose without per-
mission of the Court. By recent legislation
interest rates are reduced by 22| p.c.
Who is considered by world critics to be
(1) the greatest pianist; (2) the greatest
woman pianist; (3) the greatest technician;
(4) the greatest interpreter of Chopin? —
5778.
Easier to answer as to the past than as
to the present. Our selection would be:
(1) Liszt; (2) Madame Clara Schumann;
(3) Tausig; (4) Chopin. In more modern
times (1) Paderewski ; (2) Carreno; (3)
Backhaus; (4) De Pachmann. Among
noted living pianists the acknowledged
leaders are Paderewski. Backhaus, Hamburg,
Grainger, Hofmann. Lhevinne and Rach-
maninoff, but there is no consensus of opinion
as to which is the greatest technician, the
greatest artist or the best exponent of
Chopin.
Method of making railway tarpaulins
proof against falling sparks? —sso9.
A suggested process is to immerse the
material in a solution comprised of 15 p.c.
magnesium sulphate and dry; then rinse or
immerse in a 15 p.c. solution of ammonium
phosphate, and after again drying apply
waterproof dressing. No service tests have
been made of this, and it cannot safely
be recommended.
Best way of making a flour paste for bill-
posting,' so that it will not go bad? 1 require
to make at least 1 cwt. at a time and in
such a way that it can be broken down as
wanted. —5507.
Take the quantity of flour you always use
for the boiling, work it into a smooth paste
with cold water, then add hot water gradu-
ally to the required amount; about 10 parts
flour by weight to 100 parts water by weight
will make a good mixture. Then set over
the fire and boil until it is semi-transparent.
Just before removing from the fire, stir in
borax to the amount of one per cent, of
the weight of water, and stir thoroughly.
This paste should keep for many weeks, and
should be broken down with warm water,
never cold. Keep it well covered, and in as
cool a place as possible. Other preserva-
tives are oil of cloves and salicylic acid, but
borax is the handiest and cheapest, and
exact measurement is not important so long
as there is enough used to preserve the paste
from deterioration.
ITow is coinage minted? —5071.
The metal is supplied in oblong bars,
which are heated and passed through rollers
that crush them down to about one-third
of their original thickness. They are then
passed through cold rollers and reduced a
bit more; then drawn through a drawplate
on a smooth bench and brought to the re
quired thickness in a smooth, hard, uniform
condition. Next they pass to the cutting-out
machine and are cut to size and shape, after
which they are weighed and tested for flaws.
The edges of the cut pieces are raised, and
the metal is annealed and softened and passed
to the stamping press, where with great
pressure the reliefs are stamped on to each
side and the edges milled, all in the one
operation. This is the process for gold and
silver; the same holds for copper, save that
the edges are not milled.
What is the Playertype method of copying
engravings, pencil drawings, etc. ? —5680.
Only applicable when the paper of the
original is thin and of clear texture. A nega-
tive is made by contact printing the' engrav -
ing on slow bromide paper (thin), and
positives are made from this. A hydro-
quinine or glycin developer is recommended.
(1) Date on which the Federal Govern-
ment took over the Post and Telegraph De-
partments of the States? (2) Date when
uniform postal rates were first imposed
throughout Australia? —ss7s.
(1) March 1, 1901. (2) May 1, 1911.
How to remove inkstains from dull grey-
colored wallpaper without blanching paper?
—5521.
Can't be done. Only way is to bleach
out the ink with oxalic acid and paint over
the spots with a little grey kalsomine.
Recipe for d spirit shampoo? —-5449.
Twenty-four parts good soft soap, 5 parts
potassium carbonate, 48 parts alcohol,
enough water to make the whole up to 400
parts. Mix the soap, potassium carbonate
and water together, using gentle heat if
necessary to combine them thoroughly; then
add the alcohol, avoid further stirring and
set aside for a few days in a warm place
before bottling for use. Methylated spirit
may be used for the alcohol, and any desired
perfume may be added. To use, wet tin-
hair well in warm water, and rub in a few
teaspoons of the mixture to make a soapy
shampoo.
Recipe for preserving sardines? —5570.
Behead and gut and place in brine for
four hours; then place on wire trays to
dry, and afterwards pack in barrels or casks
with salt, one layer of coarse or fine salt
and one layer of fish alternately. When re-
quired for use the fish can be cooked by boil-
ing or frying.
What are the ten most beautiful melodics?
—5BOO.
The question, the field being so large, re-
solves itself into a matter of taste. Pro-
bably every musician would give a different
list. Excluding operatic melodies, hymn
tunes, passages of large works and songs so
familiar that they have a reminiscent and
sentimental value apart from their intrinsic
worth, here is a selection that might com-
mand some support: Schumann’s “Trau-
merei,” Schubert’s “Serenade,” Rubinstein's
“Melody in F,” Chopin’s E Flat Nocturne,
Grieg’s “Spring Song,” Mendelssohn’s “Con-
solation,” Beethoven’s Minuet in G, Mas
sanet’s “Elegie,” Liszt’s “Liebestraume” (tin-
best-known one), Saint-Saens's “Dying
Swan.” But there are at least a hundred
more whose claim to be included in the list
we shouldn’t like to have to contest.
Information concei'ning Alt. Isa (Q.),
population, industries, climate, living con-
ditions, etc.: also how many mails run there
from Brisbane, per week, and the approxi-
mate time and cost of a. journey to Mt. Isa
from Brisbane? —5612.
Principal industry silver- and lead-mining.
Pop. with surrounding district about 4500.
Mail train leaves Brisbane once a week at
7.30 p.m. on Thursday, connecting at Towns-
ville with train leaving at 1.45 a.tn. on
Saturday and arriving Mt. Isa 5 p.m. on
Sunday. Rail fare from Brisbane is £8 10s.
first single and £4 16s. second single. Dis-
tance from Brisbane 1435 miles. Mean
summer shade temperature, 87deg. It lacks
the amenities of the larger coastal cities.
How to straighten curved corrugated-iron?
—5719.
Can only be done by passing the sheets
through curving rolls. If your local plumber
can’t do the job, send the sheets to F. Ash,
Ltd., of Newcastle. The cost of straighten-
ing will not be great.
(1) How do earth worms that infest bowl-
ing greens breed? (2) If by egg deposits
arc they laid on the surface or underground?
(3) If worms are cut in two under the ground
do. the severed parts lire? (4) Books on
the subject, price, and where obtainable? —
5559.
(1) and (2) They are hermaphrodites
which deposit their eggs in capsules either
deep in the soil or near the surface. (3)
The part bearing the head may live, and,
though the posterior end usually dies, under
certain conditions it may develop a new
head. There is no popular work dealing
exclusively with the subject. Parker and
Haswell’s “Zoology” and the “Cambridge
Natural History” include accounts of vari-
ous worms. These may be procured from
Angus and Robertson or Dymocks; price
about £2 2s.
Are official distances from Sydney, via
main roads, measured from the obelisk in
Macquarie • Place or from, the G.P.O. ? —5543.
. From the obelisk.
Does Anybody Know?
Has anyone in Australia an older grand-
father clock than one owned by me which
was made in 1774? —5735.
Brief Answers.
Worried: (1) You have paid off £265 of
capital and still owe £385. Under recent Q’land
legislation you are entitled to a reduction of your
rate of interest from 7 p.c. to 5.425 p.c. At this
new rate the transaction will take a further seven
years and four weeks to complete, interest being
computed at quarterly rests. (2) Such calculations
are intricate and involve the use of logarithms
C. : Get in touch with the senior instructor in
fruit culture, Agriculture Dept., Cairns... .D.S.:
Write Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries, Wfiitehall-place, London, 5.W.1....
R.D.: Write Charcoal Traction Engineers, Ltd., 118
Toorak-road, South Yarra, Vic D.D.G.: Still
handled by Geo. Fletcher and Son, 58 Oxford-street,
Sydney.... E.H.M.; Dept, of Agriculture, Pretoria,
Transvaal, South Africa... .M.S.T.: (1) Origin un-
certain. Webster suggests it is a combination of
Jack and kangaroo. (2) We do not know of am
such 1aw....G.-T.; A “Greek gift” is something
given with a treacherous purpose.... J.W.: Ger-
many, area 182,200 sq. miles, population 63,000,000 ;
Austria, 32,180 sq. miles and 6,600,000; Hungary,
36,180 sq. miles and 8,700,000; Bulgaria, 40,000
sq. miles and 6,000,000; Czecho-Slovakia, 55,000
sq. miles and 14,730,000; Poland, 150,000 sq.
miles and 32,000,000; Yugoslavia, 94,000 sq. miles
and 14,000,000 ; and Roumania, 123,000 sq. miles
and 18,000,000. .. .E.E.; Several books on canoe-
building are stocked by Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney. Don’t know of any on outrigger canoes....
D. : See “Lempriere’s Classical Dictionary”....
. ...A.H.W.: Write to a solicitor in England. Cost -
would not be excessive. .. .E.0.E.E.: (1) Write Local
Govt. Dept., Sydney, and Home Secretary’s Dept.,
Brisbane. (2) (a) Knowledge of printing processes,
advertising and accountancy; (5) by serving for a
period in such an office. (3) N.S.W. Naturalists’
Assoc., care Miss Dulcie Dobbins, Bank of N.S.W.,
William-street, Sydney; Q’land Naturalists’ Club.
Albert House, Albert-street, Brisbane... .B.B.: (1)
and (2) They are much the same so far as standards.
Circumstances peculiar to the system there would
make it difficult for an Australian-trained teacher
to secure a position. (3) Write Dept, of Education,
Pretoria, the Transvaal, South Africa. (4) Consult
Sydney shipping cos E. 8.: Areas of the thro ■
largest State electorates in Queensland are as follows:
Warrego, 129,110 sq. miles; Carpentaria, 122,080
sci. miles; and Cook, 82,090 sq. miles Y.A.:
Secretary of Actors’ Federation cannot recall such ;i
performance. .. .S.P.J.F.: Communicate with the Clerk,
Barron Falls Hydro Electricity Board, Cairns (Q.).
. . . .H.T. : The code flags referred to would be flown
from ■ the signal-gaff abaft the after-mast... .M.L.:
If by those means you undertake, for a foe, to t< 11
a client his fortune, then, under an Act of George
11., applicable in .all the States, you commit an
indictable offence. . . .E.W.K.P.: In those circum-
stances the income is earned or derived where the
service is performed, and not where the payment
is made from.... E.D.: Write College of Herald,
Queen Victoria-street, London, E.C.4. .. .8.H.: Do
not know of any author of that name.... J.F.D.:
You could not legally make such a demand on the
agent ; you must look to the executors or trustees
for any statement of account. If they refuse it
you could apply to the Court of Equity. You
should have the assistance of a solicitor... .P.J.:
Under the Mortgagors’ Relief Act of 1931 (Q-)
the mortgagee may not exercise his rights, such as
power of sale or entry into possession, without
giving the mortgagor notice of his intention to do
so. Within one month after the giving of such
notice the mortgagee may make application to the
Supreme Court for relief and must serve notice of
having done so on the mortgagee, who may appear.
In coming to its determination the Court may take
into consideration the inability of the mortgagor
to redeem the property out of his own or borrowed
money, economic conditions, any hardship inflicted
on the mortgagee, and so on. If satisfied that relief
should be granted the Court may grant the mort-
gagor an extension of time on such terms and
conditions as it thinks f1t....J.M.: Apparently the
property in the land was to remain in the vendor
until you had finally paid the purchase money, and,
that being so, he would in the meantime be en-
titled to mortgage it subject to such rights as you
possess. You may accept the new owner in the
place of the original vendor, but you cannot, at
will, cancel your contract. All the relief the
Moratorium Act could give you would be to ex-
tend the time for payment of instalments to 1936.
. .. .C.M.; A boundary-line defined by “the water’s
edge” of a river or creek is, especially in Aus-
tralia, a very unsatisfactory demarcation, as the
courses of such streams may be erratic and you
would have difficulty in establishing the loss of
seven acres, even as recently as three years ago.
You can apply for a refund of interest and rates
on the missing acreage, and the survey would, ho
doubt, help you, but it is not easy to extract over-
paid interest Or rates from a Government depart-
ment or municipal council.... A. L.: Write Lecturer-
in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street. Waterloo,
Sydney... .D.S.: See the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror,’’ August 17, 1926,, page 13... .W.A.; The
book costs-10s. 6d., not 3s. 6d. The printing of
the latter price was a mistake.. . .H.W.': The
booklet is entitled “Better Yields by Spraying,” and
is issued free by R. N. Kirk, 25 O’Connell-street,
Sydney... .R.J.M.: (1) Reiman Institute, 39,6
Flinders-lane, Melbourne. (2) The Service Dept,
does not undertake to furnish answers to riddles and
puzzles printed in other papers. .. .L.R.: Only from
the Registrar-General’s Dept., Box 4247 Y, G.P.0.,
Sydney... . J. 0.: Write Agriculture Dept., Sidney,
for bulletin “Hides, Skins and Sundries” (9d.)....
D.P.D.: None of the large cos. would consider such
a proposition; some of the small ones might.
You would have to canvass the trade. .. . W.K.W.8.:
Unable to trace the horse’s pedigree.. . .J.E.E.: No,
the suggestion is ridiculous... .M.M.; Day classes
in cookery are held at the East Sydney Technical
College, Darlinghurst. Call at that college and
interview Miss Wilson, or else give her a tele-
phone call—Bo6, extension 2342... .A.H.H.: Fur-
nish us with more details... .J.D.; Referred your
complaint to both the South Aus. and Vic. rail-
way authorities. Both replied, stating that par-
ticulars furnished were too vague to enable an
inquiry to be made... .H.J.S.: Communicate with
G. T. Cox, Mount Garnet, via Cairns, Q’land....
H. : You should make your claim on the shire
council... .A.J.H.: It is pronounced “ro-day-o”
J.G.M.: Nothing is officially known of a scheme fos-
tered by the late Dr. Arthur to place people on
the land in the Prospect district. There is no
Crown land in that locality now open for selection.
... .T.S.M.N.: Write Dent, of Mines, Brisbane....
R.C.H.: “Little Red Riding Hood” was staged in
Melbourne, at the Princess, in December, 1893-94,
and at Her Majesty’s (the old Alexandra), in
February, 1900... .F. 8.: Write to the local Pastures
Protection Board, asking for full particulars as to
the course you should take, serving notice, and
so forth... .K.G.: (1) “True Story Magazine,” 1926
Broadway, New York, U.S.A. (2) Two cents -a
word, paid on acceptance. (Many others mailed.)


LENNON'S HOTEL
BRISBANE
The centre of Queensland’s
distinguished social life and
leading hotel in the State.
sß^-t
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
Some Broken Hill Figures.
Ore mined to date, 44 million
Value produced from the mines, £lo»
million.
Dividends to date, £37 million.
Still going strong.
And then there is “The Barriei
Miner,” now in its 46th year of om-.
as the Great Daily Newspapei
Broken Hill and the Far West-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
City Tattersall’s hadn’t much of a crowd
for its meeting on Saturday. The privilege
of racing at Randwick used to be highly
valuable to these bookmakers’ clubs, but it
hasn’t been so the last couple of years.
S.-p. competition grows fiercer ; then people
who have no use for s.-p. shops complain
that admission charges are too high and the
3.05. minimum on the tote too much, while
the deduction from the pool (3.2 J p.c. and
fractions of sixpences) is outrageous. They
are legitimate complaints and should be
attended to; also a ss. doubles tote should
be provided.
Although the Flying Handicap brought
out 38 runners the call was 2 to 1 Jaeko
and 4 to 1 Closing Time. Certainly long
prices were offered about most of the field,
and admirers of Kichaka were agreeably sur-
prised to find the little English-bred horse
at 10 to 1 and better. Price, who trains him,
was also represented by Killarney, and Ivich-
aka’s appearance was criticised; “hasn’t
done enough work,” it was said. That he
had was shown when lie. headed Tom Pinch
with two furlongs to go and came home
strongly on the rails, to beat Closing Time,
who also finished well, by a length and a
half, Chemosli (20 to 1) being three-quar-
ters of a length behind Jamieson’s horse and
just in front of Tom Pinch. Jacko looked
lit enough for anything, short of tackling a
Winooka, but was never in it. Accepted
and Diamond de Rouge shaped like early
winners in their class.
There were big fields in three other
races. Twenty-four jockeys weighed out for
the Novice Handicap (one, Parr, returned
with his saddle under an arm, his mount,
Egur, having bolted for a couple of rounds),
but again McShortodds demanded 2 to 1 the
field. A longer price wms available, during
Bert."l Shot it in India?'
Gert: "How CRUEL.' "
Bert : * It was a* case, or me or.
THE
GiERT '/'Well, -THE Tiqeß C-ERTAINL-y
MAKES THE BETTER RUG,* _
the race about the favorite, Magnaver, but
he made up his ground smartly and had
things all his own way over the last fur-
long, second (Foxarna) and third (Mineola)
being accounted for very easily. The indica-
tions are that veteran Dick Wootton has a
good stayer in this four-year-old gelded son
of Magpie—Ednaver. Journal (7 to 1),
who on the previous Saturday had success-
fully taken on all ages at Moorefiold, hand-
somely defeated 17 opponents in the Two-
year-old Handicap, and his time for six fur-
longs, 3min. 14sec., was only half a second
slower than Kicbaka’s. The track had been
heavily watered, and the horses threw up
clods. Before this race Winooka galloped
three furlongs, Pike sporting the colors that
are to adorn whoever rides the horse in the
TJ.S.A. They are a fetching combination of
the Australian flag, the Union Jack, the
Stars and Stripes and the Tricolor.
Oro was made favorite (at 7 to 2) for
the James Barnes Stakes —why, it is hard
to see, since his three-year-old form has
been only middling. Johnnie Jason and
Panjandrum (each 6 to 1) were others in
strong request. Johnnie Jason led for a
time, but New King (16 to 1) shot to the
front near the six-furlong post and remained
there. For a furlong or so Satmoth
(10 to 1) looked like worrying him out of
it, but Sharpe' rode a Duncan-like finish on
New King, who defeated Satmoth by a neck.
Veilmond (12 to 1), showing his best form
of the year in Sydney, finished fast in third
place, half a length behind Satmoth. Agin-
court. showed a bold front near the furlong
post but failed to come on, finishing fourth.
New King ran the 11 furlongs in 2min
21fsec. lie is a greatly-improved horse.
Rauchero (5 to 1) got the best of an excit-
ing finish in the Welter Handicap, half a
dozen horses being spread across the track.
It was a good betting race, so McShortodds
hadn’t to pay out any of his New King
winnings.
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Auburn Handicap: Diamond de Rouge;
next, Erbie.
Rosehill Handicap: Agincourt; next,
Cynical.
Highweight Handicap; Celebrate; next,
Accepted.
* * * *
Fx-ed Hoysted, the Mentone (Vic.) trainer,
specialises in jumpers, and though well ad-
vanced in years often schools a horse over
hurdles or fences for the fun of the thing.
Two seasons ago Hoysted landed a Grand
National Steeplechase with Rakwool. He
faces the winter of 1933 with a lot of
promising “National” material. Hoysted
won the Banya Hurdle at Moonee Valley
with Lynden. Backed down to 2 to 1,
Lynden shook off Bon Haven at the second
flight of battens and scored with ease. Lyn-
den - will have to be reckoned with when the
G. N. H’urdle comes on for decision. He
jumps like a stag, has a lot of speed, and
was sired by Poitrel, which ought to be a
guarantee of stamina.
The two foremost cross-country jockeys
in Vic. are Bob Inkson and Alick Fullar-
ton. Each registered a victory at the Valley,
Inkson taking the Banya Hurdle and Fullar-
ton the Brunswick Steeplechase on More
Noise. The double would have gone to
Inkson if Redditcli, the favorite, had not
met with a mishap. Soaking rain fell through-
out the afternoon. This softened the turf
to such an extent that Redditcli lost his foot-
ing after clearing the last fence, when in con-
trol of the field. The hind legs of the Red
Dennis gelding slipped from under him, and
Inkson retained his seat with difficulty:
several rivals flashed past the favorite, and
he faded out of a place. More Noise, with
Fullarton up, wore down the pacemaker,
Calfly, and scored by a substantial margin.
In April of last year More Noise captured
a Trial Hurdle at Mornington when unfan-
cied. Put up to auction immediately after-
wards, the grey fell to the bid of Steve
Murphy at 500gns. On several occasions
More Noise was weighed in the balance and
found wanting. Not long ago Murphy tried
the novel experiment of sending him over to
Tasmania for a change of air. Ideally built
for cross-country work, More Noise appar-
ently has struck his real form at last; he
is by Chrysolaus from Clatter, by Linacre
from Brattle. Wirrate finished third in the
Brunswick Steeple after an exciting experi-
ence at the second fence. He collided with
another horse on the landing side and was
nearly down. Jackson lost the use of one
stirrup leather and did not recover it until
a furlong had been traversed.
Though Holt produced Great Idea for the
Keera Welter, the Queenslander met with
little support. Holt set Duncan free to
ride The Dawn Patrol, who was backed with
confidence. However, Wanconner wore
down the favorite and beat him by a neck.
The winner is by Aleconner, who accounted
for a strong field in the A.J.C. Epsom Han-
dicap of 1913. Holt did not fancy High
Brae greatly for the Nonga Handicap ; 7 to 1
was obtainable. High Brae made a dead-heat
with Attempto for first place; it was _ a
race for apprentice riders. Duncan regis-
tered a runaway victory in the last event
on the card with Mystery Ship, who was
bred by the V.R.C. chairman, and is by Cara-
vel from Raddle.
“The Urger”: When the arresting police
told a Sydney beak the other day that they
had caught an s.-p. bettor rubbing out the
details of his bets, which were chalked on
a wall of his house, it recalled Solly’s little
tobacconist-tote shop in Brisbane of the long
ago. In those days the betting laws were
wide open, and every fag-dispenser ran his
private tote. Names of horses in a race were
written on a blackboard displayed at the
back of the counter, and when a customer
put a bob on his fancy a chalk-mark was
made against the horse. These were added
up after the race and the number, divided by
that of the backers, decided the divvy. One
day I went in just after a race for my cut.
Solly was busy adding strokes with his
chalk to those already opposite the winner’s
name. “Vait a moment.” he said; “I’m just
addin’ a coupler bets come through by tele-
phone before der result.” The explanation
was accepted. It had to be, even though I
knew Sollv hadn’t got a telephone.
Gone over the last hurdle in Melbourne,
W. (J. Knight, one of the best amateur riders
Victoria has had. He rode in hurdles and
steeples as an amateur for 32 years without
a break, often against the pros.; was on
Deposed (third) in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle in 1898, and won a Mel-
bourne Hunt Club Cup on Queen B. He
was one of the leading followers of hunting
in Victoria, filling the post of master of tne
Oakland Hounds until a season or two ago.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Living as lie is on the fat of the land,
Lurich looked anything but a wrestler in
condition when he met King Elliott at
Leichhardt. Nevertheless, he pinned Elliott
with a body-scissors in the second round,
loafing after that till the other showman
scored a fall with flying-tackles and a body-
press in the fifth. Lurich lost no time in
the last round; a head-scissors won the
match for him.
Footbrawl
Rain spoilt both V.F.L. games and
“gates,” though it made the competition more
interesting by levelling up the teams. Rich-
mond’s Tigers found Footscray’s mud un-
suited to fast play and clean marking, and
tired badly at the finish, when the home
side was going strong. With its liberal stif-
fening of stars from other clubs and States,
Footscray promises to arrive this lt
beat the Tigers by 50 points to 34. Carl-
ton’s Blues also found their usual effective
high-marking and long-kicking of no avail
with the slippery ball, though Geelong’s
speed, clean ground work and position play
would probably have won on a dry day, L.
Hardiman and Molony being really brilliant.
Geelong, 94; Carlton, 57. Collingwood was
also better suited than South Melbourne by
conditions, though the Magpies’ team play
was more responsible for their victory.
Collingwood, 71 points; South, 57. Fitzroy
found St. Kilda a strong but individualistic
team, and piled up 143 points to 59. The
crowd numbered only 10,000, but the Saints
are on a good wicket in one respect : they
had insured each of their 18 matches for
£3OO against 10 points of rain falling be-
tween fixed hours, and as the total premium
was only £B5 they stand to pouch a fair-
wad. Melbourne had the measure of Essendon
throughout their performance, winning by 99
points to 70. North Melbourne proved a shade
too strong for Hawthorn—7s points to 67.
Ex-M.L.A. Liston, president of the Vic-
torian Association, has thrown a bombshell
into Australian-rules football ranks by in-
forming all interested that the Assoc, to-day
has three courses in front of it: (1) to
become a sub-League with the right of
annually replacing the lowest Victorian
League team with the highest Assoc, one:
(2) to remain as it is, nominally profes-
sional but practically amateur through
scarcity of funds; (3) to join up with the
Rugby or Soccer codes. As the Assoc, more
or less controls 12 enclosed grounds, and
as these codes have none, this last alterna-
tive has a very attractive look to the parties
concerned.
si: sic * *
The Rugby Union game at North Sydney
started with the home side favorite against
Drummoyne, and had the Shore men dis-
played in the first half the form shown in
the' second, when they piled up 15 points to
nil, their supporters would have spent a
happier afternoon. As it was, the closing run
brought them victory by 18-12 after Drum-
moyne had led 12.3 at half-time. The Drum-
moyne forwards lived up to their reputation,
but the backs let them down. Each side
landed three tries, Mitchell’s three penalty
goals for North being the deciding factor.
Western Suburbs came with a last-minute
rush to beat St. George 14-9. Eastern
Suburbs, a team of youngsters with only
three of last year’s side in harness, made a
gallant showing against Randwick, that
team running away in the last quarter-hour
from its outweighted rivals, and winning
26-9. Manly beat the second University XY T
—the first is in Maoriland with the Com-
bined Australian Universities —by 16-3.
Manly’s forwards were far too big and heavy
for the visitors.
The big game of the League competition,
the first meeting this season of those old
foes, South Sydney and Eastern Suburbs,
drew some 17,000 people to the Sports
Ground It was anyone’s game to the finish,
when South Sydney saved the bacon with
a somewhat doubtful try by Wearing, which
williams converted. The sides had been
o'oing neck-and-neck, and were 7-7 until the
iinal try. East suffered a severe loss when
five-eighth Norman was lamed, and thougli
he played on he was practically a passenger.
This was unfortunate, for Thicknesse, the ex-
Union player, was getting the ball from the
scrum and making fine use of it. After Thick -
nesse, the outstanding player of the game
was the Southern winger G. Qumlivan.
whose fast and powerful runs were a con-
tinual source of danger to the Eastern de-
fence. At Pratten Park a close game be-
tween North Sydney and Western Suburbs
was won by the former, 22-17. On its home
ground St. George kicked its way to vic-
tory over Balmain by 13-10, Hyland boot-
ing five penalty goals for the winners. Uni-
versity surprised by beating Newtown at
Marrickville, 7-2.
» * * *
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby League
team for England sails on July 4, and is due
at Southampton on August 14. As on the
last tour, Ilkley, in Yorkshire, will be
G H.Q., but the managers have the power
to arrange for special housing of the Test
side for a week before the games. The
institution of a points system of allotting
the final payments to the players is arousing
a lot of curiosity, but it aims at giving the
players who have carried the baby the bettei
share of the swag. On the last tour each
of the players pouched £2OO, irrespective of
conduct or performances.
* * * *
“Der Jong” : A pity Afrikander prejudices
will not permit our Wallabies to meet a
team of pukka South Africans drawn from
the native sons of the country—Zulus.
Basutos, Baralongs and others. _ These men
are of magnificent physique and in days gone
by played the Union game with, gusto.
Writer recalls one match in the native loca-
tion at Pretoria just after the South Afri-
can war which opened his eyes to the Kaffir
as a footballer. The play was of high stan-
dard, but what most impressed was ilm
perfect turn-out of the teams. No inter
national side stepping on to the ground tor
its first match could have excelled them m
outward appointments, from boots to guern-
seys.
(Continued on page 30.)
Racquet and Bawl
Australia’s opening appearance in the
Davis Cup tourney against Norway at Oslo
ended in the expected win for our team,
which took all the singles and the doubles.
Crawford and McGrath won their singles
from H’aanes and Smith in straight sets.
McGrath also beat Haanes straight out, while
Quist won from Smith by three sets to
one. Crawford and Turnbull prevailed m
the doubles with Hagen and Haanes, scor-
ing 6-2, 6-3, 6-1. The good start is satis-
factory, but there are probably 20 players m
Australia who could beat the Norwegians
in singles or doubles.
# * * *
“Top Spin”: While obviously amazed at
McGrath’s uncanny double-handed shots, the
English tennis critics have not . been slow to
search for an excuse to find fault with the
newcomer. One of them has discovered that
he has a trick of dropping the spare ball
held in his hand after his first service has
succeeded. Whether he ought to swallow
it or slide it up his sleeve like a fifth act'
is not stated, but he is taken to task because
his present practice “distracts the attention
of his opponent.” One would think that the
opponent would be content to confine all Ins
attention to the service, but that is only a
secondary consideration in British tennis,
apparently.
(Continued on page 30.)
The Head-of-the-River championship of the
Victorian Great Public Schools was decided
on the Barwon at Geelong, Wesley College
winning the final by half a length from Gee-
long Grammar School,' with Scotch College
a length away third. Wesley led all the
way, and the time for the mile was omm.
42 4-ssec. This is Wesley’s first win since
1915. Melbourne Grammar, winners for the
three previous years, did not reach the final.
Geelong College had to withdraw owing to
illness in the crew.


* VSSi
m
W/A
Fortnightly Across the Pacific
to
CANADA
UNITED
STATES
EUROPE
via
Picturesque New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
at most economical rates.
Illustrated literature and full details
on application.
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel..: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
f Travel by the
splendidly-appointed
modern liners: —
R.M.M.S. AORANGI
R.M.S. NIAGARA
RMS. MONOWAI
RMS. MAKURA
RMS. MAUNGANUI
Cosy, restful cabins,
spacious dining-rooms,
wide promenade decks,
with all facilities for
games and sport, luxuri-
ous lounges, unsur-
passed cuisine and fault-
less service.
and Union Linei
“Winter Time is Exercise Time”
Just 12 Months Ago . . .
Mick Simmons introduced the “Rowboat
Exerciser” to Australia.
To-day, it is found in Clubs, Schools and
countless Homes in every State, its sales
reaching record figures.
Without question it is the greatest scientific
physical exercising device given to a modern
world.
Of Incalculable Value
to the Athlete, the Man or Woman
over Forty, the Weakest Child,
the Modern Girl!
H
H
Price
Family Mode«
65/-
Athlete’s
Super
Model
77/6
‘CLASSIC”
Home Rowboat
EXERCISER
Row! Reduce! Rejuvenate!
Scientific exercising for al!
members of the family !
/he “Classic” Home Rowboat Exerciser is
not experimental. It is a rational system of
physical exercise for old and youns. aDproved
and endorsed by the medical profession and
physical culturists the world over. Aoart from
bringing every muscle of the human anatomy
into play and strengthening the internal org-
ans, the rhythmical rowing motion is a
mental stimulus.
9 It is strong enough to stand any pull.
# It is built to stand hard wear.
0 The springs always return to their normal condition.
0 It is adjustable to any size person.
0 It can be used on any floor —the rubber buffers ?iva
steadiness and prevent floor-marking.
See it demonstrated in the Gymnasium Section on the Ground
(Freight ex~**a on Rowboat Exerciser)
All Letters to Box 18 8, P. 0.. Haymarket, Sydney
Mick Simmons It®
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia *
And All Branches
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
LINES FROM OUR
NEW CATALOGUE
H
COMBINED BENCH
AND POST DRILL
Designed for the Home Workshop, being
admirably suitable in performance and
price.
The Head has radical and vertical adjust-
ment. Max. clearance between base and
end of spindle is 1 Oin. Drills holes up to
fin. Height of pillar. 2 Oin. Base is
7x5 inches. Weight, 291 b.
Adaptor for Square Shank Drills, 2/- extra.
“Macson” Double-Acting Piston Pumps
Machine Cut Gears.
This is a splendid Pump for general
water supply, including tank pumping
for farms, railroad water stations, irri-
gation and spraying trees. Where
constant supply of water at consider-
able pressure is necessary the
“Macson” can be profitably used.
These pumps are to be found in use
throughout the Commonwealth. Suc-
tion can be taken from either side.
Discharge can be turned in four direc-
tions. The pump is geared 5 to 1.
Obtainable in several sizes for piping
of from I s to 3 inch diameter.
Prices and full particulars on request.
E>.
M
D
y>
Have you ever had to waste time and labor wu.i
makeshift fastenings, because no bolts were handy?
Then you will welcome our set of assorted Bolts
and Nut's. This useful set is made up of 36 care-
fully chosen sizes, just right for farm and home
use.
Set includes:
CARRIAGE BOLTS
AND NUTS.
Two sin. x §; four
4in. x §; four 3in. x
-4-; four 2 Jin. x -§; four
2in. x J; two 2in. x f;
four 1 Jin. x J.
ENGINE BOLTS AND
NUTS.
Four 1 Jin. x J; two
2in. x J; two 2in. x
2-Jin. x f.
Packed weight, 3flb.
Price 2/11.
PORTABLE BENCHES
For Pipe Fitters, Coppersmiths,
Plumbers, Engineers, Garages.
Obtainable in Three Styles.
STYLE A. Angle frame fitted with Leg Vyce
Pipe Vyce and Tray. Tak es tubes of internal
diameter up to 2 inches. Width of Leg Vyce
Jaws, 4in. Price 90/-. Either Vyce may be
swung out of the way when not required.
STYLE B. —Fitted with Pipe
Vyce only, Tray and 5 Bend-
ing Holes for 1, 1J and
in. piping. Price . . 857-
STYLE B2. —Similar to B, but
will take piping up to 3in.
internal diameter.
Price
£5/11/-
H
FREE!
The above are shown in our new Catalogue of Tools and
Hardware. In addition to nearly 250 pages of illustrations
and descriptions of over 1400 articles, there are many pages
of valuable information compiled by a competent authority. To make sure
that you secure a copy, fill in and send this coupon now.
NAME
ADDRESS
£PKersc
Proprietary Limited
51-05 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1823 of 1932.
Between WILFRED GEORGE COOPER Petitioner
And VIDA VERONICA COOPER Respondent.
To VIDA VERONICA COOPER late of Dalton near
Goulburn.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILFRED GEORGE
COOPER has commenced a suit again,jt you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
three and in the event of you not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this tenth * day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-three.
For the Registrar,
I.L.S.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. F. THOMAS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Goul-
burn ; by W. H. HILL & TRUMAN, Solicitors, 10
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH CHESNEY
HOPKINS Deceased.
poR the purpose of an inquiry directed by an
Order (dated 24th October 1932 and made iii
the High Court of Justice Chancery Division iii
England in an Action re Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney
llopkins deceased Darby v. Official Solicitor 1932 H.
2870) to ascertain the persons entitled to the property of
the abovenamed Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney Hopkins.
All persons claiming to be interested are bv 2nd
October 1933 to send to Cecil Brodrick, 63 Queen
Victoria Street London E.C.4 England Solicitor full
particulars of their claims and if not residing in
England or Wales the name and address of a person
in England or Wales to whom Notices to the Claimant '
can be sent. In default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the Order.
ADJUDICATION on Claims will be on Tuesday
17t.h October 1933 at 12 noon before Master Willmott
Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England.
Dated 4th April 1933.
M. G. WILLMOTT, Master.
NOTE. —The abovenamed Charlotte Elizabeth..
Chesney Hopkins was a daughter of Francis William '
Hopkins and Margaret Hopkins (nSe NeNeill)
Frederick William Hopkins a brother of the said,
Charlotte Elizabeth Chesney Hopkins was born in
1857 and was last heard of in Australia about 50
yearn ago where he was believed to have been em-
ployed as a station hand.
CECIL BRODRICK, 03 Queen Victoria. Street,
London, E.C.4, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.


New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
10/6
i)i)a
by Raymond Spargo.
Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,”
The Basement Bookshop,
Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
OB
/<W66
*ss*/
m
Whatever
the Game
Use
Only
ALL
BRITISH
ELEY & KYNOCH
y&i siute Shjootim
N ! o matter what game you are out
after, if you make a point to use
only Eley and Kynoch Cartridges,
shooting success will be yours.
Scientific methods of production of
these world’s foremost cartridges
result in consistent accuracy ot
performance whatever the climatic
conditions.
The keenest shooters PREFER Eley and.
Kynoch—surely a good reason why XVt
should always use them.
Obtainable
Everywhere
IF WEAK, ILL
& RdN DOWN
TAKE CREAM OF YEAST!
Many men and women are prematurely aged
through a run-down condition caused by long-
continued nervousness, allied to constipatio
Their ill-health may not be serious, but con-
stant nagging pains and tired-feeling rob 1
of interest for even the most stout-heaiteu.
Such below-par conditions are soon conecte
bv taking Cream of Yeast. This tonic restora-
tive, “pick-me-up” and internal cleanser com
bines concentrated yeast with other valu*
medicinals. and is remarkably effective in ca -
of “Bad Nerves.” Debility. Headaches, Bum
ness. Sour Stomach. Skin Troubles,'! ued
Feeling, Low Vitality and many other flis
orders. Now. while you think of it, get a
flask of Cream of Yeast tablets from ««
nearest chemist. Take two or three ta
to-night—as early as to-morrow you will
delighted with the improvement in yont W*~
health and bearing. Thousands have quick .
pilt their disordered internal mechanism i f-
bv taking handy, effective, inexpensive Lit
of Yeast; why not you?
Footbrawl
"Barbarian” : Football club colors in Aus-
tralia, like those of cricket, have been apt
to run on stereotyped lines, guernseys plain
or striped in distressing primary colors.
Some time ago a Melbourne club staged an
innovation by taking the colors of the Eng-
lish Harlequins, whose name they also
adopted. Now Sydney has followed suit, and
the Harlequin club, which plays in the junior
Burke Cup competition, is going gay in a
guernsey pied in squares of red, blue, yellow
and black. The original Harlequins, by the
way, are a London club, and have no affilia-
tions with the Oxford cricket combination
of the same name and colors, of which D.
R. Jardine was once so distinguished an
ornament.
❖ ❖ : i :
"Der Jong” : In a little over a fortnight
from to-day—June 3 to be exact —the Walla-
bies will open their tour of South Africa
against Natal at Durban. They will be a
week off the boat and should get the better of
the game, which will be played on a grass
ground. How they will fare in the Tests
depends on how they adapt themselves to
circumstances. Reports of the last South
African team in England show that the
’Boks have been relying chiefly on their for-
midable forwards. Their policy seems to
have been to exploit kicking out on the full
to its last extremity, Benny Osier at five-
eighth being the god in the machine. Arrived
in the enemy 25. Osier either dropped a goal
—he is a wizard in this respect—or tried to
get his backs over. The All Blacks had
much the same experience, and much would
seem to depend on whether the ’Bolt forward
phalanx can be outwitted. There is plenty
of reason to suppose that, apart from the
veteran Osier, our backs are the better lot.
* * * *
“Rectory Field”: Some of the Englisn
sport-writers have been arguing the methods
of outstanding Rugby captains of late years.
The generally accepted list comprises C. G.
Porter (All Blacks), B. L. Osier (South
Africa), W. W. Wakefield (England), G. \ .
Stephenson (Ireland) and G. P. S. Mac-
pherson, of Scotland. One important omis-
sion is that of Johnny Wallace, who led
Oxford and the Waratahs with conspicuous
success. As strategist and tactician, Wal-
lace has proved himself one of the best
skippers in the game since the days of Dave
Gallagher, of the original All Blacks—un-
doubtedly the king-pin of them all.
“Broken Time” : The Rugby League team
from this side which is to tour the North of
England shortly will earn its oats, whatever
may have been the case with its predeces-
sors. Players will receive the usual allow-
ance of £4 per week, but instead of the
former method of distributing the team’s
share of the profits as a fixed bonus to all
alike, there will be an elaborate scheme dif-
ferentiating the sheep from the goats, so
to speak, by a points allotment. The man
with the highest point score at the, end of
the tour will lift the heaviest bonus,. and,
doubtless, human nature being what it is,
earn the envy of his less meticulous cobbers.
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League is having trouble over the fund pro-
vided for the retention in Sydney of leading
players whom lack of work and other cir-
cumstances might have taken to the country.
The fund has been heavily drawn on, and
delegates from the clubs are chafing because
details are not revealed to them by the
special committee in charge. The recent
.strengthening of the University League team
by players from outside clubs who are said
to be in Search of a diploma is also a matter
for curiosity, especially by the representa-
tives of the clubs which have lost by the
change.
“Right Half” : The Maoriland Soccer team
now in Sydney will have a tougher job ahead
of it than its predecessors of ten years ago.
The standard of the round-ball game in Aus-
tralia has risen a lot since that day, while
M.L. experts are said to be very dissatisfied
with the selection of their side. That, how-
ever, is the case with all teams in all sports
selected to represent M.L., and the grouse
must not be taken too seriously. The open-
ing game will be against N.S.W. at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday and the first
Test at Brisbane on June 5. Australia is
to return the visit next season.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Cottesloe”: Local golf historians have
been feverishly looking up the records for
a parallel to a happening on South Perth
links recently. There was general jubilation
when the fiery cross was sent round with
the news that the club captain, 11, S.
Nicholls, had holed in one at the fourth
hole. An eager crowd was waiting the com-
pletion of the round when news was flashed
through that the man he was playing with,
Gordon D’Arcy, had done the same thing
at the seventh. The excitement was tre-
mendous, and even the ranks of the tee-
totallers could scarce forbear to cheer.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : The most pitiable of all golfers
—and that is covering a wide range—is
he, or she, who tries to form a style on the
advice of experts, written or spoken. The
trouble is that the golf expert is like all
other fanatics. Each expounder of the
true faith differs from the others, and
the individual attempting to follow them
all is lost. Even the player who pins his
faith to the teachings of one prophet may
not find salvation, since they may conflict
with' his natural style and its limitations.
There has been a controversy raging in
Britain which illustrates the point. One
side, headed by Joyce Wethered and backed
by Bobby Jones’s authority, says the main-
tenance of a straight and stiff left arm is
essential to a correct game. Harry Vardon,
the Methuselah of the golf pundits, says
there is no such thing. A straight left may
be all right in boxing, but it is impossible
in golf in anything like correct play, while
any attempt to achieve it only destroys the
chief aim of the correct golfer—relaxation.
* :|s * *
“Brassey”: The annual tussle for the
Concord Cup, one of Sydney’s leading club
(‘vents, was won for the second year in
succession by the Manly lad, Jim Perrier,
who seems to be improving with every round
he plays. He finished with a card of 146
for the 36 holes,'three up on the next player,
W. Hattersley, Australian amateur champion
in 1930. Hattersley and two others led the
first round with 73’s, but the young player,
“showing he had the last half-mile in him,’
as the i‘acing folk say, reeled off a 70 in
the second, recovering from what looked a
certain losing position. Veteran Eric Apper-
ley gave Hattersley a run for second place,
but his putting rubbed him out at the last
hole.
:J; * *
“Divot Digger”: Sydney golfers have
looked forward for some time to the chal-
lenge match for £5O a side between the
Sydney professionals, Tom Howard and V.
S. Richardson, and 0. Gray and F. Eyre,
and they will have to keep on looking, for
the match was a tie. The pairs were square
at the 36th hole, and the players agi-eed
to a play-off of one hole at a date to be
fixed. Play was close all through. Gray
and Eyre were one up at the end of the
morning round. They were one down at the
33rd, but squared, and the last thi-ee holes
were squai-ed in par figures. Stroke rounds
were: Gray, 70, 77; Richardson, 70, 73;
Eyre, 75, 78; Howard, 79, 77.
“Sandringham”: The annual match for
the “Australasian” shield is one of Aus-
tralia’s leading foursomes events nowadays,
though it is confined to Victorian clubs. The
final between Ivo Whitton and S. Dalrymple,
of Royal Melbourne, and F. L. Bulte, part-
nered by W. A. Edgar, playing for the Com-
monwealth club, provided some of the finest
golf seen in Melbourne for a long time, the
Royal Melbourne pair winning by the close
margin of one up on the last green. How
keen the play was can be seen in the neck-
and-neck scoring after the sixth hole, each
pair forging ahead in turn. Whitton was
in magnificent form and dominated the
match, while Edgar was only a little less
efficient.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : The McGrath complex seems
to be taking British tennis by both ears, and
he is seriously threatening body-line bowling
as “news.” The Manchester “Guardian” has
dropped this and Fi’eetrade in favor of a
review of his play, and, throwing reserve to
the wind, declares he “is a fascinating vol-
leyer, while his double-handed drop-shots are
bewildering.” Moreover, Helen Jacobs,
who is American women’s champion
when Helen Wills-Moody is liot on
deck, declai-es herself in iove with the
new stroke. “If a two-handed back-
hand, why not a two-handed fore-
hand?” says Helen. “I’m going to
try it when Wimbledon is over.”
* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The tempera-
mental tennis-player again! This
time it is the Englishman Perry. The
MERE RELAXATION.
SPECTATOR: "You’re game tackling the dangers, of refereeing."
REF: “Not a bit of it. Why, I played Test cricket last season"
umpire in his match with Lee ( at
Bournemouth reported him for using “un-
permissible language/’ and another _ ump.
also complained. Perry was having a
bad time with Lee, and, .as usual with
these pampered stars, lost his temper at the
idea of anyone presuming to give him a go
for it. The report says that lie was con-
tinually “addressing the air” with comment
on the umpiring. The only way to stop this
childishness is to give the umpire power to
order the offender off, as in football. One such
exhibition of authority would quench, once for
all, the most exuberant of these little tin gods.
* * * *
Alfred Wallace Dunlop, whose death in
Melbourne from pneumonia occurred last
week, was one of Australia’s greatest tennis-
players and in the world’s first class as a
doubles exponent. In the great days of Aus-
tralian tennis he and Norman Brookes were
a practically unbeatable pair. In addition
to representing Australia in three Davis Cup
teams —1905, 1911 and 1912 —he won the
Victorian singles on several occasions and
the doubles nine times, in partnership with
Diddams, Heath or Brookes, while with the
American Alexander he took the Australian
doubles in 1908. He was only 59 at game
and set.
“Outlaw”: Someone wrote a par. about
Elizabeth Ryan, who found that as a
tennis-player she was without a coun-
try, America, her native land, having repu-
diated her on the ground that she mostly
lived abroad or something like that. There
was a similar mix-up over Doris Metaxa,
born in Marseilles of Greek parentage. She
had played for France, but, on marrying an
Englishman was banned, as she should have
been originally on the ground of her Greek
parentage. Marriage has settled the matter,
howevex-, and now Doris can claim to be
one of the Bullpup breed and to play for
England. • >
‘‘Court .Centre”: Helen Wills-Moody hav-
ing announced her intention of defending
her title of women’s singles champion of
England at Wimbledon, the American press
may be expected to enter on its annual cam
paign for getting the lady’s ‘‘goat: ’ lor
some reason or other Helen fell foul ot the
American tennis authorities, and for several
years has ignored most. of the big Yankee
tournaments, while adding insult to injury
by always putting in an appearance at Wim-
bledon and thus rousing yankeedom to more
or less suppressed fury. Helen first won tlie
English title in 1927, and has retained it ever
since save in 1931, when she did not defend it.
Car and Cycle
“Tin Can”: A slightly different motor
trip, but one more adventurous than many
better advertised, started recently from
London. Two American brothers named
C'ozzi paid two dollars for an unspecified
brand of car found on a scrap-heap. \V ith
this they managed to reach London, and
from there they intend to tour Europe and
Africa as far as Capetown, returning thence
to Britain. Owing to the car having only
half a gearbox, they drove the first 800 miles
of their trip without low or reverse. For-
tunately they came cross a wrecked car of
the same make at Coventry, and managed
to souvenir the gears their own rattletrap
lacked from that.
“Formula” : When is Australian motoring
going to see its first rally on the lines of
the Monte Carlo event, which is being
imitated all over Europe? England has
just completed the 1000 miles Hastings rally,
in which 340 cars started, 308 completing
the varied run. The event was divided into
three sections. In the first, cars under 10
h.p. had to average 22 m.p.h.; those betweey
10 and 16, 24 m.p.h.; and those over 16, 26
m.p.h., which meant a continual run of from
38 to 46 hours. T. Weston, in a Rover, won
class 1; Miss Brunell, in an A. C., took
class 2—Australian Joan Richmond, in a
Riley, was second; and class- 3 was
mopped up by G. Dennison, in a Riley.
Melbourne has been nibbling at a contest of
this kind for some time. The centenary
celebrations next year give a fine opening
for an All-Australia rally.
* St St St
“Sidecar”: Queensland motor-cyclists are
trotting out their annual grievance—the re-
fusal of the Australian motor-cycle authori-
ties who are firmly entrenched in the effete
South to recognise the fact that Banana-
land has a claim to be the venue of one of
this country’s two big motor-cycle events,
the Tourist Trophy race and that for the
Grand Prix. It is proposed to allot the
1934 T.T. event to N.S.W., where it will he
held on the Bathurst circuit, as it was this
year. The G.P. is again to go to Victoria
and will be held as usual at Phillip Island.
The Queenslanders claim that at Kingston
they have a road circuit that is second to
none in Australia, and there is talk of seces-
sion unless their claims receive some measure
of consideration.
* * *
“Make and Break” : It is not often that
Continental-built motor-cycles get among the
records, which are mostly monopolised by
the British machine, but an important one
crossed the Channel the other day, this being
the 24-hour continuous run. The machine
was a 346-c.c. side-valve Jonghi, ridden by
three men in turn, and it covered 1741.62
miles in the allotted time, averaging 72.56
m.p.h. The run was on the Montlhery track,
and beat the previous best by three English
riders by 112.2 miles. The special feature
of the feat is that it was done with an engine
of less than 850 c.c., the engine and gear-
box constituting a unit. French-built, the
machine was designed by an Italian, Red-
mondini.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: Though a referendum would
probably approve the abandonment of the
next cricket tour of England by Australia
and a cessation of meetings for some years,
the Board of Control has completed an itiner-
ary for the proposed trip. The first Test
match is set down for Nottingham, beginning-
on June 8. Other opening days for Tests
are: June 22, at Lord’s; July 6, at Man-
chester : July 20, at Leeds; and August 18,
at the Oval. The matter of sending a side to
South Africa in 1935 was deferred. The
South African tour of Australia ended with
the visitors short of £9BO on their share, and
this has been made up under the guarantee.
“Aunt Sally” : The dates for the Sheffield
Shield matches for the coming cricket season,
with those for the two testimonial matches
in Melbourne and Sydney, have been fixed.
South Australia and Victoria will make a
start in Adelaide on November 3, Queens-
land and N.S.W. engaging at Brisbane at
,the same time. N.S.W. and Victoria will
stage the last game in Sydney from January
26-30. The first testimonial game—to Iron-
monger and Blackie —will open in Melbourne
on November 17, and the second —to Collins,
Kelleway and Andrews —in Sydney the fol-
lowing week. They will be regarded as trials
for the Australian team to England next
year should that be sent.
; r; :J: *
“Hamilton”: The win of H. Turner, the
N.S.W. sculler, in the Australian amateur
.championship at Brisbane was so pronounced
that tlie unthinking are rating him as better
than Bobby Pearce. They take his times,
which both on the Yarra and in Brisbane
have been faster than Pearce’s. In Bris-
bane the other day, he did the 2J miles in
14min. 32sec., but in each of the instances
quoted he had wind and tide with him. Before
Turner, J. R. Scott, also of N.S.W.. had the
record for the race with 15min. Msec, on
the Mannum River (S. Aus.). Pearce’s best
is 15min. 35sec., but it is doubtful if any-
one would be mug enough to back either
Turner or Scott against him.
“Fitzcray”: The decision of the Austra-
lian amateur sculling championship for 1983
in Brisbane reminds that it is just 25 years
since the event was followed by a notable
hullaballoo. That year it was rowed in
Victoria and won by a Tasmanian sculler
named Jack. Several days later a protest
was entered against Jack on the ground of
professionalism, and after much argument
he was disqualified and the race awarded to
the second man, Brasch. In case _ any-
one is curious as to the act of professional-
ism which caused the actual winner to be
spurned as unclean by the pukka amateurs
it is revealed here that it consisted in once
working for his father, who was a profes-
sional boatbuilder.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
HEENZO,
mm
m.
m.
m
k
m
m
■y%Xy-
is
mmm
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
m
m
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


To save delay in writing to
London, J.llott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON? — then The Langham!
You should reserve your room at the
Langham now, this very day! A room
quiet and restful, yet in the heart
of the West End. A room with a
telephone, an electric fire and running
water, cold and really hot. A room
in a hotel that knows only one way
of making you welcome the good
old English unobtrusive but intensely
personal way.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Governor and his lady gave a ball
to the glory of their guest Joan Eden.
It was. the social affair of last week, and
the 150 bright young people who received
cards were elated and turned up with their
best manners and clothes. Son Philip helped
Lady Game to receive the guests; Sir Philip
didn’t arrive till later on, having been to
the yearly dinner of the English Public
School Boys’ Association. Little Rosemary
Game and Rosemary Budge, however, held
the fort in his absence, the one in blue taf-
fetas', the other in befiowered white. From
long-handled baskets they distributed pro-
grammes to all comers, and when their task
was done they made merry dancing together
among the grown-ups.
The wide hall was warm with firelight and
golden chrysanthemums; there were roses,
too, and bowls filled with amethystine
hydrangea. In the reception-room Avere more
masses of flowers and another fire; and
through the open doors the lawns stretched
smooth and green as the top of a billiard-
table under the floodlights and electrics. A
neAV idea was the drink buffet in the hall,
and that went very well. The night was
ideal, moonlit and still, cool enough for
dancing but not too harsh for sitting out.
The two daughters of Sydney Grammar’s
head, 11. S. Dettmann, were Ihe debs., and
both Avore posies of lily-of-tlie-valley from
the Chief Justice Streets on their clinging
white frocks.
Lady Game was very slim- and Avillowy in
blue and silver brocades, and carried a fan
whose long ostrich plumes were lapis lazuli
in tone. Among the dancers white seemed
the popular wear; three girls who wore it to
advantage were Elizabeth Macarthur
Onslow, Joan Crowhurst and the Mayoral
Ilagons’ tall, fair daughter Margaret. Sadie
Budge’s white ’chiffons wore a crop of fine
ruchings. Anne Gordon was a great, swell,
and wore a train to her parchment satin
frock, which also boasted a cape. She looked
very attractive. Dinah Hordern’s velvets
were red as a berry in a Maoriland hedge;
Mrs. T. 11. B. Foott, who was Bethia Ander-
son,' is over from Melbourne visiting her
parents, and she wore pearls Avith her black
velvet. Joan Gifford and Gretchen Bors-
dorff. Irene and Jean Anderson, tall and
terribly well turned out; Premier Stevens’s
Gwen, demure and long-bobbed; and Joan
Eden, her princess frock of turquoise velvet
finished off with a ruched cape, were among
those who made up the bright pattern of the
night. The orchestra was composed of unem-
ployed musicians, their leader George Taylor,
Avhose dad played at many a Government
House party in the glad, mad days when
Lord Dudley’s coronet hung on the hallrack.
The Royal Empire Society’s rooms were
crowded out with booklovers for the yearly
meeting of the Bush Book Club, and every-
body clapped Avith appreciation when secre-
tary Beulah Bolton told that 13,000 books
and a mountain of illustrated papers had
been sent on their travels during the year
This Avas a great achievement, for the 8.8. C.
stopped a fearful slug when the Govern-
ment decreed it could no longer allow the
books to be railed free, but must charge
half rates. As usual, some of the letters
from outback and far-aAvay were read, tell-
ing of the enchantment the books bring to
bush homes.
Lady Game referred to the report as a
human document, and truly there is no one
save Miss Bolton who could keep so Avide and
varied a circle actively interested in the
movement. The Chief Justice spoke; and
treasurer Barbara Knox and knight H'ugh
Poynter added to the psean to the glory of
books; but Elliott Napier’s remarks were
the neatest. He said: “Some people say
‘give the people of the bush cows, seed and
wire-netting rather than books.’ But I say
‘give them books and thus bring them the
milk of human kindness and the bread of
knowledge and build a fence to keep out
loneliness.’ ”
In the heroine of his novel, “Half-Caste,”
Eric Baume has brought to life a character
in fiction that has been imploring creation
for a long time. He tells vividly and clearly,
often poignantly, the problems that beset the
half-caste Maori girl who is highly edu-
cated but is without money or social back-
ground. There are descriptions of pah life
that only intimate . knowledge could repro-
duce; there’s poetry in the book, too, and
drama. Mrs. E. W. Kane, Eric’s clever
mother, should be satisfied with her eldest
son’s first novel. She and her second hus-
band. who is Clerk of Parliament, live in
Maoriland’s capital, and she leads a busy
intellectual life of her own. She is a
Bachelor of Philosophy; she talks on litera-
ture and the cultures of the Avorld B.c. over
the air; she is a J.P. and one of the gov-
ernors of Victoria College. Erics father
was one of Auckland’s leading K.C.’s.
A cooktron lunch was served to the press-
women of Sydney last week. It was cooked
after the guests’ arrival and in their presence.
The cooktron was invented by the late Sir
Wilfred Stokes, better known as a designer
of trench mortars; but, after seeing the com-
placent little gadget grilling and toasting
and stewing, this Letter was thoughttul over
the problem whether this was so much a
gift to the home-maker as a second and more
insidious method of preventing the earth s
over-population by making the bachelor’s lot
a happy one.
The Bulletin was pleased last week to
learn that the son of the late Alex. Dunlop,
its cultured proof-reader, had taken a dis-
tinguished degree at Sydney Uni. Eric, just
22, graduated Master of Arts with first-class
honors • he is one of the youngest M’s.A.
the Uni. has hatched. It is only five years
since he left Fort-street High, where he had
gained first-class honors in history and the
Raymond and Frank Evatt Memorial prize.
He proceeded to pluck a B.A. and a diploma
in Education (the family mostly turns to
pedagogy) and shared the Beauchamp
for a historical essay. A thesis on “lhe
First Decade of Gold in Australia” won him
his M.A. honors.
The first German warship since pre-war
days has been visiting Sydney. She was tied
up at the Quay, and her lines were long and
slim, somewhat marred on fo’c’sle washing
days by the clothes on the line. Still, it’s
a domestic touch. The sailors, for the most
part, have broad, good-natured faces, sur-
mounted by caps from which two little tails
of black ribbon descend at the back to the
neck line. The officers have an alert manner
and fresh complexions, and they have had a
great number of parties thrust upon them,
but of them all the cocktail party staged at
Canberra bv the Government still flies at
the mizzen-head. Last Saturday afternoon
the committee of Dalwood turned the court-
yard of Burdekin House into as near a
semblance of a biergarten as possible. While
the beer frothed in pewter mugs, a choir
of 12 from the cruiser sang drinking songs,
and the bell-boy from the Cavalier danced a
hornpipe. ■ ,
Slowly but surely the sales at the Women
Painters’ Exhibition are rising—they are
getting on towards the hundred-pound mark.
Lady Game was one of the, week’s callers;
and just as this Letter was slipping into its
pink frock an outsize in parties was raging
in the gallery. Mrs. Florence Taylor
organised the function, which was something
in the nature of a demonstration of faith
in the capabilities of our women artists.
The Bulletin’s camera had a glance
at Mary Soady,
the girl whose
piece of
statuary, “Har-
mony,” won
the George
Taylor prize
for the out-
standing work
of art in the
Women Paint-
ers’ exhibi-
tion, and this
is the result.
Miss Soady, a
Brisbane girl,
studied for
four years at
Sydney Tech-
nical College,
d e v e 1 oping
there facility
with pencil
and brush as
well as -with
hammer and chisel. She has travelled ex-
tensively.
It is rare to find all parties in Parlia-
ment unanimous on any point, but the
miracle happened at Canberra the other day.
The occasion was a presentation to Miss I.
Southwell, who made the Hotel Kurrajong
a home for all the guests until Cabinet
announced that the census staff would need
it. The gift was a crystal-glass lampstand;
the speakers included Minister Perkins,
Littleton Groom, Bernard Corser and Nor-
man Makin.
Another link with' “the old colonial days”
broke with the recent death, at 70, of Ellen
Adye Hume, widow of Edward Barbour
Hume, and granddaughter of Dr. Charles
Adye, who acquired Boambolo station, near
Yass, in thb early years of last century.
Ellen was a landscape painter, and her pass-
ing will be much regretted by many artists
as well as pastoralist friends. Frank Hume,
of Warinnilla station (Q.), is a son.
Australia was grieved to hear of the
death in Rome of Cardinal Cerretti. When
the Eucharistic Congress was held in Sydney
in 1927 nobody guessed that the handsome,
upstanding Papal Legate was a sufferer
from diabetes. His career from his student
days at the Pontifical Seminary of the Vati-
can had been most distinguished, and he
was a doctor of philosophy, theology, litera-
ture, canon law and civil law. He was
eight years in Washington attached to the
Papal delegation. Before that he had been
secretary to the Papal delegation in Mexico.
Then, as titular archbishop of Corinth and
St. Peter’s, he came to Australia as Apostolic
delegate. His manner and speech were
run through with cheery dignity, and he dis-
played a simplicity of heart that went hand
in hand with deep learning, or was perhaps
the outcome of it. From Australia he went
back to Rome, to earn still higher honors;
from the Vatican again he was sent forth,
a dove of peace, to Paris, and later he was
made Papal Nuncio to France. Two months
or so ago he received his appointment as
Cardinal Bishop, of whom there are only
four in the world.
There are not in Sydney two more gentle
women than organists Lilian Frost and
Alice Bryant; and the Junior Red Cross
expressed what it thought of them by mak-
ing them its guests of honor last week. Miss
Frost is a Tasmanian who on her return
from her London studies was appointed
organist at Christ Church in Launceston.
Now the organ at the Pitt-street Congrega-
tional Church thunders under her magic
hands. Alice Bryant, whose brother is
artist Charles Bryant, also studied in Lon-
don, and as her teacher was Sir Frederick
Bridges, organist of Westminster Abbey, the
Sydney girl had the run of the historic organ
loft. Miss Bryant is organist at Manly kirk.
This is a Judith Fletcher picture of Beryl
Bryant, who is the busy producer at Bryant’s
Playhouse, the
tiny crypt
theatre in
Darlinghurst.
Bryant’s Play-
house aims to
keep the flame
of the drama
burning
strong in
youth, and
throughout the
year it pre-
sents plays of
a tried literary
and acting
standard per-
formed by
youthful
actors. The
latest produc-
tion is “The
Enchanted
Cottage” (it
starts to-
night), and when the subject of this photo-
graph is through with it she starts on “Nine
till Six” with the Doone girls. This will be
acted for the benefit of the Bush Book Club.
The shutters go up at Her Majesty’s on
June 10, and after that the theatre that has
housed Royalty more than once will be
turned into a cash-and-carry store. The
date of the closing is definite, but there is,
as yet, no word of a new theatre to replace
Her Majesty's. Gladys Moncrieff will hold
the stage for the last fortnight of its exist-
ence and will star in the evergreen favorite
“Maid of the Mountains.” Her Majesty’s
has been for untold ages a landmark, and
the corner of Pitt and Market streets will
have lost character when its photograph-
studded front no longer draws the gaze of
adoring flappers, and when its open doors
and its gay lights never again invite tired
citizens into the magic land of makebelieve.
Savories as varied as the sunset seen from
the wide windows of Holyoak were the fea-
ture of Harry Tighe’s Sunday afternoon
party. The host’s popularity was evidenced
by the arrival of guests from the highest
peaks of the North Shore, from Darling
Point and from Vaucluse. Drama, litera-
ture and painting leavened the merely-social
layers, and even at the tea-tables there was
no separation of the sheep from the Angoras :
by an artful arrangement, Mr. Tighe had
subdivided his guests, hand-mixed them, and
given each section into the charge of one
of four hostesses.
The Uni. engineering undergrads, went to
a bit of trouble over the decorations for their
ball in t.he Blaxland Galleries on Thursday.
Across the wall, picked out in electrics, was
a brilliant replica of the North Sydney sus-
pension bridge built nearly half a century
ago. On the committee table arose a floral
bridge, and a steel bolt was attached to each
of the blue-print souvenir programmes. At
the oflicial table sat knight Henry Barra-
clougli and his lady, Dr. and Mrs. Bradfield
and the professorial Easthaughs. With the
president of the Undergrads.’ Association, K.
N. Bradfield, were Rhodes scholar Jan
McShane and a number of other lads and
lasses making the most of their night out.
At midnight “The Song of the Engineer,”
delivered by 400 hearty voices, shook the
rafters.
Sydney has been deserted by many bright
young people. They’ve mostly gone to the
picnic race meetings, and in the exodus
London publisher Bernard Watson and his
wife were caught. The very young (its
term holidays) are off to beach and mountain,
but the tweenies and the teenses have been
busy holding reunion dances. Among these
were the dance of the old girls of St. Mary's
(Gurmedali). which filled the State Assembly
with cheerfulness and decked it with flowers
cerise and blue (the school colors); that of
the Christian Brothers’ young-oldsters m
Mark Foy’s: the Shirley Girls dance (thats
to help the T.B. fight) at Hordern Brothers,
the Abbotsleigh cheerio and the Model
Business Collegians’ effort for the Rachel
Forster.
Esner Macleod, eldest granddaughter of
the late William Macleod. of The Bulletin,
and elder daughter of Mrs. Norman Macleod,
of Mosman, has become engaged to solicitor
“Peter” Shaw, also of Mosman, a son oi
A. G. Y. Shaw, himself a man of law, as
was liis father before him.
The Forum Club was the scene of dance
at which the members of the Eastern
Suburbs branch of the C.W.A. disported
themselves. This branch has a strong 31111101
section, and while bridge occupied the not-
so-young, the dancing floor and youth became
intimately acquainted. General and Mrs.
Herring—she is president for Eastern
Suburbs—brought a party of daughter
Diana’s friends. Mrs. Edmund I lay fair,
one of the importants of the night, wedded
Arctic fox and white lace in an eye-arrest-
ing fashion; Hazel King’s black velvets
threw Diana Herring’s salvia-red chiffons
into relief. Nancy and Jean Ruthven were
decorative, the one in white satin, the
second in diaphanous blue.
One of the city’s unobtrusive movements
for the relieving of distress is the Queen s
Jubilee Fund. Its benevolence is individual
rather than institutional, so that very little
is heard of its doings until its yearly meet-
ing comes around. The fund is now 44 years
old, and last week the C.J.’s lady, the
Mayoress, Fairfaxes, Streets, Knoxses.
Cohens and M'acarthur Onslows foregathered
in the board room of the Colonial Sugar Re-
fining Company for discussion of the works
of 1932. No fewer than 137 applicants had
been helped to the extent of £734. The per-
sonnel of the fund lias suffered a double loss
this year. The patriarchal George Judah
Cohen, whose knowledge helped greatly in
placing the finances on a sound basis, has
relinquished the trusteeship, held for 44
years, and by the death of Mrs. George Judah
Cohen, one of its most ardent members, the
fund is greatly bereaved.
Brisbane’s whirl of gaiety:—
Against the creamy interior of the Town Hall
the red and blue of military and naval uniforms
made pageant with the bright frocks of the women
when the United Services had their ball. A
torpedo marked the centre of the ballroom and
Tickers guns played the peaceful part of ornament.
In the supper-room dahlias and orange marigolds
were massed. A roll of drums merging into the
National Anthem in the orchestra greeted the arrival
of Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson and their daughter.
Commander and Mrs. J. C. McFarlane welcomed
them, and Colonel and Mrs. Lorenzo and Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Moore were also in the v.-r. alcove.
Apricot and primrose-hued gladioli were handed to
Lady Wilson, who wore pale gold satin with a
shoulder cape of a deeper tone. Blush rose satin
was chosen by Marjorie Wilson; Mrs. McFarlane
was in black georgette; Mrs. Ralph was in dahlia-
red lace and velvet. Lipstick red was Mrs. Lorenzo s
choice, and Mrs. Moore had a blend of orchid mauve
and Parma violet. Mrs. Ralph presented the debs.,
who were seven, to the Governor and Lady Wilson,
Colonel Moriarty announcing them.
Mrs. Frank Corrie had the display of the Needle-
work Guild at her home in Bowen-terrace, when all
kinds of comfy garments were on view, to be subse-
quently sent to the Red Cross, the Bush Nursing
Association and other charitable bodies. There was
music, and tea was served on the wide lawn,
shaded with palms. Mrs. Corrie wore black with
touches of Parma violet.
At the Bellevue there was a farewell dance for
the visiting N.S.W. and Vic. crews. Bridge was
played in the palm court. Yvonne Lockner and A.
Davis did exhibition dancing and red roses decked
the supper-room.
There was a morning tea for Mrs. Preston
Chambers, of M.L., at the Woman’s Club, Mrs. M.
L. Reading and Mrs. P. J. . Symes being among
the guests.
The Wilsons have gone on a tour; the itinerary
includes Cairns, the Atherton Tableland, Chillagoe,
Mungana, Townsville, Winton, Longreach, Emerald
and Clermont. On his way back his Ex. will visit
Rockhampton and open the Maryborough Show
To meet Molly de Gunst and the Charles Chauvels,
Mrs. W. Young hostessed a party at the Lyceum
Club, also extending a welcome to Mrs. A. J.
Gibson, of Sydney.
At St. David’s, Allora, Arthur, son of the A.
Johnsons, South Brisbane, was linked to Leila,
daughter of the J. J. Shannons, Allora. The bride
was in ivory cr6pe satin, with a ’broidered tulle
veil. Irene and Lilian Shannon ’maided in apple
green and pink.
At Tatt.’s races, Mrs. Forgan Smith, in mole tweed,
gave a tea amidst a setting of dahlias on the com-
mittee-room verandah. Mesdames W. Danaher, Isaac
Moore, W. H. Buchanan, J. F. Lonergan, Hempstead,
and W. D. Ross hostessed parties. Mrs. Robert Webster,
who came with her, was in Mary blue. Mrs. Lance
Jones wore leaf brown and Siberian furs. Mar ]e
Magee was in black Canton crepe ; Mrs. B. C. Bell,
of Aroo, who came with Major Bell, was in navj wi 1
a bright cherry-colored sunshade. Mrs. Jules Moxon
wore a tailored velour coat over her silk frock.
Mrs. C. F. White, Stanthorpe, wore burgundy.


WOODS'wat
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
Missing Friends.
OCHUMACHER (Fennell)
Schumacher, last heard
communicate at once with
TRUSTEE, Adelaide, who
news for him.
.—Will Walter
of at Kintpo,
the PUBLIC
has important
Legal Notice..
CHARLES HORN DECEASED
pOR the purpose of enquiries pursuant to Order of
the 3rd May 1932 of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division England in re Charles Horn
deceased (who died Intestate on 6th May 1925 at
Oxford England) and re Jane Horn deceased (who
died Intestate on Bth June 1928 at Oxford England)
Butterfield v. Mole (1931 H 3609) for the purpose
of ascertaining the persons entitled to the real
and personal estate of the Intestate Charles Horn,
all persons claiming to be so entitled are by Ist
October 1933 to send in their claims to Reginald
O’Kelly a partner in Messrs. Stow Preston and
Lyttelton 12 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London W.C.2
England Solicitors with full particulars and in
the case of those residing out of the jurisdiction
the name and address of some person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the claimants may be
sent. In default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the Order unless the Court on applica-
tion otherwise orders. The adjudication on claims
is on the 18th day of October 1933 at noon before
Master Willmott at Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England.
Dated the 10th day of April 1933.
M. G. WILLMOTT,
Master.
STOW PRESTON & LYTTELTON, 12 Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, W.C.2, agents for Andrew Walsh and
Son, Oxford, Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
NOTE. —The said Charles Horn was born at
Kidlington in the County of Oxford, England, on
12th February, 1857. He was a Compositor, and
married one Jane Chamberlain and resided and died
at Oxford.
The parents of the abovenamed Intestate were
Charles Horn the Elder and Lucy Horn (nee
S’olesbery). The latter in 1846 married one William
Mole by whom she had issue. The said William
Mole subsequently left the said Lucy Mole and
went to Australia.
Information is required in particular as to the
death of William Mole and the alleged marriage of
Charles Horn the Elder with Lucy Mole.
Melbourne
Chatter
Geelong enjoyed the cream of the Head-
of-tlie-River excitement this year, the races
being rowed on the Barwon, and it was not
until late on Friday afternoon that Mel-
bourne began to show signs of celebration.
On the banks of the Barwon crowds started
to assemble in the early morning on both
Thursday and Friday, and motor-cars were
parked in thousands all around the water-
way. Even the most sedatest of sedans had
its trimming of ribbons and flags and frivol-
ous mascots. One little single-seater was
freshly painted all over in tin' purple and
gold of Wesley. Faith couldn’t go further,
and it, wasn’t misplaced, for Wesley won.
There was, as usual, a wider interest in
the heats than the finals, and on Thursday
there were more and stronger posts of bar-
racking schoolboys raising voices in college
songs and shouting encouragement to their
school’s crews. The weather wasn’t so favor-
able on the Friday, either, but there were an
enormous crowd and great rejoicings when,
for the first time since 1915, the Wesley boat
was first across the line, the pale blue of
Geelong Grammar being only half a length
away second, and the cardinal, blue and
gold of Scotch last:.
Accommodation at Geelong hotels and
boarding-houses was overtaxed, and lots of
private citizens had house parties that in
many instances extended over the week-end.
The Barwon Rowing Club had a dance at
the Corio Club, where the floral decorations
combined the colors of competing schools —a
kaleidoscopic effort. The president of the
rowing club,. T. S. Barnfather, and Mrs.
Barnfather, who wore black velvet, extended
the greeting hand. The Wesley Collegians’
dramatic club gave a charity show on Thurs-
day night at West Geelong Town Hall—-a
performance of “Baa, Baa, Black Sheep.”
At theatres and picture houses in Mel-
bourne on Friday night, Head-of-the-River
Day was wound up in the usual way. At,
the Royal, where “Our Miss Gibbs” holds
the stage, the name “Wesley” _ blazed in
electric glory above the proscenium, while
below the footlights were draped the school’s
colors, looped up with rosettes of the other
competing crews’ colors. The theatre was
filled with the scent of chrysanthemums that
formed an arch at the entrance to the d.-c.,
were banked along the balcony and gallery
and framed the boxes. Fairy lights sparkled
from baskets of blossoms, and balloons bobbed
up from every chair. A cinema picture of
the great event was screened, and victors
and vanquished were cheered to the echo.
Somewhere about half-past eleven the curtain
fell, and streamers descended on the stage
from all parts of the house, the final “Yip-I-
Addy” being nearly drowned by the audi-
ence, which was singing school songs.
The Melbourne Grammar crew had a berth
in the r.s., and the headmaster of the
M.G.S., Mr. Franklin, was in the vicinity.
Also in the audience were the Luxton lady
Avith her daughter Mary, the Robert Knoxes
with a party of young folk, Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Bishop, Mrs. A. M. Dale and Mrs. C.
Cunningham and her schoolgirl daughter.
The Xavier crew went to the amateur
revue show “Zip” at the Bijou, and after-
Avards joined in the Old Xaverians’ dance at
Wattle Park. The Old Wesley Collegians’
■dram. soc. staged a show at the Garrick
which was attended by the Avinning crew,
and the past and present students and their
relations did them honor. Everywhere
floated the purple and gold, and when
the crowded house had finished round after
round of applause all settled down to thor-
oughly enjoy “Officer 666,” which was very
well done.
Patrons to the number of 1200 trooped
into the Wattle park rendezvous at St. Kilda
for the boatrace-night dance of the Old
Xaverians, engineered by Leo Quin and
his committee. Among the attractions
were a screening of the boatrace, exhi-
bitions of ballroom and stage dancing,
and a bicycle race, in which representa-
tives of the six public schools competed.
Xavier carried off the laurels and received
the silver enp, which is annually awarded
for this event. Among the dancers Avere the
new president of the Old Xaverians, Dr. .1.
Gavan Hurley, and Mrs. Hurley, Avho gave
welcome to the official guests —chiefly repre-
sentatives of kindred old students’ societies.
Mrs. Hurley, Avho wore a princess robe of
silver lame, carried a presentation posy of
berries and foliage. Father Stevenson depu-
tised for the Rector of Xavier, who was ill.
Father Murphy, of Newman, was there, also
Father Sullivan. Norman Brookes, president
of the Old Melburnians, came with Mrs.
Brookes, whose gown was of ivory-tinted satin.
.Mr. and Mrs. E. Kiernan were in the official
reserve, she wearing a gown of silver and
pale green brocade. Others in the throng
Avere Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Alexander,
Colonel Burrett, Mrs. and Mrs. E. J.
Boileau, Dr. and Mrs. Iv. O’Day, she
Avearing a much frilled pale pink chiffon
frock with a cape of sky-blue of the
same diaphanous material; Betty Melville,
in bottle-green velvet; and Mrs. Bernard
Quin, in a lace robe of Patou pink. Several
of the younger girls were in frocks of very
stiff silk, the variety that almost stands
alone and gives an old-world air to the
AA T earer. Of such material was the much-
flowered model worn by Wilma Murphy. In
direct contrast to such dresses were those of
yards upon yards of chiffon. This Page
Avas very much taken with such an outfit
of cream chiffon that had a stencilled design
in pale blue. A feAV girls wore tiny mil-
linery of the same materials as their frocks.
One lass in a leaf-green crepe sported a hat
the size and shape of a muffin, held on by
a band of satin ribbon, worn with a Watteau
tilt. Another dancer in a scarlet velvet
princess robe added a pill-box toque of the
same hue. Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard
joined the revels after the theatre.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes had a late
tea party at Kurneh, South Yarra, on Thurs-
day afternoon, when Madge Elliott and Cyril
Richard were the principal guests. Mrs.
Brookes was a study in nut-brown flat crepe
with a fur wrap and a swathed toque of a
hue to match her frock. The leading lady
of “Our Miss Gibbs” was in black with a
short coat of broadtail and a black cap.
Cynthia Brookes, with her Lud Mayor fiance
at her elbow, was smart in brown-corded
velvet and shaded hat. Elaine and Hersey
Brookes were helped with the entei'taining.
Flower Day came round again last week
and was blest with sunshine. Collectors were
out early and stayed out long, many nurses
in uniform being among those who held out
boxes. Every charity that benefits by the
Lud Mayor’s Fund had representation at
the various stalls, and the sidewalks were
dotted with tables of chrysanthemums, dah-
lias and other blooms, with piles of holly
and autumn foliage. A sideline was a .show
at the Town Hall of gorgeous orchids from
the hothouses of A. M. Nicholas and B.
Nathan. Alister Clark sent roses, and other
folk furnished ferns and plants to fill in.
The day’s gleanings should come very near
the £2OOO aimed at.
The Felton Bequest Committee lias been
launching out. It has purchased a Rem-
brandt “self-portrait” and a large picture by
the Italian master Tiepolo, “The Banquet of
Cleopatra.” The purchases, plus exchange,
represent an expenditure of glose on £60,000,
shared almost equally between the two old
masters.
The Lawn Tennis Association on Satur-
day hung Chinese lanterns in the club-
house, Kooyong, and trimmed up the ball-
room and lounge with chrysanthemums and
autumn foliage for a dance. The purple
and gold of Wesley College were draped about
crossed oars, and miniature sculls twined
with Virginia creeper were affixed to the
wall lights. Mrs. Reg Robertson was respon-
sible for the decorative scheme. Helen Sage
danced in flame-tinted georgette; Pat Dunne
sported emerald-green velvet with a white-
fur-bordered coatee; Miss J. Cundy was
smart in black lace ; Peggy Green wore a
satin frock of dregs-of-wine tone; and Miss
E. Young was in peach-pink angel-skin.
The Mercantile Rowing Club’s Ball at
the Town Hall had as setting chrysanthe-
mums and ferns. Lud Mayor Smith was
a guest of honor. A. L. Dobbie and his
wife, she in black velvet, welcomed the guests,
George Fairbairn brought his lady, who was
in black lace topped with a dark-blue velvet
wrap, fur-collared; and among the dancers
were the A. B. Sloans, Mrs. Joseph (in flat
crgpe of Hindoo-red tint) and the J. M.
Macfarlanes.
Exquisite Brussels lace fell as veil over
the white satin robe that merged into a
train worn by Mary, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. J. S. Eaves, of Caulfield, when she
wedded at the, Tooralc kirk James, eldest
son of the late Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Gibson,
of KeW. Kathleen Glenn, of N.S.W., and
Helen Begg were the attendant ’maids in
scarlet georgette frocks allied to capes, muffs
and cap-toques of matching velvet. Two
trainbearers came into tlie picture in
ivory-tinted velvet frocks and pearl-trimmed
Juliet caps. After-celebrations were staged
at Grosvenor.
The engagement is announced of Mary,
third daughter of the W. I. Winter Irvings,
of East Melbourne, and Douglas Johnson,
only son of Mrs. W. Johnson, of Point Piper,
Sydney, and of the late William Johnson.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton launched the ex-
hibition of Chinese curios, to which she lent
jade and amber articles, ivories and em-
broideries. Mrs. F. L. Bruce, who spent
seven years in Peking as a missionary, gave
an address, and the Consul for China, Ou
Tsili Chuing, made diplomatic remarks. Two
little Chinese girls, Lily and Violet Kong,
sang Chinese children’s songs, and Mrs.
Bruce’s daughter Heather warbled in
Chinese a compliment to the Chinese Consul
and his associates, Mr. and Mrs. Chiatnng
Tsiang. Hostesses were Miss Cheong.and Mrs.
King Mouy, arrayed in beautiful Chinese cos-
tumes, and Mrs. Guy Bakewell. The most
notable entry was a real Ming vase—tall,
graceful, blending green, blue and red in
finely-glazed porcelain.
The organising of a single charity show
is generally a full-time job of many
weeks prior to
opening night,
but Beth
Thwaitcs, here
pictured b y
Broot horn,
evidently likes
hard work.
Besides engin-
eering the Uni.
Dram. Soc.’s
revue. “Stude
Prunes,” due
at the King’s
next week, she
was co-organ-
iser with Mary
Sharp of the
Y.A.L.’s “Zip”
revue. Miss
Thwaites, who
is d a u g li-
ter of the W.
Thwaiteses, of
Malvern, is a
recent graduate of the Uni. and has a talent
for acting and stage management. Another
of her interests is the “Forty Club,” which
was launched at a dance at the Green. Mill
lately.
A bridge mingling at the Wattle put some-
thing into the coffers of the Mission of
Streets and Lanes. The organisers of the
party were Mrs. Arthur Hordern, Mrs. E.
J. Wragge, Mrs. F. W. Poolman, Mrs.
Arthur Austin and Mrs. S. Shenton Gordon.
The Y.A.L. mummers, who last year put
on the very successful revue “Youth and
Laughter,” were seen in a similar show en-
titled “Zip” at the Bijou for five nights,
which included a gala performance on boat-
race night. Gay skits were introduced in
many of the sketches, of which “A Game of
Cards,” in which Gay Dane, Mollie Corben,
Vic Williams and Nick Morton appeared,
was the best. A bit of grand opera was
brought forward by Eileen Bradley and
Ernest Kopke—the “Miserere” scene from
“II Trovatore.” Pat McLean made a hit
with impersonations. The Y.A.L. “White
Minstrels” gave an old-time minstrel show.
The interlocutor was Harold Adams, a slim,
fair lad with a beautiful soprano voice, and
the four cornermen of tender years sang
admirably, too. The revue whs produced
by Nick Morton, and Roy Steyne stage-
managed. Many charming girls in black
trailing gowns topped by quaint forage-cap
toques of white chiffon roses vended pro-
grammes and sweets.
Mrs. Playle, of the Wentworth, helped
St. Vincent’s Hospital by lending the ball-
room and reception suite, and providing the
supper as well, for a dance and card gather-
ing. Twenty hostesses directed the func-
tion, which had a patronage of about three
hundred.
Melbourne’s musical circle lias a new
member, Madame Anna Elischer, formerly
pianist at the Court of Holland, who re-
ceived lessons from Liszt. Her father was
Johannes Vervuist, who had lessons from
Mendelssohn, so Madame’s musical pedi-
gree is blue-blooded. The lady has. come to
Melbourne to join her daughter, Edith
Elischer, a singer.
They do some things differently in France.
Mona Nugent writes that, at her song re-,
cital in March at Pleyel’s Salle Chopin in
Paris, flowers were not handed up to her,
hut at the interval were arranged about the
stage and piano, so that on returning for the
second half she was surrounded by quite a
garden, which made a pretty setting for her
white tulle and satin gown. Among the
offerings was a bouquet from the Overseas
League. The soprano included in her pro-
gramme the late Mona Mcßurney’s “Persian
Song, of Spring,” which was encored.
Madame Dinh Gilly’s daughter was the
accompanist, save for a first perform-
ance of a song by H. M. d’Estienne, which
the composer played himself. A poet in
the audience was so moved that he then and
there wrote an ode to the singer, and pre-
sented it to her in the artist’s room after-
wards.
The thoughtful-looking young lady pic-
tured here by
Dickinson-
Monteath is
Peggie, daugh-
ter of Mr. and
Mrs. D. Y.
II enn i e, of
Caulfield. Miss
Rennie lately
left with her
mother for
Europe, in-
tending to do
a post-gradu-
ate course in
science abroad,
having gradu-
ated as B.Sc.
at the Uni.
Her early edu-
cation was
gained in Eng-
-land, aft e r
which she had
some years at
the C-E. Grammar School, Merton Hall.
The just-elected Moderator of the Vic.
Presbyterians, Rev. It. W. Macaulay, made
acquaintance with numbers of his Melbourne
flock at an afternoon party. Mary Macau-
lay assisted her father in greeting the guests.
The members of the Daughters of the
Man.se Association dispensed tea.
Mrs. Ernest PoOlman, of South Yarra. and
her daughter Audrey intend to make a holi-
day voyage to California at the end of the
month.
Adelaide adds a postscript:—
The races at Morphettville attracted a horde of
visitors toi the city. The weather was warm enough
for summer frocks, but as the majority of the women
had bought new winter clothes for the occasion they
had to be worn. Black and brown were the popular
shades and the tailors are coming into their own
again.
Mesdames A. Melrose and A, Gebhardt were joint
hostesses at a dance given at the residence of the
former, the Medindie home of Dr. and Mrs. Roy
Burston, who have leased it during their trip to
England. Multi-colored lights outside and gorgeous
autumnal decorations inside gave an air of gaiety.
Mrs. Melrose wore pale pink angel-skin, and Mrs.
Gebhardt was in black lace. Their debutante
daughters, who received with them, both looked
charming. Ashley Melrose’s frock was of maize
silk tulle, and Margaret Gebhardt chose white chiffon
with a white and silver cape. Dancing was in two
large reception rooms, and supper was served in a
marquee. About 200 were present.
Another priviite dance, also a deb. affair, was
given by Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Bickford at the
old Glenelg home of Mr. Bickford’s late parents.
Alvington is over 50 years old—too large for these
days, but ideal for a dance. It has been shut
up for some time and was opened only for the
occasion. There were flowers everywhere. The
supper table in the dining-room was massed with
pink roses, while the drawing-room, where the host
and hostess with their deb. daughter Margaret
received the guests, and also the huge hall were
bowers of blossom. Mrs. Bickford was gowned in
black ring velvet, and her daughter wore a dainty-
frock of white crinkled chiffon. The ballroom was
hung with pale green balloons.
At the Church of the Ascension, Aldgate, William R.
Needham married Lilias, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Hawker, of Aldgate. The tiny church had
been beautifully decorated by Mrs. Ruth Gault and
Christine Brown. The bride wore a soft white satin
frock and a white hat, and her cousin Nancy New-
land was in pale leaf-green crinkled crepe with a
beige hat.
The social life is an outstanding feature of our
Uni. There w r as an overflowing attendance at the
dance held in the refectory. Autumn flowers and
Virginia creeper formed the decorations. Dr. and
Mrs. Rex Matters (joint presidents) received the
guests, and many members of the Uni. staff and
their wives were present.
Lud Mayor Glover and his lady, who are to leave
for England on the 25th, expect to be hack “at
the end of September or the beginning of October.”
They hope, therefore, to have at least two months
of office after their return; so you’ll please forget
anything to the contrary which thisi chatterer
previously said.
Perth’s piece:—
The Westralia, all primped up with bunting and
colored lights, was a glittering spectacle for the
Fairy Tale Ball. Huddart Parkers lent their pet
steamer to help the Infant Health Fund. There
w'ere a few fancy costumes, but most of the guests
succumbed to the urge of their newest winter finery.
Mrs. Arthur Jacoby, in a shimmer of old gold,
raised a welcoming hand in unison with Captain
Darroch. Mrs. Raphael was in black lace; Mrs.
Bob Cameron’s blue gown showed a caped and
cowled effect about its neckline; Mrs. Percy White
wore sprigged silk; Mrs. Isaachsen was in pink;
Mrs. Claude Morlet trailed sherry lace; Mrs. Reg
Forbes was in apricot chiffon; a spattering of dew-
drops twinkled among Betty Smith’s carnation
draperies; Mrs. Frank Sears wore almond-green;
Marie Dakin was a handsome miss in spotty chiffon ;
Mrs. Ross Smith was in pastel-pinks and Beth Hatch
chose coffee lace. Mrs. Charlie North and her
youthful Joan were both in red.
Greta, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. O.
Cockram, is affianced to Langlois, son of Mrs. D’Arcy
and the late W. C. D’Arcy, of Melbourne.
Lawrence Campbell displayed to what heights an
expert can rise at his elocutionary recital. Opening
with a Shakspearean excerpt, he proceeded through
pieces of drama, humor and sentiment, musical
monologues and character sketches to his favorite
finale, “The House That Jack Built.” Wearing
fuschia taffeta, Phyllis Browning-Turner sang two
groups of songs. G.-H. ballroom was well filled for
the event.
The slopes of Mt. Eliza seethed with spectators
while cars crawled along the twisted ribbon of
Mount’s Bay-road on the morning of the boatrace.
The hoisting of Hale School’s colors was the signa I
for lusty yells and honking in many different keys.
From Colombo comes the news of the marriage
of Clare, eldest daughter of the William McLintoeks,
of Subiaco. to Clifford Harry Briggs.
Katharine Susannah Prichard (Mrs. Throssell) has
been burning too much midnight oil, and the doctor
has ordered a long rest. So she is off to London by
the Baradine. Either coming or going she will
stay awhile with her sister, Mrs. P. S. Bridge, in
Ceylon.
Tassie talks:—
Hie crowd at the T.R.C.’s meeting at El wick was
leavened by passengers from the Oronsay, which was
in port, and by officers from the Koln.’ Chairman
Miller and his wife entertained in the tea pavilion,
Mrs. Miller smart-in bluish-grey check woollen, with
sable shoulder fur and black hat. Plaids were
noticeable on many wearers.
Friend’s School came out on top in the Head
of the River contest, and Hutchins got the Old
Scholars prize. Dinner at the. Chaucer and a dance
at Cleme’s College wound up a great day.
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall farewelled retiring
council officers at the reception-room of the Town
Hall, which was decked with autumn leaves and
tawny chrysanthemums. Most of the retiring men
had seen over 25 years in Hobart’s service. Presen-
tations were made to these officers, and Miss Hurst,
who is leaving to be married, brought, away a pair
of silver vases.
The Midlands have been providing all the smart
weddings of late. Following closely on the knot-
tying of the Percy Reaches, came that of liis brother
George, of Ross, to Mary, younger daughter of the
John Taylors, Campbell Town. St. Andrew’s Church,
Campbell Town, was crowded, and after the ceremony
guests departed in flocks to Winton, the bride’s home,
where the wedding tea was served in a large
marquee and the wedding cake bore representations
in sugar of prize blue-ribboned sheep. The wedding
gown of old-ivory velvet was cut in the style of
two generations ago, square neck, puffed sleeves and
gathered “bustle” effect complete. The long tulle
train fell from a pearl clasp on the shoulders, and
the Mackinnon family Limerick veil was mounted
on the Taylor family embroidered tulle one. Madge
Finlay, Joan Henry,, Barbara Bennett, and a little
niece, Alison Nicholson, ’maided in autumn-tinted
ring velvet frocks. The small trainbearer sported a
Kate Greenaway frock; the little page had velvet
trousers and a white satin blouse.
Edgeworth David has been spending a short holiday
with his daughter and son-in-law, the Keverail
Mclntyres, Launceston.
The Abinger lady, formerly Meg McPhillamy,
of Bathurst (N.S'.W.), is paying- a visit to her sister,
Mrs. Alan Maxwell, Brown’s River.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in ‘‘The Bulletin” of last century, so tha<.
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Albani gets £125 per night at Covent
Garden, Jean do Reszlte £l5O, Edouard de
Reszke £6O. Msinrel £BO, Lnsalle £BO,
WHAT HAS THE DEMOCRATIC DOG TO SAY?
“Parkes will oppose Dibbs for any constituency in winch Dibbs may offer
himself.” — CURRENT RUMOR. [“Hop" —20/1/94.]
Ravogli £so—a total of £545 for six per-
formers nightly. [4/7/’9l.]
“The Cleopatra attire displays Bernhardt’s
figure closely. It. is somewhat of manly
beauty, with the appearance of strong chest,
rather than bust, though the haunch is
feminine in'broad outline; and, without any
suspicion of ungracefulness, one likens the
set of the trunk on the understanding to
the Hottentot women, w T hose infants stand
up behind.” Thus much from the esteemed
scientific measurer. Dr. Roddrule. Again:
“Her finely-moulded, long octopussy arms
are distinctively feminine.” [4/7/’9l. ]
'
Quite the fashionable caper during the
late wet weather, writes Sappho Smith, has
been to “do” the new and palatial seven-
storied Australia Hotel, situated in Castle-
reagh'-street. From the vast Moorish vesti-
bale with the crimson and fawn marble
stairway leading out of it, also, on the
other side, the large bar-room, the many
mirrors which seem to point the moral that
the attendant Hebes’ charms are going to
stand reflecting, right up to the flag-pole
on the “Excelsior” dome, the Australia is
perfectly planned and appointed. But un-
less one “inventoried” like an auctioneer,
one couldn’t give an idea of the general
artistic sumptuousness of this splendid hotel,
The Australia certainly has “success”
written all over its gilded brow. Fancy, oh
women! the rapture of camping in a palace
where the management sets apart a private
s ;siy b z°m%p
yejt, several of the suites are ahea y
engaged. [4/7/
Th&t - t . g thf , duty of the ticket-collectors
at tlle back t 0 lead the a PP laase 18 w , ell
recognised at some theatres. During Charles
Warner’s last season at Melbourne Royal,
when he was playing to poor houses and
apathetic audiences, the eminent one
rushed out one night to the acting-manager.
Wliat the blank dash do you mean, Mr.
—T ? There’s six of your blank dash fools
in front and I never got a hand. [4/7/91.J
~~ | , ,
A woman 111 Victoria has just. presented
her husbmd with triplets. She had pre-
viously had twins ; prior to that one; in all,
six within two years. [ll/7/’9l.]
a gentleman and lady visited a London
cafe, where the lady began smoking a cigar-
ette. A waiter politely told her that ladies
were not allowed to smoke there. Whero-
upon ber knight broke the waiter’s head
with a water-bottle. Summons. Decided
that a lady has a right to smoke wherever
a man h a s a similar privilege; fined, there-
due, Is. only. Whoop for the cigarettistes!
[4/7/’9l.]
That enthusiastic scientist, the late Gerard
Krefft. of the Australian Museum, went to
a berth, which he had reserved on the New-
ea§tle g w .) steamer, and found therein
a hulking person stretched at full length.
“Excuse me, sir,” said Gerard .with all
politeness, “but you are occupying, in mis-
take, the berth which I had taken.” “You
can have it,” growled the other, a surly
brute, “if you are a good enough man to
take it from me.” Krefft. rrnw?llin*r to
engage in personal comhat on British lines,
said: “You will, I am sure, at least do me
one favor, sir—please hand me my bag of
snakes, which you will find at your head.”
The bunk was soon vacant. [ll/7/ 91.]
Baron \on Mueller [for many years m
charge of Melbourne Botanic Gardens]
steered clear of small details, such as
worry ordinary folk. His thoughts were
always “in the skies. The writer one
day met him riding a pony, without
saddle, but bridled. He led another pony
(with a saddle on) by a headstall. The
unconventional character of this arrangement
was pointed out to him. He looked around
wistfully. Ach! he said, der sattel on
der wrong horse!, It should be on der
donkey mineselluf. He got off, and mounted
the saddled pony. But lie never changed
the headstall tor the bridle, but jogged oli
a 8 anomalous as ever—hat, like the Tower
of Pisa, balanced at the back of his hones
head, and his pale-blue eyes xed on the tar-
away horizon of ai t There
was a lot of Don t ‘
1 ' J/x/ y - 1
.
The somewhat dingy scenery ot the Bern-
hardt season is characteristic of most French
plays, and, in spite of what the gushing
critics who haven’t been there may say. the
“setting” is never strong in any Parisian
theatre. Most countries, _ Australia included,
can give the French points in this |§P§et.
[4/</91.[
Out in the far north-west a zealous Baptist
farmer named Gumridge lent a corner of
liis paddock to the dippers whereon to build
a chapel. A boss Baptist came up and de-
clared it well and truly laid, blessed it, and
took up the collection. A few days after-
wards a breeze came down a certain gorge
to the west, lifted the chapel up and took
it over the fence into Smith’s paddock.
Smith objected, so the sect hitched on a
couple of bulls and dragged
the building back to Gum-
ridge’s. Everything went
along all right after that
until one Sunday, just as the
audience was leaving and the
parson was counting the
funds on the back step, a
gentle cyclone, accompanied
by a whirlwind, carried the
doomed church skyward,
spun it round a few times,
and landed it on its head
over in Smith’s. The whirl-
wind then went back for the
parson and blew him over
among the ruins, where he
was found in a dazed condi-
tion clutching the collection
in both hands. Smith was
very much annoyed at this
second invasion, and said it
would give a bad tone to his
farm if they didn’t at once
remove the wreck. The con-
gregation then organised a
bee and threw the church
back over the fence bit by
bit, and decided they would
abandon the luckless taber-
nacle for good. Gumridge
volunteered to build her up
again, which he did, even
putting in a new bell and
rope. But it was no go;
the folks weren’t taking any.
Then Gumridge opened the
front door and turned it into
a cow shelter. One Sunday
after this the inhabitants
were astonished to hear the
chapel bell tolling about
10.45, and, thinking some cele-
brated dipper had come up
on a special trip, and the
weather being calm, they all
dressed up and, armed with
Bibles, started off to church.
When they, arrived at the
old familiar entrance, they
found the chapel wasn’t
there. They could still hear
the bell tolling, however, in the hazy dis-
tance, and at length discovered Gumridge s
black cow dragging the church round the
paddock by the bellrope, which had become
twisted round her leg during the night. Gum-
ridge cut the rope, and remarked that, as
the building was now handier to his home-
stead. he would turn it into a milking shed.
The people returned home rather disgusted.
What they want now —and want badly—is
another wind to come across and carry the
old cathedral clean out of the district. Ami
they wouldn’t be very sorry if Gumridge s
black cow went along with it. [B/1/ 98.1
A shriek against modern dressing in one
of the recent magazines, in which Ouida has
an angry say about the unspeakable • awfuJ-
ness of "everything cut to present-day pat-
terns, except the free and flowing tea gown,
is merely an instance of how wildly astray
are those soulful folk who put art before
common, everyday sense. The great clothes-
idea consists in being unobtrusively useful.
A man hasn’t time to lean classically about
in flowing draperies, as they used to do
before the world was tired. How would a
man in a toga or doublet and hose look driv-
ing a train or doing pick-and-shovel work,
or laying a telegraph-wire, or editing a
paper, or leaning up against a bar, or play-
ing golf, or backing a winner V Also, m
present-day fashions, he can keep himseli
perfectly clean at small cost, but in the good
old days immaculate spotlessness was the
privilege of the high and lofty, and they don t
seem to have attained it altogether. In
women’s attire, the same sartorial virtue is
attained at small expense by the neat-and-
natty belted-in girl, whereas woman is a
floppy-sloppv horror in the morning in a
draggled, shapeless wrapper that whisks up
all the floor dust, and gets the cat tangled up
in its untidy tail, and causes her husband
to muse regretfully over her vanished waist.
[B/1/ Ho. J
Anyone wlio loves to write poetry about
the busliman’s lonely grave should see an
aboriginal “mourning.” A blackfellow comes
in with news of the death of a countryman.
The gins at once commence a blood-curdling
howl,” which anon drops into a dismal chant
or death-song. They throw themselves down
in apparent anguish, sometimes on top o
another noisy mourner, when they bash and
kick and hug one another, and roll over into
agonies. This lasts perhaps an hour. Ihe
males squat round the fires, beating; time on
the ground with sticks or with their hands,
their heads bowed down —silent. When the
news arrives early in the day a preliminary
“mourning” is gone through, and the big
feller cry” begins in earnest about nightfall.
When it’s all over, another black, ignorant,
of what has been done, may arrive with the
same sad news. Then the cheerful function
and all the variations have to be gone
through again—the little-fellow cry and the
big-fellow cry and all the rest of it
[B/l/9<.J
Jacky grinned from ear to ear as he en-
tered the store. “You gib it bottle gin •
tick um up,” he suggested to the storekeeper
in his most seductive manner. ‘No tear,
Jacky; no tick here. Bring the money or
clear out,” responded the _ storekeeper
severely. “Gib it bottle,” persisted the un-
crowned king. “That one gin mine been
have um baby.” The daughter
looked interested. “Poor thing,” she re-
A FASHIONABLE EPIDEMIC.
D UNNEM: “When will you be able to settle that little
account, sir?”
MR. SPECKLING : “Well, to tell you the truth, I’ve had
influenza so bad that I’ve not. been able to sign
any cheques, but I’ll be all right soon.”
[ G. R. Ashton —5/12/’91.]
marked, and the father, relenting, said, “All
right, give him a small bottle. I suppose
we’ll never get paid, but, under the circum-
stances, let him have it.” The girl got down
the square face, and, handing it over to
.Tacky, followed him to the door. “When
did she have the baby, Jacky ; this morn-
ing?” she asked as the dusky one stepped
into the street. “Hoo, no; gin have um
baby long time. Baby grown up now.”
[B/1/98.]
Wahanui. who lately died in Maoriland,
was “Premier” to the late King Tawhiao.
He had a magnificent physique, and boasted
a 56-inch chest. Also, he was a famous
trencherman. He once told Edward Wake-
field that lie had eaten half a sheep at a
meal —no doubt a lie. Wahanui’s brother,
Kalm, was built on similar lines, and
weighed ISJst. The present writer met Kahu
in the Mokau country in ’B5 when travelling
that region under safe-coqduct from Wetere
Te Rerenga—it was just after the amnesty
granted by the ML. Government to all rebels
against Kuine Wikatoria. Wetere told off
Kahu to obtain firing for the writer’s party;
instead of passing the order on. to a person
of meaner birth as would have happened in
a European community, Kahu harnessed him-
self to a bullock sled, and inside an hour
appeared at the camp sweating in the trace
and with six or seven hundredweight of
timber in tow. A monetary recompense for
Kalin’s exertion was offered, but the giant
replied: “ Kahore! (No). You teacliee me
sing ‘Annie Laurie.’ That the utu, by
Ka’ris’!” [l5/1/98.]
FAMILY EXPERIENCE.
PARSON (to bush boy): “Well, Mike, my
little boy, do you see those things over
there?” (pointing to some telegraph-
lines) .
MIKE: “Yes.”
P.: “Now, what are they used for?
M.: “What are they used for? Why, just
you shake a moke and you'll blessed
soon see what the blanky blank things
are used for My word!”
[Frank P. Mahony—24/4/94.]
MULLIGAN’S SHANTY.
r k •»'«
But we found things worse than ordin’ry,
And in fact a bit eaffraordin’ry,
When myself and Bill the Pinker struck
a “AVliat sliantv’”
awfH u vitv.u°s,n 1 v '
W hy, Mulligan s shai ty .
I says “Whisky” ; Bill says “Brandy”;
But there wasn’t either handy,
For the boss was out of liquor in that line,
«yir'-n rn trv rll m >» saV s Billv
“Got no rum,” he answersf chilly','
“But I’ll recommend a decent drop o’
tine.”
“Tine?” says Bill; “what tine?”
“Whv turnentine!”
ny, turpeni
“Blow me blue!” says Bill the Pinker,
“Can’t yer give us a deep-sinker?
Ain’t yer got a cask o’ beer behind the
screen?”
Bill was getting pretty cranky.
But there wasn’t any swanky. ,
Says the landlord. “Why not try a drop
o’ sene ?”
• “Sene?” says Bill. “What sene? '
“Why, kerosene!”
~ , ,
Well, we wouldn't spend a tanner,
But the boss’s pleasant manner
All our Cubing ~^^ n e Jgfe r demolish *
Sajs he, Strike me perpendic lai,
Bl wif oU ei beSS e -n drinkin»'
Why, the squatter m the parlors dimkm e
-fD 1M -ciii “WW nnlidiV”
“Polish?’ says BUL What pohsh /
Why, furniture polish.
W. T. GOODGE.
[23/4/98.]
A SPRIG OF MINT.
A sprig of mint with homely meanings
fraught.
A savory thing, a kitchen herb, and yet
When ’twixt my idle fingers I have caught
A leaf and pressed it, straight lam beset
By haunting childish memories. On a wet
And fragrant bank of mint I lie: athwart
The creek the snowy ti-tree blooms are
met
And fleets of fallen petals are in port; _
An elfin charm is filtered through the air,
A hum of cloistered gnats in emerald cells,
And drowsy chantings that the gadflies
share. '~ ..
And this sad heart, that on a sudden swells
At the remembered fragrance, was it there.
And did it lie and dream as memory tells?
[22/l/’98.]
AGNES L. STORBIE.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The Story of a Russian Refugee
“C.V.”: He is my friend, and I can trust
him to tell the truth. His name—well, it
might do him a disservice to mention it,
so we’ll call him Hopoffski. Before the
revolution he was a welder employed in a
factory of some consequence. At the revolu-
tion the workers confiscated the outfit and
informed the managing owner that he had
battened on them long enough and now they
would stand no nonsense: he must act as
manager as hitherto, and pay them their
wages as before. He tried to show them that
this was impossible, but they merely laughed.
For a few weeks he contrived to do it; then
it was beyond the power of any manager
to carry on. Works and pay both stopped ;
whereupon an indignant deputation of com-
bined shop committees waited upon him and
told him that, whether the works were run-
ning or not, they must have their pay. In
vain he showed them the empty strongroom.
That, they said, was clearly nonsense. He
was a capitalist, and everybody knew that
capitalists had bags of money hidden some-
where. In vain, too, the unfortunate man
appealed to their commonsense. They took
him out and tied him to a tree, poured kero-
sene over him, and burnt him alive.
Having thus disposed of the capitalist, the
workers proceeded to run the factory them-
selves. Some were for taking a holiday till
enough orders came in from some unknown
quarter to make a chance of success. Others
said start the thing, and trust to luck for
customers. This second party, being more
energetic, took charge and set the machinery
going. Then the first party swarmed in
with wooden sprags, which they thrust into
the wheels, smashing the machinery and
stopping the works. Hopoffski thinks that
if they had given him a chance he could
have oxy-welded the smaller breaks and
thermit-welded the larger ones. He never
had a chance. They simply pulled the
plant to pieces, and that was the end of
the works. Hopoffski managed to retain
possession of the assay room by telling them
that the fumes of the chemicals used in
TROPHIES OF THE PACE.
“Hunting trophies, I suppose?”
“No, got ’em all motoring.”
assaying had penetrated the plaster. He
was used to it and didn’t mind, but they
would find it unpleasant. He was a chemist,
and there always were fumes when a com-
mittee came nosing round.
He continued to live in the assay room,
and was beginning to think, things might have
been worse, when late one night the two
daughters of the murdered owner, one of
them just past twenty and the other three
years older, came to him in great distress.
The local commissar had just confiscated
their room. He was sleeping there himself
for the future. If the young ladies chose
to stay he would be charmed. If not, they
were at liberty to depart. Of course, they
departed—with the clothes they stood up in.
They were not allowed to take anything else.
They begged to be permitted to sleep On the
floor of the assay room on a pile of old
newspapers. This created a problem. Being
a skilled worker Hopoffski had a share ol
what rations were going, but the girls were
not allowed to be on the ration cards. Still
there were food smugglers, and while his
private store of ready money lasted he fed
them. After that he admits he became a
thief and a successful one. Returning in
the small hours one night, he almost walked
into the commissar, who was busy burying
something. Hopoffski hid; and after the
amateur sexton was safely away a prema-
ture resurrection took place. The “body”
proved to be a leather bag, and examination
in the assay roorrt showed the contents to be
gold coins, English, French and Yankee, with
a few German, part of the loot *of a mer-
cantile house which had done a cash busi-
ness with foreign buyers. Money in Russia
is just the same .as money anywhere else,
and presently, by the expenditure of nearly
half of the bonanza, Hopoffski and the two
young ladies found themselves across the
border.
Then more trouble arose. The young
ladies were in love with each other and both
had fallen in love with him. They agreed
to share him and put it to him that way.
He, being a proper young man, hedged, and
finally bought tickets for South America,
divided the remainder of the money into
three equal shares, and then contrived to
miss the boat and catch one to Australia.
Autumn in Maoriland
The writer of “A Woman’s Letter” in this
paper has been revisiting Maoriland and in
Wellington found that every man praised his
own home-brew and the Turnbull Library,
“The home-brew,” she writes “is an outcome
of the depression, and is as near beer as
near-beer is allowed to be. The Turnbull
Library is famous for its first editions (its
collection of Miltons is the finest outside
the British Museum), for its Maeterlinck
manuscripts, for its letters of Oscar Wilde
—one in the front, of a priceless ‘Dorian
Grey,’ still subtly scented—and of Shelley,
and for its Johannes Andersen. Johannes
plays the Maori flute to you if he likes you,
an d altogether looks and talks as one who
has piped with Theocritus upon some
rounded hill in Sicily. Part of the literary
credo of the city is that Katherine Mans-
field is the greatest short-story writer since
the world began, and if you leg-pull the
intelligentsia ever so gently about her they
just number you among the barbarians,
“There are branches of red berries in the
hedges, and the scent of the hawthorn
seeps through the carriages as the train
crawls , through the green fields. Right
through Taranaki and Canterbury you see
these fields, neat as the palm of your hand,
and divided by low hedges, or occasionally
a low stone wall. Small flocks of sheep
(at least they seem small to Australian
eyes) graze in great content, and cows, their
inward eye on the ever-recurring factory,
reflect that all is vanity, that the grass and
the dandelion of to-day are the butter and
cheese of to-morrow. And everywhere great
stacks of hay and winter-feed look out at
you from under their thatched eyebrows,
“Yet here is still another land of plenty
where people groan about depression. But
it is a depression with a difference. In
three cities and innumerable small towns
I saw only one street-musician. and
was never once asked for alms. Windy
Wellington stood tranced under the touch of
autumn, and scarcely a leaf in its leaning
hillside gardens stirred. But -Wellington is
poor in gardens, and the florists' shops do
not blaze like ours. Southland drowsed
under blue skies and hot sun, but Queens-
town showed what it could do, and after a
cold wet night produced the Remarkables,
covered half-way down with snow that glit-
tered under an ice-blue sky.
“Gold-mining is once more the big indus-
try along the Kawarau Gorge and the Shot-
over River. There, as here, unemployed
Lazarus has taken to wash-mining, seeking
the crumbs that Dives thought it too 1 much
trouble to pursue. Little clusters of tents
are deep in the gorge ; but at least the miners
can travel to their toil and back to
well with their week’s takings in comfort.'
There’s a daily-motor service which picks
up passengers along the road, delivers the
mail, and on the evening trip hands out
cans of milk to' the scattered householders
along the gorge. The conductors on the
trains are polite, and tram conductors let
you out at the right stop. In Wellington,
where once the cabmen were understood to
be the Forty Thieves in disguise, taxis nowa-
days are cheap, and so to Australian minds
are shoes and gloves. Furs seem dearer;
and the woollen goods-—rugs and the like —
are no longer more attractive than our own.”
In dozens of places in the U.S.A. there
are now “barter exchanges,” set up so that
unemployed may get goods in return for
labor. In the State of Washington alone
there are said to be 100,000 members of
various organisations who are thus provid-
ing themselves with the necessaries of life,
the barter being facilitated in most cases by
the use of scrip or coupons. In North Dakota
there is a further development. Wheat and
other foodstuffs are lodged by members at
an exchange and distributed to unemployed
workers, who pay by services. Workers who
have been paid in foodstuffs are put in touch
with business or professional men who will
“trade” them. Thus farm produce is eventu-
ally exchanged for all sorts of desired goods
or services. One of the most interesting of
all the exchanges is in New York itself —
at the art centre of Greenwich Village—
“where portraits can be swapped for potatoes
and water-colors for watermelons.”
“Jon Gee”: Mexico’s present system of
rural education has been developed since
about 1922. The local community provides
and equips the school building, while the
Federal Government supplies school books'
and appoints and pays the teachers. From
the beginning the establishment of a school
is an experience shared by the teacher, the
children and the parents, for the teacher.
selected before the
school is built, directs
the people in the build-
ing of the school and
teaches in the open
until the building is
ready. In addition to
providing the usual
schoolroom instruction,
the teacher leads the
people in the solution
of local problems, such
as the water supply
and sanitation, fighis
the scourge of small-
pox, even to the ex-
tent of vaccinating
children and parents,
and develops' in the
community interests
such as gardening, and
music. The regard of
each small community
for its school is well
expressed by the words
that appear above the
doors of many schools.
“Casa del pueblo,"
house of the people.
* *
“Thesp.”: Many years ago I attended a
meeting of am. dram, clubs from all over
London to consider establishing a West End
theatre. The principal amount of talking
emanated from a gaunt individual arrayed
in a reddish tweed suit and a flaunting red
tie. He complained that he could not get
his plays produced, and he thought it would
be a great thing to establish a theatre that
would not be under the control of profes-
sional managers. There was a fair amount
of support for the idea, but I felt constrained
to remark that suburban folk couldn't be'
expected to travel such a distance to see
their local societies perform, and that my
club would not give any monetary support.
On resuming my seat I asked who the tall
bloke who had said such a lot was, and
someone volunteered the information that
his name was Shaw. Not long after that
Bernard found a West End producer, and
we heard no more of the project.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Cauboy”: Over Philip Hargrave, Adel-
aide’s infant prodigy of the piano, Mel-
bourne has repeated the frenzy of popular
enthusiasm that swept England, Ireland and
Scotland at the beginning of last century
over William Henry West Betty, the boy-
actor. William made his first appearance at
Belfast in 1803, at the age of ten, and the
city went mad about lijm. In a subsequent
toUr of the English smalls the excited popu-
lace trampled each other under foot in order
to see him appear as the melancholy Dane,
Kemble playing Laertes. Edmund Kean re-
fused to play second fiddle to him, took to the
woods and ate berries. A critic at Glasgow
who dared to utter a word of sensible admoni-
tion was hounded from the city. London
managers offered Betty 30 times as much a
night as they were accustomed to pay Mrs.
Siddons. In a single provincial tour he
netted £3OOO, and on one occasion the House
of Commons was adjourned by Pitt to
enable members to see his Hamlet. Betty
seems to have resembled Philip Hargrave in
many particulars. He had an amazing
memory and could repeat the longest
soliloquy of Shakspeare after once reading
it. He had a passion for liis job, was with-
out a trace of personal vanity, had a wide,
disarming smile and the face of an intelli-
gent baby. Having a shrewd business mind
he quietly faded from the scene at the age
of 15 with a fortune. He was wise, for
the craze for infant prodigies had subsided,
and the endeavor of a manage-
meut to make more hay out
of an eight-year-old of the
feminine gender was a dismal
fiasco.
* * *
C. L. Ryan, who climbed
Aconcagua (22,000 ft.), in the
Argentine Andes, in 1926, has
just conquered another peak in
this mighty mountain chain.
He and Guy Dawson, an Aus-
tralian, reached the top of an
officially-unnamed tor in Pata-
gonia. The ascent of the
summit took seven hours,
much of it with ice-axes and
including a rock climb which
they admit put the wind up.
“The view from the top,”
Guy Dawson writes, “was
marvellous —more than 100
miles in every direction, tak-
ing in eight 'lakes and eight
mountain peaks up to 12,000 ft.
high, and hundreds of minor
ones, all snow-capped.” The
descent took three hours. The
same pair also did a trio
down the Limay in a canvas
collapsible boat, making 35
miles in four hours. They
plan next summer to scale
the beautiful Lanine, which
is a landmark for 60 miles
in the Patagonian Cordillera.
The top of Aconcagua is quite
flat and about the size of a
tennis court.; being fiercely
wind-swept, it is absolutely clear of snow.
This mountain has been seldom climbed.
Guy Dawson is one of the Monaro Dawsons;
he left Australia some years ago to grow
stock in Patagonia, but later moved a few
degrees northward.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Actually more people sleep without a roof
over their heads in Sydney than in London.
The L.C.C. makes a count of the homeless
in the Big Smoke every year. Even at the
beginning of this century there were thou-
sands under the arches on the Thame.s
Embankment alone; at the last count the
25 officials who took the queer census found
in all only 73 men and 17 women.
*•* s i : /S' *•*
Stephen Bransgrove, Australian, whose
exhibit. “CKdesda l '’s.” won a recent 300
INDECISION.
“So Bullion has proposed! When do you
expect to get married?”
“Well, I haven’t decided yet whether to
have a breach of promise or a divorce.”
dollar animal painting prize in New York,
has found horses more to his liking as an
art subject than on the farm. When he was
wheat-growing at Peak Hill (N.S.W.), a
tractor and a motor-cycle provided his power
and his conveyance, while motor-lorries
hauled his harvest. In those days Dobbin
was anathema to him.
:jc
Everybody on Gallipoli knew "the bloke
with the donk” —General Brand says “if ever
a man deserved to be immortalised it was
he.” The bloke who commandeered a Greek
donk and plodded up and down shell-torn
Shrapnel Gully bringing in the wounded,
until he himself was shot down, was John
Simpson Kirkpatrick. His mother. Mrs.
G. H. Linney, died a few weeks ago at South
Shields (Eng.).
* *
“Differential”: When the late Henry
Royce first entered
on the building of
motor-cars (B.
3/5/’33), he did
it as a personal
hobby, with no
thought of the
great business
that was to make
him famous. Ilis
Manchester engi-
neering works
special ised in
cranes. In 1903 he
A PRACTICAL SUGGESTION.
“Uncle, make a noise like a frog."
“Why?”
“Well, I want the price of a picture-show, and mother
says we won’t want for anything when you croak!”
tried his hand at ear designing and built:
three. One he kept, the other he presented
to a member of his firm, and the third
Was lent to C. S. Rolls, then a shining-
light in the motor-car and ballooning world.
Rolls was so taken with the machine that
he found the finance for a company to
build the new cars and Came in himself
as a shareholder. The rest is motoring
history.


Hopbush Joe’s Yarn.
BY E. S. SORENSON.
IT was 40 miles from the station to One
Horse Town, where the coach stopped,
and once a week someone had to drive in
for the mail. Forty miles of rough and rutted
bush road that crossed a zig-zaggy creek
more times than I ever counted, and that
took two days to bump and rattle over, there
and back. The boss usually went with a
good pair of horses and a nice double-seated
buggy. Then they got a girl from down
below, a factotum for the house, and when
she was due to arrive I was sent in to drive
her out. Not with the nice buggy and pair
but two old crocks and a light waggonette
that was used for carrying rations to out-
camps. An antiquated boneshaker with wire
lashings to silence the rattle of its joints.
Anyway, the company would be pleasant
—so I thought. I pictured her as a trim
and natty little figure, sprightly and spark-
ling and all that; and there was a shady
waterhole half-way where we’d stop and boil
the billy. That would be something novel
for the city girl, and I reckoned we’d have
a little picnic all to ourselves. Her name
was Josephine Gabb, Josie for short; aged 23.
I pulled in at the Travellers’ Rest about
sunset, and was having a reviver when the
coach arrived at the post office. Through
the window I got my first view of the new
girl as she was helped to alight: a view
that so disillusioned me that I had two
revivers. She was a ruddy-faced catamaran
of 20-stone weight. I didn’t see any more
of her that night. She was knocked up.
But I instructed Jerry Grum to give my
old crocks a good feed of corn and chaff at
daylight, and tipped the groom a shilling
to' grease the wheels.
At breakfast I introduced myself to the
lady. The day was already pretty warm,
and she was palpitating in an outfit that
fitted too soon—an utfcomf or table effort to
diminish her dimensions —and in skimpy little
shoes on stilts that made her walk like a duck f .
“Have we far to go, Mr. Hopbush?” she
asked.
“My name’s Joe Patch,” I corrected her.
“But I heard somebody calling you Hop-
bush?” she queried.
“That’s only a nickname,” I told her.
“One time I made some beer with hopbush
flowers that put the chaps at the station off
work for a week, and they’ve called me Hop-
bush since then.”
“How funny!” laughed Josie. “I hope
they’re nice chaps out there.”
“Oh, very,” I said. “Especially Sliprail.
He’s got a lame leg and one eye. And Cock-
roach, the rabbit-poisoner; he goes on a
bender once a month to get the phosphorus
out of his system.”
“And what do you do, Mr. Hop—Patch?”
she asked.
“Look here,” I said, “in this country I’m
Joe and you’re Josie. I'm a rouseabout out-
-side, and you’ll be a rouseabout inside. Now
you get the lunch from Mrs. Grum and I’ll
go and harness up.”
While I was at that job the groom brought
out a big tin trunk, a portmanteau, a kit-
bag, hatbox and sundries, which filled up
the back of the vehicle; and when Josie
got aboard it had a good list to starboard.
There was no “made” road, mind you : arid
I realised that I would have to drive care-
fully to deliver Josephine in the same good
order and condition as I received, her. Twice
in trying to keep the' wheels out of the ruts
on her side I dropped them into some on
my side, so that Josie nearly bumped me
out. We got well acquainted in the first
five miles.
“Have we much farther to go?” she asked
then.
“Thirty-five miles,” I told her.
“Oh, dear !” she sighed. “What an awful
drag! And these flies! Is the road all like
this?”
“No,” I said. “Some of it’s worse.”
The day was getting a scorcher, and there
was a glow in the sky that heralded a dust-
storm. Josie kicked her sho.es off. and when
Ave stopped at a gate she fished out a ging-
ham from one of her bundles. That was
better. Another couple of miles brought us
to the creek, which the road followed.
“How far is it now?” asked Josie.
“Thirty-one miles,” I ansAvered.
“Thirty-one!” said Josie. “We’ll never
get there.”
We should have reached the 20-mile water-
hole for lunch, but through the late start
and the load Ave had to pull up at a pool
far short of the objective. Josie was glad
to get down. While I boiled the billy slie
sat on the bank Avith her feet in the water
—till a yabby got hold of her toe. Her
screech scared the galahs from the clump
of trees, and before she had half recovered
from the fright the storm SAvept over us.
For half an hour day was turned into night.
We could see nothing, but now and again
under the blinding sting of sand I could hear
Josie spluttering and gasping.
When it was over, Josie Avas a pitiful
sight. She had been damp with perspiration,
and iioav she Avas a muddy nightmare, her
gaudy hat a wreck and her fine raiment a
crumpled ruin. I had, saved the lunch, but
the billy of tea was half-full of sand. Worse,
the horses had turned against the blast and
capsized the waggonette on to a stump; the
trunk and hatbox had been flung out and
burst. Everything was smothered in fine
red sand. Josie cried incoherently as she
gathered things up.
“My best hat!” she lamented as she ten-
derly shook the precious thing. “Why didn’t
you tie the blasted horses up?” she demanded
with sudden fire as one by one she shook
out blue, green, yelloAV and pink mysteries.
I Avas too much concerned about tlie con-
veyance just then to heed her. The pole
was broken and so was the back of the seat.
And there we were in the wilderness, Josie
and I, with just enough sandwiches for one
meal.
We had the meal, washed down with a
quart of water; then Josie, wearing a pair
of felt slippers and a big bonnet, helped me
to right the vehicle. We were getting pretty
well acquainted by that time.
“How far have we got to go yet?” she
a sked.
“Twenty-six miles,” I told' her.
“Heaven’s sake!” she exclaimed. “We’ll
never do it —to-night.”
I had to go a mile to a fence to get some
wire, and then it took me two hours to
make repairs. Thus it was late in the
afternoon when we got going again. We had
to go slowly on account of the bandaged
vehicle, which was canted more than ever.
The horses were tired, too, and, to make
matters worse, one of them went lame.
“I’ll never forget this trip as long as I
live,” Josie remarked after being nearly
tilled out, at a crossing. “I’m sorry I came
out here. What sort of mistress is Mother
Hornipike?”
“A Tartar when she’s roused,” I answered.
“Oh, is she?” said Josie. “Well, she’d
better not start on me. I’m not as soft as
I look.”
I’d already had evidence of that. She was
nice and ladylike in. her speech when we set
out; now, when she got bumped, she was
using words that I wouldn’t even think in
feminine company.
“Of all the hell roads, this is the dizzy
limit!” she cried as the broken back of the
seat gave way with her weight while we
were plunging up a short pinch. Then she
asked: “Where are we going to have tea?”
“I’m afraid we’re not going to have any,”
I replied. “There are no houses along this
road.”
“Road, you call it!” she sneered. “But
what are we going to do?”
The lame horse stumbled opportunely and
saved me from having to tell her. It was
now a struggle to get to the 20-mile
waterhole, which we should have reached for
lunch. The sun was dipping below the trees
in a great red misty blur. I was sorry for
my charge. Poor big kid, she was staring
ahead as if afraid of the coming night, and
awed by the great silent expanse around her.
Dusk came, but while we could still see
the bumps and ruts on the track we reached
the waterhole. When I pulled up, Josie
asked: “Where are we now?”
“Twenty miles from both ends,” I replied,
“And we can’t get any farther. We’ve got to
stop here.”
“Stop here all night!” she repeated in dis-
may.
“Well,” I said, “I’ll make you a fire, and
then I’ll walk on to the station.”
“Couldn’t we ride?” she suggested.
The thought of Josephine riding twenty
miles bareback made me laugh. Anyhow,
the better of the two horses wouldn’t go
another five miles. I turned them out and
made the fire, spread her rugs under a tree
and then set out with a small waterbag.
I had no sooner disappeared in the dark
than she yelled after me: “Joe! Hey Joe!
Wait a bit. I can’t stop in this dreadful
place. I’m coming, too.”
“Good heavens, woman,’’ I said, “you
couldn’t go half as far as the lame horse.”
“I don’t care,” she cried desperately. “I’m
not going to stop by myself.”
“Then we’ll stop together,” I decided,
and with that I led her back to the fire. A
drink of tea would have been a lifesaver to
her then. She looked a wreck. By the light
of the blazing logs she took some toilet
things from her bag and started to comb the
sand out of her hair.
“A Tartar is she, this lady squatter I’m
going to?” she mumbled. with hairpins in
her mouth. “I’ll give her a bit of my mind.
Told me the station was only a few miles
out of town, she did. I’d just like her to
be here.” .
A moment. of two afterwards we were
suddenly cheered by the sound of a waggon
up the track and the gruff voice of a team-
ster.
“We’re saved,” I. said, jumping up.
“That’s Jim HineS, making for the water.
I passed him near the station yesterday,
going up with a load.” .
Josie grabbed her mirror again, and-in a
little wave; of excitement got very busy
improving her looks.
Jim’s! coming was a godsend, not only
because he could provide us with supper and
breakfast, but it relieved the situation in
regard to Josephine.
Jim was rather a queer character. Always
travelling and living alone, he amused him-
self writing doggerel, which he read to any-
one who showed an interest in his composi-
tions. A hard-doer, and not a bad sort,
with grey streaks in his black beard, some-
what prematurely for his 40 years, and con-
sidered soft in respect to the opposite gender.
When he had halted his team he. slouched
over to our fire, whip in one'hand and bat
in the other, looking happy.
“Hulloa, Hopbush,” he said, grinning at
Josephine. “Is this where you’re honey-
moonin’?”
Josephine blushed furiously. “We’ve had
a breakdown,” I explained. “Rather awk-
ward just here.”
Jim laughed, still looking at Josephine.
“Kept it pretty dark, didn’t you?” he
remarked.
“We had a; smash in that dusts to rm."
Josephine interposed. But the teamster
wasn’t interested in our mishaps.
“You might have told me when I saw you
yesterday,” he went on. “Is this the wife?”
Josie tittered.
“Wife be hanged,” I said. “This is Miss
Gabb —Josie Gabb —going to the ’ station as
cook and general.”
Jim grounded . the butt of his whip-
handle and looked hard at me .with a sudden
change ,of countenance. “But the chaps at
the station'told me you’d gone in to get mar-
ried,” he said. “The wedding was to be last
night, and I’d meet you coinin’ home to-day.”
Josie stared at me with a shocked expres-
sion.
“Some of their silly jokes,” I said. “I’ll
joke them when I get back. The fact is,
Jim, we’re stuck, and I’m sorry that cir-
cumstances have landed the girl in this posi-
tion. ' Another thing, we haven’t a bite to
eat.”
Jim muttered something 'as he turned
. abruptly to his . waggon; and in a few
moments he . dumped the tucker-box down
between us! “Put the billy on,” he said,
“and .get at it.”
Then he left us to unharness his horses.
Josie didn’t wait for the billy; she dived
into the tucker-box and hauled _ out. damper
and cooked mutton and brownie.
“Wliat a nice man!” she said, with a
lump in each hand and her mouth full. “Is
he married?”
“No,”' I answered; “but lie was saying
if he r wa y s.” hat he th ° Ught heM be better ° ff
“Is he steady?” . . .
“As a rock. His only tailing is writing
poetry.”
“That’s interesting,” said Josie, now smil-
ing pleasantly. “I love poetry. Could yon
get him to show us some of his pieces? It
would pass the time.”
That was Jim's element. He‘ didn’t want
any persuading. When supper was over,
Josie, now wonderfully heartened, livened
up things with a song—and she could sing,
too. She had a nice voice, and alongside
that camp-fire it seemed to soak into Jim’s
sentimental soul.
That started the recitations. It was no
time before Jim fetched out crumpled papers
and was reading poems to her by the yard,
They were sitting together then, very close
together; and between readings they weie
exchanging confidences; and so the entertam-
ment continued until I fell asleep.
The surprise came in the monimg. nn
luggage trLsferred to Jim’s
W "fm' going back with Mr. Hines,” she
t(dd me “p V e had enough of out here,
“We’ve agreed to get married,” added Mr.
Hines,
“Gee!” I said, “you’re quick workers.”
“Wal,” he agreed. “I’ve been thinkin’
about matin’ a change, you know.” Then
he turned to Josie, “You can pack these
things, dear, while I put th'e horses in.
They had no more time for me, either of
them. I wished them everlasting happiness
and drove away.
Mrs. Hornipike had paid £6 in fares to
land Josie Gabb at One Horse Town, and
when I reached tlie station with a broken
trap and told how I had lost ner on t io
road—well, I got back to town m time to De
Jim Hines’s best man.
Dave’s Cheque.
BY STEELE RUDD.
HE’LL •go dilly soon if this drought
don’t break,” Dave said, speaking of
Dad to Mother. “An’ I got an idea
to take a job some place till it do break, an’
make a few quid, anyway.”
“I suppose there’s nothing can be done
now till it does break,” Mother answered
thoughtfully. “The cows are giving scarcely
any milk and the rest of us can easy look
after them.”
But when Dave mentioned his idea to
Dad, which he did timorously, Dad jumped
round and roared: “Whaht! Go workin’
for other people? Don’t my place an’ my
stock want lookin’ after as well as other
people’s? Ain’t y’ been reared an’ brought
up here, an’ got your livin’ here all your
life? An’ do y’ want to go away from it
when it’s bein’, ruined ’stead o’ helpin’ to
keep goin’?”
“Cripes,” Dave said meekly, “I wasn’t
thinkin’ of it that way. There ain’t much
to look after for a time. Ain’t th’ ploughin’
been done more’n once? An’ seed sowed a
couple o’ times? An’ th' yards an’ fences
an’ harness mended? There’s nothin’ more
to be done till it do rain.”
“And when it do rain, 1 ’ thundered Dad,
“won’t there be greenstuff to put in, an’ har-
rowin’ to be done? An’ where’ll you be?
Puttin’ in green stuff an’ harrowin’ for
someone else?”
“Cripes, no!” Dave chuckled. “I don’t
mean to look for a job from other farmers
—none of ’em would be able to pay a bloke,
an’ he might as well stop here.”
“You alez got somethin’ for what you
done here, haven’t y’?” Dad interrupted.
“What I’m thinkin’ erbourt,” Dave went
on, “is to get a job from Jimmy Tyson
shiftin’ stock for him You know him,
don’t y’?”
Dad’s vanity was touched. “Of course I
know him,” he claimed; “an’ long before
you was born. Ain’t I given lots o’ green
cobs o’ corn to him to take home to roast
for himself to eat? But his stock can’t be
shifted. They’re dyin’ on him every day, an’
can only be burned.”
“Well, that’ll be .no difference to me,”
Dave argued; “so long as I get tli’ job, an’
make a, few quid to bring home, it won’t
matter if I burn ’em or shift ’em for him,
does it? It’s easier burnin’ ’em, anyway, so
long as they don’t all stiffen out on a plain
where there’s no wood.”
“Well, of course, if it’s to bring a few
pound home, that might be different, Dave—
a lot different.” Dad became thoughtful.
“That’s th’ way to look at it, ain’t it?”
Dave put out his chest, and struck an air
of importance. “There’s been nothin’ cornin’
in, has there, ’cept th’ fact’ry cheque, which
isn’t .anythin’?”
“A lot of interest will have to be paid
to th’ bank soon, too, Dave; an" gettin’
behind with them would be the end of it. ’
“Cripes, wouldn’t it!” Dave agreed wisely.
“Let th’ bloomin’ bank get its claws in, an’
you’d have your bones picked cleaner’n th’
crows could do it.”
“All right, Dave,” Dad decided, “we’ll
manage without y’ for a while —till y’ get
a few pound. Then y’ can come back soon
as it looks like rain, an’ we’ll pay up th’
interest, an’ put more seed in, an’ get tli’
green stuff goin’.”
*•* * * -
Dave was away now, helping to shift starv-
ing stock for Tyson. It was the first time he
had ever been away working,, and. how all
of us missed him! The home was different
without Dave. None of us ever talk'd much
at the table or danced at night when he
wasn’t there.
The drought kept on and on as if it was
never going to end. But one day a few
black clouds hung suspiciously about and
Dad got excited. He walked up and down
lamenting Dave’s absence, and “wonderin’
, why th’ devil he wasn’t comin home.
Mother tried to pacify him by “fancying it
wouldn’t rain yet awhile.”
Then Dad struck a different attitude.
“Confound it. woman!” he went off, “don’t
you want it to rain? Hasn’t it been long
enough without rainin’?”
“Of course I want it to rain,” she assured
him—“and it will rain directly.”
“Then why ain’t he home?” demanded
Dad and walked up and down some more.
On the Sunday following a rift wg.s made
in the gloom. Dave returned unexpectedly.
He came round the house when we were all
out at the front and greeted us with a broad
smile.
“Hello. Dave,” Dad said, rising from a
chair; “you back?”
“By cripes I am,” Dave chuckled, slap-
ping "himself on the thigh. “An’ with me
pocket full o’-stuff, too.”
“Oh, Dave!” Mother cried proudly. So
did Sarah. And Joe stuttered: “S-s-sliow
us it.”
“Good boy. Dave; good boy!_ Dad
applauded, taking his hand, and patting him
on the back.
“What do y’ think o’ that?” Dave asked,
displaying a cheque triumphantly. “I got
it from Jimmy Tyson hisself —see, “James
Tv-on.’- His autygraph ought to be orl right,
oughtn’t it?”
Dad’s eyes opened wide; so did the eyes
of all of us. We gathered round that chec^ l '
as if it was the Bank of England. E\ en
Legs, the pet emu that we had reared from
a chicken, stalked up and joined the circle,
craning its neck and blinking its black s n >
eyes as if it, too, had an interest m da e.
wealth.
“Well done, my son!” Mother said, smiling
on Dave proudly.
Dave blushed and said it was nothin’, and
reckoned he could make twice as big a cheque
if ke went out again.
“How much is it for, Dave?” Dad asked,
D a d a i W ays got down to figures where money
wag concerned
‘„ H loo ‘ k an > see ,” the hero invited.
ha tiding 6 the precious to him. -Eight
weekg at twenty bob a week.’
“Eight echoed,^^staitin»
1° work it out on lus fi geis
t-t-t-wenty bob a w-w-week.
But just as Dave was handing the uocu-
ment over, Legs, craning liis neck beside Dati,
intercepted it and snatched it m his beak
same as he would a piece of cake, ilie
sudden roar that came from Dad and tle
excited bound Dave made to recover it
alarmed the bird, which turned ’and ran
with it as only an emu can run.
“What, has he gone with the cheque?
excitedly from Mother,
Before anyone could answer, Dave and
j oe and g ara fi fi a d gone, too-—followed by
Dad — a fj j n f u u pursuit.
Round the house streaked the emu, Dave
a nd Joe shouting threats to it, Sarah calling
itg na me endearingly, and Dad in a broken
vo i ce condemning it for a “useless dam
thi tkat oug ht t’ had its neck screwed off
lono . a „. 0 >»
Crcssiim the barnyard Legs stampeded the
fowls and brushed past Cranky Jack, who
was hanging out a flannel he had
Stop him! Catch him, Jack. H »
my cheque!” Dave yelled desperately,
Jack stared after the fleeing bird and at
its oncoming pursuers. Then, dropping tne
flannel in the dust, he stuck a finger in each
ear and laughed wildly. Joe who _ never
missed anything, turned his head m ms
stride and gasped out to Sarah: L-l-look at
.T-J-Jack!” Sarah was compelled to stop and
hold lier sides. “What th’ ’ell do y see to
laugh at!” Dad demanded as he puffed past
lier. Dad hadn’t the same idea of humor as
the rest of us.
Coming to the barn-gate Legs swung
round and doubled on his tracks with m-
creased speed. It was grand to watch the
style of him and to hear the rapid pats or
his feet on the earth. You’d think he had
on running shoes. With the cheque still in
his beak he looked a new sort of telegraph
messenger delivering a telegram.
Its dangling feathers rustling like a grass
tree in a cyclone, the bird now made
for the back door of the house, which was
wide open. On its course it met Dad. Dad
greeted its approach with breathless profanity
and then made an attempt to seize its neck
as it streaked past him. He succeeded only
in gripping the atmosphere, and. losing his
balance in the effort, rolled in the dust,
“Cripes, where’s th’ dang dawgs?” Dave
cried, disregarding Dad’s bad luck. “He’ll
have it all torn soon, or swallied!” Then,
anticipating the emu’s objective, he shouted
his loudest to anyone who might be there
to hear, “Shut th’ front door! Shut th
front door an’ keep him in!”
Into the house flashed the bird, fouling
the furniture, and was going right through.
as it had often enough done before, when if
collided with Mother on the threshold. Mother
f e jl in a heap on the verandah. The emu fell.
too, but rose instantly and jumped the steps,
“Goodness! Goodness !” Mother was gasp-
ing when Dave bounded through the house.
“Cripes! where’s he gone with it, Mother?"
Dave cried, with a baffled look on his face.
«q }i my goodness!” Mother repeated.
• } * hands to ] ier sides. “A wonder
ali | e m
R u t Dave’s eyes suddenly rested on the
on the boards where Legs had
f-fllen
“Drines ” he choked pouncing on it, “he
V, ”' 1 , « h rushed through’. “I
* ie “, Dave waving the cheque, announced
tiem “DaveT-ot.it! Dave’s got it!”
for Dad’s benefit as the latter
bl Dad e Wt speak till he got hfe wind bacE
Tbrn': “Has he done anytlita’to .t? He amt
“ri Dave rejoiced. “There it
to: 'Pay Dave Rudd eight quid. James
Tysom w
Mother “Yp was well out otth^ai
S& ten"into/ a did mo.
an ’ knocked y’ over. , T
The laugh that came from *-« Dad’s
prompted by what they bad been ot Da<E
attempt to se^ e J^ e , 'j ni , x J_f herself
drowned what Mother had to say ot Jiersen.


?* ** l * ***y£
in
■gp;s
v#>
m
A
, Imerica
tUnji J JuuiAjjJiJiMjL
Governmental heart of America. The
National Capitol at Washington
SPORT OF KINGS. A racing
meet at Churchill Downs,
Louisville, Kentucky.
America is the traveller’s Ultima Thule—the far land of
promise for those with minds alert, curious and eager—who
seek new scenes and new ideas—for whom progress is greater
than politics, nature greater than creed. For here, in a theatre of
magnificent conception, is played the stirring drama of Life!
Even the swiftest crossing of this continent leaves an indelible
impression—and a desire to delve deeper into this melange of
men and marvels! Men have linked these marvels with a superb
railway system, that features comfort, speed, and economy—per-
mits rapid and thorough travel, with generous stop-overs—and
the ultra-modern luxury of Pullman sleepers, delicious meals,
and constant attentive service! Cost is most moderate.
Thus you swing quickly from the fragrance of Californian citrus-
groves to the awesome vistas of the high Rockies—span the
stretching plains and thread the maze of teeming cities! New
sights at every milepost! Crowds and solitude, excitement and
calm. Inspiring interest for every type of mind—America!
Reach it on the new Matson-Oceanic sovereigns “Mariposa” and
“Monterey,” pace-setters in speed and luxury from the Antipodes
to California. A glorious South Sea journey, with stops at New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, and Hawaii, and either San Francisco or
Los Angeles your goal. Then your choice of routes across
America. And this is the shortest route to England!
MOUNT VERNON. His-
toric Virginia home of
George Washington,
"father of his country."
In the WORLD’S SPOTLIGHT
International Exposition, Chicago, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933
America invites you to visit this World’s Fair
J
m
I
MATSON-OCEAN 1C LINE
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION It l it EA I
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY - PHONE
8798 I - 3
SR-1A
The Sergeant’s Cold.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
SERGEANT Duncan Mac Nab, of H.M.
73rd Regiment, being but newly landed
from the ’tween-decks of 11.M.5.
Hindustan, had caught a very bad and per-
sistent cold, and was afflicted with a trouble-
some cough. That sort of thing, of course,
may happen to anybody, but there is a story
to be told of Sergeant MacNab’s cough
that distinguishes it from ordinary afflictions
of the kind.
He was one of those efficient, dour, stern-
minded and able-bodied non-commissioned
officers who have helped to make Scottish
regiments the terror of Britain’s enemies,
and almost the first thing that happened
to him in Australia was his reduction to
the ranks. Good sergeants have drunk away
their chevrons, and lost them in other
fashions, but no one ever heard before of a
thoroughly reliable and conscientious n.c.o.
who coughed himself back into a private
soldier’s stripeffiss jacket.
It will be remembered by those familiar
with the story of British settlement in
Australia that Governor Macquarie landed
in Sydney on the last day of the year 1809.
On New Year’s Day the 73rd was disem-
barked, and went into camp on the western
outskirts of the town, at Grose Farm, where
the university is now, the New South
Wales Corps being in occupation of the
barracks in George-street. Ex-Governor
Bligh was absent in H.M.S. Porpoise in
Van Diemen’s Land, so could not be re-
instated in the Government from which he
had been hurled by John Macarthur and the
mutinous officers of the Corps two years
previously, as Macquarie had been ordered
to reinstate him for twenty-four hours.
But he arrived back on the 17th of January,
when, says Macquarie, “I received Governor
Bligh with every mark of respect and atten-
tion in my power to show him. He now re-
sides on shore, in the town of Sydney, having,
at his own request, a sergeant’s guard of the
73rd Regiment on duty at his quarters.”
On the morning of the 20th, Captain
William Bligh, R.N., strode angrily along
the gravelled drive before Government
House, and, when he had arrived at the
front door, demanded peremptorily that he
should be admitted to an interview with
Governor Macquarie. He was shown into
die office of the secretary, Mr, John Thomas
Campbell, who, aw T ed by the baleful expres-
sion on the ex-Governor’s face, departed
immediately to inform his Excellency that
an exceedingly irate post-captain of the
Royal Navy was waiting to see him. Mac-
quarie had just finished breakfast.
“Dear me,” he exclaimed, “wli'at can be
the matter now? Upon my soul, Mr. Oamp-
“Offi I become a little wearied by Captain
Bligh’s complaints. He is most deplorably
lacking ip candor about the late unhappy
business in which he was so unfortunately
concerned, and most of his grievances are
merely querulousness. Do you know what
the trouble is?”
The secretary shook his head. “No, your
Excellency. Captain Bligh did not con-
descend to inform me. But whatever it may
be,flic’s in the deuce of a stew about it.”
“Oh, well, I suppose I’d better get it
oyer,” said the Governor, rising from his
place at table and making his excuses to
Mrs. Macquarie.
“Good-morning, Captain Bligh,” he re-
marked politely as he entered the drawing-
room. “And, pray, to what am I indebted
for the pleasure of receiving you this
morning?”
Bligh’s scowling countenance was suffi-
cient assurance, that he found little pleasure
in being received. H'e shook Macquarie’s
hand perfunctorily, and came to the point
at once.
“Those infernal soldiers, sir—they would
drive a man mad. Damme if they wouldn’t.
Tis inconceivable the lengths that they will
go in inflicting annoyance upon me.”
Macquarie stiffened immediately. Being
a soldier himself, he had no sympathy with
Captain Bligh’s frequently and impolitely
expressed condemnation of everything hav-
ing to do with the shore-keeping branch
of the Service. But he endeavored to pour
oil upon troubled waters, and sought to con-
ceal his own personal feeling of weariness
with the snarling moods of the dispossessed
potentate who stood glowering at him from
the hearthrug.
“Pray be seated, Captain Bligh,” he
said. “Pray be seated and have the kindness
to inform me as to the cause of your annoy-
ance- If any member of the New South
Wales Corps has been so impertinent as to
treat you with disrespect, I shall see to it
at once that”
“P n it, sir,, ’tis not the Corps—that
confounded collection of blackguardly gaol-
birds. ’Tis a non-commissioned officer of
your own regiment, Colonel Macquarie,
who has given me reason for complaint.”
“Of the 73rd, Captain Bligh? I hope you
are mistaken.”
“Mistaken, sir! I know what I’m talking
about. By heavens, yes—’twas one of your
own .confounded lobsters, sir. I”
Macquarie raised his hand. “A moment,
n you please, sir. lam not accustomed to
hearing the members of the battalion which
i have the honor to command referred to as
—ah —lobsters,' sir. Nor do I think it neces-
sary that this interview should be conducted
in language other than that in common
usage between gentlemen. Pray inform me.
as . to the cause of your complaint. If
a cause,” he added wearily.
Bligh spluttered with rage. “A cause, sir
—1 should think there was a cause! Last
night, sir, at some time past midnight, I
was aroused from sleep by the most infernal,
he most diabolical noise immediately below
my bedroom window. A positively fiendish
row. sir. Such a noise as could not be
achieved by a savage. Colonel Macquarie. I
, as in doubt whether it came from a
human being or from some wild animal of
a species I had not hitherto encountered.
An appalling disturbance! However, when
t ceased I sought slumber again—only to
e roused Ly it once more, some two hours
ater. A disgraceful jand exasperating out-
age, sir. I went to the window anS looked
out. This clamor was being made by the
sergeant of the guard, sir, Avho was visiting
the sentries. I spoke to him pretty plainly,
and demanded liis name, with a view to liaA'-
ing him punished. Further sleep during the
rest of the night was out of the question,
‘Twas impossible to compose one’s self to
rest, in view of the chance of that disgust-
ing row breaking out again. I had a very
bad night, sir—a very bad night.”
“Oh, indeed—l am distressed to hear it,
Captain Bligh,” said Macquarie Avith pain-
fully forced sympathy. “And what was the
name of the sergeant of the guard?”
‘An infernal Scots name, sir—MacNab,
The noise was infinitely worse than the
accursed bagpipes, sir—infinitely worse, and
that’s saying a great deal.”
-*■ would remind you, Captain Bligh',”
sai d Macquarie with cold dignity, “that I
am myself a Scotsman, and do not appreci-
ate the classification of my nationality as
infernal. As for the bagpipes, sir, many
competent judges of music regard them as
being—ah—distinctly inspiring and pleasure-
giving instruments. However, even the bag-
pipes below one’s bedroom window at mid-
night might be disturbing. I think you said
this man’s name was Mac Nab?”
“I did, sir. And I’d feel personally
obliged to you if you’d see to it that he is
visited with some fitting punishment for
his gross offence. ’Twas unbearable, sir—
simply unbearable. I trust you'll see this
blackguard’s made to suffer —for the suffering
he caused me, sir.”
Macquarie rose and held out his hand.
Very good, Captain Bligh—l shall do so.
I know something of this man, and must
say that he bears the character of an exem-
plary non-commissioned officer. However,
I will see that the matter is attended to.
And now I must beg you to excuse me. I
have to go to Parramatta to-day, and there
is some business of a public nature to be
seen to before I start. Good morning, sir
—good morning. The matter will be looked
into.”
On the site of the present Vickery’s Build-
ings in Pitt-street stood in 1810 a brick
cottage, which was still in existence in the
mid-sixties., Here it was that Captain
Biigh and his widowed daughter, Mrs. Put-
land, had taken up their residence while
making preparations to leave for England
m the Hindustan. And here it was, also,
that Private Duncan Mac Nab, having- been
very arbitrarily and, as he thought, unjustly
reduced to the ranks for having disturbed
Captain Bligh’s slumbers when sergeant of
the guard over the ex-Governor’s quarters,
found himself, about a fortnight latei'i
marching up and down with fixed bayonet
on his beat in the capacity of a sentry over
the ill-tempered individual who had done
him so much wrong. H'e was still suffering
from the cold that had plagued him since
his arrival in the colony; but whenever ho
was compelled to cough to-night he was
careful to fill his mouth ivith the sleeve of
his. jacket. There were bitter thoughts in
the resentful mind of Private Mac Nab. '
On this same evening we are privileged to
make the acquaintance of Messrs. Michael
O’Brien, William Toolittle and Timothy
Oates, prisoners of the Crown for life on
ticket-of-leave, who are busily conspiring to
break, enter and steal from the temporary
residence of Captain William Bligh. Their
(Continued on next page.)


“Sickness is invariably
associated with
self-poisoning ”
—explains Dr. Von Noorden of
the famous Frankfort clinic.
To overcome self-
poisoning (autoxima)
nothing equals COLOSEPTIC
aUTOXIMA (self-poisoning) is a condition
/I caused by undigested food residues being
allowed to stagnate in your body. This food
waste becomes encrusted in the creases of the intes-
tine, resulting in unsuspected constipation. Germs
and poisons breed in the accumulated waste, caus-
ing headaches, frequent colds, fits of melancholy.
Poisons that spread from clogged intes-
tines lower the body’s resistance to
disease. COLOSEPTIC keeps the intes-
tines clean . . . helps ward off colds and
infections, physicians say.
Keep Clean Internally
Practically everyone suffers nowadays from autoxima,
and it is this which is the cause of one or more of
the serious faults in your health. Sickness will surely
arise if this poisonous crust on the intestine is not
removed and the body made internally active and
clean. Taken regularly, COLOSEPTIC tones and
stimulates your whole intestinal tract. It dissolves
away the stagnating waste and then passes it out of
the body—without griping or inconvenience. It
activates the kidneys, pores of the skin, and the
respiratory apparatus - thus ridding the blood
stream of all circulatory poisons.
Drink Coloseptic Every Morning
Do you suffer from Constipation, Weakness, Gas in
the Stomach, Indigestion, Backache, Catarrh, Rheu-
matism, Neuritis, Eczema, Pimples, etc.?
DID MORE GOOD THAN ALL MEDICINES.
“Bang alow.
“I cannot speak too highly of this wonderful medicine, for
after years of terrible suffering from constipation and piles,
one bottle of Coloseptic did me more good than all the
medicines that I had ever taken; and after taking a course of
it I am overjoyed to be able to say that I am now completely
cured.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“Mrs. M C ”
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head Offiee of
the Coloseptic Co. Ltd.)
Drink Coloseptic every morning in hot water and
watch your health difficulties vanish. COLOSL.P IAC
actually increases the secretion of the gastric and
intestinal juices. . . .It keeps the intestines and
digestive tube clean.... combats fatigue and other
symptoms of self-poisoning. Better digestion, im-
proved health, more abundant energy are yours.
COLOSEPTIC —Regular full-size jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’ regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself Fill in the
coupon and send it in together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /and receive an interesting booklet
and a Special Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
COUPON
Coloseptic Co. Ltd.,
Dept. B. 4,
24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find i/- (stamps or
postal notes). Send me one SPECIAL DEMONSTRA-
TION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
Name -. .......
Address
individual records are bad, their individual
appearance is bad, and their collective move-
ments are extremely bad. There is no
good in any of them, and, taken together,
they are as worthless and dangerous a trio
as exists in the New South M ales of the
day. We meet them and make acquaint-
ance with them in the wretched hovel on
the Rocks which is the home of Mick
O’Brien when he happens to be out of gaol or
free from compulsory service with a road-
gang. ,
They sat about a dim and smoky rush-
light made from mutton-fat, and conspired
together in congenial villainy. Mr. Toolittle,
a furtive Cockney rat from Shoreditch,
where he had been' a locksmith with a side-
line in burglary, was addressing the meeting.
He was exhibiting a large key.
“’Tis th’ werry best bit o’ work Hi’ve
hever did,” he was saying proudly. “An’
Hi’ve done some good jobs- in my time. Hi
’ave. Wi’ this ’ere hopener we’ll walk inter
th’ bleedin’ ’ouse jest as if we was Mr. Billy
Bligh ’isself. Th’ hon’y thing to do is to
nobble th’ flamin’ sentry, an’ then were
right.” , „
“Good for you, Bill—good for you!
Timothy Gates praised the craftsman lav-
ishly, being aware that all great artists
appreciate appreciation. “I knowed we
might leave it to you for to make things
easy. Ain’t he a wonder, Micky i Oh,
yuss—you ain't th’ covey, Bill, for to
bungle' a little job like that there. ’Tis a
credick to ye—a flamin’ credick. But who’ll
be th’ sentry at one o’clock?”
Mick O’Brien, a vast Irishman, nodded
his shaggy head. “Sure, thin,” he said,
“Oi’ve foun’ that out. ’Twill be that big
fellie Mac Nab—him they broke the other
day, what used for to be a sergeant, and
now’s bin rejooced for a-wakin’ Billy Bligh
be caughin’ under his windy in th’ night-
toime. I foun’ that out this avenin’, be
watchin’ th’ turns th’ round o' sintries was
a-takin’. He’ll be on in the front o’ th’
house from midnight till two o’clock. A
big fellie he is, an’ a shtrong fellie —but ’tis
mesilf can fix him. Oi’ll lay for him at
th’ corner o’ th’ house, an’ tap him on th
nut as he turns at th’ ind of his beat. Then
we’ll tie him up, and walk into Billy
Bligh’s at our eonvaynience—Billy an’ th'
whole household, sarvints an’ all, bein’ away
at th’ H'awkesbury. Sure, he won’t know,
what’s happened to him, Here’s me per-
sh nailer.”
He exhibited to them a steel jemmy, some
fifteen inches long, which he took from
beneath his left armpit, where it had been
concealed by his jacket.
“Hand a werry good little tool, toe.”
approved the locksmith. “But ye’ll not want
for to tap ’im too ’ard, Micky. ' We don’t
want no murders hup agin us. Tap ’im
soft-like.”
“Faith, thin, phwat’s it matter? He’ll
be just as harrumless dead as shtunned. But
I’ll fix th’ dom’ sojer for ye. He’ll give no
throuble afther Oi’ve had a worrud wid him.
To be sure he won’t.”
“Well, then, come along. ’Tis time‘ we
was a-movin’,” said Mr. Toolittle, blowing
out the rushlight.
They slipped silently into the darkness,
and presently were making their way, three
dim and slinking shapes of evil, towards Pitt-
street in the starlight. The sleeping, town
was very still and silent.
Private Mac Nab paced stiffly up and down
before Captain Bligh’s cottage, a prey to
gloomy meditation. The exceeding hardness
of his lot bore heavily upon him, and he
felt himself to be easily the most miserable
man in all Sydney town. Suddenly he
halted and listened.
Up at the main guard-house in Grosvenor-
street the sentry was calling the hour: “One-
o’clock-and-arl’s-well. A fine marnin’.”
He listened for the sentry at the gate
of the lumber yard in Bridge-street —the
working place for convict artisans —to take
up the call, knowing that his own turn
followed. Almost immediately he heard it.
“One o’clock,” bawled Private Mac Nab.
“A braw mor-rn th’ noo.”
He resumed his prescribed march along
the front of the wicket-fence confining the
garden, an erect and martial figure, whose
flat' back no bitterness or sense of unde-
served humiliation could bend. The star-
light glittered on his fixed bayonet as he
turned, the musket carried at the slope over
his left shoulder. Slowly he marched back
again to the other end of the fence, where
three furtive shadows awaited his arrival.
Pacing noiselessly back to the opposite
end of his beat, he experienced the tickling-
symptoms in his massive throat that warned
him of the approach of one of those uncon-
trollable fits of coughing which had done
him so much harm. As he cleared his
gullet, a savage sense of wrong oppressed his
soul.
“Dorn’ it,” lie grunted, “I’d like for to
stick me bay’net into someone!”
Three yards from the corner he halted
a spasm of coughing was upon him and
saved his skull from Mick O’Brien’s jemmy.
Probably it saved his life, for the bad Irish-
man was not particular how hard he struck.
With a growl of impatience the hideous
O’Brien, crouching with his companions in
the shadow of a tall shrub growing just in-
side the fence, listened to the terrific noises
exploding in the throat of Duncan McNab.
For a full minute the noises continued with-
out slackening, and then, just as the last
harsh discord died away, O’Brien’s stock ot
patience became exhausted.
“I’ll crack him now,” he whispered to Tim
Gates. “Th’ dawg’ll wake th’ town!”
He sprang forward with the murderous
jemmy above, his head, poised for a smash-
ing blow.
But the sentry saw him. In an instant
his bayonet was horizontal, and he. had
lunged. The big Irishman received it in
the chest, and crumpled to earth with a
blood-choked, gurgling scream.
The others ran off into the night whim-
pering their fear.
“Guar-rd, tur-rn out!” bellowed Private
McNab, and a little way up the street, in
an empty cottage that served as Captain
Bligh’s guardhouse, confused noises broke
out. Presently the sergeant came running,
followed by his men.
“What is it, Duncan?” he cried, swinging
the guard lantern level with his head.
“What’s all the bother?”
But Private Mac Nab was overcome again,
and, bent double, was emitting a series of
barking coughs that echoed through the
silent town and might almost have been
heard across the harbor. The sergeant
peered at the twisted body of Mick O’Brien,
who was already dead.
“Ye got him, Duncan,” he muttered. “Ye
got him good an’ fair!”
At that moment Captain Bligh, hastily
summoned from the Hawkesbury on urgent
business by Macquarie the day before, was
crossing on horseback the bridge that
spanned the Tank Stream at the lower end
“That t d— ——d fellow again!’’ he muttered
furiously, as he spurred his horse up the
street. “I’ll have him crucified .
But eight hours later he said to Governor
“So I think, your Excellency, I shall as.*
you to restore the man to his former rank.
He has behaved very well indeed.
“H’m,” observed Macquarie drily, so it
would seem, Captain Bligh, that, a soldiei
may occasionally be useful?” ~ ,
“On occasion, sir—on occasion, growled
Captain Bligh.
Ere Daybreak.
Have you ever heard it—
The rustle of the corn
When the breeze has stirred it
Ere the break of morn?
Like to drowsy waters
On a lakeside breaking
’Tis; or like to palm fronds
Murmured music making.
Born of early breezes
O’er the sown field hieing,
Like it is to someone
Lowly lullabying.
All the darkness making
Soft and sweet and soothing.
Like it is to someone
Fever’s furrows smoothing.
As it sinks and rises
’Neath high stars west-wheeling,
Like it is to slumber
Weary eyelids sealing.
Through the silence sounding,
The rustle of the corn
Tells of what I know not
Ere the break of morn.
What they tell I know not
Ere the day-birds -waken —
Flag and sheath and tassel
In the dark, wind-shaken.
N.S.W.
RODRIC QUINN.
The Frozen Fountain.
Where slow grey mists draw shade on shade
in far, dim splendor,
On hills of morning that the night makes
tender
Before it, trembling, flees ;
Far in their depths, half-guessed and ail
unbidden,
Walled round by shadow trees,
And by the darkness of the unknown hidden.
The frozen fountain holds its mysteries.
The sheer light wells from crystals till the
fountain quivers, . .
And all the light flows through the air in
rivers
That gloom to gleam again;
Like stars in moonless skies, in cold skies
shining,
Close-set as drops of rain ; . .
Rosebuds and half-oped lilies, intertwining.
Are closed within the fountain s sott
disdain.
The incense trembles through the shadows,
softly, slowly,
And silence, scent and color mingle wiiony
In fragrant harmony.
Is death the chill hoar-frost that binds the
fountain,
The flowers of mystery,
The unsung songs, like mists upon a
mountain, , . , ,
Dreamed of one moment, ne er again to De.
W.A.
VICTOR WILLIAMS.
The Cat Peddler.
There was a man who peddled eats.
Others sell ribands and lady’s smocks,
Feathers, slippers and silver beads;
Chap-books, simples and bells and clocK^.
But this man in bis rags sold only cats.
Two baskets carried them on a pole—
Proud blue Persians and tabby kits,
Small white kittens that purr and roll.
Eyes of yellow and eyes of green,
‘Cushion-pads on their clawing feet.
A handsome Tom with a rovers look;
. A homely tortoise-shell, mild and sweet.
He took the road when the moon was^ high
(His lade cleaned whiskers and washed
Till he found an orchard with sun-bleached
grass, , . .
And slept all day in that quiet place.
The kittens played with the fallen fruit,
Or chased a butterfly in the sun
And he gathered them close when the light
was low, _ „
And packed them up when the day was
done.
And away by the streets of the steep old
town, . , . ,
Its ochre walls and its roofs of red
The peddler of cats has the broad^. highway
For his own, when haif of the world
abed.
Sometimes a cat climbed from his load.
To a milkpan set by a humble house,
Or sought a tryst by a village well,
Or leapt a hedge as it chased a mou. ■
What was the price set? .Coin or rhymes?
Strains of music or fairy lore?
A witch’s spell on a painted ca ™ • for
No one ever knew what he sold them t
Perhaps, with a bargain nearly made?
He changed his mind and the bribe v
Tortoise-shell, brindled or black-and-white,
He packed them up for the road again,
And away went whistling beneath the stars
With his purring, mewing merchand ,
Till men thought he earned a troasur -t
With the jewelled gleam of tnur ngu
filled eyes!
QUEEN ST. AND.
M. FORREST.


TO
Dr. Morses
INDIAN R°°L?iV 1 /
ARE A
H
You housewives have a strenuous life. Your duties last
from early morning till late at night. Your cares are endless
and nerve-wracking. You are so busy thinking of others you
are apt to neglect yourselves. Your work is exhausting, but
be
sure
and
When buying
get DR. MO~R~S~E'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS ,
which are packed in this
familiar label printed in blue.
does not provide healthful exercise.
Doctors say that housewives,
more than any other class, suffer
from Constipation, Torpid Liver
and their resultant ills —digestive
disorders, weakness, dizziness,
fainting spells, sick headaches,
backaches and nervous irritability.
Do not neglect these symptoms.
Regular use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, as needed,
will bring about a wonderful
improvement in your condition.
For cleansing the system they are unexcelled. By using them
at the first sign of bowel irregularity, or touch of biliousness,
you will have more energy, feel brighter, and ward off many of
the aches, pains and ills common to housewives.
Ĥ
I
u
H
Ĥ
Made in Australia —by Australians —for Australians
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread.
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper* restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they are
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest sus-
picion a careful watch will give ample proof,
Worms, by their movements and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or un-
easiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and biting, and
not infi’equently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often disordered,
sometimes relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving,
or depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, the tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleed-
ing of the nostrils, and disposition to grind
the teeth during sleep are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the alimentary canal,
and various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the dis-
ordered digestion which they occasion.
Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the eye-
lids, temporary blindness and deafness.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms, but cause no
injury to the Stomach or bowels, and do
not weaken the system. The pellets are
prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but on the contrary inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary
sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4/- per packet (six packets 23/-)
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulle-
tin.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
“BRING THE MONKEY.” By Miles Franklin, author of “My
Brilliant Career.” Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD.” By Ambrose Pratt,
President Vic. Zoological Society. Exquisitely illustrated.
Price 5/- (postage 2d.).
“SATURDEE.” By Norman Lindsay. 6/- (postage 3d.)
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.).
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
AH Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
C 3
&
nP
O
3*
kP
3
<yct
V^/ 0^
V
c°
G e
*•
sv
o
<p v M
& * * J*
rt % '
At® V ....
#•
•*•' * <*
•••'' •••" *
.•••
.-•* o 4^ 6 > 6 ‘
• & *
<#«s»


THINK OF A NUMBER
IVATS
a
m
li
!
fin
i
#
‘ I
§
P
liPifflwS
X*
if
M®lS
ill
1
S
it
iHs
I
Mr
i
il'il
’(lffS
Pis
SllSill*
mu
tm
mast
m
Halllt
1
iflßl
fli
am
i
it
IIill!!
m
a i
|H
liiiiii
fif
I *IIIi §
■iilill
i
rii s iiiifi*.
A \
!illj;SlllliiliifiSii(li/'^iiiiiKiiiite!!iii>:. i
#j|«
tICT?®
i
A
e & Quality CuaraiJ
i
lii
it
BY
ffl
fill
IP
Skmclee.
Kill
the SUPERVISION OF THE OOWM0 f < VVEA
90
Bfttt
Sill
WATSONS X°I() WHISKY
1
m
m
m
It’s mellow ... mellow as whisky can only be that is
distilled and matured in the Scotch Highlands. That is why
discriminating men order their whisky by number.. . No.
10, the finest whisky obtainable in Australia.
A PRODUCT Of SCOTLAND
WIO-IX
