

Fit to-day 4
m Crippr
?v\
W
9
I
f
mm
The Penalty
of Neglect!
Schumanns Mine r a I
Spring Salts are made
fr,om the most important
active ingredients found
ill most of the natural
Mineral Spring Waters or
Spas in Europe. Thou-
sands of people who go
to Europe “take the
waters” for CONSTIPA-
TION, RHEUMATISM,
AND URIC ACID COM-
PLAINTS.
You, too, can be relieved
of CONS TIPATION,
RHEUMATISM, NEURI-
TIS, SLUGGISH LIVER
and all URIC ACID
COMPLAINTS by taking
a small dose of Schu-
mann’s Mineral Spring
Salts in a tumbler full of
warm water —first thing
each morning.
DEFINITELY REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES
NATURE inflicts terrible penalties on those who
break her laws, and one of Nature’s fundamental
laws is that poisons and waste products must be
eliminated REGULARLY.
Neglect this law and RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA*,
LUMBAGO and other URIC ACID COMPLAINTS
follow swiftly, and as in all things—prevention is
better (and easier) than cure.
Schumanns relieves quickly
A regular morning dose of Schumann’s Salts in a long glass
of warm water prevents CONSTIPATION and URIC ACID
from beginning their dangerous career at your expense.
Schumann’s Mineral Spring Salts cleanse your system, with
an easy action —and rid the blood stream of deadly poisons.
Take a dose to-day and feel better to-morrow
Don’t wait until you are crippled with pain and dangerously
i 11... . procure your packet of Schumann’s Salts at once.
/wwhtbA
s£2s§sgjk
Schumann's
MINERAL SPRIN
Salts
G
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
e
The Bulletin
Clsuyffoi** </oL*ya sZaAtv, .
VoL 54.—N0. 2787.
Wednesday, July 12, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■yHE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“I’HE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
aim
■ imu
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street. Melbourne. ’
Please send', without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainine
your Muscular Movement System 0/ Writing iu
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
8.8. 233
fyp)
<LV4
Safeguard Tender Skins
by Daily Use of
CUTICURA
Soap and (Hutment
Never too young to start using
Cuticnra
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
TAKE
EADE’S PILLS
AND LAUGH AT
RHEUMATISM.
Eighty-six years ago Mr. George Eade,
Chemist, discovered this famous remedy.
From that day to this Fade’s Pills have
been the most successful remedy for Rheu-
matism, Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica and
Lumbago in the world.
There is no need to suffer the agonising
pains caused by these dread complaints,
Eade’s Pills have proved successful in thou-
sands of other cases, and will do so in
yours.
Every Reputable. Chemist sells Eade’s Pills.
READ THIS LETTER:
August, 1935.
Manningham , Bradford.
Sirs,—Two years ago I had an awful
attack of rheumatic gout in both feet. They
had to get a doctor in the night to me,
as I thought I would go mad. I took three
Eade’s Pills, and in three days I was up
walking about. They are the most wonder-
ful pills I have ever taken. — Mrs. E.H.
Every testimonial published by Eade’s is a
genuine unsolicited appreciation.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people- want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion’’ Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out' Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 12,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agericies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
( (Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.CI2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends', use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
XJ%ZcAxiAy&x£&4 9
7laZuA&J>''sc*eriGe,
<j?6ez£ Stc%ic<f, Sta#C,
» S&teen ?urte4, r<r
S^OX
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
["THE PATRIOT!
«gREC™EDRj^TOVgMEN|
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY. PRICE 2d.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Appeal of Gossip
J. F. Archibald said many years ago that
the secret of success in society journalism
lay in printing an immense number of
names. Modern newspaper developments
have shown how right he was. The most
trivial items become interesting when they
deal with people the reader knows, or even
knows only by sight or hearsay. Profes-
sional gossipers have created huge armies
of celebrities all over the Empire whose
chief claims to fame are that they go to
races, restaurants, night clubs and cock-
tail parties. They have provided every
town of any size with Smart Sets and Bright
Young Things; and as those whom the cele-
brities entertain or are entertained by
automatically become celebrities themselves
after a while, the army is continually on the
increase.
The really important people in every
community shun the limelight as a rule;
but, in any case, a Milton would have
no chance in the struggle for newspaper
fame nowadays against a racehorse owner
of convivial tastes or a frequently-divorced
theatrical or film star or a picturesque
bankrupt..
The books reviewed this week should sell
well. They cater between them for almost
every class of gossip-reader.
“Wealthy Lower Orders”
Few Australians are mentioned in Mrs.
Meyrick’s Queen of the Night Clubs, yet
Angus and Robertson have thought it worth
while to publish a local edition at 6s.
Hundreds of her patrons were internation-
ally notorious. Kreuger, Loewenstein and
Hatry, for example; and such underworld
figures as Brilliant Chang, the dope-runner,
and the murderers Ronald True and Pat-
rick Mahon. It is not too much to say that
every crook in London of any prominence
visited “43” in its heyday, and among them
moved jockeys and pugilists, actors and
actresses, novelists and artists, peers, peer-
esses, even kings.
London has had such resorts from the
Restoration period onwards, except during the
more or less strait-laced half-century or so
which preceded the World War. And clubs
like the Gardenia and Alsatians, to which
West End revellers flocked after the closing
down of Vauxhall Gardens, only differed from
Mrs. Meyrick’s clubs inasmuch as, while
many of her lady patrons were eligible to
be presented at Court, the ladies who
danced at the other places only appeared
at police courts. Her night clubs, like
the nineteenth-century ones, were essentially
assignation-houses.
As in every autobiography worth
reading, the most clearly-seen character is
the autobiographist. Mrs. Meyrick had
an astonishing capacity for self-deCep-
tion. Her pose is-that of a loving mother;
she ran her clubs for her children’s sake.
A friend, recognising her business gifts,
offered to back her in a reputable venture
to the tune of £50,000. She had already
been in gaol, and knew she was likely to be
sent there again, yet she refused. She was
a typical recidivist in another respect; she
had no consciousness of wrongdoing. A
passage in which she describes her return to
one of her clubs after a fourth term in
prison is significant:—
It was crowded almost to the point of suf-
focation. I was feeling very pleased with
life and very sure of myself as I surveyed
the brilliant throng which circled round me
—a throng of all that was best in the social
world of London. H’ow good, I felt, to be
back in this atmosphere.
Moralists will derive a melancholy pleasure
from the discovery that an immense
number of representatives of “all that was
best in the social world of London” came to
unpleasant ends. “Poor Jimmy. White,”
“poor Lord Terrington,” “poor Freda,”
“poor Pat Guthrie”—phrases of the sort
keep recurring, and it almost invariably
turns out that the person referred to went
to gaol or committed suicide. She mentions
hundreds of names, and a number are
wrongly spelt. That king of gossip-hounds
Lord Castlerosse is “Castleros” in one place
and “Castlerose” in another.
RED PAGE.
Portrait of a Rebel
Angus and Robertson are also respon-
sible for the publication, at 6s., of Frank
Clune’s Try Anything Once. This absorbing
work describes the career of a Sydney man
from his boyhood
40-odd years ago in
a Woolloomooloo
cottage to the
present day, when
he appears to be
successful in busi-
ness and happily married. As one of 14
messenger boys in the Government Printing
Office he formed a union whose first rule
was that no job should be done under a
certain time. Four hours was the minimum
for a message to the Central Railway
Station!
The author stood this for two years and
then ran away to the country. After mad-
dening a succession of cockies by his incom-
petence, he went to sea as a trimmer on a
German ship. He was reduced to ordinary
seaman for refusing duty and assaulting
the captain, and after many futile attempts
to desert he reached Antwerp. He got to
New York on a cattle ship and enlisted in
a cavalry regiment. Incidents like this
were frequent:—
“Trooper Clune, come here.”
I advanced slowly like a royalist to the
guillotine.
“I understand you told Sergeant Allen to
go to hell and called him a bastard.”
“I did, sir,” I replied firmly.
So he deserted and made for Canada. After
experimenting with a number of jobs there
he returned to Sydney and got work as a
blacksmith’s striker, left and became a tele-
phone linesman, and was transferred to a
G.P.O. cable gang. The inevitable unpleas-
antness with the boss soon arose.
I had him on the ground and was jumping
on him when a policeman separated us. i
was promptly suspended and told to report
to the officer in charge of linesmen. He was
a spare-time military man of sorts, and
assaulting a superior officer was to him the
most heinous of offences. He was harangu-
ing me when I became impatient.
“You can go to hell,” I said.
“And you’re fired,” he said.
And so to sea again in the stokehold of
another German ship, which he deserted at
Fremantle. He appeared at the Stadium in
Sydney shortly afterwards in an exhibition
bout with his brother Jack (a useful light-
weight, who beat the. Frenchman Volaire
amongst others): and now the war arrived.
He reached Gallipoli as a 16th Battalion re-
inforcement. The atmosphere of battle
creates a spiritual change in such men. For
the first time we find him looking respect-
fully at a boss. His officer was brave. He
appears to have fought hard himself, and
then “the world seemed to come to an end.
I was hit in both legs at the same time.”
The story may be fact or fiction, but it is
a work of art in either case. It supplies
a pitilessly realistic picture of a human
pest; one who is restless, inquisitive, in
love with life, interested in everything, the
bane of all in authority; a dry humorist,
as senselessly malignant as a child, as
quick-thinking as a good criminal defender,
as combative and courageous as a bull-ant.
No Villains Here.
James Lansdale Hodson’s No Phantoms
Here (Faber and Faber; 7s. 6d.) seems a
little tame after the violence of the other
books. The author is one of those who
prefer not Jo talk about people unless they
can say something pleasant. He has met
almost everybody of interest in the great
world of London—Shaw and Drinkwater
and Masefield; Gertrude Lawrence and
Gerald du Maurier; humorists like A. P.
Herbert and J. B. Morton; business men
like the Selfridges; Fleet-streeters like
Tom Clarke and Max Aitken—and he is
suavely and often wittily informative about
all of them. Under the heading “These
Australians” he discusses Max Murray (one
of the best descriptive writers Australia has
sent to London), Leonora Gregory (“pro-
prietor - editor - reporter - compositor of the
‘Gulf News’”), and Lindrum; and he de-
votes his first chapter to another eminent
Australian—Wilkins.
Art Criticism
M.G.’ (B. 28/6/’33) wants to know why
a Hilder which cost him £4 ss. soared
to a market value of £lOO and has
since sunk to what he originally paid for it
or near it. The answer is easy. Passing
fashions in art are made by art critics.
Anyone may set himself up as an authority
on art matters. There is no examination to
pass, no competence to prove. One day you
say to yourself, “I am an art expert,” and
automatically you are one. You must then
elbow your way into the world of art, where
pictures, ancient and modern, are ’ faked,
concocted and discussed. It will help if
you write from time to time a dreary article
on some Master, known or unknown
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


/ V- -
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—for Business Integrity.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
Timely Genuine Reductions
for Thrifty Farmers!
HALF - YEARLY GENUINE
W
Something for Everybody
Sale
Prices
Genu
at
ne
25 / - “Rustic” Garden Seats
Will lend charm to the garden,
strongly constructed of selected
timber. Section bolted toeether.
Very
rustic
Well
21 6
painted good green colour. Price, each . . .
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
. .. 25/-
... 21/6
23/- “Lawn” Garden Seat,
A comfortable garden seat for use on
lawn or verandah. Made of 1 1 hard-
wood battens. Steel legs, painted green.
13/6
Woodwork varnished.
Sizes 4 ft.
Prices, each . . . 23/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices . . 13/6
6ft.
25/-
17/6
e
1/3 Sickles at 1/-
Best British makes of Sickles.
Sizes 1 2 3
Prices, each 1/3 1/C 1/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices,
each 1/- 1/3 1/6
1/3 Reap Hooks at 1/-
An excellent opportunity for yon to secure
reliable Reap Hooks. Size No. 3.
Price, each 1/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each .... 1/-
4/- Hedge Shears,
now
“Fame” Brand Hedge Shears. Bin. Blades.
Of very good quality steel. Made for long,
hard service. Price, pair 4/-
3/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair
6/3 English Garden Dig Forks,
Here is a really excellent quality Dig Fork that
will give satisfaction and long wear. Four prongs.
English made. Price, each 6/3
5/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
5/3
*
5/9 “Samson” Steel Dig Spades,
“Samson” Elastic Steel Dig Spades. Be quick to
take advantage of this genuine, generous sale
reduction. Price, each 5/9
4/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
All Spray Equipment Reduced
Tin Atomisers. Small and Large Sizes. Price, each.. 1/6 2/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each lid. 2/6
Brass Atomisers Large size available only. Price, each.. 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 3/-
Brass Continuous Atomisers. Price, each 7/-
Antliony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 6/6
“Uni” Bucket Spray Pumps. Price, each 22/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 18/9
BUY YOUR FERTILISER NOW
10/- Sack of Blood and Bone,
Huge Sacks. Weight 1401 b. Price, sack . . 10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, sack 8/6
141 b. Bags. Price, bag 1/1'
8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, bag 1/3
2/9 Hydrate of Lime at 2/3
Rid your garden of slugs and snails with Agricultural
Hydrate of Lime. In 501 b. bags. Price 2/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, bag 2/3
46/6 “Qualcast” Lawn Mower, 45 7 9
“Buy .Australian Made!” The “Qualcast” Mower is made in
Australia and is a good sturdy machine for general purpose.
Five blades. Plain bearing. Sizes, in 12 14
Price, each 40/6 49/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 45/9 48/9
Ball-bearing. Price, each 53/6 50 b
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 51/9 54/9
Agricultural-—Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.
£27/5/- The Globe
Racing Sulky £l7/5/-
The Globe Derby Pneumatic-tyred Racing Sulky, made
of all hickory throughout, similar to the sulky in which
“Globe Derby” trotted his mile in 2 minutes 12 seconds.
Price, each £27/5/*
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £l7/5/-
è
Saddlery—Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD. SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O. 'Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
1
8
LU
IS
m
(X
O
Sr
m
SSi®
TH
When present stocks clear we will be unable
to offer our special Work Boots at these
genuinely reduced prices owing to the big
increase in the prices of all heavy leathers.
Buy now! Remember the reductions are
generous—and genuine!
Yfsr*
16 11 Work Boots at
Special Work Boots. Good Grade
Box. Derby cut. Light, sewn soles.
No toecaps. Ideal for Biding and
Light Work. All sizes.
11)9
Price, pair 16/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, jiair 11/9
18 6 Light Boots now
Men’s Light Work Boots. Made of
stout Box Hide. Imitation Toe-
caps. Standard screwed and sewn
soles. Neat style. Will stand
14/11
hard wear. All sizes. Price, pair 18/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 14/11
“Hordur a”
Boots
14/6
“Hordura” Special Work Boots.
Best grade Box Hide. Stout,
Standard Screwed and Sewn Soles,
of solid leather or Tuffhide. Extra
13/6
hard wearing soles. Tan or Black.
Price, pair 14/6
Sale Price, pair 13/6
27/6 Riding Boots at
Tan Calf and Black Box Calf
Elastic-side Riding Boots. Genuine
welted soles. Full and lialf sizes.
Price, pair 27/6
25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 25/-
With Standard Screwed Soles. Price, pair, 18/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 17/6
A Men’s Boots —Ground Floor , George Street.
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth
and'Railway Stations in N.S.W.


m
O
kssssssss
X : :;»
SSSi
HM
■
m
m
mxz&iL?Sß usaare:
v’.vX
SCOTCH
WUICVY
*«nil9n^n
Y OUR horse is home! Time
* to enjoy a White Horse
... to savour its aroma of peat
and heather. Connoisseurs pro-
nounce it the equal of a fine
liqueur. It’s real old Scotch ...
every drop of if. The circular
seal, affixed by H.M. Customs
on the neck of every bottle, is
your guarantee.


IF you COULD consuu..
PI RADIO EFIGinEER
IF you ' were to consult a Radio engineer he
would tell you that Healing Radio is the best
you can buy because it gives NATURAL TONE
without the distortion prevalent in ordinary radio.
This is because Healing Radio is designed as a
unit AND NOT MERELY AN ASSEMBLY OF
WIRELESS PARTS.
Invite Healing Radio as your guest for a few days.
Revel in the beauty of reproduction that this
musical gem will bring to your home.
Healing Radio dealers will be glad of the oppor-
tunity to demonstrate in your home why Healing
Golden Voiced Radio is still the best you can buy.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors:
A. G. HEALING Ltd.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin St.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
IF IT’S A
fJEMJNG
RADIO
ITS THE BEST YOU
CAN BUY
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
Please send me illustrated jolder on the new
Healing Radios.
NAME
ADDRESS
Praise the work of any painters you know
who write for the papers and they will recip-
rocate by praising you. The more fulsome
you are the more fulsomely they will recip-
rocate.
With a bit of luck, bluff and com-
placency, you are now an authority. Stay,
I forgot. Before setting up in the business,
it is necessary for you to acquire (1) a
magnifying-glass; (2) a repertory of words
and technical locutions. The magnifying-
glass is easily procurable; the vocabulary
also—2o minutes’ study for anyone with a
receptive mind.
If it is a question of old paintings you
will commence by scrutinising carefully with
the magnifying-glass the back of the canvas,
the stretcher and any marks or inscriptions,
mumbling the while a few recondite words,
like a doctor auscultating a patient.
Though this is not absolutely necessary,
you may then bestow a little attention on
the face of the canvas, letting fall such
phrases as “Unmistakably the signature of
his first period I recognise his light
and shade and those transparencies!..,.
It's retouched a bit... .nevertheless, unmis-
takably from the hand of the Master!”
For a modern painting you will not re-
quire the glass. Step back, squint at it
with half-closed eyes, and speak of the
handling, the values, the favorite theme,
and so forth.
With ultra-modern art your job is still
easier. Here you can let your imagination
run riot, since your words need have no
conceivable significance. Obfuscate your
hearers with a host of enigmatical poly-
syllables; speak about “synthetic rhythmic
composition,” “plastic psychology,” “sub-
jective concepts,” “dynamic volumes”; and
the more you succeed in mystifying the
more you will be accepted as an oracle.
A house-agent’s ideas about anatomy are
not considered of importance in the science
of anatomy; to give expert opinion on medi-
cal matters one must be a doctor; the
critic of literature must at least be able
to write, if not spell; but the authority
on art advances as his sole criterion his
taste, his intuition, his eye.
“M.G .” is therefore in an unfortunate
position, inasmuch as, unless he has know-
ledge himself, or has the luck to meet a
painter who knows, he is predestined to be
fooled. I see no way out of his difficulty.
Even the Felton Bequest, of which he
speaks, has an art critic as its European
buyer, and in Europe the anarchy is worse
even than in Australia.
The sensation of 1920 in Paris was a
Dutchman who painted with the condiments
on his breakfast table. He was outgener-
alled by an Armenian who framed a bucket
of whitewash and succeeded in getting it
hung in one of the minor salons as an
example of true realism. To-day they would
be considered a trifle out of date. A
Spaniard lately gained respectful attention
by painting his pictures blindfold. A sculp-
tor in the city that knew Rodin made a
matador on a deviscerated horse out of
galvanised-iron and drainpipes for an arts
ball, sent it as a joke to a gallery, and was
staggered to learn that he had become a
genius overnight. He received so many
requests from galleries all over Europe
for a loan of the work that he took it to
pieces, numbered each section and used to
send it by post. He finally accepted the
public’s opinion of him, and has specialised
in drainpipe statuary ever since. A show
that aroused much interest in Europe and
has influenced many moderns consisted of
work by inmates of a mental home!
Art critics can always be taken in on
art matters, and they help through the press
to take in the public. However, the final
judgment is passed neither by art critics
nor by the public but by painters who know.
It is these painters who have placed Velas-
quez and Rembrandt on a pedestal
whence they will never be thrown. It is the
art critics who give temporary importance
to the Orpens, the Johns and the bidders.
F.S.
A Tip for Freelances
The commonest failing with the free-
lance of to-day is casualness. This doesn’t
apply, of course, to the veterans, but to
a generation born of the depression. Know-
ing that the field is woefully overcrowded,
the novice, in sheer desperation, adopts
shock tactics. He tries to storm the citadel
instead of setting about to undermine it,
and inevitably he fails.
He wants cash, and the only way he can
see to obtain it is to turn out 100 per
cent, more than he expects to have accepted.
In the end an amazing collection of rejec-
tion slips is his punishment for concentrat-
ing upon quantity instead of quality. If he
goes on long enough he reaches a stage
when most of his MSS. are returned unread.
And after all, with the flood of matter
surging daily into every newspaper office,
one can’t blame the overworked editors and
subs.
With the exception of essentially topical
matter, every MS. should be put aside by
the freelance for a week or a fortnight, then
carefully read and valued, and mailed off,
thrown into the w.p.b. or put aside for re-
writing. It’s wonderful what a difference
a week will make and how full the w.p.b.
will become, but it’s a sight better to sell
three MSS. in a month than to have three
dozen rejected.
HENRY BATESON.
A Satchel of Books
Love’s Lunatic, by Jim McCarter (Deaton
and Spencer; 3s. Gd). An outback mis-
taken-identity yarn. Barclay Newton labored
under the delusion that the father of
Nick and Belle was his father. As a result
he nearly ruined several estimable folk, and
was driven half-demented himself. The bush
dialogue is first-rate.
The spring issue of the White Horse Bulle-'
tin, which is published by the famous whisky
firm from its London office in St James’s
Square, has the usual quota of jokes at the
expense of Scots (“In Scotland there is a
quaint old superstition which tells how it
is unlucky to be the thirteenth to use a
match.”) ; and a photograph of the Rosehill
Corinthian Gold Clip being handed over to
Mr. Jim Clark. The publication is brightened
by a couple of Lawson Wood illustrations
in color.
J. T. Allan’s Forgive Us Our Trespasses
(N.S.W. Bookstall; 3s. Gd.) begins in 1914.
As the Uhlans approach the St. Huberts’
farm in Belgium the family intones the
Lord’s Prayer. In vain. Only Victor
escapes. lie has many adventures after
joining the Devil’s Own (a French bombing
squadron in which one of the pilots is an
Australian), and we leave him heading for
happiness in Australia. As exciting as a
movie, and as religious as a tract.
Major A. J. Dawson, a remarkably versa-
tile and prolific writer, won fame in sport-
ing circles with Everybody’s Dog Book over
ten years ago. There have been several im-
pressions since then,.and now Philip Allan
has published a second edition at ss. with
32 beautiful illustrations by Thomas Fall.
All the breeds which are most popular in
England, from borzois to toy Poms., are
discussed, and there are valuable chapters
on breeding, showing and the treatment of
dogs in illness.
Fog, by Elizabeth Ford (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. Gd.), is the second thriller of the
name that has been reviewed on this Page
in the past month. This story, unlike the
other, deals with events that occur in a laud
fog. From the moment Phillis and Louise
cut down the hanging body of the Trem-
lowes’ patient (a would-be suicide and
shell-shock case with homicidal tendencies
when-under the influence of alcohol) and let
him loose on the, countryside, all is excite-
ment. It wouldn’t be fair to. disclose the
denouement, which is concealed by the
author with great skill till the last few pages.
The characterisation is sound, and there is
some bright dialogue.
The theme of Julian Grant Loses His Way,
by Claude Houghton (Heinemann; 7s. Gd.),
is contained in a phrase towards the end :
“We make for ourselves our own spiritual
world, our own monsters, chimeras, angels—
we make objective what ferments in us.”
The action, such as it is, occurs in that world
to which Julian Grant goes after his sudden
death from pneumonia. When he died lie
was obsessed with the idea of getting to a
London woman’s flat, and he brought this
and countless other desires and imaginings
with him to his new abiding-place. Not till
the end does he realise what has happened
to him. He joins those of his own kind in
the kind of place he frequented in life. It is
his Hell: or, rather, purgatory, for before
entering it he is told that he may escape.
Terror possessed him; nevertheless he watched
himself descend the stairs and walk to the centre
of the room. Everyone rose, picked up a glass and
held it towards him.
“Welcome, Mr. Julian Grant!’’
A sombre, imaginative work by a writer who
has a Swift-like scorn of the generality of
his kind.
In Stories by “Kodak” the Endeavour
Press has republished at ss. 31 of the best
efforts of a great Australian humorist. Half
a dozen or more have the Low illustrations
with which they appeared in the “Lone
Hand.” Ernest O’Ferrall was one of those
men—James Edmond was another—-whose
bizarre and fascinating personalities make
what they write, or say, seem excruciatingly
funny to their contemporaries. He was
the antithesis of the hard-drinking irre-
sponsibles he wrote about; grave, gentle,
abstemious, sparing of speech, a hater
of violence. His friends get added amuse-
ment from his works by reading him into
them—imagining his frail figure and melan-
choly eyes as a background to the hilarious
proceedings which he described —but nearly
all the stories are good enough to stand on
their merits in any company. “The Lob-
ster and the Lioness” lias been reprinted—
with and without acknowledgments—in
papers all over the Empire.
Received
GENERAL LITERATURE.
While the Candle Burns, an address by.
Lauchlan Watt, D.D. (Blackwood; 6d.).
Desert Law, by Neil Hunt (William
Brooks; 2s. 6d.L
The Unchanging Witness, by .Tames Lewis
May (Centenary Press; 3s. 6d.).
The Modern World: A Junior Survey, by
H. C. Knapp-Fisher. author of “Outline of
World History for Boys and Girls.” (Gol-
lancz; 55.).
Comments on Education in U.S.A. and
Victoria (Melb. University Press; 25.).
Christianity and the Crisis, edited by
Percy Dearmer (Gollancz ; 55.).
Technocracy: What Is It? by B. Iv. Staun-
ton (Canberra Press).
The Alternative to Communism, by T. S.
Campbell (Robertson and Mullens; Is.).
The Spanish Constitution, by H. R. G.
Greaves (Hogarth Press; Is. 6d.).
The Producer and the Players, by Edward
Lewis (Allen and Unwin; 2s. 6d.).
Eugenics, by Leonard Hodgson (Centenary
Press ; 2s. 6d.).
VERSE.
The Grower of Golden Grain and Other
Inland Ballads, by Cyril E. Goode (South-
land Press; 25.).
Sonnets and Studies, by C. R. Allen
(Harry H. Tombs; 25.).
Collected Poems of Moira O’Neill (Black-
wood ; 55.).
Jim’s Christmas Nugget, by Hugh Ord.
Some Australian Poems, by H. R. Hill.
Confusion, by Campbell McCay.
Grandfather, by Ursula Williams (Allen
and Unwin; 25.).
Land of Memory, by M. A. Robertson
(The Beacon Press).
Answers to Correspondents.
bo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Hams
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Nodo; “Gold” doesn’t pan out a c010r....
N.J.8.: If old Bob had been as weather-wise as
you say, he wouldn’t have been caught in that mess.
. ...T.G.: Tolerable; but put more dialogue into it.
.... F.C.: Handwriting so atrocious that we couldn’t
get beyond the third page... .D.S.N.: Among the
small fish... .R.S.G.: Trouble is that nothing hap-
pens between the hiccoughs.... W.H.R.: It died on
our hands... .W.A.G.: A border-line yarn. Have an-
other shot. .. .G.S.: Put it away for a few months
and then work on it again... .Cic: Yes, but stick
to your profession. . . .N. 8.: “Herewith the first eight
of a series of articles on Deflation.” Come, come!
... .W.M.L.: Your kick:—
Heigh-ho! the scrummage and the acrid stench
Of sweat, and berserk-mad and battle-blind,
Ileigh-ho! the ball at the toe and the buffet and
wrench
And heave, as the shattered ruck is left behind.
It has movement, anyhow, and the Rugby game still
lacks a laureate.... J.S.P.: Purport is obscure and
crabbed handwriting makes it more 50... .H.H.G.:
Your misgivings were justified. Poetic moods are
no good unless you can produce some more worth-
while reflections than
llow still and gray has grown the day
And Vesper gently falls.
. ...D.F,: Can’t quite see where the girl didn’t pass
the test... .Brady’s Lookout:
The backbone of the country
Is the little cockatoo.
The little cooky-farmer
From Tassie up to Cue.
He would take some finding at Cue... .G.A.W.: What
is a “complacent morn” ?.. . .lan Natal: Has the
same effect on us as “the pencil that squeaks on
a slate”.... Cigale: It’s a long way to that Econo-
mic Conference... .L.C.: Metaphors muddled....
W.R.A.: The world may be out of joint, but
20 lines of doggerel won’t set it right... .Mallee Ped:
They have feeling and correctness. But “My heart
leaps up” is undiluted Wordsworth.. . .C.P.L.: “The
Spirit of the Bush” has overmuch water in it....
D. : Oliver AVendell Holmes got in a long way
ahead of you on the subject of street minstrels....
E. : Melodrama run wild... .G.A.L.: Platitudes, and
unmelodious ones at that. .. .1.V.: Picture of “a tear-
ful window weeping winter rain” makes us
shiver.... 8.C.: “Burthen” and “earth then” might
bo made to run in double harness at a pinch, but
not “status” and “lattice”... .D.M.: Four lines from
your resume of rural delights:—
There’s beauty in the Illawarra
To soothe a bankrupt’s wildest horror.
The western plain’s the place where he-men
Drive away delirium tremen.
A rich poetic vein; why not follow it? What’s
wrong with this?
And for she-women, soft and smoodgy,
You’ll find it hard to distance Coogee.
... .E.8.W.: You ripple along too volubly and dwell
on things too self-evident to be worth hinting at.
. ...L.A.S.: There’s an idea in the climax, but you
work up to it in a very untidy fashion.... L.E.:
Not by a mile... .M. 8.: Below the mark....
Y.Y.Y.: No merit in any of them.... J.A.McK.: —
The silence of the desert is broken by the cries
Of vultures, and of land birds migrating to the
North,
Of ostriches and emus flying faster than the moon;
And here the wild cats wander and their startling
howl breaks forth.
It’s a much more interesting place than we had
pictured it.... 0.8.: Sticky sentimentality....
T.W.N.: Too light A.S.: What, another Phar Lap
poem? Space only for his pedigree:—
We all know that his sire was named Night Raid,
And his death it was a great pity;
lie came of a breed of blue-blooded stock
And his dam, she was christened Entreaty.
. ...N.S.: Your triolet is as heavy as cold suet
pudding... .E.M.J.: They fall short, but not without
glimpses of word-music. Reading real poetry will
give you more assistance than any professor can.
. ...E.L.P.: “Inarticulate” none too intelligible....
A'.O.: Work of a ’prentice hand. . . .R.lt.: Plot is
good, but you don’t know enough about actors to
write about them... .H.Y.: Not a story; more like
an extract from a guide-b00k... .0.15.1).: Nowadays,
people don’t go round making flowery speeches.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.C.: Portrait of deformed man holding black
cat rejected.... 11. J.: Drawings fair; jokes need a
tonic... .Kef: Where’s that axe?... .T.R.: Youngster
has a whimsical style and deserves a chance in an
art school... .B.B.: Don’t mix those styles in the
same drawing... .M.A.H.: Looks as if you belong
to the stalactite school... .R.D.G.: You make a
dozen errors to the square inch and your jokes are
cribbed.... B/T.: No outlet for you here while you
continue in that misguided way... .11.5.: Do put
a little thought and time into them... .F.B.AV.:
Subjects unimportant, and likenesses p00r.... E.W.:
Doubt whether a contortionist could get himself into
that tangle of limbs... .L.M.: Want more than the
mere ornamental, and get some ginger into the gag.
. ...W.K.N.: Joke would take up more space than
sketch... .11. V.: Give ’em more clothing. It’s winter,
remember... .J.P.P.: Mademoiselle is badly put
together... .G.L.: July the Fourth cartoon arrived
much too late. . ..A.D.T.: What do you use instead
of ink —bitumen?... .Q.D.: You’re not complimentary
if that’s the sort of stuff you think we’d print
L.R.S.: Don’t make vicious jabs at the paper with a
crossed nib.. .-.N.5.: Shows promise... .N.P.: Looks
more like an unsolved jigsaw puzzle than anything
else... .D.G.: Unlike the visitor to the motor show,
don’t admire your figures... .C.Z.H.: A feeble mala-
propism... .T.W.: As inartistic as the hoardings you
complain about. .. .R.0.H.: For a start, make them
less like wax figures... .F.H.: Still lumpy and
scratchy, but improving a bit. .. .M.Iv.M.: Merely
fashion-plates.


9
i
■
:
,
rjjM?
Ink
1
.
:
L
I SH
■NM
r; i
■
mm
•• i
:
:
wmwmmmm
\
■
i
1;K:
■
■-V :•:>
.
I
P«
a ■
a
m
H
fek
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.— N0. 2787.
July 12, 1933.
AGAIN TOO PROUD TO FIGHT.
EUROPA: “As before, you’ll come for your cut when the fighting is over."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 25218 It; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-21/9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Ade'aide.
W ESTIULIA: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. fid.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £t 10s.;
C months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ANOTHER LANG PLAN.
The first Lang Plan was a Loan Plan. Mr.
Lang found it ready-made, it having been
for a generation the staple of every bad
politician in Australia. You borrowed as
much as the capitalist—preferably over-
seas—would lend, at the current rate of
interest, for the Claypan irrigation works,
the Mangrove Swamp bridge, the rail-
way from Gobung to Flatout and any-
thing else that might bring you the maxi-
mum of votes. By so doing you “absorbed
the unemployed,” at least for a few months,
and in the fulness of time the profits would
be such that you would bo able to sit back
and laugh at the simplicity of the capitalist
in thus contributing to the destruction of
his system. It did not" work out that way;
but as long as the capitalist continued lend-
ing this was held to be immaterial.
As a supporter of the Holman Govern-
ment, a member of the Storey-Dooley
Ministries, and Treasurer in his own Govern-
ments, Mr. Lang pursued the Loan Plan
with ardor. In his 1925 Budget he defended
it warmly, saying that “it would be prac-
tically impossible to construct public works
out of revenue”; that without 5 or 6 p.c.
money “unemployment would assume large
proportions”; that “if the State is to pro-
gress, loans must be raised, with a consequent
annual increase in the public debt.” Even
when the Auditor-General reported a loss
of £3,941,000 on the Government railways
and tramways in one year, and of nearly
as much on the Murrumbidgec irrigation
venture since its inception, Mr. Lang was
all for the Loan Plan. October, 1930. found
him promising to raise millions galore “to
complete all those incomplete public works”
and “absorb” all the unemployed.
On this programme he won the State elec-
tion. But, as he said later, “when we took
office we found the Treasury devoid of cash
resources,” and though he sounded “the
money-choked markets of England and
America,” and turned to “our own people,”
whom he had described as “able and willing
to meet all our demands,” nobody would
lend his Government a razoo. So four
months after he had thundered that “Labor
sets its face against all repudiation” he
invented a plan of his own—the Default
Plan. He proposed at the conference of
Premiers “that the Governments of Aus-
tralia decide to pay no further interest to
British bondholders until Britain has dealt
with the Australian overseas debts in the
same manner as she has settled her own
foreign debt with America.” He insinuated
that this debt settlement was immensely
favorable to Britain (the truth being that
Bull nearly went broke trying to meet the
payments), and that the money owed to
“British bondholders” was mostly borrowed
for the waging of “the war to help
Britain.” He was still uttering half-lies and
whole whoppers on these and other points
when he judged that the time had come to
make the Default Plan effective. He de-
faulted to the British but paid the Ameri-
cans, to whom New South Wales owed
£l3,Boo.ooo—he had borrowed a lot of it
himself.
This strange discrimination has never
been explained. It was naturally taken
to be the outcome of hatred for the one set
of creditors, the defaulter’s own fellow-
subjects, and of goodwill towards the other
set, foreigners. Another theory was that
the payment to New York was prompted by
a belief that default to Bull alone would
be hailed with such delight by the strong
anti-British elements in the U.S.A. that
plenty of American money would be forth-
coming for the defaulter. If this was the
expectation, it was not fulfilled.
The second Lang Plan was tried for a
month or two. It crashed when the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank failed to stand
up under the strain. Mr. Lang crawled
to the Commonwealth Government and
the Commonwealth Bank Board for help,
arid received it at the price of surrendering
the Savings Bank and accepting his third
Plan—the Premiers’ Plan. His friends tried
to make out that he did not accept it, but
he did, and his demeanor at the moment
of surrender was abject.
Back in Sydney among his friends he
regained the sort of courage which dis-
tinguishes him when surrounded by
stronger spirits, and tore up the Premiers’
Plan. He improvised another Default Plan,
extending the original performance to the
Commonwealth Government and the Com-
monwealth Bank. He invented also a Plan
for taking 10 p.c. of all the money out on
mortgage (his own lien on the “Labor
Daily” excepted), and spending it on
“sewerage works, minor road work and
similar occupations”; and a Plan for a
special income tax of ss. in the £ payable
weekly, additional to the annual income
tax, which goes up to ss. in the £, and to
the Commonwealth income tax, which then
reached 9s. 6d. in the £, also paid annually.
He had Plans also for dispensing with banks,
and resisting the operation of the Financial
Agreements Enforcement Act, and locking
up Federal taxation-papers, and breaking
up the Commonwealth, and making Aus-
tralia a scalers’ paradise. He was inter-
rupted by the electors, who took him by
the back of the neck and hurled him into
outer darkness.
After a twelvemonth spent in congenial
pastimes, such as fighting brother-in-law
McNamara’s socialisation group, falling out
with old-friend Willis, jeering at the Labor
“unity” conference and unmasking the devil-
ish plots of Stevens, another Lang Plan
has made its appearance. It is in two parts,
unification being one, and realisation is con-
tingent on the- transfer of the Planner
to Canberra as Prime Minister. Discon-
tent is to be banished from the three small
States by means of “regional tariffs” and
a great service of Government steamers.
(Incidentally the three small States are to
lose their Parliaments;young Mr. Concannon
blurted that out.) In the last year of
the Commonwealth Government steamers
£593,000 went west, and the losses on the
Westralian and Tasmanian Government
steamers made the taxpayers tremble.
Obviously a million a year will be
needed for the Lang line alone. Other
millions will, of course, be required for
“works to absorb the unemployed.” How,
are they to be got? By “social credit,” by
the “socialisation of credit,” bj' the “social
ownership of credit.” by the “social owner-
ship of the public credit and the banking
system.” Mr. Lang used all these expres-
sions in the speech in which he unfolded
this latest Plan. If his fustian means any-
thing, it means that he, the bank-smasher,
proposes to seize control of all the banks
and all the savings of the thrifty; that he,
at whose touch credit shut up like a sensi-
tive plant, will take over the note-issue
machinery and make it rain paper. Through
agents, of course. Perhaps through Swindell,
the tin-hare man, who was so liberal with
election money, and the gentleman rvho
introduced the fruit machines, and Slee-
man, and Garden, and others of equal note.
Somehow, in contemplating the spectacle
of this clumsy ass floundering in the murky
region of “credits,” one feels that he would
love to go back to the Loan Plan. The
Loan Plan was so simple that a child could
understand it. It called for no more think-
ing powers than a savage possesses.
Thinking evidently gives Mr. Lang a pain
in the head, and the results of his think-
ing give people a pain in the neck. Life
was just one lovely loan after another.
And in the time of borrowed affluence a
democratic politician could raise his own
salary 20 p.c. without fear of being punished,
and if he had a house-agency as well he
could save up enough to lend £13,000 or
£14,000 at 5 p.c. to a newspaper, and turn
gentleman-farmer, with a show place on
the Hawkesbury and prize stock. Many a
time Mr. Lang must have wished that he
could quit Garden and Graves, give up
reading polysyllabic speeches and putting
his name to articles which wordspinners
have prepared for him, drop Plan-making
for ever and go back to. the good old bor-
rowing policy; but he can't.
“SETTLING” THE TERRITORY.
Perkins, the Minister for the Interior, has
been to Alice Springs, and is almost as
enthusiastic about that lonely district as his
predecessor, Parkhill, was about the North-
ern Territory. He inherits from Parkhill a
determination to settle the NT. and its
Centralian offshoot, to which ambition they
are both the heirs of a long line of silver-
tongued but impractical optimists.
The South Aus. Government wanted to
make the region blossom before Parkhill or
Perkins was born, and sold it to the Com-
monwealth for a mess of promises. The early
Commonwealth Labor Ministries left behind
them, as pledges of their earnestness about
it, a fine crop of turbulent unemployed, the
name “Batchelor,” written on a board which
stands amid the long grass of a deserted
experimental farm, and a legend about a
pumpkin which cost £BOOO to grow. The
pumpkin w r as stolen en route to Melbourne,
where it was to be shown to an eagerly-
waiting House of Reps.
After the war, Hughes, when his Darwin
Administrator was sent home c.0.d., and the
“Red Flag” had been sung to a visiting
Minister, declared that he would go
through the North like the wrath of God.
He left it on Pearce’s hands. Pearce, in his
best manner, turned the whole thing over to
a clerk in the Home and Territories Depart-
ment, who worked out for him a delightful
plan under which the Northern-Central
population had six different Governments,
one for each department, and each lodged
in a different State capital. There was an-
other Administrator, but. as he had had 40
years of Northern experience, his functions
were naturally confined to writing reports,
cleaning his Martini in preparation for de-
portation raids and chasing off the unwashed
who came to spit on his verandah.
That Administrator retired broken-
hearted. The Government, with the aid
of complicated legislation, replaced him by
two Administrators, and also created a
developmental commission, which, with its
staff, added one to every 350 of the white
population. T,lie commission died of cob-
web strangulation. While it operated the
Territory acquired 5.000.000 pages of new
minutes, two abortive railways and several
measured tons of buffalo flies.
The hovering British capitalist who had
been offering earnestly to put a few mil-
lions into the pastoral industry on the.
Barkly Tableland had by now been choked
off with indeterminate land laws and re-
sumption conditions and all-too-determinatc
taxation. The Darwin wharf, in spite of a
report upon it by the Public Works Com-
mittee of the national Parliament which
cost 4 per cent, of the year’s export revenue
to print, continued to have a right-angled
bend in the middle which doubled the cost
of wharf-laboring and drove away most of
the shipping callers. The production of
half-castes and Communists, however, was
increasing, likewise that of Chinamen, who,
in Darwin and Eumungalan, outnumber the
whites by three to one.
Park hi 11, who scarcely knows a brigalow
from a brolga, soon afterwards arrived with
the millennium in his pockets. He careered
through his new kingdom at the rate of
150 miles a day and uttered appropriate
words of adulation; then he passed the buck
to Perkins, who is now busy saving the half-
castes, “gathering information” to en-
courage the £15,000,000 syndicate which
proposes to build the Bourke-Birdum rail-
way when it gets its millions, and arrang-
ing to deposit 100 families and a year’s
rations for them in Arnhem Land, where
they are to increase and multiply.
Whether Perkins knows exactly where
Arnhem Land is or what it is like is a moot
point. It is an area about the size of
Victoria, inhabited rurally by the hardier
type of buffalo-shooter, the tougher breed
of peanut-growers and missionaries and very
small cattlemen and blacks. Before Perkins
sends his families to it he should, in
common fairness, explain to them what
lias happened to investors and settlers in
the more accessible and cultivable parts
which he rules.
Vesteys, for example. Industrial labor
played the leech with Vesteys till they
were drained dry, and when they ceased
killing operations their works, the most up-
to-date anywhere in the tropics, were burnt
down. Vesteys, in common with other
large landholders—most of whom hang on
to Territory lands because they cannot get
out—have been harassed with ever-
shifting tenures and obligations, ever-chang-
ing taxation and continuous neglect. That
they are prepared even now. in the face
of their years of unprofitable travail, to
improve their holdings and restock them,
and possibly tb rebuild their works and
start the direct shipment of meat to
London, speaks volumes for their opinion
of the North; but they can scarcely be ex-
pected to do it unless'they arc offered such
conditions as will stabilise their future —
long-term conditions, which could best be
formulated by Territorians, since they know
the land they live in and have just as
much right to self-government as any other
part of Australia.
About the plight in which the 100 group
settlers are likely to find themselves, Nelson,
the N.T.’s voteless member, spoke in the
House of Reps, the other day. He pointed
out that, while most Queensland cattle-
raisers have direct communication with the
east coast, Territorians must drove their
stock about; 800 miles before they can
truck it (at £3 per head) to southern
markets. He gave instances of people who.
after struggling for year’s, were being sold
up by Darwin bureaucrats for loans ranging
from £lO to £4O. and mentioned a peanut-
grower whose modest crop of 41011 b. cost
£5l 7s. 3d. to market through a Govern-
ment department.
Nobody in authority seemed to have any
reply to Nelson’s charges. The Minister was
too busily engaged in “encouraging
Northern settlement.”
AND NOW IT’S MELBOURNE!
I like Melbourne, especially at night, when
the Neon lights turn it into an enchanted
city; and I like its people, who are keen,
alert, jolly and so hospitable that the
proverbial Melbourne host is the man who
threw all his guests’ motor-keys into a pond
in order to prolong their visit. But Mel-
bourne as a city, as a sort of official entity
with a separate existence apart from its
multifarious individualities, is something I
have never been able to take to my bosom
comfortably. For one thing, I think it is
not the real Melbourne, but only a fiction
invented by some of its dullest but not least
influential citizens. It is this fiction which
is most in evidence now that the city is
preparing to celebrate its centenary.
The preparations have been under weigh
for some 12 months, but nothing very con-
crete has been vouchsafed, except confec-
tioner Macßobertson’s £115,000 for a new
bridge, educational facilities and an air-race
prize. Suburban councils have pushed their
barrows with proposals for money to be
expended on beautification schemes, such
a-; Ihe Yarra Boulevard, the creation of
' artificial lakes, the planting up of parks, and
even such utilitarian devices as road-making
schemes; and a women’s committee pro-
poses an Empire knitting competition to
advertise the wool industry. John Citizen
has rushed into the vacuum with schemes
of his own. which vary only in the degree
of their absurdity. These include the
roofing-over of the Jolimont railway yards,
the raising of a gigantic mound of earth
in the Domain and the erection of a steel
tower 500 feet high, in Hobson’s Bay. In the
field of sport there are to be a Centenary
Boatrace, a Centenary Melbourne Cup and
a Centenary Henley Regatta. They will
have the merit of costing the citizens noth-
ing, since they would have occurred in any
case. We are also to have a Centenary
Agricultural Show.
As regards the cultural aspect of the cen-
tenary, almost complete silence reigns.
Chess-players, stamp-collectors and others
propose to hold their annual conferences in
Melbourne with centenary pomp, but these
activities are hardly such as will turn the
eyes of the world towards the Queen City
of the South. The literary side of the
centenary may be dismissed with a regret-
ful shrug. Melbourne playwrights may
have planned a great dramatic festival in
which they will compete for the bays with
works full of wit, irony and subtle analysis
of the contemporary scene; if they have,
they have kept their secret well.
If we turn for light and leading to the
most portentous symbol of the city’s cul-
ture, the University, we find—what? Pro-
fessors with the same prejudices as the man
in the street. Economists who write cock-
sure articles for daily newspapers. The Uni-
versity had better be left out of the cen-
tenary. Melbourne has a musical reputa-
tion, but it is entirely based on the public
adulation of interpretative artists. George
English conducted a fine symphony of his
own composition before a small audience
while Philip Hargrave was playing familiar
Old Masters before an enormous crowd.
The papers printed columns of praise of the
child, and dismissed English’s work in a
few guarded lines. Melbourne’s painters
are in the doldrums. The old leaders of
orthodoxy have ceased to inspire; the break-
away of the modernists is a timid emulation
of a movement which is 30 years out of
date in Europe; the Meldrum school, which
is the only indigenous art movement show-
ing courage and originality, has been treated
to 20 years of scorn and contumely. An
art exhibition has been proposed. It, is to
he hoped that there will be no selection com-
mittee to reopen old sores and start fresh
wrangles that may spoil Melbourne’s orgy
of birthday self-satisfaction.
Melbourne, in short, is a very ordinary
product of modern industrialism, with
slums, limousines and American picture
palaces all complete. There are hundreds of
places like it in Europe and America. Our
committee hopes that “men whom the world
has honored for the brilliance of their achieve-
ments will grace the centenary celebrations
with their presence.” It is understandable
that a city which hitherto has failed to
honor those of its own sons who display
elements of greatness should want to grovel
at the feet of imported greatness. The
frankest exposition of the committee’s aims
yet published is the statement that “should
50.000 persons come to Melbourne for four
weeks, each spending £25 a week, there would
be £5.000,000 in the pockets of citizens.”
Svdney has beer and natural beauty to
offer; Melbourne, beer.
M.G.S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Bulletin” in a New Dress.
The Bulletin is no more exempt than other
newspapers from the complaints of readers.
The commonest of these relate to the type
hitherto employed. Many an aggrieved
subscriber has asked. “Why do you use that
eye-wrecking print?” “I prefer the Red
Page to any other, but I can’t read it; I
have to get it read to me.” The general
manager of a great Australian company
said that.
For this grumbling there was only too
much warrant, but The Bulletin expects
that there will be no more of it after the
current week. The next issue and future
issues will be printed in the type designed
by the London “Times” after consultation
with the best authorities, among them a
leading ophthalmic surgeon. It is in two
sizes, 7 and 9 point. Most of The
Bulletin will be printed in 9 point, a photo,
reproduction of which was given on April
26. It will, of course, take up more space
than the type now to be discarded, but the
reader will not get less for his sixpence; he
will get more.
Next week’s Bulletin will consist of 48
pages. There will be an insurance supple-
ment; and other features will be added
from ’time to time, while existing sections
inav be expanded. It is intended,_ for ex-
ample, to publish more short stories than
have been included during the past few
years.
In bad times and good The Bulletin
has received steady support from the Aus-
tralian people, but it recognises that no
newspaper can afford to stand still. Among
the hopes it cherishes are that it may make
a stronger appeal to youth, in whose hands
the future of our nation lies.
The Bulletin in its new dress will rep-
resent a great advance in typography. For
enabling Australians to share in this ad-
vance it warmly thanks the proprietors oi
the “Times.”


Trials of a President.
When Franklin T. Roosevelt took office the
U.S.A. was, in his own words, “dying by
inches.” Exports were shrinking to noth-
ing ; but after gold exports had been stopped
and there had been a national banking holi-
day, the internal debt was the most pressing
matter. Bonded internal liabilities alone
incurred during the years 1926-29 amounted
to 32,000,000,000 dollars—this apart from
untold millions of unbonded debts and
time-payment obligations. The national
income fell from 84,000,000,000 dollars in
1929 to 35,000,000,000 dollars in 1932.
Roosevelt’s main remedy was a vast
scheme of Government backing for indus-
try, and old debts were to be paid by
“raising commodity prices to such an ex-
tent that those who have borrowed
money will on the average be able to repay
in the same kind of dollar which they bor-
rowed.” To this end he tacked a clause
on to his Farm Relief Bill, which
gave him authority to mint dollars with
50 p.c. of their existing gold content and
issue 3,000,000,000 dollars in new currency.
Immediately he learnt what inflation meant.
Speculators, debtors and politicians cele-
brated the passing of the revaluation clause
with a riot of commodity-stock buying,
driving share prices to boom levels. They
have forced the country off the gold
standard. They have harried Roosevelt
himself to reverse his attitude to the World
Economic Conference. This he has virtu-
ally abandoned to its fate, after previously
giving it his strong support and declaring,
at a moment when it was evident that
currency stabilisation must be one of its
functions, that “ft must succeed.”
As a result of his defection, the gold
countries of Europe are clinging together in
disconsolate solitude; the Old Lady of
Threadneedle-street has had to be called
in to support a fainting, franc; Roosevelt’s
rosy hopes of tariff agreements have van-
ished into thin air ; the dollar has slid within
a month from 4 to the sterling £ to 4.60
to the sterling £, and Ramsay MacDonald
has had a lesson which should cure him of
his penchant for international conferences.
The whole American situation illustrates
for Australia how the forces of greed, specu-
lation and insecurity are loosed by cur-
rency artificially expanding in political
hands.
4
Another Coaster Missing.
Four years ago the collier Annie M. Miller
foundered off the N. S. Wales coast, and
six men went to the bottom with her. Now
the collier Christina Fraser has been lost
with 17 hands. The vessels were owned by
the same concern. In neither case was there
a wireless outfit on board.
The Annie M. Miller sank only a mile
off the Sydney Heads. Had even a faint
SOS signal been sent out when she got into
difficulties the Captain Cook could have
been on the spot in a few minutes. And
no competent skipper would have tried to
round Gabo when the Christina Fraser did
had his ship been in a position to pick up
weather reports. Armed with information of
what the weather was like, Captain John
Queen could have run for shelter into Two-
fold Bay.
Captain Queen was one of the ablest
masters on the coast; sail-trained, with a
wide knowledge of the vagaries of coastal
weather. He held an exempt pilotage cer-
tificate for Melbourne. On the one previous
voyage he had made to Melbourne on the
vessel, he struck bad weather at the same
place, and put into Twofold Bay rather
than risk rounding Gabo in the prevailing
gale. For Captain Queen knew that off that
corner can be encountered one of the worst
and most dangerous seas on the waters of
the globe.
The Christina Fraser was bound from
Bulli to Melbourne; the Annie M. Miller
from Bulli to Sydney—a mere 50 sea miles.
The Court of Marine Inquiry reported
that the Annie M. Miller had left Bulli
“with a decided list to port,” which, in its
opinion, was “caused by the improper load-
ing of the vessel, the coal not being
properly trimmed” In effect, “the vessel
was overloaded by at least 30 tons dead-
weight,” and... .“there were no tarpaulins
to prevent water finding its way into the
hold.” In the Court’s opinion, “had it not
been for the improper loading, the over-
loading and the failure to fix tarpaulins over
the hatches, the ship would have arrived
safely at her destination.”
Were the owners of the Annie M. Miller
responsible? No; the Court found that “no
blame can be attributed to the owners.”
Nor was there any legal obligation on the
part of the owners to equip the Christina
Fraser with wireless. In Australia vessels of
under 1600 tons are permitted to go to sea
without wireless equipment. Yet installation
of an effective outfit is not expensive. There
is no need to carry a special operator; the
work could and should be done by the
master and officers: it is done to-day in
German, American and Maoriland ships,
and in some of the trawlers which fish off
the Australian coast. Australian navigation
law not only allows vessels to go to sea
without wireless; any vessel may legally go
out in any weather without her hatches on.
A board has been appointed to consider
the question of wireless on small ships.
No doubt the case of the Christina Fraser
will be dealt with by the Court of Marine
Inquiry. On that subject The Bulletin
will in good time have something more to
say.
4
Five-year Parliaments.
Butler, Premier of South Australia, says
he is going to introduce five-year Parlia-
ments, and asserts that he has a mandate
to do it. He has no mandate. The proposal
was mentioned only incidentally during the
election campaign, and there was no major-
ity of electors for it. Butler’s party won
most of the seats, but it did not poll most
of the votes. Had S. Aus. Labor remained
united (it split into three absurd factions)
and passed a fair redistribution-of-seats
measure, Butler would still be leading the
Opposition.
The South Aus. Premier would be better
occupied in looking for a way of guarantee-
ing that Australian Parliaments will live for
three years, a term which is too long foi
most of them. The Commonwealth has had
13 general elections inside 32 years. The
last four took place within six years (there
was one in 1928, another in 1929, and
another in 1931), and it is possible that the
present House of Reps, will not live through
its normal period. South Aus. itself has
had 27 Parliaments in 66 years. Certainly
in the last decade elections have taken place
there only at three-year intervals, but the
State Legislature is drifting towards the
sort of confusion and factional rule exem-
plified for so many years in N. S. Wales.
South Aus. might conceivably be better
off with five-year Parliaments. But no
Government has a right to extend the term
without the sanction of the people voting
on the definite issue, preferably at a refer-
endum.
4
Stevens oil Suppression.
The expressed determination of N. S.
Wales Premier Stevens to pass a Bill to
“cope with the position created by the
of disloyalty and attempts to
do disloyal things” shows how incurably
optimistic our politicians are in these matters.
W. M. Hughes tried the same thing without
success, and the laughter which followed
Lyons’s attempts to suppress the Reds
last year is still ringing round the Com-
munist world. ,
If these politicians knew anything about
the movements which they wish to destroy,
they would know that suppression is the
worst kind of medicine, since it merely
drives the poison out of sight. The bodies
which openly preach violent revolution are
harmless. Even the founder of modern Aus-
tralian Communism, the only man in the
country who has been dignified with a seat
on the council of the Communist mighty—
the Ecci—long ago admitted that political
power can be obtained by Australian
wreckers only through first Bolshevising a
victorious Labor party.
Lenin did not take Russia from the
Czar by force. He let a gradualist social
democratic Government of the Lang
type get into the saddle, corrupted the
party behind it, bundled out the faint-
hearted and took over those who, left
leaderless, were willing to follow him.
Trotsky was not a member of the Com-
munist party before the Leninist revolu-
tion of October, 1917. As head of the
Petrograd provincial Government he held
a position analogous to that of Lang in
N. S. Wales. Nominally, he was a gradu-
alist. Actually, his Soviet had long been
captured by the Bolshevists, just as N. S.
Wales Labor has been captured by the
Gardens. When Lenin asserted his suprem-
acy, Trotsky did exactly what Lang did in
1927—went over to the victors, shared their
spoils and was used by them until Stalin
broke him. Stalin said of him after his
exile, that “Trotsky was never a true Com-
munist.” Perhaps, one day, somebody will
say the same of Lang.
The Federal Crimes Act is about as severe
a piece of legislation as a hardened bureau-
crat could devise for its purpose. It has
not suppressed treason nor shut up a single
dangerous institution. All it has done has
been to drive white ants deeply under-
ground, and to give occasion for the forma-
tion of more and more disguised Com-
munist bodies. One of the most dangerous
set itself up within a few hundred yards of
the Commonwealth Government’s chief in-
telligence centre.
4
The Radio Future.
Owners of radio sets throughout Australia
should take particular interest in negotia-
tions now in progress between the Com-
monwealth Government, as holder of
patent rights, and the trade. The system
by which the Government compensates
Amalgamated Wireless for the use of that
company’s patents by payment of a fixed
rate deducted from the annual license fee
expires in March. After that the right to
use patents in sets will be matter for
arrangement between holders and manufac-
turers. Some holders have tentatively sug-
gested • charges which manufacturers and
others in the trade regard as excessive, and
since any extra cost is sure to be passed
on the ultimate purchaser is concerned.
The object of those now approaching the
Government is amalgamation of all the
interests. It is proposed to ask the national
authority to create by statute a patents
pool, representative of holders and of the
trade in all its branches, and to set up a
board with an independent chairman. The
chief functions of the board would be to
consider and assess the rights of all claim-
ing to share in the pool. Mutual agreement
as to the cost of utilising patents by manu-
facturers would put prices in the trade on a
fixed basis, with consequent security for
the listener-in.
The veiy able Royal Commissioner who
inquired into the operations of the Per-
forming Rights Association recommended
that a tribunal should be established to de-
termine disputes on the question of copy-
right between parties at conflict with the
A.P.R.A. and that organisation. It seems
certain that the Federal authorities will act
on this recommendation. If they do it
is only reasonable to expect that they will
extend it to radio, since much the same
principles are involved, and the citizen’s
pocket is affected.
4
Sydney Revisited.
Dear Bulletin, —Contrary to “Exile’s” ex-
perience (B. 28/6/’33), a return to Sydney
filled me with unpretentious admiration for
its people. A night walk through the city
convinced me that they must have nerves
of steel to survive the lighting. Hyde
Park has hundreds of St. Elmo’s fires which
have been captured on the tops of short,
skinny columns just high enough to
stun the eye. When I reached the
Archibald Memorial I was unable to see
anything for half a minute owing to these
balls of fire. St. Mary’s is also rendered in-
visible by the presence of a naked light of
several million candle-power.
Sydney’s love of bright lights is only
equalled by its passion for concrete. At
Bondi the remaining sand is rapidly being
covered by this uninteresting material, and
the mixers were still at work, so presumably
the breakers are to be concreted and the
Pacific turned into a foundation for a scenic
railway.
The evidences of Sydney’s energy are so
terrific that one wonders it has any time
for pleasure; and yet one could easily con-
clude that its sole object in life was to be
entertained. The number of rectangular
brick boxes called residential flats suggests
titanic energy, but the style of architecture
suggests that the energy might be tempered
by contemplation, not to mention self-
respect. It is all very well to be in a hurry,
but if all you are hurrying after is dull
American ideas the result is likely to be
a distressing uniformity of ugliness.
Sydney’s builders could usefully suspend
their study of American architectural
magazines and contemplate Elizabeth Bay
House. One could lead a life of dignity
and' calm in a house as beautiful as that —its
library alone would be the public pride of
a city as large as Bendigo. And up the
North Shore line ideals of domestic beauty
are struggling into prominence. To brave
the noisy horrors of the Underground, the
equally uproarious passage of the Bridge,
and to disembark at a station and plunge
into the restful, mist-filled hollows of a
typical Sydney suburb, amongst the gums,
the coral trees just beginning to thrust
out their queer scarlet starfish blooms, and
the entrancingly original gardens of semi-
tropical growth, is to realise that there is
another side to Sydney’s reputation of being
a slovenly beach and movie sybarite.
The Bridge didn’t impress me, except as
an obstacle to the 20,000-tonner I was on,
whose masts appeared to be twice as high as
the edifice until the exact second when
they slipped easily under it; though, under
certain effects of the evening light, it would
be expected to inspire Sydney’s painters
as Battersea Bridge inspired Whistler. Why
it doesn’t is explained by a visit to the
National Gallery. Sydney’s painters seem
to have been blinded by the artificial light
of sundry English Royal Academicians.
They don’t seem yet to have seen their
own city and its environs with that unpreju-
diced eye which alone can create great art;
but no doubt that will come.
“Exile” got some definite impressions of
Sydney, but I didn’t. I was too busy dodg-
ing cars. The pedestrian in Sydney is con-
sidered of no account. For the information
of Melbourne visitors there was a notice on
the wharf warning us not to converse with
friendly strangers, so I conversed with all
the friendly strangers I met. None of them
did me any harm, and their love of their
great, sprawling, battling, amorphous met-
ropolis was a joy to contemplate. Love can
be a constructive emotion, whereas hate
can never be.—Yours etc., Temporary Mel-
burnian.
Bear Beer.
In the Budget he introduced at the end of
April the Chancellor of the Exchequer
announced a reduction of 245. per barrel in
the duty on British beer. He said that
“taxation in this case” had “passed the
limit; so beer will be charged at the rate
of 245. per bulk barrel.” In effect,
“the retail price will be reduced by a
penny a pint, quality will improve and a
larger proportion of the barley required
will be bought from British sources.” On
the basis of consumption for 1932-33 he
estimated the loss of revenue at £14,000,000.
In the House of Representatives a few
weeks later, Riley, the member for Cook
(N.S.W.), suggested a reduction in the Aus-
tralian duty on beer, which is 2s. a gallon.
“The Commonwealth,” he said, “gets 3d.
of every 6d. spent on beer, and a cut to
Is. 6d. a gallon would enable - beer to be
bought for 3d. a glass, a privilege which
the workers have not enjoyed since pre-
war days.” Riley’s figures may be a bit
rocky, but his main contention is sound.
Nor was the Minister of Customs happy
in answering it.
The Minister acknowledged that con-
sumption of beer had fallen from 71.160,000
gallons in 1928-29 to 47,668,000 gallons in
1931-32, and revenue from £6,191,200 to
£4,770,000. He admitted having been in-
formed that the duty represents 70 per
cent, of the brewers’ price to the publican,
and that the sugar and bottle-making in-
dustries, to mention only two, were feel-
ing the effects of the great decline in
consumption, but pleaded that if. the ex-
cise rate were reduced to Is. 6d. a gallon
33 1-3 per cent, more beer would have to
be drunk to make up the loss of revenue.
He wound up by saying that a stronger case
would have to be presented before a cut
would be sanctioned.
Surely the case is _ strong enough.
Draught beer is 9d. a pint in front bars
(lOd. in saloon bars), even in Sydney; and
it is an outrageous price. To maintain the
duty at 2s. a gallon when a hard-pressed
British Chancellor of the Exchequer has so
greatly reduced his impost (in _ 1922 it was
100 s. per standard barrel), being satisfied
that “taxation has passed the limit,” is a
stiff-necked exercise of authority which is
defeating the object aimed at. Witness the
staggering fall in revenue. “Temperance”
drinks are not taxed (incidentally, malted
milk, which used to be 9d. a glass in Sydney,
can now be got for fourpence), and why
should working men be plundered because
they prefer beer?
Australia is still in bondage to war-time
ideas about the nefariousness of beer and of
public-houses from which other English-
speaking countries are freeing themselves.
The Tasmanian Government, concerned for
the Speck’s tourist trade, which is menaced
by the competition of floating hotels, pro-
poses to let the electors decide whether bars
should be closed at 6 p.m., as at present, or
at 10 p.m. It is a step, though a timid
one, towards liberating some of the people
from one of these stupid restraints.
4
Sunlight Butter.
British butter merchants will not give as
high a price for Australian butter as they
give for Continental or Maoriland butter.
The Briton prefers the taste of Danish or
even Russian butter to' that from the Com-
monwealth. But there is another and a
far better reason than mere idiosyncrasy
in palate why Australian butter should not
merely start level but be preferred to the
products of the foggy north. Sir Arbuth-
not Lane, president of the New Health
Society, repeatedly stresses it.
Our butter is the product of sunshine.
Our cows live in the full light; our grasses
develop and flourish under the brightness
of blue skies. This is no mere sentimental
bunk; the sunlight is a material asset and,
if properly exploited by Australian publicity
men, is calculated to place the price of
our butter above that of Danish.
Sunlight dredging the grasses and the
cows during their whole existence means
that the butter they produce is rich to
saturation-point in the vitamins which are
essential to human health. A pound oi
Australian butter may not suit the British
taste as a pound of Danish butter does, but;
scientific investigators will say that it con-
tains a much greater content of the vita-
mins which make for body-building.
While the search for a butter which wilt
appeal to the 'English palate should not be
relaxed here, the more important point of
the excess food value of the Australian
product should be pushed before the
British consumer with all the energy for
which Australia House is so famous.
4
A Magna Charta Association.
Dear Bulletin, —I am glad to see that a
Magna Charta Association is being formed
in the N.S.W. schools, and hope that it will
result in that ancient document being read
by somebody. This clause, for example 1 .
“To no man will we sell, to no man deny;
to no man delay, justice or right.” It hal
an ironical significance to anyone who has
tried to get justice or right from an Aus-
tralian Government department.
“Nor will we proceed against a freeman
nor condemn him but by lawful judgment
of his peers or by the law of the land.” This
doesn’t go far enough. It should carry on:
“Or by rules and regulations framed by
clerks in the civil service and never even
considered by Parliament, or by the rules
of industrial unions or of various other
associations to which the freeman must sub-
scribe or starve.” Hollow also is the famous
promise to take none but the ancient aids
except by the common consent of the realm.
During the last 12 months I have had to
pay the following imposts, amongst others,
to which I never assented: Federal land tax
and income tax, State income tax, family-
endowment tax, unemployed-relief tax, shire
tax, municipal tax, Pastures Protection
Board tax, Water Board tax, car tax, dog
tax and stamp tax, besides a host of
irritating charges imposed by boards and
departments, none of which can be found
in any Act of Parliament.
Perhaps the Magna Charta Association
has started too late. —Yours etc., Fitz-
WILLIAM.


CRAYEN'Xi
IN THEIR WRAPPER OF MOISTURE-PROOF
„'CELLOPHANE '(rego)
10p9*
lOTimlfc
50,.3'9
Qhe
whan you open the packing
CRAVEN A
made specially to prevent sore throats
CORK -TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
ẁ
- MADE BY CARRERAS LTD.
. . • 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION
FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth surplus for the year
was £3.545,000. Assistant-Treasurer Massy
Greene finds the fadt that revenue exceeded
the estimate by £7,526,000, or about 11 per
cent., "most gratifying.” Taxpayers will not
see so much merit in a credit balance in
which the main factor was the collection of
iiu unexpected fivo millions in customs duties
on imports bought on an unfavorable ex-
change market.
The Bulli by-election has produced the
biggest batch of political writs since the
days of T. .1. Ryan. The latest has been
issued by Willis against Lang; damages
claimed are £20,000.
Tas. revenue for the year showed an in-
crease of over £BB,OOO. McPhee anticipates
that he will reduce his deficit from the esti-
mated £124,000 to £lOO,OOO. He anticipates
also that he will see out the depression in
the Premiership. He is the only 1929
Premier whom it hasn’t toppled from his
place.
Government defeats in Parliament are be-
coming frequent. It matters little when an
Administration is worsted in the Senate, as
lus happened again and again during the
tariff debate, but it is bad for a Government
like Argyle’s (V’ic.) to be licked in the popu-
lar House. It was outvoted after an all-
night sitting when it tried to re-enact tem-
porarily increased school fees in the Finan-
cial Emergency Continuation Bill. Two C.P.
Ministers voted with the Government; the
rest of the Cookies were Noes. It is a
serious omen for the future of the Coali-
tion. which would have no margin if bereft
of rural support.
Idle Argyle crowd’s failure to provide for
the balancing of the Vic. budget in 1933-34
moved H’og.au, now an Independent Laborite,
to accuse it of manufacturing excuses for
not adhering to the three-year plan arranged
in 1931. Never a friend of the public ser-
vice. Hogan had to restrain himself from
snapping at it while he was Labor Premier.
He now complains that the average reduc-
tion of their pay is 16 p.c. instead of 20 p.c.
There _ arc very few public servants in
Hogan’s electorate.
Argyle caught a chill in Sydney and was
away when his Government was beaten on
the school-fees issue. It will, of course, be
possible for him to introduce a separate bill
to continue the fees, and to show, as he may,
that the principal objectors to the higher
rates are well-to-do parents intent on saving
£6 a year per pupil; but meantime tin;
Cabinet has lost prestige. Perhaps, however,
the Premier is not wholly regretful at the
incident. It may teach Menzies that leader-
ship requires tactful handling of men as
well as brilliance,
"The things that mast impress American visitors
to and inquirers about Australia are ‘those cute little
hears.'"
"Ain’t he cute? And they say he's Prime
Minister.”
1 lie assertion of F. W. Mole, Queensland’s
retiring Public Curator, that his job was
one long light against political interference
is denied by Johnny Mullan, the lay Attor-
ney-Gmeral. Mole did not refer to the
former Charters Towers ex-postman in par-
ticular, but Johnny has taken the trodden-
on coat-tail as his. In his wild whirroo he
covered every possible aspect of the affair.
Queensland Senator Mut Reid startled Can-
berra at the week-end by asserting that an im-
porter had had to bribe someone in the Cus-
toms to obtain the same concession as a
competitor—admission of dutiable goods
duty-free. He mentioned no names, and
said that it had happened under the pre-
vious Administration. Dooley, who was a
member of that Administration, asked for
an inquiry, and White, the Minister,
announced that one would be launched as
soon as Reid supplied particulars. Whether
it comes off or not, the public should be
told the extent to which free admission of
dutiable goods goes on. Senator Brennan
put it pithily : “If that system doesn’t lead
to corruption it is because Australians are a
nation of sea-green incorruptiblcs.”
“Minister Perkins received several deputations
while visiting Central Australia.”
“‘Gibbit, gibbit, gibbit.’ Somehow it seems
just like home.”
When there is a position vacant in a
Government department, Digger Billjim has
a better chance in South Australia than
elsewhere. The Central State has steadfastly
practised the preference principle; its Rail-
way Department reports with just pride
that 8526 returned soldiers other than
returned railway employees had been engaged
to the end of the 1932 financial year. The
N.S.W. Public Service Board has another
good record ; it mentions in its report for the
same year that it has been “able to extend
an immense amount of help to returned sol-
diers and sailors by giving them preference
in accordance with the act.” This is more
than Stevens can say. In the making of
high appointments Stevens and Weaver have
ignored soldier-preference, which was sup-
posed to be their policy.
Without intending it, the young lions
who formed a Lang Labor Club have added
to the gaiety of life at the Sydney Uni.
Lang’s newspaper placed a column at their
disposal, and in it professors and under-
grads. who did not admit that Lang was
Right were informed that they were meaner
than the dust. The aspersed parties got a
bit of their own back when two pillars of
the Labor Club were inveigled by the Inner
Group into standing for hopeless constitu-
encies, and were defeated by about the great-
est majorities recorded at the election. Now
one of the founders of the club has been ex-
pelled by the Inner Group for siding with
Willis in the Bulli hullabaloo; and “the
position is to be considered.”
Tunnecliffe had prepared a dragnet no-
confidence amendment to the address-in-
reply in Vic. Assembly, but the Argyles
went on with their bill for the continuance
of the financial-emergency legislation passed
last year, and got it passed. Twitted with
being in a hurry, Menzies explained that if
the bill was not passed by July 14 civil ser-
vants would be entitled to draw pay for the
first fortnight at the old rates and it would
be awkward to collect the deductions later.
By forcing test votes on clauses in com-
mittee Tunnecliffe’s Labor group secured ver-
dicts (adverse) on all the points embodied
in his no-confidence amendment. So, unless
Tunney is out to waste time, he ought to
drop his challenge.
In a month or two 60 or more persons
will be voted out of the N.S.W. Leg.
Council, to which most of them should never
have been appointed. It is suspected that
the Stevens Government proposes to let them
keep their gold passes, which are good for
free travelling over the Government rail-
ways and tramways of all Australia; and
U.A.P. branches are beginning to enter pro-
tests. It is to be hoped that they all will.
The Bavin Government, it is argued, pro-
mised not to call in the gold passes; but it
did so before 50 of the present nominee
legislators were appointed, and, of course,
without foreknowledge of the scandalous
vote on Lang’s Mortgages Taxation Bill,
when, amidst scenes more appropriate to a
sly-grog joint than a deliberative assembly,
wholesale political piracy was sanctioned.
In any case, the Bavin Government had no
right to billet a horde of deadheads on the
taxpayers for the term of their natural lives.
After a twelvemonth of Lang the N.S.W.
Auditor-General reported a deficit of
£13,253,300. Stevens’s deficit was £4,127,700,
and it has been raining congratulations.
But at the commercials’ dinner in Sydney
on Saturday night the little Premier spoke
of ,“an abnormal increase in public revenues
of £6,000,000, in spite of heavy reductions
in taxation and charges for public services”
and the enthusiasm has waned a bit. There
have been cuts in railway and tramway
charges, and there, ought to be more; but
people who pay income, unemployed-relief
and family-endowment taxes are not con-
scious of the “heavy” reductions mentioned.
They hope there will be more substance about
the relief promised for the current twelve-
month.
The first 11 months of the financial year
showed a favorable Australian trade balance
of £38,519,000 sterling, the figure for the
period in the previous year having been
£37,092,000 sterling. Exports, valued at
£114,896,000 Australian —an increase of 1J
per cent. —included, however. £22,000,000 in
bullion and specie, about half of which was
accounted for by- exports of gold held in tin;
Notes Reserve Fund. As imports, worth
about £66,000,000 Australian, increased 31
per cent, over last year there has been a
serious drift. The balance is £9,590,000 Aus-
tralian lower than in 1931-32; and this
can’t go on.
As a rule, (lie Freetrader or mil-sitter
who attacks the tariff generalises in his
assaults. On the rare occasions when he
particularises he holds up some distinctly
protective duty as a horrible example of the
increase in the cost of living. The truth, as
Minister White admitted at Caulfield (Vic.)
last week, is that there are “more non-protec-
tivc revenue-producing items in the tariff
than protective ones” ; and such “items” are
valueless in developing Australian industries.
The Lyons tariff has a bar sinister on it.
It does not permit freedom of trade; neither
does it protect adequately.
McKellar White, president of the N.S.W.
Taxpayers’ Association, made a resounding
attack on Lyons’s land tax when the Federal
Taxation Committee met, in Sydney. He
said it was a serious commentary on our
sySteni of government that three distinct
authorities had been created to provide laud
valuations-—municipal valuers, State valuers,
Commonwealth valuers. The FedeUal land
tax has become a levy on capital. it;
has extorted £lO,OOO from one Queenslander
in three years; his net income from land
from the period was 4/6 a week. In the
Riverina it is not unusual for the Common-
wealth’s impost to eat up 50 per cent, of
♦he wool cheque.
“A deputation, from tire ‘lnternational Labor
Defence’ asked the N.S.W. Government to make
Bolshie political prisoners more comfortable.”
“Your mornin’ vodka, sir?”
Australia gets a lot of unsolicited advice
from clergymen. The Dean of Canterbury
proposes that we should hand over North
Australia to the Japanese just to show our.
goodwill. The Japanese might prefer a bit
of country near Canterbury. There is a
coalfield not far away, and they need coal;
then they could build a tin town —like “Yoko-
hama” iat Thursday Island —alongside St.
Augustine’s ancient shrine and have tea at
the Deanery on Sunday afternoons. Now
Archbishop Duhig, of Queensland, advocates
returning what wias German New Guinea to
the Germans, conditionally on their “con-
tributing adequate ships and men to Aus-
tralia’s defence” ; . they have the smallest
navy in the world and no air force. Another
item reports a Vatican concordat with the
Nazis by virtue of which the German priest-
hood agrees to leave politics alone. Per-
haps Australia needs concordats with the
Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Bill Angwin, back from a six years’
sojourn in London as Westralia’s Agent-
General, in his first address in Perth left no
doubt about one of the malign influences he
had to contend with.
For nearly two years Australia’s name could
hardly be mentioned in England, the reason being
Mr. Lang.
Also, something that William had to say
about wheat prices was exactly on the lines
of some recent Bulletin comments: —
He had never been able to rid himself of the
suspicion that as the exchange went up tlie price
of Australian wheat went down, although Canadian
wheat went up.
Another bullet for the experts to chew.
“U.S.A. Adapts Lang Plan.” —Labor paper.
“Say, bo, do I look like that?”
Steveus’s programme for the coming ses-
sion of N.S.W. Parliament is ampler than
those of other State Governments, most of
which arc content to steer existing legisla-
tion rather than invent new bills. He pro-
mises an all-round reduction in taxation,
together with metropolitan transport re-
form, a Greater Newcastle scheme, a bill to
protect clients against defaulting solicitors,
one to “suppress” Reds, amendments to
Western Lands, P.P. Boards and fertiliser
legislation, and measures to co-ordinate
charitable collections, make the police inde-
pendent of politicians, protect infants and
provide more and more work for more and
more accountants. It looks as if what the
Lang paper calls the “astonishing spectacle”
of Lang being gagged will be frequent in the
next three months.
The latest difficulty that lias arisen over
Melbourne’s centenary concerns the pronun-
ciation of the word. Mcßae, the Director of
Education, says it should be “cm-ten-ary”:
the A.B.G. has declared for “ccntceaary,”
and an archbishop has been drawn into the
argument. Meantime, there are so many
local-improvement schemes which will be in
tlie initial stages when the event occurs (hat
the city will give visitors the impression
that it is engaged in repairing the ravages
of a bombardment from the air.
Though they kicked off at the beginning of
their reign by raising railway freight-rates
and fares, the Forgan Smiths have seen
the light as far as the hard-pressed pastoral-
ists are concerned. Wool rates come down
10 per cent, pending Consideration of the
Budget, and charges for the carriage of stock
for agistment and transportation of fodder
are to be considered. This promise was
made when much of the Central and South-
West areas were in a bad way for want of
rain. There has been a good fall since.
The Broken Hill Prop, exchange case has
cropped up again, this time in relation to
a loan raised overseas ‘by the Auckland
Transport Board. This concern has decided
to pay the interest in M.L. currency; bond-
holders are therefore receiving 16s. sterling
to the M.L. pound. The Dominion Audit
Office has approved the payment plan, hold-
ing that it is valid in case of all loans not
specifically raised on a sterling basis.
U.S.A. naval authorities are asking the
President for twenty millions sterling, over
and above the Congress emergency naval
vote of £50,000,000-odd, so that the nation’s
battleships and other units may be modern-
ised. It’s no threat to Australia. The
U.S.A. is all for peace. Anyway, the Com-
monwealth Government is sending a major
and a platoon to garrison Darwin, while a
few unwanted British destroyers are on their
way to strengthen the R.A.N.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne Rotary raked in
a few fines at a recent ladies’-day luncheon
when the customary taboo on the title of
“Mr.” was extended to the title “wife.”
Some members on the .spur of the moment
were unable to think of any alternative to
the old-fashioned word when introducing
their spouses, but others found a way of
escape by referring to “my boss,” “the
mother of my seven children,” “my father-
in-law’s daughter,” “my early-morning
alarm-clock” and “the controller of the privy
purse.” A Malay Rotarian would have had
no diffidence about calling his better half
“the enemy in the blanket,” and a Korean
Rotarian would have got away easily with
“my dull thorn,” but there are no Malays
or Koreans in Melbourne Rotary.
* * * *
“Cicero”: What Justice Macrossan said to
the Brisbane jury on a recent occasion was
mild compared with what the late Real said
to a Toowoomba jury in the ’nineties. The
case was a stabbing affray, and the jury
brought in a verdict of not guilty. His
Honor barked: “Gentlemen, you are a
disgrace to your country, to yourselves and
to Toowoomba, and you will have to answer
to God for your oath. Prisoner, you are
discharged. If you are not a permanent
resident of Toowoomba I advise you to be-
come one.”
* * # *
“J.E.8.” : During the war a marine skipper
friend of mine served as midshipman in the
Imperial Navy. He knew some prize-money
was due to him, and being a youth he hoped
it would be sufficient to buy a motor-bike.
After the war he sent in a claim to White-
hall, London, but every application merely
brought him a further set of forms on which
to set out details. This went on for 13
years, during which his yearning for a
motor-bike died. Being a sticker, however,
he finally wrote a plain, blunt letter ,to the
Admiralty officials, and told them exactly
what he thought of their business methods.
My friend’s ship was recently in Sydney,
and I learned from him that he had at last
received his prize-money. He showed me
the letter. The Admiralty was pleased to
advise that share of prize-money f0r....
had been allotted, and took much pleasure
in enclosing the amount due —4s. lid.
Hs * # #
“X.S.”: The beak at the Melbourne City
Court the other day was restrained just in
time from what would have been an alarm-
ing judgment. An order was just about to
be made that a man charged with obtaining
clothing by false pretences should return
the garments, when it transpired that this
would involve his walking out of the court
naked, as the articles concerned were all on
his body and he had no others. After a brief
moment of consideration, the Law allowed
the delinquent to retain everything but an
overcoat.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : A dwelling which will doubt-
less be known inaccurately as “Captain
Cook’s birthplace” is to be erected some-
where in the vicinity of Melbourne in time
for the centenary. The residence, which is
inconspicuous but quaint, is now being re-
moved, stone by stone, from its original site
at Great Ayton, Yorkshire, where it was
bought at auction by the Vie. Government
with money from citizen Russell Grimwade’s
pocket. Actually, the navigator spent only
some of his childhood there; the house which
heard his first wail has vanished. The cot-
tage isn’t much of an antiquity, having been
built in 1775, but it is likely to be a per-
manent source of revenue to guides and taxi-
drivers.
......
“J.H.M.A.” : People are asking what Cook
ever had to do with Victoria. Part of it
afforded the Endeavour her first landfall when
Cook w*as seeking the coastline of the conti-
nent whose existence he had been ordered to
determine after observing the transit of
Venus in Tahiti. On Thursday, April 19,
1770, at six o’clock in the morning, he “saw
land extending from n.-e. to w., distance five
or six leagues, having 80 fathoms, fine sandy
bottom.” He named the southernmost point
of the land after Zachary Hicks, his first
lieutenant, who was the first to sight it.
Point Hicks has .since become Cape Everard.
:J: * *
“Intelligence”: The cabled news of the
death of “Marie Louise,” the mystery woman
whose inveiglements brought about the down-
fall of Lieutenant Baillie-Stewart, will come
as a shock to the
many altruists who
profess to consider
that the young
man convicted of
selling military
secrets was guilty
of nothing worse
than a disreputable
love affair. The
unemotional crowd
at Whitehall has
revealed that
“Marie” was a
German spy on
whom the War
Office had long
k opt an ey e.
Stewart and she
were carefully
checked until the
time came for mak-
ing an example.
Evidence of the
lady’s identity wa.s
probably one of the
items brought for-
ward during the in-
camera session of
the court-martial.
■!■ >;c *
“Indcar”: King
Feisul’s splendid
and imposing re-
ception in London
reminds me of that
monarch’s corona-,
tion —and of the
shortage of timber
in Mesopotamia.
The ceremony took
place in the old
Turkish citadel at
Bagdad. In addi-
tion to the local
sheiks all available
British officers
were on parade.
Feisul, seated on a
passable - looking
throne, gilded and
ornate, was crown-
ed king by Sir
Percy Cox, the
High Commis-
sioner. After the
ceremony and the
departure of the
leading figure, a
ragged menial
arrived and re-
moved the “throne,” exposing to those
assembled the undercarriage. This was con-
structed, fittingly enough, of boxes which
had contained Japanese beer —the stimulant
and comforter of the army which had raised
Feisul to sovereignty.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: Lang’s silly jibe at those
who omit to stand up for the musical per-
formance of a tune practically unknown out-
side N.S.W. and very often unrecognised
therein reminds me that I once did some
unnecessary standing to patriotic music.
Years ago, at the conclusion of an open-air
concert in Golden Gate Park, California, the
band, to my surprise, played the British
National Anthem. A fellow-Australian and
I took it as a compliment to our Empire,
possibly for a special occasion, and rose with
hats in hand, only to be stared at by the
crowd of seated and hatted locals. The one
next me explained : “Guess you think that’s
‘Gahd Save the King’?” “Well, isn’t it?”
I asked, slightly staggered. “Nope,” an-
swered he; “that’s ‘Amurrica.’ Same toon,
though.” But the Americans took their
“same toon” just as it was intended, as a
sign to go home, and with no manifestation
of patriotism, conventional or otherwise.
t- * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne’s Shrine of Remem-
brance, when completed and dedicated, is to
have a perpetual guard, probably of one
sentry for reasons of economy. Premier
Argyie proposes that ex-soldiers of the police
force, in full marching order, should com-
prise the guard, which will have power of
arrest in cases of attempted vandalism.
Argyie witnessed the changing of the guard
at the grave of the Unknown Soldier at
Arlington, U.S.A., and says that, although
only a single sentry is employed, the cere-
mony is sufficiently impressive.
* m * *
“Young Historian”: “Monty” doesn’t
know Batman (B. 28/6/’33) as he should.
The first founder of Melbourne was not
always clean-shaven; a sketch shows that he
wore sideboards extending almost to his chin.
Incidentally, despite the nose injury, Bon-
wick (who knew what he was talking about)
has described Batman as a handsome man
wdio was a favorite with the ladies of his
day in old Parramatta.
“Centurion” : The reason the Admiralty is
so shirty about the misuse by seamen of the
“purser’s dagger” (B. 5/7/’33) is that it
is an “issue,” i.e., Government property
which has to be returned to store when for
one reason or another the holder needs it
no longer. In the old regular army even
clothing came under this head, and replace-
ment applications were closely scrutinised.
Costs in this regard were debited to regi-
mental account, and the old-time Q.M.S. was
expected to make up for it by stoppages for
“missing kit.” To hear an old hand run-
ning through the “missing” articles with
their prices, adding up the total in a husky
undertone flavored with beer, and handing-
over to a stupefied recipient what was left
him on pay-day, was a liberal education.
* * =i= *
“M.H.E.”: Zaro Agha, the ancient Turk
who is dying in Constantinople, looked his
156 years when I saw him in Pera in 1927;
but he was more like an overgrown vulture
than a man as he sat asleep in the gate-
house at the Law School. His eyes were
hooded like a bird’s, and the hairless, weath-
ered greenliide of his crown hung in folds
over a gnarled skull. Told by his baksheesh
catcher that I was there, he unhooded one
eye, opened an enormous mouth and uttered
the word “ Evvet?” (Yes) in the tone in
which the knut says “Oh, yeah?” Then he
shut all his orifices firmly. Told that I came
from Australia, and asked if he knew where
"Psyche in the hath. Ought to have been a shower-bath, eh,
Dave?”
it was, he said, “Oh, yeah?” again, this time
without opening his eye. “Is it true that
you saw Napoleon?” I asked courteously.
“Oh, yeah?” says Zaro sleepily. “What kind
of a man was he?” “Chok fena boo adam ”
(“very bad that man!”), says the old fellpw
promptly. Whereafter he went so perma-
nently to sleep that even the free fight out-
side which announced the arrival of Henry
Ford’s daughter—her progress through
Jacko’s country had been a riot since the
morning when she gave a Stamboul taxi-
driver a hundred Turkish pounds as a tip—
did not rouse him.
❖ ❖ *
“Chevroford”: The chairman of the vigil-
ance committee which guards the morals of
one of Melbourne’s seaside suburbs has been
much exercised in his mind since the winter
arrived about the rickety bathing-boxes
which adorn the foreshore. It is well known
that those without locks are apt nightly to
be converted into petting pai'lors, and he
confidently assumed that the invaders are
couples from the city, the great metropolis
being regarded as a sort of Scarlet Woman
by residents of the remoter suburbs. The
other night he led his gallant men and true
on a tour of inspection of these haunts of
sin. After carefully reconnoitring a box
from which came suspicious sounds, he
ordered a charge, the door was flung open
and an electric torch flashed into the interior.
The first object it lit up, with an uncom-
promising glare, was the face of the chair-
man’s daughter.
* * * *
“Runa”: Gisborne (M.L.) is one of the
best epoch-marking towns (B. 5/7/’33) on
the map. The main street, Gladstone-road.
commemorates the political apex of the
G.O.M.’s career; the parallel and cross
streets bear the names of his most distin-
guished colleagues. It settles all argument
about how, when and why the town streets
were named.
“Lao-dah”: The pirating of a Chinese
steamer, with particularly brutal embellish-
ments, by a gang of cosmopolitan whites is
reported to have filled the Chinese press with
self-satisfaction. Their nationals are not the
only bandits, they point out. The analogy
isn’t very exact. Celestial piracy has had a
continuous history of hundreds of years. It
is a leading industry in some parts of Fukien
and Kuantung; whole villages live by it, and
Government officials buy motor-cars out of
their commission on the loot. A Chinese
pirate once seized the island of Formosa,
half the size of Tasmania, and administered
it until he was turned out by a large Man-
chu fleet. The Republican Government has
never distinguished itself in piracy suppres-
sion, and the job has had to be taken over
on several occasions by the British Navy.
Naval detachments have twice demolished
the freebooters’ stronghold at Bias Bay on
the southern coast. No ship sails out of
Singapore or Hong Kong without volunteer
guards aboard. Even around Shanghai one
takes a chance if one strays beyond call of
a British cop. I planned a houseboat honey-
moon in the vicinity of Soochow, but
called it off when a party returned • from a
similar trip minus a wedding-ring, but with
the finger on which it had been placed a
week before.
OTHER MANNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“VVhen the Wimbledon crowd shrieked delightedly
as a sky-high lob from Crawford dropped just inside
the court, the referee admonished them for lack of
control of their emotions.”
They only laughed in frolicsome crescendo,
With nought therein to ruffle and annoy;
No hint of gibe or jeer or innuendo
In that spontaneous burst of bubbling joy.
No scorching scorn, no partisanship bitter,
Lurked in their mirth, however loud and
shrill,
Such as denotes an opposition hitter
Skittled, or when a chap has muffed a
“sitter”
Comes from the blatant Hill.
They did but laugh, and doubtless supple-
mented
With rapturous “Ohs!” and “Ahs !” their
artless glee,
But when their sheer approval thus was
vented
They never reckoned with the referee.
One features him, a stern, forbidding figure,
Where glittering crowns of fame are lost
and won,
Coldly denouncing such vociferous vigor
As something far from—what’s the phrase?
—do rigor
At classic Wimbledon.
Inflate your lungs, you fiercely-factious
fellows.
Where teams are “linked in cricket’s manly
, toil,”
They take small count of badinage and
bellows —
In fact, some reckon it the dinkum oil.
And where blown runners chase inflated
leather
And every pass is watched with bated
breath,
There’s few will turn a hair or care a feather
How loud the pandemonium be or whether
They yell themselves to death.
But ■where the champions clash and courts
are chosen,
And, swallow-swift, the globule skims the
net.
The genial currents of the soul are frozen
And noble rage repressed—by etiquette.
E’en gusts of laughter challenge reprehension
As over all the odds and not 0.K.,
And meriting official intervention.
And, mind, I’m not advancing the contention
It’s not the better way.
You barrackers with tongues so sharp and
nimble,
And wit (we’re sometimes told) that
whirs on wings,
MISS PELICAN: “What do you mean by saying they sleep on good food?”
MRS. OSTRICH: “Look at their luscious wire mattresses .”
Who make the sounding brass and tinkling
cymbal
Comparatively negligible things,
You chaps who glory in your view and
shout it
Like Stentors, does it give you food for
thought,
The news that they are set on doing with-
out it
Where racquets .swish? Ah, me! my sons, I
doubt it, -
But all the same it ought.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Bloggs” : If the ranks of Sydney’s unem-
ployed arc recruited shortly by a contingent
of car-minders a few narks will be to blame,
as usual. Ivingsford-Smith recently said the
right thing on the subject—also, as usual: —
Why put the boot into the poor chaps? Many
are worthy, and car-minding gives them something
to do.
I have been associated with car-minders (at
6d. a time) for years as a moyie patron in
the Regent-Plaza sector. They are well
worth the money, and I Avouldn't be sur-
prised to learn that a naval commander re-
cently interviewed by a “Sun” reporter avos
referring to a couple I have in mind when
he said: —
I often give them a £1 note in the morning and
they give me theatre tickets and absolutely correct
change in the evening.
Officious interference (sometimes with, some-
times without, insulting language) is the
ivorst fault of the others. And there arc
mitigating circumstances even in the case
of these nuisances. They have their regular
customers, especially during the theatre
hours, and a misguided sense of loyalty often
impels them to discourage strangers. . The
solution of the problem is not to boot the
minders into the cold shades of destitution
offhand,- as the N.R.M.A. suggests, but lo
weed out the best, register them, as is done
in Melbourne and elseAvliere, and allot them
to fixed beats.
“Selma”: The damsel Avho selected an im-
posing residence as her abode to impress
her boy friend (B. 5/7/’3>3) was not doing
anything original. I recall a M.L. girl aalio
for many weeks, not liking to reveal to her
escort that she shared with her mother and
sister three rooms over a pork-butcher’s shop,
led him by devious routes to the mansion of
an M.P. When they became engaged she had
to confess, whereupon the young man re-
marked that lie had known about her decep-
tion all the time, the M.P. being a near
relative of his own. Sometimes the trick
has more justification. A girl going home
“Stay there and keep an eye on the car while I
go for help.”
late by a dark road was followed by an in-
ebriated individual, who, remarking that he
had daughters of his own, insisted on seeing
her home. To shake him off she entered a
large gate, and. banging it behind her, walked
firmly up the garden path. It was her inten-
tion to explain her presence and predica-
ment to the householder, but as there seemed
nobody about she decided to creep cautiously
back to the street and resume her journey,
She had scarcely closed the gate when
a beery voice hailed her out of the dark-
ness. “Thasli right, dearie,” it said. “Knew
you’d have to comsli out shoon. Tliasli lioush
been empty shix munsli.” Her homeward
sprint broke all records.
* =? # *
“Cine Ma”: The sad estrangement of
Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks is
another illustration of the fact that two
artists seldom make a success of marriage
unless one assumes the position of teacher
and the other of pupil. In the case of
Doug and Mary, this could not be. Mary’s
specialty was superior sob-sister stuff, and
Doug was distinguished by a capacity for
bellowing and roaring, swinging from gas-
mantles and leaping up stairs 40 steps at a
with .? sword in his hand. Artistically
both parties were on the same mediocre
plane. Mary could hardly teach Doug any-
thing about simple sentimentality, and Doug
had nothing to teach Mary concerning the
melodramatic art. When a man loves a
woman lie considers her emotionally as part
Pf himself, like his hand or foot. Successful
wives are the accepting or adoring sort. It
would be difficult for even the average screen
heroine to accept a screen hero as an intel-
lectual superior. _
„ '' v . ' » .
i<ixn 1C /l 11 i>r ,u ia
little sketch When the Blinds Were Drawn
(B. 14/6/’33) would have smiled could he
have known that the new edition of the
British Pharmocopceia, which comes into
operation this month, ceases to recognise
the utility of leeches—ignores their existence,
Officially, or professionally, they have been
replaced by more modern methods of treat-
ment.' A century ago leeches were about the
first tiling a chemist was liable to be asked for
—* will be remembered that they were the
only medical requisite true to label in Bob
Sawyer’s Bristol shop, “and even they are
second-hand.” A “leech” or a leech-man;
was once used as a synonym lor physician.
, ~ „ ' , ,
Ir-ast C^apo : Lao-dab on flic stranding
B>e Otranto outside Port Moiesby, and
the trippers on
5/7/ oo ),1 ecalls old days on tip.
Memo England. With a view to possible
contingencies, the one-time yacht had been
fitted with a 90-ton lead keel as it set-off
coral, and. it proved its worth a hundred
times, especially under a skipper whom
'W all uew f King of the Overland, ’ from
Ins loudness for short cuts. There was never
any thrill when the M.E. slid up on a patch
with the familiar crunch .The rest depended
°” .J 1 ? an< , we 1 * l * u
' uu . J. 10 n . e ? t ias L®> I>o es w ,>re employed
!°. '"'°o t ’l 1 (, < craft up and prevent her
h'mv pn her Bide We always got off
next higli-water somehow, a sheet or two ol
(l ie total loss Tt lemnoned
cuppil hung ‘ . , , a PP 11 ‘
once too often, however, and the hones of
the M.E. are outside Port Moresby Jo-day.
„‘. . ‘ .
Kimviua : Not only m the matter of
hat lgatiou do the Papuan witches and
wizards unuh. Scottish and Norse
exemplars (B. o/7/33). 1 hough Munay
oes not mention it m his I apnan report,
they inak«- winds and sell them to the native
ft SW.VS'mSiJ
6nemy s style the witen will attend ins uatt
111 person when at sea. and, with a storm
specially manufactured for the occasion, get
ni the dirty work. Such storms can always be
distinguished from others by. the bowlings of
the witches flying invisible m the air. lor
this reason, in the days of the trading dr-
emt round the islands of south-east Papua,
which is referred to by ethnologists as the
Ring, ’ . every well-appointed canoe
carried a magician as a counter-battery, just
as a modem liner carries a wireless operator,
“Ahab Muldoon : The suppression of gai-
rottiim in London m the seventies (B.
5/7/ 33) corresponds with the period when
Henry Hawkins, afterwards Baron Bramp-
ton. was in the full sweep of his judicial
activities. He was a firm believer in the
lash for crimes of violence and no
Judge was ever a greatei tenoi to evildoer-,
His practice with garrotters was' to order
th e flogging to be administeied in two lnstal
ments, the first a fortnight after admission
to the gaol, tffie second a fortnight befoie
discharge .so that the victim ‘ might show rus
back to his friends,
* * * *
“Morimoto”: The 32 Japanese fishermen
who were wrecked on a reef in the Solomons
and taken to Brisbane claimed that they
were only fishing, and probably they were,
Their vessel hailed from Singapore, which
lias become the headquarters of a Nipponese
fishing industry of extraordinary enterprise,
They have taken the industry out of the
hands of the lethargic and conservative
Malay and spread it to parts of the Archi-
pelago previously unexploited even by the
local aborigine. One of their craft left a
couple of years ago for the East African
coast, thus following a track blazed by early
Malay voyagers, who helped to give the
Malagasy their Malayan tinge. Not so many
years ago the Jap was the worst seaman in
the Pacific, having for 300 years been for-
bidden by Imperial decree to build any vessel
capable of sailing the high seas.
* * * *
“Meum”: A dominie rushes into the
periodical discussion on “The King's Eng-
fish” in “S. M. Herald” to assert that
the most prevalent fault among his own
pupils is the use of “me” instead of “my.”
which, he adds, usually takes a few months’
hard work to eradicate. It sets me won-
dering whether he also labors to. make
impetuous youth say “the” instead of “tli’ ”
r— and, if so, with what results. “Me” (or
“nr ”) for “my” is, of course, utterly in-
eradicable in ordinary speech, and usage
has accepted it as completely as "th’ ” for
"the,” unless there is some special reason
for stressing the possessive. "Take out me
ad.” may seem a vulgarism, but if the pro-
cise pedagogue went to a Shalcspearean play
and listened hard to enunciation his ears
might be just as offended. Would lie expect,
for instance, to hear Lady Macbeth say
"Gome to my woman's breasts” or Shylock
talking of “)ny ducats and my daughter”?
If so. he would he disappointed.
* *
“Mulls”: The cabled item that a First
Folio of Shakspearc (1623) had been sold
in London for £14,500 has called attention to
the possession by the Sydney Public Library
of one of these treasures. It is in excellent
“What, are you doing, Joan?"
“Sharpening my nails—so look old.”
preservation, thongh probably few people
have seen it or al'e likely to have the chance
of doing so. This Folio was presented in
1886 by Sir Richard Tangye, the Birming-
ham engineer, in appreciation of the courtesy
shown liim. at the Library during one of
several visits to Australia, and the infor-
mation he was able to collect, there. A muni-
ficent return, verity, for what most travel-
lers would be apt to take as something
demanding at the most a letter of thanks.
The Plain English par. (B. 5/7/’33)
on “Sydney’s Public Library" should derive
some additional force from Sir Richard
Tangye’s comment on the building where
his gift was to be housed-—“a miserable
place for such a city as Sydney—‘far inferior
to the noble library at Melbourne.” And
that was written 47 years ago, during which
period the population of the city has doubled,
while the cramped and dingy Library remains
very much as it was. Its present condition
is nothing but a stigma on a series of Gov-
ernments that have never found any diffi-
culty in raising millions for other public
purposes.
“A. de G.”: Those Georgian “princes”
(6. 5/7/’33), like many others of their
style in European countries, must be taken
with a grain of salt. Before the days of the
Soviet almost any aspiring person in Trans-
Caucasia could call himself a prince, and
much the same still applies in France and
Italy. The title of prince on the Con-
tinent carries no such implication of royalty
as in England. Conversely, the English title
of duke is abroad reserved for people of
royal blood, With a few notable exceptions.
“Junior Turf Club”: The statement that
Kate Meyrick paid her waiters ss. a week
fills me with admiration for her liberality.
Things have probably changed since the war,
but in past days anyone desiring to wait at
a fashionable restaurant or hotel in London
bad to pay heavily. At such places as
Romano’s and the vanished St. James’s,
where the sporting and other flash ele-
ments were wont to congregate, the sum
demanded was considerable, the tips being
strongly influenced by the vinous propensi-
ties of the habitues. Even such potentates
as head waiters had to conform to this cus-
tom, and bv all accounts the amounts they
had to dig out were staggering.
“Wyara”: Beat this for postal efficiency. A
letter, marked “urgent,” addressed to a resi-
dent of Eight-mile Plains, on the outskirts
of Brisbane, was posted in Sydney at 8 the
other morning for dispatch by air mail, and
was delivered to the addressee at 4.30 the
same afternoon. The letter had to be sorted
at four post offices, and was conveyed by
’plane, tram and ’bus, travelling about 620
miles.
“Coorparoo” : The sponsors of the Golden
Casket are angry with Jack Fihelly, one of
the Ministerial fathers of the gamble.
The management lias always maintained
that the enterprise is a virtuous pro-
duct of charitable necessity, but Fihelly has
told the world that when a name for the
glittering temptation was under discussion
he suggested that it should be a golden some-
thing—a “golden anything, in fact” —because
there was nothing like the word golden “to
attract attention and incite cupidity.” The
opponents of the Casket can be relied upon
to make the most of that artless admission.
“Anti-bunk”: The complaints of Lord
Kimberley about professionalism in polo (“It
has got to stop; the Hurlingham stewards
have said so”) were futile. England has
had polo pros.—meaning men who, if they
didn’t exactly live on the game, made big
incomes from it- —for nearly as long as it
has had hunting-field pros. That is to say,
from the first moment large sums of money
began to be spent on polo. At the present.
time the best London clubs are full of good
horsemen who turn their reputation for mak-
ing hunters and ponies to profit. And why
not? Rich men, such as Lord Kimberley, can
afford to be bona fide polo amateurs in the
same way as Indian Nawabs can afford ro
be cricket amateurs. But they represent a
tiny minority in almost every sport liowa-
days. If anyone had talked 20 years ago of
bridge pros, it would have sounded fau-
tastic; yet now there are dozens in England
and America—men and women who live by
writing hooks and newspaper articles about
the game in the intervals of playing exliibi-
tion matches. Cricket, in England, lias been
almost, as completely professionalised in the
last 15 years as Association football. More
so. in ways. It is hard to find a Corinthian
who has got anything of commercial value,
barring publicity, out of Soccer, whereas
nine county amateurs out of ten derive some
kind of profit from playing cricket. There
is no difference in principle whatsoever
between the profits Jardine will draw , from
his forthcoming book about cricket and the
profits Major Blank-Blank of Loamshire
draws from his periodical hunter and pony
sales. Both are as much pros, as Jack
Hobbs in his Fleet-street shop.
“Clio” : The census distributors met some
curious people. A young woman in one of
the Sydney subbubs - declined to accept the
papers, saying “My husband and myself
are conscientious objectors.” When assured
that the census did not recognise such folk,
she said that she would consider filling up
her paper, but added that her husband would
never be moved sufficiently from his con-
victions to add his quota.
“Shetney”: The truth about Shetland and
Orkney is that they were first inhabited by
a Pictish population, were then Norse for
a few centuries, and have since become as
Scottish as anything in Scotland. Doubt-
less there was a predominating infusion of
Norse- blood, but plenty of Englishmen who
went to Ireland in the old times became
just as Irish as the Irish themselves, and a
similar process has been noted in these North
Sea islands. The topography is still Norse,
but little else is. In Orkney the Norse
tongue was generally spoken up to three or
four centuries ago, after which the influx
of Scottish settlers gradually extinguished it.
Barry, writing as long ago as 1805, mentions
that within his recollection it had become
entirely extinct except in one parish. It
lasted longer in Shetland. Low. who visited
Shetland about the time Dr. Johnson and
Boswell were touring the Hebrides, found
the Norse language still in use, “but much
worn out” —“the language of the last age.”
The Shetlanders were always more Scandi-
navian than the Orkneyites; Norse phrases
and words have survived longer there.
“Cosmos”: We Australians talk more
about democracy and practise it less than
most people. For example, orders were re-
cently promulgated in England decreeing
that “in the interests of national economy”
all officers of and below the rank of lieut.-
commander, R.N., and major, R.M. (and
those of a like standing in the army and
other services), would in future only be
allowed third-class travelling allowances.
Imagine the uproar in Australia if a Gov-
ernment used the depression as an excuse
for asking politicians to travel third- or even
second-class! At about the same time it
was announced that “seven more golf clubs
had decided to encourage artisan players.”
Nearly all the best British golf clubs have
been allowing manual workers to make use
of their courses for years, and the Prince
and his friends often play matches with arti-
san partners and opponents. It is hard
to envisage a rockrchopper hitting off at
Royal Melbourne or a ’bus conductor taking
his ease on the verandah of Royal Sydney
after a game; yet spectacles of the sort are
common in England. One of Australia's
social weaknesses is that it imports every
old-world foolishness immediately it appears
—pyjama parties, bottle parties and the like;
and the advertising of bogus society leaders
by newspaper heelers which is associated
with such festivities everywhere—but is very
chary about importing stunts of a more
creditable nature. The most telling argu-
ments against the rich which one hears on
the Yarra bank and in the Domain are to
the effect ; that wealthy Australians either
spend their time making enough money to
enable them to go to Europe or spend their
money making fools of themselves in Aus-
tralia and having their inanities recorded in
the gossip columns.
A JUDICIAL POSER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In a Sydney divorce case, Judge Boyce pointed
out that a sailor’s wife could expect only that
degree of attention which her husband could give.
‘How can a sailor go to sea,’ asked his Honor, ‘and
at the same time stay at home with his wife?'
Oh, a handy man is the son of the sea!
The things whereto he can turn his hand
Are a regular lesson to you and me;
His adaptability’s simply grand.
But he must be off when his ship is
manned,
With a farewell kiss and a parting word.
He can’t be at once on sea and land;
He isn’t like old Boyle Roche’s bird.
Time was, the chroniclers all agree.
.With distances less easily spanned,
Our Jack could marry extensively.
He’d a wife on many a foreign strand;
And ever the docks and the quays he
scapned
For obligations that he’d incurred,
And thanked his stars, you can under-
stand,
That he wasn’t like old Boyle Roche’s bird.
Such days are vanished, by Fate’s decree;
Now ids lot on more ordered lines is
planned;
He has just one missus, not two or three
Or half a dozen, a scattered band.
Ashore or afloat, stone-sober or canned,
He is true to one—at least that’s inferred.
But even at that—why the theme expand?
He isn’t like old Boyle Roche’s bird.
He’s still as open and brave and free
As ever the old-time song averred.
But how can lie always beside her be?
He isn’t like old Boyle Roche's bird.
3NT.S.W.
IFORD.


THE WORLD’S BEST
Ft
a
3
MOTOR SPIRIT
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Senator Mat Reid, who caused a stir in
Canberra’s Upper House by alleging that
there had been bribery in the Customs De-
partment, is the oldest active Federal poli-
tician. When he was 68, there was a debate
in Queensland political councils as to whether
he was too old to nominate; but he is still
going strong at 84 and is the liveliest vege-
tarian possible. When he was 80 he visited
India to see Annie Besant.
Queensland saw one of its biggest legal
gatherings for years when W. Harris, P.M.,
vacated liis job as City Coroner. He has been
in the northern State’s public service for
48 years, and was the last of the pre-war
school of stipendiaries. J. J. Leahy, who
owes a good deal of his training to him,
succeeds to the vacancy.
Lt.-Coloncl Vilhelm Larsen, the Danish
Vice-Consul, who was elected honorary sec-
retary of the Consular body in Brisbane the
other day, is one of the oldest national re-
presentatives in the Commonwealth, but
carries his 78 years very lightly. He was
in the Queensland public service for many
years, and served in the Moreton Regiment
in its red-jacket days; he holds the Volun-
teer Decoration.
11. W. Champion, Government sec. at
Port Moresby, knows Papua as well
as anyone in it, but seldom gives an
opinion unless asked. A Maorilarider,
he went to Papua over 30 years ago
ns a civilian before the honk of the motor-
horn rivalled that of the liornbill in the
H. W. CHAMPION, the Papua Govern-
ment’s Official Secretary.
jungle. Now he drives a Chev. round the
rocky highways, blit, like his chief, Hubert
Murray, he still prefers Shanks’s pony. Only
n few weeks ago he and the Lieut.-Governor
made a tour of up-country villages. On the
first day they walked 10 miles, on the second
IS and on the third 30 —which means a good
deal more than it sounds.
Arthur O’Connor, representative in U.S.A.
and Canada of the International Travel
Association, is back in the Commonwealth.
His periodical radio-talks have been heard
from the Panama Canal to the Arctic Circle,
and he has visited 40 States of the Union as
well as Canada in his search for Australian
tourist traffic. O’Connor was a pressman,
and he talks so well that it is a wonder he
never became a politician. Perth rejected
him about 20 years ago, and he never tried
again.
A new tradition has been established at
the Ann-street Presbyterian Church, Bris-
bane’s premier Scottish kirk, by the unani-
mous call to the pulpit of P. W. Pearson,
a 40-year-old Armidale schoolboy, son of a
well-known New England grazier. He learnt
his theology at St. Andrews, in Sydney Uni-
versity, where he did a three-year post-
graduate course after taking his B.A. At
Murwillumbah, where he has been in charge
since 1928, his preaching more than doubled
the size of the congregation.
James Clark, dead in Brisbane at 75, was
once the pearl king of Australia and pro-
bably the world. He went in for pearling
52 years ago. and with 130 boats, scientific
methods and iron discipline among his divers
revolutionised the business in Australian
waters, which he forsook for the Arus and
Dutch East Indies in 1905. His latter years
were given mainly to the wool industry. He
and his partner Peter Tait owned some of
the biggest and best-stocked stations in Aus-
tralia, and during the war he was deep in
wool finance, and sat on the board of Bawra.
Clark never lost his interest in pearls, how-
ever. He was the terror of poor Murray
Clapham, his agent in Melbourne, in the im-
mediate post-war years, because of his habit
of producing a few thousand pounds’ worth
of liquid white fire out of his vest pockets
and remarking: “Here, look after these for
me, old man; I’m going to the races!”
"What about counting them?’’ Murray would
say. “Count them!” James would snort, as
he made for the door ; “I'd know them any-
where !”
To have served under four archbishops
is the record of Right Rev. Monsignor
B. Murphy, of Hobart (Tas.U who re-
cently celebrated the 53rd anniversary of
his nomination to the priesthood. The
whole of the term has been spent on the
Speck. The title of Monsignor was a Fapal
recognition of his jubilee.
F. C. Wilkinson, Dean of the Faculty of
Dentistry at Melbourne, goes to Manchester
as Dental Professor, making the second Aus-
tralian University man within a few weeks
to leave us for the other side. A Cheshire,
native, he holds a medical doctorate, is a
bachelor of surgery as well as of dentistry,
and served for four years in France with
the British R.A.M.C. before coming to Aus-
tralia to take the Melbourne job.
The illness of Nicholas Lockyer, formerly
Comptroller-General of Customs and the
first Repatriation Commissioner, endangers
the longest existing link with the early days.
His father, the major of the 57th Regiment,
founded the first British settlement in W.A.
and explored the well-known Ijockyer dis-
trict (Q.). He himself entered the N. S.
Wales Treasury in 1868.
A. Little, who is retiring from the posi-
tion of Deputy-Director of Posts and Tele-
graphs in Queensland under the age limita-
tion, is a Victorian, born at Sandford. He
began with the Victorian railways as a tele-
graph operator in 1888. and in 1912 was head
of the postal stores branch in Melbourne,
later being in charge of stores throughout the
Commonwealth. Three years ago he went to
Brisbane to take Up his,present position.
A notable chip of an old pioneering .block
was Patrick Bernard Dnrack, who passed out
in Perth at 62. The Duracks were in the
vanguard of the squatters who opened up
west-central Queensland ; and P.B.’s father
was one of tin; first who heard Kimberley
(W.A.) calling half a century ago. Here
and in the N.T. the Duraek clan established
a string of cattle stations, and the name of
the firm—-Connor. Doherty and Duraek —
became a household word in Westralia. Early
this century they found time to add sheep-
farming in the south-west to their northern
enterprises, and P. B. Duraek embarked in
the breeding of stud merinos at the firm's
holding in the Wagin district. The Rehn
Ord sheep stud has already earned » high
reputation ; P.B. was Mayor of Wagin for
years.
James Herlihy retires from the N. 8. Wales
Under-Secretaryship of Public Lands after
50 years in the public service. He was
an authority on closer settlement and once
a trustee of the Sydney Cricket Ground
and of the National Park (N.S.W.). Irish,
his assistant Under-Sec., succeeds him.
George Henry Wise popped into the
limelight to celebrate his eightieth birthday
at Sale (Vie.) last week-end. He had been
56 years in practice as a solicitor when the
event took place and 53 years in public life.
More than 40 years ago Wise was chief
president of the A.N.A., and from 1906 to
1922 he sat in the House of Reps, as member
for Gippsland. He was Hughes’s Assistant
Minister for Defence in 1918-19 and P.M.G.
in 1920-21. He told the legal fraternity
who dined him on his birthday that since
he began practice he had had only one day
in bed, and that work was the best recipe
for good health.
Dr. Redmond Prindiville, administrator of
Bt. Mary’s Cathedral, Perth (W.A.), be-
comes Australia’s youngest archbishop at
33, on his appointment as coadjutor to the
69-year-old Archbishop Clune. He is not,
however, the youngest Australian to hold a
mitre; Queensland’s James Duhig beat him
by a year. But even Archbishop Duhig was
ancient beside that Duke of York who be-
came Bishop of Osnaburgh (salary 150,000
a year) at birth, and afterwards combined
the duties of the see with those of Com-
mander-in-Chief of the British Army.
David Webster, who celebrated his jubilee
in the baking business in Brisbane the
other day, is something of an institution in
that city. Before the war his small tea-
shops. scattered about the main streets, were
favorite meeting places for legal and noli
deal lights. At a corner table in one of
them. Kidston. the Premier, Blair, now
Chief Justice, and two puisne Judges were
wont to forgather every day over “tea
and pie for sixpence.” The Ividston-Philp
fusion in 1909 was finalised in a Webster
tea-shop.
E. T. Fisk, of Amalgamated Wireless,
who is on his way to England, pro-
bably holds the Atlantic-crossing record
among Australians. He has sailed over the
pond SO times, mostly before he gave up
being a ship’s wireless operator. He got his
early experience of aerials with a Polar Sea
sealing fleet.
JOHN S. DUNCAN, president of Sydney
Rotary.
The promotion of Lieut.-Commander A. F.
Showers to be commander makes four Aus-
tralian-trained officers who hold that rank.
There is none higher. When we need an
Australian captain or vice-admiral it is
necessary to import him. Showers was a
midshipman on H.M.S. Glorious in the
Nbrtli Sea during (lie last two years of the
war, and latterly has been navigating officer
of 11.M.A.5. Australia.
Irigoyen, the former Argentine President,
who passed out last week, had a career
which made that of the average Australian
politician look like a holiday in the Antarc-
tic. During his long life he saw the Consti-
tution of the Republic overhauled four
times. The end of his reign was even more
lively than its beginning. At 80 an opponent
tried to cut short his youth with a bullet,
but at 82 he was still so hearty that the
Government which had deposed him had to
intern him on an island to keep him quiet.
Dr. Alfred Hill, just dead in Adelaide at
69, was a specialist in two branches. He
was for many years hon. eye surgeon at
Adelaide Hospital, and in military circles
an authority on sanitation. During the war
he was senior medical officer at Mitcham
Camp, and after it. at convalescent, hospitals.
William John Morrell, M.A. (Oxon.), who
steps up from the vice-chancellorship to the
chancellorship of Otago University, left
vacant through the death of T. K. Sidey,
was born at Tiverton (Devon) in 1868, edu-
cated at. Blundell’s School (the school of
John Kidd in “Lorna Doone”) and at. Bal-
liol under Jowett. In M.L. he was chief
master of English and classics at the Auck-
land Grammar School, and then rector of
the Otago Boys’ High School, a position he
still holds. He has been a member of the
■senate for the past 12 years, and is the
University’s ninth chancellor since its foun-
dation in 1869.
His last sermon has been preached by
the eloquent Rev. Henry Howard, whose ora-
torical powers won him the incumbency of
the Fifth-avenue Presbyterian Church, New
York, the world’s wealthiest Presbyterian
congregation, Howard was born in Mel-
bourne, and was for a long time engaged on
country circuits in Victoria and S. Aus-
tralia ; when, immediately after the war, he
preached in London his sermons created a
sensation, and the offer of the Fifth-avenue
pulpit came promptly. He was a dabbler
in verse as well as the author of some reli-
gious works.
Cavenagh-Mainwaring, a brilliant snrgeon,
died recently in Adelaide at 64. He found
his real chance in the war, which he went
through from start to finish on Gallipoli and
with the Light Horse in Syria, earning sur-
geon-major’s rank and the White Eagle of
Serbia. He did a lot of work for Adelaide
University. In private life lie was a keen
sportsman, being lion, surgeon to S.A. Jockey
Club, and before ill-health overtook him he
was accounted about the best bridge-player
in Adelaide.
Edgar Pervical, three of whose Percival-
Gull 'buses were entered for the British
King’s Cup air race (one owned by Prince
George, made fastest time, 1543 m.p.h.,
in the third round), seems to have
come into his own as a light-aeroplane
designer. In his Australian days, he was
celebrated for the dilapidation of his outfits
and the consummate skill with which he
handled them. He seemed able to fly any-
thing which would hold together, a faculty
which made him a nightmare to the Civil
Aviation Department. He was, however, a
sound religious influence in the community.
The writer of this paragraph, for one, never
learnt to pray properly until he had nego-
tiated an air-pockety stretch with Edgar.
A fine stockman till a long illness laid
him aside was Ben Hunt, dead in Adelaide
at 63. He was in the Elder Smith Co. from
boyhood, becoming its manager at Broken
Hill, and then at Jamestown (S.A.). From
that centre he exercised a big influence, as
auctioneer and judge, over the northern areas
of the State.
One of the most worried men in M.L. to-
day is Employment Minister and P.M.G.
Adam Hamilton. Square shoulders athwart a
big, burly frame, plus a substantial leavening
of Scotch caution and deliberation, however,
help him to carry the load. He studied
for the Presbyterian ministry until farming
and politics in turn called. Regarded as
one of the most solid men in the Coates wing
of the Coalition, his problem is how to stand
pat between the clamor for a more liberal
unemployment-relief allocation and the oppos-
ing demand for a reduction of the wage tax.
Oswald Anderson, manager of 2UW, Syd-
ney, takes changes of radio control all
in the day’s work. He has just experi-
enced his fourth in seven years. Pioneer
manager at the original 2FC, lie went to the
Australian Broadcasting Co. when it. was
formed, and transferred to Paling’s as man-
ager of 2UW, which now has been sold to
the original A.B.C. Anderson is a rare
bird—he knows Beethoven and the intri-
cacies of modern business equally well.
Australia is to lose Charles Martin,
head of the animal nutrition department Of
the Council of Scientific and Industrial Re-
search and professor of bio-chemistry at
Adelaide University. In his two years in
the Commonwealth he has done valuable re-
search on the influence of pastures on wool
production. Before coming south lie was
director of the Lister Institute in London,
but his Australian experience is in its second
stage. A generation ago he was professor
of physiology and bio-chemistry at Mel-
bourne, and during the war acted as the
3rd A.I.F. Hospital’s pathologist at Lemuels.
He will settle down at Cambridge.
.T. V. Stout, the bootmaker who replaces
Alfred Wallace, now in Geneva, as presi-
dent of Vie. Trades Hall Council, is a Labor
militant who makes a specialty of contest-
ing Nationalist strongholds. He twice un-
J. V. STOUT, president of the Victorian
Trades Hall Council.
successfully opposed Arg.vle in Toorak. He
has been organising the shop assistants for
the last nine years. He was one of the
leaders of the industrial group which ex-
pelled Hogan, Bailey, Kiernan and Bond.
David A. Teys, dead in Toowoomba
(Q.) at 72. was one of Cobb and Co.’s first
drivers in Queensland. Born in N. S. Wales,
he was a whip there long before he was
i,j northern State in 1882,
and for 30 years he drove coaches in the
Georgetown, Herberton, Charleville, St.
George and other districts, retiring in 1912.
A notable athlete in his day, he established
an Australian record in the ’eighties with a
high jump of 6ft. lin.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
, —-Dividends— N Writ-
Govt.’s Ord. ten
March, Profits. Divs. 13 J p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £ 148,112 2,395,069
Inner reserves disclosed . . 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on new shares 3,454 2,582,958
1924.. 735,832 137.436 349,871 2,831,513
1925.. 819,286 162,500 400.000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,610
Inner reserves disclosed, £IOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14* p.c. 74 p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 . . 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 637,500 49,219 3,970,056
11£ p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,795
For the 12 months to the end of March
the Dominion’s merchandising exports
(£37,510,000 in local currency) were
£3,567,000 better than the previous year’s,
thanks to a record output of dairy produce
and meat; prices continued to sag. Imports
(£25,059,000) took £298,000 of the increase,
which was lifted by a further £744,403 on
account of the export of specie (£1,300,000).
The exchange premium on London was
bumped up from £llO p.c. to £125 p.c. in
January, under pressure from the Gov-
ernment, which has undertaken to indemnify
the banks against loss from any subsequent
drop in the rate. The B.N.Z. may have suf-
fered some loss in connection with forward
contracts and its Australian funds, but this
was probably more than offset by the gain
on its excess London balances. The margin
between buying and selling rates, from which
the bank derives its ordinary profit on ex-
change, shrank. Also, a contraction in
advances, the charge for which was lowered
by 1 p.c., was accompanied by a growth in
interest-bearing deposits. Certainly the rates
paid for these deposits were reduced, but the
co. will not get the full benefit until old
contracts run out.
Including the profit on realisation of some
overseas securities, gross earnings were
written £24,347 short of the 1932 figure,
making the slip £262,073 over the last two
years:—•
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1924 .. £1,709,289 £562,596 £389,661
1926 .. 1,888,309 600,068 354.882
1927 .. 1,830,881 611,270 350,740
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1929 .. 1,916,600 648,581 333,866
1930 .. 2,013,526 684,745 359,048
1931 . . 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
1932 .. 1,770,686 659,629 502,835
1933 . . 1,746,339 644,194 486,675
*Less provision for contingencies.
Exes, were pulled back £15,435, and the tax
bill was £16,160 lighter, due to deduction of
bad debts from taxable income. Provision
for doubtful debts, etc., was made by trans-
fer from contingencies account, which is
lumped with bills payable in the sheet. Still,
after attending to the pref. and mortgage
share requirements (together £222,656),
enough remained to show 9.9 p.c. on the
£3,750,000 of ord. capital as against 8.1, 15,
17.8. 16.0, 15.6, 16.4 and 18.1 p.c. back to
1926. Yet, only a wink over 1 p.c. was
knocked off the div., leaving it at 11) p.c.;
visibly reserves had to be tapped for £50,261
to pay it.
The market, which considers there was
more wheat in the ear' than the eye could
see, prices the pound ords. at 445. 10d., as
against 425. a year ago. The return at the
higher figure is 5 p.c. on an 11J p.c. div.
basis. Last year’s divs., together with 4 p.c.
on £529,989 of guaranteed stock, called for
6.1 p.c. on visible funds (debentures, capital
and reserves combined) at March 31. Since
the close of accounts, another 1 p.c. has
been chipped off the charge for overdrafts,
reducing it to 5 p.c., and there has been a
20 p.c. cut in the return from Maoriland
Government securities.
The year’s adverse trading conditions and
the bank’s own strength are reflected in the
following comparison of balance-sheet figures :
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1924.. £4,072,101 £3,368,426 £30,501,720
1926.. 4,444,392 3,721,791 31,121,288
1927.. 3,765,593 4,016,265 29,664,024
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1933.. 4,338,747 3,560,404 32,573,239
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1924.. £26,011,290 £20,128,292 £352,474
1926.. 26,482,848 22,662,697 484,103
1927.. 23,897,114 23,924,980 520,877
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
1933.. 25,712,572 25,079,868 632,771
The spring of £275,985 in the note issue was
due to an “exceptional transaction” on
balance day. The slip in the bills figures
suggests a bigger proportion of telegraphic
transfers. The growth of £1,007,896 in
deposits reflects the abseuce of safer and
more profitable investments. There was a
contraction of over £2,000,000 in loans to
traders, but £1,575,000 was lent to the Gov-
ernment in connection with soldier-settle-
ment mortgages, reducing the net shrinkage
in advances to £578,453. All the spare
money that became available was held
liquid, £1,512,822 being added to this item,
which was equal to 63.5 p.c. of the liabilities
to the public when the books closed. The
bank was then holding £3 15s. Id. of the
public’s money for every pound of its own.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
This 10-year-old pioneer of the bond-selling
method of financing forestry ventures is the
largest and most successful concern of its
kind in Australasia. Thus far, the co.’s earn-
ings have been derived from the sale of
bonds, the owners of which are entitled to
the freehold of an acre lot in Maoriland,
planted with pine trees, and to the net pro-
ceeds from the sale of the forest products.
The price of the bonds ranges from £25 to
£55 according to embellishments ; and the co.
undertakes to care for the forests until real-
ised at the discretion of bondholders or for
20 years, whichever is the earlier. The
trustee for the bondholders reports that the
co. has satisfactorily carried out its obli-
gations to date, and its ability to continue
to do so is certified by the auditors to the
trustee.
Speculation in the bonds became so popu-
lar that sales spread to England, Africa and
Southern Asia. At the end of March net
sales aggregated £3,802.443, and the co. had
planted 146,285 acres on behalf of the bond-
holders
Total Total
March, Bonds Sold. Amount. Area Planted.
1927.. 86,353 £2,158,900 54,655 acres.
1928.. 101,602 2,584,309 82,579 „
1929.. 117,531 3,147,129 107,088 „
1930.. 125,630 3,454,922 117,950 ~
1931.. 127,397 3,532,635 120,395 ~
1932.. 127,524 3,660,167 132,161 „
1933.. 131,359 3,802,443 146,285 „
Last year forfeitures appear to have eased,
and sales were better. The net increase in
bonds sold was 3835, and in the face value
thereof £142,276; corresponding figures for
the previous term were 127 and £127,532
respectively.
However, the net growth in the year’s re-
venue, which includes bonds .sold at their
face value, plus 6 p.c. of the maintenance
trust fund, etc., was only £29,361, due partly
to lighter returns from investments outside
the business:—
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend
March, Sales, etc. ment. ance. Profit.* 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £166,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14,772
1931.. 310, 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,537
1932.. 285,296 246,101 39,195 15,537
1933.. 314,657 286,198 28,459 15,797
*Subject to taxation.
The expenditure on land, development and
maintenance, which includes bond-selling
costs, was £40,097 heavier, leaving the de-
clared profit £10,736 lighter at £28,459, of
which £9OOO, as against £15,000 in the pre-
vious year, was earmarked for taxation. The
div., which was kept at 8 p.c., was paid
out of the returns from investments outside
the business.
When the books closed free reserves
totalled £30,173, and the planting and main-
tenance fund, which appears to be in excess
of requirements, figured at £1,062,974, of
which £566,194 had been deposited in trust
with the representative of the bondholders
as a guarantee that the co. will carry out
its contracts.
Shareholders are in a very comfortable
position. Last year they received some of
the planted areas as a gift (details were not
broadcast), thus giving them a direct in-
terest in the forests in addition to pro-
prietary rights over profits from the sales ’
of bonds, etc. To ensure return of the whole
of the share capital, a sum equal to or
exceeding paid capital is to be specially re-
served for - the purpose. Also, arrangements
have been made whereby the co. is to be-
come selling agent and manager for the
bondholders in connection with the realisa-
tion of the forests. The commission men-
tioned was 1J p.c. of gross sales for cash ;
24 p.c. of gross sales on any other basis.
Finances are comfortable enough:—
1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £191,266 £197,536 £197,536
Sundry creditors .. 91,361 72,523 46,538
Land 33,343 118,646 12,563
Plant, etc 21,686 24,523 21,359
Investments . . . . 58,547 151,924 295,744
Bondholders’ balances.. 751,987 432,665 346,122
Other book debts . . 13,056 25,240 53,467
Maintenance reserves . . 455,952 589,479 566,194
Cash .. .. .. 11,695 9,537 41,770
The year’s reduction of £106,083 in the book
value of land was due partly to the gift
already referred to. The £143,820 added to
investments, mainly Government securities,
lifted the item £98,208 in excess of paid
capital. The reduction of £23,285 in the
maintenance reserve and the growth of
£28,227 in sundry debtors are due mainly to
the purchase of land to facilitate realisation.
A realisation committee, on which both
the co. and bondholders are represented, has
been inquiring into “the widest possible
range of utilities derivable from the forests,
cost of production of each and probable
markets” for the last year or .so; definite
proposals are to be submitted within the
next few months. The co. has agreed to
make advances on loan “properly secured”
to the trustee for the bondholders for the pur-
pose of preparing to market the forests, and
to invest so much of its funds as is mutually
agreed upon in any undertaking for the real-
isation of the forests.
But it is too early yet to form any worth-
while idea how bondholders are likely to
come out of the venture. At the movement
the lumber trade the world over is feeling
sick, like most other industries.
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes . . . . £8,273 ) - Qrn
1928*.. 16,708 10 p.c. = 6,315 10,393 } 1,8;>0
1929 .. 18,101 12§„ ~12,158 5,943 7,763
1930 .. 20,773 12* „ „ 12,528 8,245 16,008
1931 .. 12,302 9 ~ „ 11,052 1,250 17,258
1932 .. 13,210 9 „ „ 11,070 2,140 19,398
1933 .. 14,912 10 ~ „ 12,30'0 2,612 22,010
*ll4 months.
The Westralian Portland Cement Cos. set
up works on the river bank near Perth in
1920. Though its Lake Clifton scheme failed,
the co. struggled on till 1927, when the
undertaking passed to the present co. for
£110,998, or approximately half the. figure at
which the old concern was capitalised. No
goodwill figured in the deal. Thus favored,
the management has been able to capture
more of the local trade, despite keen com-
petition from Victorian and English manu-
facturers. Moreover, in Westralia the
slump in construction work has been less
pronounced than in the Eastern States,
thanks largely to the expanding activity of
the big mining cos.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, declared net earnings sprang
£1702, reaching 12.1 p.c. on capital as against
10.7, 10, 20.7 and 18.2 p.c. back to 1929.
The div., which dropped from 124 p.c. in
3930 to 9 p.c. for the two' following terms,
was lifted to 10 p.c. That was after openly
adding £7484 net, as against £11,300 in the
previous term, to the reserve for depreciation,
raising it to £57,490, or 40.6 p.c. of the book
value of plant at Feb. 28. In addition,
£8458 more was written off than was spent,
on plant during the year, notwithstanding
the installation of anew grinding-mill. But
discerning shareholders will raise no objec-
tions to a policy which recognises that a
high rate of dividend largely depends upon
the efficiency of the plant.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—-
1928. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £97,269 £123-,040 £123,040 £123,040
Liabilities . . 8,161 3,001 1,981 4,349
Freeholds .. 10,373 14,226 14,262 14,737
Plant . . 91,647 149,327 149,971 141,513
Stocks, etc... 8,757 9,495 6,193 8,768
Book debts . . 9,650 5,681 10,065 1'0,215
Cash, etc. . . 3,941 8,703 22,664 45,886
It is thus plain that over the last five years
modernising additions . and improvements
have been made to plant and paid for out
of earnings to the benefit of costs. Most
of the money that became available last
year, including the allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc., was put in the bank. The growth
in the more or less liquid surplus (£60,520)
was £23,579, making the improvement.
£46,333 since the close of accounts in 1928.
The fully-paid pound shares are covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 235.
7d.: there is another 9s. 4d. in the depre-
ciation reserve.
Emu and Prospect Gravel (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 11,010 10 p.c. = 8976 2034 18,724
Unexplained reductions, £SOO . . 18,224
1928.. 11,042 10 p.c. = 8976 2066 20,290
Unexplained additions, £776 . . 21,06’6
1929.. 9,782 10 p.c. = 8976 806 21,872
Unexplained reductions, £Bl3 .. 21,059
1930.. 1,565 Nil 1565 22,624
Unexplained reductions, £3935 .. 18,689
Loss.
1931.. 1,752 Nil 16,937
Unexplained reduction. £1543 .. 15,394
1932.. 1,006 Nil 14,388
This co. has been working gravel deposits
at Emu Plains and a metal quarry, at Pros-
pect, both handy to Sydney, since the begin-
ning of this century. It never launched out
on a large scale, but, until recently, always
managed to pay a div., though the rate was
irregular and modest until the post-war boom
arrived. Then activity in road and other
construction, due to the scattering of loan
money, created a strong demand and good
prices for metal, enabling a steady 10 p.c.
to be distributed for the decade to the close
of accounts in 1929.
But slump and the political misfortunes
of N. S. Wales brought about paralysis of
the construction trades. To secure its share
of the trifle of business offering, the co. had
cut prices below cost, hence the absence of
divs. for the last three years. For the 12
months covered by the latest accounts the
loss was £746 lighter at £IOO6. of which only
£157 was in respect of the last half of the
term.
Now that the Government is spending a
bit more on roads and other public works,
the co.’s immediate prospects have bright-
ened. Still, competition threatens to keep
earnings at a moderate figure. Thus the
pound shares, which are offered at 145., fail
to attract buyers. The book value of the
cover is 235. Id. in net tangibles, mainly
plant, quarries, etc., worth what they can
earn.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it is as follows:
1Q97 IQQI iqqq
Paid capital .. .. £89,760 £91,181 £91,181
Liabilities .. . . 1,187 11,813 9,767
Land, quarries, etc. . . 55,448 55,462 55,462
Plant and buildings . , 23,974 48,862 50,591
Shares in other cos... 2,242 3,955 3,955
Stocks 1,248 4,491 4,163
Debtors . . . . . . 9,961 7,219 8,432
Cash, etc. 26,761 7,392 183
To carry an extra £1213 of book debts, add
£1792 to plant, etc., and clip £2044 off the
debt, cash, etc., was drawn upon for £7209
last year. The slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£3Oll, including stocks) was
£4279.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-op.
Bonus
Dividends, to Written
April, Profit. (6 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
1923.. 3,457 1486 750 8,343
1924.. 3,256 1496 750 9,353
1925.. 4,865 1496 l5OO 11.222
1926.. 3,092 1496 2OOO 10,818
7 p.c.
1927.. 5,065 1745 - 3252 10,886
1928.. 5,263 1745 1.281 500 12,623
1929.. 9,369 1745 1,962 1700 16,585
Rebates.
1930.. 11,623 1745 4,403 2500 19,560
1931.. 13,226 1745 5,473 2500 23,068
1932.. 15,155 1745 6,610 4750 25,118
1933.. 13,085 1745 10,171 26,287
A lot of the butter exported by Victorian
factories passes ■ through this co.’s freezing
works at Victoria Dock, Melbourne. Other
lines handled are meat, rabbits and all kinds
of butter-manufacturing equipment. The
co. does not broadcast the quantities of
butter, etc., it handles; but a run of good
seasons and, until the end of last year, satis-
factory prices (thanks partly to the Pater-
son scheme) have resulted in a steady
growth of butter exports over the last half-
dozen years, which probably explains the im-
provement in earnings.
Despite the drop in prices the value of
Australian butter exports for the nine
months to the end of March was £8,392,008,
or £510.601 more than for the corresponding
period of 1931-32. Over the same periods
lamb and mutton shipments were £293 662
lighter at £2,408,369. For the year to the
end of April the co.’s gross earnings
(£24,290, including £10,171 of commissions
rebated to clients) slipped £473. Exes.
(£11,205) sprang £1597; still, enough re-
mained to repeat the usual 7 p.c. div. and
send £1169 to reserves, raising them £1357
in excess of capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1922. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £24,762 £24,93'0 £24,930 £24,930
Liabilities .. 40,181 27,831 25,124 22,653
Premises and plant 26,847 29,229 27,189 22,321
Stocks .. .. 3,358 5,206 868 2,782
Book debts . . 29,398 22,787 22.190 26,450
Cash and War Loan 123 219 5,165 161
Shares in other cos. 15,594 25,186 28,376 28,376
The freezing works, which cost. £53,943, are
in at £22,220, down £4723 during the last
12 months. When the books closed, stocks,
debtors’ balances and cash exceeded liabili-
ties by £6740.
Owing to a dry spell in the dairying dis-
tricts, Victoria’s weekly output of butter is
now less than half what it was at the close
of 1932, and little more than sufficient for
local requirements. Nevertheless, Austra-
lian shipments to Britain for the 10 months
to the end of April totalled 88,996 tons as
against 72,883 tons and 57,662 tons for the
corresponding periods of the two preceding
.seasons. Maoriland and Denmark greatly
increased their consignments, too. The
pressure broke down prices in the London
market, where Australian choicest fetched
no more than 675. per cwt. a couple
of months ago; the figure is now 82s. as
against 108 s. at the end of 1931.
Bagot’s Executor & Trustee Cos., Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. . serves. Reserves.
1923.. 1915 10 p.c. = 1250 665 4428
1924.. 2060 10 „ „ 1250 814 5242
Premiums on shares, £35 .. 6277
1925*.. 3234 10 p.c. = 2292 942 6219
1926.. 3006 10 ~ „ 2500 506 6725
1927.. 3021 10 „ ~ 2500 621 7246
1928.. 3150 10 ~ „ 2500 650' 7896
1929.. 3115 10 „ „ 2500 615 8511
1930.. 2511 10 ~ ~ 2500 11 8522
1931.. 2763 10 .. .. 2500 263 8785
Profit on securities, £497 .. 9282
1932.. 2080 71 „ ~1875 9487
1933.. 2036 7* „ ~ 1875 161 9648
This little Adelaide trustee co. was launched
in 1910 as an offshoot of Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, and shareholders had a steady 10
P»c. for the 14 years to the close of accounts
in 1931. Then the rate dropped to p.c.,
the fall in values and cut in interest hav-
ing lowered the co.’s commission and other
earnings. The co. does not disclose the
volume of trusts in hand, but it is not large,
as the following comparison of p. and 1.
figures suggests:—
Commissions. Interest. Expenses.
1924 .. £5516 £IO2B £4481
1925 .. 6638 1681 5080
1926 .. 6819 1826 5639
1927 .. 7144 1854 5978
1928 .. 8083 1909 6842
1929 .. 8427 1924 7236
1930 . . 7888 1980 7348
1931 .. 7900 1998 7135
1932 .. 7527 1722 7169
1933 .. 7471 1576 6928
Allowing for minor reserve adjustments, the
net result was 8.1 p.c. on capital as against
8.3, 11, 10 and 12.4 p.c. back to 1929. Now
that prices have strengthened a trifle and
interest rates are steadier, a little improve-
ment in the co.’s figures may be looked for.
However, the growth of the business has been
slow, and it is doubtful whether an early lift
in the div. need be expected.
There are 200,000 £1 shares paid to 2s. 6d.
At 4s. Td. the return is 4.1 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis, or 4.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
The backing is 3s. sd. per share in net
tangibles.
At March 31 assets comprised : Government
securities, £26,650; mortgage. £2100; sundry
debtors, £5345; fittings, £645; cash, etc,
£1690.
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd.
f Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill and trade-marks .. .. 15,000
Preliminary exes., £1634 .. .. 16,634
1929.. 1582 1277 Nil 305 16,329
1930.. 8139 2250 Nil 5889 10,440
1931. . 7867 2250 4 p.c. = 1350 4267 6,173
1932.. 223 2123 Nil - 8,073
1933.. 1911 1744 Nil 167 7,906
This little offshoot of the Jantzen Knitting
Mills, U.S.A., put up a factory at Lidcombe,
near Sydney, about five years ago to manu-
facture swimming suits. Of its £58,750 of
capital, £25,000 in 9 p.c. cum. prefs. was sub-
scribed locally, the parent took 15,000 fully-
paid ords. for rights' and put up cash for
25,000 (paid to 155.). For a while demand
ran ahead of production, owing to early
difficulties with the machines. But these
were overcome, and, after paying the pref.
div., there was enough to show 17.4 p.c. on
ord. capital in the second year, followed by
16.6 p.c. in 1931. when 4 p.c. was paid.
Then demand turned to cheaper lines,
prices had to .be cut to hold business, and
reserves were tapped for £I9OO to pay the
pref. div. in 1932. During the last term
gross earnings (£23,769) fell away £952;
exes. (£21,858) wrnre pulled back £2640,
leaving enough profit to pay the pref. div..
with £167 to spare. However, new lines,
including men’s knitted coats, are now being
manufactured, turnover is on the up-grade,
and earnings are expected to improve.
The market therefore prices the pound
prefs, at 19s. as against 15s. 6d. a year ago.
Allowing for the statutory cut p.c.),
the return at 19s. is 7.3 p.c. The net tan-
gible cover is £2 ss. 9d.
Finances are comfortable enough :—■
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital . . £52,500 £58,750 £58,750 £58,750
Sundry creditors. . 3,189 9,173 4,344 4,481
Freehold . . . . 16,670 15,999 17,681 17,216
Plant .. .. 8,052 9,461 9,423 8,982
Stocks . . .. 9,656 14,184 11,599 9,530
Book debts . . 2,120 1,080 2/052 1.403
Cash, etc 3,353 22,376 14,265 18,193
Thus when the books closed the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was more than four
times covered by cash, etc., alone. The
year’s improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£24,645) was £1073.
(“Wild Gat” continueand on


•> .. s - SV.Kg g " ' Sgg
' mj , p
mmw®
mmm
m
mmm
y; U.
SV »*
Wm
9 m $ <
r*>
m
04$
m*
HO
m
m
mm
m
wmmmmm
The ONLY Shilling Tin
of Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Why outlay a penny more when one
shilling buys you fourteen cigarettes
of the special Country Life blend in
a compact, glascine-wrapped purse-
and-pocket-fitting tin?
14 «
/or |f-
-21/oK6
Also in Tins of 50, 100
and 130. Also 50s, Round
Airtight Tins.
Com
.5374-6-2
ntry Life
dlitlAj


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coli.ison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.l. —Advt.
H { :J: :jj
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; .T. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * v- *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
r\ The Metallurgical Works of
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
ẁ
"A sure friend in uncertain times”
■•a
z
Head Office: Pitt- Sh Sydney
ANNUAL BONUS CERTIFICATE
Date of Issue i Place 1903
Sum Assured 4 Table t. 500
Policy No & Life Assured 416, 965
Reversionary Bonus Additions Allotted prior to 1932 in Force 31” Dec 1932 i 434 :6.; 0
Reversionary Bonus Addition for year ending .31?! Dec 1932 i. ,_.19 4';o
After a policy has been in force and the Life assured has survived for two (2) complete years the
Reversionary Bonus Additions are payable along with the sum assured at death or maturity or the present
value may be obtained in cash or applied to reduce the premiums for the remainder of the term.
1 • FOR INSTRUCTIONS CONCERNING SURRENDER OF BONUS SEE OVER f
'' ” '"' ' i . ■ - ■ V'
ACHollingworth General Manager. C A Elliott Actuary
THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED ERRORS t OMISSIONS EXCEfTED & IS TO BE TAKEN AS A NOTICE ONLY
A.M.P.
Bonus distribution
£4 255 000
THIS week the Society distributes £4,255,000
in Reversionary bonuses on all participating
policies in force in the ordinary department on
31st December last year. These bonuses have an
immediate cash value of £2,470,310. They mean
that participating members are receiving back, in
cash or its equivalent reversionary bonuses, 46 per
cent, of the premiums they paid last year.
Despite the difficulties of 1932, the heavy increase
in taxation and lower rates of interest, the amount
available for distribution is just a little more than
last year. But for what the Directors think is an
unjustifiable increase in taxation, the surplus would
have been larger. Proof again (if proof were wanted)
that the methods of the Society give it strength to
withstand all the winds of adversity.
It is a wise man who invests his savings in A.M.P.
policies. There is no better way in which to invest
them.
AMP. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
BRANCH OFFICES AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
New policies issued last year
£i 3, 6 fO, 3 26
During May, imports of lead into Great
Britain totalled 30,405 tons, of which 19,682
tons came from Australia. In March the
figures were 19,835 and 9064. The average
price of lead for May was £l2 4s. Sd. com-
pared to £lO 14s. 4d. for March; the figure
is now £l3 16s. 3d. It all looks very en-
couraging for the Barrier cos. which a few
months ago talked about slowing down
because stocks were accumulating.
# * * *
A number of shareholders in Mt. Morgan,
dissatisfied with the board’s conduct of the
co.’s affairs, have called meetings in Sydney
and Melbourne for Thursday and Monday
next. Amongst other things, the conveners
say the fortnightly returns are inaccurate
and misleading.
* * * *
During 1932 the Electrolytic Smelting and
Refining Cos., Port Kernbla (N.S.W.), pro-
duced 632 tons of copper, 91410 z. gold and
48,8700 z. silver. In 1931 only 485 tons of
copper was turned out; of last year’s, 628
tons came from 2469 tons of low-grade matte
from B. IT. Associated Smelters, Port Pirie.
The unatte is obtained from the smelting of
copper dross, formed during purification of
the lead bullion, which, as it comes from the
blast furnaces, contains 1.6 p.c. copper.
* * * *
The average grade of ore mined at Mt.
Isa continues to fall. The assay for the
65,226 tons extracted during May was 9.7
p.c. lead and 5.20 z. silver, compared with
10.9 p.c. lead and 5.80 z. silver in March.
The grade of jig and flotation concentrates
has also suffered. The bullion produced in
May contained 4872 tons of lead and
241,5650 z. silver; the lot was valued at
£78,873, equal to 245. per ton of ore milled.
The new flotation unit is expected to im-
prove things. Seven glory holes are now
being worked in the carbonate section of the
Black Star, and the sulphide stopes in the
Black Rock and Rio Grande are yielding
their proportions, too. Metal prices need to
strengthen only a little further, and Isa
will give a satisfactory account of itself.
* * *
James Bowry of the Towers (Q.) in-
spected a lease on the Upper Cape River
deep lead on behalf of Adelaide interests;
now an export in dredging and hydraulic
sluicing is on his way to the locality. The
field, first worked in 1868, yielded approxi-
mately 50,0000 z. gold, valued at £200,000,
to the end of 1889. On the lower Cape (the
principal mining centre) the wash averaged
about 3oz. to the load; it has been treated
from the surface down to’ about 40ft. The
deep lead was worked for several miles when
it widened and became too poor. Fossickers
have been trying the locality lately, with
varying results.
* * * *
At Metal Hill, Chillagoe (Q.), upwards
of a dozen claims have been pegged, follow-
ing the disclosure of uranium in a sample
of ore sent to Germany. This is the first
discovery of uranium in Queensland. The
metal, dark in color and heavy, is also found
in Cornwall, Saxony and elsewhere. Its
oxides and salts are of importance, being
used for coloring glass and other purposes.
The discovery of radium was due to' experi-
ments with uranium.
* sis s': :J:
Kingston Gold Mines, within 20 miles of
Brisbane, is quarrying low-grade dirt. The
last return was 940 z. of gold from 1545 tons
of ore and alluvial, considerably beloAV pre-
vious figures. The co. is working a big open-
cut; but the last return is not good enough.
However, some of the shoots assay from
sdwt. to lOdwt.; it only means striking
one of these big enough, and the struggling
days would be over.
* :S * %
Two men on unemployed relief in Queens-
land have struck a rich reef, 12in. to 15in.
wide, in New Zealand Gully, Calliope, at
the back of Gladstone. Slugs of gold
are present; one found weighed 300 z., worth
about £2OO. Finds such as these are the
lure of prospecting. In this case the lucky
• digger was George Goody, who many years
ago wielded his pick at Coolgardie on
Bayley’s Reward claim.
* * * *
Divination of gold is having a good run
around Charters Towers this year. One
syndicate put down a series of bores. 300 ft.
to 400 ft, without serious results, although
gold-bearing formation has been reported.
Lolworth has had a try-out,' too. A shaft
on Winton’s Hope has reached 63ft.; it is
costing £6 a foot to sink in hard granite,
so far without a trace of lode formation.
The mines inspector says the shaft looks
most unpromising.
* * * *
Dave Ritcliford, the lucky Atherton Table-
land farmer who went out to Almaden, near
Chillagoe, looking for gold, almost started
a stampede at the township with his first
two truckloads of surface dirt. They re-
turned about £700; and the tally has gone
U P to over £IOOO since. He has found one
of the leaders that shed the gold, but so
far it has not come up to expectations
though he has followed it down 70ft.
* * * #
The Mt. Freda lode, Soldier’s Cap 28
miles s.-e. of Cloncurry (Q.). has been
proved for a distance of ,1150 ft., widths
ranging from 12ft. to 30ft. A crosscut from
the bottom of No. 2 shaft (120 ft. down)
has shown a wide make of over Bdwt. stone
dipping from the shaft. The crosscut on
No. 3 level, which shows odwt. stone in the
tace . is to be extended to pick up the better
ore. The lode, which occurs in thorite, was
first worked in the eighties of last century,
but the grade was too low with gold at 84s.
* * * $
For the first five months of this year the
Palmer River Cos, (N.Q.) recovered over
300 oz. of gold, worth nearly £2OOO, from
14, <OO c.y. A lot of raw sand, not carry-
ing values, has been met with lately
especially in the deep ground" The best
values have come from the friable gravels
m the shallow levels
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging has been getting
better yields lately. The return for June
12,2900 z. bullion, compared with
12,1540 z. and 11,1470 z. in May and April
respectively, when the same quantity of dirt
(489,000 c.y.) was handled. The co.’s third
dredge, now being erected on the Bulowat
leases, will be in operation by the end of
the year, and will dig 300,000 c.y. monthly.
* * * *
A London group has become interested in
the Clements, Talbot. Hopkins, Ilomebush
and Lamplough deep leads at Maryborough
(Vic.). Work has commenced at Talbot;
the main shaft is being unwatered, and the
* * * *
lead, believed to be 1400 ft. wide and Bft.
thick, will be tested. Anew shaft is to be
sunk near the junction of the Ilomebush
and Hopkins leads, and another on the Lam-
plough lease.
••h * =5 *
Bendigo’s gold yield for June was 23520 z.,
or 9760 z. better than for June, 1932. For
the half year, the output was 15,3730 z. as
against 74140 z. for the corresponding half
of 1932.
* * *
Westralia’s gold production for the first
half of 1933 was worth nearly 2.1 millions
in Australian currency. The output was
about ll,ooooz. more than for the first half
of 1932. With the steady increase in pro-
duction and depreciation of paper there has
been a sharp rise in the price of gold-mining
shares. At the end of June, 1930, South Ival-
gurlis were quoted locally iat 165.; Wilunas,
235.; Lake Views, 12s. 9d.; Sons of Gwalias,
ss. Id.; Gt. Boulders, Is. Cd.; Boulder Per-
severances, 6d. Prices at June 30 last were
South Ivalgurlis, 41s. 6d.; Wilunas, 595. 3d.;
Lake Views, 245. Id.; Sons of Gwalias, 335.
3d.; Gt. Boulders, 10s. 4d., and Boulder Per-
severances, 3s.
# * * :•«
Lake View’s final 6d. div. makes the dis-
tribution for year ended June 30, £195,000
(=ls. 6d. a share). The current year’s dis-
bursement is expected to total 2s. or per-
haps 2s. 6d. a share. The co. is now treat-
ing more ore (approx. 45,000 tons a month)
than has ever been handled by any gold-
mining co. in Australia. Next estimate of
ore reserves, due in Oct. or Nov., is expected
to be around the 2,000,000-ton mark. "The
last declared figure was 1,830,000 tons.
* #» % if.
Chairman John Waddington at the Great
Boulder meeting in London on June 29
told shareholders that developments at depth
on the east side had given the mine anew
lease of life, that anew treatment plant
(cost £120,000) would be installed within
a year, that costs would be reduced and divs.
maintained, and that the residue dumps,
accumulated between 1908 and 1921 and
containing over 2,000,000 tons, would yield
a clear profit in Aust. currency of £200,000.
Something was also said about the permanent
character of the ore bodies on the east side,
but nothing was mentioned about irregu-
larity in values. Shareholders approved the
increase in capital from £175,000 to £250,000
by the creation of 750,000 new 2s. shares,
of which it is intended to issue 583,333 to
shareholders at ss. each.
* * -U *
During its last fiscal year Boulder Per-
severance completed its new treatment plant
and discovered a valuable lode below the
1000 ft. level. Also, treatment costs were
lowered, despite an increase in the price of
cyanide. Arrangements have been made with
North Kalgurli to treat the ore from both
mines at the Perseverance mill, which is to
be enlarged to enable 10,000 tons from the
Perseverance and 5000 tons from the North
Kalgurli to be handled monthly.
* * * *
The seventh bore put down on Reedy’s
Mararoa at Cue (W.A.) by Western Gold
Mines, Ltd., proved 17ft. of lode assaying
12dwt. No. 6 showed only 3ft. of 7dwt.
material. The strike of the lode has now
been proved by drilling for a. distance of
1200 ft., the average width being 12ft. All
except one bore disclosed payable stone.
Underground development will now be
pushed ahead.
❖ * * $
Westralian Gold Development syndicate
has taken an option over Smith’s lease
of 48 acres at Wiluna (W.A.). The shaft
is down 100 ft. and the lode. 17ft. wide,
assays from 7dwt. to 22dwt. The £lB paid
shares rocketed from £3O to £l5O following
the announcement. Anew co. is being
formed by the syndicate to work a property
on the lower Watut, New Guinea.
a* * * *
Reg. Solly’s find at Widgiemooltha (W.A.)
is reported to contain several large ore bodies,
carrying high values over good widths. But
few discoveries have lived at depth in this
district, which is near the Larkinville area,
where the Golden Eagle Nugget was found
in 1931.
* * * *
Kampong Kamunting Tin. one of the Aus-
tral Malay group, has decided to reduce its
capital from £70,000 to £35,000, .as no use can
be found for the funds. The co. is one of the
most successful in Malaya. It was floated
in 1913, and reduced its capital from
£140,000 to £70,000 in 1924. Dividends paid
to the end of 1930 total £654,000, or
£4 13s. 6d. per 20s. share. Over 26 million
cubic yards of dirt have been treated for a
return of 10,500 tons of tin oxide, an aver-
age of 0.91 b. per yard. One dredge has been
sold and the second, recently reconditioned,
will work the Ivarangan area. Here there is
7,000,000 c.y. of 0.771 b. ground awaiting
treatment.
* * * *
During 1932, Renong Consolidated, one of
Burma Malay’s pups operating in F.M.S.,
dug 1,403,000 c.y. for 488 tons of tin oxide,
an average of 0.711 b. per yard. Net profit
was £17,050; dredging costs were 3.26 and. At
last year’s rate of digging there is about 11
years’ work ahead. The dredge is now in
richer ground, the return for May being 61.9
tons from 86,000 c.y., or 1.621 b. yer yard.
* * * *
Kopah Tin, a Melbourne show formed in
1926 to dredge 300 acres of 0.61 b. ground al
Takaupa, West Siam, is putting up tin*
shutters. Shareholders turned down the
proposal to increase capital by ss. per share
The dredge, which has a capacity of 130,000
c.y. monthly, is to be sold. It has been idle
since May, 1931.
* * * $
Puket Tin, formed in 1930 with a capital
of £300,000 to dredge an area of 658 acres
at Ivatu, on Puket Island, Siam, has com-
menced shipment of the dredge material.
Waihi owns two-thirds of the capital and
Tronoh, an English co. with five dredges
and leases totalling 4725 acres, the balance.
* * * *
The International Tin Research Council,
which has been investigating new uses for
tin, has produced an alloy containing lead,
tin and cadmium that is 30 p.c. lighter than
lead of similar strength. It is also claimed
that this alloy is more suitable than lead for
piping and sheet. But whether it will be
able to compete with lead in price is another
question.
*■:=**
The mineral production of the Northern
Territory for 1932 was valued at £13,074.
Gold, principally from The Granites, Tanami
and Brocks Creek, totalled 4210 z. fine, valued
at £2987; tin concentrates from Maranboy
and Hayes Creek, 30 tons, £2001: wolfram
from Mt. Hardy, 13 tons, £420; copper ore
from Wollogorang, 17 tons. £137; silver-lead
ore from Winnecke’s Depot, ISi tons, £273.
BRIEF ANSWERS
F.G.J. :.The co. is still expanding; it yet remains
to be seen what proportion of pref. to ord. capital
will be issued, and whether the chain business will
be overdone... .D.C.: Making inquiries.... J.P.M.:
Write Secretary, New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., 67
York-street, Sydney; Rulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.,
Wingello House, Angel-place, Sydney; Bulolo Gold
Deposits, 195 Victoria-square, Adelaide... .G.D.H.:
It is one thing to have a large stock of a com-
modity, but quite another to be able to sell it at
a profit. The shares are long-term speculations. The
recent experience of old-established concerns in the
timber-trade does not encourage extravagant hopes.
*.. • Nuggett: Both are gambles at long odds.


"\W\ STARRING,, AUNT 1
1 certaimuy impress
MY PUBLIC ,' N
* HOW THESE BACXBLOCKERS ADMIRE NERVE !
* OVER SEVENTY | =
A GOlhiq TO BE /\ NATIOHAkL- HERO.
# r \
"THEY R.E CHEERING, N/\E .
VsIONOER IF THE. GoVERNORtU Q£ AT
MY RECEPTION ? "
‘The Reception.
HIS REWARD.
“The N.S.W. Commissioner of Police said that the Law should deal severely with motorists who attempt road [?] An average of over 50 m.p.h was
recently maintained between Sydney and Melbourne.”


SHADOW SHOWS.
The director of “Bedtime Story,” at the
Prince Edward, has considei-ably restricted
the activities of Maurice Chevalier. For
once in a way the French charmer, who is
not so young as he was and is beginning to
look it, divides the limelight with Eddie E.
Horton (his valet), Helen Twelvetrees and
a baby.
The baby is abandoned by its parents in
the car which meets Maurice on his return
t:o Paris, and he adopts it. The shape of
its underlip satisfies him that it is his.
The photography of the baby is mas-
terly ; the art and patience of the camera-
man have made it appear at times that this
year-old child is acting. The feat has been
accomplished before, of course, with adult
stars of infantile mentality, but to bring it
off with a genuine infant amounts to a
triumph.
Most of the humor derives from the ’pren-
tice efforts of Chevalier and Horton to look
after the child, and when the somewhat
slender possibilities in that direction have
been exhausted a love story is introduced.
Helen Twelvetrees arrives as the baby’s
nurse, and for the first time the World’s
Sheik experiences the elevating effects of
true love. A former mistress, who is the
wife of one of his friends, pushes into his
bedi*oom, and the husband follows. So does
Helen Twelvetrees. Helen and the wife are
behind some curtains when the husband con-
fronts his supposed betrayeix
Maurice admits that a lady is there. He
dalls on the husband, as between men of the
world, to spare her feelings. Will he be
satisfied if she pushes a lock of her hair
through the curtains? So Helen saves the
situation by exhibiting a lock of her hair.
The trick wouldn’t have gone down with a
real Parisian, since it has been featured in
Palais Royal farces for generations, but it
is good enough for a talkie Parisian, and
the story ends with evei\ybody contented.
Many will say that Eddie Horton, with
Lis deferential manner and rueful counten-
ance, which l’elaxes momentai*ily into a nau-
seated smile when his master performs some
gaffe of exceptional magnitude, is the best
thing in the show. Others may plump for
the baby.
¥ * #
Wheeler and Woolsey, far more than
Laurel and Hardy, depend for success on
the stunts devised by their gag-merchants:
their humor is essentially mechanical. They
have been provided with some funny situa-
tions in “So This Is Africa!” at the Regent.
For example, they smash a lift at the top
of a New York skyscrapeix As it flashes
past floor after floor the bespectacled mem-
ber of the team rings up the manager of
the building, explains the situation at
length, and asks for advice. The African
part is a satire on jungle films. Those who
like W. and W. will yell at it. The writer
makes this forecast. with confidence, as he
heard hundreds doing it on Saturday night.
“Gabriel Over the White House” conveys
a message to civilisation which is singularly
apposite at the present juncture. The mes-
sage isn’t encouraging. Apparently the only
way .an American President can turn him-
self into a friend of humanity ,is by smashing
his car up; and President Roosevelt, with
nearly four years to go, doesn’t drive a car.
# Huston is . like almost any president
since the Armistice ; he doesn’t give a cuss
for distressed proletarians or wai’-ruined
Europeans. Then a tyre bursts while he is
driving at 98 m.p.li. and his brain is affected.
He goes into the White House grounds, and,
facing the assembled multitude, propounds a
kind of Lang Plan. He will find work and
wealth for everybody by enlisting the
U.S.A.’s 13,000,000 unemployed in an Army
of Construction. When the Senate tries to
stop him he declares a dictatorship. Gang-
sters, who are to be abolished at the same
time as poverty, put him on the spot; but
bis resourceful secretary, Franchot Tone,
changes into khaki, captures the gangsters
with a fleet of ai-mored ears, and condemns
them to be shot at a fantastic court-martial.
Finally the President brings about world-
disarmament, and, surrounded on a ship by
staggei'ed representatives of the European
Powers in seedy top-hats, he has the Ameri-
can fleet destroyed as “antiquated scrap-
iron.” It is eloquent of his trouble that he
should have the vessels bombed fi’om the air
regardless of expense instead of economically
scuttled.
Through it all he talks and talks, chiefly
.into megaphoixes; and Karen Morley (who
’ was something more than a typist to him
before the smash, we regret to say) con-
ceives a virtuous passion for Franchot, which
he reciprocates. They are marxled wirii
the President’s blessing, and But per-
haps the finish had better not be revealed.
In the round the talkie is melodramatic
nonsense, but individual sequences are in-
teresting, for. the light they throw on Ameri-
can institutions, such as the Senate; and
some, of the photography is softly beauti-
ful—in particular the shots in which Karen
Morley and her lover appear, with shadowy
trees seen through windows as a background.
Walter Huston is impressive as the kind of
President whom the world may expect when,
as a. result of a car smash, the Archangel
Gabriel descends from Heaven and interests
himself in American party politics.
* * *
“The Midshipmaid,” at the Plaza, is a
medley of music and broad comedy with a
romance thrown in. It is very “stagey,”
from its painted back drops to its artificial
situations, but the acting is bright and the
musical turns, though nothing out of the
box, are far. from being inflictions.
, The midshipmaid is Jessie Matthews. She
is the daughter of a pompous old politician
(Frederick Kerr), who has been sent to
Malta by an economy committee to pry
into naval expenditure. While the old gentle-
man investigates Miss- Matthews captures the
heart of a commander (Basil Sidney) and
sings with him a song composed by one of
the midshipmen. In order to show the
economy expert that the navy can entertain
without splashing money around the inevit-
able ship’s concert is arranged. The turns,
which take up the best part of the film, are
amusing enough—the one in which the band-
master (Edwin Lawrence) conducts one half
of his orchestra through the “Spring Song”
and the other through the “1S12” is capital
—but screen audiences have seen too many
ship’s concerts of late. Claude Allister,
A. W. Baskcomb, Anthony Buslxell and Nigel
Bruce are among those who get laughs.
“The Flying Squad” is an Edgar Wallace
thriller, which compares favorably with
almost any Hollywood creok film. It is as
smoothly directed, the acting is on the same
level, and the photography and settings are
admirable.
But the story takes some swallowing.
It concerns Ann, who comes to London to
trace her brother’s murderer. The brother
was a, drug smuggler and was killed by
McGill, his boss. McGill persuades Ann
that Bradley, a detective, did the deed. There-
upon Ann wages war on Bradley. Bradley,
howevei', is in love with the misguided
damsel, and she soon finds herself in love
with him. Sitting on the fence that divides
the dope-runners and the flying squad are
an aged foreign fiddler, a dipsomaniac and
an actor, who quotes the Bard of Avon.
The riaza doesn’t supply programmes so
this Showman was at a loss to know who
was playing who. Suffice it to s:ay that
whoever played Ann was excellent, and that
all the male principals, barring the somewhat
stiff detective-lover, were likewise.
¥ * *
At the Capitol is “King of the Jungle,”
a paraphrase of Kipling’s Mowgli. As
the hero spends almost all his time
Top to bottom, left to right. Walter Huston in “Gabriel Over the White House”;
Wheeler and Woolsey in “So This Is Africa,” both at the Sydney Regent;
Baby Leroy and Maurice Chevalier in “A Bedtime Story” at the Prince Edward;
Buster Crabbe in “King of the Jungle” at Sydney Capitol.
attired in a neat set of leopard-skin bathing
trunks and nothing else, he has to be a
shapely lad, and Buster Crabbe, a former
swimming champion, is shapely or nothing.
Mr. Crabbe was stolen by lions at the age
of thi*ee and knew no other society until he
was captured by a circus proprietor. Frances
Dee comes into the picture as a schoolmarm
who charms the savage breast with music,
and teaches the savage paws to inscribe pot-
hooks. Of course, love dawns, arid as the wild
young man, upon becoming literate, stings the
circus owner for a princely salary, he is
able at last to realise his simple ambitions—
to maiTy the goil, redeem his lions from cap-
tivity, and take the whole outfit back to
Kenya Colony. The animal scenes are
cleverly done, and the sequences that show
a circus on fire and the menagerie amok
among the public are realistic. Tliei-e is
no attempt to explain away the impossi-
bilities of the fantasy, which is just as well.
“Uptown New York” exhibits Jack Oakie
and Shirley Grey in a series of heart-throbs
worked out on lines that the screen never
tires of. Shirley was a good girl, but her
boy friend, Leon Waycoff, a doctoi*, had to
marry someone else. He wasn’t quite satis-
fied to leave it at that, however. Then
Shirley married the golden-hearted Oakie,
and they were vurry, vurry happy until she
was knocked over by an automobile, and the
doctor, who brought her back from the land
of shadows, insisted on paying her hos-
pital bill.
This was . no use to the husband, who
sold his chain of nickel-in-tlie-slot machines
to recoup the money. As he had put half
the show in his wife’s name he was arrested
for fraud, but the lady got him out. and
they lived happily ever after. There’S no
ascertainable moral, unless it is that the
honest working guy always gets the best of
it in the finish.
As prelude to “Jungle King” and the
Oakie sob-story, there is a burlesque melo-
drama, “The Bride’s Bereavement,” which
so neatly satirises old-fashioned stage tech-
nique that it makes one sigh for the spacious
days of Bill Anderson and Bland Holt.
Anderson would complain that it is, if any-
thing, under-acted.
* * ¥
“On Our Selection” is being unwound
again at the Haymarket. The film differs
little from the play; in fact, some of the
characters behave as if they were on the
stage. This doesn’t apply to Bert Bailey, ot
course—a fine old artist in any medium.
The story doesn’t matter, and in any case it.
gets crowded out in this production which
has enough material for three films. For
a comedy, with Dad, Mum, Dave, Lily, Sarah,
Cranky Jack and Billy Bearup, as the laugh-
gettei’s; for a melodrama, with the Careys,
father and son, Kate and Cranky Jack in
the main roles; for a sentimental drama,
featuring Sandy and Kate.
“The Side-show Mystery,” a Van Dine, is
the principal short in the first half. The
story is uncommonly poor. A youngster
near this critic named the nnu-derer before
the detective and his offsider—he’s called
Doc. and he works out the thing while the
’tec stands by—decide that the victim js
dead!
Sundry Shows
“Music in the Air,” presented to Aus-
tralia for the first time at the Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, is musicomedy,
1933 model, stream-lined all over and replete
with many refinements of design. Following
a precedent of which “Autumn Crocus” was
a particularly neat example, the music, lyri-
cal and orchestral, is made to develop natu-
rally out of the action of the play. Plenty
of opportunities are offered in the plot, which
deals with musical people in a musically-
minded community, to escape from the neces-
sity of dragging solos, duets and efibruses
in by the ears.
It is not very often that Sydney sees an
Australian. first-night performance of this
class of thing, which is usually done first in
Melbourne, and the few little ragged edges
that peeped out, both in acting and produc-
tion, seemed almost shocking—a ti'ibute to the
orderly smoothness the Sydney public has
learned to associate with the Firm’s produc-
tions.
The story concerns an old music-teacher
(sympathetically represented by Cecil Kell-
away), who takes his daughter (played by a
newcomer with a pleasant manner and a
sense of humor, Shirley Dale) to Munich to
become a prima donna. She doesn’t succeed,
but she meets many intei-esting folk, and
finds a sweetheart.
In the cast of 32 the Firm has been able
to utilise the services of many players well
known to Australian audiences. Sylvia Wel-
ling), John Moore. Sidney Burchall and
Henry Wenman find parts that fit them ad-
mirably. Frank Sale makes an excellent
impression both as singer and actoix Scenery
is elaborate, and in some instances pretty.
Despite ten changes no time is wasted; the
show moves on.bi'iskly, with only one inter-
val. and the impression it made can be
gauged from the fact that at the final cur-
tain there was thunder from the gods of a
sort seldom heard, in these degenerate days
—the rhythmic stamping of a thousand feet.
¥ ¥ *
Baritone John Brownlee, for a series of
three “farewell concerts,” is appearing at
the Assembly Hall, in Sydney’s Margaret-
street, a building in which his voice and
that of Miss Rita Miller do not sound to
such advantage as in other auditoriums ip
which the singers hare been heard in Syd-
ney. However, the loss in quality is slight,
and Brownlee's programmes are always in-
teresting. For his recital on Saturday night
his principal numbers were Beethoven’s “In
Questa Tomba,” Handel’s “Silent Worship,’’
Schumann’s “Thou’rt Like a Tender
Flower,” and a vocal arrangement of the
“Danse Macabre” of Saint-Saens—all emi-
nently suited to the velvety smoothness of
Mr. Brownlee’s delivery. Also there were
several operatic excerpts (among the most
acceptable was Renato’s soliloquy on his
wife’s unfaithfulness from “Un Ballo in
Maschera”), some French chansons, and
operatic duets from Rossini’s “Barber” and
Massenet’s “Thais,” with Miss Miller.
Homer’s “Pauper’s Drive” came at the end.
Raymond Lambert proved himself a nice
accompanist, and played the Tausig version
of Scarlatti’s “Pastorale” Sonata and the
Leschetizky variations on a gavotte by
Rameau with taste and delicacy.
* * *
Sydney, which has taken young Philip
Hargrave to its heart, gave the youngster
a tumultuous farewell at the Town'Hall on
Saturday afternoon. After a recital that
opened with Bach and ended with balloons,
the audience invaded the small pianist’s
dressing-room and literally chased him to his
car. The boy’s playing seems much more
mechanical than it was at his first recitals.
A lengthy vacation should be the best remedy
for that sort of staleness, but Brisbane has
yet to be conquered.
* * *
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre
Players every now and again strike some-
thing they can do surprisingly well. To
their successes in “Precious Bane,” “Street
Scene” and “The Constant Nymph” they
have now to their credit a first-class perform-
ance of “Once in a Lifetime,” by Moss Hart
and George Kaufmann, presented at Sydney
Savoy. There are about 00 characters and
half a dozen changes of scenery. The play
opens in a New York room, where three
vaudevillians, played by Molly Brown, Neville
Malloy and James Pratt, are cursing their
jobless state. It is the day the talkies are
making their d6but in New York, and
they decide to open a school of elo-
cution in Hollywood. There they en-
counter Herman Glogauer (Edward Howell),
head of a film firm. When they fail to teach
Phyllis Fontaine (Phyllis Gregory) and
Florabel Leigh (Elizabeth Browne), two of
Glogauer’s stars, not to whine through their
noses, they are fired. But one of their
number, by a series of accidents, gets a job
as a producer, and by a further series of
accidents makes a howling success of it. The
dialogue is a series of wise-cracks that go
down well with any Sydney audience, and the
points of the satire on filrndom are stabbed
in with relentless violence. Apart from the
principals, clever work was done by Tlieresr
Desmond, Dulcie Cohen (a bored reception
clerk). John Wyndham (a playwright),
John Dense (a German director). William
Hume (a bishop) and Albert Collins (a
negro porter). The scenery, simple yet
effective, was by Don Finley. The co.’s
next production will be Ronald McKenzie’s
“Musical Chairs.”
* H- H-
In “When Ladies Meet,” introduced to
Melbourne King’s by Isobel Elsom and co.
on Saturday night, Rachel Crothers, author
of “Let Us Be Gay” and “As Husbands Go,”
handles a first-class theme. An American
lady novelist is writing a book in which she
envisages her own relations with her pub-
lisher. She imagines that potential mis-
tresses always go with their prospective para-
mors and confront wives with logical argu-
ments. Convinced by these arguments of
their own deficiencies, the wives invariably
hand over their legal property to the per-
sons who will make them the happier.
In the second act the novelist is expecting
to entertain the publisher in her bedroom at
Mrs Bridget Drake’s country house in Con-
necticut. By a concatenation of circum-
stances, she entertains the publisher’s wife
instead. The lady novelist is so impressed by
the goodness and charm of the pub-
lisher’s wife that when that misguided
gentleman appears she hands him back with
his marital virtue, as far as she is concerned,
absolutely intact. This clears the way for
Jimmy Lee, her boyhood lover
The hoary old dish was served with wise-
crack hors d’aeuvres and salad dressing of
the best by the cleverest waiters at present
in town. Isobel Elsom, a small but sub-
stantial English blonde, suggestive of Sybil
Thorndike in her younger days, gave no real
emotional significance to tlje r6le of the lady
novelist, and was displaced in popular favor
as soon as Margery Caldicott appeared on
the scene. John Longden’s publisher was good
acting all through. Constance Burleigh, as
his wife, was an oasis of sincerity in a psy-
chological Sahara across which winked per-
sistently the dental heliograph of George
Barraud’s ingrained amiability.
* # *
It was an audience disappointed of the
long-deferred prospect of a permanent orches-
tra for Melbourne that thronged the
Town Hall on Saturday night to listen to the
English prima donna Maggie Teyte and the
Welsh tenor, Tudor Davies, and there was
a note of hunger in its applause
Miss Teyte has a beautiful voice without
a suspicion of throatiness, which has been
well cared for since her father first found
it in her possession at the age of six She is,
in fact, a melodious treat, though her phras-
ing is not always all that could be
desired. Tudor Davies, not as force-
ful a singer as John Brownlee, but never-
theless charming, sang songs associated
in composers’ minds with ploughmen, horse-
men and rovers. In double harness the pair
drew the chariot of “Love Me a Little” (Puc-
cini’s “Butterfly”) very. easily. Yellaiid
Richards topped the evening off by playing
accompaniments discreetly, Chopin gracefully,
Schumann passably, and Liszt not so well.
* * *
The Adelaide players, clever though few.
calling themselves “Ab Intra” have given a
good show. They range from Japan to
Russia for themes, are always ready to
“illustrate” music by posing, and are now
making a feature of eurhythmies. Nellie
Rramley and Frith, at the Royal, are equally
ready to try anything, varying from witty
stuff to sob stuff, and from that to the
wildly farcical.


About the new Buick there is an
air —a character —a distinction —that
sets it apart, unmistakably, as a
masterpiece of modern motor car
manufacture. ‘ln the Buick 1933
series, you have more than ever
a perfect union of mechanical ad-
vancement, coach work luxury and
moderate cost.
Consult Your Local Authorised Buick Dealer
V&fans"
DANCE FOLIO
8888888S8888888^>88^^8888888S£gj^S2|
LlO I
CONTENTS
HOME
SNUGGLED ON YOUR SHOULDER
NIGHT WHEN LOVE WAS BORN .
SAVE THE LAST DANCE FOR ME
FADED SUMMER LOVE . . .
HAPPY DAYS ARE HERE AGAIN .
LET'S GET FRIENDLY . . .
LOVE YOU FUNNY THING . .
HEAVENLY NIGHT . . . .
HAPPY FEET
ONE NIGHT MADAME . . .
SONG OF THE DAWN . . .
A ROSE AND A KISS . , .
ONE LITTLE QUARREL . . .
FOX TROT
WALTZ
FOX. TROT
WALTZ
FOX-TROT
WALTZ
FOX-TROT
WALTZ
FOX-TROT
Posted
2/2
14 SPLENDID NUMBERS
Specially Arranged for the Piano
PRICE
T
Obtainable from all Music Sellers or
ALLAN & CO.,
State Theatre Building, Market Street, Sydney.
w
wn
£==-BB zs *&^
w
at
mm/
CRUISE
TO NOUMEA
Now, during even a short vacation, and at a
very moderate tare, you may go cruising to
quaint, foreign places. Throughout the holi-
day you will be surrounded by the complete
comfort of a 20,000-ton Orient Royal Mail
Liner —in a cheerful and restful atmosphere
where everyone is bent on pleasure.
R. M. S. ORAMA, 20,000-tons
sails on a Cruise to Noumea from
MELBOURNE August 29
SYDNEY September 2
BRISBANE September 6
returning by way of Lord Howe Island
Fares and full particulars will be supplied by
any Orient Line Branch or Agency.
It is contemplated that R.M.S. ORAMA
will make a Christmas and New Year
Cruise to Noumea.
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The British bluejacket in the China Seas
is to have Australian tinned milk in bis
tea and puddings. The Admiralty has placed
an order with the Federal Milk Co. for
100.000 tins of “unsweetened,” to be de-
livered at Ilong Kong early in 1934. It
amounts to about four times the quantity the
11.A.N. gets through in a year.
❖ ❖ * *
“Adel”: The Commonwealth Bank at
Adelaide, a large hall with a narrow approach,
long ago a Stock Exchange, is to be re-
modelled. The shops in front are to go and
the building will come right out to King
William-street with a pillared frontage. The
job will find half a year’s work for 500 men.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Tinned rabbit. eh? (B.
21/6/33). Before the war rabbits were
tinned on a large scale at Wyndlmm, South
Coast (N.S.W.). and flu l meat in the 21b.
tins was as good as canned chicken. Rabbits
were practically cleaned out of the district,
and perhaps tliat was why the factory was
dosed : but there ought to be opportunities
for others wherever there are rabbits.
* * * *
“H.A.L.” : I went out shooting and came
home with five hares and eight wild ducks.
I made up some parcels for friends in Adelaide
—and found that it would cost more to
notify them by wire than to rail the goods.
Freight on four ducks was elevenpence;
telegram, a shilling. This sort of thing could
be done away with if it were possible to
add twopence to the freight charge, and
include a ’phone number on the address tag,
so that the consignee could be advised that
way.
“Homo Sum”: The distillation of essen-
tial oil from Melaleuca altcrnifolia (tea-
tree) has become an established N.S.W.
industry, and it is growing famously. Most
farmers in, the mid-Richmond district have
a patch of tea-tree scrub on their holdings.
They now get a shilling a gallon royalty for
oil distilled from the leaves ; and the trees
are not destroyed. Some 40 tea-tree-oil
preparations are on the market.
* * :K
“Dum Crambo”: I had been drawing com-
pensation for an injury to my back, in-
curred at work over 12 months ago. The
Queensland insurance doctor pronounced me
fit; so did a medical referee. I resumed
work —and lasted two hours and a half.
Now a specialist has me in plaster. Yet
the Government Insurance Department re-
fuses to pay me further compensation. Under
the Workers’ Compensation Act, the referee’s
decision is final.
“Bill Ding”: Australian forests arc rich
in burls. Those curious growths that look
like big warts on the boles of trees yield
decorative veneers when sound. Many are
utilised for special panels, the gradations of
lines and waves providing the wood-designer
with material for ornamental finishes. Aus-
tralian foresters, however, are handicapped
in that many of the burls are found to be
porous. They would welcome one of the
size and type recently milled in Oregon : it
weighed 63001 b., was 61 feet long and 16 feet
in circumference. England snapped it up.
=;• * * ,
“Elgar” : A friend of mine, a Templestowe
(Vic.) dairy-farmer, has put in 20 acres of
crop for his cows without super. “I know
it won’t pay,” he said, “but I couldn’t stump
up £5 os. ;i ton cash with milk at 81d. a
gallon.” Another, a Mulgrave market-gar-
doner. put in nearly all his block in Brussels
sprouts, without manure. He got no crop.
Two orchardists likewise can’t afford
to buy manure. They will get a crop, but
it won’t be heavy, and the following year it
will be poor. There is a fertiliser subsidy
of 15s. a ton, but it is.no good in cases like
these.
“J.W.W.”: It is easier to trap rabbits
than to get a remunerative price for the
skins. Vic. trapper.s complain bitterly that
there is a descending order of prices on the
first, second and third consignments. A
Gippslander of my acquaintance got 53d. per
pound on June 4 for best May skins, and
only 37d. per pound on the 24th for June
skins—a much better lot. I’m not much
for State control, but if the trappers had a
board like the fruit people it would stabilise
the rabbit-skin industry, secure continuity
of supplies and lead to the employment of
thousands of men at something dependable,
not precarious.
“Booni” : At Mascot, Sydney, while poli-
ticians were waiting for the Astrsea, an
auctioneer was selling off the outfit of Aus-
tralian National Airways. ’Planes, hangar,
machinery, all went. A. N. Airways sup-
plied a splendid service on the Brisbane-
Sydney-Melbourne-Tasmania run, and, led by
Ivingsford Smith, pioneered the Australia-
England route with large passenger ’planes,
crossing the Tasman Sea as well. Astrsea is
a splendid modern ’plane, but she does not
represent an advance to the extent which
A.N.A. made when its service of large, cabin
’planes was placed in commission. Yet citi-
zens waiting to slobber over Astrsea seemed
to consider the A.N.A. auction a subject for
merriment.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Australia: Agents throughout the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT AT HEAD OFFICE.
For care of Title Deeds, Insurance Policies, Scrip, Bonds and other Valuable
Documents, Jewellery, Plate, etc. Not confined to the Bank’s own customers.
RENTALS OF SAFES range from £l/1/- per annum, upwards. OPEN: Monday
to Friday, 9.15 a.m. to 5.15 p.m.; Saturdays, 9.15 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. Holidays
excepted. Further particulars on application. Inspection invited.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should he Insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a
surprisingly large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your
death. By' taking out an endowment policy you can insure against your own and
your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices.
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 30/3/’32. ,
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.'
P. ,T. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne;' C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec,
• . District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Prof. Watt-Shores”; When the south-east
of South. Aus. was first settled the pioneers
found themselves up against a problem novel
in Australia—too much water. The coun-
try being very flat, and the rainfall abundant,
Ihe paddocks were like inland seas for six
months of the year. Some years ago the
Government cut £1,000,000 worth of drains;
and now the settlers have to contend with
an invasion of seals. They come up the
drains from the sea. They aren’t destruc-
tive, but they chase sheep about trying to
play, with them, scare women and children
at night by coming up to windows and look-
ing in, and have a habit of going to sleep
across doorways. And w’hen Strawberry has
settled down for a good sleep a seal is liable
to come up, hunt her off the bit of ground
which she has warmed, and take possession
“Could I have a mouthful more pud din’, Mrs. Wayback?”
“Fill ’er plate, mum.”
of it. Scientists are puzzled at the invasion,
and have been thrown into a flutter of excite-
ment by my discovery on Callandale station
of some, native willows which have been
felled by seals biting the trunks through,
and afterwards making clumsy attempts to
build dams with the trunks across the creeks.
T found a child’s schoolbook lying on
the grass near by, in which was an illus-
tration of American beavers at work. The
intelligent seals had seen it. and were try-
ing to copy the beavers by making dams in
which they could spend the summer instead
of going all the way back to the sea.
* * * *
“Scoop” : Though Papua may be a land of
lotus-eaters, the local press has a lively sense
of its duty to the public. When the first talkie
was shown at Moresby the “Courier” sent
Igo Erua, clerk of the Poroporena Village
Council, to do a special notice, for its
columns. He made a good job of it. having
approached his subject with a good experi-
ence of the silent film to back him, and his
comment sounds only one invidious note. At
the close of the notice he adds: “So this time
everything we heard from the white man
was justified.”
si: s*: ' * *
“L. 1.8.”: That story of the blaek-and-tan
sheep-dog which turned white in a single
night after being buried by a fall of earth
(B. 2S/6/’B3) leaves me cold. I can recall
a moi’e peculiar instance which happened
just before the third attack on Gaza. One
of Chetwynd'.s staff had a grey Arab which
he prized highly. One night it disappeared,
and when it was discovered a few hours
later over in the N.Z. Brigade’s lines it had
turned a rich brown. Surprise was ex-
pressed at the fact that it had been located
among the Maorilanders, w 7 ho don’t know
anything about horse-coping. At least I have
often heard them say so. and they ought to
have known.
* * * *
“Runa” : Just after the war we had con-
signed to us in M.L. a small monkey, which, as
we afterwards learned, was addicted to beer
as a steady diet. He was for years on a
troopship, having been handed down by suc-
cessive deaths from colonel to sergeant as a
mascot, and it was a pastime of the soldier
passengers and tlie engine-room staff to treat
Jacko to a bottle.of beer a day. It was
alleged that the monkey on his final voyage
was never known to be entirely sober, arid
his antics were the chief entertainment on
the ship. He found post-war life in a
respectable and pub-less M.L. suburb lament-
ably dull, and died of boredom.
}|: s*c
“Frigid”: Some native robins have been
in the habit of using a bird-bath in my back-
yard. The other morning they found it
frozen all over, and a noisy conversation
ensued. One flew away, returning with a
woodpecker, w’hich, presumably, he had en-
ticed away from the Zoo aviary. The wood-
pecker got to work and soon made a hole
in the ice big enough for the robins’ purpose.
For minutes afterwords the robins twittered
paeans of praise to their deliverer, and ul-
timately formed an escort back to the aviary,
flying in squadron formation.
s*c :J: ijc
“Gogo”: Some time back there was a
restaurant in Brisbane where the epicure
could obtain a dish of dugong flesh. An
enthusiast urged me to try it; according to
him it was better than the best veal. All I
can say is that it didn’t remind me so much
of veal as of grilled Chinaman. I was
advised to try it pickled, but the only night
I got pickled in Brisbane dugong wasn’t on
the menu.
:!: * *.
“Der Jong”: That individual who wal-
loped his jibbing horse with a belt contain-
ing sovereigns picked tip on the road (B.
28/G/’33) must have been an unobservant
cuss, for 30 golden goblins in a string have
the heft of a leaden pipe. Still, I can recall
another instance of carelessness in which
the old-fashioned coin was concerned. An
Australian subaltern, badly wounded during
a fierce turn-up with the Boers, was stripped
as he lay helpless. The Dutchmen lefr
“I sold all me foolery , to a traveller this morning."
“I know. ’E come an’ arsked me fer change of two bob ter pay yer with."
only his singlet, which was ragged, and a
pair of bloodstained breeches, which had been
ripped by the bullet —it had gone through
his leg. lie w r as wearing a money belt —a
universal.custom in the South Africa of those
days—-containing nearly fifty pounds in gold.
This had slipped down to his hips, and in
the hurried search by the Boers it was
missed.
“Aquila”: Contributors who argue on the
“Man on the: Land’’ pages about the merits.of
various methods of destroying blowflies seem
to have missed an important one. According
to an, American exchange, Texas sheep-
farmers are discontinuing the destruction of
eagles, “these having been found to keep
down insect pests, particularly blowflies.
There seems a grand chance for our harassed
outbaokers here to combine material gain
with a splendid old sport. A vision of the
future with the sqiiattocracy arid its rnyrmi-
dons riding forth with eagles on gauntlet to
hawk blowflies ought to furnish the long-
sought subject for the Great Australian
Picture —or Epic Poem.
* % ■■ *
“Ela”: Tourists who have taken cheap
sea trips to Papua have been much surprised
at the sophistication of the noble .savage.*
When they desired to photograph inhabi-
tants of Port Moresby, payment had first
to be made. There is an impression
that the charge was imposed after the
natives had seen some of the amateur
efforts, but this is an error. The Papuan is
one of the most commercially-minded indi-
viduals on earth, and once the movie-picture
people of some years ago taught him there
was money in being photographed he took
his stand accordingly.
* *
“Intermedia” : With the exception of one
species in far North Queensland, and another
in the Moluccas, the bird of paradise has
hitherto only been found in the New Guineas.
The genus has now been acclimatised in the
Northern Hemisphere. Some years ago.
Sir William Ingram, a noted amateur
naturalist and collector, started to estab-
lish one of the Rag pinna species in Git tie
Tobago, one of the Lesser Antilles. The
birds are reported to be thriving, and there
seems no reason why others of the 50
known species should not cross the line in
due course.
«*■ * *
“Thouars”: The stone-lined canals and
other meealithie works in the Carolines and
elsewhere in the Pacific may have their
origins in a long-vanished Pacific empire,
but that certainly does not refer to the pac-
paes, or stone platforms, of the Marquesas
(B. 28/G/'33). These were built by the
Marquesans as we know them to-day and
were in use almost within the memory
of living man—Herman Melville has
much to say of them and the cere-
monies connected with them in his books
“Typee” and “Oomoo,” which tjell of his life
among these inordinate , cannibals. The
platforms were sacred sacrificial and feast-
ing places, where the bodies of slaves and
prisoners were cut up and conveyed, after
being cooked, to the chiefs and nobles, who
alone might eat them.
* * * *
“Isaak Ananias": Both fish and cat
stories are received in certain! circles with
more or less incredulity, but one combining
in itself the merits of both-may be published
for what it is worth. A fisherman on the
N.S.W. coast had left his line!, with which
he had been fishing for sharks from a wharf,
the hook being baited with a 4 snapper head.
Returning, he found that a cat had been
hooked, having attempted to sneak the
shark's supper in his absence. . Freeing the
frantic beast was a tough job.
“Iloni B.” : Those Port Phillip crabs are
nothing to what Maoriland waters have pro-
duced. There is a legend in my tribe that
up in the Bay of Islands there was a man-
eating crab so enormous that he had to live
in a subterranean cave big enough, to house
a railway train. Nearly every evening some
fisherman failed to answer at roll-call. A
huge net was made and lowered over the
mouth of the cave. The next thing was to
get the brute entangled, and for this job the
best diver of the tribe volunteered to go
down. Out of his parking place rushed the
crab and in no time he was a jig-saw puzzle
in the net. Then hundreds of men, women
and kids started the long haul-up. Every-
body nearly bust his boiler on the job.
They cooked the catch in the only oven
capable of holding him —the crater of a
volcano—and the tribe lived on crab for
seven months.
BALLADE OF DEASSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Where is the Wild Colonial Boy?”—B. 28/6/’33.
Friend, let no vain conjecture faze
Your groping writs, nor should it get
Your glooming goat; before our gaze
The dauntless hero wmnders yet.
From morn till eve he may be met,
At prices up. to one-and-six ;
For money earned in grime and sweat
He lives again upon the Flicks.
Along the old familiar ways
He fares, unheeding scathe or let,
Uving his crowded glorious days
Astride a steed of sombre jet.
The urchin’s joy,, the flapper’s pet,
With glad Romance he hourly clicks;
Though many a foeman hath him set,
He jfils them all upon the Flicks.
Yea! When the urge of youth essays
To rend apart convention’s net
And set a dullard world ablaze,
He comes and waves away regret.
To' him whom dulness owes a debt,
As Tim McCoy or Thomas Mix
He brings surcease to chafe and fret,
Reincarnated on the Flicks.
ENVOY.
B 1 est Hollywood, this canzonette
Be guerdon to your box of tricks!
In spite of Fiction’s tare and tret.
The Boy goes, deathless, on the Flicks.
N.S.W.
J.B.H.


LEATUER
LUMBER
JACKET
dZv
brown chrome-
-676
Its a joy
pro WEAR
a
wssmmsm
—BRISBANB-g»
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The World Conference.
What Will Be the Outcome?
Is Depreciation of Currency the
Way Out?
Tariffs, Trade, Exchange and Prices.
The Public Finances.
More About Forestry Bonds.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the July issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“Racakiaki”: Binghi could probably lick
Ilenare at tree-climbing any day in the week,
but the old-time Maori had a technique which
was safe if slow. My first and only lesson
was received many years ago on the banks
of the Upper Wanganui. A tall, smooth
trunk .was selected;. the first branches were
30ft. above the ground. A 15ft. Sin. pole
was secured to the trunk by lashings, most
being made of rope.; a few. as a concession
to me, of supplejacks and aka vines. Using
the lashings for a* foothold. Henare swarmed
up the pole swiftly and surely. Abpve the
first pole a second and third, shorter than
the first,- were similarly secured, each com-
mencing about three . feet below the top of
the underneath pole, the lashings after the
“King George has millions of subjects.”
“And does ’e pass in ’em all, miss?”
initial ones being fixed in position as Henare
climbed upwards. Cook and others mention
having seen short ladders amongst the Maoris,
but they were certainly not used for climb-
ing trees.
“Cleon”: That there’s nothing like leather
is to be seen in the Leather Week exhibition
which is a feature of Melbourne Show. The
variety of leathers made from the coverings
of Australia’s fauna is astonishing, and
ranges from the skins of tiny lizards to the
vast and heavy hide of the N.T. buffalo.
Pride of place is taken by a little-known
Australian, the dwarf wallaby of Kangaroo
Island, the skin furnishing the best leather
in the world. In America it is highly valued
for boot uppers—Australia characteristically
prefers American kid. Maoriland hides con-
tain an extra quantity of gelatine, which
makes them better for motor-car and furni-
ture upholstery than the Australian article.
* * *
“Emsworth” : If you believe the history
books, Abel Tasman discovered Maoriland
late in 1(542, but it’s an odds-on bet that
he wasn’t the first northerner to fall in with
tno. Shaky Isles. Colenso found a ship’s bell
that had been used by Maoris as a cooking
pot. It bore in Tamil script the vessel’s name.
"Mohoyiden Bilks,” and “ship's bell,” and
as Tamil was in use only between the eighth
and twelfth centuries, it looks as if some
Indian navigators preceded the Polynesian
sea-rovers. Then on Ship Creek in South
Westland, a mile from the sea. the rotting
hull of a teak ship was discovered with
trees growing through it; nobody has been
able to tell when it arrived, but from its
situation it must have been many centuries
ago. And (1(5 years before Tasman, Spaniard
Juan Fernandez probably popped in on
Ilenare; for some years ago a Spanish hel-
met —a morion of the sixteenth century—
was dredged up in Wellington Harbor, and in
a Spanish document of about 1010 it is
stated that the people of a southern land
discovered by Fernandez wore woven cloth.
In the whole Pacific only the Maori answers
to that description.
•.!: * Si Si
“Aplanges": Almost from Cape York to
Papua stretches the Warrior Reef. There
are only two passages through it; one
almost impracticable. Guarding tin* other
is Warrior Island, so named from a deter-
mined attack made by the natives on Bligh.
This low sandbank was once the home of a
fairly numerous population, who endured the
hardships of life on a barren islet, almost
waterless, for the advantages it gave them
in trade. It was here that the islanders of
the eastern and western groups came to
barter, and an extensive trade in heads from
the Australian mainland, exchanged for
canoes from Papua, was maintained. Here
also Captain Banner, the discoverer of pearl
shell in the Strait, was buried. A sandstone
“What’s the prospects for a bloke here?”
“Bonzer! I’ve only bin ’ere ten years, an’ I’ve ’nd, a, trip to Sydney already."
memorial erected* to him soon disappeared,
and at the same time various islands became
possessed of splendid grindstones. Tide
erosion washed out the captain’s bones, the
skull only being recovered; old Mai no buried
it under a bush in the centre of the island.
Erosion on the eastern side brought to light
a stratum of human bones, the remains
probably of old cannibal feasts. The island
is now uninhabited, as water-shortage com-
pelled migration to Yama, a few miles
away.
“M. 8.0.”: The railway porter who re-
marked that “goats is sheep and cats is
dogs, but tortoises is hinsecks,” was no doubt
sound on his freight charges if weak on
natural history ; from the legal standpoint
also cats is certainly not dogs. Cats, in com-
pany with rabbits, foxes, etc., are classified
as wild animals, and can be shot at sight
when wandering. On the other hand, the
owner incurs no responsibility for the evil
actions of his pet. He must pay for the
depredations of his dog should Rover kill
his neighbor’s prize poultry, but his neigh-
bor has no right to shoot the dog unless he
is caught in the act —red : monthed, so to
speak. English law assumes that the dog
can be trained, and that the owner is there-
fore responsible ; but the cat walks by itself
and is considered to be beyond human con-
trol.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Members of -the Embury expe-
dition found Dayman 'lsland' " (N.Q.) a
sportsman’s . paradise. There was no doubt
about the willingness of the fish to bite
and fight. ' One day the party was in a boat.'
off the island, and scarcely'was the line
placed in' the water. at the stern when a
40-pound mackerel struck. It leaped 15 feet
in the air, and with mouth open landed in
the boat. Its, teeth entered the stomach of
one of the fishermen, taking out a" chunk
of flesh. The mackerel bounced off the first.
man and crashed against another’s shoulder
before it was subdued.
❖ * ❖
“Dimon” : The first' shaft sunk near the
Silver City, now preparing for a “Back to
Broken Hill Week,” had nothing to do with
mining, but was connected with a soakago
still known as Jacob’s Well. A party of
tanksinkers on Mootooroo (S.A.) had been
forced to trek with their livestock to the
Barrier Ranges for water. They were mak-
ing for Campbell’s Creek when they noticed
kangaroos scratching for a drink at the foot
of a big rock. There they camped, and made
the well by sinking a cask, placing a piece
of hollow log on top to keep back the sand.
For several months they lived there and
watered 40 bullocks, 12 horses and a small
mob of ration sheep daily from the well, the
water being dipped up with buckets and
poured into troughs made by splitting hollow
logs. In after years many a mining family
drew water from it, and prospectors and
others camped about it. Some called it the
Soak Hotel, for wayfarers, particularly when
making out from town, pulled up there, and
dead marines in plenty were strewn about
the old well. There were also the ashes of
a thousand fires and the bones of a thou-
sand feasts, for it had been a blackmen’s
camp before the tanksinkers took possession.
“Waranbini” : The tree that was used as
a chapel in France (B. 31/5/’33) lias —or
had —a bigger brother at Foster (Vie.) —-
a huge mountain ash, 84 feet in circumfer-
ence. The butt was hollow, and a door was
cut in one side big enough to admit a horse
and vehicle. Thirty years ago it was used
as a bush church, the tree being then cut
off about 20 feet from the ground and a
roof put on the butt. Charles Middleton, of
Brigalow (Q.), has a photograph of the
congregation assembled outside the door at
the conclusion of a service. It shows 28
persons and a dog, all of whom had been
accommodated inside. The stump had huge
buttresses or toes, like a Moreton Bay fig.
* - s|s
“Fish” : It may be that the sea-slug's un-
pleasant habit of ejecting its innards (B.
31/5/’33) is for the purpose of arresting an
attacking enemy who pauses to devour the
abandoned jetsam while the owner makes use
of the delay to escape, but this is the first
time the writer, much exposed in his time to
the soup foundation, has ever heard of it.
The slug goes through this performance
directly lie is brought out of water, with the
result that the dinghy into which lie is thrown
by the native divers-quickly becomes an un-
pleasant place. The long, threadlike fila-
ments are the stickiest things,' hi creation,
and anything attempting to swallow them
would stand in need of a special lubricating
apparatus to help his meal down.
* * * ijt
“Wang”: “My word, Dad,”, said Mum
admiringly as Dave rose, releasing the calf,
which rushed away with switching tail,
“ain’t Dave strong?” Dad scraped a plaster
of mud from the back of his neck. “Strong?”
he bellowed, “call him strong? Why. dam-
mit, woman, didn’t yer see what I did?
Ilung on ter that calf with one arm while I
held that post in the ground from bein’
pulled up with the other!”
KURNELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sent landward from the restless sea,
There rolls a sluggish swell;
Stars crowd the .skies,
A night-bird cries:
’Tis midnight on Kurnell.
The making tide • creeps stealthily
Among dark mangrove roots;
Swiff, flaming.' bright,
Athwart the night
A star, fire shoots.
Across the star-sown silent bay,
Heaved by the outer sea
With restless range,
Far, lone and strange, :
Lies lamp-lit Botany.
Weird whispers come adown the wind;
Faint Voices haunt the air;
What shape is yon?
What vision wan?
What ship of old rides there?
Upon her deck no bos’n pipes,
No sailors -sing or stir;
Ghost-like she rides
With rusted sides;
The winds know nought of her.
Eight bells it is, but through the night.
There sounds no warning bell;
Like mist, she fails,
Mast, hull and sails:
’Tis midnight on Kurnell.
N.S.W.
BRINGALOW.


Easily leads in circulation all
Queensland daily newspapers,
and its advertising rate is more
favorable!
THE
Sunday Mail
BRISBANE
It is the ideal Queensland medium for those
advertising campaigns which are planned to
concentrate on the metropolitan area of Bris-
bane and the adjacent country districts or for
one-paper-campaigns. Whilst its total circula-
tion by Audit Bureau Certificate is far greater
than that of any Queensland daily newspaper,
its purely metropolitan circulation is greater
than that of any other newspaper published in
Queensland. Advertisers are unstinting in
their praise of the “Sunday
Mail,’’ which never fails to
produce gratifying results.
Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 81522.
/'MEMBEH'NI
won j
JIBoWfcMU If
RCWApiD**
u
Plum Razor Guard
w
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin;, fin. and fin.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
&he PLUM RAZOR
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Ileal Ivory Handle . 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
TO TIIE MARYLEBONE CLUB.
This bodyline bowling has kindled a flame
'Phut is causing a helluva racket.
Why not alter the name of this gentleman’s
game
And call it, not Cricket, but Crackit ?
Another and perhaps more appropriate
name for it is the Enocomic Conference
Y Y
The U.A.P. and C.P. have found a tariff
in the lute.
Y Y
If a man bites a dog it’s News; but, at
Sydney Trades Hall, if a dog bites a member
of the Willis group it’s Good News.
Y Y
REUNION IN HOLLYWOOD.
“Garbochevoakiemore,” the stupendous home
of Norma Fairbanks-Swanson-Brodk-Colman-
Crawford, hereditary film duchess, had been
thrown open for Christmas, 1950; and the
dazzling creature was in conference with her
publicity stall.
“I suppose if we’re going to have a
family reunion we might as well make it
the goods. I don’t care for young Garry
Kogers-Gable, but the guy’s got to come.
He’s undoubtedly a relation by my grand-
father’s third wife’s marriage to his grand-
mother’s sixth husband. Besides, his fourth
wife, Gloria Chaplin-Pickford, is the daugh-
ter of the seventh husband of my step-aunt,
who was grannie’s daughter by Buddy Arlen-
Bow, her fourth husband.
“Even this newcomer, Rudolph Dunn-
Eilers, seems to be related. The second
husband of my father’s fourth had a daugh-
ter who eloped from Hollywood and her
seventh with a chauffeur. Rudolph is her
son by the Western star she married after
the chauffeur started playing society-drunk
parts and she divorced him.
“It’s sure going to be some party. Let’s see.
There’ll he my eight husbands and their
wives—Charles has had seven, and Doug and
“This dirty old hall isn’t mine.”
“We bin out an elluva time, mister.”
Fredric six each. I reckon they work out
at 51 all told. And then there’s their pre-
vious and present husbands, and my pre-
sent husband’s previous wives and their
husbands, past and present, and their pre-
vious and present wives. Fairly makes one’s
head whirl, don’t it?
“But it’ll be an advantage to have a big
party. I know Gloria and Thelma and one
or two more would like a crowd for the
announcement of their coming divorces. And
maybe I’ll take the opportunity to announce
mine.” jj
Y Y
“Two Up. Miss Ebert Wins.”— “Sun.”
So women are barging in on our national
game, now!
Y Y
“An Englishwoman says that her goldfish always
swim to the edge of their bowl when her husband
enters the room.” — Melh. “Herald,”
Evidently deceived by hearing her calling
him a worm.
Y Y
“Tobacco residue is a useful fertiliser.”
Would this be the stuff they raise bumper
crops with?
“Thirteen years in bed, and now a motorist.”
— “Argus. l ’
But why ignore those who have been
motorists for 13 years and are now in bed?
LESSONS OF HISTORY.
“Like Abraham Lincoln, he could not tell a lie.”
— “Sun.”
He also resembled Lord Raglan, who put
the telescope to his blind eye at the Battle
of the Wtazir. And then there was Marl-
borough, who, when Trafalgar was played
upon the fighting fields of Harrow, ex-
claimed “Let the boy win his spurs! Gad.
sir, if I had served my Creator as I have
served my King He. would not have left me to
file my schedule at the age of 92.” The ex-
ploits of such heroes (amongst whom should
be numbered Wolfe, the inventor of schnapps,
who by watching the apple fall in the
Garden of Eden elucidated the Einstein
Theory) will be kept green so long as news-
papers exist for the education of the masses.
M.
The Man on the Land’s Page—Earle
Christmas Grafton.
y y
COMPENSATION.
Coughs, sneezes, chills
And other ills.
Cold feet, hands numb.
But, ah. .. .the rum!
O. W. W.
MORAL REFORM.
The commissionaire in the undertaker’s
frock coat and crepe-decorated topper stood
glumly on the doorsteps of the forbidding
edifice.
“Hey, have they moved the morgue here,
or are. you still doing business?” demanded
the Surprised Citizen.
“You can still obtain—er—your require-
ments. . That is, if you wish it,” said the
official in desolate tones. “We have to keep
the disgraceful place going because, other-
wise, the money will go to Another State.
But I assure you, sir, we deplore the neces-
sity.”
“I see your point,” said the Citizen as
he shuffled into the ■ dark interior. “But
can’t you switch on a light or pull up a
couple of those blinds?”
“No, no!” groaned the commissionaire.
“And please—please—-don’t raise your voice.
Speak as if yon were in the presence of the
dead —or nearly-dead. And now, if you will
grope your way over to yonder corner, you
will find an application-form. I trust you
can fill in the form in the dark. You are
on no account to strike matches.”
“I don’t know,” said the Citizen, the gloom
of the place settling on his spirits, “that I’ll
buy one, after all.”
“Hallelujah!” whispered the commission-
aire.
“No, I’m dashed if I will!” said the Citi-
zen, making for the door.
“Here,” cried the commissionaire, thrust-
ing a booklet into his hand, “read this tract,
’The Devil’s Reward, or the Gambler’s
Doom.’ It may make your reformation per-
manent.”
Whereupon the Citizen dashed to the
G.P.O. in time to secure a postal note to
send to Another State.
M. 11.
Y y
“Chatelaine, the English thoroughbred, was fol-
lowed to the course by a goat, her constant com-
panion.”
What of it? , Opr Aussie racehorses are
followed by thousands of goats.
Y Y
MARTYR TO DUTY.
Spiffkins is—or, rather, was —the “Yellow-
rag’s” .special blurb-writer. Unfortunately
for himself, he was cursed with a conscience.
No information at second-hand for him.
“Personal experience,” Spiff, used to say,
“alone ensures ‘live’ copy.” His article on
“Buckjump Riding” was written while still
in hospital. He used to rough it with the
timber-getters, bathe with the Bondi Ice-
bergs, go aloft with dogmen and pilots who
were doing their first solo flights.
Of course, he ended by overreaching him-
self. They buried Spiffkins yestei’day, and
the “Yellowrag” was never handed the copy
of his last assignment, “Hopping the Bar
with a King’s Cross Bottle Party.”
S. W. K.
Y Y
“FOREIGN" LANGUAGE. If not able to read and
write English, but able to read and write a foreign
language, state the name of the foreign language,
33 ‘French,’ ‘German,’ ‘Japanese.’ ” — Census question.
Reminds one of the signboard: “This way
to Gundyroo. If you can’t read, ask at the
blacksmith’s over the road.”
“I found that his so-called house property was
non-existent.”
And he isn’t the first debtor with no real
estate.
Y Y
THE BIG NOISE.
“Witness: ‘He was the big- noise in the business.’
“His Honor: ‘What do you mean by that?’”
—Law report.
He often shouts in hotels, wears loud suits
and louder jewellery, and is full of parrot
cries. Barmaids think him a scream, and
their employers imagine he is sound finan-
cially, but his creditors often have to whistle
for their aioncy. lie blows his own trumpet
assiduously, and as a card-player bangs down
his winning tricks, and is fond of shuns.
If lie gives a party it goes with a yell, hut
for preference he crashes the parties of
others, and when he does the howls of pro-
test caused bv his arrival are deafening.
11. M.
Y Y
“Boxing is falling off in Australia. Would-be
practitioners of the noble art don’t get enough
opportunities to practise it.”
However, things are hound to improve as
tlio football season progresses.
“Too old! Why, I could (jive you twenty
years.”
“Now, now, Judge. Don't start talking
shop.”
“Saves men from bald heads at forty.”
-Hair-restorer advt.
We’re now waiting for a preparation that
will save girls from baldhcads.
Y Y
REMORSE.
Have you ever been bitterly ashamed of
yourself? Ever wanted to kick your own
head? Well, that’s how I feel. The wife
hasn’t spoken to me all day.
Drinking from a bottle at an intersec-
tion.... Fighting in a tram.... Singing
all the way home.... Gosh! The shame
of .it! And then falling over the Browns’
dog. I suppose that was how I got the
lump on my head. Smith says I tried to
shake hands with his front gate! And my
final act of beastliness- —mistaking my wife’s
mother for a burglar! Her bleeding nose
haunts me still.
It’s too terrible to think about! r can’t
bear it! I’ll have to get drunk again to
forget it!
T. W. X.
Y
CRUEL KINDNESS.
I swore that I would take my life
If T could not your husband hr.
It caused you to become my wife.
Why weren’t you merciless to me?
X.
¥ * .
Bridge is derived from whist. The name
suggests at once that the game should be
played in silence.
Just as radio suggests that wo owe for
the .set.
Y Y
HOME CAMPING.
Why go to the trouble and expense of
visiting remote places in the bush when you
can enjoy all the delights of camp life' at
home? A few hints from our Home Campers’
Correspondence Course :
A couple of sheets sewn together and held to the
wall by drawing-pins, and attached at the two
opposite cornel's to the floor by the same means,
will make a delightful tent. A mattress can be
made by stuffing a bag with dry gum-leaves. This
should be placed in the tent above some half-dozen
irregular stones, ranging from the size of a marble*
to that of a cricket ball. A few spiders and snakes
and five or six million ants, large and small, will
complete the desired illusion.
As a camp-fire would probably ruin the floor, a
primus may be substituted. It should be placed
between two bricks with a kerosene-tin above it.
You are now ready to start preparing a
camper’s meal. Potatoes should be placed in
the kerosene-tin. Light the primus and sit
on a large stone near by, shaking ants, etc., off
yourself while the potatoes cook. Station someone
in the background who is able to imitate a bird.
If this cannot be done, the student should imagine
a bird and go in chase. After chasing it for a
while, he should return to his cooking. At this
stage, the kerosene-tin will he found to have fallen
over, while the primus (fire) will have gone out.
There is a special vooab. to be used at this juncture,
which we furnish for 25., post free. The half-
cooked potatoes should be eaten ravenously.
The student should now utter a few tremendous
yawns, and go inside the tent. It is not the thing
to undress. Lie down on the mattress. Next, jump
up suddenly and throw out a snake. (Special
vocab. for use here supplied for 3s. 6d., post free.)
Lie down again. Jump up and remove stones from
under the mattress. Lie down again, and toss about
for a few hours, hut don’t sleep on any account.
Towards dawn, get a friend to mount a chair and
pour several buckets of water (representative ol
rain) upon the top of the tent. Lie still until
thoroughly wet, and then emerge. (S’pecial vocab.,
as.) Walk about outside tent till daybreak. At
daybreak, undress and rush to creek —represented
by basin of iced water. Light fire for breakfast.
N.B.—Cures for pneumonia and snakebite supplied,
post free, for 10s. each.
G.P. E.
Y Y
SEVEN AGES OF MODERN WOMAN.
Babyhood.
Childhood.
Flapperhood.
Motherhood.
Flapperhood.
Flapperhood.
Flapperhood.
T.
y y
INDIGENOUS DISEASES.
“Recent inspection reveals that white ants have
done great damage to the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly
building.”
White-anting had also been going on for
years in the adjacent Council, till a scheme
of complete renovation was decided on at
a cost of over £OO,OOO. It will be completely
restored within a few months.
Dry Rot, or Vo]stead’s disease, which
caused such havoc throughout the IJ.S.A.
during the past 12 years, has been kept well
in check in Australia. Prohibition arguments
are about the only things susceptible to Dry
Rot. Hops have been successfully used to
combat it.
Great difficulty has been experienced by
some of Sydney’s leading clubs in dealing
with the Borer Blight. This thick-skinned
pest often attains a great age, and club com-
mittees have found it almost impossible to
eradicate.
Fungus Growth. —This condition is more
bucolic than urban. Outbreaks invariably
occur in the metropolis, however, during
Show Week. Growths range .from scrubby
to luxuriant.
W. K.
Y Y
“‘The : cost of Brisbane’s milk distribution is too
high,’ went on Mr. Moon.”-— Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Well, Moon should know something about
milky ways.
•Y- Y
“Senator Dunn crumpled up with laughter, and
was unable to cease.”
So politicians sometimes think of their
election promises after all.
“Doesn’t this climate disagree with your
wife?”
“It wouldn’t dare.”
“There is still plenty wild life in and about
Sydney if we care to keep our eyes open.”
— “Naturalist.”
Darlingliurst alone is capable of keeping
a wild-life student busy for weeks.
Y ' Y
PROBLEM.
Despite what Canada may say,
Or the Argentine or the [J.B.A.,
Jf tee restrict the wheat' tec grow,
Where the blazes, will tee get our dough?


6o t ooo
50,000
4-0.000
30.000
o Lite
ends at
fifty-five
\
k
m
i 00.000
forty
the
is hardest
0 0,000
SCVa
80,000
7 0.000
JKi iIH I'lfcli 11 mil Will M I
The Miit
far aim life
it* partly won
'fo
ass
■■ /
HT X-
*
mm
i£t\
ft
3^
i
/7A.
a»# Steeper
slants the JLine
=\
as
j *■— | “ | —ii wm ; | - | .•■•■•■ v.y- : - • . t. • tfc* .■ ■■=
QY S id 15 20 25 30 35 do 45 50 55 Zo~os to 75 80 85 90 95 too 105
lt. \JL-
-20,000
to,ooo
ŵ
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may now be
extended; 5, 10 — or more—
years of healthy, active life
being gained by timely atten-
tion to the symptoms of disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
„ . . guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40”
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy —maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble- I —begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00 — though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75 % of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
E ar th s on’s
K!I»NEY and Dl uOtR
PI LLS
I
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,’’ prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten—even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Lab>ratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches & Pains a.
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again !


Ilf \
■f
W\ V ■
At The Service
of Industry
For over 70 years the
resources of the
National Bank have
been actively employed
in the development of
Australian industry. During that period
the Bank has provided essential financial
facilities, covering the varied needs of
customers in all branches of production,
trade and commerce.
To-day, its services are fully available
through 430 offices in Australia and two
branches in London, with which a world-
wide chain of agents is closely linked.
The Bank’s officers are at all times pre-
pared to answer enquiries and assist
customers to make full use of the many
services provided.
Tshe
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342-346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital Paid up £5,000,000
Reserve Fund {used in the-business) £3,000,000
(T^CqJLLlijtis
Scots (Clhisky
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co . .
Sydney,
Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son .. Fremantle
Macfarlane Bros. & Co Hobart
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A "Bulletin” publication. Every Friday—2d
Jj a c:\ciclie
Stop That Awful Pain
This Easy Way
AlN—awful pain—constant pain—nerve irritating pain all day and all
night, too Yes. the ipartyr to chronic backache soon begins to know
what the word ‘ pain ’ means.
Why do you let Backache, Lumbago, Joint Pains, Rheumatism,
Sciatica ruin your health and make you a misery to yourself and all
around you.
Many people say “Oh ! I must have caught cold,” or “I must have been
sitting in a draught. My back feels like breaking. . . . That dull, down-dragging
weakness in the back makes me feel exhausted. . . . Pains in the muscles—l
just can’t get on with my work.”
WEAK KIDNEYS CAUSE YOUR PAIN
Actually it is kidney weakness that is the cause of the down-dragging
weariness and constant pain you suffer. If weak kidneys are sapping your
strength, causing body pains, rheumatic twinges or perhaps distressing bladder
trouble, bad nights, you cannot possibly do better than start with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills at once.
They will banish your pain and their splendid tonic qualities will make you
feel and look years younger.
This splendid remedy, through the kidneys, expels the poisons such as uric
acid in excess and other impurities that are the cause of your suffering These
are not “cure-
V-
V* 4
o"= v
Of*
m
ss
'fr*
ffiSSjg
gag S-igg / - ug
S<Sia3BSß£&Sfcsff^
•S®
ajss*
all ’ pills. They
are prepared to
tone up the system
and give you back
your real manly
strength and
vigour.
f$HARP twinges,
stabbing pains —
Nature’s urgent
• warning of serious
Kidney Trouble !
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering
when all else has failed. Men and women in dreadful pain for years say they
have ended that pain and brought back health, strength and vigour in a
marvellously short time.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
No more “too-old,” worn-out feeling. You join with the youngest in all the
pleasures of life. In 24 hours you will see the action of De Witt’s Pills and know
how quickly they have reached the seat of your trouble—the kidneys. Why stop in
pain and weakness when here is health for the asking ? Thousands have blessed
the day they read about De Witt’s Pills as you are doing now. Let them bring
you health now. This splendid remedy is sold by chemists everywhere only in
the white, blue and gold boxes with signature name clearly shown on the side.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made specially
for the relief of kidney and bladder troubles. Good for young and old and
women at all times. Refuse all substitutes, there is nothing just as good.
De WITT’S
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address be-
low. Use Id.
stamp.
Please send me, free and ■post paid,
a trial supply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
NAME
ADDRESS
F.A. 16
E. C. De WITT & Co. (Australia) Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 26, MELBOURNE.


LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C.
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader—classified or display ad-
vertising— i s in
e Brisbane (Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher. 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Mewsoaper House,
Collins St., Melbourne. F 3906.
ẁ
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them*
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itselt. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS £/ CITIZEN'S
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
Cnaim::.;-, of Directors
n„„ -a s n Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director:”. •Ceil
\M W 3 L!r & Si Bmldln S> corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N-S-TA. Agents. Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance *nd
a Agency Co., Ltd.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 41 Brill* Street. Sydney.
ẃ
Are you ifi trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every: Friday—2d.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
POOR WOOL AVERAGES.
Two viewpoints:—
“ .Turnback”: With the average price of
greasy wool hovering around Sd. per
pound, there’s too much inferior stuff (par-
ticularly merino) being grown.
Fair to good merino fleece wool has been
realising from 12d. to 14d. per pound, and
competition has been keen for it and for
anything better. It is only for shabby sorts
that demand is restricted.
There has been a big increase in the in-
ferior output, but rams ought not to be
blamable for it; high-class sires were never
cheaper. The breeding ewes arc the trouble;
their owners refuse to cull. And so we see a
flood of nondescript types worse even than
their sorry dams.
And yet from these owners comes a con-
tinued Avail about, low wool values. Cull,
cull and cull again must be the essential
factor in breeding good sheep.
“.Tackerooster”: The indiscriminate cross-
ing of merino ewes with British breeds de-
signed to mitigate the effect of low wool
prices must tend to lower the average quality
of the Australian clip. Travelling last year
in S. Riverina, I ran across a magnificent
line of cast for age and cull merino ewes.
AH had sound mouths, and bore the ear-
mark of a famous N.S.W. stud—the vdry
line for a man of moderate means in search
of the foundation upon Avhich to build a
decent wool clip. They Avere mated with
Border Leicester rams, and a harassed owner
was trying to clear the lot at any old price.
EVEN BALE WEIGHTS.
“Murrawong”; I don’t know where
“Sheepo” got the idea that buyers always
look for the weights marked (with ink—not
raddle) on bales as a help in estimating
yields (B. 28/6/’33), I have never yet en-
countered the practice, and it was equally
ne w to the buyers to whom I showed the par.
The yield of any lot of wool depends
on the amount of grease, dust and other
foreign matters in the wool, and not on
whether it came out of a heavily-pressed
bale or out of a chaff bag. It is certainly
advisable to keep the bale weights of each
line as even as possible, but the buyer sel-
dom knows exactly Avliat weights of wool he
has bought until he takes delivery after the
sale. He can tell from the appearance of
the wool on the show floor whether it has
been heavily or lightly pressed, and he knows
perfectly well that there is a limit to the
amount of fleece wool that can be got into
a bale. With lines of locks and low erutch-
lngs it is different, but if the buyer suspects
the presence of dags in a bale he will sample
thoroughly or lower his bid.
“Shcepo” evidently expects pressers to count
the number of fleeces they put into a. bale.
An experienced presser will gauge weight to
AAuthm a few pounds, partly by the number
ot armfuls he puts in the boxes, but chief! v
by the “feel” of the wool under his feet after
the last tramping.
REDUCING FOOTROT INFECTION.
“.Tackerooster”: “Jerrabomberra’s” ob-
servations (B. 21/6/’33) on footrot are
correct, and his remarks re the state of the
“Vie. hill country” flocks reflect no credit on
sheepmen in that region. Infection may be
reduced to a. minimum by the following
methods:—
(1) Careful paring. In many cases a
hard outer _ shell grows over the infected
trotter, which presents a normal appear-
ance to the careless or inexperienced eye,
necessitating the scrupulous paring of every
sheep showing signs of lameness. (2) After
paring, dress the foot with bluestone solu-
tion. boiled bluestone-arsenic mixture or for-
malin (all are equally effective) and keep
the sheep on battens or in a dry clean yard
until the application dries. (3) Turn the
infected sheep into a suitable hospital pad-
dock and run the clean sheep through a
footrot bath —preferably strong bluestone
solution.
Here in Victoria the nboA 7 c methods have
made possible the profitable fattening of
sheep on heavy clover marsh lands, pre-
viously considered as suitable only for large
stock, the number of infections being re-
duced to about 5 per cent.
Footrot presents even tougher problems
to the man avlio runs an old-established
breeding flock than to the dealer, who is
usually able to move his stuff every few
months. Several years ago, the owners of
a S. Riverina merino stud, deciding that a
change of pasture was the only alternative
to a losing battle with footrot on bad lignum
country, moved their flock to fresh country
on the Murrumbidgee. Starting out clean,
the sheep were travelled 130 miles by road
to their new home, arriving in perfect con-
dition during a dry November, when they
were depastured on hard red-soil plains.
Three months later they suffered a bad
midsummer outbreak, which led the manager
to think that, in chronic cases, the external
treatment merely drives the organism into
the bloodstream, where it awaits a favorable
opportunity to renew the attack from within.
At any rate, there is plenty of scope for
scientific research, although the Vic. Agri-
cultural Department complains that its ten-
tative efforts in this connection are handi-
capped by lack of reliable data.
MAKING GRASS SILAGE.
“A.G.R.” : J. N. Whittet, the N.S.W. agros-
tologist, gives details of a method suitable
for storing paspalum and other herbage as
silage, which can be made from surplus grass
in late summer, or from any of the finer-
stemmed crop plants such as wheat, oats,
Sudan grass, field peas, vetches and lucerne
containing weed and grass growth.
If the pasturage is harvested when the
majority of the plants are forming seed
heads, a large bulk will be obtained, but it
will not bo as nutritious as silage made
from young leafy grass. On the other hand,
the losses will be lower in the drier material
than in young succulent herbage. A large
quantity of late summer growth intended to
be stored for winter use is, however, needed,
and such grass should be left till seed heads
are showing. If pasturage is very mature
or is allowed to become too dry before being
stacked, insufficient moisture for fermenta-
tion will be present, and a charred product
will result, so it must not be left too long
in the hope of getting a greater bulk.
Out the grass with a mower, and rake into
windrows. 1 Torse sweeps or push rakes are
used to convey it to the point whence it is
raised to the top of the stack by a one-
horse mast-stacker and grab. A two-horse
sweep, ten feet wide, will carry a load of
from 4001 b. to 4501 b. Cut enough material
to build the stack five or six feet high the
first day, and add no grass for a few days so
as to let-the foundation settle properly.
Drive a piece of one-inch piping five to
six feet long, with a pointed stick hammered
in the low r er end, down the centre of the
sack and lower an ordinary dairy ther-
mometer on a string dowm the pipe, so that
the temperature may be controlled. Once
the temperature has attained 110 to 120
degrees, stacking can be continued. If the
temperature rises to near 120 degrees, more
material should be added at once to check
the rise. Before adding material, remove the
pipe, and then watch the temperature of the
new layer. Generally, herbage will be added
every second day till the desired height is
attained. So as to retain moisture it should
be stacked the same day as it is cut. The
outside of the stack must be well tramped
while building, and the centre kept level till
finishing off, when it should be slightly higher
than the outside. The stack should then be
weighted with soil lOin. to 12in. deep at the
outer edge and 18in. to 24in. in the centre,
held in place by boards or bags of earth
round the edges.
The top layer must be compressed to ex-
clude air. In opening the stack, care should
be taken to expose as small an area as pos-
sible to the air ; only enough silage should
be-cut each day to supply immediate wants.
HINTS FOR THE AMATEUR GRINDER.
“Liss” : Crntching is often carried out these
days by station hands, but the grinding of
the tools sometimes causes a deal of trouble
—generally because the grinder has started off
on the wrong foot, so to speak. See that discs
are properly made and perfectly clean, and
the glue evenly and not too thickly applied.
Make up the discs early in the morning of
the day that they will be inquired. Don’t
leave them in the clamp all night, as they
may sweat, in which case the lap will peel
off. Be sure the grinder turns against the
nuts when it is being screwed on. Put a
comb on the magnet and adjust the pendulum
so that it hangs about 4in. from the face of
the disc and the outside edge of the comb
is about Mn. from the outside of the disc.
For cutters it will hang a little closer to tlm
disc. Press evenly on the magnet and grind the
tools until all tho marks are ground off the
face and the edge shows no sign of a white
streak. Do not hold on too long or press
too heavily or the tools, particularly the
cutters, will burn, showing blue along the
edges and near the points. Above all, aim
at doing the job evenly. It is this quality,
and practically this one alone, that dis-
tinguishes good grinding from bad.
SWAMP RECLAMATION.
“Larrapinta”: All through the south-east
of S.A. big stretches of country are merely
shallow lakes for six months of the year,
and during the summer grow hardly any-
thing. The lie of the ground often prevents
draining by channels, and where channels
could be used they would only run the water
on to the next man’s land. Yet they can be
drained quite easily by means of shafts.
Last spring, when the water was drying
up, one farmer marked his wet paddock with
stakes, and the pools which remained showed
him the lowest point at which to sink the
shaft, and also where the draining channels
should go. While the ground was still soft
enough to plough, he made the drains, and
after harvest he sank and timbered the shaft,
90ft. deep, to reach the porous strata. All
the soil removed from the drains and the
shaft was used to build banks along the boun-
dary fence; they keep water from coming
in from the next farm. Formerly, when the
rains came, his land was a lake on which
a couple of hundred wild ducks sometimes
lived; and it would never graze more than
60 sheep after the water had gone. It cost
the owner £BO to do the draining, but he
added over 100 acres to his arable land.
A VICTORY FOR THE TRACTOR.
r *Bogaduck” : Most farmers around Tatiara
(S.A.) have gone back to horses, but one,
who stuck to the tractor, has scored. We
had one opening rain in April, and he at
once started working back the fallow, run-
ning the tractor night and day, with drivers
doing four-hour shifts. By the time that
the ground was getting too hard to work
they had finished working back.
Another rain came. They began seeding,
and again working round the clock, finished
on Mtiy 27. On May 28 rain set in again,
and heavy falls turned the paddocks into
quagmires; if further rains follow, farmers
who use horses will be badly caught, as many
have not finished half their seeding. Last
season some men found their paddocks so
boggy that they were still seeding at the
end of July, and most of this late-sown crop
came to nothing. But the tractor enthusiast
had all Ins 400 acres sown by the end of
May, and averaged nine bags.
SMOKING A BACON PIG.
: H n re u S a te,wn biute method of
smoking a small bacon pi g; Place two six-
of old° g fer,^ nt 9i l\ diam 4 r ( sa y> * couple
3 Sin Llrfl posts) on the ground about
£. ipa rt > a sbeet of old iron laid on
top of them. A bottomless cask or an old
oil-drum straddles the logs at one end W
clear of the end of the“ iron. Bbck the
S'“ g &TS • tho ,ogs « cask “d
Witn a piece of iron or wood, then throw
the 1 ton o a f rt the° V i er a ? openillgs and along
cacapSVoSs 'rjrtf. sag
JSSctfST* “ «»*** in«» .t
wm lght a,fire at the open end of the channel
A* hnrnins hri g h tly, cover with
slichtly damp sawdust or chips. The resulf-
mg smoke belching from the cask would
screen a battleship. would
a , ew fencing-wire hooks liana- the
cuied pork around the edge of the cask or
on battens laid across the" top Smoke tSI
of bacon. ' have roast Pork instead
“Pu'r IN u TOBACCO SEED-BEDS.
l-M.j. : Mulch tobacco seed-beds with
clean sand. It conserves moisture in the
of 1 mould'! 1 ° S Watering aad offseS risk
Well-washed sand from the bed of a creek
and preferably of granite origin, is ideal
All humus will have been cleaned out bv the
arrack. WBterS * and * cake
Having sown the seed and lightly rolled
it, lay the sand on half-inch thick Don’t
sieve it, as seed sown about the middle of
Jnly tnkrs 30 to 3T, days to gSmtoafo 'and
the occasional waterings required during that
period wili carry the finer particles down
into the loose soil underneath, so that bv
the time the young plants are ready to
appear only a thin layer of the coarser par-
ticles are left on top. These continue to
serve their purpose, and will not interfere
with the young plants.
Most N.S.W. growers like to sow beds for
early plants, during the third week of July
Although this seed takes a long time to V,.;
minute, the plants grow very quickly once
they are up, and always seem to be the first
ready for transplanting. I find half-inch of
mulch right also for later-sown beds. The
weather is then warmer, and more water is
required to bring the plants up; therefore
the mulch is worn pretty thin by the time
they appear.
Buttercloth is a satisfactory protection
from even the severe frosts of the high North-
ern Tablelands of N.S.W., when stretched tent-
wise along the beds on three wires and about
6in. above them. It has the advantage that,
when left on during the day, the shade cast
by it is not too dense. I believe its delicate
shade has a glass-like effect on plants, bring-
ing them along quickly without making them
weak. Perhaps in time we shall pay greater
heed to the effect of color on growing plants.
RABBITS AS FOWL FEED.
“X.Y.Z.”: This is one method of turning
Bunny into eggs: After skinning the catch
remove'lower gut only, bruise up with back
of axe, and hang round the fowlyard fences.
If you have no fowl-run, drive a post or
two about the place and surround with a
.‘lft. high small cage of netting—the chooks
can eat through this; dogs and cats cannot.
Don’t boil bunny; you will destroy the egg-
producing food. With a little grain, plenty
of green stuff (if fowls are shut up), sheil
grit, clean water and sanitary conditions
(bury your .skeleton rabbits daily in the
orchard), you must make some money. We
have used the method for ten years with
excellent results, and keep 20 traps con-
stantly set for the benefit of our hens.
EGG PRESERVING.
“F.A.R.”; When preserving eggs, or even
.lust storing during the winter, I have found
the following hint an excellent one. A rack
or container of convenient size (say, the
length of your cupboard, to form a shelf
therein) can be made at home with a piece
of inch-board. Bore as many holes, about
liin. in diameter, as will fit in it. Then
nail strips of board 2in. wide to act as
ledges or stands. Place the eggs with the
small, ends down in the holes and keep them
in this position until used. As long as the
eggs are kept with the small end downwards
(and provided the ordinary precautions
usually taken with preserved eggs are exer-
cised, such as being kept dry and preserved
as soon after laying as possible) the yolks
do not break when used, while the stored
eggs keep for a considerable period.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How is dicalcic phosphate made from
phosphate rock? (2) Is it possible to make,
it from super, with the addition of lime?
(3) What percentage of lime must be added?
—6775.
(1) The process used commercially in Aus-
tralia has not been made public. It can,
however, be made from phosphate and rock
by the addition of sulphuric acid, but the
process requires supervision by a chemist.
(2) Yes, but it is a job requiring chemical
skill.. (3) Exact amount can only be de-
termined by the analyses of each batch of
super, handled. The approximate amount is
2571 b. of hydrated lime to each ton of super.
Cause of and cure for toarts on a young
cotv’s udder? —6s77.
Cause not known. Apply an ordinary
caustic stick to the warts daily.
My four-year-old saddle hack is lame with
a hoof complaint. The outer shell is coming
off the inner shell, from the toe upwards,
and has a frayed appearance. Cause and
cure?, —6558.
Casting of the outer shell of the hoof may
follow a dropped sole or be caused by “seedy
toe”; the latter is the more likely cause.
Treatment of “seedy toe” requires con-
siderable time. The cavity should be
cleaned out, and, after swabbing with a
carbolic solution (2 parts in 100 parts of
water), it should be packed with tow soaked
in tar. A mild liniment applied to the
coronet may help in stimulating the produc-
tion of new horn.
Will land ( black-soil flats) deteriorate
if ploughed while wet, water following in the
furrow?— 6sBo.
It is inadvisable to plough land when it’s
very wet, for it becomes puddled, and dries
into hard lumps. Black-soil flats should
not be ploughed when they are either very
wet or very dry.
An M.L. orchardist, / am considering the
pulping of all but the most profitable varie-
ties of apples and exporting the pulp to
Britain. (1) What plant is necessary? (2)
Where can l get particulars of the process
using sulphur? (3) Market possibilities in
Australia? (4) Any Aust. Government bul-
letins on the subject? —s973.
(1) Boiler for raising steam; paring and
coring machine; steam jacketed pan, 60gal.
capacity; sliccr and extra sieve. (2) So
far as we know sulphur is used only in pre-
paring dried fruit, not for pulping.' (3) A
MX. producer would have very little chance
(Land Pane continued on vrtfje 26.)


V/
■&S
Room for Muscle
Movement!
Without it your feet never will
be really comfortable. In this
Abbey Boot, pliant and roomy,
every muscle exercises freely.
There’s no cramping. The sole
is both pliant and tough. . . .it’s
double the usual thickness. And,
the upper can be depended upon
to retain its smart, neat shape.
You get much longer wear, too.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6) com-
plete.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE-
STREET ADDRESS No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS.
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 341
THE GOLDEN WEST
Leads in 1932 Gold Yield.
Western Australia Produced 85 per
Cent, of Australia’s Gold Last Year.
The figures for. the Australian Gold. Yield for
1932 testify to . the remarkable gold-mining
revival in Western Australia. The following
figures reveal that 80 per cent, of the total
gold was produced in Western Australia, and
as many new companies are entering into pro-
duction, the yield for 1933 should greatly
exceed last year's splendid effort: —
WESTERN AUSTRALIA IS THE
MARKET FOR YOUR BUSINESS.
Reach it through the Perth
WESTERN AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL PAPER.
The Greatest Advertising Medium in
the West.
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
Hal Johnstone, sth Floor, AVingello
House. ’Phone: 85690.
w
The last word in
Luxurious motor-
ing is one word
—Pontiac*
♦With five soft rubber
engine mountings
PONTIAC
THE LUXU RY CAR
Consult
your local authorised
Pontiac dealer.
P. 4
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best Family
Cough and Influenza Remedy. ’’
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist advises parents to save
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. By doing
this you will have a supply , equal in quan-
tity to eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture
bottles that would cost up to £l. HEENZO
is the ideal family cough remedy because
of its absolute purity and freedom from
narcotics. Therefore, it is a safe and good
remedy for even the youngest baby, as
well as adults. A bottle of concentrated
HEENZO will cost you 2/- at all leading
chemists and stores. Over one million
citizens annually prove the goodness and
economy of HEENZO as a speedy and
reliable remedy for banishing coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis, influenza, and whooping
cough. Thrift is a sign of wisdom. Buy
a bottle of HEENZO to-day, and have it
in the home for immediate use at the first
sign of chest and throat ailments.— ; Advt.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
Dependable /
Cigai's
Craig &Aitken
■Wholesale Distributor
■ Sydney N.5.W.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes ol Assurance. / _
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits. „An-rn
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. A. BOOTH.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872. #
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory),
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, Wales, World this
through +he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, ws
Bank'offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday—2d.
of competing in Australia. It is doubtful
if there would be a profit in packing pulp
for any overseas market, as apples can be
grown in practically every country. W
Leaflet posted.
Most suitable time to sow Berseem clover
in Q’land, and would it be a success in that
State? —6735. . . . .
It should be sown during the early wmtei
months. The results obtained from trials in
various parts of the State have generally
been disappointing. In most of the experi-
mental trials only one cutting was secured
in a season.
(1) Can the M.L. kauri be grown suc-
cessfully in South (Hppsland? I have in
mind a shelter break, to be uUimatohj used
for Umber. (2) Does kauri mature as
quickly as Finns insignis? (3) ILow does it
compare with latter for both purposes? (4)
Most suitable variety of plant to use as
hedges (dividing fences) on (Hppsland dairy
farm, part river flat, part hill. (5) Is (torse
used extensively for that purpose in M.L.f
—U573. , ,
(1) Doubtless il could be grown, but
growth would be exceedingly slow. (2) Ko.
It takes about a century to reach maturity
as against 15 or 16 years in the case of
white pine. (3) Kauri would not. make such
a good shelter belt as Pinus _ insignis, the
crown being sparser. Kauri timber is very
much more valuable, but white pine, on
account of its very much faster growth,
would be more profitable. (4) Tea-tree or
hoobialla. (5) Yes, particularly in the South
Island, but trimming was found to be too
costly years ago. Gorse is proclaimed a
noxious weed throughout Victoria.
(1) What is the average tally per day per
man for good shearers—by hand and by
machine? (2) What is the number of hours
per day actually worked in N.S.W.? —6658.
(1) By machine. 100 to 120; by hand,
about 80. (2) Forty-four per week,
worked in two-liour runs between the hours
of 7.30 a.m. and 9.30 a.m., 10 a.m. and 12
noon, 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. and
5.30 p.m., Monday to Friday inclusive, and
7.30 a.m. and 9.30 a.m., 10 a.m. and 12 noon
on Saturday.
How to cure a dog Suffering from emphy-
sema under the skin? — 6718.
If the swelling is not large it may be left
alone, for it will gradually disperse of its
own accord ; but; when it is large, the original
wound, if it can be found, should be dilated,
or one or two fresh ones made, and trie air
pressed out. The wound should afterwards
be cleaned with .Teyes’ fluid or boracic acid,
dried, then covered over with antiseptic
gauze, and a bandage applied.
Diet for a dog suffering from eczema? —
6706.
Eczema is usually due to malnutrition, so
food must be easily digestible. Avoid salt
and starchy food, give very few biscuits and
make the diet principally meat, raw for
preference. Laxatives are called for. There-
fore, raw or very underdone liver is useful.
llow to make honey beer? —6084.
Simmer loz. hops in 5 quarts water for
20 minutes, then strain into a wooden tub
or barrel. Add 4Mb. honey, stir until well
dissolved, then leave to cool off to blood
heat. Then stir in 3 tablespoons yeast,
cover and keep warm. When the iiquor
ceases to ferment, strain it into bottles, coyer
and tie down securely. This improves with
keeping.
Recipe for preserving celery? —6s3s.
The celery should be quite fresh. Cut into
neat pieces,’ or into lengths to stand upright
in the jars; trim ends and remove dark
spots. If wanted very tender, it must be
slightly boiled in salted water. Drop into
boiling water containing salt and a pinch
of baking-soda, and boil rapidly for a few
minutes, or until as tender as wanted. Take
out of the water and pack neatly into jars.
Boil lip some fresh water, salt it to taste
and add a dash of sugar; pour it over the
celery in the jars. Place new rubbers in
position and set the caps on the jars, but
do not screw down. Stand the jars up to
their necks in a pot of warm water, with
straw or paper beneath and round them
to prevent knocking and cracking. Set over
the fire, and bring to the boil. When bubbles
rise in the jars, allow the cooking to go
■on for five or ten minutes, and then lift
out the jars and screw down the tops. Stand
the jars upside down for an hour, and. if
there is no leakage, store away in a cool,
dark place; if the lids leak, boil up and
screw down again until airtight.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kooragai”: Better than a hoe or mat-
tock for dealing with clumps of burrs or
Scotch thistles is a straight-bladed tool with
a long handle with which you can jab at
the roots. A brush-liook with the bent end
cut off makes a good one. In a big paddock
where the pest is scattered the weapon can
be used on horseback —like a pig-sticker’s
lance.
“Minthall”; Nothing to beat sheep at
cleaning out blackberry. Roll or burn the
pest down to give the woollies a chance, and
they will keep the suckers trimmed off until
the plants give in. They will eat every loaf,
even when hungry, rather than crop the
grass. If the patch can’t he broken down to
let the sheep walk over it, watch the latter
carefully, as the long thorns on the runners
will often entangle woollcd stock.
“Tenrag”: One pound of good hay equals
21b. to 2Mb. of grass ensilage as feed ; and
61b: of grass ensilage is equal to 101 b. of
mangels. In feeding ensilage, lib. of bay
should bo supplied with every 31b. to 41b.
of ensilage.
“Bushman”: Consider the feelings of your
stock in winter or rough weather; feed them
early in the afternoon. Stock like to take
their time over hand-fed rations and then
have a drink, and 90 per cent, like to select
a protected spot or camp before nightfall.
“Gumblegubbin”: There is nothing
handier than salt as a cure for centipede
bites.
“Bullswool”: Empty ink-drums or large
petrol- or bulk oil-drums are ideal for water,
pig feed or skim milk, as well as containers
for meals, seeds or fruit, standing heat well
when used as boilers. If the feed shed is
away from the bails, one of them on a light
hand trolly will do to convey mixed food
to the stalls.
“Gumblegubbin”: A piece of an old
scythe-blade, suitably bent, makes a good
scraper for cleaning a pig or the fleshy side
of a sheepskin.
“Poddy”: Ragwort can be simply and
cheaply controlled by spraying with calcium
chlorate-chloride. It is non-inflammable,
non-poisonous, and the cost would be under
£1 per acre of weed. One spraying only is
necessary. It can be done at any time from
the rosette to the flowering period.
“J.A.L.”: The latest method of boring
fencing posts has turned a heavy job
into a recreation. The plant is a
IJ-li.p. petrol engine mounted on a
pair of motor-car wheels. The engim'
transmits power to a shaft which, through
cogs, drives a flexible tube. At the end of
the tube is a chuck into which any ordinary
fencing bit can be put. W. ,T. Akers, of
Charleville, son of the inventor, bored 1000
mulga 5-hole 44-inch posts in under eight
hours with it recently. A small boy can
move the plant from post to post. At any
time, a shearing handpiece can be substi-
tuted for the chuck should sheep require to
be shorn.
“J.A.S.”: To keep poultry worm-free, the
range and all hoppers and drinking vessels
must, be kept strictly clean. Manure
heaps, pools of water must be attended to.
Yards should be spread with burnt lime
twice a year and spaded over. Dropping
boards must be used, particularly for grow-
ing stock, and should be scraped daily and
disinfected every week. Hoppers, drinking
vessels, etc., must also receive periodical
cleaning and disinfecting.
“Speranza” : A good way of keeping fresh
water available for the fowls: Take an
ordinary five-gallon oil drum. Lay it on
its side, with a trough soldered on at one
end. A small hole punched in the end of
the drum just below the level of the top of
the trough makes the fountain automatic,
an'd ensures a’n ample supply of fresh, clean
water at all times. 'These fountains should
bo kept in a shady place.
“Eureka”: Good waterproof leggings for
wet-weatlier jobs can be easily made from
old motor inner-tubes. Cut a section of
lube long enough to reach from the ankle to
the knee, cutting a strip at the bottom so
that, this strip will go under the instep. A
small strap will keep them in place below
the knee.
“6.Q. J.” : Citrus fruit should not be pulled,
but should be clipped close to the calyx or
button. If the stalks are left long they may
puncture the,skin of other fruit in the pick-
ing bag, and in the subsequent, handling.
Do not drop the fruit into the bag; place if
in so that it will not be bruised. Gloves
should be worn when the fruit is being
handled, or at least the fingernails should
be kept cut very closely.
“A.C.8.”: A good grafting wax for fruit:
trees consists of a pound of tallow and a
pound of beeswax melted with three-quarters
of a pound of resin. This can be used
direct or, if waxed calico is wanted, applied
to the strips of calico when hot. It should
be allowed to soak in thoroughly. Never
spray for insect pests while the tree is in
blossom or the pollinating insects may b
destroyed.
“Tena”: To grow early tomatoes in a cold
district, put treacle-tins in a fire till the
bottoms fall out. Now tie a string or wire
around the edges of the tins and place on a
board in a shed. Fill with good soil
and put a couple of tomato seeds in
each. When well established, save the
stronger plant. Put plants in sun each
day till about three o’clock. Water
well. Leave plants in tins until all danger
of frost is past. Then slide the tins into
holes in a suitable bed, cut strings round
them and pull tins three-quarters way up.
This makes a collar which keeps off grubs.
“Floodmark”: The management of Col-
laroy Station (Upper Hunter, N.S.W.),
finding eaglehawks killing young lambs, has
placed four white fowls in a coop o.n a con-
spicuous ridge in the centre of the lambing
country. In the ground around the coop
two dozen rabbit traps are set as for rab-
bits, except they arc tied with wire to logs
to prevent the eagles lifting them. Every
morning when the traps are attended to
wheat and water are taken to the choolcs;
so far thirty eagles have been accounted for.
“Panton Hill” : Either the private or com-
mercial applegrower who cannot avail him-
self of refrigerated storage should remember
that the French crab is about at its best
after 12 months in any ordinarily cool sfor-
age. Indeed, I fancy that a French cr.»b.
not overdone with water during its growth,
would keep for ever; I have taken them off a
shelf, within 2ft. of an iron roof, 18 months
after picking, arid they were still quite
sound and eatable, though a bit shrivelled.
To these virtues are added extreme hardiness
and freedom from disease, a fairly enticing
coloration and sweetness at all stages of
ripeness.
“Desert Pea”: In Queensland there’s
money in growing beans. T. P. Reynolds,
of Glastonbury, in the Gympie district, pur-
chased 151 b. of disease-free Canadian Wonder
French-bean seed from Norfolk Island last
year for 15s. He last month obtained 28001 b.
of the best-quality beans from the plants,
and expects to get two tons; the beans are
realising 3d. to sd. per pound. The only
fertiliser used was a little sulphate of am-
monia and superphosphates.
“T. 11.” : A recipe to help the traveller over-
bad roads or bogs : From an old cover about
a size larger than those on your car or
truck cut out ten five-inch sections with a
hacksaw; slot these just under the bead by
punching, on each side, two quarter-inch
holes, about one and a half inches apart.
Cut out between the holes with a sharp
chisel. This gives you openings which will
take a wide strap. Then on each rear wheel,
equally spaced, tightly strap five of the pre-
pared sections. After you have negotiated
your bad country and before trying to remove
cleats, run the* vehicle back and forth on
the good road to clean off the mud.


OurServiceDepartment
■This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hanti
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Want'
Single man, N.S.W., wants situation, anywhere,
station preferred, previous exp., used to hard work.
—6759.
Man, Sydney, all-round sheep station worker, handy
tools and engines, wife cook and domestic duties,
wants employment. Refs.—676s,
Returned soldier, Sydney, 55th Battalion, customs,
newspaper and clerical exp., seeks employment. Refs.
—6826.
Youth (18), S.A., can cook, kill and ride, two
years’ exp. in S.A. as rouseabout, wants job on
Q’land station.—6767.
To buy copy of “Recompense,” bv Robert Keable.
—6756.
To buy copy of “Old Wessex Ballads.”-—6538.
To buy old song “Beautiful Garden of Hoses.”
—6782.
To buy instruction book for 1930 “Indian Scout,”
37, electrically equipped.—6796.
Copy of article by J. H. M. Abbott on the first
number of The Bulletin, or name of paper and
date in which it appeared,—6749.
The St. John’s College Press, Morpeth (N.S.W.),
wishes to buy copies of the “Morpeth Review,” No.
1, Sept., 1927, and No. 2, Dec., 1927.—6745.
Words of verse “Ships That Pass in the Night.”
—6722.
Information Sought.
(I) When a receiver is -put into a busi-
ness by a bank what, is the usual salary?
(2) When should he draw it? (3) Has he
power to collect cheques from debtors and.
appropriate them to his own use , as part
salary? (4) When the bank’s claim is satis-
fied, should the bank issue a statement to
the company showing how the money was
disbursed ? —6666.
(1) Salary depends, as a rule, on the
difficulty of collection. (2) That is a matter
of arrangement with the bank. (3) No, be
is paid by the bank and the bank will
charge it against the co. (4) The co. is
entitled to an account.
(1) How much coffee and tea per head of
population does Australia use per year? (2)
From what countries is coffee used in Aus-
tralia obtained? (3) In what position, docs
Australia come as a tea-drinking country,
and which is the leading tea-drinking coun-
try?—6s6l.
(1) Tea, 7.671 b.; coffee, 41b. (2) Nether-
lands East Indies. India, Abyssinia, British
East Africa and Arabia. (3) Third. The
United Kingdom leads with 9.201 b. per head.
(1) How to handle dahlias? (2) Does it
injure the bulbs if they are left in from year
to year? (3) Time to sow seed? —672S.
(1) When the foliage is dead, dig up the
plumps and store them in a dry place, where
they can be left until ready for cutting and
replanting in November. (2) Yes, the
vitality of the tubers is lost, and the blooms
are much smaller. (3) In August.
(1) Can snapdragons be. grown from cut-
tings? (2) Has growing from cuttings any
advantage over growing from seed? —6739.
(1) Small cuttings of snapdragons will
root quickly in sandy soil under glass. Water
very lightly or they will die from “wet feet.”
(2) From cuttings the same colors can be
obtained, while the seed is always likely to
bo affected by pollinisation.
(.1) Materials most used for the filaments
of wireless valves? (2) For the plates and
grids? (3) How are valves evacuated? —
6721.
(1) Pure tungsten, tungsten treated with
thorium and a platinum-iridium compound
coated with certain oxides. (2) Nickel, and
sometimes molybdenum for the larger trans-
mitting valves. (3) When most of the air
has been removed by vacuum pumps the valve
is heated to ensure that all moisture is
evaporated and drawn out. The electrodes
are then heated by liigb-frequency currents
to drive out occluded gas and the bulb is
sealed. The remaining traces of gas are got
rid of by a bit of magnesium previously
weeded on to the plate. The vaporised mag-
nesium combines with the last traces of gas
and is deposited on the inside of the glass
bulb, giving it a silvery appearance.
(1) How many sailing vessels entered
Sydney Harbor in 1931-32 and in 1920-21?
(2) How many motor vessels in 1931-32 and
in 1925-26? (3) How many oil-burning
steamers last, year?— 67sB.
(1) In 1920-21. 242; in 1931-32. one. (2)
In 1925-26, 86; in 1931-32, 323. (3) 461.
What motor vehicles are exempt from
taxation in N.5.W.? —6762.
Ambulance motor vehicles; those used by
manufacturers or dealers for trial purposes :
and so much of the weight of a motor
vehicle used solely for mining purposes in
the western division of N.S.W. as exceeds
five tons; motor vehicles owned by the coun-
cil of a municipality or shire and used solely
for the purposes of road construction, main-
tenance or repair; trailers and motor vehicles
used solely for work on farms; trailers owned
by farmers and used solely for carting the
produce of their farms, or owned by timber-
cutters and used solely for carting their
timber from forest to mill.
Speeds (top and cruising), number of
engines and their power, wing span, petrol
capacity and range of the aeroplane Faith
in Australia? —67s2.
In tests, the ’plane has attained a top
speed of 126 miles an hour, and a cruising
speed of 105 miles an hour. Tt is equipped
with three Wright Whirlwind R 760 engines,
each of 240 h.p. The wings span 75ft. 2in.,
and the length is 46ft. 6in. Petrol storage
capacity is 1230 gallons. Maximum ranie
is 3500 miles.
(1) Name of first poison gas used during
the Great. War? (2) In what year was it
first used? (3) What gas caused the great-
est number of casualties? (4) What year
did it first come into use? —6679.
(1) Chlorine. (2) 1915. (3) Dichlorethyl
sulphide (mustard gas) was responsible for
most of the gas casualties. Although it pro-
duced no immediate sensation of discomfort,
it took very little time to put a man out of
action owing to its effect on the eyes and
lungs. (4) 1917.
My dog is suffering from arthritis. What
can I do to cure him? —6736.
During acute inflammation rest and
warmth are necessary, and poppy-head tea
fomentations should be applied to the joints
affected. Change the dressing three times
a day. A dose or two of aperient medicine
should be given. Administer tabloids of
salicylate of soda, 2 to 10 grains, three times
a day, and tin- dog should be given alkaline
lithia water to drink if he will take it.
(1) Is a man who has deserted his wife
or who has failed to support his children,
eligible for the old-age pension? (2) What
is the position of a woman who has deserted
her husband? —6755.
(1) A husband who has, for J 2 months or
more in the five years preceding his claim,
without just cause deserted his wife, or with-
out just cause failed to provide her with
adequate means of maintenance, or neglected
to maintain any of his children under the
age of 14 years, is disqualified. (2) A wife
who has, for 12 months or more in the five
years preceding her claim, without just cause
deserted her husband, or deserted any of
her children under the age of 14 years, is
disqualified.
What processes are involved in smelting
tin? —6662.
Usually performed in a reverberatory fur-
nace. The charge consists of from 20cwr.
to 25cw't. of ore mixed with about l-6th
weight of powdered anthracite or charcoal,
and a small quantity of lime or fluorspar to
serve as a flux for the siliceous matter in
order to form a suitable slag. The beat is
gradually raised for about six hours with as
little admission of air as possible so as to
maintain a reducing atmosphere. The oxide
is then reduced by the carbon.
How to restore faded ink? —6691.
Damp the waiting with very weak vinegar,
and leave it for an hour or two. Then
wash the paper over with a solution
of prussiate of potash. If the writing does
not appear clear at once, expose the paper
to the air for a few' hours, keeping it slightly
damp.
How to make “mosaic g01d”?. —6688.
Subject to intense heat in a crucible or
iron ladle a mixture of six parts of tin.
three of mercury, three of sal-ammoniac and
three of flowers of sulphur. Most of these
will be sublimed by the heat, and a solid
shining substance of the appearance of gold
will remain.
Were the obsei'vations (during a solar
eclipse) made to test Einstein’s theory of
the curvature, of light based on the light com-
ing from our sun or from a distant nebula?
—(>734.
The observations were made on the light
from the stellar field in the immediate neigh-
borhood of our sun at the time of eclipse.
This same star field had been photographed
several times six months before the eclipse l
and was rephotographed during the time of
totality of the solar eclipse. Comparison of
the two sets of photographs show'ed that
the positions of the stars had a slight dis-
placement toward the sun, bearing out the
theory propounded by Prof. Einstein.
Who ivas Beatrice Ccnci? —6659.
She was the daughter of Francesco Cenci,
a wealthy Roman (1549-1598), and of
Lucrezia. his second wife. Beatrice was in-
volved in a plot to murder Francesco, who
was assassinated w'hilst he slept, and after
torture and confession she and her mother
were beheaded in 1599. Shelley’s poetic
tragedy, “The Cenci,” is historically inaccu-
rate, but has immortalised Beatrice.
Recipe for a colorless transparent priming?
—6557.
Take 241 b. yellow wax, 24 pints boiled
linseed oil, 2 pints turpentine, 11b. resin.
Dissolve the wax in the linseed oil and the
resin in the turpentine, separately over a
slow heat. When quite melted, mix all by
stirring gently into one another. This dries
fairly soon, but hardens gradually.
(1) How to keep windows clean? (2)
Recipe for a floor polish that will not pro-
duce slipperincss?. —66l9.
(1) Use plain water or, if the windows are
very dirty, a cleansing preparation such as
Bon Ami. (2) Can’t be done. The mere act
of polishing produces gloss and slipperiness.
Names of books dealing with witchcraft,
its history and ceremonies?— 6s7l.
G. de Givry’s “Witchcraft, Magic and
Alchemy” (635.) ; G. L. Ivittredge’s “Witch-
craft in Old and New England” (425.) ; M.
Summers’s “Discovery of Witches” (Bs.).
/‘Geography of Witchcraft” (345.) and
“History of Witchcraft and Demonology”
(215.) ; and J. W. Wickwar’s “Witchcraft
and the Black,Art” (6s. 6d.).
(1) What provision is made for a refund
of Queensland unemplcnyment-relief tax to
seasonal workers? (2) What steps must I
take to secure a. refund? (3) When did pro-
vision for refund come into operation? (4)
Is it necessary to fill in income-tax returns
where earnings (labor only) have fallen
short of £150?—6568.
(1) (2) and (3) Make application to the
Department of Labor and Industry, Bris-
bane, giving particulars of income earned
and tax paid. The provisions for refund
are applicable to the current year- for the
first time. (4) No; but if you have fur-
nished income returns for previous years you
should notify the Commissioner of Taxes,
Brisbane, that your earnings for the 12
months were below £l5O.
(1) Is there likely to he a reduction in
the duty on Russian timber? (2) ( Where
docs Oregon timber come from? (3) Will
inflation in the U.S.A. cheapen the price of .
American timber landed in Australia? (4)
What has caused scarcity of timber stocks in
Sydney? (5) Do you advise me to stock
Oregon? —(>s24.
(1) The Tariff Board’s inquiry into that
matter is more likely to result in increase
than in reduction of duty. (2) Most of the
Oregon imported to Australia comes from
Canada, being admitted at 2s. per 100 super
feet less duty than timber from the U.S.A.
(3) Yes. That’s one of its objects. (4)
Probably caused by uncertainty of demand
owing to building depression. (5) Can’t
advise, as tin- outlook for the building trade
is uncertain.
How to varnish plaster , casts?. —0714.
Dissolve }oz. of soap iii a pint of water,
and add \oz. of white wax to the boiling mix-
ture. The cast is dipped in this liquid, and.
after drying a week, is polished by rubbing
with soft liuen, producing a finish like
marble. If to be exposed to the weather,
saturate the casts with linseed oil mixed
with wax or resin. In casting the plaster,
use distilled water and gum arabic.
What, is the standing of Karl Czerny as a
composer? Did he write any textbooks? —
0744.
Il'is more ambitious compositions, number-
ing 849, are now' forgotten. His various
books of exercises, elementary and advanced,
of which the best known are the “Etudes de
la Velocity,” have probably had a wider cir-
culation than any other works of their class,
and are still widely used. To the theory of
music Czerny contributed a translation of
Iteicha’s “Traits de Composition” and a
work entitled “Umriss dor ganzen Musikgc-
sehichtc.”
Can you tell me anything regarding New-
gate Prison, London? —0748.
It w T as a former prison in London, situated
at the west end of Newgatc-street, opposite
the Old Bailey. It was begun in the reign
of Henry 1., and is mentioned as a prison
in 1207. In 1241 a sum of 20,000 marks
was exacted from wealthy Jews of London
to repair the structure. In the fifteenth
century funds for its rebuilding were left, by
the will of Sir Richard Whittington. New-
gate was destroyed in the Great Fire of 16(36.
but rebuilt about 1770. It suffered much
damage by fire during the No-Popery riots of
1780. when 300 prisoners w r ere let loose. Mrs.
Fry began her labors for the improvement of
the conditions of the prisoners there in 1808.
It ceased to be used as a debtors’ prison in
1815 and as a place of incarceration in 1877.
In 1904 it was demolished, and the site is
now' occupied by the Central Criminal Court.
What, are considered, to be the ten most
beautiful violin solos? —6361.
The violin is above all things the instru-
ment of melody, and as such is heir to the
whole world of music. Excluding from the
survey all compositions not expressly written
for the instrument the field is narrowed to
surprisingly small dimensions. Among the
classics, ancient and modern, are the Bach
sonatas for the unaccompanied violin ; Beet-
hoven’s two “Romances”; ,Wieniawski’s
“Legende”: “Reveue,” by Vieuxtemps;
“Romance,” by Svendsen; and Kreisler’s
“Caprice Viennois.” For the rest the
searcher among classical violin literature
finds himself among the concertos (with
orchestral accompaniment) of Beethoven,
Brahms, Mozart, Mendelssohn, Saint-Saens
and Max Bruch, and the sonatas (with piano-
forte accompaniment) of Beethoven, Mozart,
Brahms, Cesar Franck and Grieg. But the
ten best violin solos are undoubtedly the ten
best melodies, and the world of music can
no more agree as to which melodies are the
best, than its individual components can
decide as to whether cherries or plums are
nicer.
(1) Percentage cuts in salaries paid to
Commonwealth and State public servants
in the following salary groups: Up to £250,
£251 to £looo,' £lOOl to £2OOO. over £2OOO.
and average, as at June, 1932? (2) I
understand that these reductions were sub-
ject to certain qualifications, the chief of
these being the retention of a minimum for
adult male. What was the minimum?
(3) Are. reductions by rationing Credited,
against percentage reductions?—® 347.
(1) According to a report tabled at a
conference of Commonwealth and State
Ministers at the end of June, 1932, the
position as regards all branches of the pub-
lic service save railway employees was:
Commonwealth: Salaries up to £250, cut
18 p.c.; £251 to £lOOO. 20 p.c.; £lOOl to
£2OOO, 224 p.c.; oyer £2OOO, 25 p.c.; aver-
age (excluding rationing and unemployment
relief taxes), 19.5 p.c. N.S.W.: Up to £250,
15 p.c. to 171 p.c.; £251 to £lOOO. 171 p.c. to
25 p.c.; £lOOl to £2OOO, 271 p.e.~to 321
p.c.; over £2OOO, 321 p.c.; average, 17.9
p.c. Yic.: Up to £lOO. 6 p.c.; £lOl to
£225, 111 p.c.; £226 to £250, 141 p.c. ; £251
to £lOOO, 141 p.c. to 211 p.c.; £lOOl to
£2OOO, 22 p.c. to 24 p.c.; over £2OOO, 25
p.c. to 27 p.c.; average, 17 p.c. Q’land:
Up to £250, 15 p.c.; £251 to £lOOO, 15 p.c.
to 18 p.c.; £lOOl to £2OOO, 18 p.c. to 20 p.c.;
over £2OOO, 20 p.c. ; average, 15.2 p.c.
South Aus.: Up to £250, 19 p.c.; £251 to
£lOOO. 19 p.c.; £lOOl to £2OOO. 20 p.c.;
over £2OOO, 20 p.c.; average, 19 p.c. West
Aus.: Up to £250, 18 p.c.; £251 to £lOOO,
20 p.c.: £lO9l to £2OOO, 221 p.c.; over
£2OOO, 221 p.c.; average, 19.2" p.c. Tas.:
Up to £250. 20 p.c.; £251 to £BOO. 20 p.c.;
£BOl to £l2OO. 221 p.c.; £l2Ol to £2OOO,
25 p.c.: over £2OOO. 25 p.c.; average. 20
p.c. (2) Commonwealth: £lB2, plus Child
Endowment allowance of £l3 for each de-
pendent child under 14; this averages £l2
to each adult male officer. N.S.W.: £197
(married employee under £3OO receives re-
bate £l5: married employee over £3OO not
reduced below' £268). Yic.: £2OB if mar-
ried. Q’land: £192 (females £102). South
Aus.: No minimum. West Aus.: £lB5
(females £100). Tas.: No minimum. (3)
In N.S.W., yes. In Q’land reductions are
applied to rationed men, but with conces-
sions to those married. In West Aus. re-
ductions are applied to rationed men.
Brief Answers.
R.A.J.: “Blacksmith and Wheelwright,”
lti Hudson-stveet, New York, N.Y., U.S.A., monthly
(10 cents)... .B.B.: The line should read “Make
the mighty ocean and the beauteous land’’....
J.G.L.: Cannot give advice on such matters.....
J.8.W.: The Yeoman arrived at Fremantle on June
22, 1887, having left London on May 7 of that year.
The vessel was 1426 tons and had a crew of 60, the
master being Captain Rankham... .A.D.: Write
Buzacott and Co., 7 Market-street, S’ydney....
H.W.: (1) John Sands, Ltd., Druitt-street, Sydney.
(2) Cannot say. .. .A.J.H.: The council has power
to control and regulate the draining of lands or
premises and may enter on them for that purpose.
Any such work carried out by it should not be
interfered with. Write to the council pointing out
the hardship caused you by the drain... .Iv.T.: Forms
of power of attorney may be purchased from any
stationer who stocks legal forms. One witness is
required and the document must be stamped ( fcl).
If property is involved, consult a solicitor... . F.E.M.:
Maintenance is a contribution to the support of the
children, and it is improbable that a Court would
regard medical fees as included in support....
A. : The gas employee being on the premises at
your invitation or with your consent, you are
responsible directly for the injury caused him by
the dog. The insurance co. could claim only through
him....J.P.: Income received from life-insurance
premiums need not be included in income-tax returns.
....J.H.: Write J. R. Hunter, Massinger-street,
Byron Bay (N.S.W.) G.L.C.: Write C. F. Lascron,
66 Pitt-street, Sydney... .8.J.W.: (1) “Marks and
Monograms on Porcelain,” by Chaffer, and “Marks
on Pottery and Porcelain,” by Burton and Hobson.
(2) “Porcelain, Its Manufacture, Etc.,” by Burton.
All these books are difficult to obtain in Australia,
but could be got for you... . J.K.T).: Advisable to
patent it in advance; then get in touch with
motor accessories manufacturers. .. .S.W.Q.: Supply
name of district and annual rainfall... .C.M.8.:
Write direct either to the Hccord and Pay Office
of the unit in which the soldier is serving, or to
the Secretary, War Office, Whitehall, London, S.W.I.
. ...J.0.J.: Machining and Electric Co., 29J Oxford-
street, Sydney... .J. 8.: Cannot trace any teacher of
that name... .F.F.: No rocord that any harm
resulted. They were worn quite a lot once....
C.R.G.: To what particular class of pension are you
referring?... .J.R.S.: Highly improbable that
anchor and chain were silverplated.- They may
have been burnished by being dragged over sand.
. ...V.L.: Crotalana labumifolia; it grows to 8 ft.
Sydney plant merchants price it at 2s. each. A
cool shaded position, protected from hot wind and
sun is suitable... .A. 8.: Made in Adelaide, but the
co. which manufactured them went into liquidation
some years ago. Can’t trace any stocks in Sydney.
. ...L.8.: Know of no barring law, and
can see no reason why you shouldn’t
reduce rent in consideration of tenant doing
repairs. .. .J.S.: There is no blood relation-
ship between you and your niece-by-marriage and
consequently no bar to marriage. The mandage of
deceased wives’ sisters involved other principles. Suck
marriages are now good in all the States... .
W.M.: The charge for water supplied to a vessel
by the Sydney Harbor Trust is 2s. per 1000 gallons
if the water is taken through hoses supplied by
the Trust; in other cases the rate is Is. 6d. per
1000 gallons... .P.J.C.: Your tickets drew no prizes.
. ...L.G.: You might write to the Seamen’s Union,
Sydney... .M.G.8.: It is French for the Latin word
“viaticum,” meaning “provisions [money] for a
journey.” It is the practice of the authorities at
Monte Carlo to provide a person who has lost all
his money at the Casino with enough to
leave.... C.H.: Aviation (Die Flugzengindustrie),
aerodrome (Das Flugfeld), and Australian
(Australien). “Baby Avro,” being a trade
name, would be written as in English....
R..T.5.: “Latin American World,” 93 Chancery-lane,
London, W.C.2. It is a monthly, price Is
T.,1.1).: The Pitman books you seek are Young's
“From the MS. to the Bookseller” (35.), Moseley’s
“Short Story Writing and Freelance Journalism”
(7s. 6d.), and Cranfield’s “Journalism As a Career”
(55.) ... .E.L.: Where an old-age pensioner’s house
is destroyed by fire, the Commissioner may consent
to insurance money being used to build a new
residence... .S.H.A.: In Broken Hill, standard time
is generally observed —9 hours 30min. ahead of Green-
wich... .F.M.G.: The periods for which the N.S.W.
Governor may absent himself from the State are
limited by the instructions. When he is absent, the
Lieut.-Gov. acts in his stead; the Chief Justice is
usually appointed. In the event of the Lieut.-Gov. not
being available to fill the Governor’s position, an
Administrator assumes office under a dormant com-
mission appointing the Senior Judge of the State as
Administrator SVP.S.: Kevin O’Higgins, Vice-
President of the Irish Free State, was assassinated
near Dublin on July 10, 1927.... W.W.: Write to the
Secretary, United States Volunteer Life Saving Corps,
91 Sabin-street, Providence, R. 1., U.S.A G.W.:
“Kunopia” is an abo. word meaning a 1ag00n....
B. : The condition of soldier land settlement in
Vic. was investigated by a Royal Commission in
1925 and was followed by an investigation into the
position in all the States by Justice Pike, who was
appointed by the Commonwealth Government in
1927... .F.8.W.: The tailor-fish, when freshly caught,
is highly valued as a food, both here and in
America. It is palatable when smoked... .8.P.:
Ursinia is a hardy annual which does best when
sown in the spring and planted out in a warm,
sunny situation. It will then flower the same
summer M.T.: Cane, wicker and plain wooden
furniture is cooler and the more suitable- for use in
Fiji. Upholstered furniture is generally unsuitable.
Light bedding only is required. .. .If.J.: A section
vote in N.S.W. is exercised when an elector who is
not enrolled, or whose name is marked as having
voted, is allowed to vote after making a declaration
that he has not really voted.... C.W.: Write Dept,
of Family Endowment, the Mint; Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .F.W.8.: F. C. Irwin joined the Britisli
Army in 1808. In 1829 he was sent to W.A. in
command of a detachment of the 63rd Regt., which
had been sent to protect the newly-established Swan
River Settlement. In 1831 he became senior member
of the Leg. Council and from Sept., 1832, to Sept.,
1833, administered the Govt, during the absence of
Capt. Stirling. His book, published in 1835, was
probably the earliest account of the c010ny....
P. J.: (1) A record was made of the size of every
original drawing Phil May drew for The Bulletin.
(2) Send it in for inspection... .N.M.: Henry Elisha
Beard was elected to the Vic. Leg. Assembly for
Jika Jika in 1904 and was defeated in 1907. He
was elected to the House of Reps, in 1910 for
Batman (Vic.). Born in 1862, he died at Melb.,
Dec. 18, 1910. .. .G.S.: The native name has been
variously recorded as “Eurella” and “Uraidla.”
More than one writer has suggested that the former
name means “two ears.” When Adelaide is
approached from the north, the two peaks of the
mountain are suggestive of the ears of a kangaroo
peeping up over the line of the range.... (Many
others mailed.)


Obtainable
from your
local Dealer
Moire
power.
toKVtfi
CLYDE
BATTERIES
The CLYDE ENGINEERING
CO. LTD.
61-65 Wentworth Avenue. SYDNEY
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of
Tasmania,
Northern
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier " and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Dontleep a Cold-
GODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE.
in the house !
ẁ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Record times over jumps are being shat-
tered in all directions. Belar stripped 54sec.
off the Grand National Hurdle record; now
Redditch has reduced the previous best
Steeplechase time by 3fsec. Jack Kilduff,
who piloted Blackthorn to victory in the
G. N. Steeple exactly 50 years ago, witnessed
the thrilling achievement of Redditch. It
took Blackthorn 7min. 17sec. to cover the
three miles and a furlong; Redditch com-
pleted the journey in Grain. ssec. Four
years ago Sandhurst was hailed as the great-
est of the timber-toppers because he ran
away with the cross-country classic, conced-
ing nearly 2st. to Mosstrooper and occupy-
ing 37sec. less time than Readleap did in
1892. Now Redditch comes along with almost
a stone more weight than Sandhurst had and
takes 3|sec. less.
Fred Hoysted is a wizard at training
jumpers. Though well up in years, he does
not hesitate to have an occasional ride over
the schooling hurdles and fences. Redditch,
a hurdler last season, developed into a ’chaser
as readily as Rakwool, with whom Hoysted
won the National Steeple for E. Y. Sheil in
1931. Redditch belongs to A. Loddon Yuille,
keeper of the Australian Stud Book, who
bought him as a yearling for 60 guineas and
leased the Red Dennis gelding to the late W.
J. Wood. . Executors of Wood acted wisely
in continuing to race him, as the stake on
Saturday was worth £1750. Loddon Yuille,
accompanied by G. T. Rowe, secretary of the
A.J.G., motored from Sydney to witness the
National.
Precocious, last year’s winner, made the
running; and that suited Bob Inkson, the
rider of Redditch; but when Precocious
began to run down his fences Rcdditch’s
attention was distracted. Inkson accordingly
allowed Redditch to shoot to the front as
soon as the obstacles in front of the stand
had been cleared, and thereafter it was a
Bert‘/Mvs had this racket four.
YEARS HOW
woKioeß(=u- about
THAT} 1 '
Bert :* No, but -the Gsut's a.s tight a«
THE. Day I Bought it?
GERT ■ V vyOULONT BE IF YOU HIT "THE
o*l.l- VIiTH IT
cakewalk for the favorite. He jumped
superbly, was untroubled by the 12st. 31b.,
and cantered home eight lengths in advance
of The Cracksman. Only eight Worses
started, the smallest field since 1889 —-and
four finished. Yet it was a race that will
live in memory. Redditch was favorite at
7 to 4.
There were four jumping contests at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Zygon atoned for his
Grand National Hurdle failure by taking
the Doutta Galla Plurdle. Many punters
did not know that Zygon got his tongue over
the bit in the “National,” thereby affecting
his chance to a material degree. In winning
the Doutta Gallia, this gelding took no less
than 9:}sec,. off the Flemington record for
2i miles; from this it would appear that
he might have succeeded on the previous
Saturday in ordinary circumstances. Lynden
and Baanya, minor placegetters in the
“National,” whipped-in the Doutta Galla
field. After being cut down by Disney in
the Trial Hurdle, Sarokos came again and
beat the Gippsland prad by an eyebrow.
Mortat, the favorite, fell and had to be
destroyed, having, fractured a leg.
Lanilda’s victory in the Footscray Steeple-
chase was, made easy by Jimball breaking
his neck a*t the last of the abattoirs treble
when disputing control with Lanilda.
The Lawn Handicap went to Waltzing
Lily, perhaps the fastest filly in Australia
over six furlongs, and Gallantic redeemed her
reputation to some extent by appropriating
the July Handicap. The mount on Gallantic
was given to Frank Dempsey, who may do
the principal riding for Holt’s stable in the
absence of Duncan from the saddle.
Pastoralist .T. J. Lealiy and liis trainer, M.
Webster, are having a fine run of success
with Tangible. Akuna and Balgay. During
two months Tangible and Akuna have each
won two races, and the manner in which
Tangible’s half-brother Balgay beat the oppo-
sition in the Kensington Handicap suggests,
further victories for the bay son of imported
Bachelor’s Perrse, who is doing stud duty
in Queensland. Served by his light weight,
and a fairly heavy track. Balgay won easily
from the consistent Blairfort, who may run
in the Grafton Cup. Fine Salt was hard
ridden all the way to gain the minor place.
Balgay is in the A.J.C. Metropolitan with
Ost. 71b., and as trainer Webster can still
improve him lie may be a possibility.
Randwick trainer William Kelso had a fair
opinion of the Spearhead gelding Palamon
as a two-year-old. He cost Mr. “P. Fairie”
900 guineas as a yearling, but did not win
a race for that sportsman, although he had
galloped well with such noted performers as
Bacchus and Statesman. Palamon, after
many failures, w r as sold to W. Miller for 05
guineas. His success in the Kensington
Stakes was his fourth for Miller; he just
struggled home from Aussie’s Delight and
Spanker at the end of a mile, his superb
condition standing to him in the last furlong.
The 14.2 pony Sir Merriwee (late Merri-
wee) is in the A.J.C. Epsom with 7st. Cost-
ing 70 guineas as a yearling he is one of the
best ponies seen for a long time. He won
the first division of the Kensington Fourteen.
Two without an effort. He is a thick-set
chestnut by imported Treclare from Mer-
rina, who was raced by Booth. She was very
brilliant, and evidently Sir Merriwee gets his
speed from her.
The uphill finish at Kensington is sup-
posed to tests the squibs. New Clarit. a
noted stopper, has, nevertheless, won four
races there, each in easy style. Now sports-
men are beginning to realise that the theory
is wrong. New Clarit was ridden by appren-
tice Hayes, who decided that with such
brilliant gallopers as Lady Joy, Vail a r,
Orpah and Brazenfa.ce in he would win all the
way. Lady Joy, however, hung on well
until the turn, where New Clarit was allowed
to stride out. The rest was easy.
Backed from fours to twos. High Disdain
captured the second division of the Kensing-
ton Flying Handicap from Mr. Bruce and
Questionnaire. High Disdain gives Kings-
ley many anxious moments owing to bad
joints; and most of liis training is confiued
to swimming. He still retains a fair amount
of pace, and practically led from barrier rise
on Saturday. Mr. Bruce gave him a big
start from the top of the straight, but failed
to reach him by a neck. Old Ring Boy is
proving useful to trainer Neil McKenna.
Getting a. run on the rails all the winy, he beat
the opposition in the Kensington Welter
Mile. Ring Boy has always been a good
welter performer.
■■!: * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Precious Gift; next,
Poponaise.
Rosehill Handicap: Akuna; next, Phlare.
Novice Handicap: High Cross; nest,
Speldon.
Carlingford Mile: Rosendo; next, Bill
Wedgewood.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The somewhat mysterious Al Foreman is
on his way. to Montreal, leaving bouts with
Delaney. Tarleton and Kelso behind. Fore-
man made more than £ISOU out of six fights
in seven months ; and it seems strange that
he should run away from more good money.
Perhaps he prefers short bouts to 15-rounders
with younger boys ; A 1 is no chicken.
* * * *
The second Beth-Lurich meeting at Leich-
hardt was a disappointment, and the crowd
counted them out more frequently than it
cheered. Still Luricli tried to live up to his
reputation. He squealed when Beth bit his
thumb, and was felled four times by left
hooks before Beth scored a fall in the fifth.
Luricli picked up Beth and pinned him In
the sixth. Another draw.
Footbrawl
On Saturday some 42,000 packed Carlton
Oval to full capacity to watch the scrimmage
between the leaders in the Vic. League com-
petition, Richmond and the home side. Play
was strenuous and exciting, with occasional
humorous lapses, but almost void of science
or .system. Richmond was the faster, and
made position better; Carlton marked surely
and was quicker in the pick-up; it scout-
ing gained much ground. But for bad shoot-
ing towards the close, the Tigers must have
won ; as it was, three behinds in the last quar-
ter that should have been goals left them with
a 3-point deficit —67 points to Carlton’s 70.
Mackay and Davey, for the Blues, marked
superbly, while Richmond’s centre, Zschecli,
as usual, dominated the position. At St.
Kilda the local players, having been told that
the club’s financial position is as unsatisfac-
tory as a State Treasurer’s, and having had
their wages cut from £3 to £2 per week,
bogged in with despairing vigor and put Gee-
long through its facings to the tune of 80 to
55, while 10,000 of the neighboring nobility
and gentry roared approval. Fitzroy went
to F'ootscray and learned that it isn’t quite
the team it thought it was, the Tricolors
being steadier and surer throughout, finally
winning with 96 points to ’Roy’s 62. Writer
has a haunting notion that Footscray will
squeeze into the final four this season. .Col-
lingwood invited Essendon over and straight-
way proceeded to wallop it, piling up 145
points to ’Don’s 9S. Gordon Coventry kicked
15 goals for the winners. South Melbourne
went to North and pushed that combination
down among the also-rans by collecting 103
points to 90 ; and Melbourne and Hawthorn
provided the prettiest ’ball of the day, largely
because it didn’t matter which side won;
Melbourne, 136; Hawthorn, 9S.
* * * * .
“Rover”: The V.F.L. has a reputation
for poaching players in other States as
soon as they show exceptional pro-
mise. Westralia and N.S.W. seem to be
the favorite hunting-grounds of the Victorian
scouts, though all’ the other States have
reason for complaint., The cup of happiness
offered to N.S.W. by the big inter-Statc
tourney in Sydney next month has already
been embittered by the conviction that when
the show is over some of their best players
will fold their togs and silently steal away
to Melbourne. Of course, there is a sort of
gentleman’s agreement against this sort of
thing, but then the definition of wlnit con-
stitutes gentlemen is so beastly hazy.
* # *
With the Australian League team bound
for England, much of the interest in the Syd-
ney grade matches has dropped, while some
surprises have resulted as the result of the
depletion of the crack teams by the absence
of their star players. One of the shocks was
the defeat of the premiers, South Sydney,
by Newtown, the Blues emerging on top by
14-8, thanks to four goals by that efficient
place-kick Ellis. Each side scored two
tries, but South Sydney could add only one
goal, a conversion by Ben Wearing. At
Prattcn Park University downed Western
Suburbs 22-7, while North Sydney unex-
pectedly headed St. George 5-0 at Earl Park.
Eastern Suburbs drew with Balmain, 11-11,
at Drummoyne.
*■ * *
The Rugby Union grade matches in Sydney
last week saw the premiers improve their
position, Manly beating University 12-6 at
Uni. Oval in a splendidly fast game. Uni.
missed many chances in the first half, which
ended with Manly leading 5-0. Manly put
the pressure on in the second half and was
still attacking at bell-time. Each side scored
two tries, Sheidow converting one and kick-
ing a field goal for Manly. The Western
Suburbs-St. George game at Hurstville saw
the first-named win 14-6, a welcome change
after recent lickings. Drummoyne won
19-3 from Northern Suburbs at North Syd-
ney, and Randwick galloped away from
Eastern Suburbs at Coogee by 34-3, though
the young and light Easterners made a
plucky fight for it.
* % * *
The Wallabies went down hard to South
Africa in the first Tost at Capetown, the
home side winning 17-3 —four tries, two
goals and a penalty goal to a penalty. Up
to half-time the tourists mixed it well,
though scores were 6-0 against them at the
bell. The back division sent along persistent
attacks, but found the opposition defence
deadly, while a counter-attack was always
ready to develop. In the last quarter the
greatly superior weight of the home team
told its tale, though the forwards cut even
with the famous South African pack in the
matter of play. There was some heat shown,
the referee holding up the game at one
stage to allow tempers to cool. The only
similar instance of recent years was that
at Twickenham in the match between Eng-
land land the last All Blacks in Britain. The
Australian defeat was emphatic, but there
is room for hope. The M.L. side of 1928
was beaten 17-0 in its first Test on the same
ground, and was not playing with a make-
shift team as in the Australian ease. They
went on to win the second and fourth, South
Africa scoring again in the third.
(Continued on page 80.)
Racquet and Ball
Jack Crawford came into his own in the
filial of the singles at Wimbledon by beating-
Vines, the title-holder, 4-6, 11-9, 6-2, 2-6, 6-4.
It was a hard-fought battle, with both men at
their top, and the Australian has gained tre-
mendously in prestige by his stamina and de-
termination under the most trying circum-
stances, playing as he was for a world title
and against the acknowledged world cham-
pion. How close the thing was can be seen
from the fact that .Crawford’s margin was
only two games out of 56, the Australian
taking 29 to the American’s 27. This is
the first time a man from any part of the
Empire has won the event since Gerald Pat-
terson’s success in 1922. Since then France
lias taken the title six times and America
four. ' In the series, which began in 1877,
Australia has had five wins, while Tony Wild-
ing, of Maori fend, playing as an Australa-
sian representative, was successful in 1910-
11-13. Norman Brookes, of Melbourne, was
the first player from outside the British
Isles to triumph—that was in 1907.
$ * * *
Wimbledon wound up on Saturday with
the finals of the mens doubles, and the events
in which women were concerned. That
great old combination, Borotra and Brugnon
won the doubles from Nunoi 'and Satoh by
three sets to one. Helen Wills-Moody took
the singles title again, thus equalling the
Lenglen’s six wins at Wimbledon. The
women’s doubles went to Madame Mathieu,
of France, and American Elizabeth Ryan.
who beat an English pair in Misses James
and Yorke.. The mixed doubles were won
by the German pair, Von Gramm and
Fraulein Ivrahwinkel.
( Continued on page 30.)
-r. Nineteenth Hole
1 “f 1 m c ® nt “ ri ° ie ...
The Queensland open golf championship
went this year to the local crack J. N. Rad-
eliffe, who beat Ivo Whitton by a stroke with
a score for the four rounds of 294, the final
round of (IS being a record. He is the first
amateur to take the title since Whitton
won in 1928.
* * * *
The British open golf championship ended
j n a surprise win for a comparatively un-
known American, Densmore Sliute, who tied
with another Yankee dark-horse, Craig Wood.
with a card of £92. The pair played off over
36 holes, Shute winning with 149 to 154
hy his opponent. The winner is a profes-
sional with the Worthington Club of Ohio
and played for America in the Ryder Cup
maP ,fi 0 f 1931. The result must have given
t j, e bookmakers a skinner. Wagering was
heavy and players like Hagon, Sarazen and
Mitchell were backed to the final rounds,
(q ie card being regularly called as in cours-
jn g events. Sarazen and Diegel, of America,
t j ed w jfh Easterbrook, of Britain, for third
p ] aco Joe Kirkwood was well down with
297. while Walter Hagen, after a good run,
dropped back to 301. Americans have won
this event every year since 1923, when
Havers, of England, took it.


' •. Jr'
N%
>1
SC?
as
w
ii*2P
\r'
a
>/
Did
OlU?l
WHEN THE
IS APPARENT
DON'T
g a umi w?
twimlTJl .D A JJKi
I ON
“OUTSIDERS”
11l these times, when personal economy
is a matter of material moment, the price
you pay for your whisky is important.
But.. price is not the only consideration!
You must discriminate between cheap
unsponsored liquor, and that which pro-
vides low price combined with quality;
that which is the product of a nationally-
known distillery.
Thus your choice will be the certainty—
Old Court Whisky—the finest Australia
has produced.
It’s so easy to be
PROFITABLY PATRIOTIC-/™,,
(fourC
Qhc Vodds Purest ( j
AND THE NATIONS FAVOURITE
Or
i
¥
a
X
mnm
***//
***£«*/
''fe
\>. *-
A> "r.
XNfeS*
%£V>
%
4:
%., %v* .
K%j ''/
***£*»***
***>> Q /<•>•*.
/
*
«*
%r
■*4.' p< %
Hp;


Its introduction to Australia
has been nothing short of
sensational!
ẃ
“Spar
with Yourself
for Health”
Price 8/6 Complete
(. Postage 6d. Extra)
“SPARO”
Shadow Ball
The most ingenious boxing
idea of modern times. A
boxing instructor, physical
exerciser and funmaker
combined. Simply explained,
the “Sparo” is a lightly but
strongly constructed punch-
ing ball, which is attached
by a patent strap to the
head, enabling you to effect-
ively spar with yourself.
Thousands sold in a few weeks.
Irresistible to old and young alike.
Distributors:
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia’’
And All Branches.
Ind isputably
The Most Distinctive Coif
Club Series sold in Australia
to-day!
W
■
y
m
WILL CORRY
Steel Shafted De Ltixe
GOLF CLUBS
Known as the clubs a player be-
comes lyrical over. Absolutely the
last word in scientific design and
finish.
GRADED IRONS
from 21/- to 32/6
matched Woods
from 22/6 to 37/6
New “CORRY” Top Spin
Approacher
has won unstinted approval fromlead-
ing Amateurs and Profes-
sionals. Price
Change to “Corry” Clubs and
strike your true form!
MICK.
SIMMONS
LIMITED
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House
of Australia”
Footbrawl
“Hotkam”: The V.F.L.’s habit of pinching
prominent players in other States for its
club teams caipe home to roost the other day,
when it was. suggested in Melbourne that
it would be a graceful act if the League
omitted these imported gladiators from the
Vic. team to figure in Sydney next month.
N.S.W., for instance, would be glad of the
help of its compatriots, Bunton, the Strang
.brothers, Minogue and Barnett, all front-
rank N.S.W. players now in Melbourne.
Tassie wouldn’t mind if Nash, Rait alul
Davies were allowed to return to its standard
for the occasion. Westralia and South Aus-
tralia can also show a list of men they
Would like to have who will also probably
figure as Victorians.
* >s * *
“Richmond”: One of the drawbacks to
Australian football is that it has no inter-
national status like other codes. However
good, none of its players can sport an Aus-
tralia cap. One way out, though only a com-
promise, would be to follow the American
example, where the ruling code is also purely
national. There at the end of every season
the football authorities select an All-America
team. It has no one to take the. field
against, but there is some distinction in being-
chosen. The coming inter-State tournament
in Sydney would give, the Australian Council
an opportunity to select an Australian team
on the American lines.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne Rugby Union fol-
lowers are disappointed at the refusal of
the N.S.W.R.U. to send a team to play
in Melbourne on August 12. Still, the
Welshmen can hardly be blamed with the
games with Queensland being played in Syd-
ney a few days earlier, while the claims
of' club football, which keeps the game
going, have to be considered. Ma may send
down a side when the grade matches are over.
* * * *
“Yarker”: The Australian Rugby League
team sailed for England last week, the fifth
side under this code to do so. It will
play 36 games against the Lancashire and
Yorkshire professional clubs, with three Tests
against teams selected from these clubs, and
a “Wales” match —the last at Wembley.
* * * *
“Gate”: The departure for England of
the latest Rugby League team has been
inarked by some unusual incidents. Three
players were dropped after vetting, one
N.S.W. player for a barked shin. _ Then a
Queenslander was outed. In writer’s experi-
ence as a front-row practitioner in over a
dozen inter-State and inter-Dominion games,
a barked shin was the first indication of the
opening of the season, and it remained barked
in a greater or less degree until after the
close. Mathematical formulae were never
applied to it, nor anything else, except an
occasional dab of iodine, yet nothing un-
toward ever h a ppened.
* * * *
“Bukslii Sahib” : Some queer things have
happened in Indian Soccer football, but a
new one cropped up lately when the Indian
Football Association, mostly composed of
natives, passed a rule appointing two re-
ferees to a match. Matters came to n climax
iu a game when both umpires whistled for
a breach, and each awarded the penalty to
a different side. The British Army teams
then served an ultimatum, and rather than
see them drop out the single referee was
restored. It recalls the very old days of
the Rugby Union when both an umpire and
a referee officiated. When the ump. saw a
breach he hoisted a flag, and the referee had
to confirm it with a toot on his whistle.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sturt” : Ackland-Horman, who lately sur-
prised Royal Adelaide Golf Club by win-
ning its championship at 19, has now gone
much further, Meeting all S.A.’s best,
amateur and pro. together, he tied for first
place (151 for 36 holes) with McMahon,
pro. champ, of Australia, and just lost on the
play-off. The boy’s driving and approach
are great, but at present he is a bit un-
certain on the green.
* * * *
“Woogarpo”: Women at. play arc notor-
iously indifferent to the rules of the game,
as bridge-players can testify. A case arose
in Brisbane during a foursomes handicap.
When the winners rolled up to receive the
plaudits and the prize they found that they
had been put on ice for playing with un-
registered caddies, this being tantamount to
putting up an unregistered jockey on a
starter at Randwick. One cannot help feeling
sorry for the girls. Probably the outsiders
were cheaper, and they couldn’t resist the
chance of a bargain.
* * $ *
"Brassey”: The N.S.W. country women’s
golf championship at La Perouse was won
by Vida Ebert, who finished two up with
Miss Parkman, of Leura, a former holder of
the title, after a great finishing rally by the
loser, who squared at the J 4th after being
five down at the seventh. The winner is a
left-hander from Griffith, and gets a great
length from the tee, her firm driving stand-
ing well to her in the windy conditions.
❖ >l* sfc i’.:
“Divot Digger”: E. W. (“Slip”) Carr,
who won the Pymble (N.S.W.) Cup from
a good field, promises to become as promin-
ent in golf as in other branches of sport,
though lie is not a delight to the style-
worshippers. An outstanding track athlete
(the Australian 220 yards record of 21.-J.sec.
still stands to his credit), and a Rugby
Union three-quarter who represented N.S.W.
and would have played for Australia if the
international matches had been resumed in
his time, he ran with the Australian team
at Paris Olympiad. lie was promising well
at tennis, too. before golf lured him away.
41 * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian Golf Asso-
ciation last week forwarded a request to tlm
Australian golf authorities to invite a team
Golfing Instructor ( demonstrating clubs ): “It is most important
to keep your eyes fixed on the ball.”
M CHAGGIS: “Ah’ve already gr-r-asped that!”
of British amateur golfers to visit Aus-
tralia for the centenary open championship,
which will begin on the Metropolitan Club’s
links in Melbourne on November 12, 1934.
Professional players are included in the in-
vitation, and prize-money on a liberal scale
is to be provided for them. An invitation is
also to be sent to Bobby Jones.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The outstanding feature
of the semi-final round of the All England
tennis championship was that there wasn’t
an Englishman, in the quartette. Crawford
is an Australian with a Scottish name,
Cochet a Frenchman, Satoli a Japanese and
Vines a Californian. An Englishman hasn’t
won the title since A. W. Gore in 1909.
* *
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis Cup
team’s tour of America is finalised. The
Americans have fallen in with the Austra-
lian desire to cut out the Los Angeles
matches, and the offer of 4500 dollars for
three appearances has been accepted. The
Australians will play in the national
doubles championship at Boston from
August 21-26 and in the singles in New
York from September 2to 9. The follow-
ing week the team shows at Chicago, and
if it is not kidnapped leaves America on
September 27, landing in Sydney on October
21.
* * *
“Centre Court”: It is by no means cer-
tain that if England accepts the Australian
invitation to send a tennis team over next
season it will be the Davis Cup side
(B. 5/7/’33). Feelers are being put out to
see whether this country will be satisfied
with a team of young players or wait until
1934, when a Number One side will be
dispatched to take part in the Victorian
centenary celebrations. One thing is cer-
tain. If the latter alternative is accepted
by the Australian heads in Melbourne, as
seems likely. Noo South will go berserk.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Following on the offer
made to Vines to join the Tilden troupe, it is
rumored that Crawford has been approached.
It would surprise no one if he accepted. Pro-
fessional tennis in America with such a
circus as Tilden’s is a goldmine proposition.
Crawford has no particular profession or
calling apart from his tennis interests, and
no one would cavil if he decided to “go
wheer money is,” as the Northern farmer
advised.
* * * *
“Solidarity”: A bright interlude to the
progress of the Wimbledon tennis tourney
was afforded by one of the Labor members
in the Commons --last week. -Vines -and
H'elen Wills-Moody have been drawing fat
cheques for writing tennis stuff for London
papers, and the protester wanted to know
what steps the Government was taking,
under the legislation forbidding foreigners
to get jobs at the expense ■of workless
Britons, for preventing this injustice to the
many out-of-work British journalists. The
question was side-stepped, but the objector
should have known that journalistic ability
is the last thing expected from player-writers.
Car and Cycle
The secretary of the East African Auto-
mobile Association writes lo The Bulletin
complaining of the troubles which beset his
organisation. It erected over 20,000 sign-
boards with the names done in metal letters.
The native knuts and their ladies were fas-
cinated by the detachable letters, and soon
these were distributed all over East Africa
as component parts of necklaces. After
thinking hard, the E.A.A.A. has decided to
replace the jewellery by cellophane lettering
which cannot be prised off the boards by the
most determined of flappers.
« * <■
“Formula”: Early in the year, a Citroen
car started a continuous endurance run
on the Montlhery track, and had reached
the 50,000-mile mark after 20 days. The six
figures went up at the end of .Tune, the
100,000 miles having been covered in 1718
hours. At latest advices the car was still
going strong and it will probably con-
tinue until, like the Deacon’s wonderful one-
hoss shay, it falls to pieces all at once from
universal decrepitude. It is a standard ten
chassis with a single-seater body.
“Whizz” : .T. R.
Cobb, one of Eng-
land's leading racing
drivers, has been
testing a ne w
machine intended to
regain some of the
records for time-
driving at present
held abroad, mostly
by Marchand and
Morel with their
teams of assistants.
The first to be
tackled is the 24
hours’ record of 272.”
miles by March and
and Morel at Monti -
bery in a Voisin car.
Cobb’s coach has
been designed by
Beid Railton, who
thought out Camp-
bell’s Bluebird, and
the engine is a
Napier-Lion aero
job. The standing
mileage rate works
out at 113.50 m.p.li.,
so beating the Mar-
chand record will be
no easy job.
“Kick Starter” : J.
Wright, recently de-
prived of his world’s
speed record by the
G erman in oto r-
cyclist, F. Henne,
had a try to better
the German’s figures
the other day on the
I’endine Sands in
Wales and nearly
made an end of all
records as far as he was concerned.
As he was entering the measured mile
at high speed his cycle caught fire. He
managed to stop the blazing machine and
escape before the petrol-tank blew up.
Henne’s figures of 151.86 m.p.h. are yet to
be beaten. The Pendine course has an un-
lucky record, there having been many acci-
dents. The worst was that some years ago
when Parry Thomas was killed in attempting
a new world’s record for motor-cars.
jj: $ v *!•
“Sprocket”: In the first six months of
his attempt on the world’s pu-slibike record
for a year’s run in daily doses. Victorian
Ossie Nicholson, starting on January I,
covered 21,3801 miles —33161 more than
Englishman A. Humbles was able to put up
in establishing his figures last: year, when
36,007 miles were hoisted for the 12 months.
At his present rate Nicholson should top
43,000 miles by the finish. Humbles lost
six days, however, by starting on January 6.
but as it was Leap Year he picked up one.
Miscellaneous
“Ela”: This is from the- “Papuan Vil-
lager,” a monthly published in Port Moresby
by and for the natives :■—-
Some of the English fast bowlers have been
making the ball bounce high and come in very fast.
'This is rather dangerous for the batsmen.... They
call this “bodyline” bowling. I would not advise
Papuan cricketers to go in for bodyline bowling.
You will get more wickets if you bowl at the
wicket, and you will not start a row by hitting
the batsman on the head.
So there are things from which even ex-
cannibals shrink.
“Five Ways”: A Brisbane cricket enthu-
siast has been trying to get up a cricket
competition on tlfe lines followed by the
North of England Leagues—single Saturday
afternoon matches, with payment to players
for runs, wickets, catches, etc. The hurdle
lies in getting the public to find the money.
In Brisbane, as in Sydney, attendances at
club cricket are confined to a few enthusiasts,
though Melbourne provides a notable excep-
tion. The success of the League in York-
shire and Lancashire lies in the fact that
the lads and lasses from the weaving and
spinning sheds have no time to watch a
dreary tliree-day county match. They want
their cricket quick and lively, and the
League clubs give it to them on Saturday
afternoons.
“Sturt”: The South Australian Hockey
Association, though a comparatively juvenile
body, has given a bold lead to its big
brothers. A player was reported for saying
to an umpire “I’ll see you afterwards!”
and for doing so—and knocking him down.
The verdict w-as --Out for- life,” -
".Richmond Hill” : Writer lias always con-
sidered goat-racing a peculiarly Australian
pastime, with Charters Towers as its Flem-
ington. It seems to have spread to other
lands. A London journal recently reported
a shipment of goats from Tilbury Docks to
the West Indies. Iu Antigua and Montser-
rat the principal sport is goat-racing, and
the Britons are bound for those delectable
isles. The game is conducted with a differ-
ence there. Instead of being driven in carts
by silken-clad drivers, the goats wear the
colors, and are driven by their owners run-
ning behind with whips.
s■« $ *
"Shell”: In spite of Pearce’s denial that
he intended to go in for professional scull-
ing (B. 5/7/’33) his entry as an amateur
for tin l Canadian Dominion Day regatta
was held up pending investigation of his
amateur status. However, Elwood Hughes,
who is organising the professional meeting
in Canada in which Pearce was rumored
to be taking part, has weighed in with a
denial that he and Pearce had come to any
arrangement. There the matter stands at
present, with Bobby’s entry for the amateur
show still in the air.
* i'.i >;«
“The Gaffer”: The people iu charge of
Australian athletic records are a leisurely
lot. The official list up to the end of June,
which has just been published, contains
several put up years ago which have been
bettered since under official conditions. For
instance, the 100 yards record is credited
to E. W. Carr with 9 4-ssec., done in 1923.
Eight others who have equalled that are
not mentioned, nor is Jim Carlton’s 9 3-ssec.
in 1930. Metcalfe’s new high-jump record,
made a month or more ago, is also ignored,
and there are half a dozen others which are
not oven marked as being “considered.”
Altogether the list is not worth publication
save as a monument to the dilatoriness of
those responsible for it.


.
the popular Rugby
League player says
SHEAF STOUT
keeps me fit 11
| •;
l-£Ti
ill
:li |||i
lllljl
■
fa
Hitin
:
Ei
■ -
m
:i:\ :
iiiii::.-:.;
■
111
: ■
iiililiiii
::l : l
■
ill
rt.j. V S M
I’L ' : i
11
li h
I, ifci
n
mmm
...
u
Milllll
iiiiir
3 —i—B
iiSlii
:::::::::
1 , . ■' '
r- fa
id
Illill!
ills
5 : ■ : A
■ : :
4
U i
IPlliiii
-rte
I *!■ '
™6Si
Ufa.
V ■
Mm 111
- ■ i
■s*
'
• - ’ V, |
. rU
">Vpfls
: '!i-
-■
, -
.
.■I J . s
■
:
■l
:
•:,.i
II
■ '"’i
lii ii 111
: ■!
iipjjiijliiiiiiiiiljiiiijil!
11 !
UiHjipl
|i|!
llPjlll
'liliili
■lillß
in,, l II
I:!! Uiiliiiiiin
rifii
PI
■ i :
liijjiiiii
■
saß*
n
-Z)
K/
L/
n
A 1
«
(W
r?
0
V
W
p
<s>
‘SHEAF”
SS.2B-X


ENJOY THE COHFORTS
OF SYDNEY’S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from . . 10/6
Meals, a la carte, from .. . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information.
m
mt:::
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes, Grip Pacts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS.
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
l 3 ostage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established -It) years.
Bankers: The Union.
ŵ
ẁ
Coughs S*G>lds
Be , Warned against that Slight Chill
Kay’S Compound Is Convenient
and Marvellously Remedial in all cases
of Bronchial Affections, Influenza,
Catarrh, Sore Throat, Quinsy, etc.
Enjoys a World-wide Reputation.
Every High-class Chemist Slocks it.
Legal Notices.
EDWARD JOHN HANN, Deceased.
MOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
has pursuant to “The Trustee Act 1893“ directed
that CREDITORS and OTHERS having CLAIMS
upon or against the ESTATE of EDWARD JOHN
HANN late of Sydenham near Campbelltown in the
S'tate of South Australia Horsetrader formerly Market
Gardener deceased who died at College Town St.
Peters in the said State on the 31st day of March
1933 and Probate of whose Will was granted to
EDMUND MORITZ HEUZENROEDER of Pine Street
Adelaide in the said State Solicitor and WILLIAM
HENRY FOWLER of Port Adelaide in. they’d
State Carrier’s Manager are to send in FULL PAR-
TICULARS of THEIR CLAIMS to the said EDMUAD
MORITZ HEUZENROEDER of Chamber of. Manufac-
tures Building Pirie Street Adelaide aforesaid on or
before the sixteenth day of August 1933 otherwise
they will be excluded from the distribution of the
said estate. . , , _ .
Dated this sixth day of July, 1933.
EDMUND M. HEUZENROEDER,
Chamber of Manufactures Building,
Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the said Executors.
A WOMAN'S
LEETER
In the Sydney theatres gloom is a wash-
out. There’s a wave of gaiety from the
Savoy to the Criterion. Tho Independents
are staging “Once In a Lifetime,” a swiftly-
moving farce on the movie magnates of
Hollywood. At Prince Edward the only
Maurice with liifi inimitable air dips his lid
to you; at the Royal “Music In the Air”
lilts along, and old favorite Carrie Moore
proves sbo hasn’t forgotten the art that once
made her Sydney’s best girl. Lady Isaacs
was at the Royal on Saturday to give her
and the others a clap. The mad, glad "Re-
union In Vienna” holds tlie screen at St.
James’s, while those qui mal y pense and
otherwise scrimmage their way into “Honi
Soit” at the Cri. Gloom is on the run, and
why not? Though economic conferences
crash, isn’t Jack Crawford bringing home
the world’s tennis championship to Australia
in his blazer pocket?
Dr. Keith Barry, now down in Melbourne
in company with Howard Carr and others
adjudicating the compositions which A.B.C.
competitions have brought to life, pre-
pared for tho mighty work (there’s
everything from hymn tunes to sym-
phonies in the net) with a jazz cock-
tail before he left Sydney. Any undue fri-
volity, however, was kept in check by the
academic surroundings—tho Union Hall
within the Uni. was the scene of his foot-
work, and the whole of his night’s efforts and
that of 250 others was to the glory of the
University Musical Society. Mrs. Barry
accompanied him; when asked the morning
after what she wore, the doctor replied,
“Something green and a coat or cape strewn
about with glittering things. A Hollywood
husband would probably find himself in Reno
for less. The Faunce Allmanns, the profes-
sorial Hooks, and table decorations of gigan-
tic treble and bass clefs, the work of the
students, were other features of the night.
The yearly exhibition of the Royal Art
Society’s students is full of interest, artistic
and human, if you are escorted around the
walls by such an enthusiast as art-student
Roy Bradford. First to be examined were
George Johnston’s drawings from life which
have gained him the 12 months’ scholarship;
then his pen-and-ink work for The Bulle-
tin was pointed out, and a rider added that
he did illustrations for the “Mirror.” Next
Thora Ungar’s work claimed your attention,
and then Joyce Bruce’s. Joyce came second
in the life section and won first place for
painting. A. portrait study of Elizabeth
Blaxland had to be singled out for scrutiny;
nor was the beauty of a girl model for tho
head and face allowed to go unnoticed.
The powerful head of an abo. occurs again
and again in the pencil work; the owner
thereof poses regularly for the classes.
Donald Friend’s compositions have an im-
aginative Brangwyn-ish note, and etchings
by Denis Adams call for a second glance.
Syd Long and Dattilo-Rubbo are the in-
structors of youth at the R.A.S. classes.
Mrs. A. E. Grace, her big car so full of
songbirds it might have been a glass aviary,
drove up to the Teachers’ College last Thurs-
day and dropped Lute and Jean Drummond,
Charles Nicis and Alice Browse. The artists
were giving a lecture-recital of “Lohengrin”
for the benefit of the students, but when
the audience filled the ball (its acoustics, in-
cidentally, are about perfect) as many of
the college lecturers as could possibly do so
sat at attention. Lute, in an afternoon
ensemble of black lacquered satin, took the
stage first and gripped her audience at once
with her gay and yet instructive discourse on
Wagner, his work and his methods of orches-
tration. She gave some illustrations of the
leading motives of fear, warning and exulta-
tion in “Lohengrin.” Then Elsa and Ortrud,
the wicked step-sister, came forth and sang
of evil vanquished and of that Eve-like curio-
sity that finally lost Elsa her Eden.
Soprano Jean Drummond, tenor Nicis and
contralto Alice Prowse were in great voice
and sang with fervor. The rows of girl- and
boy-students paid their entertainers the com-
pliment of the most rapt attention. Listen-
ing, too, were the college’s music lecturer, A.
Kelly, its vice-principal Cole and liis wife,
Dr. Marie Bentivoglio, whose long amber
earrings caught and held the light, and Miss
Mallarky. Later there was a tea party in
the college dining-room.
Mrs. Roy B.uckland had a good deal to do
with arranging the dance of the Loveliest,
which was last week’s money-maker for the
Industrial Blind Institution. The name was
the outcome of a pageant, unusual and
imaginative, around which the ball centred.
Of course, girls beautiful and much adorned
were its ingredients, and the whole was
copied from a recent London society suc-
cess. Each Loveliest had a subsidiary title. To
begin with, the Peaceful One, in lucent white
robes, carrying a dove on one wrist, stepped
down the stairway to the floor of the Blax-
land Galleries, and slowly made her way to
the stage and the spotlight, whence after a
curtsey to the Governor-General’s lady she
withdrew.
The music that greeted the arrival of
Peace on the dais was a bit unfortunate
though perfectly true. Coinciding with her
solemn tread the bandsmen reached the line
in “The Belle of New York” : “The fellows
all sigh for her, they would all die for her!”
After the Peaceful One came the Stimulat-
ing One, a lovely Bacchante, her purple rai-
ment wreathed with grape and viney shoot;
the Luxurious One, positively dripping with
silver-fox furs ; the Cosy One, who wore a
lemon wool frock of cobweb weave and flow-
ing line ; the Precious One. shoulder-strapped,
ringed, neekleted, crowned and girdled with
Percy Marks’s black opals. P’lorist Fred
Searl’s Lorna was, of course, the Fragrant
One, her green raiment scrolled in flowers.
There were the Fairest One, the Darkest
One, the Sporting One and the Majestic
One, the last very long of limb and dignified
in an Empire frock of ivory satin.
Lady Isaacs was sustained during the
serial bow of beauty by velvet raiment of
old Italian blue, and a high basket brim-
ming with flowers—-they were really some-
body’s table decorations, and had been handed
over in the flurry of arrival instead of the
bona fide presentation posy. Captain Finlay
aided, and Mrs. C. M. C. Shannon was an
accessory before and after the fact in rose-
fluslied satins. Mrs. Roy Buckland’s black
velvet gauntlet gloves matched her frock.
The Leonard Dares’ Margaret (the Precious
One) was the night’s deb.
Now, who in Darlinghurst keeps a full-
grown Abyssinian lion to run down the
front steps of the flat and bring up the morn-
ing paper? Perhaps that house across in
Victoria-street has a domesticated tiger, who
allows itself to be used as a dormat. As for
giraffes, no doubt they take the air on many
a roof garden in company with prize short-
horn cattle and a racehorse or two. Judging
by their place of honor in the Pets in Por-
traiture exhibition held last week in the
Blaxland Galleries these denizens of rhe
jungle and the Zoo are all pets. Person-
ally. this Letter would hate to go home and
find a Mabel Barling lion padding up the
stairs after her, a delicate little ant-eater
licking her ankle, or a prize Melba in the
hall holding out its horn to accommodate her
hat. Still, tastes differ. Apparently every-
body in Sydney owns a dog. Dogs smiled and
grinned, looked moody or supercilious in
legion around the wulls, and Kate Beard’s
and Violet Bowring’s sympathetic pencil and
brush were responsible for some of the most
attractive portraits of the canines. Next
in number to dogs came the cats: Royal
Siamese and Persian cats and ordinary tab-
bies. The Far West Children's Health
Scheme was the beneficiary.
On the glorious Fourth, which wasn’t at
all glorious from a weather point of view,
the American colony trekked to Manly and
passed the day with bridge and golf at riie
Manly golf club. The triumph of the day’s
golfing went to Mrs. C. Clayton, an upright
and handsome matron, who wiped the eye of
the younger women and carried off the
Ladies’ Cup. The American Cup was won
by S. F. Martin. After the day’s play there
was a cocktail party in the lounge, cheery
with fireglow, and this was followed by a
dinner, marvellously cooked, but, as one very
American lady complained, entirely lacking
in local color—there was no cranberry sauce
or punkiri pie. Deep .sighs of satisfaction
were heard when the toasts came on, for even
the strictest son of Uncle Sam could have a
beaded rim to his glass when he drank to the
Stars and Stripes. The party was quite
informal, sports and afternoon clothes being
the wear;' the Consul-General Caldwells
were the importants of the night, and the
toast of the King was given with musical
honors.
Here is the most recent photograph of
Marjorie Skill, the busy secretary of the
Music Lovers’ Club. This club, of the
most flourishing results of Sydney’s first
Music Week, was founded by singer Emily
Marks and has already a membership that
runs into hundreds. Now that Music Week
is again on the horizon Marjorie has for-
gotten the meaning of leisure moments, for
the club takes an active interest in its social
as well as its educational side. Miss Skill’s
soprano is widely known from National
station broadcasts and from her concert
work, which has introduced her clear-cut
profile to audiences from Cairns to Hobart.
2TJW is another station the richer for Mar-
jorie’s gifts. The photo, is from May Moore.
The hockey girls got in bright and early
with their dinner in honor of Edith Thomp-
son, an ex-president of the All-England
Women’s Hockey Association, who arrived
here from Maoriland last week. The Mac-
quarie Club was her headquarters during her
four days’ stay, but she really couldn’t have
got intimately acquainted with any part of
the premises but her bed. Those very busy
Feminists the United Associations induced
the lady to speak at an open meeting in
David Jones’s on women’s part in municipal
affairs. Certainly no woman could be better
qualified to do so; for Edith, who is an
0.8. E., was mayoress of Aldeburgli (Nor-
folk) at 18 and is now a-county councillor.
The traveller had also the distinction of
being chief inspector of Queen Mary’s Army
Corps during the war. This is Miss Thomp-
son’s second visit to Australia. In 1927 she
was here as manager to the English women’s
hockey team.
Mary Coleridge Davis has been assistant
and recording secretary to the Women
Graduates’ Association. She is now its
organising secretary. There are 450 members,
so when notices have to be sent out a secr--
tary’s life is not a leisured one, but the sub-
ject of this Dnync picture likes it. One of
the big women’s rallies of the week-end was
the women graduates’ dinner at Beaumont
House, when visitor Edith Thompson was
the guest of honor. Mary’s regular job is
that of secretary to the Board of Social
Study and Training.
St. Mary’s Cathedral added another to its
long list of pretty brides when Eileen
Cullen, of Wynella station, Dirranbandi
(Q.), became the wife of Ackland Brierty. of
Moree station, Thargomindah (Q.). The
bride, who was frocked in ivory velvet, had
for ’maid sister Robin, who wore cosmos-pink
velvet. Toasts were drunk at the Cavalier.
True to schedule Sydney Girls’ High held
its jubilee dance in David Jones’s, and a
feature of the decorations was a replica of
the old school tyhich, when Sydney was
young, stood on the site on which the present
D.J.’s has arisen. The model was woven of
gold and white flowers, the yellow flower,
significantly enough, being marigold. One
hopes that the girls did. The school,
which has had only two headmistresses, Mrs.
Garvin of old and Miss Campbell in the
present, has turned out a long list of names
that shine in the professions and the arts.
Many were at the dance only in memory
last week, but the presence of Mrs. W. 11.
Read, president of the splendid Rachel
Forster Hospital, reminded one of the
Sydney Medical Mission, a sort of fore-
runner to the R.F. This was founded
by Dr. Julie Carlisle Fox, one of the
early pupils of Sydney High, and among
her ardent assistants in that early move-
ment to bring spiritual and physical
well-being to the needy women of the city
was Mrs. W. IT. Read. Dr. Isa Coglilan,
the city’s first woman doctor, Dr. Elsie
Dalyell, Miss Mallarky. of the Teachers’
College within the Uni., Ethel Turner, Louise
and Amy Mack are a few old High names
to which fame has pinned her rosette. Mrs.
J. T. Ralston and Mrs. YV. Armitage, each
dux of her year, and president Nancy Norris
were three of the most interested present.
But a sight that would have made old girls'
mothers raise the eyebrow of astonishment
was the company of flappers, their hair in
curls or be-ribboned plaits, who took the floor
as persistently as any.
A friend of these pages bids Vale to
her old schoolmistress, Marian Clarke,
founder of Abbotsleigh and a famous woman
dominie of the ’eighties. For a decade she
ran a school at Parramatta that was not
only of the highest social account, but was
a very fine centre of the higher education
for women. In later years Miss Clarke, who
was a daughter of Dr. Thomas Clarke, of
Banbury, Oxfordshire, founded Abbotsleigh
(now under C. of E. control) at YVahroonga.
The lady's name will be kept green in the
halls of learning by the University scholar
ship with which her “old girls” have com-
memorated her name.
This Letter made Edith Thompson’s
acquaintance last Friday afternoon at the
United Associations party. When she told
that Aldeburgli, of which she was one
time mayor, lias had two others . of
the sex in that office, it seemed quite right
and proper. Edith herself must have mad*'
a tine figure of a mayor; she is tall and
lean in the English manner to which the
word slender does not apply. She is very
much the style, only taller, of Miss Mac-
artlmr-Onslow and Miss Crowdy (Lady
Game’s former private secretary). It is. an
English type that makes the forceful Eliza-
beth of England seem possible. Incidentally,
she had the tiniest hand-posy on record ; but
to balance this the committee had given her
the vice-regal Lady Isaacs to bear her com-
pany. Nancy Norris, of the Ex-Service
Women’s Club, and Dorothy Friend, of the
Women’s Hockey Association, were among
the speakers. Around the tea-tables every-
thing was represented, even the Douglas
Credit System.
Anne Jamieson married her Venn Wesche
early last week in St. Andrew’s, Rose Bay,
and afterwards her mother, who is the
widow of Dr. Sydney Jamieson, served cock-
tails for the friends of the family at the
Rose Bay Golf Club. Anne didn’t wear
bridal array, but compromised with a
ground-length frock of gaily-beflowered
crinkly crepe. She added an Arcadian touch
with a funny little tight turban of white
gardenias, and tucked her lingers into a
flower muff of white camellias and lilies-of-
the-valley. Venn, whose parents are the
Gordon Wesches, is one of the city’s young
barristers, so Law loomed large among the
guests. Moon Bara at Port Hacking supplied
the first step-off of the honeymoon; then tin-
two intended to sample the mean average
temperature of Mt. Buffalo and Kiandra.
Most of the women inky wayfarers of to-
day had never met Mrs. Le Patourel, but
all had heard of her. It was her pen that
recorded the social happenings of Sydney
at the end of last century and the begin-
ning of this for the “Australasian.” Later,
for 20 years or more, she ran the social
pages of “S. M. Herald.” Her husband was
Captain Henry Le Patourel, A.D.C. to Lord
Loftus when that nobleman was Governor
of N.S.W.; later he held a commission in the
Garrison Artillery. Mrs. Le Patourel died
last week at 77; she has left two daughters,
Mrs. C. Bickerton Blackburn and Mrs. C.
M. Terry, and a group of grandchildren and
great-grandchildren.
The morning mail does not often bring so
fair an offering as M. A. Robertson’s “Laud
of Memory,” which arrived for this writer
the other day. The poem from which
the book takes its title was published by
the “Bookfellow” in 1919 and is the most
sustained note of an orchestra of words
which is always sweet and often poignant.
Much of the verse originally appeared in
The Bulletin, the “S. M. Herald” and
those two little Melbourne poetry publica-
tions “Verse” and “The Spinner.” The
writer is well known in Sydney and is a
member of the Lyceum Club. She came to
Australia from Edinburgh, where she was
educated at the E. C. Normal School on
Castle Hill; she is sister to the late G. B.
Robertson, one of the founders of the firm
of Robertson and Marks, architects.
John Brownlee and his sparkling wife
were the guests of the Music Lovers’ Club
last Friday night, and the baritone who
speaks in as rich and flexible a voice as bis
singing has lead you to believe took his lis-
teners behind the scenes of the Paris Opera
House. At the Paris Opera they have com-
plete sets of costumes for 500 operas—about
20,000 costumes in all. Many of these were
made for the singers of 70 or 80 years ago,
and their workmanship and materials are
still unrivalled. John’s costume for Don
Giovanni was a mere 70 years old, and he for
whom it was made might have been the Aus-
tralia’s twin brother —it fitted like a glove
There’s a staff of 700 employed at the opera ;
of these 90 are permanently engaged scene-
shifters. The wardrobe men and women are
mostly veterans, the only fly in their oint-
ment being the six and seven flights of stairs
they have to run up three and four times
a night during the season, for there is no
lift.
Elma Kelly, the analytical chemist, is
keeping herself right up to schedule in
Shanghai. There during the war scrimmages
it was etiquette to pick up one’s bundle and
run for the safety compounds o’ nights;
nevertheless, Miss Kelly votes it a capital
place in which to earn a crust.
At last the mystery of Cinderella’s glass
slippers is explained. This Letter has always
been sorry for the poor dear thing having
to prison her dainty size threes in the hard
substance. Modern science has, after many
centuries, evolved the fabric which Cin-
derella’s fairy godmother no doubt created
with a wave of her wand. The new material
is a weave of finely-spun opaque glass, and
can be, and has been, so fashion experts
declare, turned into toques, slippers, ties and
dresses with quite a dashing and sinuous
effect.


Tlie Richardson Chain Hotel
/
! 3*j
tMit S'! vi
itU
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
LIFE —A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
for in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
is spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system, of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
€bramonwcaltbBavutaslSankof Hustrali#
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
HOLD MY HAND.
KING’S THEATRE:
ISOBEL ELSOM in
WHEN LADIES MEET.
Melbourne
Chatter
The womenfolk at the Grand National
Steeplechase meeting, which was blessed by
sunshine all three days, made up for the
deficiencies of a course bare of blooms by
wearing orchids that nestled into furs or
trailed down coat lapels varied by posies
of daphne, japonica, violets, camellias or
pansies. White camellias, hyacinths and
lily-of-the-valley were almost invariably
chosen to cheer up all-black effects. On
Saturday, though there were plenty of furs
on view, tailored costumes in cloth, tweed
and velvet were everywhere. Several suits
featured the three-quarter-length coat, a
revival of a fashion of many years back.
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady
came early and stayed till the finish, she
in a black coat with violets tucked into the
high caracul collar and a black velvet hat.
Mrs. Alan Currie sported a burgundy-hued
costume with a felt hat of the same shade;
Mrs. George Blackwood was there with her
daughter, Mrs. Arthur Yencken, who was a
study in nigger brown. Mrs. A. G. Hunter
had a snow-leopard fur with her black suit,
and Doris Moffat was another who demon-
strated the advantages of a well-cut tailor-
made. Mrs. Frank Stapley, whose husband
is acting as Lud Mayor during the illness of
Gengoult Smith, sported a .short fur coat
over her fawn frock, worn with a swathed
toque of brown velvet and a spray of orchids.
Valerie Purves brightened her black costume
with a jade-green felt hat. ,Cynthia Brookes
featured black and white in a tweed swagger
suit patterned in a dog’s tooth check, with
a hat of the same material. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald featured the three-quarter coat
in a navy-blue costume with a plush hat of
the same shade, modelled on the lines of a
biretta.
The Governor-General attended a dance at
St. Kilda Palais organised by Mrs. Harold
Clapp on behalf of the Blinded Soldiers’ Wel-
fare Trust. A guard of honor from the 24 th
Battaliou, with the regimental band, lined
,'ip along the festal red carpet. Mrs. Clapp.
General Chauvel, chairman of the trust,
Major-General Bruclic and Lieut. Col. Bur-
rett, lion. sec. of the ball, received his Ex.
Mrs.. Clapp wore black velvet; Mrs. Bruchc
favored silk crinkled crepe of powder-blue
shade and the Chauvel lady trailed draperies
of apricot-pink satin. Tlic four ticket sec-
retaries were Shirley Boss, whose black
velvet robe had white dahlias on the cor-
sage; Hope Glasscock, who sported hyacinth-
blue velvet; Peggy Finkelstein, whose bil-
lowy scarlet frock had many rueliings of
tulle, and Fay Robinson, whose backless
gown mingled mole-colored delustred velvet
and black organdie. Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Ivrerouse took charge of the American bar,
aided by Mrs. Simon Fraser, who wore a boa
of black coque feathers and some orchids
with her black gown; Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side, in the palest mauve organdie, and Mrs.
K. Niall. The Clarke lady had a turquoise
blue velvet coat over her white lace frock
Mrs. F. W. Thring was arresting in a gown
of deep purplq velvet, with a touch of cycla-
men georgette about the corsage, and orchids.
Dark brown velvet was the choice of Mrs.
G. F. Hyde and Mrs. Robert Knox was
arrayed in black velvet. In the throng were
Mr. and Mrs. Phil Finkelstein, Major Lan-
dale, Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Baillieu and Dr.
and Mrs. Shenton Gordon. Pretty girls who
caught the eye were Tempo Falkiner, in
geranium-pink arigel-skin, and Betty Mac-
pherson, who graced a beautifully-cut gown
of silver lame.
A ball at the Rex for the Children’s Hos-
pital was the special effort of the Toorak-
South Yarra Auxiliary. The slim lines of
Mrs. James Paxton, president of the auxiliary,
were set off by a vellum-tinted velvet robe.
The hon. sec., Mary Bostock, wore a white
silk crepe frock with a floral design in
pink. Joan Trenchard, wearing black velvet,
and Barbara Bryans, whose deep bine crepe
frock was fashioned with a cape, had
charge of the ticket distribution. The
Chauvel lady wore patterned chiffon. Kittie
Currie danced in silver and blue lame. Others
m the throng were the Rodney Segraves, the
W. Seymours, General Harry Chauvel, Dr.
and Mrs. John Shaw, Mrs. J. J. Fogarty and
Mrs. 11. B. Higgins. '
For St, Kilda’s civic ball the subbub’s
town hall was gay with rosy lights glim-
mering amidst carnations and greenery.
Mayor and Mayoress Johnson smiled upon 25
debs., who were arrayed alike in frocks of
ivory velvet and carried little pink-and-blue
posies. Peggy Johnson, daughter of the
host and hostess, headed the buds. Mrs.
Johnson’s white chiffon frock had a narrow
scarf of scarlet ninon. The Town Cle>-k.
Fred Chamberlin, brought his wife, who was
in black velvet. Mrs. T. W. White, Colonel
and Mrs. 11. Cohen, A. Michaelis and his wife,
Mrs. H. M. Johnson and the Mayors and
Mayoresses of several neighboring munici-
palities were among the dancers.
A dance at the Rex, organised by Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, in the interests of the
Children’s Hospital at Frankston attracted
a large crowd. Mrs. Mitchell, whose
madonna-blue matt velvet gown had a scarf
drapery caught on the corsage with a spark-
ling ornment, had Mrs. Barry Thomson and
Mrs. Frederick Henty as assistants. Slipper
orchids reposed on a shoulder of Mrs. Barry
Thomson’s pale green lace robe, and Mrs.
1 lenty wore a coatee with a white fur
collar over her black velvet gown. Among
the dancers were Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Mrs.
Roy King, Mrs. L. James. Mrs. Robert
Knox. Mrs. Kingsbury Baillieu and Mrs.
J. J. Fogarty.
A dance at the Embassy was organised
by Nancy Scarlett, who danced in apple-
green chiffon velvet, and Isabel Gordon, who
sported white angel-skin lace with a velvet,
cape matching her slioulder-spray of mauve
orchids. Elaine Pearce, whose deep pink
georgette featured fine tucks, and Dinah
Cockrill, whose_ choice was cornflower-blue
lace, were the ticket secretaries. Mrs. Fred
Scarlett, president of the Ministering Chil-
dren s League, whose children’s holiday cot-
tage benefited, was a guest of honor. Mr.
and Mrs. F. H. Scarlett accompanied her.
Mrs. Stuart Hancock, whose white ninon
gown was fashioned with full-length bishop
sleeves, was among the helpers; also Olive
Rosenthal, in pale green organdie; Betfy
Mat-ear, in pale maize georgette; Helen Mac-
gregor and Betty Fogarty. Millicent Cairns,
a tall fair girl, sported crystal-green satin
gown cut on tailored lines. Officers of the
M.C.L. present included Mrs. J. 11. Ilewison.
whose hyacinth-blue gown was embellished
with crystal bugles; Mrs. Sawrey, Mbs. J.
Maloney land Mrs. C. IL Dobbins,
The Old Lauristonians had their annual
reunion at No. 9 Darling-street. Elizabeth
Kirkhope, the new headmistress, was the
guest of honor, in gown and coatee of deep
blue angel-slcin face. The committee of the
hop was headed by the president of the
0.L., Betty Thompson, whose flat crepe
Lock was of hydrangea-blue hue. Margaret
Fox, the hon. sec., added a sash of purple
satin to a lace frock of the shade of a
Canterbury bell.
The Proscenium Club had a jolly little hop
at _ its headquarters, Nicholas Buildings,
which served as a welcome-home to Mr. and
Mrs. Lauri Abrahams. Mrs. Abrahams, who
on the club’s programmes used to appear as
Irene Mitchell, went abroad in order to
enrich her dramatic experience, and was
married while in England.
A Lafayette camera caught this glimpse
of Dorothy Bush, one of the foundation
members of the Cairns Memorial Players,
and for long their leading lady. She added
to her laurels in the trying role of Mrs.
Maurrant in Elmer Rice’s “Street Scene,”
the first performance of which marked the
Players’ 200th appearance before the public.
The 15th anniversary of the foundation
of the E.S.TJ. Union was celebrated by a
dance in the new rooms at Elizabeth House,
engineered by the young people’s committee.
Native heath, wattle, bottle-brush and gum-
tips made effective decoration. Secretary
Edith Noall, wearing ruby-toned lace, and
Miss E. Clarke, in black lace, were chief
engineers of the well-attended function.
At a Victoria League gathering of last
week Mrs. Claude Anderson and the lion,
sec., Mrs. George Adams, received guests.
Mrs. Arthur Hordern, as senior vice-presi-
dent, welcomed to the fold two new recruits.
Myra Hardenack sang, with Violet Matear
at the piano, and Lucy Seeker contributed
pianoforte solos.
Holly gave the color-note to the knot-
tying at St. George’s, East St. Kilda, of
May, elder daughter of the Alexander
Youngers, and Bertram, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Enion, both of Caulfield. The crim-
son berries were used in the decoration of
the church and the dash of scarlet was re-
peated in the three bridesmaids’ shoes, sashes
and bouquets. Their frocks were ivory-
crinkled crepe and the same material
fashioned their hats. The bride wore a gown
of ivory brocaded satin over which flowed a
Brussels lace veil. Grosvenor, Toorak, saw
the after-rejoicings.
Knight Douglas Mawson’s wife, pictured
here by Broothorn, lives in Adelaide when
her distinguished husband isn’t taking her
on geologising trips among the mountains,
but she was a Melbourne girl—Paquita Del-
prat. Her dad, whose descent is Spanish-
Dutch, was for years general manager of
Broken Hill Prop. Like all her sisters the
Mawson lady, who is very tall and hand-
some, is intensely musical. Every member
of the family played some instrument, and
she, in addition to pianoforte study, culti-
vated a line voice. The Mawsons’ two girls
inherit the talents of both parents and have
won high honors at school.
Dr. Morris Gael Davis, pathologist at. the
Alfred Hospital, wedded at the East Mel-
bourne Synagogue Sophie, daughter of Mrs.
A. S. Ashkenasy, of North Carlton. The
bride wore ivory-tinted velvet, with a veil
of antique lace that flowed into a train.
Velvet frocks were worn by the bevy of
attendant maids—four small girls and three
grown-ups—whose dresses blended shades of
pink. Three hundred guests were bidden to
the. after-rejoicings.
The wedding of Elizabeth, eldest daughter
of the A. L. Morans, Toorak. and James,
only son of the James Cooks, of Balwyn,
attracted a big crowd outside Wesley Church.
Lonsdale-street, the interior of which was
decked with hydrangeas and orange-tinted
blossoms. The ceremony was fully choral.
The young bride wore a clinging trained
robe of parchment velvet of the non-shiny
variety. An unusual berthe-like bodice
drapery was knotted at the back, forming
anchorage for a further train. A creamy-
toned tulle veil descended from a halo of
twisted gold and silver ribbon. Louise and
Janet Moran, who attended their sister, were
attired in the same material as the bride,
with similar bandeaux. Some 200 guests
joined in after-rejoicings at the home of the
bride’s parents.
There was a whiff of the Highlands about
the knot-tying of Dorothy, daughter of the
late James McKay , and of Mrs. McKay, of
Sunshine, and George, youngest sou of the
Hugh McNeills, of Weering. When the
couple stepped out. of the Collins-street kirk
two pipers were in waiting to play them
down the street. The bride looked'bonnie
in her draperies of magnoliia-toned satin, with
tulle veil and orange buds. Jessie McKay
and Margaret Wicking, the attendant ’maids,
made a contrast in deep blue velvet frocks
topped with wreaths of pink sweet-peas.
There wlas a gathering, mostly of the clan
McKay, afterwards at the Wentworth, where
heather figured in the decorations.
The Past and Present Students’ Associa-
tion of the Albert-street Con. put on the
billy as a welcome to singers Maggie Teyte
and Tudor Davies and pianist Yelkind
Lichards. Fritz Hart spoke words of greet-
ing. Miss Teyte sported an ensemble of
navy blue with a white fur collar and a
stitched felt hat. Muriel Cheek sang four
little songs written by Mr. Hart accompanied
by ITarold Smith.
Maggie Teyte and Tudor Davies listened
to music made by violinist Gertrude I-lealv
and pianist Elsie Fraser when the Music
Teachers’ Association gave a reception to
the _ English singers. President Harold
Elvins made a speech of greeting, and
Madame Ethel Ashton handed Miss Teyte a
posy which blended nicely with the re-
cipient’s champagne-colored satin gown.
Mrs. M. T. Costello, widow of the London
manager of the National Bank of Australia,
with her daughters Joan and Mary and her
son Patrick, returned by the Orsova from
London after an absence of 14 years.
Adelaide has gay winter evenings :
The St. John’s Ambulance had a ball in the Palais
Royal organised by a committee with Mrs. Peter
Bornstein at its head. The Hore-Ruthvens arrived
at 9 p.m. and were received by Dr. S. L. Dawkins,
Mrs. Dawkins, Mrs. Bornstein and Mollie Davies.
Lady llore-Ruthven was gowned in wine-toned ring-
velvet, and Miss Fleischmann, who was with her
aunt, chose a frock of chiifon shading from lemon
to orange. There was a display of fencing by
pupils of Wanda Edwards, and another attraction,
arranged by Mrs. Lavington Bonython, was a snow-
storm scene. Miss Fleischmann secured a snowball
with the lucky number that carried a prize.
A bridge party at the Piccadilly, organised by
Mesdames Lavington Bonython and F. Goldsmith,
for the unemployed, brought in *a profit of U7(i.
Jean, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Craw-
ford, of Glenelg, who was a passenger by the Otranto,
will leave the boat at Naples for Switzerland, where
she will marry Max Peter, of Zurich.
The Gunners’ Ball was held at the Norwood Town
Hall to commemorate the Battle of Hamel. Mess
uniform gave the men a chance to compete with
the wonien in the matter of colorful dress. His Ex.
and Lady llore-Ruthven were present and were
received by Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. C. W. Coombc.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was gowned in black lace and
Mrs. Coombe chose a charming frock of white triple
georgette, the cape effect trimmed with black fox
fur. The stage was decorated with shields, lances
and swords against a background of wattle and
poinsettias.
The Amateur Sports Club held their dance in the
Liberal Club hall on the same night. Dean Hay
brought along his orchestra and the hop was cheery.
There was an attendance of over 600 at the
Christian Brothers’ ball, also on the same night, held
at Australia Hall. The guests were received by Mrs.
T. y. O’Halloran (president of the ball committee) ;
Mrs. \V. J. Denny was responsible for the decorations,
and Mr. Denny and a number of old scholars acted
as stewards.
Mrs. S'. Tolley and her niece Peggy Marshall, of
Darrocli, Payneham, will leave by (lie Comorin on
July 20 for Colombo to meet Mr. Tolley, who is
returning after a business trip.
The old scholars of the Methodist Ladies’ College
gave a bright dance at Bilk’s Piccadilly. Miss C.
M. Ashworth (headmistress) and Ada Haste (president
of the association) received the guests, and there was
a bevy of pretty girls sporting lovely frocks.
At the Parkside Mental Home matron and nurses
entertained their friends at a dance. Decorations of
climbing roses on trellis-work were most effective.
The doings of Perth :
The Vacuum Oil Co.’s Gargoyles ran a successful
jollo at the Embassy. As a side-show they produced
a ballet, “The Dance of the Seven Males,” and some
tap-dancing which met with approval ’tween blues
and fox-trots. Manager J. C. Murray escorted his
wife, whose choice of attire was shrimp-pink geor-
gette; Mrs. Bond Barker was in black; the black-
frock worn by Mrs. Rogers had a gold capelet attach-
ment. The inky shade also had followers in Mrs.
Walter Saw and Mrs. Wallace Unmack. Blonde
Mrs. Peter Felton Wore pastel lace of an angel-skin
weave; Mrs. W. S. Evans was in chiffon of peach
tint; Mrs. Lionel Carter’s misty georgette was flower-
patterned ; Mrs. W. 1 oster chose flame velvet;
Marie Dakin danced in sprigged taffetas and Mrs.
Stan Burridgc in Nile-green.
Friends of the Parkerville Home are putting their
muscle into a million penny effort, part of which
was a bridge party where tables overflowed from the
karrakatfa Club hall into the winter-garden. A
bevy of sweet young things with royal-blue as
favorite for their frocking squeezed among the tables
with tea. Mrs. Edwards and Mrs. Nichol carried off
an embroidered tea-cloth and a batch of decorative
scorers for high numbers. The Ace of Spades, by
frequent appearances in Mrs. Hall’s hands, won for
her a luncheon set.
Joy Lathlain is gathering together Some light-
weight frocks. She is bound for the Nor’-West and
a holiday on the Males’ station out of Broome.
Nora, one of the handsome daughters of Mr. and
Mrs. Gerald Lovell, was leading ladv at a military
wedding in Mhow, Central India. The ’groom was
Captain John Vicary. The wedding attire of palest
pink elephant-skin crgpe and blush of pink tulle veil
was a happy thought for a brunette bride. Accom-
panying her were three small ’maids, frilly i n pink,
blue and gold respectively. The bride’s mother went
to India for the ceremony.
The engagement is announced of Mr. and Mrs. C.
P. Smith's daughter Betty to Karl, only son of the
August Knapps.
The Speck takes things quietly:—
Clemes College old scholars’ dinner and dance
was run by a committee headed by Mrs. H. S. Baker,
Mrs. G. Abbott and Betty Risby. Dinner was at
Hadley’s, where the Head and Mrs. Clemes were
guests of honor. The dance was in the college
Memonal Hall, where the school colors in streamers
and drapery were displayed. Supper was served in
the long school dining-room.
Neville S’omers comes back to the Speck as
private sec. at Government House. He was here
with the O’Gradys, so should know the ropes.
Elvie Quigley, of Launceston, is off on a trip to
California, where she will join her friend Mrs.
Horsfall.
Mrs. Gerald Gough, Inez Cumming that was, is
revisiting Hobart with her husband and small
daughter. Her home is now at Llangollan, Wales.
Jean, only chick of the Owen It. Tinnings, and
Colin Bisdee, son of the late E. A. and Mrs. Bisdee,
of Melton, Mowbray, announce their engagement.
Organist Mabel Evershed is flitting to the Cold
Country in the Barrabool. S’he will be much missed
at All Saints’, where she has trained the choir
and played the organ for many years.


NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT.
Fads as the Price of Life
"Kaloa” : The recent death of lan Mack,
killed on patrol in New Guinea, and the
wounding of young McCarthy revive the
question of the Rabaul system when dealing
with native tribes. No experienced man in
bis sane senses would advocate Belgian
Congo methods, but every old hand would
deprecate the present silly tenderness, which
is bred of the Administration’s intense
regard for League of Nations opinion.
I know fi’om experience in more than
one continent and ocean that the best
manner in which to approach the unknown
naked human is with a laugh. But unless
there is obvious strength behind it and
reprisal waiting for presumption round
the corner, the approached one is apt to
misconstrue. At present it seems to be
a practice in the islands to send young
officers with little knowledge of native life
to deal with recalcitrants whose repartee is
traditionally limited to spear thrusts; and
their instructions render it necessary for
them to make their visits as unprepared for
trouble as if they were calling on the vicar’s
daughter.
Sir William MacGregor, kindliest of men,
learnt his New Guinea lessons early, and
though the early records of his reign are full
of instances in which his R.M.’s approached
the wildest tribes alone and unarmed, he
severely and promptly punished overt acts.
Warlike villagers quickly learnt that the
Administration could play their own game
better than themselves.
No uncivilised district should be entered
until a sufficient force can be established ,
there to make nastiness improbable. It is
far better to lose a few taxes than a few
Australian and native lives.
Aggression by natives in their wilder state
nearly always is the corollary of an insuffi-
cient show of force or of lack of understand-
ing of the native viewpoint. Where there
is mischief in established districts it is
usually bred of over-familiarity. Often the
person who should be punished is not the
native defendant but the trouble-making mis-
sionary or the silly white woman who does
not see the implications which her house-
boys read into her system of friendliness
to them.
For most naughtiness in the village's
ridicule is a better weapon than the
kunda. The power of many a sorcerer in the
tropics has waned when some unkind D.O.
or R.M. has washed him, cor ain ■ popalo,
with soap, rubbing the suds well into his
eyes; and paregoric, put secretly into the
soup of a war-lord who has been officially
promised a visit, from Old Nick, has a
healthily chastening effect upon him.
“Old !Un” : The Brisbane City Council at
last has taken over St. Helena Island, in
Moreton Bay, and has begun to transform
it from the pleasantest gaol in Australia
into a holiday resort. Most prisoners liked
to go to St. Helena, though the habit which
economical authorities developed of sending
lagged bank-tellers and fashionable lawyers
to their destiny on tourist beats was at one
“What’s the submerged tenth, Bill?”
“A bloke with a wife and ten kids.”
period embarrassing. Escapes from St.
Helena were rare; it was a long swim to
the mainland, and the route was studded
with sharks, but occasionally a boat left
loose gave an enterprising burglar a chance
to paddle ashore. Once, when such an
adventurer was abroad, the watching police
at Wynnum, showing misplaced intelligence,
laid hands on a well-known politician in
mistake for the escapee, moving him to an
eloquence of which he had never before been
suspected.
* * * *
“Hall’s Creek” : Many well-established in-
habitants of Cape York and the North and
North West must often imagine that they
are seeing ghosts these days, for old hands are
drifting back to long-abandoned goldfields.
A hopeful caravan is in Arnhem Land look-
ing for a mile-long reef which is alleged to be
there—though how the 60,000 Chinamen
who formerly turned the country over piece-
meal missed it Confucius alone knows.
And a solidly-backed Perth outfit, led
by ,C. H. Wray, has left to
test the bucket-dredging pos-
sibilities of the Gascoyne, Ash-
burton and Fortcscue rivers,
and of the extensive sweep of
beach between Port Hedland
and Onslow. A new find in
that region would give a great
fillip to the North-west.
“X.” : We have just had a
fine illustration of how the
depression has struck us in
this city of 300,000 people
(Brisbane). When interest
was added to Commonwealth
Savings Bank accounts last
week the crowd that turned
up looked as prosperous as if
it. had arrived for a Back to
Canaan movement. It took
114 clerks to note the added
increment on £8,000,000, and
in two hours on a Saturday
morning they were called on
to revise 2000 accounts as well
as to deal with 2200 deposits
and withdrawals. In all, the
bank has 160,000 accounts on
its hands, so that its staff will
have earned its annual holi-
days when it has finished the
job.
* * *
“Arunta”: Sam llazlett.
who went out four months
ago to search for Leich-
hardt’s bones in the War-
burton or thereabouts, has re-
turned to Perth without them.
He had heard from blacks of
an iron trunk and waggon
wheels which were lying in
the interior, but a thousand-
mile trek failed to locate them.
The chances .are all against
Leichhardt having reached the central desert
or even the Northern Territory border.
Certainly he would have had difficulty in
getting his drays any distance on that
route, even if he had tried to cover the
eastern portion of the trip via the Barkly
and the Murrinji track, which was water-
less in places for 120 miles in his day.
Gregory, the last surviving explorer of his
generation, whose search journey for Leich-
hardt across the North to the region of
Hall’s Creek five years after lie was lost is
one of the most amazing in the history of.
Australian exploration, believed that the
German was probably finished off close to
Fitzroy Downs in Queensland, where he was
last heard of; and if he didn’t finish there
the Pitta Pittas or the KalkadoonS, who
were the bad boys of western Queensland
in the old days, probably got him.
•fc *»•
“Crow”: Cairns, northernmost of east-
coast cities, is to add an aerial service
to the train, main roads and tourist
steamers which, in the past few years, have
made the old days, when there was no way
of getting there except the s.s. Carpentaria
and Maranoa, a distant memory. The pro-
moter, one McDonald, well known as a pilot
in the North, is buying two three-seater
’planes and one eigbt-seater, and with these
he proposes to make daily freight, mail and
passenger runs to Townsville, Mossman,
Mareeba, Atherton and Herberton, insti-
tute a tri-weekly ' service to Cooktown and
make a weekly visit to Brisbane, via Towns-
ville, Mackay and Rockhampton. The run
to Townsville will take two hours and that
“Looka ’ere, Jackie. You six-a-pence short!”
“No fear, Tony. You tick pen tchort.”
to Brisbane 1(M hours. It will be possible
to leave Sydney on Saturday morning and
be in Cairns on Sunday evening.
* =i= *
“Geyser”: Cotton Bull, bore on Tliurul-
goona, “Vic” (B. 28/6/’33), was not the
first in Queensland. The “Proceedings of
file Inter-State Conference on Artesian
Water” of 1912 show that the first artesian
flow was at Back Creek, on Coreena (C.Q.).
It was a two-inch bore sunk by the Rail-
way Department by day labor; it was com-
menced in 18S6 and completed very early m
1887. The depth was only 180 ft., and the
well stopped flowing m 3890. The Cotton
Bush bore on lhurulgooua was commenced
111 December, 1886, and completed in the
following April, some weeks after water
had been stiuck at Back Cieek. 1 Ins bon
was 1290 ft. deep, and gave a ow of • _J
gallons per day The first Government bore
was commenced at Blackall m December,
1885, but it was not completed until April.
1888. It was 1663 ft. deep, and yielded
291,000 gallons a day.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
, , , ~
At the annual distribution of Railway
and ®t. awaids in
the, Methodist Church at Bundamba, oui
Governor said pleasant things about the
work of the Railway Ambulance to a flattered
gathering, over which Minister L .A. Coopei
presided. H. J. Pocock, off Bundamba,
gained a life certihcate; .1. Donald, W. Gled-
son, Misses M. Sharp, M. Gledson and
11. ,T. Pocock also won special trophies.
His Ex., attended by Captain Honnor, also
went to the annual dance given by the
warden and students of St. John s Colleg'e
at the South Brisbane .City Hall, at which
chocolate and gold was the color scheme,
with African daisies on the tables. Mrs. Grif-
fitlis wore black Chantilly lace with a short
apple-green velvet coat. Mrs. R- W. 11.
llawken was in black manette with touches
of gold.. Mrs. ,W. 8. Milne sported amber
beads with her peacli pmk. Mrs. W. H. W.
Stevenson cliose green with a grey nmou
wrap. Elocutionist Una Bick wore midnight
blue spotted net. and flame was chosen by
Kathleen Sully. Grave professors unbent in
the dance, and merry students had a liilari-
ous time.
All this followed on a vice-regal visit to
Central and North Queensland and reopened
Mount Morgan. The Governor thought the
tropical vegetation on the Eungella Range
magnificent.
Lady Wilson’s doctor has insisted on a
fortnight’s rest, so she was not able to go
to the shivoo at the Town and Country Club
where Merna Gillies hostessed, looking very
smart in brown with a fawn hat.
A charming bride of the week was the
musical Marie Knight Corkran. The bride-
groom was Harold Molent Jarrett, also a
singer. The ceremony took place in St.
Stephen’s, Monsignor T. Moloney officiating,
with Kitty Slack at the organ. The bride,
in cream serge and a cream erminette ruff,
was given away by her father. Nea Knight
Corkran ’maided in blue wool gabardine and
grey fox and grey Glengarry cap.
That evening white roses dressed up the
Lutwyche Methodist kirk, Rev. C. Morsley
marrying George Tune, son of the late Cap-
tain Tune and Mrs. Tune, of Ivedron, to
Olive Burgess, daughter of the E. Bur-
gesses, Newmarket. Mrs. Williams and Mr.
Thomas sang; the bride was given away in
ivory silk romame. Mrs J. Cranzeila lent
the Homton lace veil, and the bride s fioweis
were jonquils and roses. On leaving tne
kirk she wore a white fur coat. Elsie iunc,
in gold silk georgette; Betty Burgess, m
pink, and Florence Burgess, in blue, carry-
ing sweet-peas and roses, ’maided,
At St. Margaret’s School garde.ll party m
aid of the Crbche and Kindergarten, the
president, Mrs. Forgan Smith, wore grey
tweed. Mesdames M. L. Reading and
Andrew Dunn are on the committee.
Grecian dances on the lawn, band selections
Punch and Judy show run by Dr.
Foote and A. D. McGill were features,
In the Brisbane Repertory Society s inter-
pretation of “The Rose Without a Thorn”
at the Cremorne Theatre, Bluff King Hal
was well played by Jum Pendleton, who
niade him an unpleasant character. Dulcie
S cott was Katherine Howard, frocked in
roge an( j go ]d j n e] ie first act and later in
ro y a ] blue and white, brocade and ermine,
Margaret Orme was Anne of Cleves, in
w ],jt o brocade and gold with purple train,
and Nancy Dowles played Mary Lascelles.
The r.a.C.Q. is to have its own
( .] ub bouse at p e t r ie’s Bight. There was a
“ goo <j w i]i” dinner in Rowe’s, given by W.
jf ff wto joined the dub ’ 2 3 years ago.
t? _. K f u of .•
Bowlcy - president, said that m the
If* H years membership had increased at
the rate of 600 P er year -
No taxpayer associates the State Land and
Inc °“? Tax Department with any “let-us-be-
joyful attitude, but the departmental dance
j u r lc Trocadero was cheerful, and the pro-
(;eeds g 0 (o t b e Queensland Ambulance
transport Brigade. Orange and mauve cos-
tumed R le e jgjit men who danced the “pony”
ballet, and members of the Rolson company
from the Royal also helped. Commissioner
and Mrs. H. Magee were there, Mrs. Magee
; n re( i fj at ( > r g De Mrs. G A Stronaeh
chose cornflower floral georgette. Mrs. Ren-
nick was in black; Marie Magee in orchid
tints,
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Moore went to the
party at the Canberra given to the Victorian
tourist bowlers by the local Victorian Associ-
ation. Dancing, bridge and music passed
the fleeting hour.
Mesdames Percy Walker (Glenlyou) and
g CO R Macleod (Terrica) gave a party at
the Country Club Hotel, Stanthorpe, to
Nancy Rogcrson, who is marrying John
Bryant in Sydney on August 9. Large log
fl res W ere lit in the rooms (Stanthorpe has
reg i 3 tered 11 degrees lately) and poinsettia
answe rcd the glow of tlie fires; the guest of
bonor was i n p ili ar -box red and black
velvet hat.
Aged 90, Mary Ann Bignell died at Upper
Coomera. where she had lived for 60 years.
She was married in 1861—it is 35 years
since she lost her husband. She had 12
children (five sons and four daughters sur-
vive), 58 grandchildren, 79 great-grand-
children and one great-great-. One sou,
S. Iv. Bignell. was killed in the war. Mrs.
Bignell was born at Bandon Grove, near
Dungog (N.S.W.).
Thora, daughter of the Colin B. F. Bells,
Westlands, Longreach, is marrying Arthur
H. Taylor, Arrowfield, Longreach, this month,
She is granddaughter of the late Joshua
Peter Bell.
Born at Gorizia (Austrian then), Johannes
Christian Bruennich died last week, aged 71.
He was head of the Agricultural Department
for 25 years, member and past president of
the Royal Society of Queensland. Dr. K.
Bruennich is his son. He is survived by liis
widow, two sons, three daughters and six
grandchildren.
Pretty Winifred Berry, daughter of the
B. K. Berrys. Clayfield is engaged to Cap-
tain S. W. Bird, son ot the G. F. Birds,
Foxbrake, Cheshire, England.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and anew
generation may enjoy the things that del’ghted an earlier one.
The depression. “Give us this day our
daily bread—on credit.” 110/12/’92. |
Who steals my nurse steals cash./—Correct
version. 129/8/91. |
An Armidale (N.S.W.) man complains
that the local horses catch pink-eye from
their whisky-drinking owners. |5/9/’91.1
Although Paderewski will not perform
again in London before October, seats for
his recitals were being secured in July.
[5/9/191.]
Victor Daley's plans and specifications Of
a horrible suicide: Let a man go into the
lonely bush and hang himself with a live
snake. [i2/9/’91.]
The Maoriland Treasurer lately signed
his name at the bottom of a Maori adver-
tisement, “Monita Whakahiri o te mono o
te kirone,” which, being interpreted, is “The
Minister who makes the money of the colony
fly-” [5/9/’9i.;i
Attorney Tom Slattery (N.S.W.) tells a
story of an old countryman of his own whose
last will and testament he had drawn out.
Pat waited on Tom a month or two after-
wards to have an alteration made, as he
“found he had left himself without even a
chair to sit on.” | 5/9/‘91. |
How long is Melbourne to be hidebound?
The week before last we had a £5 fine for
selling twopenn’ortli of potatoes on Sunday
to a poor woman. A few weeks ago was
another case— r £y. fine for a bottle of ginger-
beer supplied to a little boy. out walking
with his parents, on a hot. dusty Sunday.
[5/9/’91. |
During floodtime Condobolin (N.S.W.)
suffered several kinds of famine. The town-
ship rations ran low and were
THERE FIRST.
MA: “Move away from the sun , Ethel.”
ETHEL: "Why should I. mamma? I was here first.”
[G. Ashton —12/3/’92.]
the order of the night. But the most uii-
kindest cut of all was that the Condobolin
rays ran out of hairpins, and the local
dacksmith was favored with orders to make
patent-skewers out of fencing-wire. _
[l9/9/’9l.j
W 1 T . ~~TTT~ , , ,
Alien Irving studied Sliylock, he had re-
. tO T? dewis h friendj who told him
that the Keans. Brooke and all the other
actors did the curse wrong. A Jew, he
said, will never kneel to curse: he will stand
with liis hand on his brow. At night a
Hebrew attorney, in the stalls, said. "Well,
I didn’t know Irving was one of us.”
[5/0/’9l.]
In a South Australian court re a charge
of having passed a valueless cheque:—Wit-
ness : "Yes, yer Worsh’p, an’ I give ten
lovely John Dunns for the darn thing.” This
was evidently a witness reminiscent of the'
old days when small bags of flour (sUlh.
of thereabout) were £1 each. As John
Dunn and Co. had the monopoly of the
CroWeaters' flour trad ', a "John Dunn” and
a note became .convertible terms. [2/l/’92. |
A certain English peer who not so very
"long ago visited Australia lost £87,000 in
mining deals with one Sydneybroker alone.
Among his transactions were the purchase
of 4000 Webbs at £4 10s. (they are now
Is. or so) and of .”000 West Wallsends at
275. (now they’re ,65.). He bought Souths
at £l4 10s. (now they are £5); The mar-
vellous rise in Broken Hill Proprietary lured
him on. |29/S/'9l.|
When the Arkansas Giantess with Sells’
Circus boarded the Monowai at ’Frisco, eu
route for Sydney, she went and saw the
■lift, berth which had been allotted to her
Btt. 2fin. of length. Then she hastened up
io the captain and asked him where she
was to sleep. “Sleep?” answered Captain
Mick Carey. “Why, the only thing 1 can
think of is the mainsail. I’ll order that to
be slung amidships as a hammock for you.”
12/l/’92. |
A Victorian solicitor held the note of a
certain minor Judge for £5O. Renewal was
refused. The Judge awaited his opportunity
for revenge. It came. The creditor was
sadly given to tippling, and when in his
cups was not overguarded in his language,
lie had occasion to appear before the minor
Judge, for whom, by the way, he had a
most supreme contempt, and in the course of
his case made use Of language which offended
his Honor’s ears. An apology was promptly
demanded and as promptly refused. His
Honor sent the attorney “up” for a fort-
night. aiid all the efforts of the friends of
the latter could not induce the Judge to
relax the severity of the. sentence.
129/8/’9l.j
But for his presence of mind a Sydney
celebrity would have been in a tight place.
He is a fat, unctuous, long-nosed old man,
with a wife and a large, grown-up family—-
the sort of man who is a temporary father to
the ballet-maiden, and a counsellor to the
milliner’s little girl, and who likes to take
the distressed barmaid to liis enormous
bosom. The last , time a girl wanted com-
forting he decided that a dinner would suit
her complaint, so he made an appointment
with her, and ordered the meal at a swell
restaurant. It was a mighty and expensive
feed, and the old man was there to time, and
sat gloating over
the victuals. lit
waited, and sniffed,
and waited. Then
a dainty tread was
heard upon the
.stairs, and another
tread that wasn’t
dainty came behind
it. The door open-
ed ; it was the
long-expected one.
He was just about
to wobble into her
arms, when his
w i fe ’s visa g e
appeared over the
visitor’s shoulder.
Then the girl re-
marked pleasantly :
“This is a little
surprise, Mrs. F.,
Mr. F. has got
ready for you, so
I won’t detain you
any longer”; and,
shaking hands with
Mrs. F., she clear-
ed out. And Mr.
F. calmly embraced
his good old wife
instead of the girl,
and told her how
the dinner and the
wines were intend-
ed to celebrate the
anniversary of the
death of his aunt’s
infant —it was the
only thing he could
remember at the
moment —and a hil-
arious evening rvas
spent. Presence of
mind is a great in-
stitution, and has
pulled many a pet-
rifled capitalist
through.
[5/9/’91.1
“We must be in port.” said one of the
Gambier’s female passengers as in her cabin
she felt the Easby strike that’doomed shin!
A few moments and she was in that nort
at which all humans finally arrive A d?a-
matic story is told of the man who. while
struggling in the water on the same dark
and fateful night, buoyed up, as he thou»-ht
Ills wife. When they were taken into'the
boat he found the rescued one to be rmt his
wife (to whom he had been hut five months
married), but another woman. On two pre-
vious occasions we have seen such incidents
recorded in connection with wrecks, and
Emile Souvestre has evolved from the situa-
tion a powerful short story. [5/9/’93.]
Workmen digging behind Hobart Savings
Bank brought to light a lot of leg-irons very
much worn. This is where the gaol stood
in the ancient days of blood, and the fetters
were probably buried with some of the many
murderers “slung off” on the gallows of the
old gaol, the same of which old parson Bed-
ford said “Ten are a tight fit, but nine
can hang comfortably.” If these sanguinary-
minded gentlemen all rise some night, like
the ghosts in the waxworks, the inmates
of the bank will see something to remember.
r2/V’92.1
WHAT, INDEED?
MR. TUBBY: "What the dooce are the coves opposite larfin' at, Maria?”
[Frank P. Mahony —9/7/’92.]
It was the last day of the tour, and the
great pianist and the tuner were meeting for
the last time. During 20 long years the
wealthy piano firm had told him off to accom-
pany the distinguished artist, and in all that
time he had never been asked even “if he
had a. mouth.” The famous man: “Oh.
Smith, I’ve a little thing I’d like to give
you before saying; good-bye, if you will call
at the hotel. The poor tuner: “Its very
good of you, sir’; and he promised to call,
Smith spends, the meantime dreaming of
the many precious things that would be very
suitable rewards after 20 years faithful ser-
vice, and calls at ast at the hotel. Not
without a certain shyness he is shown into
the presence of the maestro, who, putting
his hand into Ins pocket, commences: Oh,
Smith. I thought Id like to give you this
/ • |
i Turn nu a wac
~ _ A J - v T -
Snnth-Jones was a dandy, from the crown
of his tall silk-hat to the soles of his spruce
tan shoes. His coat was always stylish,
and no democratic wrinkles marred the
clear-cut contour of liis curving vest.
His pompous propriety, accompanied as
it was by the super-sensitiveness of over-
weening vanity, would have been intolerable
s6t out ° f w “
Smith-Jones was a stickler for “good
form,” and had been known to walk home
of a wet afternoon rather than ride in a
cab that had lost the freshness of its paint
and was not strictly spick-and-span in even-
particular. ‘
llow lie could tolerate that pup of his—
an ugly, bushy-tailed specimen of no par-
ticular use or breed—we could never quite
understand. The pup may have loved
Smith-Jones. which was doubtful; that he
admired that conceited individual with an
awe-inspiring admiration was apparent in
every action.
As the pup grew into, ungainly dogliood
lus abject worship increased. He seemed to
live for the express purpose of gazing at
Smith-Jones. To anyone but Smith-Jones
the soulful earnestness of that dog’s gaze
would have been exasperating.
Oh. yes, agreed Smith-Jones, wh.en one
of us praised the dog, “he s a good animal:
but you would never believe the trouble he
gives one. One has a presentiment that he
will do something dreadful one of these
days.”
A suggestion that Smith-Jones should
leave Carlo at home, tied up, was not taken.
He objected to cruelty to dumb animals.
All the same we had our suspicions that the
dog’s open admiration several times a day
was almost indispensable to its owner. So,
though the characteristics of each grew
further and further apart, the dapper civil-
servant and his dog went to the office in
company as usual.
When passing street shop-fronts the pain-
ful anxiety depicted on Smith-Jones’s face
was a caution to Carlo, and if the poor*
brute even looked at another dog liis
master’s remonstrances and entreaties and
hurried surreptitious threatenings were irri-
tating to everybody within hearing.
In his spare time, Smith-Jones was given
to airing his figure on a certain street corner.
There, with expanding chest, and feet
planted well apart, he would discuss “form”
and “style” and the inevitable Carlo with
any of us he could manage to buttonhole.
At these street-corner meetings Carlo
developed the habit of pushing between his
master’s legs from behind, so as to get an
uninterrupted view of the face he so much
admired. Meanwhile, his great- bushy tail
waved majestically from the cleft of Smitli-
.Tones’s “street-sweeper.”
The habit was incurable. Nothing could
lure Carlo from his favorite position. Even
kicks, or prods with Smith-Jones’.s gold-
headed malacca cane, failed to shift him.
The more he was kicked and poked the more
intense grew the look of admiration in his
big, brown, beseeching eyes.
Eventually the dog won the day, and was
allowed to worship in peace.
But at last came a change. Somehow—
never mind how, but the reported remark of
a girl had a little to do with it—Srnitb-
Jones was apprised of the fact that the dog's
tail habitually stuck out between the coat-
tails and perpetually wagged with a slow
and solemn wag. Next day. Smith-Jones
walked down to' the office without his com-
panion.
“I had to get rid of him,” he told us in
strictest confidence, and with a perceptible
shudder: “people actually conceived the
astonishing impression, don’tcherknow. that
:I was wagging my own tail!”
[6/13/’!>7.l John Drayman.
ENOUGH.
There are joys enough in this world of ours,
Though Fortune gives them not to all:
Crave ne’er to drink till the nectar sours,
Nor to feast on foods which a fool devours
Till the flavors on his palate pall.
When legs arc strong and pockets light.
A .journey long o’er country rough
Has its wayside pleasures, and you’re all
right—
Quite happy enough,
Not too happy, hut happy enough.
\N hen the autumn mists your ardor damp.
That one time used to kindle soon.
Your legs may not he asked to tramp
So far and oft; perhaps in camp
You'll sip your soup from silver spoon.
And the baldhead knows the mental ease
That comes to men who've made their
“stuff” :
He mourns the loss of his youth, yet he's
Quite happy enough—
Not too happy, but happy enough.
tl0/12/'92.|
Anon.
THE WANTED SONG.
Sing us ;i song of songs—
Singer of things to be—
Sad with a thousand wrongs,
Strong as the surging sea.
Wild as a wind that sweeps
Out of the dappled dawn,
Over a world that sleeps.
Dreaming of life new-born.
Fling us a song afloat
Up to the skies above,
Passion in every note,
Human with burning love,
Brotherly love, and, oh !
Waken the theme anew
Sung in the long ago
Under the Syrian blue.
So as the winds and tide
Waken the slumb’ring main.
Here in the light denied
Life may awake again.
This is the hour of time,
This is the day of days:
Sing us a song sublime,
Sing us a Marseillaise!
[9/7/’92.]
K.


A Morning With the Sinkers
BY HYRAM.
A FORMER skating-rink at Bondi Junc-
tion, which is in the wilds of East
Sydney, harbors the editorial sanctum
of the “Cinesound Review,” a publication
which, as all patrons of the talkies must be
aware, presents each week a series of
glimpses of recent Australian events, de-
scribed in the rich, well-articulated voice of
Charlie Lawrence.
The “Review” is an example of the very
latest brand of journalism, and though the
building in which it is produced houses,
among other strange features, an enormous
padded cell, a collection of stage props that
wouldn’t disgrace two large theatres, scores
of delicate and peculiar machines and mil-
lions of feet of celluloid ribbon, it conducts
its news-gathering activities in much the
same way as a newspaper—so much so that
Frith and the writer, though what they
don’t know about the technique of the gal-
loping tintypes would fill a library, found
every now and then that their feet were on
their native heath, so to speak.
It was what the “Review” staff call their
day for “going to press,” but the editor was
able to show the visitors the sights and
regal*; them with quaint stories of his ex-
periences. The staff, editor included, are
all young; they all seem preternaturally
efficient, and they find humor in everything.
The atmosphere of the business is a com-
bination of behind-stage and reporters’ room,
with a dash of the broadcasting studio, and,
in the laboratory, where white-garbed lads
and lasses tend weird mechanisms in dim re-
ligious light, there is something of the bated-
breath arcana of the operating-theatre.
The job of the editor of a talkie news-
gazette is in some respects very like that of
the editor of a newspaper. He decides what
Tom Gun, editor of the "Cinesound,
Review.”
happenings of the week his publication will
deal with—if there aren’t enough happen-
ings he has to improvise some —and sends
forth his cameramen to cover the assign-
ments. The cameraman has to combine the
qualities of a press photographer, a reporter
and a cinesound (useful word that!) tech-
nician. The recording of sound has quad-
rupled the difficulties of the movie business,
"Will coal-black faces and snowy hair."
and, no matter how expert and intelli-
gent the cameraman may be, the stuff lie
turns in requires a lot of praying over before
it gets to the public.
As soon as a negative is made it is pro-
jected for the editor’s delectation. The visi-
tors were allowed to see such a screening—
a departure of footballers on an American
liner, depicted as gentlemen with coal-biaek
faces and snowy hair. That was weird
enough, but stranger still were the pranks
played by sound. In parts where it is not
wanted for publication the sound-record-
ing apparatus is slowed down to a crawl while
the celluloid continues to rush past the lens
at the rate of !)0 feet a minute. When pro-
jected, the sound on these portions of the
film is reproduced at several times normal
speed. Voices that a second before were a
deep and manly bass soar to a hysterical
madly-babbling ‘treble, petering out in an
unearthly screech.
It isn't necessary to project a picture to
hear the sound. The film, which bears on
its edge the sound record, can be run through
a gadget like a highly superior mangle, in
which lives an electric lamp. The rays of
the lamp, falling on the serrations of the
oopiglootis, arc transmogrified by the agency
of epigastria into climpoclomps, which are
then subjected to the action of sulphuric
acid and made audible. At least the explana-
tion sounded something like that. How-
ever it’s done, if you put on the headphones
and listen while a section of film is run
through you’ll be well-nigh deafened by a
stentorian voice, , The. expert in charge of
this device demonstrated that by running
the film through backwards the language
could be changed from English to Russian,
which shows h,oW .wonderful science is.
But the main obsession of the “Review”
staff is not marvelling at the mysteries of
science, but the stern, strenuous business of
“sinking.” When Frith heard this he had
bacchanalian visions, bur it turned out not
to be that sort of sinking. “Sinking” is
synchronising. The fruity voice that gives
a running commentary on a newsreel is
added after the picture is made.
The picture is projected on a small screen
in the padded sound studio (the outer walls
of which, by the way, are made out of a former
minnie golf course, while the stuffing con-
sists mostly of Queensland cotton-bolls)
and the raconteur speaks while watching it.
It is no easy business. For some reason
connected with the disparity in the veloci-
ties of light and sound, the sound has to
be recorded nineteen and a half frames—
each little photograph on the film is a “frame”
—before the pictures it belongs to. The
expert in charge of the sinking has to know
exactly how much time that represents —
actually it is one and eleven-twenty-eighths
of a second —and to be able to signal it. lie
sits beside the speaker, who reads his words,
touching him on the arm as a cue when to
commence each sentence. At the same time
he has to signal to the chap operating (lie
sound-recording apparatus, and to another
chap who operates a gramophone which sup-
plies the soft undercurrent of music that
accompanies most, of these orations. This
keeps him as busy as a one-armed paper-
hanger with the itch.
The visitors watched u sinking expert at
work. Even Frith, who admires but little,
was round-eyed. The voice-artist, read with
profound gravity: “We now see before us
the palatial and magnificent lounge of the
Hotel Oriental, which has recently been
entirely redecorated at tremendous expense
and” At this stage the screen fell over
with a terrific bang; the sinking expert
said something appropriate, and the myr-
midons ministering to the recording
machinery added observations on what seemed
to be religious topics. However the screen
was rescued, and after two or three more
trials the presiding expert varied his calis-
thenics by reaching up his hand and snap-
“Keeps him busy.”
ping bis fingers lustily just under the mike.
This looked like a prelude to a blistering
curse, but it wasn't., It was the end of the
job. The snap of the fingers makes a visible
mark on the film, and indicates where it is
to be cut. . . , .
After this the visitors wandered round
and met various persons, including Charlie
Lawrence, who was in deep dolor because
of laryngitis, but was nevertheless com-
Charlie Lawrence.
manded to smile and to be drawn by Frith.
Before leaving they were introduced to the
quaintest feature of the whole quaint show
—the safes in which arc stored six million
feet of film. Each is equipped with a huge
chimney, so that, if the contents ever do
catch tire, they’ll make a job of it. The
“Review” editor said this was a. bright
thought of the underwriters, lie said a lot
of other things that were hard to believe,
too. However, there’s no doubt that a visit
to a talkie factory is educational. It
broadens the mind.
The King’s Fool.
They carried the Fool to the chapel’s crypt
When the sun broke through the shower's,
And they heard the sound of his tinkling
bells
That were hidden under flowers;
Tall yellow candles burned by his head
And his painted face was bare.;
There were golden rings on his twisted limbs
And the Fool’s cap on his hair;
Twenty archers bore the Fool
In his gaudy motley drest,
For the man who danced to a monarch’s
whim
Was glad enough to rest.
“The Fool is dead!” And the people wept
A simple thing and gay;
But the King, who stood b.V his jester’s bier
With a bowed head, whispered “Nay!”
And he thought of the greedy, treacherous
Court,
Of the Queen’s eyes sly and brown,
His wenching son and his harlot’s gems,
And Hate in a priestly gown.
“The King is dead; the Fool yet lives,”
Aloud the monarch cried ;
“Oh! Master Fool, with cap and bells,
I Avould ’twas I who died !”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
When I Was a Boy.
BY HUGH McCRAE.
BEFORE I had passed my teens, I was
attending a preparatory school presided
over bv a not very, learned lady who
wore black' clothes, sitting on a dais, with
a rod in her hands.
'Pkv/wo-li rail, on ringed in b P frnstorl windows
„ppe3 a
flanked upon two sides by several pine-trees.
,Wisps of grass hanging across the pointed
tufts showed where the sparrows built; high
enough to baffle the tallest climber’s reach.
In springtime the pollen flowed into the
room, filling the air with its strongly-scented
farina, and placing a cloud between our-
selves and the old woman, with her assist-
ants, Miss Jones and Miss Gripp.
Usually I walked to school with two
boys who were sons of a .neighbor.
The way led through the neighbor’s pro-
perty, and, having joined my companions at
the back of the house, I followed them across
a yard where a dog tugged at its chain;
often, beside it, the boys’ father broke wood
with an axe. He seemed to be killing the
wood and the sight of the veins on his arms
sickened my imagination. Yet he was essen-
tiallv a good man : and he lent me his hand-
kercliief when I wept at my Aunt Marjory’s
funeral. I didn’t realise his kindness uptil
I got home again and found thc handker-
chief in mv pocket. I weighed it in my
palm, conceiving how light it was, and how
different to the rough bits of rag I had
been accustomed to.
A Vf Marjory was buried on Queen,s
Birthday, and, in the evening, this neigh b
asked my parents if he might take me to
see eci y i umina i° as - m ,
I stayed out in the st eet, u I r
sliadow of our P^P® lU ,® Ain
for the decision The handkerchief was still
wet with my afterno s : , .
the harbor I could see the domes: and towers
and roofs darkening against the sunset glow.
My father and mother thought I ought to
stay at home, so T reluctantly climbed into
bed and kept awake for a long time.
Then when it began to rain, I stopped
thinking about the illuminations, and imag-
ined the cemetery as it must have been at
that moment.
Aunt Marjory down there—next to baby
John—under the clay.
So silent, and so still.
The neighbor’s sons were like savages,
One morning, just when we were starting
out for school, they quarrelled. The younger
hoy threw down his bag of books, and fastened
his teeth into his brother s leg; the brother re-
versed his umbrella and clouted his assailant
Aatemples that I thought
[>» ™,“ st 01 4 ™ P tho laws He
hpcmselK had been cheated
hC hdd been Ch ° atCd
This boy had thc nature of a coward.
They called him “Lambkin” “Where
are you, Lambkin ?” his sister would say.
“Here I am,” he answered, rising from
some bush, with the blood of a dog or a cat
upon his hands.
Truly, a nice little boy!
He had a muscular lip, like the arm of a
reaper, which would g 0 out over liis bread
and bring it in from the right or the left....
Sometimes lie made humorous gestures with
it, pushing it forward, up in the air.
Perhaps he had no consciousness of the
agony he inflicted upon animals, because he
b i n J s . elf , would have huge teeth drawn out
of his head, almost with pleasure
. He boasted of extractions, and kept bicus-
P ld s, in stained packets, secreted about bis
clothes. . , . .
He had two knives a catapult and a whip,
while, m evidence of his prowess as stone-
thrower there were the broken and dinted
fences of the neighbors, the smashed street-
lamed children and bodies of
2 y n o ] d horse that often nibbled the grass
about the roadway, close to our kitchen,
wag a permaiient victim.
I would be in my room, resting or read-
ing, when a shout would go up, accom-
panied by a volley of blue-metal which' nearly
[ ore QUr fence to picccs . Duller go^
from the horse’s ribs and the plunging of
. loQse h filled me with distress,
, , . , . . ,
Then the whip began to crack; and the
poor animal bleeding and basted, staggered
down .the hill, while Ins enemy threw the
remaining ammunition spitefully after him.
. Many years subsequently I met this man
in the form of an homunculus—his own
child, wheeled in a perambulator.
I recognised the child by its having the
same sort of mouth as its father, so I
naturally asked the mother for news of the
old schoolfellow. At first she was too shy
to tell me the story: and. even when she had
recoveßed herself, she could only say, “I
thought vou knew”
Thus it was, with great hopes for the gal-
lows, that I learned of his uncomfortable
(though not capital) end.
He had been oaten by cannibals ! A whole
prospecting party had been wiped out in
L 1 p : n p„ 1
I found it hard to believe. It would have
seemed so much more natural if the canni-
»''™ ™*r V „
~„,.. . . ,
These boys that I speak of had a sister older
than themselves, and she taught me to play
the piano. Three evenings a week I went
to their home in order to have lessons.
I walked under the cedar-tree tlmt stood
near the gate, and led by flat shields of
light shining along the front of the house,
felt my way to the verandah.
Often the old man would open the door,
and call his daughter to come to me, where-
upon she would lead, the way, through rust-
ling bead-curtains, into the diawing o
beyond. ,
The piano had a coyer of yellow wood, and
when I sat in front of it my eyes came oppo-
site to a picture of unimaginable birds sing-
nig on a bough of apple blossom. Here 1
slaved at Czerny’s Exercises, with “Home
to Our Mountains” as an appropriate finish.
It w-ould be dark at the end of the lesson,
and my kind music-mistress conducted me to
her gate; nor would she return into her
own house until I had scrambled across the
road and called out “Quite safe, thank you.”
S*’ °” S **
Sho was always gentle aud patient towatds
she got married, and I was sent
lessons “look place* a°t “ta. o™ock every
Mondav
Miss Shamm was an ogress. She lived in
a house stuck among other houses.... The
door might be openf she would walk down
the frigid linoleum in huge slippers ; and
never smile at me. Then she would lock me
in with herself: lock me in with the smell
of floor-polish, and with the empty cold
light from the window.
Miss Shamm couldn’t say “Good morn-
ing” : she looked past me, while her mouth
silently waved and then became still again,
After that, she would turn round, and go
to the room of torture. Her piano resembled
a block of black ice; and, on the top of it,
lav an ebonv ruler.
'“Rousseau’s Dream” La, la, la, la,
la-la, laa-laa, laaaaa
My fingers, swollen and split with chil-
blains, labored at the unfriendly keys. All
at once they went wrong. A voice from
the distance exclaimed “G!” I heard the
voice; but, evidently, not soon enough,
because by this time Miss Shamm had seized
my left hand in her own while she delivered
smashing blows with the ebony ruler. I
tumbled off the music-stool, only to be
propped up again ; and so the le.sson kept on.
At last she released me out of her front
door. The sun shone down as I crossed
the purple and red tiles that led to the
gate; and I walked up a hill, between
awkward villas, on the way to school. One
of my fingers was bleeding, over the bag
of lessons, and I brushed it against wet
willow leaves hanging above the asphalt.
Presently, I took a short cut through a
quarry: golden-colored clay, and, at the
middle of it, a waterhole. In the water-
hole was a bag, which certainly contained
a cat.
Soon I entered the lane that went to the
sclioolhouse.
The playground behind the fence was
silent; and there were no boys under the
pine-trees. A cap, inscribed “Jarret Minor,'
drooped across the stones of the lane, which
were enormous and brutally set; so that I
think of it to this day as a place called
“Crocodile’s Back.”
Thus I dragged along, with my shoe
inside Jarret Minor’s cap, until the door of
the third-form classroom came suddenly
near. A long green door, with a conical
top; and its number on it.
I looked at the upward steps, and hesi-
tated while listening to the voices within;
but did not immediately enter. Some stimu-
lant was needed; so, with a painful heart
and actually bleeding hands, I wandered to
the quadrangle _ tank and helped myself to
water from an iron mug chained to the tap.
After that, I surrendered to my fate.
Some of the boys stared; but Miss Wylie,
on her raised dais, took no notice.; or, at
least, she ignored my presence until I had
arrived at the customary bench.
Behind the old woman three stained-glass
windows ascended the ponderous air and
turned her cap and shoulders into fuchsia-
blue —even her cayenne-colored nose took a
minim of the tint.
Then, when she eventually got up. she pm
down her pen with a click, and told me to
stay in for an hour after school “For being
late again on Monday!” ..
“You’re an idle fellow. You spend a..i
your time in playing.”
“Yes,” I thought, “that is true.
But I wished I didn’t have to spend so
much of it playing with Miss Shamm.


AMERICA
am
a
■
mm
m
. *? I■'
ih.r ,rT : ~"
m
JU*
■'V ■■
I : W ' /'
Pueblo Indians, on arid plateaus of the great Southwest, still live in primitive simplicity.
Mountains at their mightiest! The Rockies’
towering pinnacles; the jagged minar-
ets of the tall Cascades; the Sierras’ sagebrush
canyons and the emerald of the Alleghenies!
Distance which is enchantment! The still pur-
pled reaches of the desert and the grain-filled
vastness of the prairies! The Majesty of regal
rivers and mammoth land-bound lakes! Nature
in a stimulating parade of all her wonders—to
which man has added even more! Colossal cities
. . . engineering master-works . . . monuments
and universities . . . and railways which bring
t them all within a minute jocus!
Travel on America’s great railway systems in-
volves NO difficulties and unnumbered pleas-
ures! It is swift, punctual, luxurious and eco-
nomical! It enables you to see most in the least
time, with generous stop-over privileges for
extra excursions. And it maintains a superior
standard of personal comfort and ease.
Railway costs are most modest, while hotel
rates, sightseeing, taxis and all necessary facili-
ties were never priced more reasonably.
America offers an unmatched highroad for your
next voyage to England. Trans-Pacific, Trans-
America is the very shortest route! The new
“Mariposa” and “Monterey,” modern Matson-
Oceanic ships, maintain a luxurious, joy-filled
18-dav service to California.
You call, en route, at New Zealand,Fiji,Samoa
and Hawaii. You may disembark at either San
Francisco or Los Angeles:then choose your route
across the continent, aided by expert travel ad-
vice. Full details of this thrilling, economical
journey are presented attractively in illustrated
literature, free upon request. May we not help
you plan such a brilliant vacation this summer?
+ ™ *
AMERICA INVITES YOU TO VISIT
the International Exposition, Chicago,
continuing until November 1, 193 3»
L
£22=2
9*
£
12 BRIDGE ST., SyDNEY. Phone B 7981-3
•• t' ,
MAT-SON-O CE A NIC LI N.E
American railways travel
and I XFO RM AT IO N B L REAL
7R-IA
Badajoz.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IF you go to look for an old Castle Drumitf
homestead to-day, that place of historic
legend on the Macquarie River, not very
far from Bathurst, you will find little
enough to remind you of what it was in
the period of its greatest glory. Only one
wing of the original mansion, built in 1830
by Captain Theophilus Drumm, remains, the
rest of the edifice having been burned down
by Hall and his associates in 1863, when
they helped themselves to the racehorse
Charon. Mrs. Charlie Drumm’s thoroughbred
mare Florence Nightingale and the fine team
of bays with which Major Drumm was wont
to edify Bathurst when he drove four-in-
hand to town on high days and holidays.
The old home stood on Drumm’s llill, a
quarter of a mile back of and above the
present mansion of Daffodil Park. The run
was cut up and sold in 1870; Mr. William
Harriday, who made a fortune storekeeping
at the Turon, built the latter ornate and
tasteless structure a year or two afterwards.
It had been a one-storeyed stone erection,
placed round three sides of a quadrilateral,
just below the crest of the eminence that
overlooks the Macquarie River and com-
mands such a fine view of the western slopes
of the Blue Mountains.
You may still trace the front, or open
side, of this courtyard in a grass-grown step
in the side of the gentle slope, seven
or eight feet high. In the middle are traces
of a ring, where a fountain that never
flowed was once situated. The wing that
remains is the one on the right-hand or
northern side, as you faced tin; entrance to
the old house, which was a wide doorway
in the middle of the western or back part
of the building. It is now the homestead of
a dairy farm, and the extensive stone stables,
fifty yards in rear, which escaped the con-
flagration of ’63. and where Hall and his
men removed the horses that wild night, have
been converted into a barn and a dairy and
a garage for a Ford car.
It was not the highwaymen’s fault that
the whole building was not destroyed, as
they had intended —being peevish with Major
Drumm for the assistance he had given the
police in hunting them about the country.
A north-easterly gale had saved it, in the
first instance, by driving the fire kindled in
the central building the other way; and then
a deluge of rain had assisted in its salvation
from the flames. After that, the Drumms
lived at Darling Point in Sydney. A
manager occupied the surviving north wing,
and Castle Drumm was never rebuilt.
The original estate had been partly
granted to and partly purchased by Captain
Theophilus Drumm, lately of H.M. 3rd Regi-
ment of Foot, which had formed part of
the garrison of New South Wales in the
mid ’twenties. He had built the old place
as a successor to the original slab-and-bark
hut which was the first homestead of the fine
cattle station that became a veritable mint
when the diggers arrived in ’5l, and required
to be fed with beef and mutton. loung
Charlie Drumm had been sent Home to enter
the army, in which he had service with the
Royal Artillery in the Crimea. He left the
army on his father’s death in ’57. and - came
back to Bathurst, bringing with him a
somewhat haughty English bride.
So we come to the occasion, one Sunday
afternoon in 1858, when little old Mr.
Cadwallader, the Clerk of Petty Sessions in
Bathurst, told a story of his great adven-
tures in Spain.
They were sitting in easy chairs in the
middle of the quadrangle, about a little
table upon which were glasses and decanters,
enjoying the warmth of a winter sun, and
sheltered by the house and its two wings
from the biting westerly wind that was
blowing in across the snow-clad Canoblas.
Mr. Tracey, the Police Magistrate, Com-
mander Ilbery, of H.M.S. Herald, Dr. Laing,
of Bathurst, Mr. Cadwallader and Major
Charles Drumm formed the company that
smoked its cigars about the table.
The Major, in his somewhat pompous and
assertive fashion, stroking his fair Dun-
dreary whiskers as he laid down the law.
was pointing out how exceedingly trifling all
previous wars had been, compared with that
in which he had recently taken part on the
shores of the Black Sea. With much awe
and deference was his rather boring recital
listened to by the P.M. and the doctor. The
naval officer hearkened to it without comment,
but the mild and gentle C.P.S. was frankly
interested, and as frankly in disagreement
with much that his host was saying.
“Of course, you know,” remarked the
latter, sipping his port, “modern warfare is
a much more serious business than the old-
fashioned rsort of thing our fathers and our
grandfathers were familiar with. Arms —ah
—arms of precision, you know—they have
made it much more terrible than it used to
be. We—ah—had to face, you know, very
much worse than they had to put up with
in the Peninsula. Undoubtedly.”
Mr. Cadwallader smiled, but made no re-
mark just then. The Major went on.
“Yes. No question about that. There was
never anything to; compare with the ifedan
and the Malakoff. for instance. I doubf
whether Wellington’s men could have beeu got
to face two such tasks as those. I do really.
Yes. Terrible places to ask men to take.
They may not have been taken, it is true,
but the fact that men could be induced to
face them proves, to my mind, that the
race has—ah'—improved, as I said. Im-
proved.”
He paused to light a fresh cigar.
_ Mr. Cadwallader. who did not smoke, raised
his glass of brandy and water to his lips,
emptied it, and replaced it on the table.
Then, as if he had derived courage from the
potation, he ventured, in his mild fashion, to
contradict Charlie Drumm.
“My deaf Major,” he said in his gentle
way. “you don’t really think that, do you?”
The Major stuck liis eyeglass in his eye
and turned to look at this doubter of the
latest authority on warfare.
“Think what, my dear Cadwallader—think
what?”
“Why, that the soldiery of the present
day can face dangers that would have
daunted, as you have put it, the Duke’s men.
Are you serious? Do you mean it?”
“Of course, I’m serious. Do you dis-
agree?”
“Well, yes—l must disagree. Though I
may be prejudiced.”
“But, my dear Cadwallader, what can you
possibly know of the subject?”
“Well —you see, I teas one of Welling-
ton’s men,” said the little man shyly. “I
served in the Peninsula.”
“The deuce you did!”
“I joined the army as an ensign when I
was sixteen—-the old ‘Slashers,’ the 28th. I
saw service in Spain and Portugal. You
have said, Major, that you doubted whether
there was ever anything worse to face than
the Redan and the Malakoff. I think there
was, you know. Badajoz, for instance. I
was there myself.”
“Tell us about it, sir!” broke in the sailor,
sitting up and leaning forward eagerly. “My
father was there.”
“Oh, do, by all means, Cadwallader,”
said the Major smiling. “I’d no idea you’d
been in the service.”
It is doubtful whether anyone on the Mac-
quarie had realised before that the little
C.P.S. had ever been a soldier. He did not
speak much of himself. All that was known
of him was that he had filled his office with
meticulous efficiency for nearly ten years,
that ho never got drunk, was interested in
botany and entomology, and was a keen
Shakspearean student. lie settled himself
in his chair, and began to talk.
“Badajoz,” he said. “Dear me, it’s get-
ting so long ago! Forty-six years. The
■sixth of April, 1812. It had been intended
to storm the place the previous evening;
but they decided to make a new breach, the
others having been found to be too well
defended. So the guns concentrated on the
curtain of Fort Trinidad, and pounded it
all day.
“I had a temporary appointment on the
staff. The 4tli Division —Colville’s—and the
Light Division, under Colonel Barnard, were
to attack the three breaches made in the
bastion of Trinidad, Santa Maria and the
curtain connecting them. Picton, with the
3rd Division, was to tackle the castle, which
the French thought impregnable. When the
4th and Light Divisions had moved forward,
General Leith was to occupy the position
they had vacated, and his left brigade, under
General Walker, was to make a false attack
near the Guadiana, and against an out-
work, the Pardaleras. A Portuguese brigade,
under Brigadier-General Pauer, on the oppo-
site bank, was ordered to make a sham
attack against a new redoubt called Mon
Coeur, against Fort San Cristoval, against
the bridge-head, and elsewhere. Like this
it was- —something like this.”
Mr. Cadwallader dipped his fingers in his
wineglass, and made a tracing upon the
polished surface of the red cedar table-top.
“About 10 o'clock at night the troops
moved forward, Picton a quarter of an hour
before the others, so as to draw attention
from the attack on the breaches. Then the
others advanced —and Hell was let loose.
“Our artillery kept up a heavy fire on the
ramparts whilst the troops advanced. But it
was scarcely replied to until the two divi-
sions entered the ditch. Then they received
a terrible cannonade and. a tremendous mus-
(Continued on next page.')


4 “This Utility has a 6-cylinder valve-in-head
engine and force feed lubrication to all main
bearings. Are those good points?”
. . asked the Manager
“Those are only two of the many good points
that make this British Bedford the best value
in its class anywhere”
. . . replied the Mechanic
Model 2928 —Panel Van
A smart and speedy Panel Van having
as standard equipment wind-screen
wiper, parking lamps and spare wheel
and tyre. Availableon G.M.A.C. plan.
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
«.TJ
%
%
r*.
r, ■ :.
I V
V
K
!m
1
A
1
3
und
mon
to
Sunny Pacific Islands
“Where Winter Never Comes.”
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
by the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at most economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 Wi'liam Street. Melbourne
Famous for Blood and Skin Disorders
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO .
ECZEMA
ULCERS
RASHES
SORES
CLARKE’S
BLOOD MIXTURE
Of all Chemist* and Stores
Avoid all Imitation*
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The BtoletinJ2s2 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any hranch office—Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
ketry fire. They threw out fireballs from
the forti - ess which lit up every movement ot
ours. ,
“The cheers and yells of our men, the
roar of the fire from within, and the
shrieks and cries of the wounded made a
din I don’t know how to describe. It was
fearful. Three times the breaches were
cleared of their defenders, and each time
we were driven back from the summit, leav-
ing our best behind. Dead and wounded,
they were forced down into the breach.
“Again and again our fellows attacked
the breaches, only to be beaten back as often.
The French used every possible dodge. Bags
and barrels of gunpowder, with short fuses,
were rolled down, and, bursting at the
bottom or on the slopes of the breaches, they
destroyed all who were advancing. Shells,
hand-grenades, fireballs —every sort of ex-
plosive—were showered in thousands against
the attack. It was too much, and at last
the bugles of the 4th and Light Divisions
sounded the recall. Damnable, but it
couldn’t be helped.”
He paused a moment and seemed to
shudder. The doctor nodded encouragingly,
and he went on.
“I was near Lord Wellington, about half-
past eleven —he and his staff were sheltered
behind a mound, where one of them held a
candle whilst the general received and
wrote his communications and orders—when
an officer galloped up with the news that
Picton had got a footing in the castle. I
was sent to see what had happened. The
scaling-ladders were slippery with blood, but
I managed to climb up, and saw the won-
derful thing Picton’s troops had done.
“As soon as he had arrived at the walls,
he ordered them to be escaladed. Ladder
after ladder failed to reach the walls, their
bearers being destroyed. But Picton never
did things by halves. He brought his whole
division to the foot of the walls, and kept
pouring men at them. At last one ladder
was got up, and man after man sealed it.
They made a lodgment, and managed to
keep down the fire of the defenders. Many
other ladders were soon erected, and in time
the whole division got into the' castle. The
Connaught Rangers first.
“There were fearful scenes in the castle.
Murder, drunkenness, beastliness, all night.
At daylight the firing died away, and the
troops poured in through the breaches over
the hundreds of dead that filled them and
the ditch. ’Tis said that the Duke shed tears
when he realised the slaughter; but I don’t
know. The French commander had re-
treated with officers and troops who had not
been made prisoners into Fort Cristoval. He
asked for terms. Wellington gave him ten
minutes to surrender unconditionally. He
surrendered.
“I remember, it was a beautiful spring
morning. Along the banks of the Guadiana
a rich harvest was well forward. The fruit
trees were in blossom ; oranges and lemons
were gold and yellow against the dark green
of their groves. The grass was fresh and
green, and wild flowers grew everywhere.
But, dear me, what a contrast in and about
the fortress and the town! Unbelievable,
unless one had seen them, that such horrors
could exist in the midst of so much beauty.
“I walked round the ramparts, from the
castle to the main breach in the Trinidad
bastion. Water in the ditches was three parts
blood, and all of them were strewn with
killed and wounded —but the approach to
the bottom of the breach w r as absolutely
choked up with dead men. The breach had
been most stubbornly defended by the French
-—most stubbornly. Judging by the number
of muskets found behind it, all the men who
could be brought together in such a cramped
position must have had about twenty apiece,
kept loaded by comrades in the rear.
“Only two British soldiers had got in. I
saw their bodies. But not one had got
into the Santa Maria breach —not one.
It was, perhaps, an even more horrible
shambles than the Trinidad. When I looked
at those heaps of torn and shattered corpses,
I could recognise the faces of many old
friends, and it made me very miserable —
ah, very miserable, indeed. I was only
twenty, you know.
“So I went into the town. My God! I
had not thought that men could be such
brutes, savages. An army disciplined as
ours had been, to get out of hand like this!
The officers dared not interfere. I hate to
think of what I saw in those three dreadful
days.”
Mr. Cadwallader paused, and poured him-
self out another glass of brandy, which he
drank as though washing a bad taste from
his mouth.
“Go on. sir,” said Dr. Laing.
“I’ll tell you one curious thing,” said the
C.P.S., “one of the queerest things I saw
in that dreadful nightmare of blood and lust.
“On the morning after the storming, when
things were at their worst, one of our
subalterns, Girdlestone, came running up,
and begged me to go with him to a house
he had just been in. Its owner was an old
friend of our mess when we had been quar-
tered at Albuquerque, a few months before.
Girdlestone hurried us to the bedroom of
this man’s wife. When we came in she
Cried out piteously—whether in fear or
relief, I don’t know. There were two
British soldiers lying on the floor, so drunk
that they didn’t wake up when Girdlestone
and I dragged them out of the room by the
ankles. The husband crouched in a corner
of the room, half-stunned, but he presently
recognised me, in a vacant kind of way, and
mumbled—‘And why this, Don Roberto —
why this?’
“When he had pulled himself together a
little, he told me that liis wife was near
her time. I never saw such despair as was
in both their faces. It was heart-rending.
Some soldiers came in while we were there,
and our only hope of saving the unhappy
woman’s life was by apparently joining in
the work of plunder. It would have been
useless to resist, for the soldiers were mad.
I stood at the door of the bedroom, and
whenever a man came near it I pointed to
the woman and said she was dying of a
fever.”
“And how did the man and his wife
get on?” asked the P.M., Mr. Tracey.
“Well, Girdlestone and I set to work and
smashed up the furniture, which was strewn
all over the place—about the rooms and
down the stairs. We scattered books and
stationery all over the house so as to make
it appear to have been thorough y •
We carried some of the plunder in our bain ••
A good many came in, but, seeing the ous
in such a mess, cleared out in 1 0
some place better worth their attentio .
“I stayed there for some hours, until I c
sidered that all was safe, and during the
next two days looked in frequently,
stone’s servant and mine Slept in the house.
I’m glad to say it suffered no further injury.
‘•He and I used to ge.t back to camp at
dusk. It wasn’t safe to be in Badajoz after
dark, for the 28th was not within the walls.
For three days this devilment went on—and
then the Duke stopped it. ,
“On the morning of April 10—the fourth
day—the Oth Foot were marched into tlie
town. A gallows was put up in the market-
square, and others in different parts ot the
town, and a general order was read, after
proclamation by the drums, that the •
man caught plundering would be han„ •
The threat was effective. Ao one nos
hanged. The soldiers knew the Duke. Ino
butcheries and robberies ceased immediately.
Mr. Cadwalladcr took another drink.
“And what about the two drunken sol-
diers. Rob?” asked Mr. Tracey.
“Oh, yes, I met them both, many years
afterwards, in Hobart Town.
“In Hobart Town!”
“Yes. In a most peculiar fashion, xou
must know that, after I left the army. 1
obtained a civil appointment in Van! le-
mon’s Land —in the Sheriff s Department.
Eventually I became Under-Sheriff. Rut i
had a row with my superior in 40, and
threw the job up. Came over here.
“A bushranger named Trice had been take i
near Oatlands, after shooting a police con-
stable. He was tried, and sentenced to death. 1
had to make arrangements for the execution.
Our regular hangman, Solomon Bm> *
most efficient blackguard—had drunk himselt
into D.T.’s, and it was necessary to secure
a substitute. I semaphored down to i orr
Arthur, inquiring whether they had anyone
down there who would undertake the job o
suspending Mr. Trice. Remission of sentence
was the bait —and a few pounds, by way o
honorarium. ,
“Captain Burgess sent up a liter named
Carmody. He was brought by a constable
to see me in my office, a couple of days
before the execution. Now, who the devil
d’ye think this Carmody was?"
'“Who?” , ...
“Why. one of the two drunken soldiers
whom Girdlestone and I had dragged by the
heels out of Senora Calcabellos s bedroom
during the sack of Badajoz.”
“You don’t say so!” interrupted llbery.
“Yes. But that isn’t all. When we went
into the condemned cell in Hobart town
gaol to pinion Mr. Trice, I saw him for
the first time. And he was the other fellow .
“Good Lord, wliat a queer thing! said
“Wasn’t it? Extraordinarily queer! Ut
course, neither of them recognised me tliej
had been too drunk at the time we met
b e f ore —but I was certain of them. lliey
recognised each other immediately.
“ ‘D —n my soul, Billy, tis you. says
Trice to the hangman.
“‘Stiffen me. Sam —’ave I got to turn
you off’ Say the word, lad, and 111 renege.
“I tell von.” said Mr. Cadwalladcr. I
was in a funk. I’d have had to do it myself
if Carmody had refused. But ’twas all right.
“ ‘No. lio, Billy. Better yours than an
unfriendly hand,’ says Mr. Trice. I wish
we was back in Badajoz. Billy.
“‘Aye, Sam, me boy, them was tho^ days!
said Carmody as lie pinioned his friends
arms. ‘Them was the times. I 1 make a
good job of it. Sammy. ’Twon’t hurt you.
“ ‘Thankee, Bill. You alius was kind-
hearted.’ replied Mr. Trice.”
“Let me replenish your glass,” said the
jVf o if)T*
“Thank you,” said Mr. Cadwalladcr.
“Badajoz and Hobart Town; the sack and
the hangman’s rope. A strange world,
gentlemen!” .
Rhythm.
A sound of cymbals clashing from hidden
seas!
The night is black;
No star, no light except for the sudden gleam
When the waves attack.
Rhythm, sea-rhythm, pulsating through you
and me,
Till we are throbbing,
Darkly at one with the giant night, the wind
And the ocean sobbing.
Enveloped in living darkness we run on the
sand,
And it squirms like flesh.
I hear you crying, beloved; come close, come
close,
We will start afresh.
We see the sky above us, a taut black skin.
And under our feet
The sand is squirming; we are the heart ot
the night.
We beat! We beat!
ar.L.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Price.
Hold your sword-hand free the while you
gallop, , , .
And watch for ambush m every mile;
Snatch a stirrup-cup at an open portal,
And take a kiss where you find a smile.
Hide your fence with a rush, your ditch with
a laugh; , , ,
Fling your last coin down for a lucky chance ;
Call no man master and no fool friend,
And tarry only for jest and dance.
Dice, and battle, and women’s eyes.
Give each their due and then ride away;
For love burns down with the morning stars
And candles pale with the dawning day,
And battle leaves you a tattered flag,
And the gagie has shown you a table spread
With crumpled cards and an empty glass
And a broken rapier whose point is red.
Take a white hand, press it, and wave good-
And b tend no plot where green buds have
birth; . „
But follow the flick of the outbound sail;
For this is all that your life is worth!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


£
Jf-
m
km
r
N.
vr
he
m
*
i
£
i
ip
IXtTt!
mm
sL
i
PSa
%
IB
W \
I
T,
m
m
ẃ
INDOOR
WORKERS
Need . . .
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
There is no doubt many people spend considerably more
time indoors than is good for their health. They are
breathing only partially pure air and leading a more or less
sedentary life, both of which tend to disorganise the system
and upset the digestive tract.
For various reasons this type of existence is frequently
unavoidable, but whether chosen or compulsory, steps must
be taken to maintain the system as close to normal as
possible. Of course, the most important precaution is to
keep the bowels in regular condition. In such cases a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found invaluable.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable and
are unsurpassed as a household remedy for everyday com-
plaints, such as Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick
Headaches arising therefrom, Rheumatism, Bad Breath,
Piles, Pimples and Blotches.
n
i
Dr.MORSES
i
I
I
i
I
•m
m
AUSTRALIA
PILLS
Worms
Their Symptoms and
Treatment.
Worms, b.v their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic;
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and yet very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the Nose,
which is characteristic of the affection. The
Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable; in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The Abdomen is often hard, swollen,
and tympanetic, the breath heavy or fcetid,
and tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and dis-
position to grind the teeth during the sleeji
are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
Alimentary Canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms or
of the disordered digestion which they occa-
sion. Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulncss, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposition to
excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden start-
ing out of sleep as if from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movement of the eyelids, temporary
blindness and deafness.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to alle-
viate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother
need have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the. child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in the way of a disturbed nature".
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms, but cause no injury to
the Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell, but, on the contrary,'
inspire children to take them as they would
an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang-street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price
4/- per packet (6 packets 23/-), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
P-auj
tN
DEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA-
ẅ
GENERAL;— Postage
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT
By A. B. Paterson, illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay,
2nd edition. 2s. 6d. (2d.)
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD
By Ambrose Pratt.
Illustrated. ss. (2d.)
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY
By Charles Chauvel.
Illustrated. 6s. (3d.)
A MESSAGE FROM “BAWRA"
By Harold Sims. .32pp. Is. (Id.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE
By Ena Burrows. Revised
Scoring. 2s. (Id.)
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
\>
kP
o
\p
«,<> ’ <v y/oy
x^vvt**
0 VL* »°
€>
#%ir
<?*
0°
e( <v v
Uv* 5 ■ ■■■■
A\®
B^V
# s *
K”
js^rf


A CPE AT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
TH EL
BR9KEM HILL PR9PRIETARY
C?L”
I-MINE OWNERS* SHIP OWNERS.
STELL MANUFACTURERS-
t COLLIERY PROPRIETORS-
'fit- a
THE
i*MS»50>w«s ■ > >^<\*vw^w««**8S6«Rig»s»s
*8
mmm
• '
m&mmi:..: -
* . ■ .*•*..
®§ I
1
Hi
*SS»
>sm.
iM*
%
Views of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Steel Works at Newcastle, N.S.W., showing some of
the Efficient and Up-to-date Methods in Operation.
1—Portion of the Water Front, showing on the wharf clumps of Limestone from Tasmania and Iron Ore from South
Australia. 2—Jetty for Loading the Iron Ore at Spencer Gulf, South Australia. 3—The Rail Yard, showing the great
steel magnets lifting at one operation 12 rails each 40 feet long. 4—The Three Huge Blast Furnaces with a total
capacity of 10.000 tons weekly. 5—The Wharf at which the Iron Ore is discharged from the Company’s Steamers,
showing giant ore bridges and mechanical ore grabs. 6— The Blooming Mill, showing a bar of white-hot steel in
process of operation. 7—Portion of the Rail Mill. From first to last all operations are carried out by machinery.
IRON
and
STEEL
Products
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
PLATES
GIRDER PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
(For Sheet Piling)
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL-TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
BUNKER COAL
FOUNDRY COKE
The Celebrated NEWCASTLE STEEL is used in the production of
WARATAH FIELD FENCING
Hinged \
Joint /
It is CATTLE
“WARATAH”
Stocked by all Leading
Stores, or apply direct —
PROOF, SHEEP PROOF, PIG PROOF, FIRE PROOF, RUST PROOF, WHITE-ANT PROOF.
Economical and Indestructible.
Fencing Wire (Blk. or Galv.), “WARATAH” Wire Netting, “WARATAH” Star Steel Posts,
“WARATAH” Barbed Wire, “WARATAH” Motor By-Passes.
Made from “ B.H.PNEWCASTLE STEEL.
RYLANDS BROS. [Aust.] LTD., 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
