

$Sm
K
b
m
ilillii
■II
iiliiii®
§|§gg
as®
:. &
>. •• m
n
mm
&
m
0?
P 343
SS3
£
m
S
■o
O''-
PLUME sets the Standard
for all-round performance- .
MiSnvhl 50 -'
% < lV inter " Prove it /
Fill up at theVACUUM pump
The Bulletin
vtv ifuAibi* t mi a .
Vol. 54.—N0. 2778.
Wednesday, May 10, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.5..W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
II
la
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ....„,
S.B. 233
m&ri
m,
u
'JZ
Attractive Hair
An Essential of Beauty
Keep your scalp in good condition
by shampooing regularly with
Cnticnra Soap. If there is
any dandruff or irritation of the
scalp, precede by an application of
Cnticnra Ointment. This
treatment will keep your hair
healthy and lustrous.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides, a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, of 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.i.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
FTHE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN 1
■
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: 11. C. lIINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Expert
View
the n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing.
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing.
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and ’Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Phone: J 35241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
the mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance, with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Tiutu/ie & *S &C&nc& ,
<SJurt£ S&xicj, s£a#e
&S&te&n Turtle, ra&es Art
„ 'Cne. v&rustip ZPurC&j. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES C>2
ĥ
1 :/'J*
nm-m
/
1
%/M
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH ”
Brisbane s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says , “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so With
■ t noa ?
TELESRAEIT
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Sorrows of Genius
There is a tragic resemblance between the
careers of Shelley and Mozart. Both were
free souls, lovers of life, despisers of cant,
and defiers of convention. Both had selfish
fathers, whose stupidities added consider-
ably to their unhappiness. Both were pre-
cocious and irresponsible to the point of
infantilism, and both married child-wives
when they were little more than children.
Shelley and his family wandered restlessly
about one part of Europe, as Mozart and
his family had wandered about another part
a few years earlier. Both were essentially
simple and lovable, and both inspired hatred
and jealousy in their contemporaries. One
of the few entirely truthful observations
made by the egregious Hogg about Shelley
is that “for a period of nearly 20 years
he would have been blackballed by almost
every club in London.” Mozart lived at
the end of the eighteenth, and Shelley at
the beginning of the nineteenth, century,
periods in which artists who lacked private
means or patronage were in danger of starv-
ing to death, and both were improvident
and generous. “No one ever repaid
Shelley,” says Trelawney in reference to the
large sums Byron borrowed from him, and
no one dreamt of repaying Mozart either.
Mozart died at 35 and was buried in a
pauper’s grave, and Shelley, who also died
before his genius had reached maturity,
would have been buried as a pauper if his
widow had had to depend for the funeral
expenses on his earnings. The Oxford
college which sent Shelley down contains
a monument to him, and Germany, which
let Mozart die in want, contains many
monuments to him.
The “Ineffectual Angel”
J. M. Dent and Sons have published a
Life of Shelley in two volumes at 15s. which
contains the material from which nearly all
the biographers, from Medwin to Maurois
and Blunden, have got their facts. Thomas
Jefferson Hogg’s biography—which is, of
course, chiefly a glorification of Hogg—
comes first. He and Shelley first met in
Hall as Oxford freshmen. He presents him-
self as the cultivated, sensible, humorous
and firm-willed protector of one who is
referred to ironically as “the divine poet.”
His story of the expulsion shows Shelley
to have played the part of a zany and him-
self that of a hero. Shelley rushed in one
morning in terrible agitation. “I am ex-
pelled! I am expelled!”
The atrocious injustice and its cruel con-
sequences roused the indignation and moved
the compassion of a friend who then stood
by Shelley. He has given the following
account of his interference.
As a result “the friend” (Hogg) was sent
down, too. It appears from his description
of his row with the Master that but for
his own truculent self-importance both of
them might have stayed on. His dislike
of Shelley, which was still active at the
age of 63 when he wrote his biography, was
due to a quarrel over Shelley’s first wife,
Harriet, whom Hogg tried to seduce at
York. Though his work teems with un-
worthy sneers at Shelley, and with comic
tributes to himself, a recognisable portrait
of the poet emerges. We see his beautiful
assymetrical face flushed with excitement,,
hear his weird voice raised in disputation,
and get a thousand insights into the reck-
less, eager, childlike disposition which made
him such a trial to those who loved him,
and was responsible for so many of his
troubles. Without in the least meaning to,
Hogg also reveals the seer-like quality in
Shelley which is often found in poets of
the first order. He is ponderously waggish
on the subject of the scientific speculations
which led the poet as a boy of 18 to antici-
pate the fertilisation of deserts by chemical
manures, the conquest of electricity and
the replacement of balloons by aeroplanes,
Thomas Love Peacock’s “Memoirs” are
sympathetic, and he was much better
equipped than Hogg to understand Shelley.
He had produced several books of poetry
when he and Shelley met in 1812. They
became friends at once, and, though they
never met after Shelley went abroad four
years later, they corresponded fairly regu-
larly. Some of Shelley’s most enchant-
ing letters —all his letters are in this edition
—were written to Peacock. The “Defence
of Poetry” was inspired by his “The Four
Ages of Poetry.” He had a sober, judicial
mind and disliked criticising anybody—he
has nothing to say even against Hogg—so
his testimony carries great weight. He
makes it clear that as early as 1813 Shelley
was the neurasthenic Hogg says he was.
He had a delusion
that an old woman
who had sat oppo-
site him in a coach
had given him
elephantiasis, it n and
for some time aiter-
wards he was on the look-out for symptoms
of the disease. The most interesting feature
of Peacock’s work is its first-hand impres-
sion of Shelley immediately after the onset
of his “sudden, violent, irresistible, uncon-
trollable passion” for Mary Wollstonecraft.
Trelawney met Shelley in Italy in 1822.
and was at Leghorn when he was drowned
there in July of that year. Shelley, in
Byron’s phrase, “had been hooted out of
his country like a mad dog”; he could
“number his readers on his fingers,” and
his works were not being published or sold
openly in England, yet he retained his
cheerful, valorous and completely unmalici-
ous spirit to the end. Trelawney’s “Shelley
and Byron” is notable for its shrewd com-
parisons between the two great men: Byron
is always something of a cad, Shelley is
always the other thing
This beautifully got up edition has an
introduction by Humbert Wolfe. Its 30-
odd pages are mostly devoted to debunking
Hogg. No one could have done the job
better, but it is doubtful if it was worth
doing. Hogg debunks himself.
Mozart
Though Mozart lived for a year in
London, and though at least one important
biography (Holmes’s) has been published in
England, very little is known of this
supreme musical genius outside Germany
except that he was an infant prodigy who
played his own compositions on the clavier
at the age of six. Marcia Davenport’s
Mozart (Heinemann; 12s. 6d.) is an epi-
tome of a grim story which has been dealt
with from different angles by celebrities
as various as Gounod, Bryce, Horace Wal-
pole and Casanova, as well as by dozens
of German writers. Wolfgang Mozart was
born in Salzburg in 1756 in a tenement-
house which is now the Mozart Museum.
His father, Leopold Mozart, was Court
composer and assistant-conductor of the
Court orchestra, and all those who came to
the house talked and dreamt music. As a
child Wolfgang was handled by his father
with great skill—neither forced to work when
he wanted to play nor allowed to be slip-
shod when he was at work—and it did
much for his technique. His public life
began when he was five—“due to Leopold’s
misguided ambition, which was to be the
chief cause of his son’s hardships and piti-
ably premature death.” From now "on
Mozart led a fevered existence in which the
anxieties and discomforts increased remorse-
lessly as he grew older. He was hurried to
Munich to impress the Elector, and through
the Elector the family’s patron, Archbishop
Sigismund; on to Vienna, where he and
his sister Nannerl became Court pets; from
there to Pressburg, in Hungary, and so back
to Salzburg. They travelled to Paris when
Wolfgang was seven, by Coblenz, Bonn,
Cologne, Aix and Brussels, and played for
the Pompadour, the Queen and the Prin-
cesses, all of whom were delighted with
the children. The King and Queen of
England were also delighted with them; but
they didn’t make money. Mozart’s tragedy,
first and last, was that he never could make
enough money. He married Constanze
Weber when he was 26 on the strength of
the success of “Die Entfuhrung,” and he Was
never really solvent afterwards. They had
a succession of children, and no money to
pay the midwife when one arrived, or the
undertaker when it providentially died.
They moved from town to town and from
lodging to lodging, followed by the laments
of unpaid landlords and tradesmen. This
American biographer says of Mozart’s
greatest opera:—
“Don Giovanni” has been continuously
alive, permanently in the repertoire of estab-
lished opera-houses, for 144 years—longer
than any opera ever written, with one ex-
ception. And that is “Figaro.”
And the composer was buried in a Viennese
poor-pit!, What a service to justice would
be done by one who managed to devise
some means of making posterity pay at
least a fraction of the debt it owes to its
greatest benefactors in their lifetime! The
precedent is there in the form of enormous
debts chalked up for future generations by
politicians.
RED PAGE.
The Future of Test Cricket
If anything is capable of reviving in-
terest in the dog-fight which recently raged
all over Australia, Defending the Ashes.
by R. W. E. Wilmot (Robertson and Mul-
lens; 65.), should do it. Mr. Wilmot, be-
sides being an admirable writer, is an expert
(he was a cricket “blue” of Melbourne
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Always with Anthony Horderns Advertisements.
'THE SENIOR STORE.
f
Is.
1 10 years of service to the public!
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF POUNDS’ WORTH OF
MERCHANDISE SOLD
and we are confirmed in the
Belief that our Values are Supreme
and that there is none better!
tJ
Vi
9: \
m
at
-
Wa
■mf
s
s
i
Compare Quality for Quality and Price for Price
What a
cheerful
difference!
• modern
® well-chosen
W allpaper
Outstanding value/is. displayed in', this
selection of Wallpaper. Included are
many ; pleasing and attractive designs
and colorings. Suitable for dining-
sitting- and bedrooms.
Prices: 1/-, 1/3, 1/9, 2/3,.3/6, 4/6, 5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Prices,
per roll. . 10d., 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 2/6, 3/-, 3/9
Wallpapers—-Second Floor. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.
PAINTS
almost half price
High-grade. Paints offered in tonings of
Stone, Grey, Green and Brown. Buy
now and save!
Prices .... 21/- gallon; 11/- 4 gallon
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Prices:
12/6 gallon; 6/9 i gallon
10/6 Gal. Varnish, 9 -
Hard Oak Varnish.
1 gall, i-gall. i-gall.
Prices .. 10/6 5/9 3/3
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Prices . . 9/- 5/- 3/-
4/9 Pint Motor
ENA MEL---4/6
“Revelite” Motor Enamel.
1 pint.
Prices, per tin .... 4/9 2/6
Anthony Horderns’
Autumn Sale Prices 4/6 2/4
PAINT BRUSHES
Flat Varnish or Paint Brushes. Pure
Black Bristle set in rubber.
Sizes, ins 1 2 2J 3 31
Prices, each: 10d., 1/4, 2/-, 2/6, 3/4, 3/11
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Prices,
each Bd., 1/1, 1/8, 2/1, 2/10, 3/4
Paints —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
Huge Selling of
RUBBER KNEE BOOTS
For Ladies . . . .
m
Tii
Ladies’ All-Black Polished
Rubber Boots. Sizes 2 to 8.
Also about 70 pairs of Dark
Brown Polished Rubber Boots,
sizes ranging from 2 to 7.
Price 14/6
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn
Sale Price, pair 7/11
Ladies’ Footwear—S eco n d
Floor. Freight paid) to all
seaports in the Commonwealth
and.railvxiy stations in N.S.W.
Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid
to all seaports in the Com-
monwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
For Men . .
Men s Best-grade Can-
adian Rubber Knee
Boots. Available in
sizes 6, 7 and I 1 only.
Price, pair .... 22/6
Anthony Horderns’
Autumn Sale Price,
Pair 19/11
19m
L
MS
SES&SSS
n
Special Purchase !
7/- value
NOVELS
2/6
each.
27/- per dozen.
Post sd. extra.
Full library-size Novels. Handsome
cloth-bound editions with attractive
wrappers. 200 titles to select from.
All recent works of prominent
authors from reliable English pub-
lishers. Write for a complete list;
it will be posted free on request.
Some of the titles
The Fong Kobe, by Balfour M. Mel-
ville
Running Free, by Countess Barcyn-
ska
Nicky, Son of Egg, by Gerald Bullett
Ra-Tau, by G. De Fury
Harold the Webbed, by Alfred
Aloysius Horn
Procession, by Fannie Hurst
The Crochet Woman, by Ruth
Manning-Sanders
Brother Ruther, by Walter von Molo
With Malice Towards None, by
Honore Willsie Morrow
The Antagonists, by E. Temple
Thurston
Three Score and Ten, by Alec Waugh
Boon, by H. G. Wells
Books—Second Floor. Postage sd. extra.
Three vols l/5; live volsl/8.
96
h
All Rubber Lace up
Men’s Super Grade Rubber Lace Boots,
made of all rubber and guaranteed
waterproof. These boots may be used
for outdoor work in heavy winter
weather. Price, pair 14/G
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price,
P air 9/6
ISH
16%
I
/y ' 4
wt ■
W g I
“Hordura” Officers’
“Hordura” Officers’ Boots are made of
best-grade Tan Calf and Black Box
Calf. Welted soles, full and half sizes.
Price, pan- 23/(1
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price,
Pair 21/-
Also stocked with extra stout sewn and
standard screwed soles. Price, 16/11.
Sale Price 15/11
136
\4 J 6
HHK
uSSm
“ Hordura ” Work Boot
“Hordura” Special Work Boots, in Tan
or Black. Extra stout sewn and
standard screwed soles. Also made vv'itli
Kromhyd soles. Price, pair 14/6
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price,
pair 13/C
Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Its such, a pity she has
nerves, u
otherwise she is so attractive
5
m
y
«
For Constipation, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, Sluggish Liver, Backache,
Bad Skin, Irritability, Lumbago, and
all Uric Acid Complaints take a regu-
lar morning dose of Schumann’s Salts.
Schumann’s Salts
Relieve Qtiicßly.
It is most noticeable that early results
are obtained from Schumann’s Mineral
Spring Salts. The dose in warm water
flushes out the kidneys and effectively
and quickly expels from the system
poisons that accumulate in the blood
stream.
A rather disturbing remark —but in these days oi
anxiety and worry one is apt to be rather jumpy*
irritable and nervy.
This condition isn’t chronic—and a simple treat-
ment will soon make you fit and well.
Try Schumann’s Salts in tHe
morning; and g(et relief cjtiicKly
A daily dose of Schumann’s Mineral Spring
Salts in a large glass of water will soon drive out
poisons from the blood stream —cleanse the
system and leave you a healthy, vivacious per-
sonality.
Schumann’s Mineral Spring Salts are manufac-
tured from the most important active ingredients
found in the natural Spring Waters or Spas in
Europe. Thousands of people go to Europe to
take the waters for Uric Acid complaints and
Constipation.
You can have the benefit of Nature’s Fountain
of Health in your own home.
Take a glass of Schumann’s Salts To-day
and Feel Better To-morrow.
4Z£EE3333Qfc
he
Schumann's
MINERAL SPRING
Sal ts
At all Chemists and Stores.
5*


MURDOCH
Overcoats
A
“ Raglan ”
Topcoat
THE “Raglan” is the style
for 1933. Murdoch’s
offer these Overcoats
for men in warm, protective
Tweeds, in Mid Grey Her-
ringbone designs. Made as
illustration above, with loose
swing back and vertical
pockets.
Also men’s Tweed “Raglan”
Overcoats, in the latest of
patterns and shades.
Usually 84/-.
SPECIAL ,
.52/6
“PRINCE” Style
Stylishly-moulded “Prince” Over-
coats for Men, in Mid Grey Her-
ringbone Tweed. Half belt at
back. Smart, warm and pro-
tective.
MURDOCH’S
SPECIAL VALUE.
29/6
D.B. “Prince” style Overcoats
for Men, in Navy Blue Velour;
also in a large range
of fancy Velours, for. .
35/-
Men’s Leather
“Raglan” style,
Overcoats, smart
for . . 84/"
Other Qualities . . 95/-, 1057-
Write to Desk "R'* for
FREE Catalogue.
We Pay Freight.
Kindly write to Desk “R”
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
“Still Rising in Public Estimation.
University); and he met the English XI
at Colombo, and saw every match they
played afterwards. He says of Larwood: —
He bumped the ball over Oxenham’s head. In
the next over, though up to that stage he had been
bowling at only three-quarter pace, he bowled at his
fastest straight at the batsman.
On the subject of barracking he quotes
“an Irishman who lived for some years in
Australia and learned to love this country
and its people”:—
“It seems to me a great pity that a country
which most certainly loves and appreciates fair play
and sportsmanlike conduct should deliberately
‘blacken its face,’ as the Indians say.”
To an impartial observer the Australian
arguments against body-lining and the
English arguments against barracking seem
to rest on equally false premises. Cricket
used to be a sport for ceremonious ama-
teurs. When the squire's team met a local
regimental XI no one insisted on the rigor
of the game, and a jeer from an onlooker
as the colonel dropped a sitter or the major
went for a blob would have been consid-
ered an atrocity. As cricketers the squire
and his servants, on the one hand, and the
colonel and his men, on the other, were
friends and equals. Contrast that spirit
with Jardine’s:—
He had not seen much of them [his men] ....
He has the military idea that the general must hold
aloof, and he considers that any undue mixing with
the rank and file is not conducive to discipline.
Of course he is right. Cricket has de-
veloped from a pastime into an industry, in
which the gate-money runs into thousands
of pounds and star performers earn big
incomes. Many newspaper readers get as
bitter over Test matches as people did over
battles in the World War. The successful
captain is like Jardine: “The kill is the
thing, and there must be no regard for the
foe.”
The Australian arguments against body-
lining aren’t seriously concerned with its
brutality, nor are the English arguments
against barracking seriously concerned with
its boorishness. Sir Stanley Jackson at a
recent luncheon to the West Indian XI
said: “If the public are bored they will
begin to barrack.” He might have added
what would certainly have been in his
hearers’ minds: “And if the public con-
tinue to be bored they will begin to stay
away. And if that happens what’s going
to happen to cricket?” In a similar spirit
Sir Stanley’s opposite numbers in Australia
say: “Body-line bowling makes stroke-play
impossible and cricket dull. If it isn’t
legislated against cricket will be ruined as
a spectacle, and thousands will lose their
livelihood.”
But is it so? There are remarkable
resemblances between cricket and bull-
fighting. In cricket, to paraphrase Hem-
ingway (“Death in the Afternoon”), “ex-
quisite emotional effects and poses of pure
classic beauty can be produced by a man
and a piece of wood.” (Also, for that
matter, by a man and a piece of leather.)
“Bravery is the primal root of the bull-
fight.” Why shouldn’t bravery become the
primal root of cricket now that the former
sport of squires and villagers has developed
into a popular spectacle, like boxing, dirt-
track racing and steeplechasing? Spaniards
crowd to bullfights not to see animals
butchered, but to delight in the skill and
daring of the matadors. A great matador
will sometimes let the bull pass so near
that, to quote Hemingway again, “the
horns will pick off the gold rosettes that
ornament his jacket.” According to Mr.
Wilmot, Bradman was employing some of
the methods of a matador before the war
against the English invaders came to an end.
He ducked and he ran. With more imagination
than the others, he decided to stand well back from
the wicket. He endeavored by hitting the ball to
the off side to force Larwood to weaken his field,
and it was marvellous to watch some of his strokes.
It is obvious that body-line bowling can’t
be legislated out of existence. So let
it stay as a feature of professional
matches, leaving amateur cricket to be
played in the old-time friendly spirit, just
as we have professional boxing matches with
four-ounce gloves and friendly bouts with
16-ounce gloves. If properly exploited it
might eliminate the slow-footed veterans
who have done so much to make Test
cricket dull, and give the game a new lease
of life. Barracking would follow as a
matter of course. Test cricketers are as
much public entertainers as actors, and
theatre-goers have always cherished the
right to boo or hiss actors. At bullfights
a, matador who shows fear or flashness is
liable not only to be barracked but to have
things thrown at him. And serve him right
for not giving value for the large sums paid
him in appearance money
J. D.
Whyte-Melville
The “Red Page” hardly does justice to
the memory of Whyte-Melville (B. 3/5/’33)
m rating him only as a writer of hunting
yarns. Among his many novels placed in
other surroundings is “Holmby House,” one
of the best of English stories of the Cava-
lier-Roundhead period. “The Gladiators,”
a story of Imperial Rome in its decadence,
has an accepted place among novels of the
period to-day. There are few better pic-
tures of a minor tragedy in English county
life than “The Brookes of Bridlemere,”
which tells how a wastrel Hussar son brings
the fortunes of an upper-middle class
county family to the dust.
As a writer of polished lyric verse, in
addition to many excellent hunting songs,
Melville’s reputation is not wholly dead,
though it must be admitted that he was
responsible for the words of “Good-bye,
Summer.” In a day when a bowing
knowledge with the classics was part of the
equipment of every well-bred man and
members of Parliament hurled jibes from
Juvenal across the floor of the House,
instead of casting aspersions on the legiti-
macy of their political opponents after
the manner of Macquarie-street, Melville’s
rendering of Horace into English verse was
generally approved by poet and pundit
alike.
Furthermore, Melville was never a “sol-
dier jockey” like “Roddy” Owen or “Bay”
Middleton, both of whom “lived on the
game” as gentlemen riders. The writer
cannot recall any instance of Melville don-
ning silk, or remember any of his many
songs of riding which touch on the racing
side of horsemanship.
BRAMHAM MOOR.
A Satchel of Books
“ Goldfish, Care and Culture,” is published
by the author, T. E. H. Kuwahata, at 1811
Geo'rge-street, Sydney. It is designed for
the information of amateur aquarium-
keepers. The author is in the trade.
Habitual readers of crime novels won’t
find much difficulty in diagnosing the identity
of the murderer in E. Charles Vivian’s The
Keys of the Flat (Ward Lock; 7s. 6d.), but
it is a thriller all the same. Some of the
characters—Peter, the woman-chasing lover
of the heroine, his relentless father and his
viperish wife —-are as evil as they are life-
like.
Irene Ratlibone’s The Gold Rim (Dent;
7s. 6d.) is the love-story of Barbara Ilalli-
day and Ralph Elliott. Ralph comes to stay
with Barbara’s father, a Salisbury solicitor,
one summer, and they discover their love
only to part. Ralph is mentally mature,
and she is a child. So she gets engaged to
Nicky Ilaslam, who has always cared for
her.
What a muddle, what a muddle she had made!
She loved Ralph. Not only had a passion for him—
loved him. However maddening he might be;
however unsatisfactory, viewed by some silly standard
set up by vain girlhood; however furious, however
forlorn he made her feel; however much “part of
her” was Nicky’s (or in the future some other
man’s), it was to Ralph she belonged.
Her problem, which is that of so many
women, is handled with the insight and
sympathy one looks for in the writer of
“When We Were Young.”
A Short History of Latin Literature, by
C. U. Kaeppel (Shakspeare Head Press,
Australia; 45.). This is the first history of
literature, Latin or otherwise, that the
present critic has ever read at a sitting. It
isn’t that it is short; there is an immense
amount of reading in its 127 pages. Its
allure lies in the easy, unprofessorial style
and in its independent outlook. Have you
been betrayed by Shakspeare into imagin-
ing that Mark Antony was a gentleman?
You will learn the truth here. Do you want
to know why a social evening with St. Fran-
cis might have been a painful experience,
whereas one with Horace would almost cer-
tainly have been enjoyable? Mr. Kaeppel
explains. Read this little book and you
will understand how interesting, not to say
exciting, a series of classical lectures can
be when the lecturer knows and loves his
job.
And a Little Verse
WINDY NIGHT.
The stars have slipped a veil of gold
Over the moon’s bright face;
She sweeps the lovely thing aside
And hurries on apace.
The wind that loves the flying moon
Has tarried in his race
To fling the little laughing stars
Those wisps of golden lace.
N.S.W.
E. A. L.
A CERTAIN POET.
Always they lured him from his earliest
thought,
Those gentle sirens, from his earliest play,
So that, lifelong, faint phantom loves he
sought;
Their names were Long-ago and Far-away.
Sometimes they seemed two sisters, gravely
kind;
That was in moments when they murmured
near
To weave their spells in his most willing
mind;
Then were they very women, outlined
clear.
One had grey eyes too calm to be afraid
Of grief, though olden sorrow lapped her
round.
Her hair was dark as rosemary in shade,
With stars and thorns commingled she
was crowned.
From all the past much wisdom made her
mild
And pitiful for stumbling human woe.
No censure, but a lowly sighed “Poor child !”
Came from the heart of Lady Long-ago.
He saw the other as a queen in veils,
Veils blue as twilit distance and as soft.
She smiled, and fleets of ships with cloudy
sails
And freight of richest hopes were launched
aloft.
She of fulfilment and discovery breathed
Sweet promises that joy would flower some
day,
That dim horizons must be laurel-wreathed
Ah, the persuasive lips of Far-away!
And so he dreamed and wondered, catching
still
Stray notes of half-imagined melodies
An.d died a failure ' who of his own will
Bartered for shadows life’s realities.
But there are certain few who give him
praise
For his frail songs that echo silvery, low
The solemn beauty of strange starry ways,
The lore of Far-away and Long-ago.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Answers to Correspondents.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS.'will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
Ado Iv.; “Together” and “A Flower” are
the best to date. They sire not far off acceptance
point... .J.R.M.: Over-sentimental for our use....
G. 8.: Your muse is too much the orator... .H.H.L.:
Has no distinction in style or matter. Loyala:
Ask the Registrar, Conservatorium of Music. Verse
submitted has definite promise. Try again. .. .
Helen O.: It has merit; but the refrain is too often
repeated. ... Geoff K.: More shadow than substance.
... .C.W.S.: The horrors are piled too high....
V.L.K.: You lose yourself in a f0g....N0el M.:
Neat little picture, with no high lights.... Rex I.:
Prose cut into stove-lengths. .. .A.E.C.: It bumps too
heavily. .. .E.J.F.: Sorry, it can’t shine in this
firmament... . N.F.W.: Goes back with regret; too
many on that subject in stock... .E.A.8.: But surely
the Australian can’t have degenerated much since
1918. And, anyway, hadn’t the same complaint
been made just before 1914? 0. J.M.: We didn’t
say anything of the sort, so why give space to
affirm that- the statement wasn’t true?. .. .C.E.:
Though not quite up, it is not a poor effort. Let’s
hear again Le G.: You said it all in the first
few lines. .. .Cluny; Very close... .W.M.8.L.: Silence
is often kept in order that the writer’s chance of
acceptance elsewhere may not be prejudiced.....
George W.: Pleasant, but not impressive. .. .S.N.R.:
Your ear is out of tune.... Great Expectations:
Before they are realised you’ll have to learn how
to marshal your thoughts better. .. .C.S. (Hobart):
No bone in your ghost yarn and your love story
is atmosphere and nothing besides... .P.J.8.: At
least you may claim one distinction, the attemijt
to rhyme “while” with “simile”. .. .S.H.S.: They
seem admirably suited for family consumption... .
MX.: It’s nqt/ exactly poetry, but we’ll give a few
extracts: —
THE REFERENDUM.
The question to be decided on the thirteenth day
of May
Is whether nomination or election is the better way
To appoint our Legislative Councillors, always bear-
ing in mind
That to act as a check on the Lower House the
Upper House was designed....
Although the nomination system was based on sound
ideas
It cannot be claimed successful, particularly in
recent years....
The consequence has been that the House has
degenerated
And become a place where party policy is not
infrequently debated....
So on the day of voting don’t have any shadow of
doubt,
Let us make it our intention to throw the present
system out.
. ...J.A.: Don’t doubt its originality... .B.B.: No
earthly H.K.S.:
When the red deer roar at Easter
In the bush of Maoriland,
Sinewy stalkers take their tents
And with food condensed and canned
Make their home on the mountain peaks—
They need no monkey gland.
Possibly not, but a drink of Hippocrene might do
you g00d... .11.J.C.: Hardly. .. .L.V.: We seem to
remember a song about the Murray m00n.... S.C.:
Nothing in them. . . . J.8.H.:
Primarily only from the land
(If people would but understand)
Can solid wealth be brought to hand
In Australia.
Still, there’s the fishing industry... .H-em-C.: You
can’t hitch up “law,” “floor” and “secure” as if
they were rhymes... .J.J.T.: But what in the name
of all that’s holy is an “exhilerating clung”?....
F. : Your pipe isn’t the sort that Cory don used.
.... Smoky Bill: Begins unpromisingly and trails
off into nothingness. .. .P.J.1.: It misses... .J.W.:
Not in our line... .Veteran: There’s feeling and
color in it, but swing evades y0u.... Trician:
Otherwise... .F.W.: The worked-to-death refrain
makes it monotonous. .. .C.E.M.: No. .. .F.C.: Out
of the question. .. .J.E.: Well meant, no doubt, but
oh ! the woodenness of it!. .. . Bushie Bill: Rickety
trivialities... .E.A.S.: Limps rather painfully....
J. 5.8.: The necessity didn’t arise. We are a little
shy of the swagman who flings himself down on a
grassy bank and announces that he is “Dame
Nature’s guest”.... Malanda: AVho crowds his lines
together so that a pencil can’t poke in between
puts a heavy handicap on himself... .G.D.P.: But
you don’t offer us one new thought... .G.V.A.C.;
Well, it had a long trip before it reached the
w.p.b E.S.C.: Liked Jim, but couldn’t fit him
in. Keep on, but get stronger plots... .D.G.S.:
Weak plot. .. .E.J.; Trivial... .P.G.: Doubt whether
the old chap would have behaved like that....
G. : Well enough written, but needs a stronger
plot. .. . M.P.: Makings of a good yarn, but you
bungled it....A.J.C.: Maori who raffled a dead
horse has done it often... .W.H.: Hopeless... .W.K.:
Far-fetched. .. . J.G.Y.: All off our beat. .. .R.D.:
Not quite up....R.A.: Very rough MI.S.K.; Not
bad for a schoolgirl, but not good enough for an
adults’ paper. .. .E.R.M.: Story as poor as your
typing L.G.: “The Burnt Hand” comes in para-
graph form about three times a month. . . ,R. 8.: Pre-
vention of double suicide by company turning off
gas has been exploited before.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.R.8.: Try sculpture. The result might be use-
ful to throw at the eat....E.T.: You’ve dressed
your belle like Cinderella in the kitchen... .V. 8.:
If that’s your best we’d hate to look at your worst.
... .L.M.: Falls far short of the standard... .D.H.T.:
Still wandering in the wilderness... .E.K.: Any
schoolboy could beat you at sketching G.H.:
Washwork too blurred for reproduction... .W.M.S.;
A scraggy lot R.G.: One gag’s old; the other’s
pointless. .. .K.W.C.: Atrocious drawing... .N.M.S.:
Your crayfish nearly nipped us... . G.H.R.; Wasn’t
worth sending to the mainland R. 1.: Resembles
a collection of freak d 0115... .P.E.C.: Retort was
made a few years ago by one of Oswald Pryor’s
Cousin Jacks. .. .1.M.; You’re a fearful punster....
Doug; Nothing like him....H.M.: The week’s worst.
.... T.W.: That nautical term has been illustrated
before... .H.T.: Take lessons or give up the game.
... .T.D.: Don’t like drawings in which labelled
balloons are tied to the characters’ mouths....
W.H.; Sketches are barbarous; gags cheerless....
F. 8.: Nothing seductive about that flapper
R.J.F.: You have a long way to travel... .M.S.:
Among the discards W.R.: Is she wearing gum-
boots, or is that really the shape of her legs?
V. 8.: That jest has been bandied from Cairns to
Albany and back... .F.M.P.: Is it because you are
Scotch that you draw everything so small?
L.D.; Wait till you have finished the course. You’re
very raw as yet.. . .T.J.W.: Boundary rider is
galloping home as fast as he can on the moke
you’ve given him.


v -
%
1
■
A,'*
t: ;
4
m
11
w «*
■'
" i
JX
28k
ibfea
HI
dp
\ X
xgs
X
■H
:•
S 3
:■■■■ :
p#
:^.,r'<v>,.
M
1
\
jyF
11
: :
iHK
■l . W
m^n
m .
S- ■
y-
H ■
. ■ ■■•
' i X
■
<c
m
¥ m
i
m_j:
*, fit 4dk ■,
% wMlr .-'
1
t*4§ -..r^
JRNI
M
'J
#
■ ;
/ ; :
m
Wmm 1
■
w^liSriPlF
'• ; '“‘ ' ff W
%-
■*S:#s#s a®
«n
I
-■o x ,: . :•• '. ' I


The Bulletin
Vol. 54. — No. 2778.
May 10, 1933.
the invitation.
The Socialisation paity has decided to fall in under the Lang banner....Mr. Lang has been urging farmers and graziers to join him in voting No.”
THE FARMER AND THE GRAZIER: “Vote No and join that mob? Not if we know it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 117971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, Zip-2J/9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, lj Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
ti months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘’All Sea Route,” Id. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. To all other places, 3d.
THE GOLDEN CALF.
The last year or two have shown that gold
is not what it was cracked up to be. There
was a time when most of the world with
any ideas at all on the subject thought
that not much harm could come to any
country whose vaults were full of bullion.
The larger the store, especially in relation
to the note issue, the sounder the nation
was believed to be. Even so late as when
Australia decided to have a Common-
wealth note issue a minimum holding of gold
was provided for—we were to have a re-
serve of at least 25 p.c. of the total notes
in circulation. That provision continued
to be the law until well into 1931. To-day
there is no gold reserve worth mentioning;
and nobody has observed any difference in
the notes. Why, then, was the gold reserve
insisted upon? What is the overpowering
merit of gold?
Currency is merely part of a plan devised
1o simplify exchange and barter. Because
it was inconvenient for a man to lead
around his fat pig until he could find an-
other who would take it in exchange for a
pair of boots, counters or tokens were in-
vented; and they may be anything—shells,
sharks’ teeth, scraps of metal, scraps of
paper. The one essential thing is that they
shall be generally accepted. It was com-
paratively easy to find such a currency so
long as its circulation was local. It was
much more difficult when the barter or
trade was between widely separated
countries. Eventually, after trying many
things, most of the white peoples of the
earth and some of the others adopted gold.
This metal has many qualifications for the
job. It is practically indestructible; it is
small in bulk and easily handled. But
strictly as currency it has no merits which
paper may not possess. For very many
years Bank of England notes were accepted
just as readily as gold, and not only in
England—on the Continent and in Aus-
tralia as well. It is indeed quite possible
to conceive of a super-Bank of England, a
World Bank, issuing paper having virtues
which gold does not possess. Gold is a
commodity, like cheese and clothes pegs.
Not only has it to be produced, but its
production is variable in the highest degree.
Between 1871 and 1880 the world’s produc-
tion averaged less than 22 million pounds’
worth a year; by 1911-20 it was up to 90
millions; by 1927 it was down to 82 millions.
If the world found it wanted annually an-
other 50 million bushels of wheat, or a
large increase of its coal or iron or butter,
it could most certainly get it within a year
or two, and at hardly any increase in cost.
But it would be simply impossible for the
world to largely increase its output of gold
and maintain that increase at the present
cost. No man can tell whether 20 years
from to-day the annual output will be worth
50 millions or 150 millions. A commodity
of that sort cannot be a satisfactory
measure of value, in spite of its indestructi-
bility and other admitted qualities.
Indeed, if gold had been obliged to do its
old work it would have broken down long
ago. In practice, however, it has been very
largely pushed aside as entirely unsuitable.
Nobody in these days goes around with
bags of gold to pay his bills; few go
around even with pockets full of notes.
Nine-tenths of our debts are paid by
cheque. The great difficulty is that we
cannot pay a debt outside our own country
by cheque. We cannot do it even with
our notes. Overseas they will take our
gold, or our goods if they can be turned
into the paper currency of the creditors’
country. If the debtor cannot get gold,
and if the creditor will not accept goods,
then, no matter how rich the debtor may
be—rich in goods, in industries, in
character —he cannot pay. That is to say,
he has to “go off gold.” Britain is now
“off gold,” and strong pressure is being
put upon it to hurry it back. There are
many good reasons why it should refuse
to be hurried. There are still better reasons
why it should use all its influence in trying
to get something that will take the place
of gold in these settlements.
For beyond all doubt there must be a
world standard. In the days when the gold
standard was functioning, the currencies of
all gold-standard countries were for prac-
tical purposes one currency: the exchange
values of the various coins were fixed. To-
day the values are chaotic. Our £ was
worth $4.86 in America; it is now worth
about $3. The £ sterling—the English £—
was likewise worth $4.86 in New York; to-
day it is worth about $3.75. Yet surely
there is nobody who will say that John
Bull’s wealth and credit do not stand as
high compared with Uncle Sam’s, as they
did three years ago. It is the gold fetish
which is responsible for the chaos: this
convention of requiring payment in gold,
and of branding the nation which cannot
produce gold as some sort of defaulter even
though it may be as rich as Croesus in other
assets.
If the accumulation of gold did much
good to the country that held it. more
might be said for the present system. But
it does not bring prosperity. After all,
gold is only money; and you can saturate
a country with money and still leave it in
the trough of a depression. That is the
mistake made by our friends who call for
an inflation of the note issues—you don’t
brisk up industry and business merely by
putting money into people’s pockets; you
only do that by inducing them to spend it.
There has been an enormous increase in
the issue of notes in America; but, though
business may have improved for a few
months, there has certainly been no per-
manent improvement. Spending is a matter
of two things chiefly: confidence in the
future and having the money. Confidence
in the future is, in its turn, largely a
matter of wise politics (of making it impos-
sible, for example, for a J. T. Lang to
swamp the Leg. Council with 25 more
Donald Grants in order to carry a 10 p.c
capital levy); having the money to spend
is chiefly a matter of enlarging bank
credits. There is a great deal of talk about
price levels; The Bulletin has done a good
deal of the talking itself. But low price
levels are not so much a cause as an effect ;
not so much the disease as a symptom of
the disease. So long as exchanges are un-
stable, so long will there be a pressure on
prices—a competition in cheapness. But
the stabilising of exchanges will not alone
be effective in restoring prosperity: it must
be accompanied by measures that will give
confidence to capital to lend, to borrow
and to invest. Exchanges stabilised and
confidence restored, the price level can be
left pretty well to look after itself.
REFERENDUM DAY.
On Saturday N. S. Wales will be required
to say Yes or No to the bill for the reform
of the Leg. Council. If the elector believes
that the Council should retain its present
form he will give his No. 1 vote for No and
his No. 2 vote for Yes. If, on the other
hand, he believes that the House should be
reformed as the bill proposes, he will give
Yes his No. 1 vote and No his No. 2 vote.
He must put a figure in each square or the
vote will be informal.
To The Bulletin no question submitted
to the people within this generation has
seemed so easy to answer and the answer
so obvious. The present Leg. Council of
N. S. Wales is a nominee body, its members
appointed for life. It includes gentlemen
who were “called” nearly 40 years ago in
return for small party services. Several
of them, though they never faced the elec-
tors in their lives, have been legislating
or blocking legislation for more than a
quarter of a century, and will, unless the
Chamber is reformed, continue to have the
right to legislate or block legislation for
another quarter-century, should they live
so long. If they went on supporting the
party, whichever it was, that put them
where they are, the position would not be
so ridiculous; but actually many of the
gentlemen who were sent to this House to
vote White have for years past been con-
sistently voting Black. What possible ex-
cuse can be offered for perpetuating this
outrage on our system of Representative
Government?
The Labor party is for the present
pledged to the abolition of the Leg. Coun-
cil. But every Court in the Empire right
up to and including the Privy Council has
told us that that cannot be accomplished
without a referendum. Nor can the law
which says that a referendum must be held
be repealed without a referendum. There
is consequently no possible way to the
abolition of the Council save by a referen-
dum. If electors who favor abolition vote
No on Saturday, they will still have to vote
Yes some other time before the Council
can be abolished.
Let us get this matter quite straight. A
No majority on Saturday will leave the
present House exactly as it is, with its
utterly undemocratic constitution. To get
it abolished, if we vote No, the Leg.
Council will later on have to vote for its
own abolition; and we have seen how diffi-
cult it is to get any House to agree to
abolish itself. But even if it could be got
to agree to abolish itself—to agree to sacri-
fice all its very pleasant ’perquisites—the
people would still have to be consulted.
That will be the position if the people vote
No on Saturday. If, however, they say
Yes, there will not be any need at all for
the Leg. Council to agree to its own exe-
cution. The reformed Council (and we can
get the reformed Council only by voting
Yes) can be abolished in the very teeth of
its own opposition. That indeed is the
basic principle of the Reform Bill. Vote
No, and N. S. Wales will leave the Council
as it is; and as it is it cannot be abolished
without its own consent. Vote Yes, and
N. S. Wales will bring in a reformed Coun-
cil which can be abolished without its own
consent.
If a majority votes Yes, the way to aboli-
tion will be quite plain. All the Labor party
will have to do is to get a majority in the
Assembly—and Mr. Lang says he is quite
sure of doing that at the next general elecr
tion. He will then carry a bill through the
Assembly, where he will have a majority,
for the abolition of the Council. The
Council probably will not agree to it. The
Assembly will then repeat its endorsement
of the bill; and if the Council will still not
agree, the matter will go to the people for
their decision; and that decision is final.
The people are, however, being told that the
Council itself or the Governor may put
obstacles in the way of an appeal to the
people. The complete answer to this is
that, even if they could, they dare not.
Politicians may defy Governors and even
Judges; Governors may defy Ministers;
but they all know better than to defy
the people.
But this is more than a Constitutional
matter; to thousands of our men and women
it is a matter of bread-and-butter. Those
who are in a position to set the wheels of
industry running faster in N. S. Wales have
again and again shown that they are pre-
pared to trust the people.* Nothing could
more clearly indicate this trust than their
struggle to get Mr. Lang to face the electors
when last lie was in power in N. S. Wales'.
But they do not trust Mr. Lang; and noth-
ing is more certain than that the rising wave
of prosperity which is gradually restoring
the workers of the State to employment
will be arrested and flung back unless the
bill is carried, and . the power of swamping
the Council is taken from Mr. Lang.
Labor is loyal to its party. But men and
women who support the party candidates
at every election can have no compunction
about following their own inclinations on
Saturday. Indeed, this is the very essence
of the referendum. It is an appeal to the
individual elector. Referendum Day, no
matter what the question may be, is the
People’s Day—the day on which they are
called upon to forget all party allegiances
and remember only that they are citizens.
WHY HAVE UNEMPLOYED?
The International Labor Office at Geneva,
one of the departments under the care of
the League of Nations, lately reported that
only four countries show improved unem-
ployment figures. It was added that two of
them, Germany and Poland, had altered
the form of their returns, destroying the
value of comparison, so that of only
the other • two could it be definitely said
that their labor conditions had bettered.
One of them was Canada, the other Aus-
tralia.
That they should occupy this enviable
position is neither accident nor (much as it
might please us to think so) the result of
superior administration. Each is essenti-
ally a country of primary production, with,
however, enough secondary industries to
supply most of the home market, yet very
little dependent on the export of manufac-
tures; and whereas every great manufacturing
country—Britain, for example—is largely
dependent upon foreign trade, which for
the present has vanished, the demand for
most primary products—foodstuffs in par-
ticular—has declined very little, if at all.
Thus, while both British and American out-
put in some lines of manufacture has de-
creased by as much as 65 p.c., actually we
have been selling 200 million bushels of
wheat —21.3 million bushels in 1931—against
an average of 130 million bushels in the
three years prior to 1931; and we have
been able to find a ready market for every
pound of our exceptional clips of wool.
We are thus not entitled to flatter our-
selves with the reflection that we have done
amazingly well; on the contrary, it seems
rather to our discredit that we have any
unemployed at all—more, at any rate, than
the normal few thousands. Why should we
unemployed? These three or four
hundred thousand unemployed of ours want
food and clothing and homes and furniture
and a few things like that. Practically all
their needs can be supplied in Australia.
It is absurd to say that there is not the
idle land: Queensland and N. S. Wales
alone could find enough to furnish five
times more people than the present army
of unemployed with all their needs; if they
cannot, it is going to be a very poor look-
out for future generations in Australia.
Moreover, there is enough plant in the
secondary industries to take care of that
part of the requirements. We do not need
to go outside Australia for a market for
the products of these people: they are their
own market, AH that is needed to get them
busy producing to supply the market
which their own needs should create is
organisation, especially an organised system
of barter, plus a little finance.
No doubt there are difficulties in the
way. But there arc people in the world,
it is good to know, who have had the pluck
to face them. In a dozen places in America
it; has been done. In Salt Lake City—
itself one of the world’s most remarkable
examples of organisation—the Natural De-
velopment Association was formed in 1931
by a number of business men to exchange
the labor of jobless men for the surplus
produce of the farms:—
The farmers, having no cash for harvest-
ing, jumped at the chance to pay wages
in the form of produce. Not only were
the jobless conveyed to the farms in trucks
provided by the association and brought back
to their homes with their wages of pork,
butter, eggs, potatoes, etc., but semi-bankrupt
XS'S
papeifliangers, doctors and dentists were
organised and put in touch with jobless
men w lio required their services and could
offer work in return. In January, 1932.
the organisation opened branches in other
towns. In July 1932 scrip was introduced
as the medium of exchange among membt is
of the association.... Lhe system is maKin-
a dpceilt life poss ible for at least 15.000
peoplo who woldd otherwise be dependent
on c h ;U -ity.
If ig a simplification of a plan which The
Bulletin has repeatedly recommended; and
cven if the more elaborate plan must still
be put agide as too ambitious, as offering
many difficulties to be overcome, there
j g gure ]y no reason why a dozen such organi-
gatious as that G f Salt Lake City should
not be create( J in Australia and across the
T^man.
JOHN SIGNS AN AGREEMENT.
John Bull has signed a trade agreement
with Denmark. The thing is to last for
three years, and has been criticised in
Britain —especially by those good friends
of the Dominions the Beaverbrook news-
papers—as too favorable to the Danes; but
on examination it does not look so bad.
Denmark agrees to keep coal, coke, iron and
steel on its free list; to maintain the present
duties on motor-cycles, whisky, gin, lino-
leum and textiles, and to confer with the
British Government should the Danish
market be flooded with cheap textiles from
other countries; and to reduce the duties
on cotton piece goods and other Man-
chester stuffs. It binds itself to get from
Britain not less than 80 p.c. of its coal
imports. This will give a lift to Bull’s most
depressed industry. Before he went off
gold his sales of coal to Denmark fell to
£1,421.600 worth in a year. He now expects
an annual increase of 1,500,000 tons at least,
and hopes for a corresponding increase in
purchases of iron and steel.
The chief concession to the Danes is a
guarantee of free admission of their bacon
and ham to the U.K. market. These are
their principal exports—in 1930 alone
Danish bacon valued at £27,635,700 figured
in the Board of Trade returns—and
Dominion trade in these lines with Britain
is small. The British farmer may object,
and the Irish Free State farmer, who sold
£1,831,300 worth of bacon and ham to the
oppressor in 1930, will have still more
leisure to wonder whether-Mr. De Valera
is ample compensation for a lost market;
but Australia and Maoriland have no call
to complain. They would have if the
Ottawa agreements had been varied favor-
ably to Denmark in respect of butter, con-
densed and preserved milk, milk powder,
cheese and eggs; but this has not been
done. At Ottawa the British agreed to
give the Dominions preferences on all these
articles by taxing. butter and cheese 15s.
per hundredweight, condensed and pre-
served milk and milk powder ss. per hun-
dredweight, and eggs in the shell Is. to
Is, 9d. per great hundred, according to
weight. These duties were imposed; they
applied to Danish as well as other produce,
and they will still apply. Moreover, the
agreement restricts imports of Danish
butter to 2,300,000 cwt. or 257,600,0001 b. This
is appreciably below the quantity imported
last year, and it is a very great reduction
on the returns for 1929, when Britain took
£19,736,800 worth of Danish butter. In
the corresponding year Australian butter
exports were round about 90,000,0001 b. (in
1928- they amounted to 87,857,8001 b., in
1929- to 92,226,1001 b.). They have grown
so rapidly since that the total for the 1931-
32 twelvemonth was 185,367,5901 b.; and there
has been a further substantial addition this
year. The Australian and Maoriland con-
trol boards (Maoriland shipments have also
increased enormously) have turned down
the suggestion from London that they
should give the market a chance to
recover by limiting exports of butter to
1931-32 figures, as the Australian sheepmen
are limiting exports of frozen mutton and
lamb. Britain may, however, restrict imports
on its own account. If it should do so the
Danes are to have butter, egg and fish
quotas, and a guarantee that J. Bull will buy
from them at least 62 p.c. of the foreign
bacon he has for breakfast.
The Old Man’s position is still extraordi-
narily difficult. For ten years or there-
abouts 20 p.c. to 25 p.c. of his working
people have been unemployed. On an
income tax of ss. in the £, with a thumping
surtax, he has failed for the third year in
four years to balance his Budget. He had to
abandon the gold standard, he had to pay
£29,000,000 last year to his war creditor, he
may have to pay £51,000,000 this year to
the same party, though President Roose-
velt seems now convinced that it would
be madness to ask for it. If our venerable
parent can pick up a bit of his lost trade
by making agreements with Denmark.
Argentina, Norway and Sweden it is not
for us to object, so long as our interests
are not sacrificed. Rather should we rejoice,
for practical as well as sentimental reasons,
since (for one thing) every Briton put back
in work is a potential purchaser of Austra-
lian food. During the most terrible peace
year he has experienced since W aterloo
was fought, the Old Man refrained from
asking us for interest and something off the
principal of that war debt we contracted
with his Government. We owe him thanks
for that and admiration for the unflinching
courage he has shown in all his tribulations.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lay-by.
Once more in Sydney a lay-by, trader has
gone bankrupt, and his unfortunate cus-
tomers have discovered that they rank only
as ordinary creditors—which means that, if
they are lucky, they may get a shilling or
two in the £. The prohibition or regula-
tion of this type of business was urged upon
the Government years ago, but nothing
was done. Now it is proposed to require
every trader to pay all moneys received
under dhe lay-by plan into a trust account.
That will be a welcome reform; yet it is
very doubtful whether it will meet all the
requirements. What guarantee will the
public have that every payment made is
banked as directed? The truth about some
at least of these traders is that they see
in the scheme a way of getting in money
to pay their pressing debts. It is, in other
words, because they are on the very verge
of bankruptcy that they go into the lay-by
business. Ought people in such a posi-
tion to be allowed to take deposits from
the public at all—and, as a rule, from that
section of the public which can least afford
to lose a penny? Every lay-by trader
should be required to procure a permit or
license from the Government; and it is a
matter for serious consideration whether
a cash or bank guarantee should not also
be demanded.
But, even with all this done, a serious
effort should be made to show the public
what a poor purchase plan this is at the
best and what an audacious swindle it may
he at the worst. The goods purchased at a
price agreed upon are laid by; but what
guarantee can the purchaser have that he or
she will get the same goods when the final
payment is made? It is beyond all ques-
tion that rubbish is sometimes substituted
for the purchased article; and the pur-
chaser has no redress whatever. If, then,
there are those who must buy “on the
lay-by” (and unfortunately to some it
seems the only way), this ought at least
to be urged upon them: to seek only those
places with an established reputation—only
those that have a good name to lose.
■ ♦-
Broadcasting.
A Maorilais'd musical conductor, back in
Australia from a visit to Europe, has had
something interesting to tell us about broad-
casting in England. “Young local artists
of talent are in great danger of extinction,”
he said. “Artists in such great centres as
Manchester have been complaining that
everything is radiated from London.” And
he warned Australia and Maoriland to be
very careful lest an improvement in trans-
mission should lead to Empire programmes
and the crushing of all local cultural effort
here. Whether or no this dread is well
founded, radio certainly is bringing tre-
mendous changes to the world.
As usually happens, the early applica-
tions of the new discovery were left to
private enterprise; and had that earlier
invention, the cinematograph, been put to
better use in private hands, and had no
Great War occurred, wireless might have
been left where it was. But in the light
of those two very dissimilar developments,
there were few Governments which did not
see that here was a force with which they
must concern themselves. Naturally, the
action taken by Governments has been very
unequal, depending largely upon the resist-
ance offered by vested interests. Thus in
Britain broadcasting has passed entirely
into the hands of the State, and advertising,
from which private stations had drawn their
revenue, is banned. In Holland, among
other countries, there are no license
at all: stations are either subsidised or
maintained by charges for advertising. In
the U.S.A. practically every station is self-
supporting. In Australia we have com-
promised, and national stations, maintained
by fees, and B-class stations, which live on
subsidies and advertising revenue, are on
the air together.
The revenue of the national stations is
now so great—in Britain it is over mil-
lions a year—that no talent is too expensive
to engage; and even in Australia, after
paying all expenses, no less than £73,000
collected for licenses was diverted to Com-
monwealth revenue last year. If most
people prefer to get not only their enter-
tainment but their instruction by turning
a knob, as some critics bitterly affirm, the
explanation is simply that, if they find
they have made a mistake, they can try
something else without any extra expense.
The disaster, from the performer’s point of
view, is that, by relaying, a single perform-
ance can be made to serve an entire con-
tinent; and there is a possibility, as the
Maorilander says, that presently it may
serve a whole Empire. Already, it is found,
there is in Britain no longer the old keen
interest in local musical societies and reper-
tory theatres. Yet there is hope in this:
the broadcasting studios cannot let the
supply of finished artists fizzle out. What
readjustments will be made to maintain
the supply it is not possible to foresee; but
it is obvious that there must be readjust-
ments of some kind. There is, nevertheless,
a very real danger that the taste of the
public may be lowered by repeated bad
performances before a new school of artists
has grown up.
As we have seen, the countries are not
in agreement—and perhaps never will be—
as to the relation of the State to broad-
casting. Thus while in Britain advertising
over the air is banned, both France and
the Irish Free State permit it; and so we
have the ridiculous position that British
advertisers, desirous of reaching British
ears, can do it by the simple process of
“sponsoring” sessions from stations just
across a narrow riband of sea. In the view
of most English newspapers wireless adver-
tising is a thing to be fought relentlessly;
how relentlessly may be judged from the
fact that the London “Sunday Referee”
was lately cut off from all the benefits of
distribution through the agencies of the
Newspaper Proprietors’ Association for
“sponsoring” advertising broadcasts from
French stations. In Australia there is not
the same dread of the new publicity; on
the contrary, Melbourne’s most energetic
B-class advertising station is run by a news-
paper—and there are others elsewhere in
the Commonwealth. It may be that in
time the technique of wireless advertising
may be better developed and anything
may happen then; but so long as national
stations so draft their programmes as to
appeal to the great body of listeners, and if
they will insist upon a high standard in
their performers, the newspaper does not
appear to have much to fear from its radio
competitor. Indeed, any great success of
radio advertising will be proof that the
national stations are not doing their job.
»
The Perversion of Progress.
Excepting those who have a mortgage over
their heads, most people seem to want
to lay the blame for the world’s mess on
impersonal causes. (The mortgagor, of
course, blames the mortgagee.) Gold, finan-
cial systems, money generally, the banks
and tariffs have all in turn been pilloried;
we are glad to admit anything except that,
in the good times, we expected too much
and tried to grab too much. The idea that
we have been fools, misled by politicians
and plans for easy wealth, is unpalatable.
The lesson we still must learn is that if
something is got with little or no effort,
some poor mug must go short. If any
proof is needed that easy-money (boom)
periods are always followed by unequal dis-
tribution of purchasing power and disastrous
slumps, it is only necessary to study the
financial cycles of this and the last cen-
tury.
The technocrats of the U.S.A. are blaming
machinery for the depress:on, thus reviving
the cry of the Luddite rioters who smashed
up the looms in Nottinghamshire knitting
factories during the hard times which coin-
cided with the close of the Napoleonic wars.
Labor-saving machinery can be blamed for
a lot of things. Generally speaking, it
tends to destroy initiative in the operatives
and narrows their outlook; but, in the
long run, it cannot of itself be blamed for
unemployment. It should either cheapen
the product or give the owner or operatives
greater remuneration. But should either
the owner or operatives get too much of
the benefit, there are likely to be dan-
gerous reactions. If a hat-manufacturer
instals labor-saving plant that will reduce
manual labor by half, he has either to
double his output or reduce his staff. If
he doubles his turnover he should bring
down the price, and people will be able
to buy more headgear. If he halves his
staff he should increase his profit by the
saving in wages, less wear and tear on the
new plant. This extra profit, if spent by
the hat-manufacturer on additional com-
forts and services, increases the demand for
goods made by others; if invested in a new
enterprise there is at once an absorption of
extra labor. In either case new jobs are
created.
But there is a point where this har-
monious cycle may go astray. If the manu-
facturer’s extra profit is put to a perverted
use, such as gambling on the stock ex-
change or speculating in land, thus causing
a boom, it ceases doing good work (as
witnessed from 1929 onwards, it may do
the gravest damage) until it comes to rest
in some productive enterprise. The money
directed into wrong channels has at times
reached an enormous, figure. It is upon
such factors—the perversion of both money
and politics, and the unfair distribution of
the rewards of labor and enterprise—that we
should concentrate. It may be that, human
nature being as it is, we can make little
immediate headway towards rooting out
the evils. But with a recognition of what
really is wrong we should not be easily led
into doing further damage with quack
remedies. To talk of scrapping machinery
because we have mishandled it sounds like
racial degeneration.
• ♦
Democracy in Asia.
“It had to be recognised that since the war
a new democratic feeling had swept India
and the whole of Asia,” said Lord Presi-
dent of the Council Baldwin in a House
of Commons debate on the proposed new
Constitution for India. Politicians love
shibboleths, and this is a good hoary old
specimen. No wave of democratic feeling
has ever swept Asia, though hordes of
nomadic horsemen led by bloodthirsty
savages have, notably Tamerlane, who made
a pyramid of 70,000 skulls of the inhabitants
of Ispahan. There is plenty of unrest in
Asia, but that is another matter.
The nearest thing Asia has ever had to
a popular election was the campaign initi-
ated by Yuan Shih-kai to get himself the job
of President of the Chinese Republic. Yuan
distributed millions of dollars of borrowed
money to the electors and more millions to
the few successful candidates who showed
any inclination to be true to their election
promises. The show was regarded as such
a huge joke that amongst the nominations
were criminals in gaol and famous courte-
sans of the capital. Within a few months
of the election the members of the Opposi-
tion were in Heaven, Hell, custody or
hiding. Those of the free and sovereign
people who knew that the election was on
simply regarded it as an opportunity for
getting an extra bowl of rice or bottle of
samshu.
India has had a mild foretaste of demo-
cratic institutions in the reform bills. Con-
stituencies are a gaudy figment. Their rep-
resentatives never bother to consult them.
It is not a disgrace but a religious duty
for a Hindu Parliamentarian to accept a
bribe if it helps his family. It is an ancient
religious law that the clan comes first and
the State nowhere, and the public office-
holder who does not feather his own nest
is regarded as a renegade. Where the public
interest conflicts with the interests of his
caste he must be faithful to his caste or
he may be reborn for untold generations as
an insect in ordure. Most politicians find
it difficult to see the truth, much less
speak it, but the Hindu politician has a
venerable philosophy to back him up when
he wants to tell a lie, because he has been
taught that, since all matter is nothing-
ness, all statements about it are equally
nothing.
Democracy requires at least some measure
of intelligence in the elector. The average
Indian elector cannot sign his name, much
less read a newspaper, and he usually votes
en bloc according to the orders of the
village headman, who has been bribed by
someone, who has been bribed by some-
one else, and so on. Democracy also re-
quires a certain amount of mutual tolerance.
In the floods of 1924 Hindu boatmen refused
to take Mohammedans out of the Ganges.
The average Asiatic is a good democrat
in his village. Outside that he is not even
in the kindergarten class to which the aver-
age European has toilsomely attained.
He likes to be bossed by a strong man.
He doesn’t mind him being a trifle cap-
ricious on occasion so long as his rule
is firm, aloof and not too interfering. He
would not put up with the perpetual inter-
ference in every petty detail of his private
life that the European democrat has be-
come accustomed to. That is partly why,
since some small instalments of democracy
have been granted to British India, there
has been a steady immigration to the States
ruled by absolute monarchs.
*
Eleven Bonanzas for Two Bob!
If the public subscribes enough, another
expedition will set out presently to find
Lasseter’s Lost Reef, and is sure to find it.
So, at least, it is gathered from a draft
prospectus issued by Scientific Gold Ex-
plorations, Limited, “registered under Com-
panies Ordinance 1931 in the Territory of
the Commonwealth of Australia”; and Mr.
Edward M. Davies, described as the vendor,
is a Brutus in these matters. Mr. Edward
M. Davies was a promoter of Australian-
made Motor-cars and Aeroplanes, Ltd. (in
Liq.), a short history of which appeared in
The Bulletin of April 19. In that case
it was hoped to get in half a million by the
sale of £1 shares. The total was not
reached, nor was a single car or aeroplane
made; but a lot of people took up shares.
Twenty or more appeared in the Equity
Court when the liquidator applied for leave
to make a call on contributories, and
pleaded that they had been induced to sub-
scribe for shares by the representation
that they would get jobs. Harvey, J., was
told that most of the shareholders were
artisans, and counsel for the liquidator
said there was “no doubt many of them
took up shares through misrepresentation.”
The assets at liquidation were £94 in the
bank “and overdue calls on shares made by
directors”; the debts amounted to £4106.
In the case of Scientific Gold Explora-
tions there is to be a reduction in the price
of shares to meet the times. The public
is offered 450,000 at 25.: 6d. on application,
6d. on allotment, and the balance in calls
of not more than 3d. at intervals of not
less than a month. During the proceed-
ings relative to Australian-made Motor-cars
and Aeroplanes the Court was informed that
Mr. Edward Morris Davies and three other
directors had each applied for and been
allotted 500 shares, had paid nothing on
application, nothing on allotment and noth-
ing for calls—“when calls were made on
other shares no calls were made on these.”
There is, however, no obligation on Mr.
Davies and his fellow-directors to subscribe
for shares in Scientific Gold Explorations,
Ltd. Mr. Davies and unnamed “members
of the staff of the company” are to be re-
warded with 50,000 shares, which “are con-
tingent on discovery [of what or when and
by whom is not stated], and are not to be
placed on the market within 12 months of
discovery except at the discretion of the
directors.” The discretion is as wide as the
deep blue sea.
Scientific Gold has or is to have offices
in Sydney and Melbourne, and presumably
office staffs. “Brokerage of 2d. a share” is
promised to “any member of the Stock
Exchange” willing to traffic in Scientific
Gold shares, “or any agent or broker
approved.” It will also be necessary to have
scrip printed, to buy a set of books, to
advertise perhaps, certainly to stamp re-
ceipts and letters. These expenses and
others, though the prospectus does not say
so. will take a large bite out of the two
shillings. Still, enough will be left'for an
expedition that in personnel and equipment
will be right up to the minute. None of
your “rabble of prospectors” who discovered
the Golden Mile, but “an expedition
armored by organisation of transport and
supply,” and “conducted on strict 1 theoreti-
cal military lines.” And it “will start off
with eleven (11) definite objectives, all of
which are. gold-bearing”; the “objectives”
additional to Lasseter’s “reef” are “almost
of equal value”:—
The main party will consist of up to 30
men, assisted by a party of natives —the
finest and cleverest in the .Central Districts.
The scientific portion of the party will con-
sist of a Technologist;,. .Geophysicist and
Geological Surveyor, Licensed Surveyor under
ordinance, Geologist , and Metallurgical
Chemist and Assayer. . . .of the highest cre-
dentials. The practical section of the party
will consist of a trained and experienced
aviator, a wireless operator, at least eight
mining men of proved ability and five com-
petent truck drivers. There will be a fully
equipped travelling laboratory, one two-
engined ’plane and several motor-trucks.
The party will use camels for their advance-
guard, 'transport communication from rail-
head to any outpost being almost continuous.
And all for two bob a share, less brokerage,
office expenses, etc.!
A fair amount of public money, as well
as a great deal of private money, has been
lost in the search for Lasseter’s Lost Reef
and in harebrained enterprises to which it
indirectly led. It is only two or three
months since R.A.A.F. machines had to be
sent out to rescue a party that went to
look for “the reef,” and this was by no
means the first experience of the kind. Yet
there is no real probf that Lasseter ever
found a reef, or that at the time of the
alleged discovery he could have identified
gold in an outcrop if he had fallen over
one. The Commonwealth Government
will have to answer to the people if there
are any more Lasseter-stunts or any
repetition of The Granites farce or tragedy.
The latest attempt to exploit the Lasseter-
reef yarn ought to interest it on other
grounds. Thousands of trusting people have
learned by bitter experience / how N.S.W.
company law plays into the hands of the
tribe of go-getters; it is a shock to find
that a Federal companies ordinance admits
of the issue of such a document as the
draft prospectus issued by Scientific Gold
Explorations.
♦
The “Crimes” of Black Brother.
“Pawang”: There is good precedent for
applying aboriginal “customary” law to cases
in which natives are involved in the North-
ern Territory. It has long been the practice
of British Colonial Governments. Indian
civil and criminal law is an amazing medley
of British jurisprudence and Hindu,
Mohammedan and pagan forensic fancy.
The Indian code was taken over by the
Straits Government in British. Malaya, and
Malay adat, or customary law, included in
it, wherever possible. Considering the in-
congruous nature of the ingredients, the
mixture has been remarkably successful.
The native laws were indiscriminately
composed of commonsense, wisdom and non-
sense. Here are a few from the 99 Laws
of Perak, delivered by Almighty God to
the Prophet Adam, and transmitted to
Mahomet and delivered by him to the
Sultan Ahmad Tajudin:-
Q. —“What are the rales to he observed
when a stranger visits the village, wishing
to pass the night there?”
A. —“The villagers will be blameworthy
unless they give him lodging and food suffici-
ent for one night’s sojourn.”
In the following example there seems to
me much understanding of sexual relations:
Q.- —“ What is the law as to a man’s duties
to his wife?”
A. —-“His first duty is that he should pro-
vide medicine for her in sickness; secondly,
he must provide treatment for her . in preg-
nancy ; thirdly, he must provide meat, drink
and apparel according to his means; fourthly,
she will require a house wherein to dwell;
fifthly, his land must be planted to provide
her with sustenance. If her wants go be-
yond these, let her husband pay no atten-
tion whatever, and he should pay no heed
to her various opinions, entrusting her with
no secrets; for a woman is a foe in one’s
blanket. .. . Trust no man in the company of
a woman. A strange man is to a woman as
the sun is to the moon. If a woman miscon-
duct herself with another man, the penalties
are these: firstly, divorce; secondly, death ;
thirdly, expulsion from the country and
fourthly, the woman may be forced to marry
her paramour. These four methods of pro-
cedure settle the matter in this world.”
And here is a Malayan Golden Rule that
deserves consideration:—
Q. — “On what principles should an intelli-
gent man order his conduct in this life?”
A.—“ Those who dwell in this world below
should firstly see that their bodies are free
from disease ; secondly, that they have money
enough; thirdly, that their opinions are re-
spected by men; and fourthly, they should
seek to hold office. When a man is endued
with intelligence above his fellows, then
only will the milk of kindness flow from
his heart. The intelligence of less-gifted
folk never emerges from the dungeon of the
flesh.”
ExhauStive investigation of Australian
tribal laws would probably reveal at least
as much good sense as there is in the white
man’s code, with its excessive emphasis on
legalism, an emphasis which constantly
compels learned Judges to pass sentence
on prisoners while deploring the folly, and
injustice of the judgment.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,G00 ' 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
' MACARTHUR. ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New S<suth Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world. _
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Fine; Diamonds
£2O
ine DJafftOfitds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£25
DIAMOND
ENGAGEMENT
-sr
, ~ 1' T,ap Cut Diamond
Sapp hire- an d D ifi munds fsn
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The diamonds used in the rings
illustrated are guaranteed finest
quality Blue White Gems the
illustrations representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with Pure
Platinum Settings, these rings repre-
sent the best value in
Write for a selection on
A catalogue of Rings,
Silverplate, Silver and
Presents sent post free o
Australia,
approval.
Jewellery,
Wedding
n request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
SYDNEY
13 Hunter Street
BRISBANE
116 Queen Street
I * >
MELBOURNE
298 Collins Street
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Note-issue Department’s gold reserves
which were shipped away earlier in the year
to change into sterling should never have
been included in the country’s exports. Being
included, they give an entirely false idea
of our progress. For the first nine months
of the year our trade balance is shown to
be 33 millions stg., or over two millions
better than for the same three-quarters of
last year, whereas our commodity balance
was only 17 millions compared with nearly
26 millions. Adding 21 millions for gold
won, our excess of true exports was under
20 millions, or at the rate of under 27 mil-
lions stg. for the year ; and that is not quite
enough to pay our overseas interest bills.
The trouble lies in the excessive increase of
merchandise imports: for the nine months
they were over 12 millions greater than in
the corresponding part of last year. At the
first sniff of drought we shall have to get
hack on to a long list of prohibitions and
embargoes.
A Labor “unity” is to be held
at Sydney next month. J. ,T. Kenneally. who
is a unificationist as president of the Com-
monwealth A.L.P. and a secessionist as a
Westralian Minister (as boss of the State
A.L.P. he was neutral), will be chairman if
he comes over, as he is expected to do.
One of the “unity” resolutions is that he
should be deposed for ruling that Laboritcs
were free to support or oppose the Premiers’
plan.
Sydney’s Water and Sewerage Board owes
the State Government 30* millions or so.
The Government has reduced the interest to
4 p.c., in effect sacrificing £233,000 p.a., and
the board, considerably bucked, is taking a
penny off the water and sewerage rates
(10kl. and lOd. in the £), besides lowering
other charges. It is going to borrow another
million, at 4* p.c., for its “works programme.”
And perhaps when the million is spent the
rates will go up again.
~ The Federal Labor “party” in N. S. Wales
is a house divided on the subject of Second
Chamber reform, as it was on Lang’s 10 p.c.
mortgage tax. One Christie, of the “party”
executive, speaking for the Nays, cited
Queensland as a State which had abolished
its Leg. Council outright, adding that
“Queensland did not want it.” When asked
about it in a referendum, Queenslanders de-
cided by a 60,000 majority that they did
want it. The people’s vote was ignored by
Theodore, now a Federal A.L.P. boss—a
fact not mentioned by Christie.
Lang was hailed at Faster by his bear-
leader, Garden, as a greater prophet than
Lenin, being committed to a programme that
‘‘goes farther than the policy advocated by”
the Bolshie whose corpse is exhibited as
a peep-show in Moscow. Though the other
Labor faction jeered he was silent. But last
week, his impudence being as vast as his
vanity, he said he was against the Stevens
plan of Leg. Council reform because it was
“anti-British.” At Wagga he yelled : _ “If
you prefer to stick to the age-old British
system of democracy you must vote No.”
“T am just the same behind closed doors as I am
in the open.”— J. T. Lang.
GARDEN: “Aye ; ma bear Lenin’s juist a
bear-r-r — inside, ootside or ony side.”
“To stick to the age-old British system of
democracy” you must (1) obey the law, (2)
keep your word and (3) pay your debts.
Lang broke the law when he violated the
Financial Agreement Acts, and defied it
when the High Court judgment went against
him. Tried by the depression, lie lied and
defaulted, betraying the very British of
whose system ho now poses as a champion.
Urged on by a lady politician aed a flock
of college professors, Roosevelt the Little
has embarked on a programme which is
enough to make the great Teddy turn in his
grave, though Bryan may be rubbing his
hands. “Expansion of credit and currency
by at least 6,000,000,000 dollars” is a lead-
ing feature, and war-debt payments are to
be accepted in silver at 60 cents an ounce—•
the latest London price was round about
Is. Bd. There are to be grandiose works
“to absorb the unemployed,” and Government
control of the railways, which was tried
and found wanting during the war period, is
to have a second innings. Also the gol-
darned foreigner is to be put in Ins place.
For a start, those who hold Liberty Bonds,
and were promised payment in gold, have
been told they will have to take depreciated
paper dollars or go without.
Stevens putting the case for Leg. Council
reform has been much more effective than
Lang opposing it. Argument, is not Langs
forte, but people expected something more
than stale tarradiddles and dull recapitu-
lations of tie iniquities of the banks and
the press. The best speeches on the No side
have been- made by McKell, whom Lang- in-
cluded in his first Ministry, passed out ot
his second and had to take into his thud
the one flash of independence Caucus lias
shown for two years and a half. Still, Mc-
Ivell was feeble when he thought he was most
effective. “Why,” lie said, “a man might be
elected to the'new Council by 14 votes.
Even if that were so the votes would be cast
by members of a sort of electoral college, who
might represent twice 140,000 citizens, per-
haps more. And how many votes put Donald
Grant, of I.WAV. notoriety, into the present
Leg. Council? One, Lang’s; at most two,
those of Garden and Graves.
“Refugee capital has been pouring into England
because its owners are alarmed at the conditions m
other countries.”
T HE DWARFS: “After all, John, if you don’t
mind, I think we'd feel safest in your
big pocket.”
One possible explanation of the strange
goings-on in Germany is the amount of tin-
employment there. It is so dreadful, and
has been .dreadful for so long, that Fritz
may conceivably have made up liis mind to
try anything and stand anything if there
was a chance of a job in it for him. In the
first quarter of 1933, according to the
Monthly Bulletin of the League, 46.2 p.c.
of the German toilers were idle and 23. i
p.c. working part time, the registered number
of unemployed being 0,047,086. Bad as
things were in Britain they weren’t nearly
as bad as that. The U.K. jobless constituted
18.9 per cent, and the part-timers 4.2 p.c.;
the totals were 2,422,808 and 532,640.
Bayley, Oxley’s M.H.R. for 14 years, got
in for the Wynnum State scat; Donnelly,
the Labor candidate was licked by 147 votes,
lie deserved to be licked for the rubbish
he talked on the hustings. “The Moore
party,” h,e said, “advocates economy, and
economy in Queensland is a crime. Labor
stands for advancement.” The gentleman did
not furnish evidence, but the Commonwealth
Statistician does. During the 14 years
1915-29 his crowd advanced the Queensland
public debt from £56,800.000 to £113,300,000.
It took about three weeks to collect and
count the referendum votes in Westralia. In
the result 42 of the 50 Assembly electorates
declared for separation from the Common-
wealth; the satisfied eight were Ivalgoorlie,
Boulder (which returns Premier Collier).
Brownhill-Ivanlioe (628 for and 1245
against secession), Hannans, Murchison and
the northernmost constituencies, Roebourne,
Pilbarra and Kimberley. Three goldfields divi-
sions Yilgarn, Kanowna and Magnet, voted
secesh, but there are as many farmers as
miners in Yilgarn now. and the other places
are semi-pastoral. The 16 farming elec-
torates were overwhelmingly secessionist:
41,040 for and 12,814 against; State totals
were 138,653 for and 70,706 against. Nine
electorates gave majorities for a convention
(State totals, 88.175 for and 119,131
against) ; coaly Collie said yes to both
questions..
Complete returns from South Fremantle
show that Labor Minister McCallum repre-
sents 4766 secessionists and 1693 federalists.
There was nothing like this majority for
separation in any Nat. stronghold with a
Dominion Leaguer for member; in North
Perth, for which McCallum Smith, of the
“Sunday Times,” has sat since 1914, it was
3057 for and 1864 against. But all the
ports went strongly secessionist; even
Albany, which has an old feud with Perth,
was 2 to 1 for Perth rule. The wharf
laborers and seamen in these places belong
to ill-managed inter-State trade-unions. Their
vote was undoubtedly influenced by hostility
to Sydney control, which lias dragged them
into strikes that have always been lost.
To provide work for the unemployed, the
Victorian Government has taken engineers
from the idle railway construction branch
and set them preparing plans for the Yarra
Boulevard. No doubt a motor-track along
the river will give joy :o thousands; its
construction may even give work to thou-
sands. But the cost of making it will re-
main, to be borne by those who already , find
the task of humping taxes more than they
can bear. There is only one way to he
saved, and that is through production. A
boulevard won’t grow a spud or catch a
fish in a hundred years.
Business is still brisk in the two shops in
which wages are fixed. Drake Brockman,
J., delivered an award for Federal railway-
men which brothers Detliridge and Beeby
upset, partly on the ground that it was
based on miscalculations. Now the .Court
lias decided that the old method of adjust-
ing the basic wage was wrong, and fyas sub-
stituted a new' method under which the basic
wage goes up 2s. 4d. a week in Perth, 2s. Bd.
in Hobart and Sydney, 3s. 7d. in Adelaide,
4s. Id. in Melbourne and 4s. 7d. in Bris-
bane. Industrial arbitration has all the un-
certainty of a gamble without the thrill.
N. S. Wales abounds in softhearted Judges
and magistrates. Two coiners came up for
sentence before White, J., at Sydney Quarter
Sessions and were let off with 18 months, a
recommendation being added that they should
be sent to a prison farm. In all ages coin-
big has been regarded as a serious crime
against the country, and its cruellest effects
on individuals are experienced by the poor.
There has been a boom in it at Sydney
during the depression, and it was shown
that the latest to be caught in the act had
set up an elaborate plant in a factory cellar
and put large quantities of good imitations
into circulation. The Court of Criminal
Appeal unanimously decided that the sen-
tences were ridiculous, and increased them
to five. years and three years. Not often
is a trial Judge so severely snubbed.
Twenty-five thousand Federal public ser-
vants have asked the Government to give
them back their 1929 salary rates, or sub-
stantially raise their present, pay anyhow.
About the same time the Government was
reminded by the leader of the Country party
that sheepmen and wlieatgrowers had been
carrying on at a loss for three years, and
that the bottom had fallen out of the butter
market; it was also reported to it that pas-
toralists bearing honored names had supplied
melancholy proofs that they could no longer
pay land tax, it having become a ruinous levy
on capital. Nevertheless, “the Prime Minis-
ter has promised to consider the representa-
tions of the public servants when the Budget
is being prepared.”
Andy Lysaght, whose decease has left
Bulli without a member, was Lang’s Attor-
ney-General for seven months. He was an
odd fellow in some respects, but there was
a chivalrous strain in him. Street, C.J.,
was on the Full Court Bench when the Leg.
Council Abolition Bill was adjudged in-
effective without a referendum majority; and
it was alleged that he had so advised the
Governor beforehand. “They ought to
sack Street,” shouted Davies, the Minister
of' Education. The C.J. informed the
Attorney-General that there was not a word
of truth in the allegation and asked that his
disclaimer he read to the House straightway.
This Lysaght proposed to do; he was told
that he would have to wait till Davies re-
turned from pushing the Lang plan in Adel-
aide, and promptly resigned. He rarely
spoke in the H’ouse after that and was
hardly ever seen on a Labor platform. Yet
Lang professed to see in his death “evi-
dence of the toll which ill-health is taking
of the splendid party that put up that mag-
nificent fight in the last Parliament.”
Interest on one of those lamentable Bruce-
Page loans fell due in New York on May 1.
It was paid in paper dollars, 1,107,700 of
them, “no gold or gold certificates being
available.” Some of the bondholders accepted
the depreciated paper under protest, and if
it is found that they are entitled to gold or
its equivalent—there is some doubt on that
point, the situation having changed-—they
and the rest will have to be accommodated,
default being too dear at the price. Mean-
while they should reserve their kicks for the
Washington Government.
Of the three Tas. Leg. Council seats fall-
ing vacant this May, two were_ contested —
Hobart, held by builder McKenzie, and Rus-
sell, the Cocky-Country perch, lon* held lg
Burnie lawyer Frank Edwards (Tas.h
scholar, 1909). Cambridge, as Jisual, ga
Joe Darling a walkover The sittm McKe
zie had live assailants, four ofthem fellow
Nats., and one Labonte (Dr. Frank Galia).
Gaha won in spite of the restncted (p_
perty-occupier) franchise. In Russell tw
or three n.-w. coast farmers :Ul { l . f, (
solicitor Waterworth were Edwards . s oppo-
nents. Political principles, counted for veiJ
little in either contest : it was a matt
chiellv of personal popularity. ret, on
merits, probably the best-equipped man won
in both places.
“There are now four distinct factions in the
N.S.W. Labor movement, with four distinct policies.
THE WORKER: “Blow me, I believe I did
promise to marry one of em; but
which of ’em was it?”
Enforcement of the amended Vic. Fire-
arms Act will, it is expected, result m about
8000 persons (there are 10,000 with peimits)
surrendering pistols to the police or se m h
them to licensed gunsmiths. Registrations
and permits lapsed on May 1; hut may n
renewed any time before the loth it justihca-
tion can be shown. Police (hief Blarney
contends that there is no place for pistols m
a civilised State. He considers it uglily
objectionable that one in every ol adult male
Victorians should have a revolver of some
kind, and declares that in 90 p.c. of cases
armed night-watchmen are a danger to tne
public.
In a way it is a good thing that an
impostor with a cancer “cure should have
had his treatment put to the test m a Gov-
ernment hospital; but only m Australia
under Labor rule would he have got that
far. Queensland Labor, which authorised the
expensive examination (“the v\ attlebrae
hospital was specially staffed and equipped
by the Home Department”), was with dim-
culty restrained in other days from taking
up the Abrams box. Passionate denuncia-
tions of the B.M.A. for its anti-Abrams atti-
tude were features of Labor conferences.
And Commonwealth Labor made Spalilinger
an issue at the 1925 election. The day after
his champions were routed one of them said
in the Sydney Domain that it didn’t matter;
there would be another election, at which
Spalilinger would be the only issue, inside
12 months, and then Labor would come into
its own. Doubtless it is only natural that
political quacks and medical quacks should
feel mutually attracted.
Stawell Shire Council has started a move-
ment for a two-thirds reduction of members
of Vic. Parliament. That would mean hav-
ing 22 in the Assembly and 11 in the Uppish
House. The council wants fellow-municipah-
tics, of which there are about 200, to join
in the crusade. In 1904 the number of
Assemblymen was reduced from 9o* to (w.
and the number of Uppishers from 48 to 00.
Three years later, when separate representa-
tion for State employees was abolished, the
numbers were made 65 and 34 respectively.
A redistribution on the basis of 52 members
for the Assembly and 26 for the Council
might have a chance.
During his backblocks willy-willy Lang
darkly suggested that revolution was a pos-
sible outcome of a Yes vote at the refeien-
dum, and. alleged that farmers in the L.S.A.
were taking up arms to defend what thej
considered their rights. Nervous people maj
conclude that Lang has a notion ot emulat-
ing George Washington, who led one rising
of “embattled farmers.” Lang certainly lias
this much in common with Washington: he
is a wealthy landholder.
When the Federal Government reimposed
ihe duty on Papuan rubber coming into the
Commonwealth it announced that the pro-
ceeds would be handed back to the growers.
A deputation of planters told Minister Marr
in Port Moresby that all the Papuan rubber
recently sent to Australia had been kept m
bond, with the result that there had been
no revenue to hand back. Marr promised to
make the usual representations. The growers
would prefer a bit of the root of all evil.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dante”: It is almost a pity that
Stanley Bruce wasn’t given the chance of
returning to President Hindenberg the
Emden’s bell as well as the Emden’s
name-plate, for, bulky as the former
war trophy is, it seems something more than
Sydney can hold securely. First of all the
bell, which might have taxed a Samson to
lift, is found to have mysteriously dis-
appeared from its moorings at Garden
Island beneath the cover of night. Months
later the police, acting on an anonymous
letter, go digging in the Domain and suc-
cessfully exhume it. The bell is then handed
over to the War Museum for safer keeping,
and one line morning it is found that once
again a heavy bolt has been filed through
and some hundredweight of metal has van-
ished. Whether the motive be patriotism
or greed—-it is said that the bell would fetch
a thumping sum in Germany—it is a strange
series of happenings. Why, it may be asked,
did somebody blow the gaff the first time—
and wliat did he get thereby? And how on
earth was the second theft effected, appa-
rently in broad daylight? To get away with
valuable paintings like Gainsborough’s
Duchess of Devonshire or the Mona
Lisa would seem to be negligible exploits
“But don’t you think a woman is jar ahead of a man in arranging a marriage?”
“No, dear lady—I think she is generally after him."
in comparison with pinching a massive bell,
over 2ft. in height, from custodians who
might be expected to look after it as sharply
as prison warders after a recaptured escapee,
* * * *
“rr )> mi t Tin
Herat ms : Ihe memory ot that -
Groot stunt dies hard. Certain citizens f
Townsville (N.Q.) were preparing to open
a new road across the Hervey Range. Ihe
ciiief potentate of the occasion was about to
cut the usual ribbon when an individual on
horseback dashed out of the convenient scrub
and. after severing the ribbon with a cane-
knife, fled into the jungle again with dis-
cordant shrieks, scattering the crowd as he
went.
“Searchlight”: The republication of
“Jonah” brings to mind several battles .1
witnessed as a boy between the Rocks and
Camperdown pushes. Most of them occurred
on the flat part of what is now Harold
Park. Sticks, stones and glass bottles were
freely used, and it is a marvel that the casu-
alties were not heavier. A tall chap in
the “Camperdown Killers” known as “Gin-
ger” seemed the acknowledged captain; the
Rocks leader went by the of
“Pincher.” I never learned how the chal-
lenges were issued, but we lads attending
the Forest Lodge school looked on in safety
from the top of the, cliffs. A scene in a
Camperdown hall is still vivid in my memory.
It was a variety turn-out and there were
a couple of high-kickers. It was not long-
before we saw that trouble was brewing,
the hall being crowded with local Montagues
and Capulets. Something the girls did
brought things to a head, and the audience
were soon in the thick of a hand-to-hand
fight, with chairs wrenched from the battens
that held them used as weapons. The show
broke up in disorder.
“Ex-Melbourne Larrikin” : In B. 26/4/”-!.:!
“Red Page” ventures the opinion that “the
basher gang of to-day is the push of yester-
day.” Actually, there is a vast difference.
The war saw the end of the old-time larri-
kin, but not before he had contributed his
only redeeming characteristic —loyalty to
his cobbers—to the A.I.F. The period
1914-18 saw the young male of the slum
eager to get into khaki instead of into the
push. All the big pushes were broken up, and
when it was over the survivors came back
with an outlook which eschewed larrikinism.
Sporadic attempts were made in after years
to re-create the pushes (“The Coffin Mob
of West Melbourne about 1923 was the
most notable example in that city), but com-
pared to the pre-war push these iater gangs
were as jackals to wolf packs. And the
basher gang lias had a very different origin.
“Adelaide”: Sex-appeal by post was the,
uncommon feature of a recent police-court
case in Adelaide. A middle-aged man had
acquired girl correspondents, always at a
distance. He would (1) advertise for a
“pen-friend”; (2) send to each applicant
a photo, of a good-looking youth; (3)
correspond and promise to meet and marry;
(4) gradually introduce sex questions. The
S.M. had the last) word about these: “More
indecent writing.” he said, “it is impossible
to conceive.” With one solitary exception,
there were no complaints; but a boxful of
the operator’s rough drafts earned him nine
months’ gaol.
“Jack Spraggon” : The cables tell us that
former officers of the German Death’s
Head Hussars have presented Field-Marshal
Mackensen with a snow-white thorough-
bred to mark the occasion of his silver
wedding. As a horse coper of some experi-
ence I am wondering where they got him.
for a thoroughbred of that hue is never seen
by sea or land, unless he happens to be a grey
grown old —and that is rare enough. White
as a “color” is banned by all horse fanciers.
It is more often found among Arabs than
in any other breed, but the Arab tribesmen
hold a white horse in only less contempt
than they do the very rare pied nag. The
milk-white steed may do very well for flapper-
read romances, but 1 would sooner sell than
keep one.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Little wonder that parsons are
deploring the spread of the gambling spirit
when staid Maoriland can produce a land-
lady who in one hectic week-end lost a pros-
perous boarding-house full of boarders to a
fellow-gambler. The first the boarders, who
were not included in the garni l , heard of the
matter was when the lady at breakfast on
Monday morning bade them a tearful fare-
well, and advised that before night they
would have another landlady. She was at
first rather diffident about explanations, but
On being pressed revealed that she had
staked the whole outfit on Saturday night
at cards and lost it. Some of the boarders
doubted the right of the winner to take pos-
session, but he arrived with a capable wife,
and announced his intention of carrying on.
His stake had been a seaside cottage and a
launch.
“Jungor”: A cable tells how a certain
Major Ord, a Londoner, has handed to West-
ralian Agent-General Colcbatcli. for trans-
mission to Perth, a portrait of General Sir
Harry Ord, a sandalwood spade wherewith
tliat worthy turned the first sod of the Perth-
Fremantle railway 54 years ago, and three
skeleton-keys made by skilful convicts in the
Fremantle gaol to open any and every door
in that grim penitentiary. The keys carry
memories of an era which Westralia would
rather have forgotten, although transporta-
tion had ceased nine years before the regime
THE MATERIALIST.
THE ARTIST: "Now, that's the sort of thing I turn out?
THE OTHER: “Cripes, I wouldn’t."
of Governor Orel (presumably the honor's
father ,or grandfather) began. As for the
spade, 1 have seen an older relic of an earlier
railway in those parts. It consisted of a
fragile-looking wheelbarrow into which Gov-
ernor Weld trowelled the first handful of
earth as a prelude to the construction of the
Goraldton-Northampton line in 1874, five
years before the capital saw a dogspike or a
fishplate. The barrow, suitably inscribed,
used to be preserved in the Gera hi ton
Mechanics’ Institute. But Geraldton didn’t
really get much start of Perth in the matter
of railway facilities, for the 35 miles or so
of line took five years to build. Twenty
years later the Wilkie brothers were rail-
way-making for the goldfields at a pate which
sometimes rose to a mile a day.
“Clio”: The curious lasting effect of a
childish impression was brought home to a
well-known Sydney man who recently joined
a party in a riverside camp. He left after
three days. When a child of four he was
playing beside his mother on a river bank.
There was a small landslip, and he saw
his mother, with a baby in her arms, borne
out into the stream on the floating islet,
while he was left on the bank. Her terror
and his own, though she was quickly rescued,
had made on him a subconscious impression
so strong and lasting that after 40 years
he found he could not endure the running
stream, lie said afterwards that he never
looked at it without seeing his mother’s terri-
fied face rise before him.
“Cinquante-Quatre” : How "Karelian” (B.
19/4/’B3) carried a church bell around
France for two years puzzles me. The
lightest bell in any ordinary church peal
would be more than a one-man load; the
tenor of the species, the heaviest, sometimes
runs .„to half a ton. Even in a carillon
(which I doubt if Massines possessed) num-
ber 10 would be no midget, as bells are
numbered from the lightest upwards.
“D.”: Is there any body of men with such
spinsterish hobbies as mail-ship captains?
One goes in for wood-carving ; “af Easter-
time,” says “S. M. Herald,” “he made of
wood an Easter egg, about 2-Jft. long and
18in. diameter. It was covered with icing,
and inside it were placed 100 small choco-
late eggs for the passengers.” I travelled
with a Ohitral captain a few years ago who
put in his spare time making woollen rugs,
four or five a voyage. Knitting and sewing
are common accomplishments. The captain
of the transport on which I went to Egypt
in ’l5 played the flute and sang love ballads.
1 travelled on the old Rome (the “rolling
Rome”) before the war with one who divided
his leisure between knitting socks for him-
self and tam o’ shantors for the ladies, and
painting water-colors in delicate pastel
shades. My first P. and O. trip was* made
as a boy on the long-dead Parramatta. I
can still remember the pernickety little man
—a typical schoolmarm —-who controlled her
destinies in the intervals of holding prayer-
meetings arid Bible classes. There is an-
other spinsterish hobby which is highly
popular despite the fact that it has been
frowned on by the owners since the wreck
of the China —flirting. I would be inclined
to say,. after over 30 years’ experience of
mail ships, that this ladylike pastime is about
the most favored of all,
“Swami"; The reported Nazi determina-
tion to clean up the night life of -Berlin
recalls an early-morning experience ,of mine
when I looked over that glittering capital
with round tourist eyes. After we’d sampled
various popular resorts, my guide, a blood
off the London press, pulled up before a
dim edifice without any identifying sign or
light. A knock at a door, a whispered pass-
word, and we were soon soaring aloft in a
little elevator, to be spilled into an extra-
ordinarily thronged enclosure where there
were assembled, so I was informed, sundry
high lights of the best families. At first,
it was merely the familiar vista of gliding
dancers and scurrying waiters; but as tin;
champagne circulated manners became freer,
and presently a lithe female in mauve stepped
into the middle of the floor and shed her
garments one by one. A stutter ot
applause was the signal tor several other
performers to follow suit, and there was a
tremendous ovation when an auburn-tressed
damsel added her supplicating suppleness to
the show. It was an unusual tableau even
for Berlin, and just now it comes ironically
to mind for the reason that among the audi-
cnee were several prominent Brown Shirts.
* * ! ‘
“X.S.”: The psycho-analysts list neu-
roses under various headings, including such
refinements as siderodromophobia, or fear of
railway journeys but in what category would
B? e y P? a c e tXu; following example. An mdig-
nant Melbourne citizen charged an acquaint-
ance with having dogged mm daily tor
three years. Whenever lie left Ins house
there was the accused waiting to quietly
f 111 behind him. He could not use a
tram or train without finding the defendant
1,1 the seat opposite, and at sporting fixtures,
(f be glanced over Ins shoulder, lie looked
into the docile eyes of Ins unsummoned
familiar. It turned out that lie had once
or twice given the victim of this strange
obsession a kind word when they were
employed m the same business and, as the
dog that the world has always kicked remem-
bers the one soul who lias patted bin l , it
] ia( i apparently developed into a state ot
hypnosis. In the circumstances, the beaks
solution of binding the offender over seems
singularly fallacious,
*
“Bromide ’: One of the most amazing
features of the anti-Jewish outbreaks in
Germany is that Anton Lang, who thrice
appeared as the Redeemer in the Obcram-
mergau presentation of the world’s greatest
tragedy, is lending liis deep baritone to the
bawl for Jewish skin and hair. Anton, now
!’! the sixties, was a tremendous draw in
day. His carefully cultivated resem-
glance to conventional pictures of the
Saviour, coupled with a blameless persona
record judiciously advertised at every pio-
Auction, biought pilgnms m hoides :o
httle Bavarian village.
.
Aileron : If Alan Cobliam is ab e t
carry out his present intentions s"cc ssfulL,
Austin ha should soon be celebrating the
completion of the world s record non-stop
aeroplane flight The machine in whmh Gqb-
hopes to fly in one hop h orn England
to Australia had its 3 firsttest flight in But
ain last week. A monoplane of a we 1 known
passenger type, it will cairy extra fuel tanks
enabling a storage ot -88 gallon*, good foi
26 hours flying. I lie l>lane will not alight
f ol ' fad replenishment, but will be refuell d
011 the wing by other planes meeting it at
fixed points. The under-carnage can be
drawn up in flight, the reduced air resistance
adding 40 m.p.h. to the plane s speed. The
distance as Kingsford Smith flew it is IAooO
miles, but. having no landings to make, Cob-
ham should be able to cut off a lot ot corners.
THE VANISHED BELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder where is the mace that mizzled
From the Vic. Assembly so long agone?
And where are the statues Phidias chiselled
That were never to grace the Parthenon?
Where is the purple that Tyre enchanted?
Or the lost Atlantis? Ah, who can tell?
Or the stacks of treasure bold Morgan
planted?
And where, oh where, is the Fmden’s bell?
Where are The Granites mines—-and the
divvy
That someone or other had in view?
Where are the vanished books of Livy,
And certain of poor old Euclid’s, too?
To what dim bourne has the moa borne his
Long legs away from the fern-fringed
dell?
Where are the auk and the iEpyornis ?
And where in the deuce is the Emden’s
bell?
Where was the grave that was dug for
Moses ?
And where do Alaric’s bones repose?
True, these be secrets that none discloses
For the simple reason that nobody knows.
Where is the halo that once was Hughes’s?
Or the blaze of fame that on Scullin fell?
Where’s Pussyfoot Johnson these days? one
muses.
And where on earth is the Emden’s bell?
You ’tees that harry the crooks that diddle
And are death on the two-up schools as
well,
Have you never a Sherlock to read the
riddle
Of what’s become of the Emden’s bell?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Quistraddle”: Among persons recently
selected for a visit by Perth detectives was
a well-known industrialist, who, besides his
political activities, ran a gramophone club.
The officer commanding had never whistled
anything more highbrow than “Moonlight
and Roses,” and so his eyes, narrowed and
all the trained sleuth in him stiffened to
attention when he came on a paper bearing
the words “Stravinsky, D 5674, D 3265;
Rimsky-Ivorsakov, B 365, Xy 293,” and so
on. He rushed back to the station, and
presently directories were being overhauled
for further traces of these aliens. It was
quite a young constable who suggested that
the list contained nothing more dangerous
than gramophone records.
* * * *
“Catriona”; On Commem. Day in Bris-
bane last year a radio announcer had a go
at the undergrads. This year the Univer-
sity procession included a burlesque broad-
casting station bearing the symbols “NBG
Brisbane —-UR2 Rockhampton.” Before the
lorry walked a student carrying on a pole
a sketch of the offending gentleman.
* Sj! * *
“S.T.S.”; Is there the slightest need in
this country for those white sticks for the
blind (B. 5/4/’33) ? It is a great idea in
NO CAUSE TO WORRY.
“Good heavens! My wife!”
“Oh, she’ll be all right, Tommy — that’s my husband she’s with.”
England, where the well-dressed man would
feel as undressed without a stick as without
a hat, and the . blind man’s aid is only one
in a forest. But here the carrying of any
stick at all is enough to make every passer-
by look carefully at the user of it.
* * * *
“Pouritana” : The old-time M.L. police con-
stable with his “Muv on ! Phwat are you
loitherin’ for?” has made way for an officer
with something more than the majesty of
the law behind him. On beat in M.L. streets
to-day are ordinary grade cops whose head-
pieces were college-trained. The education-
pbts-examination requirement for the force
was instituted 20 years ago by the then
Minister of Justice. Laurie Herdman, now
senior Judge of the Auckland Supreme Court.
The consequence is that Commissioner Wohl-
mann is finding the supply of really well-
educated as well as physically fit young men
more than sufficient to meet the demand.
Another result is that the smart police-court
lawyer is apt to encounter a snag when he
tries to put it across a limb of the law in
the witness-box.
* * * =:=
“Lao-dah”: A philological item. The
Ivoln’s skipper is Captain Schniewind. A
Melbourne woman who prides herself on her
linguistic talents determined 'to address him
in his own language when she met him, but
lost her head at the critical moment. What
she got out was “Pleased to meet you, Cap-
tain Schweinliund !”
=1: * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: Since the depression
started, I have had professional bills settled
in unusual ways. For a storekeeper to take
payment in kind is quite ordi-
nary, but for a lawyer to have
his accounts defrayed in turkeys,
sheep and even sucking-pigs
(which I loathe) is a novel ex-
perience. What I hope will be
the climax arrived when the local
monumental mason wanted me to
cut out £6 6s. as a deposit on a
tombstone. I explained that I
was in no immediate want of
one, but he looked at my white
head doubtfully, and opined that
one could never be sure. Any-
how, he could let me have it at
a reduction. I pointed out that
nothing was really cheap if you
didn’t want it, but we seemed
unable to get each other’s point
of view. He went away think-
ing I am a grasping attorney,
and I think he is a ghoul.
Hi ❖ H* ❖
“Hermitage”: Bundaberg, most
patriotic of Queensland sugar
towns, celebrated Anzac Day
with a difference. In addition to
the usual parades and observ-
ances, proceedings began with a.
“Dawn March,” for which all the
returned men assembled at a ser-
vice at the Memorial. Before being
dismissed each man received a double rum
issue, and, as there is no better variety of
“Nelson’s Blood” than comes out of the
town on the Burnett, the participants in
the ceremony were able to memorise the
past, put up with the present and look for-
ward to the future with more assurance than
many of their fellow-townsmen.
:Js :J: $ ❖
“L. de R.”: I should like to believe all
the stories about great virtuosi which, after
migrating from one newspaper to another
throughout the English-speaking world, are
embalmed in (usually ghosted) autobiogra-
phies. Philip Hargrave, the boy-pianist from
Adelaide, has already a respectable collection,
including the one about how the manage-
ment in the interval had to chase him down
a lane and haul him off a scooter to complete
liis programme. Having invented a few
good ones myself, I am sceptical of the
others. Thorold Waters, the Melbourne
musical critic, found a great Australian
singer, once world-famous but now in retire-
ment, full of despair over an article about
herself which she had been commissioned to
write for a London journal. “Nothing
except hard work,” she wailed, “has ever
happened to me.” “Don’t you remember,”
volunteered Waters, “the night in Bendigo
when at the age of four you sang to a
packed audience and somebody sent you up
a box of chocolates, and you sat down on
the stage and refused to be shifted until you
had -finished the contents?” The vocalist
grabbed the life-line, and the story has been
so often retold since that she believes it
herself now.
❖ * ❖
“Huffin-Guffin” : Obituary notices of Wil-
liam Henry Tietkens sent me to my copy of
Ernest Giles’s “Geographic Travels in Cen-
tral Australia from 1872 to 1874,” published
in Melbourne in 1875. Tietkens’s name is
not mentioned in the account of the 1872
expedition. Giles states that the party con-
sisted of himself, Carmichael and Robinson.
They started from “Charlotte” on Aug. 12,
1872, and returned to the junction of the
Finke and Hugh rivers three months later.
Giles’s second journey began on August 4,
1874, from the overland telegraph line. On
this occasion the leader was accompanied by
Tietkens, Gibson and Andrews, and though
he failed in his objective—to get through to
Westralia —Giles pays unstinted tributes in
his diary to his “lieutenant” Tietkens.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Our Postal Department gets a
lot of bricks, but it is entitled to an occa-
sional bouquet. I had a letter which had
been mailed to England returned to
me through the dead-letter office because
it bore the wrong number of the street in
a small suburb of Bristol. Yet my wife’s
mother on one occasion addressed a letter
NOT A JOB FOR HALF A MIND.
“Not selling a thing! I’ve half a mind to get married.”
“Darling, if I mere you, I think I’d find the other half first.”
in England, with the surname all in order
but merely the name of the road, followed
hy “New South Wales.” In the fulness of
time that letter was delivered at our home.
On another occasion a man wrote me from
London; on the address, which was typed,
was my name, followed by that of the house,
but there was a bad slip as far as the town
was concerned. He typed “Moruya,” yet pre-
sently the letter reached me, sent on from
Moruya, and marked “try Leura.” Two
good performances.
* * * 9
“Ex-Fleet-streeter”: Few Judges of our
time have had more glowing tributes paid
to them by press, Bench and Bar than
Justice McCardie, after his tragical end
in London, liis fearlessness and outspoken-
ness being specially commended. But the
newspapers, though they never failed
to report McCardie’s court utterances at
length, were a little shy of giving expres-
sion to some less conventional views which
he sometimes set forth in public addresses.
One of his last speeches was made before the
Eugenics Society, and was distinguished by a
forthright advocacy of birth control and an
urgent plea for the amendment of the abor-
tion laws. Coming from a Supreme Court
Judge it was a speech that might well have
been featured, but Grundyism is still a
powerful factor in England, and London
papers mostly cut down to a few inches his
Lordship’s indictment of the existing law
on these delicate subjects.
*!* * * s]s
“10-2-4”: Four-fifths of Australia’s dis-
like of “modernism” in art is due to the
tortured language of its supporters. The
“arty” critic employs a studio
patter which is the negation of
good English; as Winston
Churchill said the other day of
Prime Minister MacDonald, “he
compresses the minimum of
thought into the maximum of
words.” For example, a Syd-
ney writer, in discussing the
picture by Charles Sims in Mrs.
Zander’s exhibition, referred to
its “subjective concept.” “Sub-
jective” means “inner know-
ledge,” and “concept” means
“idea.” (Vide the Oxford Dic-
tionary.) Why couldn’t he
have written of the picture’s
“inner idea,” or, better still,
“meaning”? Then everybody
would have understood him.
Australians have learned to dis-
trust gibberish of the sort in a
hai’d school. Anyone who goes
to the Domain or Yarra Bank on
Sunday will hear enough wordy
rubbish about “the economic
dictatorship of the sovereign proletariat”
(i.e., rule by labor bosses) to sicken him of
polysyllables for life.
* * * *
“Vanderlip”: The reference to Sydney’s
ambition to establish a “Book of Social
Reference” (B. 26/4/’33) reminds me of
the deterioration of New York’s “Social
Register.” Originally devoted to Man-
hattan's few pioneer families and their off-
shoots. it long remained a volume wherein
Mere Money had no place. But gradually
the growth of a large millionaire class forced
the editors to admit a few picked nouvewux.
The book presently became a tome. The de-
pression lias made it thinner, but not sweeter,
and the keyhole chroniclers have spotted
variously disguised Van Capones nudging
the Rockefellers and other People Who
Count.
* * ❖ *
“Pawang”: The will to power makes
people want to establish themselves, and if
they can’t do it in one way they will do it
in another. A Melbourne man of no con-
spicuous talents or income married a rich
man’s daughter. He was given an important
position in the magnate’s business, with a
capable subordinate under him to see that
he did as little damage as possible. He
was allowed radio sets, home-talkie equip-
ments and cars, but he soon began to t eel
the unreality of the situation. Previously
a Tory, he became restlessly critical or
the established order. The dependence ot
the unemployed on charity filled him with
fury. After attending radical lectures ana
absorbing potted Marxian literature, he
turned Communist, and proceeded to convert
his wife. When the pair started attending
Communist meetings, and even proposed to
send their child to a proletarian Sunday
school, the old man boiled over. Pa put the
screw on by threatening to sack his son-in-
law and stop his daughter’s allowance.
Since then the couple have concentrated on
the intellectual and aesthetic side of the
Revolution —in other words, they have
turned their revolutionary zeal into a harm-
less domestic hobby.
* * * *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: Under the Inqui-
sition the homes of heretics were demol-
ished, as accursed. The same practice
was followed in old New England when
persons had been convicted of capital
offences. There has been only one analo-
gous case in Australia’s history. On July 3,
1799, Samuel Clode was murdered by a sol-
dier named Jones, a free man, Elbury, and
the soldier’s wife, the crime taking place in
a house about half a mile out of Sydney.
All three were condemned, and by order of
the Governor the house was pulled down and
burnt, a gallows being erected on the spot.
On this the three were hanged. Glode was
a missionary from Tahiti.
i’S Hi ❖ ❖
“Witherin’ Tyke”: Your Russian is popu-
larly supposed to be an extravagant person
when he has the cash —one given to the
upkeep of Monte Carlo and other deserving
institutions. A story of Chaliapin indicates
that there are exceptions. A gramophone
co. resolved to celebrate the 30th anniversary
of the Russian basso’s association with it
by presenting him with a record of the
“Volga Boat Song,” done on pure gold. The
presentation was made, and everyone waited
for the speech of thanks. There was none.
Chalipin just put the record in his mouth
and bit it.
* * * *
“Mells”: Sydney has some grim criminal
records, but it may be doubted if in the most
harrowing days of “the system” one man
ever appeared as the central figure in three
murder trials within the space of a few
weeks. That is Eric Roland Craig's experi-
ence. A few months ago two women were
found done to death in ghastly circumstances,
with only a short interval between the two
crimes. Their names were May Miller, one
of the “unfortunate” class, and Bessie
O’Connor, a young girl. After coroners’
inquests Craig was committed to face two
charges of murder. For the killing of May
Miller the jury found the prisoner guilty of
manslaughter and the Judge gave him 20
years. Since then he has twice stood in the
dock to answer the charge of murdering
Bessie O'Connor, and two juries have been
unable to agree about his guilt or innocence.
What will happen next rests with the Crown
Law department. An appeal is still pend-
ing on the prisoner’s behalf against the
sentence passed in the first case.
The most recent arrival in The Bulletin
family is “Australian Radio News,” for “the
listener, the amateur and the trade.” As to
the listener, it caters chiefly for the resi-
dent of N. S. Wales: it supplies pro-
grammes. dissects them and tells the lover
of “highbrow” music what to tune in for~
and the same as to talks, dance-music, reli-
gious services, etc. It talks interestingly
about the men and women who are “on the
air” and their work. This section is copi-
ously illustrated. For the amateur and the
man or woman who wants to know more
about his set (and this section of the paper
is valuable in any part of Australia) there
are plainly-written technical articles by
radio engineers. In thousands of homes in
Australia men and boys are making a hobby
of wireless —either building sets or experi-
menting with sliort-waves, which open up a
most entrancing field. “Radio News” aims
specially to help these. There is a Service
Department, to which listeners and amateurs
are invited to send their problems and their
difficulties. “Radio News,” published on
Thursdays, can be had from any newsagent
or direct from the Bulletin Office, Sydney;
2d. per copy or 10s. post free for a year.
THE WHITEWASH BRUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nobody has been misrepresented like me; no
good Australian has been so maligned.”
— Mr. Lang at Griffith.
They lie, my friends, who call me names
And publish base inventions
Reflecting on my noble aims
And virtuous intentions.
Secure in consciousness of worth,
I spurn, deride, defy ’em.
No sturdier patriot walks the earth
(You take my word) than I am.
They’ll tell you that I’ve broken banks
And solemn pledges shattered;
Have left disrupted Labor ranks
And credit, mud-bespattered;
They , say my evil .course I kept
Till past all men’s endurance.
Malignant calumnies! (Accept
My positive assurance.)
They cannot see, these geese that hiss
Dispraise, these braying asses,
My One and only object is
To lift the struggling masses.
For them, and not for place or pelf,
For eminence or income,
I toil, oblivious of self.
(That’s dinkum, comrades, dinkum!)
They think to pelt me, fair and full,
With' soot that smears and smudges;
They say I’m great at bilking Bull
And swift at slanging Judges.
I face malicious blasts enough
To make a weakling wither;
But (cross my heart!) what isn’t guff
Is just (so help me!) blither.
Lashed by these envious tongues malign
My heart I merely harden,
For mine’s the role of Lenin, mine
The accolade of Garden.
It irks me not that tales are spun
Like these, and lips are curled so.
Australia has no nobler son.
(And let me tell the world so!)
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Hhe dipstick Ml proito it...
Drain your crankcase and refill with SHELL OIL.
The Dipstick will prove its Greater Mileage and
Economy .... Start testing today.
m
V\
Es^
os better
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Boroondara election gives the Vic.
Assembly its sixth lawyer in T. D. Oldham ;
the others are Menzies, Macfarlan, lloll-
way, Blackburn and Slater. There are three
in the Leg. Council, two Cohens and C. H.
Eager, and three in the Ministry, Menzies.
Macfarlan and Harold Cohen. It is a long
time since the Law made such a formidable
showing in the Vic. Parliament.
Andy Lysaght, for a while Lairg’s
Attorney-General, died last week, aged 60.
Like his father, Andy grew up among the
coalminers of the N.S.W. South Coast, and
when he nailed up his brass-plate as a
solicitor at Wollongong work poured in on
him. But Andy was far too much the
idealist to be happy in the law, and once to
escape, it he took up art, studying for a
while in Italy. Later politics satisfied him
even less; he was too much in earnest to
suit any party manager—and that was why
he threw in his portfolio. Naturally he was
a fair mark for the hangers-on: he was
taken down without mercy—-and forgave
them all in his large, pompous way.
Having jettisoned the notion that its chair-
manship is a lifetime appointment the Bank
R. W. GIBBS, new chairman
of the B.N.Z.
of New Zea-
land in the
last decade
has made fre-
quent changes.
This year it
again gets a
banker at its
head —Richard
Waine Gibbs,
born in Lon-
don 73 years
ago. He came
to M.L. at 17
with his
mother a n d
eight brothers
a 7i d sisters.
The ship, the
Queen Bee,
was wrecked
on Farewell
Spit, but only
one life, that
of the ship’s
carpenter, was
lost. Young-
Dick got a
job in the B.N.Z. at Nelson within a
week of his arrival. He reached the
eminence of chief auditor in 1919, and
retired five years later to hecome a share-
holders’ director, his associate being octo-
genarian William Watson, who was presi-
dent of the bank in the ’nineties and ended a
year in the chair twelve months ago. Wat-
son got his prior banking experience in the
service of other houses. Gibbs is the first of
the N.Z.’s former officers to fill the chair.
There was a race meeting at Eagle Farm.
Brisbane, just after Bert Ilinkler had
landed from his great solo flight; and tin*
committee named a handicap, the Hinkler,
in commemoration. Every year since then
it has been run ; and it was on the bill for
the very day when the news of the finding
of the intrepid Queenslander’s dead body
came through. The rider's went out in black
arm-bands.
Major Teddy Costello, Nat. member for
Carnarvon (Q.), must be easily the tallest
member in Australian Parliaments. He
stands 6ft. Tin., and has pieces cut from
underneath his tables and desks to dispose
of his long legs. Costello saw service in the
Great War, and is commandant of the 11th
Eight Horse in his district.
Over 250 veterans still answer to the roll-
call of Cobb and Co.’s Old Drivers’ Asso-
ciation in Vic., though in the last three years
37 have laid down the reins. The 37 aver-
aged 76 years. Frank Smiley, the chairman
of the association, who drove his first coach
56 years ago, is one of the toughest of the
survivors, and at the annual pilgrimage to
the grave of John Conway Bourke. who
rode Victoria’s first mail in 1838, he was
billed this year to recite “The Great Divide.”
Half a century ago Smiley used to drive J.
F. Archibald’s brother Joe from Colac to
Warrnainbool, where he had an auctioneer-
ing business. Smiley’s dad was one of the
original brigade of American drivers who
came to Australia to put Cobb’s coaches
on the roads. He drove for Watson and
Hewitt in Gippsland 71 years ago.
Twelve of the 50 members of the new
Westralian Assembly saw war service. They
arc Speaker Panton (also a Boer War
veteran), ex-Minister Latham (York), A. A.
Wilson (Collie), Charles North, a nephew
of John Forrest (Claremont), A. It. Coverley
(Kimberley), Vic Doney (Williams-Narro-
gin), L. Thorne (Toodyay), Ross McLarty
(Murray-Wellington), F. Warner (Mount
Marshall), J. D. Maloney (Subiaco), Ross
McDonald (West Perth) and H. S. Seward
(Pingelly). The last four are new arrivals
in Parliament. Three Diggers who sat in
the last Assembly have disappeared, Hubert
Parker (North Fremantle), H. E. Wells
(Canning) and B. Corboy (Yilgarn-Cool-
gardie). C'orboy, who was a Federal mem-
ber before he was a State one —he succeeded
the late John Forrest in the representation
of Swan for a brief period-—went down in
the pre-selection Labor ballot this time.
Adelaide has lost a distinguished surgeon
and Australia a front-rank ophthalmologist
in Dr. Herbert Shorney. who died at Mal-
vern (S.A.) last week. Born at Semaphore
55 years' ago, he studied medicine at both
Adelaide and Melbourne unis., and topped off
with a post-graduate course in London,
where he was house surgeon at the Middle-
sex throat hospital. He returned to settle
down in practice as a specialist in Adelaide
25 years ago, and to become lecturer and
examiner in. ophthalmology at Adelaide Uni.
and honorary ophthalmic surgeon at Adelaide
Hospital. Dr. Shorney was a foundation
member of the Australian College of Sur-
geons.
Andrew Garran has been appointed Assist-
ant Parliamentary Draughtsman at the
Crown Law Offices, Melbourne. Fifty years
ago another Andrew Garran, the grandfather
of this one, was well in the public eye.
After being a leaxmed but ponderous editor
of the “S. M. Herald”; he was made the
first official conciliator in industrial dis-
putes in Australia. Young Andrew, the son
of Bob, the late Solicitor-General, was a
Rhodes scholar five years ago.
L. M. MeKillop, F.R.C.S. and many other
things, who was chairman of the medical
committee which watched the tests of an
alleged cancer cure made in Brisbane, is said
to have been mainly responsible for the
slashing report handed to the Government.
MeKillop, a Burwood (Sydney) boy, got his
first training at Sydney, before passing on
to post-graduate work. He felt his feet first
in a country town, then moved on to Bris-
bane, where he now has a very desirable
surgical practice.
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor, Gengoult Smith,
who at 43 is to marry Cynthia, daughter
of former tennis champion Norman Brookes,
is a. son of that Dr. L. L. Smith
who mixed medicine and politics and
public service in an earlier generation.
Gengoult, though he has left his wed-
ding till so late, hasn’t really wasted
much time. He was finishing up his medical
course at Edinburgh (lie had begun it at
Melbourne) when the war called, and he
joined the 2nd Dragoon Guards, came back
Dr. GENGOULT SMITH, who is to give
Melbourne a Lady Mayoress .
at the cease-fire and hung up a plate in
Coll ins-street, got into the City Council a
couple of years later and reached the chair
two years ago. The family has a knack of
putting a bit of color into all they do; and
the End Mayor has gingered up most civic
functions.
In Matthew Common, killed by a motor-
car at 85, Adelaide entertained an angel un-
awares. Well-known in the Mount a district,
but not at all outside it. he had built up
before retiring a fortune of nearly £50,000;
and practically all of it goes to charities.
Sydney gets (as warden of Camden Col-
lege) and Adelaide loses (from the pulpit
of Stow Church) G. 11. Wright, a great
preacher and lecturer. Melbourne-born 52
years ago. he took his B.A. in Adelaide, his
M.A. and D.Litt. in Perth. He has been presi-
dent of the Congregational Union of Aus-
tralia ; was sent for to England to deliver
the Drew Lecture one year; and declined
the pulpit of the first Cong, church in Can-
berra.
Professor Edward Shann, to whose indus-
try and energy the University of W.A. owes
a good deal—he has been Professor of His-
tory and. Economics since its Inception, be-
sides taking a prominent part in administra-
tion—is being sought after in wider fields than
lecture-rooms. Last year he was lent to the
Bank of New South Wales as economic
adviser, and last week his Senate granted
him further leave of absence to attend the
World Economic Conference in London.
Probably he will go as a representative of
his own State as well.
Clive Teece, K.C., who has been doing
great work for the “Yes” side in the N.S.W.
referendum, is a. son of that Richard Teece
who for donkey’s years was manager and
actuary of the A.M.P. Son Clive, born in
1877, is an old Sydney Grammar boy, who
went on to St. Andrew’s College and was
admitted to the Bar in ’93. Dick Teece took
an active interest in Sydney Uni. and all
his four boys did brilliantly there: Clive and
CLIVE TEECE, K.C.—who says Yes.
one brother graduated M.A. as well as in
law, another went to the church and a fourth
settled down in Macquarie-street.
In addition to Teddy Needham, the ex-
Senator, the new Westralian Assembly has
another member with legislative experience
elsewhere. This is A. R. Hawke, the A.L.P.
organiser, who scored the most sensational
Tabor win of the elections by outing the
late Premier, Jimmy Mitchell, at Northam.
Hawke was returned for the Burra (S.
Aus.) in 1924, but failed to hold the seat
three years later. He is only in his early
thirties now.
Uyndliurst Falkiner Giblin is probably the
best-liked professor at Melbourne Univer-
sity. Ilis picturesque career before he fought
through to academic honors, his famous
lapel-less coat, his strain of radicalism and
his transparent sincerity are all in his favor.
As a major with the 40th Battalion, lie won
the M.C. and D. 5.0., so that it was
natural he should be selected to deliver the
address at the Anzac Day commemoration
at the Wilson Hall. There was so little of
current cant in his remarks that some of
the people on the platform shuffled uneasily.
Dr. Henry Ogg Forbes, who died not long
ago in Kent (Eng.) at SO, was a scientist
who did some notable work in Papua over
40 years back. He led two expeditions into
the Owen Stanley Range in the ’eighties.
From ’9O to ’93 he was Director of the Can-
terbury (M.D.) Museum. He was an inde-
fatigable naturalist-collector, and many of
his Papuan specimens are scattered through
Australian museums.
The ancient village of Buninyong, where
Vic. gold was first discovered, sadly
missed two expected stars at its “Back To 5 ’
functions—Speaker Alec Peacock, who was
attorney for scores of mines in the roaring
days, and David Kerr, M.P. for Grenville 40
years ago, now well over fourscore. Illness
kept both the veterans away. The Peacock
lady pluckily attended, and made husband
Alec's speeches for him at all functions, save
the Masons, where the brethren for the first;
time regretted that women were, inadmis-
sible to their ceremonies.
Harold Clapp is making an experiment bv
placing Donald Macdonald, a 33-year-old
electrical engineer, in charge of the big
Ballarat district, a position previously re-
served for elderly stationmasters. Mac-
donald, a product of Melbourne Uni,, has
been a railwayman for only 11 years’ but
he got a grip on modern transportation
methods with the big Pennsylvania and
Illinois Central railroads in U.S.A.
S. E Tolley having gone to Asia in the
Australian trade ship, S.A. Vinegrowers’
Association has elected It. H. Martin to
succeed him as president. Martin was gold-
medalhst at Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege 30 years ago, has given all his life to
vine-growing, and has been president of the
yiticultural Council of Australia. Yachting
is his chief side-line.
There was tough stuff amongst the
pioneers Mrs. Oatway, of St. Arnaud
(Vic.), lost her way in the bush. Thirty-
six hours later she was found sitting by
the roadside on a back road, not very much
the worse. She is 80 years of age.
Arthur E. Whitelaw, who put Preservene
soap on the map in Britain, has returned
to London disappointed that his marketing
scheme for Australian foodstuffs received
little encouragement. ,Whitelaw lias written
three books about bridge. He was a Melb.
University man.
Died in Jersey, at 77, Matthew Bagge, a
former deputy-master of the Royal Mint,
Melbourne—he retired eight years ago and
had since lived in England and parts adja-
cent. Victorian-bred, he was a good oars-
man in Ins younger days, as well as keenly
interested in home-soldiering in his later
ones. He rose to a colonelcy in the militia,
and commanded the submarine mining com
pany of the Victorian Engineers.
Frederick Grace Brown, who has called
it a day in Sydney at 73, was born in Bris-
bane, and followed various occupations until
lie joined up witli Burns Philp at Cairns,
lie left to follow the gold trail to the
1 aimer, Croydon and other N.Q. fields, and
later took up a property which he ran as
a farm, carrying on a storekeeping business,
a butcher’s shop and a hydraulic sluicing
proposition, all on the same block of land.
He was warden as well. The development of
a gold-dredging show in South America fol-
lowed, and when the dredge capsized he went
over himself and salved it. Returning to
Queensland in 1900, Brown became a suc-
cessful dairy- and pig-farmer, going twice
to Britain to float mining propositions in
North Queensland as a sideline.
“R.F.C.”: The late Llewelyn Mander
Jones (B. 29/3/’33) was a grandson of the
founder of the Sydney commercial firm of
that name. His father, David Mander Jones,
and his uncle, G. H. Jones (who represented
Burnett in the Queensland Assembly during
Ihornas Mcllwraith’s regime), became part-
ners in Boonara in 3850. The former was with
Hargraves when he found gold on the Turon
in 1851. David Jones bought Boonara. a
sheep station of 246 square miles, from the
estate of Thomas Hawkins, one of the
pioneers of the Burnett hinterland in 184 S.
Hawkins selected Boonara, but the Califor-
nian gold rush attracted him; soon after
landing in America he lost his life m
a flooded river. The fine old Boonara home-
stead has weathered the years since ’62, but
a more historic relic stands hard by in the
form of the
original home
—the slab hut
—b u i 11. in
1850,
A. r. Blos-
ing, new South
Aus. Minister
of Agriculture
and Local
Gov eminent,
has been a
member fo r
the Northern
D i s trict in
the Leg. Coun-
cil for nine
years. He is
so firmly en-
trenched that
nobody both-
ered to oppose
him last
m onth. A
farmer an d
grazier, lie is
the growers'
r epresentative
on the Advis-
ory Commit-
tee under the
S.A. Farmers’
Relief Act.
A. P. BLESING, new SA.
Minister for Agriculture.
Pearce Delbridge. just dead in S. Aus.,
was _ born in Melbourne 70 years ago.
Engineering at Bendigo was his first job.
but an accident left him with a crippled
arm. So he took up commerce, was sent
to Adelaide by the Henry Berry Co. and for
many years had been its managing director,
One of Broken Hill’s best billets, the secre-
taryship of the hospital, goes to George
Gough', who leaves the secretaryship of the
local F.E.D. and F.A. to take it. Gough has
done good work for the miners; he had the
happy knack of loading the companies’ back
to the limit without adding the last straw.
He was regarded as a certain successor to
Gibson as Federal secretary of the engine-
drivers, but the hospital job had the prefer-
ence.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and (he World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Your Last Year’s Will
May Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Call or Write for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Longer Service with /
PIONEER BELTING.
In all weathers in tropical climate
and on the most difficult drives
Pioneer Leather Belting has
established records of economy
and endurance which have never
been equalled. You pay no more
for the guaranteed dependability
of Pioneer Leather Belting.
Write for Catalogue, Price List
and expert advice.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
Th WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-.
ended preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
r 498,590 325,000 ? 7
I Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
i g ? o J no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
| not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
l liquidation, £325.000.
[ Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 i Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
L 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140,177
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 . . 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 . . 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 . . 792,413 731,250 1,543,296 2,896,624
E. W. Knox, who entered the co.’s service
in 1864, and who became general manager
in 1881 and managing director in 1920, re-
tired last year for health reasons. His
father, Edward Knox, together with a few
other long-headed business men in Sydney,
laid the foundations of the enterprise in 1842.
Now E. R. Knox, a nephew of the veteran
E.W., sits at the head of the hoard table. In
the g.m.’s chair is P. JI. M. -Goldfinch, who
has been with the co. for the last 32 years.
So continuity of the old policy appears to
be assured.
As a testimony to the recent managing
director’s business acumen stands the fact
that shareholders, who put up £2,425,000
in cash, received no less than £7,325,000 in
bonus scrip—of the lot £3,900,000 was re-
turned in cash, leaving paid capital at
£5,550,000, its present figure—and a long run
of 12J p.c. distributions, which have been
uninterrupted by slump. The steadiness of
the div. is due, amongst other things, to the
co.’s contract with the Queensland Govern-
ment, the existence of large visible reserves
and the severe writing down of book values
out of earnings, especially during the years
of high world prices, when the Fiji section
contributed largely to the pool.
In addition to returns under the agree-
ment with the Government (these were
figured at £400,000 in 1929), there are the
profits from milling in Australia (they aver-
aged £201,000 for the three seasons to 1930),
from. growing and milling in Fiji, from refin-
ing in Maoriland and from a fine wad of
investments outside the business. Last
year’s outturn of raws in Fiji was a record
(here exchange and British preferences
helped, too), the co.’s mills in North Queens-
land worked to capacity, and more fines
were produced. So the board wrote net
earnings £48,091 better than the previous
year’s at 13.5 p.c. on capital, and kept the
distribution at 124 p.c., of which 24 p.c. is
labelled bonus. That was after £217,687
had been dropped into the depreciation fund,
etc., raising it to £2,896,624, which the
“Wild .Cat” believes to be mostly genuine
profit; the growth in suspense accounts
(£3,100,174, mainly provision for contin-
gencies) was £62,843.
The way in which the co.’s funds ,were
invested and the snugness of its finances at
the end of March are shown in the next
table:—
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland .. £2,989,636
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth . . . . . . 2,454 357
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve).. 1,315’0i0
Ocean steamers .. . . . . .. 84,669
Distillery 132’,857
Office premises .. . . .. . . 56,011
Stocks and some book debts . . . . 2,057’e52
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 2,513,508
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 3,814’,785
£15,418,485
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors ..£1,607,647
Suspense accounts . . 3,100,174
Final div., 1933 . . 365,625
*— 5,073,446
£10,345,039
Including suspense accounts with liabilities,
and allowing for the final div., the year’s
improvement in the net asset position was
£152,319 as against £282,816 for the preced-
ing 12 months. But what catches the eye
is the fine store of liquids:—
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’32. Mar.,’33.
Liquid assets .. £6,031,381 £8,097,034 £8,385,945
Liabilities.. .. 4,142,304 4,525,813 4,707,821
Liquid surplus .. £1,889,077 £3,571,221 £3,678,124
Thus shareholders are £1,789,047 better off
than they were six years ago, notwithstand-
ing the erection of a new refinery at Perth
meanwhile. Over the same period £338,905
net was added to the suspense accounts.
As for the future, the chairman says:—
The reduction in the selling price of sugar took
effect from January 5. A fresh agreement for a
period up to August 31, 1936, has been entered
into by the Governments so that there is
assurance of stability of conditions for some little
time ahead.
The outlook in the world’s markets is more
promising than it has been for some time.
At £55 ss. the fully-paid £2O shares return
4.5 p.c. on a 12J p.c. distribution.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£££ - £
1922.. 194,718 10 p.c. = 125,000 69,718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c.= 125,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.c.= 125,000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ „ 125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,688 10 „ „ 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10,, ~137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243.485 10 „ ~150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 10,, ~ 150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ ~150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~ 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Writen off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. ..1,471,514
It’s a steady 10 p.c. proposition with possi-
bilities. On the market the pound shares
fetch 50s. 6d.; they were never higher. The
figure had risen to 50s. early in 1929, but
dropped sharply to 345. on a generally ner-
vous and oversold market a year later.
Allowing for the final div. (Is.), the return
at 50s. 6d. is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor at that price who looks for
5 p.c. on his money counts on a 12 i p.c. div..
or on benefits from other directions. With
accumulations now visibly within £28,486
of the £1.500,000 of paid capital, the two
combined need net only a shade over 6i p.c.
to cover a 124 p.c. div. (= £187,500, or
£31,916 less than was netted during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts).
Moreover, since 1920 over £1,500,000 - has
been openly struck off for depreciation, etc.
This liberal provision for contingencies and
the need to constantly overhaul outlets were
part of the old policy handed down by the
far-sighted James Burns, who founded the
business at Townsville (Q.) in the sixties of
last century. It all indicates a cautious
policy, which may mean that conditions
generally will need to become more settled
before extra benefits will be distributed.
During the 12 months to the end of March,
earnings from the shipping section, which
extends round the Australian coast, north
to Java and out over the Pacific Islands and
elsewhere, were maintained, despite foreign
competition; merchandising sales showed
“considerable improvement,” but competition
further narrowed margins. The South Seas
offshoot, which took over part of the parent’s
business in 1920 for a half-million in scrip,
paid 61 p.c., and Queensland Insurance, of
whose £500,000 of capital 8.-P. owns nearly
half, kept its div. at 10 p.c. as against 124
p.c. for the 16 years to Sept. 30, T 929.
Gross earnings from all sections
(£712,511) improved £11,596. Larger trad-
ing added £36,819 to management charges,
etc. (£429,580), but the allowance for depre-
ciation, bad debts, etc. (£74,401) was £31,346
lighter. So, including an unexplained addi-
tion of £10,885 to the insurance fund and
branch and other reserves (now £496,688),
the net result was £33.442 stronger at 14.6
p.c. on capital as against 12.3, 16.1, 16.3,
16.5, 16.2, 15.5 and 15.9 p.c. back to 1926. A
sum of £20,000 is to be. sent to the staff
bonus fund and £25.000 is to be struck off
the book value of plantations, owing to the
continued low price of copra.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows :
1915. 1925. 1932. 1933.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities . . 261,095 1,361,444 1,592,296 1,616,570
Properties,
shipping, in-
vestments,
etc. . . 575,790 2,030,836 2,934,549 2,993,444
Stocks, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 658,583 744,951
Book debts 382,624 781,838 891.380 825,932
Cash . . 47,018 123,955 129,882 143,757
Last year £5B 895 was added to the book
value of fixed assets, and £86,368 to. stocks,
advances, etc., while the cash holding was
strengthened by £13,875. Debtors’ balances
were reduced by £65,448 and liabilities in-
creased by £24.274. Altogether, the more or
less liquid surplus (£98,070, including stocks,
etc.) was £10,521 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance. A new passenger and cargo
motor vessel, now being built in Glasgow,
is expected to be put at work in the island
service before the end off this year.
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct. £ £ £ £
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „ „ 620,000 3,646,869
1923.. C 15,559 13 „„ 520,000 5,740,428
1094 629 904 13 „ „ 520,000 25,000 3,830.332
1925. . 632,555 13 „ „ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652 621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,940,008
1927.. 654,060 14 „ ~ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,<60
1929!! 677,183 14 „ „ 630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000_ 4.667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500*
1932.. 254.970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
*After deducting tax.
A contraction of £1,822,397 in the book value
of advances and of £2i2,00l in bills receiv-
able and remittances in transit was accom-
panied by a growth of £605,654 in bills pay-
able, etc. —the etcetera includes an unspeci-
fied ’ provision for contingencies —and of
£442,057 in deposits, mostly interest-bearing.
Borrowers for commercial purposes were shy ;
so the money was put out in low interest-
bearing liquid securities, up £3,073,512.
It all reflects the continued shrinkage m
trade activity generally during the 12 months
to the end of October last. Earnings were
also affected by a reduction of 1 p.c. in the
charge for advances, further cuts in the dis-
count rate for Treasury bills and the very
low price of call money on the London
market. Interest on fixed deposits has been
lowered, but the full benefit will not be felt
until all the old contracts run out.
After setting aside whatever was consid-
ered necessary for contingencies (the banks
do not yet know definitely where they
stand in connection with some of their
advances), gross earnings (£1,118,033) were
figured £97,774 lighter than the previous
year’s. Only £49,169 of the shrinkage was
Offset by savings in exes. (£624,413) ; but
rates and taxes (£238,650) were £86,039
lower, leaving the declared net result £37,434
better at 5.6 p.c. on capital as against 4.8,
13.6, 15, 15.8, 16.3 and 16.3 p.c. back to
1926. The outlook became less obscure
towards the close of accounts; so a final div.
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was paid, making
7 p.c. for the year. But English income tax
(ss. in the £) reduced the actual distribu-
tion to 51 p.c. It was paid in sterling,
which makes 51 p.c. worth 6.5 p.c. to Aus-
tralian shareholders at the current rate of
exchange. Incidentally, share premiums make
the div. worth little more than half the declared
rate on most of the £4,500,000 of capital.
On the market the £lO shares paid to £s—
other £5 is , a contingent liability pay-
able only in the event of liquidation—are
priced at £lO ss. Allowing for exchange at
the current rate and the tax already referred
to, the return at £lO ss. is 3.6 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The visible cover in net
tangibles is £lO 3s. 2d.; that is to say, an
8 p.c. div. would call for no more than a
shade under 4 p.c. on capital and reserves
combined. At the current price, and again
allowing for exchange and the tax, each
variation of 1 p.c. in the div. would .affect
the return by approximately 10s. p.c.
As usual, strength is an outstanding
feature of balance-sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1929. 1931. 1932.
Notes .. •• £434,329 £333,079 £334,031
Bills, etc . . 4,569,795 3,310,327 3,915,981
Deposits . . 34,414,798 37,678,573 38,120,630
Assets
Liquid assets. . 10,914,862 14.971,813 18,045,325
Advances . . 34,314,960 32,834,378 31,011,981
Bills, etc. .. 3,362,670 2,336,953 2,124,952
Premises .. 278,373 474,020 468,167
The growth in the bills payable figures reflects
the improvement in trade towards the close
of accounts. Still, advances had dropped
to 81.3 p.c. of deposits as against 99.7 p.c.
at the close of accounts in 1929, and £42
11s. of every £lOO of liability to the public
was held liquid at the end of October last
as against £36 4s. a year earlier. Most of
the money that became available during the
year was invested in “Government securi-
ties of Australasia and other investments,
£8,038,270,” up £3,330,852. Of the deposits,
71 p.c. was interest-bearing as against 70.7
p.c. when the accounts closed in 1931.
Another good season is in prospect, but
until world conditions become more settled,
and until prices exhibit more strength, the
difficulty will be to find safe and more profit-
able employment for some of the funds now
held liquid.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56.069 12 „ „ 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 . . 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 . . 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25,551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Sugar mills, like all other plants, need to be
kept well employed to earn satisfactory
results. Tlie quantity of cane which this
cq. put through the rollers last year is not
disclosed. In October the estimate was
27,237 tons as against a record 121,117 tons
for the previous season. The failure of the
crop was due to a dry spell, followed by
severe frosts, in the Bundaberg district. The
final average price for last season’s raws has
not yet been declared; but, owing to the
failure of the crop in southern Queensland,
and the smaller quantity of raws exported at
a slightly better price, the figure is expected
to exceed the previous season’s (£lB Gs. 6d.).
The year’s loss was written after drop-
ping £7lOO into the depreciation reserve _as
against £12,025 in the previous term, raising
it to £88,799. some or all of which may l)e
genuine profit. For the 12 months of 1931
the hoard put net earnings at 8.8 p.c. on
capital as against 6.7, 8.1, 8.3, 12.9, 7.8 and
12.5 p.c. hack to 1925.
At the moment the outlook for the cur-
rent season is for a satisfactory crushing,
thanks largely to the co.’s irrigation scheme,
now nearing completion—the idea is to
guard against the effects of dry weather upon
the growth and sugar content of the cane.
But the retail price of fines has been reduced
by Id. per pound, making it 4d., as from
the beginning of 1933. The cut is equal
to £4 13s. 4d. per ton. This means a
nominal price of about £22 ss. per ton for
raws for local consumption as against
£26 19s. in 1931. The average price for the
whole crop will depend upon the size of the
surplus for export and the price it fetches
abroad. In this respect the outlook is more
hopeful than it has been for some time.
British and Canadian preferences continue
to help.
There is nothing to worry about so far
as the finances are concerned: —
1921 1927 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities . . 16,205 18,594 15,101 6,813
Freeholds,
mac hinerv,
plant, etc..'. 162,031 255,612 294,687 308,525
Stocks . . 30,851 63,545 23,91)8 33,400
Go v e r nment
securities, etc. 16,000 15,910 17,350 16,000
Debtors’ cash,
etc. .. 65,211 32,690 73,216 38,159
The year’s net growth of £13,838 in the book
value of fixed assets was in connection with
the irrigation scheme. To meet the outlay,
knock £B2BB off the debt and carry an extra
£9492 of stocks, book debts and cash were
drawn upon for £35,057. The more or less
liquid surplus (£80,746, including stocks)
was £18,627 lighter than at the previous
balance. The plant is said to be in first-class
order; much depends upon that.
The market prices the pound shares at par.
Leaving the depreciation reserve out of the
reckoning, the net tangible cover is 21s. 5d.,
mainly plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Re-
Dec. Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
21,856
1925.. 2239 Nil 2239 19,617
1926.. 6309 Nil 6309 13,308
Pref. 8 p.c. Ord.
1927.. 7405 5286 8 p.c. = 4600 15,789
Reserves disclosed, £948 .. • ■ 14,841
1928.. 9658 1344 8 p.c. = 4600 3714 11,127
1929.. 6972 1343 8 „ „ 4600 1029 10,098
Loss.
1930.. 332 Nil 10,430
1931.. 728 Nil 11,158
Writen off, £2OOO 13,158
1932.. 5695 Nil 18,853
The year’s loss from trading, etc., was
£7900,' of which £2486 was on account of
writing down the book value of stocks. The
net figure w*as reduced to £5695 by deduct-
ing previous overallowance for taxation
(£1880) and bad debts which had been
written off but recovered (£325). No provi-
' sion was made for depreciation, but the
machinery reserve (£2000) was deducted
from the book value of the asset, leaving
the book value of net tangibles £18,853 short
of paid capital at the end of 1932.
The financial position slipped:—
1925. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital . . £74,305 £74,292 £74,292 £74,292
Overdraft .. 13,436 18,591 19,238 18,321
Creditors .. .. 20,090 12,814 1,948 2,046
Freehold and build-
ings . , 20,256 25,516 25,109 25,109
Plant . . . . 18,332 21,757 19,049 17,051
Furniture . . .. 506 726 676 676
:: ::
Cash, etc... .. 644 176 231
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£12,603, including stocks) was £5252
lighter than at the . previous balance.
Public interest is confined to the prefs. —
there are 16,792 of them, and the div. has
been reduced from a cumulative 8 p.c. to
6.2 p.c. by the statutory cut. The book value
of the net tangible cover is £3 65., mostly
plant, etc., worth what it can earn. . Com-
petition in the structural steel and builders’
hardware business promises to remain very
keen, and the return to reasonable profits
therefore very gradual, the chairman says.
(‘‘Wild Cat ” continued on page 16.)


lher *B%L Tku)De§iqn
111
STANDARD HIGH-GRADE MOTOR TYRE
CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
ARMOURED WALL
HOW to minimise that main cause of tyre destruction —the
terrific heat generated by road friction—is a problem at
last mastered in the new Barnet Glass Tyre. . . . Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance between stretch of
rubber and cords. . . . Heat is dissipated by the fan-blade action of
the buttressed side walls. These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, protecting it against curb cutting
and abrasion and preventing distortion. . . . The new Caterpillar
Traction Tread maintains positive road grip at all angles, ensures
direct driving without slip and perfect control when accelerating
or braking.
Sv— f--;
z, <*i
i .
A-
Sid?,
<m*.
m
IJft
//////>
K'
ft
ffi/ri/J
"A
rtf'
M
A
m/A
A
V'
'//)
7,
//
w?j?y
/'
/ / x
/
/L-
-if
H
>4
y
/
HEAT RESISTING
Barnet Glass
Tyres
1
_/or Cnd
urance
M 16.48,33


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
economical processes for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
i
■'
t 'r- r-
m
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House,-Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coli.json, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, H.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
MAY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Currency Depreciation and Tariffs.
Devaluation of the Dollar?
Its Effect on Gold Premium.
How Can Prices Be Raised?
Maoriland Flax.
Position of Bondholders.
Stocks Worth Watching.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the May issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Pacific Forests, Ltd. (M.L.)
Planting of the co.’s block —12,700 acres in
the Rotorua district —has been completed.
The oldest of the trees were put in six or
seven years ago; pulping is expected to com-
mence in 1940. Allowing 10 p.c. for waste
land and firebreaks, the 11,500 acres of
plantation have cost on average about £ll
16s. an acre so far, of which £3 ss. repre-
sents the price paid for the land. Last year
6s. 2d. an acre, representing part of the
share-selling exes., was written off out of for-
feited shares reserve. All shareholders are
to participate proportionately in whatever
profits may eventually show up; there are
no bonds.
The co. was formed in July, 1925, and in
October, 1928, it floated a subsidiary, the
Waratah Pulp and Paper Co., to acquire
and plant an adjoining block (3523 acres).
Of the subsidiary’s £lOO,OOO of subscribed
capital, £99,970 is held by the parent, which
has paid up £54,562 thereon (an increase
of £9031. last year). The subsidiary has
finished planting its first block, but lias
further land available.
During the 12 months to the end of Oct.
last, 37,518 more shares were forfeited than
were sold in the Pacific Co. After share-
selling exes, which had been capitalised were
reduced by £3752, leaving the figure at
£23,723, forfeited shares reserve increased
by £3271 to £6451. Paid capital (£186,768)
moved up £12,225 net.
At balance-day preliminary exes., etc.,
represented 16- p.c. of the paid capital. Oper-
ating and administrative exes, capitalised
£31,791, up £4623 during the year)
accounted for another 16.6 p.c. of capital.
The £4623 was inside the budgeted figure
for an estimated final cost of £l5 an acre.
To see the programme to the harvesting stage
there is £50,459 of unpaid capital and £6OOO
in cash. The more the co. can keep expen-
diture down now the more cash there should
be to finance marketing.
The freehold appears at cost (£41,977) ;
buildings, plant, etc., £3788; plantations,
roads and firebreaks, £25,977 (up £1360).
Liabilities amount to only £4.
The gold bounty for the first nine months
of 1932 is now being paid at the rate of 10s.
per ounce on production in excess of
450,5850 z., which was the average Australian
production for 1928-30. The sum involved is
£90,000, equal to 4s. per ounce on all gold
won last year. The bounty was suspended
on September 30, 1932, but should the Aus-
tralian price of the yellow metal fall below
£5 10s. per ounce, the bounty is to be
restored.
* X X X
World stocks of copper are estimated at
a million tons. Production in 1932 was
905,000 tons and consumption 895,000 tons.
Production for the three years to the end of
1930 averaged 1,922,895 tons, and con-
sumption 1,953.233 tons. Approximately 51
p.c. of world output used to be taken by the
electrical industries, and 12 p.c. by the
motor-car manufacturers. The average price
of electrolytic urns £36 7s. in 1932 compared
with £42 135., 1931; £62 25., 1930; £B5 Ss.
1929. The lowest price touched this year
was £3l 55.; last week-end the figure was
around £36 10s., with a tendency to
strengthen.
* * x X
The international tin cartel has decided
to further restrict production of the metal
in the controlled areas to 4505 tons monthly
as from July next. The allotted quotas are
Malaya 1927 tons, Bolivia 1224 tons, East
Indies 1068 tons and Nigeria 286 tons. With
the increase in the spot price of tin to over
£l7B per ton (London), it is feared that
uncontrolled production, which is now put
at about 19 p.c. of the world’s total produc-
tion, may increase rapidly.
x x x X
During 1932 Australia imported 360 tons
of graphite from Ceylon, principally for use
in foundry facings and greases. The most
important graphite deposit in Australia is
at Port Lincoln (S.A.), where Graphite.
Ltd., an Adelaide co., erected a flotation
plant in 1929. Marketing difficulties soon
led to suspension of operations, and the
stock is now being steadily liquidated; 70
tons was _ sold last year. The graphitic
schist, which occurs over a very large area,
contains 10 p.c. flake graphite, and can be
mined cheaply by open-cutting; but. not
cheaply enough to compete with graphite
from Ceylon, much of which, it is said, is
being thrown on the market below cost.
X X X X
Queensland’s mineral production for 1932
was valued at £1,784,500 , as against
£1,265,200 for 1931. The gold yield in-
creased by 11.547 fine ounces to 23,2630 z.,
tin by 230 tons to 708 tons, and lead by
30,531 tons to 47,715 tons. Copper produc-
tion at 3136 tons shotted little change. Out-
puts from the principal goldfields were Mt.
Coolon, 68650 z.; Charters Towers, 24150 z.;
Batavia River, 21740 z. A total of 30390 z.
was obtained from the re-treatment of old
tailings. Herberton, with 426 tons, was the
main tin producer. There was practically
no production of lead apart from Mt. Isa.
Though Mt. Morgan’s latest four-weekly
crushing of 627 S tons is 1000 tons better
than for the preceding four weeks, the yield
dropped from 6.7dwt. to s.3dwt. per ton.
Since the beginning of this year the co. has
won 8181 tine ounces of gold plus 98 tons of
copper from 21,377 tons of stone. The plant
i.s being extended to treat 12,000 tons
monthly.
* # i|: *
Some fairly rich leaders have been struck
and .sinking has begun on a number of claims
at Walhalla, outside Cracow (Q.). Water
has to be carted from Boughyard Creek. 10
miles aw r ay.
* x *
On the Surprise, Cracow (Q.), recently
acquired by Golden Plateau, a crosscut south
from the bottom of the shaft (48ft. down)
proved a formation 60ft. wide, with the first
15ft. assaying up to Bdwt. The northern
ground, where richer ore is expected, is to
be proved by a crosscut 30ft. long from a
tunnel.
x x x *
Golden Central Exploration, Ltd., a
southern co., has taken a working option
over the St. Paul’s, Ravenswood (N.Q.).
The last 63 tons treated at Chillagoe re-
turned £l2 per ton. The lode, which has
an average width of 25ft., outcrops for
1500 ft. The shaft, now down 53ft., is to
be sunk to 200 ft.. from which point the
reef will be tested by crosscut. A syndicate
of Charters Towers miners has been formed
to prospect a lode formation about four
miles west of St. Paul’s.
* x x x
Upwards of 50 claims have been pegged at
Flying Fox Creek, in the Warwick (Q.)
district. Alluvial gold, light and flaky, has
been found, and a Toowoomba syndicate
proposes _to bore for the reef. Half a
dozen mining leases and a number of claims
have also been pegged at Canal Creek, near
by, where several small but rich reefs have
been located.
* $ # *
Bendigo’s gold yield for the first four
months of this year totals 10,9840 z., a gain
of 61200 z. compared with the corresponding
period of 1932. The Hercules has been the
principal contributor with 63500 z. from 3131
tons; New Blue has produced 4600 z., and
Ironbark 3900 z. The Sheepshead,- on the
same line a.s the Hercules, recently crushed
85 tons for 280 z., an average of 6|dwt. The
stone was taken from a sft. reef on the 655 ft.
level. Several other new concerns will come
into production presently.
* * * *
Berry Leads, capital £50,000, has taken
over leases embracing two deep lead sys-
tems at Allendale, near Talbot (Vic.). Gold
Mines of Australia, which has taken 30,000
of the 10s. shares, will act as general
manager and consultant. Shaft sinking will
be undertaken to test the leads proved by
15 bores recently put down by a syndicate.
Additional boring will also be carried out.
The wash, which occurs at a depth of from
100 ft. to 150 ft., is 3ft. thick and almost
dry, which should mean cheap mining. The
Talbot district, which is noted for its wide-
spread alluvial leads, contains few roofs.
It is believed that the gold has been shed
from granitic rock found at the head of
several of the lends.
x x x x
Twenty-nine sluicing plants are at work
in the Castlemaine district (Vic.), and 110
men are employed. Production is 250 fine
ounces of gold monthly. The State Govern-
ment has been asked to provide additional
water so that the output may be increased.
* :!: *
The osmiridium lode at Adamsfield (Tas.)
is the only important occurrence of the metal
in situ ever found in Tasmania. Work is
now being carried on at a depth of 50ft. A
crushing plant and pumping equipment is
being installed, and costs should benefit. The
formation is from Bft. to 10ft. wide, and has
been proved for 700 ft. The metal is con-
fined to veins up to 18in. wide occurring
throughout the serpentine lode material.
* ❖ *
Tributors on the Pioneer (Tas.) still con-
tinue to win a little tin. The latest fort-
nightly return shows a clean-up of 71 tons
of high-grade oxide. Tin production in Tas-
mania in 1932 was 793 tons (metallic), to
which Mt. Bischoff, with 456 tons, was the
principal contributor.
: ! : v :{;
Westralia’s mineral production for 1932
is valued, in Australian currency, at
£4,721,620, compared with £2 524.557 in
1931 and £2,191,393 in 1930. The increase
is due mainly to the leap in exchange. The
gold yield (605,561 fine ounces) brought in
£4,403,642. Coal is next in importance; the
output at Collie (415.719 tons, up 16,700
tons) was worth £270,630. Tin from Pil-
barra and Greenbushes (37 tons) was valued
at £3295. The output of silver (58,2550 z.)
was worth £5604, obtained from the treat-
ment of gold-bearing ores. Production figures
for the less common minerals were asbestos,
110 tons from West Pilbarra; felspar. 361
tons from Coolgardie; gypsum, 3647 tons;
glauconite, 186 tons from Moora.
The recent discovery of a series of large
payable deposits by Lake View and Star in
its Great Boulder East lease caused Boulder
Perseverance on the west and Boulder Prop,
on the south to busy themselves searching
for the possible continuation of the lodes.
Both the last-named cos. consider they have
struck the extensions, or something just as
good, in their respective areas. South Kal-
gurli thinks it has an offchance of getting
a bit of the good thing, notwithstanding that
the lodes would have to run through Per-
severance’s 24-acre block. The chance may
look slim, but an outsider sometimes gets
home.
s|: * * * -
At Wiluna (WA. j high-grade ore has
been disclosed below the 800 ft. level, and
stone 22ft. wide, worth 335. per ton, has
been exposed at the 200 ft. level in the Essex
lease, three-quarters of a mile north of the
main workings. Both developments have
helped to keep the shares firm on the market.
* * * *
Melbourne is awaiting results from the
North Kalgurli Central mill, just as Adelaide
is from the Norseman plant. Both plants
are expected to be in operation next month.
North Kalgurli Central has been exposing
good supplies of low-grade ore; Norseman
reports a shoot 450 ft. long, 6ft. wide, worth
50s. per ton on the 470 ft. level. Develop-
ments above 470 ft. do not approach these
figures; but results from work to be per-
formed below that depth will be worth
watching.
* * * *
Hope’s Hill, Southern Cross (W.A.), lias
two of the biggest lodes in the West. One
is 20ft. wide, carrying 4dwt.; a 2dw.t.
quartz reef on the hanging wall runs to a
width of 130 ft. In the early days an effi-
cient plant could pay no divs., though a
previous rattletrap affair was credited with
one, paid out of profits from the sale of
condensed water. Encouraged by the rise
in the price of gold, W. Heydon is giving
the Hill another trial.
* * * *
Frank’s Reward, Wannaway (W.A.), re-
ports that the rich shoot which was pinched
by an intrusion has made again in a winze
sunk 20ft. from Shea’s shaft on the 58ft.
level. At 17ft. a lot of free gold is showing
all over the bottom and sides of the winze.
On the 70ft. level, Reward No. 1 shaft, the
ore-body, average width sft., persists for
95ft. About 500 tons from this drive aver-
aged over an ounce, and more than 2000
tons of similar grade stuff is now in sight.
❖ ❖ Sj«
The Imperial Mining Co., an Adelaide
concern, has uncovered a promising body of
sulphide ore at a depth of 100 ft. in an old
open cut on its property at the southern
end of the Golden Mile. Values reached
an ounce. The new shaft has been sunk to
200 ft., but the inflow of water, said to be
as great as that on the whole of the Lake
View and Star leases, is a difficulty. High
yields were obtained in the past. On the
Lake View South, Dr. Laver and party are
mining good ore. Geologist Lindsay Clarke
recently overhauled both properties.
* * * *
The new decantation plant on Hannans
North Extended, Ivalgoorlie (W.A.), has
been completed. When in full blast it will
treat 1200 tons per month. Tests are said
to have been highly successful. B. H. Prop,
holds an option over this property, and also
over the Enterprise near by. Over 1000 ft.
of boring was done on the Enterprise during
March.
❖ ; ! : * *
In the Warden’s Court at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) it was announced the . other day
that the old Menzies Consolidated would pro-
bably be reopened. The persuasive Claude
do Bernales is said to be securing the neces-
sary capital. Exemption from working con-
ditions has been granted for six months.
An English co. which worked the property for
25 years never managed to squeeze a div.
out of it.
* * * *
Kimberley Options is letting the Patricia
at Edjudina (W.A.) on tribute. This show
promised well at the start, crushings averag-
ing about 2oz. a ton; but developments at
200 ft. have been disappointing. The reef
has been broken up by an intrusion between
the 100 ft. and 200 ft. levels. There has also
been difficulty with a heavy flow of water.
The co. recently installed a winder and
compressor.
❖ * * *
On the North Kalgurli Central, at the
northern end of the Golden Mile, the water
in the main shaft has been lowered almost
to the 400 ft. level, where driving will be
undertaken in search of the Kelly lode, which
yielded phenomenal returns in the early days.
The North Kalgurli, Croesus Prop, and
Paringa are also being developed after many
years of idleness.
$ •!• i.k V
Enterprise Gold, an Adelaide concern, has
taken an-option over the Callion at Speak-
man’s, near Davyhurst (W.A.). The pro-
perty has been worked to the 200 ft. level.
Two winzes below 120 ft. are reported to
have disclosed a large body of sulphide ore,
worth £6 per ton with things as they are.
What the show looks like at depth has yet
to be proved.
* * * *
Mararoa shareholders have been encour-
aged by the progress of the sixth borehole
on Reedy’s leases at Cue (W.A.). At a
depth of 3Soft. the drill is in 3ft. of 3Ss.
stone. Reedy’s is involved with options;
Western Gold Mines, N.L., has the final say.
:|: * =!=
The original owners still have faith in
the Birthday Gift at Brownhill (W.A.),
where a Huntingdon mill, capable of treat-
ing 60 tons per day, has been installed.
Hopes ran high 12 months ago, when a Mel-
bourne crowd took an option but failed to
find the ore-body.
x * * *
Goldfields Australian Development lias
applied for a lease of Dunn’s Wealth of
Nations, at Du.nnsville, north of Coolgardie.
The property, which has been idle for years,
used to be one of the wonder mines of the
West; the finder receiving £147,000 for it.
Down to 300 ft. ore from 6dwt. to lOdwt.
has been exposed. A ten-head mill is on the
spot, and a trial crushing recently aver-
aged about Bdwt. Lake View and Star is
also said to be interested.
* * #
The Maoriland Geological Survey has. a
good opinion of the Manukerikia and Manio-
toto alluvial areas in Central Otago. Only
a small section of the 650 square miles of
auriferous country has been adequately
tested. Geological and geophysical survey-
ing, followed by drilling and test-pit sinking,
to be carried out over a period of years by
a strongly-finaneial co., is recommended.
**■*'*
At Waihi (M.L.), the new west reef
recently found on No. 3 level has been met
in a crosscut on No. 4 level, the width being
25ft. and assay 11s. On No. 3 level the
reef varied from 2ft. to 6ft. in width, with
assays up to 755. per ton.
* * * x
Okarito Gold Dredging, South Westland
(M.L.), recovered 3300 z. from 31,300 yards
for the four weeks to March 25. The value
of the ground was 10id. per c.y. (gold at
845.), compared with 9Jd. for February
and 7id. in preceding months.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
I have been asked to take shares in the
Mausoleum Co., N. S. Wales. Apparently a
prospectus has not yet been issued. Can
“Wild CaC’ supply any information? —5841.
Up to middle of last week no co. had been
registered under that name at Registrar-
General’s office, Sydney. The Mausoleum
Society, Ltd., was recently registered at
Auckland (M.L.), with a capital of £5O. The
promoters, or some of them, came to Sydney.
They have submitted plans to the Ryde
Council for erection of a mausoleum at an
estimated cost of £120,000. There' is talk of
pushing on with the first section, to cost
£60,000, immediately. Whether an attempt
to revive the methods of the Egyptians and
early Romans is likely to be successful now
remains to be seen. Also, until a prospectus
is issued, the important question of the sub-
scription on which the directors propose to
go to allotment remains in the dark. At the
moment the proposition will appeal or fail
to appeal to the investor for sentimental
rather than for commercial reasons.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.C.M.: At the moment the plant won’t earn
enough; also the size of the debt may stand in the
way of an early resumption of divs Jane: Hold;
they are both sound investments, though returns
from No. 1 may fluctuate a little. .. .R.J.W.: (1)
Take the profit while you have the chance. (2)
No. Norseman (AV.A.) promises to be a better
gamble T.W.S.: The co. is struggling to get
out of the wood. Recent performances suggest that
it may succeed; but bonuses are not in sight
A.A.: (1) and (2) No particular developments. (3)
Because there is nothing worth reporting yet. (4)
One call has been made, and another is likely any-
time now. (5) It is just a gamble; the property
is two miles away from Day Dawn. .. .E.E.8.: Hold
Anthony Horderns for a while; sell the rest....
Anxious: (1) The shares are not dealt in on any
of the Stock Exchanges. (2) Be careful; only a
few are fully paid, the rest carry an uncalled
liability, some of which is now being asked for.
It is too early yet to talk about dividends.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Australian Manufacturers and Sales
“Taltingan”: The Sydney Show provided
further evidence that Australian manufac-
turers, with a few striking exceptions, are
the worst advertisers on earth. I saw dozens
of manufactured lines there of whose exist-
ence I was unaware, though some of them
I had often wanted. Others of them 1
should have wanted had I known they could
be bought. Talking to men in charge, I was
told “But the goods can be got at the
stores.” This, of course, shows that these
unfortunate people who are trying to sell
goods as a sort of side-line to the making of
them don’t know the first thing about sales-
manship. That first thing is the creation of
demand; and you can’t create demand by
merely putting goods on the shelves of a
store. Some of these good people explain
that turnover is so small and prices are so
cut that they can’t afford to advertise their
wares. Of course turnover is small and
of course prices are cut. Any fool can give
goods away; it takes salesmanship to sell
goods at prices that will show reasonable
profit. And a reasonable profit on a large
turnover can be made at prices that would
show a loss under the present system of
letting things sell themselves.
Are We Bad Buyers?
“Drummer”: Most of us are. There is
something in the Australian which seems to
make him indisposed to go from shop to
shop pricing goods ; three times out of four,
when he enters a store, he will buy some-
thing there, although he is not satisfied with
the goods, or, if satisfied with the goods,
is not satisfied with the price. Scores of
times I have heard men complain that they
have been rooked—they have paid (say)
15s. at one shop for an article which they
have presently seen priced at 2s. in another.
They practically always , blame the three-
bob trader ; they rarely think of blaming
themselves for bad buying. Yet that is
what it is—disgracefully bad buying.
Postal Department’s Delays
“Botin”: I have a fairly, extensive mail
with England. Ordinarily it arrives in Bris-
bane on Monday nights, and to ensure
prompt delivery I hired a private box (the
P.M.G. charges me £1 for saving his postmen
boot leather) so that I might get my mail on
Monday nights and by working late might
send replies away by the mail which leaves
for England on Tuesday mornings. But
whenever there happens to be a holiday on
Monday, the P.M.G. just closes down. The
English mail arrives, but is permitted to
sleep peacefully in the mail room until the
morning staff arrives to put it in my box
about ten minutes before the outward mail
leaves. The result is I have to use the air
mail at an additional cost of about 7s. on
my correspondence. It may be clever busi-
ness, but it is rotten service,
Australian Butter in England
“Friar Tuck”: A Queensland dairyman
just back from abroad says that in some
towns in England shopkeepers profess to be
insulted when asked for Australian butter.
One great combine “does not sell it.” Yet
this man asserts that he saw stacks of empty
Australian butter boxes at one of its fac-
tories. If it is necessary to blend Australian
butter owing to the number of different
brands and textures made in Australia, it
should be done here. Then we could guar-
antee purity to the ultimate purchaser. Aus-
tralian butter has no goodwill, a valuable
selling agent. But we can surely capture it
by ensuring that the article is of a definite
standard —and letting them know we are
proud of it. Our butter should be put up
in pound pats here, with a design stamped
on each pat, wrapped in paper and sealed.
Pats opened by the Federal graders would be
resealed by them with a sticker, “Common-
wealth of Australia. Opened and tested by
Federal Government.” The London mer-
chants would squeal, but. at present it is
the Australian dairy-farmer who is squeal-
ing, because the other fellow has him by the
leg. Australian butter consistently takes
the leading prizes at the dairy show ,at the
Agricultural Hall, London. There is some-
thing very wrong when such butter cannot
or does not find a market under its own
name. Could not legal action be taken by
the Commomvealth Government on behalf of
the Butter Export Board to stop the blend-
ing of the butter sold under the registered
“Kangaroo” brand? At present most of it
seems to be mixed with inferior foreign
butter, and then sold under some name im-
plying that it is English.
Innisfail, which has been the “two-million-
pound town” of North Queensland, is well
on its way towards being the “three-million-
pound,” as approximately £2,500,000 will be
distributed in the district as- payment for
sugar produced during the 1002 season, when
production was over 45 p.c. of Australia’s
total crop. The mills in tin l Innisfail dis-
trict, Goondi (C.S.R.), Mourilyan (Aus.
Sugar Co.), South Johnstone and Tally
(co-op. concerns), are the most up-to-date
in Australia. Of the money distributed
approximately one-third goes to the mills
and their employees, two-thirds to the
farmers and cane-cutters.
$ * $ *
“Kulkuwarra” : As to the cost of growing
wheat, you might turn up the report of the
Turretfield (S.A.) Government Farm,
started in 1921 with the object, among other
things, of finding put what these costs really
are. The “Journal of Agriculture” (Dec.,
’32) shows that the first 6f seasons gave
regular credit balances, aggregating £2748
18s. 3d. The next four (1928-32) showed
debits of £4371 7s. 5d.. leaving a net loss
on the 10i| years of £1622 9s. 2d.
« * * *
“Split Link”: “Use your railways more.
They belong to you.” This, one of the
slogans of the South Aus. Railways Depart-
ment, is printed in large type on the backs
df official envelopes. In many other ways
farmers are reminded that the "use of motor-
lorries is against the best interests of the
railways. Well, now. Every year a certain
number of country policemen are transferred
to other stations, and this necessitates the
shifting of their furniture. But instead of
using the railways, the department has pur-
chased a motor-truck at a cost of £1200., and
with two men it travels the length and
breadth of the State removing Robert’s be-
longings from one town to another.
* * * *
“Wyara”: A eo. has been registered in
Shanghai which intends, among other things,
to export shark-fins and Australian timber
to China, and Australian crocodile skins to
London. The Australian part of the busi-
ness is being conducted from Darwin by
C. C. Bell, who has lived in the North for
2b years. Sort- and hardwood timbers are
to be drawn by motor-tractors to Darwin
and thence shipped to “the East.” Shark
fishermen have been engaged, and a net
1000 ft. long, made of heavy cord fishing-
line, has been built for netting the man-
eaters, many species of which are plentiful
in far-northern waters. Dried shark-fins
are in good demand in China; a ton of
mixed sharks yields about 201 b. of dried fin.
It is probable that shark leather (about
00 sq. ft. may be got from a ton of shark)
and the oil from sharks’ livers, will be ex-
ported.
* * * *
“Korikcri” (Papua): One reads about
large quantities of Australian tobacco leaf
that is too heavy or dark for the trade and is
dumped or sold at a loss. Why not make up
this leaf into stick or plug as a substitute
for the American brands that are now gener-
ally used both as trade and plantation issues?
These American tobaccos run about 26 sticks
to the pound avoirdupois, and are well
packed, both as to size and appearance of
containers (wood) ; and while they are re-
putedly good of their type and remind one
of the Derby of other days, they have
an aroma that any Tin-hare Commission
might envy. Any Australian manufacturer
who may feel like trying to supply some
of this huge demand will be well advised to
pay particular attention to the size and
appearance of the packages. They should
vary from 51b. to 251 b. net weight, and
carry a trade-mark appropriate to. and
understandable by, the average native —for
instance, an Islander’s conception of Wil-
liam Tell.
* # ❖
“L.A.T.”: Recently several firms have
been fined for selling mattresses bearing
false labels. In each case the firm pleaded
that the articles were bought according to
label. One firm was fined for selling a
kapok mattress branded “all wool.” Three
others were fined for gelling Waitresses
stuffed with rubbish as “kapok.” Some time
ago The Bulletin mentioned that low-grade
wool, at present unprofitable to the grazier,
might be absorbed in quilt- and mattress-
making. At present kapok is chiefly used ;
it enters the country subject oniy to a 10
per cent, primage duty. In fairness to the
woolgrowers and to those who are trying to
push this phase of the woollen industry, the
authorities should see that quilts, mattresses,
etc., are branded strictly according to their
packing.
* * * *
“Itoga”: The search for an Australian
wood suitable for the manufacture of smok-
ing pipes might well turn towards mallee
roots. Dave Hepworth, a 73-year-old Vic.
wood-worker, has been making- pipes from
this wood for years, and they are a practical
tribute to the value of his material. Hep-
worth has been smoking one pipe of his own
make for nearly two years, and it is still
in good condition.
* * * *
“Karoonda” (S.A.) : Farmers are getting
desperate. Recently prior to the sale of an
assigned estate in the Murray Mallee there
had been talk about boycotting the sale.
The usual practice of starting on the small
lines and rubbish was changed. Horses
were run in, and the first offer was 25.,
which increased by Is. bids tee 6s. Certainly
the horse was old, poor and had swollen
legs. The next nag was an aged one and 2s.
was again offered, but by this time the
crowd was convinced that the boycott was
“on” and refused to bid. A third try was
made with the same result and the sale was
stopped.
* * * *
“Digger Timberman”: “Bittern,” who
can’t get an Australian axe-handle to last,
is either a clumsy axeman or a poor judge
of handles. I have two Tasmanian handles in
daily use ; they are just four years old, and
both will require new heads shortly. The
handles were bought in Victoria, selected
from the usual binful in an ironmonger's,
and cost 2s. 3d. each. I still have the
receipt.
' * 4= :Js
“0.W.W.”: Last year 1 mentioned that
an English brand of condensed milk was
being sold in Gisborne (M.L.) at 9d. per
tin. Despite a greatly advanced exchange
rate and a new sales tax, English milk is
now B|d. M.L. milk is Id. to 2d. dearer.
Instead of wailing so much about the crash
in butter prices, local dairy-farmers might
commence a ‘‘Use More Milk” campaign,
with a reduction in prices of both fresh
and condensed to encourage consumption of
the home-grown' article.
❖ *
In Italy they are still giving much atten-
tion to the elimination of waste. In 1927 it
was decreed that two or more cos. in the
same line of business might amalgamate
without being subject to stamp duty and
registration fees. This has had such good
effects that it has been extended to 1935.
Last year 123 cos. amalgamated, forming
58 cos. Incidentally the issue of prof.
shares, has lately had the Government’s
attention. In future every proposed in-
crease of capital by the issue of such shares
must be sanctioned by the Minister of
Justice, who is to define the limits of the
preference granted, and the option of the new
shares must be offered to the shareholders.
=:• * * *
The other day when a ketch put into Robe
.(S.A.) to shelter, the fact was mentioned
in the papers, for most people in the town
had never seen anything larger than a fish-
ing cutter in the bay. Yet Robe was once
quite a flourishing outport. In those days
most of the carrying trade between Adel-
aide and the south-east used to be done by
coastal boats; but when the railways were
built freight rates were carefully fixed to
kill that competition. What the railways
did to the ships motor-trucks are now doing
to the railways; fleets of motor-lorries come
over from Melbourne with general goods and
return with loads of produce, and the Trans-
port Control Board of S.A. doesn’t know
what to do about it.
* « sjr
Another use has been found for Queens-
land silver ash—after a thorough test a
Brisbane firm is making tennis racquets
with it. The Forestry Department is now
trying to find out whether the State hasn’t
a timber that can be used in making lead-
pencils.
A few years ago Maoriland honey ex-
porters had command of the British market,
10-day she is no longer top-dog, but, faced
with the competition of no less than 40
countries, is being pushed out of the sales,
o? ™i 929 I ! er hone y exports totalled
21,600 cwt.; in 1930 they were 1171 cwt.
y\ ith California, Canada and ' Russia pro-
ducing honey equal to the M.L. article—
one sample of Russian recently received in
Wellington was superior to the local pro-
duct—and selling at much lower prices,
ranging, in the case of Russian, as low
as from 18s. to 305., compared with M.L.’s
Otis, to 80s., honey from the Shaky Isles
is selling to-day on name alone, and it can’t
continue to do that. Ten years ago Canada
was not an exporter ; to-day any one of her
provinces is producing more honey than the
whole of M.L. Each province has its own
Apiary Department, and above these is the
Dominion of Canada’s experimental labora-
tory. She set out to build up an export
trade along scientific lines and she has suc-
ceeded. Maoriland, on the other hand, has
no department and no experimental labora-
tory. Her bee-farmers rely upon seven men
attached to the Agricultural Department, and
the National Expenditure Adjustment Com-
mission has recommended that even these
should be fired. This short-sighted policy,
whether practised by Maoriland or Australia'
can have only one result —the loss of
markets.
HIS REWARD.
TRANSPORT CHIEF: “I haven’t a job for you, but I’ll tell you what: get killed and I’ll see you are given an expensive
funeral.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “Waltzes from Vienna”
Criterion “The Breadwinner”
Royal “Tvs-inkle”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Our Miss Gibbs”
King’s Dante
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Plays such as Somerset Maugham’s “The
Breadwinner,” in which the Seyler-llannen
co. made its first bow to a Sydney audience
at the Cri. on Saturday, make this Showman
marvel at the survival of the theatre-going
convention. The audience, 90 p.c. suburban-
dwelling, could have been entertained at its
respective local cinemas, at a quarter the
cost, with a couple of tolerably interesting
full-length plays, very nicely acted, and
staged in a
manner no
theatre can
rival. Instead
of which it
sat for two
and a half
hours to see
one one - act
comedy, padded
out with dia-
lo gue so dull
that very occa-
sional sparks
of very mild
humor produc-
ed laughs, and
made to last
out the even-
ing by the
arbitrary pro-
cess of cutting
it into three
lengths and
giving a
magic - lantern
entertainment,
a c c ompanied
by a skeleton
orchestra, for
20 minutes be-
tween each
section.
The charac-
ters ill “The
B readwinner”
George Benson, in “The
Breadwinner," at
Sydney Criterion.
are all improbable ; the central situation of the
play—-the announcement by Charles Battle
that lie has allowed himself to be hammered
on ’Change—foreshadows itself so palpably
that it comes as no surprise, and the erotic
interludes that occupy the second and third
acts are as fantastically unreal as they are
irrelevant. Mr. Maugham has looked at the
post-war generation and found it rotten, but
the case lie makes in exposition of this con-
clusion isn’t at all convincing. Probably,
most of the oldsters in an audience that
seemed to contain few folk under 40 agreed
with Charles Battle’s remark that the con-
versation of Bright Young Things is inexpres-
sibly boring. But they had to listen to half
an hour of it in the first act, and to a lot
more of it later. •
The play is a dud. The playei’s arc not
duds. Nicholas Hannen, whose stage manner
recalls slightly that of his former associate,
Lewis Casson, has expressive eyebrows, and
a faculty for making his silences informa-
tive. He almost succeeded in making Charles
Battle human. Athene Seyler has tfie vivac-
ity and stagecraft necessary to a successful
comedienne, and character-acting of the
standard delivered by Margery Caldicott and
Harold Meade deserves a better vehicle than
a Maugham pot-boiler. The youngsters of
the cast, Christopher Hassall, George Ben-
son, Hermione Hadden and Charlotte
Fi’ances, are bright and resourceful, though
the boys show a tendency to overact.
* * #
The not-long-formed Royal Academy of
Dramatic Art, Sydney, which hitherto has
staged its efforts in an upstairs room, braved
a lai’ger audience on Thursday evening and
presented Aimee and Phillip Stuart’s “West
End Business” at the Savoy. The comedy
depicts in a kindly manner the fate of a
titled female who takes ud shopkeeping.
Christopher Hassall, in “The Breadwinner.”
Therese Desmond was the life of the produc-
tion as Lady Mary Tennant. Edwai'd
Howell was not at home in the role of a
Hebrew shyster, but Alton Lillie got some-
where near the popular conception of a
Scotsman. Cedric Kempson contributed a
well-sustained characterisation, and the rest
of the cast fitted into their roles more or
less neatly.
* * *
Mary’s efforts to cover white lies told to
her rich aunt become so involved that the
curtain to Act I of “Mary’s Other Husband”
finds her with her home full of Mrs. Next-
door’s household gods, finds her husband mas-
querading as the butler and a man she had
never seen before as her husband. But the
author has exhausted himself at that stage,
and the rest of the play is poor. N.S.W.
Postal Institute’s dramatic section did its
best with the farce at St. James’s Hall,
Sydney, on Saturday, and Marjory Little,
Noreen Bowling and W. H. Gibson showed
talent.
Take a theme that is firmly fixed in the
public mind, like cricket; throw in the bones
(without too much meat) of an innocent
love affair (in dealing with international
sporting idols there must be no suggestion
of impropriety or the dish won’t set) ; stir
in as much action as you like, garnish with
witticisms and serve. This was how “A Bit
of a Test” at Melbourne Comedy was con-,
fected, and it was obviously confected in a
tremendous hurry to catch the fleeting
public taste. It isn’t positively the best
thing Ben Travers ever wrote, though it lias
moments of suitable silliness in the English
farce-merchant’s familiar vein. A sample is
the scene in the second act where “Dandy”
Stratton, the batting hope of the English
side, having made 70 not out in a Brisbane
Test, is led by his interest in an attractively
winsome bit of Queensland skirt to spend
the week-end at skirt’s grandfather’s bunga-
low at Jackson Ridge, which is invested by
concurrent waves of city thugs and bush-
rangers after grandpa’s gold. In this scene
more doors are banged than in any play
Melbourne has seen since “Up in Mabel’s
Room.” Having tied up nearly all the bush-
rangers, the English batsman is tied up him-
self, but is released by Mrs. Rushy, a stout
lady in pyjamas, presumably meant to be
typical of heroic Australian womanhood. A
final wave of bushrangers is then tapped on
the head by the batsman and his captain, and
the action or agitation returns to the dress-
ing-room at Brisbane Cricket Ground. Here
the proceedings are made definitely dull by
Inspector Barker, who insists on conducting
an inquiry into the theft while the Australian
team is taking the field; but all ends well.
The play will probably be better done on the
screen than it was on Saturday night. The
part of the English batsman who makes
pretty glances to leg because there is a girl
he knows in the pavilion is appropriated by
Bromley Challenor. It is a character which
gives Challenor full scope for a demonstra-
tion of the sincerest piece of flattery any
actor ever bestowed on another, the reci-
pient of Challenor’s obsequiousness in this
case being Ralph Lynn. Those who haven’t
seen Lynn’s monocled silly ass will be able
to accept Challenor as the genuine article.
He serves admirably as the funny backbone
Margery Caldicott, in “The Breadwinner.”
of the piece. As his feminine accomplice,
Mary Gannon, the returned Australian
actress, is less impressive, though she looks
pretty enough. A genuine success is scored
by John Fernside as the crapulous grandpa
to whom the clink of a glass on a bottle is
as the music of the spheres. Leslie Victor’s
English captain doesn’t pretend to be more
than a comic-strip artist’s caricature of
Jardine. There is a number of alleged
Australian types in the cast, but the critic
who would look for characterisation in them
might as well try to rivet a nail in a custard
or look for mermaids at Yan Yean.
* * ¥
Dr. Cecil Finn Tucker, Melbourne’s most
prolific playwright of the moment, handles
light dialogue with real surgical skill, but
he never cuts deep enough to qualify for
the diploma of theatrical satirist. And satire
is demanded in his latest opus, “Uneasy Lies
the Head,” put on by the Little Theatre,
Melbourne, four nights last week. The sub-
ject, the mythico-historical romance, calls for
a major operation. In fact, present writer
would gladly see the patient succumb, owing
to the surgeon making the unfortunate mis-
take of cutting its windpipe instead of remov-
ing its post-nasal growths. In Dr. Tucker’s
case there is the usual English aristocrat who
is offered the throne of Cathalia and who, like
all good sports, gives it a fly; also the usual
lovely lady who manages to get herself shut
up in a castle and occasionally is shut up
on the stage. Some hearty laughs are heard
when the king uses slang and spends a
good deal of his time explaining its meaning
to the diplomats ; but Dr. Tucker never gets
down to the appendix. He merely cuts grace-
ful patterns on the skin. The critic is left
wondering whether it was “Chums” the
doctor read in his impressionable youth or
“The Boy’s Own.”
There is no anaesthetic for actors like a
bad play, and the cast of counts, councillors,
generals and orderlies appeared to be under
.the influence of twilight sleep. Brett Ran-
dall’s fixed air of boredom fitted his kingly
office better than his role of lover, which he
played opposite Gwen Munro with intense
apathy.
Y- * *
International Attractions, which means
Ernest Rolls, turned to “Crazy Week” at
Melbourne Princess on Saturday night.
Except that there are song changes and cos-
tume. changes,- and that, *t-he jokes are dif-
ferent and yet curiously reminiscent, the
show remains as it was when the Spring-
street boom began several crazy months ago.
Rene Riano is still in full blast, and if the
premium on her million-dollar legs has
lapsed, they are assured of the rapt atten-
tion of an audience, for they perform the
queerest capers ever conceived outside hys-
teria. Charles Norman is an excellent com-
edian with a casual manner that does not
have to sweat hard for laughs; There is a
fair amount of glitter and a larger amount
of titter in the show, and it will be remem-
bered until it is forgotten, and will run until
it stops or the roof falls in.
* * *
Young Philip Hargrave filled Melbourne
Auditorium to overflowing again last week.
The small boy was in the pink of pianistie
form, and when he tripped through the
“Moonlight Sonata” without turning a
youthful hair the hall nearly burst with en-
thusiasm. The absence of physical strength
in the playing was. forgotten in the agile
touch he displayed in some of the runs. The
programme was lavish and long, but Master
Philip was never at a loss for a note. He
took the applause with the bow of an accom-
plished virtuoso and the broad smile of sur-
prise of a juvenile presented with an un-
expected bun.
Dante continues to distribute beer, magic-
ally brewed on the stage at Melbourne King’s,
to members of the audience. The other night
the president of the Australian Society of
Magicians (M. Russell) presented the
dapper little conjuror with a badge and a
miniature boomerang. He refrained from
producing them out of his hat or from behind
the magician’s oar, no doubt as a matter
of professional courtesy.
V Y- V
Peter Dawson, who was welcomed offici-
ally, personally and convincingly in his home
town, is filling Adelaide Town Hall, with
programmes which range from the highest
to the (no less artistically rendered) rollick-
ing. With him is Tapia Caballero of the
wizard fingers. With the Royal closed, the
Tivoli keeps things going in a low-priccd
variety season; Shand and Foley are the
chief laugh-makers.
The Palette.
“M.G.S.”: An exhibition,, of English
modernists at Newspaper House left Mel-
bourne in a state of some bewilderment as
to what modernism is' o£ wlfaff* it professes
to be ; in short, what its aims are. The cata-
logue was not enlightening. Such' phrases
as “eloquence of form” and “aesthetic har-
Nicholas Hannen, in “The Breadwinner.”
mony” mean no more than any other string
of absolutes. No form could be more eloquent
to a horse than one suggesting a bale of hay.
What fashion declares to be a beautiful
female figure would leave the horse emotion-
ally unmoved. Human beings are just as
subject to associative ideas when surveying
a picture as a horse when surveying a feed-
box. The side of beef of Rembrandt may
not please some of us. It conjures up memo-
ries of a visit to the abattoirs. Yet it is one
of the world’s great pictures, and now
acknowledged as such. What, then, is the
criterion of what is beautiful? The philo-
sophers have helped to muddle the issue.
Schopenhauer said that the artist completes
the half-uttered speech of Nature. In short,
Nature, like patriotism, is not enough. You
must add something to it. The question is.
what? Who is to be the judge as to whether
what you have added has significance? Ob-
viously, without some criterion what an im
becile might add might be just as valid a:
what an Augustus John adds. However, some
guidance is available. All the great painters
of the past have been unanimous in contradict-
ing Schopenhauer. To quote two out of
many. Rodin said. “I have spelled out a
few pages of a book (Nature) with an infi-
nite number of leaves.” Corot said, “When
I look at Nature I am filled with rage at my
pictures.” The modernists are all Schopen-
hauerians. They profess to complete the
half-uttered speech off Nature. This implies
that they already understand Nature’s utter-
ance —in painters’ terms, they know what
things look like. This is tantamount to a
claim to omniscience. No physicist would
say that Nature’s laws had been all dis-
covered and now it was necessary to invent
something different. Nature is infinite, man
finite. If Corot, who was an immeasurably
better painter than any of the exhibitors in
Melbourne, was filled with rage' at his pic-
tures, it was because, like Rodin, he had
only succeeded, after a lifetime of endeavor,
in spelling out a few pages of a volume to
which no artist will ever write Finis. What
the English modernists actually add to
Nature is easily identifiable by anyone with
even a cursory knowledge of pictures. It
is a number of old and new conventions.
Some apply the conventions of the Italian
primitives, others of those old-fashioned
modernists, Cezanne. Matisse, Picasso and
Gauguin. The result is invariably something
less, not more, than Nature,
“Meldrumite”: A show of the loveliest
landscapes yet painted in Australia was re-
cently opened in Melbourne. It will some
day be regarded as marking a definite era
in tbe country’s artistic achievement. Every
critic except one promptly went and got the
largest size in hobnailed boots obtainable
and jumped on it. Some of the objections
were pantomimic. The gallery is the most
scientifically lit in Melbourne. All the illu-
mination. which is artificial, is concentrated
Hermione Hannen, in
“The Breadwinner.”
on the pic-
tures. One
critic said
that he would
have liked to
take them out
into the street
and look at
them by day-
light, regard-
less of the
fact that most
pictures are
destined to be
seen mainly
under artifi-
cial light. An-
other said that
it would have
been no use a
girl wearing a
nice dress to
the opening
because sli e
couldn’t be
seen in it,
whic h was
tantamount to
a musical
critic com-
plaining be-
cause com-
munity singing wasn’t allowed at a Melba
concert. Having decided that Melbourne is
the most provincial million-city in existence,
exhibitors who are able to do so are return-
ing to Paris, where they have been received
with sympathy and understanding.
Joan Stephanie Austin’s pictures at 367
Little Collins-street rejoice in original titles,
such as “Holor Cocktail,” “One .Way of Look-
ing at Marigolds” and “Somebody’s Back-
yard. Sydney.” They are mainly flowers in
outline and flat color, and belong to the
framed chintz-pattern school of painting.
There is one nude of which Cezanne, Van
Gogh, Matisse and Picasso are obviously the
synthetic parents.
“Axel” : A London publishing firm in the
latest number of its “Masters of Etching’
series presents reproductions of the works of
Martin Lewis, an Australian now resident
in New York. Lewis commenced his artistic
career over 30 years ago with sketches _ for
The Bulletin. The reproduced etchings
deal mostly with New York and its denizens.
Castlcmaine (Vic.), the artist’s birthplace,
has two of his etchings on the walls of its
gallery.
“F.S.” : Some people in Melbourne believe
that the Felton Bequest people can never
do anything right, whatever they do; there-
fore, when it was announced that they had
spent £21,500, t 0 which exchange has to be
added, for a Rembrandt self-portrait, there
was a tremendous uproar. Some said that
nobody wanted to look at a picture of a
gaunt old man, others said that it was a
rotten painting, others again declared that
the money should have been spent on Aus-
tralian paintings. Actually all that is known
at present is that the- picture dates from
the greatest period of the world’s greatest
painter, when, bankrupt and completely for-
gotten, he steadily pursued his single aim of
putting down with his hand the impression
his eye received, as defined by a mind that
had freed itself from every inartistic pre-
judice; and until it is'seen one can only
hope that it is a good 'example. If such a
picture does Australian artists or the public
any harm it will only be because they cannot
get rid of their own prejudices. I was once
driving down Bourke-street with a friend on
a day of misty rain, and I remarked how
beautiful it was. He said; “It only looks
like bad weather to me.” If Melbourne does
not like pictures of gaunt old men, scarred
with the buffetings of fate., and cannot get
over its prejudice, then it is paying £26,000
too much for its latest acquisition; but in
actual fact great art eventually beats down
prejudice, as it did in the case of “The Bent
Tree” of Corot, which aroused the same
indignation. In any event, nobody but the
agents in London know what the picture looks
like, and for responsible people like J. S. Mac-
Donald, of the Sydney Gallery, to suggest,
on the strength of a monotone reproduction,
that the Felton has been diddled again is,
to say the least of it, amusing. The repro-
duction printed in the local papers didn’t
even happen to be the right one. It was a
copy of quite another picture, though a good
one.
Harold.. B. Meade, in “The' Breadwinner ."


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
EXCHANGE EQUITY
£Boo, in handsome five-roomed
bungalow, Manly, for small farm, pre-
ferably on North or South Coast. Particu-
lars Box 937GG, G.P.0., Sydney.
TO MEW
nearing
MIDDLE-AGE
Y
Beware Age 40—When your Life
Line starts threateningly to Decline.
The average life ends at about 55. At 40 the
pace noticeably slows—-and worrying signs
appear. These tell of kidney and bladder
breakdown; failure to eliminate the system’s
poison wastes, especially of uric acid. Back,
loin and groin pains appear, swollen Joints and
limbs; increasing need for urination; possibly
severe inflammation of the bladder and urinary
tract; rheumatism, which cripples and weakens
the heart. Keep your kidneys and bladder in
health by taking Harrison’s Pills, the signed
remedy of a London doctor. These will free
you from aches, pains, stiffness, and that
growing weariness and weakness arising from
your kidney and bladder strain. Harrison’s
Pills will give you a new source of strength
and health at a time when neglect may prove
irreparable. Doctors and nurses recommend
Harrison's Pills, while chemists everywhere
sell them at trifling cost.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
252 George Street, Sydney.
w
\
i
m
m
m
m
\\w
53^*
f i ti i
WINTER CRUISES
BV
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
"MALOJA," 21,000 Tons
The R.M.S. "MalojcT will leave Sydney on the
16th June for a twelve days' cruise to Papua,
via Brisbane, Whitsunday Passage and the
Barrier Reef. Fares 18 to 24 guineas.
First Saloon only.
"STRATHAIRD," 22,500 Tons
The R.M.S. "Strathaird" will leave Sydney on
the 25th August for a twelve days' cruise to
Papua, via Brisbane, Whitsunday Passage and
the Barrier Reef. First Saloon fares from I 8 to
24 gns. Tourist Class fares I I and 13 gns.
FARES ARE FREE OF EXCHANGE
•FOLLOW THE SUN
B V
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Secret of Madame Blanche,” at the
Regent, is so good in ways that its bloomers
and crudities are all the more irritating.
Irene Dunne, star of a New York musical
comedy, meets and marries Phillips Holmes,
a masher of the ’nineties. The editor of
the “Tailor and Cutter” would fight against
the producer’s idea that men wore 1933
hats, collars and dress-coats in this era, and
he would be right. The women are dressed
in period. Irene Dunne is left with an infant
on her hands by her wastrel spouse (who
commits suicide), and, after it has been
taken from her by one of those curious legal
processes of which the mind of Hollywood is
prolific, she degenerates into a Parisian .Mrs.
Kate Merrick. Her descent from girlish
beauty to grim old age is done with restraint
as well as power, but Lionel Attwill, as the
inhumanly callous aristocrat who disowns his
son (her husband) and steals her che-ikl, is
straight out of the baser kind of melodrama.
The Victorian era is treated much more
kindly—also much more fairly—than in
“Cavalcade.” Compare the musical comedy
sequences of the two films. The one in
“Cavalcade” shows musical comedy as it
never was on land or sea; the one in this
picture gives some idea of the genius for
light entertainment of an age which gave
the world such little masterpieces as “The
Belle of New York,” “Ma Mie Rosecte” and
"The Geisha.”
In “What! No Beer?” Buster Keaton
and' Jimmy Durante are together again, the
one as a half-witted taxidermist, the other as
a virtually maniacal barber. It is the first
film this Showman has: seen in which the
corpse of prohibition is danced on, figura-
tively speaking, with cries, of ribald joy. The
imbeciles mentioned above revive a disused
brewery, and after certain differences with
racketeers (John Miljan is the head thug
and Phillis Barry is his mistress, whom
Keaton has the doubtful privilege of win-
ning and wedding) Congress legalises beer,
and they become millionaires. A great pic-
ture for noise-and-asininity fans.
“Wedding Rehearsal,” at the Plaza, con-
forms to British film tradition in many
respects. But the casting is exceptionally
good and the photography is a joy to the
eye. Roland Young is a fascinating Guardee,
who is intent on remaining single despite
the wishes of his match-making grandmother,
the Dowager marchioness of Buckminster
(Kate Cutler). Finally the marchioness
prepares a list of eligible spinsters and
commands him to choose one on penalty of
disinheritance. The list includes the famous
Roxbury twins (Wendy Barrie and Joan
Gardner), daughters of Lord (George Gros-
smith) and Lady Stokesire (Lady Tree).
Young gets the twins engaged to a pair of
detrimentals, and he has fixed up matches
for most of the others on his grandmother’s
list, when he is snared by her secretary-com-
panion. George Grossmith, who was an idol
of pre-war London in just such parts as
Roland Young shines in now, has a great
part. Lady Tree, who wasn’t much to the
fore in the lifetime of her eminent actor-
managing husband, also shines. The shots
of the English countryside are charming,
particularly one of a picturesque little rail-
way station near. London.
“Men of Steel” depicts life in an Eng-
lish steel foundry. Everywhere gigantic
machinery moves impressively to perform
its stupendous tasks. The trouble is that
the story doesn’t approach the standard of
the settings. John Stuart is a likeable young
foundry-worker, who invents a new steel
with the help of the boss’s typist (Heather
Angel) ; Franklin Dyall is the boss who
secures the use of the new steel for a year
and persuades his daughter (Benita Hume)
to vamp Stuart. Is it necessary to say that
virtue triumphs?
* * *
In “Tiger Shark,” at the Capitol, Edward
G. Robinson plays a Portuguese fishing-boat
captain, who combines the physical strength
of a Sandow and tha mental weakness of a
child. He is married to Zita Johann but
she loves Richard Arlen, the shark master’s
second-in-command. When Edward finds
out he heaves Arlen overboard, but in doing
so he falls in, in every sense of the word,
himself. In the ensuing battle with sharks
the adulterer comes through unscathed and
the husband dies. Moral: Stick to Reno.
The shots of poor Edward being torn to
pieces are realistic to a degree.
“Private Jones,” starring Les Tracy, is
another attempt to boost the doughboy. The
hero doesn’t do any fighting other than
with his superior officers, in the early
sequences. Then he is kicked into the line
by a back-area artist whose girl is suspected
of a passion for him. He gets captured and
saves his hide by offering information to the
enemy. H‘e next goes violently patriotic,
knocks his guards stiff, releases warning
flares, ruins the German stunt, and rejoins
Uncle Sam’s army of merry-makers. There
are some guffaws in it for anyone who was
in Flanders during the war.
v v
“After the Ball,” a British production at
Sydney Mayfair, is well up to the standard
of most Hollywood films of its type. It is
full of snappy little human cameos and neat
action touches smoothly held together in a
smart theme. An impression of naughtiness
is cleverly conveyed to the final fade-out,
which is designed to please the puritanical.
Basil Rathbone, the gay philanderer of many
Hollywood films leads, with American
Esther Ralston. Claude Heatherley and
Marie Burke attend to the comedy and
Marie has a little song. The setting is
Geneva, the plot hanging upon the engineer-
ing of a treaty by a minor member of the
League of Nations. Three songs and a first-
rate band add to the interest.
“When London Sleeps” was a popular
melodrama 40 years ago, but what it is doing
as a talkie Elstree only knows. It contains
such items as a high-born orphan brought
up by humble friends, a rich young man
won by her charms, a suppressed will, an
abducted heiress, a burning building, an
escape over roofs and telephone wires, a
gallant rescue by the lover, with a climax
in which villainy is foiled and love emerges
triumphant. A stock cast makes the best
of it.
* * *
“Telegraph Trail,” at Sydney JHaymarkef,
tells how the U.S.A. was united by a trans-
continental line. Marceline Day is the
pretty girl who warns John Wayne of the
ambush, and thereafter enough Injuns bite
the dust to satisfy even the kids in the audi-
ence.
“Scarlet Dawn” is about the Russian
revolution. The sequences showing the
hegira to Constantinople of Prince Nikiti
(Doug Fairbanks, jun.) and his only re-
maining slave (Nancy Carroll) are interest-
iug. He first marries and then leaves the
lady at the instigation of Lilyan Tashman.
Eventually he returns to his wife, only to
be deported by Ivemal Pasha. Nancy Carroll
has little to do but dawdle about and look
pathetic; the Tashman helps to shatter the
1010 atmosphere by wearing 1033 gowns.
A harrowing divorce-court scene is the
feature of “No Other Woman,” at Sydney
Empire. Irene Dunne again represents a
mother who is willing to suffer anything for
the custody of her child. There’s no doubt
she does it supremely well. Charles Pick-
ford is her husband. He loves her in his
heart, blit is temporarily persuaded by
naughty Guili Andre that he doesn’t.
“L . de R.” : Stated some time ago in The
Bulletin that spruikers, like rickshaw-
pullers, seldom last beyond five years. If
that is so, then Charley Frederickson, Mel-
bourne’s most famous stentor, who nightly
delights the multitude outside Hoyt’s de
Luxe, is the exception that proves the rule.
Charley has been spruiking for his present
employers for 25 years. Before that he
spruiked at the old Rotunda in the days
when the moving pictures were so new that
he had to tell the passing crowd exactly
what they were. To-day his voice will lift
you out of your boots at 50 yards, and
he orates from 12 noon to 4 p.m.
and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. every day. He has a
rare gift of humor and will improvise on
the spur of the moment when a Melbourne
identity passes along the street. His star
turn is alliteration, and he has one sentence
of 120 words, all, except the conjunctions
and prepositions, beginning with the letter
“s.” Compared to him all other spruikers
I have listened to are journeymen. He
spends his leisure making masks and heads
for theatrical companies. Incidentally, he
was first mentioned in The Bulletin when
he was eleven and was doing a dance turn
at the Bijou.


Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Speiicer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victorians greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with break f a st
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double —all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more: and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but,
Pi
wm, w
mm i
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your ear free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon's Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
/mem BERN.
Akfuon ]
JlO'tlßlEA'lJ €»
CIIRCUIAMI'DSti
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers w'hose goods are everywhere
procurable. Tlie “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many' and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81022.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Post”: My recently-acquired Alsatian
pup shares the distaste of Rokko’s bulldog
v J>. 19/4/’33) for the altogether. As he.
delights in retrieving sticks thrown into
water, I decided to teach him to bring in
ducks, when shooting over a shallow lagoon.
Bringing one down about 20 yards out, I
stripped off to wade out and show him how
it. was done. Presently I whistled. Turning
from his investigation of a rabbit’s hole, lie
bounded down to the water’s edge; then,
catching sight of my lily-white figure, he let
out a snarl and bristled. When I spoke to
him he became more savage, so I decided to
abandon the lesson for that day. Fixing him
with one eye, I scrambled for my togs.. No
sooner had I donned my pants than he gave
a yelp of joy and was once more a loving
hound.
* * * *
“Tt-i”: “Imbaga” (B. l/2/’33) is quite
vioug when he says that in Papua crocodiles
cbmb to the tops of trees in dry weather.
J hey don t. They do, however, trek down
from the dry creeks inland to the tidal rivers
nearer the coast, and it is at this season
nmt we catch and train crocodiles for trans-
port use on our plantation. After a month or
so of hard schooling and nourishing food
(each croc, receives one labor unit per
week), it is the work of a moment to inspan
a pair to a 40-foot double dug-out canoe,
loaded with 60 bags of copra. The six-mil
trip to the coast is in this manner often
completed in under the hour. From time
to time a native driver disappears, but the
loss does not worry us much, as the croc,
automatically forfeits his ordinary weekly
issue on SaturdaV
* >s *
xt c^r bob ” : - This State-wide rabbit drive in
A.is.W. reminds me of some fumigating we
did, some years ago at the appropriately-
named Warren. We used carbon bisulphide,
" n our method was to block the entrances of
all burrows in the bunnies’ castle save one,
put in a charge of CS2 and throw in a match!
A sheet of flame and smoke would
shoot out of the hole before it could be filled
m. Considering this wasteful, the overseer
devised a scheme of firing the charge with
a pea-rifle inserted in the mouth of the
burrow with earth tamped well round to
make the job airtight. When he pulled the
trigger a miniature earthquake occurred and
we bad to dig him and the rifle out of tlm
debris. But he wasn’t beaten. His next
plan was to soak a live rabbit with the bi-
sulph., and shove it in a burrow followed
by a match. The bunny caught alight,
emerged from an unsuspected hole and started
a bushfire in its progress through the dry
barley grass, en route to the next warren.
When I left the place they were planning
explosions with electrically-ignited gelignite.
"O. I. Amami" : Each morning when climb-
ing the narrow track to work I collect on
head and shoulders the thick sticky webs of
brown spiders. Usually the despoiled spinners
move to a new site, but there has been one
exception. A dew-heavy web hung between
a lantana bough and a banana stool. Spiders’
webs make unpleasant face-veils, and I
confess I took a grim satisfaction in demolish-
ing this particular snare again and again. One
morning the spider appeared on a banana-leaf
two feet above the level of my head. A
strand of double thickness ran from him
over a higher lantana twig and down to the
bottom of the web. Inclining my head
slightly, I took four paces forward, and
turned to see the result of my sabotage. The
web was still intact! Mystified, I ‘ slowly
retraced my steps. The spider, which had
started , for its lair, darted back, seized the
reinforced strand and, throwing its weight
on its back legs, worked itself backwards
until the whole web was raised, like a
theatre curtain, sufficiently to allow my head
a clear nassage.
* * * *
“Black Swan”: A story of the early
days of Geraldton (W.A.) centres in a
German university student whose anthro-
pological researches nearly cost him his life.
In order to secure a perfect specimen of
an aboriginal skeleton for his Alma Mater,
he exhumed the corpse of a native lately
killed in a tribal war and engaged a member
of a whaling crew to boil it down. He was
warned that the natives would not lightly
view such desecration, but took no notice.
QUITE A PUBLIC AFFAIR.
BOSS (after local election ): “Why don’t you believe the ballot is secret, Jacky?”
JACKY: “Flurry fraud. Everybody knows who gets in.”
When the job was nearly over his confeder-
ate noticed a couple of natives reconnoitring
in the sandhills. A party of 20 or 30
launched its attack that night, but fled in
terror at sight of six ghastly sentinels whose
eyes blazed through the blackness. The
materials which produced the magic of the
white medicine man consisted of six pig-
melons, together with phosphorus, stakes and
sheets.
* * * *
"Dai R.” : Like rabbiters, nearly all bush
fishermen have their favorite decoy. The
belief that a red pennon fluttering on the
bank attracts the quarry has many sup-
porters. There are cognate theories, differ-
ing only as to the color of the lure. Amongst
the many famous whalers who periodically
visited Walgett (N.S.W.) ip my boyhood
days was “Barwon Charley.” When no one
else could get a nibble Charley could get a
bagful. When biting was bad he wan-
dered up and down the bank between his
lines, playing popular airs on a concertina.
To this he attributed his success. On one
occasion some local wags sneaked the in-
strument and hid it in the bush. Charley
produced a mouth-organ (which, he ex-
plained, he carried to meet such emergen-
cies) and his catch was as good as usual.
“Polyp”: From published photographs of
tourists riding turtles on islands along the
Great Barrier Reef it would appear that,
whatever some of the tourists may be, the
amphibians are harmless. Not so. While
the fighting capacity of a turtle is naturally
limited by reason of its slowness and short
neck, it will bite when handled roughly. The
jaws of both the green turtle (from which
the soup is made) and the hawk’s-bill turtle
(from the carapace of which the tortoiseshell
of commerce is obtained), which abound in
Great Barrier Reef waters, are toothless, but
they can shut like a clam, and many a
hunter has good reason to regtet his care-
lessness in leaving a hand or leg within strik-
ing distance of the head of a captured turtle.
A visitor to Lady Musgrave Island had a
piece of flesh the size of a two-shilling piece
taken out of his leg by oue bite of a green
turtle he was trying to ride. I can swear
to it; it was my leg.
*'* * *
“Homfrey Beale” : The question of whether
animals commit suicide is a moot one
amongst bushmen and provocative of endless
discussion, but I have known two cases that
looked remarkably like self-destruction. The
first was that of a cow (owned by Albert
Brouff, grazier, of Wilgabar, near Walgett,
(N.S.W.) whose first.calf died. A few hours
after the youngster’s demise we found the
mother bogged in a swamp made by a bore-
drain overflow. We yanked her out. but on
passing that way in the afternoon found her
again stuck. Again we extricated her, and
turned her into a paddock where the drain
had no overflow, but in which was a large
Government tank. Next morning we found her
drowned in the tank. The second instance
was that of a kelpie bitch, owned by a man
I was prospecting with near Fifield
(N.S.W.) recently, whose three pups were
destroyed. She disappeared that night. A
week or so later a bad odor emanating from
a near-by 30ft. shaft caused my mate to
descend. At the bottom he found the kelpie’s
body.
“Tane”: My first acquaintance with the
Maoriland bush came when I was about six,
a skinny-legged nervous kid who learned
to read when he was three, and had acquired
quite a lot of food for an immature imagina-
tion. I went on an expedition to the hills
near Christchurch with a mob of other boys,
and the noontide brought us to the summit
of the range. Our way lay down a little
deep-cleft valley, heavily wooded. It was
divinely cool after the summer heat on
the hillside, and there dwelt under that
dim boskage a silence that could be felt. 1
got an impression of dignity, of holiness. The
distant call of a tui, penetrating the still-
ness with a single bell-like note that accen-
tuated the profundity of peace, seemed
exactly what I had expected—part of the
ritual of the. fane, as it were. It was a
great many years afterwards that I learned
how closely Maori religious beliefs are
bound up with a belief in the divinity of
trees.
* * * *
“Dook”: The ruins of the ancient irriga-
tion system of the Oasis of Adrar in the
Sahara Desert present an interesting pro-
blem. This tiny oasis is situated in the
bottom of a little natural basin, and is linked
with the drainage beds of the higher desert
spaces by numbers of wide, regular galleries
many miles long. They have been dug out
200 ft. and even 250 ft. below the surface of
the desert, having Seen built presumably by
men armed only with primitive picks and
wicker baskets, some of which have been
found embedded in the soil. It is estab-
lished that at a given point in the Sahara
it rains once in ten years, and the workers
of centuries ago brought together from ail
directions and from enormous distances the
sheets of moisture formed in the subsoil
after these torrential downpours. Whether
the engineers were Egyptian or Libyan, or
whether the galleries were constructed by
countless thousands in a short time or by
a few taking centuries, has not been ascer-
tained.
“Taipo”: Te Heuheu has been the family
name of the hereditary chiefs of the Ngati-
Tuwhareton tribe of Lake Taupo (M.L.)
for 150 years. Its
origin shows up the
ancient Maori habit
of taking names to
perpetuate memories
of great men or strik-
ing events,. Six gen-
erations ago a famous
chief of the clan,
named Te Rangi Pu-
mamao (The Dis-
tant Sky). died
while visiting in the
South Waikato dis-
trict. By immemorial
custom his remains
could have no final
abiding place save in
the ancestral vault
of his own country,
a cave near Waihi.
A carrying party
from both tribes be-
gan the journey. By
the time they had
crossed the rough
busli-clad ranges to
the lake they were
weary and short of
food, and the body
was buried tem-
porarily at Waipap i,
on the present West-
ern Bay. A strong
body of his own
people returned three
years later to corn
plete the job, but
during the interval a
heavy growth of fern
and light scrub had
overrun the spot,
making discovery dif-
ficult. The hahunga
ceremonial for the
lifting of the bones
was finally com-
pleted, they were
cleaned and cried
over, and borne away
to Waihi. Soon after
a son was presented
to the ruling chief by
a wife related to The Distant Sky. A
name for such a child was a matter for
important discussion. This one was called
Heuheu, meaning brushwood or undergrowth,
in memory 0 f The Distant Sky and the
search for his first grave. Eldest sons in
direct descent have carried the name ever
since.
* * * *
“Mish” : Dot me at “Coir” and “Barang-
kali” (B. 25/2/’33) when they disparage
cocoanut milk as a palatable drink. At
present I am staggering up the Markham
Y r alley (T.N.G.) with 30 carriers, making 15
miles a day under a brazen tropic sun. no
shade, no wind and no drinkable water;
and no drink has ever been so sweet as the
common green nut. Away from the coast
the trees thin out, and those in the inland
villages are jealously guarded. Money is
valueless as a means of exchange—paper-
money would be rolled into a cigarette, and
silver coins become ear-lobe ornaments.
Present values are two nuts for one box of
matches or a spoonful of salt.
A BRIGHT SPOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Over three million gallons of Australian wine
(a record) was exported to Great Britain last year.’’
Fill up the cup, a rozener, a hummer!
, Aye, brim the flagon and the goblet full!
’Twill keep you anyhow from feeling
glummer
About the ruling rates for wheat and
wool.
The product of the Lusitanian summer
Is being elbowed off the bars of Bull;
The age-old vintages of Spain and France
Recede in his esteem while ours advance.
For centuries he found Bordeaux and Xeres,
Madeira, too, were tipples fair and fine.
But why, he very naturally queries,
Go to the Guadalquivir or the Rhine
For any cup where alcoholic cheer is
When equally exhilarating wine
Awaits the purchasing, by butts and tuns,
From grapes that ripen ’neath Australian
suns?
Fill up the vats, and, brothers, see it’s O.K.
With purple joys like ours wherefrom t<>
pick,
’Gainst brandy fiery and Scotch that's smoky,
Old Omar’s glory yet may turn the trick.
It’s obvious the Briton likes the bokay
And finds an extra merit in the kick.
Palate and patriotism thus are met
To draw the ties of Empire closer yet.
Climb on, ye vines, by sun-kissed hill and
hollow.
Parents of mellowing brands to glow or
fizz!
We’d blame invite, by Bacchus and Apollo,
Unless w ? e made it our especial biz,
The more our kinsmen-overseas wall swallow,
To make it mighty clear the more there is.
Pill up the cup in measure generous.
And here’s a health, J. 8., to you—and us !
N.s.w.
IFORD.


AT LAST
QUICK RELIEF
FROM CATARRH
SPLITTING HEADACHE
DIFFICULTY IN BREATHING
AFFECTED HEARING
COLD IN HEAD
Is there anything more distressing than the
difficult breathing of Catarrh sufferers and the
inconvenience it causes? END IT—for your
own sake and for the sake of those about you.
Those sickening pains in the region of the
eyes, the ringing noises in the ears—why
suffer when Catarrh Clysmac will give you
quick relief ? Made from pure volatile oils, it
goes right to the seat of the trouble, bringing
soothing relief and leaving the head as “clear
as a bell.”
Get a supply of Catarrh Clysmac to-day. Every
package carries a guarantee, and all Chemists
sell it at 1/9 or nearlv three times the
quantity for 4/6 ; or direct from Santox
Chemical Co., Ltd., Box 1035 H, G.P.0., Sydney.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
Cbmmoiiwcaltl) Savings JM of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Why Stammer
or Stutter?
When you can be permanently and perfectly
cured of stammering, stuttering, etc., by my
own original scientific method. I am in no
way connected with any other person of similar
profession in Australasia, and my method is in
no way similar.
Testimonials from Doctors, Great Public
Schools, Education Dept., St. John’s, Cambridge,
England, and many others cured by me may
be inspected. I guarantee a perfect, permanent
cure.
'Phone, call or write for appointment.
MRS. E. G. PHIERIPS,
Bishop’s Chambers, 00 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney. Phone: 8W7035.
Short Story
Writing
Free Lance
Journalism
NEW COURSES
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus,
1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
“Alp”: I was one of K a party of three
who essayed the ascent of Glenugie Peak,
15 miles s.-e. of Grafton (N.S.W.). On
reaching the crest we were astonished to dis-
cover a full-grown kangaroo hopping on the
limited area. He was just as amazed at our
intrusion on his lonely elevation, and though
timid at our approach made no effort to
descend. He remained in our company while
we lunched, and we could only regret that
we were unable, to restore him to the mar-
supial family circle on the pastures below.
A subsequent ascent of the peak disclosed
the shrivelled skeleton of this lone sentinel
upon the mountain-top.
* * % %
“Mulgo” : Hake George (N.S.W.), now the
subject of a speedway discussion, plays queer
tricks when it is full. I recall the experi-
ence of a swagman who pitched his tent on
the edge not far from Bungendore station,
where there is generally deep water. In the
morning he was amazed to find that the
water had receded rods away from his camp.
As a hot wind had been blowing he thought
the shrinkage was due to evaporation. That
evening the wind changed, blowing strongly
off the lake, and towards morning an aston-
ished traveller was washed out of his bed.
As he fled to higher ground, he imagined
that. the lake was rising through the in-
pouring of flood waters from somewhere in
the opposite hills. Later on, having to go to
Bungendore for tucker, he was flabbergasted
to learn that there had been no addition to
the contents of the lake. The water had
receded from one shore, whilst it had risen
on the other, through the wind blowing con-
tinuously in one direction. That sort of
“tide” is not uncommon in landlocked lakes
whose shores are long and low.
* * Me m=
“Bmsworth” : The seagull seen o.n a Narra-
bri (N.S.W.) lagoon, 200 miles from the
THE CATCH IN IT.
LI TTLE BOY : “What do you do for a living, mister?”
TRAMP: “Oh, jus’ nothin’, son.”
LITTLE BOY : “How do you know when you’re finished?”
nearest coast, has set no new record. Birds
have been blown many hundreds of miles
further out of their way, the red-breasted
snipe probably holding the record. Nesting
in Hudson Bay and wintering in Chile, it
has been found on the west coast of Scot-
land, having been blown right across the
Atlantic. The lesser white throats, which
nest in Siberia and winter in Ceylon, have
turned up in England. A starling dropped
on the deck of the island steamer Flora when
slie was 1400 miles from the Maoriland coast.
A chaffinch and a linnet made a landfall on
an Atlantic steamer when she was 1500
miles from the shore. Pigeons, owls and
finches landed on a ship 1000 miles off the
South American coast, all apparently having
been blown seawards by the same gale.
**' * *
“Taniwha”: “Wainui” (B. 29/3/’33)
refers to the Maoriland kuri as last seen
about 1596. Paora Rokino, a Taupo kau-
matua, says none has been seen in the Lake
districts for 60 years. Their presence in
that area is explained as follows. About 230
years ago Taka, a Ngati-Awa chief from the
coast at Matata, went across with a large
party to_ visit their kinsmen, the Atiawa, in
Taranaki, and waited on the Rangipo desert
to gather food, probably mutton-birds, from
the flanks of Mt. Ruapehu. While they
were so occupied a raging storm came upon
them, and they were snowbound in their
flimsy camp in a clump of tawai bush. Taka
froze with all his people, but their dogs sur-
vived. When the missing party was dis-
covered later every bone had been picked
clean. The dogs went wild and increased,
to become large roving packs. Their hair
was long and soft, of white or light reddish
color, and was greatly prized for sewing on
flax garments. Adorning tufts of it are still
seen tied below the spear point of all ances-
tral ceremonial taiahas. The original dogs
traditionally came to M.L. in the canoe
Mataatua.
* * * *
“G. J.A.S.’’: It was the custom to hang
the slaughtered sheep in the woolslied over-
night, drawing it well up towards the tie-
beam. Morning after morning we found that
the best hindquarter had been eaten. Seeing
that the thief would have to reach the beam
and spring from there to the carcase or
descend by the rope, Rover and the family
cat wqre acquitted. The handy-man made
a trap from an oil case with a sliding end.
which dropped as soon as bait.inside was
touched. He brought it to me next morn-
ing, puzzled by the weight; it was heavy
enough to contain a good-sized dog. Let-
ting the kangaroo dog off the chain, and fol-
low-ed by Rover, we carried the trap out into
a cleared field. Man and ’roo dog took up
position by it, myself and Rover about a
chain away. The slide was lifted and an
outsize in spotted native cats made straight
for me. The man stood in blank astonish-
ment, and so did I. The ’roo dog was a
yellow streak disappearing over the hori-
zon. Unarmed, I hesitated. Should I face
it or run? Then Rover took a hand. It all
happened in a few seconds. He ran from
behind me and met the beast a yard or two
away. The dog took a grip under its top, lip
and just above the nose, and hung on.
For a time it was hard to see which was
dog and which the other thing. At last I
grabbed its tail, and we had to crush its
head to a pulp before Rover was released.
The skin makes quite a sizeable mat, but
Rover never goes to sleep on it.
REFINEMENTS IN THE BUSH PHARMACOPOEIA.
COCKY (as an afterthought, having just prescribed a liniment for lumbago): “Yes, and
if yer like yer can mix a drop o’ olive oil with the turps, and then it won't
take all the skin off yer back.”
“Huffin-Guffin”: Concerning the under-
ground river at Mt. Gambier (S.A.), the
engineer of the pumping plant at the Blue
Lake told me about 15 years ago that he
agreed with the theory that the lake 'was
an opening to a river with its source in
the Australian Alps. He said that in his
20 5 ears’ experience the lake’s water had
never varied in its level more than three
or four feet. The greatest rise was after
warm weather, when the snow melted on
the mountains. The engineer added that
rresh water could be distinctly traced out
to sea on the coast opposite the lake —which
is 20 miles or so inland. This, he held,
was the outlet of the river. The hole in
the towm of Mt. Gambier where all the
town’s rubbish is deposited, to go no man
knoweth where, is probably part of the same
subterranean water scheme of the south-east
of S.A.
❖ ❖ ij!
“Speeker”: On the West Coast of Tas-
mania the little native trout can frequently
be seen wriggling their way over the bare
rocks to reach the upper waters of the
creek. They can live hours out of water,
and one discovered at Ulverstone seems to
have beaten all records. It was originally
found in the cavity of a damp root, and was
transferred to a tin of water in a garden,
but when bored with existence in the tin it
jumped out and wandered. Once it spent
12 hours on dry land with no apparent dis-
comfort. The owner forwarded it to the
museum for a test. After being put in damp
soil for three-quarters of an hour, it was
placed in a perfectly dry vessel from April
12. at 3.15 p.m.. till April 15. at 9 a.m.
Then, being to all appearance dead, it was
put in a preservative of formalin, but f<>
the amazement of the curator the liquid
galvanised it to life, and it plunged vigorously
until the formalin overcame it. It had no
food in its dry interval.
❖ * Jjc
“Mundowie”: In the Pilliga scrub
(N.S.W.) cactoblastis is wiping out brum-
bies as well as the prickly pear. In
previous dry-seasons the wild mustangs had
got enough sustenance from the cactus to
pull through; the killing of the prickly
nightmare has resulted lately in the animals
dying m large numbers from thirst and star-
vation, after pawing out holes, up to Oft
deep, in the sandy beds of creeks Sonm
years ago I travelled through a drought-
stricken brumby haunt in Queensland and
came upon many places, in my own search
for water, where brumbies, kangaroos and
dingoes had been digging for soakages. These
animals survived where cattle died in hun-
dreds. The brumby’s excavation was a
miniature tank. The kangaroo also made
a large hole; he was a good burrower, but
liis awkward kind legs and heavy tail dragged
the sand in behind him. The dingo was an
export; he rooted quickly down into the
sandy bed till he was sometimes buried out
of sight, leaving a long tunnel like a wom-
bat’s burrow. Where brumbies could not.
trample it in, Warrigal had very little sub-
sequent rooting to do once he had tapped a
good soakage. When Binghi comes upon
any of these diggings, he knows it’s worth
while to prospect there for water. lie
scrapes away the loose surface sand, works
his spear down until it comes up dripping,
then inserts a long hollow reed, and through
that sucks up the water.
“Boorabooriong”: The claim that the
poinsettia is Queensland’s native flower (B.
l!)/4/’33) is the outcome of a mania in that
State for mucking about with fancy names
that mean nothing. For instance, part of
Wickham-street was rechristened Broadway,
and the City Council ukased Petrie’s Bight
out of existence in favor of Circular Quay.
Both the old names had historic associations;
the new ones suggest odious comparisons.
Up in Toowoomba much the same sort of
thing has happened—the good old aboriginal
names of two prominent landmarks have
been abandoned, and with nothing more than
simian aptitude the labels Katoomba and
Mount Lofty have been tacked on. Simi-
larly, down on the beaches between South-
port and the Tweed non-Australian names,
chiefly Yankee, are replacing Binghi’s
euphonious tags.
ijj ;V
“Pick’’: The excavation of a platypus
tunnel is no easy job for newly-weds out
house-hunting. They choose a steep bank
with a fringe of rushes and, working singly
in shifts, mine below by sweeping the mud
left and right with their outward-turning
forepaws, kicking it back with their webbed
hind feet. Periodically they swim up to
breathe, but, like water-spiders, they carry
down with them in their .gills supplies of
air. Thus they gradually fill the tunnel as
it proceeds upwards. When the burrow has
reached 10ft. or 12ft. a roomy apartment is
scooped out; in time this is furnished with
a cosy nest of grass and shredded rushes.
Duckbills have to dive with the nesting
material, yet they carry it dry to the nur-
sery. They convey small portions of their
fuzzied heap at each journey, and hold it in
their broad bills, which they clamp water-
tight.
THE COW-BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn mists hang o’er the river,
Where the magpies sing;
Hear the cow-bells’ music falling:
Cling-clang, cling-clang,
Cling!
Comes the soft, insistent ringing,
In echoes .soft or long;
As bell to cow-bell sends its message:
C-ling, c-lang,
Cling-clong!
Through the mists along the river,
Where the willows hang,
There’s that wild red heifer running:
Cling-eling-cling-cling-
Clang!
N.S.W.
MARY ROCHE.


.
fj§ll
*
mm
The
Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower Quality? Certainly not!
Reduced rates mean nothing if they involve reduction of
comfort or service. The famous "Australia Hotel" standard
of quality is maintained, but at reduced prices, made possible
by substantial reductions in prices of raw materials.
ROOM ONLY RATES:
Single Room from . . 10/6. Double Room from . . 20/-
! • Telegraphic Address: “Austraotcl, Sydney:'
SMOKE-OH!
The Reds are very blue in Germany.
* *
“Australia’s liquor bill is £30.000,000 and its
education bill only £11,000,000.”
Another proof that the price of beer is
still far too high.
¥ *
“Parliamentarians are worried by shifting sand
in the Far West.”
It probably reminds them of their
promises.
* #
“W. .T. O’Reilly is engaged.”— -“Sun.”
So lie means to give wedlock a spin, too!
BEAU: “My dear, I have no more money with me.”
BELLE: “Isn’t life awful! You never have enough money with
you, and I never have enough without you.”
“Greater than Lenin.”- —Jock Garden.
It confirms tho old adage that Jack is
better than his master.
* *
“Witness had turned completely round on the
statement he made to the police.”— Proseeutor at
Sydney Central.
Anyhow it shows he wasn’t squared.
* *
“In sackcloth and ashes Britain bemoans her
dearth of first-class athletes.” — Melb. “Herald,”
So that’s what they wanted the ashes
for so badly!
RETURNS.
The Returning Officer will start the game.
He’ll order the return of the writ on May
13 and will count the returns. If “Yes”
returns a majority, then many M.L.C.’s will
return their gold passes. This will mean a
return of revenue to the State and the return
of order in the Upper House. The elected
60 will then return bills with little delay,
with a consequent return of speedy legis-
lation, and there will be no return of the
swamping tactics when the Opposition is
returned to power.
On the other hand, if a majority is
returned for “No,” we shall have a return of
the old bad order, and stability will not
return unless or until there is a return to
sanity.
Anyhow, after May 13, Lang or Stevens
will return thanks, the Returning Officer
will return to .obscurity, the voters will
return to their homes, and the Referendum
returns should be completely returned. Some
will return to work and the rest will return
to the dole.
O. D.
* *
“A Californian fisherman, sighting a whale, lassooed
it, cowboy fashion, by the tail and towed it back to
the harbor.”— “Argus.”
A Sydney fisherman had similar luck, but
the whale got away. He explained ■at the
club later that it wouldn’t go under the
bridge.
V *
BAIT.
Girls need' to dress, when plain to view,
If they male hearts would win.
For what we see in them is due
To what we see them in.
NATURE NOTES.
“The rarest and most remarkable swallow seen
in Queensland is the white-breasted (C. leucostema),
which is a burrower .’’—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
The not-so-rare swallow which one en-
counters in flocks all over the place is the
bar-breaster ( Nil desperandnm ). It is more
addicted to borrowing than burrowing.
These birds, though
they never have. a
feather to fly with,
constantly migrate
from spot to spot—
especially to given
spots. People who
are interested in
their habits say that
occasionally they
have been known to
settle down. On the
other hand, they
never settle up.
They are not of a
timid disposition—in
fact, the more you
s h out the more
friendly they become
McM.
v «
UNCLE CRAMBO
CARRIES ON.
Go o d bord i g,
ever ybod y. The
studio tibe is seved
o’clog. It’s a dize
bride bordig; fide,
bud with a dib id the
aif after last diglit’s
heavy dew, bias —er
—tchaaaaow! We
dow cobbedce a ses-
siod spodsored by
Bessrs. Jollop e,
Blackjack ad Co.,
the well-dode badu-
faeturig chebists.
Durig Dapoleod’s
retreat, frob Boscow,
his arby was doci-
hated through disease
arisig from the id-
tedse code ad terrible
privatiods. Dow if
tho Little Corporal
had had adequate
supplies of Bagic
Cure-all .Tubes, id is
safe to say that his
losses would have
heed degligible. Bagic Cure-all .Tubes are
badufactured exclusively by Bessrs. Jollope,
Blackjack ad Co., ad arc guaradteed to cure
the worst code in ted bidit.es. Codes id the
head id pardicular respodt idstadtadeously to
this barvellous rebody. Dod’t forget, Bagic
Cure-all .Tubes, obtainable at all chebists ad
stores. Dow the first dubber od the prograb
spodsored by the bakers of this wodderful
specific is a waltz by Ed. Swigglesliot ad
Jake Aloo, played by A 1 Eluya ad his
orchestra. “There Aid’t do Flies od Poppa,
for it's Whiter !” Tchaaaaow!
S. W. Iv.
“Promised radio relay stations have not yet
materialised.” — “Sim/’
Are they mere castles in the air?
THE BETTER LAND.
“People who have little hoppiness in life naturally
turn to religion.”— “Sun.”
Because too little share of beer
Awaits them for consumption here,
They see a brighter hope by far
Above—where the good spirits are!
H. M.
# *
WOMAN’S LOGIC.
When I returned from the party the other
night, I forgot I was in debt, thought I was
a king, argued that there was no depression
and felt capable of fighting twenty men
—and my idiot of a wife said I was the
worse for drink!
* *
THE LAST TAXPAYER DIES.
(From the Australian Official Records,
1959.)
A State funeral was accorded Mr. John
Jones, the last known taxpayer in Aus-
tralia.
In 1987 Mr. Jones, a kousie-houSie pro-
moter, was the only person in Australia in
a position to pay in-
come tax, and a
special posse • of
police was employed
to take the money
from his home to the
Government vaults in
Macquarie-street.
Mr. Jones' be-
queathed to the.
nation his personal
fortune of 50 tons of
paper money—valued
in 1935 at 3d.—a
wife and 10 children,
so m e child-endow-
ment papers and a
colored photograph of
I’har Lap.
Apart from his
peculiar nqlitical
views, Mr. Jones was
regarded as an aver-
age citizen, and was
twice certified sane
by the Government
when its action in
keeping him at work
was questioned by
the Opposition.
The news of Mr.
Jones’s death was
kept secret by the
Government for 12
months, but the re-
porters ferreted it
out after hearing
that his widow had
remarried. A charge
of bigamy brought
against her by the
Government deceived
nobody.
Twelve hours after
the facts became
known the adjournment of the Legislative
Assembly was moved to discuss the Govern-
ment’s financial policy and, following an
adverse vote, Cabinet resigned.
V. W.
TOLL FOR THE BRAVE !
“Smiling a little sadly at the prospect, Don
Bradman entered a Strathfield private hospital for
the extraction of twelve teeth. He has taken a
step that has struck terror in the hearts of the
bravest. A brief holiday in the mountains-—and
Don will be back in the city again ; his old smiling
self. The sympathy of the sporting public will go
with him.”— ‘•'Sun.”
Football Sensation.
With a soul-searing sob, Big Bill Butter,
the front-vow forward, entered the ambulance.
There was a pathetic touch when his broken-
hearted mother waved to him from the front
door and wished him luck. All football
lovers will be with “Big Bill” in spirit to-
morrow when he faces the grim ordeal of
having an ingrown toenail; removed. Although
there appears to be nothing wrong with the
nail, the specialist who has been in daily
attendance is convinced that it is the maiii
cause of the sore toe of which the idol of
the Rugby League world has been com-
plaining.
Heroic Endurance.
Vivacious little Sissy Swiper is made of
the. real stuff. Recently when her annual
holidays fell due, instead of spending them
at Coogee she chose a nobler, brav.er, better
way. Her friends have known for some time
past of the wart on her middle finger. The
growth was affecting her tennis. Unknown
to her mother, the.brave little girl arranged
to have it treated. And. so, dav after day
and night after night, instead of a gay round
of parties and dances, Sissy has, without
a murmur, watched that horrible disfigure-
ment gradually being eaten away by the
caustic properties of the styptic pencil.
Good Scout, Sissy!
J. H.
TIME’S CHANGES.
Scene: Corner of ferryboat where the
“Sun’s” quintette used to carry on. Enter
frail, liarassed-looking old gentleman ana
stout, vigorous young- woman. <
Mr. Cunningham (cringingly) : Is
absolutely necessary, my dear, that I should
sit through your address to the Bigger and
Bigger Empire League?”
Betty : “I thought we had thrashed that
out at home, Geoffrey? Understand, once
and for all, you are not to move till all the
speeches have been delivered. You will then
accompany me to my Pet Charity meeting.
Now, keep quiet while I go over my address.
(Enter aged mendicant with tray.)
Mr. Cunningham: “Great heavens! Mr.
Hawkes!”
Mb. Hawkes : “How do you do, Miss
McMahon?”
Mr. Cunningham (sadly) : “Mrs. Cun-
ningham now, Mr. Hawkes.”
DAVE: "He reckons 'e's come up to the country to cure his
insomnia.”
DAD: “What’s that?”
DAVE: “’E can’t sleep.”
DAD: “Cripes, ’e’ll do us!”
Mii. Hawkes : “Well, well, and I thought
she was after Weston.”
Mbs. Cunningham : “You forget yourself,
my good man.”
Mb. Hawkes : “No offence. Can I tempt
you with a pair of bootlaces?”
Mbs. Cunningham: “No.”
Mil. Hawkes : “A tin of polish?”
Mbs. Cunningham : “NO !”
Mb. Cunningham (starting to his feet) :
“Will wonders never cease? Mr. Bur ford !”
Percy: “Honest Perce Burford, M.L.A.,
if you don’t mind.”
Mb. llawkes: “I had no idea that our
old friend was the famous author of the
Burford Plan.”
Percy : “Your old friend, as our hapless
comrade lias been pleased to term me, is
something more, ladies and gentlemen, than
the author of the mightiest Plan to raise our
oppressed proletarians that the mind of man
has yet conceived. He is the owner of
Soviet Manor, Auburn, of the Stalin Motor
Works, of Lenin Farm and 27 terraces of
suburban cottages; he is a dinkum Aussie
working man, a champion of the indigent
toiler against the malign forces of capital-
ism ; he is”
Min Cunningham : “Heard anything of
Bill Weston lately?”
Percy : “Mr. Weston. I grieve to say, has -
—er —fallen by the wayside. The winner
of a second prize in Mr. Whiddon’s Lottery,
lie relinquished the weekly husks that were
scornfully thrown to him in his capacity of
clerk by the capitalistic octopus, and went
on the. Turf. You may have heard of the
Weston Betting System. He is now on the
dole.”
.(Sir J. T. Lang, K.8.E., passes. Betty,
with a glance of repugnance at her un-
fashionable companions, joins him.)
Mr. Cunningham: “Pardon the wife,
gentlemen. She lias a woman’s weakness for
these' Government House favorites.”
D. J.
PROLETARIA.
(With acknowledgments to Dowson.)
When I was Premier I thought of thee,
i( Q Proletarian, and straight away
*•Jack L.,” I asked my self, “why don’t you
see
If all these Trades Hall shouts of praise
connote true passion?”
/ smashed your Baiilc. And that is why I
say
I have keen faithful, Proletaria—in my
fashion.
By day and night I battled for a bill
To put a tax upon your weekly tvage
Of five bob in the £. With practised, skill,
And what I meant you to accept as honest
passion,
I sought to levy on your surplusage.
I have been faithful, Proletama—in my
fashion.
Here’s the position, Proletariat
I need galoots like you, and you need me —
The super-Lenin of Australia,
One with whom bursting banks and such-
like is a passion.
You may be sure that I shall ever be
Quite faithful, Proletaria —in my fashion.
10-2-4.


und
i'lon
if
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holiday!
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £4O
23 Days' Tour Cabin Class Return, £32/10/-
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga „ Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks' Tour _ Cabin „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-
fect service . . Every assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
A
i
LI
mh
JEM. r :
■ Bit
""Iti
332 Distributing Centres i]
Tasmania!
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
Tasmania.
“The Examiner” (Established 1842),
the only daily newspaper now publish-
ed in Launceston, not only goes into
90% of the homes in Launceston, but
is distributed throughout Northern
Tasmania, in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA,
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd.. 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemibla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
h
Son succeeds father at
Stuarts—preserving the
unbroken line ofhered=
itary skill, of the crafts=
mans simple pride in
honest work. On every
piece is etched the reg-
istered name Stuart, so
that wherever beautU
ful glass is sold, this
lovely English Crystal
is known and loved.
And yet it may be
bought for as little as
a few shillings.
A
GENUINE
EXAMPLE.
-
Jy|
...»
%
1
>r
?Ss
c
Be sure to look for the registered name " Stuart” on every piece you buy.
m®
I
sar
v Man thinks
he is ever
goingtobe
OLDor
POOR
In the heyday of life, when earning-power is at its
greatest, 65 seems too distant to contemplate. But
when you reach the retiring age—when your active
life-work is done—what will the future hold for you?
For some it will mean the loss of customary
salary, the denial of accustomed comforts and
the prospect of drear old age.
For the provident it will mean a regular income,
freedom from business or professional anxieties,
and leisure to enjoy the best and freest years of
mature life.
A PRUDENTIAL
“GUARANTEED INCOME POLICY’*
represents the difference between these two
To meet the need of far-seeing men and women who
wish to be independent in the closing years of their
lives, The Prudential devised this policy.
Under it, a man aged 25, for 2/- A DAY, can assure an
income of more than £5 A WEEK when he reaches the
age of 65. If he is 30, 2/4 A DAY will guarantee him
a similar income from 65 till death.
Write for particulars of this splendid investment to—
'COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
"HERALD" BUILDING, 66 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phones BW 2885 (3 lines) C. F. WARREN, F.1.A.,
General Manager for Australia and New Zealand
Please forward me full particulars of your "Guaranteed Income Policy."
NAME
ADDRESS , AGE
Carries more advertising than
any other Queensland daily—
“ The Brisbane Courier,”
OLDEST, LARGEST, AND MOST WIDELY-READ DAILY NEWS-
PAPER IN QUEENSLAND.
Representatives:—
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. E 5007.
Louis. S. Marks, Newspaper House, Collins St., MELBOURNE. F 3906.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).


h
2^3
'iS-V:
m
QUA
ssaßar^^Bteap^B
rt*' • w.v»M&b^
SP*
P.
.*l^
T
-*s®
«• '•’•*Ksss^ r
■^ar^fesMa
M B
»
K
33-
,f<
use
”’"-**> - -w
■—^f
MMK
T
••
YES VOTE
»MMa»
" I
«WB-
g - •"* BS '--
X
ob£***
$ ./"ft-SsaS
JUtitd^km
kM
<*■'
JL~
■
“Yes” will bolt the door against Communism
A “Yes” vote on May 1 3th will reconstitute the Upper House so that it
cannot be swamped with Moscow-minded members.
“Yes” will slam the door in the face of those who wish to use Parliament
to socialise industry and to confiscate the people s savings and the means of
production.
To bar Moscow ideas out of New South Wales and make the people the
real rulers
VOTE m YES
NO
VOTING IS COMPULSORY
A number must be placed in each square.
More power to the people
Authorised by A. de R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney,
lie Sane Democracy League, a strictly non-party organisation, supports the Referendum proposals because it believes that a “Yes” vote will be
in the best interests of Democracy.
TO CARRY ON THE FIGHT THE LEAGUE NEEDS MEMBERS AND FUNDS.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SANITARY
PAPER CUP MAKING MACHINE.
’"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2378/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, ,Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A RECEIVING
TUBE FOR CUP FORMING MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2377/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINES FOR
MAKING REINFORCED SANITARY
CUPS.
T“ E proprietor of. Commonwealth Patent
No. 2376/21 is prepared to negotiate
tor the sale of its rights in the above, or
tor the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
ami Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A BLANK FOR
OVALCONE CUP.
X H t e proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 27005/30 is prepared to negotiate
tor the sale of its rights in the above, or
tor the granting of a license ro make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
f r T Griffith ’
aad Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CONICAL PAPER
CUP AND PROCESS FOR MAKING
THE SAME.
'T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12913/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
M
wm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
0005
GREAT
mmw
CURJX
SEA
£
&
£
&
#
M
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEN TO START SOWING.
“Glenfield”: When the break in the
aweather is late in coming in the north-
-west Vic. Mallee, the problem of when to
•Sstart sowing- worries the cocky new to the
| game. The ideal, of course, is to wait for
frain, but experience has shown that it is
■' best to make a start sowing on the latest
'date that will enable cropping to be com :
pleted by the end of May. This applies, of
to good fallow;.stubble ground should
Snot, be sown to wheat in the Mallee.
By thus sowing, should the break come
late in May the whole , wheat crop has the
.benefit of what warmth is left in the soil and,
tJif the job is done well, will make vigorous
early growth which will probably choke
, most . of the weeds. Waiting for rain,
cropping may not be completed by the end
of June, when the ground will be cold and
.early growth and stooling will be retarded ;
the spring be dry, and springs usually
are, a thin, spindly crop is the result.
The more body we can get into the early
•growth of our crops, the better the harvest
yield.
“George Icks”: I am a Riverina man,
and the dry spell was worrying me. Should
I seed now or wait for rain? I consulted
a rare specimen who has made money out of
wheat. “I’d sow now,” he said; “but don’t
put in the seed too deep,, not more than two
inches, or it’ll malt.” I dropped in on a
man who has a roomful of wheat-competition
trophies. “Go ahead and sow,” he advised ;
but sow deep, from four and a half inches,
and get the benefit of the moisture in your
fallow.” On my way home I turned in to see
a cocky who had beaten the bailiff by getting
a stay order. “If you’re sure of gettin’ an
inch of rain after you sow,” he replied, “it’s
all right: but less than that will jigger the
job.”_ Near, the boundary-gate I met the
district pessimist. “It doesn’t matter a dump
what you do,” he growled, “it’ll be wrong!”
When I got home I had to cut the throats
of five ewes the crows had got to while I
was consulting the oracles.
THE ANTI-BLOWFLY CAMPAIGN.
A Gascoyne ( W.A.) correspondent writes
concerning the report of the entomologists,
bacteriologists and veterinary officers who in-
vestigated the sheep blowfly problem for the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture and the
C.S.I.R. He inquires whether any one
method of combating the pest is pronounced
effective. No; but most of those employed
are classed as useful. Crutching is described
as of proved value. Jetting is “of distinct
value, when undertaken immediately prior
to or. during a strike wave. P>y the use
of suitable mixtures properly applied, the
occurrence and extent of strikes may be
reduced for periods up to six or eight weeks.”
As for dressings, “many have been tried, and
not one is wholly satisfactory, but the fol-
lowing have been found useful for routine
dressing: 5 p.c. watery solution of zinc sul-
phate, 5 p.c. watery solution of ‘Monsol,’
4 p.c. phenol (carbolic) crystals in whale
oil.” Carcase destruction is “a sound sani-
tary procedure,” since “efficient sprinkling
with arsenical sheep-dip powder turns tbe
carcase into a poisoned bait.”
The scientists were also impressed with
the Mules method of reducing suscepti-
bility to strike. On his Woodside (S.A.)
property, J. H. W. Mules has fine-woolled
merinos of Peppin blood. In his own words,
be “sits the sheep or lamb as for tailing and
removes the hind wrinkles completely, from
an inch above the vulva to a spot between
the hind legs, if it extends that far. This
can be done by pinching with Burdizzo
pincers and cutting off inside the jaws with
a. knife. It is a slow process, but very effec-
tive, though awkward. After sheep or lambs
are done, watch for brown ends, and if any
occur cut off more skin later. So long as
no brown ends show, the sheep is reason-
ably safe, but in about 21 days after brown
ends show it may be struck at any time.”
Mr. Mules treats lambs at three weeks old,
younger if the crutches are very moist. The
investigators consider that tiie operation
could be extended; in any case they are
convinced that the animals treated are made
less susceptible to strike. They are also
.satisfied that “as predisposition to crutch
strike is inherited and can be recognised, the
general susceptibility of the flock may be
reduced by selective breeding” without sacri-
fice of wool quality.
“What do they say about trapping?” asks
the Gascoyne man. In effect, that the evi-
dence thus far. gathered does not admit of
a definite opinion being expressed as to its
value. One fact established is that “a very
great number of flies, caught in traps, fre-
quently the majority of them, are not the
species responsible for primary strikes.” For
success in catching, the committee awards
the palm to the Westralian trap of Newman
and Clark, composed of fly-chamber, bait-
pan and cone. “The fly-chamber is made from
a whole 4-gallon petrol-tin, the top and sides
being cut out and replaced by wire gauze ;
the bait-pan from the bottom part of a
second petrol-tin. it being about 6in. in height.
The pan has long horizontal slits in each side,
about 3in. from the bottom, each with an
inwardly projecting ledge bent upwards in
the form of an ‘L.’ The cone is a four-
sided pyramid made of wire gauze and fixed
on a wooden frame as a base so as to rest
evenly on the bait-pan. It should be about
three-fourths the height of the fly-cliamber.
The top of the cone , has a small opening
about half an inch across. In setting the
trap, which is baited with sheep’s liver, the'
chamber slips over the wooden base of the
cone and fits tightly down upon the top
edges of the pan. It is provided with a
ledge which brings it to rest on the frame
of the cone in a suitable position.” In com-
parative tests at Canberra this contrivance
gave better results than. Queenslander Darcy
Donkin’s glass trap, called the Meteor, baited
with “blowfly soup,” though this is described
as an excellent trap, and the “soup” notion
as “simple and convenient'.”
_As previously stated, this report, so essen-
tial to every sheepman, can be. got for Is.
6d., post free, from the C. S. and I. It., 314
Albert-street, Melbourne, or from the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture.
DIPPING OR JETTING?
“Yarraman”: Dipping in a bath to beat
the blowfly (B. 26/4/’33) was tried 15 years
ago by the late W. A. Russell, M.D.A. for
Dalby (Q.), on his property, Dalmally, near
Roma. All the appliances for immersing
the hindquarters of sheep in a bath are still
there—or were when I was last on the
property. After extensive trials, made under
the supervision of the Department of Agri-
culture and Stock, dipping was jettisoned
in favor of jetting. It was found, particu-
larly with a nine- to twelve-months’ growth,
that only about an inch of the tip was sat-
urated, and that force must be used to get
the preparation down on the skin. Found
also that immunity could be obtained for
three months only. As far as mechanical
troubles are concerned, they are negligible in
jetting plants compared with results in
immunisation in forcing the liquid to where
it will do most good.
THE STATION KILLING PEN.
“Liss”: Sheep are often slaughtered for
rations on farm or station under unsatis-
factory conditions. It costs little to build
a pen that can be kept clean, especially if
bush timber and sand are readily obtain-
able. The pen should be 15ft. by 10ft., the
four sides having five rails, morticed into
the posts—long enough to permit of their
carrying a skjllion roof. At the end by
which the sheep enter there will be a sft.
gate, and at the opposite end one 3ft. wide
The pen should-be divided across Oft. from
the entrance end, this division having a 3ft.
gate in it. Thus there are actually two pens
under the one roof; in the first (or larger)
one the sheep are penned, in the smaller
they are killed.
The floor should now be prepared for
cementing. It. is necessary to do both pens,
since sheep are usually penned some time
before being killed and the floor of this
larger pen will soon become fouled. If the
ground is reasonably hard and dry, ramming
well and levelling will be sufficient. A f ill
of at least Sin. to one side must be provided,
and along this lower side a drain will be
made. A cask or a 40gal. drum should be
sunk in the ground at the end of the drain.
The concrete mixture should be 1 part
cement, 2 parts sand and 5 parts fine washed
gravel. Before laying, thoroughly wet the
ground and apply at least 4in.: and before
the floor of the killing pen is quite set apply
a coating of 1 part cement and 2 parts fine
sand to finish it off. The larger pen is
better left a little rough to prevent slipping.
The usual gallows can be erected outside,
with the end of the rail projecting into the
pen. Equip the roof with guttering and
downpipe leading to a 400 square tank.
Water thus caught will be useful for clean-
ing purposes. It is a good idea to build the
skin shed handy so that the water from that
cm be carried over into the same tank. If
flies are attracted to the sump in warm
weather, pour an occasional quart of the
poison solution kept for the skins into if,
and keep it covered with netting to prevent
dogs drinking.
RED POLLS.
“Ipswich”: Those who have been stand-
ing up for the Red Polls as a dairy strain
may be glad to hear of lactation tests, just
completed by three cows from the Woodburn
herd at Kilmore (Vic.), which demonstrate
the breed’s capacity for milk aiid butter-fat
production. Among the three was Marsden
Marvel (imp.), a prize-winner in England
and champion at the 1932 Royal Melbourne
Show. Actual production of the cows for
273 days ending in April was: Marsden
Marvel, born May, 1930, junior two-year-old,
77301 b. milk, 4.98 average test, 3851 b. butter-
fat without age allowance. Marsden Mimu
lus (imp.), born July, 1926, mature, 99591 b.
milk, 4.05 average test, 4631 b. butter-fat.
Marsden Mindrul (imp.), born June, 1927,
mature. 15,6721 b. milk, average 4.61, 7231 b.
butter-fat. Pure Red Poll steers from the
Woodburn herd won more points than the
accepted beef breeds in the carcase competi-
tion at the Melbourne Show of 1927, thus
confirming the claims of the Red Poll en-
thusiasts that ps dual-purpose cattle their
favorites are second to none. >
RENOVATING PASPALUM.
“W.D.Mc.”: Here is a simple plan. Sheep
are cheap; buy a truckload or two and
fold them on paspalum paddocks at night.
To do so get a coil or two of Cyclone sheep
netting and a few stakes ; drive the stakes
in at suitable distances and fasten netting
to them to form an enclosure. Camp the
sheep in it for a week, or as long as con-
venient ; then move the netting and stake in
another .plot. Repeat the process till the
paddock is covered.
To make the pasture better, take lib. or
21b. of wild white clover to the acre, mix it
with sand or super, for easier distribution,
sow, and give it a good harrowing with
sharp-tined harrows. The result when the
spring comes will surprise most people. The
sheep manure is as good as any fertiliser
I know. If decent ewes with fair mouths
are bought in lamb and are looked after, the
resulting crop of lambs and wool will reduce
the cost to a minimum.
A MAIZE BROADCASTER.
“Canlba”: It also serves for feeding sheep
nuts to stock, and it is adapted for use on
either motor- or horse-vehicle. Four pieces
of Sin. by 2in. Oregon pine are used for the
corners, acting also as legs, and lin. dressed
pine for the sides; the box is 3ft. by 2ft.
Sides are boarded in to within 6in. of the
bottom of legs. Bottom of box, made of
the same kind of boards as the four sides,
slopes from back towards front, commencing
2ft. from top of back, falling to 2Jin. below
bottom of front,'and projecting some 3in.
beyond. This leaves a gap through which
maize or nuts flow, the projection carrying
them clear.
The flow is regulated by a board which
slides up and down. It is actuated by a
lever hinged to side of box and connected to
centre of board itself. Lever can be pegged
to box by boring the necessary holes ; hav-
ing been set, it need not be touched again
while the feed is distributed, leaving the
driver free to attend to the vehicle. To
secure feeder to floor of cart, a piece of
flat iron fin. thick is bolted to each leg, pro-
jecting sufficiently to reach through said
floor, under which a piece of wire is passed
through a hole in the iron. If feeder is to
be used for maize only the gap in the wall
of the box need not be quite so wide. A.
feeder this size holds a bag of maize com-
fortably.
FEEDING VALUES.
“J.W.W.”: I suggest the periodic publica-
tion by our Departments of Agriculture of
the food constituents of various stock fodders.
A large amount of feeding is done at ran-
dom, with little idea of balancing the ration :
hence waste and injury to health.
_ I should like to see a table of values
giving the proteins, carbo-hydrates and fats
of, say, wheat, and its products; then oats,
oaten hay and oaten chaff; next, lucerne and
lucerne chaff; after that, beets, mangolds,
turnips, maize, maize ensilage, grass and
cereal ensilage, pumpkins and grass hay.
In a season of abundant grass this infor-
mation may not be urgent, but when short-
age arrives (and it always does) it would be
a boon hard to estimate in terms of cash.
It would save feeding in the dark.
TOBACCO-GROWING IN N. S.’WALES.
“Argee”: Last year excellent prices Avere
obtained for leaf groAvn on granite soil in
N.S.W. districts as wide apart a.s Tenter-
field, Ashford, Gulgong, Ivootingal, Moore
Creek (Tamwortli) and Tingha. This year
there has been an increase in number of
crops and quantity harvested; but much fine
leaf has been lost through clumsy cultiva-
tion, or made inferior by plants being topped
too high or (as I ha\'e often seen) not at
all. Available plant-food and moisture alone
govern the weight of leaf per acre the crop
can develop to proper maturity. Topping
is essential. Certainly the leaf is lighter,
but only in weight and in the essential oils
that give it smoking qualities. Deprived of
these, it is little better than cabbage in pipe
or cigarette.
N.S.W. tobacco-growers must remember
that competition is keen and getting keener.
Apart from importations, we have N.Q..
particularly Mareeba, pushing us for all it
is worth. Three years ago Mareeba was an
experimental station with 26 acres under
crop. To-day there are hundreds of growers
there, and more starting every month. And
Mareeba can produce any grade of leaf, from
lemon to mahogany. Already the axe has
fallen on heavier-soil N.S.W. districts; the
industry is shifting itself to the lighter soils.
Provided the requirements of the crop are
studied intelligently, we can carry on, be-
cause leaf can be produced more cheaply
under such conditions than when grown
on heavy flats under irrigation. Certainly
there is the risk of insufficient rainfall; but
that risk may be reduced to a minimum if
proper pre-planting and proper inter-row
cultivation are given.
The benefits of efficient cultivation were
demonstrated in January and February,
when the weather was very hot and dry.
Where the ploughing had been done early
and winter rains conserved in the subsoil, the
crops never looked back. On the other hand,
the badly-cultivated ones, often only a few
chains away from the others, were nearly
dead.
Tobacco is a weed. It should have rapid
and weed-like growth. Any check, however
slight, affects its smoking qualities and value.
Land should be ploughed now, and kept
lightly harrowed till planting-time to con-
serve moisture in the subsoil. Planting out
is best done in the rain. Inter-row cultiva-
tion should start as soon as every section* is
planted out and the land dry enough to work
without spoiling. The fii-st scuffling should
be deep, so as to loosen up the soil after all
the tramping down it has received during
planting. It should get lighter and lighter; as
the crop grows until it is a mere touching of
the surface. I know a grower who has built
a light wooden frame with 6in. nails driven
in to do the final cultivation. This he pulls
himself when the crop is too big to work a
horse between the rows without damaging
the leaves. He is one of the most successful
“dry farmers” of tobacco in N.S.W. Light
cultivation is necessary, and very light work-
ings should be continued up to harvest-
time.
THE QUEENSLAND NUT.
“Booraby”: Growers of nuts had a meet-
ing at the Sydney Show, and a man frdm
the Department of Agriculture gave soiiie
illuminating figures. N. S. Wales has 550
acres under nuts, the product of which. is
150,0001 b. a year; S.A. has 1600 acres, pro-
ducing 700,0001 b.; Victoria 550 acres, which
yield 123,0001 b. At the same time Aus-
tralia imports some millions of pounds ,of
nuts annually.
In the districts from the Clarence River
to the south-eastern parts of’ Queensland,
the bulk of the produce, apart from peanuts,
comprises peccans and that fine indigenous
variety, known variously as Macadamia and
the Australian, Queensland and bush nut,
which has been declared by overseas authori-
ties to be the best-flavored in the world.
Farmers who are looking for sidelines that
would take but little time from their ordin-
ary pursuits would find it profitable to plant
these trees. Macadamia, which is a native
of Queensland, requires no cultivation, and
has a long life. Trees growing in the, bush
—and mostly in crowded places—are esti-
mated to be 300 years old. The tree reaches
a height of about 30ft. and its dense top
makes a fine shade; it is therefore suitable
for dairy paddocks. In such situations it
serves a good purpose all the year round,
arid by yielding an annuni harvest of nuts
is, in my judgment, moi’e valuable to the
owner than any other tree he could plant.
However limited the farm may be, there
is always room around the boundary, where
trees, planted half a chain apart, do not
interfere with even the growth of grass. A
good many nut-trees can be established in
such places even if placed a chain apart;
and each tree when it comes .into bearing—
which takes four or five years from seed-
lings—produces about 501 b. of nuts. Isolated
trees have yielded up to 2001 b.
Other outrof-the-way places where these
trees can be planted are along the side of
a gully or creek and about fowl-runs; on
these they serve for shade as in the grazing
paddocks. Along the watercourses the roots
hold the banks and prevent erosion.
CANINE ECZEMA.
“Tyke”: One of the commonest afflictions
of the working dog is red mange, or eczema,
which is not to be confused with the real
mange, though in the early stages the symp-
toms are difficult to tell apart. Unlike mange,
eczema is a blood disease and is not conta-
gious. It sometimes occurs in patches, or
the whole skin is affected, while often its
presence is indicated by redness under
the arms and thighs. No infallible remedy
is known for eczema, which may be due to
impoverished blood or overheating. There
are numerous preparations for allaying the
irritation which always accompanies the
disease. One is a mixture of 20 parts of
zinc oxide and 80 parts of lycopodium, which
is dusted on the parts several times daily.
Another much favored is; Olive oil one pint,
oil of tar two ounces and sulphur four
(Land Pane continued on page'26.)


IE
Saves money
Ready - made. . . .but hand - sewn
throughout.... this Abbey Shoe is
easily the best in stock shoes. It
wears longer and preserves its shape
better than any machine-sewn foot-
wear. It stands more resoling and,
in the long run, actually saves
money. In workmanship and quality
of leather it*s unsurpassed. And,
you will notice its extra comfort
straight away.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 332
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage. 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
1
m
m
ST
xJve had
mine
twice as long
as that-its an
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—E-\IDE BATTERY
SERVICE (Q.) PTY., LTD.; Sydney— EXIDE BATTERY
SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne
—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide—UNBEHAUN AND
JOHNSTONE LTD.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN, LTD.;
Hobart—METMTUR.ST AND SONS PTY., LTD.
TRAVEL HOME VIA
NEW YORK
AND THE
GUNARD LINE
Homeward bound, via U.S.A., Canada find
Cunard to Europe. See Honolulu, San Fran-
cisco, Vancouver, Montreal and New York,
and the fascinating cities of America and
Canada. A Weekly Express Service from New
York by the renowned
AQUITANIA, MAURETANIA, BERENGARIA,
46,090 tons. 30,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
Also
The Largest Cabin Fleet in the World.
Connecting with the following Sailings from
Sydney:
S.S. Monowai Sailing May 25th
S.S. Monterey Sailing May 31st
S.S. Makura Sailing June Bth
S.S. Niagara Sailing June 22nd
S.S. Mariposa Sailing June 28th
Return tickets issued by the Suez Canal and
Cape Lines are available for return by this
route. Apply to—
CUNARD LINE
(C. ANI) D. LINE),
l RENT STREET, SYDNEY,
OR
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OP
h
SCHUTE,
SELL&Cu<t
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: M Bridge Street. Sydney..,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, -Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
he obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street. Melbourne.
A CHANCE FOR LANG
“What, a chance for Mr. Lang,” says “The
Barrier Miner,” referring to the Referendum.
According to the famous Broken Hill daily
Mr. Lang- and his supporters, if they want to
abolish the Upper House, should vote “Yes”
with all their strength. If this bill is carried,
the consent of the Upper House will never
again be required for its abolition! The first
time Labor gets a majority it can pass an
abolition bill and then carry it by a referendum
within three months! All abolitionists ought
to ponder over this advice from Broken Hill.
(w)
jjiJid
/
ECXM.
ounces. The dog should be rubbed all over
with this and it should be left on for a week.
Then wash off with soap and hot water with
a little soda. In 24 hours repeat the appli-
cation and again wash off. Three dressings
and washings, with careful dieting, should
bring about a cessation of the irritation.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to cure “greasy heel” in horses? —
5483.
Clip the hair away from the affected areas
and thoroughly wash the leg with soap and
water containing a little bicarbonate of soda.
After the skin is dry the leg should be
soaked in a strong solution of 3oz. each of
copper sulphate, alum and zinc sulphate to
the gallon of water, the lotion being well
brushed into the patches. Thereafter the
limb should be dressed daily with the same
mixture but at. half strength. In old-stand-
ing cases where there are profuse granula-
tions, veterinary attention is essential.
How can I prevent horses breaking fences
by pawing without resorting to barbed uAre?
There is plenty of good feed in the paddocks,
but a recent purchase arrived with the habit,
and the others have proved apt pupils. —
*5410.
You might try working the newcomer
harder than normal to quell his exuberance,
at the same time removing the other horses
from his influence. Chastisement of the
horses while they are pawing the fences may
have effecl.
(1) Me hod of converting bones into bone-
dust? (2) Is there a small crusher on the
market tl it could be driven off an oil-engine?
—5759.
(1) Tl e bones should be steamed or boiled
for seve il hours until the bulk offal and
adhering tissue have been removed. They
are then dried and put through a mill. (2)
Try McPherson, Ltd., 51 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
How to get rid of hairy caterpillars on
white cedar trees? —s3Bo.
Spray the foliage with arsenate of lead
powder, lib. to 25gal. of water. Or the cater-
pillars can be destroyed by liquid “pysect”
and water spray, or by a kerosene and soap
emulsion.
I want to find out something about these
Queensland and Mediterranean fruit flies?
In what parts of N.S.W. do they occur?
What is their method of attacking the fruit?
—5394.
Both species are found in N.S.W., chiefly
in the coastal districts. The Mediterranean
is more prevalent on the low-lying areas, and
tin* Queensland fly on the highlands. They
infest citrus fruits to a limited extent, and
may become serious pests in some seasons in
the late varieties of stone and pome fruits
in the middle and north coastal districts as
well as on the Northern Tableland. In both
species the female is provided with a pointed
ovipositor at the hind end of the body, which
can be protruded to penetrate the fruit to
depths of from Jin. to Jin. in order that the
eggs may be deposited in or under the skin.
.The eggs are minute (only l-29th of an inch
long), glistening white, elongate and slightly
curved. They hatch in about two or three
days, after which infestation soon becomes
noticeable.
How is the sex of bees determined? —5303.
The egg from which a drone bee
is produced is not fertilised by the queen.
The egg which produces a worker (female)
is fertilised when in process of being laid.
All eggs, therefore, in the body of the queen
would be drone eggs, and the sex is changed
by the fertilisation during the laying pro-
cedure. It is natural for flip queen to lay
fertile eggs in the worker cells, and infertile
ones in the drone cells, but the shape of
tihe cell has no actual influence in deter-
mining the sex.
How to rid a glasshouse of small red
ants? —5414.
Sprinkle around the nest and across the
trail Cyanogas, obtainable from dealers in
insect sprays. Any ant coming near the
poison is killed instantly. Also place in
the glasshouse a number of tumblers con-
taining honey and water. Whenever pass-
ing shake the tumblers and drown the ants
collected along the edge of the liquid.
(1) Where is tansy grown and where
could I obtain plants? (2) What arc its
medicinal or veterinary uses? (3) What are
its other uses and is it of any commercial
value ? —5251.
(1) Mostly in England. Nurserymen here
may stock seed. (2) and (3) None of any
value.
Recipe for cider? —s44l.
Put a quantity of apples into a strong
wooden tub, then with a stout piece of wood
crush each apple to extract all the juice. Run
off the juice into a cask having a wooden
tap about 2in. from the bottom. When the
cask is full of juice, cover it with cheese-
cloth and watch daily for bubbles, the signs
of fermentation. When these begin to rise,
run off the juice into a slightly-smaller cask
until this is full. Leave the bung out, and
let the liquor continue to ferment, remov-
ing the accumulated foam every day. When
it has ceased to work, draw off the clear
liquor from the bottom tap and bottle
securely. Store the bottles on their sides
for at least six months before using.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: With the approach of cold
weather swallows hasten home to verandahs
and outhouses. They have filthy habits and
are hard to dislodge. Tie up loosely bundles
of newspapers and hang from rafters where
the birds roost, and your nearest neighbor
will collect the issue.
“.Tumbuck”: It’s useless trying to push
weak .sheep. In any mob travelling the
stock routes there is a tail, and the weak
ones must be carefully handled. It’s better
to employ an extra man to attend to them ;
then they will do their stage and get their
fill of grass. If they are kept with the main
mob they become knocked up and never get
a chance to feed.
“lass”: Blowfly oils are generally cheap-
est when bought in four- or five-gallon con-
tainers. To avoid waste, use a kerosene
pump for filling bottle or can for paddock
use. A good shaker that’s easy to carry
can be made from a tomato-sauce bottle
with a screw top. Punch small holes in the
cap itself from the inside and confine them
to a circle about the size of a sixpence in
the centre. Cut a washer from a pieee of
cork packing or leather which will fit loosely
into the cap; this will prevent the bottle
leaking when not in use.
“Bibbo” : For mammitis in cows, try rub-
bing the udder for 10 minutes with pure
phenyle three times a day. I have cured
three cases this way, and it doesn’t blister.
Another remedy tried successfully in my
Gippsland district is made of equal parts
of mutton tallow, beeswax and resin ; melt
separately, mix thoroughly, and rub well in
as warm as possible.
“Werrimee”: A bag thrown over the
wheels of the cart when it has to be left
outside will prevent the tyres getting loose.
You can also postpone the trip to' the black-
smith by giving the rims a coat of oil and
then a brush over with paint.
“Deekay” : When fencing, heap up the soil
round a newly-sunk post. Otherwise it will
sink and form a hollow, which collects water
and rots the post.
“Liss”: Always plait a hide rope round a
greenhide belly, made by tightly twisting a
fin. strand. Soak the strand well and
attach one end to a jacked-up sulky-wheel
and the other to a bag of sand. Twist wheel
and strand will twist up, dragging in the
sand-bag as it shortens. I always use a
piece of twisted wire clothes-line as a belly
for plaited leg-ropes, and find the same thing
acts well in a catching rope. »
“11. Da”: To identify St. John’s wort,
hold the leaf up to the light; there are large
oil glands readily discernible as opaque,
spots. The plant sends up a strong flowering
stem covered with large yellow flowers; the
under side of the leaves is a paler green than
the upper side. Experiments have shown
that it may be kept in check by sowing sub.
clover and top-dressing yearly with lewt.
super.
“E.11.M.” : If you are a cigarette-smoker
make a nicotine insecticide from the butts.
Boil them in water, let mixture simmer for
a few minutes and strain solution; the
spraying strength is 2oz. of tobacco to It
gallons of water.
“Bombala” : Save the sockets off old
shovels and fit them to the top end of your
fire-beater handles. The handle can be used
for throwing in burning bark and sticks;
the metal end will protect it.
“Yarri”: Nearly any adult dog, if not
properly fed, is liable to take to egg-eating
when hungry ; a great many egg-eating dogs
begin the habit in puppy hood. The best
remedy I know is to dip an egg in a solu-
tion of caustic soda and leave it where the
dog will find it. When he picks it up the
saliva dissolves the coating of soda, and he
drops it immediately. He will rarely go
back for a second dose.
“Sunny Hill”: The best way to split
railway sleepers for fence posts is to make
a saw-cut half-way through, INin. from each
end, and from opposite sides of the sleeper.
Then split down the centre, and you have
two good posts, each with a full-size butt.
“A.R.N.”: When sowing's over remove
stars, plates and other small parts in the
manure-box of the combine and soak in
kerosene to soften and remove the caked
super. Then pack away in a box till next
cropping. Chip all super, from bottom and
hack of box; then the stars will run freely
and without risk of breakages when replaced
for tiie following season. And pack away
where the mice can’t build nests in them.
“Tena”: If flying-foxes are a trouble, run
wire with long barbs above the trees from
posts at end of rows. A special wire for
this purpose can be bought. The bats blun-
dering about become impaled on the barbs in
dozens.
“Gumblegubbin” : To facilitate the mark-
ing of posts when boring for wire, get a flat
stick, a little shorter than the height of
the post, and nail a small piece about Sin.
long at right angles to the top end. By
placing that on top of the post you can
mark them all evenly and quickly.
“Nuchum” : A way, of preserving wheat-
bags. Take two flat pieces of tin; on each,
punch one hole towards the centre, and
another in the extreme corner. Thread the
tins on a wire strung between two beams,
and in the extreme corner of each tin
thread a weight so as to keep the major
portion of the tin upright. Throw the bags
over the wife between the pieces of tin and
they will be safe from rodents.
“Th(> Breaker”: When shoeing a horse
and the nails keep bending, owing to the
hoof being extra-hard, get a piece of kero-
sene soap and stick each nail well in the
soap. They’ll drive all right then.
“Agri”: Sheep too liberally hand-fed arc
liable to develop toxaemia. A Rivorina man
who had been feeding lambing ewes on silage
lost about 30 this way. A departmental
vet. prescribed a lick —10 parts of Glauber or
Epsom salts with 90 parts of coarse salt,
made solid with molasses and water —
and advised exercise. Now the farmer,
after giving his ewes their ration, drives
them slowly across the paddock once or
twice a day. He has iost only one or two
since this treatment was begun.
“V.S.M.” : In Maoriland, where a sliding
scale of duties keeps fowl wheat at about
6s. 6d. a bushel, poultry farmers will try
any substitute. Skim milk is obtainable
for practically nothing, but the scouring it
causes has always prevented its use. The
whey causes the trouble; realising this, G.
F. Williams, of Ivoputaroa, has experimented
succssfully in keeping the curd palatable
and dry. His method is to keep adding some
skim to the stock supply daily, turning over
the whole with a spade, and drawing off the
surplus whey every three or four days. The
fresh whey keeps the curd “working,” and
the solid dry curd comes to the top. This
he mixes with 20 per cent, pollard and feeds
twice daily to his poultry, which’ have
free range over fresh paddocks; they get
no grain at all. These fowls are in the
pink of condition and laying well.
“Sigo” : Date palms grow in the rich scrub
soil of the Bunya Mountains (Q.). The trees
came up around a scrub-cutters’ camp about
20 years ago, and an early selector trans-
planted them near his house. The trees bear
well. but. the fruit have seeds, and are
unlike those mentioned by “Meandu” (B.
19/4/’33). They bear about Christmas time.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free... Ail you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Sheepman (41), N.S.W., single, property taken
over, wants j0b.—5598.
Jackeroo (18), N.S.W., sheep and cattle, can ride,
milk and kill, seeks job. Refs. —5599.
Good cattleman wanted as head stockman, Fiji,
starting £lOO a year and found, if single ; if married
and wife can cook, £l2O a year and both found.
Age 30 to 40.—5560.
Elderly tutor, N.S.W., wishes similar job in good
home, anywhere.—ss73.
Unregistered chemist (26), N.S'.W., exp. city and
country, wants job as dispenser-chauffeur with doctor.
Refs.—ss42.
Hotel useful, Sydney, wants job anywhere. Refs.
—5537.
Tasmanian (23), well educated, wants position in
Brisbane in return for board. —5592.
Young mechanic, Q’land, exp. windmills, etc.,
wants job on station.—ss26.
Youth (20), N.S.W., G.P.S. education, four ywars’
exp., wants position as jackeroo.—ssl6.
Married man, N.S.W., exp. sheep, cattle and
engineering, wants job, anywhere.—ss23.
Young man, exp. with large firm, wants position
involving handling of correspondence and general
clerical duties. Refs.—ss22.
Rabbiter, N.S.W/, with pack of ferrets, wants
suitable ground to work.—ssoB.
Person making study of life and works of \V. J.
Locke would welcome loan of important printed
references to subject.—ss3B.
To buy typewriter, Underwood preferred, or would
exchange for Bulletins from 1896 to date, 95 p.e.
complete, unbound.—ss4o.
To buy book dealing With the Suez Canal.—ssl2.
To buy opal chips of good c010r.—5558.
Biographical details of the late Guy Fitch Philps,
author of “The Black Prophet.”—sso4.
Book giving details of John Plummer’s life in
Australia.—ss47.
Information Sought.
What, exactly, Is the ‘Fairbairn” style of
rowing f —5487.
Orthodox rowing in Australia calls for
a clean catch and a solid drive. The finish
should be just behind the perpendicular and
well into the ribs with no loss of body form.
The hands are got away smartly with a
smart, well-timed recovery and a steady slide.
The Fairbairn method cuts out body lift, the
legs doing all the driving, while the slide is
used quickly, the body maintaining the hori-
zontal plane. “Fairbairn of Jesus” gives
details.
1 have a document written in pencil. (1)
How can I make it indelible? (2) How
could a copy be legally certified? —5514.
(1) Spray it with the liquid fixative used
by _ artists for preserving pencil drawings.
This is obtainable at all art supply shops,
and the salesmen will instruct you how to
use it. (2) Make a copy in the presence of
two reliable witnesses, and swear an affi-
davit with the witnesses before a J.P.
Deposit the document in a b ulk.
(1) Correct size for a cricket ground?
(2) Where can I procure the laws of
cricket? —5357.
(1) There is no set size for a cricket
ground on which first-class matches are
played. The ground, however, must be
approved by the controlling cricket bodies.
The Sydney Cricket Ground is approximately
174 yards by 162 yards. (2) In the N.S.YV.
Cricket Association’s Year Book for 1931-32,
obtainable from 254 a George-street, Sydney.
9d. posted.
What is the position in regard to an old-
age pensioner who failed to collect his pen-
sion on the due date owing to illness? Can
he collect at a later date?, —5606.
An instalment of pension may be collected
at any time within 21 days following the
date on which it becomes due. If not col-
lected within that period it becomes for-
feited. If the non-collection was due to the
pensioner’s illness, or his absence from the
district, or to other sufficient cause, the for-
feiture may be waived if application is made
to the Registrar of Pensions for the dis-
trict within 81 days after the due date of
payment.
Seating accommodation of the Sydney
Town Hall (main hall and basement), also
Melbourne and Brisbane Town Halls? —s3B9.
Capacity main hall, Sydney, is 3087 and
lower hall 1500. Seating capacity of Mel-
bourne Town Hall main chamber is 2500:
Brisbane Town Hall, 3000.
At what time of the year and where do the
manufacturers of motor-boats in Great
Britain hold their annual show? —5392.
No separate show. Some of the manufac-
turers exhibit at the Olympia show each
October.
(1) Area of a suit of cruising sails for
32 ft. by 7ft. boat? I want to rig her with-
out bowsprit—or a very short one. (2) Is
it to any advantage to have a hole worked in
centre of mainsail and staysail? If so, what
size is recommended? (3) Dimensions of
centreboard? (4) Shape of centreboard?
(5) Device for easy raising of plate? (6)
Area and shape of drop rudder blade? (7)
Where .to obtain charts of Spencer’s and St.
1 incent’s Gulfs? (8) Where can I purchase
book on rigging small craft?— ssls.
(1), (3), (4) and (6) It is impossible
to set out a sail plan on the data you give.
Submit drawings of lines of your vessel to-
gether with details of ballast to a naval
architect. (2) Holes are worthless. (5)
Pivot at the forward end of case, as low
down as possible, and fit a tackle to the
after end of top of centreboard. (7)
Turner and Henderson, 16' Hunter-street,
are Sydney distributors for Admiralty charts,
but there is one in every large port. (8)
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
What sort of drink is the “ sillabub ” re-
ferred to in Edith Sitwell's poem “Sir
Beelzebub”? —5589.
An old recipe is: Flavor a pint of Marsala
or Madeira wine by steeping lemon-rind
in it. Place the flavored wine in a large open
bowl and sweeten with two or three table-
spoons of sugar. Stir' in three table-
spoons of brandy, the juice of a lemon,
and a pint and a half of thick cream. Add
the white of an egg and beat it all well with
an egg whisk. Beat to a froth, and as the
froth rises skim it off with a spoon and till
it into the sillabub glasses, heaping it as
high as it will hold together. Set the silla-
bubs in a cool pantry and they will settle
into a highly-flavored liquor capped with a
firm white froth. They are better made the
day before they are wanted.
(1) Briefly, what are the disabilities
attaching to a person who has been declared
bankrupt? (2) Suppose a bankrupt to have
paid only 4s. in the £. but to hare agreed
to pay £1 per week towards the redemption
of the balance, how long would the Court
expect him to continue paying this amount?
(8) At what stage in the proceedings would
it be advisable for a bankrupt to apply for
a certificate of discharge? —sssB.
(1) Should property be acquired by bank-
rupt after the sequestration order and before
his discharge, the trustee may intervene,
and, within certain limitations, apply sucli
property to payment of debts, etc., in the
estate. Also, the uncertificated bankrupt is
disqualified for public office generally. (2)
What the Court would expect only the Court
can say. (3) As soon as he feels assured
that lie can show he has done all within
his power to satisfy creditors.
• (1) What metal is used for making bells?
(2) How are they cast? (3) What is the
bell known as Great Tom, and its weight?
(4) Weights of some of the heaviest existing
be115? —5524.
(1) A mixture of copper and tin. (2) A
core or inner mould is built up, after which
an outer mould is constructed, leaving a space
between equal to the thickness required for
the bell. This space is filled with molten
bell metal, which is allowed to cool before
the moulds are removed. (3) A Great Toni
of Lincoln was made in 1614, and weighed
10,0001 b.; this was replaced at the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century by another
Great Tom, which' weighed 12,0001 b. (4)
The Amarapoora in Burma weighs
260,0001 b.; bells at liouen and Vienna weigh
about 40,0001 b.; Montreal Cathedral’s biggest
bell weighs 28,5601 b.; Big Ben. of the Houses,
of Parliament, London. 30.0001 b.; and the
Great Ben, of St. Paul’s, 11,4701 b.
A damp-resisting compound for treatment
of porous bricks?- —5413.
There are many such compounds; consult
a paint store, and get a good one; then
apply as directed. For a home remedy, take
lib. of ordinary household soap, shred it
finely, and dissolve in 1 gallon of water.
Paint on brickwork, and allow to dry
thoroughly; then paint on a coating made
of lib. alum dissolved in half-gallon of
water. The alum coating must be carefully
brushed on, so that no bubbles form, as these
will chip off when dry.
(1) What are the chief trades and indus-
tries of the Seychelles Islands? (2) Prin-
cipal market? (3) Any prospects of earning
a living and capital required? (4) Cost of
living and climatic conditions? (5) What
currency used and if any banking< facilities?
(6) Sizes of chief islands? (7) Quickest
and cheapest way to get there, and cost?
(8) Where to obtain detailed information?
—5055.
(1) The principal exports, are copra,
vanilla, cocoanuts, tortoise-shell, cinnamon,
essential oils, soap, rubber and guano. (2)
The bulk of the trade is ivitli South Africa,
England, U.S.A. and M.L. (3), (4) and
(8) No details available in Sydney. Write
Clerk to Governor, Victoria, the Seychelles
Islands, (5) The monetary unit is the
Indian rupee and there are adequate bank-
ing facilities. (6) The principal island is
Mahe (55 square miles), smaller islands of
the group being Praslin. Silhouette, La
Digue, Curieuse, and Felicite. (7) British-
India steamers call every four weeks
from Bombay on their way to Mombasa,
and every eight lveeks on their way from
Mombasa to Bombay. “
Trade between Australia and Asiatic coun-
tries for year ending June 30. 1932? Give-
each country separately.— s6l7.
China, exports to, £4,942,859; imports
trom, £e>14,778. India, exports, £959,497;
. £2,775,356. Ceylon, exports,
6.768 r imports, £598,177. Japan, exports
£11.659,012; imports, £2.396.734. Netlier-
iands East Indies, exports, £1,333,959 ; im-
ports, i 2,648,945. Philippine Islands, ex-
ports £010,366; imports, £35.947. Malaya
, f Xports - £916,462; imports,
K< ? ng > exports. £737,280;
rQTec tS ’Borne° (British), exports,
£8186; imports £25.447. Korea, exports
f ;itV £a -' Fvewh I'ulo-China, ex-
fflm 18 ’ 332 ; * mpo ( s£’ £ -o- Siam, exports,
£58.460; imports. £2218. Timor (Portu-
guese), exports, £760; imports, nil.
B lo 9raphical details of James Elroy
I locker, author of “Hassan”9 (o\ What
booH'hJT^ 011 aS ® l? et J (3) lf ~ ow man V
boohs by him -were published?—, ss9s.
. iJ-) He was born at Lewisham (England^
man° V< w ber ’ 188 l’ and was the son of a clergy-
man. He was educated at Oxford and Cam-
entertnS n the tUdied i° rie "- 1 lan guages before
entering the consular servme. He was sent
to Constantinople in IQIO, and to Beyrout
in 1911. There he married a Greek lady.
His health failed early and lie died at Davos
Plata, Switzerland, in Jah., 1915. (2) Hi's
poetic output, though small, was choice. (3)
Four volumes of verse were published in his
lifetime, one more and two privately-printed
volumes appeared after his death, and his
“Collected Poems,” with an introduction by
J. C. Squire, were published in 1916. He
also left two unpublished dramas, “Hassan”
and “Don Juan.” A short satire, “The Last
Generation” (1908) , and a novel, “The King
of Alsander” (1914), were his only im-
portant prose works.
Formula for a black dye for leather?
—5462.
The nearest formula to the one you sug-
gest is nigrosin 3 parts, water 15 parts,
alcohol (methylated spirits) 15 parts, gly-
cerine 70 parts. Dissolve the nigrosin in the
spirits, add the glycerine previously mixed
with the water, and then mix well together.
The ingredients you mention would combine
thus: Any given quantity of mirbaue oil.
add enough nigrosin to produce a good
black, and thin with methylated spirits to
How easily and dry well. There are many
recipes, differing for various leathers and
purposes.
How to eradicate borers from timber and
where would 1 get information on the sub-
ject ? —5309.
Borers can be eradicated by injecting into
the timber a mixture of coal-tar creosote and
kerosene, 1 to 4; or kerosene and turpen-
tine, equal parts. Complete information can
be obtained from Bulletin No. 8 on “Wood
Borers,” obtainable from Sydney Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Ultimo; Is.
2d., including postage.
Are Schools of Arts in N.B.W. exempt from
paying, general municipal rates ? If so, in
what circumstances ? —5lBO.
Schools of Ails are rateable under the
Local Government Act 1919. The question
of exemption has been considered for years,
and the view generally taken has been that
councils should be empowered to deal with in-
dividual cases on their merits. As the law
stands, a council may return to the institu-
tion, by way of subsidy, any rates paid by it.
Definition and origin of “lese-majest&'f—
-5611.
It is a Norman-French word from the
Latin hrsa majestas, meaning high treason.
In jurisprudence it refers to any crime com-
mitted against a sovereign power. Amongst
the Romans it denoted political mis-
demeanors, acts of rebellion and similar
offences against the Empire. It is now fre-
quently used ,in a general sense as a term
for an insult to a monarch.
(1) Is it possible to use a dry-metal recti-
fier for charging a two-volt accumulator in
place of the electrolytic rectifier in a trickle
charger ? (2) If so, what type would be
most suitable and where procurable? —s497.
(1) Yes. (2) Wcstinghouse, type PT. 1,
obtainable from McKenzie and Holland,
Sutton-strect, Newport, Melbourne, W. 15;
245. A resistance of suitable value must be
connected in series with one of the charging
leads to limit the charging current to a
maximum value of 0.25 amp. The value of
this resistance will depend upon the second-
ary transformer voltage.. Information re
circuit conections can be obtained from West-
ingliouse agents.
Would it be possible to buy a working
partnership in a, well-established newspaper
( country or city) for about £200?—5389.
Very unlikely. A full partnership in a
country newspaper and jobbing office for
£5OO cash is the cheapest' which ever cam;
under our notice.
Recipe for making boot polish? —s4Bl>.
Mix 9 parts yellow beeswax, 20 parts oil
of turpentine, 1 part shredded soap and 20
parts boiling water. Dissolve the wax in
the turpentine over a closed fire, dissolve the
soap in the boiling water, then stir the two
liquids together to make a smooth mass. To
make a black polish, stir in lampblack before
it cools; for brown, add Bismarck or Van-
dyke brown. The colors must be stirred
until the polish begins to set, to keep them
in perfect suspension.
How can porcupine-fishes be identified ?■—
5600,
They are members of the family Diodon
tidcc, and closely resemble toadoes or puffers
in form and habits. They differ principally
in the many strong spines that cover their
skin. Some species have short and stout
spines; in others they are long and almost
bristle-like, and are provided with spreading,
roots, sometimes so large as to maintain the
spines permanently erect. Like the toadoes,
porcupine-fishes can inflate themselves with
water on air—this causes the spines to
stand out stiffly, and so renders them unsafe
to touch. Their flesh is often highly
•poisonous. They occur in all seas. A common
species in Port Jackson, Dicotylichthys
punctulatus, is white, with numerous black,
round spots. Others, in the tropics, are
marked with large ocelli, and still others
have broad blackish bands crossing the back.
/ have an oil-painting. Lately some of
the colors have been fading, and the trouble
seems to be spreading. Only the lilac, mauve
and lighter colors are affected. How can it
be restored? What is the remedy? —ssll.
Sounds as if it might have been washed
with soap or some common alkaline cleanser
applied. If the surface has been treated with
a coat of varnish —and 20 years ago nearly
all oil-paintings were—try cleaning the var-
nish off in this way: Take a little powdered
resin, dip the second and third fingers into
the resin dust so that only a very small
portion adheres. Start in the top left-hand
corner and rub the surface of the painting
very gently with a circular movement of the
fingertips. Work gradually right across the
painting and then back again, reversing the
movement until back at the starting-point.
Continue the process over the entire surface
of the canvas, when, if properly done, all
surface dirt and varnish will have been re-
moved. Brush the dust off carefully and wipe
the canvas over very gently with a rag wrung
out in turpentine. The light colors should
now be much brighter on the canvas. When
all trace of the turpentine wipe-over has
dried off. take a tube of megilp, squeeze a
small portion on to some old clean linen and
rub it well in all over the painting. This
will further brighten the colors and will dry
into a varnish-like surface and protect the
paint foam the atmosphere.
Brief Answers.
There arc no active volcanoes in
Papua, although a slight cloud of steam is sometimes
seen rising from Mount Victory, near Cape Nelson.
E.C.H.: (1) ss. Id. (2) Not that we can trace.
.. . . C.W.: Motor Tractors, corner Bridge and Young
streets, Sydney; Charcoal Traction Engineers Pty„
118 Toorak-road, South Yana, Vic.; C. G. Smith,
Ardrossan, S.A.; A. G. Pritchard, 114 Wakefield-
street, Adelaide... . V.L.P.: Buttonhole Fancy Costume
Co., 116 Liverpool-street, Sydney C. 5.11.: G. B.
Shaw’s address is 4 Whitehall Court, London,
S.W.I. .. .H.M.S'.P.: Don’t know of one in
Sydney. George D. Meudell, 435 William-
street, Melbourne, is secretary of a Vic.
body with that object... .J.D.M.G.: Records are not
available... .R.H.G.: There are courses at each of
the Australian universities. Particulars from the
Registrar A.V.R. and J.8.N.: Julian and Smart’s
“Cyaniding Gold and Silver Ores” (035.), Park’s
“Cyanide Process” (19k), OlennelPs “Cyanide Hand-
book” (545.), Taggart’s “Manual of Flotation” (335.
6d.). .. .1.H.H.: You appear to be liable for tax
and, if unpaid, department can obtain order of Court
to sell land. Suggest asking for time to pay,
explaining circumstances.. . .C.M.M.: Insufficient in-
formation. See a solicitor. .. .L.V.1.: J. E. Platt’s
“The Thoroughbred Racehorse” (10s.) and F. A. E.
Crew’s “Animal Genetics” (255.) C.F.A.: No
information in Australia regarding any openings for
*uch employment. Try a letter to Government
Secretary, Rabaul J.E.W.: (1) You will have to
write to the Clerks of the respective. Parliaments.
(2) Zola died in 1902; he was found asphyxiated by
the fumes of a charcoal stove. .. .F.J.M.C.: Write
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House, -Barrack-
street, Sydney... .8.J.5.: No man of that name
won a V.C. during the Great War W.L.A.:
Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen’s Assoc.,
Room 84, Trades Hall, Goulburn-street, Sydney....
F.W.D.: (1) Publishers of standing publish at
their own risk and pay the author royalties on the
number of copies sold. For information regarding
the various forms of agreements see “The Aust.
and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.” (2)
Cost varies considerably according to number of
copies, size of book, class of paper, nature of
binding, etc. (3) The co. is already formed. AVrite
to it at 252 George-street, Sydney.... K.M.B. : (1)
Better serve apprenticeship with a hairdresser. (2)
“Horses, Vehicles and Live Stock” column in “S. M.
Herald”.... C.C.: It is impossible to give here- any
description of the manufacture of washing- soda;
it is too long and complicated. Salt is the basis
and it passes through various processes of acids
and heat in vats, the work being done in large
factories with expensive machinery.... T.H.: Mix
well together 71b. white kalsomine, | pint raw
linseed oil and a small quantity of turpentine.
If it seems too thick, add a little more oil, but
be careful not to overdo it, ...G.D.: A. P. Watt
and Son, Hastings House, Norfolk-street, Strand,
London, W.C., or A. M. Heath and Co., Ltd.,
188 Piccadilly, London, AV.1... .G.A.: Try Dept,
of Navigation, Melbourne, Vic....0.J.: Unemploy-
ment-relief tax is payable by a resident of N.S.AV.
in respect of income derived from all sources....
T.W.D.: Postage will be shown on leader page in
future... .L.T.: You do not. appear to be protected
with regard to sheep; but see a solicitor. Bill-
holder cannot compel mortgagee to take any action.
.... i'.P.G.: From Dept, of Labor and Industry,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .J.K.: Raddle or ruddle
can bo obtained from any supplier of stock and
station requisites. You can also use any of the
simple home dyes on the market, but be sure tp
purchase one made up specially for wool, then follow
the directions on the packet. Most home workers
use the packet dyes and find them satisfactory....
F.G.: Yes, Jack London went in 1904 to Japan as
war correspondent, and in 1914 to Mexico in the
same capacity.. . .AV.W.: The Natal 1906 silver
medal was granted by the Natal Government in
1908 to all those who took part in suppressing the
native revolt of 1906... .H.J.C.: Telephone facilities
were not available in Perth until the end of 1887.
. ...J.0.: Write to the Secretary, Vic. Veterinary
Association, care the Veterinary Research Institute,
Story-street, Parkville M.D,: Cecil Kellaway, the
actor, was born at Cape Town, South Africa, on
August 10, 1893... .H.D.: AVrite Secretary, South
Aust. Railways, Box 3988, G.P.0., Adelaide
W.R.N.M.: (1) (a) The Manchukuo Government is
encouraging the breeding of sheep, mostly ctoste-
breds; (6) can’t say; (c) native sheep are kept,
mainly for the purpose of meat. The country is said
to be suitable for sheep-breeding. (2) 17 Castlefeaglr-
street, Sydney. Further information could be obtained
through British Consulate-General at Mukden, or
Harbin, in Manchukuo... .R.P.R.: “Classing the
Clip,’’ by C. E. Cowley (165.), “The Sheep and
Wool Industry of Australia and New Zealand,” by
H. B. Smith (10s. 6d.), and “Australasian Sheep
and Wool,” by A. Hawkesworth (255.)... .H.J,:
(1) No figures are published. Write Police Depart-
ments in the various States. (2) Consult inter-State
directories, also secretaries of agricultural societies
in each of the capital cities. “The Dog World,”
6 Dalley-street, Sydney, may be able to help....
A.AV.: There is an excellent article on the subject
in the February, 1933, number of the “Review of
Reviews” (Is.). The best works on the subject are
in French... .H.G.L.: AVrite Naval Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne, and state purpose for which you
require the information. .. .G.N.: Try Angus and
Coote, 500 George-street; Saunder’s, Ltd., 807 George-
street;' and Orchard’s, Ltd., Railway-square—all
Sydney. .. .A.R.H.: From MeCarron, 'Bird and Co.,
479 Collins-street, Melbourne. Price, ss. 7d., post
free. .. . T.H.M.: Do not know of any book. All the
standard encyclopaedias give detailed information on
the subject... .C.H.H.: T. Hannan, 519 Parramatta-
road, Leichhardt, Sydney; and J. Kitchen and Sons,
365 Kent-street, Sydney H.K.M.: HALS. Hamp-
shire struck on June 5, 1916, while on her way to
Archangel, one of the mines laid by U 75 and sank
off the Orkneys in 15 minutes. The disaster brought
Lord Kitchener’s career to an end. The Hampshire
lost all but 12 men J.8.G.: The book has no
commercial value.... .C.D.T.: “Since Then” (65.)
and “The AVay of Escape” (9s. 6d.), by Gibbs, and
“Britons in Partnership,” by Grondona (ss. 3d.).
. ...D.V.R.: If carrying on under firm name, firm
must be registered with Registrar-General, Sydney.
Apply to Department of Labor and Industry, Sydney,
for regulations governing employment. .. .K.S.: Tne
Sunshine (Vic.) railway disaster occurred on April
20, 1908, when a train from Bendigo ran into one
leaving Braybrook Junction (Sunshine) for Mel-
bourne, 44 persons being killed and 412 injured....
C.E.H.: Write H. M. Green, Librarian, Fisher
Library, University of Sydney, Newtown, Sydney.
. .T.D.M.C.: “Canadian Magazine,” 347 Adelaide-
street West; and “Maclean’s Magazine,” 143 Uni-
versity-avenue—both Toronto, Canada. .. .H.P.: Nauru
was discovered by Captain Fcarn in the British
ship Hunter in 1798, and named Pleasant Island.
In 1888, the Germans annexed it and reverted to
the native name of Nauru... .E.8.G.: (1) No pros-
pects there for man with such small capital. (2)
Overcrowded at present... .W. 8.: Write to the
Research Officer, Public Library of N.S.AV’., Bent
and Macquarie streets, Sydney.... (Many others
mailed.)


BRITISH BUILT MOTOR LORRIES
By TILLING-STEVENS, LONDON.
GEAR DRIVEN.
h
To diminish our stocks
we are offering the
above lorries at greatly
reduced prices, as
under.
Call and inspect and
get specifications.
2-1 Ton Chassis . . . . £4OO
3 Ton Express Chassis . . £6OO
5-6 Ton Chassis . . . . £650
32. Seater ’Bus Chassis . . £650
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10*12 Parramatta Road,
CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Sure and Swift
Sure in ignition and of a high velocity, Nobel
.22 Rim Fire Cartridges are the keen sports
man’s most reliable ammunition.
“NOBEL” (Non-Rusting)
.22 Rim
m
A
11390
LLTO!
Fires
are the newest and best cartridge
the world has ever produced;
their sheer effectiveness in per-
formance supplies the reason why
they claim preference with the majority
of shooters, against any other brand.
Try Them Out—Yourself
Supplied in Short, Long and Long
Rifle —solid and hollow point.
Obtainable Through
Your Local Store
The Name “Nobel” is Your
Guarantee of Satisfaction.
K.P.333
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Moorefield club had a beautiful latter-
summer day for its races on Saturday; and
McShortodds —a melancholy figure at the
settling on Canterbury Park—had more
favorites to pay out on. He protected him-
self as far as possible by restricting the
prices. Suntan was at evens in the Hurdle
Race, and not much of that; and it was
the same for a time with Emily Rose in her
division of the Juvenile Handicap; then the
few willing to bet demanded 6 to 4. This
daughter of Rampion—Whitta did nothing
at Randwick, but she looks a champion
among the small fry on the proprietary
courses.
It is rare to see an owner of a two-year-
old take on all ages nowadays. J. T. Cush
did it in the first division of the Maiden
Handicap with Journal, a youngster by
Treclare —Encre (useful mare in her day),
and the experiment succeeded, as it deserved
to do. What is more, Cush and his friends
got 6 to 1 for their money. Knox helped
by a vigorous bit of riding. He was not
called upon to exert Regal Star (7 to 4 on)
overmuch in the second division, and Tironui
(5 to 4 on) had a still easier win in the
third division, being hard held all the way
along the straight. This is a three-year-old
black gelding by Magpie—Linquair, and he
is evidently a good one. J. T. Jamieson
owns and trains him.
The Flying Handicap furnished much
brisker betting; there were 18 runners, and
<SERT ■ "l HEARD AN AWFUL THING,
ABOUT YOU YESTERDAY''
Bert :" what 7 -
<SERT \ l HAT YOU ARE ONE OF THOSE
HIT-AND-RUN people""
Bert? Yes, its quite true. In/e
JOINED A BASE BALL TEAN'f*
just before the start a dashing adventurer
in his medium called 5 to 1 the field. Dunerc
was at that price, along with Lady Joy,
Caution and Twinkle Star. He threw his
jockey, Lightfoot, and Mortimer was substi-
tuted. This boy was also thrown when they
were at the barrier. Unperturbed, he
bounced the chestnut away and hit the
front when half the six furlongs had been
traversed. Two outsiders, Truesign and
Omagh, tackled him in the straight but could
make no impression on him. N.E.F., who
was badly served at the start, was doing
well at the finish, and so were Erbie and
Polydorus. Lady Joy stopped very suddenly.
Not much money was required to send
Nachara to 7 to 4 for the Moorefield Handi-
cap. The chestnut mare looked a good thing
at the home turn, but she finished rather
weakly and was beaten into third place by
Sassanides (10 to 1) and Blairfort. (8 to
1), with Barrier Corn and Rogerson well up.
Sassanides is a four-year-old bay gelding by
Legionnaire—Dew Drop ; Parsons got in a
nice late run on him. Backers declared for
Touch it in the Rockdale Mile, remembering
his second to Panjandrum at Randwick; but
victory went to' Pentheus (10 to 1),. though
Fame and Touchit were catching him fast
at the finish. Pentheus carried Bst. 71b. in
a field of second- and third-raters with a 7st.
minimum. A luxurious weight for a Caul-
field Guineas and w.f.a. winner; but he had
shown no form for some time.
**. * *
Winooka, it is announced, is to be taken
to the U.S.A. by Rufus Naylor, described
by “S. M. Herald” as “one of the most
familiar figures on metropolitan racecourses.”
Pike is not going. H'e is wise.
For the Tatt.’s Club meeting at Rand-
wick :—•
Flying Handicap: Kichaka; next, Tom
Pinch or Caravel Boy.
Novice Handicap : Foxhunter; next, Mol-
vius.
James Barnes Plate: Satmoth; next,
Gippsland.
Welter Handicap: Celebrate; next,
Dilemma.
* * * *
Many Melbourne racing followers spent
the greater part of last week at Warrnam-
bool, where a meeting extending over three
days is annually staged in May. Before his
Australian Cup and Melbourne Cup suc-
cesses, The Parisian revealed high gallop-
ing talent by annexing the Warrnamboo]
Cup, and it is on the cards that this year’s
winner of the Western District event, Oof
Bird, will be talked of freely when the spring
racing comes round. Oof Bird is by Magpie
from Note, a sister to Purser, and better
staying blood hardly could be wished for.
The Grand Annual Steeplechase went io
Solo King, from the Mentone stable of F.
W. Lloystedj who prepared Rakwool for a
Grand National Steeplechase triumph in
1931. Bob Inkson repeated the tactics that
he adopted with Rakwool, and Solo King
led all the way. Solo King is by Comedy
King from a half-sister to Parsee, winner of
the A.J.C. Derby of 1908. Wonderful breed-
ing for a timber-topper.
The attendance at Ascot suffered because
so many regulars were at Warrnambool or
were feeling jaded after the return journey.
Big metropolitan bookmakers are still hold-
ing aloof from taking out licenses at the
V.T. and R.A. courses. They consider that
winners are too easy to pick there. It must
be admitted that McShortodds did not have
a profitable time on Saturday, seven out of
eight events being won by short-priced can-
didates. In every instance the tote dividend
eclipsed odds obtainable in the ring. Snow-
lass, the solitary outsider to score, started
at 10 to 1, but paid more than 17 to 1 on
the machine. Snowlass carried off the second
division of the Trial Handicap in runaway
style. She was bred in N. S. Wales by D. U.
Seaton, and is by Snowfire from Galopin
Lass, by Malster from Grafton Lass, by
Grafton. As a yearling this filly brought 55
guineas. She is owned and trained by George
Delaney, of Caulfield.
Steve Murphy, the Flemington trainer, ex-
perienced a setback when Sailing On, with
Duncan up, struck his colors to Oof Bird
in the Warrnambool Cup; but found com-
pensation two days later, The Dawn Patrol
going out at cramped odds for the Ascot Five
Hundred and scoring comfortably from Full
Force and Stardom. In this instance also
Duncan weighed out for Murphy’s can-
date, Skidmore, stable jockey, being under
suspension. Eminere, winner of the Five
Hundred on the previous Saturday, was equal
favorite with The Dawn Patrol. He missed
the jump-out, and, having drawn an outside
marble, was never in the hunt. The Dawn
Patrol is by The Night Patrol (sire of
Midddle Watch) from Etherian, by The
Welkin from Etlme, by Antonio (imp.).
Hap (Drake—Truda) put up a splendid
performance in the Juvenile Handicap. She
had failed over five furlongs at Ascot
a week before with 9st. 71b., but was
dropped only 21b. by the handicapper, who
probably thought that the extra half-furlong
would suit her. Hap was last at the half-
way stage, and still a long way back when
the leaders turned for home. However, she
smothered them in the straight, and scored
by two lengths from Telford’s filly La
Vante, who is striking form. Telford
remained at home, and La Vante was saddled
up by Tom Woodcock, who accompanied
Phar Lap to Agua Caliente.
Anyday, a Beau Soult gelding that W. J.
McLauchlin, of Newcastle, sent across to be
trained at Flemington by his old friend
Burke, had very solid support for the first
division of the Trial Handicap. New to the
course, which is tricky, he had to be content
with a close fourth. The winner was High-
way, a Saltash gelding that has registered
five victories in his last seven starts. High-
way originally belonged to the late F. J.
Marsden, of Sydney. When Marsden’s horses
came up for sale at auction, W. P. Brittain,
of Flemington, bought Highway for 40gns.—
a real bargain. The dam of Highway is
Lady Flier (imp.).
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
His broken leg repaired, Lurich had a
full house at Leichhardt when he “wrestled”
Penchiff. A draw resulted after six rounds
of mauling and make-believe that pleased a
public which is easily pleased. Pencliiff
gained the first fall with a short-arm scissors
in the third round, Lurich the next with a
forward-slam and body-press in the fifth. In
the last round some blows were struck, but
neither performer was hurt.
Footbrawl
Though the day was dull, play was bright
in Melbourne’s League games on Saturday.
Footscray visited South Melbourne and irri-
tated the Bed-and-white barrackers by better
marking, quicker handling and uncannily
accurate position play, so that at lemon-
time ’Scray had a 19-point lead. Then
South woke up and made the opposition
look like novices. In that last term Foot-
scray scored only 2 points, while the locals
rushed on 47, finishing with 125 points to
99. Reville was the best man on the ground.
Oollingwood went over to neighbor Fitzroy,
but in the second quarter got a .shock. Fitzroy
played exceptionally fast and systematic ’bail
and added 55 points to ’Wood’s 8. The Mag-
pies bogged in solidly after that and reduced
the lead somewhat, but the deficit was too
great, ’Roy winning by 106 to 81. Chief merit
for the victory goes to Niven and Heintz for
accurately feeding Moriarty, who just as accu-
rately booted 10 goals. Some 9000 Geelong-
ites paid £250 to see Melbourne outed with
only 72 points to Geelong’s 90. Carlton
found its rugged methods countered by Haw-
thorn’s speed and combination, and had _to
go its darnedest to gather in the bacon, doing
so finally by 80 points to 72. Hawthorn
only wants a capable coach and leader to
make a first-class team. Essendon beat St.
ICilda in a scrambling game by 91 to 78;
and Richmond’s Tigers set about getting a
high percentage by mercilessly trouncing
North Melbourne —160 points to 66 being the
tally.
H* *l*
Rugby Union in Sydney at the week-end
took on a double-barrelled aspect, Univer-
sity and Randwick meeting in the final of
the knock-out competition, and the remainder
of the clubs in the opening round of the
Shute Shield tourney. The knock-out final
at University Oval was expected to be a
thriller, and so it proved. Uni. this year is
fielding one of its best sides for a long time,
and though Randwick has also been showing
a return to the form of some seasons ago, the
students, back and forward, overwhelmed
the opposition, winning 22-11 —five tries, two
converted, and a penalty goal to two tries,
one converted, and a penalty goal. A feature
of the match was the clean and fast heeling
from the ’Varsity scrum, a thing rarely seen
with the three-in-front formation nowadays.
McShane behind the pack took full advantage
of this, and backs and forwards combined to
perfection in fast passing rushes. Rand-
wick, fairly mastered, made amends by
deadly tackling, but failed to evolve a tactical
scheme to meet the situation.
In the Shute Shield matches Western
Suburbs surprised by upsetting !
Manly, 28-18, at Concord. The
Eastern Suburbs meeting at ihe
Ground was more even, Drummoyne getting
home from the youthful Eastern jnde by
17-16. At Hurstville St. George Au
Northern Suburbs a hard go in j 1 tas,
bright game before the latter won by 14 to
11.
Saturday's Rugby League competition
matches in Sydney saw South Sydney, the
premiers, and Eastern Suburbs the only un-
beaten teams at the end of the third r ° u ° c f
The star game was South Sydney and St.
George; South won, 15-0. The first half was
entirely St. George’s, the forwards pinnim,
the premiers down to defending tactics. '\itn
plenty of openings the St. George side fallen
badly to take advantage of them, and at
half-time had obviously missed the bus. in
the second spell the South Sydney back
machine took command and, though working
rather creakily, benefited by the mistakes of
the poor rearguard opposed to them. 4he
game was hard and penalties were plentiful.
In the other matches, Western Suburbs
handed Newtown its first defeat on its own
midden at Marrickville, Western scoring 21-
6. At North Sydney, Eastern Suburbs had
a narrow win over the local men by 10- 1.
and at Drummoyne Oval, Balmain, which
is surprising itself this season, had a win,
beating University 18-10 in a dull game.
A notable feature of the League first-
grade teams to date is the goal-kicking of 1.
McMillan, the inter-State and international
fullback, who has kicked 18 goals in three
matches for his club, Western Suburbs.
* * * *
The English Rugby League club final,
which has been staged for a couple of seasons
at Wembley in order to introduce the North
of England game to the South, was this
year under the eye of the Prince of Wales,
who has hitherto confined his patronage of
football to the Union and Soccer codes. He
and the game attracted a 50,000-crowd to see
Huddersfield beat Warrington 21-17. Aus-
tralian and M.L. players figured on both
sides.
(Continued on page 80.)
The inter-State eight-oar race for the
King’s Cup on the Brisbane River resulted
in a not-unexpected win for the N.S.W.
crew. As H. Turner retained the amateur
sculling championship of Australia, N.S.M .
had n good day. The winners were not
troubled over the first two miles, but had
to go lickety-split over the last, with the
Wide Bay crew, representing Queensland, at
them all the time. N.S.W. got home bv a
length in 14min. 30sec., a record for _ the
three-mile race. Turner won the sculls in a
paddle, Beauchamp, of Tasmania, being 15
lengths away second. Here again the time
was a record. 14min. 32sec. for the 21 miles.
* * * *
“Yarker” : London “Sunday Express” has
published an interview with Larwood which
is one long tirade of abuse of everything and
everyone connected with Australian cricket.
Woodfull was “too slow,” Bradman “too
frightened,” the Australian people are “an
unsportsmanlike gang,” and so on. Larwood
says he regrets the publication, and tried to
stop it at the last moment; but the mischief
has been done. In no circumstances should an
Australian XI be sent to England next year.
Cricket tournaments between Australia and
England have long assumed a position in the
public eye out of all ratio to their import-
ance. Suspension for at least five years will
be to the advantage of both countries; they
have much graver matters to think about.


New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,"
The Basement Bookshop,
- ffia Queen Street, Melbourne, C-l.
...........
M
m
SEND
NOW
FOR
A COPY
OF OUR
NEW
CATALOG
No. 33.
ENTIRELY NEW/
The ‘"TRITON” Vertical Plunger Pump
Those requiring a small, inexpensive, yet powerful
pump will find that the newly-designed “Triton”
measures up to requirements.
It is small— inches high.
Low power required—£h.p. is ample.
500 r.p .m. gives 600 gallons per hour. Can be
operated at a higher or lower speed if desired, the
output varying accordingly.
Fitted for 1 in. suction and delivery pipes, and can be
supplied for Belt, Chain or Gear Drive.
Altogether the “Triton” is a splendid unit, needing
but little attention and is practically noiseless.
Its low price is also a decided advantage.
Full particulars and prices on request.
c
Proprietary Limited.
51 Bathurst St. - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins St. - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth St. - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray St. * - - - - PERTH
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: The feeling between the Vic-
torian Football League and Association has
resulted in an armistice of sorts. The big
trouble has been the ban laid by the League
on its players transferring to the Associa-
tion. A gentlemen’s agreement was reached
at a recent conference whereby the ban is to
apply only to those players who figured in the
League first eighteens in 1932. Another
burning question was the refusal of the
League to transfer Hughson (B. 26/4/’33)
to Preston, the Association club for which
he desires to play. The League lias pro-
mised to ask Carlton, Iluglison’s League
club, to consent to transfer him, but what
Carlton will do is another matter. At a
subsequent meeting of the Association the
armistice was accepted about as enthusias-
tically as the Germans received theirs in
1918.
* * * *
“Magpie”: For a long time tlie control
exercised by the powerful Collingwood foot-
ball club over the publicly-owned Victoria
Park has been a cause of strife in the rela-
tions between the Collingwood Council and
the ratepayers. The council some time ago
took steps to assume a stronger control it-
self, and for some months it has been at war
with the club and with the Grounds Manage-
ment Association. It has now decided to run
the park itself, ignoring other bodies. The
trouble originally rose out of the increasing
of admission charges by the G. M. Associa-
tion. The crux of the situation is that Col-
lingwood may have to seek another ground,
the which is a terrifying prospect to all
’Wood’s barrackers.
“Bush Leaguer” : It is not only the Mel-
bourne League clubs which have to groan
under the groundless calumny that they
bribe players to abandon their rural fast-
messes for the bright lights (B. 3/5/’33).
One of the delegates of the Bendigo League
has accused the Bendigoers of enticing
players to their dorp with promises of sup-
port and then leaving them to shift for
themselves. Bendigo’s excuse was that it
was only following the Melbourne practice
which Melbourne has so indignantly denied
knowing anything about.
“Cottesloe”: Westraliau Football League,
which last year nearly anticipated the
secession movement by declining to grant a
transfer to a prominent Groper player who
had been “invited” to a Melbourne club, is
again in arms against the eastern carpet-
baggers. Footscray and Collingwood had
arranged for the transfer of Grundy and
Daily to Melbourne. The Westralian League
has held up the necessary certificates, and
lias added insult to obstinacy by demanding
from the Melbourne clubs satisfactory guar-
antees that the employment said to be wait-
ing for the prospective tourists is not an idle
figment of the Melbournites’ imagination.
V ❖ # 3):
“{stand Off” : The trustees of the Sydney
Cricket Ground periodically lay themselves
open to criticism. Recently their neglect
to provide adequate accommodation for the
cricket Test crowds after the warning given
them by the scenes at the football matches
against England last year aroused a storm
of complaint. This was a sin of omission,
but their latest prank in letting the ground,
granted in trust for amateur sport alone,
to the professional Rugby League and Aus-
tralian League bodies, to the exclusion of
the amateur Rugby Union, is in another
category. Characteristically the ground has
been let to these bodies oil the dates desired
for inter-State matches with Queensland
and Victoria, and applied for months ago
by the Union. The trust has always shown a
leaning to the professional League. From
1919 to 1928 it actually granted a lease for
the football season to that body, a lease
which its powers under the trust did not
entitle it to make. It was forced to refuse
a renewal of this lease, but it seems to have
returned to its old ways.
“Davis Park”: The Rugby League Board
or Control, which has been sitting in Bris-
bane, has resolved to see that the Australian
team for England is better housed than
on previous trips. The League game in
England is not associated with champagne
and roses, and the type of accommodation
provided in the past has been far below that
available, for the North Country sides whiclu
have visited N.S.W. and Queensland. The
English authorities will, .therefore, be re-
quested to select hotels rather higher in the
social scale.
“Red and Green”: Ben Wearing, who
the other day played his 186th match for
Eolith Sydney club, has a rather unique
record m Rugby League football. For years
he has been one of the star wing three-
quarters of the professional game in Aus-
tralia, a prolific try-getter and a kicker
of many goals, yet has never played for
Australia. He has represented N.S.W. in
inter-State matches on many occasions, and
though last season it looked as if his chance
for international honors had come against
England, injury took him out of the side at
the last moment.
The Nineteenth Hole
Sandringham”; One of the many func-
tions in which Melbourne golfers "put it
over their Sydney contemporaries is the
annual tourney for old G.P.S. boys. The
metropolitan schools mustered 93 entrants
and Geelong 13 at Royal Melbourne, the G.
E. Dickenson Cup for the singles champion-
ship going to H. R. Schlapp, of Scotch Col-
with a score of four up on Bogey. The
Robinson Cup for the inter-schools cham-
pionship was won by Scotch.
“Village”: The gaieties of Manly were
added to tlie other day when a team of pro-
fessional golfers steeled themselves to meet
another drawn from Manly club associates.
There were 24 teams and the professionals
showed that they were not lacking in chivalry,
since the associates won seven of The matches
decided and the professionals thirteen, four
being drawn. The winning women were
Misses Marshall and McConnell and Mes-
dames Geraghty, Hayes, Douglas, Binuie
and Glover.
“Hamilton”: The ninth annual light for
the A.I.F. Cup at Eagle Farm near Bris-
bane liad a curious ending, three men of the
140 starters tying with a net card of 71.
The three were A. T. Graham (14 handicap),
R. P. Rheuben (17) and IT. S. Platt (18).
1 he best gross score was 73 off scratch by
professional A. Denholm. The play-off for
the Cup was won by Rheuben, thus stulti-
fying' the forecast of the patriarch Jacob:
"Reuben, my first-born; unstable as water,
thou shalt not excel.”
“Statics Speaking”; The Electrical and
Redio Development Association is staging
its golf competition for the Erda Cup in
Sydney, beginning at Manly on May 25 and
continuing on various Sydney and suburban
courses up to and including November 23.
It is a highly exclusive show, only the heads
of the radio racket in N.S.W. being eligible.
However, those of the public who have suf-
fered from howling valves and other ameni-
ties of listening-in will, presumably, have the
SUGGESTIONS FOR BODY-LINE UMPIRING.
FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: (1) Hydra-headed ump. (2) Ump. from the High Court Bench.
(3) One player, one ump.
right to exult over the players in their
agony. The comp, consists in 54 holes quali-
fying stroke play spread over the first three
months, the best 10 going on with knock-out
match play during the remaining quarter.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Though they were all
outed in the third round of the Bournemouth
hard-courts tournament a few days after
leaving the boat, the Australian Davis Cup
players are getting good notices from the
press experts. Crawford is rated as much
improved, while both Turnbull and Quist
come in for bouquets. As expected here,
McGrath Avas the top-liner, however, his
weird double-fisted backhand staggering the
wiseheads. Such a good judge as Wallis
Meyers says that he employs the stroke “with
astounding results,” though his service and
forehand still need building up—the opinion
of unprejudiced critics in Australia. Lee,
Austin. Hughes and Perry beat McGrath,
Turnbull, Crawford and Quist respectively,
all the games save the Quist-Perry match
going to four sets and over.
“Itockferry”: The Norwegian team selected
to meet the Australians in the latter’s first
Davis Cup match consists of four players.
unknown here, though one rejoices in the
familiar name of Smith. The match begins
m Oslo on Friday and on hard courts, so the
Bournemouth practice should stand the Aus-
sies in good stead. If the Australians win,
as they should, South Africa will be the next
hurdle, the match beginning on June 8 after
the French championships. They should go on
to meet Japan, which can be backed to beat
Germany, the following week, and ought to
win that match also on Australian form.
* * ■ * *
“Parklands”: Those who expect the Aus-
tralians to beat South Africa in the third
round of the Davis Cup may get a.surprise.
Ferry, Hughes and Lee, three of England’s
best, toured the Union and were walloped in
all three Tests. They had to play on hard
courts, but all of them have had plenty of
experience on similar courts on the Con-
tinent and even in England, and can hardly
advance that as an excuse. South Africa
had not intended to challenge this year, but
their success so bucked the ’Boks that they
changed their minds.
* * * *
“Milton”: Brisbane tennis lias lately been
undergoing a mild revolutionary movement
on the lines of that which occurred in
America about 150 years ago. The Queens-
land L. T. Association levied a charge of Bd.
per head on its players, but the diehards of
the Ilardcourts Association, which is not
represented on the Q.L.T.A., raised the cry
of “IVo taxation without representation” and
refused to cash in. Feeling ran high for a
time, but the matter has ended without any-
thing being wasted but hot air. The rebels
were informed that if they didn’t part up
none of their membership had a hope of
being selected for any representative team,
so the embattled objectors made the best of
it and crawled down.
Car and Cycle
“Streak”: The Collector (N.S.W.) people
who are trying to coax record-breaking
motorists to Lake George (B. 3/5/’33) seem
to have got Malcolm Campbell biting. He
wants full particulars as to going, tempera-
ture, rainfall and much else. For timing,
the electric apparatus belonging to the
Maoriland Automobile Association, which
was used when Norman Smith tried his luck
at Waitaia Beach, may be available. In
addition to Campbell and Smith, W. E.
Thompson, winner of two Australian Grand
Prix races, is thinking of having a spin on
Lake George.
* * * *
“Whizz" : A. Beasley’s light-car run from
Sydney to Melbourne (505 miles) i.n 11 hr.
59min. was soon but a story told. 0. It.
Warren, in a a few days
later, cut the run to lllir. lOmin., or over
50 m.p.h. on one of Australia’s most fre-
quented public highways. What is styled
"moderate touring speed” was observed
through the towns, so the pace in the open
must have been a corker. For all cars the
best is lOlir. smin. by D. Robertson, in a
big Graham Paige, three years ago, so the
small cars are catching up.
* * * *
"Red Flag”: This year is the centenary
of the death in poverty of Richard Treve-
thick, pioneer of power-driven road vehicles.
A Cornish man, Trcvethick in 1801 put on
the roads a steam carriage for passengers
which worked with conspicuous success.
Opposition to the new idea was energetic,
and Trcvethick finally gave it up in disgust.
It is worth noting that the farming com-
munity, which now relies so largely on power-
driven vehicles, embraced his fiercest oppo-
nents, on the ground that his invention would
abolish horses and make the growing of oats
and other crops required for horsefeed a
superfluity. To-day. of course, ceremonies
are being held in Britain to mark the anni-
versary and subscriptions collected for
memorials to him.
* * * $
“Kick Starter”: Those motor-cyclists who
delight in scaring the pedestrian stiff in
addition to deafening him will have another
inter-city record to break. The othey day
Vic Barclay rode from Sydney G.P.Q. to
that in Melbourne in 15hr. 34min. for the
565 miles. The machine was a 174-c.c.
Triumph. Previous runs have been: A.
Finlay (250 c.c., 8.5. A.), 17hr. 48min.; and
A. Clifton (3500 c.c. Douglas), 161ir. 17min.
* * * #
“Kick Starter”: British motor-cycles un-
doubtedly rule the roost. During the 1932
season British riders on British cycles won
the principal events in Britain, Italy, Aus-
tria, Holland, France, Belgium, Switzer-
land, Sweden and Spain. Britain scored 81
points against 31 points by all the other
countries combined.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: In the Sydney University
athletic championships J. P. Metcalfe added
another Australian record to his list by
clearing Oft. 3fin. in the high jump, but
official recognition has been withheld. Since
entering the University in 1931 Metcalfe has
cleaned up most of the high- and long-jump-
ng events he has entered for. He won the
State pentathlon and decathlon titles this
year, and is the holder of the Co'ombes medal
for the champion athlete for 1932-33. It is
worth noting that he altered his style last
year in favor of the American method of
nigh-jumping, and with marked success. The
world’s record for the high jump is 6ft. S-j-in.,
held jointly by H. Osborne, of America, and
R. Baker, of England.
“Stretcher”: At long last a serious attempt
is to be made to have the G.P.S. llead-of-
the-River races rowed on the Nepean, pro-
bably the world’s ideal rowing course. On
tlie broad Nepean a dozen crews could race
at once, and the necessity for heats would
be cut out. High banks give shelter,
there is no wind, tide is absent, and
the stream is within easy reach of
Sydney by train and motor. The 1928
iuter-State race for the King’s Cup on
the Neapean was a great success from
all points of view. The Parramatta course
is always affected by wind and tide, and is
too narrow for all the school eights at once.
During the G.P.S. races it is congested by
craft of all kinds, and serious casualties
have been narrowly averted on more than
one occasion. There is no comparison,
either, between the two rivers from the spec-
tator’s point of view. Scots College is to
suggest the change, the matter coming before
the G.P.S. rowing authorities shortly.
* ❖ ❖ :Jr
“Stretcher”: The Australian Universities
will meet in the annual face for the Oxford
and Cambridge Cup on June 3, the Nepean
River being the course. The last occasion
on which the race was held in N.S.W. was
in 1927. Westralia holds the cup and will
defend it this year.
sj« ❖ ❖ %
“Tenth Slip”: S. J. Bird, the N.S.W. all-
rounder, whom many looked on as Grimmett’s
successor in the next Australian XI (if
any), has started well in Lancashire
League cricket. In his two opening games
with the Ramsbottom club he made 35 and
14, run out, and took 6 wickets for 35 and 5
for 43. Hird is a forcing batsman of class,
and this asset, in addition to his googlie
bowling, should suit the Saturday games
played in the League down to the ground.


J
r
To gave delay in writing to
London, J.llott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON? -then The Langham!
The Langham is central right in the
heart of London. Handy for the City.
Handy for the Shops. The Langham
is comfortable quiet, spacious rooms
and a quick, watchful personal service.
The Langham is English. Its modern
conveniences—running water and
electric fires, for example, in every
bedroom have stolen nothing from
its old peace, its old welcome!
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The season at the “Glassy” opened with
a bang—several of them, to be exact —the
other afternoon. There was quite a crowded
arena, rows and rows of lookers-on;
though of all deadly and envy-awaking things
to be a non-combatant at a skating rink is
about the worst. Not even the most seden-
tary woman looker-on but sighs to be one
of those graceful figures, famous in fiction,
that go skimming .over the ice like a bird.
And some of the Sydney girls are getting
very close to deserving that description. The
season’s opened, the ice is there, and you
can" take your chance of acquiring a bruised
lower back or that swift gliding motion with
which in fancy you see yourself astonishing
your friends and giving the knock-out to the
girl rival. What about it?
The Society of Women Painters is holding
its 23rd exhibition, representing as many
years in the service of beauty. That the
effort has not been wasted is proved by the
show in the Education, Department’s Gal-
lery, opened last Saturday by Miss West,
principal of Frensham. A vital suggestion
put forward by president Mrs. Marie Irvine
was that the Government should buy the
best picture and the best piece of statuary
of the year, the judging to be done by a
committee independent of any established
group. The works of art could be presented
to the various towns.
Mary Soady’s “Harmony,” a piece of
statuary which shows the arts and commerce
bound together for good, attracted the spot-
light of attention, and has brought the clever
creator the George Taylor prize of 25
guineas. Mary, a tall slim girl, was there
in a dress of pink and white check tweed
made with a sort of Inverness cape effect.
It somehow suggested a day in the Scottish
Highlands. Marjory Arnold, responsible for
some sound painting and some colorful wood-
work, was reposeful in nutmeg browns. Mrs.
Bowring’s and Mrs. Bracegirdle’s portrait
sketches were noteworthy, as was Olive
Birkenhead’s “Lake,” Mabel Barling’s
“Cockatoos” (in their wheeling something of
the design that might be seen on a Chinese
screen), Frank Payne’s dimpled and vivid
youngsters. There are pictures from Maori-
iand, and this Letter saw its friend Dr.
Constance D’Arcy admiring Dora Wilson’s
“Autumn Comes to Heyington.”
One of the first deacons in the old Pitt-
street Congregational Church was John
Fairfax. M.L.C., father of the “S. M.
Herald,” who is commemorated in a tablet
surmounted by a fine bas-relief of his hand-
some leonine head and benign countenance.
There’s also an imposing tablet in memory
of David Jones, of South Wales, founder of
the big Sydney firm, one of the first members
of the Pitt-street congregation; “Erected
by his children to perpetuate the memory of
a wise and loving father.”
The Congregationals’ centenary _ circled
round the handsome old church in Pitt-
street where gentle Lilian Frost’s, organ
recitals have made a tally of over six hum
dred. There, long ago, that robust Chris-
tian. Rev. John West (an early editor of “S.
M. Herald”) took the pulpit most Sundays,
after arriving with his family per ’bus from
the sylvan wilds of Jersey-road, where the
big West home stood in a rambling garden.
And there the Rev. John, a fine scholar
and good citizen, dealt it out in Macaulay-
ish sentences to those who strayed from the
straight and narrow path to go (who
knows?) a-fishing or to take the air in
sunny places on Sabbath morns.
Admiralty House nearly got a decorative
tenant a few weeks ago. Earl Beauchamp
had his eye on it, but negotiations snapped.
His tenancy would have meant something
substantial in furniture alone ; and what a
chance it would have been for the local
artists of whom Lord Beauchamp is a great
admirer! He goes off to Tahiti in June, but
maybe he’ll come back to Sydney.
Miss Jobson, principal of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College at Pymble, was a proud
woman last week. She had a striking de-
monstration of the loyalty and friendship of
her “old” girls, who gathered around her,
about 70 strong, at a dinner in her honor.
This was held in the Girls’ Secondary
Schools’ Club, and the table was decked in
the P.L.C. red and white. There was only
one speech, a valedictory by the able lady
dominie, who goes to take up another sphere
of usefulness. The presentation, more pre-
cious than rubies to the recipient, was a
book containing the names of the girls pre-
sent, and of those whom distance or some
other insurmountable obstacle forced to send
apologies.
Over 1500 dancers took possession of
the Wanganella on a cold moonlit night last
week, and in the interests of the Benevolent
Society the boat, promenade and main decks
were given over to them. The decks were
garlanded with beech and fern brought speci-
ally from Maoriland by Enzed Trade Com-
missioner L. J. Schmitt; and tall, painted
Maori gods, tikis and carvings set the
fancy winging towards voyages across the
Tasman. There were films of Maoris
going about the daily round amidst the
beauty spots of their land, and of the
work of the Benevolent Society at its
hospitals and institutions. Every man’s
taste was catei'ed for; there were a Maori
character-reader, speedboat trips and a set
and a half of vice-regals. Lady Isaacs came
without the G.-G., but was aided by Lieu-
tenant Finlay; she wore pale lavender crepe
in company with white Arctic fox. Sir
Philip and Lady Game had Commander Gif-
ford in their train. The Chief Justice and
his wife were there, she, of course, being
president of the committee; so were the
Benevolent Society’s William Thompson, the
Wanganella’s Captain Bates and his wife,
and the T. J. Parkers.
A recent morning’s mail brought an SOS
from the Town Hall, where the Lud Mayor’s
lady has set up the sign of her clothing
fund. On an average, 50 families a day-
come to the open door seeking help. The
Mayoress appeals for slightly-used clean
clothing, for boots and for materials or
money to buy materials, which will be
turned into garments by the ladies of the
committee.
The big money-maker for the fund will
be the card party in the Town Hall on June
1. This will be a picnic-supper affair, each
group bringing its own tucker-bag. Crockery,
tea and coffee will be provided by the T.IL
The cruise idea pops up still again in the
prizes, for among them is a steamer trip to
any Australian port.
Director of the National Gallery Jimmy
Macdonald opened Will Ashton’s show in the
Macquarie Galleries last week, and said some
sensible and understandable things about the
art on the wall. This was as refreshing
as a. nice long drink of cool lager, after all
the near-beer that has been served up aboqt
contemporary art during the past few weeks.
Pretty little Mrs. Jimmy (an artist her-
self ; the two met and married when they
were studying art in Paris) was there in
trig grey tweeds and a black beret. Mrs.
Will Ashton smiled happily at the compli-
ments paid her husband's work, and the
rooms were , gay with the color on the walls
and the greetings of the friendly crowd in
the two rooms.
Will Ashton has had no fewer than ten
of his works in the Jioyal Academy in the
last four years. He sent the maximum three
(for non-academicians) for two years, and
two for the last two years. Six of these
have been hung on the line, and one of
them, “Mt. Kosciusko,” was bought by the
Maoriland Government.
Here is a typical Junior Red Cross
worker. She is Barbara Niblett, of Summer
Hill, and even
m her school-
days she was
a very live
member of the
J.R.C. The
two bazaars
she and her
school chum
Barbara Bain
organised and
carried to suc-
cess in the
Ashfield Town
Hall are still
spoken of with
respect by the
heads. Now
Barbara is
past school-
days, but the
habit of help-
fulness per-
sists. For the
past four
years she has given valuable voluntary ser-
vice at headquarters, and so the army of
workers is constantly being recruited.
The Frank Saywell is probably the most
prettily-situated kindergarten in tne city.
It is tucked into a corner of Moore Park
and is guarded by five or six tall Moreton
bays. It is principally a long room, entirely
surrounded by windows and glass doors,
through which the sun plays hide-and-seek
with the shadow, and the trees now and
again throw a leafy pattern across the pol-
ished floor. The chairs and tables are man-
darin-yellow and blue, and so are the fur-
nishings.
Every ordinary day of the week the kin-
dergarten is inhabited by merry youngsters
at play, but one afternoon last week the
Kindergarten Union assembled there for its
annual meeting, and maybe, too, to catch
a glimpse of the happiness it has helped
to light in the eyes of youth. Mr. Sevier
spoke of the work for these free kinder-
gartens as an investment which will redound
to the credit of the Empire. But looking at
the kindly men and women on the platform,
this Letter refused to be bluffed into believ-
ing there was any thought in their minds
but that of spreading joy among the kiddies.
Mr. Layton spoke of the very beginnings of
the movement at Miller’s Point, when “we
had to beg, borrow or steal the tiny pupils."
President of the union S. S. Cohen,
Mayoress Ilagon, A. W. Hicks (understudy
for Director of Education Ross Thomas) and
Mrs. M. Irvine stressed the need for the
maintenance and expansion of the work;
and clever Zoe Benjamin, with her eye on
the clock (she’d been warned it was near
tea-time), spoke at a great rate on the im-
portance of playgrounds for children of all
ages.
The C-.W.A. Handicrafts and Home Indus-
tries exhibition has been popular beyond all
our reckoning.
Th e average
daily attend-
ance has been
about 800, and
the demonstra-
tions of spin-
ning, tapestry
working, rug-
making and the
like have prov-
ed of absorb-
ing interest to
the onlookers.
The Angora
■wool - spinning
and the soft
garm e n t s
woven thereof
snared the eye
and purse of
vice-royalty, as
did, among
other wares,
the satin glaze
of the koala pottery. May Courtney’s “Ark
Antics” and Eleanor Lange’s “Marionettes”
held their own in the entertainments pro-
gramme. Mrs. A. J. Brown, the lady in this
Falk picture, had much to do with the suc-
cess. She designed and sketched all the
posters, she was a member of the executive
committee, and she showed several examples'
of the revived art of quilting, one of her
pieces being bought by Lady Isaacs;
Why was tall Andy Lysaght, the member
for Bulli, known as “Ironbark Andy”? He
told the reason to an accompaniment of
chuckles to a friend of this writer a year
or two ago. “When I was a youngster I
was a tall, upstanding chap, and I had a
great fancy for myself as a woodcliopper.
I would have backed myself against anyone
in or around Wollongong. Some of the
fellows came to me one day and asked if
I would enter for a wood-chopping contest
that was being arranged. Of course I would,
and to my great satisfaction I was through
my log while the other axemen were just get-
ting to the hearts of theirs. I didn’t find
out till afterwards that the fellows had
played a joke on Andy—put in a soft log
for me while my opponents were busy with
ironbark. After that I was never anything
but ‘lronbark Andy’ to them.” Up in the
House Mr. Lysaght was always introduced
by members as "His Majesty’s Attorney-
General.” The title dropped from their lips
without the flicker of an eyelash, and Aiidy
always took it with unruffled composure, so
that no man was ever sure whether he sensed
the leg-pulling or whether he, himself had
been leg-pulling when he interrupted the
leader of the first deputation that waited
on him as Minister with a “One moment,
Mr. , are you aware that you are
•addressing his Majesty’s Attorney-General?”
When he travelled from home Andy always
insisted on having a double bed, and slept
sideways to accommodate his great length.
This height of his, added to a quite uncon-
scious habit of flinging his gaze, from one
object to another in a rather monarchical
manner, was inherited from his father, who
one day, walking in the streets of Wollon-
gong, thumbs in the armholes of his vest,
head erect, saw his son approaching in a
similar attitude, “Well,” father said to his
companion, “I’m blest if I know where he
gets that pomposity!”
That brilliant little academic knight
Mungo MacCallum and his lady recently
celebrated their golden wedding. In testi-
mony of her 50 years of married happiness,
most of them spent in the shadow of the
University, the lady donated a cheque to her
beloved Aslifield Infants’ Home. Lady Game
called attention to this generosity at the
yearly meeting of the home, which was held
last week; and Dr. Wade handed a word of
praise to the first matron, Miss Taplin, who
had, he said, laid the foundation of its
present success. Incidentally, another ex-
ample of petticoat influence is seen in the
economical running expenses, which are ten
shillings a week per bed.
Her Dorcas-like tasks have not prevented
one small Junior Red Crosser from being a
humorist. At the pageant in the Town Hall
last Friday she walked with bandaged head,
arm in sling, limping along with the help
of a stick. A poster with the words An
I only said I didn’t like their .Harbor told
the pathetic story of her accident. In -
procession, which took about an h u
pass down the length of the Town Hall
there was a tall slim Australia, there
Dolly Vardens and red poppies, there were
ladies in the spreading skirts and powdered
hair the belles of Beau Brummels time
affected, there was a sheep set, there weic
little brown elves (or so they seemed) and
there was a regular army of snowy-clad little
girls, their white muslin snoods blazoned
with the Red Cross. , TT
The Governor and the Mayoral Hagons
watched the procession with interest, as did
Dame Eadith Walker, Premier Stevens, Mrs.
R. R. S. Mackinnon (director of the move-
ment) and Miss Consett Stephen.
The stalls in the vestibule were piled with
garments for children up to 14 years of age ,
over 3000 garments in all, beautifully
stitched and knitted. But that isn t the
last of the year’s work for the busy hands.
Christmas-time will find another three or
four thousand garments ready for distribu-
tion. Surely Mrs. Mackinnon started a veiy
notable movement. The first Junior Red
Cross was founded in N. S. Wales, rsext
Canada enrolled its young under the sign
of mercy. Now the idea has caught on
throughout the world. Perhaps the Junior
Red Crossers and the Boy Scouts are to be
civilisation’s way of outlawing war.
It doesn’t matter a bit if you did get your
antiques from the. little second-hand shop
out Paddington way. The thing is if they
are really old to send them along to the
Loan Exhibition in aid of the kindergartens
-—nobody will ask you how long they have
been in your family. The exhibition opens
on June 20 and all the best people (well,
the best-dressed, anyway) are busy helping.
Mrs. Marie Irvine, who is doing the publicity
work, is the possessor of much rare, china
and old silver, so probably some of it will
be on view. Dame. Barlow is another whose
family heirlooms of lace and china are
widely known. Sydney is really full of
treasures, and this exhibition is bringing them
from their hiding places. Living tableaux,
representing the Ming, Chelsea, VV illow,
Dresden and other notable china periods, will
add to the interest. These are, under the
direction .of Mrs. Sterling Levis, who is
being helped by Mrs. Jimmy Bancks and
Mrs. S- Burleigh. Bertie Kelly,is arranging
chamber music to fit the occasion.
The Sydney Girls’ High is in the nndst
of its jubilee celebrations. Last Thursday
night one of the gaieties, a bridge party, was
held at the Arts Club in Pitt-street. Nancy
Norris was the president and Helen Taylor
the secretary.
Bananaland’s budget:—
The committee of the Fund for Crippled Children
has collected over £lO,OOO for the home. The
fete at Government House was a huge success. On
the terrace were Premier Forgan Smith, Home Sec.
Hanlon, the Mayor and Mayoress, Mesdames Forgan
Smith and others, including George Marchant, who
donated the home. His Ex. declared the fete open
and thanked Mr. Marchant, the Rotary Club and
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon, who was responsible for
the bookstalls, named after various writers. Dorothea
Walker was Wendy at the Peter Pan stall; Mrs.
Hannival King had the “Robbery Under Arms” one;
“Seven Little Australians,” “On Our Selection,” “The
Bulletin” and “The Week” were also represented.
Peggy Chauneev’s pupils danced and clever little
Bonnie Bell elocuted.
There were pretty frocks at Ascot. Mrs. C. Luck
(Rockhampton) wore Venetian blue; Mrs. C. M.
Overell’s silver grey had broideries of blue and rose;
navy blue and white was chosen by Mrs. A. H. Whit-
ting-ham ; Mrs. Jack Whatmore wore black and white;
Blanche North was in black with touches of gipsy
gold; Mrs. Basil Carr favored marine blue. On
the second day, Mrs. Isaac Moore, in golden brown
with a brown hat, gave a tea on the committee-
room verandah in a decoration of mauve and pink
dahlias. Mrs. A. E. Moore wore French grey ; her
niece Sybil Warner (from South Africa) came in
flecked bottle green; Dorothy Webster was in dark-
blue, with a white sailor hat; Mrs. E. M. Ralph
chose black; cornflower-blue check was worn by
Mrs. Norman MarkweU.
E. R. Pelling gave a lunch for the metropolitan
press to meet Charlie Chauvel, whose film, “In the
Wake of the Bounty,” is being shown at the
Wintergarden. The premiere was well attended;
Mrs. Chauvel, who is remembered here as Elsa
Sylvaney, the pretty sister of Kryle McAlister, gave
a short address from the platform. The Cumbrae-
Stewarts had a party for the Chauvels at their
Kangaroo Point home.
In St. Paul’s, Ipswich. Graham Stephenson, the
Mayor’s son, and Dorothy Gertrude Holmes were
made one. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in magnolia satin with a Honiton lace
veil. Gem Stephenson, Erica Smith and Margaret
Hayne ’maided in autumn-gold chiffon velvet.
Mesdames Stephenson and Holmes received at White-
house’s cafe.
The Engineering Conference Ball was an elaborate
affair, held in the City Hall. The Mayoress wore
ivory; the Julius lady (Sydney) was in grey and
green; claret color and gold were chosen by Mrs.
H. R. Harper (Melbourne) ; Mrs. A. J. Gibson
(Sydney) wore black velvet; Mrs. E. M. Ralph also
favored black; Mrs. A. E.- Moore was in cigar
brown ; Mrs. Preston Chambers (M.L.) was in black
lace; Mrs. H. M. Sherrard (Sydney) wore saxe blue.


A |
those
present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of "Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift—a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
"Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name—and look for the “Hec-
worth” brand on every article.
The Australian Art
Exhibition
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY
252 George Street, Sydney.
Visitors to Sydney are advised to
visit the Macleod Gallery and inspect
the exhibition of work by all leading
Australian artists.
New works by Hans Heysen, Will
Ashton, Norman Lindsay, Robert
Johnson, Dora Wilson and many other
prominent artists have recently been
added.
ADMISSION FREE.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from I 9/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Personal.
IWIICHAEL WALSH, one time of New
Zealand, and brother of Joseph Walsh,
deceased, late of Wairarapa, New Zealand,
and formerly of Dunedin, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing his whereaboiits. is re-
quested to communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Master ton, New
Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
Passengers aboard the tourist ship Ulysses
were guests at a dance staged by the E.S.U.
at Admiralty House. Senator R. D. Elliott
welcomed them. Mrs. Gordon Adams’s white
flat crepe frock had a pale-green sash bow at
the waistline. The corsage of Mrs. D. Bur-
ton’s ivory-tinted gown was bordered with a
twisted r'ope of purple velvet, falling to the
skirt hem at the back. Other visiting dancers
were Major and Mrs. Salveson, Captain
and Mrs. R. Joynson, Miss E. Shore, in
a beautifully-cut white satin frock ; Richard
Pryce, a member of the E.S.U. of London;
Mrs. H. Orchard, and Mr. and Mrs. E.
Crowther and their daughter from Cape-
town. Edith Noall and Muriel Clarke
headed the entertaining committee.
The Junior Auxiliary of the Y.W.C.A.
engineered a dance at the Rex, the commit-
tee members wearing wristlets of blue
flowers. Hilda Langley, the president,
danced in flowered chiffon. Betty Journeaux,
who sported persimmon-toned crinkled
crepe, and Jean Crapp, whose frock was
sky blue, shared secretarial duties. Rose-
mary Downes and Betty Fellows, who were
the ticket secretaries, chose velvet frocks in
contrasting shades of blue. Special guests
were Dr. Stewart Cowen, Mrs. Cowen, who
is president of the Y.W.C.A., and the secre-
tary of the association, Irene Glasson.
At. Grosvenor on Saturday night the W. H.
Murphys had a coming-out party for their
daughter Julia, who wore a frock of em-
broidered ivory-tinted pineapple cloth, with
a deep flounce of matching chiffon. Over
this was a jackette of ivory crochet, and
the young miss wore her father’s present, a
crystal and pearl necklet. Mrs. Murphy’s
black velvet gown was cheered with rose-
red petals on one shoulder. A deb. of last
year, Wilma Murphy, wore a peach-pink
taffeta frock, the skirt of which had flounces
finished with accordion-pleated frills, the
corsage being finished with a rounded
bertha and appliqued embroidery in pastel
shades. Edna Murphy’s black hair and blue
eyes were set off by a dress of turquoise-
blue velvet. Bridge-players included Dr. and
Mrs. J. Marion, she in georgette and satin
gown of dahlia hue. the Misses J. and S.
Marron. Dr. and Mis. Gerald Sheahan, the
Fred Sheahans and Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Moore. Among the dancers were Rosemary
Wright, in white organdie, with lots
of tiny ruebings; Lolita Marriott, in
plumbago-blue georgette; Dot Buxton, in
pansy-purple velvet; Beryl Moore, in
powder blue; and Norma Young, from Gee-
long, wearing a flowered georgette frock
that blended shades of green and fawn.
Warrnambool has had a round of gaieties
in connection with its autumn race meeting.
Revived after a lapse of some years, there
was a race ball, engineered by the president
of the W.R.C., James Dickson, and his com-
mittee. Mrs. Dickson wore black Chantilly
lace, and chiffon with a floral design in black
and pink was chosen by Ruth Dickson. Vice-
president Marcus Whiting came with Mrs.
Whiting, whose draperies were mushroom
pink.
Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Lyon gave a latc-
afternoon party at their Toorak home, when
there was a big roll-u.p of society. The
hostess looked handsome in black with a
shoulder spray of gardenias, her toque
being black velvet. Her three daughters, of
whom only the eldest, Barbara, is out, were
there to lend a hand. Miss Lyon mingled
white and vivid blue in her frock; her sister
Patricia was in begonia red, and Rosemary
wore coral pink. Among the guests were
Lady Louise Montagu, Mrs. Harry Cres-
wick, the Edgar Rouses, Dr. and Mrs. Mark
Gardner and Mrs. Robert Knox.
At a gathering of members of the Over-
seas League some of the folk who had
arrived by ocean liners that day were guests
at the afternoon’s billy-boiling. Among
these travellers were Mrs. E. R. Drake
Brockman from England, Mrs. E. Beveridge
from Edinburgh, Miss M. M. Van Rensburg
and Miss B. DufAs from South Africa, and
the Rev. Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Guest. ’Cellist
Sheila Macfie gave a chat on French music;
and Mrs. J. C. Farrin Webb, one of the
hostesses, welcomed the visitors. Mrs. B.
Ferguson, Mrs. A. L. Adamson, May Rim-
mington, Miss E. Bowden and the hon. sec-
retary of the house committee, Miss S. J.
Caygill, helped to entertain the throng.
Erected recently at the front of the con-
servatory of the Fitzroy Gardens is a large
marble statue
of a draped
feminine figure
entitled “Medi-
tation,” the
work of a
French sculp-
tor, Robert
Delandre. The
statue is the
gift to the city
of Mad ame
Gaston Saint,
pictured here
by Jack Cato.
She is an Aus-
tralian who
prior to her
marriage lived
at St. Arnaud.
She married
a wealthy
French man
and for over
25 years has
made her home in France. Her husband
died about eight years ago. Madame Saint
maintains a house at St. Arnaud, and makes
periodic visits, to Australia. She lately re-
turned to Paris after having personally pre-
sented the statue to the Lud Mayor and city
fathers.
To help St. George’s Hospital, Mrs. J. G.
Latham held a pyjama party at her South
Yarra residence as a preliminary to a fete
to be staged in October, Guests were asked
to bring pyjamas, or material to make them
with, to stock a stall which Mrs. Latham
and others will have on that occasion. Prizes
were awarded for the most alluring gar-
ments and materials.
The Hospitality Committee of the Victoria
League staged an afternoon gathering at
which the hostesses were the Stawell lady,
Mrs. Arthur Hordern and Mrs. C. It.
Cowper, and the guest of honor was the
Irvine lady, president of the league. Chry-
santhemums and maple foliage decorated the
rooms. Constance Duncan, who was seci’e-
tary of the Y.W.C.A. in Japan for several
years, gave an address..
There was a reunion at the Wattle of ex-
students of the Presbyterian Ladies’ College.
The president of the Old Collegians’ Society,
Miss Iv. Stobie, who was in princess-robe-
cut gown of gold lame, extended the greet-
ing hand, supported by the lion. sec. Essie
Mollison, the lion, treas., Miss H. A.
Thomas and Hester Hooper, the assistant
secretary. Among the 150 or so at the
gathering were the just-retired president of
the 0.G.5., Bertha Braitlnvaite, and Mrs.
.T. H. Mirams, who is president of the Old
Collegians’ Club.
At the R. 11.5. chrysanthemum show in
the lower chamber of the Town Hall the
championship was won by a William Turner,
a pure white blossom. Among the newer
varieties on show were Lord Somers, a huge
pale yellow flower, and Edith Cavell, a copper-
and-gold specimen. The Cactus and Rock
Garden Society attracted interest with an
exhibit of small plants for miniature rock
gardens.
When Olive, elder daughter of the H. E.
Vales, of East St. Ivilda, exchanged vows
with Harold Edgar Slioll, she wore a pretty
frock of angel-skin lace of powder-blue tint
and matching hat of velvet. Her attendant
’maid, Marjorie Creal, sported a Patou pink
flat crepe gown and toque. The knot-tying
was at Grammar School chapel.
When 21 new members were admitted to
the Vic. Bar in Melbourne last week, Vil-
leneuve Smith, K.C., of South Aus., was
among them, but more eyes were flashed
on Laura Brennan, daughter of T.C., Sena-
tor, K.C. and LL.D. Of course her dad
moved for her admission. The Brennans
have a flair for law. Laura’s uncle, Frank,
the former Fed. Attorney-General, and two
aunts are solicitors.
Shirley Hoette, who won the Caroline
Ivay research scholarship at the Uni. is pack-
ing up for a journey to Queensland, where
she intends to investigate diseases of the
banana. An ex-student of Warwick, East
Malvern, she was congratulated and fare-
walled the other day by the headmistress,
Miss Turner, and former school-companions
at the college’s annual reunion.
Here is Philip Hargrave the 10-year-old
Adelaide boy, whose pianforte recitals are
drawing overflow houses at the Auditorium.
His teacher is
Henr i c 11 a
Mar i e Gar-
naut, of Adel-
aide, wli o
studied music
herself under
her gran d
m o t h e r.
Madame Mary
Garnaut, an
English organ-
ist, and later
at the Elder
Con. When
Mr. Hargrave
brought his
son, aged
to Miss Ga r-
naut, she was
dubious about
taking so
young a pupil.
Almost imme-
diately she
realised that she had acquired the ideal pupil
—the musician born. Three years ago she
had an almost complete breakdown in health.
She was given only three weeks to live, but
a wise woman medico allowed her cot to be
wheeled into the music-room so that she
could continue instructing her phenomenally
gifted pupil, and this strong interest in life
pulled her through. The youngster calls his
teacher “Auntie Hettie.” Musical history
must owe a lot to the patience, faith and
insight of “Auntie Hetties.”
Ailsa McKenzie, an 18-year-old contralto
of Geelong, and a cousin of John Brownlee,
is the latest winner of the “Sun” aria com-
petition at her home town. Miss McKenzie
is a pupil of Iver Boustead, of Melbourne.
Many eyes were on the pair of I’s —Gov.-
Gen. Isaacs and Acting-Gov. Irvine—at the
ceremony held to commemorate the finishing
of St. Paul’s Cathedral. Old friends of both
noted that the G.-G., who will be 78 on
August 6, is carrying his years with less
appearance of burden than his State Ex.,
who will be 75 on July 6. Each has had
a similar career—member of the Assembly,
Vic. Attorney-General, member of the Reps.,
Federal Attorney-General, Judge and wielder
of the Rubber Stamp.
Melbourne'is to have a statue of King
George mounted on a Jiot.se. It appears that
the city fathers have been saving up for it ;
the fund now stands at £l5OO.
The British Music Society paid its tribute
to Brahms, the centenary of whose birth
happens this month, with an entire pro-
gramme drawn from the master’s works
Members met by courtesy of Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Smith in the ballroom of Grong
Grong, which was almost filled. W N
McKie, the city organist,'prefaced the recital
with a chat upon the composer and the
works, which were to be performed, these
including the seldom-heard Sonata in F
Minor, and the E Flat Sonata for clarinet
and piano. F. W. Turner played the clarinet,
with Mr. Mclvie at the keyboard. Eighteen
short songs were given by a small mixed
choir, directed by Harold Browning. Senator
and Mrs. R. D. Elliott. Dr. Georgina Sweet,
„ Mrs - S - Link and the lion. sec.
Sybil Hull, were in the audience.
The Women’s Hospital’s linen cupboards
were replenished at a tea-gathering at the
Windsor, when each guest brought a contri-
bution from the Manchester department. The
president of the institution Mrs. Percy
Russell and the committee staged the func-
tion. Irene Bennett sang and Paul McDer-
mott brought his fiddle. Mauricette Macgilli-
cuddy was solo pianist and accompanist.
Nancy Lyle flew off in her 'plane on
Friday (evidently she is not superstitious)
to visit friends in Launceston, being the
first pilot of her sex to fly across Bass
Strait solo.
Violinist Florence Hood is returning this
year after a long absence. She has studied
under Sevick and took a degree at the Meis-
terchule of Vienna, where she was appointed
to the teaching staff. Then came the Great
War and she returned to England to take
up war work. Since then she lias toured
Britain, the U.S.A. and Europe.
The Queensland {Tourist Bureau has found
itself new quarters in Newspaper House,
Collins-street, and “at-home” there in future
will be the bureau’s just-appointed “travel
hostess,” Mrs. T. J. Ryan. As wife of a
former Premier of the State she knows all
about travelling within its borders.
Among the first-nighters at “A Bit of a
Test” were Mrs. Harry Emmerton and
Nellie Veitch of Sydney, Dr. and Mrs. John
Gray, Mr. R. Sedan. Mrs. Septimus Miller
and her son, and Madam de Bavay and
Marie.
Broothorn studio here pictures Sister
Maude Primrose, a trainee and former
matron of the
Wagga Hospi-
tal. For many
years past she
h as devoted
her se 1 f to
infant welfare
work, chiefly
by way of the
Truby King
teachings. She
is the fliolibr-
ary organising
secretary of
t he Truby
King League.
The Tweddle
Baby Hospital
and Home of
Motlierc r a f t,
where the sys-
tem is fully
carried out,
has paid a
pretty tribute
to Sister Primrose’s fine work by calling
the trainees “Primrose Nurses.”
In the Gregaii McMahon production of
“Death Takes a Holiday” the dressing is
distinctive. Mrs. Aubrey Gibson wears a
couple of beautiful evening gowns, one of
Parma-violet hue in flat crepe, the other of
somewhat similar material in sunset pink,
with a garland of flowers made of the same
stuff entwined about one shoulder. Lynette
Dickenson in her gowns features cape effects.
A grey dress has a few tiny pink buds at the
waistline as its only trimming, and on a
misty white chiffon robe the cape melts into
short draped sleeves. Another girl sports a
gown of white satin with a gleaming sequin
wrap, a dash of color being provided by a
green feather fan. Robert Best and his lady.
Dr. and Mrs. C. Scantlebury, Mrs. T. A.
Beckett and lots of university folk were first-
nighters.
,T. O. Watt and h'is bride set out for Eng-
land in the Orousay. On the eve of their
departure, Mrs. Stanley Hammond, aided by
her three daughters, served a farewell brew
of tea, at which friends of the' lately-wed
were present. Mrs. Watt was Beverley
Jackson.
A girl fresh from London tells that sashes
are quite important again. They are mostly
used in conjunction with organdie or stif-
fened chiffon. Many of them circle the waist
and have ends that float to the hem of the
skirts. In the evenings you are moulded or
bouffant. If you decide to be moulded you.
do it in soft crepes (this Letter saw a lovely
material the other day, white crepe bro-
caded in faint green water-lilies) or satins;
your dress has a draped top, and is all cut
on the cross, whereby it gets that slinky
limpet-like fit to the knees, whence, of
course, it burgeons forth. The bouffant out-
line is mainly a matter of organdie, tulle or
starched chiffon. These are nearly always
worn over taffeta petticoats, and one in
yellow tulle had a posy ring of small pink-
rosebuds at its waistline. Terribly young!
The bouffant dress is almost invariably
accompanied by a ruftly cape of its own
material. Sydney has already seen one slit-
to-the-knoe evening skirt, and the slit and
draped skirt is being shown by one or two
other-side-of-the-world designers.
Adelaide doings:—
Adelaide’s Peter Dawson is back in Australia on a
brief tour, bringing with him a good-looking Chilean
pianist, Tapia Caballero. A dinner was given in his
honor by the Good Companions (he is a patron,
and Kerwin Maegraith is president) at the
Oriental Hotel. Prior to the dinner Harold Gard’s
operatic male chorus in “Faust’’ costume sang “The
Song of Australia,” in which the 120 guests joined.
The same night Mrs. Dawson was entertained by the
wives of the Good Companions at the studio of the
Adelaide School of Music, when Mrs. Harold Gard
was the hostess, gowned in black satin and lace.
Mrs. Dawson wore black ring velvet.
The Mayor and Mayoress will give a civic at-
home at the Town Hall before they leave for England
on May 25. When they return their time of office
will be over.
The Rev. K. J. F. Bickersteth unveiled a memorial
in the S't. Peter’s College chapel to J. C.
McDonnell, a master at the college, and also to his
son, Air Cadet J. C. B. McDonnell, who was killed
at Point Cook in February—-an old St. Peter’s boy.
The Bush Babies’ Ball, a kindergarten effovt, was
a very charming affair in the Exhibition Building.
Each of the kindergartens had arranged a set repre-
sentative of an Australian bird or animal. Blue
wrens, magpies, rabbits and kangaroos were there,
likewise stockriders and blacks; Mrs. Lavington
Bonython was responsible for the corroboree set, for
which the boys had been turned out like aboriginal
warriors under the direction of Dr. Herbert Basedow-.
The Toe. H. women, under the supervision of Mrs.
\V. T. Rowe, looked after the little ones.
To raise funds for the Stirling Hospital, a golf
and bridge afternoon was held at Mount Lofty Golf
Club. Mrs. George Fowler w-as in charge of the
18-hole bogey competition, which was won by Mrs.
Allen. The cake and flower stalls were supervised
by Mrs. H. E. Inger, Misses Counsell and Magarey.
From the Apple Island:—
Jean English and Olga Heathorn ran a very
? lively little dance at The Grange, Brown’s River
_oad, in aid of the junior auxiliary of the Queen
lexandra Hospital. Mr. and Mrs. Nicholls threw
open their house for the good cause.
Sydney Parkman, the English author, was the
guest of honor at a Rotary luncheon while the
Ulysses was in port. A keen yachtsman, he declared
himself fascinated by the Derwent.
The Launceston Opera Co., under the management
of Herbert Doolan, staged “Kissing Time” to good
houses. Gladys Cane was responsible for the pretty
ballets.
The T.T.C. held the Newmarket race meeting in
perfect autumn weather at Mowbray. Chairman Dr.
Clemons and Mrs. Clemons dispensed tea to numerous
guests. Mrs. Andrew Raeburn, wife of the club’s
seci etary, provided a fetching color scheme in the
decoiations of the tea-room—pink and wine-bolored
chiysanthemums in pink and brown pottery and
wicker baskets. Mrs. Clemons sported a' black cloth
coat with silver musquash collar over an oyster-
colored frock. The dressing generally was neat and
smart, rakish little hats and well-cut coats being
much in evidence.
The T. B. Doyles, who have been summering for
three months in the Specie, have returned to Mel-
bourne.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Sydney “Telegraph” man has discovered
that Sara Bernhardt doesn’t wear corsets.
[6/6/’91.1
What’s in a name? Forrester, an esteemed
London actor, was named Frost, but a
manager made him change it. [6/6/'9l.]
How does Bernhardt stand amid the
actresses of all time? Sara blends such
opposites as Rachel and Mdlle. Mars. She
cuts up into Modjeska, Ellen Terry, and
half a dozen others. The Helen Faucit type
is lofty, but namby-pamby. All Sara’s
great pieces wind up with a death-scene,
varied in “Camille,” “Tosca,” “Fedora,"
“Ruy Bias.” “Theodora,” “Cleopatra,” “Frou
Frou.” Lena (“As in a Looking Glass”).
“Adrienne Lecouvreur,” and all the rest,
with a subtle air that never palls. r6/6/’9l.j
A cheeky Rockhampton (Q.) offender,
“lumbered” for larceny, took his revenge
on the Court by talking over his case
—a simple one, which could have been fairly
settled in three hours —for three solid days.
Judge Miller wearily allowed him rope, but
the jurymen, who were locked up for three
nights, would have liked to screw his neck.
They didn’t wait three, seconds, when the
end came, as to their verdict, which was
delivered with a vicious steel-trap snap, and
the Judge gave him “seven years” with a loud
click. Seven years for talking—we mean
larceny! [4/7/’9l.]
“I alone am master in this country; no-
body else.” —Kaiser Wilhelm. “The State
—I am the State.” —Louis XV. We hope
to yet see Kaiser Wilhelm flying out of Ger
many for his very life. [4/7/’9l.]
Hancock, the Labor member elected for
Collingwood despite the opposition of the
“Age,” made a splendid splash in the Vic-
torian Assembly in moving the reply to the
address. Casting to the winds the time-
honored gabble over the points provided for
him, he launched into the real questions of
the day, boldly taking the first stand for
Labor ever thus made in an Australian or
any other Parliament. How is it Trenwith
has been all this time in Parliament, missing
the chance Hancock seized? [4/l/’9l.]
In a fowl-stealing case at Charters Towers
(C|J>, the bird involved being in court, a
witness named Peter denied some allega-
tion. “.And immediatelv the cock crew.”
That settled Peter. [4/7/’9l,]
“Old” Kearney (A.J.K.), a veteran Aus-
tralian newspaperman, passed in his last,
screed one day last week. In the olden days
of Melbourne journalism, Kearney was one
of the smartest all-round men then going.
Melbourne, Hobart, Townsville, Rockhamp-
ton, Brisbane, Sydney and many Australian
-bush towns have suffered newspaper-educa-
tion at his hands. Poor Kearney! Old age
found him, with one solitary but precious
tooth in his gums, turning out screed for
Sydney “Evening News” —the self-same
Kearney who, we remember, wrote a capital
article for the very first
number of The Bulletin.
There is a good Hobart story
about Kearney, He was in
that city of melancholy stag-
nation stone-broke and unable
to raise the money to take him
out of Tasmania. One night
a press comrade waggishly sug-
gested that Kearney might
raise the wind by giving a lec-
ture, saying that he would get
the necessary tickets printed.
“If you. do,” added Boniface,
entering into the joke, “I’ll
hire the Town Hall for you.”
“Gimme a subject,” said
Kearney. “Oh, on ‘Everything
in General and Nothing in
Particular.’ ” “I’ll do it,”
gurgled Kearney, “but I’ve not
got a dress-suit.” “I can lend
you a swallow-tail coat,” said
his friend. “I’ll lend you a
waistcoat,” cried another. “And
I’ll lend you black trousers,”
added the landlord. The joke
became an earnest enterprise.
The lecture came off. The
Town Hall was filled, and
Kearney appeared on the stage
also “very full,” and dressed
in trousers that only reached
half-way down his ankles, and
betrayed the fact that he wore
no socks, a baggy vest that
could have easily concealed a
bolster and a crinkled-up coat
about four sizes too small. Also
Boniface’s gold watch and
chain and pendants. This gor-
geous scarecrow, speaking
without notes, commenced in-
flicting the most hideous babble
on the audience. One disgusted
citizen got up in about 10
minutes and started for the
door. “Stop, my friend,” said
Kearney. The citizen turned
round. “You’re not going out?” “I am. I’ve
had enough of this rot.” “Are you sure you’re
going?” “Yes, confound you!” and the citi-
zen made another break for the door. “You’re
quite sure you’re going?” “Yes. I tell you.”
“Then, ‘moind the shtep as yez go.’ ” —a
theatrical gag then current, which fairly
brought down the house and broke up the
lecture. As Kearney retired he was closely
pursued by Boniface and the owners of the
“dress” garments, who feared misadvehtures.
But ho raised his passage money all right.
[6/6/’9l.]
Many actresses who do not draw well
paint most cleverly. [4/7/’9l.]
A diver employed in salvage operations
after a N.S.W. marine disaster some time
ago, before finally fixing on his helmet,
absorbed two bottles of beer; then he went
below—and stayed down for an extraordin-
arily long time without in any way disturb-
ing or signalling the people above. His life-
line on being pulled in was found to be fast.
Something serious being apprehended, an-
other diver was hurriedly sent below —and
found the loose end of the life-line made,
fast to a stanchion under a rock. The air-
tube, being followed, led to a cabin, where
the diver was found comfortably sleeping in
a berth. This for coolness “takes the cake.”
We know of no other man 1 who has ever
gone. 30 feet below water to enjoy a quiet
snooze, [4/7/’9L]
In a recent issue “Hugh Iv. Liptus” asks
for the meaning of the word Toowoomba.
W. 11. Groom (who is M.P. for Toowoomba
and wants to stay so) says it means “great
in the future,” but a Toowoomba aboriginal
once informed me that the meaning of the
word (which he sounded like “Chookoomba”)
was “bubbling or rising water.” The black’s
definition is more likely to be correct, as
Toowoomba (once known as “Drayton
Swamp”) is surrounded by swamps.—
“Swamp.” [4/7/’9l.]
The will of Barnum, the greatest of all
circus-showmen, covers 100 pages of legal
foolscap. He left £1,000.000, of which his
wife receives £22,000 absolutely and £BOOO
a year. The rest goes in bequests to various
institutions. [6/6/’9l.]
A naval officer in Brisbane was seeing
someone off at Brisbane wharf. As the
steamer drew away, he took out his hand-
kerchief to wave farewell, and unintention-
ally drew out something else which fell with'
IN THE SAME BOAT.
PARSON (more in sorrow than in anger): “Drunk again!”
OTHER FELLOW: “So am I!” [“Hop” — 3/3/’94.]
a splash into the water. No, it wasn’t what
you think. It was neither a prayer-book
nor a pocket-pistol. The officer himself
couldn’t have told you what had plumbed the
river’s muddy depth—at least, not then.
He returned to his hotel for breakfast, and
then, oh’ then, where were his “eating- teeth”
that cost him a score of sovereigns? Ask
of the fishes that do haunt Brisbane’s
wharves. He had put in his “parade teeth,”
and had carelessly placed the “eating” set
in a pocket, and —but you all know now.
[4/7/’9l.]
Travelling by coach, some time ago, in
company with a stock-and-station agent, in
the Darling backblocks, we were persuaded
to play “bottle-loo” with the driver, for a
shilling a time. The one who sees a bottle
first calls “bottle,” and, if it is really a
bottle and unbroken, the
other players pay him a
shilling each. Should it be
a broken bottle or a jam-tin
or something of that sort,
the one who calls pays a
shilling all round, We had
played this for some time,
the driver “getting a bit
ahead of it” every mile,
when I noticed a crafty
smile on his face, and de-
cided to be careful. I saw
a square gin-bottle lying on
the roadside, but deter-
mined to pay one shilling
rather than two, and kept
quiet. The agent, however,
yelled “Bottle!” when the
driver remarked, “That’s a
bob all round; it’s broken.”
When we came up to it,
it was apparently whole,
but the driver pulled up
and asked me to turn it
over. I did so and found
a big hole in it. “How did
you know it was broken?”
“Because I put it there,
broken side down, on my
last trip.” We thought we
would play a little longer,
although by this time not
sweet on the game. After
losing about 30s. between
us to the driver, wc were
surprised to hear him say
“Bottle” in a matter-of-fact
tone, .without looking up
from his horses. “Where?”
we asked. “See that bush?
There’s a small medicine
bottle in it.” When we
came alongside we could
just see it stuck on a twig.
Said the driver wi th a reminiscent look on his
face, “I put that bottle there about eight
years ago. and I’ve done pretty well out of
it for such a little one.” I decided I was m
mug. I don’t play bottle-100 with coach-
drivers any more. —“Balmalcolm” [l/1/ 98-1
Police-Magistrate of Brisbane,
has decided that the money found on any
cadaver that is fished out of the Brisbane
River belongs to the Chief Justice. Anybody
who goes out fishing with the Chier Justice
had better make a note of this, for it he goes
overboard it is to Lilley’s interest to leave
him there—if that judicial authority drags
him out he, the .ledge, will be a distinct
loser bv the transaction., People who are
sitting on the ledge of the wharf at mulniaht
should also make a note of it, and if tnej
see Sir Chas. Lilley coming' up behind them
on all fours and keeping as much as possible
in the shadow, they ought to rise up and leave
the spot with all haste. Persons who have
friends or relations asphyxiated in the river
ought to find out if the Judge was anywhere
about when the deceased fell in. Nobody
supposes, of course, that the Chief Justice
would voluntarily shove anybody over, the
end of a pier for the sake of the perquisites ;
but, still, temptation ought not to be put m
any man’s way. [4/7/’ol.]
Sara Bernhardt has come out here under
contract to perform a certain number of
times, and her chief business care is to see
that a certain guaranteed sum for each per-
formance is handed to her every morning.
Over and beyond that Sara stands to bene-
fit considerably by big .business, so that the
element of speculation
enters into her engagement,
tet her want of punctuality
and long and frequent
“waits” are not consistent
with an earnest desire to
please her good friends the
public or secure the man-
agement against loss. Sara
doesn’t like altering her
dilatory Parisian habits to
please foreigners, even
though she might have to
forego her percentage of
profits as the penalty
of waywardness. But, on
the other hand, she
cannot bear to see the
house thinning during a
performance, and the sight
of one person walking out
whilst she—Mon Dieu! —
holds the stage will move
her more than all the apolo-
getic protests of Messrs
Abbey, Williamson and
Garner put together. “Let
them go if they don’t like
it,” is said to be Sara’s
scornful remark when the
gods are tired of gazing at
the everlasting curtain.
But if they do go, it is the
divine one who doesn’t like
it, which explains, in a
great measure, the reason
why “Theodora,” even more
than “Cleopatra,” was
pulled together after the
first night. The indigna-
tion caused by the “Theo-
dora” premiere was fully
justified by results. On
Thursday they played the
tragedy twice over, and
the evening performance
was finished some 65
minutes earlier than on the
Monday. [4/7/’9l.]
When Queen Victoria visited the High-
lands she was attired in a glace satin dress
with a brilliant shawl of Royal Stuart pat-
tern and a yelloAv satin-liooded bonnet with
a shaded feather. [4/l/’9l.]
Bernhardt’s scenery is the only paper in
the house. [4/7/’9I.J
Many an unwritten romance could be dis-
interred from the old-clothes shops. The
chief dealers have their regular connection,
and at the season’s end triumphs of toggery
are disposed of cheap by leaders of fashion
to the reach-me-down vendors. It is an
understood thing that the garments must be
altered so that their identity is destroyed. As
a rule, the Sydney smart woman’s clothes
become old friends to her friends before she
CANDOR.
BENEVOLENT MAN (condoling with Mrs. O’Hooligan, who
has a large family): “And yet, withal , my good,
woman, you would be very sorry to lose one of
them, wouldn’t ye now?"
MRS. O'HOOLINGAN : “Well, yis, but ye see, son, they costs
more to bury nor to kape.”
[Alf Vincent —14/4/94.]
discards them, and are easily recognisable.
A lady had an imported skirt when the black
skirt and color blouse boom was raging, like
unto which there was no other robe in the
city; she wore it until its decadence, and
even beyond, and then sold it. And one day
a spiteful cat, paying an afternoon visit,
gave her away before a whole roomful of
callers by saying: “Oh, my dear. I ve just
seen your black skirt walking down the.
street with a cream blouse, and it looks as
good as new.” |T/l/'9B.]
SIMPLE LIVING IN A HUT.
There are banquets, there are dinners,
suppers, luncheons and that ilk,
Where both holy men and sinners skim the
cream of Nature’s milk;
Where epicures are sated with the choicest
dainties —but
Give me the simple living in the roomy
harvest hut!
The men who drive the waggons with their
loads of yellow sheaves;
The men who build the haystacks from the
levels to the eaves ;
The men who drive the binders in the “late-
stuffi” on the hills,
A-cutting down the six-foot at a pace which
fairly thrills:
These all are very busy, and their knives
they quickly cut,
For they love the simple living in the roomy
harvest hut.
And it’s “Pass the brownie, Johnny!” and
it’s “Have a drink of tea?”
The men are very willing, and as friendly
as can be;
The cook is Lanky Davie, and he suits us
all, you bet!
H'e’s a cook who knows his business, and we
boys are in his debt;
For if work is ever welcome, it’s when you
have a cook
Who feeds you up on tucker that will stand
the second look.
Lanky Dave is called a sinner by the
parsons round about;
But if ever lived an angel, it is Dave, with-
out a doubt!
When we bite into his bro-wnie we clean his
slate anew;
And we hail him King of Glory when we
taste his Irish stew.
Dave wears no shining halo; with women
he’s a nut—
But he gives us simple living in the roomy
harvest hut.
“IN THE MADDING CROWD.”
BOOKIE: “ I’ll lay! I’ll lay! I lay! I lay!”
BYSTANDER: “Well, go and lay and don’t cackle!"
[G. R. Ashton —-24/10/’91.]
We are working for a farmer, and this
farmer treats us well;
So we’ve done our best to please him ’neath
a sky reflecting Hell;
He’s not a cut above us; he’s “a master and
a man,”
And has treated us as “ditto” since the
season’s work began :
Of course he pays us wages which could be
much better —but
There’s also simple living in the roomy
harvest hut.
[5/3/’9B.j
G.C.H.
DIVINE DREAMER.
Not he who shapes an idol from a clod, .
And, trusting, kneels to it, is greatest. No,
He who creates a world and then can go
And live within it, he is most Uke_(.*o£.*.
|2/4/’SfM
VON KOTZE.


WE STAND ALONE FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
I
|l||
Sgw JhvSiSSS
a
Si? «*3»SwjS
H
SB*
THIS IS OUR
“COLORADO
PRIDE”
Price - - £l6
Write for our Catalogue
of Texas and Aus-
tralian Saddlery.
Cowboy Saddles from
£ll/10/-: Aus. Saddles
from 72/(1. Collars.
Whips, etc.
Write also for Ilorse Rug List, including
Genuine “Beenis” Rugs.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
The Leading Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. For
years the “Sunday Times” has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times” has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
Mr Can’t
m
Mr Can’t is quite a nice man
in his way. But oh, so fussy
about himself, so afraid of
catching cold, and so depress-
ed about business. ‘lf only
you had my troubles,’ he of-
ten says. A great many weary
people have got his troubles —
though not quite the ones
he means. For a great many
people are ill and poisoned
because they don’t keep
clean inside!
Mr Can
As for Mr Can —it’s a won-
der he doesn’t tire himself out
sometimes. The way he drives
that car. The way he romps
with the children. And how
he works! The whole point
is that Mr Can keeps himself
asclean inside as out. Doesn’t
let waste matter stay long
enough to poison him and
make him yawny and wretch-
ed. Mr Can takes Eno every
morning. Mr Can knows!
Eno’s 'Fruit Salt’ turns Can’t into Can l Heaviness
into freshness! Sleeplessness into dreamless restl
Half'health —into all-year'round fitness 1 Just to drink
Eno is to know you’ll feel better for it the taste is so
clean and fresh and pleasant. Eno does for the inner
man what soap and water does for the outer. And
who can deny that this inner cleansing is not more
vital ? Qet some Eno today !
Au.2o
h
words Sno and ”3ruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: {British {Harold 3. {Ritchie Co. £td. Sydney, {N.S.'Rd).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
|:W:
The Mau who lias revitalised thousands
of neurasthenic cases.
STOP BEING
SHY!
ARE you letting self-consciousness rob
you of all the fun in life! Because
there is no greater obstacle to your
happiness, health and success than a nervous
disposition. You are not your real self if
you let nervous fears, blushing or shyness
cheat you of the joy you could get if you
threw off those fears! Stop being shy of
strangers—conquer the terrible fear of your
superiors. Be cheerful and confident of your
future !
I’LL GIVE YOU BULLDOG
COURAGE IN 48 HOURS!
THOUSANDS of men and women are being
held back—made miserable —made un-
happy. Why? Simply because of bashfulness,
fear of criticism, worry, and dozens of other
fears. Yet fear is absolutely unnecessary. I
have discovered an amazing method, and I
want you to try it out in your own home,
which banishes fear forever! No trouble!
| No inconvenience. No long waiting for
results. This method is perfectly simple,
perfectly logical. It works almost instantly.
Try it now ! You will be astonished ! In just
a few hours you will find yourself brimming
over with splendid new courage, new daring,
new self-confidence.
Are you timid, bashful, self-conscious,
afraid of people, afraid of superiors? Send
for my FREE Book. Then give me 48 hours
and I’ll make you bristle with Bulldog
Courage!
FREE BOOK!
A remarkably interesting book explaining
how you can cure yourself privately at home,
as I did, will be sent in plain sealed
envelope to all sufferers sending 2d. to cover
cost of postage.
Write at once in confidence to
MAIL NOW
FREDERICK GRAY. Desk 11,
Lombard Chambers.
Pitt .Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, • Please send me absolutely
Free, and without any obligation on my
part whatever, a copy of your hook, “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness and Person-
ality.” I enclose 2d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
10/5/’33.
ADDRESS
Always To-morrow.
BY E. V. TIMMS.
THE landlady rapped a spoon on a plate
and instantly there was silence.
“I repeat, said Mrs. Bolls, “that
hunger brings out the savage—the worst in
a man or woman.”
There was no arguing with Mrs. Bolls
these times. In fact, knowing her, and
knowing that she knew them—to the last
sixpence, as it were—they all hastily agreed
with her. It was just as well. She spoke
again with wheezy emphasis.
“There’s them rooms on the ton .floor —
they don’t pay me. Rooms eighteen to
twenty—inclusive.”
There was a slight raising of eyebrows
all round the long table. So! The top-
rooiners were broke, eh?
“But I’m letting them stop on a bit,”
Mrs. Bolls went on. “They’re right agen
the roof, anyway, an’ nobody else seems to
want rooms under the roof.”
"Indeed, no,” said the expressions of Mrs.
Bolls’s guests.
. “They can ’ave them beds these black, wet
nights—you surely ain’t, wantin’ more meat,
Mr. Loder? No? Well, then”. . .'.
Mrs. Bolls drew in a deep breath and
little Mr. Loder looked down his nose. HK
had wanted more meat, confound her! ■.
~-...“1 ain’t without a ’eart, but I can’t
afford to give them beds and tucker —these
times. Tucker has to be paid for spot cash.
I lines won’t stand it. But I’m ’uman—they
can stop on a bit.”
And Mrs. Bolls helped herself to another
plateful of smoking meat and vegetables—
to prove, no doubt, that she was ’uman. Mr.
Loder’s fury, of course, passed unnoticed.
Anyone .entering the house by tlie front
door could be plainly seen from’the dining-
room as they walked to the stairs that led
to the upper region. To bedrooms eighteen to
twenty, inclusive. It was the knowledge
of this fact, doubtless, that caused young
Andrew Wilks to hurry past the open' door.
The collar of his coat was turned up, partly
tor warmth against the biting, wet westerly
outside, partly because he had no other
collar beneath it. and partly for shame.
Want is always doubly cruel to the sensi-
tive, and Andrew Wilks was sensitive. He
clasped his violin-case tightly under one
arm and the brown-paper bag he was carry-
ing tightly under the other, and walked
rapidly to the stairs without casting a glance
into the lighted dining-room, where the
steaming soup was hissing from the spoons
of some, and meat and vegetables steaming
from the forks of others. Indeed, he dared
not look intq_ tlm room. Slightly built at
any time, he was now conscious of iiis
gaunt appearance.-
He eased his pace on the stairs. His fine
features were drawn, and his mouth was
grim. A man gets like that when his reserve
strength is drawn from the very sap in his
bones. Those stairs! Two flights The lower
flight carpeted witli a faded red runner-
the upper paved with shining linoleum full
of treacherous holes.
But it was good to open the door of room
eighteen and light a candle—Mrs. Bolls
would not permit gas, these times—and
sink down into the crazy chair that squealed
like a coward each time he sat in it. Andrew
Wilks lighted his candle and placed the
paper-bag and the violin-case on the bed.
The sudden rush of cold rain on the roof
above his head compelled a feeling of shelter
and comfort even in this chill room. There
was no table, naturally. There were merely
the. bed, sagging in a hopeless manner; a
dark, stained dressing-table with two long
drawers ; the chair already brought to
notice; and an old-fashioned washstand.
With the jug and basin removed the cracked
marble top made an. opulent table, and when
Andrew Wilks had any food lie ate it thereon.
He had food now. It was in the paper-
bag. The first since yesterday. Yesterday
he had seen sixpence, in coppers, flung into
his felt hat while lie played listlessly. lie
often dreamed as be stood playing in the
streets. Wlmt else was lie to do? Just play,
and dream, and slowly starve. To-day, out of
1 he-blue, came a shilling. He had been play-
ing with eyes luilf-closed—-just playing—
and he did not see who gave him the sliil-
ling’s-worth of pity. It lay in his liat beside
two pennies—a brilliant "sun lighting two
dingy satellites. Of course lie had mumbled
his thanks. A shilling deserves thanks. Tr
meant food. He put his violin in its cdse
and hurried away; He was not playing in
the street for the mere sake of playing—
no starving man does that,
A little furtively lie walked into the liam-
and-beef shop .near Mrs. Bolls’s residential,
He took time in selecting his food, for a
shilling in such circumstances can be
spent very unwisely. He bought a loaf of
bread, beautifully brown and crisp and with
a twist running the whole length of it. Then
he asked the price of a small, baked rabbit,
They didn’t sell rabbits by halves? No?
Well, then—but no! Why torture himself?
lie could not buy luxuries. The remaining
money purchased'a solid lump of cheese. It
seemed an enormous piece and its smell was
delicious.
Andrew Wilks dropped his eyes before
those of the aproned young woman behind
the counter. He hated her when she spoke
brightly to him. He hated her for pushing
the food about as though it were dirt. He
knew she was peering at his sunken cheeks
and at the dark marks under his eyes.
“Things ain’t too good, are they?” she
chattered.
“No,” lie said, silently cursing her
loquacity.
“There’s a dab of butter —a bit left over—
no good to us—l’ll put it in.”
He whispered his thanks, his cliccks hot.
with a rush of shamed blood.
“Thank you, you are very kind.”
He turned and waited to run. Pity! Pity!
Pity! How cruel a kindness could be! It
was then he turned up the collar of his
emit and hurried to his sanctuary under Mrs.
Bolls’s hospitable roof. At the end of the
second day. Bread and cheese. Surely, lie
told himself as lie passed from the carpet
to the linoleum, such food merited more than
mere thanks. A prayer, surely. But lie was
too hungry to pray, and he didn’t believe in
prayer very much.
It can lie understood now, perhaps, why
Andrew Wilks would not look into Mrs.
Bolls’s brightly lit dining-room, why he even
held his breath so that the savory steam
should not enter his nostrils and destroy
him. He hurried up the stairs, the parcel
under his arm clutched tightly, his mind
telling him what it had so often whispered—
there’s always to-morrow.
The candle shed a surprisingly bright light
when placed on the marble top of the wash-
stand. It burned steadily. Candles, however,
arc always gentlemen. They may be humble,
but they possess a dignity that is incompar-
able. Andrew Wilks’s candle did not even
flicker as he tore off one end of the loaf
with thin fingers, then a piece of the cheese,
and then crammed the mass into his mouth.
Candles witness many such scenes. This
one knew lie liad not eaten since early yester-
day morning, and it was now night.
The knock sounded on his door as lie was
sipping water. A starving mouth is dry. lie
turned from the candle-lit table with fury
’.n liis eyes. For a moment he did not speak ;
then, rising from his chair, he stood so that
bis slight frame hid the food.
“Come in.’’
He knew it would be Mrs. Bolls, of course.
He dreaded Mrs. Bolls. He was a little
astonished, then, to discovered that bis
visitor was not Mrs. Bolls. It was Number
Nineteen who stood there, an old man whose
hair, long and unkempt, was snow-white. He
was of medium height and dressed in black,
and liis collar, much too large for his old
neck, was a soiled model that Gladstone
himself might have worn with pride.
The intruder stood apologetically, fingering
cuffs that, alas! were no longer there. 11c
gave Andrew Wilks the impression of an
ivory cameo set in jet. Then he spoke. His
voice was agreeably soft and winning.
“I can’t stand it alone in my room any
longer. It’s beginning to rain....and the
rain can mock pitilessly. Did you know
that?”
Andrew Wilks stared at Ills visitor with
low-lidded eyes. Was he to be prevented
from eating because this old idiot feared the
rain? Ilis reply was ungracious and cold.
“No.”
The old man’s voice seemed to plead.
“For God's sake let me come in and talk,
will you? My name is Tarrant—John Tar-
rant. The name is forgotten now, I fear,
but at one time.... Will you let me come
in ?”
Andrew Wilks found himself scowling at
the old man. The eager, disjointed sentences
annoyed him, and the taste of the bread and
cheese was strong in his mouth. Damn him,
even if his name is Tarrant. He said, quite
without warmth:
“Come in, of course.”
John Tarrant came in, shut the door
behind him and sank down on Andrew
Wilks’s bed
“Thank you,” he said, looking up sud-
denly. “It’s strange that men can live in
rooms side by side for months and not know
each other. I’m afraid I don’t know your
name.”
Andrew Wilks did not move.
"My name is Andrew Wilks. Now you are
here, what are we going to talk about:
Perhaps the question was put just a little
brutally. Tt seemed so to Wilks the moment
he spoke, for lie caught a look that flickered
momentarily in the old man’s eyes: a look
of shame, of apology, of utter futility. The
younger man cursed himself under his breath
for a swine. He seated himself in his chair
and so revealed the bread and cheese.
“I beg your pardon, Mr. Tarrant. I fear
it’s no use my pretending. I’m up against
it, and for the moment my pride—such as
it now is—insisted on shielding the bread
and cheese. You see it?”
For a brief moment Tarrant did not reply.
His old eyes were staring at the food. Then
lie said, very quietly:
“Yes. .. .1 see it. It’s no use my pretend-
ing, either. I knew it was here. I smelt the
cheese—and force d myself upon you.”
Andrew Wilks was shocked—not in the
conventional sense, of course. But he had,
not long ago, taken butter from a woman
even as the dog took the bone from her.
Yet here was a man who had smelt and
trailed the cheese like a rat.
“Are you hungry, Mr. Tarrant?” he said
gently.
Mr. Tarrant’s voice was not quite steady.
His old eyes seemed to be shot witli frosty
little lights as he stared at the food.
(Continued on next pave.)


57
M&A
l
ST BATHANS. N.Z. 1864.
at
On
Far Distant Goldfields
This office of the Bank of New South Wales on the Goldfields of
St. Bathans, N.Z. in 1864 is a typical example of how the Bank
provides its clients with banking facilities under all conditions.
At St. Bathans, as elsewhere, the Bank undertook the responsibility
of protecting the gold won ; maintained the currency necessary to
finance trade within the community, and provided at the sea-
ports the credits that were essential in order that supplies of
foodstuffs and other necessities should reach the settlements.
Now, as it has done for the past 116 years, the Bank continues its
vital services to the community, safeguarding the people’s savings ;
facilitating internal commercial transactions; financing the
country’s exports and providing the overseas credits required to
maintain a continuous supply of necessary imports from all over
the world.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
The GOLDEN TRAIL to ibe GOLDEN GATE!
SYDNEY to AMERICA
\
ON
THE
\\
MARIPOSA" and 'MONTEREY
ft
I hese swift new sovereigns of the Pacific reach California in 18
I days; and create a new urge to follow this absorbing trail to the
I wonders of the United States. It is also the shortest route to
ENGLAND! Tasting, in complete comfort, the primitive flavor of the
South Seas, you arrive at San Francisco or Los Angeles with an appetite
for further adventure on the vast continent of America!
Your great ship is a nautical country club, your fairway the wide blue
sea, your entire journey a tournament where past meets present, and
modern ease rides hand-in-hand with romance!
Service, deft and constant, matches the speed which links your ports of
call in a scintillant chain. Auckland . . . Suva . . . Pago Pago . . .
Honolulu . . . you’ll see them all, with never more than five days between
them! The practical traveller saves time and worry, the romantic saves
time and memories!
to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS, from £125/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/- . CABIN CLASS, from £9l
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
To ENGLAND FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS (Single) £lO5/10/-
CABIN CLASS .(Single) £B3
FROM MELBOURNE:
FIRST CLASS, ( Single ) from £lO7/10/-
CABIN CLASS ( Single) from £B4/10/-
THESE FARES SUBJECT
(Return) £194
(Return ) £152
Return : £l9B
Return : £155/10/-
TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
The romantic goal of all vacationers! Brought en-
ticingly near by the rapid service and moderate fares
obtaining on these ultra-new cruisers. An unequalled
opportunity to build living memories from your
dreams!
M I NIM U’M - FARES from SYDNEY to
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa ... £33/5/- 65/0/-24/5/- 47/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 75/0/- 55/ 0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji ■ £4l/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £35/5/- 69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii _ 79/0/- .... 59/ 0/-
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
Informative literature of extreme interest will be
sent, upon request, without cost or obligation.
NEXT
Sailings to
AMERICA
via New Zealand
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
"Monterey"
from. Sydney
MAY 31
from Melbourne
MAY 27
■
In the WORLD’S SPOTLIGHT International Exposition
Chicago, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933. America invites you to visit this World's Fair.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone B 7981-3.
AGENTS: DALOETY & CO. LTD. SM -ia
341 Collins St. & 461 Bourke St., Melbourne - Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
“My dear young man, would you be hungry
if you had not eaten since the day before
yesterday?”
The day before yesterday ! Andrew \\ llks
looked at the old man. The day before yester-
day, and his hair was white. What chance
had this man? Something seemed to rise
up within the younger man and grip him
by the throat.
“Good God!” he Then he
smiled. “I’m glad you came in, Mr. Tarrant.
I wonder if you would accept some of this
bread and cheese? I’ll never get through it
all, really. It seems a shame to throw it
out.” .
Throw it out? Horror leapt into John
Tarrant’s old eyes. Throw... .it... .out?
That —that food! His voice shook as he
replied.
“I would thank God for it- —and you. I
have no pride now, only hunger. You see, I
find everything becoming increasingly diffi-
cult —I do wish that rain would cease. Bain
for me means memories. And memory means
the resurrection of a life almost lived....
of fame.... of fortune. .. .of beauty.... of
love. I hate the rain, I hate it. Still, there
is always to-morrow,”
Andrew Wilks stared. It was the phrase.
“That is strange,” he said, half laughing.
“But sometimes I tell myself there is always
to-morrow.”
John Tarrant was smiling now. His face
seemed to light up from within. It was
white, lij<e wax.
“It’s a brave hope, anyhow,” he said.
“With' most of us it’s the only hope. There
is always to-morrow. My dear young man,
is all that bread and cheese for me?”
Andrew Wilks cut off a third for himself
and handed the rest to John Tarrant.
“Yes, take it —take it!”
“But you have given me most of your
food.”
“I was thinking, Mr. Tarrant, that there
is always to-morrow,” said Andrew Wilks.
Mr. Tarrant beamed as he stood up and
looked at the food.
“Yes, yes ; of course. Just look at my fool-
ish old hands! Trembling! The cold, of
course. Thank you, thank you.”
“Rubbish,” said Andrew Wilks gruffly.
“Run along and eat. And drop in any time.
Glad to know you, Mr. Tarrant.”
The white head nodded as the old man
walked to the door.
“You are kind. Until to-morrow, then.
Thank God for to-morrow.”
Andrew Wilks closed the door, and turned
and looked at the remains of his food.
Presently he laughed.
“There is always to-morrow. Yes. I’m
glad of that,” he murmured. “But —God! To
smell it like a rat!”
Number Nineteen went along the passage
on tiptoe. He paused at his door, but did
not enter. Instead he merely opened it and
then closed it again so that the sound would
be heard. He went on his toes to the door of
number twenty. Here he bent and listened.
He heard someone walking about; then a
drawer opened and shut. Satisfied, he
knocked gently. Instantly there was no
sound. He hastened to reassure Number
Twenty.
“It’s Tarrant, Miss Elsie. May I come
in?” he murmured.
Within the room Els’e Harper’s pretty
face lost its look of fear. A knock on the
door usually meant the presence of the
omnipotent Mrs. Bolls. She unlocked the
door and managed to smile at old Tarrant
as he walked in. But it was a wry smile,
and quite mechanical.
“I have no shame. I’m half undressed,”
she said. She gave a shrill little laugh. “I
am going out. What do you want?”
Old John Tarrant liked little Elsie
Harper. Elsie was unspoilt, and she was
plucky. He had never heard her whine,
even though she was but seventeen and quite
alone. Very quiet and gentle, she was not
at all sophisticated in the loose manner of
the gum-chewing, hip-rolling, loose-lipped
girls of the neighborhood. Naturally the
unequal battle for existence was suffered in
silent though keen agony.
John Tarrant was quite aware of this and
he admired her. He had heard her telling
Mrs. Bolls she was sorrv about the rent,
and that when she did get work and money
she would pay at once. He knew she would.
But that was weeks ago and Mrs. Bolls was
growing very unpleasant. He did not, of
course, altogether blame Mrs. Bolls. She, too,
had to live. Many times, in his room, he had
listened as Elsie’s footsteps passed his door.
In the mornings they would be firm, but at
night they dragged and were slow. To-night
she had come up the stairs very slowly, as
though’ she were thinking deeply. He smiled
at her when she spoke to him. He was quick
to sense the unusual behind the girl’s lightly
spoken words. Just for a moment he felt
his flesh grow chill. He sniffed the air. Gas?
No; there was no gas. But he knew he was
not mistaken. For fifty years his ears had
been attuned to the changing_ notes in the
scale of equivocation. The girl’s words were
all right, but the tone was false.
“You have found work?” he asked.
Elsie Harper turned away from him. She
put the candle on the dressing-table and
peered into the glass. The eyes that looked
back at her seemed timid, revolted.
“I have got... .work,” she murmured. “I
start to-niglit.”
John Tarrant had just a glimpse of the
face in the glass. He sighed very .softly
as he seated lTimself on the edge of her bed.
“I’m so glad. Tell me about it.”
She whirled on him, her youthful features
frozen into unbelievably hard lines. No
longer had she the face of a girl unspoilt;
it was the face of a woman who had given
in, who would give all to live. Her eyes
were dark in a face that was a pale mask,
and her mouth was distorted and ugly.
“Oh, go to the devil!” she said, staring
at him.
John Tarrant rose to his feet. He spoke
very quietly.
“My dear, I’m sorry I upset you. I
merely brought in something to eat. I
thought we would share it.”
•‘Something—to eat?”
“Yes.”
Her dark eyes continued to stare at him,
but the hard light: in them was fading. She
still stood rigid.
“Oh,” she breathed presently. “I’m—l’m
sorry, Mr. Tarrant.”
“Of course you are, my dear. Have you
time to eat before you go out?”
Elsie’s eyes faltered and then fell. She
looked away from him.
"It was because I had a chance to eat. ...
I was going out,” she murmured. “Have —
have you ever been hungry, Mr. Tarrant?”
He seemed to consider the question.
“I think I can imagine the sensation”
She broke iii on him pitifully.
“You can’t, you can’t! It’s —it’s hell!”
she panted. “Look at me! I can hardly
stand, my shoes are broken, my only pair
of stockings done for, and my—my under-
clothes are just rags of disgrace. For days
past my head has pained me, I feel so sick
inside—so sick, I must live or die. I have
ceased to be a woman, I’m an animal —and
they can have me....for food, and clothes,
and warmth. Why don’t you look at me?”
But old John Tarrant was wise. Look at
her just then? That, indeed, would have
been hell for Elsie Harper. He was busy
cutting the crisp, brown loaf. From a
pocket he fished out an onion. He had been
guarding that onion. The cheese was cut
into cubes. Ho hold up the onion.
“There’s nothing like an onion to help a
simple meal. It doesn’t improve the breath,
but, believe me, Elsie, it’s good for the
stomach.”
Elsie leaned back against the dressing-
table and watched him.
“Is it?” she murmured, trembling a little.
“Yes. Did you want to go out —very
much?”
“I saw no other way. I thought it
■ouldn’t matter now.”
“So,” breathed Mr. Tarrant to himself,
“that was it.” Aloud lie said: “Such food
would cost you dearly, Elsie.”
“I know; but it is food,” she whispered.
“But if you’ve never been hungry, you can’t
know.”
“Of course not,” he replied. “Gome and sit
here.”
He placed a small piece of cheese between
two thin slices of bread and stealthily slipped
it into his pocket. Her quick eyes saw the
movement.
“But aren’t you going to stay a little
while?” she asked.
He shook his head.
“My dear. I have much work to dp. I’ll
look in again to-morrow. There is always
to-morrow, you know.”
“Always to-morrow. But you are leaving
most of the food”
“That’s for to-morrow.”
He walked to the door.
“In any case I could not possibly eat it
all—really. It seems a shame to have to
throw it out.”
But a little while ago her eyes had been
hard and bright, now they were suspiciously
moist, and they were partly veiled by her
long, dark lashes.
“Thank you, Mr. Tarrant,” she whispered
as he went out. “I will not forget. There is
always to-morrow. Yes, I will remember
that.”
The door closed behind him.
In rooms eighteen, nineteen and twenty
three persons were repeating softly to them-
selves :
“There’s always tp-morrow.”
The Violin.
The moon was as round as a silver coin,.
And black the line of the northern trees,
And the sandy runnels were choked with
leaves
That had been the spoil of some robber
breeze.
Was it spur to good, or a lure to sin,
The call of that ghostly violin?
Never a human hand had touched it,
Never that bow was a man-made thing;
’Twas spawned of the fir-tree’s resined
' branches,
’Twas gutted tight with a moon-ray string
Till a mad wind took it and played a tune—-
Wine,-bubbles, women and fairy shoon !
’Twas hung in the air like a starry fiddle,
’Twas draped with a shred of the blue
night-sky;
Some warm Earth-song had been caught
within it
Or a gipsy’s soul as it trembled by.
And it. knew not cities nor church’s spire.
But a lamp of dawn and a sunset’s fire.
When I see in the street a man who passes
With restless hands and with wistful eyes,
I know he has heard the magic music
That dripped delight from the moon-
washed skies..
And the fairy fields, that we never win,
Call still, in the ghost of a violin!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Wind Magic.
A low wind rustled down the hill
And , crossed the shining; beach,
And stirred the peace of dreaming pines,
And whispered low to each;
And one who tired of city ways,
The barren life,'and weary days,
Heard every whisper of the wind,
As plain as -human speech.
It sang of misty spaces far,
Where night fell soft as sleep;
Of mountain streams, that called and sang
Their free way down the steep
Of slopes like seas of swaying green,
And valleys folded in between
The silent stretch of sombre hills,
In shadows densely deep.
It told of sister winds that swayed
The giant gums, and cast
Their flickering shadows on the path
Whereon the wild things passed;
Of roadways, in the morning light.
That crossed the plain, and scaled the height,
And called the free, as they have called
Through all the ages past.
And memory stabbed, with sudden pain,
The listener’s heart, and yet
He might not break the city bonds;
But Nature’s laws are set.
And he who once, by foaming rills,
Has heard the call of roads and hills,
And felt their magic in his veins,
May nevermore forget.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


I s -
-1 ; mms p:
'i'lnlliilioiis
| .«£
lilliis
II
0
" !-■ “ij
lllfpll
O
f
iillllSiiiiiffli
■ ’ ■ ■ ■-
as us
mm
HI
<k
r
m :
*
1
s
l i
I !:•:!
mm
|(W 6 fl '
D'SMlfi
r liiis iji igU
(T) c Galliijm's
//
I
19
m
■
Scots CClhisKy
• f bi
11 igggyjgggglfi j ■•
.
S il
riifinus£,M (icKj»d^ioN' 1 '
jP: jlv;
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
NOW ON SALE
“BRING THE MONKEY.” By Miles Franklin, author of “My
Splendid Career.”
“LURE OF THE LYREBIRD.” By Ambrose Pratt, President Vic.
Zoological Society. Exquisitely illustrated.
“SATURDEE.” By Norman Lindsay. 6/- (postage 3d.)
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.).
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”— “Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all " BULLETIN ” Offices.
:
&
O
v°
<s>
li
a>
t >»V' «,°V *
©•
w
srf
0.
<*•>*
° v o\
t vy v
ov
,v>" 6
0»
, sf ( V
..•••' ,•••
''
#*•
\P .SF* ™
l>% dC


7
V TO H,M. THE KING
BY APPOINTMENT
■
IPlilili
■
swmm
m
w I
a BBS §s « k
kW
M
BOT
«
GUARASP*
1
it 1
■
i
ft*®*
I I v
i %
W ■*
- Jfefci
nn
sss
ig
In
■I
K
*
m
m
'■'Castle OE UNSKKKIEHS)
IH
from Malt and Grain,
A
U«
ftcd afcW4 A Cilbcy's
tHl f
*
#L,, . bottles contetn app««‘*'®®33^'
,!l T = 1 PINT <H OIS&Sk
Ol- AUSTRAt^^^S
HI
Wffl.
wmm
£
liiii&miii
mm
lillill
ililli
:
.
m
N
kS«R CHARLES
V; “‘Ui u..- »«‘"" u
fe le GIN 1M „ 5
V „ u *ai Vis l ,' Ur ' lluli u‘" i ‘“' u ' ,kV 1““
Mi u *- u !**«« m «<* tw ‘M JI
tu (l , “t tl «Uu« u i Uuuu, . (#•«•*
•>*. „„ "
mu uuui mi l
iifi'i
1111*1
Hill UuiMl UI«
AosTnA»> lA
Hum
Pao
i?wcc
QP
-.1:,:'
■
ill
<O*M
wmm
It
0
m
mtgm
11111
an
■
mi u- —m : : *i
:
1 ~ i
BBMHM
■■■
3$
ililli
HMHK
\3,
m
tewSi
111
J
m
I
>£x&
H
Gilbeys Dry (iin, in
addition to the Purity and
Quality of its ingredients,
owes much of its great
reputation as a healthful
stimulant to the closely
guarded * Gilbey Formula ’
of distillation.
This formula is not only
responsible for its delicate
and aromatic flavor, but
retains to the fullest extent
the wonderful diuretic
properties of the Juniper
Berry.
Health
Do/?/ say O/h, sao■
SILBEYS
DRY
GIN
33-11.
