

STQT tdy £xPRESS
-LOTLS
/
f
I l
as
7^=
ŕ
Watch those stern lips relax
when he draws the first puff
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
StQTEO(PRPSS
333
Its the Ardath blend that maizes the difference .
Q (or
6-
18 for K-
-27(or | /6
Also Flat 50s, Flat
100 s, and Round
Airtight 50s.
The Bulletin
Cbticf 1/tnAGTXs .
Vol- 54.—N0. 2799.
Wednesday, October 4, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•"THE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
>- now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
"THE BLOCK,"
424*426 George Street, Sydney,
II
■w
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STO TT’S Technical Correspondence College '
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send, without obligation, your Ncm p, .
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaimZ
your Muscular Movement System of Writing
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ***
My Name
My Address
K.B. 233
j OeopL emy wlum
J V , # cure uMncL.
uiicura
nmTMPTiiT
SOAP, OINTMENT
AND TALCUM POWDER
They know these world-
wide household remedies
are made of the purest in-
gredients and when used
regularly will keep the skin
and scalp in good condition.
Cuticura Soap for daily
toilet use, Cuticura
Ointment to heal any skin
affection, and Cuticura
Talcum to refresh the
skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. ana 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Australian
Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving
Stick Is. 6d.
ŕ
“THE AGE"
Established 1864.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out' Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 112,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP .THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the ‘‘British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.’
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant anc.
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress 'he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective* and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEIHJRST,
32 Castlercagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART,
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
IBuirica'li m
IIIRttIHAP'DSH
THE PERTH
Wme*
The LARGEST NEWSPAPER
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A.B.C. Audited Net Cir-
culation, 6 months ended
March 31, 1933,
40,122
COPIES WEEKLY.
THE MOST POPULAR ADVER-
TISING MEDIUM IN THE WEST.
Sydney Representative :
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House.
’Phone: 85690.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN ALLAN, 271 Collins Street.
’Phone: F 5302.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don’t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Mute Prophets
The longing to pay personal tributes
the beloved dead is universal. But ho
few make a success of it in prose, ver
or any other medium! Most of the
testimonials resemble inscriptions
tombstones; they exaggerate the c
ceased’s virtues to such an extent as
make rather a fool of him. The boo
reviewed below suffer from this wea
ness to an extent; but they are so si
cere and imaginative, and they conta
so many beauties of imagery and phras
that they emerge as authentic works o
art.
One is the spiritual Story of a you
who fought in the first Battle of Ypr
at the age of 17, and was accidental
drowned in Devon ten years ago ; tl
hero of the other is an Englishman wit
a passion for visiting strange places wh
died six years ago after an ineffectua
attempt to reach Timbuctoo. Neither o
these men did anything remarkable
a worldly sense, but it is easy to believ
that both of them had qualities of sou
and mind which made them seem pheno
menal beings to their friends.
Reincarnation
The Star-horn, by Henry Williamso
(Faber and Faber ; 155.), is a prose poen
with the death and resurrection of a bab
boy as its theme. It is embellished wit
some fine wood-engravings by C. F
Tunnecliffe.
The child join the spirits after death
and sees the world he has left as a plac
of hideous cruelty. A Master Spirit
one who has known the All (God), say
to him:
I love all things of this earth, root an
beetle, every flower and thorn, every worm anc
bird and man. But how they live their brie
spans! By labor that frays, by sorrow tha
wears, each against all, all against each. Lif
is as a ruined sun falling from its orbit, life
maintained only by hope of what men call th
future, which is a dream to escape the truth o
their lives.
Years pass and another Spirit appears.
He spoke, and his voice was harsh.
“Spirits of the little earth-life, attend! The
All has again commanded that one shall be
sent among mortals to bear his Light. Pre
pare thyself, O Star-born!”
The Star-born returns in the form of the
youth he would have been if he hac
lived, and rejoins his mother and twin
sister in Devon. He moves among their
friends, another Saviour, preaching anc
acting his gospel of love, but no one
understands. Everything he does and
says causes scorn and indignation ; fot
example, his rescue of a hare from a
pack of harriers. A time comes when
he gets discouraged. “What I have real-
ised for some time is true,” he tells his
sister. “I have failed.” His friend the
Master Spirit returns, but in a new
guise.
He was ak a man with a body of Light
around whose shining head a crown of thorns
was deeply set. And as the Star-born looked
he saw buds swelling out of the thorns, and
from the buds broke blossoms.
So the Star-born rejoins his brothers,
those who “were born of Light, and lived
as men on the earth awhile” ; and too
late his mother understands. “Come
back!” she cries. “I believe you now,
for you are my son.”
The passionate earnestness of this book
should save it from the derision of
materialists as well as from criticisms by
narrow Christians, and as an exquisitely-
worded sermon on charity and tolerance
it should have a wide appeal.
Panegyric
The Book of Talbot, by Violet Clifton
(Faber and Faber ; 155.), is a curiosity—
a literary wreath in a million. The style
seems strangely affected at first, and then
the reader begins to realise that these pre-
cious and tortured phrases, alternating
often with colloquialisms, are the expres-
sion of a fantastically-original person-
ality. After reading a few hundred
pages it is possible to turn back to the
simple yet grandiose dedication, “To
GOD for Talbot,” and see nothing odd
about it.
Talbot Clifton
was a Catholic
Englishman of an-
cient lineage and
large estates who
seems to have
been plagued with
oikophobia from early youth to the da
of his death. He started on his trave
after coming down from Cambridge i
the early ’nineties, visited Sydney, Lo
Angeles, Mexico City, Wyoming, Sa
Francisco. He is shown at this stag
of his career as one of those glitterin
and daring young men of fashion whon
“Ouida” delighted in. At the Del Mont
Country Club he plays polo, teache
young ladies to drive four-in-hand, ride
desperate steeplechases.
Every morning at eleven o’clock Clifto
held a reception at the stables, when youn
ladies had thrills as they watched Guadaloup
endeavoring to bite his owner’s fingers, whils
Clifton would quote McCarty’s opinion Ilia
‘he’s a cannibal, but he’s a winner.”
In point of fact, Guadaloupe wasn’t
winner, and it is significant that al
through this rapturous account of th
hero’s career we never find him asso
ciated with winners. He achieved no
thing of real importance. He wasn’t an
explorer; merely a super-tourist who
traversed tracks that others had blazed
He didn't excel in literature, though he
began a novel in his ’twenties ; or in
war, though he served in the Work
War; or in anything else.
What was the secret of the adoration
which he undoubtedly inspired? He had
panache, the mysterious quality which
every prophet, from Moses to Musso-
lini and Hitler, has possessed. He must
have been a glorious companion ; he was
an artist in life, ;md in love with Nature
in all its aspects, and scores of passages
show that he had a poet’s gift for ex-
plaining and transmitting his enthusi-
asms. Such men are natural charmers
whatever their race or origins may be,
and when they have been bred and
brought up as Clifton was, and have his
picturesque appearance, their attractions
are accentuated. He was a born
romantic, and all the world loves a
romantic. Consider this description of
the last New Year’s Eve of his life. He
and his wife are in Scotland.
.As midnight drew near Talbot threw up the
window. He stood aside with courtesy usher-
ing out the Old Year; and as midnight struck
he welcomed in the New.
Violet shuddered, but not with cold. M
accept, I do not welcome you,” stabbed through
her mind. Talbot drank to the newcomer....
He took up the golden flute that was become
the flute of the home, whilst the silver one was
the flute of the foreign places. He played an
air that he had named “Siberian Memories,”
a. music which he had made in the delta of
the Lena.
Above all, he stands out as a good
man—just, generous, amiable, unselfish
and free from petty or gross instincts.
Intellectually, he seems to have been
negligible ; few of his recorded sayings
are worth remembering, except as indi-
cations of character. But, then, he was
essentially a success of character. Men
of the sort are true saints, though they
may never be canonised except in the
hearts of those who knew them.
The book improves as it goes on, and
towards the end, for all its self-conscious
mannerisms, it enters the realm of great
literature. The account of Clifton’s
death at Santa Cruz, and of the widow’s
return to England with his body, reveals
with a complete lack of reserve the
innermost places of the writer’s heart.
RED PAGE.
Donald Macdonald
Donald Macdonald, whose The Brooks
of Morning (Angus and Robertson ; 65.)
has just appeared, reached the Melbourne
“Argus,” where he worked for half a
century, by way of Victoria’s Western
District. The family was associated with
the Learmonths in the district to which
they gave their name.
Under the agrarian laws of the day
one who pastured sheep upon vacant
land became the owner of it. Macdonald
has told the story of how a minor
reached the Learmonths that neighbors
were driving sheep towards an area
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The foundation of confidence.
"THE SENIOR STORE’
A REVELATION IN REFRIGERATION
e
Attractive, economical, labour-saving and hygienic. These Chests are ideal for all
refrigeration requirements. Handsome in appearance, simple in use and no
machinery to wear out or break.
The Cabinet
is very attractive, wax finished in Maple. The interior is carefully
moulded from porcelain enamel, and has rounded corners, making
hygienic cleanliness easy. A rubber gasket on the
heavy lid makes the box perfectly airtight and
ensures perfect insulation.
There is ample storage space,
* measuring 24in. long by 18in.
wide by 19in. deep. Two removable wire trays
are very useful, and add to the effectiveness of
the interior, making it easy to store eggs, milk
and other foodstuffs.
Cost of Maintenance ’”", r , pr "oS
pint of kerosene per day used for heating the
Freezing Unit is the total cost.
Freezing Unit wi f n , last i ndefi '
° nitely, needs no
attention, and gives perfect refrigeration. Gives
dry, frosty cold in your ice-chest for 24 hours.
Price includes packing in strong crate, and delivery
to rail or boat.
Remember, the name Anthony
Horderns’ is sufficient guaran-
tee. It always signifies quality and durability.
Guarantee.
The
Capacity
THE FREEZING UNIT.
The Freezing Unit is suspended inside the
cabinet by a stout pipe connected with the
chemical container, which hangs outside.
Every morning the Freezing Unit is lifted
and heated as directed. When it is cooled
in the tank a white frost appears, and this
complete refrigeration continues for 24
hours.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, £36/10/- complete. Includes Primus stove and cooling tank.
9 Furniture —Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
SUMMER STYLES IN
MEN’S SHOES
The new season has called for new styles,
and Anthony Horderns’ has provided them.
Brogues, Grained Leathers, also Black/Tan
and White are equally popular.
WHOM* SMARTS
COjtOSHk BDOGUEI
i
i
2
No. 1—
This style incorporates all popu-
lar details. Made of lan Willovtf
Calf with light-weight welted
soles and punched golosh and
caps. Full and half sizes. Also
25
in Havana Brown.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
25/-
No. 2—*
A Shoe that will give plenty
of hard wear. “Tree Brand in
Tan Willow or Black Box Calf
Brogue. Medium-weight soles
wide fittings, with extra
or
35
stout welted soles. For walking or golf. Full and
haif sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 25/-
FOB GOll
’Tree” Brand Super Sports Shoes.
Tan and \Vhite Calf, Black Patent
and White Calf, and Black and
White Calf. Genuine welted soles
25-
of leather. Also fitted with stout leather or
rubber soles for golf.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair
25/-
SPORTS
FOR
Black Patent and White Nubuck
Shoes, made on a comfortable-
fitting sports last. Neatly punched
and perforated. Genuine rolled
25
welted sole 3 and heels. Available in full and
half sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 25/-
A Men’s Footwear, Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth
and railway stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


"ALEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
*JELEMiTE"
-yict C/t^a^el
è
©Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard "greasing” methods
IJnLversatJoints
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
era
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist-
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal joints.
A 1 ... j j CHICAGO,"ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Alemite VsOVpOl?0.11011 Co6Z« Addro,*: ALMIT .. . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACIIIN & CO. (Fty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St,. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirle Street, Adelaide K-Aust—s-33
-SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
C BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd-
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
RIZE MEDALS,
é
WORKS : BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
ê
ë
PENNSYLVANIA VEEDOL offers
you the first chance you ever had
to buy 100% Pennsylvania Motor Oil
from an internationally-known oil com-
pany.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is the newest
and greatest achievement of the world’s
largest refiner and marketer of 100%
Pennsylvania crudes ... It is both
heatproof and coldproof . . . Made so
by a new and secret refining process
with ultra-modern equipment.
So drain your old, worn, thinned-out
motor oil to-day . . . Refill with Penn-
sylvania VEEDOL . . . Learn how
Pennsylvania VEEDOL gives extra
economy . . . extra mileage . . . extra
protection.
VlO.
A LWAYS
ASK FOR
X/EEDOL
Y MOTOR Oil
100% PENNSYLVANIA.
Neptune Oil Company Ltd. All States.
Distributors for .. . TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The SUNSHINE
ē
ĕ
REAPER & BINDER
Stout Frame Resists
Strain
Gives Entire Satisfaction
to All Users
The Frame is reinforced and rigidly stayed so as to effectively
withstand the severe strains to which a Binder is subjected.
The Neat Fit of all Bearings, and fine workmanship of the
carefully machined running parts, ensure Smooth Action and Light
Running of the machine.
The Clean Cutting of the crop is a feature, also the neat tying
of the sheaves, and the excellence of the knotting arrangement,
which, when correctly adjusted, will operate with an absolute
minimum of twine.
Every Sunshine Binder is exhaustively tested before leaving
the Works. The whole of the mechanism is run for a time under
close inspection, and hay is passed through it.
The Farmer is assured of receiving a perfectly assembled and
sweet running machine.
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS WORK WELL AND LAST LONG
H. V. McKAY’S farmiSents
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
(H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., Ltd.)
State Distribution from
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 27 George Street West, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray & King Streets, PERTH. Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Write for a copy of the 96-page descriptive catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures. It is free and post free.


DO WOMEN S GLANCES
1
SB
I
1
£
1
IBS
ALFRED J. BRITON
Australasia’s Leading: Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture”
Magazine.
Astounding Genuine Proof
7 Inches Gain Around Chest
“S'ince taking the course my measurements
are now: Chest 39in., increase of 7in. ; neck,
14|in.; weight, Bst. 91b., now lOst. 51b.; and
an increase of 2in. on the forearms.” —D. Noonan,
S., N.S.IV.
Gains 6 Inches Around Chest
“I have gained 6 inches around the chest,
liin. biceps, lin. forearms, 2in. thigh, liin.
calves, and many more splendid improvements.
I am delighted with my muscular neck, now
15 J f in., a gain of 2-}in.” —W. D. Whitefield, 8.,
Queensland
“A few lines to say that I am getting on
famously. Never felt better in my life, and have
managed the exercises so far without any bother.
Have practically left off smoking—used to be a
heavy smoker—and my general health is perfect.
Your Excelding system is all you claim it to be.”
—J. A. Thodsen, It., N.Z.
FREE/
To all Bulletin Readers
ADMIRE YOU?
AS THEY PASS YOU in the street or on the
beach ? Do people remark what a splen-
did build you present? Or are you one of
those under-sized, half-developed, shrinking
chaps whom people only look upon with ridi-
cule? Take yourself aside, and ask yourself
that question!
I BUILD STRONG, HANDSOME, HEALTHY BODIES
People call me the Muscle-maker. I make men’s
bodies strong and healthy. My list of over 30,000
wonderful successes includes doctors and lawyers,
book-keepers and clerks, grandfathers and grandsons,
fat men and skinny men, weaklings, and nervous
wrecks. By a method of scientific body-building I
go all i over your body, strengthening your internal
organs, broadening your shoulders, cutting off fat,
and generally turning you inside out until you’re a
healthy, handsome fighting he-main any woman will
be proud of.
I will add one whole inch of live, flexible, steely
muscle to each of your arms, and two full inches of
rippling muscular strength across your chest. Your
legs will become straight and strong, your head
snap back erect, and large lumps of red-blooded
muscle will begin to stand out on your broadening
shoulders. What a hit you are going to make with
that girl of yours! How proud and happy she
will be!
IT TAKES JUST 95 DAYS
But I’m not through with you yet. I don’t make
men by halves. Give me just 95 days, and then
look yourself over. Now you sure are somebody.
The pathway to happiness and success is easy!
People will ask to meet you. Successful business
men will realise that here is another man to
accept as one of their own group. Your boss will
treat you with a new respect, and that girl of yours
will have that look of love and atfection in her
eyes that in itself will more than repay you.
rDO MORE THAN PROMISE: I GUARANTEE
With a body like that, the thrill of living is as
great as the thrill you get when you fall in love.
It’s wonderful! Just check off on your fingers what
such a body gives you—pep, vitality, health, strength,
love, affection—everything a man desires.
What a picture you’ll be in a bathing-suit! What a
sight in a gymnasium! You’ll be a magnet for all
women’s eyes. That healthy aggressive, erect stride
of the man who knows what he wants, and is going
to get it. just commands attention.
TO-DAY, AS NEVER BEFORE, YOU
NtED GREAT STRENGTH
For years I have been showing you what can be
done for men who lack development—'proving to
you that unless a man is on his death-bed I’ve got
the greatest thing in the world to offer him. I’ve
shown you dozens of different photos of pupils
taught in their own homes! I’ve backed this up
with hundreds of wonderful letters from men who
had before given up hope—now comes the big
surprise!
“The Secrets of Muscular Strength”
THE GREATEST BOOK OF
THE CENTURY.
Never before has any book
created such a sensation; never
before has it been possible to
show such overwhelming PROOF,
in amazing -photos and letters,
and now you may get this great
Book FREE it you send the
coupon AT ONCE!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
DEPT. Li., 107 PITT STREET, 1
SYDNEY. ]
1
Ready Tor Postin g NOW/
ALFRED 3. BRITON,
Dept. E., 107 Pitt St., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Send me FREE, your
latest book, “The Secrets of Mus-
cular Strength.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 4/10/’33.
which they regarded as theirs. His father
took a wain, filled it with sheep, and
drove to the spot. When the other flocks
arrived, the land was occupied. By that
simple act he acquired for the Lear-
months the famous Ercildoune Estate.
Donald Macdonald was a born nature-
lover. Dawn in the forest and in the
apple orchard, when birds awake ; fish-
ing in a moored boat or by mountain
streams; questing the nightingale in
Kentish woods ; moonlight in the scrub
where foxes prowl; northern lakes where
the water birds come in thousands to
nest; blackbird and thrush and kooka-
burra ; the minute life of the rock pool
when the tide recedes ; snakes real and
imaginary—all have been described by
him with minute observation. His daugh-
ter has garnered the harvest of his
wanderings into this book of essays,
which are full of poetic touches.
Stray robins whose flame breasts are the red
fingertips of winter seen before the hand is
wholly visible.
On still, starlit nights of early March came
down to the listener in quiet places the occa-
sional call of the Siberian shore birds, half
musical, half melancholy....
This Easter sea, calm yet never cold, was
a great space of silver, oxidised in occasional
patches with the blue blur of southerly
zephyrs....
Macdonald was at the S. African war
as a correspondent, and went through
the siege of Ladysmith. He wrote
“How We Kept the Flag Flying.” The
extracts embodied in the present antho-
logy—“ The Relief of Ladysmith” and
“The Charge of the Devons” —are not un-
worthy to rank with the world’s literature
of war.
The Brooks of Morning should appeal
to those who feel that the mud-dust-
and-despair school of literature has had
a fair innings in Australia, and particu-
larly to those who wish to send overseas
a book which gives with singular accu-
racy and charm much that is beautiful
in Australian life and landscape.
A. T. B.
Nothing New Under the Sun
Helen Simpson has translated and
abridged into one volume Louis-Sebas-
tien Mercier’s monumental “La Tableau
de Paris.” The Waiting City, as she
calls it, contains only about 300 pages,
yet the whole character of Mercier is
there—his love of life, scorn of authority
and craze for criticism and controversy
—and the 80-odd short chapters provide
a complete picture of the social life of
Paris just before the Revolution.
If Mercier had lived in our day his
name would have appeared regularly in
the correspondence column of the news-
papers. He had the two chief qualifi-
cations: vanity and a piercing eye for
topical grievances. In the second con-
nection it is fascinating to observe the
resemblance between conditions in
eighteenth-century Paris and twentieth-
century Sydney. The State lottery
scandalised Mercier. This “triumph
of the State over its own citizens,”
this “scourge which falls upon us all
once a fortnight”—it might be a member
of the Council of Churches fulminating
in the “S. M. Herald.”
Reckless driving aroused his indigna-
tion, as it would to-day.
On Easter Day 1788 I saw a woman and a
priest run over and killed instantaneously; I
repeat, Paris is dishonored by this criminal
indifference to the lives of her citizens.
How he would have reprobated our
multiple-car households!
A carriage is the goal of every man that
sets out upon the unclean road to riches. His
first stroke of luck buys him a cabriolet, which
he drives himself; the next, a coupe; the third
step forward is marked by a carriage; and
the final triumph is a separate conveyance for
his wife.
He comments briefly, pungently on
Markets, Mentors of Manners, Working
Days (and the plethora of public holi-
days), Quack Medicines and innumer-
able other topics, and in every case he
voices the criticisms that are being made
on the same topics to-day. He even
(absit omen!) says what thousands are
saying about the improbability of civil
disorder.
Dangerous rioting has become a moral
impossibility in Paris. The eternally watchful
police, two regiments of Guards, Swiss and
French, in barracks near at hand, the King's
bodyguard all these factors make the
chance of any serious rising seem altogether
remote.
He wrote that a few months before the
Revolution began!
Miss Simpson has adopted the interest-
ing device of contrasting contemporary
conditions in Paris and London in foot-
notes. Thus, after Mercier has discussed
Parisian hawkers she points out that
London hawkers are better treated by
their Government, and gives the facts
and figures.
H.S.
For the Tired Business Man
R. G. Rienits (R.P. 20/9/’33) applauds
the modern school of writers whose
“primary object is not to preach morality
but to entertain.”
Though a novel may not contain a spiritual
message, should it succeed in taking away the
minds of a few thousand readers for a couple
of hours from the trials and worries of this
complex affair known as Life, then the world
would have been definitely poorer for its non-
existence.
I should think so; but why pick on
literature? There are lots of ways of
escape for the person bothered with the
fact that the world of reality does not
conform to his infantile desires without
his having to bother to wade through
a book of 1000 pages by J. G. Priestley
or even the shorter ones of Ethel M.
Dell and P. C. Wren. He can go
to the movies or to a dance-hall, or
take a hot bath. There is nothing like
a hot bath for making one feel that this
complex affair known as Life is actually
as simple as the first proposition of
Euclid. Or he can join the New Guard
or the Young Nationalists and believe he
is saving the State. A couple of pots
may have the same effect, and cost far
less than a novel by Eleanor Mercein.
But the method I would recommend
to Mr. Rienits, in view of the present
high prices of books, is to sit on the
floor and concentrate his gaze on the pit
of his stomach. In a short time, if he
does it properly, he will pass right out
of this complex affair called Life, with
all its trials and worries, into a world of
infinite nothingness. Indian yogis are
able to do it with complete success in
the middle of a crowded street.
Mr. Rienits is unfair to Archbishop
Duhig. The Church takes men’s minds
away from the troubles of this life by
inviting them to contemplate a life of
spiritual perfection beyond the grave.
Mr. Rienits’s novelists, whose chief desire
is to entertain, take his mind away from
the same worries into a world of
mundane make-believe, of poppycock
romance, which fades away after a
couple of hours, usually leaving a brown
taste in the mouth. I prefer the arch-
bishop’s way of escape from reality. It
looks less like a box of cheap confec-
tionery.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
Angus and Robertson have published,
at 3s. 6d., The Apple-Tree, perhaps the
best long short-story or novelette that
John Galsworthy ever wrote.
A Compendium of Modern European
History, from the Renaissance to the
Great War, by George Bohman, B.A.
(Shakespeare Head Press ; 45.). An ex-
cellent summary of the main movements
in European history from 1483 to 1914.
It is mainly intended for Leaving Certifi-
cate and Matriculation students, but is
of interest to the general public. Its
main recommendations are its concise-
ness and graphic manner of presentation.
Union Square, by Albert Halper (Cas-
sell ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). This is a
closely-observed study of a shabby
square in a cosmopolitan part of New
York. The characters are mostly kerb-
stone loungers and Communists, and
there is a grim description towards the
end of the breaking up of a Communist
meeting by New York policemen. It
leaves the reader with an unpleasant
suspicion that Hollywood has, if any-
thing, been too kind to America’s alleged
preservers of law and order.
Eugen Rispart’s Jews of the Lionheart
(Dennis Archer; 7s. 6d.) has been ad-
mirably translated by Major Schon-
field. It gives some ghastly pictures of
Jew-baiting in England towards the end
of the twelfth century, and the culmina-
tion is a description of a pogrom in
York. A romance runs through it —
the love of Hadassah, an English Jewess,
for young Abudal, a proud native of
one of those Southern European coun-
tries in which Jews were not persecuted
and were able, in consequence, to pre-
serve their self-respect—and the ending is
happy. A feature of the novel is its
carefully-drawn portrait of Richard.
The Barr acker at Bay, by R. T. Corrie
(Robertson and Mullens ; 6d.), is another
of the innumerable pamphlets, booklets,
books and tomes that have been published
recently to prove that Jardine and Lar-
wood asked for anything they may have
got. A vast amount of documentary
and other evidence is put forward in
proof of the trickiness and worse which,
so it is alleged, lashed the normally
courteous and restrained barrackers of
Australia into displays of ungentleman-
liness, and led to regrettable incidents.
Useful for casual arguments, since it can
be carried in any normal pocket.
In Pursuit of Patrick, by Vera Dwyer
(Endeavour Press; 65.), is a book for
Really Nice Girls. Carol and Patrick,
who are American, have an absolutely
terrific row, and he flounces off to Aus-
tralia and she follows. She doesn’t see
him in Sydney, and rushes after him to
the Islands. He doubts her love, /.nd
gets thin and pale, and bites his Vp till
the blood comes, and she doubts his
love, and suffers agonies, and she is just
fleeing from him, after nearly breaking
her heart because another girl said he
was a flirt, when he starts after her, and
all of a sudden the amazing and glorious
truth dawns on their muddled brains, and
Love comes into its own. The dialogue
is bright in its prattling, flapperish way ;
and there is a mock-modest ingenue
vamp (she simply can’t see what all the
men see to rave about in her) who is
shrewdly observed.
Our Sandhill Country, by Mrs. A. M.
Duncan-Kemp (Angus and Robertson;
65.), is the most engaging description of
outback life in Australia that has
appeared for many a day. The writer’s
home is Mooraberrie, a cattle station 138
miles west of Windorah (Q.). She was
brought up among the blacks, likes them
(she is always careful to qualify her
expressions of regard with “in their
place”), and is absorbing on the subject
of their habits, characters and faculties.
What miracle of sense tells the unsophisti-
cated black that water lies below these harsh
sands? Gins can tell by the feel of their bare
feet the nature of the soil below; can tell if
the yams are blighted, even though the tops
show green above the surface.
Her chapters on “Tribal Life,” “Tribal
Customs” and “Ceremonials” alone con-
tain sufficient material for an anthro-
pological textbook. There are a dozen
or more illustrations, about half of which
are reproductions of photographs of abo-
rigines.
A Case for the C.1.D., by Mrs. P. C.
de Crespigny (Cassell; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). This accomplished
fabricator of horror-stories starts her
latest in a St. John’s Wood studio. Giles
Gilroy comes rushing in with the an-
nouncement that his play has been suc-
cessful in a competition. Ned Jeffson
is a little disappointed—it means that his
play has failed to catch the judge’s eye
—and then comes the discovery of poor
old Ned’s corpse. Problem : Who killed
him and why? The writer is constrained
to admit that it had him bemused almost
up to the stage where the assassin “threw
i desperate glance round the room, while
iiis hand crept to his breast pocket.”
More Women Than Men, by L. Comp-
ton Burnett (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). The
central figure is Josephine Napier, who
runs a girls’ school. She is 55 when
the story begins ; cool, practical, authori-
tative. She idolises her nephew Gabriel,
and is much upset to hear that the young
man, whom she refers to as “this beard-
less boy of mine,” loves Ruth, a member
of her staff. They marry in spite of her
opposition, and the end is tragedy. It is
a difficult book to read, partly owing
to its studied adramatism, partly owing
to the mannered language of the char-
acters. When Gabriel says to his aunt
of Ruth, “She is giving me a happiness
greater than I had conceived,”
“Then it must be on a generous scale indeed,
indulged boy,” said Josephine. “Let us hear
about it before 1 resume my labors. Come to
the point and enunciate some demand of
youth.”
She doesn’t talk in this pompous way
as a result of quarter of a century of
schoolmistressing; everybody in the
book does it.
Physics for Medical Students, by J. S.
Rogers (Melb. Uni. Press; 11s. 6d.).
Almost every discovery in the sphere of
physics has, sooner or later, a signifi-
cance for the up-to-date medical practi-
tioner. Physics is the science of the
action of matter upon matter. If physi-
cists hadn’t discovered the laws of
osmosis physicians would still be pre-
scribing drugs that would infallibly kill
certain sorts of patients. The up-and-
coming medico must know almost as
much about chemistry as he knows
about drugs; he must follow the
students of the electrical-engineering
school at least half-way into the
theory of their profession; he must
have more than an elementary grasp of
mathematics, and, most importantly, he
must remember that the ability to put
tags to physical processes doesn’t, bring
with it an encyclopaedic knowledge of
the interactions of those processes. So
this little volume should be in the hands
of every medical student. It is ten years,
at least, ahead of any available textbook
in English covering the same wide field
and published for general use.


9
<1
It
..
■s
ma
lL
\
h.- /
l
#
Wvh
lf
4 * >
§
wm
i. \
. - 'li
y, 5
*-
■I
I!
•• -■•■;■
'
' ■’TO' ' / '*'*'
X
/ i ctw? Aante
f


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2799.
October 4, 1933.
PROOF OF SANITY.
“The lawless strike of wool and basil workers, though it has resulted in serious losses to pastoralists, manufacturers and the men themselves, is hailed
in a railwaymen’s union manifesto as a ‘sign of the return to sanity.’”
“But the fellow’ll fall with it. He’s mad!”
“Mad be blowed! That’s a sign that he’s sane.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
VVestralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.:
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PEARCE ON DEFENCE.
Let us be just to George Foster Pearce.
He was in at the birth of the compulsory
training system and of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy. He was Minister of De-
fence for almost the whole period of the
Great War. Before the war details of
a possible mobilisation had been worked
out during his Ministry ; on August 4,
1914, there were factories in Australia
which were able not only to provide for
immediate A.I.F. requirements, but to
export certain munitions to other
Dominions.
During Pearce’s Ministry again the first
A.I.F. convoy left Albany on November
1, 1914, with a force splendidly equipped
as to uniforms and accessories, and armed
with the latest type of rifles. The men who
were to achieve immortality as the Dig-
gers were sent away and delivered in
Cairo without fuss and without a hitch.
Pearce’s part in these historic events
was secondary, albeit creditable. He did
not originate the plans which had such
striking results; he accepted them.
“Splendid fellow, Pearce,” said a very
capable officer of those days—“he takes
whatever we tell him is the right course.”
But at least he recognised his limita-
tions and had no desire to meddle with
people who, as he divined, knew their
jobs. In such circumstances negative vir-
tues can be useful. In later years, when
the R.A.N. and the C.M.F. fell on evil
days and were in sore need of a strong
and bold defender, Pearce did not even
try to assume the role.
This Minister came to Sydney the other
day to enunciate his Government’s De-
fence policy, and he has never been in
better form. His utterance was dignified.
He did not lend himself to the uses of
noisy propagandists. The presence of
W. M. Flughes, his old chief, did not
lead him to make any concession to sen-
sationalism. He achieved a reassuring
statement of the Commonwealth’s posi-
tion without pointing a finger at any pos-
sible enemy, without exaggeration, and
without underrating the Government’s
responsibilities to the nation.
Australia is to have coast fortresses
which, if they are not capital fortresses,
in the sense of having 16in. guns like the
American and British coast fortresses
and batteries, will with their 9.2 in. guns
be able to outrange the new Bin.-
gunned cruisers. Presumably the Gov-
ernment’s advisers are convinced that
Australia is out of the range of the
capital ships of bigger navies, whose
operations are usually estimated as being
limited to within a couple of thousand
miles of their bases —in ordinary practice
to an ambit even much narrower.
Australia is to have four cruisers
and an effective destroyer fleet. It
already possesses a good nucleus of
naval ships and some of the fastest de-
stroyers in the world ; the Swordsman,
Tasmania, Tattoo, now tied up to buoys,
have 37 knots in them. It is to have its
present useful but unobtrusive series of
Defence factories modernised —brought
up to capacity and maintained on a
nucleus basis. More anti-aircraft pro-
vision, more modern munitions, more
mechanised units are to be developed.
The Air Force is to be brought up to
date.
The programme- is sound. Canada is
no more exempt than this country from
the possibility of invasion, yet Canada’s
provision for naval defence is not a tithe
of Australia’s. Neither is India’s nor
South Africa’s. Australia and Maoriland
hold the palm for defensive naval effort.
But each Dominion is doing its part, and,
as Pearce pointed out, and as Chauvel
frequently emphasised when he was
Inspector-General of the C.M.F.,
Australian defence is primarily a naval
matter and cannot be thought of except
as part of an imperial scheme.
No Power can strike at Australia with-
out disturbing the 1922 Pacific non-
aggression treaty, which involves Britain,
France, the U.S.A. and Japan. No Power
can attack us without attacking the
British Empire; and the Empire, even
in its present reduced naval strength, is
still superior to any other nation in capi-
tal ships, while its capacity to build new
cruisers and battleships is as paramount
as it was when it built the Repulse and
the Renown in a single year. Its mer-
chant shipping, for tonnage, speed, equip-
ment and adaptability to war, retains its
supremacy. And for distribution of bases
nobody can touch it. At the same time
the Empire can arrive at its maxi-
mum strength—which inferentially is ours
—only when each unit of the Empire
keeps its internal defences at a standard
as high as is allowable under the Wash-
ington and London Naval Treaties and
its own finances.
In Australia there is a lot to be done
to realise the ideal. We must press for-
ward with unification of railway gauges ;
must give closer attention to the stand-
ardising of all motor transport so that it
will be of military use ; must increase
our capacity to turn out land trans-
port facilities and sea arms and aerial-
defence machinery; must raise our Air
Force standards to those of the British,
which are the most advanced in the
world.
Reports suggest that the Air Force has
arrived as a powerful counter-naval arm.
Tests made off the coast of Scotland re-
sulted, it is asserted, in the “destruction”
of several capital ships. It may be so ;
but during the 1931 U.S.A. manoeuvres
the Americans’ heaviest bombers deluged
with high-explosive engines of the latest
type a none-too-well-protected battleship
which had been abandoned to their
tender mercies. In the words of the
Admiral commanding, the ship at the
end of the ordeal was “still there” and
still fightable. Nevertheless, if the British
experience is true, or partly true, it is
heartening news, because, in view of the
outstanding capacity of Australian fliers
and the equal superiority of British
machines and engines and flying tech-
nique, we should be able to make the
Australian aerial armada the most for-
midable, if not the largest, in the Pacific.
The country can little afford extra ex-
penditure just now; but it could afford
the diversion of some of the money
being wasted on “public works”—subur-
ban sewers in Sydney, speedways in
Queensland and sand-shifting everywhere
—to strengthening the Navy and Air
Force and reintroducing compulsory
training.
WHERE UNION MONEY GOES.
Sydney is never without its vulgar Labor
wrangle. Two demagogues named Lang
and Willis who used to be as thick
as thieves have had one which Willis
carried into the Supreme Court, claim-
ing £20,000 damages for slander. There
was only one material witness, the
plaintiff, and the proceedings, for
the most part, were unutterably dreary,
but “S. M. Herald” voted them of
such tremendous public interest that its
reports and comments ran into 20
columns, roughly 31,000 words —more
than are in the “Meditations” of Marcus
Aurelius or any of Shakspeare’s plays.
The “Herald” has always been con-
spicuous among representative Australian
newspapers for devoting an inordinate
amount of space to the quarrels, intrigues
and fulminations of Labor-union blather-
skites. This accounts to no small extent
for the prominence of such people in
the public life of N. S. Wales. In other
cities, where a wiser policy is followed
by the conductors of journals like the
“Herald,” blatherskites of the same type
rarely get beyond the Hyde Park or
Yarra Bank stage.
The jury decided that Willis had not
been slandered; but the verdict is of no
consequence except to the parties, their
counsel and their friends. One feature
of the case that concerns the public
was the way these representatives of the
downtrodden workers, for whom they
say their hearts bleed, talked in thou-
sands. Lang, it was admitted, put
£13,700 into the “Labor Daily.” During
the Bulli by-election campaign he said
it was his own money; he told the
“Labor Daily” board, according to Willis,
that part of it was trust money. Willis
deposed that he had transferred £2OOO
of his own savings to the paper and had
received a salary of £lOOO a year as man-
aging director. He declared also that he
had been instrumental in getting large
amounts from trade-unions —the coal-
miners, the printing trades, the municipal
employees, the ironworkers, the wharf-
laborers —for this newspaper enterprise:
“about £45,000 up to October, 1927,” and
substantial additions later. One transac-
tion he seems to have considered especi-
ally meritorious.
There was a mortgage over the building for
£6250. Mark Foys called up their money and
I had to get another mortgage. We got the
miners’ funeral fund to take that over.
Lang, in a platform statement re-
counted by one of Willis’s witnesses, said
that “£50,000 of union money was in-
vested” in the concern, and that in the
early part of 1931, soon after Willis’s
departure for London as Agent-General,
“the bank had demanded a reduction in
the overdraft, which stood at the huge
figure of £36,000.” Unemployed miners,
printers, ironworkers and wharf-labor-
ers would no doubt be glad to sell their
interest in the paper—to which the
miners, at least, are compelled to sub-
scribe—for a bit of the root of all evil,
but there is no immediate prospect of a
sale.
Exclusive of what they have paid for
copies since 1927 or thereabouts, the
coalminers have, it was stated, sunk
£19,000 in the party organ. This was
£5OOO-odd more than Lang found ; never-
theless “the board refused to give a
debenture to the miners,” though it gave
one to Lang, in effect, placing him in
control. He signalised his advent to
power, Willis declares, by dismissing
certain employees of the “Labor Daily”
and appointing others; a proceeding
which embarrassed his former friend,
who, as representative of the coalminers,
has been concerned in strike after strike
against the “hire-and-fire” principle.
But this is far from being the only re-
spect in which the practice of the parties
was at variance with their preaching.
Lang’s debenture carried interest at 5 p.c.
—2 p.c. more than the rate specified
in his Plan. It was excluded from his
own Moratorium Act. While he was
Premier—on Jan. 18, 1932, to be precise—
a firm of solicitors wrote as follows to
the secretary of the “Labor Daily”:
The Hon. J. T. Lang has now paid the final
instalment under the letter of lien to the Bank
of New Zealand, dated July 31, 1931, whereby
he guaranteed your company’s indebtedness to
the bank to the extent of £6764. We are now
instructed to ask that arrangements be made
within seven days to pay to our client the sum
of £13,764 6S. 6d. Failing a satisfactory
arrangement being effected within the time
stated, we are instructed to institute legal pro-
ceedings for the total of the amount due.
A cross-examination on this document
would have been interesting, but the Hon.
J. T. Lang did not go into the box.
During 1931 and 1932 the gentleman and
his newspaper railed incessantly at those
cormorants and Shylocks and harpies
the associated banks. They are now
shouting for the nationalisation of
banking and the socialisation of credit.
It came out that Lang’s private account,
his business account and his newspaper
account were all in associated banks;
and so was the Government account
when he was in power.
Of course, it is not only one particular
Labor faction that has poured trade-
union money into newspaper sinks. The
A.W.U., after an unhappy experience at
Hobart, dropped about £lOO,OOO in the
“World.” The loss was reduced to
£60,000 or so by the sale of the wreck
to a syndicate of which the former
A.W.U. idol Theodore was ‘a member.
The syndicate turned it over to Asso-
ciated Newspapers—keen, as always, on
buying out opposition, actual or threat-
ened—for a substantial profit, in which
the members of the union did not share.
The “World” was launched at a time
when there was absolutely no hope for
it. The funds of the union were thrown
away in a desperate attempt to keep alive
the so-called Federal Labor faction, which
was also plainly doomed. Furious at the
reckless sacrifice of their money in the
worst year the union has ever known,
the rank and file of the A.W.U.
have voted strongly for reunion with
Garden’s Labor Council and with Lang’s
A.L.P. executive. The Federal Labor
group is about to disappear. Disjointed
fragments of it will doubtless join the
U.A.P. —they are already very thick with
it, and one of these worthies is pointed
out in the streets as “the man who made
Lyons Prime Minister.”
During the year in which the “World”
was thrust on a public that did not
want it, the A.W.U., N.S.W. branch, col-
lected £13,655 from 9791 members and
spent £14,899, of which a whole £45
went in “benefits.” The Amalgamated
Engineers collected £20,894 from 7923
members, received £16,212 from invest-
ments and spent £37,106 on “benefits.”
Their “other expenditure” amounted to
£2850, whereas “other expenditure” was
£14,854 in the A.W.U. The A.E.U. is
one of the old-fashioned organisations —
there are others in the list annually pub-
lished by the Registrar of Trade-unions —
which go in for saving their money and
helping distressed comrades, and whose
presidents and secretaries are rarely men-
tioned in the newspapers. Members of
such organisations obviously fare a great
deal better than those who let their ser-
vants become their masters, as in the
cases of the northern coalminers and the
A.W.U.
ART AND THE PEOPLE.
There is evidence of a well-organised
campaign to stock our public picture
galleries with as many examples of
modernist art as the trustees can be
bluffed into buying.
One Frank Rutter left a sub-editor’s
job on London “Daily Mail” 30 years
ago (he has never been a painter) to
become art critic of the “Sunday Times.”
Last week this gentleman damned a num-
ber of popular Sydney National Gallery
pictures, such as “Wedded” and “Rising
Mists,” and commended the trustees
for buying “Tired Climber” (John),
“Marguerite” (Beeton), “Melon” (Pep-
loe), a flower piece by Ethel Walker and
several others, declaring that they will be
“good for all time.” Many still living
can remember when such as Alma,
Tadema, Poynter, Sargent and Watts,
whose works are dismissed by this jour-
nalist as “pretty bad,” appeared to be
“good for all time.” Modernists now ask
us to believe that the whole world was
wrong about art in the nineteenth cen-
tury, and that the place for most of the
works of the painters of that era is the
cellar. The Sydney Gallery is supposed
to be polluted by them. One Sydney
artist wrote the other day: “I am as ready
to learn as the next person. But there is
nothing in the National Gallery from
which I can learn.”
It implies a theory which Mr. Rutter
put more explicitly.
A public gallery is an educational and cul-
tural institution or nothing. It is not the
trustees’ duty to buy pictures which will please.
Another and more reasonable contention
is that trustees should buy pictures which
are likely to please, as pictures by Mil-
lais, Leighton and Poynter have pleased,
rather than pictures which are guffawed
at by the generation that is required to
pay for them, and which may be guf-
fawed at also by future generations.
A public gallery is not primarily an
educational institution. The average citi-
zen doesn’t go to picture galleries to be
instructed ; he goes to be interested and
amused. The legend to the contrary is
simply a priggish myth. And it has been
proved many thousands of times that no
artists in any medium whatsoever have
been capable, in the mass, of making
just appraisements of their contempor-
aries. Ben Jonson said Shakspeare had
“no arte,” and Greene referred to him as
“an upstart crowe.” I have a 40-year-
old “British Encyclopaedia” which sneers
at the “secular work” of Wren, and calls
his lovely Chelsea College bad. It was
the fashion in England 40 years ago to
deplore Regent-street, the Adelphi and
Carlton House-terrace, whose destruction
is now mourned.
The Impressionists, the Post-Impres-
sionists, the Plein-Airists, all the lunatic
developments of the past quarter of a
century, have been founded on the same
principle: that if artists, or schools of
artists, are given the right publicity a pro-
fitable demand for their works will be
created. Some British and Continental
dealers are in the habit of buying up
obscure artists’ paintings and getting pub-
licity and a sales value for them after-
wards. Artists are lauded in the press,
and elsewhere, because they happen to be
likeable personally, because they have
money or are influential socially, be-
cause some critics make a habit of dis-
covering hidden genius, and for a thou-
sand other irrelevant reasons, most of
which are based on aesthetic snobbery.
Modernist pictures may turn out to
be “good for all time.” But many lead-
ing European artists deride them ; Dean
Inge, who stands for British culture at
its highest, said recently that the modern-
ist movement was tainted with insanity,
and the director of the Sydney Gallery,
who is an artist, has expressed himself
in much the same terms. So it is at
least the duty of the Gallery trustees to
think hard before they buy further in
this doubtful market. In proportion as
they gratify the people who boom
modernist art, they may be doing the
public a grievous wrong.
H. S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
On the Right Track.
According to N. S. Wales Premier
Stevens, “the one great aim” of his Gov-
ernment is “to see every man possible
placed in work at the earliest possible
date” ; and in reducing taxation he is
going the right way about it. His Budget
is bolder and much more suited to the
times than that of Argyle, introduced
in Vic. Assembly 24 hours before.
Taxation is lower in Argyle’s State
than in Stevens’s. All the same, Vic-
torians had a right to expect remissions
much more substantial than 5 p.c. off
the unemployed-relief tax and an addi-
tional trifle off the burdens of those who
pay income, “special” and relief taxes
in weekly instalments, which is all that
Argyle offers them. That gentleman
seems to think he deserves well of his
country, after four depression years, for
not increasing the taxes. In his stodgy
way he is budgeting for a deficit of
£700,000, which the Commonwealth
Bank has undertaken to carry. Stevens
is taking the chance of his deficit going
to £3,600,000 ; and the gamble is war-
ranted.
Reckoning in the concessions already
granted to taxpayers, ratepayers, railway-
users, land-settlers and borrowers from
the Government, Stevens plans to give
relief to the extent of £4,690,000 this
current financial year. Ten per cent, is
to come off income tax, railway
passenger fares and freight-rates on wool
and livestock. The unemployment tax,
already lighter on small incomes (except
in the cases of residents who draw them
from other States, and who should not
be taxed in N. S. Wales at all) than
when Lang came in with his clumsy Is.
in the £, is to be reduced all round ;
including those already provided for, the
cuts will range from 62i per cent, on
£2 a week to 21 2-3 per cent, on £2O.
And stamp duties, which are so high
that, wherever possible, “commercial
transactions,” as Stevens admits, “have
been transferred to other States to escape
them,” are to come down, as from Janu-
ary 1, to the tune of £150,000 p.a.
Above all, the endowment tax, that
stupidest of all imposts, which might
seem to have been expressly designed to
discourage employers from giving work,
is to be abolished at the end of
December.
All this is encouraging; but there
are things in the Stevens Budget that
are not good to read. One is the bald
announcement that £250,000 is to be
taken from the liquor compensation
fund —raised for a particular purpose
by a section which, as a result of special
taxation, is going through a particularly
severe time —and paid into general
revenue. Another is the admission that
£4,910,800 was “spent from loan funds on
account of works and services” last year
and that more is to be squandered in
the same fashion this year. It would be
infinitely better to cut out loan expendi-
ture on “works and services” and bor-
row for more tax-reduction on the
premium-bond plan. Indeed, though
Stevens, within the limits imposed on
him, is doing pretty well, the taxes,
especially the Commonwealth taxes, will
have to be lightened a great deal more
than is projected before industry can take
back its unemployed and provide also for
the myriads of young people who have
left school during the depression and
never had a job.
♦
Air Mails and Speed.
The overseas world is inclined to laugh
at the conditions of the London-Aus-
tralia air-mail tender, and well it may.
Because a service via Brisbane to Sydney,
taking in some of the bigger northern
N. S. Wales towns, would mean com-
petition with the railways, a route has
been mapped through western N. S.
Wales, finishing at Cootamundra.
As “Flight,” organ of the Royal Aero
Club, points out, aerial competition does
not seem to worry railway services in
other parts of the world. The Calcutta-
Karachi and Karachi-Delhi services run
parallel with Indian line%; so do the
three main cross-continental services of
the U.S.A. ; so, equally, do the three
main cross-Europe routes ; so does Cape-
to-Cairo. The attitude of our depart-
ments is a stupid one, more especially
as the Commonwealth Health Depart-
ment authorities have pointed out the
dangers from a quarantine point of view
of the existing proposal. An outbreak of
bubonic plague or smallpox would cost
Australia a good deal more than a few
railway fares.
The speed, too, of the service is coming
in for just criticism. Cruising speed has
been fixed at 110 m.p.h. minimum for
the first two years of the contract; on
the Darwin-Singapore route a timetable
which will give 65 m.p.h. on the ground
will satisfy Canberra. It is ridiculous.
Few people will pay double fares and more
than double mail charges for a saving in
their time of less than a week on the
journey, as against the present London-
Karachi-Perth-Melbourne air, sea and
rail connection.
American companies at the moment
are putting services into operation which
will give average speeds of between 150
and 180 m.p.h. Their machines would
chop the London-“Coota” flying time to
70 flying hours. As it is confidently be-
lieved. in air-mail circles overseas that
all air-mail services will be on a 200-
m.p.h. flying basis in a couple of years,
it looks as if we are going to be sadly
out of date.
♦
Page Back in the Saddle.
Earle Page is going back to Canberra
with a taxation-cut scheme. The tariff is
included, and judgment on that part of
the programme will have to be suspended
until full details are published ; but no
one will lift a finger to preserve primage,
the abolition of which the C.P. leader
proposes, or to prevent the reduction of
sales tax, which, though nominally 6 per
cent., is estimated to amount to 11 per
cent, on the retail buyer.
The C.P. leader also suggests reducing
the State unemployed-relief taxes to the
tune of £6,000,000 —presumably includ-
ing Stevens’s cut. He believes that the
remissions which he advocates will so
stimulate business that further cuts will
be possible—in postal and telephone
charges and railway freight-rates, and in
“remisssion of land tax, which in bad
times becomes a capital levy.”
Study of the figures of the boom years
will show that there was no reduction of
taxation or charges which did not im-
mediately recoup itself in revenue buoy-
ancy. When Bruce-Page reduced postage
rates to l|d., for instance, the next year
saw it with a greater postal revenue
than when the postal charge was 2d.
Earle Page, addressing the Sydney branch
of his party, pointed out that total
revenue from income-tax was as
great in 1928-29 as in 1922-23, though
rates of tax had been decreased 45 per
cent, during the period, apart from
special concessions and increase of ex-
emptions.
Earle Page’s reassumption of the
leadership of his party is an interesting
event. There seems ground for the
hope that he will prove, as Bruce has
done, that the bitter lessons of the past
four years have not been wasted on him.
♦
Inland Medical Services.
The Australian Inland Mission, of which
the driving force is John Flynn, has de-
cided to implement an ambitious scheme
to extend aerial medical services to the
whole of inland Australia. The effort,
though sponsored by the Presbyterians,
is to be organised on non-sectarian lines.
On these lines the A.I.M. always has
been run. It has never mattered whether
the wrecks who have limped into the
little white-bedded hospitals at Marran-
boy or Oodnadatta have been unclean
blackfellows with no religion, sun-
downers who have forgotten there is a
church, or sons of Erin with the worst
opinion of John Knox. Everybody has
been taken for whom there has been a
bed, and if there hasn’t been one there
has always been the verandah. Guests,
too, have been welcome for any period
so long as they were sick. Nobody has
ever said a word about bawbees.
Latterly, the A.I.M. has had a flying
doctor at Cloncurry—Alan Vickers —and
this new facility has been a brilliant suc-
cess. There is no need any longer for
any bush mother within three or four
hundred miles’ flying range of the A.I.M.
centre to fear that she must have her
baby alone and without medical aid so
long as one of the A.l.M.’s queer wireless-
set transmitters is on the station. No
injured northern bushworker now need
be carried for days groaning on a camel.
He can have the doctor within a matter
of hours and, if need be, be flown to a
hospital.
John Flynn wants £30,000 to establish
his five new depots. He is going into the
open market for it, but that should not
be necessary. His work should become
a national institution, and the States—
especially those which have extensive
open spaces, such as Queensland, N.S.W.
and W.A. —should combine at once to
hand him the money, which past experi-
ence has shown will not be wasted.
—__— +
Brown Brother as an Asset.
The disadvantages of huge native popu-
lations are well exemplified in the
present parlous position of the N.E.I.
Java and its dependencies harbor 60
million brown, yellow and black helots,
most of' whom scrape the soil with
wooden ploughs or sit under the shel-
tering palm waiting for the cocoanut to
fall. Their wants are few. Their ability
to satisfy the wants is small. When
the depression hit these people they re-
tired to the home kampong, cut down
the rice bowl by half and managed to
subsist.
It was different with the Government.
Dutchmen and Eurasians number
300,000 or so—all the Administration
could tax. In February last the deficit
was 486 million guilders, and another
100 million is expected to be found on
the Treasurer’s doorstep by the end of
the year. Though direct and indirect
taxation had been bumped up by 100 p.c.,
in January came a 20 p.c. super-tax on
incomes ; in March there was a “crisis
tax,” and taxes on capital and motor-cars
have been added. After all this a Budget
commission reported that “unless an
economic revival occurs, there is danger
of complete collapse of the existing
structure of government.”
The old Dutch Kompeni got out of a
similar mess by imposing forced labor. A
similar attempt to-day would play into
the hands of the Communists, who are
strong in Java. Wherefore the Govern-
ment proposes “to improve the standard
of living of the natives” so that there will
be something more to tax. Judging by
the slow improvement of the past 300
years this will be a long job.
It is proposed to colonise the outer
possessions of Sumatra, New Guinea,
Celebes and Borneo with laborers and
agriculturists. A difficulty is that the
Javanese has always shown a reluctance
to leave the lares and penates of his
ancestral home, although all sorts of
baits have been dangled before his eyes,
including free single tickets to anywhere
he pleased, judging by the Dutch experi-
ence, if Australia’s North had been
colonised by Javanese, as many southern
Australians have desired, it would have
been an extra millstone round the coun-
try’s neck.
«
Moderately Honest.
On the strength of vague words in the
usual slipshod enactment, the N.S.W.
Taxation Department has for three years
demanded unemployed-relief tax from
persons receiving income from other
States, chiefly Victoria. The impost has
been levied, not on what remains after
Victorian income and relief taxes and
Commonwealth property and special tax
(2s. in the £) have been deducted, but
on income as declared to the First
Robber. And, contrary to Common-
wealth and Victorian practice, no exemp-
tion is allowed.
Hence, the tax on small incomes may
amount to three and four times the total
paid to the Commonwealth and Vic-
torian departments (The Bulletin has
drawn attention to a case in which
N.S.W. relief tax on £144 of income from
Victoria was £7 45., whereas the Vic-
torian income and relief taxes on it
amounted to £2 55.); and a widow draw-
ing £BO from a bit of Victorian property,
though exempt from the Canberra and
Melbourne taxes, would be charged £4
in Sydney. And, of course, the obligation
to make out another set of taxation
papers is an expense in some cases and
a nuisance in all.
The unfairness of it was pointed out
to Mr. Stevens when he was the Bavin-
shaws’ Treasurer. He expressed astonish-
ment that any such exactions were con-
templated by the department and pro-
mised to go into the matter with it. His
Government was then in the midst of
preparations for the general election at
which it was beaten ; and he evidently
forgot. Needless to say, the Lang Admin-
istration did nothing. Since Mr. Stevens
returned to the Treasury, the subject has
been brought under his notice again, and
it has been discussed, after a fashion, at
a Premiers’ conference and in desul-
tory departmental correspondence be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne. To the
following result, as announced in the
Stevens Budget speech :
The Government regards as inequitable the
application of the unemployed-relief tax to
incomes derived in more than one State, as,
in effect, double taxation is paid. This is a
somewhat complicated matter which requires
close examination and negotiation with the
other States, with a view to uniform treatment,
but pending such full investigation the Govern-
ment proposes to provide that where the State
levies a tax based on residence a rebate shall
be granted in respect of incomes derived from
sources outside the State to the extent to which
the tax paid upon such income exceeds the
tax that would be payable if such income were
derived wholly in N. S. Wales.
This is only being moderately honest.
The tax itself, as imposed on income
from other States, which do not retaliate
in respect of income from N. S. Wales
(even the Queensland department, which
is generally reckoned “hot,” does not
stoop to this species of brigandage), is
plainly dishonest, as well as unneigh-
borly; and if it isn’t unconstitutional,
which is doubtful, it ought to be. It is
best to be honest and neighborly; and
the Government should repeal the in-
famous tax and return all money thus
extorted.
♦ f
All Over £l/7/11.
“X.”: Two years ago I put a telephone
into a private office in Sydney—l have
been a customer of the department for
20 years. There was no one in the office
to use the telephone but myself. The
account for July-December, 1931, was
£‘l 10s. sd. In July, 1932, I went down
with a nervous breakdown, and, except
for casual visits, did not see the office
again till March, 1933. As 1 was not
there to pay six months’ rent in advance
in August, the department disconnected
the telephone for a fortnight. Now the
fun begins:
February, 1933. —Received account for July-
December, 1932: £4 11s. 7d.—ls. 2d. more f or
the six months I was away than for the corres-
ponding period of 1931, when I was at the
office.
March 23.—Department threatens to discon-
nect ’phone unless account paid. Asked for
details. Told they would “look into it.”
March 29. —’Phone disconnected.
June 12. —Arrived, a printed demand for £2
12s. Bd.—unitemised. Note that first demand
was for £4 11s. 7d.
June 19. —Another printed demand, with
threat of legal proceedings. Then somebody
decided there was something wrong. Scheme
for legal proceedings abandoned and new plan
outlined—department threatened to cut off
phone to my private house, on which it had
received six months’ rent in advance, unless I
paid £2 12s. Bd. at once.
July 24. —Wrote for details of calls. Depart-
ment rang. As a result of conversation we
agreed—when I had explained what I thought
of department’s methods—that details should
be sent.
August-September.—More threats ; no details.
After telephoning my house and leaving a casual
message with my daughter, a minor, department
cut off private-house ’phone.
September 15.—1 n response to a letter, depart-
ment wrote 2i foolscap pages of alleged his-
tory, quoting regulations, enclosing account —•
without details. Now paid undisputed amount,
which it had been impossible to determine
before, and repeated request for details.
September 25.—Department renders item-
ised account of monthly calls. Though it pur-
ports to be for July-December, 1932, the first
item reads “ January, 1932, 135 calls.” Wrote
demanding that private ’phone should be restored
within three days, in default of which I would
take action to secure its reconnection, and asked
for accurate statement.
September 28. —Official with large bundle of
papers and friendly manner called and said
department would immediately restore private
’phone and inquire fully into position. Said
’phone would be on in half an hour. On re-
ceiving this capitulation, I offered to pay amount
in dispute, a whole £1 7s. 1 Id., subject to full
inquiry and refund if mistake found.
September 29. —Tried to use ’phone. Found
it dead. Telephoned department from another
instrument, and was solemnly assured that I
had been “reconnected at 2.55 p.m. yesterday.”
Subsequently it was discovered that I had been
—but the ’phone was oat of order!
Incidentally, the final itemised account
received showed that in the first two
months of my illness —during portion of
which, through my absence and failure
to lend Mr. Parkhill £2 17s. 6d. for six
months free of interest, the ’phone had
been cut off at a cost of ss. to me for
reconnection —I had used as many calls
as I normally made in any other three
months in history.
And this is a “public utility”!
4
The Scaremongers.
A tremendous lot of rubbish is being
written about war preparations in North
Asia. It has been discovered, as evi-
dence of Japan’s warlike intentions, that
Bonin, one of its own islands, 900 miles
south of Nippon, is a naval statin n on
which even a bishop will not be u.lowed
to land. Bonin has been in the same
position at least for a decade.
Now travellers’ tales have been in-
voked of sudden appearances out of the
blue of huge flotillas of 160 warships.
Naval and military experts who stayed
at the same hotel with a retired Sydney
business man informed him that “Japan
was the equal of any of the Great
Powers, not only in naval strength, but
also in military strength.” One aJded
that Japan had “7,000,000 soldiers all
fanatically prepared to die for their
country.”
“The Statesman’s Year Book” shows
that there was an actual reduction in
the number of Japanese battleships,
destroyers and submarines in 1932 over
1931 figures. And Japan hasn’t a ship
within 10,000 tons of the Hood, or
within five knots of its speed; and no-
thing which looks as if it could fight the
Nelson or Rodney. Its nine battleships
and battle-cruisers have 72 14-inch guns
and 16 16-inch guns. The 15 battleships
and battle-cruisers of the British navy
have 100 15-inch guns and 18 16-inch
guns.
As for the army of 7,000,000, the
actual army strength—first and second
reserves included —last year was 17,343
officers and 259,304 of other ranks. The
British Air Force has a personnel of
31,000—exclusive of those serving in
India, who are paid by the Indian Gov-
ernment, and the Dominion services—
against Japan’s 11,000, and Britain has
1050 military aeroplanes against Japan’s
600-odd.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Oh, yes, I do what I like in my own house. Absolutely!
Quite simple, you know—l merely find out first what
the wife likes me to do.”
“Cine Ma”: A young man with lank
hair and a melancholy look, and a dam-
sel with red lips and a face as expres-
sionless as an emu’s egg, sat at the cafe
table quaffing lemon squash. With his
disengaged hand the young man was
stroking the damsel’s knee. She trans-
ferred her expressionless gaze from her
glass to his. “Dunno why people trouble
to fall in love,” she said. “I can get a
much better kick out of a plate of straw-
berries and cream.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A man with a stentorian
voice, presumably a football fan, raised
a laugh a' Melbourne Show. A stout
official in full riding regalia drew up
on a magnificent hunter near the fence
of the arena while the woodchopping
contest was in progress. “Hey, you,”
bawled the annoyed spectator; “make
that horse sit down in front!”
* * >*: *
“Klip”: The news that a 2000-carat
diamond of the first water had been
found in Brazil would years ago have
filled columns in the papers which dis-
missed it the other day in a brief
par. The gem must be
second only to the South
African stone Cullinan,
and is probably of better
quality. But it will be
practically unsaleable.
Diamonds are literally a
drug on the market, as
De Beers and the South
African Government
have both realised. Even
in good times the
Brazilian diamond would
be hard to dispose of.
The only way of getting
rid of the huge Cullinan
stone gracefully was to
present it to the British
Crown, and that seems
out of the question with
the latest find. Even the
great Indian potentates
have become shy buyers.
“Schnorrer”: Whiskers are definitely
part of the religion of the Jews (B.
20/9/’33) ; rabbis still cling to them,
although the habit amongst their con-
gregations has declined. The origin
of the Hebrew law is fairly evident: war
service was compulsory amongst the
tribes of Israel when they were a small
fighting people, surrounded by enemies.
Hence the man who “skulked in the
tents with the women” (or donned
feminine garments) was liable to be
promptly stoned to death. As the clean-
shaven face would favor the imposition,
it was prohibited.
“Clarence Cafe-
teria”: It takes a
long time to get
out of the old
ways of thought.
A club in Mel-
bourne recently in-
stalled an auto-
matic lift. An old
retainer was put
on to manipulate
it, but soon the
members found
they could do it
quite well them-
selves, so it was
decided to pension
the old fellow off.
He hadn’t enjoyed
his retirement for
more than a couple
of weeks when he
began to get bored.
Also, remembering
the Biblical in-
junction, “In the
sweat of thy brow,
etc.,” and the
motto about the
Devil finding
things for idle
hands to do, he
became thoroughly
ashamed of him-
self. So he begged
the club to take
him on again at a
wage equal to his
pension. Now he
solemnly goes up
and down in the
cold and draughty
lift for eight hours
a day, and by the
look of him his
conscience is at
ease.
“Burrawang”: The new Australian £1
note should add to the gaiety of the
merino industry and Australia at large.
The front part of it is most notable for
the reorganised coat of arms—Queens-
land has been squeezed into the top can-
ton alongside N.S.W. and Vic., and W.A.
has been imprisoned in the centre of the
lower part of the shield instead of being
allowed to play on the edge, where it
might be tempted to secede. The white
space on which to write the grocery list
is also a great convenience. But it is
the picture on the back which counts,
It represents some sheep, two gentlemen,
one in his stocking feet, a large unidenti-
liable tree which looks like a baobab,
a fence and some other features. The
gentleman in the bare feet seems to have
just finished milking the leading ram, but
has dropped the bucket. The ram him-
self, a bow-legged brute with a face like
a llama, looks astonished but tame. The
ram next to him is streaky-woolled,
bandy, and might bring two bob in a
pub auction. He has a large fat tail,
and is closely pursued by the worst brute
MRS. RABBIT: “A poisonous creature, my dear. Perfectly poisonous.”
of a sheepdog who has ever appeared in
print. This animal, which is broken
off at the second rib, is naturally reach-
ing out for the fat tail; his legs, which
look as if they came off a draught foal,
are in such a position as no mong ever
fixed his props in. Why the ram, after
the nature of rams in such circumstances,
has not propelled himself suddenly into
the aldermanic region of the gent, in
front of him no one explains. Perhaps
he is paralysed with amazement at the
antics of the person in the background,
who seems to be intent on kissing an
unwilling-looking hogget—or it might be
a ewe; it is something nebulous in the
ovine line anyway. All in all, it is a
good job that the picture is labelled
“Pastoral.”
* * * *
“Shep”: The statement that the
Waacs in ceremonial observances out-
vied the Guards (B. 27/9/’33) certainly
didn’t apply to the big unit at Abbeville
with which we A.I.F. men were well
acquainted. These had definite objec-
tions to saluting (excepting their own
officers or red tabs of high rank), and
the reason they gave was that too many
of the junior officers wanted to accept
their salute as the equivalent of the glad-
eye. And after being pulled up for
talking to or promenading with officers,
it was perhaps quite natural that they
should prefer the undisturbed freedom
of our society. I still pleasantly recall
long walks along the river banks when
the Waacs should have been washing up
or clicking typewriters, and we should
have been elsewhere putting our interest
into company drill.
* * * *
“Centurion”: At the movies lately
I sat behind two damsels who were
greatly impressed with a news-reel
depicting the Trooping of the Colors
by the Guards. The solemn, slow
march drew from one of them the
remark that she had seldom seen
anything so splendid and stately. If she
had known its real origin, she might
have regarded it from a different angle.
The slow march was first introduced by
the “hero” of Culloden, “Butcher”
Cumberland. No motive of romance
moved him in doing so ; he instituted
it as a test to make sure those taking
part in it were sober enough to carry
out the duty. It is a solid test, too.
If you doubt it, just try a few steps
of what the Germans call the “parade
marsch” next time you have a few in.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The marvellous efficiency
of modern radio was exemplified re-
cently in North Australia. A heavy
blow having interrupted the Cape York
land-lines, a pair of 20-watt auxiliary
transmitters at Thursday Island and
Cooktown were turned on to bridge
the gap. Thirsty’s wave-length was
in the wave-band of a foreign coun-
try ; but, as 20 watts wouldn’t light an
average bulb, interference with distant
services wasn’t dreamed of. Before the
operators were well into their strides,
however, a cablegram hurtled into Syd-
ney from Berlin to the effect that Thurs-
day Island was interfering with the
Buenos Ayres-Berlin telephone service!
T.I. climbed down on to an Australian
wave and resumed on reduced power.
From first to last the matter took only
17 minutes.
* * * *
“Claverton”: 1 don’t think it can
fairly be said that Craig escaped the
gallows through any growing objection
to capital punishment (P.E. 27 /9 / ’33).
The real reasons which saved his neck
were somewhat similar to those which
prolonged the existence of John Lee, the
“Man They Couldn’t Hang.” In Lee’s
case the mechanism of the gallows failed
to work properly. After the condemned
man had been stood on the drop three
times ineffectively, it was reckoned that
he had suffered so much of the prelimin-
ary bitterness of death that he might be
spared the real thing. Similarly with Craig,
although in his case it was the judicial
machinery leading to the gallows, not the
gallows itself, which jambed and stuck,
The man sat through three long trials
before a jury convicted him, and two
more Courts were invoked before it
was decided that he wasn’t entitled to
another trial. For weeks and months
the shadow of death, after he had
escaped with a life sentence for a pre-
vious murder, was literally over him.
Revolting as his crimes were, the know-
ledge of the tortures he must have
suffered saved him, like Lee, from the
fate he so richly deserved,
* * * *
“Oakabella”: A cairn was unveiled
with some pomp and ceremony the other
day near North Head, Sydney, “to mark
the exact spot where Governor Phillip
was speared by a native in 1790,” and
one of the speakers urged Australians
to pay more attention to their national
relics. Nevertheless the occurrence
wasn’t so unique as everyone appears to
assume. More than half a century later
another Governor received a similar token
of hostility in the leg from a native’s
weapon. The victim was John Hutt,
Westralia's second Governor (1839-46),
who was then making a vice-regal trip
into what is now the Northampton dis-
trict, north of Geraldton. If Phillip’s
bit of bad luck deserves a national relic,
obviously Hutt’s mishap ought to be
similarly commemorated. The only
trouble is that probably not even the
oldest inhabitant of the district could
supply any reliable information about
the scene of the; incident, much less the
exact spot.
* * * *
“Bay Webb”: “Ananias Walton”
wonders how long it is since the Crown
°f England has enforced its claim to all
sturgeon captured within the kingdom
(B. 20/9/’33). The right never applied
to dll captures, only to the first fish of
the season taken in any waters. Since
the days of railways, the custom has
been for noblemen or lords of manors
to reward the capturers, and to dispatch
the fish to the King. When a fixed
salary was first determined on for the
sovereign, many such royal perquisites
were no longer claimed, but to this day
there are landowners who avail them-
selves of the opportunity to pay a com-
pliment to Royalty.
COOK MEMORIALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A project to acquire for Sydney the cottage
where Captain Cook was born, as a counterblast
to the purchase of Cook’s father’s residence for the
Melbourne centenary celebrations, was damped by the
discovery that the said cottage was demolished 150
years ago. An effort may now Ik* made to secure
the cottage in the Mile End-road, London, where
Cook lived after his marriage.”
We thought to mind no whit should Melbourne
point,
With smug complacency and civic pride,
Unto that humble re-assembled joint,
Reft from Arcadian Yorkshire's countryside,
Where Cook’s progenitor, obscure old stick,
Ate, drank and drowsed beside the kitchen
fire,
And whence he ambled plough-wards in
the morn.
We hoped to trump that trick,
To have the bulge on them could we acquire
The shack, the very shack, where Cook
was born.
They could have kept it, and we wouldn’t care,
The residence which that illustrious tar
Might have inhabited had he been there
Instead of voyaging in oceans far.
We sought a closer link—the roof and walls,
However mouldering and gone to pot,
Which, rising ghostlike in the moorside
mist,
Rang to his infant squalls.
Ah me! Ah me! A bitter jolt we’ve got
At the discovery they don’t exist.
Time’s ruthless hand long since has swept
away
The navigator’s juvenile abode.
Must we then knuckle down to Melbourne?
Stay!
There’s still a cottage in the Mile End Road,
The dingy antecedent of a flat,
Where Cook, our Cook, installed a blushing
bride,
When George the Third to monarchy was
new:
Could we but snavel that
We’d incontestably be home-and-dried
In this keen race, I’d reckon —wouldn’t
you?
Courage, you patriots! Remains a chance.
There’s little that they aren’t prepared to
vend
In Whitechapel’s unpicturesque expanse,
Especially about the Poplar end.
What though Cook’s birthplace in that York-
shire dell
Has into sheer oblivion been shoved,
If we can drag it overseas and set,
A landmark on Kurnell,
The domicile wherein he lived —and loved —
My oath! We’ll be one up on Melbourne
. yet.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“X.S.”: Preferences in tipple? A
habitual, charged in a Melbourne court
the other day with drinking methylated
spirit, assumed an air of injured inno-
cence and, leaning forward, said confi-
dentially to the beak: “It’s this way,
y’Honor. A bloke’d have an egg to
drink pinkie these days—the stuff’s
dangerous!”
* * *
“Lord Luvus”: I hazard the sugges-
tion that in nothing does our modern
civilisation differ more strikingly from
those that have gone before it than in
the nature of its amusements, which were
never so stupid. A few years ago Aus-
tralia was mad over midget golf for a
couple of months, and scores of thou-
sands were invested in the industry.
Midget golf vanished, and was succeeded
by yo-yo, which gave place to jigsaw
puzzles. In between the country has be-
come temporarily enamored of marathon
dancers, pole-sitters and egg- and oyster-
eating champions. The latest craze in
Melbourne is the Obstinate Artist compe-
tition. Every class of the community,
from professors to hodcarriers, has
plunged into the task of finding a pun-
ning sentence to fit a foolish picture.
I know an old German cook who has
"How did George lose his money?”
“He won a woman.”
spent more in entrance fees than she has
to pay in taxation, although her ignor-
ance of the language is such that her
chances of winning a prize are infinitesi-
mal.
* * * *
“El V.”: Things are coming to a pretty
pass when Australia can muster only one
Dan Kelly, who, unchallenged, has his
picture on the screen and entertains the
readers of the Sunday papers. A few
years ago the old man’s sudden appear-
ance would have been greeted with a
yell of indignant anger from scores of
rival Dans, for almost every Queensland
station had one of them. Indeed, there
were so many that The Bulletin once
printed a poem about them, and the
humorously-minded inhabitants of a'
western Queensland town lured several
claimants by guile to an annual show
and staged a race for them, the winner
to be declared the true merino and the
remainder to shout drinks all round.
With true Kelly foresight, the contestants
refused to leave the post until they had
been doctored with rum and promised a
percentage of the book on the race. The
victor was a sandy old gentleman with
a strong Aberdonian accent, and it is
sad to have to state that his laurels be-
came badly torn a day or two later
when, after a frantic search for his
corpus, he was discovered in a hollow-
log with the contents of the hotel till.
He was the exception to the Kelly tradi-
tion, however. Most of the claimants
to the family honors were honest old
chaps—as the one now on deck seems
to be —with a touch of the sun and a
sincere faith in their own genuineness.
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne natural-
ist recently proposed the wild fuchsia as
Victoria’s national emblem for the cen-
tenary, and was promptly howled down
by the wattleites. If he had been in
N.S.W. he would have also been jumped
on by the waratahians. In all these dis-
cussions about national trees and flowers
nobody seems to consider whether there
may not be psychological and aesthetic
issues involved. Why do the Chinese
favor the weeping willow? Probably
because it suggests something in their
national character—they don’t care what
position they are in so long as it is beau-
tiful. The English favor the oak, and
will transplant it anywhere. It would be
interesting to know what Australian tree
or flower best expresses the Australian
character.
“The Old ’Un”: There’s many an old
girl has a figure the youngsters might
envy, and De Maupassant isn’t the
only author who has made play with
the fact. Sydney gets an example owing
to the demolition of buildings at the east
end of Martin-place. Now the old “Sun”
office and other architectural nonentities
have been wiped out, St. Philip’s Church
is visible from George-street. She is a
slender widow in grey weeds. A church
stands or falls, aesthetically, on its spire.
There are a million million angles applic-
able to spires, but adjusting a spire to
a tower is a job for an artist. The tower
of St. James’s, St. Philip’s nearest neigh-
bor, has a hat that can only be described
as solidly and stolidly British in its cor-
rectness. A yard less or a yard more of
height would have given Pecksniff a pain
in his neck. St. Philip’s spire would have
left him gasping. She is as French as
Kipling’s young lady who achieved un-
imaginable improprieties while clothed
from neck to wrist and ankle in sober
black —a skittish note in a townscape
that hasn’t emitted a chuckle for a hun-
dred years.
“Selma”: If musical folk aren’t aggres-
sive (B. 13/9/’33), the patrons of elocu-
tion sometimes are. I attended our local
competitions when several small girls
were to recite, and was busy behind
the scenes administering encouragement
to a juvenile relative when I found she
was already an object of dislike to a bevy
of damsels who, knowing that she had
won a first, had determined on harassing
her so that she might not repeat her suc-
cess. She did, however, and I shadowed
her back to the dressing-room, but was
unable to avoid a meeting with a matron
whose daughter had not been placed.
Mum soundly smacked the face of my
charge, swept on and belabored No. 2,
pommelled No. 3, and stampeded out. I
heard later that all this was as nothing
to her behavior next day, when the com-
mittee scratched her infant from all
events.
"Harry proposed to me last
night.”
"Doesn’t he do it beauti-
fully?”
“F.S.”: One of the most sensational
sights for centenary visitors to Mel-
bourne will probably be the statues in
the Fitzroy Gardens. These were lately
the subject of an official civic inspection.
One lady, who looks as if she had been
a trifle battered in the corner pub, has
had her numerous coats of whitewash
scraped off and been sprayed with some
zinc preparation which makes her shine
like an aluminium pot. Some of the
councillors expressed themselves as hor-
rified beyond measure at the spectacle,
but others declared they liked it, so
presumably the renovation will go on
and be extended to the discus-thrower,
who looks like an Irishman to whom
somebody has given a scone ; the Diana,
whose faun has been restored with
astonishing results, and the rest of the
decrepit crew. When the figures have all
been duly zinked the effect under the
rays of the setting sun ought to be worth
crossing the world to see.
“Tamornie”: In Melbourne the other
night Fate dealt cards from a stacked
deck. A police patrol-car had been
parked at the corner of Gore
and Gertrude streets, Fitzroy,
for 45 minutes when it was
called to the scene of a mur-
der in Preston, where a man
had been battered to death
while defending his fowls from
theft. By the time the police
arrived wireless information
had followed them of another
murder, only a short distance
from where they had been
parked a few minutes earlier,
when a man had a magazineful of pistol
bullets pumped into him at short range.
* * * »
“Morehead”: I had gathered a batch
of manuscripts for a collector, and was
surprised when all the typewritten ones
were returned with the intimation that
they possessed no individual character-
istics and were therefore useless to him.
They may have looked all the same to
him, but to me there were as many
differences between the typewritten items
as there were between the handwritten
ones. I am no expert, but I can name
with almost absolute certainty the author
of a typewritten article, presuming, of
course, that he is not a newcomer and
sticks to his style of typing. Size, class
and color of the paper used, size of
the type, color of the ribbon and pecu-
liarities such as spacing, indenting,
titling and position of signature all help
to distinguish one author’s typed work
from another’s. Typescript by James
Edmond, A. G. Stephens, J. H. M.
Abbott, Dulcie Deamer, E. S. Sorenson
and Alys Brown, to mention a few, are
distinctively individual and easily recog-
nisable. To the novice typescripts by,
say, Vance Palmer, Osmar White, Gil-
bert Turnbull, Steele Rudd, and Jack
Hardie will appear to be exactly simi-
lar, but anyone used to their “copy”
can detect marked differences. The col-
lector may profitably make a note of
this.
% ❖
“General Prac.”: Children yet unborn
will live to bless the man who has just
discovered that halibut oil is an efficient
substitute, so far as its vitamin content
goes, for the nauseous produc of
the cod. The dose of the new stuff is
a mere drop on a lump of sugar, and,
though cod-liver oil may be given ip this
concentrated form, the old taste is apt to
linger. A merciful science has long
purged digitalis and cascara of their
horrors, but it will need a genius to
render drugs like the iodides and sali-
cylates acceptable to a normal palate.
Valerian and asafoetida have no rivals
for all-round beastliness, and their
horse-power grows if they are mixed
together. The preparation, flavor apart,
has not only a terrific smell, but a devilish
trick of “repeating” for days on end.
By means of this potion some large hos-
pitals are enabled to rid themselves per-
manently of patients with imaginary ail-
ments. The dreadful weapon is known
—not inappropriately—as Mistura dia-
bolica.
* ¥ V *
“Pawang”: One way of decreasing the
suicides from the Harbor Bridge (B.
20/ 9 / ’33) would be to prohibit the Syd-
ney newspapers from mentioning them,
just as Melbourne newspapers are pro-
hibited from retailing divorce suits. Few
suicides would shuffle off this mortal
coil unless they knew they were going
to get into the headlines thereby. As
evidence for this, take the popularity of
murder in the United States, which is
certainly attributable in part to the vast
and engaging publicity given to the man
awaiting sentence of death. Certainly
public executions are no longer allowed,
but the modern homicide gets far more
effectively before the public eye than any
malefactor that ever hung on Tyburn
Hill. We are vain animals, and most of
us lead obscure lives, our strongest emo-
tions being self-pity and the feeling that
our obscurity is due to our being mis-
understood. We resent this neglect, and
wish to punish the world for it by mak-
ing it weep. What better way of doing
so than by making a small splash in the
Harbor and a huge splash in the press?
AT CRONULLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“SVnbaking is permitted on most Sydney beaches,
but the Sutherland Shire Council reminds bathers
that it is strictly forbidden at Cronulla.”
Now that summer’s in the offing,
And your duds you’ll soon be doffing
On many a golden shore and wave-swept
reach,
Take a tip, you sheiks and sirens
Who affect marine environs,
Mind your steps, you Eves and Adams of the
beach!
You may lie on sandy pillows.
Fresh and glowing from the billows,
And tan your hides to terra-cotta color;
You may court old Sol’s embraces
In a score of other places,
But you’d better not attempt it at Cronuller.
Hearken, Ermyntrude and Monty,
You may bake your frames at Bronte
Or negligently saunter hither and yon;
You may contemplate betrothing
With the minimum of clothing
Your radiant anatomies upon.
Heed me, Sylvia and Stanley,
They’ve a lenient eye at Manly
For the maid who lies and lets the breezes
lull her
In the glorious summer weather,
And the all-but altogether;
But it won’t be tolerated at Cronuller.
Listen, Lionel and Laurel,
Both at Bondi and Balmoral
Go your hardest —and your barest —if you
like;
You may bake yourselves to blazes
With no disapproving gazes
And not a single soul to get the spike;
You may woo the sun like lovers
Till your epidermis covers
Are chestnut, chocolate, or something duller ;
But, be wise and warned in season,
You will find immediate reason
For repentance if you try it at Cronuller!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The moisture-proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory - fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
u
I've smoked them for years
and they never vary
CRAVEN A
in tne neu> mri&tWie’piocf
CELLOPHAN E.'PACK
(ill
Wm
- ■
M
POLITICAL POINTS
Earle Page is returning to active poli-
tics with the right idea. The leader of
the Agrarians is “convinced that a cut
in Commonwealth and State taxation of
at least £26,000,000 is necessary to bring
the burdens on production down to the
1929 level.” Twenty-six millions is near
enough, and Australia will wish the
doctor well if he goes ahead and gets it
—provided he doesn’t forget he is a Pro-
tectionist.
Queensland Treasurer’s forecast of his
Budget reads very poorly besides
Stevens’s effort. There will be “no in-
crease in taxation.” This comes badly
from an Administration which secured
special deficit provision from the Com-
monwealth and celebrated the happy
event by reintroducing the 44-hour week
at a cost of £300,000 —one-sixth of the
income-tax yield.
Ignoring the jolt they had received in
the Assembly on an adjournment motion
protesting against the dismissal of Pur-
nell and Wallace, two ex-Ms.L.A., from
Geelong Harbor Trust, the Argyles put
through the requisite Order-in-Council
to give effect to the Cabinet decision. It
was made clear in Parliament that no
personal acts of Purnell and Wallace are
questioned ; they are being shunted so
that the Trust may be run as a business
concern.
Although nothing was farther from
his intention, Tunnecliffe did the Argyle
Ministry a good turn by launching a no-
confidence motion condemning it for
reconstructing Geelong Harbor Trust. It
brought the U.A.Ps. (or Yaps) together
again, and, with the help of some of the
seldom-solid Cockies, the Government
won by 14. Five irreconcilables from
the Agrarian group and three Indepen-
dents sided with Labor. So Argyle was
put in good heart for the delivery of his
Budget next day.
Barring accidents a Disabilities Con-
ference is to be held at Adelaide. South
Aus., W.A. and Tasmania will be repre-
sented, and the conference will frame a
scheme of claims on the Commonwealth
—“formulate their demands,” as the
union agitators used to say. The pro-
posal came from Collier, who says he
wants to secede from the Commonwealth.
Determined to be in the fashion,
Queensland Labor brought in a bill to
crib £250,000 from the Main Roads fund
and shove it into the sink of consolidated
revenue. It consummated the deed, but
had only one vote to spare —25 votes to
24. The grab was not relished by some
of its supporters, and one absented him-
self at the critical moment. It is ex-
plained that he was under the impression
that he had been paired, but the strong
muster of the Opposition indicates that
there were whispers abroad.
If a Supreme Court judgment had
held good, Stevens would have had to
provide £ 15,000-odd in his Budget for
the six conciliation-committee chairmen
he sacked ; but the Full Court has ruled
that they are not entitled to compensation.
This, of course, will not end the matter
if Lang and Piddington intervene. That
grand Old Firm, having tried to abolish
the nominee Leg. Council by the litigious
route, is now striving in the same way to
prevent its abolition; worsted in the
local courts, as before, it is going on
to the Privy Council again. If beaten
there, it may try the League of Nations
or the International Court at The Hague
or (if communication can be established)
the Supreme Court of the planet Mars.
A deficit of £700,000 was forecast by
Argyle in his Budget. He seemed to
derive consolation from the fact that this
will be £141,501 less than in 1932-33 and
£908,322 less than in 1931-32. On general
account he expects to be £202,000 down ;
the rest will be made up by rail-
ways (£444,000) and the State coalmine
(£54,000)). Unemployed-relief tax is
reduced by 5 p.c., and £50,000 is being
transferred from the Titles Office assur-
ance fund. A tame and uninspired
Budget.
Westralian Labor whisked what it
called an Emergency Tax Assessment Bill
through the Leg. Assembly and rushed
it up to the Council, expecting it to be
back in 24 hours or so. But the Council
jibbed at some of the clauses, notably
one compelling possessors of annual in-
comes to pay tax from July 1 ; and after
six or seven weeks the measure is still
being tossed from House to House. Pre-
vious Labor Administrations found the
Second Chamber tractable, but the Col-
lier Government’s anxiety to please the
secessionists while remaining pledged to
unification has inspired a contempt for
it. And when Second Chambers feel
that way they delight in showing it.
SALESMAN: “If you have a few minutes to spare, lady, we're demonstrating the
Gandhi safety-pin.”
Bruxner has introduced Sydney to the
first of its new trams. They scarcely
give the impression that they will revolu-
tionise the service and make the tram-
ways pay. The contraptions are painted
a delicate cream and green. They have
lots of plate glass and leather cushions.
But the best thing about them is that they
are without the footboards which have
endangered the lives of conductors
for so many years, and which a succes-
sion of Labor Governments tolerated,
though the trammies are the most faith-
ful of Labor-unions.
Two untoward incidents in the battle
of Governments for the ether have been
reported. At a football match in Ireland
a broadcast of the game was suddenly
interrupted by a stentorian voice inform-
ing the world that Republican prisoners
were suffering horrors at the hands of
the De Valera party. It turned out that
youpg men had entered the announcer’s
box, overpowered him and taken charge
of the microphone. The other incident
occurred in Nazidom, where residents
of Frankfort were arrested and interned
for listening to sarcastic remarks from
Moscow on the Leipzig trial. The
League of Nations will have to take over
the ether.
Westralian secessionists talk a lot
about supporting local industries, but
with a lot of them it is merely talk. In
other parts of Australia woollen and
worsted mills are doing well, but West-
ralia’s solitary undertaking of the kind
has had such a struggle—because seces-
sionists prefer woollens from the haunts
of the Federal octopus —that the £1
shares have been written down to 6s. Bd.
The home of the neglected enterprise is
Albany, which, of course, voted for
secession.
The Bechuana regent Tshekedi, who
had his powers suspended for walloping
a white man, has been restored to his
dignities by George Rex, represented on
the spot by Australia’s old naval friend
Evans. The chief was badly in the
wrong under Protectorate laws, though
Exeter Hall pronounces him in the right.
He could not even plead necessity for
exceeding his privileges, since every dis-
trict of Bechuanaland has its resident
magistrate who looks after white
offenders ; there was one in Tshekedi’s
own town of Serowe. Moreover, Mafe-
king, the headquarters of the High Com-
missioner, is only 70 miles away, and is
linked up by telegraph and telephone.
N.S.W. Education Minister Drum-
mond has been contending that the Com-
monwealth is ill-balanced, which is true ;
and that N. S. Wales could be cut into
three good States, which is equally obvi-
ous. And there is no reason why three
local Legislatures with restricted powers
(that being a necessary accompaniment
of subdivision) should contain more poli-
ticians, all three, than the 150 members
who will presently foregather in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, or as many ; and
there have been 214. Tasmania, which
has two Houses, gets along pretty well
with 48 members. South Aus. has 66,
but many "South Australians, even sup-
porters of the bicameral system, con-
sider they would be better served by 50
or fewer.
The stock reply to New Slaters like
Drummond is that there are seven legis-
lative bodies already, and that seven con-
stitute a grotesque anomaly. But the
British Isles, less than half the size of
N. S. Wales, have six Legislatures, the
U.S.A. has 49, and Switzerland (a
little more than half as large as Tas-
mania) about 20. The cost of the six
State Governments is about £1,000,000
per annum, including Governors, both
Houses, royal commissions, elections and
frills. A lot of the frills should be cut
out; even so, the expenditure doesn’t
compare so badly with the price of some
of Sydney City Council’s resumption
doings in its worst days.
The U.S.A. is expected to recover in
time from the National Recovery Act.
There is a tendency, even at this late
hour, to plead that the Australian is a
victim of extraordinary circumstances,
and as much sinned against as sinning.
He is the son of a rich father, it is said,
and, always having the Old Man in Lon-
don to draw upon for a loan, he never
had a proper chance to learn self-reli-
ance. But Canada, South Africa, Maori-
land, Newfoundland and some minor
white possessions all lived in the
same atmosphere of temptation. Though
some of them borrowed rather lavishly,
not one made such a rotten use of
the money as Australia’s politicians
did, or made such a rotten misuse of
opportunities as to become chronically
dependent on fresh external loans to pay
external interest with. Australia has
been forced to struggle out of that de-
pendence, and the experience has been
bitter.
Queensland canegrowers are growling
at projected amendments to the Sugar-
cane Prices Act. It is proposed to give
the board power to veto transfers
of land assignments ; in effect, if a piece
of assigned land is leased, sold or sublet,
the transfer cannot go through unless the
board approves. Another change objected
to is the giving of voting power to Gov-
ernment nominees on the board, who, it
is argued, will vote to Government
orders. Formerly the voting at board
meetings was confined to the chairman
and the millers’ and growers’ representa-
tives.
Melbourne is handling its slum pro-
blem in the old flaccid way. It is pro-
posed to pull down an eyesore or two
and erect modern dwellings where the
slum-dweller will be able to forget the
past. But the rent will be such that the
slumites won’t be able to pay it, so they
will simply go elsewhere and create fresh
plague-spots. There are thousands of
miserable tenements which, under exist-
ing regulations, ought to be condemned ;
but if health officers condemned them
the residents would have nowhere to go.
Bengali terrorists having murdered
several British officials, there has been
much ado about devising ways and
means of staying the shooting epidemic.
Elderly colonels with curry livers must
sigh for a brief recourse to the old
methods of the Mutiny. If Mos-
lem offenders were hanged in pigskins
and their Hindu opposite numbers with
a chunk of beefsteak rammed down their
gullets, the trouble would soon pass.
Blowing from guns would answer for
both if pigs and beefsteak were not avail-
able.
From Canberra:
In the Budget to be presented at Canberra
it is expected that concessions will be
provided for war pensioners, old age and in-
valid pensioners and civil servants —civil ser-
vants above all, since they are organised and
vocal. No one will begrudge anything the war
pensioners may get. They did not squeal when
the Premiers’-plan cuts were applied to them,
although they had not shared in the increases
handed out to civil servants and old-age pen-
sioners during the boom years; expenditure on
military pensions has, in fact, steadily declined.
But they would be better served in the long run
—the other sections, too —by reduction of the
taxes that inflate the cost of living and wages.
That would strengthen the tottery position of
the industries that have to bear the cost of the
Commonwealth establishment and social ser-
vices and are looked to for the re-employment
of the workless. It is a mistake to increase ex-
penditure in the expectation that the prices of
our staples are returning to the 1928 levels.
Still, of course, a general election is due next
year.


By THE TtWIE THE CUSTOMS INSPECTORS AND
Harbor boards have done with him
And he has met the State
Income Tay* Department
And the f edhral_ Imcome
Tav Department
And he has been to Rasidnnick —
AND. BEEN DISCOVERED BY the CHARITY AND LOTTERV COUuECTORS
We \N\L-l_ BE
TO LEAVE FOR. HOME
BEFORE THE
Probate people
"THINK. OF HIM ,
NO NEED TO FEAR ANY INVADER.


THE WORLDS BEST
I
§§s!
MOTOR SPIRIT
tmt
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some October birthdays:
Q’land Home Sec. Hanlon, 46, on Ist;
H V C. Thorby, M.H.R., 45, and Prof. Osborn
(Syd.), 46, on 2nd; R. D. Boys (formerly Chief
Librarian of Melb. Public Library), 67, Chas.
P Smith (“West Australian”), 54, and Justice
Richards (S.A.), 64, on 3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic ),
53, and R. L. Curthoys (editor of Melb.
“Argus”), 41, on 4th ; knight John Once (Melb.),
83, on 6th; ex-Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 72,
and Rev. Absalom Deans (Melb.), 61, on 7th,
painter Hans Hcyscn, 56, Harold Burston, 44,
Brig.-Gen. Herring (Syd.), 52, and knight Sam
Walder (former Lord Mayor ot Syd.), 54, on
Bth; Bishop Crotty (Bathurst), 47, and C wealth
Statistician McPhee, 64, on 9th; poet Dr. C. H.
Souter (Adel.), 69, on 11th; H. C. Budge
(Ma State Governor's official see.), 60, Bishop
Dwyer (Wagga Wagga), 64, led Grayndler,
M L.C. (gen. sec., A.W.U.), 66, the Rev. I . J.
Hartigan (author of “Around the Boree Log ),
54, on 12th; novelist Jack McLaren, 46, on
13th; Prof. Alcock (Q.), 47, Stanley Addison
(Melb. Uni.), 53, and Rev. J. Green (war chap-
lain), 68, on 14th; Langdon Bonython (Adel.
“Advertiser”), 85, N. G. Bell (ex-Commissioner
Federal railways), 73, Dr. Darnell-Smith (Syd.
Botanic Gardens), 65, Cecil Madigan (Adel.
Uni) 44, and J. G. McLaren (official sec. Aus-
tralia House, Lend.), 62, on 15th; former
C’wealth Statistician Wickens, 61, on 16th; .1. M.
Drew, M.L.C. (W.A.), 68, and F. W. Eggleston
(Melb.), 58, on 17th; N.S.W. geologist E. C.
Andrews, 63, and Lionel Lindsay, 59, on loth,
Nina Murdoch, and A. W. Lacey, ex-M.H.R.,
now M.H.A. (S.A.), 46, on 19th; Percy Cole-
man, ex-M.H.R. for Reid (N.S.W.), 41, on
20th; medico-knight Jarvie Hood, 73, on 21st;
Bishop Thomas (Willochra), 52, Lance Fallaw
(associate-editor “S. M. Herald”), and Major-
Gen. G. J. Johnston (Melb.), 64, on -4th;
WA. Deputy Premier McCallum, 55, and
H. S. Dettmann (Syd. Grammar School), 58,
on 25th; Coadjutor-Archbishop Killian (Adel.),
61, and H. K. Nock, M.H.R., 54, on 26th;
Speck’s former Premier Elliott Lewis, 75, and
Capt. Hugo Throssell, V.C. (W.A.), 49, on
27th; Vic. Senator Bob Elliott, 48, and Lieut.-
Col. J. T. H. Goodwin (Canberra), 68, on 28th ;
Assistant Minister Hawkins, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
57, and Prof. Edwin Pitman (Tas.), 36, on
29th; Justice James (N.S.W.), 67, on 30th;
knight Hubert Wilkins, 45, and Prof. Wadham
(Melb. Uni.), 42, on 31st.
A. E. Jolly, lately dead in Adelaide,
left an estate of £107,000. He founded
a co. bearing his name in Darwin long
ago, with pearling as a sideline, and
retained his interest in it, although he left
the N.T. at the end of the century.
R. C. RITCHIE, president of the
Vic. A.N.A.
Australia’s oldest vigneron has had a
96th birthday—J. D. Lankester, a noted
show judge and exhibitor in his day. He
started at Paterson’s River (N.S.W.),
spent much of his business life at
Albury, and is now a resident of Glenelg
(S.A.). , ,
Shows attract devotees who regard
attendance at them, year in and year out,
as a ritual; but, since W. A. B. Greaves
died in Sydney, it would be hard to beat
the performance of A. M. Smith, some-
time manager for Ruston and Horns-
by, who has not missed one .
the Melbourne events since 1883. He is
now 85 years old. Possibly, his only
rival is Harry Bracker, second white
child born on the Darling Downs, whom
age now prevents from attending the
Brisbane Royal.
Here is James Larcombe, Forgan
Smith’s chirpiest follower. Like Cardinal
Wolsey, he began as a butcher boy, and,
as the son of W. M. Kidston’s partner
in Labor’s first onslaught on the
Rockhampton seat, naturally became a
politician while still in knickeibockers.
He got into Parliament in 1912 and
JAMES LARCOMBE, for nine years a
Queensland Labor Minister.
was a Minister under Theodore, Gil-
lies and McCormack. Larcombe held
the Railways portfolio for nine years.
Defeated in 1929, he was returned in
1932, and is still young enough to have
a chance of being Premier later on. In
his day he was an ardent footballer,
represented the Central District at the
game, and for 13 years was president
of the Queensland Rugby League.
R. G. Casey, who becomes Assistant-
Treasurer, had his full share of war ex-
perience. He was on the dour Bridges s
staff, and was the officer allotted to ques-
tion Muller, the Emden’s commander,
after the raider’s destruction. He is a
quiet man, whose modest air belies his
ability.
Ipswich Grammar School, which is
celebrating its 70th anniversary this
month, has had six headmasters: Stuart
Hawthorne, J. Macrae, Donald Cameron
—most beloved and famous of them all
—C. A. Flint, who ruled for six years
before 1907, B. G. Lawrence and R. A.
Kerr, who has been in office longer than
any. He took charge in 1914.
This year’s Australian Literature
Society medal goes to Leonard Mann,
whose “Flesh in Armor” was described
by The Bulletin as the finest book yet
written on the A.I.F. Mann saw some
of the fiercest fighting in France as a
non-com. with the 39th. He is legal
adviser to the Vic. Employers’ Federa-
tion.
Wilfred Kelsham Fullagar, Victoria’s
youngest and latest silk, is considered
about the most brilliant Equity and Con-
stitutional man that the Vic. Bar has
produced since Owen Dixon, now on
the High Court Bench. Last year he
was given a trip to the Privy Council on
the Dried Fruits case, and he has
appeared for Victorian interests in most
of the big High Court actions in recent
years. Fullagar is a returned soldier, and
was called only 11 years T ? g ?’j£
formerly a lecturer at the University. He
is a modest and courteous chap, and is
an ardent fly fisherman.
George Wilkins, who will be back in
Australia soon as a preliminary to
another visit to the Antarctic, is due t
celebrate his 20th polar anniversary.
He was above the Arctic Circle with
Stefansson when war broke out in 1914,
and did not hear of the scrap for two
years. His subsequent adventures at
the front are history. It was several
years before he returned to the ice-
much of it spent in trying to persuade
Australians that Antarctica was worth
exploring. . .
G. M. Campigli, now on a visit to the
Commonwealth, is another evidence that
Australians are securing a transport
monopoly in the Near East and parts
adjacent. While ex-Diggers have the
bulk of the Persian Gulf pilgrim
trade along the Alvand Road and
the Naims run the Beyrout-Bagdad
motor services, the visitor controls
the Palestine State railways. He
began the war as a trooper and ended as
a lieutenant-colonel. Then Allenby, who
liked him, asked him to stay and put
the Judaic lines on a commercial basis,
and he has been on the job ever since.
Father Maurice O’Reilly, rector of
St. John’s College (Sydney Uni.) for the
past 18 years, has died after a singu-
larly full life. His energy was terrific.
He was actively interested in painting,
music, literature (he wrote equally well
in prose and verse), politics, sport,
finance, architecture, social questions
(the poor of Sydney hadn’t many better
friends), education, hospitals, children
and their welfare, Australia and Ireland.
He was born in Ireland and educated
at Maynooth, but he had spent a good
many years in England and, like Par-
nell, he had an English voice. Also like
Parnell, he was passionately nationalist,
where his native land was concerned.
He stood six feet two in his socks, was
as good-looking as a movie hero till well
on in years, and he had a peerless sense
of humor. He was 66 when the end
came.
A. Bakker, who rose from the rank
of purser to general manager in Aus-
tralia for the Royal Packet Navigation
Company (K.P.M.) in 17 years, has spent
nearly half his lifetime away from his
native country. He was born at Delft,
one of the oldest towns in Holland,
famous for its potteries, some examples
of which adorn his private office. Apart
from ships his only hobby is classical
A. BAKKER, general manager in
Australia of the Dutch Royal Packet
line of steamers.
music, and he occasionally plays an old
Guarnerius violin which has been in his
family for over a century. Bakker has
been stationed at Sydney since 1914, with
a break of a year in Singapore. He be-
came g.m. in 1929.
L. M. (Tom') Darby, chairman of the
Adelaide Show Council these days, is as
good a judge of a horse as you can find
anywhere. For years he has bred many
winners in the Adelaide Show ring,
from ponies to big horses, harness pairs,
tandems and hacks. His best-known per-
former was the brown gelding Viking,
which, never beaten, won all the cham-
L. M. DARBY, chairman of the S.A.
Royal A. and H. Society council.
pion ribbons at Adelaide and Sydney.
Tom Walls, the comedian, got his
money’s worth out of Darby’s horse Red
Leaf when the actor was in Adelaide
years ago. The chairman made a capital
speech at the Show luncheon, better
than that of Prime Minister Lyons,
who reminded those present that South
Australia had got millions in Govern-
ment grants from the Commonwealth.
Darby’s speech was more optimistic, and
he confined it to the topic he knew some-
thing about —horses.
Harold Bushby breaks a record. He
is the first Tasmanian chosen to manage
an Australian Test team. He travelled
with the 1926 team as a visitor, was a
co-delegate with Sydney Smith on the
Imperial Cricket Conference and has
held most offices in Northern Tasmanian
cricket bodies. He played the game in
senior grades himself for 25 years.
“El V.”: The outburst of Sir Herbert
Austin, who wants to follow Hitler and
get women out of industry, reminds me
that the world indirectly owes his
übiquitous flea among motors to the
Australian sheep. Austin served his en-
gineering apprenticeship in Melbourne,
managed several small factories there,
and went to England in 1890 to control
the manufacture of the Wolseley sheep-
shearing machine, just then developed.
He is still chairman of the company
which makes the machines. Austin
is a stern disciplinarian and hates hum-
bug. As he showed me round his
works some years ago, we came on two
men laughing. One produced pencil and
paper and began to figure. Passing,
Austin reached out and grabbed the
paper, regarded it with disgust and ejacu-
lated “Bluff me, would you? Come
on! What was the yarn you were tell-
ing?” We did not get the yarn because
his victim was speechless with confusion.
“That’ll teach him to work instead of
loafing!” said A. when we were out of
hearing.


.
iii
%m
Wi
Hi
i¥:W:¥:B&S : S3¥: : :S
>*** :• -V
ilil
US
,; • •
Ill«
iiHliiHiiii
:¥&j
liiillllill
i§i#
li
©SAW®
1
n
M-SiMSKiSS?;:-: swwSw,
888®
K»«
ow>
■
s©
Swaas
HHsXwS
:; S 5
! ',
■v
«I
¥
t «i
: : x : : : x : :v: : : : x-. ; :
iillll
m
•XvX: xx-x-x
: >XvXvx-: :■■:•
"Another new tyre wanted
again! Say, Bill, what tyres
do you use?"
"Goodyears always, Jack,
for me."
"Goodyears eh? I
know they're good
but don’t they cost
more?"
"That's what I used to think once—but
I found out you can get Goodyears at
the same price as other tyres."
"What! Goodyears
cost no more than other
tyres! That'll do me,
Bill—l'll give them a
trial."
"You won't be sorry, Jack. You'll get won-
derful mileage and the Goodyear tread’s a
beauty for grip. And prices of Goodyear
Tyres are lower to-
day than ever be-
fore!"
More people ride
on Goodyear Tyre*
than on anv other
tyre.
su&&p£uH§j)
CORD *
Cl I -5 33
s*%■
GOODBYE
to kinks,
When you buy
A A !\
BRAIDED
MOULDED
GARDEN HOSE
NON-KINKING - Goodyear
Braided Moulded Hose immediately
snaps out of any semblance of kink.
LONG LENGTHS —Goodyear
Braided Moulded Hose is available
in any continuous length up to 600
feet, doing away with unwieldy
couplings.
STRONGER CARCASS -The
reinforced strong cotton cord carcass
of Goodyear Braided Moulded Hose
ensures long life and prevents pre-
mature bursting.
LIGHT AND FLEXIBLE
—Although it is extremely strong,
Goodyear Braided Moulded Hose is
much easier to handle than the old-
fashioned, heavy, cumbersome hose.
SMARTER APPEARANCE
With its ne'at smooth or corrugated
cover, Goodyear Braidecf Moulded
Hose is attractive in any garden.
FIVE TYPES —Goodyear Braided
Moulded Garden Hose is made in
five different types to meet all hos-
ing needs they are Goodyear
"Emerald Cord," Goodyear
"Wingfoot," Goodyear "Corru-
gated," Goodyear "Glide,"
and Goodyear "Pathfinder."
’THE GOODYEAR GAR-
DENING GUIDE" -A booklet
full of valuable hints to help
make your garden beautiful, is yours
for the asking, at leading stores
where Goodyear Garden Hose is
sold.
GOOD
PATHFINDER
mu
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Gas Association
Net ( Dividends \ To Re. Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 36,438 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 33,280 3149 43,005
1927.. 62,871 8 „ 9 ~ ~47,654 5217 48,222
Share premiums, £14,875 .. .. 63,097
1928.. 62,300 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 55,806 6494 69,591
1929.. 74,537 8 „ 9 „ „ 73,501 l _ 03 433
Written off, £7194 .. .. )
1930.. 77,264 8 p.c. Bjp.c.= 72,269 ) _ , g G2O
Written ofl', £BBOB .. .. )
1931.. 67,588 8 p.c. 6ip.c.= 64,254 \ 870 co 499
Written off, £2455 .. • • 1
1932.. 62,373 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,134 1239 61,738
Unexplained additions, £9102 . . 70,840
To exchange suspense account, £6020. . 04,820
1933.. 68,082 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,164 0928 71,748
Unexplained additions, £8646 .. 80,394
Since 1924, when headquarters were
shifted from London to Melbourne (this
to gain a little relief from taxation), the
share capital has shot up from £286,879
to £920,531, and £312,900 has been added
to the debenture debt, now £439,500.
The lot is invested in a string of about
30 gasworks, stretching round the coast
from Albany in the west to Townsville
in the north, and in subsidiary under-
takings for the utilisation of by-products,
including the manufacture of ammonia,
bitumen, disinfectants, etc.
After a run of 9 p.c. divs., which
began in 1922, slump came trundling on
the heels of the hold-up at Maitland, and
distributions to the ords. dropped to
6 p.c., earnings fell away with the
shrinkage in the sale of gas and cuts in
the price charged to consumers, while
taxation and' exchange made off with
much of what the management saved in
outgoings. The contraction in last year’s
revenue (£280,108) was £3822 as against
£22,628 in the previous term —gas sales
(£214,353) were £1843 lighter, notwith-
standing an expansion of 2.8 p.c. in con-
sumption ; divs. and returns from resi-
duals, etc. (£65,755), slipped £1979. But
the net reduction in outgoings (£212,026)
was £8531, due mainly to the lower price
of coal. So, allowing for the pref. div.
(£23,692), but leaving an unexplained
addition of £8646 to reserves out of the
reckoning, enough remained to show 7.1
p.c. on ord. capital as against 6.1 p.c.
and 7 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Owing to the fall in interest rates, etc.,
the market prices the ords. at 265. as
against 245. a year ago. The return at
the higher figure is 4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis, and it is. doubtful whether
better than 6 p.c. should be expected for
a while, notwithstanding that the Gas
Bill now before the Vic. Assembly does
not restrict the rate of dividend. The
prefs., whose annual requirements were
nearly three times covered by last year’s
profit, return 4.9 p.c. at 325. 6d.
The next table shows the financial
structure, and further reflects the growth
of the business:
1926 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £497,025 £920,531 £920,531
Debentures .. . . 138,600 439,500 439,500
Sundry creditors .. 73,072 26,738 3’2,524
Land, plant, etc. . . 693,563 976,133 973,940
Shares other cos. ■. 327,620 349,893
Advances other cos. .. 119,379 122,019
Stocks 30,697 31,796 24,221
Book debts .. • ■ 46,751 40,158 36,695
Cash, investments, etc. 33,825 45,033 41,930
Thus the floating debt, up £5786 over
the last 12 months, is well covered. The
spring of £22,273 in shareholdings mainly
represents the co.’s interest in a new con-
cern, Dry-Ice (Q.) Pty., which has put
up a factory on land owned by the
Association in S. Brisbane. The deben-
tures mature at various dates to the end
of 1940. On these the board pays the
full contract rate of interest (6 p.c. to
8| p.c.), and it makes no deduction from
the pref. div. on account of the super-
tax on divs. received from subsidiaries.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931. . 4,413 5 ~ ~ 4262 151 1 or.
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO f ’
From inner reserves, £57,000 . . 1
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. I gG
Loss. I
1933.. 71,284 Nil j
*Eight months.
tExcluding capital reserve, £165,485 at Dec. 31, ’3l.
Formed in 1929 by a group of creditors,
this co. took over the G. A. Bond
hosiery business and that of its cotton-
spinning associate. Most of the old
trade debts were funded by the issue of
£544,033 of 7 p.c. debentures, redeem-
able in five years, though no sinking fund
has been provided for the purpose;
meanwhile, the debenture interest has
been lowered to £5 Bs. 6d. per cent, by
legislation. Small debts were paid in
cash, to provide which 133,816 shares
had been issued and paid to £86,442 at
the end of 1932.
Certainly the liquidators had trans-
formed the business into a profit-earning
proposition, and, after allowing for de-
benture interest, the prospectus figured net
profit at £51,000 p.a. But that included
the cotton bounty, which appears to have
provided the profits claimed in ’3O and
’3l, and more besides. Payment of the
bounty was discontinued half-way
through the last term. Meanwhile, com-
petition in hosiery and knitted goods,
which are the co.’s principal lines, has
become so keen that it has been unable
to market its output at a profit.
Last year gross earnings (£124,133) were
almost halved, the slip being £121,133,
of which only £45,436 was offset by
savings in exes. (£195,571). Thus a loss
of £71,284 showed up. That was after
taking into the reckoning £34,651 due
from the Government and since paid in
respect of the cotton bounty. 1 he loss
was rubbed out by transfer of £2026
from the tax reserve, £57,000 from the
stock-adjustment account, and all but
£96 of the free reserves. The stock-
adjustment account (£31,018 when the
books closed) was created when the busi-
ness was taken over, and has been de-
ducted from the book value of the asset
in the sheet. In addition to £96 of re-
serves shown in the table, there is a
capital reservation of £166,031 ; but that
is mainly a book entry in respect of the
freehold.
Balance-sheet movements are signifi-
cant: —
Prospectus. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. —* £83,883 £85,840 £86,442
Debentures . . £509,641 544,033 544,033 525,000
Mortgage .. 126,677 123,919 111,676 113,259
Overdraft . . 76,712 57,021 89,393 129,581
Sundry creditors 120,348 34,219 50,012 ■ 62,576
Freehold . . 223,729 321,107 322,295 320,920
Plant . . 212,271 213,035 231,148 225,488
Stocks . . 383,487 338,322 278,411 360,786
Book debts . . 88,888 148,538 223,254 165,505
Cash, etc. .. 18,400 8,263 7,947 10,287
To redeem £19,033 of debenture deposit
certificates and add £82,375 to the book
value of stocks, the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £40,188, leant upon
sundry creditors for a further £12,564
and reduced debtors’ balances by
£57,749. Movements in the stocks and
debtors’ figures suggest that price-cut-
ting was not the co.’s only trouble last
year. The slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£231,162, including stocks) was
£27,369.
Although taxation is to be reduced,
and savings amounting to £40,000 p.a.
are reported to have been made since
the close of accounts, appearances are
that the co. will have a difficult struggle
to make ends meet. Hence the £lOO
debentures fetch only £4O in the market,
and that puts the shares in the back-
ground. Excluding the capital reserve,
the book value of the net tangible cover
was £ll6 9s. per £lOO debenture.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June Profits. (Pref. and Old.) serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 57,513 124 p.e. = 41,203 16,310 6.421
1923.. 71,096 12* ~ ~ 46,500 24,596 21.017
1994 75.207 10’ „ „ 41,625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39,838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64.981 10 „ ~ 50,000 14,981 82.66 S
1927 79,813 11 ~ ~ 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928 71,600 10 „ „ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ ~50,000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ ~ 40,000 11,980 158,867
1931 31,003 5* „ „ 27,221 3,782 162,649
1932.. 27,138 5* ~ ~ 27,750 162,037
1933’t. 24,538 5* „ ~ 27,750 158,825
♦Prefs. 7* p.e. fThirteen months.
Although a depreciated currency and
emergency tariff provided local textile
manufacturers with fresh opportunities,
competition for the smaller volume of
business available has kept margins very
slender. Indeed, some lines have been
marketed at a loss in order to hold busi-
ness. Still, competition does not appear
to have been the co.’s only trouble. The
two-year-old agreement under which
Marks and Saulwick —they handle
Kayser products and are interested in
other units of the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls
group—became sole distributors of
A.K.M.’s products ran out in June, and,
by mutual consent, it was not renewed.
Other arrangements have since been
made, and “encouraging results are being
shown.” Also, there has been a change
in the management.
The net result for the 13 months was
£2600 lighter at 4.4 p.c. on capital as
against 4.9, 5.5, 10.3, 13.5, 14.3 and 15.9
p.c. back to 1927. The div. was kept at
5 p.c. ; it averaged 10.2 p.c., sweetened
with £90,000 of bonus scrip, for the nine
years to the close of accounts in 1930.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
suggest that the management anticipated
a greater revival in trade than the co.
has experienced:
1917. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £60,006 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities .. 3,845 47,580 175,755 113,004
Property, plant 28,893 196,476 196,586 190,823
Stocks 23,170 125,862 215,964 182,313
Book debts .. 12,347 58,346 91,907 78,298
CMh, etc. .. 24,818 9,245 410 969
Shares in assoc. 896>g()1 896>801
To repay £68,064 of deposits (£69,621)
and snip £1286 off the overdraft (£4929),
the co. leant upon trade creditors
(£30,435) for an extra £6598, and reduced
the stocks item by £33,651 and debtors’
balances by £13,609. Including stocks,
the more or less liquid surplus (£148,576)
improved £16,050 during the twelve-
month.
The shareholdings include 318,500
ords. in Yarra Falls, 25,480 shares in
Austral Silk and Cotton, 65,250 in Julius
Kayser (Aust.) Pty., and an undisclosed
but small holding in Rayon Pty.
The market, which notes the co.’s
strong trade position, the comfortable
state of its finances and the fact that it
turns out splendid-quality underwear,
which is its principal line, has lengthened
its bid for the pound shares from 18s.
to 245. lOd. over the last two years. On
a 5 p.c. div. basis, the return at the higher
figure is 4 p.c., with prospects. The
cover is 255. 9d. in net tangibles, mainly
plant, worth what it can earn.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1023. . 40,835 10 p.c. = 16,500 15,000 74,930
1924.. 40,923 10 „ ~18,000 20,000 77,858
1925.. 41,180 10 „ „ 20,000 20,000 70,033
1920.. 43.000 10 „ „ 22,000 20,000 80.033
1927.. 54,141 10 „ ~24,000 15,000 t 85 774
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. .. J
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,000 20.000 89,427
1929.. 67,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
1930.. 24,909 7} „ ~21,740 107,549
1931.. 23,412 74 „ ~ 21,745 109,210
1932.. 22,089 7* „ ~21,750 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74 „ ~21,750 110,950
For 22 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 divs. averaged 10.5 p.c.,
sweetened with £235,000 of bonus scrip,
which lifted paid capital to £290,000.
Then prices collapsed, earnings shrank,
the div. was lowered to 1\ p.c., and the
bestowal of gifts ceased —and he would
be a bold person who would predict
when they are likely to be renewed.
Still, it is such a snug little business,
financially and otherwise, that the
market prices the pound shares at 41s.
as against 255. two years ago, when there
was some doubt as to whether much of
the advances had been made upon broad
acres. At 41s. the return is 3.6 p.c. on a
1\ p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is 275. 7d.
Now consider these figures:
1920. 1925. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £200,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdrafts .. . 5,912 325,057
Other liabilities 43,258 34,032 42,452 82,684
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 101,701 155,205
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,180 81,937 03,765
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 221,844 287,545
Last year £40,232 was added to the debt,
advances were reduced by £18,172, and
fixed deposits (£182,300) by £19,700,
while the current account (£49,782) was
strengthened by £29,940 and £55,462
was invested in Consols. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus improved
£7297, reaching £268,626, or 18s. 6d. per
share. It is plain, therefore, that the co.
could return more than half its capital
without seriously interfering with its
earning capacity or its financial position.
Gross earnings from trading have
dropped from £163,338 for the 12
months to the close of accounts in 1929
to £91,915 last year, when the slip was
£573, notwithstanding that the co. put
an extra 13,551 bales (making 129,451
in all) under the hammer, and that the
average price in Sydney (£ll 55.) rose
10s. per bale. Warehousing charges were
reduced by 10 p.c., and a further cut of
5 p.c. has been made from the begin-
ning of the current term. There was
little change in either the return from
investments (£9890) or in exes. (£79,254).
The net return from all sources was 7.7
p.c. on capital as against 7.8, 8, 8.4, 20.9,
19.3 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1927.
As for the current term, the clip is
lighter but the price is better. And
recent rains have improved the outlook.
In the fat stock market export values will
govern prices as soon as supplies exceed
local needs.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
To Re-
June Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 23,399 74 p.c. = 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 ~ ~ 19,200 9568 4,37 7
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 „ ~ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 998
Prels.,
7} p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles, £3750 .. 3,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000. 4,547 8,263
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7 „„ 21,000 11,333 19,596
1929.. 47,490 22,500 6},. „ 19,500 5,496 25,09?
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1932.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1933.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,294
*4 p.c. from l/12/’32 plus £13,594 towards arrears.
There is £600,000 of capital to feed, one-
half prefs. and the other half ords. The
pre f s __l 50,000 A’s and a like number
of B’s —used to carry a cumulative 1\
p.c., but, owing to the change in out-
look, shareholders agreed to lower the
rate to 4 p.c. from Dec. 1 last, with the
right to an extra 1 p.c. in any year when
the ords. receive up to 5 p.c., and
the further right to advance with
the ords. beyond 5 p.c. to 1\ p.c., and
to share in future bonus issues, if any.
Arrears of divs. to Nov. 30, 1932
(£54,375), are to be paid from reserves in
four equal annual instalments of £13,594
each, equal to lid. per share.
During the last term the co. put an
extra 8096 bales under the hammer, mak-
ing 34,006 bales in all, and the average
price in Adelaide was £9 18s. lOd. as
against £9 6s. Bd. and £8 12s. 7d. for
the two preceding seasons. After pro-
viding for contingencies, gross earnings
(£59,903) sprang £6349, while exes.
(£50,070) were £1792 lighter, leaving the
net result £Bl4l better at £9833. Still
the £9833 was £2167 short of a full
year’s pref. requirements at 4 p.c. Actu-
ally, the prefs. received seven months’
div. at 4 p.c. (£7000), plus the first instal-
ment of arrears already referred to. That
reduced the tangible support for capital
to £15,294 —goodwill, not treated as an
asset herein, figures at £27,000.
The rise in the price of wool and
strengthening of the livestock market
have improved the co.’s prospects.
Still, an all-round 5 p.c. would call
for £30,000 p.a., the support for
capital is thin, and, with £756,700
out in advances, etc., the need to
provide substantially for contingencies
remains a pressing one. It is doubt-
ful, therefore, whether the prefs. need
look for more than their minimum
requirements, for a while at any rate.
A 4 p.c. div. plus arrears would be
equal to 8{ p.c. for each of the next three
years. The market prices the A’s at
17s. and the B’s at 155., the return being
10 p.c. and 11.3 respectively on an 8i
p.c. distribution, and 4.7 p.c. and 5.3 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover (book value) is 825., A’s; 595. 4d.,
B’s. The more speculative ords. are
priced at 7s.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1921. 1928. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £238,370 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 225,569* 380,068 296,805 245,841
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc... 93,320 f 114,113 106,524 92,374
Advances & bills 379,976 904,429 796,196 756,700
Investments & cash -—■ 18,373 20,291 20,301
*Less cash in hand. flncludes goodwill.
During the last term £50,964 was
knocked off the debt. To do it the book
value of fixed assets, etc. —the etcetera
comprises some merchandise —was re-
duced by £14,150, and advances by
£39,496. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£531,220) improved £11,538. The
whole position hinges upon the ability of
debtors to meet their commitments.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 7197 10p.c.= 5365 (. 1291 2 ,937
Provident l'und, £541)
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 5365]
Written off premises, £l6OO l 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594 ,
1925.. 9172 10 p.c. r. 5060]
Written off premises, £l5OO j- 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638 J
1926. . 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 ] 4009 10 78 l?
Provident Fund, £693 J 4-9
1927.. 7913 J°P c -= ] 2m 12 ,909
Provident Fund. £736 J
Transferred to capital, £12,625.. 284
1928.. 5492 8 p.c. = 6294 ] , 736
Provident Fund, £746 j ’
1929.. 8496 Bp.c.= i 826 2 ’ 562
Provident Fund, £6OO j
1930.. 8675 8 p.c. = 7070 ] 1005 3 567
Provident Fund, £6OO J ’
1931.. 4363 3i p.c. = 3093 1270 4,837
1932.. 3359 4 „ „ 3535 4,661
1933.. 4003 4 ~ „ 3535 7 4 266
Provident Fund, £864 j
Earnings are derived from investment
of the co.’s own funds, and from corpus
and other commissions in the trustee
section, which doesn’t yield much in the
way of net returns these days. Still,
prices generally have strengthened a bit,
and, as the business gradually expands,
earnings can be expected to benefit.
Excluding an overdraft of £44,161 for
secured advances to trust estates, etc.,
the capital (£88,375), small reserves and
£Bl9O coming to creditors at June 30
were invested in freehold, etc., £69,510;
Government securities, £21,200; book
debts and cash, £15,718. The year’s net
growth in the volume of trusts on the
books was £223,532 as against £19,744
in the previous term:
Gross Exes.
June, Trusts. Earnings. Exes. to Gross
1910.. £2,135,244 £9,096 £6,173 67.8 p.c
1920 4.770,752 21,406 15,043 70.2 ~
6,596,698 37,105 27,978 75.4 „
1927.. 7,331,236 39,421 31.508 79.9 „
1928 . 7,958,795 38,926 30,434 78.2 „
1929.. 8,787,065 39,661 31,165 78.6 „
1930 . 8,863,277 40,621 31,946 78.6 „
1931.. 8,987,587 38,208 33,845 88.5 „
1932.. 9,007,331 37,682 34,323 91.1 „
1933.. 9,230,869 37,955 33,952 89.4 „
The improvement of £273 in gross earn-
ings and savings of £371 in exes, lifted
the net result to 4.5 p.c. on capital as
against 3.8, 4.9, 9.8, 9.6, 10.7, 15.6 and
19.4 p.c. back to 1926. The div. was
kept at 4 p.c., and £864 was sent to the
provident fund, reserves being tapped
for £396 for the purpose. The recession
in net earnings is due mainly to the col-
lapse of prices and fall in interest and
rents, and to the stubbornness of over-


Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained ; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposed.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask O. T,
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
IF YOUR TECHNICAL PROCESSES CAUSE
TROUBLE, or your costs are high, consult B. V.
Heath and Associates, Industrial Chemists, Engineers
and Economists, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne;— Advt.
* * * *
FOR SALE: Sixty Thousand Tons Mill Tailings,
not cyanided, assaying 3£dwt. to Odwt. Abundant
water on the spot. GEO. CARRINGTON, Mellville
Street, Charters Towers, Queensland. — Advt.
GOLD
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or Con-
centrate which you have for sale, it will
be assayed for Gold content free of cost,
and price submitted.
B
mmm
* '
im M:
mmm
vr'-Sx-v
WmM
m+Bm
YOUR WIFE
and her boy's future
RATHER a personal question, perhaps, but
asked with the kindliest intent: If anything
should happen to you, would your wife be able
to carry on in reasonable comfort and give the boy
(or boys and girls) a proper start in life?
If your answer is a sad shake of the head, get in
touch with the nearest A.M.P. representative and let
him advise you. Take him into your confidence.
After he has studied your needs and circumstances,
he will put a perfectly straight-forward suggestion
to you—perhaps two or three suggestions. Make
your own decision. Only one point he will stress:
delay is dangerous. Give heed to that.
A copy cf a new book called “Investing in Happi-
ness” will be sent gladly on request. Every man
should read it. Send to-day.
AMP. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLL'INGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A..
Actuary.
***&**'■
Branch Offices at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
f
f
o
copy
or
a
HAPPINESS
INVESTING
Hi
d dress
Posted
lo
ny
ree
head. Still, the 4 p.c. div. is worth 7 p.c.
on old holdings; 7s. 6d. of the 17s. 6d.
to which the 101,000 £2 shares are paid
has been transferred from reserves since
1917.
At 18s. the shares return 3.9 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 18s.
4d. per share in net tangibles.
Under the international silver agree-
ment Australia is required to withhold
652,3550 z. of the metal from overseas
markets for four years from Jan. 1 next.
The withheld metal is to be lodged with
the Federal Government by Broken Hill
Associated Smelters and the Electrolytic
Refining and Smelting Corporation,
the only two producers of refined
silver in Australia. No payment will be
made; individual producers will carry
the metal as stock on hand. The aim is
to strengthen the price, which averaged
19.24 d. per fine ounce in 1932, and was
at the same figure last week-end. Cur-
rent Australian output is in the neigh-
borhood of 10,500,0000 z. per annum. So
the reduced quantity to be marketed will
need to average about 20jd. per ounce
to show the same gross return as sale of
the full output at 19Jd.
* * * *
The board of Mt. Isa is considering the
question of zinc production. But with
the metal at its present price, and ex-
change as it is, spelter would yield the co.
no profit, the chairman says. Much,
however, depends upon port charges and
loading facilities, which are being dis-
cussed with the Townsville Harbor
Board. The cost of making the treat-
ment plant ready and of opening up the
sulphides is put at £165,000. This would
enable the co. to produce up to 80,000
tons of zinc concentrates annually, and
to improve its recoveries and further re-
duce costs. The plant was originally
designed in two parts, one to treat the
carbonates, and the other the sulphides.
But when spelter became a drug in the
market, the equipment was adjusted to
treat a mixed feed, some sulphides being
required for santering.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon West, whose Queensland
property turned out to be a dud, has
become associated with Alluvial Gold
(Oceania), an offshoot of the big Allu-
vial Tin group, in prospecting 1400 acres
of auriferous dirt in the Upper Nevis
Valley, Otago (M.L.). The area, under
option to Alluvial, is to be check-bored
by the Coolon co., whose shareholders
may be asked for a bit more if results
warrant testing 400 acres of virgin ground.
The 56 bores previously sunk have dis-
closed about 40,000,000 c.y. of wash, esti-
mated to be worth Is. 3d. a yard, with
gold at its present price. The average
depth is 42ft. If results are good enough,
a co. with a capital of £200,000 or more
will be formed to dredge the property.
Coolon West is to receive a “substantial
paid-up interest.” Dredging costs of 2d.
a yard are spoken of.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to raise capi-
tal to dewater the lower workings of the
Mt. Peter Extended, Cairns (N.Q.). Old
hands declare that much good stone
remains in this show. In the same dis-
trict a reef, lOin. wide and carrying good
values, is being developed at the Talis-
man Amalgamated. The last 15 tons,
treated at Chillagoe, yielded 46-i-oz. of
gold and 4|oz. of silver. At Specimen
Hill fair stone has been struck at the
160 ft. level, but water has come in again.
A new reef, 9in. wide in places, has also
been struck at the Alpine, which has
been idle for several years.
* * * *
The last five tons of picked stone sent to
the smelters from the New Zealand Flag
at Fluorspar, Chillagoe (N.Q.), yielded no
less than 356|0z. of gold and 191 oz. of
silver. Formerly worked by tributors,
the show is now being developed by the
owner, J. Coxall. The inclined tunnel is
down 80ft. on a rich lead. No prospect-
ing has been done on the formation
either side of the leader.
* * * *
On behalf of a Brisbane syndicate
geologist Owen Jones has taken six
months’ option over the Comstock and
Mt. Freda at Soldier’s Cap, about 30
miles south-east of Cloncurry (Q.).
Recent crushings at the Comstock aver-
aged 2|oz. of gold per ton. A promis-
ing ore-body has also been met with in
the east drive on No. 3 level at Mt.
Freda.
* * * *
“Nowshera”: Ridgway, local manager
of Gold Mines of Australia, which
has a working option over Rose’s leases
at Orange Creek, out of Cracow (Q.),
is sampling the Dawn of Cracow and
Golden Ridge mines on Boughyard
Creek. These properties adjoin Mulhall
and Hunder’s new find. A trial crushing
of a small parcel averaged 9dwt.
* * * *
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), has
opened up the reef for 385 ft. north and
193 ft. south of the tunnel. Values aver-
age about 12dwt. During July 365 tons
was crushed for 3370 z. of gold bullion,
worth about £llOO.
* * * *
At Monument Hill, Bendigo, the lode
on the 640 ft. level is Ift. to 2ft. thick,
and showing better values. A 30-ton
parcel yielded of gold. The co.’s
prospects depend largely upon the extent
and value of the reefs now being tested
between the 740 ft. and 820 ft. levels. It
has been suggested that all cos. operating
in the neighborhood should combine for
the purpose of erecting one central mill.
* * * *
Berry Leads, which is sinking a shaft
to test the deep leads located by boring
near Annandale (Vic.), is down 60ft. in
basalt, which is expected to continue to
130 ft.; after that the hole will be in
clay. The co. expects to bottom on
wash at the end of next month. The
work has been more expensive than was
anticipated, and shareholders are to be
asked for another 6d. per share to see
the job through.
* * * *
“Murdlanti”: It is doubtful whether
the last crushing of 76 tons for 660 z.
17dwt. from New Deloraine (S. Aus.) is
worth much to shareholders. The reef is
small, the chute is short, and the ore is
hand-picked after it has been hauled and
delivered to battery, 50 per cent, of the
stuff being rejected. The battery is a
two-head affair, and costs are high.
Until a main shaft is sunk to cut the reef
below the old co.’s workings, and that
means installing a more efficient hauling
and pumping plant, the co.’s prospects
appear to be poor.
* * * *
“Konore”: The patent samplers used
by State batteries in Westralia should be
scrapped immediately if prospectors are
to receive a fair deal. At every revolu-
tion the sampler picks up portion of
the sands, which travel down the tubular
arm and are deposited in a receptacle
provided for the purpose. Since the
sampler does not make contact with the
bottom of the launder, it is not possible
for it to take a proportional share of
the heavy or more valuable tailings. The
official sample of sands from a recent
crushing of more than 100 tons, taken
from a solid quartz reef, revealed no
less than 50 p.c. slimes by weight.
* * * *
Western Gold Mines has exercised its
option on Reedy’s mine, near Cue
(W.A.), and shareholders in the ven-
dor (Mararoa) co. are wondering what
will happen next. The option was first
held by the Occidental Development
Syndicate, which later formed itself into
a limited liability co. The consideration
in the event of the option being exercised
was either £50,000 cash or a fully-paid
interest representing 25 per cent, of the
capital of any co. formed to work the
property. The purchaser was also to
take over the Mararoa Co.’s liability of
£3OOO to the State Government for bor-
ing done in 1928. At the beginning of
this year the Occidental Syndicate was
absorbed by Western Gold. The doubt
now is whether, in the event of the pur-
chaser paying cash, the vendor’s board
will hold on to the money for develop-
ment of any new show which it might
have in view or take a fancy to in the
future.
* * * *
London “Financial Times” says there
is no truth in the rumor that Wiluna is
about to throw off two subsidiaries. The
board considers that the co.’s property
can be dealt with “most efficiently and
economically as a whole, and by the
existing organisation.”
* * * *
Someone has managed to sell the
Banker, near Southern Cross (W.A.), to
a Melbourne crowd for a wad of shares
and some cash. The show has been a
producer off and on in the- past, but the
presence of arsenic in the deepest and
waterlogged workings may prove to be
troublesome.
QUESTION ANSWERED.
What is the difference between a “flight from
the currency” and a “flight from capital” ?
8320.
A flight from currency takes the form of
reluctance to hold money or bank deposits.
People hasten to pay away their money for
real values, such as commodities, ordinary
shares, etc., which do not depend upon the
distrusted monetary unit for their value. A
flight of capital is the same sort of distrust
applied to investments. People seized with
panic hasten to sell their investments and
put the proceeds in foreign securities or
merely in foreign currency, such as a bank
deposit abroad.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.M.: (1) It is the name given to the Eng-
lish paper pound. (2) In one sense, yes. (3)
Depends upon methods adopted. (4) Includ-
ing Bank of New Zealand, but excluding Com-
monwealth Bank, aggregate figures for 1932-33
are: Paid capital, £45,464,487; reserves,
£37,497,378; making shareholders’ funds
£82,961,865. Dividends paid, £2,563,375, an
average of 3.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
R.J.R.: (1) No co. formed yet. Write D M
Evans, Box X5BOl, G.P.0., Sydney. (2) The
principal cos. are Bulolo Gold Dredging,
Angel-place, Sydney; New Guinea Goldfields,
Ltd., 67 York-street, Sydney; New Guinea
Developments and New Guinea Gold and
Osmiridium, both 117 Pitt-street, Sydney; New
Guinea Exploration, 109 Pitt-street, Sydney;
New Guinea Gold Deposits, 62 Margaret-street,
Sydney; New Guinea Options, 42 Hunter-street,
Sydney JJ.: Shareholders in Australian Fer-
tilizers, Ltd., at 29/9/’3O were Cuming, Smith
and Co.; Electrolytic Zinc Co.; Imperial
Chemical Industries of Aust.; Mt. Lyell. The
works are at Port Kembla; the co., which manu-
facturers under the trade mark of “Shirley’s Fer-
tilizers,’’ is the largest producer of super,
in N. S. Wales, and it acts as selling agent
for Sulphide Corp. in connection with its super,
output.... H. 8.: Name of G. W. Osborne’s
principals has not been disclosed; he used to
be associated with the Alluvial group....
C.H.: It is a gamble with the odds against you;
if you cannot afford to lose keep out T.L.:
(1) No, the bonds are a long-term speculation.
Prospectus estimates are rough guesswork. (2)
Yes... .Anxious: Prospects not encouraging.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The plot of “The Squatter’s Daughter,”
at the old Haymarket (for some inscrut-
able reason what used to be Sydney’s
only descriptively-named theatre is now
the Civic), has been used on thousands
of stages. The imperilled estate ; the in-
effectual villains; the persecuted heroine;
the mysterious hero, who shows up
the villains for the half-wits they are, and
marries the girl—all are as familiar to
pre-war theatregoers as girls that
wouldn’t drink and cars that wouldn’t go.
The same with the dialogue. The
director has even retained the leisurely
device of segregating the comic bits from
the action. An ancient car blows up and
bolts; a bagpiping Scot lures a snake
from a haystack, and so on.
Jocelyn Howarth is attractive as the
heroine, and Grant Lyndsay is an up-
standing young hero with a decent seat
on a horse. The station hacks are con-
vincing, with the exception of Miss
Howarth’s. The writer refuses to believe
that a lass in her position would be seen
on a grass-fedder with a loaded fore-
hand and other evidences of its carty
origin. Another staggerer is the vine-clad
homestead with Hollywood swimming
pool and cocktail-bar complete, and a
pillared marble mantelpiece of unex-
ampled hideousness. Nothing quite so
awful as this mantelpiece can have been
seen in Australia since the majolica one
that Larry Foley installed in his Manly
home at the beginning of the century.
The feature of the picture is the clever
photography. Mr. Hurley has managed
to make our grim outback look as softly
pretty, not to say pretty-pretty, as an
English home county. It may not be
great art but it is certainly great national
publicity.
* * *
An interior decorator and a landscape
gardener have combined to steal “As Now
Worn” —or, to give it its official title,
“When Ladies Meet” —at the St. James.
The photographer, whose eye for a pic-
ture-postcard effect is as sharp as that
of either of his colleagues, shows all the
rooms and many aspects of the incredibly
prolific garden of Alice Brady’s model
riverside American home. Almost every
period is represented in the furniture —in
an English cottage bedroom, with match-
ing cretonne curtains and covers, of a fan-
tastic design, one of the characters pushes
forward a Louis XIV. chair —and there are
daringly quaint touches such as a stuffed
bird under glass and a nigger boy in
ebony. There were sighs of delight from
the girls in the vicinity of the writer as
the flower-like and exquisitely-tailored
heroine, her arms full of freshly-gathered
blooms, posed against an appropriate
background. Simultaneously a long-
haired modernist stamped furiously out.
The plot concerns the infatuation of
Myrna Loy, an idealistic flapper, for Frank
Morgan, who is married to Ann Harding.
Myrna and Ann are strangers till Robert
Montgomery, who wants to marry
Myrna, brings them together. The fat
then enters the fire from all directions.
The dialogue is amusing, but how some
of it got past our Mr. O’Reilly is a
puzzle.
Alice Brady’s study of a fussy neurotic
is highly realistic ; so is Ann Harding’s
contrasting portrait of a composed
woman of the world. Miss Harding is
one of the few movie actresses, even in
America, who have realised the ambition
of the Comedie Franfaise stars —to ex-
press emotion without throwing the fea-
tures. about. Messrs. Montgomery and
Morgan repeat their popular formulae.
Myrna Loy —stiff, affected and as palp-
ably out of stock as the decorations —-
is the blot on the proceedings.
“Melody Cruise,” at the Regent, has
some new camera tricks. For example,
Charles Ruggles gives himself away while
in a taxi with his suspicious wife, and it
makes him feel so small that he whirls
backwards into infinity, diminishing in
size as he recedes.
Most of the action takes place on a
liner. There is no plot to speak of, but
there are several comic situations based
on Ruggles’s liking for drink and
anxiety not to be involved in scandal
that may reach the ears of his absent
wife. One of the complications that con-
front him after the ship gets under way
is the presence of two girls in their under-
clothes in his cabin. They have gone to
sleep there during his farewell binge.
Phil Harris, a heavyweight Hebrew
crooner who makes terrific play with his
eyes and has a mouth comparable for
size and flexibility to the aperture in the
countenance of comedian Joe Brown, is
the fatal man of the cruise. The girls
tell one another in the syncopated rhythm
which prevails during the first half that
he is “nart the marying kind,” but of
course he is.
“Central Airport” is a blend of air-
thrills and bedroom-thrills; of heroics
and erotics. Richard Barthelmess is a
pilot who even in peace-time and after
he has left Uncle Sam’s Army flaunts his
identification disk, and Sally Eilers loves
him, but marries his brother. As lovers
the young men can fairly claim to be
graded with Clark Gable and the rest,
but as pilots they impress one as no better
than public menaces. Barthelmess, who
finishes with a game leg and only one
eye, crashes ’planes in all directions, and
his brother (Tom Brown) deposits an
air-liner in the sea. The rescue of Tom,
his crew and passengers by Barthelmess
is the big moment of the show.
* * *
“I Love That Man,” at the Capitol, ex-
hibits the nonchalance of Edmund Lowe
and the sweetness of Nancy Carroll. The
ghosts of George Randolph Chester and
Bill Porter brood moodily over the open-
ing sequences, which depict the betrayal of
Innocence by hard-boiled Vice. Lowe, a
crook, exploits for all it is worth his
ability to wear his hat at rococo angles
without appearing conspicuously ridicu-
“THE QUAKER GIRL ” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
(1) Gus Bluett, (2) Cyril Ritchard, (3) Madge Elliott, (4) George Moon,
(5) Marie Le Varre, (6) Frank Leighton, (7) Field Fisher.
lous. His line of patter to the young
lady who becomes his mistress is as
bald as a clothes-peg, but she falls for it,
and under her elevating influence he buys
shares in a coffin-manufacturing concern
and becomes its managing director.
Nemesis descends when some former
associates appear. The only way to stave
them off is to introduce them to the
vaults of the nearest bank. While they
are on the job Miss Carroll rings police
headquarters and car-loads of stern-faced
men shoot holes through all present, Miss
Carroll’s admirer included. At the fade-
out a benevolent parson marries the
lovers just before Lowe, with the smudged
face which indicates one who has been
through the Valley, passes to his eternal
home.
“Hallelujah, I’m a Tramp” seems to be
part of Roosevelt’s N.R.A. campaign,
with mild repercussions from the legalis-
ing of small beers and etiolated wines.
A mayor (Frank Morgan), whose addic-
tion to frock-coats and bell-toppers sug-
gests Jimmy Walker, of New York, loves
a mysterious lady (Madge Evans). She
has a brother or an uncle or a grand-
father or something to whom she donates
vast wads of currency. Morgan finds out
and suspects a rival. He gets so insup-
portable that his fiancee plunges into a
river. Morgan drives round in an ancient
brougham driven by Chester Conklin and
drawn by authentic horses —possibly the
last of their race in Hollywood—and gets
sleepily drunk. But when A 1 Jolson, who
has been doing 45 minutes of musical
comedy as tramp with chorus, discloses
that he fished the heroine out of the
waterway, with her memory gone, Mor-
gan shakes off the hooch, wakes up the
heroine and paves the way to a fade-
out. A 1 goes back to the gay free life
of the hobo who is accompanied,
throughout his life, by a large orchestra.
There is one beautiful interlude in which
Al, by crooning at an assembly of loafers,
convinces all present that the conception
of the need of money is a psychological
error.
v h- *
“Kiss Me Again,” at the State, which
looks and sounds as if it has been
in cold storage for several years, deals
with the love of an officer, who is en-
gaged to a society girl, for an assistant
in a frock-shop. The pair are separated
by the officer’s father. The soldier goes
to Algeria and indulges in mournful noc-
turnal warbling, while the damsel turns to
cabaret singing and eventually becomes a
famous operatic star. Years pass, then
the pair are reunited at a ball. Walter
Pidgeon and Bernice Claire are the prin-
cipals, and Edward Everett Horton,
Claude Gillingwater and Frank McHugh
supply the laughs.
“Girl Missing” reveals what may
happen to chorus-girls who go gold-dig-
ging at an American seaside resort. The
pair in this film are left high and dry
with an enormous hotel bill to face, and
the next thing they know is that the land-
lord has been murdered. And all ends
happily. Glenda Farrell and Mary Brian
are the girls, and Guy Kibbee is the pick
of the men.
*
The Plaza has renewed its allegiance to
Hollywood with a revival of “The King
of Jazz.” The film dates very little. Paul
Whiteman, the fat and beaming ruler of
the orchestra, and John Boles, in “It Hap-
pened in Monterey,” go as well as ever,
and “Ragamuffin Romeo” and “A Bench
in the Park” were actually applauded.
“In “Don’t Bet on Love” Lew Ayres
is fed up with plumbing. He hopes to
make a fortune on a “three-horse-parier”
and marry the girl. Part one works and
Lew becomes the Plunging Plumber, but
Ginger Rogers spoils part two. Still, the
ending’s happy. The scenes at a Saratoga
race meeting are good.
Sundry Shows
Folk who arrange concerts for child-
ren seem to work on the principle of the
Duchess in “Alice in Wonderland”:
“Speak gently to your little boy, and
beat him if he sneezes, for he can very
well enjoy the pepper if he pleases.”
The Broadcasting Commission, which
has at its disposal an opulane array
of musical talent, gave a matinde
performance for school kids at Sydney
Town Hall —mostly orchestral stuff.
It was daring, to say the least of
it, to dazzle the youngsters with
Bach’s B Minor Suite for Flute and
Strings and follow it up with the Brahms
variations on a Haydn theme. Too
much ornament. What a child loves
best is a simple tune with a lilting
rhythm, and Haydn wrote a thousand
of them that can be presented, unglossed,
to a seven-year-old without apology or
explanation. As an introduction to Bach
present critic would prefer some such
simple, appealing melody as “My Heart
Ever Faithful” or some of the merry
little preludes. But, indeed, if it is a
matter of giving joy to children, Bach
should be left out of introductory excur-
sions. What the kids really did enjoy
were the “Blue Danube” waltz and
Grainger’s transcriptions of those fine
old English folk-songs now known as
“Country Gardens” ; and “Shepherds,
Hey,” Three not very distinctive songs
of Schubert, sung by Steuart Wilson,
fell a bit flat, but the vocalist reaped a
rich reward of flushed faces and shining
eyes with a group of old English songs
that told merry stories.
* * *
Verbrugghen’s fiery days were recalled
the other night at 3LO, Melbourne, when
Dr. Gerhardt von Kreussler, of Prague,
was guest conductor for the evening.
The Prague professor conducted the
studio orchestra through the first over-
ture to Gluck’s “Alceste,” its Australian
premiere, and the music was so com-
pletely in the director’s grip that it
seemed an older friend than the “Tragic
Overture” of Brahms —a lovely thing.
Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, which fol-
lowed, got an unusual rendering. The
second movement was taken at an ex-
ceptionally slow tempo, which seemed to
give far greater piquancy to the final
saucy variations. The finale came like
the thunder and the wrath of God, or a
Promethean defiance of mothers-in-law.
After this performance the Sibelius con-
certo resembled the conversation at a
bridge table, without beginning, develop-
ment or end, and for all Elise Steele’s
excellent exposition at the piano it was
a dull epilogue.
¥ # *
The official music-lovers having re-
duced the condition of music in Mel-
bourne to something closely resembling
a dead horse in a vacant allotment, the
Zelman Memorial Symphony Orchestra
has rushed into the gap and, fastening
on the tail-end of a dismal winter season,
gave its inaugural concert at the Town
Hall on Saturday to a satisfactory audi-
ence, from which the aforesaid official—
this was nearly written officious —music-
lovers were conspicuous by their absence.
Herbert Davies conducted a competent
crew through the “Unfinished” of Schu-
bert and, resisting the temptation to get
sentimental over the exquisite opening,
left his audience’s ear uncloyed for the
suave and gracious second movement.
Elgar’s “Enigma Variations” followed,
and the concert concluded with an admir-
able rendering of the “Sea Symphony”
of Vaughan Williams. Davies had the
assistance of the Malvern Choral Society,
Muriel Cheek, soprano, and Ernest Sage,
baritone—a delightful singer.
* * *
A pianoforte concerto recital by Uni.
students filled Melbourne Assembly Hall
one night last week. Ella Simpson, who
led Valda Johnstone through the intri-
cacies of the D Minor of Mozart, showed
more interest in the topography of the
landscape than the tone and color. The
Rachmaninoff Concerto in C Minor
found Valda Johnstone in the lead, with
Mrs. F. R. Johnstone at the second in-
strument. Miss Johnstone has high tech-
nical skill and rare sensitiveness. Wini-
fred McDonnell and the same accom-
plished lady made a living thing of the
F Minor of Glazounow. Irene Bennett,
who sang the recitative and aria, “Softly
Sighs,” of Weber, produced some beauti-
ful middle notes from her vocal mint,
and threw in some small change in the
shape of a silvery upper register.


We’re still talking about something
that happened eighteen years ago!
THIS
WILLARD
THREADED
RUBBER
INSULATOR
In 1915, T. A. Willard discovered and
patented this Threaded Rubber Insu-
lator. Until that year, all Willard
Batteries were made with wooden
Insulators.
These had been found satisfactory,
but T. A. Willard wanted the perfect
insulator. He wanted one that would
outlive the battery plates. One with a
higher resistance to the battery acids
than wood. One with greater porosity.
In short, he wanted an insulator that
would enable the Willard Battery to
develop its maximum power!
He found it in Rubber the perfect
Battery Insulator! Now, due to this
Patented Willard Threaded Rubber
Insulator, the Willard Battery gives
longer life, requires less upkeep, is
thoroughly dependable, gives better
starting under all conditions and
more miles of uninterrupted service.
You can have these definite advantages
—see your local Willard dealer!
o
rw-
f #ll
I
i
i 11
S
:
I
i
■■■ mmmm
m
sllllt
&
-
llflSliiPilg
■
ggg:
. -
H
&M
m
This illustration explains the
Porosity of the Rubber Insulator.
Porosity simply means free flow of the
battery acids through the separator be-
tween each positive and negative plate.
The illustration above shows clearly the
tiny threads or ivicks which by capillary
action carry the acid through. There are
5,000 of these wicks to the square inch in
the Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator!
This means easier and quicker starting for
you. Practically 85% of all battery faults
are due to premature failure of conven-
tional insulators. Use a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery.
/Vo Wood in a Willard Thread Rubber
Battery!
Hard usage, vibration, and the result of over-
charging often wear out wooden insulators be-
fore the battery plates have been used up. This
is the most common fault of battery failure.
Insure yourself with a Willard Thread Rubber.
More Willards are sold than any other make!
è é
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Erooklands Accessories Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bado”: That story of the Peke pup
which shook off race tradition and lived
to become a hero (B. 20/9/’33) recalls
an East African experience of my own
in which early environment and associa-
tions produced a similar change of heart,
but in an opposite direction. A friend
found on shooting a female rhino, that a
young one had just been born. He took
the orphan to his farm and, for want of
better foster-mothers, put him in the
sheep kraal, where he was looked after by
the ewes. We all know that the rhino,
is the most unchangeably cantankerous
brute in the animal creation and learns no-
thing by experience. He will just as soon
charge a three-ton lorry at sight to-day
as he did an Arab slave safari 50 years
ago. My friend’s pet, until his untimely
end, never showed any signs of his racial
characteristic. He early learned to baa
like a sheep, and to see him frisking with
“Did’ee ’ear ’bout Jabez Pentallick dyin’ suddent this mornin’?”
“Iss, boay. It’s funny how some people die suddent and others live right to the
end.”
the young lambs was something you had
to see to believe. He later developed a
sense of inferiority because he couldn’t
grow wool, and was rather relieved, I
think, when the children took him from
the kraal and made a household pet
of him, naming him Samuel. He wore
a blue ribbon round his neck and, though
he had to be relegated to out-of-doors
after he reached a couple of tons in
weight, was everyone’s playmate. One
day the tragedy fell on us. We went to
visit a neighbor, and Samuel followed,
gambolling, behind the car. We left him
outside and, while enjoying afternoon
tea, heard a terrible disturbance. Rush-
ing outside we found Sam crouched in
a corner of the compound, dying. Over
him, bloodstained and truculent, stood
the triumphant bantam rooster recently
imported by our neighbors from Eng-
land. I shall never forget the look of
reproach Samuel cast on us before he
drew his last breath.
* * * *
“Pons”: The barndoor hen is not
alone in her ability to mop up huge
doses of poison ; others of the
brute creation can swallow
dangerous drugs in quantities
that would flatten any man.
Pigeons, for instance, are im-
mune to morphine. Heaven
knows why. Rabbits are un-
harmed by deadly nightshade,
henbane and hyoscyamus, all
capable (provided the helping
be big enough) of producing a
dry tongue, dilated pupils, de-
lirium or death in humans.
And the hedgehog seems to
possess innards as tough as its
overcoat; I expect nobody
will believe me, but the fretful
beast will sit down to a menu
of opium, cantharides, prussic
acid and corrosive sublimate
without turning a quill. Slow
additions to the dosage always
raise our tolerance for poisons.
Alcohol, tobacco and arsenic
are cases in point. The Styrian
mountaineers, in order to im-
prove their wind, eat the last-
named substance in a way that
would have surprised Lucrezia
Borgia.
“P. 8.”: One hot summer day, while
I was issuing food-relief coupons in a
North Coast (N.S.W.) township, a big
abo. strolled in and demanded “dole.”
I started on the usual questions, which
he answered; then he pulled a grimy
piece of rag from a pocket, and went to
mop his forehead with it. A complete
set of false teeth clattered on to the
floor. Jacky grinned widely, and stooped
to recover the straying molars; as he
grinned I saw he had splendid teeth.
He grinned again when I asked him
whose set it was. “Them belonga
missus,” he explained. “She eatem too
much.”
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: The reactions of ani-
mals to music are obscure. Saint-Saens
had a dog with dark-blue eyes, faithful
friend of his otherwise friendless old
age, that could stand anything but
Chopin. Saint-Saens played Chopin well;
admired the Pole immensely—what musi-
cian can do otherwise? —but was always
conscious of that “flavor of decaying
flesh,” as Huneker put it. That explains
that. Dogs are very sensitive. But what
about cats? lam favored, once a week,
with the society of a wastrel feline, one-
eared, one-eyed. He comes into the
house only when he is assured I am the
only inhabitant. He leaps on the stool
in front of the piano, looks at me bit
terly, and miaows. He doesn’t love me.
He leads a wild, lawless life, remote from
softening influences. I play to him —he
expects it. And if I don’t want to be
left flat by my audience in the middle of
the recital I have to mind my musical
p’s and q’s. Bach—yes. Schubert —yes.
Beethoven —not too much, darn you!
Wagner—go on, roll in it; I’m enjoying
this! Chopin —you can have that to
yourself. See you next week. I tried
him with Debussy, and before departing
he gave me a nasty look. Six weeks
later, when he came back, I gave him
Sousa and Irving Berlin. He climbed on
to my lap to get as near to it as possible.
PROSPECITIVE BUYER : “Are those X’s his brand or his age?"
The reason we haven’t had a quarrel for
the last 18 months is that I have been re-
newing my recollections of the Italian
opera-mongers, from Rossini to Gior-
dano. My wild acquaintance loves ’em
all. The thought dawns that possibly he
fancies himself as a tenor. Wild strains
that assault the welkin at 1 a.m. have
lately seemed dimly familiar.
* * * *
“Flenser”: Stockton (N.S.W.) is
troubled about a whale stranded in the
Hunter River. The creature is in the cate-
gory of one who being dead yet speaketh,
and a pretty game of passing the buck
has been going on among the local
authorities to which Stockton Council,
its handkerchief at its nose, has been
making anguished appeal, its own juris-
diction stopping at high-water mark,
beyond which only the whale’s 8.0. ex-
tends. The Harbor Trust, while admit-
ting it might have some responsibility
for that portion of the whale which is
under water, provided that became
dangerous to the navigation of the port,
cannot interfere with the section above
water. The Navigation Department
has sidestepped with the plea that it is
powerless, since there is no proof the
' whale was engaged in coastal or
overseas trade. Deceased cannot be
deemed as jetsam, not, apparently,
having been thrown overboard by any-
one. It came ashore under its own
power, so was obviously not flotsam.
Further, the fact that it is lying on the
bed of a river, and has no mark or buoy
attached, precludes it from being classed
as. ligan. Under any of these heads, it
would be rated as the property of the
Crown, provided no one else claims it,
but George Rex doesn’t seem to be
anxious to assert ownership.
* * * *
“Bow Wow”: The sheepman, who has
to combat blowflies, crows, taxes, Alsa-
tians, dingoes and the U.A.P., among
other handicaps too numerous to men-
tion, should take comfort from the ex-
ample of an ingenious American gentle-
man who has found a way of freeing his
flocks from the activities of coyotes and
mountain lions. A certain percentage of
sheep in his flock is fitted with a collar
holding an electric headlight, a reflector
and a flashlight battery. When the de-
predators approach a flock they are con-
founded by the sight of red lights flash-
ing in their eyes, and make the best of
their way to the nearest run conducted
on the old-fashioned method of letting
the sheep take care of themselves. It
is not explained whether the batteries
are turned on by the boundary-riders
before these retire to rest or whether the
sheep carrying them are trained to light
up and cut off at fixed hours. In any
case the recharging of the batteries must
come expensive. An even better way
of solving the problem for Australian
breeders would be the evolving of a
sheep with the jaws and general denti-
tion of a crocodile. To a beast like this
neither the Alsatian nor the city politi-
cian would offer any terrors, and the
man on the land would himself soon
learn to overcome the physical inertness
of which so' many writers accuse him.
As to the blowflies, some of the sheep
should be bred to grow flypapers instead
of wool,
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: I don’t know who drove
the longest bullock team, but I think I
have seen the longest, “train-team” in
action. It happened at Scone (N.S.W.)
a couple of decades ago. A goods loco.,
shunting, backed through a dead-end
into a bog. The tender sank out of sight,
and the engine was buried deep in the
mire. After other means of rescue had
been tried seven locos, were marshalled
into a team and hooked to the runaway.
Sparks flew and wheels skidded as each
engine’s throttle was opened full out,
but with no effect on the bogged sister.
Then the engines were given a short run
before hauling on the load, but the jerk
snapped the couplings. For hours those
engines strained on the load, and broke
couplings, without avail. * Eventually a
powerful crane was brought to the scene
and lifted the engine out. Later the
tender was extracted, with a sound like
a million elephants stamping in a bog.
* * * *
“Colonial Experience”: Can any
member of the Council tell me the origin
of the term “jackeroo” as applied to the
lad who begins his long climb to the
Union Club by taking on all work on a
station for nothing a week and his keep?
Archie Meston always contended it
was the Moreton Bay blacks’ name for
the pied shrike, a very garrulous bird.
In 1838, when the Moravian mission-
aries came with their German flocks to
Zillmere and other localities about More-
ton Bay, the blacks dubbed them “jack-
eroo” because of their unceasing palaver,
and the name subsequently fastened
itself to all callow newcomers. The yarn
seems too dashed ingenious, like a lot
of others from the same source, but has
anyone a better explanation?
* * * *
“Gilbulla”: The longest vegetable
growth ever recorded is 1500 feet. This
extraordinary measurement was taken
from a species of brown seaweed which
grows in fairly deep water. The climb-
ing stems of the rattan-palm (the Malay
“rotang”) probably take second place.
Specimens attaining 1000 feet have been
known, and 600 feet is nothing to write
home about.
* * * *
“Berhantu”: Certainly queer microbic
diseases have been introduced into M.L.
from the U.S.A./ but “Runa” (B.
13 /9/ ’33) is wrong in including pellagra.
Pellagra is a common food-deficiency
disease found most frequently among
eaters of old or spoiled maize, and M.L.
is no more likely to “catch” the disease
from America than one is to catch drunk-
enness from a reveller travelling on the
- same ferry or sitting in the same tram.
Cases first attracted attention in southern
Europe—hence its Italian name (“pel-
lagra” means “roughened skin”); and
it is now known to be very widespread
in its distribution. It is quite common
in southern U.S.A., and cases have been
seen in England. ’ One probable case was
noted some years ago in a coastal dis-
trict of N. S. Wales, not 200 miles from
Sydney.
THE LONDONDERRY AIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Irish lad came whistling through the trees
A jig from Cork and Kerry, and a little song
from Clare,
A sorrowful and gentle lilt from out the hills
of Mourne,
And the old, old music of the place where
he was bom,
Till the listening trees re-echoed to the
Londonderry Air.
Green parrots lilted on the wind
Amid the yellow sunlight upon the crested
gum,
And sooty bats swooped circling about that
sunset light,
And bright-eyed furry creatures stirred along
the boughs of night
Above the shadowy feeding grounds where
grey marsupials come.
The Irish lad came whistling through the trees,
His shovel like a musket held, his figure
tall and spare,
And on his way he summoned up the scent of
peaty fires
And the cobbled stones and whitewashed walls
a Derry man desires,
And the fairies, and the goblins, in the
Londonderry Air.
But somehow with his whistling in the dusk,
With the merry crooked smiling of his young
mouth there,
With his jaunty-carried shovel and his blue,
blue eyes,
As he came in with his dancing step beneath
Australian skies,
There was heartbreak in that whistling of the
Londonderry Air!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


“W.R.8.”: Tell “Speargrass” (B.
13/9/ ’33) that the Binghi artists did not
use ladders. When the drawings he men-
tions were made they were on the ground
level, not up the face of the cliff. The
centuries that have passed since then
have worn the gorge down to its present
level.
* * * *
“Kaipara Taniwha’s Ghost”: Frankly,
I think it was most unmannerly of
“Taipo” (B. 20/9/’33) to exalt my
brother from Rotorua. He was altogether
an inferior sort of fellow, not half as
gigantic as 1 nor anything like as clever.
When stumping my happy hunting-
ground at Kaipara I fell in with three
wahines, who fled at my approach. I
caught all three one after the other, but
as the first two were ugly I flung them
aside and made the third my wife. We
reared a family of six in our, home be-
neath a mountain. All sons they were
—three sturdy taniwhas and three weak-
looking humans. I often chuckled as I
watched my wife teach the latter the
art of war and my taniwha sons the
arts of peace. Of course, 1 knew quite
well what was going to happen. My
human sons murdered my taniwha sons,
and then came to slay me. 1 pretended
to be asleep and let them cut me into
bits. Presently they came back with all
the inhabitants from my wife’s village
and built a huge steam oven right on our
doorstep, gathering up my scattered bits
and placing them inside. For two days
they thought they were cooking me, but
what a shock they got when they opened
the oven! 1 still laugh at the remem-
brance of their horror-stricken faces ; for
when they pulled open the oven I simply
joined all the pieces of my eighty-foot
body together again, attached my arms
and legs, and leapt out at them. Didn’t
they scatter! When I’d finished gobbling
them up I was tired and my jaws ached
terribly. I sat down and soon fell into
a doze. Of course, I should have known
better; it was a mistake no taniwha
should have made. The trembling sur-
vivors crept back and slew me for the
second time, hacking me once again into
small bits. But this time they burnt each
bit separately and fashioned my bones
into fish hooks and spear points, so
that I wasn’t given an opportunity of
joining myself together again. A dirty
trick!
Hs sk H< sk
“Lion”: A method of preparing a
universal snake-bite antidote has been
perfected by the Medical Research In-
stitute of South Africa. Several strong
and healthy horses are kept at the Insti-
tute, and day by day they are injected
with minute quantities of the venom of
various snakes until they become immune
to the poison of any. When this stage has
been reached, blood is extracted from the
horses and allowed to coagulate. As
soon as it is congealed, a white fluid is
P ARSON: “Every time you have beer it is entered in the ledger up above, Jacky.”
J ACKY: “Boss, dis going to be a double entry.”
deposited on the surface. This is care-
fully collected and bottled up, and is the
serum which since its discovery has
saved scores of human lives in the Union.
The notion should be worth trying in
Australia.
* * * Me
“Pick”: The attempt to introduce
alpacas into Australia did not fail, as
“Altitude” (B. 13/9/’33) seems to think,
through unsuitability of climate. On
the Gippsland station where the im-
portees were paddocked, the fences
would not hold them. They couldn’t be
restrained from going bush, and they
wandered away to the defiles of the
Snowy River, where they were gradu-
ally destroyed by dingoes. As a proof
that the climate suited them all right,
two of the females lived for years after-
wards on New Providence in the Kiandra
country, N.S.W. They were finally shot
in the name of sport.
* * * *
“R.L.H.”: As “Werrimee” says (B.
13/9/’33), felling of timber along rivers
has helped to make the streams unnavi-
gable; it has also had an effect upon
rainfall. While motoring
from Broken Hill to Wil-
cannia we could see a storm
raging and prepared for the
worst. At Warungle Creek,
where there are trees, we
struck it, and the going was
so heavy that we had to put
on chains. Less than a mile
further along not a drop of
rain had fallen. For 11
miles there was no further
sign of rain. Then came
Dola Creek, and again the
ground was soaked, and the
chains had to be put back
on the wheels. Past the
creek we covered 33 dry,
dusty miles to Wilcannia,
where it was raining steadily
—the Darling and a few trees undoubt-
edly drawing the rain.
* * * *
“Mako”: Though the Crown doesn’t
enforce its claim to fish caught in cer-
tain waters (B. 20/9/’33), there are still
some in England who stand by ancient
privileges. Not so long ago a Maori-
lander who had taken a seaside cottage
on the coast of one of the eastern Eng-
lish counties spent much of his time
fishing from a small boat he anchored
a mile or so from the shore. One after-
noon on coming ashore he was met by
an individual who informed the fisher-
man that he was trespassing on private
waters. The Duke of Norfolk, it was
explained, owned the riparian rights for
seven miles out at sea, and might, did
he feel so disposed, make a mild com-
motion over the Maorilander’s pastime.
The perturbed Dominionite, remarking
that even Royalty couldn’t oust anyone
from a single point in the Bay of Islands,
left for home muttering communistically
under his breath.
* * * *
“Tahu”: Old residents of the Solo-
mons like to make the round-tripper grow
round-eyed, but the assurance “You
want to be here for the January full
moon —the crabs pick up the house and
walk about with it” isn’t made entirely
out of moonbeams. Millions of these shell-
backs move seawards to procreate in a
gradually-increasing stream, beginning
some days before the midsummer moon-
time and travelling mostly at night. At
this stage, if alarmed, they make attempts
to scuttle off the track, lifting their front
claws high and stepping off sideways
like a ballet troupe. But on the night of
the full moon the crabs, emboldened by
numbers, swarm into any building that’s
flush with the ground, especially kitchens,
hunting for scraps and scraping and
scratching over any iron they can find
They make a din like a regiment. The
night following the numbers are pretty
much diminished, and in a few days
they’re gone altogether.
* * * *
“Moriori”: “Tiki,” in his comment on
the increase in the Maori race (B.
20/9/’33), refers to the coming of the
first “pakeha,” the name universally
applied to the white man by Maori and
invader alike. He might go further and
tell us the correct derivation of the word.
I have often been told by M.L. friends,
THE MISSUS : “She’s
sinking, and there’s
no hope for her; so
I’ve decided to stay
and die with you.”
TTHE BRUTE: “That’s right! Anything to spoil a bloke’s last moments.”
Maori and pakeha, that it is not a Maori
word and that it has no counterpart in
any of the Polynesian tongues, at least.
The popular belief is that it is derived
from an English word which Dr. Johnson
has described in his dictionary as a term
of endearment among sailors. The story
goes that the Maoris found their first
white sailor acquaintances using the word
so frequently that they adopted and
adapted it to their own soft tongue as
a generic name for the white invaders.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: In addition to their own
private tummies ants keep what Forel
calls a “social stomach” in their crops,
from which they can pump up a drop of
liquid to any hungry passer-by. It is a
common sight to see one
ant go up to another and
stroke it with its antennae.
This is a request for food.
The two ants then rear up
and put their mouths to-
gether, and food is passed.
Sometimes there is a slip.
The silverfish insect (Lepis-
mina) watches his chance
to intervene in this delicate
operation and snap up the
dainty morsel, after which
he beats a retreat before the
ants can disentangle them-
selves for pursuit. Each
particle of food seems to be
swallowed and regurgitated
by ants at least half, a
dozen times before it is
finally appropriated, so that
the collective pleasure de-
rived from eating is enor-
mously increased. More-
over, this gratification of
the sense of taste becomes
in other directions a posi-
tive vice. Among the vari-
ous parasites kept by the
ants are several varieties of
beetles whose exuded juices
are so entrancingly deli-
cious that the beetle grubs
are better cared for than
the ants’ own pupae, upon
which the beetles are
allowed to feed. At a
threat of danger the beetles
are carried first to safety.
“W.P.T.”: I was feeling off-color when
I arrived at a miner’s camp near Pam-
bula (N.S.W.), but my host assured me
that he would soon fix me up. He gave
me a glass of a concoction made by
boiling a handful of brooklime and a
weed resembling watercress in a pint
of water, and for half an hour after-
wards I felt as though I had swallowed
half a dozen plugs of dynamite. This
sensation was followed by a delightful
calm, which made a man feel like kiss-
ing Joe Lyons and Tubby Stevens. A
great pick-me-up, but the dispenser told
me it had to be taken very sparingly,
as an overdose might be as bad as
arsenic. The aborigines of the South
Coast, where brooklime is to be found
growing in most of the creeks, made an
intoxicating beverage out of the stuff.
* * * *
“Coolibah”: Just how much of his
fierceness and courage the Arnhem Land
black derives from centuries of contact
with the Malay may be debated, but
certainly the Malayans did
raid the north coast of
Australia on occasions. In
1865, when Government
Resident R. Sholl had
charge of a colonising
attempt at Camden
Harbor, on the n.-w. coast,
he was surprised one day
to see a large fleet of proas
come sailing in. The
proas carried no merchan-
dise, nor were they en-
gaged in fishing, being
well manned with armed men. How-
ever, they were civil enough to the
whites, and after a few days sailed away
again. Sholl’s opinion was that they
were a fleet of slave raiders.
* * * *
“Masterman’s”: Notwithstanding much
talk of closer settlement, there are stfli
plenty of places in Australia quite “close
in” where a man can meet with a sticky
end without anyone learning of it for
days. There was an example near In-
verell (N.S.W.) recently, when the body of
a teamster who had been carting logs was
found. He had evidently dropped from
heart failure, for his team of 16 bullocks
was beside him, still yoked in, and in a
bad way for want of water, one having
died in the yoke. His horse was grazing
close by with saddle and bridle still on,
and his dog kept sentry-go over the lot.
The dead man was only a mile from
his camp, which was not far from a
well-travelled road.
* * * *
“Woomera”: With all these yarns
about the ferocity of the northern abos.,
it is hard to realise that there is a tribe
that depends entirely on its white friends
and is terrified of its sooty brethren. This
is a small community which for years
has bred in the vicinity of the Point
Charles light, and has gradually lost all
power to fend for itself, being wholly
dependent for food and protection on
the lightkeepers. The light at Point
Charles has now been made automatic,
and its guardians have departed. Their
black dependants have been left home-
less and helpless, and will have to be
removed en masse to more civilised quar-
ters if their wild relatives are not to
mop them up.
* * * *
“Nine Mile”: Reference to the big
Murrumbidgee crayfish and his claws (B.
13/.9/’33) N reminds me that outsize speci-
mens have been found in other parts of
Australia. Years ago in Western Queens-
land my dad engaged two sundowners
to fix a banked-up drain which ran from
a chain-pump in a near-by waterhole to
irrigate a cultivation paddock. Numer-
ous crayfish had been burrowing into
this bank, and instructions to deal with
these when caught were specific. One
day a hawker’s cart came along, and the
men asked for something on account.
That was given them, and the money was
promptly invested in “brandied peaches,”
the trade name for hawkers’ sly grog in
those days. A bit later the old man
went to have a look at the job. It was
a wreck, and both the men were a sight,
with barked knuckles, black eyes and
skinned faces. “Y’ see,” was the explana-
tion, “it was them horrible crayfish;
they’re that big an’ nasty they’ll stand
up t’ y’ an’ fight yer back.”


//Si
i
i
m
m
mm
Wr
m
MM
I
fjm
fylM
md
ms.
*WS«
'tm
im
I
ym
m
mm
mmm
m
m i:
'M
m
r'(
%
*2%
mm
&,w.
m,
n
m.
:4
m
mm.
m
W i
b I
-i
«&
m
m
HHI
•'•' i.
m
m
1
V
?!
aw
>y*^s
v*l
\
Equal to
fine liqueur
You’ll find in White Horse the smoothness and delightful
bouquet of an aged and fully matured whisky, with the
delicate flavour of peat and heather. It’s real old Scotch
—guaranteed so hy the circular neck label with the
words “Product of Scotland,” that is affixed to every
bottle under supervision of H.M. Customs. Insist on
White Horse, which is older and better than ever before.
flu* ft
SCOTCH WHISKY


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
. Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
è
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FREDK. EE.yY,
Managing i/irecior.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Tlie Richardson Chain Hotel
3,5}
w
V ;
e
m
.'lf?
mitt
n
tillVM
(
m
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
OR,
EACM
e.
RCNCUOLD
A STURDY
SHIRT FOR A
\ STURDY JOB l
THREE FOR
7
30-
IN PLAIN BLUE
BLUE. WITU WHITE
STR|PE._
BLUE with Black.
STRIPE _
PIK
BROTHERS LTD.
in, Queen. St. Bt'isban.e
SMOKE-OH!
Positive, Comparative, Superlative:
Bull, Bulli, Bullion.
¥ ¥
Senator Pearce has struck a defensive
attitude at last. •
■ ¥ *
“The Doukhobors predict that the world
will end sbon.” ‘
So the optimists who keep saying the
depression can’t last for ever may turn
out to be right after-all.
¥ *
“To keep your children healthy and happy,
give Martin worm tablets.”— -“Age” advt.
The idea, of course, is to give the little
ones a few healthful laughs* at the'spec-
tacle of poor old Martin tackling his
own tablets.
“Hear the one about the girl who went for a ear-drive and
only got one shoe muddy?”
“No.”
“She reconsidered the proposition.”
“Singing is beneficial in certain cases of
deafness.” —Brisbane doctor.
And vice versa.
¥ • *
TRUTH IN SPORT.
Next Saturday night ~ there will be a
heavyweight' contest (excuse the smile!)
between Art .(“Knockout”) Lee, of Texas,
who has fought such’, stalwarts as “Dud”
Jones (who nearly killed him) and “Glass-
jaw” O’Toole (who knocked him out in
the first round), and the local lad, Bill
Wowser, champion of Thug-st., Botany.
Art has had 180 fights, won four and
drawn two. He gets his prefix of
“Knockout” from the fact that he has
been knocked out 174 times. His trainer
claims this as a world’s record. “Knock-
out” has fought in the Bowery, Lime-
house, Darlinghurst and a couple of hun-
dred police stations. He and Wowser
are firm friends.
The event of the evening will be pre-
ceded by a wrestling burlesque staged
by Hans Koldfeet and Leon Mauler.
Both are fat and old, but they combine
dramatic ability with a keen sense of
pantomime. By special request they will
do their famous fall through thb‘ropes
with the referee in the course of the
evening. Hans will also stoush the
referee.
F.
QUICK ROUTE.
St. Peter drew back the Gate of Gold
Arid ushered the stranger through.
“How did.you reach our heavenly fold?”
He askedi as he opened his ledger old.
Said the stranger, “Via ’flu.”
. . . j- Quin.
■
They’re finding Kangaroo tough meat
in the north of England.
• ■ ' * * , .
That Reichstag fire is taking a long
while to die out. , : -. ' ' "
DISASTER. * ;
Another Bridge tragedy loomed.
He stared downwards, despair in his
eyes. All hope was lost; he had no
other alternative.
Innumerable others,
had taken a < simi-
lar step,: and 'he
must follow suit.
Grimly, h e
dropped his. single-
ton king on his
opponent’s ace.
N.
* . *
- There’s no need
for astronomers to
tell us of the prox-
imi t y of Mars
these days.
*i ( ; >
COUNTERING
THE CRITICS.
“Wot’s thfis?”
howled the presi-
dent of the Bathos
Film Corporation,
frenziedly shoot-
ing the cuffs of his
jade milanese shirt
and spluttering
chewed cigar all
over the scenario.
“The big scene
takes place on an
allotment! Seems
ter me as if some
of you boys has
went clean bug-
house.”
“Not a bit,”
challenged
the director. “It
means that whatever else happens they
can’t say this one ain’t got a plot.”
P. C.
ANTI-CLIMAX.
We called the stars to witness while we
swore
Our love would never die;
But the stars, who’d no doubt heard it
all before,
Omitted to reply.
S.
“250,000 people took part in America’s re-
covery parade, which took ten hours to pass a
given spot.”— “Argus.”
“A given spot”! So much for their
boasted prohibition.
¥ ¥
THE SPORT.
“His Honor remarked that he was unable to
understand the meaning of the term ‘a sport’
as applied to such a man as accused.” — “Sun.”
“What iggerence!” sneered Spadger
the Bounce .when shown the paragraph.
RADIO ANNOUNCER'S CHILD: “Stand by, please, God; I’m
gonna sneeze!”
“I thort everybody knoo what a sport
was.
“Take my cobber, Bill. ’E was a sport,
if yer like. Bet on anythin’, Bill would.
Game, ’e Ayas. ’E spent orl the money ’e
could drag out of ’is old man by beatin’
’im up, and when the old bloke died on
’im Bill still carried on like the true
sport ’e was. Useter grab • the money
that ,’er sister sent to ’is mar, an’ give it
a fly at two-up or the dorgs.
“When :’is mar died, if began ter look
as if Bill’d ’aye tor get work; but ’e
was a sport an’ ’e took a charnce with
a widder. ’E took a charnce with the
old girl’s money, too, an’ done in the
lot. Ar, Bill was a sport, ’e was.
: “The dole wasn’t much for a sport
like Bill, so.’e took a sportin’ charnce an’
collected on ’arf a dozen doles. It didn’t
turn out too good; but, rather than not
be a’ sport, Bill useter wait for ’is missus
an’ make ’er give ’im the money she’d
earned by goin’ out washin’. After which
’e’d play it up like a sport and chuck
’er a few bob if ’e won, bein’ generous
like all true sports.
“There was the big
meetin’ cornin’ on an’
Bill ’adn’t enough bet-
tin’ money, so ’e outs
an old cove wot ’e
knoo ’ad a roll of
notes. ’E took a
charnce on the old
cove ’avin’ a thin skull.
That’s why they ’anged
Bill larst month. They
’ad ter drag ’im ter the gallers. ‘l’m
’anged if I go quiet,’ ’e says. ‘I never ’ave
an’ I never will. I’m a sport, I am.’ ’E
was ’anged all the same, poor cow.”
H. M.
* ¥
“Plaintiff said that his wife poured scalding
water on him for arriving home at 3 a.m.”
Showing again that the early bird
catches it warm.
¥ ¥
Those whom chemists love dye young.
* *
“Commonwealth wines in England dropped
when the bodyline bowling controversy was
in full swing.” —Brisbane “Telegraph.”
As against which English whines
showed a marked increase.
THE NEWS SENSE.
“ ‘Australia Faces Black War,’ ‘Police Push
to End in Massacre.’ ” , „ ~ „
—London Daily Herald.
Percy Mayfair-Bloomsbury, Australian
correspondent of the London “Blitherer,”
shoots some hot news through the cables.
“To a cultured English observer like
myself, the position in Australia is
ominous. Tribal wars are raging. The
Whoopee tribes, in full war-paint and
feathers and filled with a terrible lust for
pillage, are mov-
ing on their old
enemies, the
Bookees, at Rand-
wick and Caulfield.
With huge bags
suspended from
their thorax, these
Bookees are fear-
some warriors,
addicted to the
diabolical practice
of skinning their
victims. Heaven
help the Whoo-
pees !
“A bitter war is
raging between the
native constabu-
lary and the Ess-
pee tribes in the
villages of Sydney,
Melbourne and
Brisbane. These
Esspees exact great
toll from the
weaker tribes un-
der cover of a
fanatical religion
called ‘The Evil
Eye of the Dead
Horse.’
“My native runners have just arrived
with some alarming news. The Bulli
Boohoots are at their old game of trying
to scA.L.P. each other, and Canberra is
said to be full of Lyons, while the Ucee-
pee head-hunters are becoming more
restive every day.
“I am afraid the Jardine punitive ex-
pedition must be written down as a
failure. Many of these unruly savages
are falling back into their old insolent
habits -” D. McM.
“Tony looks very well to-night.”
“Yes; he’s been taken for the waiter
three times!”
EXPENSE.
“Her illness, which started with a cold, had
cost him a great deal of money, and she was
still an expense.”— “S. M. Herald.”
What bitterness is in the cup
Of one thus fallen ’neath Fate’s frown !
He has to keep on coughing up
So as to keep her coughing down.
M.
RAISON D’ETRE.
When a gang war’s on I bless it. Yes, I
candidly confess it,;
I’m no queasy-stomached sentimentalist
in these affairs.
Murders—single ones or double —in fact,
any kind of trouble,
Such as suicides and shootings, are
essentially my wares.
With the utmost zest l retail every
nauseating detail
Of a death pact or the way they found
the body in the bag.
Yet, although I. pile the gore on, I’m no
morbid-minded moron ;
No, I simply do the crime stuff for
a well-known weekly rag.
S. W. K.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The weather cleared up for the open-
ing day of the A.J.C. spring races at
Randwick, but a lot of rain had fallen
during the three previous days ; and the
bookmakers evidently imagined that it
had rained Chatham’s Epsom chance
away. They took risks with the Wind-
bag horse ; laid him at 7 to 2, although
he had been 2 to 1 for a fortnight or
more. They regretted their liberality. So
much money came for Windbag’s beauti-
ful son, his 9st. 101 b. notwithstanding,
that he closed at 5 Jo 4, after touching
evens, thus going out at a shorter price
than Beaulord, who romped home in
1921 at 7 to 4.
In winning for the second successive
year C hatham equalled the achievements
of Masquerade and Melodrama; and
his performance was perhaps the finest
in the history of the race. He was made
to carry his weight on a dead track from
barrier-rise to judge. He never wilted
when Pike asked him for a supreme
effort to run down Whittingham (50 to 1)
at the Leger, and then he had to be kept
going to stall off a late dash by Regal
Son (33 to 1). The margins were a
length and half a head; the time,
lmin. 38sec. Chatham divs. for 10s. were
£1 Is. 6d. and 16s. Regal Son paid £5
14s. ; Whittingham’s backers got £B.
Turbine seemed a possibility at the dis-
tance, but subsided into fourth place.
Dominion-owned and -trained Inflation,
who looked to be the best-handicapped
horse, and who was backed by many
because the last four Epsoms had gone
Bert . (, Ah ; what han/e you seen
doing, in there *"
<SERT * I WANTED A COSTUME FOR.
the Artists' e>Ai_U\
S>EIRT * " DlO You SET OKE \ "
; ' / Ves / \t's in my bag,"
to four-year-olds, lost ground from the
turn after being well placed, beating only
six of the 19 runners. Maoriland horses
are not as good as they used to be.
„ * ‘ . ’ „' ,
n^ IS iw ge w . en , so * l^ y or Mark
c U to win the Derby on account
of his excellent two-year-old form, and
because it was expected that his bril-
liancy over the last half-mile would stand
Jo him. Outback made the pace in snail-
like fashion. Coming to the half-mile
pole, Hall Mark was sent along at his
l£L,„? a i!Z„ MUnI Y IOSl OS « a ,i‘ tt . le . t gr ? Und
through going round his field at the turn,
but he quickly shot the Victorian across
*°Af ral S :,l hen l if, ad \7 e i: e lurned j°T
ome. Little Hall Mark responded
fSufl’ R„ler r n e s a tY y nTf :tab ! e ; mat ' s
Deputy Ruler ,(15 to 1) and Blixten (7
to 4 . Telfords colt Break Up was the
olvtno d^ a P pointment * He as star "
gazing all the way, and finished last.
Hall Mark is owned and was bred by
C. B. Kellow. He is by Heroic—Hero-
winkie, and is Heroic’s first winner of a
classic. It was a great day for Australian-
bred sires. Herowinkie traces back to
Carbine through Cyklon, a son of Spear-
mint. Heroic won the A.J.C. Derby in
1924 when raced by Corteen. Windbag
won the St. Leger the same season.
Bought for 45 guineas as a yearling,
Wicklow has proved a profitable spec.
for Claude and Frank Moore He won
the Inal Stakes after a fine finish with
the favorite, Winrose having been
backed from tens to eights. He is bred
sta y> being b y imported Silvius from
the Wallace mare Lace Front; a half-
brother is a Derby winner in South Aus-
tralia. Wicklow is trained at Moorefield,
and is stabled adjacent to the course. He
is so nervous a customer that at play-
time for the children in a neighboring
school he has to be taken away from
his stable and led to a quiet spot. This
is repeated at a meeting at Moorefield
when Wicklow is not racing.
As expected Rogilla (5 to 4 on) experi-
enced little difficulty in winning the
Spring Stakes from Kuvera, who looks
like being a fine proposition for the Caul-
field Cup. Lough Neagh came from a
long way back to get the minor place-
money. Silver Scorn was backed for an-
other fortune. They must have been a
very poor lot she beat in Maoriland.
Harden owner-trainer T. P. Kelly
landed some nice bets at twelves when
Mountain View took the Kensington
Handicap from Highboy and Precious
Gift. Tote prices were a great deal
better—£l2 9s. s.o. and £3 11s. 6d. for
a place. Havaspot started favorite, but
knocked up in the run home, where
Mountain View got a lucky run on the
rails. Serabite and Gravure were last
at the half-mile, but put in some fine
work from the Leger.
It scarcely stopped raining on Sunday,
and although the sun shone out again on
Monday— to the intense gratification of
secretary Rowe, who must have spent
many anxious hours —the conditions were
heavily against Rogilla, with his 9st. 81b.
Nevertheless, the chestnut has made so
great an impression on racegoers that
they sent him out favorite for the
Metrop., his closing price being 7 to 4.
Neither Lough Neagh nor Magnitas is
much good in heavy going ; both were
scratched. Touchit and Ramrod set a pace
which should have suited the non-stayers.
Slow as it was, Rogilla was last going out
of the straight, and still last when they had
traversed the odd five furlongs. Racing
to the turn he made a forward move, but
never looked a possibility. At the en-
trance to the straight it was plain that
the winner would come from Oro, Regal
Son and Topical; Regal Son had always
been well up. Staying splendidly, he
singled out over the last furlong, and both
horse and rider (O’Sullivan) had some-
thing in hand when the judge placed
R ega l Son first by 2\ lengths from Topi-
cal, who was a couple of lengths ahead
of Oro, the time being 2min.
......
So Regal Son went one better than
Rogilla, who last year was second in
the Epsom t 0 Chatham and second in
the Metrop. to Denis Boy. Regal Son
j s a four-year-old black gelding by Aus-
tralian Sun-Lager, a good mfre in her
day; he is owned by T. Hickey, of
Westralia, and is trained at Randwick
by the younger Lamond. He was a good
two-year-old, but his three-year-old form
Was po . o1 Y Neglected a month ago, he
Cam £ in /° the market strongly as a
result °* bls . second on Saturday, and
Went ° ut at slxes>
p or the remaining days:
Second Brush Hurdle: Suntan ; next,
Phocis.
Craven Plate: Chatham; next
Rogilla.
Gimcrack Stakes: Memento; next
Alftruda
Suburban Handicap: Dermid ; next,
Dame Moab
Members’ Handicap: Burlesque • next
Windbird
Sydney' Handicap: Peter Jackson-
next, First Balloon
Canonbury Stakes: Robber; next
Vagabond
Waverley Handicap: Mince Pie • next
Gippsland.
Randwick Plate: Rogilla ; next, Lough
Neagh.
Clibborn Stakes: Blixten.
* * * *
Moonee Valley races saw two Cup
candidates, Sky Writer and Akanree,
fight out the finish of the Tullamarine
Handicap, run over a mile and 2>\ fur-
longs. Those associated with Sky Writer
must have been satisfied that he would
improve on Mentone form, for they
backed him down to equal favorit-
ism with Gay Girl. Akanree, with assist-
ance from Starissa, made the running.
The Comedy King stallion fought on
splendidly, but could not withstand a
challenge from Sky Writer, who scored
by a length and a quarter. Sky Writer
belongs to R. M. Cuthbertson. He is
by the sire of Winooka and Chatham,
and may have an outside chance in the
Cups.
For the Quality Handicap of £750
Ammon Ra was an acceptor, but the
Limond gelding had a severe bleeding
attack after galloping on Thursday, and
had to be relieved of his week-end en-
gagement. Punters made Palphar a
slightly better favorite than the Gay
Lothario mare L’Elite. Beginning slowly,
Palphar was disadvantaged by having
drawn No. 1 berth. He kept dropping
back until two furlongs had been cov-
ered. The colt then collided with the
fence, a splintered rail of which was sent
flying through the air as Palphar fell.
O’Brien, the jockey, sustained a com-
pound fracture of the left thigh. Victory
went to Tadema, a 12-to-l chance. This
Spearhead mare is held on lease by
R. F. Gove. Tadema came home in
brilliant fashion, to score by a length
from the 1931 Maribyrnong Plate hero
Vauntry.
South Aus. horses were a good deal in
evidence. Gay Girl and Foursome failed,
but the second division of the Merrie
Trial went to Silver Lady, owned and
trained by T. O’Dea. At the straight
entrance Silver Lady looked to have the
race in her safe keeping, but Variance
threw out a determined challenge. Silver
Lady shifted her ground, and Variance
followed her. The verdict went to
O’Dea’s mare by a neck. Stewards dis-
missed an objection for boring because
the horses had not touched.
A good many thoroughbreds have
been leased by Sol Green to Melbourne
trainers. One of these, Verbatim, led
home the first division of the Merrie
Trial field. This gelding is by Verbius
from Miss Minerva ; he won in nice style
from Pewter (son of Silvius) and the
Tasmanian hurdler Baanya. Farmer,
who has Verbatim on lease, also cap-
tured the Arundel Steeplechase with
Calfly.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
At Leichhardt on Saturday Lurich
looked fat and Penchiff fit; but the fat
fellow won. Penchiff punished his foe
to some purpose, and the Russian seemed
about to flop from exhaustion in the
third round when Penchiff slipped into
a step-over toehold, conceding the fall.
The Bulgar again outspeeded his oppo-
nent in the fourth, and pinned him in
the fifth; but Lurich’s forward slam
gained the deciding fall in the last round.
Lurich had been matched to meet an-
other gentleman on Monday night.
Partly on that account, people stayed
away in large numbers.
Ins and Outs
“Nark”: Last week a tour by a metro-
politan team which included Don Brad-
man and other Test cricketers was con-
cluded. It was sent out to encourage
country bowlers who might be blushing
unseen. The encouragement consisted
for the most part in Don and co. lar-
ruping the leather off the bucolic bowlers.
No particular mention is made of the
discovery of any more Turners or
McKibbins, but if they were on tap
their hearts as wicket-getters are prob-
ably broken by now. Incidentally, it is
more than likely that the batsmen -who
wallowed in runs against the country
stuff will find themselves none the better
for their indulgence in what is, practi-
cally, “mug” cricket.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: One aspect of the projected
tour of England by our cricketers which
interests me is the nature of the contract
which the chosen will have to sign. Pre-
sumably wives will be barred again ; and
several wives have been added to the
strength of the probables for the trip
since last time. Also the player-writer
interdict will be intensified for certain ;
and some possibles are likely to be
tangled in this net. There is already talk
that one or two players considered indis-
pensable may refuse to sign. There may
be a bluff in that direction, but I fancy
it will go no further. Australian
cricketers have not forgotten what hap-
pened when the “indispensables” of 1912
went on strike. Their secession opened
the door to a wealth of young players
who might otherwise have had to wait
for years before being selected.
C Continued on page 26.)
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League grand final be-
tween South Melbourne and Richmond
drew the largest Australian football
crowd on record to the M.C. Ground,
viz., 76,676, the gate reaching the
attractive figure of £4231 Bs. 6d. Previ-
ous best attendance and collection were
66,381 and £3473 19s. 9d. in ’2B. Un-
fortunately the game proved a dud,
Richmond, probably in consequence of
hard games and the knowledge that some
of its best men were injured and its best
goalgetter disqualified, being sluggish
and lackadaisical. With the notable ex-
ceptions of Judkins, Allan Geddes, Gor-
don Strang and O’Halloran, the Tigers
were outpaced and outplayed all day, and
never looked like winning. South
scouted keenly, backed up eagerly, made
position correctly and passed accurately.
Only in goal-shooting did it go astray,
but as things were that didn’t matter.
South backs were a wall against
which the Tigers bumped in vain. All
the Southerners were at their top ; per-
haps Austin, Nash, Thomas and Clark
reached their peak. The final scores tell
their own tale: Richmond, 4 goals 5
behinds (29); South, 9 goals 17 behinds
(71) —its first premiership since 1918.
* * * *
The Rugby League Kangaroos con-
tinue in a winning vein. Last week they
beat two Yorkshire clubs, Castleford and
Halifax, the former by 39-6 and the
latter 16-5. The Halifax game was the
toughest the tourists have had to date,
but in the second half they came away
with three tries on end and settled all
doubts. In all, the Kangaroos scored
four tries and two goals to a try and a
penalty goal, and they put up a record
for Australian League teams in England
by taking 11 matches off the reel. The
first Test with the Northern Union is at
Manchester on Saturday.
* * * *
“Rectory Field”: An interesting
feature of the Rugby League Kangaroos’
tour in the North of England is an
attempt by war correspondents of the
Sydney press to “knock” the Rugby
Union. In England such a campaign
would be on a par. with throwing a
marble at St. Paul’s. In Australia it is
evidently hoped that, if the Australian
Rugby Unions can have their wheels
spragged in some way; their rapid ad-
vance during the past few seasons, coin-
ciding as it does with the falling off of
the professional game in Queensland
and N.S.W., the only two States prac-
tising it, may be stayed to the League’s
advantage. It is a counsel of despair,
but has an excellent press in Sydney.
(Continued on page 26)


from
r:
1
UN
c 0
IT
0 0
m.
BASE
affin
PAR
PURE
©EL
heart
of the crude
since 1861
Use also
UNION
WHITE
ELASH
Atlantic consists only of “heart oils” from
100% Paraffin Base Crude. It shows no evapor-
ation loss under severe test at 760° F. —
twice the temperature reached by the
parts of your engine which require
lubrication.
PURE PARAFFIN
PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC
BASE MOTOR OIL
UNION OIL COMPANY LTD*
s°*o7


S t.t"' rB
« ■ .
. '
:<«
I
i
Enjoy Sydneys Springtime
and Early Summer
Springtime is calling! Sydney and her wealth of seasonable attractions
await you —and so do the welcoming portals of “The Australia.”
You are assured of a delightful holiday, luxurious comfort and flawless
attention to your personal preferences.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from . . 10/6. Double Room from . . 20/-
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney ."
Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
The
Fool brawl
“S.T.S.”: The strictly Amateur Foot-
ball League of S.A. has expelled a club
for unseemly conduct, its supporters hav-
ing engaged in a scrap with opposition
barrackers in addition to invading the
playing-field. The papers mention that
•this is the offending club’s first season
in the League, “it having formerly been
in the United Church Association.”
* * * *
“Stand Off”: A section of the Sydney
press which has always been a warm
supporter of professional football has
given much prominence to the statement
in England by one of the Kangaroo
team’s officials that the Rugby Union
Wallabies, who made such a fine impres-
sion in South Africa, were, in some cases,
professionals. He bases his statement
on the fact that they once played the
professional League game, which is
banned by the Rugby Union. This is
true of some of the Queensland Walla-
bies, who played League when it was the
only football of the Rugby type in their
State. But they were all admitted to
the Rugby Union when they had an
opportunity of going over to the ama-
teur code. The fact that they were so
admitted by the Union wiped out all
taint of professionalism. The case is
on all fours with that of Tom Lawton,
whose amateur status was questioned
when he went to Oxford, on the ground
that he had played League. His explana-
tion that he then had no other choice
was accepted, and he duly got his Blue.
* * * *
Maoriland’s great annual football
battle between the North and South
Islands this year ended in a win for
North by 27-18. The game, played at
Wellington, drew 25,000. George Nepia,
the famous Maori full-back, was seen
again on the Northern side, but his game
showed that two years of second-class
footer in the country had taken some of
the polish off him.
ins and' Outs
Now that the Board of Control has
got through its routine business, we can
settle down to consider the prospects
of the next Australian team to go to Eng-
land. It will be made public on Febru-
ary 1, at which time the board will be
sitting. Looking over the prospects, it
would seem that we are very hard put
to it for bowlers. O’Reilly promises to
be a success if his first Test season has
not taken the edge off his natural gifts.
Apart from the N.S.W. trundler, there is
not a bowler in sight who can be classed
as up to Test standard. In Britain the
situation seems little better. Supposing
that Larwood does play, he is not
very deadly on English wickets. Verity
needs a wicket made to order. Clarke,
of Northampton, a fast left-hander, is
under suspicion of chucking. Fames,
of Essex, is being talked of as a possible
filler of Larwood’s shoes. Otherwise the
situation over the water is much as it
is here.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: The Sydney Cricket
Ground trust, which has been talking for
a long time about making much-needed
improvements, has found a new excuse
for delay. It asked some time ago for a
loan of £lOO,OOO from the N.S.W. unem-
ployment fund, but C.P. members rightly
object. Why go to the Government? Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Brisbane have im-
proved their grounds in recent years, and
if they have cadged from their Govern-
ments have not published the fact. The
Sydney trust has for years been a par-
ticipator in the takings of huge cricket
and football crowds.
* * * *
“Yarker”: It is to be regretted that
the Sheffield Shield conference in
Sydney decided to adopt the idiotic
Board of Control alteration of the laws
of cricket in regard to bowling at the
batsman. This lays down that if an
umpire is of the opinion that a bowler
is shying ’em at the batsman with intent
to scare or injure him he may no-ball
the trundler, and tell him to stop bowl-
ing if he repeats the offence. Further,
the bowler offending may not bowl again
during that innings. It goes on the books
as law 48b, and writer is game to bet
that not an umpire in Australia will ever
take any notice of it.
Racquet and Baw!
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis
heads rubbed their hands gleefully when
it was announced that £1220 had been
received from the U.S.A. authorities for
appearances of our Davis Cup team.
Turnbull, who is treasurer of the Cup
team, further mentioned that he expected
some £l5OO for the Australian share of
the Davis Cup matches, and from
Wimbledon and other sources £l2OO. This
is the best collection made during a trip
abroad for a long time, and the tour will
show a profit.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Cochet signalised his
conversion to the money game by play-
ing for France in a professional match
against the United States. America won
easily, Tilden, 40 this year, downing
UNDERTAKER: “You must feel the loss of your wife very deeply.”
PUGILIST: “My oath! She was more than a missus to me. She was me
sparrin’ partner.”
Cochet, who is considerably his junior,
in most convincing fashion. Tilden was
partnered in the doubles by Bruce
Barnes, and the pair won a nice little
side wager of £6O on the result, in addi-
tion to whacking a good gate with the
Frenchmen.
* * * *
“Dindigul”: The Westralian Tennis
Association has received an invitation
from the All India L.T.A. to send over
a team of four players to the Coral
Strand. It is suggested that the party
open in the Calcutta tournament from
December 20 to January 2 and then go
on to Madras for a big meeting there.
The Indian body offers to pay all
expenses.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Muirfield”: Golf is popularly sup-
posed to be sacred to the Scots, but in
Australia the Irish are on top. Our open
championship was lifted by a Kelly from
a Ryan. Now comes news from West-
ralia that the Groperland open title has
gone to Cassidy. His score of 295 for
72 holes is a State record.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Sydney golfers stood with
bowed heads when the news was broad-
cast that C. H. Fawcett, champion of
the Royal Sydney club for six succes-
sive years, had been defeated for his
title by Reg Bettington. Fawcett is an
example to the younger school of golfers.
He rarely uses more than four clubs,
including his putter and niblick, a
brassey and midiron being the other two.
Hope, who won the Australian amateur
title in Melbourne recently, carries only
half a dozen clubs in his bag. The
modern craze for anything up to 20
clubs, all numbered in rotation, which
makes the sellers of golfing goods
chortle in their joy whenever they meet,
is just a proof that a goat is born every
tick of the clock. The great players of
50 years ago never heard of more than
half a dozen clubs. Yet their rounds
on courses which have nowadays been
made 50 per cent, easier on fairway and
green stand up to anything the modern,
with his huge armory, can produce.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: After long cogitation,
St. Andrews has at last completed its
task of revising the rules of golf. The
alterations are not important and will
not matter anyway, for few golfers
know enough of their rules to say
whether there has been any change or
not. One good move is the throwing of
the special rules for match play into the
general pot instead of keeping them separ-
ate. Another makes the rule for shifting
loose impediments a bit more generous.
Formerly, a loose impediment more than
a club’s length from the ball could not
be moved save on a putting green. Now,
if a 100 ft. gum-tree has fallen in the
path a player can just kick it out of his
light and carry on, even if it is more
than a club’s length away.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell and R.
A. Railton, designer of the Blue Bird,
have been discussing the projected
attempt by Campbell to improve on his
own 272.108 m.p.h. A new car is build-
ing which is expected to hit up 300
m.p.h. Captain Irving, who designed
Segrave’s Golden Arrow, has prepared
specifications for a car able to get
up to 370 m.p.h. This he considers
the possible limit at present, for he thinks
tyres cannot be built under present con-
ditions able to stand greater speeds. All
are agreed that four-wheel drives are
essential, and the new Campbell car will
be equipped with this feature.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Arrangements have been
completed for the Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne and Colac to Melbourne cycle
races for professionals and amateurs re-
spectively and the double event, Aus-
tralia's leading pushbike show, is down
for decision on October 14. Prize money
for the professionals exceeds £3OO, and
the amateurs will have £l5O worth of
trophies to battle for. Over 500 entries
from all part of Australia and M.L. have
been received, and every first-class rider
in both countries is included.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania’s big annual
road race from Launceston to Hobart
was won by L. Nielsen, riding time 6hr.
18min. 30sec. He had a start of 39min.
The fastest time was that of G. Hawkes-
ford, with shr. 54min. 20sec. off scratch,
excellept going for the 120 miles, and a
race record. Hubert Opperman rode the
race in 1924 in shr. 59min.
Miscellaneous
“Huon”: E. W. Barwick, the Tassie
distance runner who failed to reproduce
his Australian form at the Los Angeles
Olympiad, rehabilitated himself by a
wonderful spin over the two miles on
a rain-sodden grass track at Hobart. He
was after Nurmi’s world record of Bmin.
59 3-ssec., but got no nearer than 9min.
18 3-ssec. That, however, was good
enough to knock 15sec. off Englishman
Shrubb’s Australian record, which had
stood for 28 years. It also beat Maori-
lander Rose’s Australasian figures of
9min. 20 l-ssec.
* * * *
“Spike”: It is probable that Australia
will see an invasion of Japanese athletes
and swimmers this season. The N.S.W.
athletic authorities have asked Queens-
land, South Australia and Victoria to
throw into the hat for expenses, which
will run to something over £3OO for
steamer fares and preliminary payments.
The visitors would arrive in time to com-
pete in the N.S.W. championships, begin-
ning Jan. 6. It is expected that Nambu,
Nishida and Yoshioka, who did so well at
the last Olympiad (the first-named win-
ning the hop, step and jump), will be in
the side. The swimming folk are also
after the Japanese Olympians, and it is
hoped that Kitamura, Miyazaki and
Kiyokawa will come along.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: Arrangements are shak-
ing down for the Australian open-boat
sailing season. The eighteens will fight
it out at the end of December on the
Brisbane River, N.S.W. being the title-
holder. The sixteens follow on January
1. For this event each State may nomi-
nate eight boats, and N.S.W., Westralia
and Tassie have already thrown their
hats into the ring. It is possible the
race for the 10-foot dinghies will be re-
vived on Sydney Harbor in the new
year. Kangaroo won at Perth for the
Ma State in 1922, and since then the
event has been on the peg.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 9.
On the Map at Moore Park.
Moore Park began as a public golf
course —the first of its kind in Sydney—
in 1913. The present secretary, D.
A. McMillan, and some other enthusi-
asts had convened a meeting to form a
club with the idea of utilising part of the
big city park for links. The City Coun-
cil fell in with the scheme, and a nine-
hole course was laid out.
In 1915 extension to 18 holes was sanc-
tioned, and about the same time the
Moore Park club was formed to play on
the municipal links, though these, of
course, remain open to the general
public.
Club membership is about 600, includ-
ing associates, and the course itself has
been developed into one of the best in
Sydney, though it does not enjoy cham-
pionship status. Trophies presented for
competition include the F. L. Marks
and the Angus and Coote cups and the
championship cup. All are played for
annually ; the championship pot is at
present in the keeping of F. Hughes.
The first of the Moore Parkers immor-
talised by the artist is Matt J. Fox, whose
affable smile wreathed about a cigar is
a feature of the fairways. As an adver-
tising man he is known in every State.
His ambition is to break 80, and to do
that he has broken a lot of clubs without
particular success as yet. No. 2 depicts
D. W. Murphy, who, when golf is not
bringing that bitter smile of frustration
to his face, is a Customs official. He is
a trier and an authority on . the rules.
A. W. Hearn, who runs into a place,
is one of the club’s vice-presidents. He
is a physical-culture enthusiast, and is
here seen pondering on the inquity of
handicappers. W. D. and H. O. Wills
claim him in working hours.
H. E. Russell is one of Moore Park’s
best all-round players, and one whose
determination to improve his game is
unceasing and successful. His do-or-die
expression fits his golf.
Fifth on the list comes the captain,
J. Hickey. In the middle class as a
golfer, he is an excellent speaker at club
functions, his profession of solicitor pro-
bably affording him plenty of practice.
B. Chirlian, whose rounded visage
adorned with a Hitler moustache beams
from the page, lives in hope of achieving
a State handicap one of these days. His
handicap as a vocalist would probably
be a lot better than that for his golf, but
there is always hope. When not golfing
his energies are devoted to the affairs
of John Sands, the printers.
The fine Caledonian countenance
which follows at No. 7 is that of J. M.
Macpherson, the efficient hon. treasurer.
He is an accountant at Brandts.
Eighth in the procession comes L. F.
Abrahams, more often referred to as
“Lulu.” Someone has described him as
in the XYZ class as a player, but that
is probably just jealousy. The pipe is
his devoted companion. He is secretary
of Orchards, the jewellers.
Frank Haigh is on No. 9 stand. When
he banishes himself from the links he
does some stevedoring. As a golfer he
is noted for his pace between holes, and
is rated the club’s marathon champion.
He is a noted yarn-spinner.
The double figures mark L. W. Hore,
usually called “Mick” for convenience.
He was club champion for 1930-3 F 32
and is a perpetual champion of Resch’s
ale.
Numbered 11 and placed in an exclu-
sive circle of his own is Frank Walshe,
the club’s president, and one who fills
his office to perfection. He is nowadays
retired from the Australian Gas Co. and
has become a noted collector and retailer
of golf stories.
After his chief we have E. Donnellan,
the Moore Park handicapper and mem-
ber of the club committee, as well as
skipper of the A grade team. His ex-
pression is somewhat grim, but handi-
cappers get like that.
W. M. Chapman, who rounds off the
baker’s dozen, is a devotee of golf to
the exclusion of most other things,
the Peters Ice Cream business excepted.
No. 14 is P. G. Goldstein, whose cheer-
ful grin is a reflection of his disposition.
He is a vice-president, and in business
a boot manufacturer. The next present-
ment is that of E. W. Dibley, who has to
do with the Main Roads Board. In the
golfing life he is apt to be a pessimist,
though his cheerful grin belies the
charge. Just now he is annoyed with his
golf, but, then,;- aren’t we all?
S. J. Ryan follows. His inquiring ex-
pression is probably due to intensive
meditation on the possibility of reducing
his handicap. He is in Dalgetys. D. T.
Sinclair, No. 17, has a good mouth for
a cigar, and makes full use of it. When
golf does not claim him he is with the
jewellery firm of Angus and Coote.
Then we have D. A. McMillan.
His devotion to the improvement of the
course has borne good fruit of late years,
and he will" be honorably remembered
for his steady championship of public
golf.
No. 19 is J. W. Drewette, who has
achieved a reputation as a record-breaker
by doing the course in 57 with the aid
of his 18 handicap. The incident soured
the handicapper’s faith in human nature,
and his handicap itself has slumped to
12. He is a Kodak Films man.
E. L. Rosenbloom, next in order, is
the Brummell of the club, both in the
matter of attire and the etiquette of the
game. “Rosie” is engaged with the opti-
cal firm of Alex. Hale. Just behind him,
and evidently overjoyed at having got
one past his predecessor’s generous out-
lines, is W. O. Braid, who is an indent
merchant and a member of the club com-
mittee. If his golf were as keen as his
bridge, Sarazen would be eclipsed.
C. Hendrie is another committeeman,
and is also given to playing the Royal
and Antient game at the bridge table
for the most part. In business he is con-
cerned with leather goods. T. Russell.
23rd in the line, is fond of fighting his
battles over again, and always willing to
give anyone who will listen the full
details. Dairying is his vocation.
H. A. Lennartz, smiling affably from
24, is a player of class when he gives
his mind to golf rather than gardening.
He is in the City Electricity Department.
Des Coonan is a member of the A grade
team, and a useful one. He is always
prominent in inter-club competitions,
and by profession a railwayman.
No. 26 is E. P. Smith, who, while a
fair golfer himself, is an admirer of
good players. Shipping claims him in
non-golfing moments.
G. Johnson, last of the galaxy of golf-
ing manhood, is captain of the B grade
team and a golfer of parts on occasion.
He is an accountant in the railways.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FARMING, A STUDY.
“The Chiel”: In the past a statement
that there was a psychological aspect to
any farm operation would have been
disputed.
Ploughing, reaping, spud-digging, teat-
pulling, were just that and no more.
There was no why or wherefore about
them. The drudgery turned the minas
of many farmers’ sons to other avoca-
tions.
Even to-day farming is looked upon
by many as drudgery, simply because
they fail to understand that it is really
a science offering scope for study.
Agricultural science is the most fascinat-
ing and soul-satisfying of all the sciences ;
it brings us close to Mother Earth and
reveals her wonderful secrets.
Get our young farmers to realise that
their work is of absorbing interest! Get
them to inquire, and you will do much
to stop that “drift to the cities.”
A South Coast (N.S.W.) dairy-farmer
and myself recently discussed some suc-
cessful pasture-improvement work which
he had begun two or three years ago.
“I shall not live to see the full results
of this work,” he said, “but my sons
will, and they are getting as keen as
mustard on its further development.
Previously they had been growing more
discontented. Their whole outlook, day
in and day out, was bound up in bring-
ing the cows in early in the morning,
turning them out again, and then repeat-
ing the operation in the afternoon. They
wanted to chuck it and go to town. Now
they never speak of breaking away.”
Another dairy-farmer, on the same
subject, summed it up: “Before we
started this work we were simply milk-
ing cows. Now we are dairying.”
There is the heart of the whole matter.
GROW BETTER WOOL.
“Jumbuck”: The improvement in the
wool market should be an incentive to
growers to standardise their flocks. With
some classes of merino fleece realising
about 20d. per pound, there is no reason
for inferior stuff. It was not considered
worth while to cull out nondescript
breeders when wool values were low ;
why keep them now, with prices on the
upward trend? Cull out all bad types
of ewes ; use only selected rams that will
nick with the particular ewes grazed;
cull out the inferior ewe progeny every
year.
Once a suitable type has been
obtained don’t change it. Neither uni-
formity of character in the wool nor a
set standard of sheep can be obtained
and maintained by the periodical change
of rams.
When the wool gets too light and fine
a more robust type of ram, carrying
denser wool of a stronger quality, may
have to be introduced. Take care that
the job is not overdone. Good rams
are cheap, but a rush to buy will set in
now that the wool market has risen.
The more the ewes are culled the
greater will be the chances of breeding
sheep that will cut a fleece of weight
and quality. You cannot cull too heavily
if payable wool returns are to come.
TESTING GRASS.
“A.D.”: The latest scientific gadget
added to the gear of N.S.W.’s Agricul-
ture Department is the Hanovia lamp.
Under the ultra-violet rays which it emits
it is possible to say with 100 per cent,
certainty whether rye-grass seed is peren-
nial, and therefore plants grown from
it will be permanent in the paddocks, or
whether it is a casual annual that will
flourish and then fade out. The seeds
to be tested are germinated on filter
papers, and after the rootlets have de-
veloped are placed in the lamp. If they
are truly perennial, nothing happens ; but
if they are of the yearly type, it is adver-
tised with a fluorescent blush. The
farmer knows if he takes the trouble to
get his seed tested that he will not have
to resow his paddocks, while the busi-
ness style of such seedsmen as have sold
as certified perennial anything with a
germination up to 90 per cent, of the
annual variety is definitely cramped.
The lamp came from the Australian
Dairy Council and the Plant Food
Advisory Committee.
DROUGHT-FEEDING OF SHEEP.
“H.D.8.”: The dry season being ex-
perienced by N.S.W. graziers calls for
extra attention to the sheep. The fodder
available, whether grass, hay or scrub,
is dry ; unless some correction is made
effects of drought-feeding will become
pronounced.
Under ordinary conditions sheep have
a small green pick which keeps their
bowels normal, but continuous dry-feed-
ing will soon produce constipation and
quick lowering of vitality. Hay or scrub
is often distributed close to water to save
the sheep travelling. This will reduce
the natural exercise of the animals to a
minimum and thus contribute to con-
stipation. As a safeguard, 10 to 20 per
cent, of Glauber or Epsom salts should
be added to the lick supplied to the
sheep. Glauber salt is slightly the better
in its action. Do not include iron tonics
in the lick, as they have an astringent
action on the bowel.
QUALITY BEEF.
“Beefo”: Now that meatworks are
paying on a grade basis, cattle-breeders
must realise that quality and not quan-
tity is wanted. When seasons permit, get
the bullocks off not later than four years
old ; hanging on to them two years
longer adds more beef, but not value. A
four-year-old, killing at 6001 b., and grad-
ing 90 per cent, firsts, is far ahead of big
old bullocks 9001 b. to 10001 b. weight,
classed as seconds. The same applies in
butchering ; people ask for small joints,
which cannot be cut off old bullocks.
Quality cattle can be grown only by
the introduction of fresh blood into
many herds. New bulls of right type
must improve cattle quality. The trial of
the zebu strain may have beneficial re-
sults. Splendid results have been
obtained with Aberdeen-Angus and
Devon bulls when crossed with Short-
horns. In herds that are inclined to be
“run-out,” use of the A.-A. or Devon
bulls is essential ; many Shorthorn
breeders could with advantage give either
a trial.
CONTAGIOUS MAMMITIS.
“Gland”: Dairy-farmers lose heavily
by contagious mammitis. Saleyards are
a source of infection. Yardmen and
cattle handlers test the milkers before
they enter the ring, and sometimes dis-
cover a cow with one or more infected
quarters. They make no fuss about it.
During the day they “try” many cows
and rarely wash their hands.
As the milkers are sold and passed
out other men milk them, passing from
cow to cow, not washing their hands.
But even if cold water is used freely
it does not sterilise the hands. Some
farmers help to spread the disease in
their search for a good milker.
If an officer attended sales and en-
forced a few simple regulations, the re-
duction in annual loss would more than
cover the expense. I suggest the follow-
ing: (1) All cows tested to be milked into
a vessel; (2) disinfectants to be provided
with facilities for their use ; (3) it to be
made compulsory that any person hand-
ling a cow’s teats should wash the hands
before handling another.
Another factor contributing to the
trouble is the manner in which milkers
are “stocked-up”—udders distended as
to cause them acute pain with evei-y
movement. Mammitis can be treated
successfully, but if strict cleanliness were
observed there would be a marked
diminution in the number of cases.
MITCHELL GRASS.
“Lofty”: The replanting of central
and west Queensland pastures advocated
by “Curly Blade” (B. 30/8/’33) would
be foolish. The natural Mitchell grass
is the only grass for those parts, but if
something is not done soon it will be
totally extinguished. Overstocking does
not give the grass a chance to seed ; if
it does seed the young plants are eaten
off and trampled down. The only
remedy is to deal with offenders by law.
Each landholder should set aside a cer-
tain acreage each year, to be stocked at
the discretion of the district stock in-
spector. At times it would be beneficial
to have the grass eaten back for tillaging.
“Cloncurry”: Pasture deterioration in
western Queensland is not due to the
inability of natural grasses to respond
after good rainfalls. “Curly Blade” (B.
30/8/’33) suggests the planting of new
grasses to replenish feed supplies. The
Mitchell grass country has never been
given the chance to recover ; overstock -
ing has of late years been rampant.
Weeds have started where the young
Mitchell grass was eaten off, soon chok-
ing later growth. The nature of the
country and the hardiness of the Mit-
chell grass are as good as they were 50
years ago ; they needed fair treatment to
allow them to respond.
THINNING THE APPLE CROP.
“Hatter”: With favorable weather at
setting time most varieties of apples,
particularly Sturmers and Yates, are in-
clined to fruit too heavily. On many
orchards thinning is neglected, so the
fruit is small and ill-colored and brings
low prices.
Do your thinning after the spring
winds have taken their toll. Shears are
preferable to handwork. Leave room for
each apple to develop without touching
its neighbor. Remove the centre cluster
and leave two of the outside ones. Re-
move all the damaged or grub-infested
fruit, and all that is too crowded in
clusters. Then remove the apples that
are too shaded by leaves to color well.
The advantages of thinning are:
(1) Larger and better-colored fruit.
(2) Less fruit damaged by codlin-moth, as the
spray can reach each individual apple. This
it cannot do in clusters.
(3) Less breaking and splitting of branches.
(4) More regularity in the annual cropping.
(5) Less work in sorting out inferior fruit
in the packing-shed.
For the apples to attain a satisfactory
size a certain ratio of leaves to fruit has
been found necessary. What this ratio
is has yet to be determined, but the
general principle is accepted.
THE MANDARIN PROBLEM.
“Johnno”: The proposal to destroy 25
per cent, of the fruiting mandarin-trees
in Australia is abominable. It takes years
of hard work, careful nursing and great
expenditure to produce a mandarin-tree
of payable proportions. The average
orchardist looks upon his trees as a
racing man does his horses. It would
be better to prohibit the planting of new
orchards for some years ; thus the over-
supply would be relieved year by year
until it disappeared altogether. Then
new orchards could be laid down, with
restrictions placed on the number of
trees planted, to keep pace with the in-
creased consumption. Better distribu-
tion of fruit and regulation of harvest
would ease existing troubles.
Growers, in my opinion, should be
restricted to a certain quantity each
week. The small man, cultivating only
a living area and not employing labor,
should be allowed to market his entire
crop. The big grower would have to let
a portion of his crop go to waste ; but
with supplies regulated he would pro-
bably be much better off at the end of
the season than he is now.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How is Paris green used for killing ladybirds
and bugs on potatoes ? —7980.
Mix loz. Paris green in 15gals. of water and
spray the foliage. The mixture will be car-
ried down to the tubers. Do not dig the
potatoes until at least a month after the treat-
ment, and wash them well before using.
The Tas. Government proposes to import a
red mite to exterminate the lucerne flea. (1)
What is the scientific name of this red mite ?
(2) Is it the same mite which is a pest in W.A. ?
(3) Will the insect die out when it has exter-
minated the lucerne flea ? —7983.
(1) Biscirus lapidarius. (2) No. The W.A.
insect is Halotydceus destructor. (3) Officers of
the C.S.I.R. report that they are satisfied that
no damage will accrue from the introduction
of Biscirus lapidarius into Tasmania.
(1) Does the new Queensland cream chart
allow for salt and curd, or only for moisture
content ? (2) Was allowance for moisture
content increased in new chart ? If so, by how
much ? —7826.
(1) and (2) Manufacturers’ butter tables
allow for moisture and serum solids. The new
chart is estimated on an increased moisture
content. Payment of overrun ensures distribu-
tion of all butter made from cream. Write
Queensland Agriculture Department for printed
matter fully explaining the position.
I have a lemon-tree affected with a white
substance inclined to be sticky, confined to
young branches. The leaves are also covered
with black dust. Cause and cure ? —Bl3O.
The white substance is Indian wax scale.
Dissolve 21b. of washing soda and 2oz. of
caustic soda in 4 gallons of hot water, and
while warm spray the scale with it. The mix-
ture can also be applied with a brush attached
to a long handle. Two applications at an
interval of 14 days will clean the tree. The
black dust is peculiar to citrus fruits, and a
spraying with Gargoyle oil will shift it. Allow
four weeks between the different treatments.
(1) How to tan sheepskins and rabbitskins
with other than wattlebark, as it is not pro-
curable in my district ? (2) Name of book on
subject ? —8129.
(1) A chrome tanning solution can be used,
made up of 61b. sodium bichromate, 51b. sul-
phuric acid and 21b. sugar. Dissolve sodium
bichromate in 2 gallons water, then add sulphuric
acid, and finally the sugar in small portions.
When the sugar is added, the solution will boil
furiously. It should be kept boiling until the
liquor changes from yellow to blue. Failing a
lead-lined vat, this chrome liquor can be pre-
pared in a small cask. The solution is suffi-
cient to tan 200 to 400 rabbitskins. When
tanning, use four skins per gallon of water,
and 31b. of salt for every 10 gallons of water.
Use a cask or vat made of wood for this work.
Add the chrome liquor in four equal quanti-
ties at intervals of 11 hours. Keep the skins
moving as much as possible, and the tannage
should be complete in three days. Put the
skins in the salt solution, and then add the
first portion of the chrome liquor. The skins
should be fleshed and soft after soaking before
they go to the chrome liquor. When tanned,
the skins are washed in two lots of clear water,
then neutralised with lib. of bicarbonate of
soda per 1001 b. wet skins, using 1 gallon of
water to four rabbitskins (time 12 hours) or
30 gallons to 1001 b. wet skins. Again wash, and
brush on the flesh side of the drained skins a
mixture of 1 quart of sulphonated oil and 1
quart of water. After receiving the oil the
skins are hung up to dry. When dry, they
are stretched to make them soft. (2) “Fur-
Dyeing and Fur-Dressing,” by Austin.
(1) What is the meaning of “Bradford tops,’’
wool quotations ? (2) 1 understand that in
addition to 70’s, 64’s, 60’s, and so forth there
are further grades expressed by using terms
such as AAA, AA and A. How do these
arise ? —BOl9.
(1) Bradford tops of a given quality are wools
which have been scoured and combed, the
latter operation separating the noils from the
tops. Noils consist of the short ends combed
out, the remainder being the tops. 70’s, 64’s
and so on are, in the wool trade, known as
“counts” and refer to the diameter of the
fibre. A count equals a hank, and a hank is
560 yards; thus lib. of tops 70’s quality, if
spun to a single length of fibre, would reach
a distance of 70 multiplied by 560. Similarly
a spun pound of 60’s count would measure 60
multiplied by 560 yards, and so forth. (2) The
A's are used as fleece brands —first quality,
AAA; second, AA; third, A. From the
buyer’s point of view the brand is merely taken
as the classer’s idea of quality. Sample bales of
all lines are examined and valued irrespective
of the brand used.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Marsh”: If you’re having trouble
with dry-salted beef or mutton, add a
few spoonfuls of sugar, preferably
brown, to the coarse salt. It will help
the salt to penetrate ; it also improves
the meat's flavor.
“Eureka”: To take a fencing-post out
of the ground, dig round the post a few
inches deep, shake the post, and pour
water round it. Leave it for a ' few
minutes and it will lift out easily and
cleanly.
“Pick”: To catch a fox, shoot a rosella
and peg it down in the spreading fork of
a fallen tree with wire staples. Two
feet away set a circle of four of five
rabbit traps. Drive their holding pins
from sight into the ground.
“Minthall”: One of the newer millets
is the Queensland Giant Panicum. Pro-
perly handled it gives great height with
slender stems, a mass of leaves from base
to tip—all usable. After cutting it will
make good grazing without any poison
danger.
“Bill R.”: To prevent the wooden
handle of a chisel or gouge from split-
ting under the blows of hammer or
mallet, nail two thicknesses of sole
leather to its end. Keep the leather
trimmed when it spreads by hard usage.
“Tenrag”: To burn out tree stumps
in autumn bore a hole with a l|in. auger
in the centre of the stump, 18in. deep.
Put in 2oz. of saltpetre, fill the hole with
water, and plug tightly. In the spring
take out the plug, put a gill of kerosene
in and set fire. It will burn out the
stump to the furthest root. A four-foot
tree needs about four separate holes.
“Fancar”: Khaki weed is one of the
worst causes of bumblefoot in fowls,
Watch for the weed round garage
entrances, etc., as the prickly seed ad-
heres to tyres.
“Tenrag”: Parasitic comb disease in
poultry is contagious, fungoid in origin,
and easily detected by the white powdery
appearance of the comb and wattles.
Vinegar will cure it, but acetic acid (1
in 10) is better. Paint this on the comb,
but avoid the eyes.
“Roga”: Many eggs are rejected be-
cause they are unfit in appearance. They
are sold cheaply to bakers, the depre-
ciation in value amounting to more than
3d. a dozen. To prevent loss, wipe the
eggs, before marketing them, with a damp
cloth dipped in dry bicarbonate of soda.
“Muscovy”: When fattening ducks
for market it is profitable to keep a few
chickens in the pen with them. The
duck is a wasteful feeder, and the
chickens will thrive on what is thrown
about.
“Hay Seed”: An old bull’s horn can
be turned into a useful drenching bit.
Saw the end off and clear all the stuff
out by boring or burning. Put the small
end into the animal’s mouth and pour
the drench into the other end.
“X.T.”: A. Facey and Sons, who are in
the first flight of Ayrshire breeders, added
two more scalps to their belt last week
when they scored the double champion-
ship at Melbourne Royal Show. In the
bull class they won the ribbon with
Longlands Bonnie Willie 11., whose past
performances have been a series of wins.
Last year he topped the Ayrshire poll
at the Brisbane National; in April this
year he climbed into the reserve cham-
pionship at the Sydney Royal, while he
cleaned up all competitors at Adelaide
a fortnight ago. The same firm’s mature
cow, Fairview Lady Jean, which won the
tricolor ribbon at Sydney five months
ago, repeated the performance at Mel-
bourne last Thursday, and for wins is
almost level pegging with the boy friend,
Willie 11.
(Land Page continued on page'3l.)


27T7
An uncramped foot
With a shoe like this it is easy to
fit your foot exactly. It’s an Abbey
model, made in four widths for
every size. The sole is extra
heavy. . . .the upper is planned for
complete comfort. This shoe is
splendid for all-round wear.
ORDER BY POST.—State both
width and size, and ask, also, for a
supply of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy cleaning
outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 3ns
WT The
IBEST
m that
i'uiiiiiiisSn m. m a *■
MONEY
CAN B 1
iDtrt 1
£*
MADE IN
ENGLAND
SWAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
‘ Swan ’ Pens Black or Coloured from 20/*.
•Swan* Miners from 15/-. ‘ Blackbird ’ Pens
from 10/-. ‘Swan* Ink from 6d. per bottle.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Managing A gents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
é
7
iy
H
18
Monarch
Craig kAitken
I k Wholesale
I | Distributors
► f Sydney N SW.
m
mm*
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM KAZOII GUARD, easily adjusted, tits Sin., fin. and £in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. JMo blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
Uhe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/0 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Heal Ivoi'y Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets. Seven Razors in Oak Case—■
Black 85/-, Xylo, 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
n
?
THIS FREE COUPON
or a copy of same to be
sent with your name and
address and 3d. stamps. Mrs. HUDSON: Please send
me, free, your full information and instructions to
cure superfluous hair. Address: Frederica Hudson
(Drawer H. 9), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street,, London,
IV.I, England.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a
high in Society and is the widow of a prominent
Officer, so you can write her with every confidence
above address, where she has been established sinet
family
Army
to the
s 1910.
Who could tell that I
once suffered from
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR?
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
Looking at me now, witli my clear, un-
blemished skin, who would ever guess
that once 1 veiled my face to hide the
hideous growth of ugly, disfiguring hair?
Yet that is so. For years my life was a
misery. As the young wife of an officer
in India I suffered the agonies of shame.
1 had a distinct moustache, almost a
beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful electric needle
brought nothing but a few days’ relief.
Always the ugly, disfiguring growths
came back again stronger than ever on
my face and body. Then, almost in a
day, my clouds were lifted in a most
amazing way. My husband saved the
life of a humble Hindoo soldier. In his
gratitude the Sepoy breathed to him the
closely-guarded secret of the Hindoo
religion, which keeps the women of that
race free from any sign of superfluous
hair. I tried it in desperation. From
that day—now years ago—l have never
seen a sign of superfluous hair. I
watched for it daily for months, never
daring to nope that it was gone for
ever. But it was! I was cured com-
pletely. 1 was a normal woman again.
Since then I have told many other
sufferers of my experience, and the
secret recipe has never failed. It has
brought joy and permanent freedom in
every case. If you, too, suffer, let me
help you. Let me tell you how I suffered,
and let me pass on to you the secret
that saved me. I shall gladly send it free
if you will send me coupon, or a copy of
it. to-day with your name and address,
stating whether Mrs. or Miss. All I
ask is that you send me three penny
stamps to cover my outlay for postage,
etc. Address : Frederica Hudson (Drawer
H. 9), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W.l, England.
England via New York
by the most varied and colorful route, em-
bracing New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Van-
couver, across Canada or U.S.A. to Montreal
and New York.
THE CUNARD BIG THREE.
Herengarla Aquitnnia Mauretania
54,000 tons 40,000 tons 30,000 tons
give a weekly express service from New
York to England. The Cunard Line also
offers the choice of the largest Cabin Class
Fleet in the World, connecting with the
following sailings from Sydney:—
October 12th S.S. Niagara
~ 18th S.S. Mariposa
„ 26th S.S. Maunganui
November Oth M.V. Aorangi
Specially reduced Round the World Tickets
available one way via Suez or the Cape.
Write for full information, or call and discuss
with vs the plans of your trip. We cast
effect your reservations throughout.
0. & D. Line, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
Cunard
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations; Speak
Without Notes, Grip Pacts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS.
Y oungei; Crescent, Caulfield,
AlelDourne.
r
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Tree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
'THE cheapest and best SAFETY RAZORS
*■ AND BLADES in the world are made by
the famous firm SHAVEX COMPANY, 40
BLENHEIM ROAD, LONDON, N. 19, ENG-
LAND. For prices or agencies write to above
address.
REDUCED SUMMER FARES!
0,
M
n
AMERICA
ON THE NEW
SUPER -LINERS
Repeating last summer’s successful Low Fare Excur-
sions! A rare opportunity to experience the staccato
verve of that "traveller’s delight” . . AMERICA. These
bargain jares apply only for sailings during DECEM-
BER . . JANUARY . . FEBRUARY.
SYDNEY to Los Angeles or San Francisco
Cabin Class
First Class Round Trip from £99.
Round Trip from £7O.
MELBOURNE to Los Angeles or San Francisco
First Class Round Trip from £lO3. . . . Cabin Class
Round Trip from £74. These fares not subject to exchange.
Cabin Class on these great liners is also a revelation
in luxury and value. Marvellous food. Spacious
rooms with individual beds. Extraordinary value!
Complete itineraries will be cheerfully provided to
any point in America or through to England.
ATTRACTIVE NEW FARES Sydney to England
First Class (single) from £lOl/-/-. Return £lB5/18/-.
Cabin Class (single) from £77/9/-. Return £l4l/10/-.
Melbourne to England
First Class (single) from £lO2/13/-. Return £lB9/2/-.
Cabin Class (single) from £79/2/-. Return £144/16/-.
These fares subject to exchange
SOUTH SEAS EXCURSION FARES:
FIRST CLASS RETURN SYDNEY
Suva, Fiji, £35 Paco Pago, Samoa, £45
Honolulu, Hawaii, £75. Cabin Class (Honolulu), £55.
FROM MELBOURNE
Suva, Fiji, £39 Pago Pago, Samoa, £49
Honolulu, Hawaii, £79. Cabin Class (Honolulu), £59.
These fares not subject to exchange
NEXT SAILING to America via New Zealand, Fiji
Samoa, Hawaii — "MARIPOSA,” Sydney, October 18
Melbourne, October 14
New booklets, facts and figures, gladly furnished
free on request.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
'TlhzUoivJlna,
12 Bridge Street, Sydney , Phone B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
341 Collins St. and 461 Bourke St., Melbourne . Phone Central 288 (5 lines)
291 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane . Phone B 1285
54 Currie Street, Adelaide . Phone Central B 4960
15 William Street, Perth . Phone B 9501 (4 lines)
10M.7A


CREAM
OF
YJEAST
H
&
ft
Xt
The remarkable value of Yeast for Better Health is everywhere recognised. The world’s leading
scientific men have unanimously reported in favor of it for intestinal and digestive disorders, skin
troubles, faulty elimination, cc run-down” conditions and other ills. It is most important, however,
that the public should realise that yeast, to be ioo per cent effective, must be activated, and that it is in-
correct to suppose that any kind of yeast will give the same beneficial results as genuine Cream of Yeast.
Brewers’ yeast alone does not work at its best as a remedy
for everyday ills and “below-par” conditions. So the
greatest chemical organisation in the world manufacturing
medicinal yeast, after considerable research and experience,
evolved the special activated form known as Cream of Yeast.
This is a highly-compressed yeast, scientifically combined
with other perfectly safe medicinal agents of known thera-
peutic value in such a way as vastly to increase the value of
yeast for remedial purposes. In Cream of Yeast is offered a
handy medicine giving prompt benefit with absolute certainty.
Cream of Yeast gives you the following benefits
(PLAIN BREWERS’ YEAST DOES NOT GIVE THESE BENEFITS)
Headaches relieved in 4 minutes. Acidity, Sour Stomach
and Indigestion relieved in 3 minutes. Rheumatic Attacks,
Influenza Colds, etc., countered within IS hours.
Depression and '‘Brain Fag” relieved in 8 minutes•
Nerves steadied in 10 minutes. Energy increased within
15 minutes. Abdominal Pains relieved in 12 minutes .
r
Try this modern Remedy for yourself, but remember that you must get Cream of Yeast if you want the
best results. More Cream of Yeast is sold than all other yeast medicines combined, yet Cream of Yeast
costs very little, a flask of 24 Tablets being 1/11, 48 Tablets 3/6, or 125 Tablets 5/9. Since any good
chemist can supply you, why not let this remarkable remedy rid you of those ailments that now mar your
health and good looks ? The very first dose of Cream of Yeast will convince you of its merit.
NU
f
Quickest, Surest, Best Results . Largest Sales »
75% More Beneficial than Brewers 7 Yeast
Missing Friends.
HALLORAN, MARIA and JOHANNA, after-
wards CONNORS, formerly of Parramatta. —
Information as to their Deaths or whereabouts
(or their children) is required. They are en-
titled to money in the intestate estate of their
late brother Michael Halloran, who died on
the 10th August, 1931. W. J. KESSELL,
Public Trustee, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Position Wanted.
COUPLE, man handy woodworking, fitting,
plumbing, concrete work, fencing, etc., some
experience droving, wife thoroughly domesti-
cated, do housework, plain cooking, seek posi-
tion on station, N.S.W. or Q’land preferred.
C. V. D.,
c/o Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The JVlaclcod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
Are Stocks Worth Present
Prices ?
Future of Gold
The American Experiment and
the Dollar
Outlook for Metals
If you are interested in these and other
things vital to investors, you can’t afford
to miss the
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
FOR OCTOBER,
ON SALE SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIt ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).


FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, hut
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one weeks
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
(Übmmoiiwcaltb Savinas JBankofHustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Vow 1-0»e Vowr X umiia;,
BUT—
HAVE you given practical expression to it by protecting their
welfare and ensuring them a steady income under all cir-
cumstances.
No man can guarantee to live —the unexpected sometimes happens.
Provision must be made for it and it is so easy to do the P. & C.
way.
For example, in the event of death or permanent disablement
before 20 years from date of this policy the income of £l2/1.0/-
per month for each £lOOO of his assurance is produced. In
addition at the end of the 20 year period, the full amount of
the policy will be paid.
For the safety of your loved ones and your own peace of mind,
act now. Full particulars gladly sent without obligation to you.
The policy quoted is but one of a very wide range of policies
designed to take care of your every need, issued by the P. & C.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
H. FELL.
Managing Director i
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
Sydney Wool Market
“Anthony”: Let me put it this way:
Week’s average, per bale . . . . '.. £l7 3 6
Week’s average, per pound . . . . 11
Week’s auction offerings to Sept. 28 .. 51,420
Week’s auction sales to Sept. 28.. .. 44,870
Week’s private sales, ex catalogues .. 2,329
Week’s private sales, uncatalogued .. 1,769
Total sales .. .. .. .. .. 48.968
These figures do not take into account
the unusually large volume of country-
bought wool which is being resold.
The market at the close of sales last
week was easing — as The Bulletin
itself said. No further development of
weakness was noticeable, however, and
the market closed fully firm at lower
values.
There is no need for alarm, any more
than there is cause for hysterical optim-
ism. The woolgrower requires only to
exercise the same commonsense which
he does when he is buying fodder for
himself or selling livestock to get the
most out of the present position.
* * * *
Three things must be considered:
(1) Those who have intimate experi-
ence of the wool trade know that the
opening of sales in Sydney, after the
usual period of winter quiescence, is
always accompanied by a temporary
rush to secure supplies for those who
through good business or miscalculation
have found themselves undersupplied
with raw material. It is a seasonal symp-
tom
Opening sale rates must be accepted
with caution. Wool lore may not be an
exact science, but it is not an occult
phenomenon. The market is sensitive
to supply and demand, seasonal and
fashional variations, more inequalities
due to human error, and absolute de-
pendence on the desire to make money
out of it. The owner of wool should
apply to it the same commonsense logic
as in domestic concerns. If a cow is
wanted to give milk for farm or station,
a man does not buy a horse for next
year’s ploughing. He’ll pay a bigger price
for the cow if he wants it now than if he
is merely making provision for an inde-
finite future.
fc- * * *
(2) Generally speaking, the offerings
have depreciated since the opening of
the season.
Fine, light-conditioned Moree wools
are less in evidence, and thinly-grown,
dusty, burry, wasty wools from the west
and Riverina are prominent. The effect
is to depress the market. Yorkshire,
which, in its own interest, as well as Aus-
tralia’s, requires fine, well-grown, good-
style wool, is not lifting the quantity it
should. The Continent, content with the
more faulty stuff, was barking largely in
vain up to the present, but is now get-
ting a better fill of its requirements.
Japan, looking for something betwixt
and between, is sometimes getting and
sometimes missing, but not getting as
regularly as it was. It is bidding vigor-
ously, and is the maker of the market
for certain types, but is not always dis-
criminating. Both gross and net returns
are not as high as they were, this being
reflected in the averages, but the canny
grazier knows that the return per acre-
value is not suffering.
* * * *
(3) Too great a volume of wool is
being offered for sale, and it says some-
thing for the strength of the position that
there has been no greater effect on wool
prices. Only a few weeks ago Sydney
was the only market operating, and
prices were excellent, but since then the
southern centres have got into full stride;
London has put a large quantity into
consumption; Brisbane has had its say,
and (not to be neglected) many thou-
sands of bales are finding their way into
buyers’ hands through unofficial sources.
The bodies governing the trade in Aus-
tralia know the position, and realise the
danger—l2,soo bales per day in Sydney
alone is a huge volume to lift.
The growing proportion of passed-in
wools at the sales is disquieting. It is
not all the agents’ fault. Attracted by
high prices, the growers clamor to get
their wool offered, and more and more
of the late shearing men chance selling
to speculative dealers who buy in the
shed.
Ninety per cent, of the wool bought
in the country is resold in the central
markets, either at auction or by private
treaty, and constitutes a further burden.
Supply is calculated on an official allow-
ance up to the fullest margin of safety,
and when unreckoned wool comes in It
upsets calculations.
It is always the scrambler who wrecks
the lifeboat, but how can you keep him
out of it?
Shed v. Auction Wool Sales
“Trepex”: No doubt there are cases
where advantages have accrued to a man
by his selling his wool in the shed, or
(worse still) where a man has suffered by
his faith in the central markets. “Go-
lightly” (B. 27/9/’33) seems to have done
well for himself, but what would be his
experience if he sold consistently in the
shed over a period of years? Almost
certainly he would be showing a large
and definite loss. Then he would return
to auction selling again—if there were
any auctions left for him to sell
in. For, obviously, if one man gains an
advantage by making some departure,
he will, if his system really is a good
one, find many others doing the same.
And so the high-priced outsider becomes
the odds-on favorite.
* * * *
Again, “Golightly” and others have
made a lucky deal, but is any man going
to forsake his normal industry and take
to punting because of one lucky venture?
Is he going to eschew legitimate business
and take to buying lottery tickets? Is
he going to forsake known roads because
he has chanced to find one short cut?
Is he going to sabotage the institution
of matrimony because he is attracted by
a blonde heroine on the talkies?
The Wheat Season
Nobody, not even the clairvoyants,
can say what is going to happen to wheat
within the next season or two, for the
decisions of the wheat conference have
merely added new confusing factors to
the artificial ones already in operation.
Beyond the facts that Australia will be
able to send about 288,000,400 bushels
overseas within the present season and
the next, and that home consumption may
brighten a little as the result of return-
ing prosperity, due to lower taxation,
nothing can be said of our prospects.
A record season next year would upset
all calculations, as would a bad one.
Ten and a half million bushels was ex-
ported by various countries during the
third week in September, and more than
40 per cent, of this came from North
America. Europe has been the biggest
importer. The London market has been
dull, and so far there seems to be no
prospect of realising immediately the
higher prices which we were promised.
S.A. shipments have been quoted at
3s. l|d. in the Thames.
* * * *
Other figures are in concert with
these, and Sydney prices have eased in
line with the wilting market to 3s. and
3s. Id. for bulk and bagged respectively.
There is only a whisper of local de-
mand. Meanwhile, 911,000 bushels more
of wheat is in N. S. Wales silos than at
the same period last year.
* * * *
The bulk-handling argument goes on.
Wharf-laborers and bag merchants in
some States are still strong against bulk
methods, but in allowing the matter to
be staved off exporters are cutting their
own throats. Freight alone of 2s. 6d. per
ton would be saved by bulk shipment,
and bagging of wheat means, under most
circumstances, an addition to the price of
3d. per bushel, which the farmer does
not get. At the same time, rebagging is
necessary at the English end for some
lines. The question should be made an
urgent Federal matter before next wheat
season and thoroughly organised.
* * * *
The delegates of wheat-exporting
countries are to meet again this week,
and their foreshadowed agenda makes it
clear that in some quarters there has
either been miscalculation or lack of
frankness about export surpluses.
Russia’s figures are said to be far bigger
than were expected. The delegates hope
at the next meeting to reach “agreed”
figures and readjust quotas accordingly.
Butter Stabilisation
“M.T.C.”: Paterson, M.P., introduced
a scheme, and for a number of years it
has blossomed. Though governed by a
voluntary agreement signed by all the
butter factories of Queensland, N.S.W.,
Vic., Tassie and S.A., it has stood the acid
test. It was devised to free local butter
prices from their dependency on London
values, and by means of a levy and
bounty it achieved a double object.
Firstly, it gave to the factory supplying
J. Bull a bounty of 3d. a pound.
Secondly, the local price automatically
rose a corresponding amount, so every-
one was happy. State and Federal Gov-
ernments winked the eye of approval.
* * * *
The scheme’s weakness was that it did
not provide for a uniform selling rate
throughout the Eastern States. Conse-
quently factories, especially those placed
within coo-ee of the border of a State
with a higher market rate, soon began
dumping their surplus butter on their
neighbor’s market. This uninvited sup-
ply displaced the local article, which had
to be shipped overseas. That wouldn’t
have been so bad had it not been that,
even with the bounty added, realisations
on J. Bull’s market were often about a
penny a pound lower than the Austra-
lian price, an import duty of 6d. a pound
enabling Australia to sell at prices justi-
fied by a higher standard of living. When
London price, plus the bounty, was
lower than Sydney or Melbourne, other
factories with an eye to the main chance,
instead of exporting, projected heavy
supplies for sale locally at concession
prices. Naturally it paid them better at
times to take a penny less and sell
locally than bet against the prices that
might be got in six weeks’ time in a
market 12,000 miles distant.
* * * *
These practices, together with the
border frays of certain factories,
threatened to upset the marketing apple-
cart. In April of this year another plan
was evolved at Sydney. Under it, all
factories in five States —W.A. was not
in it —would ship overseas a certain
quantity of their make, thus placing the
responsibility of accepting the risk of
lower prices on the London market on
every factory, instead of the load being
carried by a few. The brainwave was
borrowed from the Dried Fruits men,
who are buttressed with State and
Federal legislation in the sale of their
surplus stocks. Were similar treatment
given to the butter industry every fac-
tory would be on an equal footing, while
the differences in the price obtained in
London would be balanced up or equal-
ised with sales made locally.
* * * *
State Ministers for Agriculture agreed
that the drafting and introduction of re-
quired bills would follow. The Com-
monwealth Government, whose sanction
is required to get over Section 92 of
the Constitution in its relation to inter-
state freetrade, was asked to fill the legal
gap with a measure similar to the Federal
Dried Fruits Act. Commerce Minister
Stewart was non-committal; before he
would move, he required proof that the
States would back their fancy with
appropriate Acts. Main, N.S.W. Minis-
ter, produced a bill which he posted to
his opposite numbers in Brisbane and
Melbourne. Bulcock, of Queensland, is
getting on with the work and only last
week promised immediate action. N.S.W.
is pledged to do something similar, but
the Argyles are still marking time, and
thus are incurring the hostility of their
dairying constituents. The Federal Gov-
ernment is playing a waiting game.
Owing to the delay it seems that the
dairying industry will not get the neces-
sary legal blessing in time for the pre-
sent export season. If that is so, an
unholy dogfight to supply the local
market must develop so soon as produc-
tion commences to climb.
Egg Prices
“8.F.”: It looks as if the N.S.W. Egg
Board will this year collect £70,000 in
levies. Presumably it is handling about
14,000 cases weekly. Each case contains
30 dozen eggs, which at Id. a dozen
would be 2s. 6d. a case, or, on the 14,000
cases, £1750 weekly. If the board is sell-
ing 70 per cent, overseas and 30 per cent,
locally, there would be a weekly distribu-
tion on the Sydney market of 4200 cases.
On each of these cases the board is los-
ing ss. (£lO5O weekly) because it is pay-
ing the feather squatter lid. and is sell-
ing to the grocer at 9d. a dozen. Thus,
out of the levy of £1750, only £7OO a
week is left with which to balance up the
losses made on the overseas realisations
of about 9800 cases, and to pay expenses.
With unsatisfactory prices ruling over-
seas the board will need to act cautiously.
Dairy Control
“R. E. Ward”: “X.T.” (B. 20/9/’33)
complains of a nasty jolt aimed at the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture by
the Primary Producers’ Union. Until
the Federal Government controls all
dairy legislation uniformity in the manu-
factured article cannot be expected and
our butter will not command the price
it should on the home market.
“Tops”: One of the most curious
trade utterances heard for many a day
was that of Frederick Ackroyd at a
meeting of the Bradford Chamber of
Commerce last week. The speaker pro-
tested bitterly at Japan being allowed
to buy her wool in Australia, thus sav-
ing fd. a pound on freights. The Brad-
fordian thought the wool should be
bought in England after being dragged
there from Australia, and urged that
“pressure” should be put upon Austra-
lia to send more of her wool to Britain.
Bradford, of course, is being heavily hit
by the Japanese top-makers, who are
underselling the Yorkshiremen in their
pet markets. The suggestion is that the
infernal “Colonials” in Australia should
be forbidden to supply Nippon with
combing wools so as to make a Yorkshire
profit.
“Crops”: After years of tests and trial
shipments, the Queensland beef trade
proposes to enter regularly on chilled-
meat shipments to Europe from the New
Year. The scheme hangs on the provi-
sion of suitable shipping facilities, and
the Meat Industry Board is now negotiat-
ing. It is convinced that meat can be
landed in prime condition at London
after a 45 days’ trip, and is arranging
for regular forwarding of from 3000 to
4000 carcasses weekly. The carbon-
dioxide process will be employed, the
meat travelling in sealed, gas-filled
chambers.
“Abe”: Empire pork, during the first
six months of this year, secured a
good hold on the London market.
M.L., Australia and Canada for the half-
year ended June 30 were responsible for
nearly two-thirds of John Bull’s roast
pork dinners, despite a general increase
of 4500 tons in imports.


ŕ
«
((She 'words &no and ' r< 3ruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
1 Sales Agents: c <she Uiarold c 3. ffhtchie Go. £td., Sydney, ZH.S.Hs).
QN
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
Generai, Manaoer — M. G. HAYMEN.
With otflces at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank'offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The
Professional Man's
Misfortune
Lies In the fact that his specialised knowledge,
priceless to himself, is purely a personal asset.
While he lives and is physically fit his skill can be
capitalised in definite measure; when he dies his
asset dies with him and his income ceases.
The Greatest Asset of the Professional
Man, therefore, is his life.
But does he assess it accordingly?
His materia! assets—his home, his car, his furniture—are
covered to their full insurable value. But what of the,
prime asset of all—his own life? Only by buying cover
while he is able can the man whose earning-power lies in
his own skill conserve to those dependent on him the
benefit of his life-long work.
Pre-eminently, Insurance is the Professional Man's
Safeguard.
The Prudential, which in 84 years has grown to be the
Empire's Greatest Assurance Institution, and which has
28 million life policies in force, is the logical Company to
carry the insurance. Hundreds of thousands of profes-
sional men have made the future safe for their widows
and children by means of Prudential Policies.
Ring BW 2885 and a Prudential Representative will call,
or write for particulars to—
The
Prudential Assurance
Company Ltd.
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
’•HERALD" BUILDING, 66 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phones 8W2885 (3 lines) C. F. WARREN, F.IA.,
General Manager for Australia and New Zealand
THE PALETTE
Harry Dangar, whose latest crop of
water-colors is shown at the Grosvenor
Gallery (Sydney), is an exponent of the
“greenery-yallery” school of the atelier’s
godfather. A spot of red in one of his
pictures would look like an Archbishop
telling a smokeroom story. A debased
shade of pink intrudes itself into “In the
Cudgegong Hills” and “The Farm in the
Valley” and makes them stand out from
the rest of the collection like glow-
worms in a cave. The rest of it is a
series of statements that vegetation is
green; that skies need not necessarily
be blue, and that distant scenes are fair
because they have scarcely any color.
But on the greenness of vegetation the
painter is emphatic, and when he paints
a pine he just escapes using black by
laying on the very gloomiest dark green
that Winsor and Newton can com-
pound. His idea of a color-orgy is a
wattle-tree in bloom. His world of
landscapes is new-washed by rain. Its
contours are definite ; every wash laid
on dries with hard, coagulated edge. It
is the technique of the Early Victorians
who taught art to genteel young ladies.
But is as sincere as Calvinism ; as con-
vincing as the proposition that two
multiplied by two or plus two makes
four, and as charming, in these days of
dark inventions, as the smile of a babe.
In the centre of Australia lies the
oldest country in the world. The hall-
marks of its antiquity can be read by
the geologist and the botanist. Its land-
scapes, fantastic in outline, crude in
color-contrasts, challenge human imagi-
nation. Rex Battarbee and John A.
Gardner, two Australian painters, went
exploring in that region last year, and
they showed at Tyrrell’s Gallery, Sydney,
things they saw. They saw them so well
that others can see through their eyes.
Battarbee, who did the water-colors, has
a sense for thousand-year-old white
gums, stretching gnarled arms to a sky
that isn’t benevolent in the matter of
rain; for rock pools that harbor in
unimaginable depths thousands of gal-
lons of the essence of life. Gardner
limns the broader aspects —the pinkness
of the Pink River ; the quivering, super-
heated air that makes young trees appear
to dance a ballet; the fantastic battle-
ments that a river, assisted by sun, wind
and rain, can carve out of solid rock,
given a couple of million years. The
coloring is predominantly red —from the
faintest pink to the darkest maroon with
which is contrasted the garish green of
the vegetation. So far as the landscapes
go, in panorama and in detail, the coun-
try, though stern, doesn’t look arid. The
painters, both sons of the farm, say it
looked to them like decent grazing land
for sheep or cattle. And that's the way
they’ve depicted it. The territory is re-
mote from markets, but at half a crown
a square mile, which is the current well-
informed estimate of the value of land
in the region, it oughtn’t to be sneezed
at much longer.
“F.S.”: In his latest show of etchings
at the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne, Nor-
man Lindsay confirms his right to the
title of a twentieth-century pillar saint.
The ascetics who retired to the tops of
marble columns in order to escape the
flesh and the devil and dream of divinity
suffered from visions, and there was
more flesh and devil in them than
divinity. The dreams of Paphnutius
Lindsay are in the same category. His
devils are mediaeval; his Thais is
always the same woman —slit-eyed,
naked, or provocatively arrayed in odds
and ends of garments distributed in un-
expected places and calculated to drive
the pious anchorite into fresh frenzies
of self-mortification. As present writer
understands it, No. 65, “Self-Portrait,” is
the etcher’s own diagnosis of the case,
and it seems to follow the above descrip-
tion. The artist, chained to his pen, is
bowed down by the weight of a demon
bearing a Satanic likeness to himself and
by a typical Lindsay woman ; while the
same features are repeated in the throng
around them.
Margaret Preston contributes some
of her two-dimensional flower patterns,
Lionel Lindsay his woodcuts, in which
the blacks are particularly warm and
rich, and John C. Goodchild some fine
impressions of Melbourne, including one
of the historic Mitre Tavern.
Add to the city’s already imposing
array of such societies the New Mel-
bourne Art Club, which has launched
itself on the public at the Sedon
Galleries with the praiseworthy hope
of some day becoming “a wide> and
important organisation. Thro young
ladies, Peggy Crombie, Sybil Craig and
Jessie Mackintosh, and three young men,
W. H. A. Constable, G. B. Heffernan and
John Vickery, comprise its nucleus, and
their achievement is about as even as the
proportion of the sexes. Constable ad-
vertises a London training in some slick
water-colors, Heffernan has some unpre-
tentious ditto and Vickery makes an
essay in the Orpen manner with a large
self-portrait. Of the ladies the Misses
Crombie and Craig are orthodox Nat.
Gallery products, while Miss Mackintosh
commits a colorful heresy or two in the
way of still-life.
A venture unique in local art history
is the Melbourne Picture Lending Lib-
rary, which started inviting patronage
haye (he rj h , of taking out a framed
. (ure a week . and if> after living
with they like it> they can buy j t out-
the year’s sub. being deducted
f rom ’ the purchase-price. The idea has
wor ic e d well in Europe. In these hard
times, it has the advantage of enabling
the average householder to enjoy the
temporary possession and the company
of perhaps £6OO worth of pictures at a
cost of a few shillings. Max Meldrum,
Justus Jorgensen, Alma Figuerola, Alfred
Dunstan, Colin Colahan, August Cor-
nehls and Clarice Beckett are some of the
contributing artists, and Jim Minogue is
the manager.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Five More Brisbane Citizens
And all well known. A. T. Noyes is an
old-time banker and treasurer of the Royal
National Association of Queensland. He
lends dignity to every meeting and has
an uncanny knowledge of the associa-
tion’s finances and resources.
Next comes H. S. Cribb, one of Bris-
bane Show’s younger committeemen.
It is enough to mention his name to
know that he has sprung from Ipswich.
There are more Cribbs in Ipswich than
bottles in Innamincka. John Alexander
is as much part of the judging rings as
the fences round them—he is the mentor
of the young council stewards ; and J.
P. Bottomley at the end of the line is
father and mother to them all —he suc-
ceeded the popular John Macdonald as
chairman of the R.N.A. Council and has
become just as permanent as his pre-
decessor.
For variety and contrast there is
one picture which has nothing to do
with shows —that of Martin Luther
Reading, who occupies the editor’s chair
in the Brisbane “Telegraph” office
in which Dr. Ward and J. C. Woolnough
formerly sat. Like the Fairfaxes of the
“S.M.H.” his ancestral town is Leaming-
ton, in Warwickshire. He edited the
NORTHERN FACES, No. 5.
A. T. Noyes.
H. S. Cribb.
John Alexander.
M. L. Reading.
J. P. Bottomley.
Lyttelton “Times” for many years, and
was one of Maoriland’s delegation of
editors to the Great War front in 1918.
“Vic”: I see it has been raining oysters
in India. That’s nothing to cable about.
Where I come from in Western Queens-
land —a dry part of it, too —it has been
known to rain both fish and frogs. But
those weren’t the strangest precipita-
tions on record. In my early youth,
during a lull after a cyclonic blow, the
blushing bushmen of our region were
presented by the celestial ether with six
pairs of ladies’ red flannel unmention-
ables (they were afterwards traced to a
back yard 70 miles away), a tin trunk
and an empty pickle bottle. It is aston-
ishing what a big willy-willy will pick
up. Frill lizards flew along before men
on the western plains.
* if * *
“Ross Creek”: Townsville is still dis-
cussing the attempt to blow up the local
Crown Prosecutor, and recalling other
pleasantries of the kind. It is probably
the only city in Australia which has
bullet marks on buildings in its main
street, relics of the meatworks strike in
1919. Then rioters rescued two union
organisers, broke into a shop and
acquired a number of rifles and practised
with them in Townsville’s chief avenue
till the Government’s army appeared
from the west. The southern underworld
is blamed for the present incident, and
the local constabulary is crying out for
motor-cars and other meretricious aids
with which to deal with “hold-up” men
and bank robbers, who, they say, “pos-
sess every modern facility.” Why it
should be difficult to catch malefactors,
however fast, in a city with only one on
two big commercial streets and with open
country round about it is hard to
imagine. Thinking men in the North be-
lieve that if Judges became a little more
old-fashioned and less squeamish it
would be better than modernising the
force. A few good whippings such as
have been meted out elsewhere to
robbers who copy American methods
might encourage them to remember that
there are safer and no less profitable
illegal operations than banditry—fan-tan
and two-up, for instance. The ancient
Italian deterrent method also had its
merits. One early Sicilian settler of the
North added considerably to the peace
of his community by an excursion down
the main street waving a cane knife and
yelling that he would “cutta da burgl’ ”
in pieces. “Da burgl’ ” fraternity knew
he meant it and left.
* * * *
“J.”: At Newstead House, head-
quarters of Queensland’s Historical
Society, a tablet was unveiled last week
recording the residency of Captain J.
Clements Wickham, owner of the squat
old mansion. The tablet was given by
Lt.-Col. J. C. Wickham, D. 5.0., R.E., a
grandson of the captain, who visited Bris-
bane some time ago. Captain Wickham
was in Brisbane 96 years ago with
H.M.S. Beagle. Owing to ill-health he left
the sea, and the Home Government
appointed him P.M. of Moreton Bay
district in 1842. He was promoted to
Government Resident in 1853. When
Queensland became a colony the office
was abolished, and he returned to Eng-
land after 47 years’ service, 17 of which
were spent in Moreton Bay. The tablet
unveiled is thus a reminder of an import-
ant period in Brisbane’s history.
“Red Wal”: “K. 0.” (B. 20/9/’33) re-
marks that the Queensland Government
estimates that 4,000,000 acres more
should be under artificial grass, and
points to the danger of adding to the
sugar and dairying areas. Six months
ago The Bulletin published a suggestion
of mine that an attempt be made to
fatten cattle in the Lower Burdekin irri-
gation area by feeding on specially-sown
grasses, thereby utilising allegedly un-
suitable sugar land. Much of this
4,000,000 acres is in N.Q. An effort
should be made to fatten export cattle
on the coast within easy distance of the
Townsville meatworks. Shipowners are
building faster and better-equipped re-
frigerated-cargo-carrying ships, and a fast
service via the Straits with chilled meat,
which is becoming more possible every
day, should establish our meat on the
British market strongly enough to resist
competition from S. America.
if if * *
“Kaloa”: If 36 hours is the longest
that a man can go without water (B.
13/9/’33), there must be a lot of thirst-
dead sundowners knocking about. I
have been just on that time without it
myself, and was far from being a corpse.
It all depends on circumstances, consti-
tution of the individual and how he goes
about things. The man who is exposed
to a broiling sun for 24 hours on end,
who adds exhaustion through effort to
mere thirst, who goes without food for
the whole period, or has food which in-
duces thirst, might certainly find 36 hours
a long time and finish it up on his pink
ear. But I don’t think it would be fatal
to any experienced man. I have known
blacks to cross stretches of 80 waterless
miles quite comfortably as a regular
thing. Their technique —which I also
saw in use in Asia —consisted in putting
a pebble in their mouths and rattling it
to produce saliva. This seemed to make
them thoroughly drought-resistant.
* * * *
“Fitzroy”: With gold at £8 3s. lOd.
there should be a chance for thousands
of unemployed to make wages in Queens-
land. Although a great deal of the allu-
vial country has been turned over, there
is still a lot which might reward men
with cradle and dish. What the Govern-
ment should do is to encourage
schoolboys to get into the business. In
and around Mt. Morgan 30 years ago,
every Saturday saw youngsters on expe-
dition, and some of the old miners got
into the habit of following them. The
lads had no scientific knowledge to
hamper them. The devil himself could
not prevent them from poking under
awkward tree-roots, and they were
adepts at pinching gelignite to get rid
of rocky bars. The oldsters’ game was
to wait till they had broken the back
of the hard work and opened up the
run of wash and then pounce, with the
question: “Where’s your miner’s right?”
—which no lad under 16 could hold.
I paid for all my school books, and for
endless secret dissipation, during three
youthful years with gold won from
claims which had been “worked out” by
adult prospectors who knew too much
to go through a limestone bottom. Out
of one such claim a gang of seven of
us took 14 ounces in five Saturdays.
Then our parents—hard and avaricious
men, some of them thirsty—pegged us
out and panned the last speck out of us.
* * * *
“C all iun g a 1”: Although Central
Queensland had its largest area under cot-
ton during the past season, the crop has
been disappointing. But there has been
a bright feature in the installation at the
Rockhampton ginnery of special machin-
ery to deal with “snapped” cotton. In-
stead of being fed to stock or burnt, as
previously, this class of fibre will this
year yield growers £20,000 —that goes a
long way these hard times.
* * * *
“Limestone”: Ipswich Grammar
School, the oldest institution of its type
in Queensland, celebrated its 70th anni-
versary on September 25. It was the
first fruit of the pioneer secondary-edu-
cation bill passed by the Queensland
Parliament. It was opened by Sir George
Bowen, first Governor of the State, and
among its now oldest living pupils was
a son of the architect who designed it
—Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.). Others
include James Blair, present C.J. of the
State; Bradfield, the bridge-builder; Pro-
fessor Havard, of Wisconsin Univer-
sity, U.S.A.; Dart, the well-known
African ethnologist, and several King’s
Counsel. Ipswich G.S. has had four
Rhodes scholars.
if if if *
Charlie Brand, late Q.M.G., A.M.F.,
has gone up a step to Major-
General on the retired list. A Bun-
daberg school-teacher, Brand went to
South Africa as a subaltern in the
Third Queensland Mounted Infantry,
and on his return joined the per-
manent staff of the C.M.F. in company
with Harry Chauvel, Forsyth, Dodds and
other Bananaland soldiers who were to
achieve distinction in the row with Fritz.
A Brigade Major at the Landing, he
soon forged to the front, and in France
commanded the 4th Infantry Brigade
with distinction.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
We have lost Sir Leslie Wilson for a
month. With Lady Wilson and Mar-
jorie he left by the Changte for Thurs-
day Island and Torres Strait.
Some beautiful babies were exhibited
on the second day of the Kindergarten
festival. You could take your choice
from 300. The show was merely an-
other money-raiser. After two medicoes
passed judgment, knight Donald Cam-
eron presented the prizes.
The W. A. Mackays, of Sydney, gave
a dance for their English visitor Brenda
Green, of Kent, who came out on the
Mongolia. She is Margot Mackay’s
friend, and is staying a year. Marjorie
Wilson was among the dancers.
Plays by two local authors, D. L.
Waraker and G. Carson Cooling, were
the choice of the Brisbane Grammar
School 0.85.’ Dramatic Club for its
annual entertainment. Doris Waraker’s
bright one-act comedy “Strained Rela-
tions” was a refreshing curtain-raiser
for Cooling’s three-acter “The Gentle
Craftsman,” which he produced himself.
Doris, who sat in the audience, must
have been overwhelmed by the flattering
things Cooling said about her. Another
of Doris’s plays, “Brotherhood,” is now
being rehearsed by the W.E.A. Society.
Madge Macdonald returned home by
the Mongolia from England, where she
visited Sir John and Lady Goodwin. She
will soon begin duties as companion to
Lady Clark at Hobart. This will be no
new experience, as Madge frequently
assisted Lady Goodwin in an official
capacity. Our ex-Governor and his wife
are happily settled in Wiltshire, 89 miles
from London. They sent kind messages
to all their Queensland friends.
On R.A.C.Q.’s children’s day 500 citi-
zens willingly drove their cars and made
it possible for 2070 youngsters to join
in the picnic at Sandgate. Bathing pools
were rushed. On the shore were two
sturdy goats, which travelled miles draw-
ing child-laden sulkies.
N.S.W. Justice Minister L. O. Martin
visited Brisbane with his wife for a very
important reason. He came to see his
son Richard, of Taree, take into his
keeping Royale Journeaux, of this town.
Royale changed her name at St. John’s
Cathedral, where Dean Barrett had Rev.
W. Latham, of Taree, to assist him. After
the ceremony guests were bidden to toast
the bridal pair at Jolimont, the Maurice
Herrings’ home at Ascot.
Southport is setting its promenades
and beaches in order for the visit of Sir
Leslie and Lady Wilson, who are to
spend three months there. They will
lodge at Huntington, the home of the
McConnels. They enjoyed themselves
there last summer, when Marjorie
quickly learnt to handle the surf board.
Woolbrokers went gay one night at
the Troc. to help the Ambulance Brigade.
They decked the hall with an abundance
of snowy fleece, and placed bales of wool
guarding each alcove. The Alan Jef-
freys, with the Chris Dixons, were-
amongst the 400 dancers.
Under the baton of E. R. B. Jordan
the Austral Choir gave musical Brisbane
an evening with Brahms. Florence
Micheli, whose soft touch on the piano
always pleases, Bessie Dougall, Archie
Day and Eric Mayne took part.
A policeman’s lot is not always a
happy one. At last constables on point
duty have made the Police Union realise
that during the summer they put up with
a lot of discomfort through the heat, as
the roadway affects their feet. Although
summer has scarcely commenced, the
constables have got in early, and on the
first hot day were seen standing on corn-
sacks. Perhaps the City Council will
figure out some relief for the man in the
sun helmet.
Rotarians and their wives took posses-
sion of Southport over the week-end.
They just went for a friendly and sport-
ing outing, the men playing bowls and
golf, while the women played bridge.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth with exp. wants position as jackeroo,
beginning November. Refs.—Bl6s.
Retrenched bank clerk, studied accountancy,
wants work of any sort. Refs. —8127.
Young man (28), 10 years’ farm exp., N.S.W.,
wheat and sheep, used to tractors, wants job
anywhere. Refs.—Bl94.
Young man (26), eight years’ exp. with
stock, also as book-keeper and typist, wants
employment on station or with stock and
station agent.—Bl73.
To buy “Conversational Japanese for Be-
ginners” (Rose-Innes); also “Things Japanese”
and “Handbook of Colloquial Japanese”
(Chamberlain). —8218.
Words of poems “Not Understood,” “My
Rosa,” “The White Rose” and “His First Long
Pants.” —8170.
Words of “If,” “Not Understood” and
“Oration of Knickerbocker over Riley
Grannon.” —8209.
Words of “Little Orphant Annie,” by James
Whitcomb Riley.—B2o7.
To buy bayonets and Gurkha’s kukri, also
old Australian military badges, buttons, etc. —
8211.
To buy Mozart’s Symphonies (pf. solo),
Heller’s transcriptions of songs by Schubert, and
Beethoven’s Quartet, Op. 131 (pf. solo). —8235.
To buy autograph letters written by early
Australian celebrities. —8223.
Information Sought.
(1) Name of the greatest short-story writer,
any nationality, of the last hundred years ?
(2) What is the status of Guy de Maupassant
as a writer of short stories? —8179.
(1) There is no Court with jurisdiction to
settle questions of literary precedence. A few
years ago, when a query as to the 12 foremost
short-story writers was propounded to this
department, a conspectus was taken of the
views of The Bulletin staff. O. Henry (Sydney
Porter), Rudyard Kipling, De Maupassant and
Tchekov had strong backing, with H. G. Wells,
E. A. Poe and Ambrose Bierce almost as well
supported. There were 40 lists, including over
200 names, and when the voters looked at the
lists almost all of them said they felt they
could make a sounder second choice now that
their memories had been refreshed. (2) Artistic-
ally, he stands high. Even in bowdlerised trans-
lations his sureness of touch and economy of
line command admiration from the English
reader.
(1) Who was the greatest of musical infant
prodigies ? (2) Some of his achievements at an
early age ? (3) Was his health impaired by his
early career as a concert artist ? —8236.
(1) Mozart. (2) Commenced study of harpsi-
chord at 3 ; was composing at 4; played the
harpsichord before the Emperor of Austria at
6 (his recital programme included an ornate
concerto by Wagenseil, the Court composer);
played not only harpsichord but violin and
organ, in public, at 7; composed four meri-
torious symphonies at 9. (3) No direct evidence.
He had a bout of scarlet fever at six, after his
Viennese triumphs, and thereafter his nerves
were impaired, so that he could not safely ride
a horse. In later life his habit of improvising
all day and composing all night, assisted by
libations of punch, was unhealthy, and he
died at 35.
What are the most notable English proper
names not pronounced as they are spelt ?—•
8204.
Beauchamp (Beecham), Berkeley (Barkly),
Cholmondeley (Chumly), Marjoribanks (Marsh-
banks), Wemyss (Weems), Bohun (Bohoon),
Bethune (Beeton) and Dalzell (Dalyell) are a
few of them.
(1) What qualifications are necessary for
appointment as a “Hansard” reporter ? (2)
Do the same rules govern appointments for
State and Federal reporters ? (3) How long
would it take to acquire necessary speed ? (4)
What system of shorthand should I study ? (5)
Where, in Sydney, could I be taught ? (6)
Approximate cost? —8047.
(1) Ability to take a verbatim note and other
journalistic and reporting experience. (2) Can’t
say. Chiefs of the various “Hansard” staffs
make the appointments. (3) Depends mainly
upon individual aptitude, the time that can be
devoted to study and the quality of the instruc-
tion. If you got up to “Hansard” standard
in a year or so you would do very well. (4)
Pitman’s. (5) There are various good commer-
cial schools. (6) Three sessions in the evening
classes at the Chartres College cost £2 12s. 6d.
per quarter until the student passes at the
rate of 90 words per minute, when he is ad-
mitted to the Shorthand Writers’ Guild; 15s.
per six months entitles him to three shorthand
lessons and one typewriting lesson per week.
Day classes cost, two lessons daily, Monday
to Friday inclusive, £4 9s. 3d. per quarter.
Is there any truth in the statement that the
original name of Brisbane was “Edenglassie” ?
—8123.
The town was named Edenglassie in Dec.,
1824, but civic records as early as 1825 use
the name “Brisbane.” Definite official con-
firmation of the change is lacking until 1839.
(1) Names of literary agents in London ? (2)
Do they handle short stories and articles as well
as novels? (3) What is their fee? —8183.
(1) Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street,
W.C.2: Jno. Farquharson, 8 Halsey House,
Red Lion-square; J. B. Pinker, Talbot House.,
9 Arundel-street, W.C.2; Arthur Stockwell, 29
Ludgate Hill, E.C.4; Christy and Moore, The
Outer Temple, 222 Strand, W.C.2. (2) Yes.
(3) By arrangement. Usually 10 p.c.
(1) Is Axel Munthe, the author of "The Story
of San Michele,” a doctor, and of what
nationality ? (2) Are the details true ? (3) Did
the professors mentioned by the author actu-
ally exist ? —BOBB.
(1) He is a Swedish medico who was for a
time physician to the Queen of Sweden. (2)
and (3) The author, now retired from practice,
has a home at San Michele on the Island of
Capri. Beyond that the only person who can
answer your questions is Dr. Munthe.
(1) How are eyepieces for terrestrial and
astronomical telescopes graded ? (2) Most suit-
able eyepiece, for all-round work, for a 3 in.
astronomical telescope ? (3) Approximate prices
of eyepieces ? (4) Is there an adjustable instru-
ment that does not require separate eyepieces
for various magnifications ? —8149.
(1) Astronomical oculars, by focal length,
either in inches or metric measure. Makers
sometimes mark oculars with the magnification
obtained with that lens. Terrestrial oculars are
not usually marked, as in most cases only one
is supplied. Where there are more than one they
are marked “High” or “Low,” or with the
magnification. The difference between astro-
nomical and terrestrial telescopes is that the
terrestrial is fitted with a system of lenses to
erect the image. (2) A half-inch, giving a mag-
nification of approximately 80X. It is an
advantage to have also a quarter-inch, giving
power 130 X. (3) Prices of Huyghens oculars
range from 30s. to 455. (4) Not for astronomi-
cal purposes. For terrestrial purposes a vari-
able power of, say, 30X to 50X can be obtained
with a pancratic eyepiece.
I have a £5 gold piece dated 1887 in perfect
condition. Has this any value from a col-
lector's point of view above the market value of
gold ? If so, where can I find a buyer for it ?
—8152.
The collector value of gold coins of high
face value seldom rises above par except in
cases of rarity. The coin in question exists in
great numbers and its collector value is about
£5 10s. At the present value of gold this is
probably below its gold value.
Are there any vacancies in the N.R.M.A. for
patrolmen at present, and what qualifications are
required ? —8034.
No vacancies at present. Qualifications for
appointment are first-hand knowledge of the
various makes of cars, ability to quickly and
correctly diagnose the troubles of a car which
has ceased to function, and to get such car
again in running order. Applicants should call
on the Chief of Patrol Staff, Patrol Head-
quarters, 166 George-street, North Sydney. If
the result of the interview is satisfactory they
are placed on the list for employment so soon
as a vacancy occurs.
How can stable manure be made free from
tetanus germs for garden use ? —7805.
Short of submitting it to great heat there is
no sure safeguard. If the manure is fresh,
tightly packed and allowed sunlight, the re-
sultant fermentation may destroy the bacilli.
(1) Can I increase the A.H. capacity of my
32-volt house-lighting battery by connecting an
additional 6- or 12 -volt accumulator battery in
parallel with it ? (2) How to charge a 2-volt
wireless battery from the house-lighting plant
(32 -volt dynamo and 28-volt battery ) ? (3)
Could I connect the wireless accumulator in
series with the main battery and charge both
in one operation ?■ —8068.
(1) No. It would be necessary to connect
14 cells (28 volts) of the same type and joined
in series in parallel with your present battery.
(2) and (3) Your method could be adopted
provided internal resistance of cells is low and
main accumulators are discharged, but as bat-
tery voltage rises towards the end of the charge
it will eventually equal dynamo voltage. When
this occurs remove the 2-volt cell and con-
tinue to charge the main battery. At the com-
mencement of the charge, the charging current
must not exceed that recommended for the
2-volt cell. To obviate errors connect a centre-
zero ammeter in one of the charging leads.
I have a 36-volt 8-amp. dynamo wherein the
commutator has been trimmed down several
times in the lathe. Could I build it up again
by soldering copper strips on the segments, or
would this method injure the insulation ?
8069.
This would not be practicable. When turn-
ing the commutator on the lathe the segments
would bend out of position. Machining and
Electric Co., 29| Oxford-street, Sydney, wilL
replace your commutator for about £B. For-
ward the rotor section only.
What is the cheapest method of making a
mat suitable for wrestling ? I have a 12 ft. by
1 2ft. tent-fly for use as a cover. —7993.
Spread two bales of straw on floor, cover
with strong blanket or bagging, nail two sides
of covering, then pull other sides as tightly
as possible before nailing them also. Place
tent-fly on top, and tie all sides to floor with
thick cord. Ordinary bed-mattresses, covered
by the tent-fly, with all sides tied to floor,
should also give satisfactory service.
How to remove copying-ink pencil stains
from clothing ? —8079.
(a) Dissolve 2oz. of chloride of lime in
i pint of cold water. ( b ) Dissolve |lb. washing
soda in \ pint boiling water. Mix (a) and (b)
and leave overnight; next day pour off and
bottle clear liquor. Steep white things where
stained, then wash as usual. These stains
cannot 'be removed from colored material
without affecting the color.
What power would be obtained from a Pelton
wheel using 1 \in. pipe for the upper half of
the pipe-line and 1 in. pipe for the lower half
with a head of (a) 40 ft., (b) 60 ft., (c) 80 ft. ?
8119.
Depends upon the length of the pipe-line as
well as the head, but lin. and Uin. pipe will
probably be too small for this work. With an
available head of 60ft. these machines require
from 2.24 to 340 cubic feet per minute, accord-
ing to the size of the wheel and h.p. developed,
the figures mentioned corresponding to 0.17 and
30 h.p. respectively. W. G. Watson and Co.,
279 Clarence-street, Sydney, can give you any
further advice you require.
A simple method of home-curing hams ?
8070.
Cut off hams and forequarters, and cut the
rest in pieces the size required. ’ Rub each
piece thoroughly with coarse salt and allow to
lie on straw for six days, turning and rubbing
more salt in every day. On the sixth day
clean off the surplus salt and rub with a mix-
ture of Demerara sugar 2 parts, salt 1 part and
1 tablesnoon saltpetre. Allow to lie again for
six days, each day turning and rubbing with
21b. Demerara sugar, lib. salt and 1 teaspoon
saltpetre. On the seventh day wash each piece,
dry it, dust it with equal parts of Jamaica and
white pepper and hang up in muslin bags.
Recipe for cement paint ? —7732.
Ingredients are: 1 bag of Portland cement
to about 6 gallons of boiled linseed oil. The
cement is first of all mixed with water to the
consistency of a thick grout, and after stand-
ing for 15 to 20 minutes the oil is slowly added
with constant stirring until the mass is uniform.
Each gallon will cover from 150 to 200 square
feet.
How to bottle lemon-juice so that it will
keep during summer? —8126.
Express the juice, strain and pour into bottles
to within -jdn. of the top, then fill up with olive
oil and cork tightly. When required, remove
oil with a tuft of cotton-wool and use the
contents of the bottle at once, as it will keep
only a few hours after-air is admitted. N.S.W.
Agriculture Department, Sydney, will forward
pamphlet on application.
How to clean a genuine panama hat that has
had one season’s wear ? —7975.
Remove outer band and with a nail-brush
scrub hat with warm water containing pure
Castile soap and a little ammonia. Rinse twice
in clean warm water containing a little glycerine,
which will keep the hat from becoming stiff;
press out the surplus water with a thick towel,
and let the hat dry on a folded towel in an
airy place, but not in direct sunshine.
How to restore a nigger-brown leather coat
that is losing its color ? —BO3O.
Clean the coat thoroughly, laid out on a
table, and give it a further run over with a little
soft soap rubbed in with a flannel very spar-
ingly. While still damp from the soap but not
wet, take a sponge and apply this mixture:
1 cup vinegar, 1 cup methylated spirit and
sufficient Bismarck brown to make a good
color. Allow to dry thoroughly, then polish
the coat with shoe cream or furniture polish.
How to sharpen gimlets or small German
bits ? —8079.
File the worm point of the gimlet or bit
with a small half-round file until the edges of
the thread are restored.
What was the meaning of the term “Cabbage-
tree Mob,” once in common use in Sydney ?
7847.
Thg Cabbage-tree Mob was a forerunner of
larrikin “pushes.” Members got their name
from their hats, made from the cabbage palm.
Their chief playground was at the entrance to
the old Victoria Theatre, where it was their
delight to bash in the “toppers” of well-
dressed entrants to the show.
(1) What was the first bank opened in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Where and when ? —7860.
(1) The Bank of New South Wales. (2) Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, on April 18, 1817. Its
cash assets were kept in an iron chest, and to
defend them there was an armory of a brass-
barrelled blunderbuss, a spring bayonet and
several horse-pistols with flint locks.
(1) When was wireless telephony established
between Australia and England, and to what
extent has it been developed ? (2) What are
the charges ? —BOl6.
(1) The system was opened on April 30, 1930,
and is now available to most telephone sub-
scribers in Australia and Europe. (2) The fee
for a conversation between Australia and Eng-
land is £6 for a minimum of three minutes
and £2 for each additional minute. The charge
is a little more to European countries.
What are the respective tonnages of the mer-
chant fleets of Britain, U.S.A. and Japan ?
8021.
Britain, 22,784,383 tons; U.S.A., 13,546,620
tons; Japan, 3,390,572 tons.
(1) Who planned the town of Melbourne ?
(2) Who named it Melbourne and what name
was it known by previously ? —8027.
(1) The city was laid out by Robert Hoddle,
who, as a surveyor, accompanied Governor
Bourke, of N.S.W. (which then included Vic.),
to Port Phillip in April, 1837. (2) Bourke
named the site after Lord Melbourne, then
Prime Minister of England. Previously it had
been variously known as Beargrass, Batmania,
Yarrow Yarrow and Glenelg.
(1) When were Melbourne and Sydney and
Sydney and Brisbane linked by railway ? (2)
What are the gauges on these sections ? —8035.
(1) Melbourne and Sydney, 1883 ; Sydney and
Brisbane, 1889. (2) Victorian gauge, sft. 3in.;
N. S. Wales, 4ft. B|in.; Queensland, 3ft. 6in.
What salaries are paid to members of the
Commonwealth and State Parliaments ? —8037.
Commonwealth, Reps, and Senate, £BOO a
year. N.S.W., £706 to M’s.L.A.; no remunera-
tion to members of Leg. Council. Vic., L.A.,
£402; L.C., £177. Q’land, L.A., £5OO (no Coun-
cil). S.A., both Houses, £360. W.A., both
Houses, £4BO. Tas., from £296 to £4OO in the
Upper House and from £320 to £4OO in the
Lower, according to area of electorate and dis-
tance from Hobart.
Was there an occasion prior to 1927 when
Sydney Municipal Council was superseded by
a Commission appointed by the Government ?
Circumstances ? —8046.
Yes. From 1854 to 1857 a Commission
administered the city’s municipal functions,
Parliament being dissatisfied with the civic
administration.
(1) What was the extent of the territory in
New Guinea mandated to Australia ? (2) Is the
Commonwealth permitted to train the natives
for military service ? —8049.
(1) 93,000 square miles. (2) Military training
of the natives, except for local police purposes,
is prohibited under the mandate, and no mili-
tary or naval base can be established anywhere
in the territory.
What was the date of the loss of the mail
aeroplane Southern Cloud, and the number of
lives lost? —8053.
The ’plane disappeared in a storm while on
her way from Sydney to Melbourne on March
21, 1931. She carried two pilots and six
passengers.
What is the history of St. Phillip’s Church,
Sydney ? —7876.
The foundation stone of St. Phillip’s Church
(named after Governor Phillip) was laid in 1798,
and the church was formally opened for wor-
ship on Christmas Day, 1800. Prior to that
date it had been used for occasional services,
and even for a political meeting by the anti-
Bligh party. The Rev. Dr. Cowper was first
chaplain or rector, and so continued up to the
time of his death. He also took in hand the
building of the present St. Philip’s Church
(named after the Apostle). Foundation stone
was laid on May 1, 1848, and the church
consecrated on Match 27, 1856, by Bishop
Broughton.
Was Captain “Bully” Hayes at any time an
actor ? —7945.
Yes. He was with a nigger minstrel co. in
Maitland (N.S.W.) in 1860. He was also with
a show at Balclutha (M.L.).
(1) Date of the passing of the N. S. Wales
State Lottery Act ? (2) Date of the first draw-
ing ?— 7939.
(1) The Act was passed in 1930 and was
brought into operation on June 22, 1931. (2)
August 20, 1931.
(1) Which is the longest river, Murray, Darl-
ing or Murrumbidgee ? (2) Drainage area of
each ? —7933.
(1) According to a N.S.W. Government report
the length of the Darling is 1702 miles; the
Murray, 1609; and the Murrumbidgee, 981.
(2) Darling, 221,700 acres; Murrumbidgee,
10,700; Murray, 10,160.
Brief Answers.
N.L.8.: So far as regular schedule runs are
concerned the electric train is the faster. The
steam train run at 81.68 m.p.h. was not a
regular schedule performance, but a special
speed experiment. Can’t say what speed Diesel-
electrics might be able to achieve... .J.H.:
Average prices for good merino at London
wool sales were: 1889, N.S.W., 10d.; Vic.,
per pound. 1894, N.S.W., 7d.; Vic.,
9d. per pound.... A.L.S.: Canker, probably, is
due primarily to improper feeding. D. Moore,
6 Dalley-street, Sydney, supplies a suitable
ointment; Is. 3d., posted... .J.S.: Can’t find
statutory support for your theory. Refer to
N.S.W. Lands Department... .K.L.J.: No bio-
graphical details of Dr. F. C. Haddock.
Dymocks, Sydney, have some of his books in
stock... .D.S.: Having erected the fence with-
out reference to your own landlord or to the
adjoining landowner, as to sharing costs, you
have now no claim on them. The owner may
claim the fence and refuse assent to its removal.
... .1.C.: Algebra treatise has no special value:
work by Bennett is worth about 21s
G. : (1), (2) and (3) No engineering data
available for this type of experimental job. (4)
Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Goode Island, Mel-
bourne A.P.D.: Overland Sydney, Ltd., 173
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, can assist you- if you
send full description of part required....
H. Write Chief Inspector, Harbors and
Marine, Brisbane... .J.W.S.: No formula, save
that the leverage is increased by the distance the
head of the screwdriver can be held out of line
with the screw without disengaging the 510 t....
F.P.M.: Put mosquito-proof netting on your
windows J.D.P.: As the area under fruit
trees is less than a quarter of an acre regis-
tration as an orchard is not necessary in
N.S.W W.A.M.: There are no regulations
concerning the alcoholic content of wine sold
in N.S.W’... .W.D.8.: Only purely ornitholo-
gical journals are the “Emu” and the “South
Australian Ornithologist,” both quarterlies,
issued to members of the Royal Australasian
Ornithologists’ Union, 170 Latrobe-street, Mel-
bourne, and of the S.A.Q.A., Adelaide Museum.
....Inquirer: If your forebears were English
you will have to employ a searcher in Britain to
investigate parish records. Mitchell Library,
Sydney, might assist you to get Australian
details J.F.P.: Most of the information you
require is contained in “Australian Tea-trees
of Economic Value,” obtainable free from
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
Constant Reader: A cord of wood is de-
fined as 2$ tons, or 125 cubic feet (a stack sft.
by sft. by sft.) M.M.: Wordsworth’s short
poem commencing “My heart leaps up when I
behold a rainbow in the sky” is a classical
instance... .C.H.: Spirits of tar is not used for
veterinary work; perhaps you mean oil of
tar J.C.8.: In a sale of land the buildings
on it pass with the land. Buyer of the bricks
should have removed them when he bought them.
The new owner, in the circumstances, may be
prepared to allow removal.... Mary Ann: Com-
municate with Deputy Commissioner, Invalid
and Old-age Pensions, Brisbane... .J.H.: Gold
produced in Australia or New Guinea may be
exported without restriction M.R.: Cat
suffers from eczema, result of cooked-meat
diet. Keep him in a bath of potassi sulphurata,
2oz. to 1 gallon of water, for 15 minutes, and
then dry him thoroughly. Symptoms also point
to worms. Starve for 24 hours, then administer
areca nut (1 grain per pound weight of cat),
in butter or cream. Two hours later give a
liberal dose of castor oil, and two hours after
that let him have some warm milk. Feed on
raw beef in future... .J.H.: From 1906 to
1915 drawings contributed to The Bulletin by
Oswald Pryor were signed “Cipher”
M.S.C.: “Poultry Farming in N.5.W.,” by
James Hadlington, 4s. 3d.; “Poultry Book for
Australasia,” by M. R. Harris, 2s. 2d., posted.
J.W.H.: Term is not in common use.
Cannot trace its derivation... .J.F.A. (1) The
lines are from “Little Orphant Annie,” by
James Whitcomb Riley. (2) They are English
and French versions of the same name
B.B.B.: (1) No. (2) Tonax copper salts, obtain-
able from Lawrence Smith and Co., Bathurst-
street, Sydney, can be used without injurious
effects. Usual strength is Boz. to gallon of
water... .Tamorine: Can’t say without inspec-
tion. Probably Astur novce-hollandice, though
it might be an albinistic form of some other
species... .L.R.T.: There is no official Aus-
tralian National Anthem. Cannot trace source
of lines quoted, but they evidently were sung
to tbe tune of “God Save the King”... .C.M.:
No, it is a personal promise binding only the
person making it... .J.R.R.: (1) The Mora-
torium Act, 1932 (N.S.W.), does not allow a
forced sale at the option of the mortgagee. The
principal conditions under which a mortgagee
may enter into possession are: (a) Where in-
terest is in arrear for two years, (b) default
under covenant for two years to pay rates, (c)
breaking covenants to insure and maintain pro-
perty, (d) bankruptcy or assignment of estate of
mortgagor, ( e ) disbandment of possession by
mortgagor; and other circumstances not applic-
able to your case. (2) Where a mortgage to
which the Act is applicable falls due it is auto-
matically renewed, or extended, to the year
1936... .W.V.: In general, yes. Registration
gives priority over subsequently registered mort-
gages. Fee depends on type of mortgage.
Generally no penalty... .8.A.L.: The Mora-
torium Act (N.S.W.) extends repayment of these
mortgages to 1936, but allows application to a
Moratorium Court for the repayment of prin-
cipal at an earlier date. Circumstances, in
brief, are where the security is wasting, the
conduct of the mortgagor is undeserving, or
great hardship would be inflicted on the mort-
gagee by the extension. Failing recourse to the
Court it would be possible, at a sacrifice, to
transfer the mortgages, but at present few
investors can be found willing to take over
mortgages encumbered by the existing 1aw....
(Many others mailed).


RHEUMATISM and JOINT PAINS
This Remedy is Confidently Recommended
Forty-five years doing one
thing only and doing it well—
ending for tens of thousands of
sufferers the misery and pain caused by
weak kidneys, awful rheumatism, bad
backache, the torture of uric acid
troubles, the weakness caused by
bladder trouble, arising from weak
kidney action.
Every reader of this paper must
have heard of wonderful cases where
chronic rheumatism and other troubles
caused by weak kidneys have been
permanently ended by the world-
famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills.
Relief in 24 Hours
Go to your chemist now and get a
supply of De Witt’s Pills. From the
very first dose, in 24 hours you see
how they act directly through the
kidneys and know this wonderful
remedy is really doing you good. If
you will only persevere the end of
your pain and weakness is certain and
assured.
This is the clear claim made for
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It is borne out by the thousands and
thousands of letters of gratitude for
relief obtained, when health was de-
spaired of, which have been received
by the proprietors. It is this amazing
evidence that De Witt’s Pills will
surely benefit you when everything else
fails that prompts us to give you this
advice.
This safe, always reliable remedy
is invaluable in all cases of pains in the
back, kidney trouble, joint pains, uric
acid trouble, depressed or tired feeling,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, sleep-
less nights and bladder weakness. Sold
by all chemists. Start on the road to
health now. Don’t put off until to-
morrow the health you can have to-
day. Ask for, and be sure you obtain
888 s
De Witt’s
Kidney and
Bladder
Pills
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Hampstead Hall”: Our queerest
client is a blacksmith who refuses to
receive his iron if it is sent on a motor-
lorry. He says motors are putting him out
of business, and he won’t have one near
his place ; and we have to humor him.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: One would expect that,
where feeder ’bus services in Sydney
have been taken over by the Govern-
ment, there would be more co-opera-
tion between trams and ’buses, but the
old enmity persists. When a Govern-
ment ’bus is hastening to make a connec-
tion with a Government tram in my
suburb, as likely as not you will see
the tram move off before the ’bus gets
there with its load. It is a paltry busi-
ness and the public are the sufferers.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Some of these Roosevelc
codes bear a strong resemblance to Aus-
tralian industrial awards, except that
they go further. In the timber industry,
for instance, prices and profits are con-
trolled ; but Australian timber-workers
will not agitate for some of the pro-
visions—minimum wage of 30 cents an
hour for 40 hours, no overtime and
work Saturday afternoons —with steak
at 24 to 30 cents a pound, bread 12 to
14 cents and beer 10 cents.
* * * *
“L.A.S.”: The far end of my yard,
abutting on a lane, was littered with
Houserent’s jerrybuilding material, and
he wouldn’t shift it, though 1 had
the rest of the yard beautifully clean.
He “obliged” me to the extent of leav-
ing an unsightly heap, mostly fish tins ;
and now he is having a storeroom built
over it. The carpenter came for tea
water. “What a mad idea, building a
shed with a mountain of rubbish inside
it,” I protested. “That’s all right,” said
Chips briskly. “I’ll get the old cow to
give you a few bob to shovel it out and
scatter it about the yard.”
* * * *
“.32”: The marsupial skin-shooter
has come into his own again in
Queensland. It has been a record season
for ’roo and wallaby skins. Brisbane
auctioneers submitted as many as 25,000
skins at a time, and one western party
of shooters sent 4700, worth about £BOO.
Most of the pelts go to the U.S.A., where
they are in strong demand for shoe
uppers. Winter skins are the best, and
grading goes by bullet-holes, the variety
rf S-
ho|es rank first . grade , up £ four or
more second, those with big holes third.
Third-grade prices are about Is. per
compared with 3s. Bd. for first
“Esters”: H.*E. Laffer, representative
f h overseas wine Marketing Board,
mentions that during the bodyline-
bowling controversy British sales of
Australian wine fell off by 120,000 gal-
lons in three months. By the end of
A . , ~ 3 . .
A”Sust when the argument was peter-
L n * ° ut " * ere wa | f a " upward jump of
32,000 gallons. Strong inquiries as to
Australian wines are coming in from the
U.S.A. with the end of prohibition, while
saleSi especia||y o( sw p eel wines ; have
increased throughout Canada. Even
ln Quebec, where French wines are
naturally popular, the demand for Aus-
tra*ian wine ls growing,
* * * *
“Cauboy : A recent par. about faked
furniture was taken to imply that the
national collection in Melbourne was
foil of spurious antiques. It really
referred to fakes in private collections,
The manufacture of antique furniture is
a thriving industry in Europe, and the
ageing of these objets d’art is an art in
itself. One method is to place a just-
finished table or other article in the
workers’ lunch-room. They know what
their job is. Every time they pass the
thing they give it a hearty kick. They
sit on it while eating their lunch, and
negligently chip at it with their knives,
In a few weeks centuries are added to its
age by this method of seasoning,
* * * *
In Sydney the other day a Bulletin
man, through the activities of The Bul-
letin’s young sister, the “Radio News,”
took part in a unique radio demonstra-
tion. With equipment which can be
almost tucked under an arm, he had
chats with officers of the N.S.W. police
radio branch and a private experimenter
in the suburb of Rose Bay, just as if he
were using the ordinary telephone-line
service. He spoke, and the answering
voice came back: no noise, no static, no
interference.' Ultra short-waves were
responsible for this convincing applica-
tion of radio-telephony. Plainly, these
very short waves have infinite possibili-
ties.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.H.: An atmosphere of utter unreality
hangs over it like a pa 11... .F.E.K.: Carries
no appeal K.N.: Doesn’t quite click,
though it has a good bush flavor H.G.C.:
You’re wasting your time R. 8.: Sheer
banality... .A.R.D.: It might do for a woman’s
paper G.A.L.: Don’t see the point of it.
A.M.C.: They don’t grip a ha’p’orth....
S.McD.: A little too much like essays....
E. : We got very tired of it long before we
reached the inconclusive end....J.C.: Terribly
tedious... .K.D.M.: Tenuous; “Alone” came
nearest.... Darien : No peak discernible....
P.A.2: Cannot hold out any encouragement.
R.F.N.: It rings true, but how many
people would your juvenile autobiography
interest?... .F.F.W.: Too scrappily put
together P.McM.: Dark love and white
passion are a fertile theme for story-tellers,
but we like more water .in ours... .K.H.:
Forced humor, and it drags too palpably.. .
F. : Trial gallops in verse that would hardly
impress the touts... .R.A.A.: Pretty enough,
but devoid of stimulus... .J.W.: You haven’t
even learned to rhyme correctly... .Amodeo:
No better than your first effort... .L.R.: You
lose yourself in a tangle of metaphors....
1.F.W.: Hopeless... .J.R.H.: A hash-up of
cheap thoughts and hackneyed images, with
one very bad rhyme.... L.C.: “The world
awakes, I gaze and sigh.” And gazing at your
reflections on sunrise we have to sigh, t 00....
M. 8.: You might have a chance if you would
eschew words like “hushingness”... .W.N.S. : A
very labored lyric... .R.W.: Feeble to trashi-
ness... .R.Y.: It’s been done much better and
it could hardly be done worse... .H.W.: Un-
suitable... .1.M.: You drop into bathos with
extraordinary facility... .A.H.C.: No market
for Oriental fairy tales.... R.S.: The man who
resolved to buy two one-and-threepenny cigars
with his last half-crown seems unreal....
G. : “Missing the ’Bus” did so by yards....
D.H.W.: Pretty enough, but it says nothing
worth so much repetition T.E.M.: The last
word in barrenness and flatness... .H.L.W.:
Schoolboyish... .M.E.K.: Not even a para-
graph in them... .C.C.: Short enough, but not
shiny enough... .A.N.M.: Scarcely makes a
sketch.... R.C.: Never met an editor like that.
. ...M.8.M.: Free verse, chopped into uneven
lengths on some principle known to nobody but
the perpetrator, gives us a pain... .E. 8.:
Ambrosia was the food of the gods and
nectar was their tipple, but “ambrosial nectar”
has us beat... .W.H.R.: A bit too recondite.
Why not try the old vein again?... .1.K.8.:
Pity you didn’t send that before September
was 0ut....L.G.: No masterpiece there....
J.E.P.: A long way after W. W. Jacobs....
R.W.D.: An inartistic ending... .Kaymac:
Has undeniable human interest, but it doesn’t
quite make a story... .W.H.8.: After all that
working up to the end, you leave the end out.
....Anon: Dogfights and bullants mix ill
with church services. .. .N.C.T.: Forced....
W.R.: A capital anti-climax; what spoils it is
'the unconvincing beginning... .H.K.: Quite
good as a satire, but the topic has been worn
thin... .Camerino: Some cleverness, but over-
hectic... .J.H.: We prefer toad-in-the-h01e....
G.V.: Rather a heavy slab of history....
A.McH.: “That was Montagu Hoyle all over!
He did not use six words if five would do."
You reverse the procedure... .Bellerive:
EIGHT HOURS HAY IN THE PAST-
Headed by bands, carts
Lorries and drags.
Adorned with banners
And spangled flags,
Young men of trades
And veteran’s grey.
Followed the Procession
On eight hour’s day.
Laughter would waft
At the pranks of a clown.
From vehicle’s samples
Were thrown down.
With its banners and
Flags in grand array.
The procession was grand
On eight hours day.
. ...E.R.M.: Certainly you may re-write and
re-submit rejected poems. “Song of the Bush”
is much too close to Masefield... .W.W.G.:
Too trite.... Shylock: You do scant justice to
the rhyming possibilities of Popanyinning....
Fitz: The mere fact that it occurred doesn’t
palliate the doggerel... .C.C.C.: Sorry we can’t
use any of them. You try too many subjects
and keys; concentrate on saying less and phras-
ing it better... .P.K.: There’s feeling in all
three pieces, but not quite enough craftsmanship.
....T.W.N.: Cheer up, you may yet find your
lost affinity H.F.A.: “Returned” it i 5....
E.F.: No g 0.... M.E.M.: “Night droops her
dusky wings,” “The long day dies.” But it’s
been said so often... .C.R.A.: It’s a long, lonj
way to Pompeii... .P. 8.: But you’re all wrorv;
about the family of the late Czar of Russia.
Whether medical science helped or not, he
did have a son.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.A.: Jests have the dust of ages upon
them C.K.: Sending wild man from Bogga-
bri back for repairs A.F.W.: Continually
chasing that crayfish off our doorstep... .F.M.:
Thin man’s jibe at fat man’s tummy is mere
lunch-hour humor... .R.C.: If you tell us you
drew it standing on your head you won’t be dis-
believed. .. .W.L.: Actor’s retort to landlady old
stuff... .M.J.: You’re all at sea with the brush.
... .E.S.P.: You need time—lots of it... .H.F.:
So that foreman has not yet learned to dodge
those dropped bricks... .M.D.L.: Seen in a
dark room by a shortsighted person it mightn't
look so bad G.G.: All were left at the post.
D.W.: Picture of damsel lashed to rail-
way line looks exciting, but where’s the joke?
... .L.G.C.: If that’s how you spend your wet
week-ends, we pray for fine ones 8.L.: But
surely Bombala is not peopled with dwarfs
T.S.: Very promising; put them in ink and try
again J. 5.8.: More like a stray from
“Comic Cuts” J.G.: Stop grafting monkey
faces on your men....E.C.: Vague... .1.G.:
Linework astray W.K.: Your passion for
heavy eyebrows and scratchy lines is not shared.
... .CJ.: No kennel for Fido here.


Ss-'
A
'mm
X.
Jjzt/s evijoi/j this CjtoLiuaij
$ Let’s go to sea! Let’s travel to Perth and back by one of
the modern luxury ships that trade regularly between East and
West.... We’ll be gloriously lazy. We’ll do just what we like,
when we like, and, withal, forget the dull monotony of everyday
routine We’ll see new cities— Adelaide and Perth. We’ll meet
new people—interesting people.... We’ll enjoy ourselves.
TRAVEL INTERSTATE BY SEA
Write or call for full
particulars:
WE’LL SEE ADELAIDE
The Queen City of the South!
A charming place; great, wide
streets and beautiful park lands.
And, encircling the city, the
Lofty Ranges .... a _ veritable
treasure-trove of scenic delights.
We’ve time for a few trips tlieie.
WE’LL SEE PERTH
Australia’s Western Gateway....
Bathed in the golden sunshine
that deckles the picturesque Swan
River as it winds between Perth s
wooded hills. We’ve time for
happy picnic-trips ashore tlieie,
too.
■J/ig fUUlcude /JtearmdyLP Co. Ltd.,
me. JUv/uuddL nUc.CcuzfiasLn. did..
cfUtddaA± dtcL..
(y/ljelufaiASisLe /ItecuridALp Co., fid..
AT ALL PORTS
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Like a tall white lily of faith a slim
young thing, hatted, gloved and frocked
in snowy organdie, stepped on the
green sward outside the tote windows at
Randwick on Saturday, and, touched by
such tribute to his power, the sun god
speeded up his chariot and outdistanced
the celestial watering-cart. But the
watering-cart had had its way most of
the morning, with the result that as a
dress parade Derby Day was a wash-
out. Topcoats, fur coats and cloth
suits became winter garments of repent-
ance when the sun beat down and turned
the space between the backs of the stands
and the ring into a regular forcing
chamber. Still the affair was as full
of bounce as a tennis ball; race peren-
nials declared it “the biggest and hap-
piest meeting since 1929,” and the place
was so congested with sheepmen that
you half-expected to hear an answering
bleat every time a bookie called “two to
one bar one.”
Subdued frocking filled the vice-regal
holding, Lady Game’s suit and hat being
a study in black keys, with a Chopin-like
flourish in the white pique vest and the
flower on the right lapel. Mrs. Reggie
Allen was a nocturne in black cloth and
silver fox, a lingering bit of sunset being
suggested by her pink camellia, while
the new Mrs. Dick Allen was a trousseau
gavotte in sand-toned wool crepe tied up
with a dragonfly bow of red, black and
fawn. In the official stand two pretty
girls in lightsome and blithesome blue
wore their fair hair in the clustered tight
flat curls of the moment right up to the
crowns of their very small blue organdie
hats.
Under her topcoat Anne Gordon
showed a silk frock, green and gold pat-
terned ; Mrs. Philip Lloyd Jones, in trig
fitting black crinkled crepe with flat white
flowers at the neckline, was one of the
afternoon’s belles, while nobody showed
a neater ankle and foot on the Everest
of stairway than surgeon McKelvey’s
lady, who was another of the black-clad.
The Fred McMasters and the Malcolm
were among the country visi-
tors, as was Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones,
lovely as ever ; orchids and a white hat
of fez architecture lit up her dark suit.
Another good-looker in black was Mrs.
Oliver Osborne; Mrs. Hector Clayton
swung a short cape to her golden-brown
frock ; the red of the currant was in Mrs.
Hal Capper’s outfit; Mrs. Harry Budge
struck a pastoral note in green ; John
Pye and brother Walter entertained at
an open-air lunch; Theo Marks wan-
dered from the members’ to the official
stand ; Mrs. Val Osborne wore befurred
black; Gretel Bullmore was among the
afternoon’s handsomely-furred and
-frocked, her race garment a cunning
mingling of reds and blues ; sister Mrs.
Tony Hordern was among the blue-clad
legion. Blue, in short, flashed a royal, a
sky, a bluebell, a delphinium, a forget-
me-not greeting from every side. Robin
Hood green was Dinah Hordern’s choice,
and Mrs. Harry Dransfield’s nut-brown
suit and sables did not pass unnoticed.
Mrs. A. E. Hughes came down from her
Leura fastness and brought Helen and
Valerie. Jean Cheriton was one of the
few who chose grey, though grey fur
warmed Mrs. Tom Rolin’s salvia-red
suit. Philippa Stephen topped her grey
suit with a smart little hat of royal blue ;
Mayoress Hagon, who, with her Lud
Mayor, lunched with the vice-regals,
sported diagonal-striped tweeds and a
brown hat clustered with yellow flowers ;
Mrs. Hans Fay’s red outfit was among
the smartest present, and June Baillieu
was a pretty girl from Melbourne.
Women may be the home-makers, but
men are undoubtedly the club-makers.
There are only two clubs in Sydney this
Letter really envies: the Union and the
Australian ; and never a woman’s hand
has gone to their making. On Saturday
afternoon the Australian Club gave its
first party (a morning tea or something
for members’ wives, cousins and aunts
during the Duke and Duchess of York’s
visit the members don’t count as one),
and did the thing in style.
The ceilings are high in this, the oldest
of Sydney’s clubs, and the pillars in the
hall and dining-room add to this effect
of height. The floor of the dining-room
is of parquet, and from the windows you
look out on to the Botanic Gardens and
Mackennal’s Shakspeare group. The
tables in the billiard-room, claimed to be
the finest in the State, were laden with
savories, sandwiches and sweets grouped
about centrepieces of electrically-lit
daffodil, delphinium and great velvet
pansies, which last spilled out in the
most appealing way on to the table. Over
the mantel at the end of the room is the
club’s memorial to George Macleay
Macarthur Onslow, and in the lounge are
its favorite paintings. An orchestra
decanted music from the arbor of
green fern and juicy shoot, of native
heath, golden bloom and spring blos-
som, that on ordinary days is the pil-
lared stairway. The vice-regal Games
drank their after-race cocktail at the
club, aided by Commander Gifford and
Royce Shannon. John Lane Mullins,
John Pye, Charlie Westmacott and ex-
Justice Alexander Gordon were among
those who helped display the club’s
treasures. As for the cocktails and the
champagne cup, they needed no guide.
Wherever you turned smiling girl- and
men-waiters bobbed up with alluring
trays of pink, green and golden drinks.
The Society of Women Painters has
elected Mrs. Mary Irvine its president.
This is the third time the honor has been
bestowed on a fine organiser, a woman
of enterprise and one of the easiest
people in the world to get on with. Mrs.
Irvine, who was a decade or so ago
known as a journalist in Sydney and in
Brisbane, is about to give through 2BL
a series of word portraits of women wno
counted in the early days of New South
Wales. The first of these will tell of
Lucy Osborn, the first trained nurse to
come to Australia. Lucy was one of
Florence Nightingale’s band, and a por-
trait of her in the frilled black silk in
which she rustled, a ministering angel,
through the wards of the old Rum Hos-
pital still hangs in the honorary medicals’
room at Sydney Hospital on what was
practically the site of her labors. Photo,
from Monte Luke.
Sir Philip and his lady gave vice-regal
approval to the University concert. The
classic Great Hall was packed to the
doors, and an attractive choir of 150
undergrads, sat on the specially-built
platform. The event was the annual con-
cert of the Sydney University Musical
Society, the enthusiastic conductor of
which is George Allman, who has ruled
the St. James’Choir for many years. His
Ex. was received by the president. Dr.
Keith Barry, with his lady, and was
accompanied by Miss Macarthur Onslow
and Commander Gifford. In the seats ot
the mighty were also the Lloyd Jones
couple, fresh from being quarantined in
Fiji, and the Conservatorium Orchards.
Melbourne organist McKie was another
guest ot honor. Vice-Chancellor Wat-
lace with Mrs. Wallace shed an official
University blessing on the affair, whilst
professors and their ladies were as num-
erous as flowers in springtime. Ihe con-
ductor’s wile (herself a violinist ot ernin-
ence) listened with attentive interest from
(he front row. It was the most success-
ful concert the society has had for many
years, and many were turned away lot
lack of accommodation.
Here is Hugh McCrae caught in one oi
the interludes between rehearsals of his
“Ship of Heaven.” This is a rainbow-
hued fantasy set to the music of Alfred
Hill, and both music and words range
from comic- to grand-opera heights.
There is one scene which is entirely acted
in pantomime, and another where the
fluent colors spread and merge and dart
like a school of exotic fish in a Tahiti
lagoon. The music is romantic, enter-
taining and bubble-light, and to hear the
oboe and the piccolo crack a joke while
in the corner the drums chuckle fatly is
to count an evening well spent. The ship
makes its maiden voyage on Saturday
evening at the Savoy.
When Miss Sarah Hynes receives con-
gratulations on her seventy-fifth birth-
day to-morrow afternoon, she will be
standing under the only Wedgwood ceil-
ing in Sydney. This, with its beautiful
design of Flaxman figures, was imported
in the days when Sydney was young by
Mrs. John Fraser, the original owner of
Quiriang, where the birthday is being
celebrated. Quiriang is now the home of
the medical George Armstrongs—old
family friends, as were the two genera-
tions of the Frasers. To-morrow’s will
be the second birthday celebration. Last
week the Randwick and Coogee branch
of the U.A.P., of which Miss Hynes is
president, foregathered around a tower-
ing cake in the Alison Hall and cheered
when Minister Dunningham lit the first
of the 75 candles to “this fine citizen,
fine woman and fine scholar.”
Miss Hynes, small and of a sprightly
wit, is one of Sydney’s remarkable
women. She takes an active part in the
affairs of the State, is a noted committee
woman, a scientist and a traveller;
and she has troops of friends.
Tenniel and Du Maurier were callers
when her family lived in Keats’s old
home. Not far away lived Dorothea
Baird and her sisters. Dorothea, whose
death the cables recorded last week, was
the original Trilby and later the wife
of Henry Irving the younger.
Daffodils, hundreds of them, brought
the sunshine and the fresh coolness of
Wentworth Falls to the ball for the
Hospice for the Dying. They bore their
message from the gardens of R. M. Pitt
for the special delight of Lady Game,
and they sounded the golden trumpet
of spring on every table in Mark Foy’s
ballroom. Mother Rectress, too, sent her
little tribute to her Ex., an exquisite
hand-made rose tied with ribbons of
the Hospice blue and gold. Five
hundred Hospice friends danced or
played bridge in the cause, and to the
animation and gaiety of the scene eight
white-clad debs, with flower-wreathed
tresses, and the entrants for the coiffure
competition added their bit. There was
a prize for the belle of the ball, and
this was handed to Miss S. O’Donnell
by Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard,
who came on after they’d put “The
Quaker Girl” to bed. Myrinc Collins
caught their eye with her hairdressing.
Lady Game, who had for supports
Captain lan Campbell and his wife, kept
her oyster satins in countenance by wear-
ing a pearl coronet. Mrs. Campbell’s
Lido blue crepes fluttered to a sCarf
effect. President Mrs. M. Slattery’s
frock was as silver as the lining to the
proverbial cloud, its wide sleeves edged
with softest feather trimming. Also noted
were the Mayoral lady’s cherry-red shoes,
worn with a beige lace frock, the
amethystine laces of Mrs. John Barlow,
the gold-sequined border on the cape of
Miss K. Egan’s petunia chiffons and the
Spanish fringe on Josephine Marks’s
black satin frock. Senator KingsmilFs
lady was among the handsomely frocked,
and her black satin glittered with sequins
even as a mermaid’s tail with silver scales.
Miss Pat O Connor wore black lace and
impeccable white kid gloves with, dignity,
and a word must be said about the green
organdie sleeves on Louie Obst’s mag-
nolia satin frock. Her gloves, too, had
gauntlets of organdie.
The opening of the new medical school
was the great moment of the jubilee cele-
brations within the Uni. The new school,
more useful than handsome, but beauti-
fully light and airy, stands on part of
the old tennis courts, and is connected
with Prince Alfred’s Hospital by a long
overhead corridor. Rain having fallen
plentifully, the approach to the red brick
pile after the cars had been parked was
mostly through clay of the consistency
of blancmange. The bunting on the de-
serted stand outside the front door
flapped drearily in the rain-sodden air,
and the speeches, which were to have
been alfresco, echoed within doors. In
one of the two lecture theatres Sir Philip
Game blessed these headquarters of the
sleuthing of the germ and the plumbing
of the alimentary canal, and then a move
was made to the pathology department,
where the widow of Dr. Gordon Craig
unveiled a plaque to his memory. Here,
too, were hung (for the afternoon) the
portraits of those doctors and men of
science who have helped to build the
school’s fame—among them Dr. Johnnie
Hunter, who died all too young.
Japanese lanterns swung their multi-
colored brilliance between trails of wis-
taria about the decks of the Kitano Maru
when that vessel staged a “Night in
Japan.” Japanese ladies, including the
wife of Consul-General Murai, added
more atmosphere by wearing their
national dress, and the chef did his bit by
producing a glittering cake, an exact
model of our Town Hall. This was pre-
sented by Captain Ideno to Mayoress
Hagon; and the civic hostess in turn
passed it on to the Anti-T.B. Association
(the beneficiary of the dance) to be the
prize in a competition. The Nippon
Yusen Kaisha had lent the boat, and
manager J. B. Williams and Mrs. Wil-
liams were honored guests.


m
ihvii*!!
iff*
A
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CARLYOS’s, Spencer 7 street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. The Manager
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.
PARIS. A PERSONAL SERVICE
for Australians travelling to Europe has
been organised by AUSTRALIANS who
have an intimate knowledge of PARIS
and LONDON. For travel and all
information write to M. A. STEWART.
L. H. Mountford, 5 Carlton Street,
Lower Regent Street, LONDON.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
“MUSIC IN THE AIR.”
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY’S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from . . 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from ... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information. .
o [igntout
FOR THE
PEAKS
•AT
m
Mil
KU
El
S
E
s'
i <»
i*¥,k ■
IN CANADA’S ROCKIES
On your way across Canada there’s
one place you mustn’t miss, where
nature has lavished some of her grand-
est, most colourful handiwork—Lake
M
Louise, like a rare jewel,
set midst pine clad,
snow capped peaks with
that awe-inspiring back-
ground Victoria
Glacier.
On the margin of this
lovely lake, Canadian
Pacific has placed its great
Chateau Lake Louise,
where you may enjoy the
comforts and social amen-
ities of city life. Booklets
and full details on request.
t
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Canadian
.Pacific
Worlds Greatesf Travel System
Trains, Steamers, Hotels
Melbourne
Chatter
-Melbourne mothers are trying to get
rid of debris brought home from the
Show by tired and dusty offspring.
Children who saw the Fire Brigade dis-
play voted it the greatest thrill, but were
blase over the steer-riding. The modern
beast who finds someone on his back
prefers standing and meditating upon his
misfortune to taking active measures
to dump the burden. Stock, side-
shows and exhibits drew large crowds,
and the grandstands were packed on
every day. In the Exhibition Buildings
jellies, preserves, fruity wines and sauces
were placed to form iridescent pinnacles
of color. A great jar of the largest
and whitest celery was a landmark above
a stall of party adjuncts where its
kindred appeared as twiddly bits of
green angelica. Cinderella’s mammoth
pumpkin lived next door, while across
the alleyway were mummified grubs
that break the heart of fruitgrowers.
Included in the district displays of succu-
lent plenty were cakes iced by fairy
fingers and -a monster sheaf of wheat
in pastry.
Feminine punters at Moonee Valley
stuck to winter clothing on Saturday. A
spot of sunlight came along now and
then, but no one would have been sur-
prised if the heavens had opened and
sent down a deluge. Groups upon the
lawns were mostly patches of brown, black
and blue. One woman scurried between
tote and bookies in royal blue with a
draughtboard scarf of palish blues and a
navy hat. The Chauvel and Gullett
ladies chatted in an all-brown group
upon the sloping lawns in front of the
Stand. The former wore a little hat of
crinkled velour with her tailored coat.
The Gullett lady’s suit of cocoa toning
accompanied a hat embellished with a
striped inlet. Mrs. Ernest Pearce’s white
hair multiplied the attractions of her
black coat and hat; daughter Elaine
chose a fur cape for her blue frock and
a little veil for her woollen cap. Mrs.
Walter Timmins was all in black. Mrs.
Bill Turner pinned a pink carnation into
the back of her caped and fur-trimmed
coat for luck. Mrs. Bill Seymour’s
orange-rimmed specs, were remarkable —
with them she had a diminutive piece of
white straw upon her head, and her trim
figure looked well in a tailored suit of
black-and-white flecks. Mrs. Roland
Timmins wore an up-to-the-minute swag-
ger suit in smoky-blue.
Behold Lorna, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. D. H. Dureau, who handed
her into the care of John Goulding upon
a recent evening. The slender bride
wore ivory satin cut high at the back of
the corsage, with modish sleeves puffed at
shoulder and slim at wrist. Orange-
blossom held in position the beauty of
very old Mechlin lace veil. Bridegroom’s
sister Catherine and Madge Breheny, with
garlands of leaves in their hair and
apple-green slippers emerging from
clouds of white tulle, followed in the
shimmery wake of the bride’s long satin
train. Toasts were at No. 9 Darling-
street. The ’moon sheds its radiance in
Brisbane.
A sunbeam, somewhat wan after its
effort at squeezing through thick grey
cloud, slipped down for a peep at the
Bishopscourt Market Fair. Fortunately
rain and wind had engagements else-
where, only a soft spring breeze coming
to pay its respects to the baby leaves
upon oak and elm. Music and children’s
dances provided interludes for purchasers
who sauntered among white-draped stalls
offering cakes, produce, bottled fruit,
bags, aprons and trifles —so useful with
Christmas just around the corner. Arch-
bishop Head made a speech. The Stawell
lady and Mrs. Alex. Gunn had an eye to
the serving of tea and fizzy drinks. Mrs.
W. E. Agar was chairwoman of the
organising committee, and Eva Mann
had the job of secretary. Proceeds go
to St. Hilda’s House, in East Melbourne.
The lass with a smile under her hard
hat is Lily Wilkinson, champion horse-
woman of the Show. She hails from
Diggers’ Rest, and has spent the week
collecting a bunch of ribbons and a
jeweller’s shop full of trophies for her
skill with hack and hunter. Miss Wilkin-
son could ride as soon as she could walk,
and bagged her first win a few weeks
before she blew out candles on her
fourth birthday cake. She is now 16 ;
this is her third appearance in the Mel-
bourne arena.
Army, Navy and Air Force, with
scarlet, blue and gold decorating their
respective mess kits, came in solid for-
mation to the United Service Institute
Ball in the Forty Club. The placid back-
ground of windmills and little green
farms prevented the row of machine-guns
with muzzles waving playfully towards
the dancers from looking really business-
like. Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald, whose
husband saw to everyone’s comfort, wore
a lovely frock of shell-pink velvet, puffed
as to sleeve. Colonel Smart’s wife chose
a pink-and-white medley. Mrs. Howard
St. Clair’s raspberry gown flew a capelet
attached to its back by hand-made
flowers. Mrs. Heritage’s black lace ran
to a suggestion of sleeve.
The official people entrusted with the
entertainment of Lieut.-Governor Irvine
and Lud Mayor Smith moved among
little tables strewn upon a carpeted ter-
race. Among them were General and
Mrs. Quick; Wing-Commander Wrig-
ley; his petite wife, who wore cream
flamisol ; Brigadier McColl, with wife
and daughter, the latter an auburn-
headed lass in white, and the Wing-Com-
mander Harrisons, Mrs. Harrison looking
particularly charming in black with a
long cape of fluted frills made in soft
white chiffon.
Tables spread in a layer round the
edge of the dance-floor absorbed parties
of varied dimensions. Mrs. Milford, in
convolvulus-blue ; Mrs. Adams, in scar-
let, and Mrs. Hurley and Mrs. Boase,
in black, were among wives of the army
who chose lace for their frocks. Mrs.
Clareborough was in lilac. Squadron-
Leader Lukis brought his better-half,
whose black organdie coatee ran to a
swirl of sleeve. Mrs. Coleman, who is
soon off to London with the secretary
of the Air Board, tied a cherry sash
round her flamisol gown.
The Y.Zs., pronounced “wise-’eads”
by the 40 bachelors who compose the
merry band, rounded up their friends for
a frisk in Ormond Hall. Colored lights
multiplied in mirrors around the room
made a shower of twinkling globules
over the dancers’ heads. Major Coleman
brought his wife, who looked smart in
her blue, crinkly velvet, high as to neck-
line. Mrs. Charles Wirth wore a velvet
drape upon her shoulder, and Beryl
Watson had puffed shoulders to her blue
fluted crepe. Mrs. Frank Lukis chose
white sprigged with blue and gold.
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Cladin were
in the throng, she wearing carnation-pink
with lace accessories and a little cape-
let. Blue lace had an innings with Mrs.
de la Rue, and burgundy flamisol with
Miss Harvey.
Mrs. George Adams gave one of the
week’s late-afternoon parties. Her
Toorak home was decked with bowls
of primroses, the mountain dew of
Macedon still upon their petals. Mrs.
Duke Armitt, in misty-grey, and Mary
Armitt, summery in her buttercup
organdie, were guests of honor. Mrs.
Adams radiated her 150 greetings in
beige satin with a little brown hat.
A breeze from the West:
Old Scotch Collegians took partners to
Perth’s Y.A.L. Hall there to trip the light fan-
tastic. June Irvine and Phil Shappere gave an
exhibition dance, and a male ballet symbolised
Bruce and the Spider. Dr. Douglas Gawler occu-
pied the presidential chair in the gymnasium.
Headmaster P. C. Anderson’s spouse looked
benign in ebony lace and georgettes; Audrey
Minniken tied a gold sash around her pearly
crinkle satin; Gwenyth Tebbut’s black Chan-
tilly had a shoulder spray of living golden
tulips; a black sequined capelet topped Ethel
Gordon’s multi-colored chenille georgette; Mary
Wittenoom was Christmassy with narrow hollv-
red velvet on snowy lace; bouffant sleeves of
persimmon organdie flanked Mrs. Harold
Nash’s gold lace; Betty Wood danced in corn-
flower-blue satin, and Molly Mahood’s cake-
like confection was composed of layers of
pink chiffon.
A forest of gumboughs gave a bush atmo-
sphere to the Embassy during Foy’s staff
dance, which augmented the Children’s Hos-
pital funds. Mamie Brown, swathed in dawn-
pink pique outlined with rosebuds, wined and
dined a party at the Esplanade before taking
them along to the hop. The Archibald San-
dersons’ pre-dance feed heard rejoicings over
daughter Rotha’s coming-of-age. General-
manager McCahon’s lady swung a shoulder
Cape over her web-like oatmeal lace; Mrs.
Amies’s printed gown showed miniature flower-
lets in pastel shades; sapphire-blue velvet
glinted on Mrs. D. D. Paton’s svelte figure.
Bride-elect parties are being held for Betty
Simpson, who is soon to do an aisle trek with
Norman Barrett-Lennard. Mrs. Gerald Pretty,
girt with raven lace over pink, and Mrs. Claude
Clement, in brown and beige marocains,
joined forces in giving a tea, and Joan Drum-
mond, demure in printed walnut crepe, enter-
tained in her South Perth home, where Betty
received gifts in white-triangled leschenaultia-
blue silks with wide camellia-adorned headgear.
Molly Magennis ’planed to Onslow, the first
port of call in her tour of the north-west,
where she will conduct classes for Girl Guides.
Divisional Commissioner Mrs. J. H. Church
holds the reins of direction.
A galaxy of lights festooned from the Town
Hall to Government House marked the route to
the Industries Exhibition, which was opened by
his Ex. The scenic paintings placarding the
ballroom depicted W.A. from all points of
the compass, while every nook and cranny of
the building held tangible evidence of the wide
extent of local manufactures.
Tom Argyle, elder son of Vic. Premier
Argyle and his lady, has booked a matrimonial
date with Yvonne, the blonde daughter of
R. L. Brinkley, of Fremantle.
Chronicles of Adelaide:
The committee of the Walkerville Boys’
Home was well pleased with the result of its
effort, the Riff Cabaret, held at the Palais
Royal. The Algerian decorations were effective
—there was a bazaar, with the stalls hung with
Persian rugs, and striped awnings out in front.
Nancy Angus and Joan Jessop were in charge.
Cliff Lathlean, in appropriate costume, sat on
a bench singing the “Cobbler’s Song” and sell-
ing lucky sugar shoes. His Ex. attended with
Lady Hore-Ruthven and Rosemary Fleischmann
and was received by Marion Allnutt and T. H.
Andrews. A new idea upon this occasion was a
wine saloon, over which Mrs. Shaw and Miss
Cleland presided.
Kate Gardner, on the eve of her return to
Melbourne, was guest of honor at a tea party in
the panel room of the Piccadilly, when Mrs
Gardner entertained. The Creswell lady, also
of Melbourne, was one of the guests.
Commander and Mrs. Maxwell Fowler and
their son, who arrived from London by the
Ormonde, are staying at the Richmond. It is
10 years since they resided in Adelaide. Mrs
Fowler was one of Adelaide’s golf champions.
At the St. John Ambulance headquarters 100
V.A.Ds. met for the first time since the war
Miss V. Watson, commandant of the 400th
detachment, was in charge of the arrangements
The old drill master, Sergeant-Major G. Peter-
son, caused entertainment by putting them
through their paces.
Acting-Mayor and Mayoress Cain gave a re-
ception to Enrico Rigattieri, the tenor, who
came from Perth to take part in our week of
opera, which was sponsored by Harold Gard
and his wife. Flowering peach blossom decked
the Mayoress’s room. Mrs. Cain wore black
marocain and her black straw hat had a touch
of tomato ribbon. She received a posy of
primroses.
St. John’s was decked with masses of flower-
ing peach blossom for the wedding of Doris,
daughter of the A. E. Bowmans, of Dashwood’s
Gully, Kangarilla, and Jack Hawkes, weil-
known in Vic. tennis circles. There were re-
joicings afterwards at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
H. C. Cave. The pretty bride, who was simply
gowned in white lace and tulle veil, had her
sister Shirley and Mary Cave as bridesmaids in
dainty frocks of pale apple-greeri lace and
organdie, with wreaths of spring flowers.
Social chronicles of the Speck:
His Ex. launched the Arts and Crafts Exhibi-
tion at Hobart Town Hall. President Lucien
Dechaineux received the v.-r. party. The wood-
praft, hooked-rug and needlework sections were
notable.
Jean, only chick of the O. R. Tinnings, who
is promised to Colin Bisdee, has been guest at
a series of pre-wedding parties. Naomi Ken-
nedy gave her a handkerchief tea, and Gertie
Atkins was another hostess in the same week.
Huonville was looking its loveliest when his
Ex. and Lady Clark, with N. E. Somers, the
Mayor and Mayoress and knight John Evans,
motored down to give a blessing to the Spring
Show in the Town Hall. Although rather early
for the apple-blossom, the orchard country
looked charming.
The Bankers’ Ball in Launceston Masonic
Hall was a gay affair. Decorations in rose,
green black, with novel lamp-shades, were
done by D. Armitage. Supper tables glowed
with Iceland poppies, and a big crowd rolled
up to cash their “Bank Drafts for Hours of
Enjoyment,” as the invitations put it.
Bow-wows made night and day clamorous
with their lamentations at the Kennel Club’s
Show. His Ex. said nice things about dogs.
Lady Clark has lately bought an Australian
terrier.
Mrs. Atkins and her daughter Gertie are off
for a trip to Shanghai in the Tanda.
Jean, eldest daughter of the Fred Shaws, of
Swansea, and Russell Salmon, Woodstock,
Triabunna, announce their engagement.
Maggie Teyte, Tudor Davies and Yelland
Richards delighted Launceston with a concert
at the Masonic Hall. The Returned Soldiers
and Sailors’ Association benefited.
The name of Bisdee is associated with much
of the Speck’s early history, and descendants of
the family are still figures in its pastoral life.
News comes of the passing of T. G. Bisdee,
formerly of Sandhill, Jericho, later of Hutton
Court, Somersetshire. He followed the hounds
till just before his death, at 80.
An item of interest to Tasmanians is news
of the marriage of Margaret O’Grady to an
old friend of her girlhood, Frank Hughes, of
London. The O’Grady did his job well while
vice-regent of the Speck, and his daughter made
many friends.
Molly Nettlefold, true to family tradition, ran
off with the Southern Tasmanian women’s golf
championship, played at Kingston Beach links.
Miss Sangwell was runner-up.


Only 4% d. jyek uwzk
-AaueA pouricU jpeh yeah.
CivurtM cak that ttiaodi
.
at 20 miieA fydiCfoMon
uus 250 qMmAfxktfrii
Uimq PLUME
(Onhl U. m«K
««. INVEST
?!S|
BUT YOU SAVE POUNDS YEARLY
in vctta-mitei —fieuxJi hcfiaiki
■Oonye)t cok tife—qheatek keiate.
ŕ
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
General O’Duffy hasn’t the eloquence
of his Italian and German exemplars.
For slovenliness it would be hard to beat
this specimen of his oratory:
The voluntary reunion of the Irish nation
is a paramount constitutional issue, maintain-
ing the people's right to maintain a constitu-
tion status, and rejecting the Government’s
double-faced policy of retaining the present con-
stitutional position.
“Constitutional,” “constitution,” “consti-
tutional’' —“maintaining,” “maintain,”
“retaining.” Even our Billy can do better
than that, and he is no Demosthenes.
* * * *
“Cancer”: The horde of strange crabs
which invaded Victorian waters some
time ago seems to have dropped out of
the news, but a story of a similar inva-
sion comes from East Prussia and
Poland, where a strange crab has come
to infest the estuaries and rivers them-
selves. It has been identified as a
Chinese variety which can live indiffer-
ently in sail or fresh water. The question
is how it got to its present settlement.
The most feasible explanation is that
young crabs first.made the journey from
the China coast to the Baltic hidden
in the marine growths on the bottoms of
vessels, and found conditions so much
to their liking that they married and
reared families in the new environment.
*** ■ *
lan Vallentine goes off to a job in St.
James College, Calcutta. lan is an old
S.U.D.S. player who has persistently re-
fused to believe that a modern Sydney
does not want to listen to poetry. He
proved his point, too, by drawing
ever-increasing crowds to his recitals.
lan, very slim and open-roadish in his
belled khaki shirt and trousers, stood up
before his audience and gave them mixed
bills of Whitman, Sandburg, translations
from the Chinese, verses from the Psalms
and the moderns. He can even declaim
Dowson’s “Cynara” without looking self-
conscious.
“Spring”: I may be wrong in saying
it takes at least seven years to make a
bagpiper (B. 30/9/’33), but at all events
I have Walter Scott’s authority therefor.
I must venture to question “Rukhni s
further statement that the modern High-
land piper is a “tame lad” beside those
of Indian native regiments who have
been introduced to the Highland war
pipe in place of their own national in-
strument. I have lain with many Indian
regiments, and have never seen one with
the essential physical development for
piping on terms with a Highlander. The
lean-flanked Pathan or Baluchi has not
the means of reproducing the swing of
the rump with its accompaniment of the
swaying kilt which is the hall-mark of
the virtuoso. As to the need of usque-
baugh, the Baluchis mentioned seem to
manage well enough without it, they
being Moslems and forbidden strong
waters. The Breton and Basque pipers
do very well on cider and wine, while
the Albanians manage with plum brandy,
just as the Irish do with potheen.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Conscious that
she must keep in the public eye, Suzanne
Lenglen has announced that she will
spend the next 12 months in Britain
coaching young players. It sounds attrac-
tive to the young aspirant, but if I were
one I should take thought. There is no
doubt the knowledge of-the game and
all appertaining to it is there, but if ever
there was a female with the true sergeant-
major temperament it is the Lenglen.
Her recruits are not going to tread a
path of roses when they line up on the
tennis parade ground.
* , *. * *
“Sauce”: There is a strong possibility
that Alan Fairfax, now playing League
cricket in Lancashire, will figure as a
professional next year with Worcester-
shire. Following the example of Lanca-
shire and Middlesex, Worcester has taken
to importing players, a recent addition
being Walters. Root, for many years the
standby of the sauce county’s bowling,
has dropped out, and it is considered the
ex-Australian Eleven bowler may fill
the vacancy.


“Mister” Macquarie.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IT THEN Clarence Dubarry Pontifex
YV came out in 1816 as a lieutenant
in the 46th Regiment of Foot, the
Mess received him into its usually hos-
pitable fold with no great enthusiasm.
In the first place, Mr. Pontifex had
joined the army by purchase from the
militia, and, through the influence of his
father, Sir Dubarry Pontifex, Bart., had
joined the regiment with a degree of
rank to which his brother-officers ob-
jected. He should, it was felt, have come
to them with no higher military title than
had been his in the militia ; it was unfair
that he should take precedence of ensigns
who had considerable seniority of ser-
vice. This was especially strongly felt by
Ensign Patrick Calder.
In the second place, his knowledge of
his duties was rudimentary, the training
he had received in the militia having
apparently been confined to the wearing
of its uniform at Court functions.
Thirdly, he was a noodle, with a fixed
and ineradicable belief that he was a bet-
ter man than he really was, and that the
mere fact of his having joined them con-
ferred upon the gallant “Lacedemonians”
something of an honor.
For -ill these reasons Mr Pontifex was
not made so much of as might hale been
expected, coming, as he did, direct from
or o df„ar n ily W, LT W :s a m Bo br P o„Ty e fou a ;
months old: the transport St. Ives had
made an unusually fast passage. His
stor es of events in Europe d, not
excite much attention when retailed at
the table of the 46th. Very little in-
terest, indeed, was taken in the fact that
the St. Ives had touched at St. Helena,
and that Mr. Pontifex had himself seen
the ex-Emperor Napoleon digging in his
garden in his shirtsleeves.
Moreover, he had had the misfortune
to fall foul of the sergeant of the guard
over the convicts on the St. Ives, a Penin-
sular veteran, popular with all ranks.
Colonel Molle had nearly bitten Mr.
Pontifex’s head off when he demanded
a court-martial upon the sergeant for
his disrespectful conduct to himself, both
at Rio and at Cape Town.
SSII7U iu r' i .it. , t
What. the Colonel had barked
court-martial Sergeant Bolton? 11l do
Tn ffie B re ime C nC’ ’ Sir ’
All of which was very discouraging,
and caused Mr. Pontifex no small regret
at belonging to a regiment obviously so
little worthy of him as was the 46th.
Irksome duties fell to his lot. Did a
prisoner need hanging behind the old
gaol in George-street, it was Lieutenant
Pontifex who was detailed to command
the guard. Was a soldier to be flogged in
the barrack square, Mr. Pontifex would
find himself in charge of the squad of
King’s hard bargains detailed to witness
punishment. Did a runaway convict set
himself up as a bushranger in the wild,
rough country lying between Middle Har-
bor and Broken Bay, the new officer
would find himself at the head of the
party of soldiers sent out to run him
down. He was officer-of-the-day with a
frequency that was phenomenal! His
guard duties were interminable. And
when he protested, feebly and fearfully,
to the Adjutant, Captain Blake would
respond, with a twinkle in his eye:
“Ah, my dear Pontifex, I assure you
you have no reasonable ground for com-
plaint. ’Tis a custom of Ours, when an
/officer is newly joined, to initiate him
fully into the duties that are expected
of him. There is no other way of ac-
quiring proficiency in them. You should
regard the preference that is shown to
you as a very high honor indeed. Model
yourself upon Colonel Molle, my boy,
and you will go far.”
And then Blake would perhaps send
Mr. Pontifex upon some disgusting route
march through the sandhills towards
Botany Bay. And Mr. Pontifex would
sigh, as he tramped through the snake-
infested scrub under a blazing sun, for
such martial exercises as had been hi:;
when his late militia battalion had
paraded magnificently before a Royal
Highness in Hyde Park, or had fired a
feu-de-joie upon some Royal birthday,
* * * *
One afternoon, as Mr. Acting-Deputy-
Assistant-Commissary-General Pilkington
was strolling homeward to his cottage
on the Rocks, he saw Mr. Pontifex pac-
ing up and down in front of the veran-
dah of the mainguard-house.
“What, Mr. Pontifex,” he said ;
“a-mountin’ guard again? ’Pon my thoul,
one would thuppothe you to be partial
to thith method of pathing the time —
one theeth you tho engaged tho often,
Do you volunteer for it?”
The
g J grasp Mr Pt p ilkingto n’s hand.
„ partial to itj Mr . pilkington! Why,
d amme, no! Who could be partial to
suc h infernal boredom? D’ye know
that this is the third guard I’ve mounted
in the last ten days? 100 much ot a good
thing, that is! One a iortmght would
be all I should have to do, with so many
subalterns at headquarters. I really be-
lieve they do it on purpose,
“Too bad—too bad! Why don’t you
pwotetht to old Bill Blake?”
Mr. Pontifex sighed and shrugged his
shoulders. “Well—so I did. When he
warned me for guard yesterday.”
“And what did he thay, pway?”
“Oh, he just laughed—you know his
way. Told me I ought to be glad to avail
myself of every opportunity of learning
the by-ways of my profession. Actu-
ally said ‘You’ll have an opportunity ot
shining in the Colonel’s eyes at the rnain-
guard. Damme, that s the worst ot it.
Last trme I was here, 1 be d
old Molledoesnit come across and
me U P hill and down dale because, when
I turned the guard out to present aims
to him, as he s going in through his gar-
den S ate over there ’ ° ne ° f the mCn ,
»> is stock unfastened and the twe.
JoMmeJ
ey» on And me in my ngh, pto*
, sword “ *>>> k ‘ n n 8 d l^l d
vITteH vou\vhat—l’m very sorry I ever
?ve half
J ... »*
a ™” d 10 send ,n my cursed pap y S ’ .
Oh, come now. Leave a cwack wegt-
rnent like Ours. Mffiy, th ir » tlta an
honor to belong to it. Of courthe, you re
new to them and to thith plathe, too.
Brit: you 11 get to like both I athure you
7 0U A little time to Ayake* down
ln TJ ha p th f ?i yOU f' a’ an
Mr. Pontifex grunted, and muttered an
ne S atlon ; f Aft n er a sll B ht P ause ’
Mr Pilkington went on.
I w ° woldd do me
h° nor °1 dining with me to-morrow even-
a* h° ut h e • where
- n u to^-n P\ awe
at the end of the hill yonder. Moorefield
yjn a ’tith called. Anyone’ll thyow you.
Five o ' clock . j utht " a few fwiendth.
Good> Deli g hted ”
With a hearty handclasp, Mr. Pilking-
went upon his way, leaving the
officei-of-the-guard much cheeied by his
affability and kindliness. Mr Pontifex
t° ur| d it most agreeable, after the month
or so ot cold-shoulder and imposition
which had been his portion in Sydney.
_... . , • „ , .
r - kin jf° n \ /r Cha r Tl i I i S St i
a P d ’ ald ? ou fL at fi , r H St Ml * ? a , der f had
a little coldness and aloofness
Mr. Gregory Wicks, First Lieut nan o
J.M; ■ E t mu ’ had be f en ent,rel y fnend V*
B V the tim f. the fou P gentle-
men T/ ° p n
verandah of Moorefield Villa Itfr P<Dnti-
befa t 0 that he had not
wholly fallen amongst enemies in Sydney,
They were full of kindly advice to the
newcomer, and gave him much mforma-
tion relating to the colony,
Mr. Wicks advised him to go in for
sport, especially recommending the shoot-
and hunting of big game. Mr. Ponti-
fex expressed his astonishment at not
having hitherto been informed of the
possibilities in this direction which the
colony afforded.
“And these native bears, my dear
Wicks—dear me, I had no idea they were
such formidable creatures. I should
greatly like to bag one or two of them,
And how large are they, pray?”
“Well, the biggest one I’ve seen—’twas
in the country behind Port Stephens—
must have stood at least seven feet high.
By Jove, he nearly did for me, too. But
I’ve heard of ’em being at least a couple
of feet taller than that. What was the
length of that fellow you shot at the
Hawkesbury, Patrick?”
“Nine feet six inches from snout to
rump,” replied Mr. Calder gravely. “I
don’t believe they get much bigger than
that—though I’ve heard there was one
chased Major Antill, when the Governor’s
party was going to Bathurst Plains, that
must have stood over eleven feet. Nearly
caught the Major, too, I’m told.”
“Well, well! Pray tell me of your
adventure at Port Stephens, will you not,
Wicks?”
Mr. Wicks leaned back in his chair
and recited an astounding narrative with
invincible modesty,
“Well, we were up there surveying,
and I got leave from the old man—from
the captain, you know—to go ashore to
shoot wallabies.”
“Wallabies? What are they, pray?”
“Oh, a beast about the size of a well-
grown calf, that hops along like a kanga-
roo. Pretty fierce things they are, too
—with a horn in the middle of the fore-
head, like a unicorn. You’ve got to be
careful with ’em. But, as I was saying,
I was out after them, with a blackfel-
low for a guide, in the bush near Port
Stephens, when suddenly, as we came to
the top of a ridge, I heard a most terri-
fic bellow. The darkie immediately
lets a yell out of him, and shins up a
tree. I took a glance round, and saw this
big ugly brute coming after me. So I
dropped my gun and shinned up another
tree.”
“It must have been alarming!”
“Terrifying. Especially when he
started up the tree after me. 1 didn t
know they could climb before that. Well,
up he came —and I scrambled out along
one of the lower branches. * D d if
he didn’t follow me out there!”
“Good Gad! And how did you
escape?”
“By a great piece of luck. I kept
getting out further and further, in the
hope he’d not trust his weight on the
branch —though I didn’t know how I
was to return to the ground without
breaking a limb. The branch bends lower
and lower —it stood out over a deep sort
of ravine. Suddenly the bear spotted
the nigger in the next tree, and made a
jump at him. Of course, his weight
being off it, the limb I was on acted
like a catapult, and shot me right up in
the air. I landed in the top branches of
another tree, and slid down to the
ground, and took to my heels towards
the beach. My God, how I ran!”
“And the black man?”
“Oh, the bear got him, of course. I
could give no help. Ate him, I sup-
pose.”
Mr. Pilkington pressed wine upon his
astonished guest.
“A little more port, Mr. Pontifex? Oh,
yeth—we nearly lotht Panthy that time.
A vewy near thing. Had it not been for
hith twaining in agility ath a theaman,
goodneth knowth where he’d ha’ been.
But did you tell me that you were dining
with hith Ecthellenthy to-morrow, my
dear Pontifex? I think you did.”
“Yes. I have not met the General yet.
Of course, I called soon after landing,
as I was bound to do, but he was away
over these Blue Mountains Calder was
speaking of, I believe. What is the
General like, pray—as a man I mean?”
“Oh, rather a lively old sort,” Mr.
Calder interposed. “Drinks too much,
but otherwise unobjectionable. You
mustn’t be surprised to see him under
the table, though. He’s not exactly a
three-bottle man, though he tries to be.
But it won’t do for you to address the
Governor as ‘General,’ will it, Brum-
mell?”
“Bleth my thoul, no!” replied Mr.
Pilkington, with horror. “He thimply
detetht being given hith army rank, now
he’th a Captain-General an’ Governor-
in-Chief, and all that. You’ll offend him
gweatly, my dear fellow, if you call him
‘General.’ He’th a thomewhat touchy
perthon, though quite good-hearted. You
muthn’t do that”
“Pray, how should I address him,
then?”
“Oh, always as ‘Mister’ Macquarie,”
advised Mr. Calder.
“Of course,” put in Mr. Wicks, “be-
fore the evening’s over he’ll be so drunk
you may call him ‘Lachlan,’ if you want
to. But, even then, it’s not safe to call
him ‘General.’ Sobers him up at once,
and he’s likely to be nasty. Isn’t he,
Brum?”
“Yeth, indeed dethidedly nathty.
He’th a man you’ve got to be careful not
to offend.”
And so, with pleasant discourse of
such sort as this, and much valuable
counsel to Mr. Pontifex, the evening
wore itself away.
Mr. Pontifex was received at Govern-
ment House on the following evening
by that sly Scots wag Mr. Secretary
Campbell, who explained to him that
Mrs. Macquarie, being indisposed, was
ponfined to her room, and that, no doubt,
when his Excellency joined them he
would make his apologies to Mr. Ponti-
fex for the absence of his lady from
the dinner-table.
“We’ll be but juist a pairty o’ three,
Mr. Pontifex,” he said. “Ye ken his
Excellency’s verra interested in ye, my
dear sir—having known y’r guid father,
Sir Dubarry, weel, when he was himself
at th’ War Office as Assistant Adjutant-
General. So he preferred to meet ye
without ither company being present.
Ye’ll hae a fine oppor-rtunity o’ makin’
his Excellency’s intimate acquaintance,
wi’ juist the three of us at table.”
Mr. Pontifex, of course, saw through
this excuse. Mrs. Macquarie had some
intuition that this was to be one of the
Governor’s drunken evenings, and did
not wish to be embarrassed by witness-
ing the painful results of her husband’s
lamentable weakness.
Further conversation with the Secre-
tary was interrupted by the Governor’s
entry into the drawing-room.
“Ah, Mr. Pontifex,” said his Excel-
lency heartily, holding out his hand to the
young officer, “it gives me great pleasure
to make your acquaintance. I knew your
father intimately. Welcome to Sydney!
I am sorry that Mrs. Macquarie is not
here to receive you. She is a little un-
well ; the fatigues of our journey over the
Blue Mountains have proved a little try-
ing. She desires me to express her re-
grets for her absence this evening, and
hopes to have other opportunities of
meeting you in the future.”
Mr. Pontifex bowed politely.
“Pray, don’t mention it, Mr. Mac-
quarie,” he murmured.
He was astonished to observe that the
Governor drew himself up and stiffened
a little, whilst Mr. Campbell opened his
eyes wider and looked surprised. This
confused him somewhat.
“Oh—er —Mr. Macquarie,” he stam-
mered, “I am —er —truly sorry to hear
of Mrs. Macquarie’s indisposition, and
trust—er —that she will soon be quite
well again.”
At that moment a servant announced
that dinner was served.
With some further stiffness, his Excel-
lency led the way into the dining-room.
Mr. Campbell, grinning a little, motioned
with his hand to Mr. Pontifex to follow,
and himself brought up the rear.
It was inexcusable on the Secretary’s
part that he did not seize this oppor-
tunity to whisper to Mr. Pontifex that the
proper mode of addressing the Gover-
nor was as “Your Excellency,” but that
he liked officers to accord him his mili-
tary rank of Major-General in private
conversation. But Mr. Campbell’s wit
was a little malicious, and, like many of
his countrymen, he had a deep-seated
sense of humor. He had heard of the
“leg-pulling” of Lieutenant Pontifex in
the Mess, suspected that the “Mistering”
of Macquarie had something to do with
it, and was desirous of seeing what might
happen.
It was a somewhat dismal meal. With
considerable formality, the Governor
made several sorts of inquiries as to the
health, occupation in retirement, where-
abouts, age, recreations and so forth of
Sir Dubarry Pontifex, the late Comp-
troller-of-Accounts at the War Office—
to all of which Mr. Pontifex replied
politely to “Mister” Macquarie.
As dinner went on Mr. Pontifex felt
very uncomfortable. Something was the
matter —but he did not know what. At
any rate, he had been very careful not
to call his Excellency “General”; he
had committed no fault. But he was
surprised at his host’s abstemiousness.
Macquarie scarcely drank at all.
When the cloth was removed the Gov-
ernor looked sourly at his guest.
“A glass of wine with me, Mr. Ponti-
fex?”
“With pleasure, Mr. Macquarie.”
The Governor lifted his glass as
though it weighed a pound, bowed coldly
to the young officer, and drank to him
in silence. Then he rose to his feet.
“I must beg of you to excuse me now,
sir,” he said. “I have business to attend
to. Campbell, will you kindly look after
Mr. Pontifex?”
At the door he turned, hesitated, and
took a step back towards the table. To
Mr. Pontifex he seemed the personifica-
tion of offended majesty.
“Mr. Pontifex,” he said, “I should
deem it a favor if you would inform me
as to why you so offensively" address me
as ‘Mister.’ I should have thought that
my dress would have informed you that
I hold the rank of Major-General in the
army. As a matter of curiosity, I should
like to be informed upon this point.”
Mr. Pontifex stammered.
“Well —er —Mister—l beg your pardon
—your Ex —sir —I mean General. I
dined last night with—er—three gentle-
men who have been some time in the
colony, and they told me that, as Gov-
ernor, you particularly objected to being
addressed as ‘General,’ and preferred to
be called ‘Mister’ Macquarie. I am sorry
—er —General, if I”
“Ah,” Macquarie interrupted him, in-
terested. “And, pray, who are these
gentlemen who so misled you?”
“Mr. Pilkington, of the Commissariat,
sir; Ensign Calder, of Ours, and Lieu-
tenant Wicks, of the Navy.”
There was silence for a little while.
Then the Governor held out his hand to
Mr. Pontifex, who took it fearfully.
“Good night, Mr. Pontifex. Pray,
accept a little advice from me, as a
friend "of your father’s. Have little to
do with those young men. I know them.
They are graceless young reprobates.”


i
m
HP OF ROMANCE
Come to New Zealand only three days sail from Sydney—
steeped in the tradition of ancient Maori heroes; land of
romance and sport; land of high mountains, where the air
is tonic, like good wine.
Infinite in its variety of thermal wonders, ever changing
forests, haunting beauty of sea girt fiords, roaring cataracts,
and peaceful sunlit lakes. Teeming with game and fish from
the graceful red deer and chamois to wild cattle and pig,
giant trout and the world's gamest game fish.
Come from the heat of summer to renew your health and
youth in this mild and bracing climate. There will be parties
of jolly people, on pleasure bent, to laugh with you m the
daytime and dance with you at night.
Mail this coupon TO-DAY, with-
out obligation, for complete infor-
mation, suggested tours and fares.
NtW ZEALAND
SCENIC PLAYGROUND o* thi- PACIFIC
N.Z. (Jovt. Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Corner Martin Place
and Pitt Street, Sydney, and
Box 2136, Collins House, 300
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated
leaflets and full details of a
holiday in New Zealand.
Name
Address
B
ŗ
ř
mum
BAUER & BLACKS
CORN REMOVER
f LEGGETTS t
m
MILES
in 4 months
“Our Nash car has
just completed 20,000
miles in 4 months on
one set of Leggett
Plugs. They Improved
engine efficiency, and
performed better than
any plug we’ve used.”
MITCHELL’S
MOTOR SERVICE.
Hotter Spark
Principle
The Leggett Dynamic
Spark Plug produces a
hotter spark—ensures
instant and complete
combustion of fuel,
giving easier starting
-more miles per gal-
lon—dynamic power.
Change today—at all
garages, 4/6.
r
Ihjri rutile
SPARK
PLUGS
R (|B
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SOMEDAY, SOMEONE may
WALK on yonr ROOF
k«,X
x
!C7
RED W ORB
Galvanized Iron for Roofing
Made by John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
IF you specify
and use "RED
Orb” Galvanized
Iron for roofing,
it can be walked
over without the
least danger of
denting. "RED
Orb” is made from
a specially hard-
ened iron and costs
no more than "Blue
Orb.” It is not
suitable for curv-
ing, but it is the
finest roofing iron
procurable.
John Lysaglit (Australia), Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
Springtime at Jenolan Caves
A Delightful, Inexpensive Holiday
TWO-DAY TOURS LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY
Specially Reduced
Inclusive Rates at
Week-ends.
39/-
Covers Travel and
Hotel. Stay may
be extended.
ASK FOR JENOLAN PICTORIAL FOLDER.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, opposite G.P.O. : : : Sydney
Courage.
BY HAMER.
MORGAN looked at the figure of
the whining man in front of him
and wondered.
The war had done strange things to
men. He had known “hard cases” who
had come out of the maelstrom with a
piety that was to drive them to mission-
ary work ; known men who, enlisting as
clergymen, had emerged cynics.
For the man before him he felt pity
tinged with contempt. No doubt the
war had had its effect upon the fellow.
But in compounding a felony he would
be placing himself in the hands of a
man who, having stooped to one mean-
ness, might bend to another.
His mind strayed. The office sur-
roundings faded from his conscious-
ness, and the smoke of war was about
him once more.
The vision defined itself sharply.
Sheltered behind the broken mound that
had been a village, he and his mates
were waiting in battle-order for the word
to move forward, and whilst he sat on
a small heap of rubble and told jesting
stories he was pondering over his old
puzzle: What is courage?
Only rumors and such information as
the heads had thought fit to vouchsafe
had come to the men, but they realised
the bigness of the operation that was in
view from the practice stunts they had
had and the brief addresses given to
them. Certain objectives must be won,
whatever happened.
As he joked, Morgan sarcastically
thought of himself as the small boy
whistling to keep his courage up ; there
was a sick feeling in the pit of his
stomach, a numbness in his muscles. It
was this venting for things to happen
that put the real strain on a man.
Action would ease it.
He had felt before, when in battle,
that the very desperation of his fears
melted into a carelessness in which they
all vanished.
Morgan looked forward to that mood.
If he could only reach it before the mask
was torn from his at present whimper-
ing soul! His worst fear, greater even
than that of death and mutilation, was
that the grip he kept upon himself
would be relaxed in some most terrible
moment of the nightmare of shellfire and
spitting bullets into which they were about
to plunge.
Courage? Because he could force his
jest, the boys gave him a reputation for
coolness ; he was “that dag Morgan” to
them. He wondered what those who
were facing the shambles with him were
feeling about it.
Like a giant stirred by apprehensive
dreams, the front was muttering with a
new restlessness. The Germans, evi-
dently aware of an impending move-
ment, were active with their artillery;
there was heavy firing on the line, and
stray shells were spraying near then-
resting-place. Flashes of light indicated
that many flares were ascending into the
air and falling suddenly; a sign of
nervousness almost like that indicated
by a man’s twitching eyes.
It was a reminder of what was coming.
Morgan felt Sanders shiver.
“Cripes, a man was a mug to enlist!”
It came like a whimper. “It’s always the
blanky Orstralians for this, the blanky
Orstralians for that. They’ll keep us
goin’ until the lot of us is wiped out.”
“Well, that’ll end your troubles.” The
corporal drawled it carelessly, his hand
cupped over the bowl of the pipe he had
lighted somehow and was smoking sur-
reptitiously. “You won’t be windy any
more when you’re finished.”
Sanders’s teeth chattered.
“A man oughter throw the job in,” he
muttered. “If we were all to stick to-
gether we c’d do it. If we come out of
this bloody stunt alive”
“Shut up! ” said Corporal Edwards
sharply.
Morgan, glancing at Edwards, saw
in the dimness his lips as a hard line,
broken in the centre by his pipestem. He
was feeling it, too ; he, cool as he always
seemed, had to grip himself also! And
his gaze went on to a vague shadow be-
yond, where young Chalmers, a boyish
newcomer, whose blatantly-voiced am-
bitions —out of the line —had amused the
old hands, had let his head drop into his
hands.
“Windy, son?” said old Sam, letting
his hand fall on his shoulder kindly.
The boy started up.
“Me windy?” he retorted. “Not a bit.
Only I wish the show’d commence.”
“That’s the spirit, lad,” said Sam.
“We’ll know all about it in another
coupler hours.”
Morgan wondered about Sam, the
lanky old bushman, inured to hazards.
Curiously enough, he and Sam had come
to be regarded as the reliables of the
platoon ; but Sam, like himself, simply
did the job that was wanted of him,
seeking no bubble reputation. Morgan had
often dreamed vaguely of some excep-
tional deed that would win him distinc-
tion ; but that was when out of action.
With the vicious bullets whistling their
song of death in the line he had never
felt the desire to strain the grip he had
upon himself. He wondered whether the
apparently nonchalant Sam had a simi-
lar reluctance. And yet some men they
regarded as “squibs” had in frenzied
moments....
Courage? What was it?
A grey shape with a crisp, springy
walk looked through the grey darkness:
the company commander, of whom
everyone would say that he “wasn’t a
bad blankard” in a tone of admiration.
“Walks about the line as if he’s goin’
down George-street,” Sam had said.
With a few shadows, the platoon O.C.
and the N.C.Os. who had stepped to
meet him, he approached.
“You boys all ready?” he asked
briskly. “We’re going to do a bit of the
job we came over for to-night. Don’t get
the wind up ; preparation’ll make it easy ;
but there’s bound to be a few casualties.
That’s what we all expected when we
came over. Hard or easy, the job’s got
to be done ; and Diggers don’t give the
ground they win. You’re”
A shell, ominously near, screamed.
Morgan and the others round him
ducked for what cover they could find
or threw themselves prone. Came the
explosion, and a flame leaped up some
distance beyond them. When the Diggers
recovered, Captain Sampson was still
talking as if he had not paused, standing
unmoved where he had been. Cour-
age
Morgan had joined in the whispered
cheer when the captain ceased. As
if automatically, he found himself on
the move, his shoulder against that of
Sanders, who muttered curses with every
step.
A battery crashed into action ; another
joined in, and then others. There
was the roar of the firing; then the
gasp of the gas running from emptied
gun tubes that sounded like the growling
of innumerable lions. A barrage was
being put down ; and the very air seemed
to scream with shells as the German
artillery responded.
The marching men broke at the double
from the roadway into the fields, and
there split into sections, spreading them-
selves—an “artillery formation” section-
alised. Morgan scarcely realised that he
had received orders, but knew he was
doing his job. Peters, the platoon com-
mander, stood beside him for a moment
and said “Good man, Morgan! Keep
out, but keep in touch.”
In some instinctive manner he had
taken charge of a section, carrying out
the general plan.
He was glad to be moving; it eased
the pain of that sick feeling in the
stomach. It was well they were off the
road, too ; there was no mistaking the
metallic crash of shells exploding on its
hard surface.
Musketry and machine-guns were
rattling ahead. Occasionally the night
became almost light as the Verey lights
went into the air in a burst; the flashes
of exploding shells filled the ground
ahead of them with splashes of fire.
Flaming shellpieces shot through the
air; rock signals and tracer bullets
flashed their pointing fingers towards the
’planes, whose humming now sounded in
the lulls of the chaos of sound.
Death was laughing in every flash.
But Morgan, the grip on himself now
tense and almost bracing, was glad. It
would soon be over now!
A dazzling, awful light threw up the
shadows of shattered tree and ruin.
Darkness, all the more dense for the
momentary radiance, fell again, and Mor-
gan felt himself almost thrown to the
ground as a most appalling explosion
shook the earth. The roar of sound
smote upon them like a breaking wave
of surf, palpable and hurtful.
“What the hell’s that?” exclaimed
Sanders.
“A mine. They’ve sprung it under
Fritz.”
Morgan did not know how he knew
it; there had been rumors. He
quickened his section into the double,
keeping in touch with the others.
{Continued on next page.)


y tM
woey
ilium
- -
V
fK >'(
■V
ffssa^fc
SOUTH SEA
HOLIDAYS
What a difference between
just an ordinary holiday and a
cruise to the Solomon Islands.
Four and a half weeks of novel
and amusing incidents and the
delights of a sea voyage under
the best conditions. Numerous
ports —coral lagoons—colourful
native life wonderful scenes.
There are no hotel expenses on
the trip and the fares from
Australia are free of exchange.
Next Sailings from Sydney, Bth Nov.—l6th Dec.
At vour request we. shall |
he pleased to forward I
illustrated lolder No. 22 I
Bums.PKiip
t CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY . . .
TELEPHONE 37901
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED. .
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: O. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard S'treet, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd. ;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd. ; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
• Pair of tan Oxfords over
d years old. Apart' from wear-
ing creases, the uppers are as
sound as the day they were bought
—thanks to regular cleaning with
Kiwi. Owner, V. f., St. Kilda.
s -
S E■!
Bf§gT
.e,.;
ESS
• Kiwi makes a good shoe last,
• and gives a good shine to boot
BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
1 I 111 I 1
H7OIM
Our batteries, now well behind, were
hammering away. The German shelling
was intense, but the line of Verey lights
and rockets, working with redoubled
energy, moved strangely further back-
ward. The waspy “pinging” of bullets
was now in the air.
Stretcher-bearers came at a trot, pass-
ing them. Morgan looked at the grue-
some burden on the first stretcher, a
sudden light showing a face curiously
green with dark splotches of mud and
b100d.... He kept his eyes fixed ahead
after that.
The troops were now pressing into
file, circling around a pit from which
the fumes of gases came. It was a pit
of groans, the remains of the German
front line. Hundreds were perhaps even
yet gasping for breath, suffocating under
the upheaved soil, hopelessly buried, with
no help to come to them. Happier the
killed!
Then Morgan saw Captain Sampson,
calmly directing matters, putting in a
word of encouragement as they filed past
him. Sampson had been ahead, through
it all. Indifferent to the screaming shells
he was telling the men that success was
theirs; the operation was half-over.
Courage!
Morgan filed to the left as they opened
out beyond the shellhole, then moved
forward. A smudge of yellow flame
and upheaved black soil ahead of
him hardly gave him a tremor; he
scarcely noticed the roar of the explod-
ing shell. But a flying shellpiece hissed
by him. He felt the scorch of it on his
neck ; and then the sound of a smack.
Somebody sprawled with a little grunt-
ing groan in front of him. As he leaped
the body he thought it was Sanders ; but
a whining curse to his left told him San-
ders was still there. It was Chalmers,
then.
There was a defined barrage ahead of
them. It lifted.... They were upon
the Germans in a moment.
“I stuck me bayonet through two of
’em,” bragged Sanders shakily.
Morgan’s careless mood was on him ;
a certain exultation in the dangers
weathered. And here was Captain Samp-
son again, cool as ever, with the curi-
ously-excited platoon O.C.
“Casualties, Peters? Only four? You
got off lightly. Number six was nearly
wiped out. You’ll have to send them two
of yours. These two?”
“Not Morgan,” said Peters quickly.
“Sanders can go ; I’ll send another.”
A crunch of feet and a few leaping
Diggers, passing over the trench, told
of the new wave pressing onward.
“Stand ready, Peters. You’ll get the
signal in a couple of minutes now ; and
when you’ve done this hop it finishes
our job—except the holding on until re-
lieved. Make a good job of it.”
He scrambled out of the trench and
was gone, calmly, on to the next post.
Sanders cursed peevishly; and Mor-
gan, with the sickness back in his stom-
ach, almost sympathised. Once more
forward —what did they expect of a
man?
But it was easy, until they won a new
trenchline. Then the German guns found
the position. For a while the quick
advance had thrown them out of action ;
Morgan had passed a fieldgun with its
breechlocks removed, and signs of gun
positions hastily abandoned.
Weak counter-attacks upon them
failed, almost helplessly ; they had time
to dig-in hard, making what had been
only an emergency defence for the Ger-
mans a solid position. The relief would
come shortly.
And then the German shells began
to fall about them again, not well-
directed but groping for their position.
Machine-guns and musketry beat upon
them incessantly, in spite of the barrage
still thrown ahead. And bullets were
singing along the length of the trench, an
enfilading fire. With a groan Peters
crumbled into a firing-step newly made ;
there were other casualties. They were*
mounting up.
“What’s doing?” asked Morgan of
Edwards.
“Orders are to hang on,” said Edwards
with gritted teeth, “and we’ll do it. We’ll
stay till we’re wiped out.”
Morgan didn’t care; strangely, it did
not seem to matter now. The night was
beginning to grey towards morning.
A quick-whispered challenge from the
sentry, and Captain Sampson slid into
the trench. His arm was in a sling, but
his coolness was undisturbed.
“Having a rough spin, you boys?” he
asked. “You in charge, Edwards? Poor
Peters gone, eh? It’s no good ; they
failed us on the left, and we’ll have to
give the Huns this bit of ground. We’ll
come back for it later,” he added with
a smile ; “but you’ll have to get your
men back to the next line. Send them
one at a time. Those remaining will
keep up their fire until the last, to let
the Huns know we’re still here.”
Edwards gave a nod.
“My runner was knocked coming up.
Morgan had better come with me ; I’ve
got to visit the other posts.”
A certain gratification leavened the
torture of the ordeal of walking that
shell- and shot-strewn area with a man
who set such an example. Admiration
for this calm soldier, who walked easily
where his own' inclination every step
was to fall to cover, lifted Morgan’s
courage.
He knew what that sound was. For
a moment it wakened his terrors at their
worst, and quickened his pace. But he
checked himself and moved back—back
to pick up the writhing captain and dive
into a shellhole as a special splatter of
machine-gun fire swept the area.
He lay there panting until he heard
the captain talking feebly to him.
“Better get back yourself, Morgan,”
he said. “I’m finished, and in half an
hour it’ll be impossible to move.”
“Directly this machine-gun business)
stops I’ll get you back,” said Morgan,!
although his heart was sick at the pros-1
pect.
“What’s the use of worrying?” said
Sampson. "I’m done, I tell you. It’s
nothing, after all, to go out; and this
is the end I knew was coming.”
“It’s a chance with all of us.”
“I knew this was to be my end,” said
the captain. “I’ve known it all my life.”
“All your life?” cried Morgan.
“Somebody prophesied it when I was
a kid, ages before the war.”
“You don’t believe Well, anyway,
you couldn’t have thought much about
it when you enlisted.”
“I knew it all the time ; but why
shouldn’t I enlist? A man cannot avoid
his fate, whatever he does ; why shouldn’t
he meet it? The knowledge that death
was inevitable satisfied me, anyway ; it
robbed me of fear. I knew it had to
come, and I was reconciled as a man
condemned to death becomes reconciled.
After all, this is not the only life”
He dropped into a semi-conscious mut-
tering. And Morgan wondered. Courage
—here,-in purest form, as he had
thought; fatalism and a belief in an-
other life: the other life in which Mor-
gan himself could not believe.
Morgan dragged himself back from
his memories.
“On your own admission,” he said
sternly to the man cringing before him,
“the whole business was cowardly.
Afraid of your wife over a trifling
account, you stole. If you had had the
courage to come to me then, we could
have treated it as a debt; I might have
managed a rise. But you hadn’t the
pluck, and so the whole thing went on
to —this! Embezzlement!”
“I wish to God I’d been killed at the
war!” the other burst out. “Living
through it has left me like a ship with-
out a rudder. I used to be confi-
dent that everything was ordered. I
thought I was fated to be killed, and
was satisfied; but all my basis of belief
seemed upset when I found myself still
alive. Through you, too —through you! ”
“Sampson! ” Morgan exclaimed. The
utter collapse of this man, who had
once seemed an exemplar of calm
courage, was appalling.
Sampson, fallen into a chair, did not
raise his face from his cupped hands.
Morgan rose quickly and, going to
him, put his hand on his shoulder.
“I think I understand, Sampson,” he
said softly. “Anyway, I can’t forget
Flanders. We’re going to fix this matter
up, and give you a chance, with perhaps
better pay, if you buck up.”
Sampson, his face streaming with tears,
clasped the hand that was on his
shoulder with both of his own. There
was something repulsive to Morgan in
the abjectness of his gratitude. This
might have been Sanders!
And the old war puzzle perplexed him
again. Courage—what is it?
Pretence.
My soul, that goes in sober rags,
Would wear a cloak as rich
And radiant as the water-flags
Beside the wayside ditch.
My soul, that walks by ways obscure
And dusty lanes, alas!
Would drink the taintless breezes pure
Upon the mountain pass.
My lonely soul, that shivering stands
’Gainst winter’s pitiless ire,
Would fain be warming frozen hands
At Love’s celestial fire....
And all the things my soul would take
From Life's lean purse, it seems
I cunningly for comfort make
From immaterial dreams.
So none may note the fact amiss,
The half-truth and the whole,
Which is....how poor a country is
The kingdom of my soul.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
0 •
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
1
Sydney
via
New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
Specially
Reduced
Fares
First Class Return £99
Cabin „ „ £7O
No Exchange Charges
Usual Fares £125-10 and £B7 respectively
Reductions apply to December, January
and February sailings only
Full details from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
59 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE
rngmoHiSm
its
lo
10,
m
>ss
w
SSKS
35
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTLt
DOTTLE O a. guaranteed
PURE DV THE FRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
ETAT MEANS
*STATE" vix
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FfIANCE
#
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waurs.is
of great importance to
che Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS as the
NAME or THE SPRING
SEAR THIS
IN MIND
Cfehe following statement defies contradiction f
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER.
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its supefr
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumav
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,'
chemists and stores throughout the .corld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER..
Gramme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
STATE Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTORS: SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV&.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
Net Sales more than TWICE as
great as any other Queensland
J •! NET SALES EXCEED
daily newspaper. 60.000 copies daily.
❖
Rates, etc., from Robt. Jackson, 72 Pitt St., Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 92nd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Illustrated S Weekly i, .he “Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
Things.
BY FRANK MIDDLEMISS.
THEY’D speed up a bit once they got
clear of the traffic, supposed the
man with the medals on his watch-
chain.
The pendulous-cheeked person sup-
posed so.
It was one of the few social occasions,
Mr. Morven told himself, on which one
was relieved of the incumbency of talk.
He had taken the opportunity to detach
himself from Pinker and Biddle, his
sole acquaintances among those present,
during the melancholy dawdle on the
lawn. His role should be that of one
prostrated by his feelings. Feelings!
The banks—that was the trouble, ex-
plained the man with the medals on
his watch-chain.
But his private depression now mono-
polised Mr. Morven. There was no
diverting the dark tenor of his thoughts.
He might as well admit it —he was fed
up with the whole thing: the tedious pro-
cesses of his toilet, his damned catarrh,
his ridiculous activities in the Duplica-
tion Department, the stale jocundities of
his colleagues, the faces and idiosyncra-
sies of his friends, relations.
He was even fed up with his wife.
From the time he had left the precincts
of The Laurels he had been dwelling on
the fact of his repletion; from that
bleak moment at the tram stop, the first
stage of his journey into town. It was
a journey that always filled him with
distaste. He disliked the arrangement
of the seats. He found peculiarly con-
straining the mute knee-to-knee com-
munion. His attitude to his fellows was
never so captious and austere. A de-
meaning mode of transit, brooded Mr.
Morven ; a debilitating routine.
That and the movies, agreed the pen-
dulous-cheeked person —they were never
short of money for the pictures.
A close observer of Mr. Morven might
have noticed a slight contortion of his
features, as from a dormant toothache.
Egyptian! He could see it now —surely
the world’s worst example of the palm-
and-sunset school! Or one of the worst;
there was a companion one, “with
camels” —she had been in two minds as
to her choice.
Heaven knew he was not dictatorial
in respect to those things proper
to a woman’s province. Lamp-shades,
cushions, the transient fancies of the
bargain basement —yes. But pictures
were matters for a riper judgment. Well,
she had asked for his opinion and he’d
given it.
One would have thought that after
his sickness (an obscure disturbance of
twenty-four hours’ duration) she would
have shown a little forbearance. It had
not prevented her from going into town,
from “popping into The Plebeian”! He
had dissembled in some measure his first
feelings at sight of her acquisition, men-
tally put it from him. Only her inept-
ness in demanding that morning while
he was shaving a further tribute to her
discernment had she to thank for what
had happened. It was not an adjective
to which he was addicted —it had come
as a surprise to find it on his tongue ;
but much less had he foreseen the com-
pleteness of her defection.
She had not even waved from the ver-
andah. She had not put his lunch in his
attache!
Perhaps she would be satisfied when
she found herself in the position of Mrs.
Prout.
It was with some compunction that he
likened Mrs. Morven to Mrs. Prout. Nor,
to be honest, had he found any particular
attraction in old George. An officious
fellow, with a fund of salacious humor.
A distaste for his departmental duties,
as much as any other feeling, had
prompted his attendance at the gather-
ing. That and the weather. As the man
with the medals on his watch-chain said,
it was a shame to be indoors.
That supposition about the traffic had
been right. Their procedure was much
less lethargic now they had reached the
Flemington-road. Under the influence
of the sparkling air even the pendulous-
cheeked person displayed a livelier spirit,
discussing instead of abstract problems
such warmer personal topics as his luck
with gerbera seedlings, the behavior of
his wireless. He’d half-planned that after-
noon to rewire her, he confided. Com-
placent-looking devil! What about old
George’s wireless?
He’d been very keen, old George,
about his wireless. Only two valves, of
course. Mr. Morven’s was a four. It
stood by the sideboard. Mrs. Morven
would have liked on it the blistre-ware
rosebowl she had picked up at the pre-
vious Plebeian sale. One would as soon
have rested a beer-mug on an altar.
She would often declare to visi-
tors she would be lost without it. It
was gratifying to Mr. Morven to think
he had so loyal an enjoyer; it eased a
little, too, the consciousness that she
would have preferred a vacuum-cleaner.
He couldn’t seem to come at it,
confessed the pendulous-cheeked person.
But it was old George’s long suit —
bowls. Good feller —too good, in a
manner of speaking. Impulsive. It was
to be hoped he’d left things shipshape.
The pendulous-cheeked person spoke
a shade severely: to nip off with pneu-
monia, he implied, was of a piece with
old George’s madcap ways. He men-
tioned the case of his uncle’s cuff-links.
He touched on his uncle’s sickness, cer-
tain disabilities of his condition.
... .Not that Mr. Morven grudged the
price. Perfect tone, hairline selectivity
and that dull walnut finish! It had got
him as the grain of fine leather got him,
the lustre of lacquer, the milky gleam
of pewter, the c010r.... Egyptian!
And so proud and pleased, so confident
of his approval.... An affecting thing,
it suddenly seemed to Mr. Morven. You
couldn’t be always at a woman.
Nasty, conceded the man with the
medals on his watch-chain. Not many
people, he conveyed, could teach him
much about the kidneys. But the sub-
ject, it was obvious, had now ceased to
engage him. His peerings through the
window, his brisk brushings of his
trousers gave grounds for an assump-
tion which a sobering of their progress,
their sharp turning, now confirmed. From
the corrugations of his waistcoat he had
hauled a large gun-metal timepiece.
Under the three-quarters. Yes!
Just as if it were a bicycle race or a
picnic, Mr. Morven reflected.
In silence they made down the tree-
lined street. Past the prim, lawn-fronted
houses ; past the flowerstall at the corner,
with its treacle-tins of jonquils and nar-
cissi ; up a sandy incline through a
gate, revealing a vast pastelled pano-
rama. One now discerned the neo-Moor-
ish building that was the earthly destina-
tion of old George.
In days to come, opined the pendulous-
cheeked person during the wait occa-
sioned by the prematureness of their
arrival, it would be the only mode of
burial.
No doubt, agreed Mr. Morven. By
that time, he reflected, there would be
less novelty about it, a less obvious in-
quisitiveness in the air of those attending,
less whispering, less surreptitious glanc-
ing at the chimney, less peeping at the
tablets dotting the flower- and cypress-
planted beds.
Only Mrs. Prout, her hat askew, clutch-
ing the elbow of her niece, seemed in-
curious of these aspects of more rational
and more hygienic funerals, this brighter
way with death. A fumbling, frightened
little woman, in her trim Gethsemane ;
a poignant group: in the disorder of its
grief, the tenderness of its compassion,
extraordinarily moving, humbling. Leav-
ing in one somehow just a sort of kind-
ness as one shuffled in out of the sun-
shine to where on his catafalque old
George lay waiting the last stage in his
journey.
“I am the resurrection and the life ”...
All the urgency of the intoner, all
his polypi and tonsils, could not take
from the words their soaring beauty.
Old George; his simple Rabelaisian
humors ; his fuss about his inkpot! Very
particular, old George, about his inkpot.
“For man walketh in a vain shadow,
and disquieteth himself in vain: he
heapeth up riches, and cannot tell who
shall gather them” ....
Their heartbreaking beauty!
"... .He cometh up, and is cut down,
like a flower; he fleeth as it were a
shadow, and never continueth in one
stay” ....
How white young Biddle looked! A
decent boy, with feeling.
This damned intolerable feeling!
Just about beat the traffic, judged the
man with the medals on his watch-chain.
The pendulous-cheeked person hoped
so.
Already in fancy Mr. Morven had
elbowed his way to the counter, was
framing his inquiry:
“ Egyptian. There is one, I think,
with camels”....
It lilted in Mr. Morven’s brain. It
swelled from his heart like the sound
of harps and viols, of bells and little
silver-throated birds.


2
0
as
o
PR
©
aa
(/>
Need . . .
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
There is no doubt many people spend considerably more
time indoors than is good for their health. They are
breathing only partially pure air and leading a more or less
sedentary life, both of which tend to disorganise the system
and upset the digestive tract.
For various reasons this type of existence is frequently
unavoidable, but whether chosen or compulsory, steps must
be taken to maintain the system as close to normal as
possible. Of course, the most important precaution is to
keep the bowels in regular condition. In such cases a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root. Pills will be found invaluable.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable and
are unsurpassed as a household remedy for everyday com-
plaints, such as Constipation, Indigestion, .Biliousness, Sick
Headaches arising therefrom, Rheumatism, Bad Breath,
Piles, Pimples and Blotches.
Dr.MORSES
ill
i
mu
A\ADE IN AUSTRALIA
PILLS
Worms
Their Symptoms and
Treatment
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasiness
in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic, some-
times gnawing and biting, and not infrequently
of a vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the Nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is charac-
teristic of the affection. The Bowels are often
disordered, sometimes relaxed, as in Dysentery.
The appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The Abdomen, is often
hard, swollen, and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the slfcep
are other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the Alimentary
Canal, and various derangements of health
are experienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the dis-
ordered digestion which they occasion. Among
the most common of these are nervous affec-
tions, such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sl6ep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
* ment of the eyelids, temporary blindness and
deafness.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffering
intense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic- that no mother
need have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes peevish
and irritable in its temper. Another point
to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to
start in its sleep, its repose being in the way
of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation com-
pounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms, but cause no injury to
the Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they would
an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang-street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price 4/-
per packet (6 packets 23/-), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
Australian Fiction:
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6; THE SOW’S EAR, by
Bernard Cronin, 6/-; BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin,
6/-; STORIES BY KODAK, 5/-; “SATURDEE,” by Norman
Lindsay, 6/-; JONAH, by Louis Stone, 6/-; IN PURSUIT OF
PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer, 6/-.
Australian Gift Books and General Literature;
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. Paterson, 2/6;
IN THE WAKE OF THE “BOUNTY,” by Charles Chauvel, 6/-;
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt, 5/~;
CONTRACT BRIDGE, by Ena Burrows, 2/-; A MESSAGE
FROM BAWRA, by Harold Sims, 1/-.
All BookseUers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
a*
O
O
*
v°
13
A'-
G e
r o^
v% -o>o p o
\ // 0 r
A v
O
V
OC^
X£
v %
0
0?
0°
&)'
0
\o
5 e
# S ‘
v>V
rf *
<s**s*


ACREAT.AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
BR?IfEM HILL H PROPRIETARY
r
-MINE OWNERS* SHIP OWNERS.
STEEL MANUFACTURE!** •
£ COLLIERY PROPRIETORS ’
frryf
'
PM
w
-t
TC ~ -\-,\Vyy»- _ _._±!
. "
M'-t
**##*•
JM -
fe &; ... ' - -M #:■
■ • .
\nw.
m
WU
•>’ r K
... -
•&■ 1 ....
i&£€33K
ys
;
mi
aw
3?£ if
.
■
*«s»fe
•1.
S»fcsa;
Views of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Steel Works at Newcastle, N.S.W., showing some of
the Efficient a«d Up-to-date Methods in Operation.
1 —Portion of the Water Front, showing on the wharf dumps of Limestone from Tasmania and Iron Ore from South
A^ralia2-Jetty for Loading the Iron Ore at Spencer Gulf, South Australia. 3.-The Rail Yard, showing the grea
steel magnets lifting at one operation 12 rails each 40 feet long. 4.-The Three Huge Blast 1 u paces with a tnal
caoaeitv of 10 000 tons weekly. 5. —The Wharf at which the Iron Ore is discharged from the Company s Steamers,
showing giant ore bridges and mechanical ore grabs. 6.—The Blooming Mill, showing a bar . ° f Mtu!ei-v*
process of operation. 7.—Portion of the Rail Mill. From first to last all operations are carried out by machines.
IRON
and
STEEL
Products
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
PLATES
GIRDER PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
(For Sheet Piling)
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
BUNKER COAL
FOUNDRY COKE
The Celebrated “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL is used in the production of
WARATAH” WIRE NETTING
100% Australian from the iron ore to the fence. “Waratah” wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and disc. Preserve this,
dogs and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all “Waratah” products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire hears their ntenUhJ materials for specific
it is your protection. Rylands have a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and if you are m doubt as consumption is your best market,
uses they invite you to avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen employed. An ass families lose their livelihood for
Australians consume 60% of the total primary production of the Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen
a week every time a mile of imported netting is used. Specify Rylands “Waratah* wire-netting, and see tha y g
«
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE (Black or Galvanised), “WARATAH” STAR STEEL FENCE p OSTS not WARATAH”
HINGED JOINT FENCE (for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc), “WARATAH” BARBED WIRE, “WARATAH” MOTOR BY-PASSES, of-
Made from “B.H.P.’’'NEWCASTLE STEEL.
Stnres'nr aDDiv direct - RYLANDS BROS. [Aust.l LTD., 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne, Vic.
