

CINE-KODAK EIGHT
■rwi '' •
■MI
?V,
mm
m
: - ■:
:■:
iSi
fMwwM Mi&tiWWfih
■I
m■
m
■ :
mm
m
m
■
m
wm
.
wm
'
I
mm
wm •■:.-•■
I
■
is
*
n-">
.V:
M
V
s**
ii
IH
n
9
M
m
i
m
m
I
§
M
W?:
m
$
■
:
?; ;U
1
&
* *ME| *"
MM? '• •> p
W&-
f il Hill
' it H iipii|p« |p||| y >. * i>
,\ j
■- y? ■ -i >”«»
.
Wmim
w:r
,i •
i y
:
iH
s i
: <•::
m m
Wmmm
m
illllHl
/
: „> A
\
. :l* 1
* '•
v - »£
m
& ' ...16
K
\
5
Cuts the cost of movie-making! Makes every foot of film go
four times as far! Puts movie-making within the reach of
every home! What other family purchase at the price
can give greater delight now and for the future?
See the Cine-Kodak Eight for yourself. Watch the fine
quality of its movies. Note its amazingly low cost of
£l3 and you will realise that it is quite the
finest 1933 purchase that you can make.
The _ new principle means that a
special 25-ft. film does the work of
100-ft. The film runs past the lens
twice, leaving two separate rows of
images. Kodak processes this film,
slits and splices it, and returns it as
a single 50-ft. Bmm. film, ready for
projection.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK
(AUSTRALASIA)
PTY. LTD.
379 George Street Sydney; “The Block” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; 662 Hay Street. Perth ; Ruthven Street; Toowoomba ;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street. Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland ; 40 Princess Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
ft I .#
f
a
The Bulletin
(Mcbo et&nn Leo WuuX dawnj? l - — P 8
Vol. 54.—N0. 2764.
Wednesday, February 1, 1933,
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424<426 George Street, Sydney.
MmceJo®'*®
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet. explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name
Mv Address ll( 'j
S B. 133
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Life of Joseph Chamberlain
By J. L. GARVIN, editor of “The
Observer.’’ Illustrated. Vol. I,
from 1836 to 1885, 215.; Vol.
11, from 1885 to 1895, 21s.
“The majestic sober prose of his book will
rank it with Morley’s ‘Gladstone.’ ”
—“Daily Express.-”
Pre-War, 1904-1914
A volume of Reminiscences, by
EARL WINTERTON, M.P., 1 Os. 6d.
“Lord Winterton has a vivid memory and
commands an easy, unaffected style. His book
will be read with special pleasure by his
contemporaries.— The “Times.”
The Provincial Lady
Goes Further
By E. M. DELAFIELD. With illus-
trations by Arthur Watts. A com-
panion volume to “The Diary of a
Provincial Lady,” Miss Delafield’s
most successful book.
[Empire Library
“Miss Delafield has not only done it again,
but done it better than ever.”
—The “Spectator.”
Lark Ascending
A novel. By MAZO DE LA
ROCHE, author of “Jalna,”
“Whiteoaks,” etc.
[Empire Library
“One of the best novels I have read this
year.”— L. P. Hartley {The “Sketch”).
A “Punch” Anthology
(POETRY AND PROSE)
Compiled by GUY BOAS, 6s.
“To read this book is to giggle now and
then, but to smile continually f" and the smile
is a tribute to the literary craftsmanship that
clothes the idea in the most appropriate terms.”
—The “Times.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
“NOSCERE” BOOKSHOP
Proprietor: Frank C. Mardel
Educational, Scientific, Technical,
Legal and Commercial Booksellers
NEW AND SECONDHAND
From a single Book to a complete Library.
A Library in the Home expresses your
own personality.
Special attention paid to Country Orders
99a QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE. M 3387
Safe
%
l Every iSB
Made of the purest materi-
als and under the most san-
itary conditions, Cuticura
Soap is ideal for the daily
toilet use of young and old.
Delicately medicated and
gently emollient, it acts as a
protection to the skin and
as a preventive of skin
troubles.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick ls.6d.
r THE PATRIOT 1
DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 i.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford, to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
-economists agree
That the Soundest State
3
MSfcVS
X
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its Vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph"
leads the way.
TELEGQAPH
L BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER-
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
May and Low
It is a curious coincidence that two of
the most renowned comic artists that the
British Empire has produced should have
made their names on The Bulletin before
settling in London. When the writer was
at school every boy who longed to draw
was imitating Phil May, and Whistler had
said, “Black and White art —its name is
May”; now the young are imitating David
Low, and he is idolised by critics like Ches-
terton. It is safe to say that no British
black-and-white artists have made such a
wide appeal. Keene may have had more
humor and color-sense, and there are
greater cartoonists now living—Raven-Hill,
for example—but May and Low are unique
inasmuch as the uncultivated were as
appreciative of them, almost from the first,
as their fellow-artists. The magic of the
“cpmmon touch.” Both were born wits
with engaging personalities who quickly
achieved positions in the only genuinely
exclusive circle that London has possessed
during the past half-century; both were
self-absorbed from boyhood and soon be-
came known to the public by the carica-
tures of themselves which they exploited
wherever possible; both had an amazing
gift for catching a likeness, and both drew
as the birds sing. They differed in
almost everything else. Low has a political
mind, May was indifferent to politics. May
was a hard-drinking spendthrift, Low is a
hard-saving business man with no weak-
nesses. Low is popular in portentously
respectable West-End clubs, May’s favorite
haunt was Romano’s. * Low always knew
where he was going, May never did.
Black and White
James Thorpe expresses astonished regret
in his Phil May 1864-1903 (Harrap; 30s.)
that no one has written a serious biography
of the man who was an idol of the art
world 30 years ago. The explanation may
be that it w#s impossible to tell the whole
truth about May without giving pain, to
the living. He was hard to enthuse about
on the personal side in spite of the gener-
osity and charm which caused him to be
“Dear Old Phil” to hundreds, if not thou-
sands. When the writer was a schoolboy he
saw a lot of the Burnands, and often met
the Mays at *heir London and Ramsgate
houses. Phil invariably turned up in a
mellow condition, and rapidly got mellower.
Drink only affected his legs, and his hos-
tess used to dump him near her where he
could talk at his ease, almost the only
sign of trouble being his large bow tie, which
kept gravitating towards the bank of his
high collar, as in so many of his pictures
of drunks. He gave his devoted little wife
a hard time. Mr. Thorpe describes, with
the reticence of a friend, the herds of
spongers who infested the Mays’ house at
Holland Park-road in quest of drink, money
or drawings, with the result that, though
he was earning a large income, she,never had
enough to pay the bills.
When May joined “Punch” it was, if
possible, more conspicuously the organ of
upper- and upper middle-class England
than it is now, and gloomy fears were ex-
pressed by constant readers that he
wouldn’t conform. However, he had few
loyalties outside his art. He became a
Tory overnight, so to speak, and he was
responsible for some of “Punch’s” most
spirited class jokes—jokes, for example, at
the expense of ’Arry, Mayfair’s favorite
butt in those days. Though he accepted
.the paper’s social outlook he stood out
against its style. He had been schooled by
Archibald to economise words as well as
lines.
He did a glorious drawing of a lion-tamer
who has been out late and has sought
refuge in the den of wild animals, against
one of which he is dozing. His wife stands
outside with a lantern and remarks scorn-
fully, “You coward!” Mr. E. J. Sullivan
says that May considered “You” unneces-
sary, and would have omitted it.
One of the most valuable services he did
for “Punch” was to convince Burnand and
the rest of the staff that the day of the
wordy legend was over.
As Mr. Thorpe remarks, “May never
seemed quite at his best in the pages of
‘Punch.’ ” He was proud of his association
with the old paper, and fond of his col-
leagues on it, but hundreds of his finest
drawings went elsewhere almost to the last.
“The Phil May Album,” of which most of
his admirers cherish copies, was made up
entirely of work done for “Pick-me-up.”
May was freelancing in London after a
precarious existence, during which he had
been sucoessively a theatrical super, a
boy - of - all - work
(first in a solici-
tor’s, then in an
estate agent’s
office), and a time-
keeper in an iron-
foundry, when
W. H. Traill engaged him at £20 a week to
cartoon for The Bulletin. He was an
instant success in Australia, and some of his
most brilliant drawings are to be found
among the 900-odd cartoons, caricatures and
joke-blocks which he did in Sydney be-
tween 1885 and 1888. At the end of his
contract he was hard up, as usual, and
Theodore Fink, an art-lover then as now,
made him a present of £1000 for a tour of
Europe. The “Punch” appointment fol-
lowed. He died of phthisis and cirrhosis
of the liver in 1906. Mr. Thorpe’s beauti-
fully-got-up book contains over 150 draw-
ings that have been reproduced before, and
about 50 that haven’t; also an iconography
which shows . interestingly the enormous
number of periodicals that May contributed
to in his brief life.
Caricature
Just as May derived in a sense from
Linley Sambourne (“All I know I got from
Sambourne,” he told Raven-Hill), so Low
derives in a sense from Phil May. Mr.
Thorpe says: “There is no doubt that May
also learned much in the handling of a pen
from Rossi Ashton, an artist on the staff
of The Bulletin.” Low learned little or
nothing on the technical side from any
artist after he came from M.L. to The
Bulletin in 1911. A study of Low's
Russian Sketchbook (Gollancz; 8s. 6d.)
reveals that he has derived nothing from
any European source in the 14 years that
have elapsed since he left Australia. He
has the same Lawson-likfe powers of obser-
vation, the same uncanny sureness of line,
the same merciless wit as he displayed in
his Bulletin work —that and no more. He
is Low, sui generis, unchanging and prob-
ably unchangeable; a phenomenon. It is
said that before joining the London “Even-
ing Standard” at a- record salary he insisted
on a free hand in his cartoons, which are
chiefly arrangements of caricatures. Or is
“comic portraits” a juster phrase? Since
then he has repeatedly made fun of Lord
Beaverbrook’s friends and of Lord Beaver-
brook himself: He went to Russia last year
as the guest of the Government and with
strong predilections in favor of Sovietism.
Having got there he seems to have become
disillusioned, and what he sees he has to set
down; it is his punctilio. “No wonder the
Soviet authorities confiscated his sketch-
book, and only returned it under pressure,”
one reflects while examining these hilarious
libels on the Russian workers. Kingsley
Martin and Low were shown the usual
sights—-Lenin’s tomb, a Russian court, a
Russian gaol, Russian factories—but while
the editor is respectful the artist is almost
brutally derisive. Do these misshapen
cretins with inadequate chins and foreheads,
whose mouths are constantly agape in im-
becile wonder, really represent young
Russia, and are their elders the hairy
anthropoids that Low depicts? It is, hard
to believe his specimens are representative,
but as grotesques they are superb; easily
the funniest things that have escaped from
Russia into a British publication since the
foundation of the U.S.S.R. Most of the
drawings are in charcoal, and resemble
lithographs, and some, such as “Railway
Station” and “Factory,” are beautiful as
well as screamingly funny.
RED PAGE.
Ghosts
Timeless, the waters of Middle Harbor
lipped the rdcks beneath our garden while
the dusk came over them to the silent room.
Six were here, of whom, according to these
earthly shores, three are now dead. David
was in the shadows by the window beside
Leonie, whose hands, usually busy with
needlework, were idle in her lap. Hugh
McCrae, debonair faun, was looking at Chris
Brennan, who sat under the one shaded
light, his hand folded over the little book,
“The Spirit of Man.” Margaret poured
coffee for her guests; I sat on the floor
beside the gramaphone, looking for a blurred
needle, the silent room being' small.
Presently I found it, and the sackbut
phrase chimed softly into the silence:
Lean over me....
a small silver sound that faded, letting the
silence creep back into the pause before the
sleep passion stirred again:
Lean over me....
Droop, as the yellow roses dr00p....
filling the room with easy earthly charm.
From the safety of the floor I saw their
faces. Hugh’s woodland slanting eyes
gleamed in a sudden smile as he stared into
the darkness gathering at the window.
Leonie watched her. idle hands, her face
gentle and secret. David Wright smiled
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


■V
..
IN
V 2
m I f
\mv.
V
fe«.?le£
-
*2
\ \^r
■ Will
M',
ft
,m
a
ri
I 9
• ■■■ si-' *;■•
__
;
■--•I'- ■'_. -• ■
»«s
■ : ' ■ ■-:
~ * j
.• ■ ’ -S' $
: : : .
■■ivw
ns
a
?s\\
vW
v mr+rm.
“Truth in Advertising
Our Assurance, Tour Guarantee.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony Horderns*
tb
iB
0&
©IP
makes its own ice cubes.
The greatest revelation of modern times
to country homes.
A Scientifically-controlled Refrigerator
priced at only
£33 7 io
/.
HOW IT WORKS
ICE OBTAINED
FROM HEAT
A cylindrical vessel, called the FREEZING TANK,
is suspended inside cabinet by a stout pipe con-
nected to ‘a, CHEMICAL CONTAINER, which, in
turn, is suspended outside the cabinet, as shown in
the above illustration. • '
Each morning, the unit is lifted out by means of a
special handle provided and heated up in accordance
with instructions supplied with each machine. A
Primus.Stove is supplied with each refrigerator for
heating purpose, without extra charge.
This is a very simple operation, and can be done at
a». trifling cost of approximately lid. per day for
kerosene. When replaced in position, the Freezing
Unit is coated with a clean WHITE FROST, which
rapidly lowers the temperature of the air in the
cabinet, and without any attention whatever, this
temperature is maintained for a period of 24 hours.
It is no trouble to heat up the unit anyone can
attend it. There is nothing to spoil and nothing
to get out of order.
This non-mechanical refrigerator is a most important
step in the advancement of cooling science—
actually producing ICE from heat, and COSTS
LESS TO RUN FOR ONE WEEK THAN ONE
BLOCK OF ICE.
It does not require machinery to run it, and is
positively invaluable where electric supplies are not
available. The Self-freezing Ice Chest is fully
guaranteed, ABSOLUTELY FOOLPROOF. . . .NO
CORROSION OR WEAR NO MOVING
PARTS NO RENEWALS.
Ice is provided in tray containing 14 sparkling cubes,
and ice drinks, crisp vegetables, firm, wholesome
meats and dainty frozen dishes are immediately
available.
Constructed of selected timber, the cabinet is pro-
vided with ample insulation, to guarantee effective
refrigeration, and has a porcelain enamel interior,
with removable wire shelves to facilitate cleaning,
it is 33ins. long, 26 fins, wide and 26fins. high.
It is only necessary every 24 hours to remove unit
from cabinet, heat with primus supplied and replace,
when efficient refrigeratioln is obtained, with tem-
peratures varying from 32. degrees Fahrenheit. An
instruction card is sent with each refrigerator, and
it is possible to instal, and have in working order,
within 24 hours of delivery.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SPECIAL PRICE, com-
plete with all accessories £33/10/-
Supplied complete with Primus and
Cooling Tank.
ORDER YOURS BY MAIL
IN CONFIDENCE- —NOW!
Note.—We do not pay freight on Ice Chests.
DISREGARDING HEAT
(
ii
mm
n
CL^
mm
j
Cool on the Hottest day
Just think of it! Cool drinks, fresh vegetables,
delightful savouries on the hottest of days—and
it matters not where you live. You can com-
pletely disregard the temperature when thinking
of your culinary comfort.
Room for Everything
There is a stbrage. capacity of five cubic feet,
sufficient to hold a whole carcase of mutton cut
into joints, half a box of butter as well as milk
and other necessities.
Superior to Ice Chests
Far superior to an ordinary Ice Chest, because it
gives a dry frosty cold —free from all traces of
moisture —thereby keeping foodstuffs in a beau-
tifully fresh and appetising condition. It also
costs far less to run than an Ice Chest.
A Boon to All
Every Home, Hotel, Cafe, Shop, Hospital, etc.,
should have one, as it does not depend on, either
ice supply or electricity for its operation.
.
Ice Chests at Sale Prices.
Special Clearance!
“Snowclad” Ice Chests are ducoed in White or
Blue, outside fittings are nickel finished. Food
Chamber is lined With one-piece porcelain. Ice
Chamber is galvanised steel lined. No. 2is 394
inches high, 20f inches wide and 15J inches deep”
Price, £B/15/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE PRICE, £6/19/6
No. 3 outside measurements, 414 inches high, 23
inches wide and ' 16-1 inches deep. Price. £9/5/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE PRICE, £7/12/6
(• Furniture—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
£2B/!0/- Chilcott, £2l/10/-
Model No. G. —Chilcott Refrigerator, of Oak,
medium golden finish. Ice and Provision Chambers
lined heavy-gauge galvanised steel, fitted extra
strong lee Tray and Wire Shelves.
Width. Height. Depth.
Overall Sizes 48in. 53in. 224 in.
Ice Chamber 35in. lOin. lo|in.
Provision Chamber. 40in. 29in. 16in.
Price £2B/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SAEE PRICE, £3l/10/-
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
e
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
'Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O,


è
THE GREATEST
/ - _
SHI LINOS WORTH
Australia has
published
THE Australian Year Book satisfies your thirst for “general information/”
Its 384 pages are packed with the facts and figures about all phases of cur-
rent Auslralian life and activity, arranged and indexed for immediate refer
ence. So much book for so few pence has never been published in Australia
before! Get a copy for your home and office, and be sure a copy is available
for your children, to satisfy the eagerness for knowledge that all bright Aus-
tralian kiddies possess.
YEAR BOOK
GOVERNMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
The Government.
The , Navy. The Army
The Alr Force,
The Bench.
Government Finances
Education in 1932.
Scientific and Industrial Research.
REVIEWS
Articles, reviewing the past year
and touching upon the future, by
Rt. Hon. J. A. Lyons,
Hon. B. S. B. Stevens.
Hon. Sir S. Argyfe,
Hon. W. Forgan Smith.
Hon. L. L. Hill,
Hon. Sir J. Mitchell.
Hon. J. C. McPhee.
Professor Copland
and many others.
POLITICS
Latest General Elections. Federal
and State. .
United Australia Party.
Political Labor in 1932.
New State Movement in 1932.
PERSONALITIES
Biography Section:
500 Prominent Australians.
Decorated and Titled Australians:
The V.C.
Tire Order of the Bath.
The Order of St. "'Michael and
. St. 'George.
The Order of the British
Empire.
Knights Bachelor.
Australian Privy Councillors.
INDUSTRY
The production of:
Wool. Wheat. Meat.
Fruit. Dried Vine Fruits.
jWine. Canned Fruits.
■Dairying. Sugar.
Coal. ‘ Gold. Overseas Trade.
Basic Wage Facts and Figures.
Secondary Industries—Brief Re-
> view.
Company Operations.
Principal Public Companies of
Australia.
The Building Trade of 1932.
FINANCE
Government Finances.
Australian Security Values,
Banking. Exchange Note Issue
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Railways. Motor Transport.
Shipping.
Television and Picture Transmis-
sion in 1932.
Wireless in 1932.
Post, Telegraph, Telephone and
Wireless Information.
Aviation in Australia
Motors in 1932-33.
Motor Legislation.
RELIGION
The Churches in Australia.
Church of England Bishops.
Roman Catholic Bishops.
THE ARTS
Talkies in Australia.
Music in 1932. Opera in 1932.
The Theatre Wakes Up.
Art in 1931-32.
RACING
Racing Season 1931-32
Racehorse Records.
A Year of the Tote.
Phar Lap’s Record.
Huge Winnings by Racenorses
Here and Overseas.
Results of Principal Races in
Australia since 1912.
CRICKET
Seeking the. Ashes.
Who’s Who of the Engli-sh Side.
Test Cricket Statistics.
English XI. Itinerary.
Don Bradman’s Records.
Cricket Season of 1931-32.
Sheffield Shield Statistics, Etc.
FOOTBALL
Rugby League Tests in 1932.
Rugby Union Football.
Australian Rules Football in 1932.
Soccer in 1932.
OTHER SPORTING
ACTIVITIES
Tennis—Davis Cup
Tennis in Australia in 1932
State Tennis Championships
Golf in 1932.
World’s Sculling Title
Other Sculling Events
Yachting.
Olympic Games Results
Records by Amateur Athletes tor
the World, Australia and Olym-
pic Games.
World’s Professional Athletic
Records.
World’s Swimming Records.
Australian Swimming Records,
Boxing in 1932.
ETCETERA
Gazeteer of Australia.
Population Statistics.
Fashion Survey and Summary.
Life Assurance in- Australia
Insurance Other than Life
Friendly Societies in Australia.
Weather in 1932.
Hospitals in 1932.
Principal Newspapers in Australia.
The Consular Corps Throughout
Australia
A Statistical Summary showing
Australia's Progress since Fede-
ration.
é
—every man who works
with his brain.
Sfti-k
—every man who takes a
live intellectual interest
in the sports, government,
politics, business, progress
and general condition of
Australia.
ny
—every woman who likes
to be able to converse
interestingly about cur-
rent affairs.
ê
—every woman who has
children that come to her
for information.
ë
—every child who is
learning to think for him-
self or herself and has
a healthy appetite for
knowledge about the
affairs of the Common-
wealth and its constituent
States.
uUetia
AUSTRALIAN
YEAR BOOK
Published in collaboration with “The Herald” (Melb.), Daily Mail '
“The Advertiser” (Adelaide), “Daily News” (Perth), “The Mercury (Hobart).
m
ffh
0
«


e
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean .
The VALET
Razor Strop &Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
You know what stropping means to
a razor blade. Keener edge —longer
life —cooler, smoother shaves. Use
a Valet, which gives all the advant-
ages of stropping in a fraction of time
without removing the blade. Simple,
time-saving, efficient —that’s Valet!
British Made —Of all dealers.
Sets from 5 1 - to 65/-
in
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia: —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
also, but only in courtesy; a pleasant noise,
he was thinking, stirring here in the quiet,
but nothing more. To Chris it was less
than nothing; his major poet’s heart was
aS impassive as his imperial Roman head,
as his hand fondling the little book. Law-
rence Hope and Indian Love Lyrics were
to him quite invisible potatoes.
The pretty passion drooped and caressed
its way to the last tender note; I took off
the record and shut the box, hearing
Leonie’s sigh and Hugh’s twinkling chuckle.
“Read to us, Chris,” Margaret asked.
“Something Attic—the room’s gone soft.
Housman please.” He opened the little
book.
.... the laurels all are cut....
The spirit in the tide of his voice keyed-
up the room. Energy came in like a potent
wind, and dream, the timeless king of Time;
in place of that Indian endearment the strict
absolute came in with the eternal music of
Truth. Housman’s English Nous n’irons
plus aux bois has the Housman quality: an
austerity of commonplace phrasing telling,
unaided, the thought’s own beauty. It. is
a song of ending, a lament that once more
Time has defeated us. Yet what is Time,
it asks in placid scorn, when all the years
for playing are so few.... The majesty of
sound beneath the shaded light made this
clear; a tragic poet told us all his brother’s
thought in the far upper airs of their being.
The room was quick and alive, swift as with
wings.
David came out of his shadows and stood
rapt, watching Chris. “And evening
shut” Leonie looked up from her idle
hands, watching Chris while the splendid
notes tolled on. Hugh was abruptly grave,
his face young and eager; he, too, watched
Chris, as if his spirit had only that to do.
“We’ll to the woods no m0re....n0 more.”
All earth’s weary regret came to us when
the little book was shut. If evening be
shut for ever, so be it; but song and
memory have left the day for ever open,
the echoes told us yet once more.
They are ghosts now, I suppose. Not
again shall our eyes see Chris or David.
But the lyric-poet, once in a Mosman room,
heard and saluted the far bells in his
brother’s voice, the timeless bells they will
ring in Australian song when our son’s sons
and grandsons are also dead. Their faces
are sharp and inspired in the revivified
room, more real in memory than if we met
them in George-street to-morrow.
They are not ghosts.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Doctor Protests
There appears just now to be an epidemic
of novels written by young German women
which deal with doctors and medical life,
and which, I am sorry to state, specialise a
great deal too much in obstetric details.
This dope is of absorbing interest to the
majority of womankind. Some women (I
know lots of ’em) will talk disease the live-
long day if they get half a chance. To have
their children’s tonsils enucleated and their
own appendix whipped out (it must be
whipped out) will give them an ecstatic
thrill and furnish them with spicy gossip
for a twelvemonth. The chief reason why
German women write books of this descrip-
tion is that they are sure of their women
readers; these form the bulk of the novel-
reading community, and really rule the
roost at the circulating libraries.
The celerity with which these novels are
being translated into English is a sure index
that they are profitable alike to author and
publisher. To the initiated they are
nauseous and boresome, but have their
humorous side. Some, fun, as well as dis-
gust, can be extracted from a superficial
perusal of a few of them, and on meeting
with the ridiculous medical crashes one can
enjoy a good “laff,” as Trader Horn remarks.
I have looked at three of them this week-
end, and they present the same station
brand. These are “Grand Hotel” and
“Result of an Accident,” by Vicki Baum,
and “Luxury Liner,” by Gina Kaus.
“Grand Hotel,” much cracked up, but
essentially poor in literary merit, begins
with an obstetric case which lasts during the
action of the book. There is an unwhole-
some doctor who has had the half of his
face blown away in the war, and who has
a penchant for Louisiana “flips,” whatever
they may be. He is a drunk, takes morphia,
and on the screen carefully refrains from
turning the blown-away side of his face
to the audience. How readers can tolerate
this caricature of the noble profession of
medicine is a psychological puzzle. There
is something ghoulish and horrible in the
presentation of such a character either in
a book or in a talkie. In “Result of an
Accident, a doctor has a learned consul-
tation with a specialist in facial disfigure-
ments on the case of a lovely young fillum
actress. “Did you sever the mucous mem-
brane?” asks the great man of the G.P.,
with impressive solemnity. Meanwhile the
actress, with the stitches still in situ, and
her upper lip plastered heavily, smokes
cigarettes.
“Luxury Liner” gets nearly a page of re-
view m “John o’ London’s Weekly.” Its
medical details are weirdly inaccurate, but
Gina started to outdo Vicki in sensation-
alism, and has done so. There are injec-
tions of insulin into a multi-millionaire,
also of morphia to satisfy the cravings of
a morphinomaniac. Then comes Gina’s
triumph She causes the temporary ship’s
doctor, late of Bad Kissingen, whq has
been pursuing his erring wife with relent-
less fury and devilish ingenuity, to postpone
his revenge in order to perform an “abdomi-
nal section” on an old woman in the third
class who is suffering from an ulcer of the
stomach. The doctor remarks (he has not
had a knife in his hand for five years) that
the ulcer is on the point of bursting through
the stomach wall, and the ship’s nurse—who
murdered her two children by turning on
the gas, and nearly perished herself in the
experiment—gives the operator some sage
advice. She held out the hypodermic with
cocaine. “Just a little prick” says the
doctor. Professor Krieglacher, who had
been sent for—he is a famous brain
surgeon and an inveterate gambler—sud-
denly appears in the operating-room in his
white gown and rubber gloves when every-
thing is all over, and says, “A perfect opera-
tion, my dear colleague!” How did he know
when he had seen nothing of it?
This rubbish tends to bring the medical
profession into disrepute and disrespect.
But whilst silly women will read such
novels, sillier women will go on pro-
ducing them, and publishers will stand by
to grab the boodle. For such is human
nature.
MACQUARIE STREET.
National Song Prize-winner
In the entry which the judges awarded
first prize in the National Song Competi-
tion there was one phrase which Professor
Brereton thought should be altered. The
verse ran:—
The sternest tests her sons have braved
Where’er her star-crossed flag has waved,
And for our heritage have saved
Australia.
Professor Brereton said that “star-crossed”
had a definite meaning—thwarted by des-
tiny—which made it quite out of place.
Mrs. Richardson offers as an alternative
“star-set.” But that is open to objection,
too. The Red Page suggests “starry”; if
a compound word is preferred, then “star-
gemmed.”
A Satchel of Books
The Broken Heart, by Temple Thurston
(Ward, Lock; 7s. 6d.) A collection of short
stories by one of the “Windsor Magazine’s”
most popular contributors. They range in
theme from an account of what might have
been a miracle in Essex to the romance of
a pug at the Ring in Blackfriars.
Hugh Pendexter’s The Flaming Frontier
(Collins; 7s. 6d.) is an unusual Wild West
Club product, inasmuch as the hero, young
Baltimore, crosses the Great Divide in the
desperate battle which concludes the penulti-
mate chapter. But his dauntless spirit is
discernible in a namesake, and anyhow it all
happened over half a century ago in the rip-
roaring days when the Union Pacific Rail-
road was being built. A thrilling adventure
yarn with some interesting sidelights on the
period. \
In Captain Kettle, Ambassador (Ward,
Lock; 7s. 6d.), C. J. Cutcliffe Hyne’s cele-
brated sailorman is discovered inquiring on
behalf of a London company into the
genuineness of a concession in the Central
American State of Sacaronduea. Kettle
passes through many trials; knives, arrows
and spears are thrown at him, and lassos
are thrown over him by disaffected Mayans.
It is almost needless to say that he sur-
vives. There is a stirring scene at the finish
when 16 hungry cannibals —refugees from
France’s penal settlement, Cayenne—rfisli
him and are knocked out in heaps; and then
he makes the discovery which is the climax
of the yarn. A stirring novel which moves
with the breathless speed of all this skilled
adventure-writer’s works.
A Survey of Sexual Life, by R. V. Storer
(Science Publishing Co., Melbourne; 10s.).
Plain speech on the sex question by a
specialist in venereal disease who has in-
vestigated the sexual lives of a thousand
typical young Australians. The writer has
traced the attitude of society towards his
subject from the age of Pericles and his
friends on through the eras of repression
to the present day, when science is in open
conflict with the churches regarding many
aspects of behavior. The book is claimed to
be helpful to “all those who desire scientific
endorsement in a Christian preparation for
marriage”; and it is written in engagingly
simple language. Whether the average Aus-
tralian parent will consider it suitable for
perusal in the home circle is a matter for
doubt. There are six original plates and an
exhaustive chapter on birth control.
And a Little Verse
THE LEAP OF SPRING.
Oli, how shall I cope with all this glory?
The sun on the star-dust frost?
My blossoming garden like a fairy story?
lam lost! lam lost!
I am caught up in the leaping ecstasy;
I am embodied within a fruit tree,
Fe'eling the green sap upward surging,
Feeling the blind compelling, urging;
Driven up without thought or reason,
Lost and merged in the flame of the season ;
Thought unconscious, merely feeling,
In one form of spring congealing,
In one storm of wild elation —
A god-like passion for creation;
Till each stem can hold no more,
Breaking, bursts through every pore,
Blossoms like white-hot expression
Of genius that bears no repression,
In a torrent skyward pouring,
Warmth and light and air adoring;
Till the fever, spent and slaking,
Leaves each blossom limp and shaking,
And a vagrant wind that passes
Lifts them to the leaning grasses.
And the tree now coolly, greenly,
Leans against the sky serenely.
Oh, how shall I cope with all this glory?
The sun on the star-dust frost?
My blossoming garden like a fairy story?
I am lost !■ I am lost!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN A. JENNER.
Answers to Correspondents.
A 'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Nama
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.D.: We don’t reprint. But we see a
little difficulty ahead of your scheme. Australia
doesn’t owe money to England. It owes money to
thousands of individuals in England. How are
you going to pay them “in goods, at the same price
level as when the debts were contracted”?....
J.H. (Q.): You have misread the scheme. The
proposal was to let the unemployed have all they
earned, whether jt was much or little.... Guy B.:
Has some merit, but belongs to another day....
R. : Laborious; and the grammar isn’t all it
might be....E.G.: Vague and vagrant. .. .Bushie
B.: Nothing in it but a few easy rhymes....
F.8.W.: You’ve missed a chance; it ought to have
been one of the little pictures of the year, and
it’s merely a clutch of cold words.... Bellerive:
Another graphic sample, showing that the lob. is
no respecter of persons:—
RECOLLECTIONS OF A CRAYFISH SUPPER.
I’d partaken crayfish and retired to repose,
In drowsy slumber my eyes did close.
The cray with my digestion had failed to agree,
Methought in a dream I was under the sea
Where dolphins and sharks with gleaming eyes
And other reptiles of enormous size
’Midst corals and pearls did fiercely puyue
As I swam for my life ’neath the breakers blue.
Crabs clung to my legs when I awoke with a fright
From my bilious dream of the silent night.
....Brisbane B.: Afraid it’s not practicable; we
didn’t reserve the right to do anything of that sort.
. ...R.8.: Some feeling in “Dismissed,” spoiled by
crudities and drops into sheer bathos. “The Scythe”
suffers from feeble endings. .. .M.P.: Muddled reason-
ing in somewhat labored rhyme... .F.H.8.: There’s
an idea in it, but you’ve hardly “poised your poet
pen” to do it justice. . . .L.G.: Nightmarish. .. .
W.G.M.: A poem, eh?
A cocky, by the name of Jones,
Stood by his homestead door
And gazed with a sigh at the bleaching bones
Of the sheep he’d had of yore.
We can’t avoid the suspicion that you named him
Jones to get an easy rhyme.... L.A.S.: Putting one
of your aversions on record: —
I hate the girl who’s like a horse,
Thick-legged and freckled, loud and coarse;
Those hearty, hard, athleticised,
Well-fed, big, syntheticised
Half-men, half-women, with neither’s force.
J.McC.: No appeal whatever. .. .S.R.: Too
obscure for us... .Camden: The competition closed
and the result was published weeks ago. ...Pom
Plag: Don’t jest with a sacred subject. ... M 1.8.:
Brevity is a merit, but you tend to over-scrappiness.
. ... Heresone: A thoroughly unconvincing swagman,
that. ... Donvab: Fair workmanship, but the jokes
are feeble. . . .Sig: No bite in it. . . .H.H.P.:
His massive frame stood six-feet and sunburned was
his face,
A hardy young Colonial, a true type of his race.
He can’t crash this gate, though. .. .P.J.1.: A hack-
neyed theme. .. .H.G.: Pity you should mar your
jingle by making “brogue” Scottish and trying to
rhyme “Diana” with “piano”....Sandgroper: No;
S. leads in that comparison. At the end of 1930
it had £4l 7s. 2d. per head; W.A. only £2B Os. 4d.
(we’re talking about savings bank deposits)....
D.F.: Elementary'. .. .J.W.R.: The B. didn’t sug-
gest there were no bad pedestrians. But whereas
the bad pedestrian is for the most part a danger
only to himself, the bad motorist is a danger to
pedestrians and motorists alike—to motorists he
is infinitely the greatest of all dangers. And he
isn’t anything like the insignificant minority you
suggest—in and around Sydney and Melbourne, any-
way. .. .G.M.M.: For narrative purposes he won too
easily. .. .M.A.: Strengthened in parts, and with the
nasty suggestion deleted, it might pass... .A.R.C.:
Every time a cow- is bailed we seem to get a 1000-
word description of the event... .D.J.M.: No modern
flapper would thrill at that mush.... D.G.S.:
Amateurish.... E. 8.: Scarcely suitable.... R. J.D.:
Drawn-out and unexciting. .. .M.M.: Second attempt
suffered the fate of the first. .. .K.T. Humor forced.
J.H.: Might do for a paper that goes in for
that kind of stuff... .M.L.: Sincere writing but thin
plot. —N.H.: Send it to a Sunday paper with a
fiction supplement. .. .W.P.: An old plot. .. .1.5.5.:
Others have covered the subject more crisply....
W.N.: We liked Rusty, but you didn’t do him justice.
... . A.8.D.: A lame finish. . . .R.M.: The fourth senti-
mental swagman to bite the dust this week....
H.E.J.: Too close to a recent “London Mercury”
story.... V.M.: One fatal flaw is that insurance
cos. don’t pay out on suicides unless the policy has
been in force for at least a year.. .. A.P.R.: Needs
more p10t.... A.E.A*: Slight... .J.S.F.: Introduce
seme dialogue and try again... .H.M.: Dog story is
fearfully dull. .. .E.S.T.: Sorry, but we are not as
large-hearted as all that....P.P. Finish vour sen-
tences and cut out those asterisks... .W.A.E.: You’re
apt to allow your emotional feelings to run away with
your sense of proportion.... K.J.: You took a long
time to unmask him. .. .N. 8.: It has about as many
faults as any story could have. .. . B.O.: One crude
yarn is trying enough, but to get nine at once 1....
W.H.8.: Came a bit too late.... J.8.W.: Tired of
the dancing frog; switch over to a hurdling croco-
dile. .. .W.S.: So the old bore is still looking for
that reef ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. .
G.H.; The furry outlines spoil it. .. .R.E.: Object
on left is not a horse. . . .A.M.M. : Jest too local. . . .
T.H.: Sedate little fashion-plates. .. .E.F.K.: No
humor in the mere fact that Jacky likes rum....
W.W.: What’s the- matter with your characters ?
Stomach trouble?... .C.R.C.: Rent collector looks
as if he had been hacked out of jarrah by a blind
chopper. ...D.S.: Junk. .. .T.M.: Helmsman’s retort
to first mate is fit only for circulation in the fo’c’sle.
... . J.T. : Scratchy. .. . J.L.: Which is the tramp and
which the tree?. . . .H.M.M.B'.: A little too finicky. .. .
R.W. J.: Have seen few as misshapen as the fellow
on the ground... .8.A.: Don’t like the angular style.
.... H.A.: That ugly tessellated style !. .. . R.M.:
Humorless illustration of back-lane brawl. .. .G.S.:
Clumsily put together. .. .M.F.: Nothing alluring
about them. .. .F.L.: Don’t be so stingy with the
ink... .R.J.S.: A chestnut. .. .li.N.: Can’t tell from
rough-outs; let us see the finished articles....
W.H.C.: Sketch drawn in dragon’s blood is horrible.
... .H.P.: Excellent idea, but you handled it heavily.


e
ran
-a
)
IS
*** %
■
%
-
1 1
-
:■■■/'
m
W
I
m
m
i
i
SB
5 m
k
J
m S
mm
;, ~ :
Geo. Wells, Mr. Spiers
THE FIRST ENGLISH TEAM IN AUSTRALIA, 1862.
(Back), W. Mortlock, G. Bennett, R. Iddison, Wm. Caffyn, Mr. Mallam (Back), H. H. Stephenson, T. Sewell, G. Griffith, W. Mudie ;
E. Stephenson, Mr. Pond (Back), C. Lawrence, T. Hearn


The Bulletin
Vol. 54. —No. 2764.
February 1, 1933.
NOT IN THIS PICTURE.
“Unless Mr. Lang is prepared to become the servant of the Labor movement instead of its master, there is no hope. There is no room for a dictator in our
ranks.” —Speaker at A.W.U. Convention.
MOVIE DIRECTOR: “Hey, lad, you’ve missed your way—this is an Australian picture we’re making!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia (or the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 253 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria: HI-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2 39 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington,
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
meekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
.3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. tor 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 1/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
HAVE WE SAVED TOO MUCH?
The world is so accustomed to the praises
of thrift that it is not easy to realise that
the thing as we know it was not invented
until about a hundred years ago. Certainly
the thrifty housewife spun her cloth and
laid down her winter stores; but the saving
of money by working men and* women was
practically unheard of until towards the end
of the eighteenth century. Even as late as
1821 the savings banks of Britain had no
more than four millions on deposit. But
the new leaven had begun to work: ten
years later deposits had grown to 14 millions,
and in the hundred years that have passed
since then the total for the post-office banks
alone has grown to just upon 300 millions,
with another .70 millions in the trustee
banks. Almost the whole of the vast
resources of life-assurance offices and
friendly societies in their modern form have
been built up in the same period.
There was a close association between
the new activity and the birth of the
mechanical age : it was more than a coinci-
dence that Samuel Smiles, the author of
“Self-help” and “Thrift,” was also the close
friend and biographer of George Stephen-
son. The John the Baptists of the new
order saw an opportunity for the people of
small means —their own people—to be part-
ners in those new industries which they
rightly judged would revolutionise the
world. Down to that time the pooling of
financial resources had been insignificant.
Indeed, it had been officially discouraged.
In 1719 joint-stock companies had been de-
clared by the law of England to be common
nuisances and indictable as such; and so
they remained—nominally at any rate—for
more than a centuiy. One hundred and one
years ago they emerged a little from this
heavy cloud: they were empowered to ob-
tain letters patent enabling them to sue
and be sued. So the stage was set for what
for all practical purposes was the birth of
thrift and money-saving, so vastly did it
exceed all that the world had ever seen
before.
Saving then became continuously neces-
sary to meet the call of the times. The
mechanisation of the world went on 'a,t a
furious pace throughout the whole hundred
years; and though the flood was dammed
back by the Great War, it burst through
with fiercer energy than ever even before
the guns were cold. An American factory-
owner has put the result very brightly. He
pictures a family that has saved 200 dollars
and is thinking of buying an electric refri-
gerator. Partly out of thrift and partly per-
suaded by his banker, the head of the house
decides, instead, to buy shares in a company
which is going to make refrigerators. “If,”
says this American factory-owner, “there
were only one such family this would have
been a far-sighted thing to do. But there
were several millions of them, with the
result that plants manufacturing electric
refrigerators expanded, only to find that the
very investments which gave them their
increase of capital had at the same time
contracted their market for refrigerators.”
Saving, of course, is still indispensable:
there can be no progress without it. Even
the Communists of Russia know that: their
two Five-year Plans are simply heroic efforts
to rapidly repair the nation’s neglect to
build up great capital funds in the past.
But there is no other white-man’s country
quite like Russia: none other is so back-
ward industrially. Most of the world is
beyond the farthest point which Russia can
hope to reach after many years of sacrifice.
Western Europe, America, Australia—all
have had an orgy of mechanising and other
capital expenditure. The question to be
seriously considered is whether the pace has
not been made too hot. It is not suggested
that progress should stop—that there should
be no more capital expenditure. But there
is a good case for a much more careful
selection of subjects for expenditure.
And because it believes this, The Bulletin
is much less disposed than some to only
condemn and curse, the Douglas Social
Credit apostles. Major Douglas’s A + B
theorem, on which his whole edifice is built,
is wrong; and so the scheme crashes. But
at least he and his disciples do turn public
attention very pointedly to the fact that
there is somewhere a great and most serious
check to the flow of purchasing po\ver.
While he is wrong in assuming that only
part of the cost of production is ever avail-
able as purchasing power, Douglas would be
right in assuming that years may elapse
between the time a thing is produced and
the date at which the purchaser may recover
the value of it, and use it as purchasing
power. The Bulletin has been putting in
machinery to produce books for the new
Australian Book Publishing Co. Say a piece
of plant costs £5OO. The money, it is true,
is paid out to the manufacturer. But so far
as The Bulletin is concerned, the savings
of the past are locked up in that machine,
which can be only very slowly turned into
money again in the shape of a fraction
added to the price of each book. In the first
year perhaps only £2O will come back; it
may easily be 10 or 20 years before the last
of the cost of the machine is recovered as
purchasing power. Ordinarily this gradual
process does not cause the world any incon-
venience, because we are recovering to-day
the cost of machinery or other capital under-
takings purchased and paid for years ago.
But if there has been an enormous rush to
put money into capital undertakings—
cement works, for example—and if from
some cause or other there is a slump in
trade, then obviously little or nothing of
this huge expenditure will come back to us
in the shape of purchasing power: in other
words, we cannot fully use the plant or
works and make the purchasers of the pro-
duct or those who use the railway contribute
a little towards the cost of it.
In Australia the position is complicated
because we have borrowed from abroad to
meet much of our capital expenditure. This
certainly allowed us to spend our income
on other things, to the great advantage of
our trade at the time. But it left us with
a huge interest bill; and interest not earned
is exactly the same as savings put into a
capital undertaking which gives no return
whatever.
So the world is strewn with railways and
plants and works far beyond its needs, paid
for with the savings of the people. We had
expected these things to earn briskly, and
return to us the money invested in them,
so that we might use it to buy other things.
Instead, most of the undertakings are giving
us nothing: it is, of course, not interest
we are talking about, but return of capital-
call it depreciation allowance, or amortisa-
tion, or what you like. And the meaning of
that seems to be that we have overdone the
saving and the borrowing—have put too
much into the electric refrigerator factory
and left ourselves with too little to buy the
output of the factory; have put too much
into the unproductive work or plant, which
leaves us short of purchasing power because
we can now collect little or nothing towards
repaying us its cost.
WOOL AND THE BANKS.
It was lately estimated that 80 p.c. of the
wool-growers of Australia had no longer
any equity in their holdings; in other words,
that four-fifths of the graziers have bor-
rowed more than their places are now worth.
Ihe excessive advances have not always
been deliberately made; in hundreds of
cases the original debt has been largely
added to in order to keep the property
going. This means, in cold language, that
the banks and finance cos. of Australia have
been and still are subsidising the wool-
buyers, The mortgagees hope, no doubt,
to recover the advances, including this sub-
sidy, from the mortgagors, the nominal
owners; but the longer the depression lasts
the more hopeless does the prospect be-
come in scores of cases.
In the ’nineties we know what happened.
In the main essentials the crisis in the
pastoral industry was the same as it is to-
day. Then as now there had been a boom
m pastoral properties, with advances made
on the basis of swollen values. A crash in
wool values followed; and drought and
rabbits came to aggravate the trouble.
Banks and finance cos. presently wrote off
just upon 10 millions of their capital. In
view of all these circumstances it is a
matter of great importance to inquire
whether the same thing is likely to happen
to-day.
It can be said at once that the position
of the banks is much stronger now than
it was then. In the late ’eighties and
earliest ’nineties they had borrowed heavily
overseas, and it was the demand for the
repayment of this money which compelled
the majority of them to close their doors.
Where they were free from this embarrass-
ment they were for the most part able
to look round and consider how they should
meet the slump in property values. With
a very few exceptions they decided to write
down capital. The alternative was to
nurse their securities, making good their
capital losses out of future earnings. Of
those which adopted this course the City
Bank of Sydney was a conspicuous example.
It did not shut its doors, it refused to seek
relief from its creditors. Down to 1890 it
had been paying 12| p.c. By 1894 the divi-
dend was back to 6 p.c.; thence it fell
steadily to 2\ p.c., and the distribution was
not up to 5 p.c. until 1912—20 years after
the banking collapse. All through this
period it was using every, penny- of profit
it. could lay hands on, in excess of its
very poor dividends, to make good the
loss in capital values which it had refused
to provide for by writing off capital. In
the end, utterly worn out, it was glad to
take shelter under the wing of the A.B.C.
Sooner or later, unless they can completely
alter the face of the industry, Australian
banks and finance cos. will have to face
the same problem. Will they write off
capital (either share capital or reserves) or
will they make a sacrifice of future divi-
dends in order to maintain their share
capital and reserves intact on paper?
But here we come to another great dif-
ference. There were not the reserves, visible
or invisible, with which to do much writing
down in the ’nineties. On the other hand,
the building up of strong reserve funds
during the past 20 years has been one of the
things for which Australia owes a great
debt to those in control of its banks.
Taught no doubt by the lesson of the
nineties, they set themselves firmly against
the restoration of the old dividend rates.
For 17 years doAvn to 1892 the Bank of
N. S. Wales had paid 174 p.c. p.a. For the
same 17 years the Commercial of Sydney
had paid 25 p.c. The Union paid up to
36 p.c. Since the "nineties the bank which
paid more than 10 p.c. was frowned upon
by the others, and it was never attempted
except in very rare circumstances. One
result w r e see in the amounts laid by. In
1915 the reserves of Australian banks
totalled 14 millions; in 1930 they had
reached 33 millions—not all reserved profits,
it is true; large amounts consisted of pre-
miums on new share issues. Further, in
addition to the visible reserves, it is quite
obvious that very large amounts have been
set aside for contingencies. Thus as
recently as 1926 all the office properties of
the Bank of Australasia stood in the books
at £72,000. though they must have been
worth at the time well over a million. It
is indisputable, therefore, that a fairly large
amount of writing down can be done with-
out. even touching visible reserves; and a
further sum—over 30 millions in the hands
of the banks alone—can be written down
without touching share capital.
But this comfortable position of the
banks and the finance cos. does not alter
the essential facts regarding the pastoral
industry. So long as wool is anywhere near
its present price, somebody has to subsidise
its production; and that somebody in most
cases is a bank or finance co. These con-
cerns may be able to nurse their pastoral
securities and recover eymry penny that has
been ' advanced against them. But it will
be an enormously difficult proposition, in
view of current losses and the consequent
addition to the debt. If an increase of
.wool prices is brought about, they may be
able to preserve intact all their reserves
as well as their share capital. If prices stay
■where they are, it seems inevitable that there
must be a severe writing down, which will
come out of reserves as far as they will go,
and out of share capital if reserves will
not go far enough. In view of this there
is no problem which the banks and finance
cos. of Australia could more properly attack
than that of wool-marketing, in the hope
of discovering some way by which the
staple might at least be made to fetch its
fair cost of production.
THE CRISIS IN CRICKET.
Half Australia seems to want to put for-
ward its very definite views on leg-theory
and the Board of Control. The remarks
that follow are extracted as representative
opinions and arguments.
“Vale” defends the board:—
The critics take for granted that to
complain when losing is to “squeal.” The
board, they say, should have complained
after the Melbourne match, which Aus-
tralia won. Had the board complained then
the answer would have been that its com-
plaint w r as premature. Had it waited until
something more than unpleasant happened,
it would have been criticised for its tardiness.
It complained only when convinced that the
thing was bad, and had gone far enough.
Its complaint was made in the interests of
cricket. The critics of the board are not
interested in cricket: their interest is in a
crisis produced by this kind of bowling.
The logic of their contention is that we
should accept the innovation and say noth-
ing; and if we, like themselves, were inter-
ested merely in this crisis, that is what we
should do. If, however, our interest is in
the game, should we not complain at just
that point at which the board acted —when
convinced that this thing was bad and had
gone far enough?
“Cornish Australian” is for Jardine:—
The M.C.C.’s reply to the Board of Con-
trol was only what most people expected
and the board deserved. At least two mem-
bers of the Maryleboue committee have de-
nounced leg-theory bowling, but no member
could associate himself with what Victorian
Minister Kent Hughes has aptly described
as a “boorish, bitter and insulting” attack
on a touring M.C.C. team. So our fatuous
board got it straight from supporters and
opponents of leg-theory alike: “We, the
M.C.0., deplore your cable message.... de-
precate the opinion that there has been un-
sportsmanlike play....have the fullest con-
fidence in captain, team and managers....
are convinced that they would do nothing to
infringe the laws of cricket or the spirit
of the game”.... and so on to the conclud-
ing paragraph, in which the club said it
would agree, “with great reluctance.” to the
remaining matches being cancelled if the
situation were really “such as to jeopardise
good relations between English and Austra-
lian cricketers.” Of course, there will be no
cancellation of matches, nor—outside the
board and its immediate sympathisers—is the
M.C.C. attitude resented in Australia. On the
contrary, there are distinct signs of a revul-
sion of feeling in favor of Jardine and Lar-
wood. There are squealers in this country as
there are in other countries, but the average
Australian is no squealer, nor are his manners
fairly represented 'by tlie hooligans anc
hobbledehoys who have hooted the English
skipper or the gutter rags which have
attacked him in the language of the gutter.
Cecil Mann looks at it as a bookman: —
The vigor of the board’s complaint is
simply one of those things for which there
is no accounting. It surprised England, and
it. should surprise anyone—a most unex-
pected characteristic to be revealed by
representatives of a country so evidently
pusillanimous in its mentality that it accepts
without protest the banning of such books
as ‘‘All Quiet on the Western Front’’ and
even James Joyce’s- “Dubliners”; so seem-
ingly lacking in guts that it is 30 years
behind in all branches of creative effort; and
so apparently weak-kneed that the only
honest general criticism it ever utters is that
directed against sport.
“Cold Logic” calls for retaliation:—
As England’s counterpart of our Board of
Control will not accept our board’s com-
plaint as disinterested, there is nothing to
do but accept the innovation, throw cricket
overboard and retaliate.
From a former Test-match player:—
I look at it from the bowler’s point of
view, and I say that if the batsman stood
out of the wicket there would be no trouble.
Compare the l.b.w.’s of to-day with those
of the past: one English player has a
record of, I think, nine l.b.w.’s this season.
If the batsman stands in front of the wicket,
what can a bowler do but bowl at him?
The only real difference between the present
and the past fast bowlers is that in the
past the field was set in the orthodox
fashion; now it is set to catch the balls
which hit the bat as the batsman tries to
defend his body. I suggest that an umpire
should have the right to order a batsman
out of the wicket—that it should be illegal
for a batsman to obstruct the bowler’s view
of the wicket with his body.
“Old Umpire” looks forward:—
As The Bulletin said a couple of months
ago, anything is cricket that we like to make
cricket. The present question is whether the
bowler is entitled to destroy the morale of
the troops by deliberately bowling at them.
That can be done and it still will be a
game—probably a more exciting game.
Moreover, the playing of it may cultivate
qualities which the old cricket left almost
untouched. You can, in short, make of the
cricket pitch what the boxing ring has been
—a cultivator of pluck; a school for teach-
ing youth to disregard physical punishment
and be undisturbed by physical pain. But
then another question arises: How many
youths who are not physically fit for this
sort of game will be precluded from playing?
Cricket is so generally played among boys
because even the comparative weakling may
do pretty well at it. We shall have to
make up our minds whether we wmnt to keep
it that sort of game, or prefer to swing it
in the direction of the gladiatorial combat.
And in answering that question we shall
have to make up our minds wdiether it is
more important that 22 men shall play in
a Test match or that a thousand youths
shall join in the game on a hundred vacant
allotments and back yards.
“F.S.P.” from Adelaide:—
After the mournful exhibition we have
just witnessed here, no wonder tennis is
outing cricket! The present upheaval ought
to be made the opportunity for reforming the
game. This is not the time or place to sug-
gest the changes; but the rules should be
altered with one object steadily in view 7—
to make it practically impossible for any
match to last more than two days.
And finally this, which expresses the
opinion of more than half our correspond-
ents:—
The controversy regarding cricket has
called forth such extraordinary comments
that one can only conclude that the majo-
rity of the general, public has lost its bal-
ance and that a certain type of newspaper,
realising this, is taking advantage of the
strange form of mentality in order to in-
crease its circulation. My conclusion may
he wrong and the press may be taking up
the attitude it has adopted because it con-
siders the matter of paramount national
importance. If such is the case, then all I
can say is, “God save us!”
THE ARMIES IN MANCHURIA.
The writer, Dr. Arthur Torrance, has
been with the forces in Manchuria,
whither he was sent by the Pacific
Institute of Tropical Medicine to assist
in dealing with an outbreak of plague.
In my travels through the distraught areas
of Manchuria, nothing has struck me more
than the massed support of the Japanese
people behind the leaders of their military
party. When a campaign is in progress,
their extreme patriotism presents a united
front to any opposition. All my experi-
ences, my impressions, my reactions have
become fused into a. profound convic-
tion that no force whatever can halt the
forward march of Japan to complete control
of this rich territory. There is no doubt
that she will have, a multitude of prob-
lems to solve while she is consolidating her
position; but she will overcome them with
that same ruthless vigor, that same intent-
ness of purpose with which she has laid the
foundations.
But, though I must describe the Japanese
soldier as more or less a steel-girt auto-
maton, I do not lose sight of the fact that
behind his loyal armor beats a very human
heart. The truth of that has been brought
home to me again and again. In all the
places I have visited I have seen the boys
of Japan who make up the victorious
I rnperi h 1 army perform then onei ous tasks
of semi-guerilla warfare in the. face of haid-
ship with uncomplaining fortitude. There


are endless examples of brilliant, courage
with the same inspiration firing each one—
that tremendous conception of what they
consider their inborn duty to the Empire
and the ruler they hold sacred. To this
soldier a rifle is far more important than a
key to his father’s home. It is the symbol
of his country’s faith in him. On the battle-
field Japanese soldiers may be seen with
their weapons clutched tightly in fingers
frozen by death.
One illustration of ' this high sense of
responsibility is furnished by an incident in
the military life of a certain Lieutenant
Morishita. A detail of about sixty men from
his regiment were riding back to Chinsi,
their headquarters, when, in the gathering
dusk, they were surprised by a large force
of Chinese troops. First they stood their
gropnd and then hurled themselves into the
unexpected battle. After being flung back,
Lieut.-Colonel Koga, the commander, rallied
his men and plunged into the midst of the
enemy, hoping to fight through. But the
overwhelming numbers of the Chinese forces
practically annihilated the little band.
Morishita was the standard-bearer. When
he realised that it was a lost fight, his sole
concern was the flag. He removed the em-
blem from its staff and wrapped it around
his body. Then, feigning death, he lay
among the blood-spattered corpses of his
comrades until the Chinese marched on.
Afterwards he escaped and, under cover of
darkness, made his way to Chinsi, with his
beloved flag saved from falling into enemy
hands.
But I believe there is another reason,
besides the sacredness of his Emperor,
behind the Japanese soldier’s unquestioning
loyalty and obedience. This is the feeling
in every enlisted man that his welfare is
being properly considered. The Nipponese
soldier knows that his commander realises
that he is a human being. His army is
equipped with the most generous medical
facilities, and the highest consideration is
given to the matter of sanitary conveniences.
Food and comforts are with him wherever
he is. The army pushing forward takes its
own subsistence. It never “lives off the
country”—makes no demands on the poor
people who are innocent war-sufferers in
the villages through which the army passes.
The military organisation does its work, too,
without any ostentatious display of brass
hats, and because of all this it has more of
the gratitude of the rank and file than I
had thought possible in an army.
I recall an incident that deeply impressed
me at the moment of its occurrence. One
evening a noted American war correspondent,
Floyd Gibbons, stepped into a Russian cafe
at Mukden. The place was filled with a
crowd of foreign consular officers and trade
representatives. There were some Japanese
civilians and a few Japanese military men
on leave. Among these last was an aviator
who had just returned from a bombing raid.
The correspondent spotted him and invited
him to come over and have a drink.
“You are great little fighters, you
Japanese,” he said. “But what the hell are
you fighting for?”
The little Jap accepted his drink and,
when he had emptied his glass, bottomed up
in the orthodox foreign manner. Then, with
flashing eyes and beaming face, he replied:
“I fight for the same things you Ameri-
cans fought for. To make the world a
better place to live in. Also for my country
—all the time for my country.”
The war correspondent, in ripe mood,
roared back: “I like that. It’s fine. Let’s
swap shirts on it.”
And right there on the bar-room floor, the
Japanese aviator and the American war
correspondent exchanged shirts in proof of
happy comradeship!
But I am equally bound to say that in
the Chinese military forces these sentiments
of loyalty and affection are missing. The
army commanders and war lords do not
give serious consideration to the human
needs of their soldiers. It seems to be,
instead, very much a case of each man for
himself. The commanders are out to grab
more authority, and make use of every
opportunity to extract more wealth from a
territory that is already drained almost dry.
The common soldiers are alert to gather
plunder in the stricken villages through
which the army passes. Furthermore, the
health and sanitary requirements of the
fighting man do not appear to deeply con-
cern the heads. Consequently the rank and
file remain strictly individuals instead of
a solid whole. They have learned through
bitter experience that each one must look
out for himself. Is it any wonder that
on defeat they at once degenerate into
groups of scared rabble seeking any sort of
an existence?
At the present time it is said on the
authority of the Japanese Intelligence Staff
that there are over 300,000 Chinese troops
just behind the Great Wall at Shanhaikuan.
They could swarm into Manchuria and
annihilate the Japanese army of forty or
fifty thousand men if it were a case of
trained army against trained army, with
each side officered by honest-to-God fighting
commanders who would believe in the
humanity of their men, look after their
physical needs, and not command them to
go where they themselves are not willing
to lead.
Whatever may be said about the policy
of aggression of the Japanese military party,
there can be nothing but praise for the
clean fighting of the Japanese commanders
and for the fine spirit of their army.
ARTHUR TORRANCE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Modern Star Chamber.
Really something must be done about this
book-censorship: it has just been exercised
by the Customs Department to ban Aldous
Huxley’s “Brave New World” on the ground
of obscenity. The question is not whether
Huxley has produced an obscene book; it
is whether some extra-judicial person, un-
known to the law, shall be permitted to hold
a Star Chamber and find people guilty of
. obscenity in their absence and without
being given a chance to be heard in their
defence. There, is a law against obscene
language and behavior. If the Melbourne
“Argus” or the “S. M. Herald” printed an
obscene jest to-morrow, there is no doubt
at all that the arm of the law could reach
it very promptly. Not only could the pub-
lisher be punished, but the agent who dis-
tributed the obscenity could be called on
to answer for. his offence. Every month
or so the police bring before the Court
some person who is charged with having
obscene pictures in his possession. In such
a case the decision rests with somebody
who has been chosen to sit in judgment
because of his knowledge of the law and his
judicial capacity. The charge must be made
definitely and not vaguely; the man charged
must know precisely what it is he has to
answer and must be heard in his defence;
and against any decision made there is
an appeal to a higher Court. Nobody can
object to all that. Obscenity is an offence,
and when proved should be punished. But
it is monstrous that something which some
unknown person thinks is obscenity should
be punished without the proofs demanded
by the law.
Many attacks are being made in these days
upon what ought to be our most cherished
rights and privileges; but no attack could
be so serious and so clamorous for resist-
ance as this one upon our right of trial.
♦
Shorter Hours.
A vigorous campaign in favor of a shorter
working week is promised. Trade union
executives in Melbourne have agreed to sup-
port the demand of the All-Australian Con-
gress for a 30-hour limit; and in Adelaide
the leader of the A.L.P. Parliamentary party
has been elaborating its policy of a 36-hour
week. The change is sought not on the old
ethical grounds but because the product-
ivity of the worker has been enormously
increased by the machine, with the result,
so it is said, that an appalling number of
men and women have been thrown out.
Now, if that were true shortening of hours
would be justified in order to make the
work go round. But it is not true. It is
as easy to keep men employed eight hours
a day as it is to keep them employed two
hours a day. What causes unemployment
is that we try to keep them going at the
wrong things. Man’s wants are unlimited.
Smith and Jones, neighbors, swap butter
and vegetables. They get in implements,
and now they can produce the butter and
vegetables in half the time. But that merely
gives them more time to produce some-
thing else which they can swap; and they
can go on like that so long as each has
wants which the other can fill. All trade
and industry and commerce is merely barter
simplified by the use of tokens; and what
is true of Smith and Jones is true of all
the world.
You can cut down the week’s work
far below 30 hours. Live like a blackfellow,
and you can manage probably on 12 hours
a week. But is that the ideal to hold up
to the worker? The aim of the Trades
Hall and the A.L.P. should surely be, not
to cut down the hours of the worker to-
wards Hie blackfellow level, but to cut
down the toll that is levied upon the pro-
ducer with hand and brain —to get for him
the greatest possible part of what he pro-
duces. Do that and the more he produces
the more he will be surrounded by comforts
and luxuries. If he doesn’t produce them,
obviously they will not be produced; and
if they are not produced he cannot have
them. The policy of the worker’s friends
(and they are infinitely more numerous
than the Trades Hall would have him be-
lieve) is to see that he both produces them
and gets them—-not to urge him to refrain
from producing them because he may be
cheated out of them.
♦
Grover and Douglas.
Montague Grover claims a points decision:
The Bulletin’s rejoinder (41/l/’33) to
my observations on Douglas credit, produc-
tion and distribution narrows itself down
to two points. The first is the asser-
tion that “of all the items making up the
393 millions [of Australia’s production
value] the only one which does not repre-
sent payment made and therefore purchas-
ing-power is owner’s profit.” This would be
accurate if The Bulletin did not disregard
investment of money—either of interest or
rents or of what Douglas terms “A charges.”
Labor expended in producing capital goods
means that the same amount of labor has
been taken out of the fund available for the
production of consumable goods. Capital
goods are necessary in modern civilisation ;
but there is no escaping the fact that the
farmer has to relinquish ploughing while he
erects a new barn. The reason the Russians
got less food and clothing during the pro-
gress of the Five Years’ Plan than they did
before it started was that the butchers and
the bakers were taken off their trades to
construct railways and engineering shops
and waterways.
I agreed with The Bulletin that an
estimate of 55 per cent, as owners’ profit on
Australia’s total production value was ludi-
crous and I contended that this proved my
case—that Australia did not possess the
power to purchase its own productions. The
investment of a large amount of the sur-
plus would account for some of the missing
money, but the gorged warehouses and over-
flowing silos stand as irrefutable proof of
my main argument.
I said that with modern appliances one
breadwinner could produce sufficient for four
breadwinners. The Bulletin suggests, that
“he can provide for 40 if they are satisfied
with little enough.” But that is not what
I implied. One breadwinner can produce
sufficient to keep four at the existing standard
of living. Lord Beaverbrook estimates that
the population of England could maintain
its present standard—nothing to write home
about, by the way—with one and three-
quarter hours’ work daily. But the system
of distribution is .so faulty that were they
all at work to-morrow England would be
flooded with things it couldn’t sell —a whole
wilderness of white elephants. We see
Brazil dumping millions of tons of coffee
into the sea, Canada using wheat to heat
its furnaces, Japan making a solemn cere-
mony of smashing into smithereens 750,000
pearls, the United States raising a paean of
delight over the outbreak of the boll-weevil,
which, it is hoped, will save the cotton
States from ruin. Nearer home we find
wool and wheat being produced at prices
which do not pay cost and butter threatening
to go the same way.
The only countries in the world which arc
free from the slump and functioning norm-
ally are those where civilisation and machine-
power have not touched. A friend who has
just completed a world tour told me the
only place he visited where depression was
unknown was on the border of Tibet, where
the breadwinner still shears his own yak
and his wife spins the product into clothing,
where there are no engines, no railways,
no tramways. By abolishing all machines,
we could probably return to such an idyllic
existence, but who wants to? Isn’t it
better to evolve some scheme for sane dis-
tribution? It will have to be done quickly to
prevent an all-round crash.
There is not much there either that calls
for answer. One or two points, however,
require a few words:—
The question is not whether the world is
in a bad way, but whether the Douglas cure
will do it any good. The world is full of
physical ills. But that doesn’t make every
Chinese herbalist right. Mr. Grover, like
the rest of them, will talk about the ills and
not the remedy.
The real trouble with these gentlemen is
that they cannot see the world as a going
concern. The Russians, we are told, got less
food and clothing during the progress of the
Five-year Plan than they did before it started
because the butchers and bakers were taken
off their trades to construct railways, etc.
Well, weren’t they merely sowing something
in the hope of reaping a rich harvest: didn’t
they take less at the moment in order that
they might have more in the future? There is
nothing to complain of in that: there is no
great ill there calling for a desperate remedy.
But, says Mr. Grover, “the gorged ware-
houses and overflowing silos stand as irre-
futable proof of my main argument.” They
do nothing of the sort. They only prove two
tfiings : (1) we have been giving too much
attention to certain lines of production and
(2) we have in some way destroyed confi-
dence and so stopped the employment of men
whose wages would have emptied these gorged
warehouses, etc. There were no gorged ware-
houses, etc., a few years ago under pre-
cisely the same economic system that we have
to-day. But people didn’t talk about im-
pending world-crashes in those days, so the
great machine went on functioning. Here
is a railway, depending on to-day’s revenue
to pay yesterday’s expenses. As long as
things go well, there is no trouble about
that at all. But get people talking about
the appalling state of that line and the
rolling stock, and predicting terrible
smashes; traffic will fall off, and there soon
will be very grave trouble.
♦
The Farmer’s Wife.
A letter with a tragedy behind it:—
Twelve months ago you published a letter
from me under the heading “A Grazier’s
Wife.” In this I pointed out the misery and
depression caused to country men and their
wives by some country bank managers. 1
called attention to the fact that my husband
was for days wretched and depressed after a
talk to his bank manager on his rare
visits to the township for stores, and how it
was about a week before we could settle
down again to the steady, hard graft neces-
sary to carry on the place. This went on
for months, till a short time ago, when my
husband committed suicide. The place is
now to be sacrificed, the children will have
no future, my life is ruined. I would follow
him except for my sense of duty to the
children. My husband was one of the
straieh'test, hardest-working men in the
world. Are more like him to be sacrificed?
The bank manager has his duty to his
employers. But there are two ways of
doing that duty; and bank executives might
well ask whether they are sufficiently en-
couraging their managers to do it in the
right way and sufficiently discouraging them
from doing it in the wrong way. The
Bulletin knows nothing of the circum-
stances of this case except as these two
letters disclose them; but, speaking gener-
ally, it is surely the plain fact that the
manager who can send his client back to his
job with renewed determination, and even
with extra goodwill towards the bank, is
not only the best servant but also the
best citizen.
♦
Cancer in Queensland.
From Dr. J. V. Duhig, of Brisbane:—
Re your article on “Cancer Treatment” (B.
18/l/’33). As the senior pathologist of this
State, and as something of an authority on
cancer of the skin, on which I have pub-
lished original observations in the Sydney
“Cancer Research Journal,” I was invited
by the Home Secretary to join a committee
to investigate the claim of one Roberts to
possess a cure for cancer. I attach a copy
of the relevant parts of my reply. It is
not, I suppose, very extraordinary that
quacks should pick on the most difficult of
all branches of human endeavor as a field
for their talents, for the reason that almost-
despairing sufferers from an incurable and
often loathsome disease are the most gull-
ible; but to me it makes the cruelty of the
business all the more revolting.
It is enormously to be regretted that the
Home Secretary and my colleagues have
foolishly allowed themselves to be manoeuvred
into a position which logically entails a de-
claration of’belief that there may be some-
thing in the man’s claim. When the thing
was put to me, without hesitation and un-
equivocally I refused to have anything to
do with it or to indicate the faintest shadow
of belief in the actual or potential value of
Roberts’s claim.
Dr. Duhig’s letter to the Home Secretary
was as follows:
In reply to your request to be a member
of a committee to investigate an alleged
cure for cancer put out by a Mr. Roberts, 1
must very respectfully decline.... My
reasons are these. Mr. Roberts knows
nothing whatever about cancer. He probably
knows far more about law, finance or engi-
neering, and has better claims to be appointed
a Judge or State Treasurer or Commissioner
for Railways than he has to treat cancer.
No doubt he is exploiting some familiar
substance in a way similar to that of
numerous quacks and charlatans of a cen-
tury past, and in a year or so he will be
discredited and, I hope, forgotten, or, at the
best, will have reached his proper level with
the Chinese herbalists. I feel it would be a
waste of time to investigate this preposterous
claim. If Mr. Roberts thinks he has a cancer
cure, his proper course, and one which
immediately suggests itself to the disinter-
ested mind, is to hand it over to skilled and
reputable surgeons for trial. It is heavy
odds against the alleged “cure” having any
value; but, if it had, Mr. Roberts is quite
incompetent to apply it. He should be
strongly discouraged from meddling with the
delicate mechanism of the human body, of
which he is profoundly ignorant. To stand
by and watch this man doing so. would
violate all my principles.... I think the
whole business mischievous.
The Bulletin was, and still is, only con-
cerned lest this so-called test of a “cure”
should give some unfortunate sufferer the
entirely wrong idea that the' disease has
baffled medical science. The truth is, a very
large proportion of cases are successfully
treated, especially when attacked in the
early stages; and it would be a tragedy if
this test should induce any sufferer to post-
pone treatment.
—— ❖
Australian Oil Shales.
Although there have been many inquiries
into the N. S. Wales oil-shale deposits,
there is room for the one in which Com-
monwealth and State Governments will
co-operate. Each will throw in £5OOO, and
each will nominate three members of an
investigation committee, over which R. W.
Nelson, a competent Sydney accountant,
will preside. The others will, it is said, be
technical men; and that is proper. What
is doubtful is whether the investigation
should be confined to Newnes, which, after
all, is probably the greatest curse that has
ever afflicted the Australian shale industry.
The committee’s job as designed will be
to settle an otherwise apparently hopeless
conflict. On the one hand are those who
assert that the plant which was erected at
Newnes is entirely unsuitable for its pur-
pose; on the other hand, those who declare
that the cause of failure lies in the cost of
mining, and that no modification of the
plant can overcome this difficulty.
It will, of course, be interesting to know
whether it is possible to do anything with
Newnes; but it is far more important to
know whether anything can be done with
the shale deposits of N. S. Wales, leaving
this Old Man of the Sea out of considera-
tion altogether. Most of the information
that will be gathered about the Newnes
shale will be applicable to Australian shale
in general; hence an investigation which
will embrace at least the entire State of
N. S. Wales will not be very much more
expensive than one confined to this small
region. And the proper time to extend the
investigation is before the committee begins
to make its plans.
*
How to Cook a Pig.
Once upon a time, in China, a man tasted
a pig that had been trapped in a burning
house and roasted to death. The flesh
pleased his palate better than anything he
had ever tasted before. He himself had a
pig, and he determined to make a dish of
it. He looked at his house—it gave him
shelter and he didn’t know what the weather
ahead of him might be. But the memories
of the roast pork clung to him. Perhaps,
after all, the weather would be mild and he
and his family might not suffer even if
the house was burned. So he tied the pig
up inside the place and set fire to the wood;
and when it was all burned he scraped out
the roast pig. When his wife saw the
charred flesh and bones on a dish, and the
smouldering heap of ruins that had been
her home and her children’s home, she
pointed to the signs of a coming storm,
and asked where they would shelter from it.
Then she flung the charred flesh and bones
at her clever husband and drove him out
of her sight. .
He has now turned up in Westraha and
formed himself into a so-called Secession
movement. There is to be a general elec-
tion in the State on April 8, and the people
are to be asked to say what they think
of the . idea of burning down the house of
the Commonwealth, especially with storms
gathering all around, in order to roast a
pig. The Bulletin has no doubt they will
say that they prefer to build a small fire
to do the job, and so save both the pork
and the house.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAFITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITCCtOTS
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted..
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Fine Diamonds §|
£20 It
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£28
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine
onds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Eings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Eings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A ' Catalogue of Eings, Jewellery,
Silver-plate, Silver and, Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is party politics that has driven H. P.
Colebatch out of the Senate. He was rea-
sonably happy while Labor was in power,
because then he could say pretty well all he
thought concerning things as they happened ;
but when Labor was thrown out and he
found himself expected to praise the things
which he had previously been cheered for
cursing, he decided that he would be happier
back in the Westralian Agent’s office in
London than he was ever likely to be in
Canberra and the Senate.
Lionel Hill, Premier of South Aus., has
abandoned his search for a seat and is going
to London as Agent-General. Two of his
Ministers were candidates for the post, and
at the end of the Cabinet meeting at which
Hill’s appointment was decided upon, Jelley,
the Local Govern'ment man, resigned. It is
expected that 11. S. Richards, Minister of
Lands and Mines, will succeed Hill as Pre-
mier and lead what is left of this singu-
larly unfortunate Labor party until the
people obliterate it at the general election,
which is to be held on April <S.
“The Labor party is never so strong as when it is
fighting with its back to the wall.”— Mr. Scullin.
"Admitting, for the sake of argument, Ted,
that Beasley did bring the wall down
on us, I repeat that we are always at
our best in a situation like this.”
The A.W.U., which dominates the Federal
Labor executive, has ordered it to hold an-
other “unity conference” with the N.S.W.
Labor executive. After the last affair of
the kind each executive repudiated the other,
and the Lang and Theodore factions fought
one another uproariously at two elections;
but it is'thought that the combatants —or
some of them —are ready to turn their
weapons on the “Tories” now. The Vic.
Labor .Congress, for its part, has been scold-
ing Scullin again ; and, in an effort to ingra-
tiate himself with the A.W.U. and with the
socialists, who have been worrying- his par-
ticular bosses, Lang came out strong at
Goulburn—where a country conference _ of
his “party” has been held —for unification
and the socialisation of credit. It is only
a few months since his “party” was crying
for secession, but it has been everything by
turns and nothing long.
Fianna Fail, De Valera’s party, will have
a majority of one —the Speaker, who did not
have to stand—in the new Dail Eireann. It
gained five seats and Cosgrave’s party lost
ten ; the gains and losses would have been
greater but for proportional representation.
Labor and the Farmers increased their
numbers slightly. De Valera’s position is
still difficult, and the chances are that he will
try to strengthen it in a few months by hav-
ing another election with single seats and
the first-past-the-post rule. But for that he
will need Labor support, and Labor is' apt
to be a very uncertain ally.
Queensland Labor Government’s compul-
sory-unionism decree has had a droll sequel.
The Clerks’ Union has been swamped by
new members, who were present in such
force at the annual meeting that only one
of the old office-bearers faced re-election,
and he was beaten. All other positions were
filled by newcomers, three women being in-
cluded on the committee. A pleasant even-
ing closed with the announcement that the
new policy of the union—hitherto a dutiful
Trades Hall concern —would comprise reduc-
tion of membership fees, no payment for
members of the council and no politics.
The Forbes-Coates coalition in M.L. is fac-
ing a peck of new troubles as a result of
the rise in the exchange rate. The banks,
which fought that expedient, are to be in-
demnified against loss, and their loss may
be heavy; and, apart from the bank indem-
nity, the change will cost the Government
(already deficit-dogged) £3,500,000 p.a.
Then the rise in domestic prices which seems
inevitable will increase the cost of unem-
ployment relief, nor will the additional taxa-
tion necessary improve the employment
market. Coalition members who represent
town constituencies resent the juggling with
exchange and are distrustful of the Govern-
ment’s Reserve Bank proposals. Next ses-
sion should be lively.
In the treatment of heretics, real or
alleged, these Labor factions are very much
alike. Whitford, the South Aus. Chief
retary, was expelled from the State branch
of the A.W.U., of which he is an mem-
ber, for having supported the Premiers' plan.
He asked the A.W.U. convention to renew
his union ticket, and was snubbed. A day
or so later, the A.W.U. chieftains in N. S.
Wales, reporting to the same convention, de-
nounced Lang’s Arbitration Rill in these
terms: —
A committee carefully examined the bill and found
that it had been ingeniously constructed to make
it possible for unions to debar from membership
workers who opposed the Lang faction. Under this
measure a small coterie could carry a resolution in
their union demanding allegiance to the Lang plan,
or any other idiotic plan. If any member failed
in his allegiance he could be expelled.
If the U.A.P. had any sand it would make
it unlawful for any set of Labor bosses to
expel a man from a union or deny him
membership because of his politics.
Westralian Premier Mitchell having
appointed Hal Colebatch Agent-General,
and thereby created a vacancy in the Senate,
it is now suggested that Mitchell himself is
quite likely to succeed the retiring Senator.
Should he do so, it would round off things
nicely if Angwin. the retiring A.-G., could
return from London to Perth and make a
successful bid for the Premiership, which
Labor has high hopes of capturing at the
forthcoming general election. Then every-
body would have moved round one place, like
Alice, the Dormouse, and the Mad Hatter
at a certain famous tea party, and West-
ralia could get on with the job of trying
to secede with a light heart.
Some of the N.S.W. railwaymen who, if
Lang had had his way, would have been
forced to join the Communist-controlled
A.R.U. or lose their jobs are trying to get
Federal registration for a new union they
have formed. One of its members told the
Court that, as a (Jatholic, he felt he could
not belong to a union which had linked up
with the Red Internationale. “Why, there
are thousands and thousands of good Catho-
lics in the A.R.U.!” said the representative
of that concern, to which the noble Lov-
sovsky issues orders. “They are all out of
step but witness,” sneered a delegate
from another union. “I don't want any sar-
casm from you,” was witness’s retort. He
could have replied more effectively by quot-
ing the report, printed in the previous day’s
newspapers, that “the R. C. Bishop Sloskin,
after 10 years’ captivity in Russia, has been
exchanged for a Communist agent imprisoned
in Latvia.”
Exchange has put up Australia’s annual
contribution to the League of Nations from
£35,600 to £65,000. If the League had
even a little more than a dog’s chance
of averting international conflicts this sum
would be a fleabite, but if China’s experi-
ence is any criterion the premium is too
“What do I get out of this League joint?”
“My dear sir! You are privileged to make
speeches, and we translate them into
forty-seven languages."
much by £64,999 19s. lid. China left its
case against Japan with the League two
year’s ago. Since then it has lost three
provinces containing 30 million people, is in
process of losing another containing six mil-
lion, and has had an industrial city as large
as Balmain reduced to ruins.
Compulsory acquisition of land considered
to be unproductive is threatened in Queens-
land. Compulsory resumption has long been
a feature of Queensland land legislation, but
in cases of dispute compensation has been
fixed by the Land Court. The judge of
what constitutes unproductive land will be
a board of commissioners, which will decide
on the valuation of the property concerned;
then the land will be purchased and pro-
claimed Crown land. Payment may be made
in debentures. The catch for property-
owners is that the right of appeal to the
Land Court against the compensation fixed
will be abolished.
“President-elect Roosevelt is anxious to have the
Ottawa agreements discussed at the conference on war
debts at Washington.”
UUCLE SAM: “Say, bo, I’m throwing a party,
and I want you there. But bring that
swell-looking cake along.”
If Ferguson, J., fails to suggest a way
of educing order from the chaos of income-
tax laws and practices, a task with which
he is manfully struggling instead of enjoy-
ing leisure which he has well earned, it won’t
be for lack of evidence. In Melbourne, as
in Sydney, there has been a rush of wit-
nesses crammed with information as to
crimes committed in the name of taxation.
A former taxgatherer, now a “consultant,”
held forth on the swindle of doubly taxing
the profits of concerns with inter-State con-
nections, and resurrected a bit of history:—
At a conference in 1929 the State taxation com-
missioners unanimously agreed to resolutions which,
if applied, would prevent double taxation. Those
resolutions have been honored by Victoria, South
Aus. and AVestralia. N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Tasmania refused to allow them to operate.
The witness is of opinion that “the States
have no constitutional power to tax income
derived beyond their borders.” Unfortu-
nately, the Commonwealth Constitution
doesn’t say a word about it. It is one of the
many points in which the Constitution is
glaringly defective.
Another consequence of the clumsy ukase
that all Queensland civil servants must join
a union was a flustered announcement that
under-secretaries and the like would not be
required to take out tickets, and perhaps
receive orders from fifth-class clerks. Now
the Professional Officers’ Association has re-
peated its refusal to belong to the Trades
and Labor Council. Its executive was will-
ing. but the members insisted on a ballot,
and rejected affiliation by two to one. It is a
distinct snub for the power behind the
throne, but it will have to be borne. Re-
calcitrant clerks may be sacked, but turn-
ing out a host of lawyers, architects, engi-
neers and other specialists is another matter.
Miss Beatrice Taylor, a teacher .in a Pad-
dington (N.S.W.) Government school, joined
the last pilgrimage to Moscow from these
parts. On her return she began lecturing on
the wonderful things she saw in Russia dur-
ing her stay, which lasted fullv 48 hours.
The lady became involved in an argument
with the department and was suspended. Com-
munists and Labor-Socialists championed her
cause, and “great mass demonstrations” were
organised. At the first, held in the Railway
Institute, a great deal was said about the
need for preserving the sacred right of free'
speech—in Australia, not in Russia, where
anti-Communists exercising the sacred right
are delivered over to firing squads. All went
well until enthusiasts unfolded an idiotic plan
for “a one-day protest strike” of Paddington
school-children, and a comrade from. Manly
rose to object. The other apostles of free
speech howled him down.
A number of eloquent gentlemen—chiefly
lawyers and Uni. lecturers —foregathered at
Robertson (N.S.W.) last week for what they
called the summer school of the Institute of
Political Science. Among them was Vic.
Attorney-General Bob Menzies, who an-
nounced himself a convert to “giving the
Commonwealth Parliament power to legis-
late generally in respect of all industrial
matters,” instead of limiting it by the word-
ing of sub-section 35 of section 51 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution: “Conciliation and
arbitration for the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes extending beyond the
limits of one State.” “ r f'hat sub-section,”
the speaker declared, “has created a new
instrument of disorder.” He might have
gone further without overstepping the mark
or destroying the complacency of the Lyons
Government. Constitutional reform has
become an urgent matter, but our “National”
Administration never even mentions it.
Great was the joy of Lang’s newspaper
when the news came from Dublin that De
Valera had won. “The result shows,” it.
chortled, “that the people of the Free State
are solidly behind Mr. De Valera in the
stand he has taken regarding the oath of
allegiance, land annuities and other matters
which precipitated the economic war with
Britain, and it is regarded as certain that
the Irish attitude will be considerably stiff-
ened during the next few months.” It is
equally certain that the Irish farmers will
be considerably stiffer, but that is their own
lookout. “Mr. De Valera,” the “Daily Lang”
went on, “is determined that the Free State
shall become entirely self-contained and in-
dependent of any outside State.” In that
case, certain exuberant followers of “Labor’s
great leader” will lose their right to vote
for him and may not regain it.
“Feed a horse on oats for six months, then
starve him, and his thoughts will run con-
tinually to oats, even though you haven’t yet
paid for the lastHot.”— The philosophy of a
correspondent.
A Sydney “Herald” correspondent objects
to “a notice in a shop window inviting
passers-by to invest sums as low as one
penny in a share of a State lottery ticket,”
and demands that “steps should be taken to
prevent boys and girls from investing in
the lottery.” Steps should really be taken
to save the once-lionorable word “invest”
from an undeserved fate. It is almost
universally applied in Australia to various
forms of gambling; punters are styled “in-
vestors,” and the amounts they stake “in-
vestments,” whether they back horses,
ponies, dogs or peds., and whether the other
party to the wager is a man or a machine.
A small thing, perhaps, but it lends a false
dignity to a craze which is useless to the
country, -whereas investing, rightly applied,
is useful.
“The leg-theory dispute was discussed in a
radio-telephone conversation between the Prime
Minister and Mr. Bruce. Mr. Bruce emphasised the
possible effect on Australian affairs overseas.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
“’Owzat?”
“I must really refrain from giving a
decision until I ascertain the batsman’s
views on our next conversion loan.”
Vic. Premier Argyle and F. W. Eggleston
worked together when Eggleston was in
politics,. and it is expected that the Argyle
Government will offer Eggleston a post
worthy of his talents. He has a bent for
finance and would make a good Savings
Bank commissioner (one of the present
quintette is an octogenarian), but the job is
worth only £5OO p.a. A place on the new
Closer Settlement Board or the Water Com-
mission would be preferable, and it is re-
called that Shannon and Molomby, two of
the Railway Commissioners, are due to retire
in three months. Eggleston, who is 57, was
Minister of Railways under Allan (1924-26).
Queensland wheatgrowers are as fed up
with boards as the beekeepers and poultry-
men of N. S. Wales. Their wheat board
refused the Government’s offer of 3s. 6d. a
bushel for new season’s grain. N.S.W.
dealers rushed the Bananaland market with
wheat at a lower price, and did good busi-
ness, while the Queensland farmers had their
stocks left on their hands. Queensland
milling companies have now offered the
board 3s. 6d. for the total crop of millable
wheat. Failing acceptance, they say they
will buy all the wheat they need from other
States. They already hold sufficient southern
wheat to carry them to the end of June.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Subbubs”: I don’t often find myself in
sympathy with night prowlers, my hobbies
being gardening and fowls. Yet I confess to
a spasm of pity while reading in the “Sun”
ot the almost incredible misfortunes of a
man who was charged at H’ornsby with being
a “suspected person.” His presence in a garden
at Warrawee was revealed by the cackling
of a pet duck —presumably a trained watch-
duck. The owner, a colonel, gave tongue
and one of his sons rushed out with a drawn
sword. The colonel followed with an army
revolver, accompanied by another son with
a stick. The Northern Suburbs wireless
patrol, under a detective-sergeant, arrived
inside two minutes (surely a world record)
and found a shuddering little man of sft.
Sin. against a fence with his hands up, and
the point of a sword against his midriff,
while three alert six-footers encircled him
watchfully. This must be about the worst
stroke of luck experienced by a North Shore
wrongdoer since that of the man who broke
into a well-known pub after hours and found
himself in the presence of the only two
policemen within a radius of many miles.
GENERAL INFORMATION.
“Dad. what makes a man always give the lady he is engaged to a ring?”
“The lady, my dear.”
“S.J.”: The storm that swept a large
part of N. S. Wales last week left a train
of casualties behind it. The most harrow-
ing occurred in the camping area at Stan-
well Park, one of the Illawarra beauty
spots. An unemployed man, his wife
and their four children, aged 16, 12, 9 and
2, had established themselves in a tent there,
not so' much for a holiday as with the idea
of making a few shillings by blackberry-
picking. In the night hours a swirling river
came down on the little party, which had
been reinforced by two lads of 12 and 8
from an adjacent tent. The father seems
to have done all that a man could do in
that deadly peril. With a rope he tied his
wife and the children together, and struck
out himself with the baby through the raging
flood. When his. body was found next day
it was on Scarborough beach, three miles
away. All the others perished, except the
eldest girl, Laurel Davis. Her mother and
the others had been swept away or drowned
before the rope tied to her wrist had be-
come wedged in the fork of a tree, and her
cries and moanings were heard by some
w'ould-be rescuers who had been alarmed by
the rapid rise of the w'ater. No little cour-
age and resolution were needed to plunge
into that raging maelstrom in the inky
darkness to rescue a drowning girl, whose
clinging form would hardly have been dis-
cernible except for an occasional flash of
lightning, but a 17-year-old lad named Gor-
don Tonkin tackled the job, a rope having
been tied about his waist, which his com-
panions gripped. Four times he was swept
past his objective, but the fifth time he man-
aged to grasp the girl and cut her free, after
wdiich strong arms pulled them both ashore.
The Royal Humane Society should find some
more than ordinary recognition for Ton-
kin’s heroism.
* * * %
“James Pigg”: Foxhounds have at one
time or another run into many unusual
varieties of game, but the record went up
in England recently when a pack rolled
over an Australian wombat. It happened in
a southern county and
the weird beast could not
be identified for some
time; then a keeper from
the great open-air zoo at
Whipsnade, miles away,
reported it as one of his
charges. The animal had
burrowed under the en-
closing fences, as might
be expected of a wombat,
but only lived long
enough to make fox-hunt-
ing history. I would
give something to have
caught a glimpse of the
huntsman’s face when he
saw r what his hounds had
killed.
“Ivoranga”: The cow
that jumped over the
moon is becoming a less
fantas.tic conception.
Some time ago an enter-
prising individual started
a dairy farm on the
Bulolo goldfields, which
are situated some thou-
sands of feet up among the clouds in New
Guinea. He bought a consignment of choice
cattle from a Queensland stud-breeder, but
all perished on the long and arduous journey
through the mountains from the coast. Un-
deterred, the Bulolo milk-oh ordered another
lot. These he has. had successfully trans-
ferred from the coast to their destination by
aeroplane, the bull and his harem being
landed on the mountain-tops without mishap.
5 1 : v
“Pom” : Sydney is more conspicuously the
home of sporting impostors than any place
of my acquaintance; it teems with able-
bodied lads who have never taken a chance
in their lives but comport themselves like
film desperadoes. The sun-tanned he-man is
a perfect devil when he gets his bathers on
and a few flappers round him. The fiction
is that he has acquired his bronzed appear-
ance while saving lives in the surf. Actually,
nine Sydney he-men out of ten get sun-
tanned by lying in back yards. One youth,
presumably unemployed, anoints himself with
oil every morning and spends the rest of
the day exposing sections of his anatomy to
the sun near my home, the completed pic-
ture being submitted to Bondi during the
week-end. He typifies thousands. The city
racing-man is another fraud. To hear him
laying down the law in bars and elsewhere
on the subject of equine conformation and
the art of riding you might imagine he had
practical knowledge of horses and horse-
manship. Most Englishmen and nearly all
Irishmen who dogmatise on such matters can
ride. It is safe to say that not one Sydney-
ite out of every hundred who blither about
how a given race should, or should not, have
been ridden could sit on a horse over a
three-foot hurdle if his life depended on it.
Sydney is the only white city of its size in
the world with no body of men, barring-
pros., who ride over fences at shows or
on racecourses, and N. S. Wales is the only
self-governing portion of the Empire without
at least one pack of hounds. It accounts
for the local popularity of golf, a safer game
than ping-pong. There is an exciting atmo-
sphere of noisy dare-deviltry about the aver-
age Sydney golf club locker-room. Bronzed
young' giants stand about and tell how they
got 250 off the first tee, or reached the 7th
green in one. The spectacle is as inspiring
as a Hollywood representation of an active-
service mess till you remember that most
of these youths have taken to golf because it
is safer than cricket. Let body-line bowling
once get a footing and I prophesy that
Sydney will turn out a crowd of youthful
golfing champs.who will startle the world.
* * * *
“Wapping” : The Brooklyn (U.S.A.) bridge
was opened in 1883, after taking 13 years
to build. The man who jumped off it with
dumbbells in his hands (B. 25/l/’33)
doubtless borrowed the idea from London,
where the stunt was several times staged
round about that period. The distance
to the Thames from any of the bridges
which span it is, of course, not comparable
AN OLD INVENTION.
“See where they’ve discovered a jigger which can tell when you’re lying.”
“Don’t I know it—I married one!”
with those which have to be traversed from
more recent structures, but there was a
danger of another kind to be encountered in
the water into which the acrobat (you could
hardly call him a diver) plunged. Some
doctors reckoned that the fill-up of Thames
water which a man was likely to get before
coming to the surface again was likely to
have more serious effects than the descent
itself. But I don’t recall any fatalities in
the cases where the feat was undertaken for
publicity or wagers.
“Nikko”: The Sydney jeweller who had
his shop window smashed by a ring-snatch or
(B. 25/l/’33) was less fortunate than a
Hunter-street gem-seller from whose counter
a man lifted a tray of diamond rings, a
year or two ago. The thief ran across
George-street, and when the pursuit grew
too hot tossed his booty away when passing
the scene of the railway excavations in
Wynyard-square. Workmen and others,
startled to find themselves under a rain of
gold and jewels, retrieved the plunder, and
the gratified shopkeeper loudly put it on
record that he did not lose a single ring.
“Sweeney”: Seven cities claimed to be
the birthplace of Homer, the Sydney “D.T.”
reminds us, and two places dispute the
honor of having Henry Lawson for a son.
Then the paper proceeds to sliow% on the
authority of the poet himself, that Grenfell
is entitied to the distinction. The letter
quoted, in which Henry gives it as his
opinion that he was born in a tent near
the old diggers’ cemetery at Grenfell in June,
1867, was written, one learns, at the time
of the “Back to Grenfell” Week in 1924.
In that case it must have been mailed at
some extra-terrestrial post office.
* * *
“Vandorian”: A striking memorial to the
Speck’s vanished natives may be found in
Hobart Museum. It’s a fairly recent addi-
tion, a gift from a former member of the
Museum staff, John Arnold. Under a huge
glass roof and walls sits Truganini. the
last full-blooded gin. in beautifully modelled
bronze. Her piccaninny stands with one
hand on her shoulder, watching, his mother
toast crayfish. H'er man, with red-ochred
woolly hair, comes into the picture, carrying
bark' for the fire, set on a shelly sea-
shore. The scene-painting is capital. Truga-
nini, who w r as noted for her attractive
appearance and disposition, died in May,
1870. The cost of good old John Arnold’s
gift to the Museum was £5OO.
“Jeames” : A visit to. London, adequately
handled on the publicity side, has the same
effect in Australia as a pilgrimage to the
Holy Places had in England during the Ages
of Faith. The tourist returns absolved.
Billy Hughes was the most discredited poli-
tician in Canberra before his last hegira;
ambitious members of the U.A.P. used to
dodge round corners to avoid being seen talk-
ing to him by the kingmakers of the Mel-
bourne Club. Bruce was equally unpopular
with taxpayers who remembered his extrava-
gance while in office. Billy came back the
other day in a blaze of glory induced by the
cables about his goings-on in London, and if
he hadn't had the rotten luck to fall over
something and break his leg he would have
been a centre of interest for the full nine days.
Bruce will be sincerely adulated when he
comes back. Thousands will forget the super-
fluous splendors he has made them pay for—
the P.M.’s white elephantine residence at
Canberra, the High Commissioner’s ridicu-
lously ornate London mansion—and will only
remember that the pilgrim’s feet had touched
hallowed ground. But he’ll have to exploit
his advantage quickly. Merit acquired on
such lines is as soon forgotten as it was in
the Middle Ages.
* * :!= *
“The Oldest Inhab.” : Not one of the many
references to the site of what Melbourne still
knows as “Stewart Dawson’s corner” men-'
tions the late German Nicholson, who ran a
grocery store there, I firmly believe, from
the days of Batman until it was replaced by
Nicholson’s Chambers in the ’eighties. When
I was a small boy I bought many pounds of
butter from old German Nicholson. The shop
was of special interest because, first, it was
one-storeyed in a Melbourne which had already
growm up a little, and, second, it was the
only shop I had ever seen or heard of which
you descended to enter, the door on the
Swanston-street frontage being some inches
below r the footpath level. Across the road
was the Rainbow Hotel, at the corner of
Little Collins. The City Court was handy
to provide the raw material for melodrama
and comedy, and, despite the efforts of succes-
sive licensees, the patrons of the Rainbow used
to fight on the pavement in front and use
awful language. If you didn’t see an actual
scrap, you could always see the pavement
adorned with broken glass and spilt beer
and blood. Eventually the court was shifted
and the temperance people bought out the pub.
It was an appalling blunder in tactics. A
place like the Rainbow in the centre of the
city would have so disgusted the whole popu-
lation that prohibition would have been a
certainty in a few years.
“Hamer” : Sydney’s experience of warfare
between the soldier and the sailor (B.
18/l/’33), common in earlier days, came
from the almost continual friction arising
from feminine entanglements (or dis-
ontanglements) between the Navy men on
the Sydney station and the Garrison
Artillery. Probably the trouble was less the
larceny of sweethearts than the theft of
wives; for when a woman of the type that
loves a uniform had tired of a husband her
fancy was only too apt to turn lightly to some-
one in the rival service. When sailors were
seen to be assembling in force near Victoria
Barracks, where many bloody battles were
fought, Green’s-road, round the corner from
the main gate, being the usual convincing
ground, there were insistent calls for the
police from peaceful citizens. The police,
however, found it more politic to delay their
arrival until the battle had exhausted the
combatants; to come earlier was to invite
a combined resistance. Quite as frequently
the soldiers would lie in wait for leave
parties going ashore from the warships and
make a mill of it in the vicinity of Circular
Quay. The vendetta died out with the arri-
val of the Commonwealth Military Forces
and the creation of a really Australian >
Navy.
“Heliopolis”: That story of the wrong
barrister being appointed a Judge through
a confusion in names (B. 25/l/’33) recalls
a Eight Horse happening in Egypt after the
Evacuation. A cable from Australia to the
Ist Brigade Depot announced that Sergeant
(say) J. Smithers’s application for a com-
mission had been granted. The n.c.o. was
duly informed and hoisted his badges. . A
few days later he gave a dinner at Cairo
Continental in honor of the event. Then came
another cable making it plain that the wrong
Smithers had been promoted, there being
another of the same name and initial. After
some searchings of heart it was decided that
the promoted man should retain the rank
he had drawn from the lucky dip. He later
joined the Australian Air Force and did
good service in France. What became of
the man who missed the ’bus I never heard.
*
“Centurion” : It looks as if the armies of
the near future will be equipped with auto-
matic rifles. Therm are many makes of
these on the market, but a new weapon
designed by Browning, specimens of which
have just arrived in Australia for military
tests, is claimed to have advantages over
them all. Australians are, of course familiar
with the Lewis-gun, which is more of a
machine-gun than a rifle, and a section became
acquainted with one form of automatic rifle
in the Great War. This was the French
Hotchkiss, which was issued to the Light
Horse to supplement Lewis and Vickers
guns, and, like them, was always liable to
jam in emergency. This has proved a serious
fault in all automatic weapons unless they
are kept scrupulously clean, an impossible
thing in active warfare. Even the Lee-
En field rifle was often out of action through
sand or mud. The supply of ammunition
to moving troops armed with automatics is
going to be another hurdle to get over. Pos-
sibly ’planes and tanks will handle this job
in tlie next war.
HINKLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After consultation with the Air Ministry, the
Hinkler search committee has abandoned plans for
a further land search in Switzerland, being- convinced
of the impossibility of finding the airman alive.”
The flickering flame of hope dies down
apace.
Is there no gleam remaining? Who can
tell?
Yet if ’tis written that nor track nor trace
Shall ever tell us of your resting-place,
Sleep well, brave heart, sleep well!
Was it where sullen mountains stab the sky
•Among the Alpine silences and snows
You met your fate, and is it there you lie?
Or are the hungry billows breaking high
Above your bed? Who knows?
You rode the winds at will; the world you
spanned;
You wrote your name across it, east and
west.
None more intrepid in the lustrous band
That conquered land and sea. By sea or
land
Sound be your last long rest!
Hail and farewell! Ave for deeds that
glow,
That held the earth entranced, the air in
fee.
And if the last faint gleam of hope burns
low
And dimly dies —aye, if it must be so—
Vale, brave heart, vale!
N.s.w.
IFORD.


ONE TO GO ON WITH.
ACTRESS (on meeting former manager ): “Allow me to introduce my
husband.”
MANAGER: “Always a pleasure to meet any husband of yours.”
“Trader Brown” : I can understand Somer-
set Maugham’s bloomers about Australia,
having seen something of him while he was
in Sydney a few years ago. He and his
youthful secretary spent most of their time
fluttering about the counters of haberdashers’
shops, and almost at the end of his stay he
asked vaguely if “the Blue Mountain” was
“in Queensland, or where?” A conspicuously
ladylike little man, Maugham considered the
Australians “dreadful” personally, and, un-
like Lawrence, he wasn’t interested in their
country. Lawrence, who spent most of his
time in a South Coast mining area, was
as inquisitive and friendly as Maugham was
aloof. He had a pile of old Bulletins
which lie used to turn to pleasurably in a
spasmodic way, and a book of Bulletin
clippings, many of which he used later in
“Kangaroo.” Lawrence was a whale for
accuracy. He sought facts, whereas Maug-
ham sought chiefly gossip—and the more
scandalous the better. Of all the overseas
authors I have met Gilbert Frankau was
the most careful to avoid making mistakes.
He was in Sydney as traveller for the family
tobacco business before the war, and in the
notebook which he wrote up conscientiously
each night he inserted every imaginable de-
tail about the city, its streets, places of
amusement and suburbs, even its trees and
prevailing winds. Frankau must be Eng-
land’s most reliable writer as regards details
now that Arnold Bennett is dead. Yet even
Homer nods. In “The Woman of the
Horizon” Frankau confuses the then editor
of Tiie Bulletin with one who is obviously
John Norton!
* =1: 3 *
“Mudurup” : Probably some details about
the duel fought -on Rottnest Island between
two French officers before the Swan River
settlement was founded (B. 25/l/’33) would
be found in the annals of the French Admir-
alty, if anyone were interested enough to
look for them, especially as one of the com-
batants is said to have been killed. Dutch
records bearing on early Westralian history
have been readily made accessible' to investi-
gators and have yielded a good deal of valu-
able information. The duel at North Fre-
mantle mentioned-in the same paragraph, and
generally regarded as the first and last
genuine affair of honor in that part of the
continent, also had a fatal termination. The
date was August 17, I<S32, and the antago-
nists were a Scotch lawyer named Clark and
a merchant named Johnstone, both contri-
butors to a newspaper called the “Inquisi-
tor,” in the columns of which one had in-
sulted the other. The legal gentleman put
a bullet through the storekeeper, who died
within 12 hours.
“Spadassin” : Australia has been the scene
of at least one duel in comparatively modern
times. The place was Brisbane, the time
tire mid-’eight!ie,s, the combatants an English-
man and a German, both officers of the Gar-
rison Artillery. The old sword drill was then
part of military training, and both men had
a good knowledge of cut and parry, though
the German had the advantage of having
taken a hand in student burschen in a Vater-
land university; so sabres were chosen. The
meeting took place in the scrub at the back
of Eagle Farm racecourse and both men
were slightly carved before the seconds called
it a fair thing. The cause of the quarrel
—well, I forget her name.
*
“Ex-Rozzer”: A fine question of ethics
cropped up in a Sydney police court when
a police constable charged a civilian with
using insulting words to him in a billiard-
room. The policeman was off duty, and the
pair were playing snooker, when the lan-
guage was used. The constable was pro-
bably within his rights in charging his
acquaintance, for a policeman, like a soldier,
is always on duty. Still, there are occasions
when the wrath of the Law might well be
muzzled, as there are occasions when it
may be legitimately loosed on its prey.
I once heard a prominent military man
tell a Supreme Court Judge what he thought
of his Honor as a bridge partner, but the
matter never got into court.
•jc •!*
“Ootacarra”: Not often is a licensed
victualler charged with being drunk on his
r . own premises,
but it happened
at Geraldton
(W.A.) the other
day. The police,
making the
rounds of the
pubs about tea-
time (they don’t
shut till nine in
those parts),
found a saloon
bar locked and
demanded admis-
sion. Bung, who
was the one occu-
pant of the joint,
obliged them, and
was soon on his
way to the lock-
up. The case
was fought deter-
minedly in court,
the licensee hotly
denying the im-
peachment. Asked
why he had lock-
ed the door, he
explained that
he wanted to
“t hi n k out a
scheme for
Christmast deco-
rations,” a task
for which perfect
quiet was essen-
tial. Bung’s
counsel took the
further ingenious
point that, see-
ing the public
had admittedly
been shut out of
this particular
bar at the time,
the defendant, if
he was drunk,
couldn’t be said
to have been
drunk on licensed
premises; but
the prosecuting
sergeant tore holes in this contention by
pointing out that no licensee was empowered
to close a portion of his premises during
trading hours without special permission.
A conviction was entered and a fine im-
posed.
s*c * * *
“Clerk”: No doubt the dwindling popu-
larity of “Miner” as a provincial newspaper
title in W.A. has been due to the. transfer
of so many of the population to the wheat
belt (B. 18/l/’32). The change is reflected
in the new names, which include a “Wheat-
lander.” a “Wheatsheaf” and a “Cultiva-
tor.” Maoriland shows even less originality
than Australia in newspaper nomenclature;
its 134 provincial papers share only 32
names among them, with “Times,” “Herald,”
“Mail,” “Nows,” “Star,” “Chronicle,”
“Guardian” and “Press” in the lead. There is
hardly a single attempt at anything new,
unless the “Call” (Raetihi) and the “Lum-
inary” (Ivawakawa) are to be regarded as
such.
* * Hi Hi
“Mells” : Sydney Public Library has been
under fire again. Periodically somebody
rises to remark that the cramped, crowded
and unhygienic premises are a disgrace to
any big city, and contrasts them, in sorrow
or anger or both, with the spacious, up-to-
date accommodation for readers and students
that every other Australian capital pro-
vides. And latterly there has been a disposi-
tion, especially on the part of visitors, to
inquire why Governments which cheerfully
sanction the expenditure of millions for
bridge-building jib at finding a tithe of the
money for making the public library some-
thing less of a reflection on civic pride and a
stigma on educational facilities. It is no
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
“It’s a bonzer little ring, Harry; but don’t you think"
“No, I don't. Five other girls' have had it, and you’re the first to
say she didn’t like it.”
answer to point out, even though it is equally
true, that no public library in Australia is
better stocked with literature of every kind or
possesses a more courteous and efficient staff.
The trouble is that the building is out-of-
date, and probably was out-of-date 50 years
ago, for the purposes which it was intended
to answer. For those who have to study
there, or even to obtain information not
readily procurable elsewhere, the environ-
ment is an ordeal.
* * * *
“Kiriwina” : In his itinerary of the world’s
pearl-buyers (B. 18/l/’33) “Joseph Scott”
did not mention the Trobriands, off the east
coast of Papua. The pearls obtained there
from a variety of sea-mussel are very distinc-
tive in quality, and in the writer’s time at
least were eagerly sought by European buyers.
The pearls, gathered by the natives skin-diving
on the shallow beds, were remarkable for their
coloring, the pink and black varieties being
in great demand. The trade was in the hands
of a Greek colony, which bought from the
natives and sold again to the buyers, who
made their headquarters at Samarai.
* * h= *
“Whitehall” : Patriotisms, like morals, are
largely governed by localities. Australia
never had a more vehe-
ment Empire Man than
"Bull” Ryrie. His worship
of the Union Jack amounted
to feticliism in the early
days of his political career.
When a toy Union Jack
was burned in Hyde Park
he argued that the offender,
if discovered, should be de-
ported without trial. Yet
he had hardly settled in
London as High Commis-
sioner when he developed an
Australianism as passion-
ate as the Imperialism he
had preached in Sydney.
Wet or fine, day and night,
in the East End and May-
fair alike, the bonnet of
his limousine flaunted an
Australian flag. Contrari-
wise, when Chief Justice
Street recently became
Acting-Governor of N. S.
Wales a miniature flag-
pole with Union Jack
attached immediately ap-
peared on the bonnet of
his car. This quiet Sydney
Equity specialist has never
been the rip-roaring Im-
perialist that Ryrie was for
so many years, and he
wouldn’t dream of adver-
tising his loyalty to Britain
in London. His outburst
of Britishism is a matter
of locality. One notices it
in everything. Some Aus-
tralians, especially those
who have bepn to English
schools, barrack for Eng-
land in the Test games—
in Australia. At Lord’s,
they are invariably found
yelling for Australia. The
lesson is: If you wish to realise the merits
of a country and its people get, 12,000 miles
away from it.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Although I have, never seen a
Princess Alexandra parrakeet in its wild
state (B. 18/l/’33), I have seen one in
captivity. This was in a lonely hut in the
far west of Queensland. A gorgeously beau-
tiful bird it was, with tints of purple, rose,
blue and deep green predominating. Its
long, slender black tail was decorated with
green and touched with pink. It amused
us for hours with its amazing repertoire,
whistling, talking and singing with equal
facility. The bird had been trained by a
jackeroo who had been a musician ; it had a
peculiar habit of lying along its perch like
a lizard.
* He He He
“Mixed Grill” -. Mention in the cables of
the death of Stalin’s wife recalls the fact of
his marriage only
a couple of years
back. His first
wife died during
the war and
Stalin remained
a widower until
he had settled
things fairly to
his liking in the
Soviet. Then he
wrote to Tiflis,
his home-town in
Georgia, ordering
one wife, with
specific ations.
Nominally Chris-
tian, the Geor-
gians have always
lived in a Maho-
med a n atmo-
sphere and been
thereby affected,
so the order was
taken as a matter
of course. The
agent went up
into the in ou n-
tains where the
Ossetes —a branch
of the Georgians
—have their
being, and, after
subtle and pro-
longed bargain-
ing, secured for
50 cows a comely
girl of 15, who
was duly labelled
and consigned to
Moscow. There
she was met and
married by the
D i ctator of 150
millions and in-
stalled in a villa
in the suburbs.
True to his up-
bringing, Stalin
carefully locked
her in the house
when he left in
the morning, and
let her loose
when he returned
from the Kremlin, after putting in a hard
day signing documents for the further eman-
cipation of woman.
* * * *
“lan C.” • A Vic. P.M. has inflicted a fine
of £lO (with :';3 18s. fid. costs) on a bailiff
who entered a house in the absence of the
occupier, and executed a distress warrant
for arrears of rent. The occupier sued the
bailiff, claim ng £49; it was mentioned
that the fun: iture seized, said to be worth
£35, realised ‘about £4 18s.” when sold by
auction. The distress, warrant was left with
a neighbor. The bailiff denied that he had
forcibly cntei id by pushing open a window ;
his version was that the window was “partly
open,” and 1. is offsider climbed in and un-
locked the front door. The Law ruled that
even this cai le under the heading of unlaw-
ful methods.
.1; !>: *
. “Bert the Carpenter”: Re thefts of pon-
derous object? (B. 18/l/’33). Many years
ago an Adelaide foundry manager bought a
lot of scrap metal from a dealer, including
two 12-pounder muzzle-loading cannon of
the type known as carronades. The man-
ager had wooden mounts made for them
before setting them up on his front lawm;
CONSOLATION.
CHILD: “Mummy, is it true daddy’s mother has lost all her
fortune?”
MOTHER: “Fes, my child, it’s quite true."
CHILD : “Oh, well, you married for love, didn't you,
Mummy?”
it took six hefty men to carry each
into position. One morning both ancient
pieces of ordnance were missing. And miss-
ino- they remained, despite all the efforts of
the police until the war sent scrap-metal
prices soaring and a man came to the
foundry and mentioned that he had two old
brass cannon for sale. A deal was made,
and .when the goods were delivered the
manager found that he had bought back his
own two guns.
GOLD FOR THE MINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In 1932 the Melbourne branch of the Royal Mint
received through licensed goldbuyers racing cups,
medals, trinkets, etc., of a gross weight of 277,000
ounces. Total value was nearly £1,000,000.”
Gold for the Mint! It’s all the time
devouring it,
Day and night digesting it, with never
Stay or stint.
Like some voracious ostrich it will gobble
all they bring to it;
It doesn’t care a tinker’s curse what tender
memories cling to it:
Or new or old, it’s merely gold—gold for
the Mint.
Gold fresh-won from bowels of earth,
Boulder, p’r’aps, or Ivanhoe,
Gold from rugged Papua or up Wiluna
way,
Mixed with gold from various caches —like as
not a few of them
Safe and snug where nobody except the
owners knew of
All commanding six-pound-one (or is it
two?) to-day.
Family jewels, trinkets, lockets, cups and
medals, tons of them,
Jostling with the nuggets whereupon pros-
pectors pounce;
Treasured trophies, gauds so cherished none
could get the lend of them,
Things that seldom saw the light, alas! is
this the end of them,
Being swallowed by the Mint at six-pound-
one an ounce?
Heirlooms that might else have been handed
down for centuries
Ignominiously bound for the melting-pot;
Goblets that enrapture with the tinkling
chink and clink of them,
Rings and chains and amulets—it makes one
sad to think of them
And sick indeed to ponder on their melan-
choly lot.
Gold for the Mint! No matter what the
source of it—
A reef, a patch alluvial, a monarch’s
diadem,
A sideboard or a cupboard where the owner’s
long been hiding it,
A dingy heap of tailings when you’ve finished
cyaniding it —
Or new or old it’s merely gold, and all
the same to them.
Household treasure melted down to make
a million quids of it,
Losing all identity, cut to pattern drear,
Stacked in boxes for the banks. Seems we’ve
seen the last of it.
This at least a man may safely venture to
forecast of it:
Few indeed are ever like to touch those
sovereigns here.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


♦
SI3Z4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays :
Merchant-knight Wm. Brunton (Melb.), 66, on Ist;
Colonel Brinsmead, 50, and W. F. Dunn (ex-Min.
for Agriculture, N.S.W.), 56, on 2nd; Peter
Whittington (S. Aus. former Commissioner of Audit),
SB, and woolseller George Aitken (Melb.), 69, on
4th; Rev. L. E. Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of
Wesley Coll., Syd.), 55, on sth; N.S.W. Min. for
Mines R. S. Vincent, 41, on 6th; Richard Linton
(founder of Big Brother movement in Aus.), 55, on
7th; Dr. A. B. Walkom (gen. sec., Australasian
Science Assoc.), 44, on Bth; Q’land ex-Premier A.
E. Moore, 57, Allan Wilkie, 55, and airman-knight
Ivingsford Smith, 36, on 9th; Robert Garran (retired
Federal Solicitor-General), 66, on 10th; knight
Albert Gould (Syd., formerly Pres, of Federal
Senate), 86, Prof. Carslaw (Syd.), 63, Prof. Ewart,
F. (Melb.), 61, Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 58, Arch-
deacon Davies (Moore Theol. Coll., Syd.), 54, and
pastoralist-knight Edward Wittenoom (W.A.), 79, on
12th; Archbishop Kelly, 83, and Melb. scientist
Frederick Chapman, 69, on 13th; ex-Senator Walter
Duncan, 50, and knight Edward Lucas (ex-S.A.
Agent-Gen.), 76, on 14th; Geo. Black, M.L.C., of
N.S.W. (early Bulletin sub-editor), 79, on 15th;
Justice McTiernan (Federal High Court), 41, on
16th; “Banjo” Paterson, 69, and 11. T. Armitage
(dep.-gov. C’wealth Bank), 52, on 17th; Justice
Macrossan (Q’land), 52, Rev. Alfred Gifford (Surrey
Hills, Vic.), 65, and S. Aus. novelist Dorothy Lahgs-
.ford, on 20th; Judge Drake-Brockman, 49, and
Henry Cohen, K.C., M.L.C. (Vic.), 61, on 21st;
Justice Starke (Federal High Court), 62, on 22nd ;
Norman Lindsay, 54, and novelist Jas. M. Walsh,
36, on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar of Syd. Uni.),
50, and Prof. D. B. Copland, 39, on 24th;
artist Percy Leason, 44, Customs Comptroller Ernest
Hall, 62, and Staniforth Smith (ex-Senatov and
-sometime high official in Papua), 64, on 25th; prof.-
kniglit Mungo MacCallum (Syd.), 79, and S.A.
Agent-Gen.-knight Henry Barwell, 46, on 26th ;
medico-knight James Barrett (Melb.), 71, and air-
man L. J. Brain (Q.A.N.T.A.S.), 31, on 27th.
Gregory, M.ILR., has been mentioned as
a possible successor to Hal Colebatch in the
Senate. He is in his 73rd year, and has never
spared himself during his 35 years of Par-
liamentary life, although he has had to under-
go more than one serious surgical operation.
It is suggested that he would find the Senate
atmosphere more restful than his present sur-
roundings, and there is not much doubt that
the Westralian Government would put him
into the seat if he should desire it. Whether
he does so is another question. Gregory
could have had a Senate nomination from
the C-P. organisation in Westralia before
this if he had liked.
Lionel Hill, Premier of S. Australia, will
probably escape from his political troubles by
taking the cushy job of Agent-General. H'is
old party lias been torn to shreds, and if he
stayed for the State general election it
doesn’t look as if he would have any fol-
lowers worth mentioning. Still, he can’t
LIONEL HILL, S.A. (more or less)
Premier.
complain; he has had a good run—lB years
in Parliament, twice Premier, the last time
for nearly three years. He is S. Australian-
born, a farmer’s son, who drifted to the city
and got. a job on the trams, soon became, sec-
retary of the trammies’ union, and so to
Parliament.
Former Minister of Customs Gullett spent
his earlier years on his father’s onion farm
at Portarlington, near Queenscliff. Gullett
drifted from the land into journalism, and
for a few years represented “S. M.
Herald” in the Federal Gallery in Mel-
bourne. Later he ran the Land column in
the “Herald” and was a vigorous barracker
for the farmer. He fought certain city
agents in and out of season, and, though
they protested loudly—and some of them
were fairly influential people—the Fairfaxes,
to their credit, stuck to him through thick
and thin. But Harry grew tired of the
eternal bickering and tossed in his portfolio,
going to London and later to the war, and
eventually marrying the daughter of a lady
who became a peeress. Harry’s drift from
the uncompromising Radicalism of his youth
to Nationalism was scarcely due to his sur-
roundings, for the late Lady Headley boasted
that the vote she cast for her son-in-law was
the first she had ever given to any but a
Jjabor man.
LARWOOD—the gentleman who is accused
of straining the hitherto quite friendly
relations between the Lion and the
Kangaroo.
Fred Doidge, secretary of Beaverbrook’s
Empire F'reetrade campaign, who is now re-
visiting Australia, hails from Cootamundra
(N.S.W.), where his father ran a bi-weekly
paper. Here the son' served an apprentice-
ship from compositor to reporter, but left
for Maoriland when little more than a
youngster. He was one of the survivors of
the Elingamite, wrecked off the Three Kings
over a score of years ago.
Died the other day, the Rev. E. Lyndon
Smith, who before becoming an Anglican
clergyman in the Bendigo diocese was suc-
cessively shire engineer at Bright, dis-
trict engineer at Pyramid Hill and execu-
tive engineer in Melb. under the Water Com-
mission. He was not the first Vic. civil ser-
vant to take to the church after retirement.
Cave-Brown-Cave, scion of an old English
family, after relinquishing at 65 the job of
chief clerk in the Premier’s office in Melb.,
became an Anglican curate at Richmond.
Franklin Peterson, of the London “Times,”
who passed out in Delhi (India) last week
at 41, was the sou of a former Ormond Pro-
fessor of Music at Melbourne Uni. After
reading law. acting as associate to Judge
Higgins and seeing war service in New
Guinea he joined the “Argus” staff; the late
Northcliffe lured the young man away to the
“Times.” For that paper he was successively
a leader-writer in London and a travelling-
representative all over the Dominions. He
was last in these parts in 1926, just before
the ceremonies which attended the opening
of the Federal Parliament, at Canberra by
the Duke of York.
Alexander Michie, chairman of directors
of the London board of the Bank of New
Zealand, is dead. He was an Aberdonian, and.
after banking experience in Scotland and
London, sailed for M.L. in 1884 as inspector
of the National Bank, and later became
manager in Dunedin. He joined up with
the B.N.Z. in 1891, rose to be general
manager and went to the Cold Country in
1907 to join the London board.
John Tregerthen Short, who died in Perth
last week, was born in Cornwall 74 years
ago. He left England before he was out
of his twenties for what was to be a long
career on Australian railways, beginning
in the S. Aus. service. Just before West-
ralia got responsible government Short be-
came manager, at 30, of the Great Southern
railway, a land-grant proposition ; when the
Forrest Government bought out the English
shareholders a few- years later, he was made
chief traffic manager of the Westralian rail-
ways. He held that job for a dozen years,
and when the late W. J. George, a promi-
nent Parliamentary figure, had finished his
term as Railway Commissioner, Short
stepped into his shoes and stayed there for
another dozen, retiring in 1919. He was
a capable railway man, with few interests
outside of his job.
George Saintsbury, dead in London at 87,
was the G.O.M. among English literary
critics. His knowledge was monumental,
his pen had been busy for over 50 years—he
was Professor of Rhetoric at Edinburgh, too
—he was a master of style, and he had the
rare gift of making criticism and biography
as fascinating as Macaulay or Froude could
make history.
The bulk of the £7OOO estate of L. A.
Adamson, headmaster of Wesley College,
Melbourne, who died on December 14, goes
to ,liis nephew, L. A. Pattinson. Adamson
left gifts and souvenirs to Wesley, its new
head, H. J. Stewart (who was made execu-
tor), and several other people. His house at
Prahran was bequeathed to a friend.
Alfred Mitford Lilley, dead in Queensland
at 64, was a member of one of the State’s
oldest legal families. His father was Charles
Lilley, Premier and Chief Justice. Of
Charles’s seven softs, one was a barrister
(the late Edwin Lilley, K.C.) and five, in-
cluding Alfred, solicitors. Born in Brisbane
and educated at the local Grammar School,
Alfred was admitted to both the Queensland
and N.S.W. rolls, and for a time practised
in Sydney before returning to his native
State, lie enlisted in the A.I.F. and saw.
service abroad.
C. W. Maclean, who handed in his checks
at Elsternwick, a Melbourne suburb, a few
days ago, was for years a familiar figure to
seafarers when he was Engineer for Ports
and Harbors and Chairman of the Marine
Board. When he first came to Vic. from
Westmorland he designed machinery for
some of the first woollen mills in Australia.
Then he switched to marine engineering, and
found his life’s work there. His wife, w T ho
predeceased him, was a daughter of R. L.
J. Ellery, Vic.’s first Government Astro-
nomer.
Ben Gillman, who gets as matter of
course the job of general traffic manager
in S. Aus. railways, in succession to A. N.
Day, has been in the service since 1887.
He is chairman of the Unemployment Relief
Council, and a pillar—though not acting-
now —of the Repertory Theatre.
After purchasing some £40,000,000-worth
of material for the Vic. railways in 17 years,
Comptroller of Stores C. W. J. Coleman is
retiring. He joined the service as a clerk in
1883 and has been chief of the big stores
branch since 1915. When the dour Clapp
arrived from America in 1921, he was told
by Coleman that Vic. railway stocktaking
took only six months to complete; Clapp
promptly sent him overseas to study Ameri-
can railway storekeeping methods, with the
result that the Vic. railways can now stock-
take in one day.
Fiji lost one of its best-known colonists
when Henry Lamb Kennedy died last week
at the age of 73. Kennedy, born in Maori-
land and educated at the King’s School,
Auckland, w-as taken by his parents to Fiji
when he was a lad in 1875. His father grew
cotton and coffee; the son added to planting
a taste for cattle and imported horses. A
crack amateur rider in his early years, he
was one of the founders of horseracing in
Fiji. He represented the Northern Division
in the Legislative Council.
Hal Pateshall Colebatch, the new Agent-
General for his State, is the possessor of
a surname as essentially English as anything
could be (unless it is his Christian name),
but he has had his troubles with it. During
the wat he complained in the Westralian
Senator H. P. COLEBATCH , Westralia’s
new Agent-General .
Leg. Council that a newspaper had sought
to get in a foul blow at him by persistently
spelling his name “Colbach.” The impeach-
ment was vigorously denied, however, the
the phonetic method being saddled
on a compositor who didn't know any better.
“Brother Reginald” (he prefers to be
known that way), the new head of Sacred
Heart College at Glenelg (S. Aus.), was
principal of a similar school at Cairns (Q.).
Also joining the Glenelg staff is “Brother
Hugh,” from Perth, who was sportsmaster
at St. Joseph’s (N.S.W.) when Stan
McCabe was a boy there.
J. G. McLaren, off to London as the Com-
monwealth’s Official Secretary, vice Collins,
was one of the serious young men of the
N.S.W. public service who looked to highef
education for advancement. He had been
J. G. McLAREN, the new Commonwealth
Official Secretary in London.
seven years in the P.O. Savings Bank before
he graduated B.A. When the Commonwealth
was born he went over to the Prime Minis-
ter’s office, specialised in electoral matters,
and passed on to Home and Territories.
Forty years ago the Broken Hill mines
had forests of timber underground and the
fire menace was tremendous. A young
Volimteer fireman in the local brigade,
named Lamborne, employed as a comp, on
the “Barrier Miner,” made a special study
of underground fire-fighting, and he was
given the job of chief officer when it fell
vacant. He was kept in Broken Hill until
the danger of mine fires was much reduced
(the cos. long ago found it cheaper to fill
up holes with mullock than with imported
Oregon) ; then he was passed on to Sydney,
and finally crossed over to Perth as head
of the Westralian brigades. He was still at
that job until a few days ago, when death
ended a useful life.
Isaac Dickson, dead at 70 in Brisbane,
spent his life in improving conditions for the
blind and deaf and dumb. Born in Ireland,
he came to Queensland in 1884; four years
later he became associated with the Blind,
Deaf and Dumb Institution, and as super-
intendent saw it grow from an old
wooden residence to a splendid brick
building, with a sales output of close on
£20,000 a year. When millet-broom making
was suggested many years ago, Dickson
showed his thoroughness by learning the
trade the better to equip himself for pass-
ing it on to the blind.
Ronald S. Panton, a young Australian
journalist who heard Europe calling a few r
years ago, after a look-in at Fleet-street
gave Germany a trial. He studied languages
at Berlin and obtained a job as assistant
correspondent there for the “Daily Express.”
Now he has been moved on to represent the
London daily at Vienna. Panton’s name is
familiar to Bulletin readers; he was
a Red Page contributor, and wrote on'e or
two special articles after his arrival in Eng-
land. His father is secretary of the Federal
Viticultural Council in Sydney,
Lord Salvesen, the distinguished Scottish
lawyer, nature-lover and fisherman, now visit-
ing Australia, is not, strictly speaking, a peer
at all. The title in his case is purely a
judicial one, conferred for life on Judges of
the Court of Session, Scotland, something-
on the analogy of the term “Lord Justice” as
applied to an English Judge. The wife
becomes a “Lady,” by a special order-in-
council of 1905, but no distinction descends
to the children. Lord Salvesen, who is also
a member of the judicial committee of the
Privy Council, was born at Leith, where his
father was a shipowner, 74 years ago. He
practised at the Scottish Bar for 25 years
and was Judge for another 17, retiring 10
years ago.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Surh Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full, capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
• General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. •« •• •• • • £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . • • . • £3,660,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street; Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
PIONEER
THE BIG NAME IN LEATHER
BELTING
For over 74 years the name
Pioneer on a leather belt has been
an assurance of long years of trouble-
free service on the toughest drives
and under the most difficult work-
ing and climatic conditions.
We make a special guaranteed
Pioneer Leather Belt for every
transmission requirement. Ask for
free advice and our new catalogue.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd.
t Dividends
Net “A” & “B” “C” Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 107,877 41,469 750* Nil'
Written off, £11,728 82,052
Guarantee, £4200+ .. .. ...
1929.. 100,390 59,391 750* Nil] ,
Written off, £7076 111,025
Guarantee, £4200+ .. .. ...
1930.. 81,850 49,907 750* Nil) 138,018
Guarantee, £4200+ .. .. .. j
1931.. 4,341 Nil 750* Nil]
Written off, £44,392 j- 93,017
Guarantee, £4200+ .. .. ..j
Written off, £16,981 76,036
Loss.
1932.. 11,723 Nil 750* Nil) r, 9 363
Guarantee, £4200+ .. .. ..) ’
*Guaranteed div. on 7500 “C” shares.
+Guaranteed to Picture Investments Pty., Ltd.
The co. merged the picture interests of
Hoyts and Williamsons in 1926. Then in
1931 Fox Films, of U.S.A., bought the whole
of the ords. ana most of the C prefs. The
Fox Co. also advanced £170,900-odd on a
second debenture to help ease the strain on
finances caused by the lavish building pro-
gramme which competition with the Union
Theatres group had brought, about. Thus
the Fox Co. held the whip-hand in the recent
negotiations that resulted in the amalgama-
tion of the business of all Hoyts and U.T.
city houses; it agreed to the merger con-
ditionally on Hoyts, U.T., and the new
General Theatres Corporation entering into
a five-year agreement to show Fox films at
substantially 1931-32 prices.
Hoyts and Greater U.T. hold equal in-
terests in General Theatres; whether this
co. is taking over the freeholds of the
theatres, or whether it is only managing
them, is not quite clear. At any rate, the
fierce competition between the two groups
has now been stopped, and the position has
been further strengthened by an alliance
with Fullers Theatres, Ltd., whereby the
latter co. has acquired an interest in a
number of the Corporation’s houses. The
two groups now control 214 theatres, and
present a united front to overseas picture
interests.
In the past Hoyts did no good for itself.
It paid liberally for goodwill and other
assets, based on boom-time earning-power,
and with the slump came a heavier drop in
values and earnings. In the term to June 30
last, after setting aside £53,726 (as against
£38,064 in 1931) for depreciation, a loss of
£11,723 was shown. For the second time
the A and B prefs. were passed over. Also,
£16,981 was struck off certain dubious assets,
and, including £4950 handed out in respect
of div. guarantees, nominal reserves were
drawn upon for £33,654, reducing them to
£59.363. But they mean nothing.
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet figures:
1928 1931 1932.
Paid capital . . £2,005,746 £2,285,090 £2,285,000
Mortgages, etc. . . 310,885 171,510 141,910
Overdraft .. 100,024 104,793 40,197
Sundry creditors.. 118,639 291,253 349,148
Freehold .. 545,166 369,325 343,782
Leasehold, plant, etc. 971,848* 738,596 699,306
Shares other cos.. . 717,673 814,218 834,008
Book debts, etc... 382,660 344,664 319,752
*lncludes goodwill.
They, don’t mean a great deal, either. The
position was summed up at the meeting; it
was pointed out that total tangible assets
of Hoyts and its subsidiaries amounted to
£2,725,243, liabilities to £1,593,824. leaving
an equity of £1,131,425 (book value) to
shareholders. Even that figure does not take
into account depreciation in market values ;
only wear and obsolescence have been written
off. The whole Hoyts group showed a
trading loss of £26,003 for the year.
The public is interested in the 400,000 A
and 450,000 B prefs., both of which' are en-
titled to a cumulative 8 p.c., and rank in
the order stated for capital and divs. The
A’s are backed by £2 16s. 7d. in net tan-
gibles (book value) ; the B’s by £1 12s. sd.
The A’s now fetch 11s., as against 4s. for
the B’s.
J. and A. Brown and Abermain-Seaham
In February, 1931. shortly after John
Brown’s death, the old firm of J. and A.
Brown linked up with the influential and
well-handled Abermain-Seaham interests.
Adelaide Steam, one of the most enterpris-
ing shipping cos. on the Australian coast
and a large shareholder in the latter co., had
also a big holding in the East Greta; so
Greta, too, was brought into the merger.
From this new co. the Brown interests
received 800,000 £1 ords. and 200,000 7 p.c.
debentures, Abermain-Seaham 800,000 ords.,
and East Greta 300,000 ditto.
So far as shareholders in Abermain-Sea-
ham and East Greta were concerned, the
merger represented a writing-down of capital.
Two shares in the new co. were issued for
every three A.-S.’s; in Greta’s case the dis-
tribution was one for two. A.-S. showed
a loss of £36,124 and a deficit of £29,687 in
its last balance-sheet prior to the merger;
Greta dropped £22,308, ‘out could show, on
paper, £46,789 of reserves. A.-S. paid an
average of about 10 p.c. for some years after
it amalgamated the Abermain and Seaham
cos. in 1922, but industrial strife wiped out
most of the profits in the last two years.
Greta, on the other hand, had never been
a money-spinner; in its last 20 years the co.
paid an average of little more than 6 p.c.,
and shareholders received their last div. in
May, 1927. Prior to the merger the last
sales of A.-S. scrip were at 13s. 6d.; Greta’s
shares were priced around ss. 6d.
The J. and A. Brown and Abermain-Sea-
ham Co. now controls the two Abermains.
Pelaw Main, Richmond Main, Stanford
Merthyr No. 1 and No. 2 (all on the Greta
seam), the two Seahams and Duckenfield (on
the Borehole seam) and Stockrington colliery.
The Greta seam is splendid gas and household
coal, while the Borehole product is good
for bunkering. The collieries, plant, rail-
ways, steamers, stocks, stores and invest-
ments figure at £2,146,094 in the co.’s first
balance-sheet (to June 30 last). Debtors
amount to £123,182, and cash totals £2177.
Tlic £209,000 of debentures are redeemable,
but the holders have the right to convert
into ords. on giving six months’ noticed
Sundry creditors are owed £52,744.
Profit and loss figures cover 18 months.
After paying debenture interest and provid-
ing for depreciation and taxation, the amount
netted was £52,743, equal to 1.9 p.c. on
capital. All but £5243 of this was handed
out in a sixpenny div. Apart from p. and
1. balance, there are no visible reserves.
Largely owing to industrial madness, but
partly because of new fuels used in ships
and factories, our coal trade has fallen
awrny heavily. Though, as already men-
tioned, Adelaide Steam is largely interested
in the welfare of this concern, it finds it
better business to fire many of its ships
with imported oil—practically all recent
additions to the co.’s fleet have been motor-
vessels. And the tendency is world-wide.
For power and gas purposes the industry
seems to be assured of a market in N. S.
Wales for some time to come, unless natural
gas is tapped at Balmain. But until science
makes coal-oil an economic competitor with
petroleum, or the attitude of labor unions
becomes more reasonable, any great improve-
ment in colliery earnings will depend purely
on general economic recovery.
The Brown-Abermain concern partly anti-
cipated the industry’s difficulties when the
revaluation of assets w r as made for merger
purposes. But the co.’s exact financial posi-
tion is largely a matter of guesswork owing
to the mixed grouping of assets in the
balance-sheet. One thing that can be taken
for certain is that the co. is not overstating
its profits.
At 11s. the scrip returns slightly more
than 3 p.c. at last year’s rate of distribution.
S. Aus. Farmers’ Co-op. Union
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.. 41,606 8 p.c. = 18,957 1
Bonus on trade, £lO,OOO }- 7,649 77,074
Staff fund, £5OOO J
1921.. 26,313 7 p.c. = 26,890 76,497
1922.. 27,407 6 „ „ 27,233 174 76,671
1923.. 24,405 Nil 24,405 101,076
Pref.
*l\ p.c. Ord.
£
1924.. 888 1444 Nil 100,520
1925.. 15,927 4793 2i p.c. =12,872 98,782
1926.. 3,565 4934 97,413
1927.. 39,265 4940 5 p.c. = 26,623 7,702 105,115
1928.. 31,182 4941 5 „ „ 26,860 104,496
1929.. 17,603 4941 2£ „ ~13,507 103,651
19.30.. 1,933 4941 Nil 100,643
Loss.
1931.. 1,327 4941 Nil 94,375
Profit.
1932.. 24,462 4941 2J p.c. =13,541 —• 100,355
The co.’s year covered South Australia’s
record wheat harvest of 48 million bushels;
the season just ended, though it started
splendidly, ended less well. In the season
covered by these accounts the Federal
bounty of 4£d. a bushel helped growers a lot,
and because of larger turnover, slightly
higher prices, and the fact that bad debts
were not quite so disastrously heavy as in the
two preceding years, the S. A. Farmers’
Union showed a profit of £24,462, an im-
provement of £25,789. Ord. shareholders
came back into the picture, a 24 p.c. distri-
bution being made, and £5980 was sent to
reserves.
In the year to June, 1932, of the farmers
who obtained assistance under the Relief
Acts of 1931 and who were still unable to
pay their way, two-thirds were on the
Murray lands and Eyre Peninsula. The
worst cases were in these areas, and they
generally coincided with the lowest yields.
About a fifth of the assisted farmers paid
their way in 1931-32, but the Auditor-General
reports that many of the others will be un-
able to carry on even if wheat rises to 4s. or
ss. a bushel. Many cases are quite hopeless;
indeed, in one the Government would have
dropped less had it maintained the farmer in
idleness on £6 a week over the last six
years! In such instances it is not to the
advantage of the State, other creditors or the
settlers themselves to carry on.
At last balance the co. had £586,370 out
on advances, etc. —£144,535 less than the
figure of 1930. “Had the amounts which have
been written off as bad debts over the past
decade been available for dividends, the
Union’s record would have materially im-
proved,” the chairman stated at the meeting.
Though the company resumed trading in
wheat, and bettered its figures thereby, the
directors stick to the opinion that pooling
offers the best possibilities to the grower.
The co. acts as agent for S. A. Co-operative
Wheat Pools, Ltd., and a record quantity of
grain was handled during the term.
The directors anticipate little relief from
bad debts in 1933. Since their report was
issued seasonal conditions have worsened,
and prices are still shockingly low.
The co. holds in trust clients’ wheat valued
at £272,792 in the sheet; this item is included
with the liabilities and stock respectively in
this table:—
1Q97 1 QQn 10S1 IQQO
Ord. capital.. £535,168 £541,546 £541,603 £541,679
Pref. capital. . 65,883 65,883 65,883 65,883
Liabilities . . 839,606 634,007 468,511 707,228
Property & plant 443,015 406,839 401,409 376,406
Stock. . . . 372,852 139,910 81,295 398,229
Advances, shares
in other cos.,
etc 691,091 730,911 623,248 586,376
Cash, etc. .. 78,929 79,370 79,602 83,301
Sundry creditors (£434,436) are down
£34,075. Fixed assets (£376,406) dropped
£25,003 last term, and that is a satisfactory
movement. The more or less liquid surplus
(±360,678, including stocks) improved
£45,044 during the term.
For the ords., backed by 235. 9d. (book
value) in net tangibles, the market is now
paying 7s. 4d., at which figure the return is
6.7 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. At 255. the
well-protected prefs. show 6 p.c.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 10.012 10 p.c. = 10,000 12 l . ftoa
Written off, £17,495 ) 114,028
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64.028
1920.. 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 1. „ qfi „ „ „„„
Written off contingencies, £248 j ’ ’
1921.. 23,937 10 p.c. = 15,000 f cco . 9S -
Written off, £42 j 8)895 86 ’ 88d
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19,281 10 „ ~ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ „ 15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29,420 10 „ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 ~ ~ 15,000 14,744 139,513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ „ 15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ ~15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 7$ „ ~11,250 167,729
1931.. 8,560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
“Trade has improved”—that is all the direc-
tors say. The jump iu earnings appears
to be mainly due to economies, including
closing of the Morpeth branch (formerly a
losing proposition) and to the revival in
industrial activity at Newcastle. Coal-
carrying is still on a reduced scale, but the
N.S.W. Transport Act eliminated a lot. of
motor competition for other lines of cargo.
Though the co. is the oldest and financially
one of the strongest of all the Australian
coastal shipping cos., it struck a very lean
patch in 1930-31; last year, including £BO5O
dropped into reserves,,the net result (after
making unspecified provision for deprecia-
tion and insurance) recovered £8491 to
£17,051. That showing was equal to 11.4
p.c. on capital, compared with 5.7, 6.3, 14.2
and 21.7 p.c. back to 1928. The final distri-
bution was lifted to 7 p.c. p.a., making 6 p.c.
for the year.
In other days the co.’s run was very profit-
able. A six-days-a-week passenger service is
maintained between Newcastle and Sydney,
and cargo is shipped daily to as far north
as Port Stephens. During the dozen years
to the close of last accounts £112,812 had
been visibly added to reserves, winch are
now £26,840 greater than paid capital. But
it is doubtful whether inner strength has
been built up recently on the same scale
as in pre-war years, when mo't was often
passed out of sight than was disclosed. Still,
it is unlikely that the old cautious habits
have been entirely abandoned.
As these figures show, the co. could hand
shareholders back two-thirds of their capital
without disturbing the shipping business
1919 1931 1932
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . .. 23,557 10,032 8,471
Ship property . . . . 89,759 191,686 191,686
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,419 15,419
Plant, stores, etc. . . 6,040 10,094 9,700
Book debts . . . . 17,350 11,721 13,859
Cash, etc. . . . . 108,332 103,650 109,898
The more or less liquid surplus (£115,283)
was £9944 stronger than at the previous
balance. Value placed on the fleet remains
unchanged at £191,686; the three largest
vessels aggregate 5012 tons, and have been
maintained in good order. The basis on
which Government stocks (£103,650) were
valued is not disclosed, but apparently the
premium on conversion was slipped into
inner reserves.
Following the market collapse, the scrip
fell to 21s. in February, 1931. The present
price is around 305.; the return at that
figure is 4.7 p.e. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and
the backing is 435. 7d. net tangibles (book
value).
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency
Dividends.
t A \
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920. .185,338 50,000 6ip.c.=65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „,, 40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 „,, 20,000 518,44?
Profit.
1923.. 92,583 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 521,031
1924. .126,725 50,000 6 „ ~60,000 10,000 527,756
1925. .141,890 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 539,646
1926. .135,640 50,000 7„ ~ 70,000 10,000 545,286
, —Prefs.— N r— Olds.— \
p.e. p.c. p.c.
1927. .148,992 5 64 74 = 136,681 10,000 547,597
1928. 5 61 8* „ 162,500 10,000 551,196
1929. .179,716 5 6i 8 „ 162,500 10,000 558,412
1930. . 76,551 5 6j 4 „ 122,500 512,463
Transferred from contingency reserves,
£155,000 667,463
Loss.
1931. .148,464 Nil Nil Nil 518,999
1932.. 50,447 Nil Nil Nil 468,552
With the exception of cheese and wheat
there was an all-round increase in the volume
of the co.’s turnover —the principal item,
wool, showed an improvement of 24,371 bales
—but because of lower prices cash turnover
was not much better than in 1931. However,
after providing for bad debts and other
contingencies, gross earnings (£357,332)
recovered £58,807. The heavy drop in the
previous term was largely due to the excep-
tional provision required for bad debts, and
this problem is still giving the board anxiety.
Administrative exes. (£320,540) were cut
£39,962, but taxes took an extra £754; allow-
ing for debenture interest (£68,000), the
year’s loss (£50,447) was thus £98,017
lighter. As reserves, internal and otherwise,
have been hit for £198,911 in_ the past two
years, no divs. were paid in either term.
But the outlook is improving somewhat.
Wool prices have recovered about 20 p.c.,
and surplus stocks in London have been
going rapidly into consumption. Since the
accounts closed, the Maoriland Government,
despite the opposition of the banks which
have their headquarters in the Isles, has
raised the exchange rate from £lOO to £125,
thus placing the Maoriland exporter on a
footing similar to that of the Australian
cocky. The co.’s business, however, is largely
an Australian one, and the benefit to the co.
from the increase will depend on what pro-
portion of its advances is situated in Maori-
land.
Financial crises are no new experience
for the co.; the scars it received in the
’nineties are not altogether wiped out yet,
and inner strength was not suspected of
being very substantial even in the good
times. From 2 p.c. in 1922 (when the co.
was hit by the post-war slump) the ord.
div. gradually mounted to 8 p.c. in 1928 and
1929. Distributions, however, had been_ in
excess of visible earnings, and the £465,552
(less £165,000 pref. div. arrears) at which
reserves now appear is not much of a prop
for ord. capital. The £3,200,000 of pref.
and debenture money costs an average of
4.7 p.c.; in flush times, when assets were
earning their keep and a bit more, this cheap
money made profit-earning easier for the
ords. But fixed interest charges are a drag
at the present time.
The co. has had an interesting career. In
1905 there was only £135,395 of share-
holders’ capital left; the present total has
been reached by cash issues, including
£500,000 of 61 p.c. pref. stock put out as
recently as 1927. Much of the reserve fund
was built up out of profits on the sale of
the co.’s old written-down squatting pro-
perties, but mostly the co. got out a bit
too soon.
The position eased during last term: —
1930. 1931. 1932.
Liabilities other than
debentures ..£1,310,227 £997,327 £689,772
Advances . . . . 4,507,197 4,380,457 4,101,077
Property .... ■ — '
Premises . • • • 410,436 395,558 388,969
Merchandise . . 275,929 237,380 179,669
Shared in other cos. 166,455 168,864 163,665
Advances to do. . . 1,150 2,499 7,939
Cash and public
securities .. 706,574 531,566 517,005
Including w r ritings-down, but mainly because
of repayments, the reduction in advances was
£279,380. The floating outside debt
(£689,772, including contingency reserves)
was worked down £307.555, and was amply
covered by cash, investments and current
accounts. Government securities (£235,563)
were , taken in at £29,350 less than their
market value at balance-day.
The ord. stock is at £32 in London, equal
to £4O in Australia or Maoriland. The 5 p.c.
(Continued on page 16.)


ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
msar
O.W
h
I
m.
8
y
I
*
w
m
mm
m
m
ss
New standards of motoring comfort,
safety, economy and beauty are estab-
lished by the new Barnet Glass
Aerotype Super Low Pressure Tyres.
They make driving safer, reduce car
depreciation and greatly increase aver-
age daily mileage because higher
comfortable speed is possible on any
road. The car floats over roughest
surfaces.
The Barnet Glass Aerotype is devel-
oped from the Aeroplane Tyre—the
tyres which carry the terrific strain
of landing by heavy planes and which cushion
the machine against damaging shocks.
This construction, adapted to motoring in the
Aerotype, offers the newest and most luxurious
thrill to car owners. The sensation of riding
on as low as 16 pounds of air cannot be
imagined —it must be experienced. Ask
your Garage or Tyre Dealer to demonstrate.
MB n A M
The New
SIS**
' 'i
iSI
m
5«
AT 1?


“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FEBRUARY ISSUE ON SALE
SATURDAY.
The Banks and the Land:
Can They Write Down Debts?
The N.S.W. Moratorium
McKenna and Inflation
N.Z. Exchange
These and other vital matters
to investors will be discussed
in the February issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. — Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
GOLD-BEARING
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Insure with, the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Who Is Your Trustee?
nowledge and experience which the ae
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining secunty and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE.
Directors
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUCKLAND
j. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
23-25
pref. stock is at £35 London —about £44
Australia. Net tangibles (book value)
amount to £l3O 7s. Id. for each £lOO of ord.
stock; for the first pref. ditto the cover is
£246 16s.
Goliath Portland Cement Co.
Toward;
Net r Dividends N Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil 4423 17,774
8 p.e.
1930.. 15,261 5,292 Nil 9969 7,805
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 . . 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8811 24,105
Despite the difficulties which beset the indus-
try, this co.’s figures took a move in the
right direction last term; all the improve-
ment was in the latter half of the period.
Gross profits (£39,360) improved £7059,
exes. (£19,176, including £lO,OOO for depre-
ciation, as in the previous year) took only
£1250 of the increase, and, allowing for
reserve adjustments, the net result (£20,258)
was £7452 better, and equal to 5.5 p.c. on
paid capital (£367,918). But £145.092 of
the amount put up by shareholders is in 8
p.c. prefs.; allowing for the requirements of
these the balance of the profit was equal to
3.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 1.0
and 4.5 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The co. took over Tasmanian Cement Pty. s
20,000-ton plant at Railton (Tas.) at the
end of 1928, paying £165,845 in scrip. To
enlarge the old plant and erect a new
65,000-ton unit, 117,500 prefs. and a like
number of ords. were put out. There is
£31,031 still unpaid on the _ ords. Dorman
Long managed the show until Sept. 30 last,
and Kandos Cement became interested. The
new plant started satisfactorily in May,
1930, and the quality of the product is right.
As a comparative newcomer in the indus-
try, the co. has done very well. The deficit
in the introductory table is made up of
£16,000 underwriting exes, and £28,534 loss,
etc., on sale of assets last year. All that,
less £20,429 of reserves. The assets sold
represented the co.’s shale-oil undertaking,
for which it received 14,000 £1 ords. in Tas-
manite Shale Oil Co. The effect of the deal
shows up in these figures:—
1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital . . . . . £314,242 £367,668 £367,918
Overdraft . . - - 32,794 50,980 39,184
Sundry creditors .. 17,928 11,302 4,263
Freehold, leases, plant, „
etc . - 331,855 404.869 368,437
Stocks ! ! . . • • 9,686 20,033 18,460
Book debts .. .. 5,059 10',764 9,666
Cash, etc. . . . • 710 285 140
Shares in other cos. .. 14,000
There was an encouraging improvement in
finances last term ; £18,835 was knocked off
the debt (£43,447), which now exceeds more
or less liquids by £15,176. That was £16,024
less than the excess at the previous balance.
It is proposed *to wipe out the loss on the
co.’s shale-oil undertaking by writing off
capital. The co.’s interest in this industry
is now confined to 14,000 shares in the new
operating co., which is working the Crozier
process of extraction. The patents over this
process are owned by Mineral Oils Extrac-
tion, Ltd., which has a 50 p.c. interest in any
benefits from working the leases.
The net tangible cover for the prefs.,
mainly plant, worth what it can earn, is
£2 Bs.; last year’s profit was equal to If
times their annual div. requirements. At
17s. 6d. the scrip returns 9.1 p.c. The ords.,
nominally covered by about 18s., have not a
very active market.
At Mt. Isa there has been a steady falling-
off in the grade of ore mined during recent
months—from 11.7 p.c. lead in October to
10.9 p.c. in December. As is usual, the
lower-grade ore has given lower lead assays
in the lead concentrates, the decrease being
from 46.5 to 42.4 p.c. Jig concentrates, on
the other hand, have improved in grade from
46.9 to 49.1 p.c. lead. .T. P. Webster, a
director of Mt. Isa Mines, has been nego-
tiating with the Queensland Government for
a further decrease in railway freights, which
total about 25 p.q. of the total cost.
-+ * * *
For the year to Dec. 31 last, Zinc Corp.
produced lead concentrates containing 51,127
tons of lead and 1.102,0000 z. of silver, com-
pared with 35,709 tons and 919,0000 z. for
the previous year. Zinc concentrates con-
tained 27,065 tons of zinc as against 21,333
tons. For the six months to December 31,
the output from the North Broken Hill
showed a decrease of 16 per cent., and the
South an increase of 9 p.c.
* * * *
Sulphide Corp. has recently been investi-
gating an extensive deposit of shell (car-
bonate of lime) in the Hunter River dis-
trict. It can be dredged and washed very
cheaply, .and should prove suitable for use
in the co.’s cement works at Cockle Creek.
Co.’s zinc oxide plant, locates at Seaton
Carew (Eng.)\ has commenced operations.
At Broken Hill ore production moved from
9800 tons monthly in October last to 10.700
tons in December; results are said to fully
justify the reopening in April last.
World production of silver for 1932 has
been authoritatively estimated at 155 mil-
lion ounces, compared with 196 million
ounces in 1931 and the peak of 261 million
in 1929. Consumption of silver in China and
India, the principal countries, has declined
from 217 million ounces in 1930 to 50 mil-
lion in 1932; demonetisation has been the
main cause of the slump in price. Because
it is cheap the metal is now being more
widely used industrially than ever, and this
is helping the demand. Australia produces
about 9.S million ounces annually.
* * * *
Lake George Metal Corp. has been carry-
ing out experiments in the recovery of ele-
mental sulphur from the highly pyritic Lake
George ore-body at Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.),
and the co. now proposes to erect a com-
mercial unit in England to test the process
evolved. Lake George ore contains 40 p.c.
pyrites, and this would be recovered as a
50 p.c. sulphur concentrate during the flota-
tion treatment of the lead-zinc-copper ore.
Ore reserves total two million tons, assay-
ing 7.6 p.c. lead, 12.9 p.c. zinc, 0.8 p.c.
copper and I.3dwt. gold. It is believed that
an extra million tons can reasonably be
added to the ore estimate.
♦ * * *
At the annual meeting of Mining Trust,
Ltd., in London, chairman Leslie Urquhart
gave a brief account of the progress of New
Guinea Goldfields. The newly-erected mill
has had to be modified ; results indicate that
treatment costs will be below the original
estimate of 20s. per ton, and the directors
are of the opinion that the estimated profit
of £200,000 per annum would be probably
increased, owing to lower production costs
and higher gold prices. The ore being
mined was well up to the grade of the cal-
culated reserves, and was easily amenable
to cyanide treatment. The cash balance in
London and Sydney had been reduced from
£70,000 to £30,000, due to expenditure on
the power plant and mill. For some time
past the return from the alluvia] alone had
met all expenses, including capital outlay.
Development had shown that the No. 2 vein
extended below the 350 ft. level. Last year
assay values were 13dwt. gold and 19oz.
silver per ton, and, though this year values
may be somewhat lower, the total value of
the oxidised ore to the 350 ft. depth might
be expected to show one and a half mil-
lion pounds at par value of exchange. A
crosscut, to be started shortly from No. 1
shaft, is expected to cut the vein 200 ft. below
the lowest workings in a few months’ time,
and success will be of the utmost importance
to the co. N.G.G.’s issued capital is
4,055,186 £1 fully-paids and 375,000 paid
to Is.
* * * *
New Guinea Goldfields reports that in the
first clean-up from the new mill 11570 z. of
fine gold was recovered, but gives no figure
for tonnage milled. The mill was first started
up in August last, and it was soon found that
certain equipment was not suitable, and re-
placements took a long time to obtain. The
mill is now operating with greatly improved
results. Sluicing, from which the company
gets £ll,OOO (Australian currency) profit
monthly, has lately been restricted by severe
floods, which carried away sluices.
* * * *
Latest crushing at the Hercules (Ben-
digo) is 5220 z. from 212 tons. The saddle
reef being worked off a winze below the
1620 ft. level yielded 5040 z. from 125 tons.
This reef has now given 82450 z. from 3707
tons since crushing first began in July last.
Co. recently paid a 4s. div., which called
for £12,000, and still 'has £15,600 in hand
as well as £7OOO in reserve fund. Prospects
are rosy.
* * * *
Reporting on the Maryborough goldfield
(Vic.) for the Commonwealth and Vic. Gov-
ernments, H. W. Gepp, W. Baragwanath and
Dr. Frank Stillwell state that there is no jus-
tification for opening up the old quartz mines
of the district, but that there are many
alluvial leads that warrant investigation,
particularly north of the Duke, Main Lead
Consols and Burnt Creek leads, and still
further north toward Newbridge. The upper
portion of the main lead yielded 15dwt. per
fathom in the early days.
* * * *
At Steiglitz (Vic..), an area of 2000 acres,
including 26 old mines, has been pegged out
and large-scale operations are promised.
Several of the shafts have been unwatered
and cleared. Steiglitz was booming in the
early ’nineties. One of the richest mines
was the United Albion, which crushed 57,000
tons for 56,0000 z.
* H= * 5K
Gisborne Gold, at Bullengarook (Vic.),
cleaned up S2oz. from 28 tons in its first
crushing, with tailings assaying Bdwt. The
stone was from the shaft, which has been
sunk to 205 feet. Driving along the reef
will now start.
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has sold for forward de-
livery half of its expected gold production
for the six months January-June, 1933, at
a price of £6 Is. lOd. sterling. To this figure
should be added the Australian-London ex-
change premium. Treating 200 tons of ore
daily, the company’s output should be about
4000 oz. fine gold monthly during the above
period.
# * * *
The Consolation (Watsonville, Q.), which
up to 1918 was worked as a tinmine, is
now yielding 250 tons monthly of 4 p.c.
copper ore from an oreshoot 70ft. long and
30ft. wide. The dense sulphide ore is pur-
chased for flux by the Chillagoe Smelters.
Change in mineral content in ore-bodies is
the result of an alteration in conditions of
temperature and pressure during formation.
The classical example is Cornwall, where
the order from the surface down is lead and
silver, zinc, copper and tin with wolfram.
* * * *
A promising gossan ore-body is being de-
veloped at Monal Creek (Q.j ; at a depth
of 30ft. the lode is 2£ft. wide with assays
up to 23dwt. gold and 4 p.c. copper. The
shaft is to be deepened to 50ft. and driving
undertaken. The find is near the old Spring
Creek alluvial field.
■t- * *
On the Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.),
an additional five-head is being installed in
the battery, and a new engine has been
bought. During December 174 tons was
crushed for lSloz., valued, with premium,
at £613, while in the cyanide plant 137 tons
yielded bullion worth £163.
jJ; ijt ;Jc M'
On the Golden Mile, Cracow (Q.), good
progress is being made with the erection of
the 50-ton-a-day treatment plant. The ore
will be finely ground and passed over cor-
duroy strakes, the residue being stored for
future treatment. By this simple scheme a
recovery of 90 p.c. of the gold is anticipated.
A bore recently completed at a depth of
280 ft. is yielding 15,000ga1. daily. Rich ore
continues to be met on the Warrego lease.
* * *
A number of claims were recently pegged
on May Downs station, 60 miles from Mount
Isa (N.Q.), near where there was a farcical
rush last year. The new reef outcrops for
several hundred yards, varying from 3ft. to
4ft. in width, and prospects up to 3oz. The
country in the locality is dry and
rough, and water has to be carted 20 miles.
At the old Top Camp diggings, to the east of
Cloncurry, where gold was discovered in
1867 and where there was much early
activity, a syndicate has commenced sluicing
operations, while another party is engaged
in driving into the Mary Douglas ITill, from
which some thousands of pounds’ worth of
gold was obtained in the ’eighties.
* * * *
At Mount Graham, Cedar Vale, Mt. Lar-
com district (N.Q.). a new gold reef has
been located. At the Murphy’s Pride the
reef has been traced for 200 ft„ and varies
in width from Bft. to 18ft.; samples taken
show good prospects. Four costeens are
being cut. The Invincible and Conqueror
also show payable gold; it is said that if
the gold in solid turns out anything like the
specimens found on the surface it will be
rich. Upwards of 20 men are on the field.
* * * *
Wiluna treated 85,200 tons in the last
quarter of 1932' recovering 23,8640 z., equiva-
lent to s.6dwt. per ton. The working sur-
plus for the period in Australian currency
was £92,000. Extensions to the power plant
are complete, and additions to the mill are
being made rapidly. The extensions will
allow gradually-increasing tonnages to be
treated until the full capacity of 40,000 tons
monthly is obtained.
The co. is full of pep. Costs are shrinking
and gold production is expanding, the Decem-
ber return (£64,121) being the highest to
date. Quantity of ore treated (30,008 tons)
was also a record. The contemplated monthly
milling of 40,000 tons is expected to be
reache'd about the middle of the year. Two
further instalments were paid off the
£300,000 loan the other day, reducing in-
debtedness under this heading to £225,000.
♦ * * *
North Kalgurli has just issued another
estimate of ore reserves. This time 197,000
tons of 9.6dwt. ore is reckoned to be
in sight, and 109,000 tons of B.62dwt.
stuff partially in sight. Nothing has
been heard lately of the negotiations
with B.H.P. for the sale of the. North
Kalgurli holdings, but it is probable that
sooner or later they will be acquired either
by the B.H.P. or one of the big Kalgoorlie
cos.
* t- =!= *
Western Gold Mines, Ltd., controlled by
Colin Fraser, the Robinsons and others, has
acquired the assets of the Occidental Syndi-
cate, Perth, for £lO,OOO cash and 20,000
shares. This consideration also covers an
option to purchase the Mararoa Co.’s pro-
perty, near Cue, for £50,000 cash, or, alter-
natively, 25 p.c. of the capital of a co. with
not less than £75,000 working capital. Dick
Hamilton, formerly general manager of Gt.
Boulder Proprietary, and H. E. Vail, direc-
tor of Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., vouch for
the genuineness of the Mararoa show, and
reckon that, all going well, it has the makings
of a big gold-producer.
* * * *
Accounts of Paringa Mining and Explora-
tion Co. for months ended December
last show a loss of £2215, as against a deficit
of £1446 for the preceding 12 months. Phis
amount and £11,076 written off investments
increase total debit to go forward to £1 <, <52.
Co.’s star of hope is the Paringa lease at
Kalgoorlie, which is being diamond-drilled.
In past years 43,500 tons of ore mined from
near the surface by tributors yielded
£79,500. The show is being billed in Lon-
don as a good thing, but that is not the
prevailing opinion in Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
New Consolidated Goldfields, which is
interested in Lake View and Star and
Wiluna, recently formed West Witwaters-
rand Areas, Ltd., to diamond-drill the sup-
posed extension of the Main Rand Reef at
Jo’burg. Boring will be along a strike
length of 30 miles. Output on the Rand is
now about 990,0000 z. fine gold monthly.
* * * *
A new no-liability co. has been formed
to acquire the belongings of Freney Kim-
berley Oil Co., Ltd. (in liq.), but the old con-
trollers are still in the saddle. A dissatis-
fied section of Perth shareholders tried, but
failed, to pull them out. Now it. is sug-
gested that it would be in the best interests
of the new venture .if some of them volun-
tarily got out. Some changes on the board
would undoubtedly be welcomed by many
Perth holders.
* * * *
Lolworth Options (Q.) has sunk its main
shaft to 100 ft., the bottom being in ore
worth £l5 13s. per ton over a width of 2ft.
The west shaft is down 64ft., the ore assay-
ing £2 16s. over 18in., while the east, depth
47ft., shows low-grade stone 18in. wide.
Driving to connect the shafts is in progress.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.0.M.: (1) Do not recommend purchase of
business by inexperienced person. You might do
better in working one up yourself. (2) In which
are you most interested? (3) If you must, study
“businesses for sale” advts. in “Courier.” It would
pay you to get an auditor to look over any pro-
position you might select. (4) Your own State. . . .
E.B.L. : (1) See “Money, Stocks, etc.,” column of
“S. M. Herald”; any of the firms offering to buy
English .notes also sell them. An English £1
note will cost you about 255. or 265. (2) If you
could buy them off a ship’s-purser, they would cost you
approximately the same... .R.R.: (1) The premium
is practically the same in proportion to the amount
paid up. In other words, they both give practic-
ally the same return at those prices. (2) Not much
immediate prospect. .. .8.D.8.M.: Not unless you
have to. Castlemaine-Perkins, the best of the bunch,
is also the most profitably priced in case you have
to 5e11....C.: Hold on. Though Coles and Wool-
worths have drawn the crowd to Queen-street for
cheaper goods, the “Valley” continues to attract a
good proportion of the dress trade. .. .C.H.N.: The
co. has gone into liquidation. All your cash appears
to have gone, but you have no further liability....
Y.Z.: The office informs us that you borrowed on
the policy, and that the arrears of premiums and
interest have extinguished the surrender-value. The
premiums paid since the policy lapsed are all you
can claim for.


More Gold!... Less Effort!
WITH THE
Prospex Portable Battery
!
it
its
m
m
TIME is the essential factor in prospecting to-day. Getting at the precious
metal while the price is high. And yet so much time is lost laboriously
dollying picked stone, or carting it at a great expense to public
batteries, sometimes waiting weeks for the result—time that can really be
saved.
The PROSPEX BATTERY gives the prospector a chance to make more
money. It has been specially made to act as an efficient testing machine which
will quickly show value and pay for itself.
It is light overall weight 2cwt. lqr. the heaviest part, the cast steel
stamper box, weighs less than |cwt. and it can be completely assembled in
half an hour. It is guaranteed to crush jcwt. of clean hard quartz per hour,
and a boy can run it. The simplest possible mechanical construction con-
trolled by a spring which absorbs the shock, relieving the framework, entirely
eliminating breakdown.
You can crush your own ore and recover the gold yourself. The ability
to test any stone and know its value quickly, to transport the whole outfit
easily to another show, the time and money saved soon pay for a PROSPEX
BATTERY.
The PROSPEX will do what is claimed for it. If within 30 days of
purchase it fails to do the job your cost will be refunded on return of the
plant to Melbourne.
IT WILL PAY YOTJ to know more about the Prospex Battery; send jor
Post Free catalogue, giving complete details, to-day.
GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
THE PROSPEX IS A COMPLETE UNIT, and includes the following
items:—
Patent fast-crushing Hand-operated Single Head Battery, fitted with an
Automatic Feeder for the Stone.
Amalgamating table of ample proportions.
Automatic water pump, with gravity tank and all connections for
continuous operation of the water (not shown in picture).
Grease Gun.
Detailed instructions covering the operation of the battery, which is
similar in all respects to the large batteries used all over Australia.
Five pounds of Mercury and a retort can be supplied at small extra charge.
PRICE
PACKED
F.O.R. or F. 0.8.
MELBOURNE.
LIGHT POWER-DRIVEN BATTERIES BUILT ON SAME
PRINCIPLE FROM 10CWT. PER SHIFT UPWARDS TO ANY
CAPACITY.
Portable Gold Mining Plant Pty. Ltd.
84-88 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE, Cl., VICTORIA.
Telegrams: Ablittise. Telephones: Central 450, Private X 2467.
us
lo
a&.
w
Cs'xVi-
e "*»
m
sSsite'
\
SEAL OP GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vii
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
BOTTLED A CUARANTEEO
PURE BY THE PRENCH
GOVERNMENT
TSe Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ncity and the purity .of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction f
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER,
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super
vision
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -vorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELL ETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iVS.W,
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Cureier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
A NEW YEAR RESOLUTION
HIRSCUI
«JL=,
FENCING WJRkt
FENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES' LIMITED^-.
Trade direct with the Q.P.S. and bank
the difference. Last year’s trading
was an absolute record—proving thou-
sands more people every year realise
the advantage of dealing direct with
the Q.P.S. and saving the middleman’s
profit.
Biggest distributors in Queensland of:
WIRE IRON NETTING
Look at the following: Bg. Galv. Wire, 16/6
cwt. Barb Wire, from 17/6 per coil of 440
yards. 121 g. Aust. High Tension Wire, £2O
ton, 21/- cwt. 124 g. Gen. Hibiscus H.T.
Tested Wire, 1500 yards to cwt., 20001bs.
8.5., £26 ton, 27/- cwt.
No other firm can supply the Genuine Hibiscus Wire. Further note we have
no Agents whatsoever; all orders must be sent direct to us. There is no
margin in our prices for a third party—we employ no travellers whatsoever.
Vou save this expense by dealing direct with us.
On Barb Wire, Fencing Wire, Hinge Joint Fencing, “K” Wire and
Netting, Chain F encing, Autoscrew Droppers, Hibiscus Steel
Fencing Posts and New Era Separators—
Freight is Paid Free to Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone,
Rockhampton, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.'
BATHS. sft. Oin. Porcelain Enamelled, £6; same design in Galv. Iron, 37/6 complete.
Also the' BUSH SHOWER, 10/-; postage 1/- extra. Portable Bucket
Showers, 2-gall., 13/-; 3-gall., 14/-.
BUILDERS’BINES. —We supply all Buiders’ Requirements, including Doors and Galv.
Iron. He invite comparison. It costs nothing to get our Builders’ Prices
and may save you pounds. Send in your Specifications to quote on.
Special line Beautiful Deadlights—Front Doors. 6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. x llin.,
at 30/-; and 4ft. x Ift. 6in. similar All-leadlight Casements, 20/- each.
NOTE.—We never charge Sales Tax on any of our goods.
DRAPERY BARGAINS.—Smart Work Shirts, made with collar and two pockets.
Material in these shirts is a Blue mixture, fast color, and excellent wearer
Our prices; 7/3 each or 21/- for 3, post free. Also 40iu. Special Value
Collar Check, 5/6 yard. 40in. Special Value Saddle Serge, 7/6 yard.
40in. Special Value Kersey, 5/11 yard.
REJECT GALV. CORR. IRON. —All new. Another shipment now landed. 6ft. at
2/- per sheet; Sft. at 2/6 per sheet.
HIBISCUS COTTONSEED MEAL. —Twice as rich in nrotein (the Milk-producing
Element) as Bran. Pollard. Maizemeal, Barlevmeal, Wheatmeal Price:
£6/17/6 a ton, or 15/- bag of 2001 bs.
Lowest also for “K” WIRE (we give anyone 25 p.c.). FARM GATES (10 p.c. and 5 p.c
off any maker s list). DOVER STOVES (No. 7, 67/6; No. 8, 77/6 complete with
piping). THREEPLY, 6ft. x 3ft, 2/- sheet. LINSEED OIL; Raw,' 4/6 gall ; Boiled
4/8 galK KAtN GAUGES, 10/-, complete With glass. SUPERPHOSPHATE, £6/5/- ton!
KONKRETE PAINT for roots and tanks, 17/9 per gall. We manufacture all Tanks
and Troughing and Tank Material. GALV. PIPING: We allow anvone 35 pc and
l&»vnW;Tvn I ( S BR , 0 ‘ CEMKNT SHEETS—MOSQUITO-SCREENS—LOCK-LINK
VERANDAH BLINDS, from od. per square foot.
WRITE FOR OUR COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE—IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
NOW ON SALE
Contract Bridge
by ENA BURROWS
winner, with the highest points, of the
Culbertson Cup, N.S.W., for Contract Bridge.
WITH COMPLETE NEW
SCORING TABLES AND
REVISED RULES.
A handsome little book, beauti-
fully bound and printed.
21-
All Bookshops or
“The Bulletin” Office


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs”
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna”
King’s “While Parents Sleep”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Curiosity as to what happens “While
Parents Sleep” was more or less satisfied by
a mainly-Australian company at the King’s,
Melbourne, on Saturday night before a full
house. The Anthony Kimmins piece is re-
ported to be still running in London in
one theatre after a year in another. This
Showman is prepared to go further and
assert, without fear of contradiction, that
it was running 100 years ago, and will he
running 100 years hence. The all-too-fami-
Leo Darnton as the Duke of Dunstable
in “Patience.”
liar cast of characters includes a middle-
class matron, Mrs. Hammond, who is pre-
pared instantly to' register horror whenever
another character uses the word “bloody.”
The advantage of this character is that every
member of the audience who hears the word
daily without feeling any particular thrill
can recapture the lost emotion by that ever-
lasting alchemy of the theatre which renews
the innocence of a playgoer every time he
pays for a seat. Another important char-
acter is Mrs. Hammond’s husband, Colonel
Hammond, the dear old, tolerant man-of-the-
world, friend-of-the-audience covey whom
Dion Boucicault used to love to portray.
The function of this genial- .philosophical
machine, model 1933, is to let the audience
know that, whatever the indications to the
contrary, nothing is going to happen that
will sap the foundations of morality, lower
the credit of the country, moth-eat the fabric
of society or endanger the safety of the
State. Another indispensable character ‘is
Nanny the nurse, of the sweet Barrie vint-
age. ISBO or thereabouts, who' in due course,
will act ■ the part of Providence and. put
everything right. Lady Cattering and
Bubbles Thompson are concessions to the
gallery. Lady Cattering is the wife of a
colonial Governor 25 years her senior, and
is starved for love, so she arranges to get
her liubby to take the unsophisticated
Neville Hammond, a captain in the Guards,
as A.D.C., to provide her with diversion
during his next Governorship. Bubbles
Thompson is a shopgirl with a heart of
gold. Lady Cattering endeavors, fortunately
unsuccessfully, to seduce Neville, ; while
Jerry, Neville’s brother, is engaged , in. try-
ing to seduce Bubbles, who is proof against
his wiles because she has a boy in Brixton.
The play is in three parts, but /the real
division is into two parts —one in which
you have a delicious feeling that- something
-awful is going to happen, and another in
which you know nothing whatever will
happen. In short, Mr. Kimmins’s, play is
what our Communist friends would call a
perfect specimen of .boojwah art. , Mr. Kim-
mins’s chief claim to distinction .as a pur-
veyor of evening entertainment lies in the
Marie Bremner as Patience.
quality of his curtains. An example: Jerry
comes in and asks his father for some money.
His father says he has only a pound. ‘‘Well
says Jerry, snatching the note and making off
as' the cloth rapidly descends, “that’s better
than a slap on the belly with a wet fish.’’
This leaves the audience in a state of mer-
riment that helps it to forget that the
whole of the act hasn’t been up to the stand-
ard of its final vulgar fraction.
Mona Barlee appeared to be supplying a
personal misinterpretation of the titled
lady’s part. In the process of giving the
front-stalls baldheads an uninterrupted view
of her legs she forgot that her chief emotion
was a desire to be loved by Guards officer
Kenrick Hudson, who would have needed to
be five times as unsophisticated as he was
not to suspect her of a cynicism the play-
wright didn’t seem to imply. Noel Boyd as
a ferociously Early-Victorian matron. Ethel
Saker as the sentimental Nanny and Harvey
Adams as Colonel Hammond were eminently
well cast, but the most indubitably natural
character, except for her stance, was Agnes
Doyle as the little Cockney shopgirl, with
her awe of the nobs overshadowed by an
instinct to furiously defend her class. The
show should barely see out the fortnight
intervening before the arrival of a new co.
with a Somerset Maugham play.
* * *
W. S. Gilbert, who had a keen eye for the
affectations of the “superior pussons” known
to the London of his time, is credited (or
debited) with having pilloried Wilde in the
person of Bunthorne in “Patience,” revived
last week at Sydney Royal. Another version
traces the inspiration to Whistler. To this
Showman’s mind the picture is a composite
one, drawn with especial reference to the
pre-Raphaelites. Whatever the model, the
reproduction of the caricature calls for quali-
ties not often at the command of an actor,
and certainly a bit outside the ambit of Ivan
Menzies, who, though facile, is not particu-
larly versatile. John Ralston, dropped from
this cast, would probably have made a much
better fist of it. Gregory Stroud’s Grosvenor,
though a passable effort, also missed the
finest flavor of the role. The part of Patience
is well within Marie Bremner’s dramatic
powers, being not at all dramatic, and she
sang the music very prettily.. The dragoons
and rapturous maidens fited in smoothly and
the chorus couldn’t be bettered. Andrew
MacCunn conducted from memory, as has
been liis practice with Gilsullivan produc-
tions, so he informs the Showman, for the
last quarter of a century. He gave just
value to the last semi-quaver.
¥ * *
It seems pi-obable that when Sullivan was
scoring “The Mikado” the only example of
Japanese music with which he was acquainted
was Nippon’s national anthem, which is re-
markably short. He made very clever use
of what he learned from this fragment and
imparted into melodies and orchestration a
flavor which, though it. mayn’t be Japanese,
appears decidedly exotic. When O. Henry
in one of his stories made a poisoner use
Evelyn Gardiner as the Lady Jane in
“Patience.”
aconite, a friend protested that he could have
picked plenty of drugs that are more deadly.
“Yes,” said the author, “but none that sounds
so poisonous to anyone who isn’t a chemist.”
Sullivan went on the same hypothesis, and
though neither he nor Gilbert cared to know
more about Japan than could be got from
a child’s picture-book, they worked up
between them a very passable illusion. Inci-
dentally, Gilbert enriched the English tongue
with “Pooh-Bah,” which filled a long-felt
want.
The revival of the operetta at Sydney
Royal on Saturday night was well cast. That
sterling character-actor John Ralston made
an impressive job of Pooh-Bah; Ivan Men-
zies, as Ko-Ko, exactly caught the spirit of
the thing, and Evelyn Gardiner’s. Katislia
was marrow-freezing. The three little girls
from school overflowed with vivacity, Ber-
nard Manning was as benevolent as the most
humane of Mikados should be, and Gregory
Stroud and Leo Darnton equipped Pish-Tush
and Nanki-Poo with respectable voices.
■ Minnie Everett and the Firm are to be
congratulated on a series of stage pictures
that were alone - well worth the price of
admission, and the ever-reliable Andrew
MacCunn showed his respect for Sullivan by
exact observance of the score.
* * *
Scott Alexander’s Repertorians (Sydney)
presented on Saturday night half a dozen one-
act plays, written in the Grand Guignol style
by Australians, and including four murders
—two of them on the stage. In “The Heir-
loom,” by Francis Cottingham, a young girl
receives as a pre-wedding present a huge
chest, which contains the body of her fiance,
murdered by the elderly admirer who donates
the heirloom. The play moved easily and
naturally to its improbable denouement.
Dorothy Whiteley, as a keeper of boarding-
houses “good, bad and indifferent, but all
respectable,” in “Death and the Tantalizer,”
was the best of the players. William Rees,
as a detective and later as a homicidal
maniac, displayed versatility.
* * * .
At Melbourne Royal “Waltzes from
Vienna” continues to postpone its final bars
in a nightly blaze of glory, popular opinion
of the production varies from flaccid praise
of the histrionic side to exuberant applause
for the spectacle. Nicholas Hannen, Athene
Seyler and others are approaching the King s
with intent to perform “The Breadwinner
of Somerset Maugham on Feb. 11. Miss
Seyler has played so many parts that a
whole page of “Who’s Who in the Theatre’
is devoted to her career.
Phil Smith as Major Murgatroyd in
“Patience.”
The discovery that a person or persons
unknown has or have made off with some
bluestone seats weighing six tons from a
public garden in Spring-street, Melbourne,
has drawn attention to another mysterious
abstraction. An almost equal weight of audi-
ence is reported to be missing nightly from
the seats in Melbourne theatres.
* * *
Though the world hasn’t heard much about
it, Sydney has for weeks past been the storm-
centre of high and serious controversy on
the subject of compulsory military train-
ing. Forty debating societies have flung
their most fluent champions into the lists,
and to-night and to-morrow night the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, Pitt-street, will be the scene
of the semi-final battles on the subject. Then
comes a week’s armistice, at the conclusion
of which the two surviving teams will decide
which is to be the holder of the Radiola Cup.
Shadow Shows.
“The Officers’ Mess,” at Sydney State, is
an old-time bedroom farce; one of those
works in which the dramatist’s objective is
to get the characters careering about in their
night attire. Richard Cooper and Harold
French are supposed to be R.N. officers.
They meet Elsa Lanchester, an actress, who
has had her jewels stolen. She arrives at
the country house where they are staying
and tells Richard that unless, he pretends
to be married to her she will have him
arrested. (This is her method of persuad-
ing Harold, whom she loves, to propose.)
She and Richard ask for separate rooms, but
are accidentally given the same room. It
has two beds divided by a screen which, in
accordance with .an ancient farce conven-
tion, prevents the occupant of each bed from
knowing that there is any one in the other
bed. Richard puts on Elsa’s pyjamas, she
his. When he clicks the light off she clicks
it on. She drinks his whisky, and he is
stupefied to find it missing. The climax
comes when he is chased about the garden
by a policeman, a detective and a dog, and she
and jealous Harold have a terrific dormitory
battle (girls’ school variety), in the course
of which they not only hit really hard with
pillows, but give several good hard pushes.
A general reconciliation follows. There was
only one genuine laugh on Saturday night
—when Richard, after bleating that he
always kept his girl’s letters nearest his
heart, produced one from a pocket in the
seat of his trousers. Amateurish produc-
tions like this make every lover of England
grieve. The young men, with their effemin-
ate ways and bogus Oxford accents, are
awful, and the girls are as stiff and dowdy
as Ad-A-Talk stars.
The plot of “Fast Life” is unusually
idiotic, but you are beguiled into forgetting
Ivan Menzies as Bunthorne.
it by the speed with which the incredible
events succeed one another, the finish of
the acting and - the perfection of the tech-
nique William Haines and ■ Cliff Edwards
have ’been kicked out of the U.S.A. Navy
for their incompetence in causing an
admiral’s launch to blow up. Naturally a
millionaire speedboat builder employs them,-
and they first set his masterpiece, Miss
America, on fire, and then drive her to vic-
tory. Haines takes Madge Evans, the mag-
nate’s daughter, from the screen’s unluckiest
lover, Conrad Nagel. The picture is chiefly
an excuse for demonstrating the thrills that
can be got out of speedboat racing. There
are some fires, explosions and collisions that
cater on highly satisfactory lines for the
love of seeing things smashed which is in-
nate in most of us. Mr. Haines is as buoy-
antly impudent as ever—the screen’s most
lovable bounder. The low comedy of Cliff
Edwards is really funny, and Miss Evans
looks beautiful whatever clothes she puts on
or takes off.
* * *
“Trouble in Paradise,” at Sydney. Prince
Edward, is superb—Lubitsch at his best.
But what propaganda for Communism ! Kay
Francis is an exquisitely lovely and inordi-
nately rich Parisian widow, and Lubitsch,
on whom the thought of money in masses
produces a hashish-like effect, has revelled
in stressing the heavenly luxury of her life.
Into it come Robert Marshall and Miriam
Hopkins, burglars and pickpockets. She
falls in love with the handsome young man
and puts him in charge of her affairs, to the
rage of the director of the family scent busi-
ness —a great character-part for that accom-
plished English mime C. Aubrey-Smitli—
and to the distress of her futile admirers,
Charles Ruggles and E. Everett Horton.
Horton has come across Marshall in Venice,
and his agonising efforts to recall where he
met his rival, followed by doubts as to
whether he ever met him, are lessons in
what can be conveyed in dumb show by an
artist. Kay Francis has a part that fits
her like a glove; a Comedie Franqaise
actress couldn’t be more deliciously French
in manner and appearance. Robert Mar-
shall isn’t in the least like a crook of any
nationality—-he is a charming young Eng-
lishman who has been to a good public
school—but then you aren’t supposed to
accept him as a real crook. The note of
fantasy is struck in the opening shot: a
Venetian gondolier appears, and’ as he col-
lects the garbage gives an admirable ren-
dering of “O Sole Mio.” The garbage of
Venice isn’t collected in gondolas by opera-
tic stars, and French widows don’t, on find-
ing they have been robbed of hundreds of
thousands of francs’ worth of pearls and
Gregory Stroud as Grosvenor in “Patience.”
diamonds, hand the loot back to the thieves
on a point of sentiment. The whole thing
is a fairy story told by a brilliant British-
American cast under the direction of a
genius in his line. Yet it is going to do far
more damage in Australia than, say,
“Brave New World.” Thousands will argue
not unreasonably that people who throw
their money about as stupidly as Miss
Francis and her friends do deserve to have it
expropriated.
* * H-
“Bitter Tea of General Yen,” at Sydney
Regent, is another one about banditry in
China. Barbara Stanwyck goes to Shanghai
from the U.S.A. to wed a missionary. In
an attempt to rescue some Christian orphans
she is parted from her mish. and stunned by
a coolie. Slie comes to in the private train
of a war-lord (Nils ' Asther). Lady mis-
sionaries with the face and figure of Miss
Stanwyck are as rare as exotic Girl Guides,
and the General falls for his captive with
a thud. But he treats her, as the phrase
goes, , “like a gentleman.” No suggestive
badinage. No bursting into her room. And
so, after many thrilling adventures, she
makes her way back to Shanghai and happi-
ness. The photography is splendid and the
crowds are handled with great skill.
“Man Against Woman” is a gangster,
starring Jack Holt as a manly ’tec who in
making his arrests uses straight lefts to the
chin instead of gats. In the course of duty
he incurs the enmity of Walter Connolly, a
gang-leader who plies a good knife and
fork and leaves the shooting to others. Jack’s
Achilles heel, so to speak, is his passion for
Lillian Miles, a blonde crooner in Walter’s
ni°ht club. ' It eventually leads to his expul-
sion from the force, but you can’t keep a
good movie cop down. After a trip to Ber-
muda during which he employs his usual
strong-handed methods with great effect, he
clears his name and wins the crooner’s hand.
This melodramatic rubbish is excellently
photographed and acted.
Excellent shots of sealing life —St. John’s,
Newfoundland, icefields and floes, and close-
uds of seals, including a mother saving her
habe from the killers— give character to “The
Vikin-” at Sydney Haymarket; There is a
bate drama for those who can’t sit out a
nature film without a nasal obligato of
heart-throbs and wisecracks Charles Star-
rett Louise Huntington and Arthur Ymton
provide the heroics and Bob Bartlett, as a
sealer captain, a touch of Bluenose realism.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Credit
You say credit is credit whether the grocer
gives it or the banker. Haven’t you read
any up-to-date books on credit? Grocer’s
credit produces a debt and consumes consum-
able goods, but banker’s credit is advanced
to produce goods, not consume them; and
therein lies the difference. —A.J.A.K. (S.A.).
Let “A.J.A.K.” turn up at a grocer’s and
ask for credit. Sugarandsoap will say:
“What d’you want these goods for?” K.:
“To eat, of course.” S.; “And how do I
get paid?” Iv.: “Well, I’m going to work,
ain’t I?” S.: “Oh, these goods are to
enable you to. work?” Iv.: “That’s the
idea.” Thus “A.J.A.K.” will discover that
there’s no credit for him if he proposes to
merely consume the goods; but if the goods
are to serve precisely the same purpose as
a banker’s credit — i.e., enable him to pro-
duce something—then he may get credit.
Nine times out of ten, of course, the grocer
has to get credit from the banker, directly
or indirectly, in order to give credit himself.
So banker’s and grocer’s credits are not
two, but one and the same credit. By the
way, reading doesn’t save a man. Only
thinking can do that. The blind are not
saved from falling into the ditch by trusting
to others who. are blind.
The Cause of Unemployment
If it is not true that unemployment is
caused by lack of purchasing power, what
is the cause of it. —F. T. S. (W.A.).
Of course unemployment is caused by the
lack of purchasing power. The Bulletin
never .said it wasn’t. If 300,000 men in
Australia were given jobs to-morrow and
were thus presently supplied with purchas-
ing power, the unemployment problem would
be solved for the moment. That’s what The
Bulletin lias been saying for two years:
give unemployed men a start, and they will
keep one another employed. Lack of pur-
chasing power prevents re-employment; but
to keep men in employment there must be
a proper relation of wages and prices to
one another. For instance, if farmers have
been earning 15s. a day and for some reason
or other their earnings fall to ss. a day, then
obviously they can afford to buy only one-
third as much of what other people have to
sell, including labor, and if these other
people hold to’ their old prices and costs
(including wages), then plainly many of
them must be unemployed; and being unem-
ployed they will not be able to buy as much
from the farmers, who will therefore have
to cut down their purchases of labor, etc.,
still further, which will mean more unem-
ployment. The existence of unemployment
means that changes have occurred which
have not been adjusted. Probably! the
greatest change has been the over-production
of wheat and other raw materials; until
employment is readjusted and farmers are
found other jobs they will continue to lack
purchasing power, and therefore will keep
other men idle.
Douglas Credit
The Bulletin says Major Douglas pro-
poses (1) that two and, two shall make five,
and (2) that the public shall be given some-
thing for nothing. If these statements were
true they would rule Douglas out; but I
can find no justification for the charges in
any of the writings of Douglas and his
school; and I can only conclude that the
statements are loose and unconsidered, and
unworthy of The Bulletin’s reputation for
accuracy and veracity. —P. G. L. (S.A.).
We are very sorry ; we admit that what
we said wasn’t literally true. Douglas
doesn’t propose that two and two shall make
five. What he does say is that two and
three make four. lie says the world can’t
buy what it produces because, broadly, only
wages, salaries and dividends are available
as purchasing power. Therefore he pro-
poses to issue Social Credit to make up the
balance. Now, when you buy a Bulletin,
what does the sixpence you have to pay
represent? Salaries and wages, paper, ink,
metal and chemicals (used in making blocks),
wear and tear of plant, light and power,
rent, rates, taxes and insurance—maybe also
some profit. Douglas says the only pur-
chasing power is in wages, salaries and divi-
dends. But the money paid for, say, ink
is just as much purchasing power as the
money paid for wages. For all practical
purposes, The Bulletin pays some men to
produce ink and other men to pro-
duce drawings: it doesn’t make a bit of
difference that the money in one case is
handed direct to the men and in the other
is handed to somebody called a manufac-
turer to distribute. So it is with all the
rest. It is therefore entirely untrue that
there is not enough purchasing power to
take up every article produced. Costs of
production (including wages, material, pro-
vision for depreciation, insurance, rents) +
profit = price. But Douglas proposes to
add something else, and says that it will
still = price. In other words, though 2+ 2
= 4, Douglas adds 1 and says it is still 4.
As for getting something for nothing, besides
Social Credit Douglas provides for a
National Dividend to be paid “from the net
increase in the nation’s productive capacity
as a going concern” —a payment “due to
every citizen and quite apart from arty ques-
tion of employment.” What is that but
giving an individual something for nothing?
Currency and Confidence
Why don’t I buy things which I want,
and of which there is abundance in the
world? Because I haven’t got the money.
Why haven’t I got the money? Because the
people who would employ me can’t sell the
goods I have helped them to make, and until
they can sell the goods they can’t pay me
wages. So I can’t buy, and they can’t em-
ploy. If I and others had the money where-
with to buy, I could find, a job—and so of
course could others, It is just the shortage
of money, then, that is keeping me and
others out of a job.. It seems to me, there-
fore, that the Douglas Credit people are
right • the world is short of purchasing
power, and if it were supplied prosperity
would return. — Groper (W.A.).
But is the world short of purchasing
power? It doesn’t follow because a railway
is doing little that it is short of rolling
stock; and currency is the world’s financial
rolling stock. There may be abundance ot
it lying idle. What we’ve got to find out
is why people are not using it. Why is the
manufacturer not applying for an overdraft
to extend his business? Not because there
is not enough currency, or purchasing power
—millions of that is lying unused. Rather
because there is not enough confidence. For
the same reason people are putting their
money on fixed deposit at ridiculous interest
instead of investing it in industry. It is
confidence that is lacking—which is why
for short-term investments there is abund-
ance of money everywhere, and for long-
term investments hardly any. The Langs
of the world have a lot to answer for.
Government Debts and Note Issues
The Australian Commonwealth and States
have during the past three or four years
piled up a, floating debt of over 85 millions
to the banks, etc. Why not pay them with
good Australian notes, backed by the whole
Commonwealth? This would mean a saving
of 3 millions a year in interest; moreover,
the banks could not afford . to keep these
notes in cold storage, but would have to let
them out to earn something, and thus supply
Australia’s great need —more currency. —
C. F. D.
What does “backed by the whole Common-
wealth” mean? The present notes are
“backed by the whole Commonwealth.” Yet
to-day if you want to buy something in
London they are worth about 16s. in the
£ and in Paris or New York about 11s. in
the £. All that the Commonwealth guaran-
tees is that the £ shall pay a local debt for
20s. —but it doesn’t guarantee that it will
be worth anything in relation to other cur-
rencies. There never was a time when the
mark wasn’t worth a mark in Germany. The
trouble was that, after a few such issues
as “C.F.D.” suggests, it took a thousand
marks to buy a meal. Suppose a man
worked for an orcliardist, who paid him in
apples, fixing the quantity at enough to
allow him to make wages. Then suppose the
orchardist presently said to the man, “I
bought a motor-truck from you last year.
I promised to pay in money, but I’m going
to pay in apples instead.” What would be
the effect? So many apples would be thrown
suddenly on the market that 1 their price
would slump, and the man would be thus
robbed of his wages; in other words, the
apples he got as wages would lose their
value. It’s exactly the same with notes.
Make a forced issue, and you destroy the
value not only of the forced issue but of all
previous issues. Which means that men’s
wages would lose their purchasing power.
Money and Prices
Some time ago you gave a reply which
said in effect “If money were doubled prices
would be doubled.” I sell hats, and how
would an increase of money touch me?
Unless the people got more money (which
they would not get without doing more
work), how would prices be affected? 1
can see that if they got more money they
might be willing to pay more and so give
me a chance to raise prices; but how would
they get more? —R. P.
A Government can make money oy the
simple process of printing it. While the
country which issues
it is on the gold stand-
ard—that is to say,
so long as the paper
is exchangeable for
gold—you know pre-
cisely what the paper
is worth; for gold is
the world’s standard.
But once, a country
goes “off” gold, then
what its paper is
worth depends on how
much money it will
buy in a foreign coun-
try that is still “on”
gold. At present our
£ is worth a little
under 11s.; in other
words, £2O of - our
money will buy the
equivalent of 11 sov-
ereigns abroad. Thus
to-day a carpenter,
say, is being paid in
Australia nearly twice
as much as his work
is w’orth in gold ; in-
deed, if he could . get
payment in gold, it
would be to his
advantage to take 11
sovereigns instead of
20 of our £1 notes.
When a currency is
inflated, as ours is, a
man doesn’t have to
work twice as hard to
get twice as much
money he gets twice
as much money as ’a
matter • of course, but
it buys only half as
much as it formerly
did. A man selling
hats is thus no better
off. Certainly the
hats he bought; for
sale at 15s. he will be
able to sell for 305.:
but he will not be
able to get more for
30s. than lie , previ-
ously got for 15s. In-
flation is chiefly a
plan for making the
foolish think they are
better off than they
actually are. It is, however, also a plan for
robbing those in receipt of fixed incomes.
Thus a pensioner will still get only his old
£lOO a year, though the value of the £ in
which he is paid has'depreciated by one half.
Why Not Mint Silver?
We could build railway lines and roads
and homes for the people and lock rivers, etc.,
without cutting down old-age pensions a
farthing and without borrowing one red cent.
We could do it by coining silver. We have
many unworked silver-mines; we could work
these and by paying wages in our own minted
silver ice could directly absorb many unem-
ployed ; and the balance would be indirectly
employed in the undertakings previously
mentioned. —A. D. (Q.).
It does not matter what you use for domes-
tic currency. If you used shells (which
would serve just as well as silver), it is
quite certain the more that were put in cir-
culation the less they would buy. The same
with silver coins. These kept their value in
the past because you could get gold for a
given number of them, and gold was inter-
national Currency. If, however' you couldn’t
change them for gold, and went on coining
them, then their ultimate value w'ould be
governed by what you could get for them
abroad as silver. Now, silver is worth in
gold only Is. or so per ounce.. In other
words, for overseas payments the shilling
would be -worth, say, 2d. Therefore, when
the Government was collecting taxes it would
have to collect 6s. in the new currency for
every Is. it had to pay abroad. Also when a
shop sold goods bought overseas it would
have to charge 6s. for every Is. it had to
pay. If silver and notes were interchange-
able, 10 florins for one £1 note, our £1 notes
would soon also be worth 3s. 4d. Prices
would rise sixfold; and the man who got
20s. a day in silver would find it-was worth
no more than 3s. 4d. formerly was. Our
friend asserts that we could do all he says
without cutting down old-age pensions. As a
matter of fact, the immediate result would
be to starve every old-age pensioner.
Purchasing-power
You snort at the suggestion that there is
not enough purchasing-power to ,buy the
goods produced and ask “Where are all the
goods which have been produced and haven’t
been able to find a sale through the ages?
Or for the last hundred years?'’ Quite a
lot were, busted up on the fields of Flanders
and other places a few years ago. That these
goods could not find a market is proved by
the fact that they are not paid for yet nor
are they likely to be. A few more millions
are . represented by the Sydney Harbor
Bridge and the Brisbane Town Hall —two of
many instances where huge sums are tied up
in unproductive works. And don’t forget
these things are not “sold,” because they are
not paid for. The unsaleable surplus of goods
which is inseparable from, our present sys-
tem of finance is converted per medium, of
wages and salaries into unwanted capital
assets, and this is done because even we arc
not quite fnad enough, in peace time at any
rate, to make goods and then smash ’em up.,
That these, goods are not saleable is proved
by the fact that ivc never cam pay for them
and we arc continually in debt to the finan-
cial system. —C. S. G. ( Q. ) .
Oh yes, these Things are paid for. Smith
has a million pounds in his pocket with
which he was going to buy a cathedral. He
meets Jones, who- ‘borrows it and buys a
bridge instead. No use telling Smith that
the bridge is not paid for. He knows it is
-—his money paid the
workmen and bought the
material. If it hadn’t
bought a bridge, it was
purchasing-power to buy
something else. “C.S.G.”
apparently suggests that
we smash things up be-
cause we can’t pay for
them. The fact is that
often we smash things up
because we can pay for
them too easily.
Examinations
The papers have been filled with the re-
sults of public examinations. lam a parent,
very anxious to do the best for my children.
Shall I be right in choosing from the schools
in these lists the ones that over a series
of years produce the best examination
remits? —F. T. S.
This largely depends on what the parent’s
aim is. (1) If he is keen on building up
character, and trusts to the school to help
him in doing it, he will certainly look for
something else besides high examination
passes. (2) Just as there are children who
are specially fitted by nature to shine at
examinations, so there are teachers who are
specially fitted by nature and perhaps train-
ing to produce first-class results. The child
to* shine is the one wh 0 has a natural or
well-cultivated memory and the capacity to
promptly exhibit what he knows; but it
does not follow that he will be able to think-
out a problem for himself or dig himself
out of a difficulty, nor does it follow that
the training he has received will help him
there very much. And (3) brilliant passes
are often more or less accidental. The
school scores because it happens to have one
or more youngsters who couldn’t help pass-
ing well. The headmaster who puts these
candidates through takes all the kudos that
comes to him and his school, of course, but
he knows that he is far more deserving of
praise for passing another youngster with
merely four or five B’s. There is no hard
and fast rule, then, except this: that the
wise parent will supplement the examination
results with . careful independent inquiry,
and will choose his school to meet his special
requirements.
U.S.A. and the World
In view of the possibility of Europe
(including England) absolutely repudiating
the war debts to the U.S.A., what retaliatory
action is open to U.S.A-? —Yours, A. P. (Q.).
Nobody can say what can, may or will be
done when it is declared that the rest of
the fight will be under Rafferty rules. U.S.A.
might refuse to supply Britain with any
more hams (it sent 4J millions’ worth to
the U.K. in 1929). But there isn’t likely
to be any trade retaliation. Imports from
U.S. to U.K. in 1931 were 104 millions
(sterling) ; exports to U.S. from U.K., 17
millions.
THE CENSOR AND HIS JOB.
MICAWBER: “Ah! I see that this country has reversed my system of waiting for
something .to turn up by merely waiting for something to turn down.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
€bmmoiiwealtl)BavmQS JSanfe of flustralui
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
tiiIRCWAJiIiDS*
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc. from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Imbaga”: As “It-i” points out (B.
18/l/’33), crocodiles are often driven to
curious refuges when water is scarce. Dur-
ing the big drought of 1905 on the Mamba
NO DEAL.
NATURALIST: “I"ll give you a shilling for that specimen.”
BILLY: "Tsehillin’ not enough. Better Mary cook ’im for supper.”
River in Papua—the annual rainfall dropped
that year to 286 irihlies —the parched crocs,
betook themselves to the tefps of the jungle
trees and there kept life in them by sucking
the dew off the leaves in the early morning.
One did not mind them eating the big blue
pigeons which were our chief fresh meat
supply, but they caused considerable annoy-
ance by frequently falling out of the trees
on to the heads of passing pedestrians, owing
to their being unaccustomed to life in the
tree-tops. They made no attempt to attack
the pedestrians, but to have a 15-footer fall
some TO feet or so on one’s head was unnerv-
ing, especially after a stiff bout of fever,
when a fellow was always apt to be jumpy.
"Hamer” : “Them boots,” said the unkempt
man on the park seat as he waggled his bar»
toes in the openings between the soles and
the toecaps, “remind me of the time I walked
ter Corbie station in search of a job. Braaz-
att, the owner, ’d bin to the war. When
’e .came back ’e renamed ’is place ‘Corbie’
an’ started runniri’ it. as if the stock was
.Uns an’ c’d only be dealt with by a narmy.
E called giftin’ up in the mornin’ revelly,
an’ ’ad the bugle blown fer.it; an’ there was
a tootle on th’ bugle that meant ‘come to the
cook-’ouse door,’ and all that; an’ there was
the mornin parade, when all ’ands, includin’
the cook, were numbered off and formed into
fours an’ told off to their day’s fatigues. ’E
got tergether a mob of returned soldiers that
didn’t mind orl that tommyi’ot, an’ me, gettin’
the strong of it, goes erlong. I ’adn’t been
to no war, but I guessed at a battalion 1
reckoned ’e’d probably not met, spun a yarn
abbut ’avin’ been robbed of me discharge,
an’ was put on the ration strength, as ’e
called it. It was an easy job as long as a
man remembered that the boss’s office was
staff ’eadquarters, an’ sprung ter attention
with a smart saloote as ’e says, ‘Colonel,
the roan cow, Primrose, ’as calved,’ and sling
’im another when ’e says, ‘All right, Corporal,
carry on!’ It was a queer sorter circus,
especially when ’e turned out the guard
when visitors came; a nice sorter guard we
looked, as you can imagine! But it orl made
easy work, an’ the colonel paid for ’is amuse-
ment. It was ’ard luck when a bloke
narked the show. ’E’d wandered in. orl
whiskers and weariness, an’ said ’e didn’t
wanter tork about the blarsted war or ,’is
service; but ’e got a job. The way things
was run seemed ter get on ’is nerves day
by day. One morning ’e was late fer parade,
which the colonel wanted ter be special good
because some of the neighbors ’ad stayed the
night with ’im ; an’ when ’e did appear it
was obvious where ’e’d been the previous
night—away in the township gettin’ whisky;
but ’e was clean shaved an’ looked different.
The colonel seemed took aback, but ’e roared
‘Fall in, there, that man !’ The bloke walked
right up ter ’im. ‘Fall in? It’s you that
falls in !’ ’e roars. ‘Playin’ soldiers! You
know me, don’t you?’ The colonel was
staggered, but quite ’umble. ‘I never reeker-
nised yon before, Colonel Swashler,’ ’e
stammers. ‘ ’An’ I only jest reckernised
’avin’ seen you—once when I ’appened to
go to the pay office in Egypt,’ bellows Swash-
ler. ‘lf there’s drillin’ ter be done, I’ll do
it! Fall in to your proper place in the line.
you miserable pay-office acting corporal /”
That busted the ’ole show—fer r the bloke
that liked ter be called colonel sold Corbie
as soon as ’e could an’ disappeared. It was
'ard luck fer me. The way I was goin' I
might ’ave been made orderly-room sergeant
in time, an’ done no work at all except
salootin’.”
“P.D.” (C al-
- : I was en-
tertaining for the
first time in India,
and rushed home
from golf to see
how my Tibetan
bearer Chumbi had
carried out my
orders. I gazed
with pardonable
pride on the nicely-
arranged table, the
gleaming damask,
bright silver
and delightful
array of crystal. I
was extremely in-
terested in the in-
tricate folding of
tbe napkins, which
appeared over the
tops of the goblets
like roses in full
bloom. Chumbi
stood just a little
behind me, but in
a position where
his dark, glitter-
ing little eyes
could watch for
signs of apprecia-
tion from his mem-
sahib. I told him
it was b a hu i
ach eh a (very
good)-—praise in-
deed ! and then
asked him how he
folded the napkins.
It would have
broken his heart
had I touched one
of his creations, I
could see, so I gave
him a fresh one.
Suddenly he
planked himself on
the floor and—hor-
rors! —extended 30
little bare fat toes,
and happily pro-
ceeded with the
job of wrapping-
certain folds of the
napkins round cer-
tain toes. Alas!
I could plainly see
how the ros e s
bloomed. Suddenly
I came to life:
time was fleeting.
“Quickly, Chumbi!
bring bowl of
warm water and
ammonia and two
glass towel s.”
When Chumbi
came back his gasp
of anguish was
audible. Hi.s roses
lay in a heap on
a chair and the
glasses were in a row ready to be rinsed.
When, on dining out, I have had to dis-
entangle an elaborately-folded napkin
visions of toes haunt me, but I swallow hard
and say nothing.
* * * *
“Bliowali”: It was one of those lunch-
hour discussions, and Frank, the foreman,
had the floor. Some chance remark
about the Consorting Act had roused him,
and with picturesque and biting phrases he
proceeded to abolish it. “There’s no damn
justice in this country,” was his peroration.
“If you’re rich you can get awav with mur-
der; if you’re pore, then ’Eaveni ’elp you if
you ever bump against the John ’ ’Ops.
They chivvy pore blokes and tarts about,
an’ if they catch ’em ’avin’ a bit of a
yarn to each other they pinch ’em for con-
sortin’.” “Well, what about it, Frank?”
somebody ventured. “What about it?” He
glared at the speaker. “Ain’t I Yellin' you?
They pinch these people for consortin’,' an'
yet you go to Sydney, Brisbin, Melbin—
almost any city—an’ what do you find?
Statues!” “Statues?” we echoed, puzzled.
"Yes, statues of the Prince Consort!”
* * * *
“Cap’n Flint”: There is another expedition
girding up its loins to try to locate the
buried treasure on Cocos (B. 18/l/’33). It
was all ready to start some months ago
and the leader was to be motorist Malcolm
Campbell, who has already had one shy at
it. A report that an American expedition
had located one dump under the bed of a
stream diverted long ago caused the trip to
be hung up. Campbell in the meantime has
gone a-motoying in America, where he is to
try for another record at Daytona. Nothing
further has been heard of the American
furphy, by the way. There is no doubt that
the treasures of the great cathedral at Urn a.
with those of all the banks and many private
hoards, were loaded on board an' English
merchantman after the successful revolution
in 1824, before the insurgents against
Spanish rule reached the city to sack it.
ONE MORE.
DAVE: “How about you an’ me gettin’ married, Mag? Dad gimme
thirteen cows, an’ that’s an unlucky number to start with.”
The skipper and crew murdered those in
charge of it at sea, and landed the swag,
which was valued at several millions; the
cathedral hoard had been accumulating ever
since the days of Pizarro almost. An English
man-o’-war intervened soon after and hanged
the skipper and some of his crew as pirates.
Since then, the island has been practically
turned upside down by the many parties
which have tried , to find the treasure there.
* * * *
“Alflen”: Sapdgate (Q.) shook off its
immemorial calm when some sharks of the
shovel-nosed variety invaded its baths during
an extra-high tide and were imprisoned
therein. A citizen gave exhibitions of sharks-
manship, straddling one of the creatures for
a ride round the baths, and finally bringing
all three ashore by hand. The shovel-nose,
which spends most of its life lying on the
bottom, is almost as flat as a stingray and
looks much like one which has been put
through a wire-drawing mill. The mouth
is a small slit underneath the flat body, and
is incapable even of biting the lug of a
philanthropist who lias just won the first
prize in the Golden Casket. The fish feeds
by skimming the bottom and picking up un-
considered trifles as he passes over them.
* ❖ * *
“Wai-hoi” : One of the queerest Australian
plants (“parrakelia" to abos.) grows in tiny
bunches close to the sandy surface of the
desert areas, mixed up with the dreary spini-
fex. It has no leaves ; long, fleshy 'stumps
like fingers, of a greenish-yellow color, take
their place. These are full of watery juice
and are very palatable. David Carnegie,
when on his trip from Coolgardie to Kimber-
ley in 1896, had his camels saved wlien they
got on to a good patch of the plant. They
had done ten hours a day for a fortnight
without water and were excessively thirsty.
Coming across a native well in the spinifex.
Carnegie couldn’t tumble to why the camels
drank only about two gallons apiece and
appeared quite satisfied. The small drink on
top of a bellyful of parrakelia had done the
triek.
KUAKA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Kuakas) gather at Reinga (M.L.)
and fly“~in a company to spend the northern summer
in Siberia.”
All along the moon-white beaches,
In among the driven seaweed,
By the long tides foaming slowly,
Sleeps the Kuaka, the traveller ;
Ere the sun-god, Ra, has risen,
Scattering the mists of silver,
Tipping all the hills with dawn-gold,
Wakes the Kuaka, the wanderer.
Fly you, oh! fly, little godwit,
Wing with the gleam of the dawn ;
You may not wait the wind’s waking,
Nor watch the day lazily breaking.
With pennants of crimson and fawn.
Summer is waning, the bracken
Lights a red fire in its breast;
The blossom is shed from the hedges;
The bramble is gold, and the sedges
Bend with a flame for a crest.
Forth you must go with wings whirring,
Soaring above the sea-wrack;
Long ere the tundra snows, whirling.
Dance to the Arctic winds’ skirling,
You will come tardily back.
You will be spent with the tempest,
Famished and direly distressed;
Here, where the warm seas are foaming,
Rest you from weariful roaming,
Rest you, O little brown guest!
All along the noon-gold beaches,
In among the sun-bleached seaweed.
Far across the windy marshes.
Walks the Kuaka, the roamer;
Brief the time he lingers, waiting.
Waiting for the call to follow
By the lands and seas uncharted.
O adventurer, Kuaka!
isr.s.w.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurancesiffected on all classes of
—————— -Build>ngs, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Reiits also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knoio.
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E.R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —7-J hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
<v
*4j>
.4
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
• Saturday Evening Express’’ obtainable from ;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
“Der Jong”: One of the Sydney dailies,
visualising the day when Australia’s sheep
and cattle will be driven from “the lush
green north” by increasing population—how
many sheep does the “lush green north” of
tropical Australia carry to-day, by the way?
—quotes one of the Le Soeufs* as saying that
they will be replaced in the dry areas by
African antelopes, which are “ideal food.”
The eland is particularly mentioned, with
the. comment that it is free from all diseases
which ravage cattle and can live on sparse
herbage. No antelope ever supplied meat to
vie with decent ox-beef. The flesh of them
all is dry and stringy, like the much-vaunted
venison of which so much nonsense is talked
and written. Further, the eland, like all the
antelopes, is subject to rinderpest and other
cattle diseases, and he is found only in quar-
ters of Africa where the natural pastures are
of the best. When they fail in a bad season
he dies off, just as Australian cattle and
native fauna do in drought. Le Soeuf is
also quoted as saying that dugong flesh is
better than pork. It might be if it tasted
less like the cod-liver oil of our childhood.
I . cannot see Australians supplanting pigs
with dugongs and breeding them for food
purposes, as is suggested.
* * * *
“Ornis”: Some of the natural history im-
parted to the public by the daily press is
AS VIEWED FROM THE TOP.
“It says some of the evidence in the society divorce case was so hot the Judge took it
in camera.”
“Lucky dawg! I’d like to get hold of some of the photos.”
certamly informative. An instance is the
publication by Sydney “Sun” of a picture of
a toucan with the comment that the bird is
a clever fisherman.” The Elizabeth-street
journal has probably mixed the fowl up with
f u-?i eil uM n ’ wa ich \ s also well provided with
a DHL Ihe toucan is a fruit-eater and in the
Zoo ives principally on bananas, Fiji and
otherwise. He is accused of picking up an
occasional grub or lizard, but he is no Izaak
W alton m feathers.
“H'omfrey Beale”; Savage Binghi round
the Bourke, Brewarrina and Walgett
(N.S.W.) districts had a legend regarding
the river-gum mistletoe that smacked of
Grecian mythology. Arteia was the only
earth-born progeny of a spirit, and was the
result of an affaire between one of the
numerous good spirits and a bluebell. She
was beautiful beyond human imagination,
and as she grew up was much desired in
marriage by the king of the evil spirits, but
being fleet of foot always eluded him till he
brought strategy to bear by throwing a
cordon of his satellites around her.. Seeing
herself doomed to a repulsive union, she
called upon the good for deliverance,
an< l they,. by pooling their powers in a
common effort, changed her into the mistle-
toe. When there is no mistletoe Arteia is
visiting her friends in spiritland. The mistle-
toe that grows on trees other than gums is
a manifestation of Arteia’s thoughts.
* * * *
“Skookum” : Norfolk Island is famous for
its pine-trees, and thereby hangs a tale,
With much stealth, an islander climbed one
of these pines. When he was safely hidden
in the foliage, his mate, with great furtive-
ness, approached the house of a near-by sly-
grogger for a bottle of moonshine whisky.
The distiller crept cautiously to his cache
and got a bottle. The observer in the tall
tree to ? k a compass bearing of the plant and
that night the cache was cleaned out, lock,
stock and barrel,
* * * *
“Uramao” : A classic instance of Maori
stoicism must be placed on record. A native
named Henry was felling trees in the bush
when a falling one struck another and slid
back, pinning the Maori’s leg against an-
other tree. Henry helplessly watched his
leg being ground to pulp ; then the tree
rolled over and freed him. He dragged him-
self to a hilltop and called his mate, who
brought the victim his bag. The Maori got
his knife and cut his own battered leg off.
After tightly binding the leg with belts above
the knee his mate got him out of the
bush after a gruelling journey. Two days
later Henry’s dog was found guarding the
severed leg and his master’s -bag.
* * * *
“Karaway”: It is claimed that “Bringa”
Robertson, who died in Sydney recently, went
through all the bora ceremonies, and was
admitted as a blood brother of the Coongarri
tribe (Q.). I have known white men who
attained to two bora degrees (Archie Meston
was one) ; but I have always understood the
third was only for full-blooded abos. From
the remotest times nothing has been more
rigidly guarded than the ceremonial of the
third bora degree. Before the commence-
ment of the bora, among the now-vanishing
tribes of N.S.W., scouts searched the neigh-
borhood, scanning even the tree-tops, for
spies. If one was discovered during the
ceremony the penalty was sudden death. No
woman was allowed to peep into the mys-
teries. Occasionally a stockman, looking
for cattle, rode unintentionally towards a
hora ground, blit he was always stopped by
the outposts before he had got near enough
to see anything and turned away.
“Epsilon”: Australia, the geologists are
beginning to believe, is the oldest of all
lands; possibly it may be discovered that the
eucalypt is the parent of all trees. Be that
as it may, there is surely nowhere in
nature a queerer combination of profundity
and frivolity than a gum blossom. Its
exactly circular ring of thread-like petals is
curved over inwards with impeccable neatness
until the annu-
lar fronds
gather strength
to throw off the
exactly conical
cap that seems
to bind them in
place till the
appointed mo-
ment. The elas-
ticity of the
fronds is won-
derful. As soon
as they uncurve
they are per-
fectly straight.
Beautiful
though the just-
opened flower
is, it lacks
something. This
is almost im-
mediately sup-
plied—a pepper-
ing of spangles
at the ends of
the fronds that
bestows an
appearance of
elfin gaiety.
The elements of
form in the
flower circle
and cone (which
includes
triangle) are
symbols which,
rightly inter-
preted, are the
key to most of
what we call
mat hematics ;
the law of
growth of the
plant and the
trajectory of
the little cone
in its brief
flight enwrap
mysteries which
it took a hun-
dred thousand
generations of
power fully-
minded men to
decipher. And yet this compendium of
Ultimate Truth assumes finally a form
which, as May Gibbs has amusingly demon-
strated. resembles nothing so much as a
ballet dancer’s skirt. It looks as if Mother
Nature has a strong sense of humor.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Acorn-barnacles are such
commonplace objects upon rocks between tide-
marks that they seldom attract attention,
but Charles Darwin wrote a whole book
about them. The newly-hatched baby barnacle,
which is termed a “nauplius,” bears no
resemblance to its parent (“its” is right, as
the creature is bi-sexed), being a free-
swimming organism with a helmet-shaped
covering on which long spines form, i It lias
one large eye, and swims round for a few
days propelling itself by a pair of antennae
and six pairs of legs. It then moults and
becomes a “cypris,” in which mew- form it
covers itself with a bivalve shell; its legs
(of which it has now twelve pairs) give the
show away. It has now acquired two small
eyes. Following a brief active career, the
cypris larva proceeds to fix itself to a rock or'
other firm substance, by standing on its head
and glueing its antennae to the solid material
with a secreted cement. Thus anchored, it
becomes a “pupa,” and the most wonderful
final transformation is effected. The head
becomes an efficient foundation, the legs are
replaced by delicate two-branclied “cirri,” by
which the food is kicked into the mouth. The
calcareous fortress-shell is now built up and
fitted with a series of strong plates inside,
which can be closed at any time by the
animal. Yet it is a true crustacean, belonging
to the same class as the prawns and crabs.
* * * *
“Wai-hoi”: One of the rarest and most
curious of Australian birds is the “noisy
scrub-bird” (Atrichornis clamosus) , whose
home, if perchance the secretive creature sur-
vives, is in the dense forest of the Leeuwin
Peninsula. Gould’s offsidei’, John Gilbert,
when with Leichhardt on the trek from
Moreton Bay to Port Essington in 1846, got
a male specimen of the bird, and on this
one specimen Gould described the species,
which he called one of the anomalies of
Australian fauna. In the ’eighties A. J.
Campbell got another male at Torbay Inlet,
15 miles west of Albany, but to date neither
the female nor the nest and eggs have been
taken. The bird has a penetrating whistle,
which it repeats eight or nine times in
crescendo, concluding with a vibrant crack
that makes the woodlands fairly ring. It
sticks to the ground almost exclusively,
hardly ever using its wings, which are
small in proportion to its length, about Bin.
over all. In 1901 A. W. Milligan and Price
Conigrave hunted for three weeks in the
karri forest between Cape Naturaliste and
ESCAPE.
“I’m in for bigamy.”
“Who put you away?”
“The police—God bless ’em!”
the Leeuwin, but the nearest they got to the
valuable quarry was to hear its call. And
that’s the end of its history.
**'*..*
“Tidapa” : What has the makings of the
father of a row is developing on the south
coast of Java. The natives of Poeger, a
small fishing village, hold each year a festi-
val in honor of Njaie Roro Kidoel, god-
dess of the Indian Ocean, the ceremonies
culminating with the launching of a prau,
laden with flowers, cakes, fish, incense and
small offerings of money, which is towed to
sea and cast adrift as an offering to the god-
dess. Should the currents or wind drive the
boat back and it becomes wrecked on the
rocky coast, great misfortune can be ex-
pected. But if the prau disappears from
sight there is great rejoicing. At the latest
festival the prau drifted out to sea and
gradually faded over the horizon, and the
Poegerese, rejoicing, returned to their vil-
lage. But, perhaps owing to the depression,
the coastal Javanese considered this floating
larder too valuable to be allowed to dis-
appear beneath the waves with the first hard
blow. They retrieved the offering to the
goddess. All might have gone well but for
the womenfolk, who spread the news along
the coastal kampongs until it reached
Poeger, creating a situation that may yet
develop into bloodshed.
❖ * ❖ *
“Purari” : That practice of anointing one-
self with the juices of the dear departed (B.
11/l/’33) has been noted among primitive
races the world over, and even some of the
Australian abos. have been credited—or
debited —with the observance. Some of the
Papuan Gulf tribes were exponents of it until
an unfeeling but sanitarily-minded Govern-
ment stepped in. This particular lot used to
lay out the body on a platform of thin sap-
lings about four feet high in the middle of
a village. When the deceased-became “suffi-
ciently matured,” as Ivatisha sings in “The
Mikado,” friends and relatives of the
defunct squatted underneath the platform
rubbing in the liquid which dripped down
upon them. Burial did not take place until
what was left of the body had dried to a
chip. The underlying idea seems to be com-
mon to all the widely-flung peoples observing
it. The individuals under the platform were
supposed to absorb all the virtues of their
relative or friend with his juices.
;
This
is the
story of a
grand big noble
fish, that much pre-
ferred the water to a
pretty china dish. It
may have been a snap-
per or it may have been
a bream —but it swallowed
hook and sinker like a pussy
lapping cream.... It
darted out beneath the
sea with all its might
and main ; it dashed
up north and then
down south and
then came back
again. Just
then the line
got tangled
and the
beggar
laughed
with glee
as it turned
its nose to the
Barbadoes. I’m
sure it laughed at me.
N.s.w.
W. H. w.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
m'lTi ' i
- hr
m
gp*—
Head Office.
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
En (1 o wment,Child ren’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and (Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FKEDK. LEVY,
Managing Director.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m
mml
it.
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Wiii. Fowles, of Carlyoo’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day:
Double from 7/6:
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
an
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
Erases your car free of charge in the hotel
next door, during your entire stay
Such value service and convenience is not
r>Ktninflhle at any other liotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Snecial rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc The Manager, Carlyon s Hotel Mel-
bourne is sufficient address for your letter.
SMOKE-OH!
“She had a habit of boxing the ears of the.
children when they annoyed her.”— “Sun,”
Lug theory?
* *
“English critics have suggested that the Test
wicket was doped.”
Australia should protest against people
querying its pitch.
* *
“Mr. Bruce will shortly return to Australia.”
Can he be after the Lyons share?
* *
DIARY OF AN AMATEUR CRICKETER
WHO TELLS.
Monday.- —My radio talk an immense suc-
cess. Congratulations from fans all over
country for my remarks re Mumble’s inept
work as captain. Mumble rang up and said
if I didn’t watch out I wouldn’t be picked
for the next Test side, and then where would
my living be? Defied him, and threatened
leading article in “Yowl.” Complaint from
editor of “Yowl” re my grammar and spell-
ing. Defied him, and' threatened to resign
from staff. Accepted his apology, but
warned him not to get fresh again.
Tuesday. —Signed testimonials Blugg’s
Toothpaste, Wringle’s Breakfast Food,
Oggly’s Corn Cure,- Codd’s Consumption
Banisher. Turned down offer of cricket act
“I'm knockin’ off now. What about takin’ me out
to-night?”
“No, it’s too late.”
“No, it ain’t — it’s only eight o’clock.”
“No, it’s too late—twenty years too late!”
at Delirium Theatre. Fee inadequate.
Attack on my batting by Blither in “Yelp. - ’
Replied with" attack on his bowling. Sample
stinger: “Whether Old Sol is in the ascen-
danney as ruler of the Celestial roost, or Jupi-
ter Pluvius is the order of the day. the
trundling of ‘Pongo’ Blither alike fails to
acheive the altudinous standards called for
on the clasic convinsing-grounds of the King
of Games.”
Wednesday. —Received cable offering me
job on Lord Sneeverlook’s London “Band-
stand” at £3OOO p.a. Got friends to write
to “Yowl” pointing out national importance
of keeping me in Australia, Nation-wide
fund opened to tempt me to stay. Attack on
my fielding by the all-rounder lnkstein, star
writer of the “Weekly Whoop.” Extract:
“Our kinsmen from the Motherland will take
back, I fear, to the tight little isle, on whose
wooden walls the sun of Empire never sets,
but a poor opinion of the outfielding of this
great Commonwealth unless our skipper
Mumble, backed by the Board of Control,
crosses the Rubicon of hesitancy and, ere it
is too late, ditches this tardy runner and
fumbling picker-up (need I say that I refer
to that spent force ‘Woffles’ Moron of the
‘Yowl’?) in the Stygian waters of Oblivion.”
Hot stuff. Have decided it is wiser to leave
lnkstein alone.
Thursday.—-^ Considered offer to star in
beach cricket turn at Bondi every Sunday
for rest of season. Standing out for higher
fee. Signed testimonials for Winglc’s Boat-
the-Booze Panacea, Wiblcy’s Lager, Wobble's
Whisky. Another attack on my batting by
Blither. Mumble wants me to be left out
of next Test. So does Board of Control,
lnkstein said over the air last night: “And
I tell you this, folks, ‘Woffles’ Moron is done,
see. Can’t field no more than what a hairy
goat can, and as for batting—well, read what
my fellow-pressman and fellow-champ ‘Art’
Blither said in his paper. Putrid, that’s the
only word. If I was as bad as him, folks.
I’d get out of Test cricket for good. Straight,
I would, and that’s dinkum.”
Friday. —Triumph! Picked to play in
Press XI! This is a complete answer to the
aspersions of lnkstein. Blither and the rest,
a place in the Press XI being admittedly the
Blue Ribbon of Aussie Cricket. Have
replied to editor's latest whine about my
literary style with threat to resign unless
salary is instantly doubled.
10-2-4.
* *
“Dr. Guglieliminetti, of Paris, inventor of the
modern tarred road, has reached 70.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
. Thus proving that he never tried to walk
across one of them.
* *
“Bradman missed several 4’s.” — Melb. “Herald,”
But you should have seen the ones that
he got away!
PEPPING UP THE PARISH.
"When the Paralysis Picture Palace burst,
Cornelius Bunk, the publicity man, got a
job as editor of our parish magazine. He
has made the “Parish
Notes” a lot more read-
able :
Sitn d a y Next.— The
parish is to be honored by
a special visit from the
Re v. Joli n (“What-a-
Man”) Johnson, who will
tell you all about his blood-
freezing adventures as a
missionary in Unknown
India. The most enthral-
ling, devastating, wonder-
ful, magnificent address
ever offered in this home
of magnificent addresses.
The story of a strange,
eerie land, a land where
men forget and women
remember too late. A
grap h i c, awe-inspiring
utterance of outstanding
excellence. You will not
be expected to increase the
amount of your collection
for this super-attraction,
which heralds the bigger
and brighter services to be
held here during 1933.
Monday. —There will be
afternoon-tea in the school-
room. For this Monster
Function there will be
used 1 entire loaf of bread.
12 scones, -lib. butter and
a whole pound of the cele-
brated Eve block cake.
Real Food is to be used in
this production. After a
banquet rivalling in lusci-
ousness and prodigality the
infamous feasts of the Em-
perors of Pagan Rome there will be staged
a breath-taking Nativity Play. Spectacular
stage effects never - before seen in a Parish
Production will be employed, including a
sheaf of Real Corn. Produced at incalcul-
able cost of money, brain-power and energy,
this wonder show will star Little Jennie
Jones (the Exquisite Exotic), who is mak-
ing her debut. This outstanding attraction
was more than 12 months in production, and
even then the leading lady attended only two
rehearsals. Please take your seats early, as
the doors will be closed when the curtain
rises, to prevent a general exodus. To be
followed by Choir Practice in the Vestry.
An unparalleled choir of 15 Voices will
render famous .Sacred Melodies in a manner
that will make you sob —and then gasp.
The singing will sweep you on to the Seventh
Heaven of delight, drag you to the Nadir
of Despair—and then some. It’s Some-
thing Different; and it has cost—well, folks,
what hasn’t it cost?
V idle.
* *
“Petitioner, a sea captain, said that six months
after marriage his wife left him and refused to
return.”
The captain took her for his mate,
' Then strode aboard his clipper;
He soon learned that no mate was she —
She proved to he the skipper.
H.
AUSTRALIAN MYTHOLOGY.
No. 1001 —A Wood Nymph.
FOLLY’S END.
Jim Stonybroke sat at his desk gazing' at
what looked like picture postcards.
“What are they?” I asked.
“Relics of lost races,” he replied.
“Anything to do wfith the lost tribes of
Israel?”
“No,” he replied, “wdiat they have to do
with are lost tribes of donkeys, hairy goats,
and other four-legged animals,” and he tossed
the pile of betting-tickets into the w.p.b.
W.
If we want those Ashes
we’ll have to lay the wood
on.
* *
Surely Woodfull must
have a soft spot in his
heart for Larwood.
* *
Apparently the only way
to make our railways pay
is to run the trains on pay-
ing lines.
* *
WOMANLY.
“I hate you!” she cried.
“Do you hear that? Hate
you ! Mate you ! I wish
to Heaven we’d never met,
or that I’d never been
horn! You’ve been the
curse of my life! Oh, I
saw you smiling at her —
it’s lio good saying there
wa.s nothing in it! You
double-faced beast! I hate
you! Leave me! Go
right out of my life!
Never let me set eyes on
you again!”
It seemed fairly definite.
Bill picked up his hat and
made for the door. A look
of pained amazement
appeared on the face of his
critic.
“Don’t go, Bill !’’ she moaned. “If you
do I’ll kill myself!” T . W. N.
# *
ENGLISH UNDEFILED.
“The second ball of Larwood’s second over beat
Richardson’s bat, and a bye was run.. . . Paynter
cut off a virile shot by Ponsford off the fast bowler,
and the last ball of the over bounced high past
the Victorian’s chest.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Let’s handle a Grand National on similar
lines.
There w-ere only two in it from the jump,
Dogswhoozle and Auntie Mai'y- The blagk
mare cleared well away from the barrier,
but the chestnut horse was not so successful.
When the two prads reached the first fence,
the lighter-colored quadruped negotiated the
obstacle in fine style, whereas the dark four-
footed mammal hit behind. This gave the
male animal a slight lead; but, by the time
the second-last furlong was reached, the
female beast was creeping up. Both nags
were now neck and neck; and, when they
struggled to the winning post, there was
some difficulty in deciding which moke had
won. In the resulting uproar, a man lost
his temper and threw a beer-bottle, hitting
another of his sex on the head. The
latter biped took revenge by hitting _ the
former on the cranium,
using the same one-time
glass container of a refresh-
ing beverage.
The crowd thinned when
the police arrived, the offi-
cers of the law again prov-
ing thereby their ability to
disperse a multitude - of
persons.
Stony.
* *
LEG-THEORY.
I’m getting sick of it. I
went into a shop yesterday
and absent-mindedly picked
up my parcels without pay-
ing, whereupon the .shop-
assistant said sharply, “Hey,
no Larwoodism here!’’ I
was concerned later in a
police-court case, and of
course the S.M., who has a
reputation as a wag to keep
up, warned my solicitor not
to introduce leg-theory. I
sought a pub. “Look here,
Larwood,” said my friend
Rinks as the barman pro-
duced the mugs, “none of
that! Fill ’em up pro-
perly.”
Disconsolately later a
lot later —I started for
home. The tram conductor
disputed my two-bob piece.
“Leg-theory!” he sneered,
and handed it back. “You
can’t put that over me.”
So I had to walk home. I
found the wife waiting for
me, and told her all.
“Is that .so, Mr. Larwood?’’ she scoffed.
“So you think you can try the leg-theory
on me, do you?”
It was the last straw-. Do you blame me
for outing her with a burst of under-the-
ear theory?
H. M.
* #
Some of these English bowlers don’t mind
what length they go to to dismiss our lads.
* *
The £ isn’t at par, and it isn’t on the
poor old devil either.
FIRST NEW ARRIVAL: “What makes you think the Aus-
tralians are a righteous people?”
SECOND DITTO: “I’m always hearing them asking one another
if they know anything good.”
ASPIRATION.
What we wish to see in the next Test:
Woodfull of runs, O’Brien Ponsfording
through the bowling. Bradmanaging another
century, Richardson the top of his form,
McC-able to score, a labor of Love behind
the wickets and the Englishmen with their
backs to the Wall.
Also a little Gilbertian humor mightn’t be
out of place.
H'. M.
TRAVERSTY!
“Ben Travers’s latest play was written during
dull periods of batting in a Test match.”— Cable.
Here’s the tale of an author who, finding no
fun
In an innings devoid of sensation,
Wrote a ; page of MS. ’twixt the score of
each run,
And completed his play ere the Test match
was icon
Amid somnolent claps of elation.
Tt’s said that those hats will turn up at his
play;
Dark plans for reprisals they’re hatching.
They leant to he in a position to say
That when Travers insulted their hatting
display,
The unint’resting feature was catching.
PHILM.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
.Dear Bulletin,—Yo u often talk of the
mixed population of North Queensland, but
the southern part of that province isn’t so
very far behind in the same respect. In the
83 election I acted as scrutineer at a polling-
place about 12 miles from Brisbane. It was
an interesting experience. All through a long
hot summer day I sat in a wooden shed,
under a crackling tin roof, while Hans Jor-
genson and Peter Henson, and Otto Gross
and Paul Billitski, and Demetrius and
Emmanuel, and people like that slouched in
and laboriously marked thCir papers, and
breathed strange vegetables on me, and went
out again. At last the show was over, and
we made up a party to drive into Bulimba
in a cart and hear how things were getting
on. Hans Schmidt drove, and Peter Mac-
donald .sat beside him, and there were also
Demetrius and Emmanuel and Hans Schutze
and Otto Gross, and Said Abdallah —we took
that good Moslem along out of pure devil-
ment - 111 hope of making him drunk—and
myself. Also, Paul Billitski was somewhere
at the back. Hop Wah wanted to get on,
but he was. told that walking was good
enough exercise for a blanky heathen. So
the caravan started, and drove wildly ■by
moonlight into Bulimba. Everybody sang or
howled. Everybody smoked, including the'
horse. Everybody except Said Abdallah
drank at every public house by the way. We
galloped. into Bulimba all cheering for
Mcllwraith and found that our hero was
done and the floor had been wiped with him
m all directions. The Griffith party aimed
a bottle at us, and there was gory war on
the instant. I don’t know what wrnuld have
Happened to me at that crisis if Paul Billit-
ski and Abdallah had not dragged me out
from under the feet of the enemy, for Hans
Schmidt was busily engaged fighting a man
named Petersen, while Seligmann attacked
him from behind, and so he could give no
assistance; and Schutze and Demetrius had
both been routed, and Emmanuel was borne
down by numbers though fighting valiantly.
Finally, the police restored some kind of
order, and hauled Peter Macdonald off a
1 prostrate foe who was nearly dead ; and then
Schmidt gloomily bought six dozen eggs
which his wife had ordered him to bring
back with him, and we started for home after
putting a large piece of steak on Abdallah’s
eye, which was something awful to contem-
plate. There was very little mirth for the
first mile or two on that return journey, but
after a while we began to arrive at various
public houses and the company brightened
up. When we had called at six public houses
Peter Macdonald had to take charge of
Schmidt’s eggs because he was the only man,
except Abdallah, who was sober enough to
carry eggs. And Abdallah being incapaci-
tated and practically laid up in hospital at
the back of the cart, and being also fully
occupied in holding on to Schutze, who
wanted to fall out and was beginning to
have the horrors, didn’t count. Three miles
from home a great idea occurred to Schmidt.
“Mine Gott!” lie said, “I forgetted that I
haf mine revolver. Ye vill go pack and sclioot
Griffith.” The proposal was lost by a large
and intoxicated majority. “Den I know vat
ve schall do. Ye schall shoot, anyhow,
schoost to see if dor
horse sdand der rebort.”
“My God! If you do
I’ll break all the eggs,”
yelled Macdonald; but
it was too late. Schmidt
was blazing away pro-
miscuously, and the
horse started at a- des-
perate gallop. Schmidt
lost the revolver. He
also lost the reins.
Peter Macdonald threw
the eggs into space, and
they fell on the horse
and burst, which fur-
ther agitated the ani-
mal. There was a yell
of a strong Dago in his
agony as Emmanuel
went overboard. Schutze
went overboard, too;
but Abdallah held on
like grim death and
prayed in Arabic. Otto
Gross and Billitski were
somewhere in a heap at
the bottom of the cart
on top of Demetrius.
Then we ran over Hop
Wah and nearly killed
Carl Hirsch, who hap-
pened to be on the road,
and just then the har-
ness gave way, and the
cart stayed behind, and
a maddened horse cov-
ered with egg tore
away in the moonlight.
I persuaded Carl Hirsch
to assist me when he
had got over his fright
and we went back to
look for Hop Wall.
Hop proved to be only bruised, though he
was badly scared in Chinese. Schutze was
asleep in the middle of the road, so we rolled
him into the ditch lest he should be run
over. Emmanuel had apparently evaporated :
and he didn’t turn up again for two days,
and then he could give no account of him-
self whatever. We returned after an hour’s
search for the lost Dago to find Peter and
Schmidt and Otto Gross and Billitski ail
asleep on the road in the early daybi'eak, and
Abdallah sitting sullenly on the fence with
his huge black eye, and far up the road an
adjacent settler named Ludwig was bringing
back a tired horse with dried egg all over
him which he captured in his cornfield
They have no elections like that now, more’s
the pity.
[4/9/’97.] Titus Salt.
i “Titus Salt” was one of the pen-name:
of James Edmond in those days.]
RECIPROCITY OF SENTIMENT.
TOMMY THE NUT: “Jimmy, what’s your
opinion o’ ‘cops’ and 'd’s
JIMMY: “Same as theirs is o’ me.”
[Tom Durkin— 16/9/’93.]
■ Borman Consul Muecke, of Port Adelaide,
is off to his native Germany. Muecke, now
of much social importance, has risen from
the clerkly desk of a count-
ing'-hou'Se to be a big mer-
chant himself. Once a re-
porter at a Port Adelaide
political mectipg, dumfoozled
with electricity and too
blind to see a hole in a
ladder, but a clever mechani-
cal shorthand-writer and
transcriber, raised a tumult
that caused the reportorial
table to be stormed, by keep-
ing up a running fire of gut-
tural ventriloquisms imita-
tive of Muecke while the
latter was addressing the
audience. As the riproarious
wretch was still apparently
quietly reporting, though
swaying, and twitching in
his chair, the chuckers-out
got hold of the other poor scribe, who
would have lost some of his dandy garb
if the real joker hadn’t let go his fun
and come forward as the culprit. Muecke
generously saved the offender, but took
a late train to Adelaide to see that the
report was all right. “Perhaps you’d better
read the proof to make sure it’s all cor-
rect,” the “Register” chief told him; “for
I remember that Mr. Blank looked wild-
eyed and stayed not a moment up here when
he brought the copy.” “I think I’d better,”
said Muecke grimly. But the report wqs all
right, and much of it verbatim, and includ-
ing (between parentheses) the reporter’s
own interruptions under the general disguise
of “A disturber near the platform.” It may
be mentioned that the reporter next morn-
ing didn’t know he had been down to Port
Adelaide at all, and came in fear and
trembling expecting the sack for neglect of
work; the last matter his brain recollected
was a lurid orgy the night before.
’* [l6/5/’9l],
A well-known Northern Territory identity,
being absent from home, wrote to his wife
to start the man-of-all-work sinking post-
holes. After the man had been working some
time it began to rain, and he naturally cried
TOBACCO CAST ON THE WATERS.
OLD MAN: “Thank ’.ee, young fellow, for the
’bacca. Many’s the bit I’ve give your
poor grand-dad when the warders warn’t
looking." [“Hop”— 19/8/’93.]
a go, whereupon Madame : “ITow is it that
you are not working?” Pie: “I can’t work
in the rain.” She: “But surely you can get
a blackfellow to hold an umbrella over your
head.” f4/9/’97.]
ON THE GREY GULF-WATER.
Far to the northward there lies a land,
A wonderful land that the winds blow over,
And none may fathom or understand
The charm it holds for the restless rover.
A great grey chaos —a land half-made,
Where endless space is and no life
stirreth;
And the soul of a man will recoil afraid
From the sphinx-like visage that Nature
wearcth.
But old Dame Nature, though scornful,
craves
Her dole of death and her share of
slaughter;
Many indeed are the nameless graves
Where her victims sleep by the Grey
Gulf-water.
Slowly and slowly those grey streams glide,
Drifting along 'with a languid motion,
Lapping the reed-beds on either side,
Wending their way to the Northern Ocean.
Grey are the plains where the emus pass
Silent and slow, with their grave demeanor ;
Over the dead men’s graves the grass
Maybe is waving a trifle greener.
Down in the world where men toil and spin
Dame Nature smiles as man’s hand has
taught her;
Only the dead men her smiles can win
In the great lone land by the Grey Gulf-
water
MORE ENVY.
POLLICEMAN: “What are you doing?”
HUNGRY UNEMPLOYED (who slept out all night in the park ):
“Well, I’m meditatin’. You see, they filled a man up
with steak and onions and ’am and eggs in the gaol this
morning, and when he’d got his stomach full they
’ung ’im." [B. E. Minns— 8/7/’93.]
For the strength of man is an insect’s
strength
In the face of that mighty plain and river,
And the life of a man is a moment’s length
To the life of the stream that will run for
ever.
And so it cometh they take no part
In small-world worries ; each hardy rover
Rideth abroad and is light of heart,
With the plains around and the blue sky
over.
And up in the heavens the brown lark sings
The songs that the strange wild land has
taught her;
Clear in my vision her sweet song rings,
And I wish I were back on the Grey Gulf-
water.
[ll/12/’97.]
THE BANJO.
NAELETUA AND LEATA.
Naeletua and Leata ranked as papalangi,
because they had successfully annexed rich
papalangi spouses, but in reality they were
only warm-blooded, hot-tempered, large and
luscious brown Samoans, with scarce enough
civilised veneer to gloss over their semi-
savage impulses.
They were equally lucky women, as popu-
lar feeling reckons luck. Each had a rich
trader-husband, a fine white-man’s house,
fine white-man’s food, white-man’s clothing.
But there equality ended and disparity
began. Naeletua and her lord were notori-
ously weary of one another; Leata, if she
chafed at her legal bonds, took good care
to give no sign. For Leata had been to
Europe, where she adapted herself marvel-
lously well to the ways of civilisation.
Leata had picked up other European arts ;
her house and her table were quoted for
their elegance and excellence. And this was
perhaps why Naeletua’s Herr was so often
to be found eating with Leata’s John Bull.
THE EXIGENCIES OF AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERING.
SCENE: Backblocks. Doctor drunk —has
been drunk for three weeks. An addition to
the local blacksmith’s family looms near.
A 'prohibition order having failed to stop
the doctor’s grog, the blacksmith takes steps
of his own to sober the gentleman up.
The peculiarly professional means whereby
the blacksmith proceeds to remove
Smith, M.D., out of mischief are here
shown. [Alf Vincent — 15/7/’93.]
Naeletua had no more faith in platonics
than in sauerkraut. Her husband’s devoted
attendance at Mr. Leata’s table struck her
unphilosophic brain in the light of a per-
sonal insult —-and she mentioned it.
Leata was exceedingly shocked; nay, her
feelings were hurt. In the European world,
the world to which she now claimed to
belong, people made their own little domestic
arrangements without comment or com-
plaint. Naeletua was acting like an uncivil-
ised savage, and ought to be treated accord-
ingly.
Then Naeletua did a very unwise thing:
she committed her sentiments to paper, and
her sentiments on paper were not nice read-
ing. Naeletua cast unkind reflections on
the Leata family character in general; sug-
gested that the father and mother, the uncles
and the cousins and the aunts, were none
better than they ought to be; finally, she
classed them all as swine.
This sort of thing could not be coped
with in a civilised way at all. Leata laid
aside civilised w r ays, and felt all the old
native blood boil in her veins. She had five
stalwart brothers with sufficient muscle to
vindicate the family honor; she set off in
search of them. On the way she met
Naeletua, and proceeded, with much direct-
ness of purpose, t 0 pound that lady’s face;
when she had sufficiently discolored it, she
observed cheerfully, “Now, I’m going to send
my brothers to kill you.”
Naeletua did not wait to be killed. She
fled “away to the mountains” —or, more pre-
cisely, to the Samoan bush, where she could
safely hide in the thick, moist jungle, and
live on sundry cunning little baskets of pro-
visions brought secretly by sympathising
relatives. Meanwhile the Stalwarts stalked
around with big knives and bigger threats,
clamoring for Naeletua to come and be
treated like a pig.
Apparently her absence did not seriously
affect the case, which was prejudged. High
chiefs met in. solemn conclave to consider
Naeletua’s delinquencies. The gathering was
a very dignified affair.
“We have been written down swine,” cried
the brothers in scorn.
“Ye have been written. down swine, ye
stalwart men,” said the conclave; “let’her
be summoned. Bid Naeletua come here.”
Naeletua did not see it at all. She knew
that the Stalwarts were powerful in the
council, and her l own people but of small
account. Naeletua stayed in the bush.
Then came the ordeal of the pig by proxy
—which is unfair to the pig. The‘squeal-
ing substitute was caught, dirt was stuffed
in his mouth, his fore and hind feet were
tied together, and lie was slung on a pole
and -carried in ignominious triumph.
“Thus,” said the Solemn Conclave, “shall
it be with Naeletua and her children and
her children’s children to the end of their
days. We cast them out from their own
people to the swine. Naeletua no longer
bears the name of her ancestors, she no
longer takes rank among Samoans,’ we pro-
claim her children outcasts for all time.
She shall have no claims upon her chiefs,
and we wash our hands of her and her low-
born ancestors.”
Having reached this happy and desirable
conclusion, the Conclave gave the proxy a
short shrift and feasted on. its baked re-
mains.
What Herr Sauerkraut thought of the
proceedings has not transpired. He accepted
the position allotted to his descendants with
Teutonic calm, and discussed Samoan
peculiarities with Mr. John Bull over lager-
beer.
Having been publicly and formally “writ
down a pig,” Naeletua had nothing more
to fear; she was beneath contempt, and
therefore, beneath insult. She quietly re-
turned to her papalangi home, and took up
the thread of her life as before, going about
in fine raiment and running-up house-keep-
ing- bills with impunity. But a zest had gone
out of her life and a curl out of her pas-
sionate lip. For when you have been writ
down a pig you can no longer hold your
head so high, even if you are in legal pos-
session of a white trader r husband.
, But Leata. her virtue and family honor
vindicated, drives matters with a higher
hand than before, and holds supreme court
as the one fashionable papalangi wife with
intelligent appreciation of papalangi ways.
And Naeletua, when she sits on her door-
step, as you may see her doing any even-
ing, reflects bitterly, that it is not enough
to own a papalangi husband, a papalangi
house, and a papalangi purse. In order to
harmonise your lot you must speed to papa-
langi lands and learn the ways thereof.
Only thus can you acquire the knack of
writing down your neighbor a pig with im-
punity.
[4/12/*97.].
ROSE DE BOHEME.
AT EVENING.
bike your eyes, the Evening! The light is
holy
As Day and Night in the dusk are met:
The air is kissing the dumb Earth slowly
Till her dreaming brow with its tears is-
wet;
The skies grow deeper above the sleeper,
And stars of sorrow are in them set.
And your eyes are Evening! Pure stars
of sadness,
In a trembling twilight of grey and blue,
flow shall ever the heat of a noonday
madness
Be strong to call me away from you?
I hate the sight of the dawn’s delight:
That passes, while Night is the one thing
true.
£ wait while the bold sun sets in splendor,
A heartless splendor of rolling flame;
Then across the gloom comes a light more
tender,
And you aud the world are again the
same.
The stars aloft shed their radiance' soft
Upon my lips as I name your name.
[ll/12/’97.]
WYVIS.


AN UNUSUAL
OPPORTUNITY!
Somewhere there is a man or woman with available capital, it may
be you, who desires to own and enjoy a good home in the country
—not too far removed from the city—one that will return an
income and give a satisfactory living. Perhaps there is a family
with growing sons and daughters for whom an occupation is
desired. It is probable an investment is being looked for that will
show increasing value year by year, without the risk that accom-
panies many city schemes and experiments in house property.
• For such a one we suggest a careful study of the following:—
O Beliefaire Farm is located at Appin, 45 miles
from the G.P.0., Sydney. 850 feet above sea
level, ensuring an • excellent climate; average
rainfall, 39 inches per annum. It is 11 miles
from Campbelltown, the same distance from
the famed Bulli Pass, 14 miles from fashionable
surf beaches, 3 miles from Cataract Dam, 2
miles from Appin Falls, the same from the
Nepean Gorge, 14 miles from Cordeaux Dam,
and 16 miles from Picton.
O There are Golf Links and Bowling Green at
Campbelltown.
• It is, therefore, in the immediate centre of
a great scenic and historic tourist area.
O Beliefaire is a freehold property of 307 acres,
about a hundred acres surrounding the home-
stead being fully cleared, well divided up into
cultivation and grass paddocks, while a large
area adjoining is held under lease and doubtless
this can be continued.
• The home water supply is very exceptional,
crystal clear and soft, pumped to tanks with a
capacity of 5000 gallons, whence it is reticu-
lated to a great many convenient'points. There
is a fine swimming-hole in a rock basin, with
particularly charming surroundings, with caves
and ferns—perfectly private a fit] reserved to the
estate.
• The homestead is a comfortable house of some
nine rooms, kitchen and bathroom (water laid
on), wide verandahs, sleeping balcony for three
beds, garden, and close by is a peach orchard
with about 150 bearing trees, which can be
improved for profit-taking, and a number of
other fruit-trees. Citrus and passion-fruit may
also be grown, widening the field for profit.
• The necessary farm buildings are conveni-
ently arranged. The plant is up to date and
includes everything necessary to carry on the
business of dairying and stud cattle breeding :
or the farm could be successfully run as a guest-
house, with a nine-hole golf course, etc.
• The stud of Beliefai re Jerseys has been estab-
lished some eleven years and is one of the best-
known and most successful in the Commonwealth.
From this stud continuous sales of high-priced
stock are being made, and its goodwill extends
to every corner of Australia.
• The total number on the place at the time
of writing is about sixty head, and these are
made up of cattle directly imported from the
Island of Jersey, some imported in dam, and
the balance sired by imported bulls ex imported
cows, and from females the progeny of imported
bulls.
• The herd is disease free; was the first herd
of any kind to be officially tested and gazetted
by the Government as “Tubercle Free”—and
up to the present time has been so maintained.
• All the cattle are of very, exceptional, type
and standard, and the herd has been regularly
officially tested for milk and butter-fat produc-
tion, with considerable success.
• There are also several good saddle ponies
and beautiful, country for riding-parties.
• The farm, complete with the stud herd,
including some i'urnitilre also, is offered for
sale as a going concern, on a walk-in-walk-out
basis, and anyone interested can rest assured
that -it is all it is represented, with a sound
goodwill, the result of years of successful breed-
ing and trading,
• It is preferred to sell as a whole, but the
farm may be sold separately, in which case the
herd would be dispersed by auction before
delivery of the property.
• We feel, however, that the proposition is too
good a one as it stands to be broken tip and
the existing very valuable goodwill lost.
• Inquiries are invited from principals only,
and satisfactory reasons will be given for offer-
ing the property and stud,for sale.
Please address the owner—Walter Burke,
Challis House, Sydney (Box 864 G, G.P.0.)-
Telephones: Day, 8W6231; Night, X 3894.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
You may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6 Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. ‘ It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,-’ Sydney.
AN INEXPENSIVE STATION STOCK SADDLE
r
The No. 130 “STOCKRIDER”
This is exceptional value for the money. It
• ,as liogskin seat, strong, firm, capped
kneepads set well up in the skirts and the
favorite long flaps and panel, with leather
points.
PRICE, £5/2/6 Bare.
Leathers, 6/-. Girth, 5/-. Good n.p. 3-Bar
Irons, 6/6 extra.
£6 Complete.
For cash with order we will send freight paid to any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
No. 146 Ringhead Bridle, with n.p. ring bit, 12/-: post 1--
Knough Collar Check for Saddle Cloth, 5/6; or 7/6 per yd.
No. 45 Plain Hide Saddle Pouch, 6/9; post. 1/-
Above, all Freight Free, if sent with saddle.
SAY GOOD-
BYE TO
SORE BACKS.
WE STAND ALONE
FOR COWBOY
SADDLERY.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUE, No. 329.
Our No. 300 Horsehair Saddle Cloth is*
a sore baek preventative. .Made
entirely of woven tail hair. Easy to,
wash —swill it in the creek before
you have your lunch and the sun will
dry it by the time you’re finished
21/-. Post: N.S.W., 1/6; Q, Vic., 2/6,
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
•SADDLERS, 391 TO 393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Over 401 —Be Warned
1 Weak Back
2 Sciatica
3 Joint Pains
4: Bad Nights
5 Rheumatism
6 Loss of Vigour
7 Bladder Trouble
8 Lumbago
SURE SYMPTOMS OF
KIDNEY TROUBLE
Free (lift brings Hew’ Health, Vigour and Vitality
“Too-old,” worn-out —the night-
mare of the man, and sometimes
women, of forty and over. Yet there
are men of fifty and sixty who have
all the glorious vitality, health and
strength that really make life worth
living.
Are you going to let your life sag out
at forty, or will you let us start you back to
health and vigour—free ?
Because we know there are tens of
thousands of people who have proved De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will end
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back,
Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble, we
now offer to send every suffering man or
woman a free test supply. The very
young (in cases of bed-wetting), the
weakest and the oldest, men, women at
all times, can take De Witt’s Pills. No
dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a
scientific preparation that will do you
good from the very first dose.
Prove this at our expense. When
you know their glorious tonic effect you
can obtain further supplies from any
chemist, price 3/6, or the larger, more econ-
omical size, price 6/6. Packed in white
boxes printed in blue and gold. The formula
appears on every box. For your free supply,
fill in this coupon, putting down the number
of the complaint (from list above) in which
you are especially interested.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY AND BLADDER, PILLS
If you do not want to cut this book, write your application very clearly on plain paper
or post card and send to address given above, mentioning "Bulletin,"
■I
m
■p
w


ŵ
PERFECT LIFE
t& DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES/
ME
-oA' r
INS-1
'J'HE internal insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
new way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en- •
tirely protected from leakage on sides
and bottom. It is at the base of the cellsj
where corrosion is most dangerous. No
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
ẁ
RADIO BATTERIES TORCH REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
IS SUPER. ESSENTIAL?
“Oyez”: “Woorinen” (B. 11/l/’33) prac-
tically agrees that it is, but he is not em-
phatic enough. A chemist friend tells him
it is 12 years before the final trace of one
dressing of super, is taken from the soil.
Statements of this nature are misleading to
some cockies, but practical farmers know
that super., as super., remains in the soil
a very short time; this is the most irnpor-
taut consideration.
You can get a ton of certain mineral
phosphates and apply it to the soil without
increasing the yield of the crop one iota,
Sow the following year op this treated
ground (the soil is now well supplied with
phosphoric acid) with lewt. of super.; the
response is immediate, and the yield greatly
increased. Super, contains about 35 p.c. of
soluble phosphate, and this is the part of
the fertiliser which interests the farmer, irre-
spective of the phase of farming he practises,
In my opinion, no scientist no matter how
eminent, can calculate how long a dressing
of super., after reversion, will remain in
the soil; but one thing is certain: the time
will vary extensively with type of soil
climate, rotation and other factors. Even
then a man can only guess, and it is a thou-
sand to one the guess will be wrong.
Official experiments in Australia definitely
prove that 501 b of the fertiliser is not as
economical as 1001 b. on areas which have
warisS^F^pniir! 11 the stuff for a great many
n 1 • f n e ’ T IIS re ? eis to yeais of
lrmfodu * a ; In • Per Vl dS " f lnte I n !i ve
from*’ blirU 6 \ n u-V® a
t l ' ~1 "* mi le feitiliser, and
*Tp 10u t- There is a residual
™ ’ ' d n lf a° n ? C °] ] , ld UP the drill
* Y Ruling the yea-1 following an
i .p 10 ?.^ 0 le I ' S ? w sea( i at the exa Ct spot
„ e eitihsoi lodgment it is possible that
-JL 7 CoUl i k? 1 e rn l -!*] Without
c y ic i vtd a verse e lect tillage opera-
S render this impossible.
uper. is particulaily suitable for supply-
iif, so u e phosphate in cases of a deficiency
m available phosphate. The plant is thus
K r, lS /i < in i, 16 early ar C stages of
;1 w 1 J^ , 1 e 1 COla , e soun< l. and robust. Com-
nsense tells the practical farmer that he
|)< l 01 ce must use too much super, at sowing,
( cause the laws of chemical reaction, com-
med with the effects of soil and the drill.
o not peimit 100 p.c. efficiency. In other
words to supply a pound of soluble plios-
pnate to the seed, the farmer must sow a
quantity of the fertiliser which will con-
tain perhaps four pounds.
It is the soluble phosphate which gives the
lilant the jump-out at the barrier which is
the first essential to success, and it is inad-
visable to try to. save twopence or three-
pence per bushel m fertiliser cost when the
cost of producing the smaller crop, pins the
percentage loss from residual effect, may
total tourpence or fivepence per bushel
“ fi° es n °t ffefine old’ and
new Mallee clearly. Ihe former is the
country which fringes the better-class land,
and was the first selected (the pick).
whereas the new Mallee lies further afield
i), ~1 S the pure unadulterated, article. . The
Mallee we. won t discuss, but if W oorinen
can turn it into a grazing concern, he will
nave my blessing.
MIXED BALES OF WOOL.
“Jumbuck”: “Gee Bee” (B. 28/12/’32)
reckons it better to make a mixed bale of
fleece sorts than to force a line. No need
to do either. Place left-over wool in a bale
or bales, with hessian between each sort,
Brand with station brand and number. Men-
tion to the brokers that bales so-and-so
contain such-and-such a wool, and ask them
to take out each and place it with its re-
spective lot. For instance, bale 100 contains
AAA on the bottom and A on the top, a
piece of hessian dividing. Remove and weigh
A and place in with bales, of its own sort,
and make up the weight of . the AAA left
from bales of the corresponding line.
I have followed this procedure for years,
and mixed bales never worry me. Brokers
will do as instructed, and the owner is
the gainer by having no mixed bales that
get the attention of dealers only. In small
clips mixed bales sometimes cannot be
avoided, but even then I advocate sending
down small quantities, insufficient for a bale,
m bags or fudges.
LAMBING AND SHEARING.
“Sheepo”: Queensland graziers would be
delighted if, as “Waddy Mundoie” (B.
28/12/’32) suggests, rams could be joined
with the ewes in April-May, so that the
September-dropped lambs could be shorn
along with the rest of the flock in March,
Unfortunately climatic conditions will not
allow it; and it is the same in other
States. Most Queensland graziers are satis-
bed to have a special lamb shearing—when
there are lambs to shear. For the past
three years over a big portion of the State
the percentage of lambs marked has been too
low to record; the owners w r ere at their
wits’ end to know how to save the ewes,
Skeletons of lambs along the stock routes
toll their own tale.
No rule as to lambing or shearing can
be laid down. Of late the tendency has been
to shear at anything from eight months
onwards, in order t 0 be assured of some little
return. Many stations have made a practice
of having lambs dropped m the winter
months. In spite of frosts and extreme cold,
the young ones have done well enough as
l° n £ as there was a bit of herbage. lne
general feeling regarding lambing is to join
the rams at any time that, seems favorable,
take the odds to the six months ahead,
when the lambs begin to drop. Sheep-
grazing in many Queensland districts is a
gamble,
SEX DETERMINATION,
From \y. McKim McCullagh, F.R.C.S.,
„ Tlnrlov-strept sure-eon •
‘ j have been interested 'in a recent Bulletin
para gr a ph on the subject of sex determination; and
I think my own investigations, though made primarily
as to human beings, may in return interest you.
J found, from information in 56 cases, that (1) if
tlle f enia j e orgasm [excitement] precedes the male,
then male c S hild will be born; (2) if the female
jj as no or g asm [excitement], or one subsequent to
the male, then a female is produced. I need not
f O p OW my conclusions as to how this happens; but
j s supported by facts elucidated in Germany,
where cases of sterility have been treated by douching
vvith alkalies (soda bicarbonate) and with acid
(i ac y 0 acid). Those who were successfully treated
produced males in almost every case if soda bicarbon-
ate was uge( j anc j f ema t es jf lactic acid was used.
j n jf le animal kingdom breeders of cattle, pigs and
dogs have discovered that if the female is brought
.t 0 m ale late, .in heat, when presumably an
orgasm is more likely to occur readily, then there
a preponderance of males. The following table
gi ves the result of an investigation in cattle:
Early in heat, males per 100 females 75.3; middle
pei . iod> 115 3 . late 175 .
TIIE FIRESTICIv IN SOUTH AUS.
“Larrapinta” : In south-east g.A. there are
huge areas of scrub land which have a fair
grazing .value if burnt over regularly and
used as a change from other pastures. But
commonsense must, be used in burning off
this country ; unwise burning can render it
useless for a whole season. The property
should be divided into five parts of roughly
equal area, one of which is to be burned off
every season. When fencing, cut a chain-
wide strip clear of everything except the
biggest trees, run the fence along the centre,
and before the burning-off proper is done go
right round the fences, clearing all grass
and leaves round the bases of the posts and
burning off the break itself. If a still day
j s c ]iosen a couple of men with shovels can
easily confine the fire to. the break, and if
a dray with a small water-tank is taken
along all the wooden posts can be saved,
When the first hot north wind of early
March arrives start at the sou’-eastern corner
of the paddock, and go towards the west,
lighting the dry leaves and rubbish on the
edge of the burnt break. Go all along the
western side with the firestick, then return
to the south-east corner and light up
the eastern side, finally lighting across the
top end when the other three sides have
burnt back sufficiently. The fire from the
top end will sweep down, consuming every-
thing but the green trees, and there is no
danger of setting your neighbor’s country
alight or burning off any of your own land
which is not ready. Go over the burnt
ground the following day with the fumigat-
ing outfit and settle any rabbits left before
they have a chance to get away into the
unburnt land. Their burrows can be seen
readily just after a fire
' FI t ' carrying blue-gum, red-gum and
swamp . box sho uld never, be burnt. To get
the best out of these flats ring all but a
few trees per acre—those which will give
most shade or which will come in handy
later for posts—and then leave the dead
trees standing. If you can, leave some
patches of dense saplings as well to give
winter shelter along the margin. Every
spring run a ploughed break around the flat,
and do your utmost to keep fire off it. A
fire sweeping across it will cause the gum
seeds to germinate, with the result that in
place of grass you will find a forest of gum
suckers springing up. Close to where I am
writing there is a 500-acre flat which used
to provide fine summer grazing. It was
bought by a man who rung the few big red-
gums and ran a fire over it in the autumn.
Now t it is a dense forest of saplings, and
carries no stock at all. And clearing it
again will take a lot of time and money.
MIXED FERTILISER PREFERRED.
“Albany”: What does “Alf Alpha” (B.
21/12/’32) mean by a “natural” lime?
Would he call ground, unburnt limestone or
sea-shells a “natural” lime, or would he
first burn and air-slake them before applica-
tion? Chemical symbols in his definition will
be welcome.
Concerning manuring permanent pasture,
experiments in the Albany (W*.A.) district
with mixed fertiliser and straight super,
appear, so far, to indicate the advantage of
the former. Permanent pasture is not easy
to achieve, for climate, seed, methods of
grazing or cutting may make only temporary
what might otherwise be established perman-
ently in, say, five to ten years. Each develop-
ment, such as . super., sub. clover, etc., has
been hailed as the panacea for every ill, with
results which will take long to put right.
FEEDING THE HORSES.
“Mulyan” : When a number of horses are
being wmrked at the one time, it is a mis-
take to feed them together in the one stall
or even to feed two in the one manger, as
is commonly done. Some horses keep their
condition well while in constant work, others
go off or seldom have the same healthy and
sprightly look about them; the difference
may be in the feeding.
As among all animals, some dominate
others. The greedy or boss horse, when
he has a mate in his stall, feeds with his
ears back, biting or making hostile gestures
that either drive the more timid animal
from the manger or deprive him of his
proper share of the ration. Instead of feed-
ing comfortably and contentedly, he has to
snatch a mouthful when he can. and that
results in a lot of the feed being spilled.
In an open stable the dominating horse will
try to hunt away others that may be feed-
ing several feet from him, and he will even
show hostility to others when all are feed-
ing in nosebags.
Very few horses will feed peacefully and
evenly together in the one manger. Those
that are good mates seldom get an equal
share. One horse eats fast, sometimes bolt-
ing the grain, whilst the other eats slowly,
masticating each mouthful. The latter
loses much of his proper share to his greedy
mate. The same applies where one horse
has good teeth and the other has defective
teeth. A young horse and an old horse are
generally bad messmates for that reason.
Usually the old horse will boss the young
horse, but when they feed on the friendliest
terms the latter has the advantage of better
masticating powers.
To give them all an equal chance, every
horse should be fed in a separate stall or
in a separate box or manger, where nose-
bags are not used. In all cases the greedy,
dominating horse should he shut up by him-
self. When one animal takes much longer
than others to get through his ration, have
a look at his teeth. He may be a naturally
slow eater, and may thus be getting more
good from his food than the quick eaters; on
the other hand there may be some hindering
defect that a file could remedy.
The naturally slow eater and the horse
that bolts much of his food should be fed
on crushed grain. Though this takes a little
extra trouble it is more economical, as both
the farmer and the horse get more profit
from the grain. Boiled maize in such cases
is also an improvement on whole, dry grain.
HORSES AND TRACTORS.
“Jay Gee”: So “XYZ’s” tractor (B.
11/l/’33) does the work of three ten-horse
teams. My ten-horse team works at least
eight hours a day in the seeding and fallow-
ing seasons and 104 hours at harvest-time.
It travels a shade faster than any tractor,
and hauls as big an implement. Thus
“XYZ’s” tractor must work 24 hours a
day seeding and fallowing, and 314 harvesting.
The days must be much longer up in north-
west N.S.W. than here in the Riverina.
“XYZ” also claims that cost of upkeep
of his tractor is no greater than that of my
ten-horse team. I have a sick horse now
and again, and" sometimes a death, but, of
course, there are spares on the place in case
of such emergency. An aged nag will fill
the bill 'nicely, and will not cost much.
“XYZ” doubts me when I value my
ten-year-old horses as highly as when four
years old, and suggests that when they have
qualified for a vote they are unfit for farm
work. It wouldn’t be sound policy to keep
the original team until they had reached
this great age; but at least four out of every
ten horses will be mares, and your mares, at
small expense, will breed at least tw*o foals
each year. A substantial profit may be
made by selling off surplus nags as they
grow old. As to haulage at harvest-time
being hardest on horses, my experience has
proved otherwise. The forward, rolling
motion of the header mechanism and the
frequent stops for unloading the grain make
the actual stripping of the crop one of the
easiest jobs on the farm. As for those fuel
costs, it is poor country that doesn’t grow
sufficient grass and herbage in the spring-
time to satisfy the needs of a ten-horse
team, plus the spares and the cows, while
they are idle ; and it is a decidedly poor crop
that doesn’t furnish sufficient stubble to
keep them supplied with good feed for at
least six weeks after harvest.
THE PIG FOR AUSTRALIA.
“Thormanby”: Far too many breeds of
pigs have been experimented with in Aus-
tralia. This has resulted in a wide range
of quality in the marketed product, with
lower prices. In producing bacon three
requirements have to be met—those of the
curer, the retailer and the consumer. From
some of the pigs hitherto utilised it is im-
possible to breed first-grade baconers. The
perfect pig for our conditions may be found
in the Large White or in the Large White-
Berkshire and Large White-Middle White
crosses. A Large-White sire is essential in
all cases. Properly bred, these will pro-
duce the dual-purpose pig, the porker or
baconer, the first at from 16 to IS weeks
old and the second at from 25 to 30 weeks.
See that your baconers have length—this is
an indication of lean meat. Fine hair, light
shoulders and jowl, large hams and a straight
underline are important, this last point en-
suring a thick streak.
Denmark, which produces probably the
best bacon in the world, uses only two breeds
of pigs, the Large White as a sire and their
native breed. The quality and consistency
of the huge output of Danish bacon is one
of its most attractive features. This is due
to rigid insistence on the breeding of a fixed
type. The modern consumer demands a
different class of bacon from that offering
in the days when size was the great desidera-
tum. The carcase asked for to-day is that
of the early-maturing type, just as is the
case in the world’s beef markets. It is in
giving the closest attention to consumers’
requirements that Denmark has reached its
supremacy as a bacon-producing country.
The Large White is peculiarly adapted to
Australian conditions. If he is looked after
as ho should be, his coat of hair, heavier
than in other White varieties, will protect
him from sun-scalding. The fact, that this
variety is rapidly growing in favor with
breeders for the pork and bacon trades indi-
cates that pig-production in this country is
now heading in the right direction.
WESTRALIA FOR CURRANTS.
Currants are grown in Westralia—largely
in the Swan valley—without irrigation, so
the Westralian grower has an advantage
over his fellows in the Murray and Murrum-
bidgee valleys. And there has been a steady
annual increase in production. This year’s
currant crop is reckoned at 1600 tons —
nearly six times the yield in 1920-21. Last
year 1446 tons of currants were put into
the pack, and 1100 tons were exported, the
price realised being nearly £5O a ton. The
overseas market is not so favorable now,
partly because Greek competition has be-
come keener, and A. Yeates, the Westralian
representative on the Dried-fruits Control
Board, impresses on growers the necessity
for sending only good-quality fruit to
market. “Well-balanced pruning, adequate
fertilising and good cultivation,” he says,
“are essential.” To newcomers in the in-
dustry Mr. Yeates offers the following
advice: —
“Wait until the fruit is thoroughly ripe
before picking. The berries should be quite
black.
“Grade as far as possible by picking fruit
of an even type.
“Be careful not to bruise the fruit in
picking or spreading.
“Spread evenly on the trays or racks.
Protect the fruit from sun and rain.
“Wait until the fruit is dry before remov-
ing it from the trays or racks. A good
criterion is to take a handful of currants
and squeeze them tightly. When released
the fruit should fall apart, showing no signs
of ill effects or moisture.
“When the fruit has reached this stage
remove it from the trays, etc., and place it
on hessian for a short time to even the
drying, taking care to handle it early in
the morning or late in the afternoon.
“Box the fruit when thoroughly dry, tak-
ing care to avoid squeezing.
“The fruit should be sweated for several
weeks. Every effort should be made by the
(Continued on next page.)


Hand-sewn . . . and made
in 3 fittings per size.
A hand-made Abbey Shoe gives
more than twice the service of ordi-
nary machine-sewn footwear. It
keeps its appearance, too. . . .only
the best leather is used for sole and
upper. And it's built on a last
shaped to accommodate the instep
arch, and every curve of the foot,
without strain at any point. Abbey
Hand-made Shoes fit with perfect
ease right from the start.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE-STREET ADDRESS—
No. 316 — ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 318
FARMERS co.
RuralTqpics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc ....All. in
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES &
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander/’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and, cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 34
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)—
an industrial company,
doing business with work-
ing people—had an im-
portant message for those
people. How should they
make it known? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the homes
you visit?” The reply was
unanimous—
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative: —
Robt. D. Fisher—Bsoo7
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
Lubricate
me! f
dont
c/rease
“Life of Car Is Directly Propor-
tionate to Care of Lubrication
(Fred Berry in Smith’s Weekly, Dec. 6,1931)
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication Sys-
tem services EVERY lubrication
point, every metal-to-metal bear-
ing surface with the special ALEMITE Lubricant designed to
give protection unknown to ordinary greasing methods.
To get more car miles—a year or more of added service see
that ALEMITE —the high pressure System of forced lubrication
—brings specialized ALEMITE Lubricants to the wear-surfaces
of your car. Order "ALEMITE” instead of "grease”—for
smoother, easier, more economical performance and longer
motor life. ALEMITE Service may be had at the better stations,
but if yours is not equipped as yet, a card to any of the dealers
listed below will bring all particulars:
SS-IT
ALEMITE CORPORATION Chicago, U.S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
ẃ
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt St., MOTOR SUPPLIES, LW , ® delaide
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth CORNELL LIMI T EDI22Pr ~
E A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
grower to send parcels of an even grade to
the packing shed.”
U.K. trade buyers and consumers have
expressed high approval of Westralian cur-
rants, and their approval is worth pre-
serving.
MARKETING LEMONS.
“S. Quire”: Owing to last season’s severe
frosts at the time the fruit was setting,
lemons are in short supply, and prices have
advanced accordingly. This is satisfactory,
but the grower is not receiving the full bene-
fit. Newspaper reports recently stated that
a consignment of lemons from Italy was
due for arrival shortly, and that the landed
cost would be about 255. per case. A parcel
consigned to Melbourne at the time of the
newspaper report returned 12s. 4d. net per
case. The fruit was prime, specially graded,
and fit for any show bench. The grade,
when fully packed, gave 15 dozen to the
case.
Not satisfied. I looked for my own market,
and sought a retailer —a man who regu-
larly comes to the district buying fruit. He
offered me 15s. per case on the spot. The
offer was accepted, and following it up I
found my lemons were being retailed at
Is. 6d. per dozen. I am not complaining,
because the autumn crop of the young
grove is returning about £2 per tree, based
on existing prices (which during the next
two months I hope will firm). The point
is that my improvement in marketing means
a direct monetary gain of over 20 p.e.—very
acceptable with present prices; it will be
a distinct item when prices fall with the
advent of the bounteous spring setting.
Admittedly growers with large groves
cannot market in this manner, but there are
many small men like myself who can cut
out the middleman with advantage. Lemons
picked in the silver stage, and sweated for
10 days or a fortnight, will color splendidly.
In that condition they are quoted at the
moment as being worth 3s. more per case ;
but the grower does not get it. Lemons
picked when the harsh green color com-
mences to pale, when packed and well
sweated in cases in the shed, will keep for
months. By picking over and polishing, and
repacking carefully, a product is obtained
which commands a ready sale, and the extra
work and trouble means a large sum per
acre. But the fruit must be handled very
carefully, for a lemon will bruise as quickly
as a jelly apple, and the slightest blemish
develops blue mould. My grove is protected
on the north and west by timber, with a
temporary partial protection on the south.
It is fully exposed to the east and is situated
on a sandy ridge. This, in my opinion, is the
reason why the trees were not affected by
the frosts.
BREEDING TABLE POULTRY.
“J.A.S.”: February and March are the
two best months to hatch chicks for this
purpose, as they will mature at a time when
prices are good. A good sort of game cock
mated with any heavy breed of hens will
make first-class table birds; but remember
they are practically useless as layers, and
inferior as breeders if the cross is pro-
longed beyond the first generation. Of
course, no attempt should be made to go
in for table poultry unless there is a good
range available where the birds can pick
up a substantial part of their sustenance.
If they can be given free range with safety
from foxes, wild cats, etc., they should cost
little to rear after being beyond the sixth
or eighth week.
■ It is often written that eaponising doesn’t
pay; capons fetch only the same on the
market as cockerels. It must be borne in
mind, however, that the capon will eat less
and make more flesh where the diet is
limited. In addition the sexless ones are
docile, will not stray and are decidedly useful
as “foster mothers” to chicks.
Table birds should be topped-off by con-
fining them in coops. If grain is cheap
enough, they, will fatten readily on it—
mix wheat, maize, sprouted oats, etc.
if possible. A plain mash may be used
instead —two parts pollard to one of bran
mixed to a crumbly consistency with skim
milk or water.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Names of producer-gas equipments for use
on farm tractors manufactured in Australia ,
and makers' names? —3627.
Motor Tractors, Ltd. (“Hart” Water-Gas
Producer), corner Bridge and Young streets,
Sydney; Charcoal Traction Engineers Pty.,
Ltd. (“Major” Traction-Gas Plant), 118
Toorak-road. South Yarra. Vic.; C. G. Smith
(“Smith” Suction-Gas Plant). Ardrossan,
S.A.; A. G. Pritchard (“Pritchard” Wood-
burning Producer), 114 Wakefield-street,
Adelaide.
(1) Would Westralian blue lupin grow in
the Coonamble and Warren ( N.S.W .) dis-
tricts? (2) When to sow and amount of
seed to use? (3) Do sheep feed readily on
its foliage and is it a good fodder crop?—
’ 3435.
(1) See no reason why it shouldn't. (2)
Sow in autumn, broadcasting the seed at
101 b. per acre. (3) The fodder value is not
in the foliage, but in the dry seed. Sheep
pick this up from the ground. Seed is very
difficult to obtain and there is no great call
for it. The main value of the plant is as a
soil improver on dry, sandy wheat lands.
(1) Where can ] obtain particulars of the
chain-drum stripper as used in M.L. for
harvesting grass seed? (2) Price landed in
Austral id? (3) What kind of grass will it
h arrest ? —3906.
(1) and (2) Inquire from the makers,
Booth MacDonald and Go.. Ltd.,- Christ-
church, M.L. (3) It is claimed that the
stripper will effectively harvest most types
of grass and clover seed, but is particularly
valuable for handling perennial rye-grass and
white clover.
Recipes for (1) cider mead, and (2)
elderberry wine? —3893.
(1) Gather fully-matured apples, and keep
them for 14 days.’ If you have not a press
for wine-making or crushing, put the apples
in a wooden tub, and crush them with a
clean p ; ece of wood. Strain the juice into
an upright cask fitted with a wooden tap
about 2in. from the bottom. When the cask
is almost full of apple-juice, cover it with
cheesecloth, and watch closely for signs of
fermentation. When bubbles begin to rise,
run the juice off into a smaller cask until
the latter is quite full; leave the bung open,
and allow the liquor to ferment, drawing oft
the foam daily. When fermentation has
ceased draw off the clear liquor from the
bottom, and bottle. (2) Put the ripe berries
into a pan, add i gallon water to every
gallon fruit, boil for 15 minutes, then strain
through a hair sieve. To each gallon ot
resulting liquor, add 31b. sugar and the peel
of 6 lemons. Place all in a boiler, bring up
to boiling point, but do not boil; then add
6 well-beaten egg-whites. Stir well, add
lib. bruised ginger tied in a muslin bag and
any spices which may be liked. Allow the
wine to stand for a week, and then bottle.
It should stand in a wooden or enamel tub
if possible.
A cure for gape worms in young turkeys?
—3714. ‘
The worm becomes attached to the inside
of the windpipe and must be dislodged. This
is best done by placing a loop of horsehair
or a feather, from which the barbs have
been stripped, with the exception of a few
at the tip, down the trachea, giving it a
sharp twist and withdrawing. . The worm
is frequently carried by adult birds without
their experiencing any ill effects, and fre-
quently it is expelled by violent coughing.
As it’ is spread by adult to young by
the contamination of food, water and soil,
the young should be reared apart from the
adults and on clean ground. Worms dis-
lodged should be destroyed.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Deekay” : When building a chaff shed for
bulk cliali' it is worth the extra expense to
cover the floor with flat galvanised iron.
This will prevent chaff on the floor from
going mouldy ; and it also keeps out rats.
“Karawtiy” : More uses for the inner tube.
One often notices bathers in rivers and
creeks using a tube, blown up, as a float or
lifebuoy to aid them in learning to swim.
It is a good thing to have handy to throw
to a non-swimmer who has got into deep
water. Sections of the tube make good leg-
lings and arm covers when one is working
among burry or prickly weeds and stinging
nettles, and when stripping cane and cutting-
rushes.
“Dimon”: A high platform alongside the
barn, with a blocking tackle over it, saves
much heavy lifting when waggons have to
be piled high with bagged grain, potatoes
or bales of hay. One steady old horse hoists
the bags or bales to the platform, whence
they are easily rolled on to the waggon.
At some woolsheds a loading place is cut in
the side of a hill, into which the waggon is
backed, and the bales from the shed, which
is on the hill, are simply rolled down on
to it. When the farmer’s barn is on a hill,
that is a better idea than the platform.
“Gumblegubbin”: Don’t run pigs and cows
in the same grazing paddock. When they
are used to one another Gruntcr is not slow
in helping himself to milk. This commences
through a slight drip of milk attracting the
pig while the cow is lying down. Soon the
sucking becomes a habit, to which some of
the cQjys at least offer no objection.
“Willeroo” : You can make a sieve of any
gauge you like, useful for roughing in a
barn, by punching rows of holes in a piece
of flat tin (cut from two sides of a kero-
sene tin) and nailing it on to' a light square
frame. Rub a flat file over the rough side
to take the sharp edges off.
“Leghp”: Where there is a scour at rail-
bead and you are over 500 miles from the
selling centre, it usually pays the wool-
grower to scour; but within 500 miles of
the selling centre everything should be sold
in the grease, even locks and stains, though
the latter should, be free from dags. As
a rule faulty wools should not be scoured;
competition for faulty scoured lines is
restricted. Where growers are in doubt
let them experiment by sending to scour,
say, ten bales—s o as to ensure making
five-bale lots after scouring—of several lines.
“Deekay”; A remedy for a horse that will
not lead. Take a single plough rope, pass
each end through the bit-rings, cross, the
rope over the horse’s back, and allow it to
hang down, breeching fashion, to his hocks.
A gentle pull will cause the rope to ripple
up. Neddv is surprised, and away we go!
“A.C.8.” : Where the burn has been right,
not much clearing up is necessary in scrub
country. In open forest country time can
be profitably employed clearing up; an old
horse and a drag chain and snigging hook
will help. See that old, partly-burned trees
are cut down, as they form a menace to
cattle grazing beneath. A paddock with a
lot of logs lying about has less grazing capa-
city. Dirty paddocks often mean a cow with
a broken leg or other injuries. It pays well
to clear up.
“Tena” ; It may be that in normal seasons
it is the specialist who makes the money;
but the trouble with Australia is that it is
next to impossible to forecast the seasons,
and often the specialist fails with his one
crop and is immediately in trouble. The
establishment of small cream and butter
factories at such places as Forbes and
Cowra is a sign of an awakening to this fact.
The new factory at Dubbo turned out two
tons of butter for its first week and started
with 53 suppliers. Wellington factory has
been working for the past three months and
has made over six tons of butter a week. In
nearly all these N. S. Wales districts it
will ‘be possible to greatly improve the
pastures by introducing new grasses.
“Yeoman”; The International Institute
of Agriculture has drawn attention to the
possibilities of hydrogenated olive oil as
a lubricant. If costs of production and
processing will enable this oil to be used
in competition with mineral and castor oil,
there should be a large extension of the
growing of olives, particularly in South
Aus.. Avhere considerable areas of soil are
especially adapted for the olive tree. It has
been found that olive oils of inferior quality
may be employed more advantageously in
this direction than in the manufacture of
soap, and that the combustion point of hydro-
genated olive oil is very high which renders
the oil particularly suitable for internal-
combustion engines, air-compressing pumps
and transformers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Clerk (29), Sydney, newspaper and advertising
exp., some knowledge commercial travelling, wants
position.—4o3l.
Young lady (24), Sydney, knowledge typing and
office work, including telephone switchboard, seeks
position.—4o3o.
Chemist, S.A., city and country exp., 9 years at
Broken Hill hospital, seeks engagement.—39Bs.
Qualified accountant and secretary, Sydney, 20
years’ exp., requires work. —3952.
Young man, Sydney, journalistic, secretarial -and
legal exp., wants work of any sort anywhere.—394B.
Young lady, Vic., six Intermediate and two Leaving
subjects, wants position as governess or companion
anywhere. Refs. —3969.
Young lady, N.S.W., seeks position as sub-t6acher
or governess to young children, West preferred.—
3983.
Words of songs sung by Richard Tauber, “Drink
Your Health, Dear, with Me” and “May I Ask for the
Next Tango?”—39B4.
Plantation manager, 26, exp. in Solomon Islands,
can handle aux. ketch, wants position. Refs.—3997.
To buy copies of “The Palestine Exploration
Fund.”—4ols.
To-buy, Henry Lawson’s “Coronation Ode’’ (pub-
lished Coffill and Co.), large paper editions of
Lawson’s poems, David Burn’s “Plays and Fugitive
Pieces’’ (Hobart, 1842), Harpur’s “The Bushrangers”
and early Australian 3-volume novels. —4022.
To buy Olive Schreiner’s “Story of an African
Farm.”—4o2B.
Information Sought.
What are the conditions governing the
covering of the wickets in Test matches
played in Australia? —4038.
The whole of the wicket may be covered
up to the commencement of any match.
It may be again protected when neces-
sary, and “shall” be protected every night
during the continuation of a match, but the
covering shall be removed each morning, if
fine, at 7 o’clock. The covering after the
commencement of a match must not protect
a larger area than 18ft. by 12ft. at each end,
and must not protect more than 3ft. 6in.
in front of the popping-crease.
What are the (1) birth qualifications and
(2) residential qualifications as applied to
playing in Test matches? —4029.
(1) A cricketer, unless debarred by the
Imperial Cricket Conference, is always
eligible to play for the country of his birth.
(2) A cricketer, unless debarred by the
Imperial Cricket Conference, is entitled
to play for any country in which he
is residing and has been residing during the
four immediately preceding years, provided
that he has not played for the country of his
birth during that period.
Particulars of competition being conducted
by London publishing firm for an animal
story suitable for children ? —-4034.
A. and C. Black, Ltd., 4 Soho-Square,
London, W.l, offer £5O for all book rights
in the MS. of an original story of 40,000
to 50,000 words about any animal, and suit-
able for children from eight upwards. Prefer-
ence will be given to a story that can be
carried on into further books. No fairy
animal tales or animal mythology will he
considered. Illustrations are not wanted,
but clever line drawings or wood engravings
will be considered. ■ The competition closes
on June 30, 1933.
Do the British and French main tain a joint
police force in the New Hebrides or do they
do their own policing? Are the police Euro-
peans or natives? —4o43.
There are two separate forces of Armed
Native Constabulary, British and French,
each with a commandant under the
orders of his respective Resident Commis-
sioner. The headquarters are at Vila and
small detachments are located at each of the
District Agencies on the islands of Tanna,
Malekula and Santo respectively, in order
to assist the District Agents in the carrying
out of their duties. The British force is
composed of natives recruited from the
islands of the New Hebrides; the French
force includes New Hebrideans and Loyalty
Islanders and three or four Tonkinese police.
Which type of gramophone tone-arm is
most efficient —one bent in curves or one
bent square? —39l3.
The one with gradual bends. If the
corners are sharp a portion of the sound
is reflected back to the diaphragm.
If, in cricket, a batsman hits a ball over
the boundary, and, a fieldsman, leaning
against the pickets, reaches outside and takes
the ball on the full, is the batsman out, or
does he score six? —39oo.
The batsman is out.
I bought a cast aluminium preserving-pan
a couple of years ago. Every time I make
jam in it the pan goes black and the jam is
frothy. Cause and remedy? —3B62.
Cause is obscure. Scour well with sand-
soap, fill up with cold water, and add a few
sour, green apples, well chopped up, or
chopped lemons. Bring to the boil, boil for
15 minutes, and empty out. Rinse out
with boiling water, and turn upside down to
drain and dry. If it is still objectionable,
get another pan.
(1) Proportion of sand to cement in lay-
ing a concrete floor 40 ft: by 40 ft.? (2)
Depth necessary to dig for foundation? (3)
Details of foundation? (4) Amount of
cement required? (5) Is it necessary to do
in moulds or frames?. —3Bs4.
(1) 1 of cement to 2 of sand and 4 of
crushed stone (fin. size). (2) 2Ain. or 6in.
according to the nature of the ground. (3)-
34in. of foundation to be filled in with ashes
or sand, if the ground is clay, and super;
imposed with 24in. of concrete. (4) 75
paper bags or 56 jute bags. (5) Yes. For
full details write to Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association. 14 Spring-street,
Sydney.
I painted the inside of a charcoal cooler
with white enamel, and have not been able
to use the cooler since on account of the
smell of the paint. What can I d0? —3961-
Open the cooler in a windy place, and
allow to dry thoroughly ; then place a dish
of cold water in it to absorb smells, and shut
it up for a night. Finally give a coat of
white -shellac dissolved in methylated spirit
to a thin paste, and allow to dry well. If
there is further trouble burn the enamel off
and give the wood a coating of white lacquer.
(1) Can white pine kitchen furniture be
enamelled? (2) Method of preparing wood
before applying enamel? —3925.
(1) Yes, it is one of the best woods for
the purpose. (2) It must be perfectly clean,
and, if it. has been in use, should be well
scrubbed and allowed to dry. Rough places
should be smoothed over with sandpaper, and
cracks and crevices stopped with putty.
Present-day fashion favors lacquer, Which is
much easier to apply than enamel.
(1) What bounty does Australian-made
rabbit-netting get? (2) Is any import duty
paid on British netting coming into the Com-
monwealth, and what duty is paid for foreign
netting? —3B64.
(1) 9s. 7d. per ton. (2) It is admitted
free under British preferential tariff, and
pays £lO per ton under the general tariff. It
is exempt from payment of primage duty
and sales tax.
(1) What alterations are necessary to
make a Delco-Rcmy generator (6 -volt type )
charge at 12 volts? (2) How to make a
Fiat starter operate off a 6-volt battery?
3919.
(1) Armature and field coils must be re-
wound. Bennett and Wood, 13 Wentworth-
avenue, Sydney, will undertake the work,
the approximate cost being 50s. (2) New
windings would be necessary, but in the case
of this particular starter it is doubtful
whether rewinding will he practicable.
What is the distinction between (1) fire
damp, (2) black damp and (3) ichitc damp?
—3755.
(1) This is the most commonly known
coalmine gas. It is an explosive mixture of
methane (carburetted hydrogen) and air.
Methane is composed of one xmlume of car-
bon united with four volumes of hydrogen.
(2) The term used by miners to describe the
condition of the mine air when it contains
a sufficient quantity of carbon dioxide to
extinguish or dim a light. Carbon dioxide
is not poisonous, but has a suffocating effect.
(3) A term used when mine air contains
carbon monoxide. It is extremely poisonous.
How are crucibles, suitable for melting
brass and cast-iron, made? —3896.
The preparation of the mixture and the
proportions of the ingredients are generally
the seci’et of the makers. Following are
approximate mixtures : Brass crucibles, graph-
ite 45 p.c., clay 35 p.c., grog 10 p.c.,
kaolin 10 p.c.; iron crucibles, graphite 50
p.c.. clay 30 p.c., sand 10 p.c., kaolin
10 p.c.; by weight. The crucible remains
in the mould for a few days to harden suffi-
ciently for handling when it is air-dried, this
taking from four to nine weeks according to
the size of the pot. It is then heated to a
temperature of from 1500 to 1800 degrees
Fahr. for a period varying from 30 to 48
hours, after which it is allowed to cool
slowly.
How to distinguish malarial from other
types of mosquitoes? —39o4.
The malarial mosquito’s attitude when bit-
ing is such that the insect looks like a
straight, slender splinter, supported by the
legs. Ordinary mosquitoes, in the same cir-
cumstances, have the biting part (proboscis)
bent at an angle, the body being more or
less parallel with the surface on which the
insect is resting. Malarial mosquitoes have
spotted wings, which are unusual in the
other types of mosquitoes.
What was Zola's “J'Accuse” ? —3870.
The title of a famous, open letter written
to the President of France and published in
“L’Aurore,” a Paris journal. In it Zola
fiercely exposed attempts to conceal facts
in the Dreyfus affair. The letter was pub-
lished on Jan. 13, 1898, just after the
acquittal of Esterhazy, for whose crime
Dreyfus suffered. Zola was sentenced to
a year’s imprisonment.
(1) What is the most difficult piece of
pianoforte music ever written? (2) Which
of the great classical composers wrote the
easiest music? —3625.
(1) Answer depends very largely on the
limitations of the individual. Profound
musicians who have overcome all digital
problems regard Beethoven’s “Hammer-
klavier” sonata as one of the hardest nuts
to crack, though it presents no very great
technical difficulty. As a matter of hand
dexterity the “Etudes Trauscendentals” of
Liszt are near the summit. Some of
Tausig’s transcriptions are tremendously
difficult to most people, though he himself
could play them with ease owing- to the for-
mation of his hands. Other instances of
difficult writing in a style that came natur-
ally easy to the composer are to be found
in the now-almost-forgotten operatic fan-
tasias of Thalberg. (2) Again somewhat a
matter for the individual. Most, students
probably would plump for Haydn.
Can aluminium be soldered? —3Bso.
Yes. The recognised method is to use a
solder consisting of 69 p.c. fin, 2.5 p.c. phos-
phor tin, 26 p.c. zinc and 2.5 p.c. aluminium.
The aluminium is melted first, and the zinc
is then added in small pieces, then the tin
and lastly the phosphor tin. No acid is
used, the solder being self-fluxing, but the
surfaces to be soldered are covered with a
thin coat of solder and then brought to-
gether and heated until the solder already
upon them is melted, when pressure is
applied and the joint made. Before solder-
ing. the parts must be filed, and all grease
and oil completely removed. There are now
on the market various soft solders and
special fluxes which it is claimed can be
applied to aluminium.
Is the use of ff at the beginning of proper
names, still affected- by a few families, such
as ffrench and Ffrench, Ffolkes, ,Ffielden,
etc., warranted? —3802.
It is merely a survival in print of the
written form of capital F which was in
almost universal use, as a relic of mediaeval
script, up to the early part of last century.
The written letter resembled two small f’s
intertwined.
• (1) When are north-east winds most pre-
valent in Sydney? What velocity do they
reach and, do they go far inland? (2) What,
sort of wind, is a “brickfielder”? —3587.
(1) The north-east sea breeze starts to
blow about 10 on bright summer morn-
ings, gradually increasing in force until 3
pm., when it often reaches a velocity of
30 or 40 miles per hour; from that hour it
gradually moderates, and generally ceases
with sundown. It does not ordinarily pene-
trate inland more than 10 or 20 miles. (2)
The term, now applied in Victoria to hot,
dusty northerly winds, was the first name
given to the “southerly busters” in
Sydney. Brickfields in the early days were
worked to the south of the infant city, and
with the arrival of southerlies clouds of
dust from these fields were brought to the
northern end of the town. Diggers from
Sydney carried the term to Vic.
Is the blue wren a well-known species?
Is it shy in habits? How can the male be
distinguished from the female? Does the
male have more than one wife? —3859.
It is the best known of Australian wrens.
Unlike other wrens it is bold and soon makes
itself at home in gardens, where its brilliant
coloring, sprightly habits and lively song
render it a general favorite. The male has
brilliant cobalt-blue coloring on the head,
cheeks and back, the throat and back of the
neck being black, the tail dark blue and the
rest of the plumage brown; the female
and young male are brown. All the young
birds reared by a pair (which may have
several broods in a season) keep together so
that a single brilliantly-colored male is
almost always accompanied by a consider-
able number of dull-colored birds. This has
given rise to the belief (perhaps erroneous)
that the bird is polygamous.
Recipe for tanning snakeskins? —3882.
Soak the skins in water for 36 hours, then
with a blunt knife remove all scraps of skin,
fat, etc. Then soak in well salted water for
48 hours. Make a bath containing 4oz.
bichromate of potash dissolved in 2 quarts
water, with 4oz. sulphuric acid added. Pour
the acid slowly into the water, not vice versa.
Immerse the skins in the liquid, taking care
that they are completely covered and remain
covered in the solution. Leave for 24 hours,
then remove the skins to another bath made
by dissolving 4oz. sulphite of soda and |oz.
sulphuric acid in 1 quart water. Leave for
a day in the liquor, rinse in clean water, and
stretch. If the tanning is not sufficient,
repeat the process; the skins vary according
to age and kind.
I am making a filing-cabinet and have to cut
a number of shallow, narrow grooves across
12 in. softwood shelves to carry partitions.
I have tried ploughing the grooves with a
combination plane, with spurs, but it
mangles the wood. What is the quickest
method of making clean-cut grooves? —4o33.
Mark out the grooves in pencil. Tack a
narrow |in. batten with Ain. brads to one
side in line with a pencil mark, outside the
groove, and with a fine-toothed panel saw
cut down to the depth of the groove, bear-
ing against the batten to keep the cut
straight. Then, using a chisel the exact
width of the groove as a gauge, tack another
batten to the other side of the groove. Saw
down againi and remove the centre wood
with the chisel. Clean “the groove with the
edge of a flat file,, then remove the battens
which protect the edges.
A friend declares that ‘‘nice” shknild only
be applied to that which we eat or drink. Is
it considered good English to apply the adjec-
tive to persons and non-edible things? —39s4.
As a matter of colloquial usage you cau
apply “nice” to almost any subject, either
in a complimentary or (ironically) con-
demnatory sense. Our oldest Webster (1864)
speaks of this indiscriminate application as
the use of the word in a “new sense.” The
word in its nicest sense implies a union of
delicacy and exactness.
I have about 20 vols, of the “Australasian
Sketcher” covering the 1870’s and ’Bo’s, and
intend to frame some of the illustrations. (1)
What is the best method of preserving
and mounting them? The paper is in good
condition. (2) Are these volumes rare?
(3) Who was Buvelot, whose name is signed
to some fine studies, of eucalypts? (4) Did
the work in these woodcuts necessitate the
employment of artists of a high calibre? —
3889.
(1) Place a sheet of glass or zinc under
the leaf and cut from the volume with
a sharp knife, taking as wide a margin as
possible. Mount by the top corners on to
special mounting board with photographic
paste, and frame in the usual way. (2)
Comparatively rare. The Mitchell Library.
Sydney, has copies covering only the period
May, 1872, to December, 1873. Communi-
cate with them before cutting any prints,
from the volumes, if you wish to sell them.
(3) Buvelot was born in Morges, iu France,
in 1814, and came to Australia in 1864. .He
is represented by half a dozen landscapes in
the Melbourne Gallery, and one has recently
been acquired for the ' N.S.W. Gallery. He
was one of the first Victorian landscape
painters, and his work has historic as well
as artistic value. (4) A man might be. a
very able engraver without being an artist.
Blocks with a great deal of detail were often
cut up and distributed among a number of
engravers, the pieces being fitted together
for printing.
Brief Answers.
W.D.L.: Sotheby’s is a book auction-room
in London, founded by Samuel Baker, who held nis
first auction on Jan. 7, 1744. Since then it has
developed into the firm of Sotheby and Co., of 34
New Bond-street... .N.P.: “Root and branch men”
were those extremists of the Parliamentary party in
the English House of Commons who upheld the
Root and Branch Bill and Petition of 1641. This
bill provided that episcopal government, “with all
its dependencies, roots and branches, be destroyed.”
Among its adherents were Cromwell, Hampden and
Vane, ...L: J.F.: There is a European school for
children at Rabaul, under the care of an officer from
Queensland Education Department... .W.G.: (1) The
Majestic could enter Sydney Harbor, but could not
pass under the Bridge. (2) No. (3) 224 ft. from
water level, light draft conditions. .. .M.E.C.: The
Duk-duk is a secret society in New Guinea. It
still retains a certain amount of influence among
the natives, though its power has been greatly
lessened by Government restrictions... .F.R.: Camp-
bell Island, southward of M.L., was discovered in
1910 by Frederick Hazel burgh, master of the brig
Perseverance. The island has a circumference of
30 miles and is fairly mountainous. .. .L.S. : “Con-
tract Bridge,” by Ena Burrows, Australian Book
Publishing Co., 252 Geofge-street, Sydney; 2s. Id.,
posted... .H.M.G.: “Hardw-oods of Australia,” by
R. T. Baker, “Pines of Australia,” by R. T. Baker
and H. G. Smith, “Wood,” by G. S. Boulger, and
“A Text-book of Wood,” by Herbert Stone. ...A.A.:
Yes, the pure extracted resin can be directly bleached
with chlorine or, in solution, by peroxides, and the
resulting bleached product is applicable to the maim
facture of sealing wax and pale ester gums for
varnish making. Write Director, Technological
Museum, Harris'-street, Sydney, Tor further informa-
tion.... R. 8.: “The Story of the Oyster,” by T. C.
Roughley, obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney....
N. 8.: Ground mica is used as a lubricant, as a
filler for rubber, in the composition of wallpapers
and paints and as a puncture preventive in motor
tubes. .. .R.J.; Cronulla (N.S.W.) derives its name
from Kurranulla, an aboriginal word meaning “a
small pink sea shell”. . . .A.L.C. : 'The Maternitv
Allowances Act, 1912, provided for the payment to
mothers of £5 in respect of each viable birth.
In July, 1931, the amount was reduced to £4,
payable only where the annual income did not
exceed £260. In October, 1932, this limit was
reduced to £2OB. . . .R. 8.: The first apostolic dele-
gate was Archbishop Cerrutti, now a Cardinal, and
Papal nuncio in Paris; he was succeeded on May
14, 1917, by Archbishop Cattaneo. .. . R.W.: Gerald
Marr Thompson was principal critic in art, music
and drama on Sydney “D.T.” (’B3-’9l) and “Herald ’
(’9l-’24) .... N.C.: Presume you refer to the Estra-
mina, a. Spanish armed schooner captured by the brig
Harrington, of Sydney, and taken to Jervis Bay in
1805. It was appropriated by Governor King and
wrecked in 1817 when leaving the Hunter River with
a cargo of coal W.H.S.: Know of no buyers. .. .
B.D.Y. : Get in touch with Mines* Dept, and Naviga-
tion Dept., Brisbane. .. .C.R.: Write Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, Melbourne, for
pamphlet, “The Preservative Treatment of Fence
Posts”... .R.C.: Axel Munthe has also written
“Memories and Vagaries” and “Red Cross and Iron
Cross”.... F.8.D.: N.S.W. Bookstall Co.. Sj'dney,
can supply a book at 2s. 9d O.A.E. : (1) Formula
is a trade secret. Mick Simmons, Ltd., George-
street, Haymarket, Sydney, can furnish 2oz. bottle
of the preparation at Is. (2) They can also supply
a racket billiard at 15s E.N.: “The Author,
Playwright and Composer” (Is.' quarterly), 11
Cower-street, London, W.C.I A.N.: Write t hus.
Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt, Sydney....
E.M.W.: Write Dept, of Marketing, Canberra, F.C.T.
. ...A.C.M.: (1) Mostly “nerves.” (2) They are
different causes, needing different remedies. (3)
The “cure” is long and consists of rehabilitating the
patient’s self-confidence. Make a point of always
talking slowly and quietly. Relax before speech.
Tautness or tenseness will always start trouble... .
V.G.0.: The most popular decoy appears to be oil
of aniseed, but oil of rhodium and cinnamon are
used extensively in some parts of N.S.W W.F.B. :
(1) Inserting “Wants” notice. (2) Write Air Board,
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .C.W.C.: “Window
Dressing,” by Timmins (3s. Gd.), and “How to
Make Your Windows Sell Goods” (Is. 6d.).. . .
A.L.8.: Write to the American Consul, Sydney....
M.H.: Collard’s factory was established in 1760
under the name of Longman and Broderip. William
Frederick Collard and Muzio Clementi took over
the business in 1800. Can’t say how many instru-
ments were made in the first year. . . .8.T.W.: The
recent amendments don’t say that a pensioner may not
sell or mortgage any property owned by him, but
that he may not do so without first obtaining the
consent of the Commissioner.... 8.T.W.: The animal
is suffering from a brain or spinal injury. The
majority of cases affected in this way fail to return
to normal, particularly where skilled attention has
not been given promptly... .A. C.: (1) No. Every
summons contains the names and “additions” of
the complainant and the defendant. By “additions”
is meant the calling or description, such as “tailor,”
“dressmaker” and place of residence. (2) An impover-
ished tenant is entitled to three months’ occupancy
before ejectment, and may get extension for a further
month, but the Court has power to refuse postpone-
ment where it is satisfied that the landlord would
thereby suffer undue hardship.... R.T.: To a certain ex-
tent. Most surgeons are capable of performing the
operation. .. .G.M. (1) Write Lands Dept., Sydney.
(2) That mode of address is correct. (3) The method of
retiring is not arbitrary, but it lends dignity to
the ceremony. (4) There is little that you can
do in the matter. The contributor must await the
pleasure of editors. (5) We know of none....
D. 8.: There is a Howe Island in the Recherche
Archipelago (W.A.), and a small group known as
Lord Howe Islands, or Ongtong Java, near the Solo-
mon Islands. There are also Lord Howe Islets in
the Santa Cruz and Society groups... .M.L.M. : The
condition termed “pip,” a growth on the under-
neath of fowls’ tongues, is unknowm. Give a fuller
description... ..J.J.B. : The usual commission on sale
of N.S.W. suburban and city properties up to £5OO
is 5 p.c. on the first £lOO and 3 p.c. on the balance ;
on country properties 5 p.c. is charged on the full
£5OO. The solicitor may have included other legal
charges. Ask for a detailed account ~. . J.T.M.:
Cannot, on the facts stated, see any connection. Ask
for an explanation and, if refused or unsatisfactory,
refer to Law Institute, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...R.G.: Under the Financial Emergency Act
(Q., 1931), any instrument or agreement “whereby
security for payment of money is granted over real
or personal property or' any interest therein” is
subject to a reduction of interest on application to
the Court. This may be applicable to your case....
R.M.1.: Not much market for it, and it is produced
cheaply on a large scale as a by-product of oil and
tar. Consult a trade directory for addresses, and
approach paintmakers, stovemakers and shoe manu-
facturers... .C.S.: It is usually only necessary to
wash the hair well and allow it to dry before the dye
is brushed through it,. Softening may be secured by
adding a generous quantity of cloudy ammonia to
the washing water, and another fairly large quantity
to the final rinsing water. Set the hair in place
before it finally dries (Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, a young
English aristocrat, who has been
turned down by his cousin Lettice on
account of his poverty, comes to the
Broome pearling grounds, hoping to
make quick money and return to her.
June Goer, daughter of another
pearler, arrives from Melbourne, where
she has been living, and is greatly in-
terested in Chris; but it is young
Peter Fordyce, a wealthy pearler, and
not Chris, who is interested in June.
June makes a friend of Queenie, a
girl of her own age, about whom there
is some mystery. Chris's boat stays
out over Christmas, but at last he
comes in for the Lay-up. June is
delighted with the bustle and move-
ment, and to see so much of Chris;
she does not realise that he is inter-
ested only in her resemblance to Let-
tice. A letter from Lettice brightens
Chris, but he fails to notice her refer-
ence’s to a new male friend. Chris,
whose affairs have not been going very
well, loses his diver through paralysis
—a heavy blow. Peter Fordyce pro-
poses to June, but she staves him off;
and Peter turns enthusiastically to a
new scheme for pooling pearl-shell—
a scheme which will, incidentally,
damage “ Monty,” an old friend of
June's family.
CHAPTER XII.
June Looks at Marriage.
BY July feeling was running high over
Peter Fordyce’s scheme: it reached
a climax when he suddenly announced
that the managing director of the firm for
which he bought had travelled from New
York to ’Frisco, across to Sydney, by the
Transcontinental to Perth, and was due to
arrive in Broome on next week’s mail ’plane.
A number of men were annoyed with Fordyce
for keeping so dark about it, but he said his
instructions had imposed secrecy—Vander-
velde had wished to inspect the industry in
which he was interested, and wanted to meet
the pearlers personally without giving them
time to frame up anything. “Like his
Yankee hide!” was the universal Comment;
but Peter laughed and said: “You wait till
you see him. He’s a go-ahead fellow,
younger than yours truly.”
Younger than Peter! Old sea-dogs and
master-pearlers scoffed in derision; yet
when they stopped to think about it, Vander-
velde was certainly managing director of a
firm that had done very well.
The American arrived; and after three
days passed in Broome at high pressure,
during which time Peter vowed the fellow
learnt as much about the whole show as it
had taken the majority years to assimilate,
Vandervelde, fair-haired and young, even
more tender-looking than his years war-
ranted, managed to impress the most scep-
tical with his ability. He departed on the
next ’plane south, leaving behind a gasp-
ing town, for the first time hustled out of
its tortoise-like progression.
“Whew!” said Mr. Montgomery. “He’s a
tiger for work. What a life! Does he ever
think about anything else?”
“I reckon not!” answered Fordyce, who
had found the pace even too swift for his
liking. “But he shook ’em all up. When
I’ve got my second wind, things will begin
to move.”
And they did. One after the other the
pearlers signed the Vandervelde contracts,
and the shell-buyers began to moan. Cables
fled to London and New York with tales of
lost deals. Why, complained the other
buyers need Fordyce grab the lot? Hadn’t
he enough already, with his big outfitting
stores and the numbers of men who were
working their boats for him because they
stood bad in his books—not to mention his
own fleet of luggers!
On the other hand, the Pearlers’ Associa-
tion began to wax warm in his praise—this
was just what was needed. Captain Goer
alone among the master-pearlers refused to
have anything to do with Vandervelde. He
grew louder than ever in protest, and stirred
up a great deal of bad blood. He was told
he had become an obstruction to com-
munal prosperity, and he roared out that
communal prosperity could go to Hell: he
was not going to be dictated to by any
blanky firm. One man rang up to inform
him gently that, since it was common pro-
perty that he had built up his fleet out of
buying snide pearls, the least he could do
now was to throw in his lot with the rest
of them, and assist the men he’d robbed!
June overheard several such one-sided
conversations on the telephone, conversa-
tions more often than not profane. Her
father’s rages made her wonder. Next she
sensed the wave of unpopularity which was
slowly engulfing him, although his satel-
lites were assiduous as ever in their atten-
tions and only one man noticeably absent
from their evening bridge-fours. She began
making tentative enquiries.
Peter it was who sent the first brick flying
from the wall of defence she had been
steadily building round Goer ever since her
arrival in Broome.
They were dancing together when it hap-
pened, at one of the fancy-dress balls
which were held in the Hall. June and
Queenie had arranged a set, and Peter, who
had pleaded too much work to join in the
dressing-up, had yet allowed himself the
bitter bliss of dancing with an exquisite
Columbine who looked as fragile a.nd illusive
as the dreams she wove in the everyday
guise of June Goer.
Peter’s blood was pounding in his veins;
but he talked about business. If he could
not play Harlequin he would strive to in-
terest her in some other way. So absorbed
was he by romance of his recent dealings
that he forgot he could not hope to make
the lovely girl in his arms see romance in
anything, as yet, but love and lovers.
Nevertheless he told her all about the
Vandervelde scheme. “I only wish the
Captain would join in. I wish you could
persuade him.”
“I? Dad never talks business to me. He
says lots of men are ruined through talking
too much.”
“Oh, that’s true enough in its way. But
the point is, this time’s he’s being unfair.
You see, he promised me ages ago that he
would come in if ever I got the scheme
going, and now he’s reneging. Mind you,
I’ve not told that to anyone else. I don’t
want to make people more bitter than they
already are.”
Unfair? Bitter? Hard words for
Columbine.
“I think you must have made a mistake.”
replied June loyally. “I’m quite sure Dad
wouldn’t be unfair to anybody.”
The orehestra quickened its beat; there
was laughter in the air. A storm of con-
fetti descended on the dancers; June was
bound close to her partner by yards of
brightly colored streamers.
Fordyce seized a box of confetti from a
passing couple and patched June’s gold and
white with spangles of color. He laughed,
but his eyes were dark: his mother would
have known they were dark with pain. If
he could not make June feel for him a
fraction of the emotion surging through his
being, of what use his paltry triumph? Suc-
cess lacked flavor without her adulation;
failure might well taste sweeter if she cared
enough to mind. He could say no more.
He loved her with a fiercer tenderness by
reason of her unreasoning defence of Goer,
yet he could hardly tell her how blind she
was, or further disparage her father.
June spent an unhappy week: thought
arising from Peter’s words was not so easily
dismissed as his remarks. And at the end
of the week Mrs. Smith’s baby died.
June rang up Mr. Montgomery as soon
as she returned from taking a gift of flowers,
a wreath of white oleander blossom and the
sweet frangipanni her father was so proud
of because his was the only tree in Broome.
She felt she just must have somebody to
talk to. She was frightened, although she
did not realise it; the depression which sud-
denly smothered her rose from an as yet
unconscious panic lest life should prove to
be other than the marvellous adventure she
had always supposed.
She certainly never imagined Mrs. Smith
would insist upon taking her in to see the
dead baby; she would have seilt one of the
gins round with the flowers if she had. But
to her horror Mrs. Smith herself came to
the door, and June could not tell the red-
eyed woman that she would rather do any-
thing than go into that darkened room and
gaze upon that tiny white-wax form. She
tried not to look much, but the hurt of it
still tore at her heart, “Doesn’t baby look
sweet?” murmured the strangled voice of
Mrs. Smith. June did not,think so; the
dreadful stillness of the little body she had
often felt wriggling in her arms shocked
her unutterably; she could not drag her
eyes from the wads of cotton-wool plugging
the tiny nostrils in horrible proof that here
lay but.a piece of clay; yet she muttered
assent and wondered how she could get
away. After all, she did not know Mrs.
Smith very well, and this enforced intimacy
embarrassed her; yet she felt so sorry for
the unhappy mother, so lacerated by the
fate of the poor tyi.be who had.-‘scarcely
even had time to enjc>y the s?hado\vs of
leaves dancing
over its crib when
it lay out in the
sunshine, that she
knew if she stayed
a moment longer
she would start to
cry.
Poor Mr s.
Smith! Everyone
in the town knew
how miserable life
was with such a
husband —at any
rate, she often
implied as much.
And she was a bright thing really;
she must, June thought tragically, have once
been joyously sure of finding in life all she
wanted. But, then, of course she should
have had more sense than to marry Smith.
June found momentary stability in that
thought, refusing to believe that a girl who
meant to make a gracious , thing of life
could, under any circumstances, have enter-
tained the idea of marrying Smith. She
made refuge for her threatened ideals with
all the cruel arrogance of youth, yet she
found no vindication wherewith to lessen
the agony of a mother’s grief. However you
looked at it, life did seem unjust.
She heard a taxi draAV up, and, peeping
out through the verandah lattice, watched
Mr. Montgomery get out and joke with the
Japanese driver over his fare. Then he
turned and swung up the path, his dis-
reputable topee on the back of his head,
his white coat swinging open until he paused
to button it.
The very sight of Uncle Monty made one
feel better, June thought, as she went to
let him in. Yet her eyes were bright with
unshed tears, and she kissed him with an
impetuosity which surprised Monty so much
that he, missed the pleasure of it.
“What’s up now?” he demanded. “I left
the most important appointment to
come”
“You know you didn’t. You never have
any. Sit down and I’ll get you a squash—
or dry ginger?”
Monty lowered his huge frame on to a
lounge. Very presentable place Goer had —
must be the best in town. He picked up .a
Melbourne paper; but June, returning, took
it from him.
“Uncle Monty,” she said, “I’ve just come
back from the Smiths’. Mrs. Smith would,
take me in to see the baby. I’ve never
seen a dead person before.”
“Fool of a woman!” muttered Monty.
“Oh, no! I can’t go through life with-
out—without But it’s not that, though
it was dreadful, because she was crying all
the time. It’s—oh, it’s hard to explain,
but”
Monty saw to his. amazement that she
was fighting tears. She was overwrought;
so he tactfully changed the subject and
talked at random until June recovered.
“Uncle Monty,” she interrupted abruptly
and irrelevantly, “do you think marriages
always turn out unhappily? I used to
imagine What happened to mother?
What happened to you?”
“Trust a woman to be curious!” he ban-
tered. “You know what Bluebeard’s wife
found in the locked cupboard.”
So some of the cotton-wool was already
peeling off! June had peered out into the
world and now wanted reassuring. Girls
shouldn’t be brought up by maiden aunts,
however kind and sweet —not a girl like
June, at any rate, though he supposed it
wouldn’t make any difference to some. On
the other hand, they certainly couldn’t be
brought up by Goers. He would have some-
how or other to head off that question about
her mother.
“My dear child, there are hundreds of
marriages of the made-in-Heaven variety,”
he said, and suddenly wondered if he had
made the remark tongue in cheek—had he,
all these years, also cherished an illusion?
A lightning retrospect brought to mind any
amount of tragic or comic instances of
couples he knew making the best of things,
but not too many of the other kind. That,
however, was no way for a comforter to
think: at all costs June must not be
allowed to grow cynical and ruin for ever
her chance of happiness. And, after all,
had he not always felt certain that if only
things had been just a little different, he
and Emily would have grown into a regular
Darby and Joan?
“Please tell me,” wheedled June, sitting
down at the foot of his lounge.
“May I smoke?” replied Monty, absently
feeling round for his pipe, and thinking of
a wedding forty years before, and a bride
scarcely older than the girl beside him. And
lovely! Oh, Emily had been lovely, a regu-
lar little top-notcher, with plenty of go.
They had known how to make things fly
in those days, whatever the bored young
people of to-day liked to think! Thank
Heaven, June wasn’t the supercilious sort;
she enjoyed life and made no attempt to
cloak her enjoyment beneath an exasperat-
ing attitude of indifference.
“Well,” he said, rubbing a hand over his
bald head, “I was about four and twenty
when we got married. I met my wife on
a station in the Eastern Districts, where I
went for a while as a ja.ckeroo—more to
recuperate from an illness than anything.
The only illness I’ve ever had, except for
the rotten dengue I get here; and just look
at all it led to! We got married inside
six months, and I went back to my office
in town—stock-broking, you know; I’ve told
you before whajt a lively business that was
during the -land boom in Melbourne and
the silver fever just after. Well, Ernily
and I set up in fine style. House in St.
Kilda, servants, parties.”
“Mrs. Tweedie says you knew all the best
people, Uncle Monty.”
“Just fancy that now—how kind of her!
What else has the fair Tweedie told you?”
“Oh, nothing much. She says you ran
away from your wife. That’s what I wanted
to know.”
Mr. Montgomery sat silent for a moment.
“Look here, my child,” he went on, “I’m
only telling you this to ease your mind,
and in case you go imagining people are
always miserable. So don’t you repeat it.
Certainly I did leave Emily, but—— Well,
I’ve just told you we were pretty well in.
Emily had all the things a girl likes, and
we were as happy as sand-boys for five
years. Then came the big crash. I went
down with the rest of ’em. Had to sell up
everything. Bottom clean out. One or two
I knew, silly fools, even blew their lights
out. I’d heard about Broome from a man
I knew here—he’s dead—-and thought I’d
clear out and try to get going again. Some-
thing deuced romantic about pearling to
the. young and hopeful. Melbourne was
like a morgue; no hope of anything there.
Besides—well, there was another chap who
had been paying a lot of attention to Emily.
I knew. Flowers and. things. Wealthy fel-
low he was; made me look like a pauper
even in four-in-hand days. And I’d noticed
Emily liked him. Now, don’t get it into
your head there was anything underhand
about it—there wasn’t. I just put it to
Emily: I’d be gone for some years at least—
you couldn’t bring .your wife up here in
those days—and it seemed a poor prospect
for a girl to be hanging on with no husband
and no money. Well, she chose the other
chap, that’s all. I came up here and she
divorced me—oh, yes, I gave her sufficient
grounds, quick and lively. We had no
kiddies. We simply dissolved partnership.”
June’s hands clasped and unclasped. “And
then you—you —just went to the devil,”
Monty chuckled. “I see you’ve been well
instructed in my lurid past.”
“Don’t joke about it, Uncle Monty!”
cried June. “You did it because you loved
her. And she was only a mercenary little
beast!-”
“Not a bit of it. Emily was quite right.
And you needn’t imagine, my dear, that she
was the only woman in the picture.”
“I don’t.” June tried to be casual, but
her cheeks grew pink. Strange how it didn’t
seem to matter that Uncle Monty should
have done the things—well, the things
people did in books, the things that Auntie
Miriam said were disgusting, and which it
was so difficult to imagine the men one
knew would ever think of doing. “But”—
June clutched at her slowly disappearing
faith—“ Emily was the only one who really
counted.”
“Nonsense! What about you? I’ve been
in love with you since you were two. Don’t
you think we’d better get tied up to-morrow
and just show the world what a really idyllic
marriage can be?” Monty made a pretence
of starting up.
June caught his hands. Her bright laugh
rang out. Uncle Monty’s tale hadn’t
exactly laid her doubts, but somehow he had
cheered her. Of course he would always
defend that Emily—even to himself—
although she supposed he had long since
ceased to really care. And she consoled
herself with a reminder that banks didn’t
make a habit of failing and ruining people’s
love-affairs.
Monty rose and looked round for his
topee. He patted June’s bare arm, slipped
a hand round her waist. There were
moments when it became difficult to remain
just Uncle Monty. If only his joking words
were within reason —he could teach June
things about love no youngster knew—and
yet he even thought Kent too old for her .
Fool! If a man could only make his
body keep pace with his mind!
“Now, don’t, forget, June,” he cautioned,
waving from the gate, “no more blues. I’ll
call round and ask father’s consent this
evening.” . .
In spite of Uncle Monty’s philosophical
cheeriness, June found she could not stiuggle
back to the careless enthusiasms of a few
months earlier.
Then she was amazed to find that Queenie
had not been invited to the afternoon
which Mrs. Tweedie was giving at the end
of the week. She grew indignant, and would
have refused to go without her friend but
for Captain Goer’s insistence.
Friday came. Mrs. Tweedie, dressing,
regarded her reflection in the mirror with a
complacency flecked only by the little mois-
ture-stains which, in time, marred every
looking-glass in Broome; and m Mrs.
Tweedie’s mirror they appeared in the most
annoying and incommoding places. But
this afternoon she was in high spirits. She
always declared the parties she felt obliged
to give were a frightful fag; in reality she
enjoyed them more than anyone- else. Cer-
tainly she had spent most of the week cook-
ing because one couldn’t leave important
delicacies to a half-caste servant, and it had
been intensely annoying when last night the
acetylene-gas spluttered out in the midst of
meringue-making, and Tommy, the boy,
replied blandly to all vituperations: Car-
bide all finish’m up.” Mrs. Tweedie had
been forced to finish her preparations by aid
of candles stuck in bottles, and even ask
her husband to help.
But the work was over now and every-
thing in readiness for a highly successful
“afternoon.” Not even a flicker of mirth
at last night’s -spectacle of the pompous
..Alfred, Tweedie assisting with the meringue-


The machine you’ll prefer
m
at a PRICE you’ll
appreciate!
£l 9/19/
Terms Available
buys this BRITISH
IMPERIAL “GOOD
COMPANION” Portable
Its superior features are: convenience, light weight, ease of
operation and legibility of type. .. . Ideal for home or office use.
Any of these Agents will supply free details and literature:—
L. DOBELL & CO., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle, 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN. LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
TRANS-PACIFIC, TRANS-AM ERIC A
SYDNEY to ENGLAND Wo AMERICA!
the finest , shortest way on the
MARIPOSA' &
MONTEREY'
Inspiring marvels line this highroad back to
England! Flashing glimpses of New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii! California as an open
door to the surprise-studded continent of
America. Ship-service and ship-luxury that vie
with trans-Atlantic standards.
On shipboard, a galaxy of sea-luxuries! A
talking-picture theatre—radio—free daily news-
paper—every sport facility, from electric baths
to an outdoor swimming plunge. Short spans
between each port which continuous diver-
tissements shorten even more!
Complete itineraries to any point along this
matchless route may be made before you start!
FARES to ENGLAND
FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS ( single ) from £195/10; Return £194/10
CABIN CLASS ( single ) from £B3; Return £152
FROM MELBOURNE:
FIRST CLASS ( single ) from £lO7/10; Return £l9B/10
CABIN CLASS ( single ) from £B4/10; Return £155/10
Fares subject to Exchange.
Jf»
I
I&SU
I
ẅ
IMPORTANT
Special REDUCED seasonal FARES to AMERICA
are still in effect, but end with the sailing of the
S.S. MONTEREY, February 11. Declare for a holiday
in America, for in terms of speed, luxury and low
cost, these reduced fares establish a precedent in
economical travel.
Take advantage of this opportunity to voyage via
New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii to America,
where the extravagances of imagination fade before
the miracles of reality. BOOK IMMEDIATELY,
while this economical saving is possible.
FARES TO
Los Angeles or San Francisco
ROUND TRIP PROM SYDNEY.
First Class from £99/-/- Cabin Class from £7O/-/-
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
First Class from £lO3/-/- Cabin Class-from £74/-/-
Fares not subject to Exchange
SOUTH SEAS!
An Unrivalled Vacation in the SOUTH SEAS, at low
cost! The world’s most alluring destinations within
easy reach, through faster service and moderate fares.
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji .... £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- 65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU. Hawaii 75/0/- 55/0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £39/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £35/5/- 69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii .... 79/0/- .... 59/0/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
NEXT SAILING via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
Sydney Monterey Feb. 11
Melbourne Monterey Feb. 7
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone B 7981-3.
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
'Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
2M.1A
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
making ruffled the surface of her smooth
self-satisfaction. The dress she wore was
becoming; she added a second string of
lustrous pearls —“so inexpensive, my dear,
and really, quite as good to look at as any
I see here,” she often told her friends, so
denying an unsatisfied and never-acknow-
ledged craving for the most expensive trifles
of adornment. She screwed on a pair of ear-
rings—so-grainers at least—which, had they
been real, would have cost Tweedie ten
years’ salary. She decided that she really
looked very well. And she did; later in
the afternoon June thought to herself that
certainly, years ago, Mrs. Tweedie must
have been an unusually handsome woman.
The Residency garden was lovely: yellow
native hibiscus grew outside the wire fence,
which gave right on to the foreshore and
the bay beyond; green bird-flower poked
inquisitive bills between the wires to peck
at the cultivated cousins of the wild hibiscus
as, brazen and secure, they flaunted their
exquisite trumpets, pink as the dawn or
crimson as a smoky sun. The feathery
fronds of three tall poinciana trees threw a
chequered shade on the lawn, where a chair
or two had been set, more with an eye to
effect than from any desire for her guests
to be informal: Mrs. Tweedie really ex-
pected them to remain on the verandah,
where she would dispense tea, and later,
after sufficient cajoling, sing a song or so.
The tide whispered and lisped among the
mangroves. Mrs. Tweedie walked along the
verandah, re-arranged chairs, looked to see
the pencils were all sharpened as they lay
in readiness beside a pile of papers. She
always had a competition: as Resident’s
wife, she said, she had to ask nearly every-
one—and not all the women could play
bridge. This afternoon she wondered what
people would say when it got round that
she had not invited Queenie, or her mother.
But one really had to draw the line some-
where ! There was altogether too much talk
going on. It wasn’t decent. So Mrs.
Tweedie assured herself, in fear of probing
deeper, lest she uncover a more personal
motive, a canker of jealousy and bitter envy
of a usurper, vibrant with youth, who
■ might force her mentally to abdicate from
the throne on which she always viewed
herself a beautiful and irresistible queen of
hearts.
Neither was Mrs. Smith coming. Unfor-
tunate in the extreme that her' baby had
died; but Mrs. Tweedie could hardly cancel
all her arrangements, although the little
woman was a close friend this season. It
seemed a little heartless, perhaps, but she
knew she had been a great comfort whilst
the child was ill, and she had done all she
could with advice. Of course her own Mary
and Patricia, at school now in the South,
had never given her any worry as babies;
fortunately. So she mused, fiddling round,
until hearing the front gate click, she seized
a book and sat down hastily in one of the
waiting chairs. As the first guests arrived
she rose indolently and graciously to meet
them.
June, inwardly rebellious, was quieter than
usual, but no one noticed. She handed cakes
and tea, and answered with her ready infec-
tious smile whenever she was addressed.
But she felt glad at last to escape, to find
a corner where she could sit down and gaze
out over the jade-green waters of Roebuck
Bay and listen for the rustle of the incoming
tide, crooning beneath the babble of human
voices.
The competition proved a great success,
although some of the guests flagrantly
cheated; and when Mr. Tweedie, facetiously
reminding them of his extreme bravery in
venturing back to a house so overrun by
the fair sex, returned from the Courthouse,
he was called upon to present the prizes.
And then, luckily, somebody remembered
to ask Mrs. Tweedie to sing. After a little
simpering she went into the sitting-room,
threw open the wide doors, and sat down
at the piano.
Her voice, drifting to June, laid cold
fingers round the girl’s heart. She won-
dered if anything in the world could be so
pathetic as a singing voice which had gone
the way of all flesh. Exquisite once, power-
ful still; gallantly—no, ridiculously—fight-
ing against time and climate and avoirdu-
pois. June’s soft mouth grew hard. She
judged with the ruthless, uncompromising
justice of youth, not for one instant recog-
nising in Mrs. Tweedie’s unquenchable
desire to sing the same stuff her own dreams
.were made of.
A little later her hostess deliberately
sought her out. “June,” she said earnestly,
“there is something I really feel I ought to
tell you. You know, of course, that I did
not ask Queenie here to-day. I think she
is being very foolish; one hardly likes to
mention such things to a young girl, but—
well, I really think it would be better if
you saw less of her. I would never let my
own daughters associate with her as you
do. No, no. Don’t say anything—perhaps
you could persuade her not to make herself
so cheap. Tell her the men are all laughing
at her!”
Mrs. Tweedie’s protest was entirely
gratuitous: June could not have uttered a
word. She was dumbfounded. And then
she grew indignant, furious. It was Mrs.
Tweedie the men all laughed at—not
Queenie! They all—except, for some mys-
terious reason,, Peter—they all liked Queenie.
Perhaps, June acknowledged painfully to an
inner consciousness, she was inclined to be
a little too free and easy; but, all the same,
Mrs. Tweedie had a nerve to speak like'
that!
The guests were rising, going. June said
good-bye, and with skilful nianoeuvring
managed to depart alone. She wished to
Walk home round the foreshore.
The sun was low; the bay had lost the
brilliance of its coloring, was subdued td
pale turquoise and flecked by tiny white
horses where the breeze drove the incoming
tide. Smoke rose from the camps along
the beach; occasionally a foreign tongue
interrupted the murmur of the water among
the mangrove roots. The jetty reached out
its long arm to the shimmering sea ; a lugger
or two came sailing past. The boats would
be in soon, June thought, for the Festival
of the Lanterns. She sighed. It was all
very beautiful, if you did not turn round
and look the other way—at the Buccaneer
Arms straggling along the road, and the
bungalows, so many of them in need of a
coat of paint. She would naf look the other
way! It was madness to stare at ugly things
when this dream of loveliness, this wonder-
ful sea, lay ever waiting to be gazed upon.
She felt peace grow in her.
And then a whirl of the old enchantment,
a slight tremor of excitement: those white-
winged boats were drifting in with cargoes
of shining shell, and—who knew?—perhaps
a cargo of pearls!
She stood quite still for a moment; then
she distinguished a Maltese cross boldly
marked in black upon the mainsail of the
nearest lugger. Kent’s mark! He had men-
tioned it one day—and June had not for-
gotten the least 'of their conversations
together.
She did not. pause to think for one instant
that it might equally well be the old Cap-
tain’s boat; for her, Christopher Kent stood
upon the deck of that lugger: the sun spilled
a brighter gold on its sails and June dis-
covered her hands were trembling. Oh, it
was good to be alive—to-night, to-morrow,
she would see him!
June walked home on gold dust. The
dreariest buildings were tinselled by the
sunset, the glamorous haze of it smeared a
golden film across the mirror of her per-
ceptions. Somewhere beneath the sweeping
splendor of this new, delirious emotion, an
inner voice wondered how she could ever
have been so foolish, so miserable —over
nothing! Now she knew why the world
had seemed so pitifully empty. She knew
because suddenly it was crammed with
beauty, palpitating with glorious life: she
had simply been wanting Christopher. What
was the use in any longer refusing to face
it—she had fallen really and truly and most
wonderfully in love!
So June thought
(To be continued next week.)
In the Back Yard.
Where the weeds and driftwood loitei
And the screaming seagull dips,
In this back yard of the harbor
Lie the old and worn-out skips.
Thrill of wind and wave forgotten,
And their past remembered not;
Oncfi proud rovers of the ocean,
Hull to hull they rust and rot.
All their nights of wrath and peril.
All their noons of calm have ceased —
Heading southward, heading northward,
Heading westward, heading east.
Now no more the seabirds trail them
League on league along their course.
Nor the porpoise romps about them
Like a hound about a horse.
Waiting for what fate they know not, |
Lorn they linger on the tide
In this back yard of the harbor,
Hull to hull and side by side.
Yet at times maybe they hearken
Ancient voices on the breeze,
Or perchance a seagull tells them
Tidings of the outer s«as.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Wrack.
Was this foredoomed—for you—for me,
In sundering seas of pain,
Some Eleusinian doom to dree
Till turned the tides again?
.. .. . , , ~ TT
A little momelfpSvU * W
The d j ni i y - c i o uded avatar
Of sempiternal Love?
Did that which gave these hearts of ours
Their little human needs
**
&
Pathetic pilgrims of the dark,
Unsolved immensities,
w,!at ei 'y °f yours may reach the stark
Blind kee P ers of tke k eys?
what love of mine can strike the rock
Till the sweet waters flow?
What hope of ours may yet unlock
The manacles of Woe?
hil J * at “ lb . hill
The starry eyes of Faith.
For bread a stone, for love the spark
some dead wrecker's flare;
The komeless winds sob in the dark.
“ It 18 not there ~ not there! ”
Not there, not there, such dawn divine
As once on Israel’s woes,
Flooding like Eucharistic wine,
Flushed Carmel’s flanks with rose,
~ , - ~
S,iM ?*' ** ""**•
Frail fabric of the looms of thought
We wove, to wrap—a. skull,
victoria.
MABIE E. J. PITT.


Hestlb s
lio
WllfeHt
• • •
The sportsman’s drink
Invigorating!
There’s new energy in this delicious drink . . . full of the
rich nutriment of pure malt and full-cream milk.
A daily glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk ensures perfect
physical fitness . . . always.
■»
NESTLES MALTED MILK
808 COPYR
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
ssrffJsr
Quay-
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of farm
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
_. j , vv/v •
Under the Whip
Gallant old Greenline made his fourth
attempt to win the William Reid Stakes at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. He had re-
corded three consecutive seconds, to Figure,
Mystic Peak and Middle Watch; and this
time the best lie could do was to run
a dead-heat for third place. Under the con-
ditions Greenline carried 91b. more than
weight-for-age, while each of his rivals
claimed 71b allowance. Bookmakers made
the Standish Handicap winner, Waltzing
Lily, their opening favorite; but ultimately
Umbertana, from the stable of Jack Holt,
had a slight call over the filly. McCarten,
who made a special journey from Sydney to
ride Greenline, sent his mount to the front,
attended by Merab, the Adelaide sprinter.
Waltzing Lily smothered this pair at the
home turn and scored brilliantly from Um-
bertana. Putting in a late run, Green Moth
flashed past the post on level terms with
Greenline, who tired. Gaine Carrington fin-
ished well. Waltzing Lily holds the Vic-
torian record for six furlongs (Imin.
lo|sec.). She has been locally acclaimed
“the best of her sex since Wakeful,” but that
remains to be proved ; in any case, the daugh-
ter of Beau Fils received 2st. from Greenline,
and weight must tell its tale. However, Waltz-
ing Lily ought to go far on the turf if .she
keeps sound. She now is held on lease by
S. Smith, a cab proprietor, to whom the
education of gallopers is a sideline.
The last of nine events on the Moonee
Valley programme nearly ended in tragedy.
Blematic, who captured a division of the
Oakleigh Plate 12 months ago, carried the
thumping burden of lOst. 81b., but went out
next in demand to C. W. Leonard’s four-
Bert : "Coming with me t"
&EQT'/Where are you going* - ?"
Bert: "Just for a stroll!
GeRT'. * AvßEnVvou Tfr.WNG) VOUR G*OLP
TV\ING,S WITH YOU THIS TIME ? "
year-old stallion Iskander. The latter soon
found his way to the front, and had the race
virtually won at the home turn. Blematic
tried to dash through an opening on the
rails, but galloped on the heels of another
horse and fell, bringing down Radiant Boy.
Yells of apprehension went up when Web-
ster (Blematic) and Dempsey (Radiant
Boy) were observed to be motionless on the
turf; happily the jockeys regained conscious-
ness within a few minutes, and were found
to have escaped serious injury. Blematic,
formerly owned by D. Marks, is now trained
and raced by Ronald Cameron, who won a
Melbourne Cup on The Parisian. He was
never in better fettle, and may land a good
stake during the autumn. Cameron sub-
jected Blematic to a course of schooling over
hurdles, and this was beneficial to him as a
galloper.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap at
Moonee Valley were annexed by Life Guard
and' Maid of Orleans' respectively. Former
belongs to Vincent O’Neill, of Spearfelt fame,
and is by The Night Patrol from Wooram-
bie, by Woorak from a mare that runs back
to the ancestress of Daredevil (Epsom Han-
dicap) and Blue Spec (Melbourne Cup).
O’Neill and his friends backed Life Guard
from 20 to 1 down to equal favoritism with
Lady Syghton at 7* to 2. The issue was never
in doubt, Life Guard, ridden none too ele-
gantly by an apprentice jockey, scoring by
a substantial margin from Pewter, a prom-
ising colt by Silvius. Maid of Orleans does
Heroic credit. Steve Murphy trains this
filly for Alan Lechte, a close friend of
Duncan, the crack jockey. Though she had
9.8 the stable backed her down to
2 to 1.
Until recently Dame Isa (Cyklon—lsa)
was rated as a pony, but renewal of her certi-
ficate has not been applied for. Probably the
filly has outgrown it. C. B. Ivellow bought
Dame Isa for breeding purposes and leases
her as a racehorse to E. J. Willmott, whose
stables are at Mentone. In her last 14 starts
the daughter of Cyklon has had seven wins
and five minor places. She was at 12 to 1 for
the first division of the Carnmallan Trial and
scored brilliantly, after being near the tail
of the field three furlongs from home. Count
Orloff, the favorite, managed to finish third.
He had a very rocky passage and was under
the whip for half a mile. Gay Girl, from
Adelaide, decisively defeated her rivals in
the second division. She did not win out of
her turn.
Holt was compensated for Umbertana’s
failure when Press Gang captured a divi-
sion of the Warrook Handicap. This geld-
ing carries the colors of A. T. Craig, who
won a Melbourne Cup with Bitalli.
* * * *
“Thormanby”; The English flat-racing
season which closed at the end of November
proved a bumper one for the Aga Khan,
whose horses won £57,777. Firdaussi, the
St. Leger hero, was the highest scorer,
returning his owner £17,441. Lord Rose-
bery, second on the list, was £40,000 behind
the Indian Saint. During the past four
years stake winnings by the Aga Khan’s
horses have totalled £164,000. His trainer,
Fred Butters, naturally headed the winning
trainers’ roster, his tally of 34 winners in
62 races realising £72,535. G. Richards
topped the winning jockeys with 190 wins,
his best record to date, while he beat Aus-
tralian F. Wootton’s previous best. of 187.
Gainsborough, second and third in 1931
and 1930, headed the winning sires with
£34,789.
* * * * ,
Thousands of Westralian and South Aus.
wheatgrowers would be satisfied to get 12J
inches of rain in a twelvemonth, provided
it was well distributed. That quantity came
down at Randwick in a week —the seven
to nine o’clock on Friday morning. So
much fell on Sunday that on Monday morn-
ing stableboys held swimming races in a
flooded stretch of the historic straight. So
rapidly did the course recover, being sandy
for the most part and well drained, that on
Thursday a horse thought to be unready ran
six furlongs in lmin. llfsec., and Topical
traversed the Anniversary Handicap dis-
tance in 2min. 32sec. Certainly the inter-
vening days had been for the most part fine.
Kuvera was the supposedly unfit animal
that gave McSliortodds a pleasant surprise
—in the Ivurnell Handicap it was. There
was no encouragement to back him, for he
had done no racing since the Williamstown
Cup, though he had been pottering about
Price’s stable; and he doesn’t look the sort
that comes to hand quickly. As it happened,
he galloped brilliantly, and made an exhibi-
tion of the others —Vista and Lucre were
nearest to him —over the final furlong. The
ring price was 25 to 1; the 10s. tote paid
£lO 16s. s.o. and £2 13s. for a place. So
man beat machine for once.
Roman Spear landed the shade of odds
laid on her for the Adrian Knox Stakes, but
the result w y as in doubt till the last few
seconds; then Booth’s mare got her neck
in front of Dame Moab (14 to 1). Fame
was a fair third.
William Kelso was amply repaid in the
Anniversary Handicap for the trouble he
has taken with Topical. Windbag’s gelded
’son is an honest little horse, but is not
robust, and his pins require a great deal of
attention. However, he has stood up well
to recent racing, and he was backed with
confidence for the Anniversary, the price
firming from sevens to fours—the tote paid
a fraction less than sixes. Pentheus and
Trevallion were the pacemakers, and the
latter ran a surprisingly good race, but he
was no match for Topical, who, finished
much the stronger and beat him by three
lengths. Gippsland, nearly last most of
the way, flashed into third place, to the
astonishment of those of his. backers who
had taken their glasses off him in despair.
Topical carries the colors of Robert Miller,
who owned Windbag; he was ridden by
Knox.
The ringmen had kindlier feelings about
the elder Kelso at Canterbury Park, for he
served up a skinner for them in the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap. In this he
started a thing called Underwood (Back-
wood —Gaby Deslys), which hadn’t raced
for two months and had shown no form
then. There wasn’t a shilling of stable
money for Underwood, but a few daring per-
sons specked him on the tote. They received
£24 15s. for their half-notes after Under-
wood (nominally 33 to 1) struggled home,
from another outsider, Barren Corn, and
Orpah.
The Flying Welter was another highly
profitable race for McShortodds. They held
Promptitude at twos, but third was the best
of which he was capable; Zeus (15 to 1),
nicely, ridden by Britt, had the race won at
the distance, Polydorus (8 to 1) being the
runner-up. Like Underwood, Zeus is out of
a mare (Etive) who was very smart in her
day.
Ramrod (Spearhead—Ramson), of whom
a high opinion was formed early last season,
may be going to justify it at last. He cap-
tured the Moorefield Handicap in taking
style from Ryetree (8 to 1) and the favo-
rite, Australian Belle, going out at 7 to 2.
He has been nominated for the Sydney Cup.
It was a Moorefield club meeting, trans-
ferred to Canterbury Park because of the
state of the Ivogarah track. As it hap-
pened, the Canterbury course was very
heavy, and fields were small.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Dame Moab;
next, Tingalba.
Flying Handicap: Kichaka; next, Red
Shadow.
Rosehill Handicap: Gippsland; next,
Nord.
Carlingford Handicap: Maltdale; next,
Cylanta.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Lurich returned to Leichhardt on Satur-
day, and in six rounds brimful of buffoonery
wrestled King Elliott to a draw. The lighter
man scored the first fall, with flying tackles
and a body-press, in the fourth (the favorite
round for the first fall). A body-scissors
made King submit in the sixth, and as the
falls were even a draw was declared. In
the third Lurich tore the referee’s shirt to
ribbons, and the official controlled the last
couple of rounds with the upper part of his
body bared. After the match he had to be
treated for a fractured arm-bone. These
stunts should be properly rehearsed.
r j ~
Ins ana (Juts
The second match between England and
N.S.W. ended in the visitors winning by four
wickets, though if the home bowling had been
handled more intelligently the verdict might
well have been the other way. Both in
batting and bowling the Englishmen utilised
the rain-affected pitch to the better advant-
age, Leyland’s forceful batting in both inn-
ings being an object lesson. Mitchell’s
debut on the S.O.G. was a notable one the
Derbyshire professional taking 3 for 32 m
the first innings and impressing with his
fielding to his own bowling. Hammond,
moreover, with 3 for 22 and 6 for 43, showed
what a menace he is on a helping wicket,
all the batsmen save Bradman being help-
less against him when the ball began to do
a bit in the second N.S.W. innings.
* ’ * * ‘
Chilvers was the success among the Aus-
tralian bowlers, his bag being 5 for 73 and
3 for 29. Like H'owell and Hill, he bowled
too many balls off the wicket instead of
making the batsman play him Bradman,
bowled like a rabbit by Mitchell m the first
innings for 1 went to a catch oft Hammond
in the second for a good 71. Ihe best of
the N.S.W. batting in the first innings came
(romßrown (60) Eowe (70) wh» mad«
most of the N.S.W. total of 180. Both youn to -
sters batted in great form, Rowe’s left-hand
shots all round the wicket being particularly
Cwn^came 1 agaiS S“SS
Kowo went for 11 just« he was settling down.
The score this time ended at 128, leaving
England, which had made 199 in the first
knock, 110 to win. Pataudi failed as in
the first innings, and Wyatt, who had made
a hard hit 63 in the first, was run out for 3.
Leyland (?3) and Hammond (24) provided
some much-needed runs, but when Ames and
Verity went cheaply N. S. Wales had the
match in hand. Quick changes of bowling
were called for as soon as Brown and Tate
showed signs of staying. They were not
resorted to, and Chilvers and Hill were
mastered by the batsmen, who soon got the
wanted runs, Tate’s tally being 26 n.o. and
Brown’s 12, also unfinished. It was a good
game, gripping the spectators right through.
-i* •!*
Having lost a day from rain, Queensland
and South Australia met at Brisbane Cricket
Ground, the home side suffering its customary
collapse for 129, though Cook (28), Andrews
(34) and Bensted (20) did their best. Wall
cleaned up three wickets in one over for
two runs. Grimmett at last had a field
day, his average at the end of the innings
reading 6 for 49. Wicketkeeper Walker
caught one man off Wall and stumped two off
Grimmett, his work being very sure and
clean. On Saturday night South Australia
had hoisted 184 for six wickets, and the last
four wickets added 61. Great hopes hinged
on the reappearance, after a longish
absence, of the abo. express, Gilbert. He
took 4 wickets for 58, but as to pace
was not impressive, though he may be keep-
ing something up his sleeve for the English-
men this week. Richardson made a scratchy
21, but the consistent Nitschke played an
attractive shot for 47. Lonergan (31), Whit-
ington (29) and Tobin (47) helped.
(Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
Australia’s tennis reputation got a great
lift in the closing stages of the Australian
championships in Melbourne when McGrath
fairly downed Ellsworth Vines by 3 sets to
1, and Crawford disposed of Ailison by 3
sets to 2. Both the Americans were in top
form, but on the day were outplayed. The
next day McGrath went under unexpectedly
to the American fourth string Gledhill, whom
he had mastered in previous matches, while
Crawford, with Queenslander Moon, beat
Allison and Van Ryn in the semi-final of the
men’s doubles. Vines and Gledhill won from
Cummins and Hassett in the other semi-final.
“Let” : Not the least interesting part of
the American tennis tour is the account given
by the visitors of the tremendous vogue or
the game in the U.S.A., especially in the
south-west, where climatic conditions are
favorable most of the year. The- attention
given to bringing on the young players is a
special feature Australia would do well to
imitate. Allison recently delivered himself
of the opinion that in this area of America
there are at least 100 juniors up to the
standard of the Willards, of N.S.W. These
boys are intensively coached and sent to the
big tournaments all over America for expen-
ence, while junior tournaments, at which as
many as 300 boys compete, are held at _f re-
quent intervals. Small wonder American
tennis reaches such a high standard,
( Continued on next page.)
v
The visiting English motor-cycle racing
team suffered its first defeat in Australia at
Sydney Speedwav Royal on Saturday, a
N.S.W. team led 'by L. Van Praag winning
bv 27 points to 26, after a thrilling series
0 f raC es. W. Little and J. Hollis (N.S.W.)
won the Royal and International scratch
races respectively,
* * * *
N g W on the Australian sailing cham-
pionship for j 8-footers with Arawatta,
another N .g. W . boa t, Australia, being second,
an(J one of the defenders of the title, the
Queenslander Aberdare, third. Tangalooma,
h holder 0 f the championship, won
last ear was disqualified. The
£& on Port .Tackson in n light
lltbe rlv. It was a close thing, 82 seconds
sournei y. u w s oat s
separating the first three boats. *
Godfrey Vockler shook np Noel Ryan.
/at Mo'yaS AuSian ctam-
pionship at Perth. It was a neck-and-neck
go all the way, and both appeared to touch
together, . Ryan getting the verdict. lime
was 10mm. 48 4~ssec., a State recoid.


Position Vacant.
RADIO ENGINEERING CADET.
APPLICATIONS are invited from lads
who have passed the Intermediate for
the position of RADIO ENGINEERING
CADET.
Successful applicant will be required to
take a postal course in Radio Engineering
and will be trained in theory and practical
work to M. Inst. R.E. qualification stan-
dard. An opportunity unique in the present
stage of the profession, as the field work will
cover broadcasting, design and maintenance.
Premium will be required, to be returnable
as living allowance to augment small salary
for first two years, as successful applicant
will be employed at Canberra. Apply in first
instance by letter to W. R. CHAPLIN AND
CO., Chartered Accountants, 7 Wynyard
Street, Sydney.
j • injinuiffl &
■
r
I'll •
Distributors tor the House of McCallurn.
Coldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son ..
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. .
Fremantle
• .. Hobart
Ins and Outs
fhil? a m h A? at ® ur ” : Up to the end of the
tnnd rest the depression had made no visible
inroads on the takings at the Eingland-Aus-
tralian cricket matches. The gross receipts
at the hrst Test in Sydney came to £12,187,
S x C i°« n oo^ nd r, thil ,' d matches yielded £16,158
and ±lb,2d6. England’s match with South
i^' aha i )1 '? duced £2325 > that wit h Victoria
±2069, and that against N.S.W. £5OlO. The
game against an Australian XI at Melbourne
• lca | uc ed £6_iB4. Not counting the matches
in Perth, Tassie, Wagga, etc., the grand total
conies to £00,719. Of this Australia’s share
is ±36,-1 <, and England’s £24,502. From
the Australian share must be deducted taxa-
tion and expenses, including the cash cost
ot the famous cable to the M C C
* * *
“Five Ways”: I am wondering how far
me present wave of cricket hysteria will
wash up on the beach of blither. Some-
one wrote to Brisbane “Courier” the other
clay in an obviously sardonic strain. He
pointed out that Gilbert was prevented
™ bowling his fastest in the cumbrous
that tp o / K he u hl \ G , v pfeller > and suggested
that the abo. should be supplied with some-
thing tasteful and light which would give
his plates of meat something like their
accustomed untrammelled freedom. Taking
I J. ra seriously, patriotic citizens with visions
of the abo. express body-bowling the English-
men to blazes have raised a fund for the pur-
pose of turning Gilbert out in perfect trim.
ca , ia being forwarded to the boss at
Gilbert s mission station with a request that
he consult the boot manufacturing industry
and arrange for the ideal hoof-cover.
* * * *
“Gienelg” .' Test averages up to the end
of the Adelaide match show the Englishmen
as definitely stronger in batting and bowling
than the teams they have faced. This is
very notmeable in the batting list, in which
the first 10 Englishmen have all recorded
over 15 runs per innings, with eight of them
over 20. The Australian averages show no
d than six below 15. Paynter tops the
wVh 78 for one completed innings.
Sutcliffe is second with 59.2, and he has the
highest; aggregate (296) and highest score
(194). Bradman tops the Australians with
~ 177), but McCabe, with 52.2,
"gs the 1 lll ?^ est aggregate and top score with
-oo and 187 n.o. Larwood has taken 21
wickets for 16.7 runs each, and Allen’s bag
is Id for 21.8 average. Voce’s 12 wickets
have cost 24.4 each. O’Reilly has taken 19
wickets at 21.4, and Wall 14 at 23 2.
Grnnmett s 6 wickets cost 326 runs.
*** % ❖ sfc
The match between South Australia, on its
way to Queensland, and Newcastle (N.S.W.)
was drawn, the Goalies scoring 188 and the
tourists 171 for 7. Features of the match
were a fine century for Newcastle by 18-
year-old R. Beattie, who played all the
bowlers, including Wall and Grimmett, .with
supreme confidence, and a dashing innings
tor 79 against time by H. C. Nitschke, the
south Australian lefthander. Why this fine
cricketer has not been given a trial in Tests
jins; season and has had a painful plodder
like OBnen preferred to him is a mystery,
ills presence in Brisbane on the eve of the
fourth Test might give the selectors a bright
idea for once.
* * * *
‘‘Old Q.”: I note with interest that Sydney
Sun, ’ the employer of Mailey, says in an
account of a cricket match between a Navy
team and one from the “Press” that the
latter team contained “four of the greatest
cricketers in history—,l. B: Hobbs, C. G.
Macartney, Don Bradman and Arthur
Mailey.” Why drag in llobbs v Macartney
and Bradman?
* * * *
“Gabba”: Involuntary listeners-in to the
leg-theory burble have been struck with the
number of individuals who claim to have
invented it. Placed in a line they would
probably outnumber the last man to evacuate
Gallipoli. The latest claimant is the Wor-
cestershire professional Root, who declares
that he first conceived the idea of the
leg ball with a leg field in 1926, when he
employed it successfully against the Aus-
tralians. He certainly did this, for in four
matches, including two Tests, he took 15
wickets for the good average of 14 runs
apiece. But he was a slow-medium bowler,
and his stuff had nothing in common with
the catapult deliveries which make the prac-
tice dangerous, though he set a packed leg
field. As to his being the inventor of this
method of bowling, E. R. Foster, for one,
practised it in Australia and England years
before Root was heard of in cricket.
Racquet and Bawl
Hotham”: The Australian tennis heads
have decided to challenge for the Davis Cup
in the European zone, provided two or
three of the best juniors are available. Hop-
man definitely cannot go. The A.L.T.A. is
willing to pay the expenses of Mrs. Crawford,
estimated at £375, in order to ensure Craw-
ford’s acceptance of the invitation. Four
selectors have been appointed to choose teams
of three or four players, and when that is
done it will be decided how many lads
will be sent. The selected team will figure
at Wimbledon, and will probably play in the
French championships; and they will have
to go to Japan.
ijc *:•
“Ivooyong” : At the meeting of the council
of the Australian L.T.A. Melbourne it
was decided to send a Davis 'Cup team
abroad only on the casting vote of Norman
Brookes. Manager Clemenger announced
that the loss on the last tour had been £438
including £126 expenses before the team
left, and £l5O for Mrs. Crawford. This left
an actual deficit of £162, subject to a pay-
ment of £72 for an operation to Hopman.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: One of the features of the
earlier rounds of the Australian tennis
championships in Melbourne was the splen-
did form shown by some of the younger
players, Turnbull’s fine defeat of Gledhill
and the fight of McGrath and Quist
against Vines and Gledhill, which they car-
ried to five hard-fought sets, being outstand-
ing examples. And McGrath covered him-
self with glory by overcoming Vines, three
sets to one. J. Rogers, a Sydney junior,
also gave a great, display against Crawford,
and there was plenty of evidence that the
younger generation had been watching our
American visitors with profit to themselves.
“Shirley*: The Maoriland tennis cham-
pionships resulted in E. D. Andrews win-
ning the men’s singles. This was a meri-
torious performance, for, since leaving Eng-
land, Andrews had spent some years in
Malaya, and only returned to his native
land late last year. The women’s singles
went to Miss D. Nicholls, and the men’s
doubles to C. E. Malfrey and I. A. Seay.
Car and Cycle
“Tonakoc” : It is possible that Maoriland
may yet be the scene of a motor speed
attempt bv Malcolm Campbell after he has
done with his Daytona attempt. S. F. Edge
has inspected the Murawai Beach, which is
only some 30 miles from Auckland, and
intends to recommend it to Campbell as ideal
for record-making. The beach is wider and
flatter than Daytona and half a dozen times
as long.
“Old Q.” : The writer has a bunch of local
bananas to say—no Fijians taken —that there
was a motor-car running on Brisbane streets
ARM THEORY.
BARBACKER: “Why don’t you tuck up your other sleeve, Jacky?”
JACKY: “No pfear; mine want it that one to keep my fas’ ball up.”
before Dr. Thomson’s car in 1898. I was
living next door to the doctor before that, but
never heard or smelt liis car—and they could
be smelt some distance off in those days. My
first recollection of a car in Brisbane is of
one owned by an electrical engineer named
White. That would be about 1896-97, and
the car was either an Oldsmobile or Ilupmo-
bile, a buiggy-like affair with the engine in
the body of the gadget and steered by a
tiller instead of a wheel.
* * * *
‘‘Sidecar”: The English racing motor-
cyclists at present in Australia are an inter-
esting lot and many of them are engaged
in other activities than track-racing. One,
H. Whitfield, is a poultry-breeder and im-
porter, and buys game from the big shoots
as a sideline. Lloyd is a dairyman and
Ormston and Greenwood are aviators. Byers,
baby of the team, is a director of a Sunder-
land motor-engineering firm, and Evans is in
a motoring business in Middlesborough,
whence came much of the steel for Sydney's
bridge. Parkinson can claim special recog-
nition, for he was the first to introduce bull-
fighting on motor-cycles to Spain. He was
in Madrid during the revolution. Many of
the team are keen golfers and have already
found plenty of games to keep them busy in
their spare time.
“Wooden Rim”: English cyclist A. A.
Humbles last year beat the 21-year-old record
mileage of 34,366 for a year. He completed
that distance on December 11. The Mel-
bourne professional O. Nicholson is now
making an Australian attempt and is averag-
ing 120 miles a day. If he can keep that
up he must come out on top, and his idea is
to get a good start before the shorter winter
days cut down his average.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: While other Australian golf
clubs have been afflicted with predatory
crows and aggressive magpies, Mosman
(N.S.W.) has recently had to face the bur-
den of an inroad of rabbits. It is not so
much that the brutes create additional
bunkers by burrowing, but they are respon-
sible for innumerable bad lies on the fair-
ways, due to their fondness for digging up
the grass roots. Anyone with an infallible
method of instantaneous rabbit-destruction
has a good chance of being made a life mem-
ber of Mosman, or of at least being given the
run of his thirst at the nineteenth for a
reasonable period after he has made a suc-
cessful job of it. Recently members turned
out, and in one evening gathered in 60
rabbits, but this merely seems to have en-
couraged the others.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The 1933 battle for the
N.S.W. A.I.F. Gup will be waged on Manly
links on March 1. Killara was marked
down for the original hopover, but the fire
which recently destroyed the clubhouse there
made it impossible to provide accommoda-
tion for the usual big entry. This year the
competition will be a par handicap, with
the competitors. hitting off in fours, this
being intended to obviate the congestion
which has marked previous competitions.
Though players on any handicap may enter
for the cup, a stroke a hole will be the
maximum allowance allotted. Entry forms
are now being sent out to the various clubs.
* * *
“Smod” : Yes, Mungindi has a golf club (B.
11/l/’33), and it looks like being a flourishing
little concern, too. The links are just links,
and are situated on an old racecourse on the
Queensland side'of the border: Right along-
side is the Two-mile Hotel, so the club
has no difficulty about the nineteenth hole,
u e are admitting associates, and it is pro-
bable the dress question will arise here as
in other more prominent clubs. We are
thinking of consulting some of your corres-
pondents in that event, preferably “Colonel
Damurize.”
“Sandringham'’: Tell “Colonel Damurize"
(B. 25/l/'B3) that die is likely to get a
further shock in the matter of a team of
women golfers visiting Australia. The
matter is by uo means finalised, as far as
this year is concerned, and will not be until
February 10, when the English Women’s
Coif Club Union will consider the replies
to the invitations. Of these it may be. said
that the British champion, Enid Wilson, will
be a non-starter, since she is committed to
the American national championships this
season. Neither England nor Australia
desires to sec a second-rate side making the
trip, so it is possible that the tour will be
called off until 1035 at least. That is Mel-
bourne’s centenary year, when an inter-
national golf tourney is proposed as part
of the celebrations. This will give the Brit-
ish time to think things over and make their
preparations. In any case, the Maoriland
golferettes will keep their promise to'come
oyer to Melbourne for tbe Australian cham-
pionships this year, and that will give the
meeting an added flavor.
* * * *
“Carnoustie” : A cable describing a freak
golf match over nine miles of country from
the village of Ceres, in Fifeshire, to the first
hole at St. Andrews reminds me that freak
matches of this kind have been common in
the past. On the late occasion, the two players,
using an iron only, did the “hole” in 240
strokes. This works out at about 26 1-3
strokes to the mile, and, counting six ordi-
nary holes to the mile, the average per hole is
about 4 1-3 strokes —not bad, even if the
putting problem did not intrude save at the
St. Andrews hole. The recognised record
for nine miles was made by the winner of
the St. Andrews gold medal in 1930. He
backed himself to do the distance in 200
shots, and won easily, but all his shots were
teed ones.
Miscellaneous
“Old Q.”: Stafford (B. 25/l/’33) - is a,
swimmer of class, all right. In addition to
winning the Queensland half-mile champion-
ship in record time, he also annexed the
mile, quarter and 220 titles. Not being a
Queenslander, he cannot officially dub him-
self champion. This is footle. In games
such as golf and tennis anyone winning a
State championship takes the title. Ameri-
cans, Englishmen, Irishmen and Frenchmen
have been Australian champions at tennis,
and champions of various States as well.
Some golfers, like Victorian Ivo Whitton,
have held every amateur State championship
in Australia at one time or another.
* * * *
“C. Lane”: Five new records were re-
corded and another equalled at the Victorian
swimming championships. Two went to the
Hawaiian, Maiola Kalili; his 53 4-ssec. in
the 100 yards is a new Australian record
for the distance, and his lmin. 7 3-ssec. for
the 100 yards backstroke Victoria’s best.
Olympian Frances Bult’s 2min. 50 2-ssec.
beat her own Victorian time by 4 2-ssec.
* * * 1 *
“Luff”: The race for the Forster Cup for
the 21ft. restricted yachts will be held next
month in Adelaide, and there is a prospect
of a good entry. Victoria is sending over three
boats, Bunyip, Marie Louise and Milsonia,
the Cabbage Gardeners’ biggest entry to date.
Tasmania, which has had a mortgage
on the trophy, will this year be represented
by one craft only, this being the redoubt-
able Tassie Too. which won in Sydney as
long ago as 1928.
--I: * * *
“Gate”: Cabled that the English Rugby
League has cleared £6OOO over all expenses
from its tour of Australia and Maoriland,
in spite of the adverse exchange. These
tours keep the professional game alive
in England, for it cannot command a frac-
tion of such a profit on its seasons in Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire where it is estab-
lished. The hard times had no effect what-
ever on the takings of the tour, which rank
with those of previous trips. The same
seems to be true of the Australian tour of
the English XI, which has so far been highly
profitable, though possibly the gladiatorial
aspect the Tests have taken on has beeu
responsible for this.


Educational.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, BURWOOD
Founded 1886.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL.
In addition to the classical classes, and included
in the ordinary curriculum, a new Secretarial and
Business Training Course will commence with the
next term, which begins on February 8.
Principal, REV. T. F. POTTS.
Head Mistress, Miss SUTTON, B.A.
New illustrated prospectus upon application to the
Principal.
Missing Friends.
■\V/ILL GRACE LOCKE, formerly or
w Tins'll a, later of Sydney, or any per-
son aware of her present address, kind y
communicate with the Local Deputy Publ
Curator, Cairns, North Queensland.
IF Mr Harold Beadel Low, formerly of
Bristol, England, but more recently ol
Perth (W.A.), Plympton (S.A.), will com-
municate with the undersigned, he will hear
Something to his ftdvcintnge. . AT n
BAKER McEWIN, LIGERTWOOD AND
’ MILLHOTJSE, ,
Solicitors,
Victoria Square,
Adelaide.
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
WHILE PARENTS SLEEP.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Early in the week Randwick looked more
like a playing ground for punts than for
punters, but by Anniversary Day the lady
l«ad completely recovered from her soak. She
had smoothed the emerald-green satin of her
dress, stuck a flower in her hair, and was
ready for her holiday guests. And they came
in their thousands: the girls gaily shod, their
frocks diaphanous; the men in the _ mood
that helps the bookie to finally decide m
favor of the most expensive brand of im-
ported car. Up till lunch-time the day was
hot and still, the hanging baskets of greeny
shoots hung listless in the entrance to the
stands, and the white-frocked girls suggested
breathless moths. Still, white was the most
attractive and the most worn. Shoes, hats and
handbags, too, were white. Chiffons, sham
tungs, linens and flat crgpes were the
materials most in evidence —organdie, except
in collars and cuffs or the flyaway bow at
many a woman’s neck, seemed to have suf-
fered an eclipse. Anyway, it really only
makes suitable raiment for the very young.
How these tiny hats persist in spite of
our blazing sun! Mrs. Hans Fay, wife ol
Norway’s Consul-General, wore one of the
smallest on the stands; Mrs. Byron Wrigley
and Mrs. Sam Hardy supported toques, but
Bettina Dowley-Smith wore a brimful Beg-
horn with her periwinkle blue linens, and
Claudia Beazlcy’s rose and. white shantung
was shaded by a shiny white straw. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton, just back from Tasmania
with daughter Mrs. Moreing, and Mrs.
Joseph Keegan came in company. Airs, n.
W. Doidge, a visitor from England, was
smartly green and white; but both Mrs. R.
ll.'Bettington and Mrs. W. T. Badgery stuck
to white. Mrs. Denis Allen and Mrs. W.
J. Douglas wore white hats banded in
black. The two Budge girls were there, as
was Rita Buckland, whose big white hat
was wreathed with field flowers. Ludmayor
H’agon’s Margaret was a picture in palest-
blue silk.
More men and fewer flowers were the
notable features of the first reception of Syd-
ney’s new Lady Mayoress. But the presence of
the males holds no promise for future parties,
for this one was a greeting to the aldermen
and their wives. Margaret Hagon, who is-
one of the city’s belles, arranged the flowers,
and the tawny and saffron tiger lilies struck
quite an exotic note against the solidly re-
spectable damask curtains of Victorian vin-
tage. The new tapestry chairs were much
admired, and Sam Walder’s lady was present
to receive the applause for her enterprise
in setting the embroidery needle going.
Afayoress Hagon wore black flat crepe spat-
tered with green flowers; daughter Margaret
looked crisp and fresh in flowing green,
topped by a large green hat. Town Clerk
Roy Hendy and his wife, the medical Purdys,
Alderman Jock Garden, the Forbes-Mackays
and a former Mayoress, Hilda Marks, with
her alderman brother were among the guests.
On the eve of Anniversary Day the
Women’s Pioneer Club waved a pretty com-
pliment to Governor Phillip, standing like
Patience on a monument across the road in
Alacquarie-street. Patiently he is waiting
for the nation to grow into that ideal which
he dreamed of when, standing on the shores
of Port Jackson at the foot of the newly-
hoisted Union Jack, he drank to the future
of this virgin land; and it’s by way of
letting him know that the old standards still
live in the hearts of the descendants of that
first company and of the settlers who fol-
lowed swiftly in their trail that the Pioneers
hold this yearly corroboree.
Usually it’s an evening party, but last
year so mauv came that the dining-room of
Burdekin House, the club’s headquarters,
held no fewer than four relays of supper-
seekers ; so this time a garden party under
the Judas-tree in the courtyard of the old
home provided a pictorial and early-Colonial
setting for the speeches to the glory of Gov-
ernor Phillip. The windows of the drawing-
room overlooking the open-air tea-drinkers
were flung wide, and the singers, grouping
themselves within, sang unaccompanied old
English songs by Herrick and others. That
part of the entertainment came before Kelso
King’s speech, which was the high note of the
proceedings.
It was preceded by the toast of the King,
given by the society’s president, Mrs. Ling-
ham. In his speech the knight referred to the
good work of Hope Johnston and Lord Wake-
field in having a monument erected to Gov-
ernor Phillip in England. Among those who
clapped the noble sentiments were the Kelso
King lady, Airs. John Waugh, secretary Car-
lotta Doyle, the Esmond Friends, who arrived
very late; Aubrey Halloran, who made a
speech; Aliss de Silva Waugh, who made
another; Commissioner Childs and his wife
(Gilbert and Sullivan lovers, who, of course,
hobnobbed with Vinia de Loitte), Oswald
Cheeke and Mrs. W. Epps.
Oxidised and silver brocades are appearing
in the really expensive frocks, and a girl back
from abroad wore a shimmering example of
these fabrics the other night. The toe-length
skirt was of darkly-gleaming oxidised tissue;
the top was of silver and had elbow sleeves
deeply cuffed with white fox. Black and
white effects are almost a uniform for even-
ings, and make the tall look distinguished.
Velvet is worn on every occasion, either
holus-bolus or in sashes, scarf, wraps,
epaulettes or in cloaks.
Talking about evening wraps recalls a
cape seen on the way to Gilbert and
Sullivan. Of black taffeta, it was short
in the front and swirled gradually
longer till at the back it was almost
hip-length. It had a great plaque of
diamente in front, just below the collar,
which tied in a raffish little bow. It was
worn with a floor-long black taffeta dress
that flared out from the knees and gleamed
here and there with diamente ornaments.
The petulance of the weather spoiled
Anniversary Day; but the rain-clouds
came too late to spoil the regatta.
When that began the sun was gold, the
sky was clear, the foreshores glittered,
and the waters of Port Jackson were
deeply, lazily blue. The flagship Themis-
tocles, off Gremorne, blazed with bunting,
and around her slipped and curtseyed all
makes of sailing boat. There were tearing,
dashing speedboats, there were rowing boats,
there were ferries and liners; but the 18-
footers were the pride of the waterways.
By early afternoon a thick curtain of rain
had obscured the brightness and sent lookers-
on hurrying from Cremorne Point, Bradley s
Head and Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair.
But the beaches weren’t neglected for the
regatta. Such crowds sought the sands and
surf from Manly around to Palm Beach that
when the storm sent them all scurrying home
extra traffic police had to be rushed for duty
on the congested thoroughfares to the city.
Two brilliant girls who have brought a
glitter to Mosman are Nancy and Peggy
Anderson, who each gained seven “A’s” in
the recent Intermediate examinations. The
notable thing about the similarity in the pass
is that the two are twins. They are pupils
of the North Sydney Girls’ High, and their
proud parents are the J. M. Andersons, of
Cabramatta-road.
Green trees, an arching blue sky and a
sun more ardent than any he had known
greeted the 174th anniversary of Bobbie
Burns’s birthday. Around his statue in the
Domain faithful Scots gathered to do him
honor, while on the waters of Port Jackson
untold miles of canvas glittered and swooped
in joy of the regatta that was to the' glory
of Governor Phillip. And as long as the
nation which the one founded shall endure
so long will the songs of the other find, a
place in its heart. For Burns didn’t write
for the Scot only; he has sung for lovers
the world over some of their tenderest songs.
Pipers played around the poet’s corner
in the Domain last Thursday, and men
steeped in his works uttered hosannas to his
glory. Still this Letter likes to think it was
the part-songs of the Burns Choir which
made him paqse at his plough on some daisy-
strewn acreage of Parnassus.
J. F. Coates, M.L.C., is just back from
Maoriland, where he found health and hos-
pitality in addition to the much-advertised
majestic scenery. His last Sunday there he
spent playing golf with Sir Michael Myers.
While thus engaged he ran up against our
“Giff” with sister Joan, and introduced the
popular aide to Enzed’s Chief Justice.
That’s an entente in itself.
Another host who dined and wined Mr,
Coates was G.-G. Lord Bledisloe. He is
very interested in Australia and very proud
of the fact that Bathurst was named after
one of his ancestors, who was in the British
Ministry when the convicts carved out that
marvellous old Bathurst road across the
mountains into the plains beyond. Lord
Bledisloe has among his heirlooms a sou-
venir, suitablv inscribed, which was pre-
sented to his ancestor.
The Bledisloes are amazingly kind and
keen on their job. The G.-G. is an author-
ity on most things pertaining to the soil.
He has even imported several famous cheeses
so that Enzed growers might get a line on
the bouquet.
When Sir Philip and Lady Game come
back to their duties next week, they will
relieve our
Chief Justice
and his lady
(the original
of this Dorothy
Welding
photo.) from
one of the
quietest
Lieu tenant-
Governorships,
Sydney has
drowsed un-
der. Never
has the city
been less
socially active
so that, apart
from being
moored among
bricks and
mortar during
the steamy
January days,
the PhiHp
Streets have felt no strain of office. The
lady is one of Sydney’s most successful
organisers, and ranks among our most lucid
women speakers. She is also quite an
authority on Australian art.
Two changes of G. and S. made Sydney
glad enough of its Ivan Menzies and Bernard
Manning. Otherwise it was a dull week, in
spite of the bright-faced country girls and
alert country lads down for their tennis car-
nival. The wise matron and virgin are still
disporting themselves among the paddocks or
on the sands and refuse to think of social
responsibilities. To put a curl into things
the city shops are rushing into sales, and the
just-returning-from-her-holiday girl will
gnash her teeth to behold the bargains in
beach pyjamas she might have had if her
holiday had been a month later.
A friend back from the Moldavia trip
to Noumea has brought something new in
trimming—a double row of little pointed
shells that wreathed the crown of her w r hite
hat. She says it is quite the mode in
Noumea. Another thing she was keen about
was the way the wives and daughters of the
official personages came to the help of the
shopkeeper. They stood by all day and
interpreted for buyer and seller. These
trips have quite caught Sydney’s fancy, even
though the ladies are about ten to every
male.
The Women Writers clustered thick as bees
around Pelham Warner last Friday when
the manager of the English cricketers was
their lunch guest at David Jones’s. The
lean cricket veteran proved himself quite a
humorist after he had dropped an opening
tear to the effect that he was feeling rather
disinclined to talk or write about cricket
again. Then, seeing nothing but goodwill
shining all about him,. he said quite a lot
about the subject he knows so well; in brief, ■
lie thinks the game is so great, so .JgggaJ
5, nart as it were, of the tfiitisn
make-uo that it will survive any momen-
S?v tvphoon. He quoted a charming account
of a cHcket match in which he had played
in Spain The Spanish newspapers were
much interested in the veteran CapHano
and described his innings minutely, but
admitted reluctantly that after eight runs
he had been ehmmado! Bowled or ca agh
or stumped sounds a cheap way of gettn g
beside the sonorous elimmado.
At the luncheon was Dr. Hordern, the
genial author of “Googlies," and.near by sat
his sister. Mrs. Roystone Davey- Tall and
blonde Margaret Hagon sought autogiaphs
with enthusiasm. Bill Moore an d L .
Wigmore made up a iounome of males amid
the ranks of womanhood. President M .
Aronson made a neat little speech °f mtro
duction, and former president Mis. Bavei
stock was another speaker.
Still another scion of the English nobility
will be in Sydney next month. He s Geoige
Francis Alexander Seymour, seventh Mar
quess of Hertford. Titles, titles all the
way must have been the motto his fairy
godmother tied under his bib, for he was
born Lord Conway, pranced on to being
Earl of Yarmouth, is now Marquess ot Hert-
ford, and escaped by only one vote being
named Duke of Somerset in one of those
next-in-succession ballots in the House or
Lords. But here’s one of the nicest things
about him. He’s a grand-nephew to Nelson
through his mother who was a Bridport.
The Marquess is distinguished-looking, ana
wears perfect clothes perfectly, About
years ago he visited Sydney; he was then a
lieutenant in the Black Watch His place
in Bucks, which costs a small fortune to
run —something like £20,000 a year, accord-
ing to a man who has been there —is, needless
to say, these lean times, more or less closed
Here’s a girl with enterprise! She is
Mary Macgregor, who left her comfortable
Q u e e nsland
home (lie r
father’s a bar-
rister in Bris-
b a n e) and
came to try
her luck on
the Sydney
stage. She
had just left
school then,
and Gregan
M cMahon
gave her a
start with his
It e p e r tory
Players. Since
then Mary
has had lead-
ing parts in
50 plays, one
of them “The
Prince and
the Pauper,”
wh e n p> o i f
course, she played opposite Faversham. Now
Mary is off to London for experience, and
a star part if it comes her way. I hoto.
from Dorothy Welding.
Sydney will have quite a Continental air
from April Ito April B—its Festival Week.
The Lud Mayor is president of the com-
mittee which will he responsible for all the
official events. Each evening will be occu-
pied by a military ball or by one organised
for some charity; one of the most brilliant
will be the International or League of
Nations Ball, to' be held in the Town Hall
on April 7, the evening before the Gala
Pageant Day, with which the week s gaieties
will close. In this all the, Consuls and
groups of their compatriots will take part.
Veteran artist Julian Ashton will live in
perpetuity in Hobart’s Art Gallery. His fu -
length portrait, painted in oils'by his former
pupil Mildred Lovett, is one of the finest
things in the portrait section of the gallery.
The likeness is inimitable —the man himself
seems to be standing there on a wall where
it catches the best light in a well-lit gallery.
The painter is on the art-teaching staff ot
Hobart’s Technical College.
Maisie Ramsay, at present starring in
J.C.W.’s Gilbert and Sullivan season, started
her working life with the idea of becoming a
school-teacher. She was, in fact, a junior
teacher in a secondary Catholic school at
South Yarra, and only took up music for love.
Her first public appearance was at a con-
cert in the Melbourne Town Hall * latei she
met Melba, who immediately took an interest
in her, prophesying that she would be one
of our great singers. The young soprano s
birthday is May 19, which was Melba’s.
It has been left to the Anzac Fellowship
of Women to declare that there should be
a more general use of the arts, music and
the drama in the celebration of the 25tli of
April. The Anzac Festival Competitions,
therefore, ask for a one-act play bearing on
the tradition of Anzac to be written by
young people under 21, entries to close on
February 14. Then there are singing and
verse-speaking contests for choirs.
It seems to this Letter that the one-acter
will be a step in the right direction, inasmuch
as it is to embody the ideal of Valor,
Truth Beauty and Endeavor, as exemplified
in the lives of St. George, Shakspeare, Cap-
tain Cook- and the Anzac. But it is over-
loading the canvas to ask any craftsman to
write a play to last a mere 20 minutes and
weave into it four such stupendous per-
sonalities. However, the announcement
emphasises that the spirit of • the play is
tlie thing, and there are such keen followers
of the drama as Dora Wilcox, Lute Drum-
mond, Dr. Mary Booth and Howard Carr
on the committee.
Architect Grace Cope, who visited Sydney
in 1925 and left us St. Winefride’s, Beresford-
crescent, Bellevue Hill, as a tangible expres-
sion of her work, has just been honored by
the Incorporated Association of Architects
and Surveyors. This body has Sir Edwin
Lutyens for its president, and Miss Cope is
the only woman to have the distinction of
hon. membership conferred on her. It is
the lady’s interpretation of architecture for
the mental as well as the physical comfort
of the occupant and her research in the field
of psychological architecture'that have earned
her this distinction.
Herbert Marshall and Edna Best • at the
Prince Edward show us how amazingly well
and wittily such things can be done in
“Trouble in Paradise.” This picture intro-
duced a new version of scarf wrap to us.
They are long, straight strips of satin en-
tirely bordered by fox fur, and they are put
on across the front, instead of the back of
the shoulders.
Writing from America, Mary Kenny, of
Sydney, tells of holidays in Canada, Cali-
fornia and Mexico. One of the greatest won-
ders she has seen abroad is the castle-like
grotto at Lemmone Park, South Dakota; it is
made of the bones of dinosaurs and other ex-
tinct animals (which scared our primitive
ancestors into fits), fragments of petrified
trees and prehistoric fossils of fern-grasses
and insects. It took many years to collect
the material, and then the building was a
difficult task, but the workmen labored with
skill and imagination.
Don’t tell any of the Education Depart-
ment heads that the girl of to-day isn’t as
keen on housekeeping as mother and grand-
mother ! In this State alone no fewer than
11,800 girls are taking domestic-science
courses. The interest has been so great in
the matters pertaining to home-building that
the Domestic Science Schools have founded
leaving-certificate courses.
But what one of the heads would like
above all things to see is a brighter vocabu-
lary, a more cultured tone. The poverty of
words many of the children display in
their conversation is humiliating when the
riches of the English language are consid-
ered. And as the twig is bent so is the tree
inclined. One day last week this Defter
heard these illuminating sentences : Your
father is a lovely man. I mean, lie has a
lovely character. And your mother is a
lovely woman. They really are a lovely
couple/’ And yet there have been Marlowe
and Shakspeare and Francis Bacon!
Clever Fifi Hawthorne will take over the
reins of Kambala this year. Though young
in years for such an appointment .she is
mature in attainments, having been senior
mistress of St. Gabriel’s School, Waverley,
where she spent her schooldays, till an
exhibition took her on to the Uni. y hen
she had gathered her B.A. she rejoined her
old school as a teacher. In addition to her
teaching record (she was over 10 years at
St. Gabriel’s), Miss Hawthorne is a splen-
did tennis-player, and all-round sports-
woman.
Brisbane brevities: —
Sir Leslie Wilson opened the Back-to-Wynnum
celebrations; among the oldest residents introduced
for a. chat with his Ex. were Mrs. A. Stewart (95),
ex-lnspector Graham, (93), and ,J. Sparkes (91). The
Governor opened a bathing pool, inspected the crews
of many sailing boats and visited the Wynnum
Bowling Club, the Golf Club, the Soldiers’ Memorial
Hall and the croquet lawns. On Sunday there were
special services and a sacred concert.
The Bushman’s Carnival had a two days’ spin at
the Exhibition. His Ex. opened the Show and
congratulated the committee on calling it a carnival
instead of a rodeo. STr Leslie and his daughter
had tea in the members’ stand, Mesdames E. J.
Shaw, P. J. Symes and J. W. Davidson being of
the party.
• Yellow-haired Nancy* Echlin, now Mrs. Eric Feldt,
has gone off to New Guinea with her bridegroom.
They were married in ‘St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane,
where the bride’s parents were wed. Canon Garland
tied the knot and the bride was given away .by
her father, Captain Echlin. The bridegroom was
in the R.A.N. and is now in the New Guinea civil
service. Nancy is grand-daughter of the late J.
Warren-Whites, pioneers of Queensland and Victoria,
and niece of Major-General Brudenell White.
Madang is the future home.
Jean Hamilton Brownhill, daughter of the D. J.
Brownhills (Sydney), is engaged to Neville Hender-
son, Toowong.
Alison Edith, daughter of the J. G. Richardsons,
Warwick, is to marry James W. Tonge, son of the
Rev. A. W. and Mrs. Tonge.
Mercy Griffen, of Rockhampton, who at seven
became blind through meningitis, won the scholar-
ship of the Blind Institution, passed with honors
in the violin, gained 85 per cent, in a recent elocu-
tionary exam, and is an expert pianist and member
of the blind school orchestra. She is now 13.
T. C. Sherman, Booval, married Barbara Thom-
son, Herston, in St. Andrew’s, Creek-street. The
bride wore white Chantilly lace over satin with a
gold lace cap to her veil. Phyllis Thomson ’maided
in blue organdie with a silver lace cap. The
breakfast was at Atcherley and the wedded pair
left for Thursday Island.


Special Announcem en
to National Advertisers
Che Ihercury
Tasmania s A ational Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
°* I*l- . ate ’ the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested; at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Associate of National Advertisers,
2 C °™ e]] . Stree t. Sydney, and also
at the following; ■
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYD Ke°T C o E: L - WilsoS L%ar
MEL “2S sS dE: <*«*»
IT LEADS IN
MINING AND FINANCE.
THE PERTH
THE LARGEST NEWSPAPER
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Authentic information gathered from
most reliable quarters is published
in each issue. Gold-mining in the
West is booming. Your investments
for 1933 need careful consideration
—let the “Sunday Times” be your
guide.
THE GOLD YIELD
for 1932 exceeded 600,0000 z., and
the value, including premium,
totalled £4,374,000.
ADVERTISE IN THE BIG SUNDAY
PAPER IN CLOSE TOUCH WITH
THIS VALUABLE MARKET.
A Gold Mine for Advertisers ,
The Expert
View
Che H.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the "Referee”
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 852.41.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Pains that Foretell
CRIPPLING
DEFORMITIES
Rheumatism, Aching Muscles,
Stiff, Painful Joints, Backache,
Swollen Hands—these are
Serious Troubles
Don't take risks! The moment body aches and
pains appear—drive out the cause!' Let Harri-
son’s Pills rid your system of the uric "acid
poison—the origin of those dangerous pains.
Harrison’s Pills, modern antiseptic remedy of
a famous London doctor, definitely "and
promptly remove the uric acid crystals that
lie along the nerves ’ and muscles, torturing
them at every movement. Immediately the
poison has been removed, the back, joint, limb
and muscle pains disappear and normal health
is restored. Relief comes quickly, and it is
real, lasting relief. Don’t suffer pain and risk
a useless old age needlessly when you can get
a package of Hayrison’s Pills from your
chemist for 2/-. Take as directed, and if' you
don't get the benefit you seek, your money
will be refunded.
“Good Old Broken Hill”
That’s wliat they all say when forced to leave
it. “The Happiest Days of ipy life were
spent there,” say many, after making- a fortune
there. The best climate, the best money and
the best people for spending it in the whole
of Australia.
And the best newspaper,
with the most sales in all the Far West,
“THE BARRIER MINER”
Melbourne
Chatter
The Tennis Association staged a dance
at Kooyong clubhouse in honor of the inter-
state and American visitors. Helen Sage,
who came to the hop in draperies of deep
blue, and Nance Howie, who danced in
black lace, joined in trimming up the ball-
room and lounge with red-hot poker blooms,
hydrangea, tiger-lilies and gladioli. Supper
was .spread in a marquee, and the night
being warm there was much wandering about
the lawns and garden. Edmund Jowett and
H. A. Pitt, vice-presidents, represented the
association. Mrs. Ryan’s silver and black
brocade gown had an adornment of stiffened
epaulettes, introducing touches of green and
red. Mrs. W. Donaldson, a recent bride,
who was accompanied by her husband, was
in Lido-blue georgette. Dorothy Tutton
chose black and white, and Mrs. W. L.
Allison, wife of the. U.S.A. player, wore
chiffon patterned in green and orange
shades. Marjorie Hill, of Bananaland, and
Miss P. Newton, of Tassie, were among the
visitors.
The Wattle League celebrated Australia
Day with a gathering at the E.S.U. rooms.
The president, Mrs. Britomarte James, and
the hon. sec., Alice Richardson, welcomed
members and visitors. Prof. W. A. Osborne
gave an address on “Australia Unlimited.”
Elizabeth Campbell arranged a musical pro-
gramme, contributed to by Dr. Bartolini,
mil.ie Murray and Nellie Bernasconi. who
drew upon the works of Australian composers
—Alfred Hill, William James, Molly Carew
and others.
Margaret Gumming was hostess at a tea
Party at Menzies’ in honor of her cousin
Jean, who is on a visit from England with
her parents, Major-General Iv. Buchanan and
Mrs. Buchanan ; they came here especially
for the 88th birthday celebration of Mrs.
Thomas F. Gumming, of Toorak, the
mother of Mi's. Buchanan. Opportunity was
taken at the party to say au revoir to Edith
Cooke and Joan Bostock, who arc sailing
for Europe in the Ormonde.
The Chatterer recently motored over the
lately-opened section of the Great Ocean-
road from Lome to Apollo Bay. The road
runs beside what was, on this occasion, a
stormy sea, and winds like a snake that
has been permanently waved. The highway
is a memorial to the Australian soldiers who
died in the Great War arid is being made bv
returned soldiers. As many as 2000 have had
employment there.
It was the dream of the late Howard
Hitchcock, of Geelong, to see a road border-
ing the whole coastline from Barwon Heads
to Warrnambool, and he set the ball rolling
with a donation of £lOOO, To carry out the
project several private properties had to be
bought and the Trust formed to look after
it developed almost into a real-estate agency,
with ahotments for sale at Eastern View,
the Big. Hill, the Wye River and other places
en route. Most of these blocks were soon
sold. Another means of bringing in funds
was the charging of £5 or more to anyone
\vno wished to have his name set up on one
of the passing points. Altogether £50,00C
has been spent.
Cupid has been busy among the golfers.
Ike engagement of Susie Tolhurst to Sloan
o 5 secretary of the Commonwealth
Golf Club, is announced.
t vacati ° n at Lome are High Court
Justice Starke and his family, who are put-
ting up at the Lome Hotel. Monica Starke
had a party for her 21st birthday, and her
eoming-of-age was celebrated with a gift of
a diamond brooch from her parents.
Anthonians staged a bridge party at
the Green Door cafe, led by their president,
Lucille Meehan, in deep-blue chiffon. The
joint lion. secs, were Alma Mabous, in flow-
ered georgette, and Mollie Power, in dark-
green velvet. St. Anthony’s Home benefited
.substantially.
At the knot-tying of June, twin daughter
a the j late , Dr - Stewart Angwin, of St.
Arnaud, and of Mrs. Angwin, of Armadale,
with Patrick, second son of the George
Ramsdens, of Armadale, the bride wore a
ti amed sleeve robe of deep ivory-toned bro-
cade with a girdle of pearls, and her orange
blossom wreath was also embellished with
pearls, the veil being of cream tulle. Janice
Angwin was the maid, wearing pink chiffon
The engagement of Joyce Turner and
pianist Lindsay Biggins, of the staff of
the Uni. Con., is announced. Miss Turner’s
mother and her uncle and aunt, Mr. and
Mrs. C. W. Turner, gave a tea party to
many guests at South Yarra to celebrate
the occasion.
The old Bay steamer Edina had another
adventure a few nights ago, when it got as
far home as Yarraville on the return jour-
ney up the river. The cotter-pin which
holds the propeller in position on the shaft
broke, and there was drift and waiting until
a tug came for the passengers. Most man-
aged to catch last trains home, and a few
took taxis. The excursionists were luckier
than 150 who were aboard the same vessel
in June, 1900, on a Sunday night. Fog
enveloped the little steamer, and it was
stuck up between Williamstown and Port
Melbourne for six or seven hours. A big
party, that had been at a house-warming at
the Nunans’ Clifton Springs Hotel made
the best of things with singing and spelling
bees. W. A. Watt, then Postmaster-General
at 28, and Sam Winter, g.m. of Melbourne
“Herald” and a famous tenor, were among
the crowd. They landed at 2.45 a.m., and
competition for cabs was keen, Watt paying
a sovereign for his four-wheeler. Sam
Winter, knowing that Watt had to face an
election in a few months, made it. appear
in Monday’s evening sheet that the concert
the P.M.G. took part in was after midnight
on. Sunday, so a.s not to antagonise Watt’s
Sabbatarian supporters.
Minister Jones has been looking round
for a temporary building for Melbourne’s
Government high school for girls in place
of the vice-regal shack on St. Kilda-road,
which has been used for two years. It looks
as if a wing of the Exhibition will be hired.
Genteel folk persuaded themselves that their
daughters were climbing by going to a school
“at Government House.” They are not so
keen on their being taught in a wing of the
Exhibition.
A first payment of £lO9O for pin money
and then £5OOO a year for life, with use,
free of upkeep, of the family home, Leura,
Toorak, will be made to Mrs. T. H. Payne
under the will of her husband, wdio died in
December last. He was a squatter at Wood-
burn, Ivilmore, a. pillar of Toorakia,
member for 30 years of the Uppish House,
Honorary Minister under Bent, and the
fine gentleman all through. The estate is
valued at £412,280 and the State Treasurer
will be grateful for the £40,000 or so which
he will get out of it to reduce his deficit.
The son, Tom, is the principal beneficiary,
but the £15,000 for daughter Ella, free
of probate duty, will keep the wolf from her
door. Payne left £2OOO each to his coach-
man (he maintained a brougham and
pair), head gardener, chauffeur and manager
of his landed estate at Woodburn; and in
bequeathing £5OOO to his solicitor, E. L.
Vail, referred to him as his friend.
If “White Heather’s” poem, “Australia,”
which won first prize in The Bulletin’s
national song competition, judged last
month, is destined to rival the fame of “The
M a rseiliaise”
the historians
of some future
g e n e r ation
will be able to
embellish their
tomes with at
least one
pretty por-
trait. “White
Heather,” pic-
tured here by
Broothorn, is
Mrs. Ma r y
Richardson, of
Glen Iris,
M e 1 b ourne.
Born on a
N.S.W. sheep
station, she
had a convent
education, and
comm enced
her career as
a poetess as a
writer ot patriotic verse In war-time, gain-
ing her inspiration as one of the voluntary
workers at the St. Kilda Soldiers’ Lounge.
Then came marriage and motherhood—hus-
band C. M. Richardson is on the staff of the
Union Bank, Melbourne, and son is rising
eight and now the pen is getting restless
Again and short stories and verses are flow-
mg from it and getting published. The
‘Woman’s Mirror” numbers Mrs. Richard-
son among its poetic contributors.
To H. Hollis, of Melbourne, goes the credit
of organising the unemployed musicians of
this State into one large, mainly self-support-
ing body, the Professional Orchestra. It has
given concerts and other entertainments with
such good results that during the last two
years nearly £3OOO has been raised. Many
musicians and their families have been saved
from want, and employment has been found
for many others.
The amalgamation of the old Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra with the Uni. sym-
phonists to form a permanent organisation
is not yet an accomplished fact. Some of
the players of the old society who will not
be wanted in the new one feel aggrieved,
especially as many of them gave their ser-
vices gratis for. years. It was on the same
rock that previous attempts at amalgama-
tion struck. It is a bit rough on the expro-
priated players, but the fact is that the old
Melbourne orchestra had been losing its grip
on popular approval while the Uni. people
were becoming more and more fashionable.
Lily Beaiirepaire must hold the feminine
for life-saving. She lias saved more
than 50 drowning people. The plucky girl
recently added a batch of four men in one go
when staying at Lome, by collecting the
distressed males, one by one. and attach-
ing them to a surfboard, which she then
pushed through heavy seas to the beach. The
sturdy natatrice is a sister of Olympic
swimmer Frank Beaurepaire, now a Mel-
bourne city councillor.
Professor L. J. Wrigley, head of the
Teachers’ Training College, who has been in
England for some months, was injured in a
motor-car accident, in which Mrs. Wrigley
was also hurt. The lady has now quite
recovered, but the prof, is waiting for a
broken leg to heal. Mrs. Wrigley’s sister,
Miss Wilmoth, will accompany the couple
back to Australia when they return next
month.
Miss Elsa Morres, head of the Hermitage,
the. Anglican school for girls at Geelong, has
resigned after 27 years of service.
B r o o thorn
pictures hero
the wife of
the new Min-
i s t e r of
Trade and
Customs, T.
W. White.
Mrs. White is
a daughter of
Alfred Deakin,
and is presi-
dent of the
auxiliaries of
the Children’s
Hospital.
During tin;
Great War
she was hon.
see. of the In-
quiry Bureau
of the Red
Cross Society
in London.
Dr. Jean Macnamarra, who went abroad
some time ago on a Rockefeller Foundation
scholarship to study infantile paralysis, has
done such good work that the Foundation
has given her an extra three mouths, which
makes up for time lost while Dr. Macna-
marra was suffering from appendicitis.
Dr. C. H. Kellaway, director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, is off for
a year in Britain and the U.S.A., working
his passage as ship’s doctor in a liner. He
will undertake research work while abroad,
Dr. Ivan Connor taking the reins at the
institute in the meantime.
Ruth Flockhart, trainer of choristers, is
sailing for England and the Continent to
study at Oxford and look into the teaching
of music in schools.
The widow of Dr. T. Walker Sinclair, at
one time Health Officer of Melbourne, has:
returned after a sojourn abroad and is put-
ting up at the Alexandra Club.
Mrs. W. J. EcCles, president of the com-
mittee of the Santa Casa Rest Home, who
is a passenger for England in the Ormonde,
was entertained by her co-workers and some
other friends at a farewell tea party at the
Wentworth.
Artist Daryl Lindsay and his wife are
travelling on a German cargo steamer bound
for Antwerp. Mr. Lindsay is taking with
him a picture of a racehorse, The Night
Patrol, a commission from Lord Stradbroke,
who imported the nag during his term as
Vic.’s Governor.
Adelaide chronicles:—
The 28 boys and girls from outback who haye
been brought to the city for a holiday are having
a wonderful time. Their ages range from about
nine to 16. They were spellbound at the sight of
the sea.
The Adelaide Repertory’s bright particular star
actress, Thelma Baulderstone, wais married to Stuart
Symons at St, John’s Church; a reception and
supper followed at the Piccadilly Restaurant, Rundlc-
street. The bride looked charming in white anggl-
skin lace mounted over shell pink. Repertoi#'
members had given her a, send-off at the clubrooms.
Thomas Nave made a happy speech and presented
Miss Baulderstone with a cheque.
Adelaide women graduates entertained Dr. Harriette
Chick, of the Lister Institute, London,, at the
Lyceum Club. About 20 were present, the rooms
being decorated with hydrangeas and gladioli.
Mrs. Arthur Rymill has returned to Brougham-
place, North Adelaide, after visiting her daughter,
Mrs. Tom Giblin, at Hobart.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Bakewell have returned to
Prospect with their family after several weeks at
American River, Kangaroo Island.
Fred Winsloe Hall has arrived from the
Orient on furlough to visit his parents, also to take
a wife back with him to Bombay.
Mrs. A. AVoolnough, who has just returned after
two years iii England, was tendered a welcome at
the Arcadia by the members of the IJnley Minda
Association, of which she is secretary. The Kidman
lady, smartly gowned in silver-grey marocain,
welcomed Mrs. AVoolnough.
Away in the West:—
Betty Rowe is the life and soul of the Pla.vbox
Theatre. The group started in a very small way,
but its membership id growing, and its location pro-
vides shimmering river and leafy parkland within
a stone’s-throw of the verandah. Miss Rowe’s
acting is versatile; she also writes plays, produces
and dresses them, sings, dances and holds classes for
would-be mummers. This week the Playbox produced
four one-acters. Betty Rowe and Linda Green had
most to do in “The Truth” ; Kathleen Bartlett was
the attraction of “A String of Pearls”; Roger
Merrybridge and Lesley O’Toole plucked the honors
in Schnitzler’s “The Mate,” and in “Anatol’s AVedding
Morn,” by the same author, Betty Rowe was alter-
nately winsome and hysterical as Ilona.
Marjorie Rooney has returned to her respon-
sibilities in Launceston as principal of Broadland
House, C. of E. Grammar School for Girls. Miss
Rooney has spent the summer vacation with friends
and relatives in this State.
Airs. John Forrest poured tea at her home in
Mount-street in honor of Mrs. Bob Harwell. The
hostess, who was assisted by her daughters, was
arrayed in a bronze-tinted flowered creation and
her rooms were cheery with roses and gladioli. Mrs.
Ernest Lee Steere, Mrs. Frank Leake, Mrs. Frank
Davies, Mrs. Mqhood, Mollie Mapning, Miss Ryan
(S'outh Australia), Delia Mackenzie and Airs. Oliver
were a few of those presented to the guest' of honor.
\outh and beauty packed its dancing pumps
and prettiest frocks and motored from Perth to Bun-
bury and the hills and dales of the south-west
at. the invitation of Air. and Airs. George Reading.
Their son George, just turned 21, was the cause of the
paity held in the attractive setting of Sandridge
Park Golf Club. Alollie Reading was among the
sought-after maidens. There was a monster auto-
graphed key for George, presented by Fred
Roberts, and a silver cigarette case, the joint gift
of a number of his pals.
Jessie Alartin is packing her trousseau for the
Cold Land, where she will marry Oliver AVelch, a
London architect.
The Speck speaking:—
The Cairns Officers’ last weeks in the Speck were
full of farewelling. Luncheons, dinners and bridge-
parties were varied by send-offs from the main body
of the A.AV.N.L. and the South Hobart branch, of
which Mrs. Officer was president. Airs. Arndell
Lewis engineered the branch party in her pretty
house in Holebrook-place, where the decorations were
chiefly in the league’s colors, and the guest of
honor made her good-bye speech carrying a sheaf
of yellow gladioli and mauve pansies.
Lieut.-Col. Leonard Thomas, who has combined
the position of Registrar at the Tas. University with
numerous other activities, is leaving the Speck to
take up a broadcasting job in Alelbourne. His family
will follow him at Easter.
The Games have been paying a short visit to
Queenstown, where they were the guests of the
R. AI. Alurrays.
Among visiting mainlanders this summer are
Dr. Alarie Bentivoglio (Sydney), Airs. Shaw Moody
(formerly Joan Murdoch) and her small family, the
Lester Butlers, Aliss Mullarkey, David Alaughan and
Aliss Maughan.
Senator and Airs. C. AV. Grant and their two girls
left in the Narkunda for England. Their stay there
will be only a short one.
Dr. Tim Hogg, his sister Ishbel and Margaret Gillet
are off to England by a Norwegian boat. Dr. Tim
goes to pursue his studies further in London and
Edinburgh.
Passed' over, to the regret of a host of friends,
J. A. Johnson, M.A., first principal of the Teachers’
College, and one of Australia’s foremost educationists.
He held his Tasmanian job for 25 years.
The Chancellor of Sydney University and Aliss
Ailsa Cullen are holidaying in the Speck.


Ctt
Ttl
Hgjj liiHOOt ifc
J 5 111 U
u
i m i
d ant
m yyy no
j 1H
air
M VfeV
jTJIje:
OZ,DE§TJ\jVI>
EuAEtGJEST
/V
AI/STjRAJLIAI*
For 116 years the Bank of New South Wales has been the leading
banking institution in this country, :
Trusted custodian of the savings of the people for more than a
century, the Bank, has always been closely associated with the
development of primary and secondary industries, and has built
up complete, exchange facilities necessary to serve adequately
the needs of Australia's trade in every part of the civilized world.
The Bank has'7os Branches and Agencies throughout Australia,
New Zealand, Pacific Islands and London.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and
The Australian Bank of Commerce Ltd.
are amalgamated
ŵ
Finest Ships
the Atlantic
PV TO EUROPE | IN STYLE
Duchess Liners
CrIANT ships of the Atlantic —sailing
the short and sheltered route to
England. Duchess Liners set a new
standard in luxury, comfort and service
at new moderate rates.
Distinctive cabin appointments with
famous Canadian Pacific cuisine make
these the most popular ships for
Australia to England travellers.
Write or call for literature and details.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTELS
32/3
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and ——
USA
L
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
+ m
# #
• 1
• f
SB •
• O
'J
t. ;
first class .CQQ
return
CABIN CLASS
RETURN
£7O
£B7 respectively.
(Fiji) and
Suva
Usual fares £125/10/- and
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVERR-
Via Auckland (N.Z.)>
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO
Wellingt o„ (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Paocctc (Tahiti).
Full mar titulars from
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by tn«
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months
stay in either Canada ol
* U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
amd UnbOm Lines
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Bungaree Norah.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
INTRODUCES US TO ANOTHER OF THE REMARK-
ABLE LADIES OF THE EARLY CONVICT DAYS.
WHOEVER may read journals
after my allotted span,” writes
Baron Von Big' in those frank
“Memoirs” it was my • good fortune to in-
herit from the picturesque old German noble-
man, “cannot fail, to be impressed by- the
fact that my adventures have been varied
beyond the'lot of most-men. ,
“Wherever I have been, or in whatsoever
circumstances; I may have found myself,
feminine attractiveness has ever been para-
mount to'all other influences upon the course
of my career. I was a good soldier in my
campaigning days, and I hold testimony from
my superiors that I Avas an excellent Com-
missary. My prosperity as a colonist from
the day I landed at Sydney in 1817 has been
remarked by my contemporaries. Nevertheless,
I might have done even better had I been
spared a little of that urge for female society
and conquest which has been for me the
.strongest impulse throughout life.
“It was at the end of July, in the year
1841, that I encountered a very remarkable
woman, when returning to Sydney after
visiting my friend Captain William Occle-
ton at his estate of Allarang, near the junc-
tion of the Paterson and Hunter rivers, on
the occasion of his refusing to die for the
edification of his dependants and the legal
gentleman, Mr. Jeremiah Hawkins, who had
made the journey thither to witness, his
departure to a better \\’orld. As I embarked
upon the Thistle, one of the three vessels
belonging to the Hunter River Company,
trading between Sydney and the Green Hills
(Morpeth), at eight o’clock in the morning
of a sunny winter day, I remarked a group
of people. on the wharf who appeared to be
taking leave of a personage of some import-
ance, to whose final behests they were paying
obsequious attention. After depositing my
portmanteau in my berth, I ascended to the
upper deck to Avitness the departure of the
steamship, which, because of its novelty,
greatly interested me. Standing by the
paddle-box on the side nearest the wharf, 1
was impressed no less by the attractive
appearance of this apparently distinguished
traveller than by her commanding manner.
“She was a well-matured woman of some-
where about thirty, who had the statuesque
appearance of a Juno and a face that
Avas boldly handsome and singularly master-
ful. She was dressed, not without taste,
in the costume of the period—one that did
its best to render shapeless the most shapely
outlines, and to hide in the depths of the
absurd coal-scuttle bonnets the prettiest of
faces; and her splendid shoulders and bust
were draped in an Indian shawl. When I
advanced to the rail from the companion-
way she was .admonishing a tall fellow avlio
seemed to be the principal amongst those
who had qome to bid her farewell. .
“ *Joe,’ she Avas saying, ‘I know you to be
a first-class d d fool, but that won’t save
you if you don’t brand a proper number of
'calves at the muster next month. What I
call a proper number, mind ye. Every, cow
should have at least,two, and if she has three
or four—why, so much the better. You’re
not in charge of the. cattle at the Allyn River
place simply to amuse yourself. . If I’m not
satisfied, bqck yon go to Government —and
I’ll take dam’ good care it'll . be a road-
gang if I do return you.’ ,
“The big man grinned sheepishly, and
nodded his head.
“‘Well, then, Mrs. Norah,’ he said, with,
great deference in his tone, ‘l’ll .see ye’ve
naught for to complain about. ’Tis'not on’y
th’ cows’ll have calves, but th’ bullocks as
well, ma’am.’
“ ‘And you, Nelly,’ she said to a woman
of unprepossessing appearance and ungainly
aspect—‘you watch yourself. If I hear of
any carryings-on such as took place last
time I went to Sydney, I’ll—well, strip
you and flog you.. So mind what I say.
Well, good-bye to the lot of you. Your
drinks and meals over to-night are pfciid for
at the Steam Packet Inn; but if you’re not
all away by eight o’clock to-morrow morn-
ing, I’ve fixed it with the police for to lock
ye up until I return. So look out for
yourselves. Good-bye.’
“She sailed across the wharf to the gang-
way, and, as she crossed the drawbridge,
lifted her glorious black eyes to encounter
mine, which must have been shining Avith de-
light. Pausing a moment, she smiled up at
me in a beAvitching fashion, and I hoard her
murmur:
“ ‘A d d fine style of a man—he’ll do
me.’
“It is hardly needful to state that my ela-
tion equalled my satisfaction upon hearing
these words. I began to anticipate inexpres-
sible delights.
“ ‘Ah, Mr. Augustus,’ I remarked to my-
. self, ‘half the work’s done !’ I Avas consider-
ing, of course, those wearisome, sapping and
mining operations usually so necessary in
besieging the citadel. It seemed to me, from
this instant appreciation on the lady’s part
of a fine figure and a handsome countenance,
that a successful attack upon her affections
would not be nearly so difficult as is some-
times regrettably the case. I was trans-
ported with delight.
“The master of the Thistle, Captain Daniel
Dooley, was my very good friend, and pre-
sently, perceiving - me Avandering about the
upper deck as we slipped down the’stream,
he hailed me, inviting me to ascend to the
narrow gangway connecting the paddleboxes
which in steamships is. termed the ‘bridge,’
whence the navigator shouts his directions, or
signals them with waving hand, to the man
at the wheel on ithe after-part of the poop
“ ‘Bar’n!’ he shouted, ‘come ye up here, an’
I’ll pint out th’ beauty-shpots as Ave go down
th’ river. ’Tis th’ fine day for sight-seeing.’
“So up I went over the big white paddle-
box to enjoy the, company of my genial
friend, resolved, at the first opportunity, to
make adequate inquiry as to the beauty spot
that interested me most. No doubt but that
Dan Dooley, who kneAv everyone—including,
it was said, the bushrangers—between Coal
Island and the Gwydir River, would be able
to enlighten me. and probably to accord me
an introduction. But I did not immediately
broach the subject to Captain Dooley.
Politely I complimented him upon the grace-
ful craft it was liis privilege to command.
You cannot better ingratiate yourself with a
sea captain.
“ ‘Well, thin, Bar’n,’ he said, ‘th’ T’istle’s
far from being a bad little ship, so she’s
not, but ’tis th’ Shamrock I’m a-waitin’ for.
I’m to command her, an’ ’tis Dan Dooley will
be proud for to be associated wid anny ship
so named. Th’ Rose, th’ Thistle an’ th’
Shamrock —-that’ll be th’ company’s date
whin ’tis complate, an’ tli’ dear little Sham-
rock arrives in tli’ col’ny in a few months’
time. Faith, ’twould be sin an’ shame for
to give her to. anny other skipper but wan
called Dan Dooley! Sure, she’ll be as pretty
a craytur’ as Bungareh Norah, what’s aboard
this ininit. , No doubt but ye’ve noticed her,
Bar’n ? They do be. telli.n’ me ye’ve a tine
eye for a pretty face and a nate ankle.’
“Smilingly deprecating my nautical friend’s
compliments, I asked who Bungaree Norah
might be, not dreaming that such a name
could be applied to the object of my latest
spasm of adoration. But so it was, as Dan
Dooley immediately informed me.
“ ‘Have ye no eyes, Bar’n? ’Tis she who
came on board just before we shoved off
from th’ Green Hills. A countrywoman of
me own. Mistress Norah Delaney, th’ most
famous beauty and best bus’nessman on th
three rivers. Faith, she’s a wan, she is. Not
her like in arl th’ dam’ col’ny!’
“And then he told me all about her. She
had been transported at the age of eighteen
for shooting a 'Dublin barrister who had
done her a wrong. Had been ‘housekeeper
for a while to Michael Delaney, who had
been Superintendent of Convicts in Parra-
matta in Governor Bourke’s time. Mr.
Delaney had procured her a .conditional
pardon, and then married her. He was not,
however, spared to enjoy her society for
very long, and when he died he left her all
his property, which, Michael having been a
complete villain, was considerable. Now she
owned a cattle station on the Allyn River
and a large quantity of horned stock running
in the ranges. She was, moreover, said to be
interested in the red-cedar trade, and had
several gangs of sawyers at work on the
Hunter, the Williams and the Paterson, who
supplied the steam-mill she owned at Darling
Harbor. She was' reputed to be extremely
wealthy, and had the reputation of being
something of a ‘character.’ But why, I asked,
had she been called ‘Bungaree Norah’?
“ ‘Ye’ve been along the. coast lyin’ ’twixt
Sydney an’ Newcastle in th’ daytime, I sup-
pose, Bar’n?’ asked Captain Dan.
“ ‘Several times; .my friend.’
“ ‘Well, thin, did ye not be aftber noticing,
a mile or two more than half-way between
th’ Nort’ Head of Port Jackson an’ Nobby s
Island a long point of land that some calls
Norah' Head, though its proper an’ rightful
name is Bungaree Norah, for so th native
blacks call it. Mebbe ye’ll have had it pinted
out' to ye?’ ■ .. , . , _ ...
“‘I seem to recall.it, Captain, I replied,
‘now that you mention it.’
“Well, ’tis herself wance pimped over-
board thereabouts from th . cutter Lord
Liverpool for to show »Cap’n Jimmy laggait
the fine swimmer she, was, him havm
laughed at the idea of anyone swimmin to
th’ shore from where ; th’ sailin’-packet lay
becalmed off th’ point—a little to th’ nor -
ard of it. Faith, she sthripped an done it
all right! So that’s why they call her after
the headland. And she’s proud of it—an
so might anny man be, for she swum two
mile if she swum a fut. Sure, tis a wonder
she is.’ ’ ,
“At Raymond Terrace, where we spent an
hour or so taking in'cargo,'my friend Daniel
honored me by making me acquainted with
Mrs Delaney, and we took a walk ashore
together. By the time we returned to the
Thistle I was the slave of the lovely
creature, and it was obvious that she was
not indifferent to the fervent love I made
her. We sat together on the deck, beneath
my ’possum-skin rug,, on the way down the
coast, and by the time we came to Port
Jackson Heads I may say that our mutual
advances had made great progress—so great
that the delightful creature consented will-
ingly to be a guest at Pampeluna, my -house
at Castle Hill, in the Parramatta district,
during her sojourn in the- neighborhood ■of
Sydney. ■
“Of that halcyon fortnight at Pampeluna
I shall say little. . I was the .slave of that
magnificent creature. Until, to my sorrow
and very bitter repentance, she one evening
got me drunk —not an easy thing to, do, for
my head was usually as hard as my heart
was soft. But she did it. And when I
woke up in the morning with a splitting-
headache, it was to find that my charmer
had levanted. But the note she left behind
so filled me with apprehension that my head-
ache was forgotten. It was a communi-
cation of the most severely business-like
import.
“ ‘Sir,' I read, ‘I thank you for having
concluded our business so satisfactorily.
Your cheque for £5OOO 7 will negotiate this
morning at the Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, and will leave for the Green Hills
and the Allyn Rivei• at 2 o'clock this after-
noon in the steamship Thistle. I have no
doubt that Captain Dooley will . rejoice to
hear of your acquisition of my interests in
the cedar trade on the. Hunter, Paterson and
Williams rivers. I have no doubt also that
to a man of your ability their development
mill present no difficulties. Enclosed is my
acknowledgment of your purchase and right
to take control of these industries in your
own interests. I wish you every joy of
them. —Yours ever truly, Nokah Delaney. ,
“ ‘P.B.—A fool and his money, etc., etc.,
etc., etc.'
“The impudent enclosure read as follows:
‘To all whom it may Concern. The Baron
Augustus Von Big has my complete consent
to his working for his own benefit, for value
received, any interests 7 may possess in
the Cedar Trade of the Lower Hunter Val-
ley.—Norah Delaney.’.
“It is not the part of a philosopher—
which I trust I have ever been—to dwell
upon personal misfortune and affliction, bptj
writing these notes some years after Ihe
occurrence of the events they chronicle, I
cannot but consider that I was treated
very scurvily by Mrs. Delaney. Every in-
terest she had in the cedar trade was next
door to valueless. As a matter of fact, all
they consisted of were certain royalties upon
the timber cut by several gangs of sawyers
who had been convicts in consideration of
her having rationed and equipped them and
paid their license fees. So far as I could
ascertain, , she had never sought to collect
a penny from these men, and had done what-
she had on their behalf simply because they
were Irish and had been unfortunate. When
I interviewed the head man of one of the
gangs on the Williams River, the fellow
merely laughed. -
“ ‘Sure,’ he said, ‘if Bungaree Norah sold
ye th’ right for to take a royalty out of us,
’twas herself was a-sellin’ ye a fairy tale,
me big Bar’n. That’s all there was to it,
son:. So ye’d best laugh and forget.’
“ ‘lt was long before I was able to laugh
oyer this transaction, but one day in Sydney
I was compelled to do so, about twelve
months afterwards, and by the lady herselt.
I had stayed the night at the Royal Hotel
in Georgp-street, and after breakfast had
walked out on to the lower balcony to. enjoy
a cigar. A fine-figured woman was gazing
down over the rail into the street. She
turned as I stepped put of the smokmg-
-room. It was the lovely: Burigaree Norah.
“ ‘My dear Baron, my dear Augustus, sfie
laughed, ‘and, pray, did-you get enough cedar
from 1 the rivers to .make aldacint coffin?’
“For my life’s sake I could not preserve
my dignity. I smiled and bowed. ‘Mrs.
Delaney,’ I began, when she interrupted me.
“ ‘No, no, Baron. Not now. Mrs. Daniel
Dooley. You see, a woman has to settle
down some time. She can’t always be sea-
ing red cedar.’”


CMotoH&U 'tyite
sISIOSIZ
Protects the finish
for holiday driving
THE MODERN WAY TO KEEP CARS
LOOKING NEW AND BEAUTIFUL.
HUNDREDS of thousands of motorists who really
know from experience, say: 4 ‘The sooner a car is
Simonized the better, for Simoniz protects the
finish, makes it last longer and keeps colors from fading.”
And, even after years of driving in all kinds of weather,
a Simonized car still looks new and beautiful and
naturally you get more for it when “traded in.”
Anyone can Simoniz a car.... it’s fun. Simoniz
Kleener quickly and easily removes all stains, discolora-
tions and blemishes. It thoroughly cleans and restores
the lustre and beauty of the finish. And Simoniz pro-
vides that beautiful dustproof protection that keep»s cars
looking new and beautiful.
NEW PRICES
2/6 ea.
Small Size Simoniz
and Kleener pur-
chased together;
2/9 each separated.
/
ea.
■ ,
ge Size Simoniz
and Kleener par-
chased together.
5/6 each separated.
SIMONfZ &
KLEENER
MUST BE USED
TOGETHER
FOR PERFECT SIMONIZING.
YOU SAVE MONEY BUYINC-
SIMONIZ AND KLEENER
TOGETHER.
Get a can of each to-day from
any Motor Accessory Store or
Service Station.
r"
Ai!
CO
PgoU««?
f^pNISH
amel
CRATCHINR
«ttfflßES2a
Fill
WnßTfßf^w*
I
sssksse
s? 1
>NI
uco
cQ.y5P s
DUCO
pA< NT ;KMgS&sSitea
AND PROTEcti*
ng*!? TO ALL FINISHES * CTI6
Erbf
WA*:*^
?F*S
DU CP
a
§B®l
-J. <bi
K ; - V -.
ilj yiitruini LI LVU r /
U
ii!
O
j
v
FREE-
SAMPLES
FOB TRIAL ON YOUR CAR
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
XTXL/XV JL
Atkins (W.A.). Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty..
Ltd
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
I. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd. Ltd,
Westeott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
NO MATTER HOW DULL AND FADED YOUR CAR MAY BE ,
SIMONIZING WILL RESTORE ITS ORIGINAL COLOR AND LUSTRE
Australian Factory Distributors:
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Operating Simoniz Service Station, 188-196 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
ẁ
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
ifofeu.CLetCa
Every week since 1 880 the mailman has regularly delivered "The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—*l2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —-]2 months, 30/-.; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
<v>
vf
6
(V
>>
’’
0°
6 ol>
<«s»
•••' V
•••* W* 0
° i:


The Yeast
in Beer
will keep
you FIT!
i
.
jam
53
m
mm
WM
H
■
-_
lilili
FOR generations, yeast has been recognised by
doctors and laymen alike as a safe and reliable
corrective for the disorders caused by indigestible
foods. It supplies the necessary balance to an everyday
diet by stimulating the digestive processes and by
keeping the intestines free from dangerous poisons.
Yeast can be enjoyed in its most palatable and appe-
tising form in good wholesome beer. Yeast is essential
in the production of beer and it loses none of its
properties when it comes to you in the form of
this satisfying drink.
Beer is good for you because the yeast it contains
stimulates the secretion of gastric juices and has a tonic
effect on the whole system. When you drink beer
regularly your appetite is keener, your skin is clearer,
and fresh new energy and greater endurance are yours.
No matter how you enjoy beer most... as a sparkling
lager, a light dinner ale or pilsener, a draught bitter
beer, an old fashioned ale or as a good rich stout . . .
you cannot fail to benefit from its yeast content. But
you must drink it regularly. Even the best tonic known
to medical science will fail if you do not make use of
it consistently.
Drink beer as regularly as you eat your meals . . . and
drink local beer . . . brewed under the best possible
conditions by workers employed within your own
State.
DRINK
ẃ
ẅ
w
REGULARLY
Its good for you f
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS RESCH’S
<3.p..7=;
