

e
%
i
>
D
jlfls
%
■ V
Pure imported Virginia tobacco only is used
in the manufacture of B.D.V’s. . That is the
reason for their fine quality—the reason why
they please the public taste.
n.
D
• ;
K;
D
».
'EVER.FRESH
CIGARETTES
GUARANTEED MADE ENTIRELY FROM lOO£ IMPORTED VIRGINIA TOBACCO
CO AK TIPS OH PLAI
DO
N
»el
The Bulletin
fkxA IVciCft "'jj-UXAAVCJ .
Vol. 54, —No. 2803.
Wednesday, November 1, 1933,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


*T , HE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
A now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 Georgre Street, Sydney.
Learn
dance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell .Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send , without obligation , your New Free
Hooldet. explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name
My Address
S B. 133
f cuotnestaAP
c>ZjsvejBy to
Cuticura
CToap
•i'SDfIP 1
For the Daily Toilet
Used regularly, this pure,
fragrant, delicately medi-
cated soap keeps the skin
fresh, clear and glowing
with health.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney. N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When yon advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age’’ has exerted an Influence In the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
ITS SPRINGTIME
IN THE WEST!
PEOPLE ARE BUYING!!
—Their Shopping Guide is
THE
THE LARGEST NEWSPAPER IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
ASSUMED RESULTS FOR ADVERTISERS.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion’’ Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
A ustralian lUpraen tafive:
W, J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
am) Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current event!
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART
Cable Address: "Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54r_ Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Coffins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 61-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
‘ ,c fhe zjvlaclcod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Prize Novels
Hardly a week passes without th
arrival at this office of one or two Eng
lish novels which have been hailed by
some group or other as masterpieces. Dr
Alington and his colleagues specialise
in thrillers; the Book of the Monti
people labor in another field; and
novel-writing reviewers apply all the
superlatives they know to the works o
their friends, who duly reciprocate. Ai
inevitable development has now occurred
—the World Prize Novel. According to
the publishers,
There have been British Prize Novels, there
have been First-Novel Prize Competitions, there
have been Religious and Detective Prize Com
petitions, and so on.
The novel that has won this prize has won
it in open competition with the whole world o
books in the English language.
Most of us know the feeling of frus-
tration when the million-dollar talkie
which was advertised as better than
Shakspeare turns out to be dullet
than a Parliamentary speech. The re-
action makes the thing seem worse than
it is. It is the same with novels. Prize
novels are not dull, of course, in the
same sense as prize talkies. They art.
literate, the people behave in character
and the endings are credible. But the
technical qualities which cause them to
appeal to the eclectics who choose prize
novels are lost on the general public, and
the eclectics are often wrong about the
qualities which they think will appeal to
the general public.
Sensibility
Jane Beith’s No Second Spring (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Angus and Robertson ;
7s. 6d.) is a typical prize-winner. Again
to quote the publisher: “It is a distin-
guished book ; not a story cast off by a
story-teller for the amusement of man-
kind.” The story is no more than an
episode. The Rev. Hamish McGregor
arrives from the south of Scotland with
his wife and two babies to take charge of
the wild Highland parish of Glenlee. It is
the first quarter of the nineteenth century.
Allison McGregor is meek with a holy
meekness which borders on imbecility.
Her husband tries to bully his parishioners
and fails, but he makes a success of it
with her and the children. Jean, aged
five, arrives in his study with a message.
She is too awed to give it, and he accuses
her of lying.
“Do you know what happens to children who
lie?” inquired Hamish, leaning forward. There
was no answer. “God is angry with them and
will take care of them no longer. When they
die the Devil takes them away to Hell to be
punished for ever in the fire.”
Andrew Simon, a London man of
fashion, arrives at Glenlee to fish, and he
and Allison fall in love. She sends him
away, and
“the broken heart it kens
No second spring again.”
Seventeen years afterwards, when Hamish
is a famous Edinburgh preacher, and she
has had seven more children by him, she
sees Andrew in the distance for a
moment and, still loving him, lets him go.
Allison has the beautiful yet exasperat-
ing character of a conscientious objector.
It is her punctilio to give way to Hamish
in everything. She stays on uncomplain-
ingly in pestiferous Glenlee, though she
knows he can do no good there, and
loses her children in an epidemic. An
ideal wife according to early-Victorian
standards, but a fatal mother.
Long before the tragedy Hamish had
decided to abandon his flock to their
sinful ways, and seek a call in comfort-
able Edinburgh. He eventually gets the
call and, with his fine presence and voice
and other pulpit assets, makes good.
The story is exquisitely written in its
over-emotionalised fashion. There is a
sigh or a tear on every page. Thousands
will no doubt call Allison’s renunciations
and girlish flutterings sweet,- but other
thousands will call them mawkish.
“Martyrdom of Man”
Helen Simpson, whose The Woman on
the Beast (Heinemann ; Bs. 6d.) has been
recommended by the Book Society, is
the antithesis of Jane Beith. Her style in
“Boomerang’
seemed to be ex-
ploratory ; it was
rococo and direct,
grave and fleer-
ing, all within a
hundred pages or
so. Here it is formed, and proclaims the
woman ; one who in mind resembles an
intelligent Frenchman —a born jeerer
with loyalties which refuse disconcert-
ingly to die.
Her argument—that the most hellish
wickednesses are perpetrated by the well-
meaning—is stated in three books, each
of which has Antichrist as its central
figure.
In “The Indies, 1579,” she derides the
simple faith of the multitude in sacred
relics as spiritedly as any of the English
and American writers who have been get-
ting easy laughs at the expense of
Southern Europe for the past ten years.
Her Inquisidor Mor is the immemorial
fanatic. On a point of scruple he ex-
poses the miraculous bones of Goa as
bogus, and so ruins the town as a tour-
ist resort; one in which “it had been the
pirates’ delight, and the joy even of in-
offensive persons, to gather and sing and
make mischief in his [the Saint’s] honor.”
The Viceroy and Archbishop are de-
lighted when he disappears. This sincere
and upright man’s hideous thought-pro-
cesses are revealed at every turn; as
when he fails to convert the crew of the
ship on which he is returning to Goa.
He could comfort himself with the thought
that the means of persuasion were lacking, and
thought with pious joy of how in Goa he could
reach their souls by the only sure means, afflic-
tion, judiciously administered, of the body.
He never reaches Goa. He is crucified,
denying God, before the remote jungle
tower of Heaven’s adversary, an unseen
man-woman. Ironically, the Viceroy and
Archbishop get hold of the story and a
piece of his cassock and “some nuts on
a string that had served him to number
his prayers,” proclaim him a martyr, and
use the relics to restore the fortunes of
Goa.
The central figure of “France, 1789,”
is also a man-woman. If M. de St. Esprit,
Grand Master of the Masons, had been
left alone by the police the Bourbons
might have been saved. His-her brother-
hood was designed to provide the King
with a bolt-hole ; but a royalist police-
man, who is a republican under his skin,
raids the headquarters of St. Esprit at
Bicetre, and the deluge follows. The
only other outstanding character is Valen-
tine, the actress. She is masculine, too,
in her aggressive courage and resource ;
a foil to the ineffectual young aristo
whom she worships.
“Australia, 1999,” is the weakest of
the three. Miss Simpson’s Australian
geography is shaky (she thinks Broken
Bay is 80 miles or so to the south of
Sydney), and she envisages the Australia
of 60 years hence as a sectarian limi-
taneus in which the Orange and Green
row has survived the destruction of
Rome and Ireland. Mrs. Sopwith, of the
U.S.A., head of the New Gospellers, rules
the world. The Inquisidor would have
agreed with Mrs. Sopwith’s improvement
on the Bible reference to the fate of the
Laodiceans —“Lukewarmness gets no-
body no place.” The barbaric Austra-
lians alone hold out against her aero-
planes and poison gas, and she exter-
minates them.
Miss Simpson has imagination in a
high degree, wit, mental muscle, know-
ledge and great powers of expression.
She lacks almost entirely what the author
of “No Second Spring” has so much of
—sensibility. There isn’t a love episode
or a child in The Woman on the Beast
that leaves more than a passing impres-
sion.
RED PAGE.
One of Our Conquerors
The senior dramatic critic of the
“Era” is Leslie Rees, a Perth graduate
who is anything but senior in years.
This young man recently interviewed
Bernard Shaw. Sometimes Shaw is ap-
proached by someone who is bored or
ignorant, or both. This time he clearly
felt himself confronted by an informed
critic, and his answers were careful and
full.
Charles Macdona lately began a
“cheaper-theatre” experiment, which
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain facts—open dealing.
THE SENIOR STORE
0.5
%
V I
imP
'X'
LI
x
fcSffl
> -
i»*»Wr—
«SB
*
YOUR GEAR MUST BE PERFECT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FISHING TACKLE FOR DEPENDABILITY
QUALITY & SCIENTIFIC CONSTRUCTION
The Trouting season opens again on Ist November.
Rippling mountain streams will then be calling to all
fishermen. Make sure all your gear is in order, every
line ready for that 101 b. strike.
We have just landed this season’s Trout and Perch fishing
gear. Rods, Reels, Lines, Landing Nets, etc. All of the
highest quality and at consistently low prices.
THE 1933-4 TROUT SEASON IS HERE!
SPLIT CANE FISHING RODS
Split Cane Fly Rod, 9ft., three joints, extra top, cork grip. 022.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 28/6
Alcoclt’s Split Cane Trout Rod, 9ft., three joints, cork grip,
Nicely finished. Anthony Horderns’ Price 55/-
South Bend Fly Rod, 9ft. Split Cane, three joints, extra top, cork
grip. Anthony Horderns’ Price 97/6
Split Cane Trout Rod, 9ft., three joints, extra top, with Aluminium
case to carry tops. Anthony Horderns’ Price 52/6
American Split Cane Rod, 9ft., three joints, cork grip. Keen
value! Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 18/6
Trout Steel Rod, 9ft., three joints, cork grip, suction ferrules. 033.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each ’ 14/6
Steel Bait Casting Rod, sjft., three joints, cork grip. Agatine
rings. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 18/6
South Bend Split Cane Bait Casting Rod. s}ft., two joints.
Agatine rings, cork grip. Anthony Horderns’ Price 45/-
!
ble
ou
epe
>P
LINES
TAPERED TROUT LINES.
“vtingfislier” Double Tapered Trout
Lines. Made of pure silk carefully-
plaited, waterproof with a permanent
line dressing improving with use.
Nos 1 2 3
Anthony Horderns’ Prices_, per 30 yards:
25/6 28/6 32/6
ARTIFICIAL BAIT.
Spoon Flashes—77s.
Inches l J 1
Anthony Horderns’
Prices .. (id. Bd. 9d.
Pearl Spoon Flash, with
treble hook. Price.
each 1/9
Best quality English
Trout Flies.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
dozen 4/6
FRENCH TROUT CREELS
French Cane Trout Creels. Sizes, ins.—■
17 19
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each—
-22/6 32/6
All Cane Trout Creels, with strap.
Very strong.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 30/-
Fishing Bags. Anthony Horderns’
Prices 8/6, 22/6, 47/6
&
4
s
nameled
No
25 Yds
mv<
X
SILK FLY LINES
Saline Enamelled Silk Fly Lines. The
most popular fly line ever made. A
solid braid line made of the very highest
quality silk in a medium dark pattern.
25-yard coils, four connected.
Size H G F
Dry Test (lb.) 14 IS 24
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, 25 yards—
7/- 8/6 9/6
ANGLERS’ GUIDE
WRITE FOR OUR NEW
EDITION. NO FISHERMAN,
PROFESSIONAL OR AMATEUR,
SHOULD BE WITHOUT THIS
GUIDE.
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
ALUMINIUM FLY CASES
Aluminium Fly Case.
Sizes .. 3£in. x 2iin. 4sin. x 3sin.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-6/6 9/6
Aluminium Fly Case, with compart-
ments.
Sizes .. 3Mn. x 2Jin. 6iin. x 3Jin.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-10/6 18/6
Aluminium Cast Case, with Flannel
Dampers. Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 3/-
LANDING NET
Trout Landing Net, with
Aluminium and Brass
fittings. Also Oiled Net
and Belt Clip.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 57/6
Trout Landing Net, with
wood frame.
Anthony Horderns' Price,
each 37/6
WOBBLING TYPE BAITS
South Bend Bass-Oreno is a wobbler type of bait. Body is 3iin.
long. Anthony Horderns’ Price S/-
South Bend Babe-Oreno, 3in. long. Price,, eacli 4/6
It is used for casting or trolling. Has a wonderful erratic action,
irresistible to game fish. In motion it dives., dashes, darts and
wiggles much like an injured fish. Not in motion, it floats.
m
Mi
THE BLUE RIBBON
BAIT CASTING LINE
The Blue Ribbon Balt Casting
Bine. Made of high quality
selected silk. A square, solid
braid line made upon a peculiar
braiding machine that gives
special construction. Put up on
50-yard black enamelled spools,
two connected. A mottled line
in a pleasing pattern.
Sizes G 5 4
Dry Test (lb.) —
12 15 20
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, 100
yards 22/6 24/6 28/6
GLASS FRUIT-FLY TRAPS
è
CATCH THE FLY BEFORE HE
DOES THE DAMAGE
recommended by department of agriculture.
Fruit-growers, protect your crops from the destructive
fruit fly! These glass fly traps are officially recom-
mended as the best method of fly destruction by the
Department of Agriculture. They are baited with about
6 fl. oz. of a lure attractive to the flies, and suspended
in the trees by a wire tied around the neck of the trap.
To be most effective, they should be placed about 6ft.
from the ground, and be sheltered by the foliage.
Traps to be effective should be placed regularly at least /
one to every eight or ten trees. As the bait deteriorates, J /
it should be renewed every six days or less. Price Mm / 63
Without wire handles \jq
Use Watsonia” Fruit Fly Destroyer. Costs less than per tree,
very effective. Supplied by Anthony Horderns’.
7oz. Pints. \ galls. Galls.
Pric es 1/- 2/3 8/- 14/6
Department—Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
23/-
doz.
ea., or 20/- doz.
Easy to use and
4 Galls.
13/6 per gallon
HERE ARE SOME STURDY REELS TO
HOLD THE SEASON’S CATCH
é
ê
Gurunetal Trout or Percli Reel, with line guide.
Sizes, ins 2} 3
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 13/6 17/6
Aluminium Trout Reels, Bronzed. Sizes, ins. ...... 3 3i
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 35/- 45/-
I
DOUBLE MULTIPLYING
REEL
Atlas Double Multiplying Brass
Nickelled Reel, with optional check.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 8/6
SENTRE QUADRUPLE
REEL
Sentre Quadruple Metal Reel, with
adjustable check and drjig. A good
quality reel.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 13/6
Fishing Tackle —Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day or Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.


:W:
■
R
O
OT
©
M
PAR
PURE
' .V..
m
mmm
V.
m
mm
ill
I'itjffV:}
:
&
•*>
iH
SxS
«8S
;W#
n
I
vV..‘5«
I
<!.%
If.IvJ
m
S6F
7«V
SP^'
t *j*'**
Atlantic’s steel-tough film posi-
tively seals in the power. You’ll
enjoy the added pep . . . the
extra miles per hour. Atlantic
sells at regular price at your
garage. Start using it to-day .
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of Petrols, Lubricants, Creases, etc.
OOP/.


Mr Can’t: 'How I envy you
your hearty appetite 1 ’
l pF-M
IS?
Mr Can: ‘What you should
envy Is my morning Eno!‘
Do you enjoy eating? If not, it is a sure sign that
you are unwell. Healthy people have hearty
appetites. They look forward to their meals. So
should you! Take Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ every
morning—and you’ll ensure a good digestion and
a healthful system. Eno is good for you—the
daily preventive of constipation that is pure, safe
and invigorating. Do not neglect so simple and
yet important a rule of life —take Eno, and be a
hearty, healthy Mr. Can. Get a bottle to-day.
Sold in two sizes: LARGE, contains 8 ozs.; MEDIUM, contains 4 ozs. Eno.
being in fine powder form and highly concentrated, goes much farther and
is thus better value than coarse granular substitutes. Comparison proves
this insist on Eno.
Au 3
e
The words Eno and “Fruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: The British Harold F. Ritchie Co « Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Shaw praised as entirely necessary ; be-
gan it not with Shaw but with a play by
Sardou. In the ’nineties in-
vented the comprehensive word “Sar-
doodledum” for the slick works of Sar-
dou and his followers. One of Rees’s
questions was:
Would you still, after nearly 40 years, say
that Sardoodledum was “claptrap” and “a be-
wildering profusion of everything that has no
business in a play”?
G. 8.5.: Sardoodledum does not last 40
years. I have forgotten all about it, except
that the stage telegram of which Sardou was so
fond has now been superseded by the stage
telephone call, which is much more amusing.
The interviewer followed up with:
Can the realism and primary insistence on
logic in the theatre for which you campaigned
be exploited still further? Or does not the
recent success of a few Victorian revivals —
treated usually in burlesque style—show that
there was some quality in the nineteenth-
century theatre which it is desirable to re-import
into the theatre of to-day—principally an en-
hanced sense of the stage as stage?
G. 8.5.: I never campaigned for realism and
logic. My own plays are classically rhetorical and
artificial; and my comedy delights in reducing
logic to absurdity. But as a critic I had to try to
bring the theatre into contact with actual Eng-
lish contemporary life and taste. Nobody nowa-
days can imagine what the English theatre was
before Ibsen knocked it into a cocked hat. 1
do not want any distinctive quality of the
nineteenth century back again. Dramatic art
has left that accursed period far behind.
“My own plays are classically rheo-
torical and artificial”: it was worth a
man’s while to trail his coat for a state-
ment so clear as that. As a further
demonstration, Shaw mentioned that his
next play, giving Macdona another heavy
job, is of stupendous length and all about
politics. “ Too True to Be Good,’ ” he
said, “was mere vaudeville in compari-
son.” Most of the English critics, by the
way, attacked “Too True to Be Good”
for its faults of crude humor together
with statements in its social criticism and
in its stock figures-of-fun (doctors,
colonels, mothers). Leslie Rees in his
criticism rather gave this in, but upheld
the play by his discriminations:
One major criticism —that the play lacks
form —seems to me out of court. Dramatic
form, I take it, means the consistent develop-
ment of a work in general conformity with
one’s expectations of it.... One expects a
Shaw play to be Shavian. Shaw prefers to
cease dallying with his plot after one act and
to leave the rest to discussion. He did precisely
this with “Man and Superman” as far back as
1903. Why not now?
Rees does not confine himself to
Shaw. Consistently fresh and eager, he
balances Somerset Maugham on the
point of a needle or decides for Gladys
Cooper as the Siddons of our day. The
pity of it is that so many of our brightest
wits exercise themselves abroad: the
good of it may be that they will have
so much to give on their return.
NETTIE PALMER.
Film Englishmen
“J.D.,” who complains (R.P. 11/10/’33)
of those who are “foisting ladylike lads
on the English stage and screen,” evi-
dently has not been in England lately ;
and Mr. W. H. Kelly, ex-M.H.R., who
is surprised that “English producers
can’t find a young actor who doesn’t
look as if he regards the heroine as a
matter of extinct interest,” can’t have
been in London long. John Gielgud, of
“The Good Companions,” is as repre-
sentative, in voice, manner and appear-
ance, of the young Englishman of to-day
as Noel Coward or Beverley Nichols.
“Ladylike” expresses them exactly.
They seem to belong to a different race
from such virile beings as Garry Marsh
and Charles Laughton. Elderly people
whom I met in a recent six months’ tour
of Britain blame the war for it. According
to them the large votes given recently
by Oxford undergrads, in favor of re-
fusing to bear arms in the next war
would have been unthinkable some years
ago.
As I was leaving England the other
day I confided to a fellow-Australian
that in the length and breadth of the
country I had not seen a manly man of
the vast middle-class under the age of
thirty. I missed doing the universities,
but elsewhere it was always the same —
fair, attractive-looking youths dandling
parcels, sitting in baggy plus-fours in
parks, on piers and promenades, giggling
with Bright Young Things, leading dogs
about, helping an aunt to run an “up-
to-date boarding establishment” (bless-
ings on the aunt for keeping the boy
off the dole!) or, in better circumstances,
shopping with mother at Peter Robin-
son’s.
I am a woman in my forties, and far
removed from susceptibility, but it was
with a recognised thrill that I regarded
the sunburnt, hard-faced young wharf-
man at Fremantle when he said to me as
I landed, and none too pleasantly, “Get
a move on, there! Can’t wait here all
day! ”
It is one of the reasons why this
country should develop its own film
industry. Thousands in Australia who
don’t know what young Englishmen of
another generation were like are already
beginning to accept these effeminate
specimens of the breed as fit subjects for
imitation.
S. B.
Scientists and Poets
I don’t know whether P. K. Brown
(R.P. 11/10/’33) is a scientist or a poet,
but he is certainly a hasty reader. I did
not preach a sermon in “Among the
Scientists.” Four or five people ex-
pressed different points of view ; it was
on pure supposition that Mr. Brown gave
me the benefit of holding any one of
them.
Mr. Brown’s own view was more
or less expressed by my old man
who finished the discussion, though if
he had had more time he might have
made himself clearer. He might have
said, for instance, that the aims of the
scientist and the artist are identical, inas-
much as they are both endeavoring to
discover reality. They both tread dif-
ferent paths to the same objective. I
know that some scientists hold a con-
trary opinion, also most poets. I am
acquainted with an eminent scientist who
regards art as an escape and dabbles in
it for that reason. He published an
engaging book which he dubbed “Un-
scientific Essays,” but he was laboring
under a misapprehension. Either the
essays were art and therefore scientific,
or else they were not art, in which case
the correctness of the title was unargu-
able. Art is not a flight from, but an
approach to, reality, just as much as
science.
A certain well-known poet wrote of a
woman’s eyes:
Stars, stars,
And all eyes else dead coals.
A physicist like Prof. Grant would prob-
ably say something about neutrons or
electrons and even give you their num-
bers in astronomical figures. Not being
a scientist, I have a prejudice in favor
of the poet, but if I were a physicist I
would probably get an equal thrill out
of the electrons —Alfred Russel Wallace
nearly fainted when he saw a butterfly
unknown to science in the Java jungle.
It is when scientists try to explain the
supernatural in terms of the natural and
spirit in terms of matter that the poets
have it all over them. The eyes that
bedazzled the poet were just as truly stars
as they were bundles of electrons, and
the electrons don’t explain the stars,
though many scientists think otherwise
and, under the impression that they are
learning something about life, solemnly
dissect mounds of dead bodies.
Now I have preached a sermon.
M. G. SKIPPER.
The Conway
John Masefield’s name on The Conway
(Heinemann; 10s. 6d.) will give many
readers a thrill; but the thrill will quickly
die. Masefield has merely edited the
volume, which consists of disjointed sec-
tions of other people’s memories inter-
spersed with equally disjointed honor
lists, reproduced newspaper cuttings and
a reminiscence which, if Masefield wrote
it, is decidedly not in his usual glamorous
sea style. As a library record of the
development of one of the finest sea
educational institutions in the world it is
a useful work in the public-school-annals
class, but in its present form it won’t
interest many except the old boys who
are scattered in and out of ships over the
earth.
What old boys some of them were and
are, by the way! Among the 7000 lads
who have passed over the Conway’s decks
since its foundation in 1859 have been
three V.Cs., three D.S.Os. with bar, 39
D.S.Os., a Poet Laureate and a Governor
or two —Sir H. T. Goold-Adams, of
Queensland, was one. The book is
beautifully printed and well illustrated
with photographs of life on the ship.
M. E.
Australian Books Overseas
I have been puzzled by letters from
London friends who have battered in
vain at Australia House bookstalls for
copies of Davison’s “Man-Shy,” Louis
Stone’s “Jonah” and Leonard Mann’s
“Flesh in Armour.” These books are all
six months old or over; they are pub-
lished authoritatively in Melbourne and
Sydney and have been enthusiastically
received by reviewers all over the Com-
monwealth. It is good news that “We
of the Never Never” is always on sale
at Australia House ; but our writers did
not simultaneously smash their pens
when that book was written. “Flesh in
Armour” has just been awarded the
yearly medal of the Australian Literature
Society, which last year was given to
“Man-Shy.” This is all to the good, but
such distinctions only make it seem more
remarkable that such notable works are
not better distributed.
P.
A Satchel of Books
First Nights (Exhibition Publications,
Sydney) is a new monthly devoted mainly
to the stage. It is profusely illustrated,
and contains criticisms of current shows,
information about repertory societies,
some book reviews, caricatures and
verse.
Sydney of Yesterday, by Quinton Tids-
well, contains ten dry points of such
vanished or vanishing beauties as the
verandah and doorway of Burdekin
House and the spire of St. Stephen’s,
Phillip-street, and an interesting forward
by Thomas Dunbabin. The price is
3s. 6d.
Douglas Delusions, by F. J. Docker
(Angus and Robertson ; 4s. 6d.), is an
attack on the “shallow and paralogistic
propositions” of the author of “Social
Credit.” Over fifty pages are employed
to demolish the A + B Theorem, and
about the same space is allotted to Con-
sumer Credit and the Just Price. The
work begins with a clear-headed section
on Banking and Credit and Money.
Manuscripts, which is published quar-
terly at The Book Shop, Geelong, has
achieved its sixth issue. Don Finley
writes on “The Background to the Play” ;
there is a short article on “Lionel Lind-
say’s Bookplates” by Camden Morrisby,
and Harold Herbert discusses “The
Pencil Drawings of Charles Wheeler.”
The verse is excellent, as usual, and so
are the reproductions of pencil drawings
and woodcuts.
The theme of Keith Barry’s Music and
the Listener (Robertson and Mullens;
2s. 6d.) is that anyone can learn enough
about good music to get keen enjoyment
from it.
It is doubtful whether very much more time
or energy is necessary than that spent in learn-
ing to play a reasonable game of bridge.
The booklet begins with a brief history
of music (dispelling, incidentally, the
Continental legend that the English are
unmusical), and goes (5n to explain how
orchestras, vocal music, bands, chamber
music and so on should be listened to.
It is aimed chiefly at owners of wireless
sets, but its interest is general.
E. W. Hornung is dead, yet his most
famous creation liveth in the capable
hands of Barry Perowne, author of
Raffles After Dark (Cassell; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). Mr. Perowne has
the permission of the late E. W. Hor-
nung’s executors to carry on the good
work. The police are still after Raffles
in this one. However, his mission is
commendable, even noble ; with his faith-
ful offsider Bunny he is concerned to
save H.H. the Prince of Mandalore and
others from the machinations of Nanda
Tail Ram. Never has A.J. been in a
tighter corner, and never has he dis-
played greater resource than in the pen-
ultimate chapter, when the heroine is
lashed to an electric chair, and Nanda
Lall, one hand grasping an automatic,
the other on a sinister ebonite dial, is
preparing to do his worst. Raffles’s fee
for foiling Nanda is £1,000,000. He
sends it to the Policemen’s Widows and
Orphans’ Fund.
John Travers, hero of H. M. Tom-
linson’s The Snows of Helicon (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.), is an artistic idealist.
Lord Snarge, the millionaire, is his anti-
thesis.
There he is, one of those men of action our
schoolmasters taught us to admire. As right as
wireless telegraphy and high finance; as right as
all the fine modern things. You’ve heard of
something called the organisation of our re-
sources. That’s old Snarge.
The projected destruction of the Temple
of Apollo on the island of Colonna by
Snarge and his myrmidons infuriates
Travers. He goes to the spot where
beauty reigned 2000 years ago, finds the
island has practically every modern
amenity except a cinema, and is destroyed
with the Temple. The case against
modernistic vandalism is interestingly
put, and there are some amusing studies
of British seamen.
Family Ghosts, by Elliott O’Donnell
(Philip Allan; Bs. 6d.), is an extended
version of “Ghosts of London,” which
was reviewed on this Page last year. It
has something to say about almost every
notable ghost in the world except
N.S.W.’s Kiama Ghost. The Glamis
Castle ghost; Bourbon and Bonaparte
ghosts; German and Swedish ghosts;
Irish banshees and Welsh gwrach-y-
-rhibyn—then—the habits of these and many
other phantoms are dealt with in a bright
and informative manner. There is even
a short chapter on American ghosts.
They are regarded as arrivists in the
super-physical world, and seem to be
lacking in that sense of the drama which
characterises the haunters of Europe.


9
ndu
mi
cd
‘■.V
)
m
.
m
V
wmm
X
I
lltiSM
■
M
■
■
liil
f
'■ .■.
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54 —No. 2803.
November 1, 1933.
CARRYING ESSENTIAL GUTS TO A BEAR.
“The U.S.A. is preparing to recognise the Soviet and grant it huge credits, notwithstanding the repudiation of American loans and seizure of American
property in Russia.”
DEJECTED BIRD-O' FREEDOM: This peace racket comes onnateral, and I ain’t feelin’ too good; but perhaps the b’ar’ll rustle up somethin’ for me."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THIS WAGE-FIXING BUSINESS.
Premier Stevens told the delegates to
the manufacturers’ conference that what
prevents industrial stability is “the virus
which makes political capital out of over-
lapping by different arbitration authori-
ties.” Overlapping is a factor, but
the reasons for the failure of industrial
arbitration by lawyers—“the legalistic”
system of arbitration, as Mr. Latham
would call it —go deeper than that.
The very atmosphere and procedure of
the wage-fixing tribunals, the Common-
wealth concern especially, are inimical to
industrial peace. And the sight of an
army of officials and advocates battening
on industry, and refusing, in the case of
certain bigwigs, to share in the sacrifices
which they declared it necessary for
toilers receiving a tithe of their pay to
make, is singularly repugnant to the
average man —doubly so because the
whole show is a sham and a blind.
Before the depression arrived Bavin
set up an Industrial Commission in
N.S.W. When it embarrassed his Govern-
ment by cutting the basic wage he rushed
to override it. Lang, for his part, refused
to let the Commission adjust the basic
wage lest it embarrass him; he trans-
ferred one of the Commissioners to the
Supreme Court so as to make it incapable
of sitting. When previously in power he
had given the State “good old Piddo,”
under whom arbitration took on the as-
pect of an elderly and loquacious Alad-
din rubbing his lamp; Bavin’s Com-
mission consisted of “Piddo” and two
lawyers, who generally outvoted him.
Enter Stevens, exit “Piddo” ; and pre-
sently the harassed State is ordered by
another Court to pay large compensation
to a flock of deputy commissioners and
conciliation-committee chairmen who
followed “Piddo” into retirement—com-
pulsory in their case. Then Stevens
produces an Industrial Commission
which orders basic-wage reductions, the
last of which even hard-pushed em-
ployers and concerns like the Water
Board reject with scorn.
Above such bodies as serve the States
in their fashion is the Federal tribunal.
It enjoys the pay and pomp of a Supreme
Court without its authority. It is the prey
alternately of theoretical economists with
their index-tables and scissors-graphs and
of shouting demagogues, who invest the
proceedings in which they take part with
an abusive Parliamentary air. Some-
times an error in calculation is ad-
admitted ; thus, there have been three
basic wages in a week.
The whole thing might not be so open
to contempt if there were any uniformity
of method or finding among this welter
of Courts and Commissions. But they
cannot even agree on first principles.
What is evidence to one is not evidence
to another. They are not even at one,
as between State and State, on what con-
stitutes a unit on which the basic wage
should be fixed. The Commonwealth
fixes its minimum for a man, wife and
three children. So do South Australia
and Queensland. But the State basic wage
in Queensland is 15s. 2d. higher than the
Federal basic wage, allowing for the 10
per cent, cut but not for the niggling
cost-of-living fluctuations. South Aus-
tralia diverges from the Federal wage
within its boundaries by 3s. sd. per week.
Westralia, whose State Court adopts
two children in the family as against
S.A.’s three, puts up with a difference
between Federal and State wage of 9s.
per week.
In Sydney, though the State basic
wage has been cut 2s. a week, presum-
ably because the Commission is satisfied
that cost of living has fallen, the Federal
basic wage has been raised sd. a week
because the Commonwealth Statistician
reports that cost of living has increased.
Nor does the confusion end there. The
fearsome desire for nicety which afflicts
most Arbitration Courts results in such a
riot of varying wage-rates that some big
public utilities could afford to put up
wages if somebody would wipe out the
one-farthing and one-eighth-of-a-penny
divergences between the pays of the
multitude of trades which they employ,
and relieve them of the accountancy
burden involved in computing them.
When times are bad not all the Arbitra-
tion Courts in the world can raise wages
or make more work. When times are good
nothing can keep wages down or men
out of jobs. Demand and public opinion
invariably override the Courts when the
Courts are out of line with the times.
Natural laws operate.
When things were booming, no trade-
unions appealed more to tribunals than
the coal-mining unions ; none have suf-
fered more in the long run than these
unions have suffered through the con-
cessions secured. They have reaped a
harvest of narrowed markets and sad-
dened manhood—rationed miners, unem-
ployed miners, young men who have
voted but never worked. . And mine-
owners have been brought to the stage
where they have no desire to expand
their output.
On the other hand, trades which seldom
or never have strikes and regard wage-
fixing tribunals largely as machinery for
registering amicable mutual arrangements
have gone through the depression in a
different atmosphere and are emerging
from it in a buoyant spirit. Anybody
who believes that employer and employee
cannot agree should study the history
of the N.S.W. electrical trade. Firms like
Farmers, in Sydney, again, never have
disputes with their employees, and dur-
ing the past few days the cunning and
dangerous agitator who preaches that the
employer and the employee are natural
foes has been confounded by the sight
of both sides in the building trade getting
together to prevent sweating. In point
of fact, there are over 600 voluntary
wage-agreements in fprce in various Aus-
tralian trades.
Since the High Court, reversing its
own judgment, decided that State rail-
waymen might have their wages fixed
in the Commonwealth shop, the rail-
waymen’s unions have never been out of
that shop. In costs alone they must
have spent at least £lOO,OOO, and after
thirteen years their pay and hours re-
main unsettled questions yet.
Industrial arbitration by lawyers, with
politicians always looking on and inter-
fering when votes may be affected, has
been tried and found wanting. “A new
province for law and order,” the late
Justice Higgins called it; Australia in
dark days found that it bred lawlessness
and disorder, though it has certainly been
a great new province for lawyers. No
country has copied our methods; no
country ever will copy them. Wages
boards have worked pretty well; but
this basic-wage business must go. It
would be better far to let people in in-
dustry make their own arrangements
than to continue the competition of “the
two shops” and prolong the jumble of
inequity which Stevens rightly describes
as “looking like an experiment in comic
opera.”
AUSTRALIA’S LOAD OF DEBT.
If the breadwinner earns £3 a week and
spends £4 a week, he is on the way to in-
solvency. If a man borrows £5, pays back
£7 to the moneylender in interest and still owes
£8 for the original £5 he borrowed, he is a
fool. Every man and woman will admit so
much. When the principle is applied to public
borrowing, no one seems to notice that the
same rule should hold good.
Theodore wrote that —yes, Theodore!
The total public debt of Australia was
then £380,353,000, of which the States
were responsible for £342,925,000. The
war gave the Treasurers, Theodore
among them, an excuse to begin borrow-
ing for vote-buying purposes, and they
have been borrowing ever since. More-
over, exorbitant rates of interest became
fashionable with them after 1915, when
McKenna set a bad example in England
by raising the interest on British war
issues from 3i per cent, to 5 per cent.,
after which it was a fetish till the depres-
sion years that this was a fair minimum
rate.
When the Theodore policy made Lon-
don borrowing difficult for Queensland,
Theodore and his friends paid Uncle Sam
7 per cent., which expanded to a local
12 per cent, maximum under stress of
exchange. Full-dress borrowing became
difficult for all parties, but electoral
“gimmes” went on crying out for more
sewers, speedways, post offices and rail-
ways; so the short-term loan, the Trea-
sury bill and the bank overdraft had their
turn —to such bad purpose that liens of
about £90,000,000 on public security are
tucked away in bank vaults here and in
London, redeemable in anything from a
few minutes to a few months.
The national debt itself has become
something for people who love immensity
to be proud of. Remarking that it had
increased from £1,100,597,000 in 1930 to
£1,204,658,000 in 1933, Senator Elliott
summed up the position graphically:
The average indebtedness per head of popu-
lation was £l7O in 1930, and £lB2 in 1933.
Federal and State Government expenditure last
year aggregated just on £191,000,000, equal to
£360 per minute. It represents 623 per cent,
of the value of production —£305,000,000. Pro-
duction is £46 Is. per head; taxation is
£l3 ss. 9d. per head, or nearly 30 per cent,
of production.
The national debt has increased
£824,305,000 in 18 years since Theodore
wrote his wisdom. All there is to show
for it is mile upon mile of glaring con-
crete dotted with a few lonely speed-
sters ; mile upon mile of unpaying rail-
way running through dreary sandhills;
expensive charity and pension schemes ;
lunatic boards and authorities galore
which sprout vote-buying jobs in pro-
fusion, and the world’s worst collection
of derelict socialised industries. All these
place a crushing load of taxation round
the necks of struggling citizens who have
been the victims of the wicked squander-
ing of the last decade.
It is not the fault of the Auditors-Gen-
eral. As long ago as 1919 the Queens-
land A.-G. declared that if the financial
stability of his State was to be maintained
the “gravity of the present situation and
the risk in regard to the future call for
thoughtful reflection.” As.-G. have been
shouting the same sort of thing ever
since into the unheeding ears of the Theo-
dores, the Earle Pages, the Colliers and
the Lyonses, but nobody seems to have
taken the slightest notice of them until
recently, except to tell them that they'
were a lot of narks whose crankiness was
calculated to spoil a good game and lose
Ms.P. their seats.
The South Aus. report for 1933-34
almost repeats the Queensland A.-G.’s
views for 1919. W. E. Rogers, who writes
it, says:
It is obviously impossible to arrive at sta-
bility in public finance by reducing ordinary
Government expenditure if savings made are
progressively to be absorbed by interest losses.
He points out that in 1932-33 £2,237,818
spent out of S.A.’s direct taxation in
meeting interest charges left only
£495,627 of taxation revenue for ordi-
nary expenditure. In the past seven, years
S.A. deficits have totalled £7,767,776, and
interest on borrowed money to meet these
shortages alone is costing the S.A. tax-
payers £300,000 p.a. Premier Butler has
heavily rebuked the outspoken Rogers
for being pessimistic, or something.
Queensland’s debt last year showed a
net increase of £2,670,000. In ten years
it swelled 30.42 p.c. —by £26,769,000. The
N. S. Wales net addition to the load since
June 30, 1931, has been £25,100,000.
The interest on Australian loans floated
in 1932-33 alone has been sufficient to off-
set 25 per cent, of the benefit obtained
through London conversions, and Aus-
tralia still had to find last year
£A50,437,385 in interest, without taking
exchange on oversea debts into account,
out of a grand total of taxation revenue
of £87,946,000.
If the country were borrowing on the
premium-bond plan to relieve the tax-
payers during the emergency period of
burdens which now compel many of
them to hand over two-thirds of their
annual expenditures to the Government,
it would be a different thing. Indus-
try under such a system would become
profitable, and wages could come down
because commodities would be cheap-
ened, more employment would be given
and the purchasing power of each £
would be increased. With new loans,
however, being sunk in cold and un-
productive cement, in wild experiments
in State socialism and in added salaries
for politicians and civil servants, nomi-
nally paid out of consolidated revenue,
each additional pound of borrowed
money spent is a fresh hostage to ruin.
IN 1950.
“Nice place this,” said the leader of the little
band of trippers who were visiting the South
Westralian orchard.
When autumn stains and dapples
The diverse land,
Thickly laden with apples
The apple-trees stand.
“Freddy, you whelp, you’re not listening. Your
eyes are fixed on that tray of apples. Well, go
over and take your pick. The old gentleman
in the Bath chair said you could have one.
Benevolent-looking old geezer, isn’t he?”
But the ancient in the Bath chair looked any-
thing but benevolent as he saw the urchin
pawing his Granny Smiths. “Hey, stop that!”
he wheezed, propelling his vehicle towards the
party. “Not that tray, boy, the other one. The
one on the path. That’s where we put the
apples with grubs in.”
The leader of the party grinned. “You’re a
character, sir,” he said. “Quaker, perhaps?”
“Quaker, be blowed!” the old gentleman re-
plied. “I was a statesman.”
"Beg pardon?”
“Well, politician, if you like it better. I was
in public life for 40 year, man and boy.
Member of seven Cabinets, Acting Prime
Minister, signed the peace treaty with Austria,
delegate to the Washington Conference —cost
nine thousand that little expedition did. You’ve
heard of me, surely? Pearce, George Pearce.”
“Yes, of course—Pearce. Mr. Pearce.”
“Sir George to you and his Majesty the
King.”
“Sorry, I’m an ignorant blighter; but politics
never appealed to me. Forty years, eh? Long
time in a man’s life. Did you always belong
to the same party?”
"Bless you, no! I was Labor, National
Labor, Nationalist, Country-party—at least I sat
with Country-party Ministers and got a Country-
party nomination —and, lastly, U.A.P. Started
as Freetrader and became a high Protectionist.
Socialist, then anti-socialist. A pacifist during
the Boer War, a conscriptionist during the
Great War and a League of Nations man after-
wards.”
“Comprehensive, anyway. How did the poet
express it?
Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong;
Everything by turns and nothing long.
“Keep your nasty quotations to yourself,
young fellow. I was never stiff in my opinions.
A man who never changes his opinions never
grows.”
“H’m; I should have expected you to be u
lot taller and stouter. You have a snug little
orchard here, anyhow.”
“Not so bad Saved it all out of my salary.”
“Must have had a good salary, then.”
“Well, it wasn’t much to begin with. A
measly four hundred a year. That was for
the first six years of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment; then we raised it to six hundred.”
“That was better.”
“Yes; but it wasn’t nearly enough. Still we
had to wait another 13 years—nineteen-twenty
—for something really decent. Then the Gov-
ernment gave members another four hundred a
year and Ministers another eight hundred. I
was a Minister.”,
“No doubt—l mean, you don’t say so? Who
was the head of the Government?”
“Billy Hughes. Billy was the boy! He did
these things in style.”
“The Captain Kidd style, as it were.”
“Captain Kidd? Think I remember the
name. Wasn’t he on the headquarters staff
when I was Minister for Defence?”
“Perhaps so; but I was thinking of another
Captain Kidd. This Billy you mention; Mr.
Hughes; did he take the eight hundred?”
“Did he what ? Took it with both hands,
and also twenty-five thousand they gave him the
same year for winning the war.”
“Winning the war? Precisely; and did he
win it lone-handed?”
“Don’t be silly. I helped. It was really
more than twenty-five thousand, as Archie
Parkhill, who was to become my Ministerial
colleague, blurted out when he was wild with
Billy, who had done him out of the North
Sydney nomination; anyhow, Billy brought it
down to twenty-five thousand, or something like
that, by dropping a couple of thousand in a
tin gamble. They gave Archie a couple of
thousand, too.”
“What war did he win?”
“None that I know of.”
“A good ratcatcher, perhaps?”
“Can’t say for certain; but Archie had been
for so many years secretary of the anti-socialist
organisation, and had had to take orders from
so many socialists whom his concern had
accused of being out to destroy the foundations
of the home and the sanctity of the marriage
tie, that I suppose it was felt that his feelings
had to be considered.”
“And hadn’t you to consult the people before
you—er —dipped your hands in the public
purse?”
“Not a bit of it. Parliament is supreme, or
was in those days, and the public purse, as
you call it, was at our disposal. As l said the
next time we raised our salaries, the Constitu-
tion left it to Us.”
“The next time. There were three of these
interesting performances, then?”
“Three there were. Remember the depression
of the nineteen-thirties?”
“Not vividly; I was only a youngster then.”
“Well, things were bad —very bad. Wool
was ninepence a pound; wheat was below two
bob; nearly half the people were out of work.
The Prime Minister —Scullin, it was; he and I
were allies in 1913 and opponents from 1921
onwards —said all Government expenditure
would have to come down at once or Govern-
ment would be reduced to paying twelve bob
in the pound; so we made a voluntary sacri-
fice. A voluntary sacrifice, mark you.”
“Of eight bob in the pound?”
“You talk like a fool. But it wasn’t for very
long. As soon as Australia was out of the mess
its rulers rose to the occasion. Seventy-five
pounds a year more for members; a hundred
and fifty more for Ministers. I was a Minister.”
“And was Australia out of the mess?”
“Well, according to the figures, a third of the
people were still out of work, and wheat was
still below two bob; but you can make figures
prove anything.”
“Who was Prime Minister then?”
“Joe Lyons. A man after my own heart.
Labor and then U.A.P. Ardent socialist till
he was fifty; ardent anti-socialist afterwards.”
“Where was Mr. Hughes at that time?”
“You mean Billy? Oh, Billy was in it, too.
Wasn’t present when the vote was taken, but
silence gives consent. Billy was never a nark
in those matters, though he couldn’t stand
playing second-fiddle, especially to anyone he’d
once bossed.”
“Where is Billy now?”
“Oh, hanging round Sydney somewhere,
forming a new party, I daresay. He formed so
many parties and belonged to so many organisa-
tions and spoke at so many luncheons that in
the end he got confused about them all. He
would go along to a Defence League meeting
and make a rousing speech in support of the
Douglas Credit system, and things like that.”
“I suppose you correspond with him?”
“No, we fell out. Last time I saw Billy, he
said: ‘George, I’m forming a new party. Call-
ing it the “Back-to-Billy” party.’ ‘Billy,’ I said
(he! he! he!), ‘your new parties have all been
that.’ His language was awful, and he’s never
spoken to me since.”
The trippers began to move away, leaving
the old gentleman chuckling.
“Hold on a minute,” he quavered. “Little boy
didn’t eat his apple. Here, sonny, here’s
another —the grub in it’s noi so big.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Poverty and Grand Opera.
The behavior of the House of Represen-
tatives over the salary grab can scarcely
be called edifying. First, members were
sounded as to whether they were pre-
pared to let the thing go through without
striking a discordant note. Then there
were discussions at dead of night (out-
side the Chamber), resulting in the deci-
sion to go ahead. Next a Labor poli-
tician of no importance brought on the
question of the grab at 9.26 a.m., the
House having sat all night without ad-
journing for breakfast ; and the Govern-
ment gave in.
Then came the stampede ; after that,
the indignation.
Some optimistic taxpayers hoped that
the Senate would denounce the sordid
manoeuvre. They did not know the
Senate. Every salary grab has received
the approval of the Senate.
Next the printer and publisher of Sydney
“Sunday Sun” were declared guilty of
contempt for the remarks of their paper
on the proceedings in the House of
Representatives. Perhaps they may find
themselves in the Prime Minister’s dog-
kennel before it is all over. There is no
dungeon at Canberra.
Mr. Lyons’s defence of his Government
was notable for the generosity with which
he shared the credit of his Budget and
performances with the rest of the “112
men who saved the country,” for his
argument that because Kingsford Smith
was getting £3OOO it was only fair that
members and Ministers should share
£9765 p.a., and for his inability to answer
Gabb’s pertinent question:
Why didn’t you bring it down in the
Budget?
Well, why didn’t he? At 9.20 p.m.
on October 19 he asked the House to
expedite the progress of the Financial
Relief Bill, and not to press for the
restoration of wage and pension cuts,
because “additional restorations would
involve a greater deficit than. .. .approxi-
mating £1,000,000.” Fifteen hours
later he moved the new clauses providing
for a “greater deficit” —in other words,
granting rises to members, Ministers and
seven “Parliamentary officers.”
Mr. Scullin in his agitation said that
“he had protested two years ago when
The Bulletin had published a cartoon
of the Governor of N. S. Wales as Judas.”
With thirty pieces of silver on his mind
he may be forgiven for having jumbled
his characters—his Excellency was actu-
ally pictured as jesting Pilate, who asked
“What is truth?” and would not stay for
an answer. Mr. Martens, the member for
Herbert, said he would scorn to take £lO
a week (he is taking £825 a year) for writ-
ing such stuff as had appeared about
him in The Bulletin, that “harlot or
Mammon”! Grand opera is the fashion
in the Herbert—it has a large Italian
vote. The trembling inmates of The
Bulletin office live in terror lest every
shadow in the doorway should be that
of a pocketeer from Herbert, stiletto in
hand, and ready to burst into that sombre
ditty from “Rigoletto”:
Ghetti, ghetti.... moviamo a vendetta.
But Mr. Parkhill provided the piece de
resistance —P.M.G. Parkhill. Paid sec-
retary for half a generation of the
Liberal (later the Nationalist) organisa-
tion, with a handsome salary, supple-
mented by bonuses ; with a Parliamen-
tary screw, a Ministerial screw and
Ministerial expenses (£lll last year);
with an office in No. 4 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, and suites at G.P.Os. in all the capi-
tals ; with a gold pass and the use of a car
with a uniformed chauffeur, Mr. Parkhill
might have been expected to have a soul
above voting himself another £l5O a year
when many of his constituents (even in
Mosman) are out of work; but Mr.
Parkhill had other views. Also Mr. Park-
hill revealed himself as a sensitive soul.
“S. M. Herald” mentioned that when he
discussed newspaper references to the
business in which he was engaged “he
appeared almost as if he were likely to
break down.” Rallying, Mr. Parkhill said
he was determined to protect “decent
citizens from swinish attacks.”
Which, coming from a Minister who
had been brought to book a day or two
before for imputing “vile insinuations”
and “filthy suggestions” to other members,
is pretty rich, even allowing for the fact
that penury destroys men’s sense of
proportion.
+
Five Dollars a Sitting.
In pursuit of knowledge as to how legis-
lators are remunerated in other countries,
A. H. Edwards, hon. sec. of the A.F.A.
League at Gawler (Tasmania), addressed
a letter to the Governor of the State
of Washington (U.S.A.). The subjoined
reply came from Governor Martin’s
secretary, Richard Hamilton:
The population of Washington is 1,563,398,
with almost 600,000 registered voters. The
State is divided into 46 districts; 46 Senators
compose the Upper House, 99 Representatives
compose the Lower House.
Legislature convenes every two years for
60 days. The salary of each member is 5
dollars per day for the 60 days served; figured
on a yearly basis, 150 dollars per year. Mem-
bers are also allowed mileage to and from
their homes at the time Legislature convenes.
The apportionment of our districts was
changed during the 1931 Legislature, going
into effect for the 1933 Legislature. The
voters objected to the change of salaries from
daily to annual payment, as it would have
meant a large increase. Of course, if the
Governor should call a special session of the
Legislature, which is very seldom done, the
members would be paid at the same rate as for
the regular session.
The State has no difficulty in securing good
candidates, and members practically render their
services free, as the 5 dollars per day would
hardly pay their living expenses while at the
Capitol.
Would any of those Canberra patriots
who consider themselves underpaid at £l5
a week, plus a pass over the railways and
tramways of Australia and Maoriland,
care for a change to Washington? If
so, information as to passage-money and
sailing dates will be placed at their dis-
posal.
«
Cancer Can Be Relieved.
The construction in Melbourne of three
transformers to carry 300,000 volts for
use in deep-ray therapy plants emphasises
(he advance which is being made in the
treatment of cancer by this method,
which was developed by Professor Winz
in Germany during the war. Of radium
itself, the world’s supply totals only about
500 grammes, worth £7,500,000, so (hat
the ambit of its usefulness is limited, even
despite the newest methods of radium
economy. There is no limit, however,
to the use of deep-ray therapy plants,
which are, in effect, super-high-lension,
ultra-shortwave broadcasting stations
that bombard cells with deadly frequen-
cies travelling at the rate of 12,000 to
18,000 miles per second.
Five of these plants now operate in
Sydney. The largest, which works at
300,000 volts, but which is capable of
taking 400,000 volts, was installed last
June in Sydney Hospital. Its radio tube
is over 4ft. long. Others are at Prince
Alfred and St. Vincent’s. Private practi-
tioners, one of whom is increasing his
power so as to place his apparatus in
the Sydney Hospital class, have a couple,
and there are a few in other capitals.
The strides which have been made are
enormous. Pain now can be relieved in
almost all classes of cancer. Of all kinds
of the horror, inclusive of deep-seated
and resistant sorts, 30 per cent, can be
relieved, besides a large proportion which
can be palliated or checked. “Relief”
often involves an apparent cure; but
practitioners are too cautious to admit a
cure till the patient is clear of the trouble
for five years.
The technique is so new that only now
a good many Australian patients on pro-
bation are nearing the end of this term.
In the U.S.A. an authority has placed
the percentage of cures at 24 p.c. Lip
cancers, skin cancers and tongue can-
cers yield a large number of apparent
cures by ray and radium treatment; the
proportion would be much larger if the
public realised two things. First, the
extent to which the new treatments have
replaced the knife. Many a case which
before the war would have had no chance,
except through surgery and mutilation,
is to-day dealt with without pain, with-
out even a sojourn in hospital. Second,
time is the essence of the contract. A
person with any cancer, given early ray
treatment, has at least a fighting chance.
The time is approaching, if it is not
already here, when surgery in a case of
cancer should not be allowed until a cer-
tificate of advice has been issued by a
technical committee familiar with
modern radiology. At the same time,
firm control of X-ray treatment should
be established to deal with the quack and
the ignorant physician. The term
“radiologist” . should be usable only
under license from a competent authority.
*
Australia’s Nearest Friend.
The new trade agreement with Maori-
land, while it may fall short of expecta-
tions raised in various circles on both
sides of the Tasman, is welcome as the
product of an honest effort towards
friendship by neighbors who are also
kinsmen.
Some matters that have occasioned ill-
feeling in the past, such as restrictions on
the interchange of wheat, oats, onions
and potatoes when there has been a short-
age in either market, have not been
arranged ; but they have been discussed,
and the difficulties on both sides are
better appreciated in consequence. New
conditions arising out of divergences in
exchange have been met by remission of
Australian primage duty and a sales-tax
adjustment. There are mutual conces-
sions involving free admission of charac-
teristic and non-competitive products,
such as the Fernlanders’ preserved fish
preparations and the Australians’ dried
raisins, modification of the general pre-
ference requirements and provision for
the further equalising of tariffs in cases
not specifically touched on in the agree-
ment.
Possibly at some not very distant date
wider and simpler measures of reciprocity
will be devised. Recent world events
have conspired to bring to Australians
and Maorilanders a sense of their inter-
dependence. In matters of international
trade, such as the competition of subsi-
dised U.S.A. ships, and on questions of
defence —particularly naval defence —
unity of policy has been recognised as
essential. As a matter of geography,
the centre of Australasia is only 350 miles
west of Canberra, and the Dominion’s
capital is 800 miles nearer to Sydney than
Perth is. In a generation in which air
transport laughs at oceans and knits the
world closer together every year the
Maorilander can no longer be regarded
as a distant neighbor, and points of iden-
tity in Australian and Maoriland in-
terests are increasing so rapidly that the
divergences are becoming of very little
importance. As a recognition of this
fact the new trade agreement deserves
hearty cheers.
+
Bad Men’s Luck.
Luck and virtue don’t go hand in hand,
as has been proved in the N.S.W.
Criminal Appeal Court. Two thugs way-
laid a young married man (he was a
stranger to them) as he walked home-
ward from a lodge meeting. One of
them pointed a pistol at him ; it went off
and killed him. The thug who fired said
he did it accidentally and, anyway, did not
know the gun was loaded. The other
thug said he didn’t know his friend had
a gun. There was evidence that they had
been concerned in previous sticking-up
cases.
The jury found them guilty of man-
slaughter, adding, rather illogically: ——
We take a most serious view of the case. The
illegal and criminal use of firearms is a most
serious matter.
The trial Judge wrote:
I entirely disbelieved the accused’s statements.
I regarded the shooting as deliberate and cold-
blooded.
Instead of going down on the cold
cell floor and thanking Providence for
a narrow escape from an appointment
with a rope, the ruffians had the impu-
dence to appeal against their sentences.
They got little sympathy. Weigall,
K.C., pointed out:
The law unquestionably is that if two per-
sons engage in a common enterprise and, in the
course of following out that enterprise, a person
is killed, both persons engaged are guilty of
murder, whether they are armed or not, or
whether they intended to kill or not.
The Acting Chief Justice said the sum-
ming-up had been too favorable to the
accused and that “what the circum-
stances which justified the jury in reduc-
ing the crime to manslaughter were, we
have no idea.”
The law as it stands is jam for the
thug. As Judge Halse Rogers remarked -
As long as it is competent for the jury to
return a verdict of manslaughter in cases where
murder is charged, there will be verdicts of
manslaughter in obvious cases of murder.
Nearly everybody will agree with the
Appeal Court that the murderers were
lucky ; and if, as has been proposed, N.
S. Wales is to do away with all gaols and
replace them with nice, comfortable
prison farms, free of the atmosphere of
shame which makes existing enclosures
so irksome to the occupants, black-
guards of their ilk will be encouraged to
pursue their callings. With tender-
hearted juries shrinking from the use of
the gallows and Governments pampering
their permanent boarders, crime soon will
become a passport to a life of ease.
♦
On Being Physically Fit.
“El V.”: Joseph Chamberlain, who never
took exercise and yet lived to a ripe old
age, would not have agreed with the
advocates of physical fitness who to-day
mourn our decadence, and who have in-
dulged recently in a burst of preaching
in London. History records few people
worth while who were physically fit.
Henry VIII. left more mark on English
history than any other monarch, and,
though he outlived four wives and was a
giant among men, he was full of germs
of the nastiest order. Benvenuto Cellini
led a life which would have made an
athlete bilious, and carried a few choice
disorders about with him. Nelson was a
delicate child. The Brontes, Jane Austen,
R.L.S., Keats and a dozen more were
tubercular. Byron could not have quali-
fied as a private. Henley was scarcely
ever out of hospital. Beethoven was
deaf ; Milton was blind.
Franklin T. Roosevelt lives virtually in
a wheeled chair and manages his bally-
hoo as well as any other President ever
has done. Voltaire was not exactly an
international Rugby forward, and nobody
would have licensed Napoleon to carry
a knapsack. He would have been rated
C 3. All history is full of large, chesty,
decorative generals running like hares be-
fore small, wheezy persons ; of scrawny
wisps of orators swaying multitudes of
robust gymnasts, and of outstanding
poets and artists whom policemen are
afraid to manhandle lest they break
them.
In the eugenic age all these will
either die or not be born. It is right, of
course, that the birth of mental deficients
should be prevented and that cases of
miscegenation should be put out of the
way instead of being retained as a burden
and an eyesore. But the fate of a civilisa-
tion which makes us all Sandows is
sealed.
When the Greeks adopted that sort of
ideal they began to head for the fruit
shop and the ice-cream bar. The day of
their greatness was over.
Defence Salaries.
Ministers being now sure of their addi-
tional hundred-and-fifties, and members
of their seventy-fives, Mr. Pearce might
turn his eyes for a moment to salaries in
his own department. Not that of the
civil head, who gets a lot more than was
paid to Chauvel and is paid to Bruche,
but those of experienced and highly
qualified soldiers who receive less than
laborers.
The Defence men were the first to
suffer in the depression. They were
rationed and their pay was slashed 12
months before the rest of the civil service
felt the pinch. They have since been hit
by the £8 cost-of-living reduction, though
they have never been given the benefit
of cost-of-living increases.
The officers are worse paid than
higher-grade clerks. Time and again
senior men of unexampled experience—
Brudenell While, for instance—have left
to take civil jobs.
N.C.Os. of the instructional staff,
whom Chauvel characterised as the back-
bone of the army, have cause to envy
wharfies and navvies. Until they were
granted a sixpenny uniform allowance
last year sergeant-majors did not get the
basic wage. The rank and file of the
Royal Artillery, the Garrison Artillery and
the Engineers provide their own uni-
forms out of this pittance. They are
debited for quarters and rations if they
live in barracks.
Some of the officers, Duntroon-trained,
with four years’ war experience, find
themselves, after having given half their
lives to the job, in dead-end captaincies
from which they have no chance of es-
caping unless there is a war. And special-
ists, such as White was at the outbreak of
the war when, in the absence of his chief,
he laid down the plans for the original
A.1.F., are severely discouraged by the
lack of allowances which they deserve.
The British Army attracts the best type
of man, especially in the technical
branches, because of the opportunities it
offers. Detailed specialisation makes
them not only a national asset in time of
war, but provides a recruiting-ground
from which industry, and particularly
heavy technical industry, draws its ex-
perts. The manager of Hadfields, the
steel people, who employ 17,000 men,
is a naval commander who, in course of
his trade, was encouraged to become a
technical gun specialist. The chairman of
directors is a Royal Artillery major who
knows steels as few men living know
them. The Australian Permanent Force
to-day does not breed men of this type- -
they go into other professions when they
leave school if they have technical ambi-
tions and want decent salaries.
- -♦ -
A Veteran Looks Back.
From Thomas Henley, M.L.A.:
The other day I went to unveil a memorial
tablet to an old friend of mine, E. E. Ford, at
the Burwood Friendly Society’s dispensary, and
the event reminded me of the changes which
have taken place in the Government attitude
toward Friendly Societies since he flourished
and the dispensary was opened with a Govern-
ment grant of £5OO, 25 years ago.
In 1908 C. G. Wade was in power. It was
a wonderfully honest and progressive period in
politics. We had little or no unemployed,
although we had had no Labor Government.
The State revenue was between eight and nine
millions sterling. The cost of government was
within the State’s power to pay —we had real
surpluses. Yet, despite the fact that the Gov-
ernment maintained such facilities as public
roads, harbors, hospitals and schools out of
revenue, it was quite easy to get £5OO for
Friendly Society purposes. Indeed, the State
gave regular subventions to Friendly Societies
with the approval of taxpayers.
Now, with three times the revenue, there is
no money for self-reliant, self-help organisa-
tions. Even schools, public roads, hospitals
and other amenities are largely paid for out
of borrowed money. The present policy would
have raised an uproar in 1908.
Such is the measure of our degeneration!


Society
AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Hyram”: He had a glazed eye and an
awful breath, but he sat quietly, amiably
beaming, till the lady in the leopard-skin
“Husband hasn’t come home yet? Are you sure he went off with
Florrie Flounder?”
“Yes, it’s true enough. They were caught together.”
coat climbed in and sat next to him. He
stole a glance in the direction of his
neighbor every now and then, looked
away hurriedly and did swift recitatives,
like one counting sheep in a dream. But
when the tram was nearing King’s Cross
he reached out a cautious paw and stroked
the lady’s dappled adornment. “You
won’t sh-sh-shnap at me?” he implored,
* * * *
“Deaf Burke”: Times change verily ;
I think the idea of Japan becoming a
Great Power while Austria and Turkey
sank into small ones would have seemed
less preposterous to our grandfathers than
the notion of a contest for the heavy-
weight boxing championship of the world
being staged at Rome between an Italian
and a Spaniard. For a century and a
half at least, and right up to late-Vic-
torian times, the boxing ring was an ex-
clusively Anglo-Saxon institution. Latins
and Teutons and Slavs and the rest
fought with knives, daggers, rapiers,
anything but Nature’s weapons. The
idea of even a Frenchman excel-
ling at fisticuffs would have seemed
inconceivable to two or three genera-
tions nourished on “Bell’s Life”;
Conan Doyle’s “Brigadier Gerard,’’ one
remembers, essayed to lay out the “Bris-
tol Bustler” with a warlike kick in total
defiance of Queensberry rules. And now
—well, if the mouldering bones of old-
time Corinthians don’t rattle uneasily in
their graves, they ought to. Spain chal-
lenging Italy for the blue ribbon of
pugilism, with England and America
merely standing by as interested spec-
tators —how have the mighty fallen and
the weapons of gore perished !
* * * *
“Pipards”: There is no Clock Tower
in Australian Parliaments where jour-
nalists who have offended the dignity of
any of those institutions may be im-
mured, but substitutes have been found.
In 1905 Jack Drayton, then editor of the
Kalgoorlie “Sun,” and still on deck in
Sydney, published an article about cer-
tain litigation over a mine at Coolgardie
which gave sore offence to some mem-
bers of the Assembly. By direction of
the House, he was arrested, conveyed to
Perth and, having declined to apolo-
gise or qualify his statements, lodged in
Fremantle gaol until he should come to
a better frame of mind. It wasn’t much
of a punishment, as he was treated as a
first-class misdemeanant, and he went on
writing from within. He served a month ;
then the Government rather stultified its
own action by setting him free, with his
contempt (such as it was) unpurged.
Some seven years before that the West-
ralian Parliament made a less drastic ges-
ture for the enforcement of its dig-
nity by summoning Syd Hocking and
L W. Kirwan, publisher and editor of
the Kalgoorlie “Miner,” to the bar of
the House and solemnly reprimanding
them for having published an account of
an alleged fight in the refreshment-room.
Kirwan is now President of the Leg.
Council; Colebatch, the reporter who
furnished the newspaper with the account
of the scrap, is Agent-General.
“Liq. Strych.”: Recent references to
nauseous medical mixtures reminds me
of one which must be a record of its
kind, though it was not compounded by
human hands. Years ago a Brisbane
chemist exhibited a live echidna in his
shop window by way of advertisement.
He did not know the beast’s elusive
qualities. In the night the pore, burrowed
into the shop. In its search for a way
of escape it knocked nearly every bottle
and jar off the shelves and burrowed and
scrambled amid the mixture of shattered
glass and drugs until day came. When
the shop was opened the smell almost
held up the traffic. The floor had been
laid with linoleum, and on this tinctures,
extracts, powders and unguents mingled
in a gluey paste, of which the veriest
whiff made strong men shudder and
weaklings sick. I fancy even a metho.-
addict would have shied at that com-
pound.
* * * *
“Maltworm”: Tests for drunkenness
have been discussed in The Bulletin by
countless experts, including many with
medical qualifications. One that appears
“I’ve no time for men. I’ve said ‘no’ to lots of them.”
“Really, dear? And what were they selling?”
to have obtained some favor is making a
suspect close his eyes and snap his
heels together; if he sways, he is
“under the influence.” Yet a few days
ago a Melbourne doctor, giving evidence
in a police court, was asked by the beak
to apply the test to himself. He complied
and failed ignominiously. The truth is
that capacity to resist alcoholic influence
varies tremendously with the individual
and even with the condition. I have just
read of a test in an American medical
journal which may find us a way out.
Its exponent collects the suspect’s breath
in a bag and analyses it. He claims it is
thus possible to classify the breather as
being 50, 75 or 100 per cent. shot.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Hecklers at that Defence
rally in Melbourne found W. M. Hughes
a hopeless proposition. The main meet-
ing was held in one of the small halls,
the large concert room being occupied
by a cycle show, and the overflow was
accommodated in two other halls and
served with Billy’s oratory per amplifiers.
Critics who had the flesh-and-blood Billy
before them were helpless against that
statesman’s deafness, and the rest only
had a microphone to argue with. Never-
theless, an interjector in one of the other
halls solemnly contradicted the voice of
the speaker throughout the evening.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A subscription has been
started in Melbourne to erect a statue
to Private Simpson, “the Man with the
Donkey,” whose rescues of the wounded
on Gallipoli earned him world-wide re-
nown; and an artist has asserted that
to include a representation of the actual
animal in the memorial would be in-
artistic and incongruous. It depends en-
tirely on the quality of the sculptor. A
good sculptor could convey the appro-
priate emotion with or without the
donkey ; a bad sculptor would fail to do
so in any circumstances. If he were
purely literal and put the creature in, the
effect would be as banal as a Madame
Tussaud waxwork. Simpson, by the way,
enlisted in Westraha happening to be
there when war broke out. He was a
ships fireman and a pommy. Strange
that no posthumous decoration was sent
to his widowed mother.
•, r „ * ' .. *
Fylfot : The swastika, originally an
Oriental symbol, has become so sacro-
sanct in Germany that pastrycooks have
been forbidden to put it to such base
uses as stamping it on buns and tarts,
It seems carrying patriotic sentiment to
excess, especially as Germans will doubt-
less continue to consume hot-cross buns
on Good Friday without a qualm. Still,
this swastika business has world-wide
repercussions; it has even affected me as
well as Rudyard Kipling. The house I
inhabit in a Sydney suburb has borne the
name of “Swastika,” for some unascer-
tainable reason, ever since its construc-
tion. Only the other day the landlord
—he isn’t a Jew, either—asked my per-
mission and borrowed some of my tools
to detach the nameplate from the front
verandah and hurl it into the rubbish-
bin. It was dangerous, he said; “might
give people wrong ideas.” So my house
is now nameless.
* * * *
“Spontoon”: The City of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Regiment (2-41 Battalion,
C.M.F.) has been
honored by a gift
from its Regular
cobbers—the West
Surrey—of a set of
buttons with th;
badge of the original
regiment. This is
the Paschal Lamb,
which was conferred
on the W.S. when
that regiment of foot
was defending Tan-
giers, then portion
of the dowry
of Catherine of
Braganza, wife of
Charles 11. of blessed
memory. The Lamb
was part of Cath-
erine’s armorial bear-
ings, but the regi-
ment later earned
for it a reputation
rather out of keep-
ing with its original
significance. In the
reign of James 11.
the W.S., named
after its colonel, as
was the fashion in
those days, was
known as Kirke’s
Foot. Under that
brutal ruffian it
earned a name for
ruthlessness in the
suppression of the
Monmouth rebellion
which lingers in
Somerset and Dorset
to this day. Hence
its seldom-quoted sub-title of “Kirke’s
Lambs.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Summer being nigh,
one of Melbourne’s flapper journals re-
vived its annual campaign for rational
dress for men, helmets, white ducks and
open shirts being the basic costume sug-
gested. The weather god expressed his
opinion of the idea next day by letting
loose a gale of hot air from the interior
which blew roofs off, shrouded the city
in dust and upset motor-cars. Then he
veered it to the south and the mercury
dropped 27 degrees in 10 minutes.
To clinch the argument he bestowed
on citizens caught napping a chilly
dose of the familiar “red rain,” a
full issue of which has been known
to give houses and landscape a tinge
of color that has lasted for months
afterwards. A devotee of the summer-
clobber idea caught out in it in a helmet
and whites would probably start a new
fashion in colors for men. As a matter
of fact, southern Vic. is noted for its
temperature variations, only parts of
Africa having anything to equal it. The
automatic lights installed on the coast
are turned on by the temperature drop
in the evening and off by the reverse
piocess in the "-effing. Variations dur-
ing the daytime were so great that the
mechanism had to be specially adjusted.
* * * *
“Jungor”: The complaint of James,
M.H.R., during the salary-grab proceed-
ings that he wasn’t as well off on his Par-
liamentary screw as when he earned £7
a week in a coalmine (B. 25/10/’33) has
a familiar ring about it. Thirty-two
years ago, when Westralia’s first Labor
party had crashed the Assembly gate,
“Mulga” Taylor, who had been shearer,
miner and various other things, rose to
remark that his Parliamentary job was
the worst-paid occupation he had ever
engaged in. Still, it carried only £4 a
week in those days.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Not all the large finds of
money get into the papers. Our office-
boy was in a city bank one afternoon,
and was waiting his turn in the queue,
when his foot touched something hard.
He stooped down and picked it up, but
his turn at the grille came at that moment
and it wasn’t until he was in the street
that he gave his find a second look. It
was a roll of notes, some £2OO in all. He
took them back, to find an elderly
accountant from a city firm almost dis-
tracted by his loss. He fell upon Bert’s
neck and insisted on giving him two shil-
lings. “What a paltry reward! ” ex-
claimed the office. “Oh, I dunno,” said
Bert, who is as philosophical as he is
honest. “Two bob was all he could
afford, I s’pose. It wasn’t his two
hundred.”
ODE TO UNDERPAID LEGISLATORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Parliament should not be filled with poorly-clad
poorly-fed men.” —Senator Daly, advocating the
£t.i increase.
Brother, observe that patriotic band,
Those men of light and learning, wit and
weight,
Who give the best that’s in them to their land,
Morning and noon and night, in high debate.
You would not have them pale and wan of
cheek,
With stinted bellies, raiment run to seed,
And tiles dilapidated, for the sake
Of thirty bob a week?
■Nay, that were false economy indeed;
The bare suggestion gives the heart an ache.
Hands that the rod of nationhood have swayed
Should surely merit cuffs of speckless white.
Yet some, alack! are noticeably frayed
And dingy. Damitall, it isn’t right!
Note, here and there, a tribune’s elbows shine,
Telling of suits too often cleaned and pressed
The ravages of ruthless Time to stem;
A process yours and mine
Must undergo at seasons and attest,
But oh! what sore indignity for them !
Heard you that Senator whose thund’rous roar
Broke down and died and to a whisper fell
When he was giving Stanley Bruce whaffor
Or Joseph Aloysius Lyons hell?
You deemed ’twas noble rage that came to
check
The burning words that flamed and flared
and flew;
You never paused to think he might have
had
A single egg for “brek.”
When all his fibres clamored for the two
That his attenuated purse forbade!
Can we not give them, then, a wage to win
Broadcloth and good rump steak? Nor let
them lack
The necessary stuff that lines (within)
The little Mary and (without) the back
Of budding Ciceros whose words enchant,
Of Pitts who yet may win a world’s acclaim
For managing a continent’s affairs?
Ah! brother, if we can’t
Spring cheerfully that thirty bob, the blame
And shame are obviously ours—not theirs.
Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat,
So runs an ancient proverb; and shall we,
Dumb driven cattle, grudge an extra sprat,
Now things look brighter, for our drovers’
fee?
Perish the thought! If they can bring the mob
Out of the wilderness’s sand and crags
Into what Moses saw from Pisgah’s brow,
What matters thirty bob?
We wouldn’t have them hungry or in rags
For that —and, well, they’ve copped it
anyhow.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.Q.”: A prize pig, en route to the
Royal Show, escaped from the railway
yards at Melbourne, plunged into the
Yarra (not having heard that pigs can’t
swim), fetched up alongside an Ameri-
can barque, was lassoed by sailors
with visions of roast pork, hoisted
aboard, sold to the cook for £4, and
resold, for prudential reasons, by that
official for £lO to the abattors. There it
remains pending a decision as to whether
ii comes under the category of flotsam,
jetsam, salvage or whatnot. The cor-
respondence between the various parties
has grown to gigantic heights and the
farmer who owns the animal is wonder-
ing where he comes in.
* * * sic
“Hamer”: In William-street, Sydney,
I witnessed the limit in what is compre-
hensively known as “metho. madness.”
A man was crouched by the side of a car
parked beside the pavement; the first
view suggested that he was effecting some
repairs. Actually, he was “milking” the
petrol-tank into a dirty old tin he held
in his hand ; when he had sufficient, he
straightened up, lifted the tin to his lips,
emptied it in a draught and staggered
away. A John Hop who has helped to
deal with many “methos.” tells me that
not a few prefer petrol.
“X.S.”: Charged in a Melbourne
court with having drunk metho., an
elderly gent, at first declared that he had
used the fluid to polish a doorknob. Then
he pulled himself together and said
proudly, “No! I drank it straight. I
am an old-time drinker!”
* =l-- * *
“General Prac.”: The latest murder
thrill comes from Paris, where two Ger-
man sisters and a Greek lawyer are
charged with “dissolving” the corpses of
victims in a bath of sulphuric acid, and
“That’s Harold over there. They tell me he’s getting into trouble for not paying his
alimony; and his brother’s in the same boat.”
“W HAT ARE the wild wives saying?”
pouring the resultant decoction on their
garden. It’s the first case of its kind I
can find after a feverish hunt through
textbooks on medical jurisprudence ; and
I doubt whether any acid could have
such an effect. Since the reports
first appeared I’ve been experimenting,
in a languid way, with sulphuric
acid, meat and bone from the
butcher next door, and teeth from the
dentist opposite, with these results. To
dissolve soft parts, like muscle, skin and
tendon, the acid must be boiled, a nasty
business when reckoned in terms of
human bodies and bathtubs. Secondly,
to soften bone—even to soften it —the
acid must be diluted with water while
still hot, a proceeding which causes the
production of choking white fumes.
What sort of a condition must the Ger-
man ladies’ bathroom have been in while
the plant was working?
*!*
“C. Coral”: A Mackay (N.Q.) lady
has hanging on her walls a framed docu-
ment, probably unique in Australia. It
is a charter of the admission of her
grandfather in 1847 to the Worshipful
Company of Loriners, and gives the
quaintly-worded oath of the guild (with
the seal of the City Chamberlain, Lon-
don), in which the new member is
warned that he must not disclose the
secrets of the company. The dictionary
defines a loriner (or lorimer) as “a
maker of horse-furniture,” or, in our
modern phraseology, a harnessmaker.
:J« jfc $ ♦
“Papanui”: Christchurch (M.L.) may
have possessed the best electric tramway
service in Australasia 28 years ago (B.
18/10/’33), but no such claim is possible
to-day. Most of the cars are old and
shabby, and many hopelessly out-of-date
in design ; moreover, the system does not
pay its way. I live in Christchurch, and
have lived in America and Europe also,
so from the point of view of a strap-
hanger my opinion should carry some
weight. I rank the Melbourne trams as
among the best in the world, even with-
out such gems of humor as an indulgent
board provides in the shape of school-
boy “howlers” on the back of each ticket.
*
“Lord Luvus”: In these thin times
shopkeepers are at their wits’ end to get
their goods before the public, so I offer
them this new and startling method of
publicity gratis. In Melbourne the appeal
to the eye has lost its efficacy. Every
shopfront blazes with lights and with
slogans until the public has become irre-
sponsive to them. The appeal to the
ear is under severe restrictions, but, even
so, there are so many spruikers bawling
and loudspeakers cooing and crooning
that in self-defence the citizen’s sideflaps
have automatically set up a defensive
mechanism. But there is one remaining
sense that hasn’t been exploited, and
one more sensitive than all the others
put together. I was walking along
Collins-street when a sweet aroma wooed
my nostrils. I looked round and found
it was a bowl of carnations set in the
doorway of a shop devoted to feminine
fancies. Acting on this suggestion I have
worked out an intelligible code of per-
fumes for all kinds of business, to be
floated persuasively on the air or sent
in a vigorous blast over the unsuspecting
wayfarer by means of a suitable instru-
ment. Patchouli should be suitable for
picture-theatres specialising in sex
appeal ; the scent of the salt seashore
(compounded of slightly decayed sea-
weed and other suitable ingredients) for
shops offering backless bathing-cos-
tumes ; and orange-blossom for jewellers'
emporia. Others will readily suggest
themselves to the ingenuity of shopmen.
* * * *
“Quiverful”: Lyons has put up one
record, anyhow; he is the first Prime
Minister whose wife has qualified for the
baby bonus during his term of office. And
I wonder how deep one would have to
dig into British history to find an analo-
gous case—or whether one would be
discoverable at all.
“Tweedledee”: A visitor just returned
from Japan was struck by the way they
did things “in the opposite way to that
customary with white people.” One in-
stance given was that instead of thread-
ing a needle they “needled the thread.”
But surely this isn’t a method peculiar
to Asiatics. Mark Twain in “Huckle-
berry Finn” makes needle-threading one
of the tests applied by a sagacious
woman to Huck himself, masquerading
as a girl, which helps her to bowl out
the youthful impostor. As far as I
“From what I hear, you’re a hit of a jilt.”
“No, dad—merely a girl who refuses to be engaged to more than one man at
a time.”
remember, her dictum was that a male
person holds up the needle and pokes
the thread through the eye, whereas a
woman “ ’most always” does it the other
way—“needles the thread,” in fact. That
may have been a fair generalisation in
America 70 or 80 years ago, but I can’t
say it is borne out by my English or
Australian experiences. Still, one sus-
pects that threads were needled as well
as needles threaded before ever Japan
obtained a place in the sun.
* * * *
“Ornis”: Those who look on the
scientist as a pacific sort of coot are apt
to be mistaken. At a
meeting of ornitholo-
gists in Sydney last
week gentlemen
whose lives had been
devoted to the nesting
habits of the blue
wren or the sucking
dove went berserk
and called each other
all sorts of names, the
row starting over an
unsigned circular ask-
ing the convocation
not to vote for certain
candidates for office.
Years ago H. G.
Wells, in a short story
called “The Moth,”
touched on this aspect
of the scientist. Two
authorities on insect
life differed so bit-
terly on the classifica-
tion of certain of the
Lepidoptera that one
died in fury as the re-
sult of a smashing
riposte in a scientific
journal. The survivor
was forthwith haunted
by a strange and un-
classifiable white moth
until he committed
suicide.
“Phoenix Extended”: The Westralian
lady who campaigned so assiduously
against the Government for her alleged
rights (B. 25/10/’33) had a couple of
Queensland opposite numbers in the long
ago, both of them prospectors. One was
a Pole named Gregorewitch, or some-
thing like it. He claimed to have been
the discoverer of the Gympie field, for
which somebody else had received the
reward. For years afterwards he would
haunt the corridors of the Mines Depart-
ment until he became a horror to Minis-
ters and Under-Secretaries. At the end
of each financial year he would present
his bill for the reward which he main-
tained had been unjustly withheld, plus
compound interest for the past 12
months. After 40 years of futile applica-
tions, the amount had grown to millions ;
only death ended his endeavors. The
other was Davy Downs, a Towers iden-
tity. His claim was for Clermont field,
but he alternated attacks on the Warden’s
office with visits to the local newspapers
demanding publication of his wrongs as
set out in a huge document. One day my
paper agreed to publish if he left the
screed with us. A bucket of pied mono-
line slugs was hastily assembled into gal-
leys, and when Davy next called he was
given the “proofs” of his article and told
to bring them back when he had cor-
rected them. We never saw the old
gentleman again.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: In view of the imminent
approach of the centenary, it is distressing
to know that there is one Victorian, born
in the country 40 years ago, who refused
even to take a tramride to get his first
glimpse of the great metropolis. He is
Leonard Waterhouse, a Myrtleford
drover. A couple of years ago he visited
Newmarket saleyards with stock, com-
pleted his business and returned to his
rural haunts without inspecting the
State Theatre. He wouldn’t have seen
Melbourne this time if he were not con-
cerned in a will case.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An Australian explorer
made an appearance in the Bankruptcy
Court in Melbourne recently. His name
is Finlayson, but it is unlikely to be
found in the school histories. For years
he and his son have been hawking the
produce of city drapery stores amidst
the wildest and most inaccessible parts
of the Alps. An old car transported the
expedition, and its arrival at farmsteads
which had never seen a car or a hawker
in the locality before often looked like a
miracle. It was usually welcomed, but
the business never paid and the Depres-
sion put the quietus on it.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Geelong has a youth
movement which calls itself the Apex
Club. It is a sort of offshoot of Rotary,
and as a token of its youthishness it
tends to regard its parent as a bit of an
old fogey. It has the usual vague notions
of setting the world to rights by means
of its “dynamic energy.” The U.S.A. is,
of course, the inspirational centre of the
movement, which recently sent an Apex
“ambassador” to Britain.
* * * *
“Bottomley”: As one of a clan who
“distort and abbreviate” their surname I
cannot let “Dr. Nil” (B. 25/10/,’33) get
away with the assertion that the practice
is “a kind of shibboleth.” These surnames
were spoken long before they were ever
written. Hence it is the spelling, not the
pronunciation, which is wrong, and we
should not be blamed because ignorant
people insist on perpetuating the misspell-
ings of their ancestors in our regard.
For half a lifetime old Lord Clanrifcarde
fought desperately to maintain the k in
his title. In spite of this, both press and
public insisted on a c.
THE SECRET OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A doctor attributes the lack of fat people in
\ustralia and the predominance of the strong, wiry
type to the large consumption of proteids and
ritamines.”
We’re lean and lithe and wiry;
We do not run to fat;
A medico’s inquiry
Convinces him of that.
We need no Banting’s succor
To keep our boyish lines
While proteids are our tucker
And good old vitamines.
You widening men and women,
A quite substantial host,
Who toy with thoughts of slimmin’
On tasteless tea and toast,
When toward such diet Spartan
Your cautiousness inclines,
Bethink that proteids hearten,
Switch off to vitamines!
We do not tend to riot
Of solid adipose:
So runs a doctor’s fiat,
And I suppose he knows.
We’re sinewy and slender
Because our fare refines.
Compatriots, either gender,
Your thanks to proteids render,
Hurroo for vitamines!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The moisture - proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory - fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
“I've smoked them for years
and they never vary
CRAVEN A
in the new mMAtute-puycf
cellophane'pack
é
ê
POLITICAL POINTS
Opposing the salary steal, Duncan-
Hughes, the S.A. Senator, mentioned that
members of the House of Commons re-
ceive only £4OO p.a. He might have
added that it is all they have drawn since
1911, when payment of members came
in. And they get no free railway or
tramway passes either ; merely warrants
entitling them to travel free from elec-
torates to Westminster and back when
Parliament is sitting.
North of Capricorn they are not taking
kindly to the salary grab. True, the
Rockhampton unemployed did send con-
gratulations:—
This meeting of unemployed of Rockhampton
congratulates the member for Herbert, Mr.
Martens, and the rest of the political parasites
at Canberra for having the thick hide to raise
their salaries when workers are still unemployed
and children unfed.
Other things might have been said, but
they are moderate fellows up Rockhamp-
ton way.
Abandonment of the Commonwealth
tax on entertainments was an obvious
temptation to hard-up State Govern-
ments, especially those with entertain-
ments taxes of their own ; and West-
ralia’s Collier has already yielded. A
bill amending the existing enactment was
introduced before the Commonwealth
tax was repealed. Nearly £62,500 was
derived from the State impost last year.
The S.A. Langsters are still running
true to form. Organised in 1931, they
soon separated into two groups, their
lone Assemblyman siding with one. This
faction rejoined the A.L.P. and went
down with it at the general election ; the
other carried on, and got three men in
for Adelaide. Two of the three have
now started another show, “the S.A.
Lang party” ; the other gentleman has
issued a writ against them claiming
£5OO damages for libel.
It is easier to join the League of
Nations than to leave it. Japan, which
fell out with the League when that con-
cern sent a wandering committee to in-
quire into the rights and wrongs of the
Manchuria and Shanghai shindies, had
to give two years’ notice of intention to
quit. Germany is in the same boat; but
heaps of things may happen in two years.
One of the bills to come before
Queensland Parliament aims at prevent-
ing the mortgage of a house over the
head of a person who is buying it on
the instalment plan. Sometimes a buyer
learns of a mortgage only when he has
completed his payments. The new bill
frees him from the liability, on proof
of ignorance, and provides for return of
his payments, less costs, if he refuses to
go on.
Tasmania’s public debt amounted on
June 30 to £23,708,500—£48,900 more
than at June 30, 1932, and actually
£24,100 less than at June 30, 1924. These
figures must seem contemptible to Lang,
who has bitten “Shylock’s” ear for a
great deal more on his own account.
Lang was Storey-Dooley’s Treasurer for
two years to the day from April 13, 1920.
He was his own Treasurer from June 17,
1925, to October 18, 1927. Between July
1, 1920, and June 30, 1922, the N.S.W.
public debt increased from £159,649,600
to £190,857,500 ; between July 1, 1925,
and June 30, 1927, it increased from
£215,331,000 to £240,725,900.
Only once has the Speck had the
borrowing fever in a bad form ; during
the Repatriation period it was. Then it
actually agreed to pay per cent, for a
London loan of £2,000,000 redeemable
in 1940. Fortunately, conversion became
optional towards the end of 1930. Lang-
ism delayed the process ; but the 64 per
cent, has now become 34 per cent., a
saving of £59,300 p.a., exclusive of
exchange. Tasmania does not share
Lang’s opinion of Bruce, but marvels at
Ogilivie’s opinion of Lang.
If Stopford, the Minister of Mines, has
his way, Queensland coal-mining will be-
come a controlled industry. He has
produced a bill providing for control of
prices, production quotas, destination of
export coal, and protection of owners,
miners, consumers and others involved
by a Court of Appeal. The price-fixing
will be the job of a special commissioner,
who will declare a minimum instead of
a maximum price, as most other efforts
of the kind do. Whether, like other
Queensland attempts at pooling and
marketing, the scheme will clash with
the Federal Constitution remains to be
seen.
A Flour Acquisition Bill like the one
in N.S.W. was advocated by Bussau,
the Vic. Cocky, in the Assembly the
other day, and he also wanted Argyle
to hurry up with bulk-handling. Bour-
chier, Bussau’s leader, indicated willing-
ness to accept as an alternative to a Flour
A STORY WITHOUT WORDS.
Acquisition Bill a wheat pool or a
bounty. Argyle replied that there was
to be a Commonwealth-called conference
on the wheat question in Sydney and
that bulk-handling would go on as soon
as he was satisfied it was a commonsense
financial proposition. Tunnecliffe taunted
the Cockies with being too complacent,
but, for the present, at any rate, Bour-
chier prefers to see Tunney on the
Speaker’s left.
There is mild surmise in Queensland
as to whether Labor will put up a can-
didate for the Stanley seat, empty since
the death of E. L. Grimstone. It is a
cow-farming electorate, and last time
Grimstone polled 3984 votes to the Labor
man’s 2278 ; a “Queensland party” inter-
vener took 834 votes, mostly from Grim-
stone.
With its characteristic poverty of
imagination, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is presenting Kingsford Smith with
£3OOO. It would be much more sensible
to give him a job, especially as the
generous fellow has the reputation of
being an easy mark for anyone who can
pitch a tale ; and some worth-while posi-
tion on the R.A.A.F. staff could surely
be made for him, since it will have to be
expanded in any case. It is suggested
that the £3OOO will fit him out for the
London-Melbourne air race; but the
man is getting too old for continent-to-
continent flights, and the public is not
keen on the centenary stunt anyway. It
may turn out a great advertisement for
somebody’s chocolate creams, but Aus-
tralians prefer forms of advertising which
do not encourage intrepid and impecu-
nious spirits to endanger their necks.
Two-thirds of the 300 British settlers
whose cases were inquired into by a
Royal Commission are not so keen, after
all, on kicking the dust of Vic. off their
boots. Introducing a bill ratifying
the agreement to compensate them,
Menzies said it was estimated that
200 would remain on their blocks,
accepting the writing down of lia-
bilities and readjustments to the extent
of £350,000. Monetary compensation for
those going and staying will pan out at
another £lOO,OOO. This, Menzies’ Gov-
ernment hopes to squeeze out of Lyons.
The Assembly is to have another look at
the bill the week after the Cup.
Oscar Seppelt made a nailing good
speech before laying down the presi-
dency of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures. He deplored “feeble poli-
tical efforts to drive a wedge between
primary and secondary industries”;
these, he said, were “unworthy,” because
the interests of both were interlinked.
He added that the country must insist on
rigid adherence to the sound commercial
principle that a nation should buy ex-
ternally only what it could comfortably
pay for. It is to be hoped that Gordon
Bennett, the new president, will keep
on the note struck by the S. Aus. wine-
maker, and not screech against land
industries, as he has been so fond of
doing.
Earle Page spoke straight on the taxa-
tion question at the Riverina conference
of the U.C.P. He likened the position of
the country to that of “a sick man in an
insanitary house.” Double action was
needed to clean up the house and restore
the health of the patient; nevertheless,
the State and Commonwealth Govern-
ments had “almost in one day” imposed
£35,000,000 extra taxation. Delegates
condemned the salary grab and pacts
with the U.A.P.
The Commonwealth is contributing to
the cost of sending two parsons and a
wireless operator to Caledon Bay, so that
Buck-Eye and his tribe may be pacified
and “the loss of white life in Arnhem
Land ended.” Rev. Webb, the nearest
resident missionary, refused to go, saying
that the trip “could have no permanent
result.” Seeing that the party is leaving
on the edge of the rainy season, most
people wouldn’t put it as mildly as that.
Australians who have been studying
the working of the National Recovery
Act report that one of the results will
be the advent of a U.S.A. Labor party.
It may be so ; still, Labor parties do not
prosper in English-speaking countries
outside Australia. Britain has had two
minority Labor Governments, but got
rid of them after brief and unsatisfactory
experiences. Maoriland has had a Labor
party for quarter of a century, but
never a Labor Government. The Cana-
dian Parliament has three Labor mem-
bers out of 245; the Afrikander Par-
liament two out of 150. There are
nominally four, but two owe their seats
to “Tory” support.
Infantile-mortality figures show that it
is much easier to keep alive than it used
to be ; also, that it is easier in the coun-
try than in the city. The infant death-
rate in Melbourne between 1880-84 was
170.1 per 1000 births, against 47.7 in
1932. In the rural districts it has de-
clined in the same period from 92.3 per
1000 to 38.9. But the birth-rate has fallen
more than 50 per cent—it is 15.21 per
head of population against 31.45 in the
’eighties.
N. S. Wales A.L.P. bodies scarcely
ever meet these days without passing an
anti-war resolution. One branch is
against Australia “spending money on
war preparations”—so it regards defence
—while wages and pensions are being cut.
Another says the “only way of avoiding
war is for the whole of our workers to
refrain from joining any military body
whatever.” Yet it is only two years since
an organiser afterwards elevated to high
office by the Lang Government was cry-
ing “We must have a Labor army to pre-
pare for taking the means of produc-
tion ’ ; while a trade-union president was
hoping that the change to socialism
would come “with the least possible flow
of blood” and a Lang candidate was tell-
ing Newcastle workers that they must
fight “not by medium of ballot-boxes
but of machine-guns.”
Dr. Watson, the historian, contends
that the House of Reps, exceeded its
powers by adjudging the printer and pub-
lisher of the “Sunday Sun” guilty of
contempt without summoning them to
the Bar ; but he is wrong. The Reps,
have the same powers as the Commons ;
they can cause the Speaker to issue a
warrant for arrest and imprisonment for
breaches of privilege “without showing
any particular grounds or causes thereof.”
In fact, as Erskine May writes:
Either House may adjudge that any act is a
breach of privilege and contempt; and if the
warrant recites that the person to be arrested
has been guilty of a breach of privilege the
Courts cannot inquire into the ground of the
judgment.
Lyons and his lambs have wide punitive
scope, though they cannot imprison for
a term beyond the prorogation of the
House.
[For matter requiring signatures in this issue
J. E. Webb, J. B. Dailey and M. H. Ellis of
252 George-street North, Sydney, share ’the
responsibility.]


Hughes discovers hen -that
LWD THE WARWICK. .
Mosmah SPARROW found
GUIL--TV OF LESE MAJESTE .
W.A.Member has slicht '
TROUBLE WITH CONSTITUENT.
Kookaburra* INSPIRES
PUNITNE EXPEDITION ,
Turtle Dove coos
PEACERUU-V at
moment♦
Detectives sheet hom\e theft of cartoon pf Q.W.Marthns.M.HJR,,
TO THE ARTISTS PET V-}EC:TOR_,
THESE BIRDS.
German saloon-bar parrot has been condemned to death for crying ‘“Down with Hitler!” There seems scope for our own statesmen to follow Hitler’s lead.


SHELL
Sales of Shell in Australia easily exceed those of any
other first grade motor spirit.
Jh& reason for this is
simply - Qualify
Shell is ihe Quality
Spirit of Australia and
of the World.
5.1468
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some November birthdays:
Bishop Frewer (W.A.), 50, Bishop Mc-
Carthy (Sandhurst), 75, Prof. Skeats (Melb.),
58, and sculptor Paul Montford, 65, on Ist;
Justice Douglas (Q.), 56, and S.A. Senator Mc-
Lachlan, 61, on 2nd; Prof. Bailey (Melb.), 35,
on 3rd; T. A. White (“Diggers Abroad”), 47,
on 4th; J. Maitland Paxton (Syd.), 80, and Dr.
Catalan (Abbot of New Norcia), 55, on sth;
N.S.W. Senator Massy Greene, 59, and knight
Walter Leitch (Vic.), 66, on 6th; Prof. Wood-
house (Syd.), 67, and Atlee Hunt (formerly of
Federal Public Service), 69, on 7th; J. A.
Beasley, M.H.R. (West Sydney), 38, on 9th;
knight James Elder (Melb.), 64, and Rev. J. W.
Grove (Methodist Ladies’ Coll., Melb.), 65, on
10th; Prof. Cotton (Syd.), 50, N.S.W. Senator
Dooley, 50, Maj.-Gen. Dodds, 60, Vic. Govt.
Statist A. M. Laughton, 65, and knight Hugh
Denison (Syd.), 68, on 11th; W.A. Senator Col-
lett, 56, on 12th; knight Mark Sheldon
(Syd.), 62, on 13th; Rabbi F. L. Cohen, 71,
Dr. J. S. Battye (Perth Public Library), 62, and
A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”), 65, on 14th;
Prof. McAulay (Tas.), 38, on 15th; Justice Long
fnnes (N.S.W.), 64, knight Arthur Rickard
(Syd.), 65, and W. G. Hay (St. Peter’s Coll.,
Adel.), 58, on 17th; war historian Dr. C. E.
W. Bean, 54, knight pastoralist Norman Kater
(N.S.W.), 59, Bishop Crick (Ballarat), 51, and
Justice Davidson (N.S.W.), 55, on 18th; knight
Donald Cameron, ex-M.H.R. (Brisbane), 54,
James Mcßae (Director of Educ., Vic.), 62, and
Prof. Sadler (Syd.), 51, on 19th; Major-Gen. G.
W. Barber (Director-Gen. of Medical Services),
65, and Thos. Paterson, M.H.R. (Gippsland), 51,
on 20th; Principal Griffith (Congregational Coll,
of Vic.), 58, and N.S.W. Deputy Opposition-
leader Baddeley (N.S.W.), 52, on 21st; ex-
Justice Campbell (N.S.W.), 75, on 22nd; Willie
Watt (formerly Federal Treasurer), 62 on 23rd;
Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 67, Principal Callag-
han (Roseworthy Agric. Coll., S.A.), 30, and
poetess Dora Wilcox, on 24th; C. J. Cerutty
(Federal Auditor-Gen.), 63, Col. H. E. Cohen
(Vic.), 52, Capt. A. S. Blackburn, V.C., 41, and
Hon. Min. H.P. Fitzsimmons (N.S.W.), 35, on
25th; poet Rod Quinn, 64, Bishop Cranswick
(Gippsland), 51, and A. C. Hollingworth
(A.M.P. Soc.), 67, on 26th; astronomer Walter
Gale (N.S.W.), 68, and Prof. Windeyer (Syd.),
58, on 27th; Kenneth Binns (Federal-Parlia-
mentary Librarian), 51, and R. P. Franklin
(Melb. C.E.G.S.), 49, on 28th; Justice Hench-
man (Q.), 59, H. E. Guy (C’wealth Tariff
Board), 50, Lieut.-Col. G. J. Bell, M.H.R.
(Darwin, Tas.), 61, and Prof. Giblin (Melb.),
61, on 29th; N.S.W. Speaker Daniel Levy, 61,
poet Sydney Jephcott, 69, and Hon. Federal
Minister J. A. Guy, 43, on 30th.
The X-ray world of Australia has lost
one of its best-loved practitioners in Dr.
“Billy” Edwards, who died at 41 last week
in Sydney. He laid the foundation of his
wide radiological' knowledge in an over-
The late Dr. “BILLY” EDWARDS, one
of Australia’s leading X-ray authorities.
seas military hospital, of which he had
charge after he joined the R.A.M.C. —
he had graduated at Sydney Uni. Dr.
Billy and his brother formed an ideal
partnership when he had been invalided
back from the war, but, despite the calls
of a big practice and poor health, he
found time to serve on the N. S. Wales
Silicosis Commission and standardised the
scientific diagnosis of lung disease. He
was well known in the Workers’ Com-
pensation Court, and both the Broken
Hill miners and the Sydney rockchoppers
have to thank him very largely for the
improvement in methods of lung protec-
tion against dust which has taken place
in the last decade. Many a needy invalid
at Sydney Hospital will miss his kindly
interest, and his death leaves a big gap in
Australia’s group of radiological con-
sultants.
Frith, in his sketch, has succeeded well
in catching the eager outlook of Pro-
fessor E. J. Goddard, who is as little like
the popular conception of a Doctor of
Science as a banana is like a pineapple.
He has been McCaughey Professor of
Biology at the Queensland University
Professor E. J. GODDARD, Dean of
the Faculty of Agriculture, Queensland
University.
since 1922, and is Dean of the Faculty
of Agriculture. Wherefore his students,
with all affection but with little rever-
ence, have christened him “Bunchy Top.”
His record in “Who’s Who” is a short
one. He has been too busy being a
biologist to do much else.
Australia is losing O. W. Darch, who
for the past six years has been the youth-
ful general manager of the Shell organisa-
tion here. He is a Cambridge man with
a legal degree, who began his training in
petrol at Hong Kong. He goes to take a
big job at Shell’s London headquarters.
E. O. G. Shann is to move on from
Perth University to Adelaide, still as Prof,
of Economics. He was trained at Mel-
bourne, but was lecturer at Adelaide and
Brisbane before getting the Perth chair
20 years ago. Together with Copland,
Giblin and Melville the ever-smiling
Shann was one of the framers of the
Premiers’ Plan ; and he has attended the
big conferences at Ottawa and London,
incidentally acting as adviser to the Bank
of N.S.W. and writing half a dozen valu-
able books on his subject. And he is
only 49 now.
W. H. Smith, chief reporter on Queens-
land “Hansard,” died last week—only 55.
He had been in the House for 25 years.
He was an inter-State tennis representa-
tive and for a time was secretary of the
Q.L.T.A.
J. P. Evans, a Benalla man who has a
property out near Chinchilla (Q.), where
they used to grow prickly-pear, becomes
next year’s Grand Master of the Queens-
land branch of the M.U.1.0.0.F. He has
done a lot of work for the friendly socie-
ties of the northern State, and is a lucid
speaker.
On the evening when his picture was
being printed in The Bulletin, E. L.
Grimstone, M.L.A. for Stanley (Q.),
died suddenly of a seizure at Too-
goolawah. He was 50 years old, and his
schoolmastering experience, which had
taken him to such widely differing centres
as Ulam, Windorah and Forsayth, gave
him a greater knowledge of the State and
its industries than most members had. He
fought in the war with the famous 9th
Battalion, enlisting from Yarraman in
the district which he represented.
Gunner Saxon Fogarty, of H.M.A.S.
Australia, is the only licensed pilot among
the A.Bs. in the R.A.N. He is breaking
in nine Jack Tar members of a circus.
Saxon should be given every encourage-
ment ; the Navy needs air pilots. He is
also an expert aerial photographer.
The Bank of Australasia acquires a
new Sydney manager—A. R. L. Wilt-
shire, who commanded the 22nd Bat-
talion and temporarily the 6th Infantry
Brigade during the war, and recently has
been in charge of the ’Asia in Perth. He
had an extraordinary war record and
wears the C.M.G., D.S.O. and M.C. He
was mentioned five times in dispatches.
He comes from Euroa in the Kelly
country.
Hollywood reports the death of Fred
Esmelton, who, after a career in legit,
with Maggie Moore, went to ’Frisco
and found a place on the screen. Charac-
ter studies in “The Winning of Barbara
Worth,” “Raffles” and “Three Wise
Fools” gave him a standing in Hollywood.
He appeared in many other films, silent
and talkie, before opening a cafe, which
soon became a rendezvous for film cele-
brities. He twice revisited Australia.
Victorian-born, he was the only brother
of Mrs. Horatio Webb, for many years
associated with the Austral Salon.
W. P. C. Greene, who has flown to
Australia with Lord Apsley, well known
in Westralia and Vic., is a son of an old-
time N. S. Wales M.L.C., who left him
plenty of this world's goods. He was
educated at Haileybury and Cambridge,
served with King Edward’s Horse during
the war and later with the 13th Hussars
in Mespot. He raised half a squadron of
the 11th A.L.H. at his own expense, and
he it was who brought about the A.L.H.
affiliation with the King Edward’s
legions. Greene still owns some country
in Australia, but Worcester is his real
spiritual home.
W. H. Doherty, secretary to the United
Canegrowers’ Association, doesn’t look his
65 years. He came from Yambuk (Vic )
and, after laboring at bushwork and on
the roads, started attending a mines
school at 29 years old and became a
W. J. DOHERTY, secretary of the
Queensland United Canegrowers.
qualified first-class mine manager, with
assaying and survey certificates. Fifteen
years in that profession in M.L., the
N.T. and in Brilliant Extended, Charters
Towers, brought Doherty to the end of
the slump. He took to cane-farming, but
the hurricane of 1918 blew him sky-high,
so he applied for the Canegrowers’ job
and has made a great success of it. When
organising palls he plays bowls, but he
used to be a capable rifle-shot and was
a useful man at both cricket and football.
About to retire at 77, starter Tom
Watson has been connected with
Australian racing for over 50 years,
first as a rider —on one occasion at
Rosehill, unable to make the weight, he
rode without a saddle —and since 1887
TOM WATSON, who is to retire after
starting A.R.C. races for over 30 years.
as starter. His father (who came to Aus-
tralia in the forties) was also a starter
for the V.R.C., and handed the job on
to another son Godfrey. The A.J.C.’s
Gaxieu is to fill the vacancy.
A Country-party man will stand for
Warrnambool (Vic.) in the by-election
to fill the vacancy caused by the retire-
ment of J. V. Fairbairn. He is Robert
Glasgow, son of an ex-M.L.A. for Vil-
liers and Heytesbury for a time before
that district merged into Warrnambool.
Glasgow is president of the Nestle’s
Suppliers’ Association, member of the
local shire council and chairman of the
Wangoom branch of the U.C.P. Con-
sidering the comparative rarity of the
name a lot of Glasgows turn to politics.
Queensland had its William, N. S. Wales
its Carl and now Victoria’s second turn
has come.
The new chief of the Federal “Han-
sard” staff, J. S. Weatherspoon, started
his journalistic career in Melbourne on
the “Evening Standard,” one of the many
efforts at competition bought out by
the Melbourne “Herald.” Weatherspoon
went to the West, and after a period on
the Murchison “Times” joined the “West
Australian.” Then he passed to the
Westralian “Hansard” staff, and from
that, in 1918, to the Commonwealth ser-
vice. His old chief C. E. Robinson,
whose place, vacant by retirement, he
takes, would rather have doubted the
tenets of his religion than the soundness
of Weatherspoon’s notes.
With the passing of Alexander Graham,
at 83, Long Bay, Sydney, has lost its first
settler and most picturesque personality.
Graham was born at Surry Hills, and his
father, a school-teacher from the Isle of
Skye, wanted him to follow in his foot-
steps. But the youngster had other views
and became a trainer of horses and dogs.
In 1885 he bought an extensive property
on the southern shore of Long Bay.
Graham farmed his land, kept cows,
poultry and bees, opened up a
picnic ground and owned a small fleet
of fishing-boats. He knew every inch of
the waters from South Head to Port
Hacking, escaped drowning many times,
and saved many others from a similar
fate.


State (xp^ess
/■
m
tumgmM.
? $
%s>
mm
m.
m
m
3
m
y
k-
'A'
3
<
mz
r^>
Vj
70
y?
K<s- A «
S-
,^ x 3
"N I /•
r J .
\
fV-
* *
P?
*0
*2S
X^
5S \fA>
<
r~\ v /r~>
rx
r.'',
: * >1
•U >
V
y?>
7.
xrr<
'A
vL o
THREE THREES
ARE NINE
FOR SIXPENCE
Though we’re not all acrobats we can all juggle with a six-
pence, make it secure NINE Three-Threes, the greatest
cigarette feat any coin ever performed.
Never was such value —9 of Ardath’s most famous blend—with
cork tips or plain —quadruple-wrapped for perpetual choice-
ness of condition —extra enjoyment, extra satisfaction, extra
value, without extra payment.
xmt
1
K
msm
m
9 for 0d. 18 for 1 27 for 1
Also Flat 50s, Flat 100s, and Round Airtight 50s.
599 V io-3


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
June, Profit. Pref. Shares. ten Off. Deficit.
AS £ £ AS
192.1. . 398,073 8 p.c. = 149,115* 92,304 108,367
Vote to Kisdon Co-op. Council, £7500. . 115,867
All Shares.
1924.. 461,953 9 p.c. = 169,131 212,0201 35.065
Reserves.
1925.. 542,109 10 „ ~ 216,209 148,536 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 644,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 329,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 447,252
Charged to Development, £lB4l .. 445,411
1930.. 428,156 12 p.c. = 312,000 137,532 424,035
1931.. 158,239 4 „ „ 104,000 142,768 335,507
Charged to Development, £4l .. 335,466
1932.. 234,903 4 p.c. = 60,0001151,000 359,369
1933.. 373,095 8 „ „ 120,000t151,371 461,093
‘lncluding arrears.
tlncluding special amortisation reserve, £lOO,OOO.
{Pref. div. only.
Net additions to the reserve for deprecia-
tion, etc. (now £1,693,027), are included
with profits and then shown as written off
in the table. Excluding these additions,
and allowing for minor reserve adjust-
ments, last year’s net result sprang
£137,821, reaching £221,724, equal to 8.6
p.c. on the £2,600,000 of capital, of which
£1,500,000 carries a minimum 8 p.c., with
the right to advance beyond that point
with the ords. But the co. had got behind
in payments to the prefs., which are to
get another £120,000 on Nov. 2, thus
cleaning their slate to the end of 1932.
The spring in the figures is due mainly
to the rise in the price of spelter, and the
sale of the whole of the year’s output plus
part of the stock on hand at the close of
accounts in 1932. Spot quotes on the
London metal exchange compare as
follows:
Silver
Average:—• Zinc. Lead. (fine).
5 years, June, 1929 . . £3O/7/1 £2O/8/- 2/6.9
12 months June, 1930.. 20/15/5 20/19/6 1/10.9
12 months June. 1931.. 13/13/2 14/16/1 1/3.8
12 months June, 1932.. 12/18/10 12/16/7 1/6.4
12 months June, 1933.. 14/15/8 11/11/6 1/7.2
Taking exchange into the reckoning,
spelter averaged £lB 11s. 7d. in Australian
notes last term, or over 325. more than
for the preceding 12 months. Restriction
of production by the zinc cartel, of which
the co. is a member, has helped the price
and enabled producers to market their
outputs. Also, by arrangement with other
members of the cartel, practically full-
scale production has been maintained at
Risdon, as the following table shows:
Cad-
Zinc Silver Lead mium Copper
Tons. Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
1929.. 50,001 806,000 6889 176 212
1930.. 54,150 669,800 5460 218 179
1931.. 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
1932.. 53,085 367,000 2915 153 106
1933.. 53,951 221,000 2223 169 79
Activity in the galvanising industries and
the call for zinc dust in connection with
cyaniding auriferous ores lifted the
year’s sales of zinc locally to 20,801 tons
(= 38.5 p.c. of output); the best previous
figure was 16,428 tons. Owing to higher
grade concentrates received from the Bar-
rier, there was further contraction in the
silver and lead residues. The production
of mono acid (65,348 tons) was 8416 tons
better ; sales of super. (21,361 tons) in-
creased by 796 tons, and are expected to
further expand.
Thus far the co. has had no return
from its large expenditure on mines and
mill on the West Coast. Operations
there ceased about three years ago, fol-
lowing the big break in the markets, and
all but a fraction of the deposits got in
to help finance the work have been
repaid out of earnings:
1931. 1932. 1933
Debentures and interest £404,033 £401,728 £401,720
Sundry creditors .. 274,082 202,193 180,938
Deposits and interest.. 240,835 34,950 10,731
Overdraft .. ..' 37,563 68,440 10,417
Mt. Read-Rosebery mines 449,783 451,955 453,516
Properties, plant, etc... 3,654,539 3,676,244 3,675,070
Book debts . . . . 238,804 159,034 154,967
Shares 226,179 229,148 231,585
Stocks 444,088 410,1‘2 438,683
Cash, etc 281,694 304,700 459,676
During the last term £103,508 was clipped
off the outside debt, £28,531 was added
to the stocks item, and £154,916 to cash,
etc. The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£449,520, including stocks
but not shares) was £282,885.
It is difficult to say when the co. is
likely to start at Rosebery, especially
while the cartel restrictions continue.
Earnings, however, are expected to fur-
ther improve. The prefs. at 355. 3d.
(they fell to 19s. lOd. two years ago)
return 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. At
255. 6d. the ords. would return 4.6 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. distribution.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 42,241 10 p.c. = 54,750 70,009
1925.. 81,065 10 „ „ 69,000 12,065 82,074
1926.. 89,090 10 „ „ 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 111,, „ 79,350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ „ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 96,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 ~ ~ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ „ 45.000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ ~ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
’Half-year.
A splendid performance! The co. —it is
a front-ranker amongst Australian tex-
tile manufacturers —stocked up with raw
materials while prices were low. At June
30 market appreciation had given it a
profit of £20,000 on this account alone.
But the £20,000 was all on the shelves,
so it has been reserved for use as a
shock absorber in case the co. is unable
to dodge market potholes, etc., in the
future. The co.’s own mills at Abbots-
ford (Vic.), which turn out yarns, wor-
steds and woollens, had to work over-
time to keep abreast of demand, and the
Globe Worsted Mills (N.S.W.), in which
the co. holds 325,000 shares or more,
showed “good results.” Other holdings
include 50,000 shares in A.K.M., which
specialises in underwear, etc., 35,500
shares in Austral Silk and Cotton, 30,000
in Julius Kayser (Aust.), and an unspeci-
fied but small holding in Rayon Pty.,
which turns out silk hosiery and lingerie.
The co. is thus the centre of a group
with ramifications in all sections of the
trade.
The year’s gross earnings from all
sources (£148,558) sprang £47,265. In-
cluding an extra £11,980 set aside for
the taxgatherer (£34,161), exes. (£49,865)
took £15,197 of the increase, leaving
enough to show 10.9 p.c. on capital as
against 7.4, 5.7, 8.8, 12.6, 12.6 and 15.2
p.c. back to 1927. The div. was lifted a
couple of points ; and a 1 p.c. bonus was
added, making 9 p.c. for the year.
The market, doubtful whether the co.
is likely to repeat the 1 p.c. bonus, prices
the pound shares at 355. as against 275.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. While
tariff adjustments and competition
threaten to keep retail prices low, the
cost of raw material has gone up. Still,
the rise promises to help spending, the
burden of taxation has been lightened
a trifle, and more modern equipment is
to be installed in order to further extend
the range of the co.’s products.
Finances are snug, and balance-sheet
movements are in the right direction:
1928. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £690,000 £900,000 £900,000 £900,000
Sundry creditors
and deposits 226,109 236,464 145,187 78,954
Freeholds . . 198,239 156,327 159,255 142,610
Plant, etc. .. 546,947 263,145 242,182 215,500
Share!! in other
cos 10,500 162,219 443,944 445,307
Stocks. . . . 344,528 216,773 132,203 175,268
Sundry debtors 126,386 101,431 88,317 86,532
Advances . . 149,301 28,352 63,702
Cash, etc. . . 204,485 307,197 189,760 144,553
To lop £66,233 off the debt, make a
further £35,350 of advances to subsi-
diaries, and add £43,065 to the book
value of stocks (the spring was due partly
to the rise in prices already referred to),
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £45,207.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£391,101, including stocks)
was £97,656. On fixed assets £43,327
more was written off than was spent.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28,'000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,500 .. 183,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 . . 246,284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
Farmers long ago built up a reputation,
which it continues to enjoy, for high-
grade goods. Yet, partly because of jthis
high reputation, and partly because of
competition, the business has not held so
well as it might, notwithstanding that the
co.’s merchandising policy has been
adjusted to suit the times. However, as
conditions continue to improve, the co.’s
extensive goodwill should mean much,
and so should the fact that it owns the
entire end of one of the busiest blocks
in Sydney.
There is a million of capital in 200,000
first 6 p.c. and 400,000 second 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 400,000 ords. —incidentally, the
pref. divs. are not subject to the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act, the co.
being registered in England. In front of
shareholders there is £500,000 of first
mortgage debentures (£32,928 had been
paid to the trustees of the sinking fund
at June 30), issued in 1927 to help finance
the new building. These debentures
mature in 1939 ; the interest has been
reduced by statute from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c.,
but sinking fund contributions call for
£lO,OOO p.a. Fixed charges, therefore,
have pressed heavily upon attenuated
earnings, which were a trifle short of the
first pref. div. requirements in ’3l and
’32. There was a spring of £22,785 in
last year’s net result, which was £6109
short of the first and second pref. divs.
combined. So, for the third time since
the present co. took over the business in
1897, the ords. have had to go without;
they received a steady 10 p.c. for the
nine years to the close of accounts in
1929.
With the lift in the price of wool, tariff
adjustments and a little relief from taxa-
tion, further improvement in the figures
can be expected, though competition
promises to remain very keen. Over the
last 12 months the market has lengthened
its bid for the firsts from 19s. 6d. to 245.,
and for the seconds from 19s. 3d. to 235.
The return at the higher price is 5 p.c.
and 6.1 p.c. respectively. The ords. at
16s. 7d. would return 4.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. The sinking fund payment,
debenture interest, pref. divs. and 4 p.c.
to the ords. would together call for 5.3
p.c. on capital, reserves and debentures
combined. The net tangible cover is
£6 Is. Id. firsts, £2 10s. 7d. seconds, and
30s. 7d. ords.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Capital . . 994,415 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures.. 500,000 500,000 600,000
Other creditors 129,792 181,952 233,456 231,978
Freeholds and
plant . . 627,950 1,436,822 1,429,500 1,420,375
Leaseholds . . 1,700
Stock .. 467,002 313,077 328,990 322,025
Book debts.. 101,718 77,606 115,847 129,190
Cash and in-
vestments . . 91,708 82,240 76,509 71,669
Leaving shares in subsidiaries (£6625)
and the debenture sinking fund out of
the reckoning, the more or less liquid
surplus (£251,352, including stocks) was
£BB7B lighter than at the previous bal-
ance. When the books closed fixed
assets amounted to 73 p.c. of the bal-
ance-sheet total as against 51.2 p.c. six
years earlier. That means a lively turn-
over if satisfactory results are to be won.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
, Dividends
Prof. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 38,130 406 74 p.c. =37,500* 224 10,855
1924.. 43.677 6,023 7} ~,,37,500* 154 10,701
1925.. 41,457 11,177 8 ~,,26,000 4280 6,421
1926.. 49,358 13,687 9 p.c. = 29,250 6421
Reserves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £10,000.. 10,000
1927.. 50,213 14,920 9 p.c. =29,250 6043 16,043
1928.. 48,492 15,025 9 „ ~ 29,250 4217 20,260
1929.. 43,794 15,736 9 ~ „ 29,250 18,968
1930.. 33,005 16,000 3},, ~ 11,375 5630 24,598
Loss.
1931.. 20,357 Nil Nil 4,241
Deficit.
1932. .165,978 Nil Nil 161,737
Premiums on leases, £1963 .. .. 159,774
Profit.
1933.. 10,206 Nil Nil 149,568
*Divs. paid on face value of scrip and excess
over 5 p.c. transferred to capital.
The co., which is in the wine and spirit
and general merchandising trade, was
put on its legs by Samuel Allen at Towns-
ville over half a century ago. Of recent
years it developed a large indenting and
agency business in the southern capitals.
But slump, exchange and the tariff made
this unprofitable, so the Brisbane, Sydney
and Melbourne branches were closed,
and attention was turned to cash trading,
Sallen’s Economic Stores being formed
for the purpose a couple of years ago.
At the end of June, 1932, £161,737
of rubbish was raked out of the ac-
counts ; it consisted mostly of “irrecover-
able debts” and depreciation of pro-
perties. The declared profit on ac-
tual trading for the 12 months to June
30, 1932, was £2893. During the last
term gross earnings (£88,790) slipped
£2680, but exes. (£78,584) were pulled
back £7313 more than that. The £10,206
that remained, together with premiums
on leases (£1963), reduced the deficit on
shareholders’ account to £149,568.
To clean the slate £150,000 is to be
lopped off paid capital, reducing it to
£375,000 in 71,428 first and a like num-
ber of second 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
232,144 ords. —five new shares will be
handed out for every seven old ones,
prefs. and ords. alike. The question of
arrears of pref. divs. (£48,000 at June 30)
has not been settled yet. It is no func-
tion of the prefs. to make easy the re-
sumption of divs. to the ords., which con-
sist partly of bonus scrip. It is difficult,
therefore, to make out a strong case for
complete cancellation of arrears of pref.
divs. One way of compromising would
be to give the prefs. an equity in surplus
earnings to the extent of any arrears of
divs. which they may agree to immedi-
ately forego. On capital as reduced, the
prefs. will call for £11,428 p.a., or
£1222 more than was netted last year.
The market recently priced the old
shares at Bs. firsts, 7s. 6d. seconds, and
2s. ords. On the basis of these figures
the new shares would cost 11s. 2|d. firsts,
10s. 6d. seconds and 3s. 2d. ords. At
these prices the prefs., which are pre-
ferential as to dividend only, appear to
be worth consideration.
The financial position has improved:
„ 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £525,000 £525,000 £525,000 £525,000
Overdraft . . 121,341 118,688 120,014 98,035
Deposits, etc. 83,491 79,583 93,622 86,676
Freeholds .. 243,529 262,713 276,750 268,468
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 14,623 9,978 51,886 46,977
Stocks . . 99,103 67,067 43,953 43,486
Book debts . . 405,175 387,754 195,519 204,575
Cash .. .. __ _ 8,793 138
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£63,488, including stocks
but not shares) was £28,859. Share-
holdings include 100,000 £1 shares paid
to 13s. 9d. in Northern Breweries (Q.),
which has deposited £26,824 with Allens
in anticipation of part return of capital.
Much, of course, depends upon whether
the cleaning-up has been thorough.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
, Dividends , Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Loss. 9 p.c. Ord. licit. Deficit.
A <t £ £ £
1924*. 63,961 11,346 Nil 176,307
Profit.
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.e= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35,199 13,497 7} „ ~11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747 f 13,499 12} „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
1929.. 37,332 13,600 12} „ ~18,750 5,082 101,284
“Guardian” sold; “Referee” and
“Arrow” bought.
Net reduction in goodwill, £41,600.. 59,784
Added reserves, £39,807 .. .. 19,977
1930.. 14,874 13,500 t 1,374 18,603
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£14,100 32,703
Loss.
1931.. 11,476 13,500 Nil 57,679
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£41,553 16,120
Payments to Vic. co., £33,194 .. 49,320
1932.. 17,186 3,3758 Nil 69,881.
Reductions in reserves, £17,107 .. 87,048
Payments to Vic. co., £2550 .. 89,598
1933.. 35,479 Nil Nil 125,077
*l4 months, flncludes £9406 unexplained additions
to reserves. {Undisclosed special distribution made
to ords. out of profit on sale of “Daily Guardian.”
§For quarter ended June 30, 1931.
The year’s admitted losses from all
sources aggregate £55,196, as against
£50,380 for the previous term, when
£20,854 of reserves was rubbed out
on account of payments not previously
admitted as losses. According to the
report, litigation ran away with no less
than £23,157 ; the actual trading result
was £12,323 on the wrong side ; the call
from the Vic. subsidiary was £9790 lighter
at £2550; the capital loss (apparently
£17,167) on a property abandoned to the
vendor was charged against reserves, re-
ducing them to £27,391. Against this
figure is a p. and 1. debit of £33,969 and
£118,500 of goodwill and establishment
charges, leaving £125,077 of the £150,000
of ord. capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books at June 30. The
smaller payment to the subsidiary is due
to the return of 15s. per share of its
pref. capital (now £37,500), cancellation
of the old agency agreement and substi-
tution of a new one, whereby the parent
guarantees payment of the pref. div.
When the co. sold the goodwill of the
now defunct “Daily Guardian” and
“Sunday Guardian” to Associated for
£575,000 (£400,000 in 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the balance cash), it rubbed out the
£lOO,OOO at which the goodwill of the
“Guardian” had been capitalised, and
handed most of the balance, including
all the prefs. (Joynton Smith, 200,000 ;
F. C. Packer, 150,000; D. F. H. Packer,
25,000 ; L. Deer, 25,000), to the ords. It
thus lost the right to £28,000 p.a. (now
subject to 22\ p.c. statutory cut), or more
than twice the annual requirements of its
own pref. capital. Incidentally, Joynton
Smith has since handed back to the co.
80,000 of the 200,000 Associated prefs.
that he received. Meanwhile, the good-
will of the “Referee” and “Arrow,” two
sporting journals, was bought at a “satis-
factory figure,” reputed to be £40,000 ;
publication of the “Arrow” was discon-
tinued during the last term.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £299,966 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 55,277 255,456 204,621 141,047
Freeholds .. 43,155 161,857 161,857 111,483
Plant, etc. . . 67,427 62,433 56,685 51,344
Stock.. .. 17,735] 17,121 16,611
Book debts, cash,
etc 51,536 !-273,488 - 111,991 78,713
Shares in other
cos 84 J 87,085 57,817
Abandonment of the property already
referred to is further reflected in a re-
duction of £50,374 in the book value of
freeholds, and of £39,228 in mortgages
(now £61,080). To clip £11,257 off the
overdraft (£43,020, secured by debenture)
and £21,227 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors (£27,391), Joynton Smith
advanced the co. £5421 (also secured by
debenture), debtors’ -balances, etc., were
reduced by £33,278, and shares in other
cos. by £29,268. Including stocks and
shareholdings, the more or less liquid
surplus (£12,094) improved £5lB over
the twelvemonth.
A couple of months ago 3s. 9d. was
offered for the fully-paid pound prefs.
On paper they are covered by 235. 4d.
in net tangibles.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colliso.v, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
' ASSAYS.
PROSPECTORS’ SAMPLES
ASSAYED AND TESTED.
B. V. Heath & Associates, 405 Collins St., Melbourne.
Advt.
/’'•/''ll r\
The Metallurgical Works of
A VICXOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or Con-
centrate which you have for sale, it will
be assayed for Gold content free of cost,
and price submitted.
ē
m
n
The housewife's own
PEACE O'MIND
THERE are hundreds of thousands of housewives
in Australia who get peace of mind, and an
immense satisfaction, out of paying their shil-
ling or two a week to the A.M.P. man who calls
on them regularly. They wouldn’t miss paying that
little weekly premium for “all the tea in China.” It
gives them their own Life Assurance Policies for their
own special and private purposes. It gives them a
sense of Security.
It is a wise woman who listens to the A.M.P. man
who calls to tell her about these Industrial Policies;
who tells her how she can build up a fund for her
daughter’s Dowry, or her boy’s Education, or her
own old age. Many a mother has blessed the day
she hearkened to the A.M.P. representative.
Write and say that you would like a representative
to call, or that you would like full information by
post.
AMP. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.I.A., General Manager.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A., Chief Inspector and Secretary.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A., Actuary.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
New policies issued last year
£/3, e SO, 336
Amongst other things, the success of
the N. S. Wales Rural Bank’s million
pound 4 p.c. 10-year conversion issue at
par illustrates the importance of sane
government to the investor. When the
panic created by Lang smashed the Sav-
ings Bank, the Rural section, not taken
over by the Commonwealth, became a
separate concern. At the end of 1931 the
Rural Bank’s old 5| p.c. stock was at £BO
on the market. For the new paper, guaran-
teed as to principal and interest by the
State, cash applications alone totalled
£749,240 in the first two days, and those
who asked for over £lOOO will receive
only partial allotment. Obviously there
is plenty of money seeking safe invest-
ment, which means a continuation of
low interest rates.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s treatment and recovery
figures for the last three months com-
pare as follows:
, —Four Weeks Ended \
Aug. 23. Sept. 20. Oct. 18.
Ore quarried, tons.. 11,613 11,918 11,307
Ore treated, tons.. 11,220 12,070 12,160
Average head value—
Gold, dwt. .. 6.67 6.61 6.46
Copper, p.c. .. 0.32 0.36 0.47
Concentrates, tons.. 438 637 475
Estimated contents —
Gold, o ■/,. .. 2.318 2.841 2.830
Copper, tons .. 25 38 51
The October figures show a recovery
of 72.4 p.c. gold, and 89.4 p.c. copper
as against prospectus figures of 66 p.c.
gold and 90 p.c. copper. Last week-end
gold and copper were worth approxi-
mately £8 an ounce and £4l a ton in
Australian currency. Thus the gross
value of the ore was over 40s. a ton.
Monthly expenditure figures are not
broadcast, but estimated costs were 20s.
per ton. Overlying the Linda level there
is 664,000 tons with an average assay
value of 6.52dwt. gold and 0.91 p.c.
copper, and the co. is treating the stone
at the rate of approximately 144,000 tons
per annum. In a report to the old co. at
the end of 1926, E. E. Barker, the Ameri-
can engineer, figured that there is another
1,273,000 tons, averaging 6.44dwt. gold
and 0.84 p.c. copper, within the stopes
above and below the extreme contour of
ore on the Linda level. Outside these
limits approximately 7,000,000 tons of
stone, assaying 4.37dwt. gold and 1.72 p.c.
copper, is known to exist; but a lot of
money would have to be spent before this
stone became available.
Shareholders will get their first div. (2s.'
per share) on Dec. 18. After allowing
for expenditure on development, etc., and
taking gold at £7 10s. an ounce and
copper at £37 per ton (both Australian
currency), and with industrial conditions
and costs as they are, the board should
have no difficulty in paying a regular
2s. per share quarterly.
Capital is £172,000 in fully-paid £1
shares, which the market, with an eye on
the ore outside the Linda level, prices
at 50s.
* * * *
Herbert Gepp has been in Brisbane
conferring with the Minister for Mines
and officials on the Cloncurry special
report and the case for Central Smelters
there. The report is believed to be
unfavorable, and the scheme is not likely
to be proceeded with at present. That
means that Cloncurry will continue to
send its high-grade consignments to Chil-
lagoe ; but since the price of copper is
practically at bedrock, any buoyancy in
the market will reopen the question,
and Cloncurry may yet realise its long-
cherished ambition.
* * * *
Kangaroo Hills tinfield (N.Q.), which
sagged badly during the early part of the
slump, has revived with black oxide at
£175 in the north. John Readie and his
brother, who bought the old Sardine
before the market improved, have taken
out 60 tons, and are crushing at their
own battery, two miles down Oakey
Creek. The Juggler is standing well to
Matt O’Shea, his last crushing of nine
tons yielding concentrates worth £204.
Outside the Sardine the Perseverance is
yielding the largest tonnage ; its ore aver-
ages around 5 p.c., which is more than
payable. While the mines are working
there is always the chance of striking a
new lode, and the Hills has supplied
some very rich stuff in the past.
* * * *
The Mt. Shamrock, near Biggenden
(C.Q.), has been bought for £lB,OOO by
a southern group, represented by C. G.
Wright. The mine was a considerable
producer of gold and bismuth concen-
trates when prices were low. The demand
for bismuth helped the deal through.
At present the show is equipped with
an Empire mill and curvilinear tables,
but a plant to treat at least 200 tons a
day has been recommended. It is an
unusual deposit, being a network of rich
veins in breccia and diorite. The breccia
has carried most of the values in the
past, and there is still a large body of
it awaiting development.
* * * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), has com-
pleted its 2000-tons-a-month treatment
plant, and production is expected to begin
before the new year. A chute running
through the lode from the east shaft to
the depth of the tunnel is expected to yield
at least 41,000 tons of loz. Bdwt. stone ;
a further 10,000 tons averages s.2dwt.
Above the 100 ft. level of the east pros-
pecting shaft another 10,000 tons assays
between sdwt. and 6dwt., and 4100 tons
at grass is estimated to contain 51550 z.
of gold. The tunnel workings show that
values are going straight down instead
of dipping to the west. Working costs
are not expected to exceed 255. per ton.
* * * *
Kingston Gold Mines, near Brisbane,
is working on a very low recovery. For
September, 874 tons went through the
mill for 78oz. of gold, a shade over
2dwt.; recoveries, if any, from the sluices
are not mentioned.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s profit for year
to June 30 was £439,305, or £155,155
better than for the preceding 12 months.
Four 6d. divs. were paid, £50,000 was
sent to reserves, and £129,972 was struck
off for development and depreciation.
Including £31,562 brought forward, the
co. started the current term with £19,433
in the kitty. Now that bigger tonnages
are being treated and heavy expenditure
on new plant is about finished, and costs
are shrinking, substantial improvement in
earnings can be expected.
* * * *
At Norseman (W.A.) the lode at the
270 ft. level consists of a pair of quartz
veins totalling 13in. in width. At the
470 ft. level an unusual change has oc-
curred. Here the lode is over sft. wide
for a length of 650 ft., and values rang-
ing from sdwt. to soz. are officially
reported. At the 570 ft. level the prospect
so far is not so bright; still, this level is
only 170 ft. long.
* * * *
North Kalgurli Central, which is
developing the lease east of the Union
Jack at the northern end of the Golden
Mile, has not met with much success in
stabbing for the rich shoot said to exist
on the property. At the 400 ft. level,
649 ft. in, values were only ldwt. lOgr. ;
No. 3 lode shows approximately 3dwt.
In the north drive a favorable change is
reported. Dr. Loftus Hill is inspecting
this and other Melbourne-controlled pro-
perties on behalf of shareholders.
* * * *
Poor disclosures in the bottom of a
winze sunk from the deepest level in the
Transvaal, Southern Cross (W.A.), are
standing in the way of the show’s resus-
citation. Nevertheless, there are indica-
tions that the mine still contains a lot
of gold, and arsenic, too. A short west
crosscut from the bottom of the winze
would have a good chance of picking
up the lode again.
* * * *
An Adelaide syndicate has exercised its
option over Mt. Jackson, 120 miles north
of Southern Cross (W.A.). Good crush-
ings followed discovery of the show by
Clamp Bros, two years ago, and the cash
consideration (£6000) has been paid from
gold won. Mine workings are down
115 ft.; here the country is hard, but
values continue good. Members take
88,000 shares in the operating co. (200
for one), and shareholders are not ex-
pected to be asked for anything for a
while.
* * * *
Lady Gladys, alias Brown’s Reward,
has paid £lOOO deposit on its Mulline
venture (W.A.), and is hopeful of dig-
ging out the balance of the cash con-
sideration (£17,000) before the option ex-
pires. Rich patches like that recently
struck usually occur where one forma-
tion junctions with another ; apart from
these patches, values are poor.
* * * *
Kunanalling Gold, Melbourne-con-
trolled, recently crushed 16 tons from
the Melva Maie at Kunanalling (W.A.)
for 470 z., and 230 tons from the Star of
Fremantle, in the same district, for
108 oz. Two hundred tons of tailings
was cyanided for 40oz. The two leases
are under option to the co.
* * * *
While there is hope for a number of
old shows with gold at £8 per oz., the
idea of giving the old Maori Lass,
Southern Cross (W.A.), a further trial is
one to make the boldest investor hesitate.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I am using a sluice-box and cradle, yet, de-
spite blanketing, much of the fine gold escapes.
What should I do ? —B4ll.
It is essential to puddle clayey material
thoroughly before attempting to recover the gold
from it. If there is then definite evidence of loss
of fine gold, and if the size of the deposit war-
rants the expenditure, consideration should be
given to some kind of mechanical puddling and
amalgamation.
I have erected three head of stamps. (1)
What is the correct timing for the tip shaft, and
correct fall for the tables ? (2) Would low-
horsepower crude-oil engine be suitable ? —8419
(1) It is usual to provide for 80 to 100 drops
per minute per stamp. Since there are two wipers
per stamp, the number of revolutions would be
40 to 50 per minute. A fall of from 1| inches
to 1| inches per foot is a fair average, but local
circumstances must govern exact fall. (2) Yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Prospector: (1) Not aware of any literature
dealing with erection of poppet legs on a
mine. (2) The legal manager takes charge of
all clerical work, and prepares statements, etc.,
for meetings of directors. He should have a
sound knowledge of accounts, mining and com-
pany law W.D.C.: See page 46, Common-
wealth finance bulletin No. 23... .T.P.8.: (1)
A reasonable spec. What effect the swing of
trade back to Queen-street will have upon cos.’
earnings remains to be seen. Management and
finances are right. (2) You may have to wait
a long time for divs Nullarbor: It has not
yet turned the corner, but the figures are mov-
ing in the right direction; bonuses are nowhere
in sight E.K.D.: Don’t like the one men-
tioned. The prefs. in Samuel Allens, General
Industries and Farmer’s seconds appear to be
worth consideration, and so do the ords. in
Dunlop Perdriau, United Provisions and Morris
Hedstrom for long-term holding No. 107: (1)
See B. 12/7/ ’33. (2) No A.G.E.N.: It
is one of Burns, Philp’s South Sea family.
Capital is £150,000 in £lOO shares, on which
8 p.c. was paid last year as against 7,8, 9 and
9 p.c. for the four preceding terms. Net assets
at Nov. 30, 1932, £lOB 10s. per share. Scrip
not listed. Finances snug.... A.R.: No record
of either co C.G.McK.: The bonds are
long-term speculations; if you cannot afford to
lose, keep out.


SHADWO SHOWS.
Every year or so a talkie comes along
which merits the superlatives that our
ballyhoo critics use about most talkies
once a week. “Dinner at Eight,” at the
St. James, is the latest. Of course it is
a stage adaptation, but, if you didn’t
know, you mightn’t guess it. In spite of
the slightness of the basic theme, the
story is absorbing ; and, though the prin-
cipal sequences stand out like brilliant
JOHN BARRYMORE, in “Dinner at
Eight,” at Sydney St. James.
(Other pictures on this page are from
same cast.)
vaudeville turns, the action runs on with-
out a hitch.
Billie Burke, a fluffy, fussy little New
Yorker, is giving a dinner-party to a peer
and his wife. The unity derives from
the relations of the prospective diners
with one another. The shipping business
of her husband (Lionel Barrymore) is
threatened with ruin, though she doesn’t
know it. Wallace Beery, a newly-enriched
vulgarian with a wife (Jean Harlow)
whom he has picked out of the gutter,
and who looks and talks like it, can save
the situation. Marie Dressier is a famous
actress of the ’nineties, and one of
Lionel’s old flames. John Barrymore is
an ageing beauty-actor struggling with
the help of whisky to convince himself
that there is still a public for his profile.
He is having an intrigue with Lionel’s
daughter. There are other stars, but the
innumerable minor players are as good
as any of them.
There is a poignant scene in which
John Barrymore learns the truth about
himself from his agent (Lee Tracy), and
at the end most spectators will find it
hard to say which is the greater artist.
A hotel manager and his offsider tell the
ruined man that his rooms are wanted,
and they are as realistic throughout as
he is. Jean Harlow, as a lovely, over-
dressed, sluttish termagant, gives the best
performance of her career ; but she is no
better than the sluttish, blackmailing
maid, who is precisely the kind of maid
she would have. Drama and comedy
alternate with easy naturalism, and some-
times they blend ironically, as in life.
Lionel Barrymore, ill and miserable, is
trying to tell Billie Burke about the busi-
ness, and Madge Evans is trying to con-
fess her disastrous love affair. The little
LIONEL BARRYMORE.
idiot storms at them for bothering her
at such a time. She has had devastating
news. The peer and peeress have left
for Florida.
No one who is interested in the classic
French art of restrained character-acting
should miss this movie. As a production
it has nearly all the important qualities,
including knowledge of how people of
a number of different classes behave,
talk, think and dress; unforced humor
and pathos, and a new plot. England,
not to mention Australia, has much to
learn from it.
* * *
Members of the A.I.F. who visit “A
Night in Cairo,” at the Regent, will be
surprised to see how Egypt has changed
since they were there. Seventeen years
ago even policemen were mounted on
Arab horses ; now, it seems, even sheiks
and their followers ride underbred
brumbies. Amongst other innovations,
women in yashmaks have taken to dining
in the Grill Room at Shepheard’s.
Ramon Novarro is supposed to be an
Arab, but in appearance and manner he
is more like a Gyppo. His patient,
cringing pertinacity, varied by bursts of
fury, characterised thousands of youths
who, in face of callous insults, struggled
to earn a living throughout the war by
selling the “Egyptian Mail” or showing
recruits the Wazzir. Myrna Loy is the
English girl whom Ramon loves; who
views him at first with abhorrence ; who,
upon being well kissed, strikes him across
the face with a riding-whip; who, in
short, behaves in all respects as English
girls have been behaving towards sheiks
in films, plays and novels for donkeys’
years. An appalling picture, but not
devoid of interest as showing what movie
fans put up with in Valentino’s day.
“The Life of Jimmy Dolan” has at
least one original touch. Douglas Fair-
banks, Jr. (Jimmy), is the light-heavy-
weight champion of the world. He lands
a film punch on the jaw of a man who
is not in training and kills him.
Before the tragedy the champion was
a drunken waster. While in hiding he
comes under the influence of a good girl
(Loretta Young), reforms and lifts the
mortgage on the farm by standing up to
a touring killer for five or six rounds at
500 dollars a round. Guy Kibbee, a
detective, recognises him but doesn’t give
him away. The acting is all right in
its melodramatic way, and the ring
sequences in which the good little man
takes the inevitable hiding from the good
MARIE DRESSLER.
big man are life-like. Sydney saw some-
thing of the sort when Johnson beat
Burns.
Melbourne’s latest talkies are a mixed
lot. George Arliss is “The Working
Man” at the Regent. He is the familiar
stereotype of the captain of industry
who loves a good fight, the conflict in
this case being between him and a fellow-
manufacturer as to which is to supply
America with shoes. It doesn’t matter
how fiercely this Armageddon is waged,
Arliss never forgets his sentimentality
or his art. If the story were as good as
his acting it would be a great film.
“Nothing Ever Happens” is also at
the Regent. There is a duke who turns
out to be a crook and picks all the
pockets in a fashionable hotel. It is a
picture on which much effort has been
lavished and which need never have
been made.
The same might be said with reserva-
tions about “It’s Good to Be Alive,” at
the State. Here the director didn’t make
up his mind as to what he intended to
do. He thought of a good idea in a
world epidemic which destroys all the
males but one, who is discovered by the
females on a tropic island. There is an
amusing situation where 58 nations hold
an international congress to decide which
country is to have sole possession of
the means of salvation of the human
race.
It is an immensely elaborate pro-
duction, but the only time one gets the
emotions which such a situation as a
manless universe should convey is when
the man makes a desperate bolt for
monogamy with a girl in an aeroplane
and is pursued by the entire air fleet,
dirigibles and navy, femininely manned,
of the polyandroUs United States. Much
might have been made of this if the
director had been an artist and had had
less money to spend. Unfortunately,
he was seduced by his anxiety to exploit
the crooning voice of Raoul Roulein,
the hero.
Next, Helen Hayes and Robert Mont-
gomery, in “Another Language,” present
a dramatically well-knit domestic comedy
in which a wife, her husband and his
nephew get all muddled up in their un-
satisfied emotions, don’t understand them-
selves or each other, and are provided
with a solution to their problems by a
producer who doesn’t understand them
either.
* *
“Gold Diggers of 1933,” at Sydney State,
has been produced regardless of expense.
WALLACE BEERY.
Battalions of sumptuously attired chorus-
girls sing and dance in amazingly elabo-
rate surroundings.
The story, however, which concerns
the affection of a song-writer for a
star, and the efforts of his family to part
him from her, is threadbare. The gold
diggers are old, old friends. The lead-
ing looters are Aline McMahon and Joan
Blondell (with Ginger Rogers poaching
upon their preserves when a chance
offers), and the half-witted lootees are
Warren William and Guy Kibbee. Ruby
Keeler and Dick Powell (who warbles
agreeably) represent love pure and un-
defiled.
The best features are the ballet scenes.
The “Shadow Waltz” interlude has much
grace and beauty. There is a somewhat
banal skit on the depression at the end.
“Silk Express” is only a thriller, but
it is an exceptionally good one. It is
about the transportation of a train-load
of silk from Seattle to New York and
the attempt of a gang to prevent it from
getting there. As the train hurtles across
the continent the crooks commit two
murders and start a fire; but they are
satisfactorily bowled out at the finish.
Guy Kibbee, as a railway detective, and
Dudley Digges, as a paralysed arcfueo-
logist, are excellent.
* v *
Dear old mommer, with her silver hair
and overwhelming affection for her sons—
mommer, heroine of so many touching
ballads—is popularly supposed to cease
being lovable when the sons marry. An
essay on this transmogrification is “The
Silver Cord,” at Sydney Capitol. Irene
Dunne is the young wife who puts up a
gentle protest against the matriarchal
prejudices of Laura Hope Crews. The
things these ladies tell each other would
be no news to Freud and Jung, but they
give severe jolts to Joel McCrea and
Eric Linden, who have brainstorms be-
cause Miss Crews disapproves of their
brides. One leaves in disgust; what
happens to the other is wropt in mystery.
In “Doctor Bull,” on the same bill,
Will Rogers, as slow and mysterious of
speech as ever, is a small-town health
JEAN HARLOW.
officer who is tactless enough to lay the
blame for an epidemic of typhoid on a
village magnate. By devising a cure
for paralysis that earns him the gratitude
of an even more important (i.e., richer)
person, good, kind Dr. Bull escapes ruin.
As a picture of American society the
opus is more than usually unflattering.
Sundry Shows
The A.B.C. and Melbourne Univer-
sity deserve a medal for bringing Wagner
into juxtaposition with his fellow-giant
Brahms in a musical festival.
It has been a grand time for the
musically-inclined. Brahms figured in
the Symphony No. 1 in C minor, Op. 68,
at the Wilson Hall, in which the broad-
casting orchestra showed a fine sense of
unity ; in the Concerto No. 1 in D minor,
wherein pianist Raymond Lambert dis-
played a keen grasp of form and the rarest
delicacy of touch, also played at the Wil-
son Hall; the “Academic Festival” over-
ture, which sounded a trifle dry, and the
violin concerto in D major, Op. 77,
through which Tossy Spivakovsky
threaded his way on the lightest of danc-
ing bows (at the Town Hall). Wagner’s
innings included “Lohengrin,’’ Act 111,
which lifted the roof off the Wilson Hall;
Elizabeth’s Greeting to the Hall of Song,
sung with splendid confidence by
Madame Orff-Solscher, and the prelude
and Death Song from “Tristan and
Isolde.” On Saturday at the Town Hall
the orchestra played the Siegfried Idyll
enchantingly, but “The Flying Dutch-
man” (third act), with its choral argument
between sailors and girls, its titanic
orchestral storms and its intricate solo
effects, appeared to get out of Prof.
Heinze’s hands and, though by no means
a total wreck, was in danger of drifting
on to a lee shore. The experienced Orff-
Solscher, Charles Nicis, Alan Eddy, of
the sable mane and the magnificent voice,
Walter Kingsley and the other soloists
brought it back to the course.
On Thursday there will be a fifth pro-
gramme at the Wilson Hall, and the Town
Hall will be the scene of the grand finale,
when the Brahms Symphony No. 2 and
“The Valkyrie,” Act 111, will be per-
formed.
* * *
Sydney Phil., whose public concerts
have been growing as rare as angels’
visits, broke a long silence last week with
a performance at the Town Hall of
Hubert Bath’s “Wedding of Shon Mac-
lean” and of the second part of Gade’s
“Crusaders.” The Bath cantata, in the
EDMUND LOWE.
Scottish style, with bagpipe imitations for
the orchestra, contains a very pretty duet,
which was nicely sung by Eily O’Martin,
who has a fresh young soprano voice,
and Rowell Bryden. In “The Crusaders”
Miss O’Martin and Lance Jeffree distin-
guished themselves as soloists. Howard
Carr conducted.
* * *
Cecil Berry, a young violinist who,
after some years of tuition from Cyril
Monk, acquired polish in Germany,
showed his paces at Sydney Con. Hall in
Mozart’s Third Concerto, Sarasate’s
Zapateado ” and excerpts from the
works of De Falla and Fibich.
Mr. Berry phrases gracefully, has much
digital skill, and plays Mozart with great
purity of tone and delicacy of style. Sara-
sate and De Falla seem to call for more
abandon than Mr. Berry is inclined to
unleash, but great Wolfgang had no
reason to turn in his coffin.
* * *
Thring’s second production, “Clara
Gibbins, continues at Melb. Princess.
Mo and his Merry Monarchs are this
week regaling the Tiv. intelligentsia with
a Potty Pantomime. “Music in the Air”
will be given the air on Friday, and on
Saturday “The Maid of the Mountains”
will reach the Royal. “Road House” is
still offering accommodation at the King’s,
and Wirth’s wild animals will remain as'
wild as ever at Olympia during the cur-
rent week.
* * *
At Sydney Royal “The Quaker Girl”
still holds the stage, and seems likely to
do so for some weeks to come. Isobel
Elsom and George Barraud will cease
conducting wrestling matches in “Private
Lives” at the Cri. this afternoon. “Tout
Paris,” the Rolls opus, comes from Mel-
bourne to the Cri. on Saturday, and the
New Tivoli, having finished with Stuart
and Lash, will conduct an “old-time min-
strel show” as one of its attractions.


cui^r>
e/i uzsid
a n<2 n /
WITH AN ALL - CONQUERING LIGHT SIX
I sSSIM
****** »**,
*%;;*;*?
aßsmm
Bsam
in ttttu i*' t|,‘
tusai.!!! liMz&i
i ‘iim
♦*«****, it}* Hu* :?•»,*»♦ *;* *
■: .•■•■•I?: ftfo’fg;
asisffi®
F his new car comes into a class highly
favoured both in England and in Australia,
and, true to Vauxhall tradition, im-
mediately takes command.
Two years of research and a hundred
thousand miles of stern trial on each
of a dozen test cars comprise the crucible
in which the new Vauxhall has been
moulded and from which it now
triumphantly emerges.
The Vauxhall Light Six has dignity
. . . is beautiful to the eye . . .
thrilling to the touch . . . and performs
amazingly. You will wonder why light
cars had never before been brought to
the same pitch of perfection.
All the knowledge that Vauxhall has
acquired in the making of motor cars
during the past 30 years has gone into the
design of this Light Six a car worthy
to carry on this great Vauxhall tradition.
VAUXHALL
LIGHT SIX
Finally, the most re-
markable price in years,
considering comfort,
appearance, perfor-
mance and the inbuilt
quality that justifies the
title "Lineal descendant
of cars famous for 30
years.”
The roadster, £285
The Tourer . £295
The Coupe . £335
The Sedan . £345
{All price j plus Sales Tax )
14 H .
CONSULT
P. _ - - _ 101 INCH WHEELBASE
YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
H733MB


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pons.”: “Coomerong,” said the com-
mercial traveller. “Yes, I know it. Fine
little town. But I haven’t seen the place
“Think we might pick up a steamer?”
“Don’t be a goat! There’s scarcely room for us here.”
this good while—they took the keys of
the city away from me, as you might say,
and I can’t go back till the pub changes
hands. It was like this. About five or
six years ago the firm sent me up there,
while the picnic races were on. Shearing
machines, you know, and sprays and
drenching guns. Everybody was in town
for the races, and I did all fight. Last
night of the meeting there was a dinner
at the showground, and I got back to
the pub about two o’clock, semi-con-
scious and aching for sleep. I drifted
into my room (a two-bedder, she was),
chucked my clothes on the floor and
climbed between the sheets. No pyjamas
or anything. About eight next morning
I peeped out, and there, in the other bed,
was a healthy-looking lass. She had on
one of those pale, sea-green nighties.
Crepe de what-you-call. ‘Would it sound
nasty,’ she says, ‘to ask who my fellow-
lodger may be?’ ‘Question unanswered,’
1 says, ‘but repeated.’ Her eyes were
sticking out like doorknobs. ‘This con-
ference is over,’ she says. ‘You get out
of here. Get out, or I’ll scream the place
down.’ ‘I like music,’ 1 says, ‘but not at
dawn. Don’t get vocal for fifteen
seconds. And put that shingle of yours
under the sheets, because my pyjamas
have gone west somewhere.’ She dived
under the counterpane, and I hopped
into my underpants and out of the door.
Outside the whole of the Commonwealth
was smoking and picking its teeth after
breakfast; and me looking like a life-
saver at Manly, and nowhere to go.
After about five years the landlord found
me, salvaged my togs and let me dress
myself in his office. ‘But go away,’ he
says ; ‘go away.’ So I haven’t been to
Coomerong since.”
* * * *
“Zed”: It was in the middle of sum-
mer during my sojourn at a Vic. country
school. One morning I received a com-
plaint that on the previous afternoon
one of the smaller boys had been running
round in his birthday suit. The young-
ster protested his innocence, but his
accusers were emphatic. At last, break-
ing down under the strain of cross-
examination, Freddy threw himself on
the mercy of the Court, blurting out be-
tween his tears, “But, please, sir, I wasn't
naked. I had me hat on!”
* * * *
“Terry”: “ talkin' 01 getting out of
bogs,” said Tom the teamster. “I was
down Goondiwindi way in the ’92
drought and was takin’ a short cut across
the river bed ; but it wasn’t long before
the mud held the waggon fast. Three
teams wouldn’t have done no good.
There were a lot of drought-killed bul-
locks lyin’ about the place ; so from one
I cuts a tough strip of hide and soaks
it well in a bit of a mud-hole. Then I
hitches one end to the waggon and ties
the other to a big coolabah tree on the
bank. It wasn’t long before the sun
playing on the hide shrunk it well up ;
and out come the old waggon as clean as
a whistle.”
* * * *
“Bush Boy”: A rabbit trapper of my
acquaintance had two classy pointers—
very useful dogs to him because they
were clever at tracing traps which had
gone off the line attached to a fox or
hare. The dogs were husband and wife,
so to speak, fine big animals, intelligent
and kind. One day when I was in the
trapper’s camp the lady dog had been
missing since the night before. “Larry’ll
find her,” said my friend, unbuckling the
dog’s collar as he spoke. Larry bustled
off with tail switching, and we followed.
We walked about a mile directly for the
trap line, and on crossing a low spur
saw both dogs coming slowly towards us.
As they got nearer my pal exclaimed,
“Judy’s been caught by the forefoot an’
old Larry’s carrying the trap!” Sure
enough it was so. The big dog had the
bow of the trap gripped in his great
jaws, with the chain and pin jingling
against his knees, and he seemed to be
supporting his whimpering mate with
his powerful shoulder, keeping step with
her like a soldier on parade.
* * * *
"Billy See”: The oyster won’t breed
anywhere on the W.A. coast between
Geraldton and Bunbury, precisely the
latitudes where the bivalve flourishes
in N.S.W. In the ’seventies Stirling,
of Perth “Daily News,” imported
“Does your father happen to be in, sonny?”
Yes, mister; but they're lettin’ him out nex' week.”
1600 of the best from Sydney and
planted them in the bays and on the
reefs of Carnac Island, but not an oyster
has since been seen there. In the
eighties Saville Kent vainly endeavored
to acclimatise the bivalve in the Swan.
Nowadays, Perth fish merchants store
their Bellingers in wire-netted pools at
Bicton, where any spat could find a
ready home on the piles of the Fre-
mantle bridges ; but none settle down to
rear families. Nor’-West oysters, brought
down on the keels of pearling luggers,
S\“dte“cS
tain vast banks of extinct oyster-shells,
so thick in the case of the Swan that the
local cement foundry relies entirely on
the river for its supply of lime.
* * * *
“C.P.C.”: In August, 1839, Commander
Wickham, aboard the Beagle, discovered
the Adelaide River, 60 miles
east of Darwin. Wickham,
accompanied by Lieut. Emery
and the mate, Helpman,
spent four days exploring the
river 80 miles in from the
sea, and he returned to the
Beagle in great glee over his
discovery. The ship was then
short of water and Wickham
made for Port Essington.
Captain Owen Stanley, of the
depot-ship Britomart, had
been keeping the flagging
spirits of the Port Essington
garrison going by organising
a show, for which he had
painted the scenery from abo.
ochre. Tickets bearing the
words “Victoria Theatre,
Port Essington, August 24th,
1839“ had been written, but,
with tucker short, the settle-
ment crowd wasn’t much in
the mood to enjoy the show.
The Beagle couldn’t give
much help, but on the very
day when the curtain —an
old ensign—was to go up the
Pelorus arrived from Sydney
with food supplies and mails
and, according to Lort
Stokes, who was Wickham’s
offsider, “the arrival of the
ship on the very play-day
caused a crowded but de-
lighted' audience.” I wonder whether any
of those ancient tickets has been pre-
served.
* * * *
“Groper”: Droving through the Upper
Murchison (W.A.) 40 years ago, Jack
Perry came on a silver hunter watch,
hanging on a tree. It was badly tar-
nished but otherwise in good order.
There was no sign of anyone having
camped there, and Perry, until this dis-
covery, thought himself the first white to
pass that way. He learned later that
in the ’eighties the route had been used
by the brothers Hooley, one of whom
was speared at a well some miles away
during the absence of his brother. Mor-
tally wounded and riding desperately to
escape, Hooley, it is thought, hung
up his watch hoping that his brother,
following the trail, might find it a guide.
But the brother went straight to the dead
body and the watch remained until Perry
found it. The remaining Hooley was by
that time also dead, and Perry was un-
able to find the watch an owner.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Ants are a nuisance to the
housewife and the gardener, but they
consume an enormous number of destruc-
tive insects and are used in many coun-
tries to combat pests. Cotton-growers in
U.S.A. find them an ally against the
boll-weevil, and Mexicans place their
verminiferous garments on an antheap
when itching grows intolerable. If a
South American Indian receives a wound
that needs stitching he hunts for soldier-
ants of the leaf-cutting variety and, press-
ing the wound close, allows them to bite
into the flesh. The head is then severed
and the stitch is complete.
* * * *
“Basset”: Not only the stoat but all
his villainous relations are accustomed
to prey on animals larger and swifter
than themselves (B. 25/10/’33). They
rely not on mesmerism, but on persistency.
A stoat or a weasel will trail a rabbit all
day if necessary until the quarry is dead-
beat and throws in the towel. In the
same way, beagles and basset hounds, or
even harriers for that matter, all too
slow to catch a hare in an open go, will
remorselessly keep on her scent until she
is too done to carry on. The bigger har-
rier, faster than the other two, makes a
shorter job of it, but the plodding beagle
and the ridiculous little basset, which
has to be lifted across ditches, get there
just the same in their own good time.
* * * *
“Macropus”: Would any Aboliar like
to enter for the oldest-kangaroo stakes?
A Brisbane family is mourning the
demise of one which had been their pet
for 17 years, having been captured when
a young joey—so young, indeed, that it
had to be bottle-fed. The creature was
a grey doe and, like the centenarians in
the obituary notices, “was in full posses-
sion of her faculties to the last.” There
is a record of a red kangaroo having
lived 14 years in London Zoo, but the
Brisbane instance is claimed to be the
best performance yet put up.
* * * *
“Cayenne”: Australian birds and rep-
tiles are selling at fancy prices in Europe
and America, and the demand greatly
exceeds the supply, largely because of
the export regulations framed to protect
our native fauna from indiscriminate
capture and slaughter. But is there any
reason why permits should not be granted
to capable persons for breeding for ex-
port? There would be money in it for
some enterprising nature-lovers, if the
latest price lists of London dealers are
any guide. “Laying” emus are priced at
£B5 a pair by a dealer who will supply
youpg Nile crocodiles at 20s. apiece; and
other attractive prices (for pairs) are £4O
for half-grown emus, the same amount
for native-companions and scrub turkeys,
£l2 10s. for black swans, wonga pigeons
and talking corellas, £3 10s. for crested
bronzewings and 355. for galahs. Rep-
tiles in demand are goannas at from £2
to £4, the aquatic lizards known as
“Gippsland crocodiles,” blue-tongued
lizards and Cunningham skinks at 20s. to
355., and the Westralian long-necked
terrapin at from 10s. to 20s.
THE SMELL OF THE WOOLSHED FLOOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poets who harp of the fragrance rare
Of Persian garden and Arabic still,
Wafted by garments of ladies fair
Or ruthless (class them just as you will),
Your judgment is warped as your senses flame,
So here a challenge l dump at your door:
A rival I enter, a vote l claim
For the fragrance that floats from the wool-
shed floor.
Frangipanni, patchouli and musk,
The flapper’s joy and the wanton’s lure,
Permeating the glamorous dusk
When manners and morals are insecure,
And all the freaks of your fancy crop,
Opoponax, eau-de-Cologne and more,
I can smell them all in a chemist’s shop;
But I can’t smell there the old woolshed floor.
Bouquet of crusty old fruity wine,
“Nose” of mellow and ripened cheese.
To tickle the gourmet’s senses combine;
And odor of onions can’t fail to please,
Dispensed by a Dago performer of parts.
Yet no connoisseur and no Dago lore
With all the finicking flavoring arts
Can beat the “nose” of the woolshed floor.
Myrrh and frankincense savored of Jews,
Lotus and sandalwood, choice of the Chows,
Scented syrups that sultans use
Their pallid passions to rally and rouse;
Where vanity, luxury, indolence drift,
These pave the passage, but true to the core
1 his stands for industry, enterprise, thrift,
The aroma whose home is the woolshed floor.
What if sweating sheep and perspiring men,
As they wait to be shorn or bend to their
toil
Over shearing board or in crowded pen,
Blend with the tang of the tar and oil,
A whiff of jute from the branded bale
And of tallow and skins from the corner
store?
The product, though years old, never is stale.
For it’s bred in the boards of the woolshed
floor.
You may scrub the old planks like the deck
of a ship,
The flavor’s ingrained, like Original Sin;
Each year it comes out with a fresh-added grip
And all work the better for breathing it in.
The Swaggies who camp there, given the chance,
Though reaching the haven tired, footsore,
Wouldn’t thank you for all the perfumes of
France
While lulled by the “hum” of the woolshed
floor.
So keep all your fancy concoctions of scent,
The playthings of girls and effeminate boys.
I yield you the sensuous charms that are blent
With their use, and my portion of perfumed
joys.
My senses unspoiled (if my fibres are tough)
Demand simpler things, as suggested before.
That healthy old, stealthy old smell is enough,
The honest old STINK of the woolshed floor.
3. A.
BILL O’C.


The Book you have been waiting for !
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS
AND BITERS”
REVISED, WITH 30 ILLUSTRATIONS.
by ROBERT KALESKI
RECOGNISED AS AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST AUTHORITY ON THE DOG.
THE CATTLE-DOG THE KELPIE THE
BARB —JUDGING AND BUYING CATTLE-
AND SHEEP-DOGS—KANGAROO-DOGS—THE
MENACE OF THE ALSATIAN—THE LAW
ON DOGS, etc., etc.
Cloth Bound 3/6 (Postage 2d).
ALL BOOKSELLERS, OR THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
“BULLETIN” OFFICES, ALL STATES.
“Neddy”: England was recently mildly
excited over the performances of a horse
which in private life performed the pro-
saic task of pulling a laundry cart. The
creature lived in Kent, and one day
jumped into the River Stour, some miles
from the sea, and swam steadily down-
stream, though bargees attempted to
lasso it as it passed them. By nightfall
the nag had made the open sea and, with-
out waiting for a pilot, went straight on,
outswimming pursuing boats, which gave
it up in the darkness. Next morning the
local fishermen engaged in leaning
against posts were amazed to see the
animal swimming back to shore again.
A motor-boat took up the chase and the
prad was at last shepherded ashore. On
landing it sprinted three miles along the
beach before finally surrendering to the
inevitable and the laundry cart. What
went it forth for to see?
* * * *
“Tamata”: That story of the man who
habitually left off his trousers when in
the wilds and sometimes forgot to put
them on when he returned to civilisation
“Sure you gave that sick hound a pill?”
"Yes, doctor; you can see for yourself I did.”
(B. 18/10/’33) brings back a memory of
the days when I was Gold Warden of
the Gira field in British New Guinea —
Papua as it is known to-day. Old Andy
was no friend of mine. I objected, at
our first meeting, to his coming into
my office for renewal of his miner’s
right clad only in a singlet. I told him
that I could not deal with him officially
unless he put on pants, or at least a
“sulu” —the Fijian word then in use for
a seemly waist-drape. Andy departed,
cursing me savagely. In ten minutes he
was back with a pair of cotton ducks
from Billy Hancock’s store which were
a foot too long for his legs. By the time
he had reached the office his feet were
encased in the lap-over of the trousers.
“Now, Misther War-r-den,” he said tri-
umphantly ; “am Oi dacent or not for
the loikes av you? Here’s me that’s
wor-rn trousers in me day, cornin’ to th’
coort the first time in me life Oi iver
wore a sock or the father to it!”
. * * * *
“Specker”: A cow-cocky in the mid-
lands of Tasmania whose property ad-
joins a large stretch of water known as
Lake Dulverton, which carries a con-
siderable growth of water-weed, has
equipped a light boat with an engine and
air-propeller and fitted a set of keen
blades to the bow. The weed is cut as
the boat passes through it, and is driven
to the shore by the wind. It is then col-
lected and fed to the cows. The origina-
tor of the scheme says he gets 70 per
cent, of his cow-fodder from the lake
throughout the year. That kind of farm-
ing should pay even at bedrock prices.
* * * *
“Soso”: The owner of a house in
these days is wise if he keeps a tenant in
the premises, even if the gentleman pays
no rent. Untenanted houses are stripped
of doors and windows, and plaster walls
are damaged by thieves removing gas-
pipes. In some instances inner walls of
brick have been removed. With an
agent I inspected a place in a Sydney
suburb. The overlaps of iron on the roof
were so close together that the general
effect was that of fish-scales. “Tenants,”
explained the agent. “If the roof leaks
they get a fresh piece of iron from some
place near by every time it rains.”
* * * *
“Elgar”: The best climate (B. 27 /9 / ’33)
is the one that suits your period of life.
My first ten years were spent where we
had double windows all through the
winter; where the snow lay 10ft. and
12ft. deep from October to March;
where men sawed 3ft. cubes of ice out of
the frozen river to put in the ice-house
for use during the summer ; where you
didn’t dare touch iron for fear of losing
the skin off your fingers. Last winter,
after several years of the more congenial
climate of this continent, I sojourned at
Toolangi (Vic.), with the thermometer
barely at 32deg. and less than a paltry
foot of snow on the ground, but I never
got properly warm for three days, and
simply leaped into the timber-truck
whose driver obligingly hurried me out
of that frozen hole. I haven’t got the
chill out of my bones yet.
* * * *
“Teepy”: A word in support of
Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jacks, whose
authenticity has been questioned. Visit-
ing Ballarat and Daylesford and, fore-
gathering with descendants of Cornish
"Do you believe in the survival of the fittest?”
"Don’t believe in the survival of anybody! I’m an undertaker.”
goldminers whom I knew intimately in the
’seventies, I found the dialect and gen-
eral physical characteristics still unadul-
terated. It isn’t a matter of education:
once a Cornie always a Cornie. I’ve
heard a Master of Arts at an exciting
football match shout indignantly to a
player, “Willum! What be ’ee doin’ of?”
and though I’ve been 51 years a school-
teacher and my dad was a pedagogue,
too, a.Tasmanian had to remind me yes-
terday that his town was Launceston, not
Lansun! Our ancient language is extinct,
worse luck; but our dialect and type
survive. And so they should, for the
world owes much to us whose forebears
hailed from the peninsula which Romans,
Angles, Saxons, Danes and Normans
could never conquer —though I say it
as shouldn’t!
* * * *
“One Shot”: At our Back-to-Billyho
celebration a youngish returned wan-
derer went up to the most picturesque of
the permanent residents. “I suppose you
don’t know me, Mr. Postlethwaite?” he
challenged. “Know yer?” responded the
old boy. “Damme, lad, I was at yer
christening, and I’d know yer hide if J
saw it hangin’ on a fence.”
* * * *
“Dai R.”: An accommodation-house
that has never received its due meed of
notoriety is the Wingadee station mail-
box on the Coonamble-Walgett (N.S.W.)
road. Built on piles, as safeguard against
flood, it is 10ft. square by sft. deep.
Scarcely a sun goes down without some
tired work-chaser (his waterbag filled at
the last bore-drain) making for its hos-
pitable roof with blessings on the man-
agement that put it there. The kindly
mailmen of the part invariably flourish
a hurricane-lantern in the doorway be-
fore heaving in parcels, lest a weary way-
farer be damaged.
* * *
“E.S.”: The white man’s habit of walk-
ing straight into an abo. camp is resented
where time-old customs pertaining to
visitors prevail. It is equivalent to a
stranger walking unbidden into a white
man’s house. I saw a blackfellow and
his gin one day come to an abo. village
on the Clarence. They halted a short
distance from the camps, and sat on a
log for some minutes, patiently awaiting
the pleasure of their intended hosts and
hostesses. Eventually one of the village
women called out to the lady on the log.
The latter answered, and presently she
was invited to the camp, hubby continu-
ing to wait in the distance. The women
talked about Mr. Visitor, his people and
his intentions. Then one of the men
went out, sat on the log and had a talk
with Mr. Visitor, asking him his name,
his business, where he came from and
where he was going. Finally Mr. Visitor,
having been audited and found correct,
was asked to come in.
* * * *
“Trenton”: Lying in the silt at the
bottom of Darwin harbor is the wreck of
the Ellengowan, a little steamer that
helped to make a bit of New Guinea and
N.T. history. She belonged originally to
the London Missionary Society, and
aboard her D’Albertis, the Italian natural-
ist, made his pioneer trip up the great Fly
River. Later on she was brought across
to N. Aus., and Alfred Searcy had a few
adventurous trips in her to the Gulf and
up some of the unguarded asset’s rivers.
In the early ’eighties she was bought
by a company that was working a rich
copper lode at a point 60 miles up the
Daly. Like many other craft, she came
to grief there owing to the big tidal bore
which is a startling feature of that river.
Salved from the Daly bed, she headed
for Darwin again, where one fine morn-
ing, without any warning, she sank sud-
denly in 15 fathoms.
* * * *
“R.C.S.”: The controversy on the
“Shadow Shows” page (25/10/’33) con-
cerning the authenticity of details in “The
Squatter’s Daughter” reminds me that
there is at least one old-time Australian
homestead free from anything modern
and still held by an old pioneer—Kulkyne
station, Vic., where Charlie Ross for 60
years has been lord of the manor. The
rambling old home, the huts, stables,
shearing-shed and barn are examples of
workmanship in the old log style. In
recent years the house has had its bark
roof replaced with iron, but the long
swamp grass that was used to thatch the
stable sits there still, after over 70 years
of service. And the great twisted old
pepper-trees dating from the ’sixties still
nod to the ancient mustering yards. Kul-
kyne lives in a world of the past. As
twilight shadows fall Charlie Ross leans
upon the old log window sill and softly
whistles the ’possums from the trees. You
hear the scuffling in the branches, the
pattering on the ground and the crooning
of his voice as they munch the crusts
held lightly in his fingers. Tread rever-
ently here. This is the Australia of our
grandfathers.
THE NEW USE FOR EMUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gaunt, wingless fowl that decks our coat-of-
arms
And stalks or streaks about our sunlit spaces,
Twill be a change to frozen fields and farms
And storm-swept, snow-clad steppes and such-
like places;
You'll soon be ’climatised, so it’s averred,
But in your native land none ever took you,
Whate’er your merits, for a table bird.
1 wonder how the Muscovites will cook you.
Voracious avian that on our coins
With the quaint ’roo imperishably figures.
Your stringy neck and scraggy legs and loins
May keep you hardy in Siberian rigors.
You may—God knows! —increase and multiply
And grow into an asset prized and boasted.
But, when the time arrives for you to die,
1 wonder if they'll serve you boiled or roasted.
Biped with feathers never fledged for flight.
Whose ways destructive and whose gambols
antic
And whose insatiable appetite
Make squatters sad and cockies often frantic,
Go forth! Ido not grudge you, I admit,
To tucker Ivan, if it’s so decided;
In fact, I’d vastly sooner Bolshies bit
Into your liver wing, old bird, than I did.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Public
Announcement
• In addition to passing; on the full
benefits made possible by the
decreases in Customs Duty, Excise
and Sales Tax, as applied to Spirits,
Members of this Association, in col-
laboration with the United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association of New South
Wales, have voluntarily instituted fur-
ther price reductions, with the result
that, as from the 19th October, Prices
to the Consumer have been reduced
as follow:
STANDARD
SCOTCH WHISKIES,
IMPORTED GINS,
SCHNAPPS and RUM
d
9d PER MEASURED NOBBLER.
AUSTRALIAN
WHISKIES
AND GINS
(4 BRANDS
OF GIN
EXCEPTED)
ė
6(1. PER MEASURED NOSBLER.
Wine and Spirit Association of New South Wales
23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial arid Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FEEDK. LEVY,
Managing- Director.
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
hatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one week’s
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
fame® Saving?®® of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
w
]
WHITE
\ \
ETON
\ '
JACKET
\ [RtADY IO wtAR.I
A
\ !
1
□I OE g;H
I! O T Ijl
IN QUEE-N ST BRISBANE 1H
SMOKE-OH!
When it comes to arms Germany likes
to have a leg-in. • , ’
* *
The Kangaroos appear to have lost
their kick.
OBITUARY.
The death has occurred in London of
Body, dearly beloved son of Head Line.
Shock caused by bad news in a cable
was a contributing factor, but the end
was not unexpected. Deceased had been
suffering from Larwooditis and Over-
doseo Publicitus for some time.
Members of the Head Line family have
always been unpopular with a section of
the sporting world, and none more so,
we fear, than our late friend. His chief
offence lay in foisting a mass of books
HANGMAN : “Pull yourself together, man.
You’re taking all the pleasure out of
it for me.”
by cricket-writers on a long-suffering
public.
The chief mourners are the English
and Australian press and cable com-
panies.
N.
“Mr. Gabb, M.H.R., intends to refund the
excess over the £BOO p.a. which his constituents
authorised him to draw.”
Treasury officials are already referring
to it as “the gift of the Gabb.”
* * <
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Professor Tosh has made a discovery
which reveals the origin of a phrase that
is in use to this day.
Happening upon some old copies of the
“Wilderness Telegraph” in a tank, where
they had evidently been dropped by a
milkman in quest of pure water, the Pro-
fessor noticed an article headed:
ELDER STATESMAN’S RASH ACT.
Will the Emperor Hitlerus Stand For
This?
It seems that the choleric old statesman
Moses, returning from a sojourn in the
Canberra Desert heavily laden with a
new set of Tables of the Law, had been
astounded to discover that in his absence
the children of Israel and some others
had started a State lottery. When his
scandalised eyes rested on the sign of the
Lucky Golden Calf Shares Syndicate his
wrath knew no bounds.
In his fury he flung the Tables at the
Calf, smashing both it and them.
The Calf was set up again, despite the
patriarch’s protests, but the contents of
the Tables remained an insoluble mystery.
Hence the saying: “He broke the news.”
H. M.
¥ V
“On the Thames last month people in row-
ing-boats were often fully dressed, whilst
punters were more fashionably undressed.”
• —London "Express.”
And many a punter by the Yarra will
be found minus his shirt, aye, his very
socks, before this month is much older.
FICKLE FORTUNE.
There seemed to be a hoo-
doo on Gus Briggs. He was
dropped from a railway ramp
as a baby, and landed head
first on the roof of a pass-
ing carriage. The doctors
said it would affect his brain.
At school he fell downstairs
and fractured his skull. Again
the doctors were gloomy
about the effect on his brain.
The first job he got the boss
went bankrupt; a week after
he landed the next his em-
ployer’s business was burnt
out. At the age of 30 Gus
was knocked over by a car.
He married his nurse, whose
mother at once came to stay.
Things went- from bad to
worse. Then came the N.S.W.
State lottery and his luck
turned. He made his for-
tune.
Yes —you’ve guessed it. He is Lucky
Gus, who wins millions on a commis-
sion basis for other people.
P.
* *
“Something other than a punitive expedition
to Arnhem Land must be found to secure the
whites’ prestige.”— Melb. “Herald.”
What about garters?
* *
“A thief entered their bedroom and stole
£6OO worth of jewellery from a drawer within
a foot of their baby daughter’s head.— “D.T.”
And they blame society people for pre-
ferring dogs to babies!
* *
ART FOR POSTERITY.
“Contemporary Australian art lacks origin-
ality. Events of historical value to posterity
might well be used as themes for paintings by
our artists.”
A few suggestions:
Genre picture of a band of Canberra
patriots sacrificing their sleep with noble
selflessness as they rush through the
rational work of increasing their salaries.
Portrait group.—W. M. Hughes and
Hugh Denison shown leaving a Union
Jack-bedecked room, after attending a
Royal Empire Society dinner, with their
hats held over their faces so as to avoid
press photographers.
Still-life of an M.L.A. sitting on the
back of his neck, with closed eyes and
open mouth, while another M.L.A. holds
forth.
Futurist sketch of thing that looks like
a garbage-tin representing a State lottery
winner who hasn’t been on the dole for
three years.
“Why do I drink whisky? Becos it killsh germs,
woman!”
“Be a man instead of a germ, an’ go over the
bridge.”
Primitive school. —Church scene, “Sab-
bath Morn in Summer,” with rector
.preaching to enraptured congregation of
wife, seven children and verger.
Etching of City Council incinerator in
its Martin-place position, resorted to after
the vetoing of all the other proposed sites.
S. W.K.
y
HIRSUTE PIRATE.
' “The coarse-hair wig of the barrister is
traditional.” — “Age.”
The barrister shoots oratorical minnies,
Resplendent in headgear constructed of
horsehair;
And clients who’re stung for a cool fifty
guineas
Are aware the thing’s coarse hair and
worn by a corsair!
S. W. K.
* *
PERFIDY OF MACPHERSON.
“Aye, Angus MacPherson has gone
over the Bridge,” said MacTavish ; and,
as an afterthought, “he was the meanest
mon ever.”
“De mortuis,” I began chidingly.
“Harrk to the story, mon,” stormed
MacTavish. '
“Angus kem to me yesterday and says
‘Mon, I’m going over the Bridge. Now
the “Teleglub” offers ten sheelin’ for the
best “What I Saw” contreebution.’
“‘Aye. But where do I come in?’ !
asks.
“ ‘I go over the Bridge, an’ you ring
the “Teleglub” and win the ten sheelin’.’
“ ‘l’m mickle obliged tae ye, MacPher-
son’
“ ‘How about advancing me eight shee-
lin’?’ he interrupts, his eye on the
pub door. ‘As discount, ye ken.’
“I did it,” said MacTavish sadly. “Only
tae find that they’d brocht the scale o’
payment doon tae seven-an’-saxpence! ”
K.
HORSES OF ANOTHER COLOR.
“Sydney racegoers have awaited the re-
appearance of the M.L. three-year-old Dole.”
— “D.T.”
This is not the Dole that trainer Jack
Lang made such a hot favorite in the
Family Plate.' Lang’s choice looked like
training on into a stayer, but he faded
out. With “Tubby” Stevens up, Dole has
been having a few workouts lately, and
is said to have improved out of sight.
Let’s hope he improves right out of sight.
Me. M.
* *
“The ‘Times’ points out that there are still
some fine mouth-filling titles about.” — “Argus.”
“Dentist,” for example.
* *
THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE TRUTH
AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Plaintiff: I was crossing the street
with care, having looked both ways be-
fore stepping off the pave-
ment, when a car, driven
in zigzag fashion, came up
from behind and hurled
me to the ground. Fright-
ened by the menacing
shouts of the onlookers,
the driver stopped.
, I made no reply to his
abusive remarks. He
reeked of alcohol. I esti-
mate : that the speed at
which he was travelling
was from 48 to 50 miles
an hour. I was taken to
hospital and allowed to
leave after treatment, but
the severe injuries which I
sustained are expected to
incapacitate me for many
months.
Defendant : I was driv-
ing at my customary pace
—about 10 miles an hour
—when plaintiff, who
reeked , of whisky, fell off
the pavement in front of
me. I was able to sweep
the car around him, but as
I passed he reeled forward
with a hiccup and struck
my mudguard with his umbrella. I pulled
up and inquired courteously whether he
was all right. His response was a stream
of abuse. I had to send the car away for
repairs, involving me in considerable ex-
pense. I am a teetotaller.
PC. Broadfeet: Defendant was driv-
ing at about 30 miles an hour, and was
n °t watching the road. His car brushed
plaintiff, who was jay-walking. Both
used obscene language and smelt of
liquor. Plaintiff was unhurt, but his
clothes had to be dusted afterwards.
R.H.
* *
“Bendigo Benevolent Asylum is appealing for
eggs ”—Melb. “Herald.”
Bendigo might ask its ex-member to
get in touch with Warwick.
* # ,
“Asked what he attributed his long life to
the centenarian replied ‘Eating onions.’ ”
“And don’t breathe it to a soul,” he
added.
“Tell me, auntie. Have you had your
face lifted?”
“Often, my boy—and kissed, too!”
THE REBUFF.
I saw, reflected in her eyes,
The magic path to paradise.
I found, directed by a kiss,
The gateway to a world of bliss.
Anon, the heartless little nark
Smilingly led me to a park
Full of those notices, alas,
Which warn one to avoid the grass.
P. C.
MATTER OF TASTE.
Now that on slimness Fashion’s cold —
The shape so many sought in vain—
It’s nice to witness, as of. old,
The plump girls getting round again.
/ welcome them. I feel quite gay
To see them eating at their ease.
Whatever thin-girl fans may say
A plump one does me in a squeeze.
H. M.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The brilliant record of Chatham this
spring was blemished on Saturday when,
starting at the singular odds of 15 to 8
on, he finished out of a place in the W.
S. Cox Plate at Moonee Valley. Except
for no allowance being made to geldings,
this event was run under standard weight-
for-age conditions. Chatham won it
easily in 1932, so that no excuse can be
made that he was unfamiliar with the
9} furlongs track, which is of peculiar
shape, traversing the centre of the course
for about three furlongs and then wind-
ing to completion, like an “e.”
, Chatham did not begin so smartly as
several rivals. Pike had to urge his mount
along to shoot past Dermid and Waltz-
ing Lily and get on terms with the pace-
maker, Break Up ; but everything looked
O.K. until Dermid and Waltzing Lily
ranged alongside the leaders as they
approached the straight entrance. Chat-
ham was in obvious trouble as he faced
for home. Dermid then looked a pro-
bable winner, but Rogilla put in an over-
powering run from the half distance and
scored by half a length, with Dermid
three-quarters of a length in advance of
Waltzing Lily. The last-named improved
greatly on her Caulfield Cup display, and
has been restored to favor with the
public, particularly with the ladies.
Rogilla’s victory was amazing, seeing
that he gave the leaders a long start over
the last half-mile. There could have been
GERT fWHATS EVERY ONE RUNNING,
POR "
Bert: "thev must be >*n a. hurrt
Gsrt: Someone's »n o\ff\c.ucu<=4'
Bert: "qood, sme. qet a,
COUPLE OCT CHftvlßS now')
little stable money for the Roger de
Busli gelding, for he started at 10 to 1.
Unquestionably Rogilla is the best
thoroughbred in Australia over a dis-
tance, and in the Melbourne Cup he
ought to hold Gaine Carrington very
safe at even weights (9st. 41b.). Still, he
will need to be another Windbag to win
and is he that good? Kelso started Topi-
cal in the W. S. Cox Plate, but the son
of Windbag is purely a stayer. He trailed
the field for most of the journey, ending
up with a rather attractive burst of
speed. After the race Rogilla was in
stronger demand than ever for the Mel-
bourne Cup, and he promises to go out
a hot favorite.
Phillips, the Melbourne bookmaker,
could not take a trick with his horses
until Gaine Carrington annexed the Caul-
field Cup ; a week later, he scoops in
£l5OO more stake-money, together with
a £2OO trophy, when Peter Jackson (half-
brother to Gaine Carrington) leads home
the Moonee Valley Gold Cup field.
Phillips owns Gaine Carrington, but
merely has Peter Jackson on lease from
the three Smith brothers, Maorilanders,
who bred him. Probably Phillips and his
trainer, C. T. Godby, risked more on
Peter Jackson than they did on Gaine
Carrington a week previous. The gelding
touched 7 to 1, but 10 to 1 could be had
at the death knock. Maybe this arose
from the late rush for Kuvera, who
firmed from 8 to 1 to 5 to 1.
Kuvera had a bad run. He was last of
a strung-out field with only 4} furlongs
to go. He flew from that stage, and,
though compelled to make a wide detour
at the home turn, he defeated Shadow
King on the post for fourth place. George
Price is certain to pick up a race in Mel-
bourne with Kuvera. The Sydney trainer
is experiencing mixed luck there. Shakuni,
who won the opening event on Caulfield
Cup day, broke a sesamoid bone when
galloping on the tracks last week, and
his turf career is ended. Shakuni was to
have been pacemaker for Blixten in the
Victoria Derby.
Had he come on the scene a little
earlier, Ruach would have beaten Peter
Jackson in the Cup. Last to leave the
straight, S. A. Rawdon’s stallion made a
rush at Peter Jackson from the half dis-
tance, and he failed by only half a head
to gain the verdict. At no period of his
career has Ruach been in better fettle,
and if W. Cook rides him in the Mel-
bourne Cup the horse from Dandenong
will have to be reckoned with.
At the age of eight years Shadow King
gave a most creditable display in the
Moonee Valley Cup. He is an evergreen
galloper. Shadow King had previously
registered a win and two thirds in this
event, while in the Melbourne Cup he
has been second once and third twice.
Regal Son, always favorite for the big
race at “the Valley,” did not reproduce
anything like the form that enabled him
to win the A.J.C. Metropolitan. His
trainer, S. R. Lamond, jun., felt sanguine
of success, although a little dubious as to
whether the left-handed direction of gal-
loping would suit Regal Son. It didn’t.
Nord went light in Sydney, but has
apparently regained his form in Mel-
bourne. He finished very fast in the
Cup ; and the course did not suit him.
* * H= *
The Victoria Derby, to be run on
Saturday, will have an important bear-
ing on Melbourne Cup prospects. Bob
Lewis is hopeful of winning for E. E. D.
Clarke on Trivento, a colt who has had
only one run in public and still is a
maiden. Trivento is a one-pace horse, to
whom a distance seems no trouble. He
has executed some excellent trials at
Flemington, and last week beat Petau
over a mile and a half. If Trivento lands
the Derby he will be ridden in the Mel-
bourne Cup as well by Lewis. Since his
failure in the Caulfield Guineas, Hall
Mark has freshened up. He is almost
certain to be favorite for the Derby,
but will have doughty rivals in Blixten
and Trivento. If the Derby is truly run
(but not otherwise) Trivento may suc-
ceed. Still, Hall Mark is a good little
horse, and this Page goes for Hall Mark,
1 ; Blixten, 2 ; Trivento, 3.
Wet or fine, the Randwick-trained
Nord is selected to win the Melbourne
Cup. It takes a genuine stayer to win
Australia’s most important long-distance
event, and Nord’s fine finishing effort in
the Moonee Valley Cup suggested that
he is back to the form which enabled him
to run second to Rogilla in the
Sydney Cup. On that occasion he car-
ried 6st. 71b., while Rogilla, the winner,
had Bst. 101 b. Next Tuesday Rogilla is
to carry 271 b. more than Nord. Seven-five
is a luxurious impost for Nord, whose
owner-trainer knows exactly what is re-
quired of a candidate to win the Cup, as
he led in Statesman, Nord’s half-brother,
in 1928.
Blixten (7st. 51b.) looks the part of a
real stayer, and Oro, with Bst. 61b., has
always been looked upon by his owner
and trainer as a Cup horse. The chest-
nut is a winner up to one mile and five
furlongs, and there is no reason why he
should not run out the Cup distance.
Regal Son won the Metropolitan in good
style, but with Bst. 21b. there is just the
doubt that he will be troubled by the
last couple of furlongs. The Bulletin
*
Nord, 1 ; Blixten, 2 ; Oro, 3.
The Cantala Stakes, to be run on Satur-
day, looks like coming to Sydney. Der-
mid will be a popular pick. He may be
followed home by Kuvera and Gaine
Carrington. The Melbourne Stakes
may go to Rogilla, and the Maribyr-
nong Plate to Sunclad.
* * * *
So many of Sydney’s regular racegoers
are in Melbourne that the attendance
in the paddock at Ascot was much
below the average, though that in the
Leger was up to standard. Backers
had a winning day, four races going to
favorites. One of these was Leone (3
to 1), a fine type of six-year-old mare
by Orby’s Pride. Ridden a nice race
by S. Jones in the first division of the
Encourage, Leone beat the Rosehill-
trained Laugh and Foxlore, one of Dan
Lewis’s team; she led all the way.
Always favorite (closing at 6 to 4) for
the second division, Hurry Scurry won
easily from Roy Walsh and Foxarna.
The scratching of Alleviate and Mayon-
naise made the way easier for Hurry
Scurry, but on the day he would have
been a tough proposition for the pair.
Rosearrow is proving a bargain for
owner-trainer J. Stanton. She cost 50
guineas, and has now won 10 races.
Backed from 9 to 2 to 7 to 2, the
Arrowsmith mare, who was bred at Can-
berra, won the 14.2 from Lenfort and
Trelence. Tresent was badly interfered
with at the turn, and, knocked on the
rails, was injured on the stifle.
Western districts performer Penny-
hunter was all the rage for the Flying
Handicap. He got all the best of the
start, but could not go the pace when
the field settled down. Milanor (5 to 1),
who stands up to racing in a remarkable
manner, finished too well for Prince
Claro and Lady Wolaroi, who ran a dead
heat. S. Jones rode Milanor.
Lovely Balloon, once a champion
among the ponies, has returned to form.
Back in Griffith’s stable, he followed up
a success at Rosebery by taking the
Ascot Handicap from Dilemma and the
favorite, Cherbourg. Support for the
last-named caused Lovely Balloon to go
out at 5 to 1.
Rosario was cheered by the bookies
when the Moorefield-trained mare won
the Welter Mile from Tortoni and Dora’s
Pride. She started at 7 to 1, after tens
had been laid. The favorite, Gold Mag,
had no luck in running, but his form
since arriving from Maoriland has been
poor.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:
Three-year-old: Gay Hawk; nexi,
Narbethong.
Maiden Plate: Rechabite ; next, Prey-
ful.
Highweight: Multudo; next, King
Pin.
Moorefield Handicap: Prowler ; next,
Pantilla.
Hurstville Mile : Alienor ; next, Talkie.
* * * *
Australian sport has received another
advertisement of a sort from the coterie
now wandering about the United States
dragging the unhappy Winooka after
them. Winooka figured in an “invitation
race” the other day at Laurel Park,
Baltimore. On the strength of a
track gallop the Australian sprinter went
out at 5 to 4 on for a six-furlong flutter,
to finish last in a field of five, ten lengths
behind the winner, Mate —described as
a pretty good horse, but no champion.
Mate’s time was 1.12 4-5. Winooka has
done I.loi in Australia.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Cambridgeshire,
last of the English season’s big betting
races, was run at Newmarket over nine
furlongs last week and won by Raymond,
a Gainsborough colt owned by South
African millionaire Abe Bailey. As
usual, the race was a skinner for the
ring, Raymond starting at 33’s, while
second and third were priced at 20’s and
50’s respectively.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Mitt Shover”: Those Indian poten-
tates who go in for elephant-fighting
must have envied Mussolini and his
subjects when Camera and Uzcudun, the
Basque, put ’em up in Rome before the
Duce and 5000 others for the world’s
“heavy” title held by Camera. Camera
won on points in the 15th round, and,
though a badly hurt hand prevented him
finishing his man, he gave the stone
lighter Uzcudun a sound lacing. Car-
nera’s share of the £25,000 gate goes to
Fascist relief funds, but the Italian was
embraced by Mussolini and branded with
a commandership of the Order of the
Crown of Italy.
* * * *
Two Americans, Beth and Patterson,
gave what had been advertised as a
wrestling match at Leichhardt. There
was little wrestling, but a lot of biting,
gouging, kicking, punching and throwing.
Beth began it with a perfectly-placed left
to the nose, which dropped Patterson ere
the match was a minute old. A full-
nelson, followed by a body press, gained
him a fall in the third, Patterson getting
even with a crack on the chin —called a
“thunderbolt,” hence “Thunderbolt” Pat-
terson —and then a body press, in the
fifth. The wrangle was declared a draw.
Ins and Outs
This week sees the opening of the
Sheffield Shield season. South Australia
meets Victoria at Adelaide, while in
Brisbane N.S.W. and Queensland will
clash. In Melbourne, the Blackie-Iron-
monger testimonial match opens on
November 17, and a week later a similar
benefit for Collins, Kelleway and
Andrews will be played in Sydney. This
will be the only glimpse of big cricket
in the Bridge City until December 30,
when N.S.W. meets Queensland, return-
ing from the southern tour, at S.C.G.
Ma will be at home to South Aus. on
January 5 and to Victoria on January
26 —the last match of the season.
* * * *
“Bourbong”: That reference to Cecil
Thompson (B. 18/10/’33) reminds me that
the Education Department refused to
give him leave from Bundaberg to attend
the 10 days’ “country-week” tournamerft
in Brisbane. Thompson has been
graciously permitted, however, to take
time off to play for combined country
against the metropolis in a two-day
match. A pity Thompson is a cricketer
and not a League footballer. If he had
been the latter he would have had no
trouble in getting all the leave he wanted
to go anywhere.
* * * • *
“Ibn el Issar”: Reports of the matches
in India between the English side led by
Jardine come scantily to this end of the
world, but so far the touring team seems
to have had a fairly easy run, with
several centuries scored already, includ-
ing one by the skipper. Worth noting
that in a match against Scinde —the coun-
try of the old Sikh Empire—the tourists
tried a bit of bodyline bowling. The
bowler was Clarke, of Northampton, a
left-hander with about half the pace of
men like Gregory or Larwood. The
Scinde batsmen got a bit of a knocking
about, but evidently not enough to raise
a rumpus. The tourists won this match
rather easily.
(Continued on page 26.)
The Rugby League Kangaroos added
another couple of wins to their tally
against the Northern Union clubs last
week. At Widnes, in Lancashire, they
had a runaway victory by 31 —0 over
the *local team, and Wakefield Trinity,
one of the strongest Yorkshire clubs,
they trounced by 17-6 —three tries four
goals to three goals.
* * * *
“Lead”: An 18-footer ought to be
sent from Sydney to Brisbane for the
Australian 18ft. championship there at
Christmas. Ma won the title rather
luckily in Sydney last year, but is beefing
over the question of subsidising a boat
or boats for the trip, which is a rather
expensive one.


I 1
< y
Qm
m
itt
a
m
4
SI
f£
»s
■IT
M
s
K
ss
*8
•i.viv
IT?
p$
a
\Y
o°
V:
he
as
m
m
*
m
r*rf
%
e
w
<my
V*
®ST
9$
'>■
\
SSSSS
m
The start of the English Derby in 1837
(copied from a print published at the time)
PTh e finish of the English Derby, 1933
Hyperion winning in the record time of I
2 min. 34 sec., by four lengths from
Salmon, Statesman third.
THE MANNER HAS CHANCED
. . . BUT NOT THE SPIRIT
changes in the breed of the horse and the seat of the jockey have
taken place in a hundred years, but the spirit of the turf has not altered.
The ups and downs of the most gallant of sports were commemorated a hundred
years ago in Vickers, and are best commemorated still in the spirit which has
grown in fame unceasingly for a century.
It’s safe to back so great a favorite as this! In purity, healthfulness, palatability,
there is no finer spirit in the world than Vickers.
1(1111'"
linn
1
11
I 111
FAMOUS FOR
OVER A CENTURY


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Biils from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
AQQUUAQY/
above all
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot, tell a lie. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet. 1 /£Z BRITISH
Price IV'D MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Wk
A
$3
m
%
w.
KISMET GAUGE
Representative: .John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
U{ E
it
!*!!**!'
" l i k i t. ; < *? i»lki
E s
5-g
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE'S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Ins and Outs
“Corso”: No need to tell anyone fol-
lowing Sydney grade cricket that Manly
club is having a doughy time just now.
There seems no reason, however, that
the sorrow’s crown of sorrow which is
remembering happier things should be
added to by a yarn the football and surf-
ing crowd are spinning in the Village
about the cricketers. The teacher of a
kids’ class in one of the local schools
asked her charges to draw a circle. When
the efforts were handed in one was in
the Gaine Carrington class. “Wonder-
ful, Johnny,” she said. “How did you
manage it?” “No trouble t’ me, miss,”
replied John. “Y’ see, I score f’r th’
Manly cricket club.”
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Interesting to Sydney
cricketers is the decision of P. le Couteur,
headmaster of Newington College, to
shove on the pads again and take the field
with Petersham district club, though the
score against him on Time’s sheet is 46.
A Victorian Rhodes scholar, the new
Petersham recruit proved himself one of
the ablest all-rounders of his day in Eng-
land. His cricket blue came quickly at
Oxford, and in the ’Varsity match of 1910
he made a record by scoring 160 and
taking 11 wickets for 66. A slow leg-
break bowler with an occasional wrong
’un coming the other way, he did some
notable work with bat and ball for
Middlesex and the Gentlemen, as well
as for Oxford.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A strong committee in Adel-
aide is raising a fund for Ernest Jones,
who has reached retiring-age in business.
As a terrifically fast bowler (and a fierce
hitter —while he lasted), “Jonah” was the
idol of Australian crowds for some ten
years at the end of the century. S. A.
Cricket Association will help the fund
with part of the proceeds of the N.S.W.
match in December.
* * * *
The Victorian C. A. is out early this
year with its annual. In addition to the
report and balance sheet of the very pros-
perous concern, there are the usual
records of Sheffield and international
matches, including full scores of the tour
of the Jardinians. Test and other statis-
tics have been brought up to date, and
secretary Brereton has done a job which
improves on last year’s performance —
which is praise indeed.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: An interesting point of
cricket law has cropped up in Sydney.
Andrews left his crease to hit the ball,
but missed. The ball rebounded from the
’keeper’s pads and one of the bails was
slightly shifted but not knocked off.
Andrews was correctly given out
“stumped” under a Marylebone ruling on
the interpretation of Law 23, but it was
the first time that any of the many experi-
enced cricketers present had ever seen
such a case.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Spook”: Golf has seen some queer
happenings, but one reported from Kil-
lara (N.S.W.) club seems a long way
over the fence. Two entirely truthful
and reliable citizens were playing an-
other pair of the same label in a four-
somes. One player pulled his ball badly
on to a hillside above the green covered
with bushes and boulders. There was an
appreciable interval, when suddenly the
ball, which looked to have been lost
hopelessly, leapt gaily through a space
between two big boulders and came to
rest on the green, laying a perfect stymie
for the opposition. A lot of theories as
to what revitalised the pill have been put
forward, but it almost looks as if there
were “boggarts aboot,” as they say in
Lancashire.
*** * ,
“Divot Digger”: Though holing in one
seems to be getting an everyday affair
(B. 25/10/’33), the feat in reality consti-
tutes a miraculous fluke. The question
was thrbshed out by a New York club
recently. A party of 220 amateurs and
professionals who each had a single to
his credit was collected from all over
the States, and each man given five shots
to try to hole out an ace at a 130-
yard hole. Not one succeeded. There
were in all 1100 attempts, but the closest
lie was 25 inches from the hole. Only
25 players got within 10 feet.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: An unusual incident
marked the final of the Queensland tour-
ney among professional golfers for the
Dunlop Cup. Half-way through the
match, P. Porter, who had been ill all
through the tourney, collapsed and could
not carry on. There was nothing for it
but to award the trophy and match to
his opponent, O. Walker, a 22-year-old
youngster who is with the Ipswich club.
An outstanding feature of the affair
was the horrible showing of many pro-
fessionals with an Australian reputation.
Some of these could not get through the
qualifying rounds, and both men in
“Picking winners? Why, you couldn’t even pick a roughie!”
“I got you first try.”
the final were young players taking part
in their first big golf engagement.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: It is fairly well as-
sured that we shall at last see a team of
British amateur golfers in Australia next
year. As arrangements are, only Vic-
toria and N.S.W. will meet the visitors
on an international basis. Though they
will visit the other States, only one-day
matches will be played. The Australian
Golf Union has fixed 2s. 6d. as the admis-
sion charge for all matches, and the
State organisations will probably fall into
line with this, a charge which should
show a profit. Queensland has given the
sister States a good lead by hopping in
with an offer to contribute 10 per cent,
of any loss that may occur.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Though the English ten-
nis players will not be officially requested
to play in the various State champion-
ships, each State is determined that, if
urging can do anything, the tourists will
put in the extra work, it being entirely a
matter for their own discretion. It is
hardly likely the scheme will come off.
The visitors have already indicated pretty
strongly that they want to play as little
tennis as is decently possible, and have
also successfully demanded three-set
matches instead of the standard five.
* * * *
“Let”: What kindly critics call the
tennis temperament got an open go in
the final of the English covered-courts
championship in London, in which
Borotra beat Austin by three sets to two.
Borotra’s tactics roused the ire of the
Englishman, for, in spite of the latter’s
efforts to lose the fourth himself, Jean
proved the better bluffer and had a good
rest for the fifth and decider. When it
was all over, the pair addressed such re-
grettable remarks to each other that they
were not transmitted in the cable which
sketched the outline of the story. There
has been the usual press barge of course,
and for a day or so the iniquities of
Australian cricketers were forgotten, even
by Messrs. Larwood and Duckworth.
i|: * * *
“Cut Shot”: E. D. Andrews, possibly
the best tennis player M.L. has produced
since Tony Wilding, had something to
say about Australia’s Davis Cup chances
next year on his return from London,
where he saw all the big stuff. Provided
Australia can develop a really good
doubles pair, E.D. considers the pot is as
good as back again in Melbourne.
Crawford he would keep for the singles
only, and is of the opinion that, fit and
well, there is no one in the game to-day
to beat him.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, who has
had more than one close call in his time,
had two extra specials in one race at
Brooklands the other day. Defending
his title in a race called the Mountain
Handicap, Campbell was driving with 10
other big cars at over 100 m.p.h. when
one in front of him skidded across the
track. Narrowly avoiding disaster here,
Campbell carried on ; then two other
cars collided and locked in his path a
few yards ahead. Here again the cham-
pion missed death by inches, to go on
and win. It’s a good tip for the speed
king to knock off the game. Escapes of
that kind do not repeat themselves for
ever in motoring, any more than they
do in flying.
* * * *
“Kingston”: Last year Queensland
motor-cyclists, annoyed at the con-
tinued refusal of the heads of the game
in the one-eyed South to allow the Aus-
tralian Grand Prix meeting to be held in
their territory, decided to start one of
their own. It was not such a striking
success as to encourage continuance. In
any case, it is not likely to be staged
this year, though it is possible an at-
tempt will be made to revive it in 1934
if no one forgets all about it.
* Jfc * Iff
“Sprocket”: To those of us who recall
the glad days of the ’nineties, when one
would as soon have thought of being with-
out a pushbike as to-day one would con-
fess to being minus a radio outfit, it is
surprising to read that there are more
bikes in use, even in proportion to the
population increase, than ever before.
The depression gave the machine a big
lift, since, once acquired —and the terms
for that were easy—there was relief from
the burden of rail and tram fares. To-
day, according to a reliable authority,
there are over 500,000 pedal machines in
daily use in the Commonwealth —that is
88,000 more than the motor-car popula-
tion.
Miscellaneous
“Singleton”: Bridge fiends are in-
terested in a decision of the Portland Club
that the four-no-trump and five-no-trump
conventions are illegal, since they consti-
tute a card exposure during auction.
Under Definition XXVI (d) a card held
by a player is “exposed” if he says any-
thing to indicate he holds it. Under
Rule 43 if a player exposes a card of
honor rank the player on his left may
claim a new deal. The Americans are
hotly contesting the judgment, but there
can be no doubt that it is based on sound
logic and is in accord with the letter
and spirit of the rules.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: It should not be long
before Walter Lindrum is back in Aus-
tralia. The other day he was heard of
in South Africa as running up a 1000
break at Jo’burg in 25 minutes. He
should now be on his way to India with
McConachy ; from there he comes home.
The centenary celebration folk are trying
to fix up a match for the world’s cham-
pionship between Walter and Englishman
Joe Davis. Joseph is willing to make the
trip provided the money is good enough,
as doubtless it will be.
* * * *
Rugby Union men in this country , and
M.L. will hear with regret of the un-
expected death at Yokohama of Dr.
Charles Warren, for years one of the
stalwarts of the N.S.W.R.U. administra-
tion. He was honorary treasurer in the
difficult days after the war, when his
untiring zeal helped a lot to put the
amateur code on its feet again. An
Englishman, he had been a naval sur-
geon before coming to Australia, where
he became a leading Macquarie-street
specialist in eye and ear affections. A
fine player himself in his younger days,
he was capped as a forward for Eng-
land. He was 62 when time went.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 11.
The Royal Queensland Section.
Roy ± Qu^ nsla , nd ’ i, nv an a bly referred
to as The Hamilton, should really be
at the bottom of the Brisbane River.
But when some years ago the port
authorities filled up one of the smaller
channels on the lower reaches with
dredge debus fiom the main stream it
occurred to several bright lads that here
was an area which, with care and culti-
vation, might prove a first-class golf
course.
So it has turned out, for, since
the days when L. M. Bond, George
Brown, E. A. (now Mr. Justice) Douglas
and several other pioneers set their hands
t 9 the job in 1920, the waste area oppo-
site Parker Island, where the mosquitoes
were so big and fierce that even the fish-
ing eagles never disputed the air with
them, has been converted into one of
the finest playing and scenic courses in
the Commonwealth. There was nothing
but dredge sand to begin on, and all
humus for grass-growing had to be carted
to the area. Within a few weeks of the
start a nine-hole course had been con-
tracted for, a staff engaged and work set
in hand.
Lord Forster, then G.-G., opened
the course a year after operations were
commenced. L. M. Bond was the club’s
first president, George Brown the soli-
tary v.-p. R. H. Cumming was hon.
treasurer, R. D. Kennedy hon. sec. and
J. A. Walsh captain. The clubhouse was
onginally the city H.Q. of the Y.M.C.A.,
a fine wooden building on the North
Quay. It was shifted to Eagle Farm and,
with additions and reconditioning, is now
one of the best.
The entire course lies along the banks
of the Brisbane River, and the spectacle
of the great overseas liners passing up
to their berths alongside some of the
greens is not the least of its attractions,
It is 6301 yards in length and magnifi-
cently turfed. From the beginning, the
layout, in which Carnegie Clark, Alex.
Russell and Dr. Alastair McKenzie had
a hand, has been improved by a system
of tree-planting which promises to make
the R.Q. links exceptional among its
Australian rivals.
R.Q. membership includes many sons
of Anak. First in the drawing and
heavyweight class is J. H. Williams, who
sets the hand of the dial buzzing when-
ever he climbs on a weighing machine,
He manages the Atlas Assurance Co.,
and though he is a long-marker never
tears his hair over it—for obvious rea-
sons. Puffing smoke like the dragon
of romance comes A. R. Preston, Consul
for U.S.A. His cigarettes and his handi-
cap run about level—lB to a round.
Third we have Stanley Hudson, chief of
Hudson and Son, stockbrokers. Pro-
minent in social life, his interest in sports
other than golf ranges from fishing to
bowls.
The determined but genial visage
which follows is that of George Brown,
president of R.Q. for the past 10 years,
A foundation member of the club, he
has been for years a member of the
Q.G.C. and chairman for 1931-32. A
good partner in a four-baller with a han-
dicap of 11. Head of Brown and Broad.
timber merchants. The good companion
numbered 5 and wearing a “did-you-see-
me-hit-that-screamer?” look is R. C.
Chappie. If his sense of humor were
slighter, his handicap might be lower —
it is 25. He is an insurance man.
Sixth on the list is G. E Green cap-
tain of the club and a golfer who re-
joices in a 6 handicap. At time of writ-
ing no one can swear to his tonnage the
c lub scales being away for repair as they
usually are. Hobby is organising pen-
nant teams, and away from the fairway
G.E. is head of Eager and Sons, of
General Motors. The affable-looking
person somewhat obscured by his skip-
per's bulk is W. H. Conwell, solicitor
and ex-captain of R.Q. He is hot stuff
in the A grade pennant team, as his
4 handicap indicates.
M. J. Scott hurries by with the No. 8
brand tagged on him. He is manager
of Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., and
his pose of treating golf as a hobby
is borne out by his 25 handicap.
Alex. Denham, of the Digger face, comes
next. He is the club’s professional and
belongs to a famous Scottish gowfing
family. President of the Q.P.G.A., he
has the distinction of a plus 2 handicap
to add to honorable military service.
On No. 10 there is no difficulty in per-
ceiving N. Christopherson, another of the
R.Qs. who would make a hit in the
sideshows. A genial fellow, with a voice
as big as himself, he is manager of Peters’
Ice-cream, and a useful golfer with a 16
handicap. C. J. Penny is a sugar man
from N.Q. He does a lot of work as
chairman of the greens committee and
plays a naughty game off 9.
E. Betts makes up the dozen. He
is a leading light in Brisbane’s movie
world as manager of Hoyt’s and the
Regent, but is not yet as good a golf
player as brother E.L., of Sydney.
No. 13 presents the burly personality,
of R. Peterson, of Cannan and Peterson,
solicitors, who is a popular member and a
sound middle-mark golfer. After him
we see J. W. Mcßobert, manager in
Brisbane of Robert Harper and Co. He
became famous overnight by holing in
one, and Frith seems to have caught him
just as the implications of the deed
dawned on him. A good middle-handi-
cap man, he digs in his garden when not
so employed on the fairways.
Dr. George Thomson is No. 15, and
Frith has got him in his favorite attitude
of telling the world that his name is spelt
without a “p.” One of Queensland’s
best amateurs and on a 1 handicap,
Behind him is A. J. Deakin, leader of a
band of lighthearted souls. His firm,
Evans, Deakin and Co., fabricates a lot of
the steel which goes into Queensland
buildings and bridges. The smiling giant
overtopping his surroundings and num-
bered 17 is W. E. Peterman, an importer
of electrical goods. Next is H. Horstmann,
public accountant. He claims that in
the early days of motoring he got his car
to run 153 miles on one gallon of juice,
No one ever questions his golf handi-
cap figure, which is 18. Nineteenth is
another of the R.Q. Cameras, Harry
Cupples, a retired manager of the E., S.
and A. Bank, and in his day one of Aus-
tralia’s leading tennis players. He is a
left-hander on the 10 mark and a very
popular club man.
Then, “backward gazing,” we have A.
E. Sharp, who is noted for having a wise
eye always cocked on the future. A
leading valuer, he has been a prominent
worker for the reduction of Brisbane
rates. A good golfer off 8. Charles
Hope’s cheerful mug, as the artist has
drawn it, shows he does not belie his
name. He is founder of the engineering
and motor-spring and -body firm bearing
his name, which has for its slogan
“Hope’s Springs Eternal.” His handicap
of 13 suggests that he is not hopeless,
even in golf.
On 22 is A. R. Gillespie, a retired
manager of the Bank of Austra-
lasia. A.R. is a useful left-hander on
a low handicap and has a daughter who
gives great promise at the game. L.
King’s slightly pessimistic expression may
be induced by the fact that he is the
secretary and manager in one. He has
made great improvements in the R.Q.
course, where his dream is to see an Aus-
tralian championship meeting. After the
secretary comes R. Willis Taylor, manag-
ing director of the wholesale druggists,
Taylor and Elliott. He plays fair golf
off 14, but his hobby is tending the young
trees on the course hence his
nickname of Doc. Twenty-fifth is D.
L. Fry, manager in Brisbane of the Bank
of Adelaide. He is unique among golfers
in that he recently gave evidence of a
conscience by asking the handicapper to
cu t him down from 25 to 18.
Chasing the field home we have Dave
Addis, a Roma-street produce merchant,
If he lacks in golf he makes up for it in
personality.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CLASSING THE CLIP.
“Murrawong”: “Lion’s” alternative (B.
27/9/’33) to my suggested method of
identifying the classer of a clip is that
“the' owner should class his own wool,
as the buyers get to know the station
brand and the type of wool it represents.”
But whether the clip is’ got up by the
owner, a classer or a rouseabout does
not affect its type —that is fixed by the
breeder. It merely affects its sale and
the reputation of the brand.
Wool-classing is an art, founded on
practical experience, observation and
contact with wool from the moment the
shearer finishes. The woolclasser’s job
is to divide the clip into parcels, each
for some particular branch of the textile
industry. These parcels must be as few
and as bulky as possible, and must con-
tain little out-sorts. The classer must be
able to handle men, otherwise the get-up
of his skirtings—a most important fea-
ture —will suffer.
Not five per cent, of the station-owners
I know of could competently class a clip.
Many of them have classed their own
wool for years ; some make a good job
of it; all are praised for their work by
their brokers—that’s business! Many
graziers are good sheepmen, but only
woolmen who are in daily contact with
them realise what a small percentage of
them have a practical knowledge of wool.
AGE-MARKING SHEEP.
“Cootharra”: “Tumbe” (B. 11/10/’33)
disapproves of the full ear as an age
mark, as “it does not make any provi-
sion for drafting ewes from wethers.”
But there is a registered earmark for
each owner. The full ear is on the
reverse side to the registered mark for
each sex, just the same as any other age
mark. In Westralia the Brands Act com-
pels a universal age mark to be used
each year by all sheepowners, and the
cycle starts off with a full ear. “Tumbe”
finds fault with three front notches as
an age mark and then recommends two
back notches, which is the worst of all
marks to see in the drafting race.
What’s wrong with the following? Full
ear, one front notch, two front notches,
front quarter, back quarter. All clear
and easy to see. If you must have a
sixth, a notch out of the point of the
ear or a punch hole close to the tip are
recommended. The man who knows
his business does not keep ewes over five
years except in exceptional circumstances.
The main thing in earmarking is to
buy a good tool which makes a notch
three-eighths of an inch wide. Be careful
to do uniform work. Put the notches as
far out towards the tip of the ear as
possible.
“Wen”: During a sheep case at Moree
Court recently, Stock Inspector Copeland,
a recognised authority on brands and
earmarks, said that earmarks were not
a positive means of identification. He
suggested revision of the system. Court
cases have failed through the uncertainty
of identifying sheep by earmarks. An
inquiry should be instituted to formulate
some fool-proof and rogue-proof system
of marking.
WOOL AND FAT LAMBS.
“Morg”: It has been said repeatedly
that you cannot grow good wool and
fat lambs too. I have been breeding
sucker lambs for export for five years
now, using large, plain-bodied merino
ewes. These ewes, for much of the year,
are depastured on the very richest of
lucerne paddocks, and always have the
best the station can give them because of
the lambs.
There is always a good line of AAAAE
and AAAE, the majority of the fleece
wool being altogether suitable for these
high grades. The wool has often fetched
as much as that of my neighbors who go
in only for wool-growing. Seldom do
they beat us by more than a ld.-Hd. per
pound. The top-line counts vary between
70-74’s, the super line being longer.
Naturally the ewes must have good-
quality wool for a start. There is no
need to keep them continually on lucerne
flats.
BRANDING AND SHEARING.
“Lion”: Due to the bad early part of
this season, many breeders of sucker
lambs will have to shear them. Do this
with the blades. It allows the lamb to
recover quicker and causes less shock to
the system because of the extra wool
left on the beast, which thus commands
a better price at an earlier date than
those shorn by machine.
It is better to shear than to carry them
through the grass-seed period in the wool.
The shorn lamb will fetch a better price
than the unshorn one full of seeds. Once
the seeds (especially corkscrew) pierce
the selvedge, the lamb is useless for ex-
port-wool purposes.
Shearing is only advocated when you
know that the stock cannot be success-
fully carried through the grass-seed
months.
DORSET HORN’S VALUE.
“Golightly”: Recently a departmental
sheep expert said that, if the fat-lamb
trade was to be placed upon a satisfac-
tory basis in N.S.W. in regard to carcass,
the Dorset Horn sheep would do it. I
agree with him. The well-bred Dorset
Horn ram gets a wonderfully compact
lamb from ordinary merino ewes—a
lamb with a very saleable skin of quality
equal to a medium comeback or 58s
count. The merino ewe is responsible
for that; she dominates the ram in wool;
but the ram dominates the frame of the
merino ewe and forces along early matu-
rity and a very satisfactorily shaped and
profitable lamb carcass. The Dorset, if
joined with four-year-old merino ewes
on October 1, will give a sure 80 p.c.
of March-drop lambs in average seasons,
which is not always the case with most
other English breeds. The first cross
merino-Dorset lamb cannot compete
with the early maturity of, say, a Dorset
ram joined with a first-cross merino or
Romney Marsh ewe. The trouble with
this and similar crosses is the uncer-
tainty of the lambing date. The ewes
are shy breeders in hot months. The
clip of the ewe is of less commercial
value than from the pure merino ewe.
POTATO SILAGE.
“Hatter”: In low-price seasons hun-
dreds of tons of good-quality potatoes
are too often left in the ground to rot.
To avoid wastage it has been the cus-
tom in Belgium for years to stack sur-
plus spuds between layers of greenstuff.
Three methods are recommended:
(1) The tubers can be stacked whole with
grass or a green crop. This silage will fatten
bullocks, but not pigs.
(2) Tubers can be cooked and packed tightly
in a pit silo. Partly blighted tubers can be pre-
served in this way. This silage is good pig feed.
(3) Raw tubers may be sliced in a root-pulper,
mixed with a little fermented maizemeal and
pitted—suitable for both cattle and pigs.
Method 1 : Tn building a stack silo
level the ground well. Do not make the
base of the stack too large, as steady
settling takes place. A base of 14ft. by
14ft. is enough for about 35 tons of
fodder. For 70 tons make it 18ft. by
16ft. Spread greenstuff to a depth of Ift.
at the bottom. Then set a layer of pota-
toes passed through a riddle to remove
dirt and sprouts. Add a depth of 6ft.
at a time or, if it is a rush job, make
a “run-over” heap with ramps for the
waggon to secure enough consolidation.
The slower method makes better silage.
The ratio of grass or clover may vary
from one and a half to three tons of
greenstuff to one ton of roots placed
alternately. A foot of soil on the top
with bare sides should be enough, but I
have found 6in. of soil all over work well.
Silage made in May, 1930, was used
during the winter of ’3O-31. The clamp
was then closed and reopened next win-
ter and found still to be in fine condition.
Where the heat had been greatest the
tubers were partly' cooked and quite
sweet. They were much relished by the
cattle, and feed value was estimated at
starch, 17 ; protein equivalent, 1.4.
Method 2: Prepare the pit near the
feeding-pens ; if possible on non-porous
soil. Keep it free from water. It should
be about 6ft.-7ft. wide and 2ft. 4in. deep,
with sides sloping slightly inwards. Pack
the boiled or steamed potatoes tightly in
the pit, well raised in the middle in a
ridge. Place a good coating of straw and
about a foot of soil over the top and
sides. This system will keep partly
blighted potatoes for months. The silage
may be fed directly to pigs in the same
proportion as freshly cooked potatoes.
Method 3 : Prepare the maizemeal
two days previously. Thoroughly soak
it with water, but do not make it sloppy.
It should become sour before use. About
lcwt. of meal for each ton of potatoes
is enough. It is mixed with the sliced
tubers when they are pitted as described
above.
“GREASY-HEEL.”
“Horse”: Re “Agri's” remarks (B.
11/9/’33), “itchy hock” and “greasy-
heel” are not the same disease. Accord-
ing to the best veterinary works greasy-
heel is found in four forms:
(a) Erythematous eczema, ordinarily called
cracked heels. Symptoms: Redness, swelling
and heat.
(b) Vesicular eczema, called greasy-heel.
Symptoms: Same as (a), plus vesicles forming.
(c) Pustular eczema, also called greasy-heel.
Symptoms: Same as (b), with pus.
Id) Wartv eczema (commonly called grapes).
This is the most serious form. A warty appear-
ance brands it.
All four are really only degrees of
severity of the same disease, and, while
(a) and ( b ) are not serious if treated in
time, (c) and ( d ) will soon become
serious, and even chronic.
The best all-round treatment to follow
for all four cases is this: Gently wash
the affected part with a soft nailbrush
in warm water, using good quality toilet
soap. Having, with a sterilised knife or
scissors, removed the thickened tissue
or scabs and “warts” or tumors, disinfect.
Several applications of liquor plumbi
acetatis (acetate of lead) will do the trick,
even in severe cases. Paint on well, and
then bandage the damaged part.
Repeat only as long as needed. When
the skin begins to look normal, discon-
tinue first the wash, then the rest of the
treatment. Apply a soothing ointment
such as zinc oxide until well.
Keep the horse in a dry place. Do not
allow it to get its feet or legs wet while
being cured.
“Agri’s” “itchy hock” seems to be
a form of mange called symbiotes, which
is very like greasy-heel.
It usually attacks the pastern first and
seldom travels higher than the hocks.
Horses so affected usually strike the
ground severely, or, as “Agri” says,
smash fences. This is an important symp-
tom by which to recognise it as distinct
from greasy-heel.
The cures used for symbiotes would
tend to irritate and make a clear case of
greasy-heel very much worse.
Treatment for various kinds of mange
caused from parasites is as follows:
Where generally distributed, clip the
horse, the hairs being gathered and burnt
to avoid further infection. Scrub the
affected parts well with warm water, to
which add |oz. of carbonate of potash
to the quart of water. Then apply
externally:
(1) Creolin loz., water 1 pint; or (2) mercuric
chloride (HgCl2) 20 grains, dilute prussic acid
(HNC) 2 drachms, water 1 pint.
Hydrocyanic acid is deadly poisonous
and needs skilful handling.
“Agri’s” reference to sump oil as a
cure shows me that his horse suffered
from symbiotes and not greasy-heel.
One part of kerosene to two parts of
common oil is a cure.
CONTAGIOUS MAMMITIS.
“J.W.W.”: “Gland’s” proposal (B.
4/10/’33) may diminish contagious mam-
mitis to a degree, but it is not drastic
enough. You cannot make sure that
everyone “trying” a cow’s teat disinfects
his hands afterwards. Some general pro-
tective scheme is needed. In S. Gippsland
dairy herds have been reduced 25 p.c.
Some of the best cows in Victoria have
either died or been ruined for milking.
The Vic. Agricultural Department is
doing its best to check the disease.
Strong measures are used in affected
herds. Suspected cows are isolated and
the milk only used for pigs. Calves fed
on it are supposed to be specially liable
to the disease and are fit only for the
butcher. Some farmers are blaming
pure-bred bulls which have been intro-
duced. Are we breeding our pure stock
too finely, i.e., with insufficient hardi-
hood to resist disease?
No real cure has yet been found for
this disease, but efforts are meeting with
increasing success. Some dairymen be-
lieve that cows which have access to the
Gippsland native-hop country are almost
immune. There is striking evidence that
hops, either made into tea and given as
a drench or grazed in their wild state,
have a tonic effect on stock which en-
ables them to throw off such diseases as
hydatids and redwater.
Saltbush (“Mulyan,” B. 6/9/’33) is a
shrub which should be widely introduced
into disease-affected districts; it grows
well in most parts of Victoria if planted
from roots and allowed to seed itself.
“Gland”: “H.D.8.” (B. 18/10/’33),
asserts that saleyards would still be a
source of infection were antiseptic mea-
sures adopted. True to a certain extent,
but by their adoption the degree of infec-
tion would be reduced considerably.
“H.D.8.” says that “the passage of infec-
tion is through abrasions on the teats and
udder rather than through the teat canal.”
Quite so, but it does not alter the fact that
dirty hands are the medium of infection ;
no matter how the bacillus enters the ves-
sel, the hands carry the greatest percent-
age. It is a rare sight to see a cow lying
down; they are usually tied to rails.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: In wet weather, when it
is difficult to start a fire in the bush, mix
white wood ash and kerosene into a
paste. Rub it on a few twigs and light
up. A matchboxful will last some time.
“Beady”: To make a camp-safe, sew
on to the seam of a new chaffbag two
lugs with a packing-needle—one 6in.
from the bottom of the bag, the other
12in. from the mouth. Thrust a broom-
stick through lugs and hang in shade.
Strip a sheet of bark 18in. by 36in., and
put into bag to act as a floor. Tie the
mouth of bag and a cool, secure safe for
the summer is complete.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
My horse is suffering from an injury to the
eye of fairly long standing. I think it was
bad when he came into my possession some
months ago. The lid of the eye seems to have
had a piece cut off, the eyeball is very tender, is
always running and at times the eye cannot
stand the daylight, the horse keeping it closed;
the lid is inflamed a little and I am afraid of it
turning septic. Can you suggest treatment ?
8255.
It is probable the eyeball is constantly irri-
tated by the injury to the lid. It would be
advisable to get a cocaine and boracic lotion
from the chemist and place half a dozen drops
of this in the eye every day. Protect the eye
from the light by fixing a shade on the head
collar or bridle. If alter the acute stage of
inflammation disappears there remains a blue
film over the eye, place six drops of argyrol in
it every day.
I wish to learn veterinary science for use in
station work. Is it possible to get a grounding
by myself ? What books should 1 require ?
8400.
A degree or diploma in veterinary science
involves a prolonged course of studies at a
recognised university or college. The subjects
included in the curriculum, as in the sister
science of medicine, embrace the basic sciences
of physics, chemistry, zoology and botany, the
study of normal structure and function in
anatomy and physiology, together with the
studies of disease, bacteriology, surgery and
medicine. It is considered impossible for a
person to acquire more than a superficial know-
ledge of some of the minor ailments, their
causation and treatment, without having a fun-
damental knowledge of the basic sciences on
which veterinary knowledge is founded. Two
books which might be suitable for your pur-
pose would be “Black’s Veterinary Dictionary”
and “Animal Management (1923).”
I have a grass paddock of fairly good vol-
canic soil overrun in parts with thistles. Farmers
say they are harmless and not worth while
clearing out. In any cctse, they are an eyesore,
but can you tell me to what extent, if any,
thistles detract from grazing value ? —8351.
The vigorous growth of thistles can usually
be regarded as indicative of soil of high fer-
tility. These are found in most of the areas
of volcanic soil in Victoria, particularly on
cultivated land or on the loose soil among the
stones. Under cropping conditions the thistles
flourish and are difficult to eradicate. Similar
trouble is experienced where the plants in a
pasture are of an annual nature, thus providing
bare soil in the autumn for young seedlings to
establish. Where a good close pasture sward
can be maintained the young thistles are unable
to re-establish from seed. They then cause
little trouble. If the soil is sufficiently heavy
and deep to maintain a good permanent pas-
ture, the thistles can be checked by sowing
down to a suitable grass mixture. Generally
thistles flourish in areas where the pasture has
become weak owing to loose soil, dry weather
conditions, or overstocking. It is probable that
the areas complained of have weak pasture, and
even if the thistles are destroyed the pasture
growth will not be vigorous. Some improve-
ment of these areas may be effected by scarify-
ing them after the autumn rains have germi-
nated the thistle seeds, and then sowing the
patches to a mixture of good perennial rye-
grass and subterranean clover, and manuring
liberally with superphosphate. Thistles re-
appearing should be hoed out or cut with a
mower before seeding.
(1) What is a good liquid poison to spray
round a house to keep ants away ? (2)
Strength ? (3) Would a coating of tar at the
base of fence posts prevent the attack of white
ants ? —B3BB.
The spraying of the immediate vicinity of
the house to keep ordinary ants away is not a
practicable proposition. Meat ants are fre-
quently a subject of inquiry in Queensland,
and a leaflet dealing with the destruction of
their nests may be had from the Queensland
Department of Agriculture. The creosoting of
the base of fence posts is frequently recom-
mended as one of the measures to be adopted
for the control of white ants. Creosote is a
derivative of tar. which is itself a product of
the destructive distillation of coal or wood.
Which is the more suitable, a centrifugal or a
double-action pump, when water is at a depth
of 29 ft. and 1500 gallons per hour is required
for irrigating by sprinkler eight tennis courts,
electric motor to be used for power ? Spears,
not well. —8299.
If the supply water is at a depth of 29ft.
below the surface no pump of any type would
function; the vertical suction is too great; 25ft.
is the depth limit. A dry well could be dug.
say 10ft. deep, and pUmp and motor assembled
at bottom, and spears driven in from this point.
A centrifugal is not suitable. A double-acting
piston pump is a much better proposition.
(1) Length of the wool preferred by buvers of
the very highest price merino fine wool fleeces ?
(2) What is this class of wool used for ? —BOB6.
(1) About 2in. (2) Fine fabrics for feminine
wear, and for blending with silk.
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
Fiji Disease of Sugarcane and its Transmis-
sion, by R. W. Mungomery and A. F. Bell.
Issued by the Queensland Minister for Agri-
culture.
A Soil Survey of the Hundreds of Laffer and
Willalooka, S.A., and report on the division of
soils, edited by J. K. Taylor, 8.A., M.Sc.
The Chemical Composition of Four n oods
of the Genus Eucalyptus, by W. E. Cohen,
B.Sc., A. G. Charles and A. B. Jamieson, M.Sc.
(Both published by the C.5.1.R.)
(Land Page continued on page 31.)


,/fs
x-
cfi
THERE'S ROOM TO BE
COMFORTABLE in this pliant
and specially-designed Abbey
Boot. It is extra smart-looking,
too. . . the upper fits snugly and
with such ease that all shape-
spoiling strain is avoided. The
sole is double thickness. . .
longer wear is guaranteed. For
all-round comfort, buy this boot!
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 357.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
r
k RuRAL-TbPICS.DAtRYING.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture . Veteri n ar y
■ Notes Etc.... All in ..
ITHE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES
w a ■
n
3 hu
Nw
Si
V
O
‘Swan’ Pens Black or Coloured
from 20/-. ■ Swan ’ Minors from 15/-,
'Blackbird' Pens from 10/-, ‘Swan*
Ink from 6d. per bottle.
&WAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Managing Agents and
Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY
LTD., 181, Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
MADE IN
ENGLAND
Remember
VNK
\o
ę
2A
SUMMER LINES
KEENLY PRICED
ft#:
ftSftftS
LOOK AT THE FOLLOWING-
HIBISCUS COLD SAFES
(No Ice Required)
Inside safe measurements.
Min. x Min. x 20in 42/6
16in. x Min. x 25in 60/-
28in. x 24in. x 32in 90/-
TINNED STEEL SEAMLESS CREAM CANS.— 2 gal. 1 7/-, 3 gal. 18/3, 4 gal.
19/6, 5 gal. 22/-, 6 gal. 24/3, 8 gal. 2 7/-, 10 gal. 30/-. Less 10 p.c.
Freight paid up to 300 miles.
MILK BUCKETS. — gal. 7/-, 2 gal. 7/3, 2\ gal. 8/-, 3 gal. 9/3. Ask for
our Direct Factory Prices on the famous NEW ERA SEPARATORS.
Prices from £5/10/- each.
VERANDAH BLINDS. THE ECLIPSE. Prices work out less than 4d. per
square foot complete. Write* for special blind list.
HIBISCUS CATTLE DlP. —Double strength. 1 gallon makes 300 gallons.
Flas the largest sale of any Cattle Dip on the market. Price 45/- per
5 gallon drum, or 10/6 per gallon tin.
BUILDING AND PAINTING. —For Painting and Protecting Galvanised Iron
Roofs, nothing equals KONKRETE Paint at 17/6 per gallon. We
can arrange for painting and building extensions under Government
Loan. Ask for details.
FENCING WIRE.— We are the largest suppliers of Wire and Netting in
Queensland. We manufacture Barb Wire, from 17/6 coil of 440 yards.
Pig Fencing Prices reduced. Write for latest list.
Remember, we never charge extra for Sales Tax on any of our goods.
LOWEST ALSO FOR: All Groceries, Canned Fruit, Clingstone Peaches,
Apricots and Pears, 30oz. tins, 6/6 doz. or 16/3 case of 2\ doz.
Buy in case lots as we will not be able to repeat this offer. Cement,
4/9 bag. Garden Gates, 18/-. Three-ply, 2/- sheet. Oregon Doors,
20/-. Piping, 40 p.c. and 10 p.c. discount. New Galv. Iron, 6ft. 2/-,
Bft. 2/6 per sheet.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE.
IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (Between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
Address Letters, Box 768 K, G.P.0., Brisbane.
’Phone: 83131 (7 lines).
ě
Plum Razor Guard
THU PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, tits gin., fin. and gin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
&f>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-inade, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 1407-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Two
Aids
for
Car
Owners
e
A Splendid Wheel Puller !
To remove a wheel with the Simmons
Wheel Puller, simply take off the hub
cap, remove nut and washer, screw on
the wheel puller, and strike the plunger
a sharp blow with a heavy hammer.
The wheel comes off easily, with no
damage to the wheel or the axle.
The plunger takes all the strain off
the threads —prevents thread breakage.
Another feature of the Simmons
Wheel Puller is a cutting edge for
rethreading worn or burred threads on
the axle. A complete set consists of
one wheel puller body and 4 nuts for
axle shafts, with fin. —18; fin. —16;
fin. —14; lin.—l4 threads.
Price, 11/6. Postage extra.
A complete set is a necessity in every
repair shop. It will service all Ameri-
can cars.
&U 9
SEND NOW
FOR A COPY
OF OUR
CATALOGUE
No. 33
Set of Valve Seat Cutters
The valve seat cutter is made on the reamer
principle, and is guaranteed to work with absolute
accuracy and smoothness.
The ppot stems are ground to size on micrometer
precision grinders, ensuring perfect dimensions and
accuracy.
Set, as illustrated, including l|in., l£in. and 2in.
Valve Seat Cutters, 45 deg. angle, with 5-16 in. and fin. stems.
Pl 'ice 35/6 set
Single Cutters.
45 deg
30 and 60 deg
45 deg
30 and 60 deg.
u n n n n n
10/3 10/3 10/3 10/3 11/3 11/3
12/9 14/- 15/-
H 2 2 i 2} 2$ 2i
13/- 14/9 17/- 19/6 22/- 23/-
16/6 21/9
p
%
Proprietary, Limited.
51 Bathurst Street
532 Murray Street -
SYDNEY
PERTH
582 Collins Street
IIC Waymouth Street
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
©Marks the im-
portant points
of lubrication in
motor vehicles for
which ALEMITE
affords the greatest
measure of protection
Or
#/i
A
A
A
- '
ft?
A
"ALEMITE
these
parts
"JELEMITE"
nat^\£ct^xc.j
HIGHLY specialized lubricants, applied under
great pressure, are the contributions of
ALEMITE to the efficiency of modern motoring.
è
(Water (Pump
Unless properly lubri-
cated, much trouble
may. develop; a wrong
“grease” may even
clog the radiator. Be
safe, insist on special-
ized “Alemite” Water
Pump Lubricant.
“ALEMITE” not only
for water pump, but
for cylinder, wheel bearing, gear box, clutch release
bearing, steering gear, universal joints, chassis lubri-
cation and differential —There is no better protection.
A —CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Alemite Corporation Cable Address: ALMIT. .. Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Har St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St„ Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—6-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR


SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
m www tnnnni mririnr \rrr\r
Sunshine Auto Header.
Sunshine Header Harvester.
Sunshine Stripper Harvester.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self-Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to the acre.
Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the bagging on the
bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the maximum yield of grain
from every condition of crop, heavy or light, storm-flattened or weed-infested.
It is Quick, Efficient and Economical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10 ft. cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick up and
successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-choked crops.
They are equally effective in clean standing crops, whether heavy or light,
on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the machine
can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated to drive the
mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for this purpose
a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft. machine. In conse-
quence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L., Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six horses
in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum. Successfully
harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting—6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY’S
SUNSHINE
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd. (Sunshine Section).
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide
Murray & King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. Mckay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, Posted Free on Request.
«<
as
This Remedy will End Your
Pain Quickly
AWFUL BACKACHE, excruciating rheu-
matic pains, stiff, swollen joints, the agony
of lumbago, urinary troubles, bad nights—all
these are sure symptoms of weak kidney action.
There are many thousands who have come from
constant, down-dragging weakness and suffer-
ing (many actually bed-ridden for months) to
permanent pain-free health and strength, thanks
BAD BACKACHE
Kidney Trouble
Causes Awful Pain
to DeWitt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
Let this 4 5-year-
old, tried and
trusted remedy end
your health
troubles and make
you vigorous, better
than ever before.
“Kidney trouble is the cause
of that pain.” .
Relief in 24 Hours
It is really splendid to see how soon pain-wearied sufferers gain relief.
In 24 hours after the first dose you see and know De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are doing you good.
We are convinced that by taking this quick-acting, safe remedy regu-
larly, your health troubles must be overcome. Sold by chemists everywhere,
oiilv ’ in the white, blue and gold box.
Let us give you just two from these thousands of unsolicited state-
ments, to tell you how sure, how certain is this splendid remedy.
Mrs. W. Mclnerney, 3 Broadstairs Street, Balmain, writes: “For a
very long time I suffered severe pains in my back. The pain was very
bad' indeed, and although I tried several medicines, I could get no relief.
A friend recommended me to try De Witt’s Pills —I did so, and after
taking them for a short time, can say I am now in perfect health.”
Mr. A. Pontin, 126 Brown Street, East Perth, writes: “After having
spent pounds on so-called remedies for kidney trouble, 1 was beginning
to be despondent of ever being relieved. I obtained a supply of De Witt’s
Pills and used as directed. The next morning I was able to get up and
dress myself without any pain. From that morning I have not felt
any pain.”
It is the testimony of not one, but thousands, of one-time sufferers,
which enables us to state that if you will, only start with this simple,
straight-forward remedy, De Witt’s Pills, your pain and weakness will
be ended.
De Witt’s
...... ...... ... - ... . , %
Kidney and
Bladder
Pills


To l/f« Siarriad Man
with a young family
TO such a man there is always present the fear that he might
leave them unprotected, that death or permanent disablement
might intervene before he has had time to consolidate his financial
position.
To take care of this real need and relieve him of his apprehension,
the P. and C. family income policy was inaugurated. This policy
provides that if he should die or suffer permanent disablement
before 20 years from the date of his policy, the income of £l2/10/-
per month for his family for each £l,OOO of his assurance, and in
addition, at the end of the 20-year period, the full amount of the
policy will be paid. You cannot afford to put this matter off.
Discuss it with our representative, or write to Head Office, P.O.
Box 2709 C, Sydney.
The policy quoted is but one of a very wide range of policies
designed to take care of your every needy issued by the P. & C.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
é
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
Hotel Grand Central, Ltd.,
151 Clarence Street
C Looking down Barrack St. and Martin Place )
Just about one minute from the
G.P.O. and about the same distance
from the big underground Wynyard
Square Railway Station. The Hotel
will be found most comfortable in all
detail for tourists and their families
and friends to lunch and dine. Lux-
urious Lounges and Dining Room.
The management assures you of
every comfort and service. Where
you pay for your room only: Single
Rooms from 4/6; Double Rooms
from 9/- per night. All Meals a la
carte. Garage adjacent. Complete
Sample Rooms available.
S'^£
Centrally Situated and
in the Heart of the
City.
MARKET SECTION
Unpayable Acreage
The wheat position is still obscure
pending the meeting of the Conference
at Canberra. Countries still play their
hands with the finesse of ancient poker
fiends. Threats still mingle with exaggera-
tions. Official estimates of the Australian
harvest waver from day to day, but
cautious men say 175,000,000 bushels.
Nobody really knows.
In the gloom one or two bright spots
have appeared.
The overseas market has spurted, for
a start. During the week ended
October 26, 39,400 tons of Australian
wheat was sold in London—ls,Boo
tons from N.S.W., 16,000 tons from S.A.,
7600 tons from W.A. The best price was
2s. Iljd. sterling for a S.A. shipment
of 2500 tons ex City of Winchester. The
Troja wheat, which left Australia in mid-
September and made a record trip,
realised —afloat —2s. The higher
price is equal to about 3s. Bd. in Austra-
lian currency, which, allowing for ex-
penses and with 3d. bonus added, wouid
give a local price in the vicinity of
2s. lid. Quotations in Australia have
risen—Sydney market is up to about
2s. 7d. to 2s. 7-}d. for bulk and 2s. Bd. to
2s. 9d. for bags, an improvement of
about 2d. ; but it is a very quiet, empty
market. Even the stagnant flour market
has moved 3d. on the Baltic after several
weeks’ complete inertia. Sydney prices
were advanced ss. a ton on Oct. 26, and
demand is better.
* * * *
Still the future is not promising. Even
if prices soared there would be a
1933-34 minimum export surplus of
20,000,000 bushels and a total carry-
over next August of 42,500,000 bushels
to deal with. Everybody has a dif-
ferent scheme for handling it. N. S.
Wales farmers ask the Government for
a sales tax on flour and 6d. per
bushel bonus. The W.A. farmers want
a guarantee of 3s. per bushel at sidings.
Three States —N.S.W., Vic. and S.A.—
have jointly asked the Commonwealth to
float between £5,000,000 and £6,000,000
worth of Treasury bills at 2j p.c., to be
recouped by a sales tax of £2 10s. per
ton on flour for three years. Bussau,
M.L.A. (C.P.), has moved the Victorian
Assembly to develop a scheme of bulk-
handling with the usual frills, and his
leader wants “a compulsory wheat pool,
similar to the war measure, as the only
practical solution.” Argyle does not feel
inclined to spend £2,000,000 on the bulk-
handling plan. Scullin wants the surplus
stored and paid for in cash.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government does
not know where it is. It has hurriedly
thought up one of the usual plans—
licensing of exporters, who must make
returns of flour exports for 1932-33 and
grain exports for three years from 1930
(there are always plenty of returns in
these official solutions). Then quotas will
be allotted to them provided they are
still in the business.
There are schemes of advances, uni-
versal liability to buy on the part of
licensees and other complicated details
of which the effect cannot be estimated.
It is likely that the Government
will subsidise wheat handed over to
brokers at the rate of 3d. per bushel
paid to the farmers. The flour tax will
take care of this. To deal with the
surplus the Government has promised
to buy the temporarily unexportable ex-
cess of wheat for which the brokers are
not offering world-parity prices. Mr.
Stewart is confident that “there will be
no exploitation and that the pools and
merchants will operate as if there were no
restrictions for export.” Actually, they
will operate, as ever, according to the
dictates of human nature and the laws
of self-preservation.
The permanent situation is more
alarming than the immediate one. The
Bank of N. S. Wales in its last quarterly
circular says it doubts whether the
authors of the world agreement will allow
it to be temporary. • The bank says
all manner of artificial schemes have
bolstered prices in many western Euro-
pean countries, which are faced with the
problem of keeping the cheaper wheat
out of their territories and of dealing
with huge accumulations which are the
legacy of previous schemes of orderly
marketing. Except in Queensland, where
special conditions exist, pools have
nowhere justified the predictions of their
founders. A. C. Aston, a well-known
Riverina grower, puts it this way:
Government control or pool interference is
the root cause of nearly all the troubles afflict-
ing the wheat industry to-day. It was control
in Canada and U.S., with the blatant threats
of the “orderly marketers” to flout economic
laws by making dear wheat dearer, that im-
pelled European countries to introduce control
measures for defensive as well as retaliative pur-
THE WHEATGROWER : “Wonder when l can make a salary grab!”
poses. Australia’s wheat industry to-day, bad
as it is, is healthier than in any other exporting
country, mainly because we have enjoyed a free
and unrestricted marketing system.
* * * *
Government pampering also fosters
incompetents. Anyone who does not be-
lieve it should read the S.A. Auditor-
General’s report on wheat, just issued. He
quotes the drought-relief figures for S.A.
for the past three years, showing that the
Government has made advances of
£1,100,000 to farmers in the past two
years. The State has 3000 farmers on its
relief books. Mr. Rogers says £600,000
will be needed for wheat-relief this year.
Then he examines haphazardly chosen
groups of farms which were non-paying
in 1931 and finds that only one of them
paid in 1932. He says:
In many cases the reason for failure was not
the low price, but the low yield per acre. If
the price had been Is. per bushel higher than
it was only four of this group would have paid
their way over the last two seasons.
Yet, he says, the group which he dis-
cusses “was roughly typical of upwards
of 50 per cent, of the settlers in 1931 and
of more than 50 p.c. in 1932.” He quotes
this fairly representative case among non-
payers :
Govt. Crop
Year. Harvest. Relief. Proceeds.
Bushels. * £ £
1927 ..Nil
1928 .. Nil 415
1929 .. Nil 283
1930 .. 950 per acre) 387
1931 .. 600 (2 per acre) 179 30
1932 .. 549 (16 per acre) 282 20
Liability to Government *,3028
Liability to private firms 1263
Total £4291
or £4 3s. 6d. per acre.
The average per acre yield in S.A. was
8.34 bushels per acre in 1930; 11.81
bushels in 1931, and 10.43 bushels in
1932. No wonder the A.-G. says that
many of these settlers could not pay
their way even if the price were ss. a
bushel.
His findings lend point to the com-
ment of “The Chid” (B. 25/10/’33) that
it is economy in production and yield per
acre which count in making wheat-
growing profitable.
The Week’s Wool Sales
“Anthony”: The Sydney market has
been in recess during the third series of
Brisbane sales, at which 91,402 bales
were offered. The clearance was nearly
100 p.c. Wools were generally of a high
standard, and up to spinner’s-style re-
quirements. Prices were at par with the
best rates of the current season. Greasy
realised up to 24d. and scoured to 36Jd.
Yorkshire, France and Germany were
the chief bidders in that order, with
other Continental buyers active. Japan
was less to the fore than of late, not
through lack of orders, but because its
limits for the better-class wools do not
come high enough.
* * * *
It is one sign of market soundness that
Bradford spinners are buying strongly.
The spinner can always give a premium
over the top maker for his needs, if he
feels safe. If he does not feel safe, he
sits back and trades hand-to-mouth in
tops. A spinner must have sound,
regular, well-grown, shafty wool, nearly
free from burr.
* * *
While Brisbane sales were on, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Geelong have been
selling in the south. All report firm prices
and full clearances. Geelong, of course,
is always unique because of the super-high
grade of its offerings, drawn from western
Victoria. At the sales, the season’s record
of 30d. for merino was obtained, but
this was less spectacular than 24|d. for
comeback and 22d. for crossbreds. The
all-round range of prices was such as
would make N. S. Wales mouths water.
The Western District wools are exception-
ally clean and light, and they possess a
regularity and staple and a softness of
handle which, quality for quality, is un-
equalled elsewhere in the world. In the
book of 848 types under which the Aus-
tralian clip was appraised for purchase
by the British Government during the
war, the highest basi§ was given to a New
England (N.S.W.) type for its superfine
quality, but western Victorian wools got
precedence for style and spinning suita-
bility in all qualities below the very finest.
Butter Drops
“8.5.”: World butter prices are slip-
ping. London reports that buyers are
not interested in Australian. Spot price
for salted Kangaroo is down 2s. at 975.
“Spot,” however, is no criterion of con-
fidence. The forward market is described
as “dangerous.” Operators cannot be
tempted to look at Nov. shipments. Their
ideas of price are from 7s. to Bs. below
those of the A.D.E. Board. Stocks in
J. Bull’s cold stores are not the cause.
At mid-October they were under 20,000
tons —rather low. London arrivals are
1100 tons down, but the quantities afloat
from Australia, M.L., the Argentine and
Canada at 803,534 boxes are 140,000 over
the previous week. England knows that
shortly both A.’s and M.L.’s arrivals
will be so heavy that it will be able to
pick and choose. But it may get a sur-
prise. Germany, being butter-short, may
exceed expected buying from Denmark,
now subject to restrictions. This will
relieve London of an equal but small
amount —perhaps 500 to 600 tons.
jfc 'Jfi j|c ijc
London buyers sized up the market
and were helped by the A.D.E. Board,
which for three weeks firmly held the
minimum c.i.f. and e. price at 89s. As
M.L.’s factories, however, are doing busi-
ness at 835., J. Bull now has forgotten
temporarily that Australian butter exists.
Even at M.L.’s figure he shows no en-
thusiasm. He knows that our weekly
exportable surplus is fast approaching the
100,000-box mark, and that M.L.’s
butter-fat production for September
showed an increase of 32.5 p.c. over the
same month a year ago and a growth of
35 p.c. on the first two months (Aug. and
Sept.) of 1933. M.L., with a small local
consumption, must export most of its
output. Australia is fast reaching a point
where its surplus will be over 40 p.c.
London has, therefore, only to wait and
make its own terms.
* * * *
The A.D.E. Board, by maintaining a
price at which business cannot be done,
is forcing all butter shippers to accept on
consignment any old price available.
After next week this butter cannot be
unloaded in London for Christmas buy-
ing. Just as Australia’s and M.L.’s peak
supplies begin to pour in in January
they will face stagnancy.
* * * *
Last year the board sent two members
to London to study marketing methods.
One reported in favor of spot-selling,
the other that the London market had
been weakened by it. The board has
adopted the latter view, but, rather than
plump straight out for prohibition, it is
achieving its objective in a roundabout
way. Many exporters whose business is
being stopped are asking the support of
factories in a protest which may find its
way to Canberra.


A 45/- Murdoch D.B. Suit
■■
■■ ■■■■■
■ •
I
m
NOW
with Extra
Trousers
FREE
in the offing”—that’s the time that you need a
kJ two-piece D.B. Flannel Suit—so take advantage of this
remarkable Murdoch offer which gives you a saving of 10/6
and an extra pair of Trousers FREE into the bargain.
These smartly-cut and fashioned Suits for men are made in Fawn
or Grey Striped Flannel, cut with four-button front
coat, patch pockets and correct-setting wide D.B.
lapels; Trousers in latest sports style, for
34/6
Sports Shirts...Cool...Smart
—and here is an accompanying special!
White or Blue Poplin de Luxe Sports
Shirts for men. Note: The material is
free from all dressing, and each is the
product of a Murdoch Specialist. Large
open collar and button cuffs.
6'6
(3 for 19/-)
We pay freight.
Kindly write to Desk “R.”
ii
PARK * G EORGESISYDN ey
“PAY LESS AND DRESS BETTER”
STOP PAIN
ffijenu. -/ve.
1. Soak foot 10 minutes
in hot water, wipe dry.
2. Apply Blue-Jay, center-
ing pad directly over corn.
How it works: A is the
mild medication that gen-
tly undermines corn. B is
felt pad that relieves pres-
sure, stops pain at once.
C holds pad in place, pre-
vents slipping. 3. After 3
days, remove plaster, soak
foot, lift out corn.
Used by millions. At all
chemists.
mm
ê
Legal Notices.
TO THOMAS JOHN COX (husband of ELSIE
VIOLET COX) late of Christchurch New
Zealand Slaughterman but now of an
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Christchurch citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of ELSIE VIOLET COX
of Christchurch Married Woman wherein she
prays for a Dissolution of her Marriage with
you on the grounds of desertion and such
Citation intimates that in default of your so
doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within forty days after
the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Christchurch in the Dominion of
New Zealand and there to enter an Appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed
to address the Court at any stage of the pro-
ceedings.
A Copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Christchurch New Zealand aforesaid.
DATED this 24th day of October 1933.
W. PARKER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
NORMAN ERIC TAYLOR is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the office of the said Norman Eric
Taylor, Commerce Buildings, situate at 187
Hereford Street, in the City of Christchurch, in
New Zealand aforesaid.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Springtime at Jenolan Caves
A Delightful, Inexpensive Holiday
TWO-DAY TOURS LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY
Specially Reduced
Inclusive Rates at
Week-ends.
39/-
Covers Travel and
Hotel. Stay may
be extended.
ASK FOR JENOLAN PICTORIAL FOLDER.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, opposite G.P.O. : : : Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan. Esq.,
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. a les, also , re ?T r ese l j t
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business _
Handy Hints
for the
Farm
Every effort has been used to make the
book of the greatest value on every kind of
farm. The experienced farmer will know
hundreds of the things in it. It is those he
doesn’t know or has forgotten that will make
it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head
office of “The Bulletin,’’ 252 George Street,
Sydney; or from any branch office: 247-249
Collins Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; James Place, Adelaide;
33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street,
Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1,000 practical hints
from the hand pages of
Personal and Missing Friends.
SUTTON. —Any person claiming to be of the
blood and next-of-kin of JOSEPH EDWARD
SUTTON, late of The Priory, Goldhurst Ter-
race, West Hampstead, in the County of.
Middlesex, England, and formerly of 25 Presi-
dent Street, Clerkenwell, London (assuming him
to have died on the 7th June, 1933), is requested
to send particulars of his or her claim to
PEARCE & SONS,
St. Bartholomew House,
58 West Smithfield,
London, E.C.I, England.
Solicitors for the Trustees of the Will of the
said Joseph Edward Sutton, deceased.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
PETER ATKINS (generally known as PETER
LATHAM), last heard of at Port Adelaide,
South Australia, in 1892, ask him to com-
municate immediately with MESSRS. McCAY
& TH WAITES, Solicitors, Collms House,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Re SUSAN KING, Nee DAWE.
THE children of HARRY and SUSAN KING,
formerly of Tasmania, are requested to at
once communicate with ERNEST W. POW-
LING, Solicitor, Port Fairy, Victoria.
CARTWRIGHT, WILLIAM ARNOLD, for-
merly of Sydney (son of Robert Cartwright and
Sarah Ann Cartwright). Information as to
his death or whereabouts is required. He is
entitled to money in the intestate estate of his
brother FREDERICK CHARLES CART-
WRIGHT late of Wanalda, who died July 30,
1927—W. J. KESSELL, Public Trustee, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IF WILLIAM RICHARD LLOYD MALEY
will communicate with C. D. Gavan Duffy, of
Camperdown, in the State of Victoria, Solicitor,
he will hear of something to his advantage.
What Does the Future Hold for
Investors ?
Stocks Worth Consideration.
Outlook for Tin.
America Is Bidding Up for
Gold. What Does This
Mean?
If you are interested in these and other
things vital to investors, you can’t afford
to miss the
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY’
NOVEMBER ISSUE ON SALE
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
ë
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Pioneer Passes
“M.H.E.”: H. R. Debney, of Monkira,
has gone at last to a place even further
west than the Diamantina. He was a real
Centralian pioneer—son of a father who
pioneered Farina (S.A.) in the ’sixties, be-
fore Burke and Wills went north.
The elder Debney wandered through the
Macdonnells after the blacks compelled
him to abandon his Farina holding. The
O.T. line was then being built, but, find-
ing no country there to please him, he
crossed the unfrequented Hergott-Birds-
ville track and in 1879 entered into a
partnership with Peppin and John Web-
ber, whose headquarters later were at
Kyabra. (Does anybody remember Mrs.
Webber, that picturesque old woman
pioneer of the west?) In 1882 he
brought his family 400 miles across the
sandy waste in a buggy and with them
just-dead Harry, who was partially
crippled with infantile paralysis, Franklin
Roosevelt’s complaint. One of the lad’s
legs was almost useless permanently, but
it did not deter him from managing every
detail of nearly 3000 square miles of
station when he grew up.
Harry Debney’s adventures with the
blacks, particularly those with “Big-
mouth Peter,” his swims across the
flooded Diamantina when it was rushing
south miles wide, his droving feats are
all epics that are still told by the older
NORTHERN FACES, No. 9.
E. B. MAHER, M.L.A.
O. DANIEL, M.L.A.
JOHNNY MULLAN.
Speaker GEORGE POLLOCK.
Railways Minister DASH.
drovers round camp-fires at night. And
he bred the biggest bullocks in the world,
It was a sight to see Monkira cattle on
the march, and in Enoggera saleyards
only one man had a flow of appreciative
adjectives to do them justice Harry
Bracker, Jimmy Tyson s friend, whose
father was born when Napoleon was still
a pup, and who is still with us.
Still More Members
The first two figures in the portrait
gallery on this page are O. Daniel,
M.L.A., from Keppel, and E. B. Maher,
member for West Moreton. Both are
Moore followers and comparatively new
members. Daniel’s constituency is in
Central Queensland and can be held
only by a U.A.P. man of personality.
Maher, who is from N. S. Wales—born
at Tomanbil, near Forbes—is in the rab-
bit-exporting business at Yelarbon and
has a grazing farm and tobacco interests,
Maher’s first essay at politics was an
attack on the well-established E. M. Land
in Balonne, whom he ran close for the
seat in 1926. Then he won Rosewood
from Cooper, a leading Labor man, in
1929, and after the redistribution settled
down in his present seat.
The effulgent central figure is little
Johnny Mullan, the only non-legal
Attorney-General in the world. He was
trained as a postman, and he can tell
a statute from an income-tax form, but
his knowledge of law does not go much
further. However, nobody seems to be a
penny the worse for that, and Johnny’s
whirling oratory is not less clear than
some statutes. With intervals of rest he
has been a State member or a Senator
since 1908. He sits for Flinders ; once
he represented Charters Towers.
George Pollock, the tall and hefty
Speaker, was bush worker, woolpresser,
organiser of the A W.U., then M.L.A. for
Gregory since 1915. Last election he got
in unopposed. The gentleman playing
trains is the Railways Minister, Dash.
Like Pollock, he was an organiser in the
North, and there seems something lack-
ing in reports of northern strikes these
days without the phrase “Mr. Dash said
the men would fight to the death.” Q.R.U.
men are now beginning to regard him
as a class-conseious capitalist, and are
asking Caucus to make him behave and
amend the Railway Act. He is a level-
headed sort of chap with a firm jaw.
“Calliungal”: The Australian road-con-
struction policy is a sorry thing. While
the South has hundreds of miles of cement
which Governments won’t let commer-
cial vehicles use because they compete
with the railways, in some of the outback
cocky districts, to which roads are the
breath of life, the tracks are quagmires.
We have had rain at Eidsvold, and
all the straggling townships round about
have been isolated because vehicles can’t
get over the tracks. The mailman has
had to corduroy creeks at his own ex-
pense in order to give us our income-tax
returns on time, and one resident who
had business 35 miles from Theodore
last week walked the distance because he
could not get even a horse through the
bog. A man and his wife arrived in
Hawkwood about the same time, after a
ten-mile tramp, looking as if they had
fallen off a duckboard. Next time the
“wet” strikes us we are going to invite
a few politicians to call. An experi-
ence of our conditions will improve their
sense of proportion.
* * * *
Annette Kellerman’s latest address is
Lindeman Island, where she and sister
Mips Wooster and their husbands
have made their home on a sheltered
beach opposite Whitsunday Island. All
around them are rocky fastnesses liter-
ally covered with oysters, so that one
course of the menu can always be de-
pended upon. Annette is busy making
pictures amid ideal locations, although
she says they are only in the suburbs
of the reef. The island is practically
self-supporting; sheep and pasture
abound, and the film-makers’ rooms are
cos y grass huts. The blue of sea and
sk Y these much-travelled ones describe
as much more subtle than the washtub
blue of the Mediterranean. Here are
corals of all tints, shapes and designs,
shells of rose and pearl, seaweed and
fern that make an earth garden look
tame. And as for fish, what is wrong
with a 701 b. mackerel, sft. Bin. long?
Cod, flathead, snapper, bream and whit-
mg are other denizens of the deep.
* * * *
“ Idle Im P” : A bu yer of old gold called
a t my house and offered four quid for
an old-time gold watch that hasn’t ticked
f° r a B es - I laughed, and he went to
four-ten and then five. Then the works
were examined with painstaking care,
and I was told that as they were the
finest piece of mechanism he’d ever seen
he’d offer five-ten. I turned it down,
and, being curious, took the watch to a
city jeweller, who reported that the
works were good but in no way excep-
tional. Then I made a round of gold-
buyers, and received quotes ranging
from four-ten to eight-ten ; about the
only thing the experts were unani-
mous on was that there wasn’t much
gold in the watch, the works being very
heavy. In the end I had the thing care-
fully weighed and tested, and found that
there was something under 2oz. of 18-
carat gold in it. I accepted £9 10s. and
had the works handed back to me, so
that I reckon I got a tenner. But if I
hadn’t been so pertinacious I might have
sold it for half its value.
* * * *
“Vic”: Cairns is to lose its greatest
eyesore. Chinatown lent to the centre
of the fine little city an air of
romantic squalor, but the council has
got tired of the smell, and 32 pre-
mises consisting of hundreds of dens and
compartments are to go in a clean sweep.
Tourists who loved the sordid will miss
it, but Cairns will be a better advertise-
ment for white Australia when it is gone.
There is good work of the same sort to
be done at Thursday Island and other
towns.
* * * *
“Prospector”: A quarter of a mile from
Three Moon Creek, near Gladstone (Q.),
Mrs. W. King works her own gold-
mining claim. She has no shaft, but
cuts the earth out of the bank and
wheels it down to the creek in a peram-
bulator. She has found many ounces of
gold. She combines maternal duties
with the work ; there are three children,
the youngest being 17 months old. She
is not the pioneer. One of the first “men”
on the famous Dee Rush in 1903 was a
lady who worked a deep claim, doing
pick and shovel work. She once per-
suaded a startled claim-jumper off the
premises with a tomahawk.
* * * *
“J.”: When Q. Health Acts are
amended shortly the use of lead paint
on verandah rails and fences will be
more firmly forbidden. Last year Dr.
Coffey said that, of 141 samples of paint
taken from houses in which lead-
poisoned children lived, 93 held more
than 5 p.c. soluble lead. Paint exposed
to the weather becomes powdery within
three years. The saddest effect of lead-
poisoning is complete and incurable
blindness, due to destruction of the optic
nerve. If it is recognised early, blindness
c a n be prevented ; after it has been estab-
lished, no treatment will restore the sight,
Fortunately, one symptom is nearly
always early—the growth of a squint,
If a child complains of headaches and
has a squint, recently developed, prompt
treatment may save its life and eyesight.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
Lady Wilson and Marjorie returned by
the Marella. after a few weeks in the
Torrid Strait, spent on a small ketch,
with an occasional night ashore at one
of the missions. The ketch did not
sport a built-in wardrobe, so frocks
were packed in the sponge bag,
and consisted of dainty uncrush-
able chiffons. They saw fan-making,
mat- and basket-weaving and marvellous
exhibitions of native dancing. Just before
their arrival, the local stores were be-
sieged with the demand for singlets, as
the natives were anxious to dress up for
the vice-regal visitors.
Pat and Ella O’Shea are taking Joyce
Godsall, of Toowoomba, with them to
the Melbourne Cup. Eileen Moore is
driving her car there with Cecile Walsh.
To open the Arts and Crafts Exhibi-
tion at the City Hall, Lady Wilson, fresh
from her holiday, wore a frock of pigeon-
grey, which toned beautifully with the
color scheme of the golden and white
orchids presented to her by Mrs. J. W.
Davidson, the president. Marjorie, who
accompanied her mother, wore a blue-
and-white checked tailored suit with black
hat. Pewter exhibits by Mrs. Scott
Fletcher were admired, while the crowd
paused in front of the beautifully
modelled heads and figures, the work of
L. G. Harvey. Railway Commissioner
Davidson was present, feeling very proud
of his wife’s hand-painted china. Mrs.
Bruce Shearer helped with the receiving,
Over 400 buns were placed aboard the
launch Twilight the other day by a few
stalwart commercial travellers. It was
the day for their annual children’s
picnic to Lone Pine. The buns were
eaten soon after the launch left the jetty.
At the picnic spot there was plenty of
fun. After the kiddies had had races
they had the joy of watching daddy
mount the donkey, to see if he, too,
could carry home a prize.
Mrs. Forgan Smith, in her favorite
fawn tonings, looked in at the Women’s
Club when the welcome-home was given
to Mrs. H. B. Bonney. The aviatrix
looked nice with frills of Valenciennes
lace ornamenting her Indian red frock.
Carnations and delphiniums were handed
to her by the president, Mrs. F. Tritton.
Mrs. Bonney was the honored guest at
Archeriield when the new tennis court
was opened. She performed the opening
ceremony with a pair of silver scissors,
which were presented to her. In acknow-
ledging her welcome, she said that
Archerfield was the best aerodrome she
had seen. She wore lacy sleeves in her
navy blue georgette, with transparent
brimmed hat to tone.
Do you know what the Travellers’ Aid
Society did the other day? Paul Fitini,
son of an Italian canecutter at Innisfail,
lost his mother a few months ago, and it
was decided to send him to Adelaide, a
2000-mile train journey. But it wasn’t
difficult for this 18-month-old babe. Kind,
motherly women met him at Townsville,
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, and
finally delivered him to his granny in
Adelaide.
“Nothing but the Truth” was produced
by Mary Gibson as her effort for St.
Margaret’s swimming-pool. With much
success Mary has frequently appeared on
the stage for the Repertory, but now has
gained fresh laurels for her producing.
She was aided by the experienced hand
of Royston Marcus.
Millicent Jones, the popular general sec.
of the Y.W.C.A., has left for Melbourne.
While here, her enthusiasm for her work
never waned. This was mentioned at the
luncheon given her by the board of
directors. The day before her senior
girls farewelled her, ’midst bowls of nas-
turtiums and marigolds
xhe Gu Guides organised a Canad , an
foursome on the Indooroopilly links.
Judging by the entries it is an easy and
f r onh!p<! 'tXX money ' f Attra otive
™fe wils™ ' 0I ” Mal '
~ T „ ‘ „
]* oss Innes, of Poona Hos-
P lta :’ , ncba ’ , s bee ” telling those who
C u n X j . SC v°°X s ln Australia that they
should invite European children living in
° Ur , Sch °? S T ' ,^ CC ,° rd '
a C India bave
j- ? a^ia s e ducational system on a very
lg . P eaesta j-
Bishop Dixon came back from his
south-west Queensland tour with a very
broad smile on his face, put there by the
smiling people he met everywhere. He
grumbleis at all. High spirits pre-
vaded > an u the increased price of wool
to man ar out i ust a bttle
blt heaven.
Our hills and gardens are looking their
J? est Wlt t J acara uda-trees in
bloom. In hot pursuit is the tall
oa^: u E dltors w -P-bs. are over-
fl°wmg with odes and poems to the blue
J acaranda -
Over 20,000 rose-bushes are in full
bloom in New Farm Park. Parks super-
intendent Harry Moore is proud of his
effort. For the past few weeks hundreds
have been sauntering beside these
garden beds, but Harry hadn’t noticed
any officials in the visiting list. So he
arranged a small party. That was the
reason for a few of the heads arriving at
their offices with rosebuds in their
buttonholes.


Our Service Department
I his page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (28), N.S.W., clerical and sales
exp., wants a better j0b.—8605.
Youth (17), Q’land, farm exp., good educa-
tion, wants job on sheep station.—B6l4.
Widow, Sydney, requires position as cashier
and book-keeper.—Bss6.
To buy ‘Radco Carburetter Manual.”—Bs9s.
To buy first edition of Steele Rudd’s “On Our
Selection.” —8594.
To buy English translation of Aristotle’s
“Organon.”—Bss3.
Words of verse by Rod Quinn commencing:
Hush ! Hush!
’Tis night in the bush.
Mute is the magpie,
Mute the thrush.
—8616.
To buy vols. X and XII of the 11th edition of
“Encycloptedia Britannica.”—B6l3.
Information Sought.
Significance of the figures of the Archibald
memorial fountain in Hyde Park, Sydney? —
8075.
The central figure, Apollo, represents the
arts (beauty and light). At his feet is the
rising sun. The horses’ heads represent the
horses of Apollo’s chariot. The large basin
is ; divided into three groups. One represents
Diana, goddess of purity, poetry and harmony.
The second group symbolises the good things
of the earth—the young god of the fields and
pastures. The third group represents sacrifice
for the public good—Theseus delivering his
country from the ransom which it had to pay
to the Minotaur.
Meaning of Latin phrase “Sator arepo ieret
opera rotas’’ ? —8567.
The sentence is mainly interesting because it
reads the same forwards and backwards. Some
of the words are obsolete Latin. It has been
translated (very freely) as “I rest from my
labors; the husbandman will turn his gear, the
wheels.”
Biographical details of Harry Hawker ?
8562.
Born in Vic., January 22, 1889. He joined
the Sopwith training school in England in 1912,
and on May 31, 1913, established a height
record of 11,450 ft., which in June he increased
to 13,400 ft. In August of that year, during
an attempt to fly completely round the British
coasts, he covered 1043 miles in a seaplane in
55| hours. In the early months of 1914 he
did some flying in Australia, but returned to
England in June, and during the war he acted
as test pilot for the Sopwith firm. On June 6,
1915, he achieved a height record of 18,339 ft.
In May, 1919, he attempted to cross the
Atlantic from Newfoundland, but failed after
flying over 1000 miles; on July 16, 1921, he
was killed at Hendon while competing in the
Aerial Derby.
Did Jack Johnson and Sam Langford ever
meet in the ring ? If so, what was the result ?
• —-8647.
Johnson and Langford fought at Chelsea,
Mass., on April 26, 1906, Johnson winning on
points in 15 rounds. Johnson, then 28, was
eight years older and 4st. heavier than Lang-
ford.
Are Terry McGovern, Jess Willard, Luis
Firpo, Georges Carpentier, Jake Kilrain, Joe
Walcott and Battling Nelson still living, and, if
so, what are they doing ? —8604.
McGovern is dead. Willard works in a
market at Los Angeles; Firpo runs a motor
agency in Buenos Ayres; Carpentier, who takes
an occasional fling at the movies, is now in
Paris; Kilrain lives in a Boston suburb, and is
watchman at the Fore River Shipyards. Wal-
cott is in New York, and Nelson in Chicago;
occupations in the two latter cases are unknown.
A remit sent to a conference was: “That
Australia’s import of goods from each foreign
country should be limited to the amount of our
exports to such countries.” Is this impractic-
able, and, if so, why? —B433.
Not so much impracticable as unscientific. A
usual condition of trade is that it is profitable
or advantageous to both parties. Import restric-
tions are imposed in cases where considerations
of imperial or national policy outweigh those of
Immediate profit, but in taking such measures
it should be realised that trade may flow, not
simply back and forth between one country
and another, but through three or four or five,
so that in restricting imports of the products
of one country you may be curtailing its
ability to buy from another country which, in
turn, needs that trade so that it may be able
to buy from you. Simple formulae are attrac-
tive, but it is but seldom they can successfully
be applied to such complex problems as are
comprised in international trade.
Where does the Gulf Stream originate and
what is its course ? —8477.
It is an ocean current in the North Atlantic.
It issues from the Gulf of Mexico, which gives
it its name, being formed from the warm waters
of the equatorial current, and flows out north-
ward through the Gulf of Florida and along the
east coast of North America, from which it is
separated by the “Cold Wall,” a narrow strip
of cold water. It is early joined by another
current coming from outside the West Indies.
When leaving the Gulf, the Gulf Stream is
from 50 to 100 miles wide and 2000 feet deep,
and moves with an average velocity of 80 miles
a day. Its temperature is then about 80deg.
Fahr., but as it flows northwards the tempera-
ture drops, and the current becomes broader
and less rapid. At a point off Newfoundland
it merges into the “Gulf Stream Drift,” which
flows eastward across the Atlantic and later
divides into two branches, going north and
south respectively.
Is the location of John C. Powys’s novel, “A
Glastonbury Romance,” an actual English
town ? If so, can you furnish me with a brief
description of it ? —8450.
Glastonbury exists. It is a town that was
once an island, but is now a peninsula, sur-
rounded on three sides by the River Brue. It
was originally called the Island of Avalon or
Apples, and is one of the most picturesque spots
in Somersetshire. It is the site of an abbey
that dates back to 708, when it was built by the
Saxon Ina. There is a legend that Joseph of
Arimathea came to Glastonbury and founded
a church there; moreover, he is stated to have
planted a graft from the Sacred Thorn. Glas-
tonbury Tor is a hill upon which the last abbot
of Glastonbury suffered capital punishment for
“divers and sundry treasons” in 1539. Rem-
nants of a lake village were discovered in
Glastonbury in 1892, pointing to occupation by
Celtic tribes in prehistoric times. The modern
town has a population of 4300.
(1) What kind of split cane are fishing-rods
made of ? (2) Where can the cane be obtained
in Australia ? (3) Price ? (4) What is the maxi-
mum length of cane obtainable ? —8521.
(1) Usually Tonkin bamboo. (2) From
Stewart and Allwood, Pomeroy House, Barrack
and York streets, Sydney. (3) About Is. per
foot. (4) Up to 6ft.
What is the cause of hail ? I have been told
that it is caused by particles of fluff, etc., which
are carried into the air by a cyclonic disturbance,
becoming impregnated with moisture. Is there
any truth in this statement ? —8316.
No. Hail consists of compacted ice and snow,
often arranged in roughly concentric layers, tak-
ing the form of little pellets or balls, commonly
called hailstones. It is a common accompani-
ment of thunderstorms. It should be distin-
guished from clear icy pellets Of frozen rain and
also from round pellets of snow of loose struc-
ture, called soft hail, both products of winter.
The association of hail with active convectional
storms in the warm season suggests that it is
produced by the freezing of raindrops formed at
low levels and carried by the central ascending
currents to altitudes where the temperature is
very lo.w. There they become coated with a
layer of snow, increasing in size until they
fall through the less-active currents near the
margin of the storm, still increasing in size by
further condensation on their cold surfaces dur-
ing descent through the clouds, and perhaps
again carried inward at the base of the cloud
and upward once more through its centre until
at last they become too heavy for further
carriage and fall to the ground.
An employee on a N.S.W. dairy farm is
injured in the course of his work on the farm.
His employer has him insured against accident
with a Queensland co., and maintains that the
co. has direct liability for compensation. Who
is responsible, the employer or the co., and
what steps must the employee take to secure
payment ? —B4BB.
Both insurer and employer are liable, but
the primary obligation rests upon the employer.
If liability is denied by the insurer the worker
should give full particulars to the Workers’
Compensation Commission, which will, without
fee, act on the worker’s behalf.
Details concerning the dramatic works of
Edmond Rostand. When and where was he
born, and when did he die ? —8586.
He was born April 1, 1868. His farcical
“Romanesque” (1894) was followed the next
year by “La Princesse Lointaine,” in which
Sarah Bernhardt was Melissande. Bernhardt
also played Photine in Rostand’s Biblical play
“La Samaritaine” (1897), arid the Duke of
Reichstadt in his “L’Aiglon” (1900). The
drama “Cyrano de Bergerac” (1897), in which
Coquelin created the title role, achieved an
astounding success, scarcely equalled by that of
the farmyard fantasy “Chantecler” (1910). Ros-
tand died in 1918.
(1) Are the provinces of Eastern Turkestan
under Soviet control ? (2) Are portions of
Mongolia attached to Soviet Russia ? (3) What
provinces in China are under Communistic
Government ? —8470.
(1) Part of China since 1877. This year there
was an attempt at revolution, but the situation
remains uncertain, and the Chinese Government
is reported to have dispatched military forces
there. (2) Outer Mongolia is ruled by local
Soviets under strong Russian influence, but in
the eastern parts a struggle is proceeding be-
tween Russian and Chinese influences, and the
issue is undecided. (3) Latest report of
American Foreign Policy Association states
that the centre of Communism is at Ningtu in
Kiangsi, and has spread to Hupeh, Honan
and Kuikiang, embracing about one-sixth of the
area of China and 90,000,000 people.
You state ( Service Page, 27/9/ ’33) • that Le
Quex is pronounced “Le Kwex.” Mr. Le Quex
is on record as to the way he pronounces it in
a quatrain that includes the lines: “It is Wil-
liam Le ‘Kway,’ Not William Le ‘Kwex .’ ”
Which is right ? —8577.
A man can pronounce his own name any way
he likes. Our reply was in accord with the
pronunciation of the name now current in
literary circles. When Mr. Le Quex was at the
zenith of his fame an English journal produced
a series of verses in comment on an expedition
projected by him and Harry de Windt, in which
“Le Quex” was made to rhyme alternately with
“who” and “vex.”
How much barium carbonate is sufficient to
kill a rat, a cat, and a dog ? How should it be
prepared to kill rats ? —8505.
One and a half to two grains is sufficient to
kill a rat; more than 15 grains is needed to kill
a cat or fowl, and more than 100 grains to kill
a dog (a 60-grain dose has, however, been fatal
to man). It should be mixed with oatmeal or
flour, in the proportion of one part of barium
to four or more parts by weight of the sub-
stance used. It may also be mixed with pollard,
with sufficient grease to make it tasty.
Name, tonnage, when and where built, and
builder of the largest wooden sailing-ship and
the largest wooden steamer built in N. S. Wales
and the Commonwealth ? Name of shipbuilder
in N. S. Wales who built most wooden ships
appearing in registries of shipping, and the
number he built ?— 8362.
The largest wooden sailing vessel of which
records are preserved is the Royal Tar, 598 tons
gross, built on the Narribuqca River (N.S.W.)
in 1876. Builder’s name is not kndwn. it is
believed that a larger vessel was built in Tas-
mania, but no details are on record. The
Royal Tar was the ship used in the venture to
found a New Australia in South America.
The largest wooden steamer built in N.S.W.
and, it is believed, in the Commonwealth is
the Nambucca, 415 tons gross, owned by the
North Coast S.N. Co., Sydney. This vessel was
built at Cape Hawke in 1922. Probably the
most prolific Australian builder of wooden ships
was W. M. Ford, of Berry’s Bay, Sydney, still
alive at 93. He commenced business at Circu-
lar Quay in 1860, and, after going to Central
Wharf in 1869, opened the existing yard in
Berry’s Bay in 1874. For many years his son,
W. M. Ford, Jr., has been a partner. The
firm has records of building 660 registered
wooden vessels, of which about 350 were
pearlers of about 16 tons gross, the remainder
comprising schooners, yachts, tugs, ferry-boats,
etc., up to about 350 tons gross. The firm also
built many large wooden hulls on the Parra-
matta River during the Great War, but mach-
inery was not installed and the vessels were not
completed.
Recipe for shoemakers’ burnishing ink —black
and brown ? —8429.
Black: Carnauba wax, 5 parts; Japanese
wax, 5 parts; paraffin wax, 5 parts; oil of tur-
pentine, 50 parts; lampblack, 1 part; wine
black, 2 parts. Melt the wax and paraffin, add
the turpentine, then the two blacks. When
the color is evenly mixed, pour while still
warm into suitable tins. Brown: Omit the
two blacks, and use similar quantities of Bis-
marck or Vandyke brown. Beeswax may be
used, but it is not so hard and durable as the
blend recommended.
(1) How many species of the native bee
(' Trigona ) are there ? (2) Do they exist all over
Australia ? (3) What is their coloring ? (4)
Do they live in large colonies ? (5) What sort
of nests do they occupy ? (6) Do they build
combs ? (7) What color is the wax ? (8) How
much honey can be taken from a single nest ?
—8573.
(1) Nine. (2) Yes. (3) Mostly black. (4),
(5) and (6) They live in communities often num-
bering many thousands, occupying cavities in
the trunks or branches of dead trees. These
cavities may be in a hollow trunk only a few
feet from the ground, but more usually occur
near the top of a tall eucalypt; entrance is
obtained through a small hole or crevice, which
the bees make smaller, until only one bee
can enter at a time. Trigona makes no comb,
but stores its honey in an irregular mass of
pod-shaped receptacles with a hollow centre;
in this hollow is built up a pyramid of saucers,
and in these the young are reared. (7) Choco-
late. (8) Several quarts.
(1) Are “therefor” and “therefore” different
in meaning ? If so, describe their respective
meanings. (2) If the previous question calls
for a positive reply quote authority upon
which reply is based. —Bs79.
(1) The two are now distinct in accent and
meaning as well as in spelling. “Therefor” is
accented on the second syllable, “therefore” on
the first. “Therefor” is an adverbial or adjec-
tival phrase (adverbial in “He was punished
therefor,” and adjectival in “The penalty there-
for is death”). The function of “therefore” is
to make clear the relation of a sentence to
what has gone before. (2) Fowler’s “Modern
English Usage.”
Names and addresses of Australian motor-car
manufacturers ? —8516.
There are no manufacturers of complete
motor-cars in Australia. Engines have been
made but not on a mass-production basis, and
until they are car manufacture is not prac-
ticable. Many firms assemble cars, incorporat-
ing in them imported parts such as the chassis
frame, engine, gear-box unit, etc., and there
are a dozen or more of these in each capital
city.
Number of foreigners living in China and
their respective nationalities ? —8570.
According to an estimate made in 1931 the
foreign population numbered 370,393 —Ameri-
can, 8637; Austrian, 245; Belgian, 546;
British, f 3,344; Czecho-Slovak, 276; Danish,
650; Dutch, 700; Finnish, 89; French, 8651;
German, 3444; Italian, 756; Japanese, 260,621 ;
Mexican, 4; Norwegian, 229; Polish, 14; Por-
tuguese, 2368, Russian, 66,749; Spanish, 334;
Swedish, 242; Swiss, 309; other countries,
2455.
(1) What was the subject of the Royal Com-
mission inquiry conducted by Judge Ewing in
Darwin in 1919 ? (2) Where can a copy of
the evidence be procured ? —8432.
(1) The terms of reference required the com-
mission to investigate allegations made by H. E.
Carey, Senator Ferricks and others concerning
various aspects of Northern Territory adminis-
tration. (2) A copy of the minutes of evidence
tendered to the commission can be obtained
from the Prime Minister’s Department; 75., plus
postage.
Circumstances surrounding the disappearance
of Benjamin Boyd, the Twofold Bay ( N.S.W .)
whaler and grazier, in tiki fifties of the last cen-
tury ? —8569.
Boyd left San Francisco in his yacht Wan-
derer on June 4, 1851, after an unsuccessful
experience on the Californian gold diggings.
On October 14 the Wanderer anchored in a
small bay on the west coast of Guadalcanar.
Next morning Boyd, taking one of the native
crew, went on shore to shoot game, and was
never seen again.
(1) Is it advisable to keep stock plants more
than the first year, if so, how should they be
handled ? (2) How is seed obtained to get
double flowers ? —8627.
(1) Yes; they often flower better the second
year. Cut back the top growth to allow two
sets of laterals, and dust the plants with a
mixture of equal parts of lime and tobacco
dust to kill aphis. New growth will show in
February. As protection against wind, tie the
plants to stakes. (2) Leave plant carrying single
flowers of the color you require to seed, and
retain the seed-pods on the main stem.
(1) How are gerberas separated ? (2) How can
I get rid of small black ants which infest the
roots ? —B6OB.
(1) Divide the plants at once by cutting the
old clumps with a sharp knife into small sec-
tions carrying root-fibres. Retain the young
growth for preference. Make the soil rich
before planting and set the plants 18in. apart,
with the base of the leaf-staiks about half an
inch above the soil. (2) Keep the soil about
the plants well stirred and water with Black
Leaf 40 (trade strength), or spread borax and
sugar about the plants.
How to raise ferns from the spore, and
where can the spore be obtained ? —8539.
It is a difficult proceeding and slow, some
varieties taking nearly 12 months to grow before
it is possible to even pick out the tiny plants.
The spore must be kept at a fairly even tem-
perature and a fairly even moisture. There are
no suppliers of spore on the market, as there
is no demand for it.
Brief Answers*
R.F.W.: If the storekeeper’s debt was paid
out of the purchase money for your share
in the property you can sue for balance
of purchase money; if not, then for the
full amount due, with interest in either case.
Should you succeed, you would be entitled to
costs C.J.: The Oxford Dictionary detines
the phrase “The legitimate drama” as “The body
or plays, Shakspearean or other, that have a
recognised theatrical and literary merit”....
C.W.G.: The solicitor is entitled to appear be-
fore the Taxing Master and may explain or
contest the various items in his bill, Ifou are
entitled to an itemised account, and it is for
the Taxing Master to allow items or strike them
out. Only in certain cases are solicitors’ costs
scheduled or fixed H.C.M.: (1) See “The
Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year
Book” (2s. 6d.). (2) You should receive a de-
cision within a few weeks. (3) N0....W.M.:
Collier and Rydge's “N.S.W. Income Tax Acts
Annotated” (£1 155.) and “Commonwealth
Income lax Acts Annotated” (£2 25.), obtain-
able from the Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street,
Sydney... .E.G.Y.: Write Lewis Berger and
Sons, Box 23, P. 0., Burwood, N.S.W., for
booklet “The History of White Lead”....
A.D.: Write Director, Animal Health Station,
Yeerongpilly, Queensland.... P.M.: Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, London,
W.C.2.; and 10 East 49th-street, New York....
S.M.: (I) Yes. (2) and (3) N0....P.P.: (1)
“Diseases of Sheep,” by H. A. Veron (155.).
(2) Write the Australian Corriedale Sheep
Breeders’ Association, 10 Bligh-street, Sydney.
. ...M.C.S.: Obtainable from Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney, price Is. 6d.
per lb 8.W.: The pivoting of the main-
planes would not prevent stalling. A “stall”
is essentially due to loss of the minimum flying
speed necessary to provide the aerofoils with
sufficient lift to balance the weight of the air-
craft. A single pivot is useless, as the loads
imposed on the mainplane structure by the
centre of pressure shift could not be trans-
ferred to the fuselage. The pivoted wing idea,
with the loads in the rear truss accommodated
by a cable under the control of the pilot, was
experimented with recently in Perth, W.A. The
design was condemned by the Civil Aviation
technical authorities, and the inventor lost his
life while flying the machine... .J. 8.: The line
is manufactured in Sydney, but the maker de-
clines to disclose the nature of the preparation
used.... J.F.: Feed the kangaroo on lucerne
hay and bran, and place in a shallow box a
mixture of equal quantities of sterilised bone-
meal and salt. This latter will be eaten as re-
quired* To stop the diarrhoea, place 20gr.
subnitrate of bismuth in a small quantity of
flour gravel. Give twice a day till improvement
occurs... .P.P.W. : Lethal dose is 1 drachm.
You cannot obtain the poison from a chemist
except under a prescription from a doctor or
v . e f R.A.V.: Schools in the G.P.S. competi-
tions. are: Sydney Grammar, King’s, Sydney
C. of E. Grammar, Armidale, St. Joseph’s
College, St. Ignatius’ College, Newington Col-
lege, Scots College and Sydney High....
A.G.: “The Wickerwork Woman,” “The Elm
Tree on the Wall,” “The Amethyst Ring” and
“Monsieur Bergeret in Paris” D.J.F.: If
you elected to omit natural increase from your
returns, the values of such stock need not be
included except when sold or otherwise dis-
posed 0f....LJ.: The color of an Illawarra
Shorthorn should be deep and rich and free
from black or brindle markings. Colors pre-
ferred are rich whole red with little white on
flanks or body, and full rich roans A.F.C.:
If there is plenty of suitable timber available,
as suggested by your correspondent, a timber
bridge with three piles in each pier, with, say,
30ft. spans, would be cheaper than cable.
Bridge-designing is a job for a qualified civil
engineer..., J.M.8.: (1), (2) and (4) The
Inclosed Lands Act provides that any person
who without lawful excuse enters into the in-
closed lands of any other person without the
consent of the owner, occupier or person in
charge is liable to a penalty of £5. “Inclosed”
means surrounded with any fence, wall or other
erection by which the boundaries may be recog-
nised. (3) and (6) Yes. (5) Call a policeman.
(7) You must not put up barbed wire G J.:
(1) Yes. (2) Sanitarium Health Food cos. pur-
chase large quantities. (3) Good R. 8.:
Symptoms indicate tubercular infection. Con-
sult a vet H.P.: Formulae are given in
the leaflet “Spraying,” published by the N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept 8.5. R.: (1) Yes. (2)
Debate is allowed on “the previous question,”
and during it the motion originally before the
meeting may be discussed. T. .F.D.8.: Write
the Commonwealth Meteorologist, P.O.- Box
1289 K, Melbourne... .J.D.: Both sentences are
grammatically correct R.F.: All excisable
beer (whether bulk or bottled, including lager,
pilsener, ale and stout) sold by any of the
large brewing companies in Australia is brewed
from malt and hops R.S.: Yes. Address
all contributions to the editor and enclose a
stamped and addressed envelope for return of
MS. in case of rejection A.T.L.H.: There is
nothing in the Constitution to prevent the
Federal Parliament from doing 50....T.L.:
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, 62 Gower-
street, London, W.C.I M.E.M.P.: (1) Yes.
(2) Exact date unknown... .M.J.E.: C. J.
Dennis’s verse “Sari-Bair” appeared in The
Bulletin of July 15, 1915. Copy obtainable
this office, price 2s. 6d 8.H.: The Primary
Producers’ Union still offers a 12 months'
scholarship, worth £4O, tenable at Hawkes-
bury College, for butter-factory hands
P.D.: “First Nights,” published by Exhibition
Publications, 17 Bond-street, Sydney... .L. 8.:
At the 1926 census there were in Northern
Ireland 420,428 Roman Catholics, 393,374
Presbyterians, 338,724 Protestant Episcopalians,
49,554 Methodists and 54,481 persons belonging
to other denominations... .A.A.T.: Prices and
particulars of producer-gas plants can be
obtained on application to Motor Tractors,
Ltd., corner Young and Bridge streets, Sydney;
Charcoal Traction Engineers, 118 Toorak-road,
South Yarra, Vic.; C. G. Smith, Ardrossan, S.A.:
and A. G. Pritchard, 114 Wakefield-street,
Adelaide... .C.M.: As the wife is only 55, she
is not eligible to receive an old-age pension,
but assuming she is permanently incapacitated
for work and eligible to receive an invalid pen-
sion, the answers to the questions are as fol-
lows: (1) Pension of £29 per annum each.
(2) The department would have claim on the
real estate, in priority to all other claims, for
the amounts of pensions paid to both the hus-
band and wife. (3) £l9 per annum. (4) Only
the £3OO. (5) Apart from age and incapacity,
claimants must prove that they have the other
necessary qualifications, i.e., residence, etc
A.W.G.: If the idea is a proper subject for
patent or copyright, get it protected before
opening negotiations (Many others mailed).


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN GRAIN PICKUP
MECHANISM.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
25735/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, of Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO LIGHTNING ARRESTERS OR SURGE
ABSORBERS.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
23574/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, of Sydney.
SHAVERS ! At LAST
you’ll have REAL SHAVING
PEACE with a ONE-PIECE
SEGAL RAZOR
No parts to
undo, simply
twist the knob
and the blade
falls into place.
Razor with two
blades,
3/6 each
Extra blades,
5 for 3/6.
w
ŵ
w. JNO. BAKER ltd.
FOR RAZORS OF QUALITY
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
VISIT THE
AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
Recent additions include works by Maud Sher-
wood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel Carrick Fox,
and other prominent Australian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
%
Hlllllll
ẁ
SUMMER
EXCURSION
FARES
SYD N E Y o
AM E RIC Aon the
/yiahipClb
fr
IVlark DECEMBER, JANUARY, FEBRUARY On your
travel-calendar! Three months heralded by a golden
opportunity to visit America —at these impressively
low fares:
FARES to Los Angeles or San Francisco
ROUND TRIP from SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS from £99. CABIN CLASS from £7O
ROUND TRIP from MELBOURNE
FIRST CLASS from £lO3. CABIN CLASS from £74
Fares not subject to Exchange
For value extraordinary, consider CABIN CLASS —
without precedent for more-than-modern comfort at
less-than-moderate cost.
Complete itineraries will be cheerfully provided to
any point in America or through to England.
ATTRACTIVE FARES to England via America.
The shortest, most fascinating route! Stops at New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. Never more than
five days between ports.
From SYDNEY
first class (Single) from £lOl. return £lB5/18/-
cabin class (Single) from £77/9/. return £l4l/10/-
From MELBOURNE
first class (Single) from £ 102/13/-. return £lB9/2/-
cabin class (Single) from £79/2/-. return £144/16/-
These fares subject to Exchange
SOUTH SEAS for a unique vacation
EXCURSION FARES
FIRST-CLASS return SYDNEY
Suva, Fiji, £35. Pago Pago, Samoa, £45. Honolulu,
Hawaii, £75. cabin class (Honolulu) £55
FIRST-CLASS return MELBOURNE
Suva, Fiji, £39. Pago Pago, Samoa, £49. Honolulu,
Hawaii, £79. cabin class (Honolulu) £59
These fares not subject to Exchange
NEXT SAILING to America via New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii— "MONTEREY,” from Sydney,
November 15; from Melbourne, November 11
Please feel free to ask for booklets or any information. No charge or obligation
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
'TUation.Jlm,
12 Bridge Street, Sydney 3 ’Phone B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY 8C CO. LTD.
341 Collins St. and 461 Bourke St., Melbourne • ’Phone Central 288 (5 lines)
291 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane • ’Phone B 1285
54 Currie St., Adelaide • ’Phone Central B 4960
15 Williapt St., Perth • ’Phone B 9501
11M.7A
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Kingsford Smith has gone on the staff
of Vacuum Oil. He will be associated
with the research chemists and engineers
of that enterprising co. in development
work fuels and lubricants.
The appointment will not interfere with
his aviation activities.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: Vic. Railway Depart-
ment’s slogan “Help Us to Help You”
might well be “Help Us to Help Our-
selves.” A machine part weighing about
30z., sent 25 miles, would have cost
ninepence in freight. It went by parcels
post for threepence ; and the mail was
carried by the train.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Colonial Mutual is
about to extend its big building policy
from Sydney and Brisbane to our Holy
City, whose only two present skyscrapers,
the T. and G. and the Shell, it promises
to overtop. Site is the busy Hindley-
King William street southern corner ;
height, 14 floors, plus a tower; cost
(estimated), £lOO,OOO. It is to be finished
by this time next year.
* * * *
“Exec.”: The ineptness of trade-union
organisations in regard to the new corri-
dor type of car exists only in the imagina-
tion of “Leather Cuff” (B. 18/10/’33);
actually the suggestions of the secretary
of our union have been put into practice,
but only partly. Had they been carried
out in their entirety Sydney woul'd have a
much better type of car than the new
“R” class, which is going to be useless
where loading is heavy.
* * * *
“Cork Leg”: An unusual shipment
being taken to London by the Otranto
consists of 30 bags of the leaves of
Duboisia, known in Queensland as cork-
wood. This is a first instalment of an
order for 100 tons of the stuff, which is
the raw material for the drug known as
duboisine. . The corkwood tree is re-
garded as a nuisance in Queensland, but
the discovery of the medicinal properties
of its leaves should save survivors from
the axe.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Yes ; British timber mer-
chants might well show a little of that
Ottawa spirit (B. 11/10/’33). Their
total purchases from the Soviet for
1933 reached 580,000 standards, or
1,160,000,000 super, feet. In addition,
Sweden and Finland sent to the U.K.
732,000 standards (1,464,000,000 super,
feet). Australian timber exports to
Britain have become a bagatelle; one
of our largest sawmillers during the past
twelvemonth sent only 2,460,000 super,
feet, as against 43,000,000 super, feet in
1929.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The antiquated Vic. methods
of financing hospitals have been getting
another bad advertisement. Melbourne
thoroughfares were cluttered up with
Alsatian dogs, whose confusion and
irritability at finding themselves in an
alien environment were supposed to give
them an appealing look. And 200 school-
boys were mobilised for a house-to-house
appeal. Nine citizens out of ten resent
these importunities, and those who suc-
cumb to them do so through convention
and fear of being stigmatised as skin-
flints.
* * * *
“Morinj,oto”: A French scientist has
propounded a scheme for making ice at
a quarter of the present cost. His idea
is for ships to pump the icy water from
the ocean bed off Dakar and freeze it
by its own thermal energy. The simplest
ice plants in the world are at Nangpoo,
China. In the winter coolies saw up the
river and sledge the ice-blocks to the
bank, where they are piled into huge
straw-covered heaps resembling wheat
stacks. By the end of the fierce summer
a considerable proportion melts, but
enough survives to make the business
profitable. Even the poorest Chinaman
enjoys iced drinks in summer round
about Nangpoo.
* =1: :}< *
“El V.” is all for trolley ’buses:
N.S.W. Transport Trust is introducing them
experimentally in Sydney. Several large towns
in England, Wolverhampton and Hastings
among them, have no other means of street
transport except the ordinary petrol ’bus. In
a city trolley ’buses have the advantage that,
while they run by cheap electric-motor power,
they do not involve the cluttering up of the
streets with tram rails, and they can draw to
the footpaths to pick up passengers. In the
country trolleys should have an even greater
vogue. They call only for an overhead wire
and some current. They can operate on the
steepest grades and the most difficult curves.
Now that electric mains are being pushed
through Vic. and N.S.W. agricultural districts
they should solve the freight problem of many
a farm and district off the railways, and give
country towns which could never afford a tram-
way system, effectively serving all its routes,
efficient transport. In some places it should
not be needful even to put in special posts.
The wires could be run off brackets on tele-
graph posts. Trolleys should bring a lot of
freight and revenue to the railways if used in
an enterprising way.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.S.: Reprehensible, even for a first attempt.
D.B.O’C.: Has about as much point as a
garden roller... .C.G.: So the Finn fell
overboard and the ship was saved. But
the story might hurt a friendly nation’s feel-
ings... .H.M.D.: Not even the assurance
that the words of your song have “favor-
ably impressed the highest critics in Sydney”
awakens in us any desire to see the music.
H.E.B.: Tolerably good verse, but the
long penultimate line in every stanza is a heavy
handicap F.S.: Your Pegasus failed to stay
the twelve-verse course... .M.S.: It has a certain
prettiness, but the images are hackneyed
F. : Lines need more polish L.A.S.:
That “Editor Regrets” cliche has been worn to
ribbons... .R.A.L.: Album verse... .C.R.A.:
Nothing to lift it out of the mediocre
A.J.L.: “Roundelay doth sing sweet, lark at
early morn” sounds more than a little archaic.
J.W.D.: A pleasant conceit, but thin
G. :
I herewith send six poems to you;
None are false, they are all true.
That’s more than can be said of the descrip-
tion... .M.R.P.: Sounds like “the morning
after” P.M.: Trite reflections in feeble rhyme.
. ...A.L.: Destroyed, as requested... .8.W.:
“Gold and Glitter” does not glitter; the other
might fill a niche in a woman’s paper.... J.M.8.:
After many years you may learn to write
P.M.: Too slight... .F.C.H.: Not nearly hilari-
ous enough... .D.M.: The generous fishmonger
was too small for our mesh... .F.L.: Bovrilised
sermons about naughty children are out of our
line E.J.S.: Almost... .J.H.M.C.: Too far
afield K. 8.: It left us dry-eyed... .A.8.H.:
Maybe it was almost the perfect murder, but
it’s an imperfect story... .A.D.: “Gum Leaves”
is an echo of a hundred others N.P.: People
in real life don’t express themselves like that.
. ...R.8.5.: Fruit-shop yarn too sordid; the
other wouldn’t be believed G.M.: Your
Harborside smugglers act and talk like a gang
from Lake Michigan P.L.: A man of
Blake’s power and standing wouldn’t crumple
up under the demands of that petty blackmailer.
.... .O.J. : Put more dialogue into the narrative.
. ...S.H.F.: Needs a smarter hand to present
that tangled tale... .H.T.G.: Far-fetched.
... .C.H.S.: Has merit, but is overdrawn, over-
sentimentalised... .D.F.L.: Well written, but
it wouldn’t convey much meaning to the average
reader C.W.P.: Old plot K.W.: Brevity
was its sole virtue M.R.: Not fat enough
for Christmas reading... .W.L.W.: Not without
historical interest, but ends lamely... .M.F.G.:
Might pass with trimming A.H.M.L.: Over-
long, with a tendency to mawkishness S.D.:
It didn’t need the denouement to tell us the
copper was the murderer S.J.J.: Crude
N.N.: African hunting yarns are off our beat.
. ...E.0.: The dipso.’s failure to reform isn’t
worked out well enough.... W.C.: In the same
vein as scores of others... .E.D.: It has an air
of incompleteness... .P.0.M.C.: That one is
going home.... V.8.E.: Calls for more vital
treatment... .L.E.F.: Only worth a par.
B.H.: Australian interest not strong enough.
.... J.C.: Housewife-and-hawkers sketch too
close to others published D.S.M.G. and
J.F.T.: Hopeless... .C.C.: A nice gesture
poorly depicted A.L.8.: Not buying....
R.Y.: An amazing effort, the attempt to rhyme
“solace” and “soul’s case” being particularly
impressive H.G.: Doubt if the Greeks and
Romans indulged in mixed bathing to any ex-
tent T.8.M.: Nothing in the rhyme to recall
Macaulay... .G.A.L.: Never encountered the
word “fulfillness” before W. 8.: There’s
some music in it, but the general effect is un-
satisfying.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.H.: Heavy and bumpy F. 8.: Witless
retort... .H.M.: Lines make too many pur-
poseless deviations C.A.G.: Picture of new-
chum wrestling with kangaroo wins this week’s
booby prize N.W.: Have never seen a ship
with the helm in that position T.S.K.:
Seems to have been clrawn with a garden rake.
8.P.: Decorative background doesn’t carry
off the impossible figures in the foreground.
A.G.: What was the use of throwing a
drowning man a lifebuoy the size of a quoit? ....
L.H.: The sort of art that turns our thoughts
to incendiarism A.P.: Try to harness a horse
that way and see what happens... .G.T.:
Slowly advancing H.JJ.: You might as
well draw on blotting-paper as on that.
ragged material P.W.R.: It must have been
a fierce struggle to get even that much on
paper... .D.D.: You have a fidgety style and
little sense of humor R.H.N.: Drawing done
completely in horizontal strokes was a total
failure J.K.: We detected little bits of
Lindsay, Souter and Boothroyd in them. Be
yourself S.W.A.: You call it a recreation!
It looks more like hard labor to us 8.E.:
Awful J.S.T.: Be patient—it will take a
couple of years of training before you can hope
to produce anything worth while M.C.:
You’re wrong. Strangers are equally welcome.
....M.H.8.: Cannot judge from one small
sample... .WJ.M.: Australians don’t wear
sabots... .R. 8.: Jest in bad taste... .A.8.W.:
It didn’t whet our appetite for any more....
W.M.T.: Make the linework more flowing.


tz?
*
A
•\\v- -
i&SAKK*M'jii
Jjetts enjoy thli cftolidau
6 Let’s go to sea! Let’s travel to Perth and back by one of
the modern luxury ships that trade regularly between East and
West We’ll be gloriously lazy. We’ll do just what we like,
when we like, and, withal, forget the dull monotony of everyday
routine.... We’ll see new cities —Adelaide and Perth. We’ll meet
new people—interesting people.... We’ll enjoy ourselves. *
TRAVEL INTERSTATE BY SEA
Write or call for full
particulars:
WE’LL SEE ADELAIDE
The Queen City of the South!
A charming place; great, wide
streets and beautiful park lands.
And, encircling the city, the
Lofty Ranges.... a veritable
treasure-trove of scenic delights.
We’ve time for a few trips there.
WE’LL SEE PERTH....
Australia’s Western Gateway....
Bathed in the golden sunshine
that deckles the picturesque Swan
River as it winds between Perth’s
wooded hills. We’ve time for
happy picnic-trips ashore there,
too.
dct&lcude, dizairuhip Co. JCtcL
r fflc JLv/uictk. r Wlc. Ccuzhxi/in Ctd,.
%
AT ALL PORTS,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It was very crafty of the Arts and
Crafters to ask John Lane Mullins to
open their show last week. A vice-regal
might have bought a painted cup and
saucer, a paperweight or a leather wallet,
and there the matter would have ended,
but John, being a trustee, has the ear of
the National Gallery. Public Librarian
Ifould, another Gallery potentate, was
seated on one of the near-throne chairs
on the platform—probably a neat bit of
design by president Florence Sulman.
Florence made her introductory remarks
in green silks flecked with yellow. Miss
Mary Fairfax, very neat in silk stockings
that matched her Quaker-grey frock, and
Mrs. L. A. Robb, whose husband put in
a plea for more war memorials, were
others who occupied the space flanked
by two struggling little cypresses. Ex-
amples of bookplates lent by the Ex-
libris Society formed a background.
The first room is given over to memo-
rials, Hyde Park remembrances dominat-
ing. In the two niches at the entrance
of the larger gallery a bowl of lilac nods
amiably at a mythical winged fowl that
ornaments a graceful urn of midnight-
blue. This is a piece of work by potter
McCleave, who shows a whole table of
Mexican bowls and pots. Underneath
these bear the cryptic words “Thrown
McCleave.*’ “Thrown,” said one woman ;
“how strong they must be! There’s not
a chip out of one of them.” A little jar
on whose lotus-blue white blossom
burgeons drew the gaze to Hester Hirst’s
dry-line wares. Dry line is a bit of the
art which the Moors left to Spain, and
which was mislaid by the Dons about the
time they got busy building armadas.
Michael O’Connell linens made attractive
wall panels and casement hangings and
heightened the cheery appeal of pewter,
brasses and gay china.
Embroideries and stitchery are an im-
portant part of the exhibition. Mrs.
Wyndham shows on her table a tray-
cloth whose silk borders are as blithe-
some as a bed of Columbines ; each cor-
ner is finished off with a silk tassel, each
tassel knotted with an Italian wooden bead
carrying “Happy Life,” “Sweet Useful-
ness” and so on. A cream linen cloth
by another exhibitor has a waratah
border done in fine cream silk; the
leaves are cut out and embroidered
boldly in ecru thread. A bedspread of
beauty has for its principal ingredients
unbleached linen and candlewick.
Contralto Clara Butt conquered Syd-
ney once again in a wrap which mag-
nificently wedded a Paisley shawl and
sable. The songbird passed through on
her way to the far, far North, and on
her one evening with us got into still
sleeker plumage and went along to the
first sitting of “Dinner at Eight,” at the
St. James. In the thronged vestibule,
greeted by dazzling arc lights and the
voice of the broadcaster, the Dame
swept, a breath-arresting figure in trail-
ing black velvet that ran to a gay top-
piece of gold floral tissue. A week’s
overtime in the Persian Gulf was repre-
sented by the three-course meal of pearls
about the golden larynx. A lasso of
amber was further adornment, and a
cloak of rose-red velvet was the final
magnificence. Others finely feathered
were Mrs. Sep Levy and Mrs. A. Ben
Fuller; the latter bore her primrose
crepes on gold-and-green-sandalled feet
and handed a sheaf of gladioli to the
guest-of-the-evening.
Cyril Ritchard, in a speech as well-
tailored as his suit, opened the art show
of the Contemporary Group at the Blax-
land Gallery. For some reason, though
twelve o’clock was stated on the cards,
lots of people thought three o’clock was
the hour appointed, so it was to a very
exclusive group that Cyril made his re-
marks. These showed that he knows
something of the laying on of oils, and
he proved much more at home than did
the somewhat nervous Nicholas Hannen
when he introduced John D. Moore’s
works to the public.
The North Shore line group that named
itself the Turramurra Wallpainters, and
was responsible for the crypt in St.
James’s Church, is much represented on
the walls. Gwen and Jean Ramsay,
Bethia Foott (who was Bethia Anderson),
Isabel Huntly and Mrs. Anderson show
many tree and flower arrangements ; and
of course Thea Proctor, Adelaide Perry
and Margaret Preston are strong sup-
ports of the rather precious little show.
Rah Fizelle’s “Growth of the Soil” is
an enviable canvas; so is Harvey’s
“Long Tom and the Green Lantern.”
Diana Herring has gone off to Europe
with the intention of acquiring still
higher polish for her singing voice.
Diana, who is the Brigadier-General Her-
rings’ daughter, inherits her music. Be-
fore her marriage mother, who was a
Murray-Prior of Queensland, had
emerged as a songstress both in England
and France, having had the good fortune
to be a pupil of the De Reszkes. Gwen
Selva barbered Diana’s voice up till the
hour of embarkation.
The girl behind the megaphone at the
Stitches In Time pageant will be Rosalie
Wilson. From Monday onwards Rosalie
will expound on embroideries of all ages
and climes, starting as far back as the
funeral tent of Queen Isi-em-Kebs,
mother-in-law of that Shishak of Egypt
who spoiled the Temple of Jerusalem in
the reign of Rehoboam. Other fine pieces
of work that will be described are
St. Cuthbert’s stole and maniple of gold
worked by Elfreda, a Saxon queen. This
lecturer is well up in her subject; she
has no fewer than three certificates for
embroidery from the City and Guilds of
London, and was the holder of various
scholarships from the Worshipful Com-
pany of Broderers. The pageant is to
pay the expenses of the Governor’s Ball,
which is to help the District Nurses pay
their expenses.
When Evelyn Claire Perry became Mrs.
Dugald Mcßae Kennedy, of Urana, Gun-
ningbar station bloomed even as the
Valley of Sharon. Orchids, carnations,
roses and peach-blossom spilled their
riches through the reception- and billiard-
rooms. In the billiard-room of Gun-
ningbar it was that the two were given
their cue to the pocket of matrimony by
padre H. Woodger, of Warren. Under a
ferny arch which cascaded white satin
streamers and silver bells, the bride and
her ’groom exchanged their vows. Evelyn,
who is tall, wore classically cut mag-
nolia satins that swept into a lustrous
train. Three peach-blossom maids floated
after her, and her two small sisters,
Alison and Joyce, strewed her path with
rose petals. Mr. and Mrs. Perry were
the perfect host and hostess. Her frock
was a swirl of mushroom laces;
the ’groom’s mother wore black lace and
carried a cheery bouquet of watsonias
and fuchsia.
The pretty youngster in this Bulletin
picture has a dream in her eyes. She is
Winifred Gillespie, and she brings back
to Australia the tang of wind and the
music from Scottish lochs and isles. She
also brings back to her Vaucluse home a
clarsach, the old Hebridean harp of thirty
strings, and the knowledge of how to
play it. She has an extensive repertoire
of the sea and cradle croons and love
lilts that have been breathed through
Skye and Lewis and Mull and Stornaway
since the islands came up from the sea,
and it is her ambition to revive the
haunting music among the Scots com-
munity in Sydney. The Gaelic and the
Caledonian Societies have smiled on her
project; and the Highland Society will
lend its countenance to the efforts of
sisters Jean and Margaret to get every
heir and heiress to the tartan toeing and
heeling it through the old Scottish dances.
An'altar on which white lilies and gold
lace were ruffled by the afternoon breeze
was set on the top of the steps leading
to St. Mary’s. Between the two guarding
statues of Archbishop Kelly and Cardinal
Moran flowed a stream of the faithful.
Children of Mary in their blue cloaks
and white veils, Monsignori flashing
purple, groups of Franciscans and of
Passionists sombrely brown and black
were balanced by the cream-clad Domi-
nicans. Here were grouped the Guilds,
their reds, golds and greens glowing like
precious stones, while below in the streets
and in Hyde Park the crowds of old,
young and middle-aged stretched into the
far distance. C
The sky was a burning sapphire, the
bells of St. Mary’s pealed a golden
chime, the Apollo fountain blew a rain-
bow mist. The scene was set for R.C.
Sydney’s greeting to the new Apostolic
Delegate, Dr. Bernardini. The Delegate,
small but dignified, mounted the steps,
carrying the Monstrance high, his vest-
ments gleaming like cloth of gold. Small
girls scattered rose-leaves from high-
handled baskets; purple- and scarlet-
soutaned acolytes lined the way, priests
in black soutanes and white surplices
knelt on the stony tiers. Religious ban-
ners flung their colors to the vivid day,
high fluttered the gold and white of
the Papal flag. Swinging censers sent
their fragrant spirals to Heaven, and the
long slim hand of the conductor directed
the sea of sound that rose, wave upon
wave, not only from the choir but from
the attendant thousands, many of whom
had waited from before noon for this
open-air Benediction.
Whatever may be thought of Mr.
Lyons’s politics, there are no two
opinions about the charm of Mrs.
Lyons. The lady has a sparkle in
her voice and eye that only health and
the higher intelligence can put there.
She has a pleasing platform personality,
and her speeches have force logic.
She is a shining example of womanhood
as opposed to feminism. The P.M.’s
wife has presented her husband with
their twelfth child, and eleven are living.
If she lived in Italy no doubt Mussolini
would persuade the Vatican to present
her with the golden rose ; and in Ger-
many Hitler would send her on a tour
of triumph throughout the land.
The complete cruise wardrobe was dis-
played on perfect mannequins at the
afternoon party on the Otranto. But the
fly in the ointment was that, if you bought
the slacks, the bathing-suits, the sports
frocks, the cocktail pyjamas and the even-
ing frocks, you’d probably have no
money left over for your steamer ticket.
Dozens of women sat at ease in deck-
chairs and complacently watched the
grand parade. The party was sponsored
by Mayoress Hagon to put Christmas
trimmings on the T.B. Sailors and Sol-
diers’ Relief Fund, of which she has been
president for 16 years. Her hat was
large and black, and black and white
were allied in her chiffon frock. Lady
Game was in brown with primrose bor-
ders, and politely carried her presenta-
tion pink roses throughout the afternoon.
The Murray lady from Papua struck the
pictorial note; her grey chiffons were
pinkly-flowered and her hat was leafy
and graceful of line. Mrs. Andrew
looked cool in green raiment, and Mrs.
R. C. Dalglish was crisp as a lettuce off
the ice in green frocking and green shoes.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener arranged the
music, Mrs. David Lindsay the bridge;
Mrs. A. L. Parker and Agnes McMahon
kept the treasury.
Though the rain fell in buckets it could
not douse the electrics that blazed on
the Orontes last Thursday night. The
way between car and deck was carpeted
and covered so that woman could make
her entry dignified and unsplashed.
Orient’s manager D. L. Dowdell was a
cheerful host (the company had lent
not only the Orontes for dancing, but
the Otranto, dozing at the opposite side
of the wharf, for bridge) and stood with
representatives of the three committees
whose charities will benefit against a
background of handsomely upholstered
lounge to receive the official guests.
Lady Game, who brought Brigadier-
General and Mrs. Ivan Mackay in tow,
had run her pretty pearl coronet aloft,
and was otherwise sweeping black chif-
fons. Later on, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernor’s lady, who had been cheering the
bowlers at David Jones’s, arrived in
her lapis-lazuli satins. She was aided by
Lieut. Finlay. Mrs. Langer Owen,
who had much to do with the gold-dusted
affair, wore her fair hair sculped back
from her brow ; her long earrings and
necklet were jade, her frock white. Mrs.
Mackay had drawn the inspiration for
her blue frock from the night sky. Blue
was the choice of Mrs. J. C. Leete, and
against her velvets she pinned deep-red
roses. Mollie Street’s lobelia blues were
splashed with silver sequins. The Waley
lady wore platinum-grey softness. The
T. S. Gordons brought their fair Mar-
garet and her fiance.
All the color at the Victoria League’s
music party was in the music and the
bouquets. The dressing was pianissimo.
This was another of the series launched
by Mrs. Walter Swinson, and one glance
at the reverential audience in the ball-
room of the Australia would have con-
vinced the most sceptical that music had
at last wormed its way into social circles.
The vice-reine, herself a musician, arrived
very slim and well-tailored in black flat
crepe that wore a cowl collar of white
satin. She was greeted by deputy-presi-
dent Miss Macarthur-Onslow and a long
line of correctly-gloved executive.


fll
tesmf'i
ẃ
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CABIiYON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent. If staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, dubs, etc. The Manager,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff .
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Lunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager : E. HYNDMAN.
ẅ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes, Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
Melbourne
Chatter
For the Lud Mayor’s Ball the digni-
fied edifice of the city fathers went on
the spree, with languorous garden foliage
and lights grown dim and vampish.
Chopped grass made a green lawn of the
stage, schizanthus and azaleas bloomed
as romantic hedges, and profusely-grow-
ing things crept upwards to the ceiling,
completely hiding organ and backstage.
Little Jap fir-trees stood in solitary
allure, and twinkly lights were toned to
a mere glimmer in the heart of each
island clumped around the gallery. Brass
braid and many medals give a man con-
fidence, but the poor aldermen had to
display the shape of their shanks in black
cotton and their legs in skimpy breeches,
while white lace tickled their chins and
wrists and rosettes sat upon the back of
their necks. However, the popping of
corks and the crackle of lobster claws
are excellent nerve-calmers, and 500 tur-
keys have ceased to gobble as a result
of the two very elaborate suppers.
The host of the evening wore his black
robe with brown rabbit decoration. With
the Lieut.-Governor and Lady Irvine he
distributed handshakes from the foot of
the dais. Cynthia Brookes was there, all
white and bridal in her satin gown and
tulle scarf —her wedding is fixed for
December 6. The Hennessy lady had a
string of medals across her black frock,
relics of the days of her husband’s office.
The Moore lady pinned a pink flower
to the corsage of her beige gown, and the
Best lady had a pathway of golden coins
down the spine of her red crepe. Mrs.
Claude Couchman’s pink tulle scarf
caught up spots of a deeper pink ; Noel
Clapp’s golden-sovereign topknot moved
in the dancing whirl; Mrs. Harold Dar-
ling’s floral confection was hoisted to
emerald shoulder bows; Mrs. H. P.
Ogilvie wore black and a red rose; Mrs.
'Deamer mixed beige and brown, and
Mrs. Sid Myer carried an ecstatic smile
above her poppies and golden corn.
One of the most dashing garments was
Mrs. Trevor Oldham’s green-and-white
sheath, tied with a cherry sash. Mrs.
Kent Hughes wore orange and a black
bow ; Mrs. R. D. Elliott looked her very
best in ivory lacquered satin, and Mrs.
A. E. Boyes chose a twinkly diadem for
her hair. Mrs. Raws, in a lettuce-green
cape of velvet, and Aileen Mclnerney, all
cream satin and demure coiffure, were
two young things who enjoyed them-
selves. Except in the buffet where
drinks flowed, there was no undue crush.
The lifts did their bit in between supper-
rooms, and councillors and aldermen in-
duced their friends to skip a dance or
two and cast an orb of envy around the
private sanctum reserved for the civic
fathers.
Nobody tried to steal the Moonee
Valley gold cup, though it sat outdoors
through half the afternoon. If it had a
keeper, he kept well in the background.
Roses bloomed as if they knew it was
their day out and they had to make the
most of it. There were stocks, too —all
pinks and purples—down by the fence.
Secretary A. V. Hiskens’s wife wore
black and pushed her tote tickets into a
black-and-white bag. Mrs. W. S. Cox
was in navy. There was a girl with a
shoulder spray of what looked like gen-
tian. Another girl went to the chook-
yard for her hat; its crown was preened
with black rooster feathers and a red
beak thrust upwards at the top. Mrs.
J. L. Byrne wore navy marocain with
white whirly bits round the sleeves. Mrs.
Ross Grey-Smith slung field-glasses over
the shoulder of her sand-dune patterned
crepe. From over the S.A. border came
Mrs. Vaughan Cutten in tobacco-brown,
and from Geelong Mrs. Moon, clad all
in beijge. Mrs. Edgar, in a huge black
hat with green ribbons up and over the
crown, paced under the plane trees with
Zara Dickens, whose hat started off at
the back as a beret, then changed its
mind and shot upwards in front with an
enormous safety-pin. One lass decided
that, as everybody expects conventionally
colored millinery with the lime-green of
her frock, she’d give them a surprise with
an airy cartwheel of ox-blood straw.
Linen-tweed suits were snappy and plenti-
ful. Jill Ryan wore hers in a deep sky-
blue, with a curl of organdie for blouse.
Mrs. Russell-Jackson tied up the rea-
son for “Beware of the Bulldog” on her
front gate and gave a jolly party. The
shivoo reverberated through the old
rooms of Hazel Dell, mellow with look-
ing on life for 100 years, through a
woody garden to the barn with floor
smoothed for dancing and black nymphs
frolicking on walls that were once part
of a homestead in its own wide paddocks.
The Bill Mclnnes couple were the excuse
for the party. Mrs. Bill wore black
warmed with white fox. Her husband
was forgiven his very bitter wind-up
speech when he found his spare tyre
stolen. (The police nosed round in their
Daimler, but a piece of chewing-gum was
their only clue.) The hostess’s black
taffetas showed windows upon the shoul-
ders. Her sister, Mrs. Edward Dyson,
lent a hand in brown velvet with fur
armlets. Brig.-General Wisdom and
Colonel and Mrs. Palmer represented the
army. Mr. and Mrs. Pearson-Chinnery,
of Papua (anthropology is his specialty),
the Fred Raes, the Arthur Bells, the
George Bells, Betty Paterson Newman,
Esther Paterson Gill and a parcel of
officers from the Canberra were among
the guests. The youngest ones were
schoolgirls Joan Jackson and June
Dyson.
Mrs. Drysdale Kilburn brought 16
miniatures to a recent exhibition of pic-
tures at Everyman’s Library. Mrs. Kil-
burn has some famous relatives. She is
a daughter of the Hon. John Collier and
is a connection of the Huxleys. Thomas
Henry Huxley met Mrs. Kilburn’s grand-
mother when he disembarked in Sydney
after a voyage on the Rattlesnake. He
proposed, but she was a cherished and
fragile ewe-lamb, and a loving family
persuaded her to postpone marrfage for
eight years. And then she had eight
children and lived till the age of 80!
Helveta Marsden and John Lawson
kept their evening appointment in Mel-
bourne Grammar School chapel. The
bridal raiment was elongated as to lac-
quered satin train and sheath-like as to
sleeve. Gardenias nestled in the bouquet.
Bride’s sister Joan and Betty Journeaux
’maided in a rustle of sprigged chiffon
over white taffeta and with garlands of
spring flowers in their hair. Cake and
toasts at No. 9.
Elisabeth Cole and Wilfred Weigall
promised eternal fidelity at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Over the model
of bridal simplicity in lacquered satin
fell a tulle veil held in position by a
spiked wreath of orange-buds. ’Maids
Margery and Diana Stephens and Made-
leine Sim followed on a wave of deep
cream ninon. Their gowns broke into
brief trains, and they braided their hair
with golden leaves. Rejoicings were at
the home of medico and Mrs. Douglas
Stephens.
Lafayette decided that he must snap
Beryl Walker looking coy, and here’s the
result, plus a twinkle in her eye. Miss
Walker has met with success in elocu-
tionary competitions, and a year or so
ago discovered the thrill of acting. She
is now a Cairns Memorial player and
made a recent hit as the dashing husband-
snatcher in “Secrets.” In “Smilin’
Through” on Saturday night she was
demurely curled and crinolined as Mary
Clare. Star of the piece was Lewis
Tegart as old Dr. Harding, a part that
fitted him like a glove. The effort was
for charity, and filled the Comedy, Mel-
bourne’s cosiest theatre.
The other day Mrs. Stanley Ferreira
answered her telephone to find England
and her sister Jean Carr at the other end.
Jean has lately become engaged to a
Scotsman, Angus Macleod, whose family
stronghold is Skeabost, Isle of Skye. Jean
rang up to say that she has named the
day as December 12 in St. Margaret’s,
Westminster. Mrs. Ferreira and her
youngest brother are dashing off for the
wedding. The Justin Carrs and Edna
are already on the spot.
Marie, younger daughter of the late
Donald Mackinnon and Mrs. Mackinnon,
has given a promise to Tristan, younger
son of William Buesst, of South Yarra.
The Chris Cowpers, of Macedon, have
home again daughters Beryl and Maisie.
Penelope Stead, of South Yarra, was their
fellow globetrotter for some of the way.
After a peep at the Norwegian fiords and
spick-and-span Copenhagen the girls
tootled off in their own little car through
England and Scotland. Meals by the
roadside and nights spent at little inns,
not very comfortable but steeped in his-
tory, were all part of the jolly adventure.
Secretary of the Air Board Major P.
E. Coleman has been appointed to attend
the Imperial Defence College in London.
Here is a Broothorn glimpse of his
blonde wife, who is cramming packing
and parties into the busiest few weeks of
the years she has spent in Australia. Eng-
lish by birth, she has rosy anticipations
of the trip ahead. Friends hope to wel-
come the popular couple back in 1935.
Mrs. John Fisken, with granddaughter
Monica Grantham, is home from a so-
journ in the northern half of the sphere.
Monica has been in Paris having final
trimmings pinned to her knowledge of
French, literature, art and philosophy.
The perfume of boronia is being
wafted up and down our city streets.
Flower shops display gorgeous blooms,
from pansies with their little human faces
to the aloof and expensive orchid. In
niches off the footpaths are flower stalls
banked with golden daffodils and
poppies. Trees in the gardens are dusted
with the tender green of very young
leaves. After a long winter with no
visitors the ’possums will scurry after
breadcrumbs. When warm weather
comes they get uppish and only accept
sugary titbits.
The Federation of Mothers’ Clubs,
allied to various schools, is laying plans
for holiday tours for schoolgirls and
-boys. Tasmania is to be visited by a
party of 50 girls after Christmas. The
director of the tour is Mrs. M. A. McColl,
with Mrs. L. M. Pitt as business man-
ager and Mrs. E. Scott as organising
secretary.
The time is looming ahead when Miss
Bushwalker will carry a gun and maybe
a gory spoil as well as her rucksack. Clay-
bird shooting has suffered a feminine
invasion. Mrs. Ross Grey-Smith is the
pioneer. She joined the Clay Bird Club,
and two weeks after she had her first
squint along twin barrels she won a club
prize. The lady is an all-rounder. She
plays a good game of tennis, has a golf
handicap no associate need be ashamed
of, owns a steeplechaser and holds an air
pilot’s license.
Mrs. Oswald Gibson has turned her
cunning fingers, nice sense of proportion
and marvellous patience to the making
of a doll’s house. In the little mansion
is posed its mistress putting the finishing
touch to flowers in a brass jardiniere (a
cleverly converted end of curtain-rod),
its master sipping a cocktail, its maid pat-
tering about the kitchen (she has an array
of pots and pans, a “magic mit” and a
gas-stove). The tiniest toothbrushes ever
made hang in a green-and-white bath-
room. The house has electric light, a
library, a telephone, a writing table com-
plete with a sizable inkpot and a quill-
pen—ah! the luxuries of the rich! The
bad-mannered guest who turns his plate
upside down will see it was once a button.
The dolls’ food is compounded of bar-
bola —ideal for miniature sausages and
salad. In the garden are a goldfish pond,
bird bath, sundial and herbaceous border.
If you peep through the iron gate of
the Arms of Jesus Baby Home on a sunny
morning you will see a lawnful of
gurgling infants happily chewing their
toes. To help keep these cherubs in
the pink of condition the Proscenium
Club presented “Important People” for
a crowded one-night season. The young
things of Toorak sold flowers and sweets
with fierce determination. Their slender
figures wriggled between sardine-packed
chairs in pursuit of people who had
eluded them in the lobby. A hidden pro-
gramme number divulged at the end of
the show won a pair of silk stockings
for a young man, who did his best to
look coy. The weight of the comedy
rested upon the shoulders of Zoe Goff, a
girl with a lovely figure. Archbishop
Head’s wife was in the audience.
Perth’s pleasant occasions:
The Aero Club’s shivoo brought a host of
diners to the rose-strewn tables of the Palace
Hotel. President J. A. Dimmitt welcomed Air
Force guests, and the Governor handed over
trophies won at the Aerial Pageant. Alter the
feed there was dancing in the upstair lounge.
Gwen Brazier was a highlight in orchid-pink
sheathings with yards of flowing sleeve; Nancy
McCulloch’s banksia-toned hair was well set otf
by purple velvet, and Dorothy Forbes’s chest-
nut locks topped oatmeal lace.
When Lieut. Ken Walton, R.A.N., was re-
called to Melbourne at short notice, Barbara
Nairn made hasty wedding preparations. She
slipped on a cute little frock of white flat
crepe and tip-tilted mohair hat, grasped some
Gloire de Dijon roses tied up with gold leaves
and streamers, and met Ken at St. Mary’s,
Colin-street. The Rev. Stillwell transferred the
ring, and Nancy Forbes, a symphony in beach
sand crepe and tea-roses, undid the glove.
King’s Park Tennis Club closed its dancing
season with a crowded hop in its pillared pavi-
lion. Palms leaned against the unadorned brick
walls, and gladioli peeped from the nooks and
crannies. Mimosa-green satin was glimpsed
through Mrs. Allen Rex’s peau d’ange lace;
Gladys Hadley hitched a fur-edged cape to her
ice-blue craquelle; Margot Law’s red and white
chiffons were effective; Barbara Haly’s satins
shimmered blue; Betty Rosenstamn’s chiffon
velvet was of old-port vintage ; Peggy Flight
Smith twirled green and. red flowered georgette.
Sir George Frampton’s last work, a replica
of his Kensington Garden Peter Pan statue,
belongs to Perth, having taken up its perman-
ent residence at the west end of Queen’s
Gardens. The Rotary Club donated the little
fellow.
Pippin Carew Reid caused a stir by announc-
ing her engagement-with-marriage-in-two-weeks
to Lieut. Leslie Tansing, of the Aus. Staff Corps.
Mildred and Nancy Le Souef hastily put on a
party where Pippin appeared in cornflower-
blue-patterned ninons. Peggy Manford, who
goes to Kalgoorlie for her nuptials with Bill
Cleland, is another feted bride-to-be.
The Mitchell lady sported lobelia-blue riboul-
dingue with matching headgear to open the
fete for missions, held at the Mofflins’ Darling-
ton home. Miss Northmore was in tow, with a
mole coat covering her brown and white plaids.
Madeleine, second of the Waldie Forbes
quartette of pretty daughters, has plighted her
troth to Francis Cuthbert Chomley Fetherston-
haugh, scion of the Geelong family of that ilk.
Adelaide’s social affairs:
There was a great flaunting of kilts at the
Palais Royal on the occasion of the Hallowe’en
Ball. M. A. Fotheringham and his wife received
the guests. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven
were met by knight David Gordon and escorted
to the box, where Mr. and Mrs. Fotheringham
received them. Two wee bairns in kilts then
presented bouquets. Lady Hore-Ruthven wore
chiffons flowered in pale green and beige, and
Mrs. Fotheringham chose black lace.
The rose show at the Town Hall, of which
the Moulden lady was the leading spirit, was
opened by Lady Hore-Ruthven, wearing beige
marocain and large brown straw hat. Her Ex.
was afterwards entertained at tea beneath a
garden umbrella on the stage.
Mrs. Reginald Walker, who leaves for Eng-
land on November 4, holds the record for fare-
well parties. In a recent week she responded to
the invitations of 20 different hostesses.
The retiring Mayoress of St. Peters (Mrs.
Frank Perry) entertained about 70 women at
luncheon at Birk’s Piccadilly. The hostess wore
black crinkled crepe relieved with white, and
carried a bouquet of crimson roses presented by
her guests.
The engagement is announced of Alison,
eldest daughter of Mrs. Clive Milne, of Somer-
ton, and her late husband, to John, eldest son
of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Clarke, of South Yarra,
Melbourne.
The Lyceum Club gave a reception in the
clubrooms for Mr. and Mrs. J. Spivakovsky.
Dr. Eleanor Allen was hostess, and irises and
roses decorated.


PRICES REDUC ED!
REDUCED PRICES OF GILLETTE SLOTTED BLADES BRING
LUXU«y SHAVING WITH IN REACH OF EVERYONE
EW GILLETTE BLAD
Hi ft JHH||
mm
j|§§|||
MADE IN ENGLAND
BH R.D. NS. 750681
K>;
Hi
*
rrm
:ps3
Up
THIS BLADE ▼ NOW COSTS
New and improved manufac-
turing processes have en-
abled us to reduce the price
of Gillette Slotted Blades
without altering the
quality. The blades are
exactly the same—the same
quality of steel; the same
hard, super-keen edges. The
only change is in the price,
becauco Gillette have de-
cided to pacs on to the public all the benefit of
the reduced production costs. This means that
the highest possible standard of shaving luxury
is now available to hundreds of thousands of
men who could not previously afford it.
2/-
PER PACKET
OF FIVE
OF DEALERS EVERYWHERE
The new English-made
Gillette Slotted Blades, as
you probably know, mark the
latest and greatest advance
in the manufacture of safety
razor blades. The slot makes
possible what is known as
the dual-tempering process.
Whilst the steel in the centre
of the blade is sufficiently
pliable to fit snugly to the
curve of the razor, the cutting edges are more
finely tempered than ever. Result stronger,
keener, longer - lasting edges and smoother,
cleaner shaving. Ask for Gillette slotted
blades.
★ The new reduced prices come into effect on Wednesday, November Ist. Packet of Five, 2/-.
RUSHES
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
WEAR He. UNDERWEAR
THAT LAUGHS
L ALIN DEFIES
\
m
£3
i
THAT’S THE RECORD OF
B. V. D.!
If you think that “bargain
counter” underwear costs you
less than B. V. D. you’re
wrong you’re dead wrong!
Bargain underwear is a
luxury. It costs you more than
B. V. D.’s because its life is
short!
B. V. D. outwears and out-
values all the catch-penny
private brands that ever pulled
the wool over your eyes and
the shoddy over your limbs.
No laundry can lick B. V. D.
It’s made to fit—never bags at
the seat—and never comes to
a parting of the ways when
you make a sudden movement
Now made in Australia for
THE B. V. D. CO. INC., NEW
YORK
//
J
the
FOB
BEST
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a "Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
I AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
| A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
When they grab in Cuba, they grab
properly. Ex-President Machado got
away with £1,800,000.
* * * *
“Fire Piston”: The vogue of the Diesel
engine seems to be waning. The Royal
Mail Steam Packet Co. is replacing
Diesels with turbines in two liners trad-
ing to South America, the expense and
running costs of the internal-combustion
engines having been far in excess of esti-
mate,
* * * *
“The Antiquary”: The explanation
that “love” as a lawn-tennis term is a
corruption of “l’ceuf” (B. 13/9/’33) won’t
hold water. To play a game “for love”-
as opposed to “for money,” i.e., for no
stakes, is a phrase that can be traced
back for centuries. The French equiva-
lent is “jouer pour le plaisir,” or “jouer
pour l’honneur.” Gradually “for love”
came to mean “nought,” and was so
employed in scoring.
* * **j: *
Germany adopted the Federal system
when it went in for a republic. The
Nazis have knocked most of the Federal-
ism out of the scheme, and now propose
to complete the job. Federalism had a
great vogue in the nineteenth century, but
nowadays seems to be on the decline
everywhere, except perhaps in Switzer-
land. It was even proposed in some quar-
ters to make a Federal instrument of the
British Constitution, and Bernard Shaw
still prattles occasionally about tjie neces-
sity for the change ; but no one pays any
attention to him.
*** * \
“Disc Clutch”: The British motor-car
industry is nowadays on the best of
wickets. Since 1922, when a freshr start
was made in the world’s markets ; *after
the war had confined manufacture to
military purposes and had given Ameri-
can cars an immense hold, the output
has increased from 73,000 cars to 232,000
in 1932. The home market is now in
the hands of British makers, and exports
have jumped 65 per cent, above the 1931
figures. The feature of the situation has
been the world-wide adoption of the
small car which British motor taxation
—the heaviest in the world —drove Brit-
ish engineers to evolve.
* * * *
“1.G.G.M.”: “Runa” can hardly have
read Herbert G. Ponting, camera artist
with the British Antarctic expedition,
1910-13, closely when she quotes him as
saying in “Great White South” that colds
and germs were unknown in low tem-
peratures (B. 27/9/’33). Here is an ex-
tract that tells a very different story:
I have read in books that there are no
germs in the Polar regions. My belief in such
reports was shaken on a night when, lying in
my thick reindeer-skin sleeping-bag, I caught an
awful cold, and for the whole of the next day
I suffered from paroxyms of sneezing. After
that experience no one will ever convince me
that microbes cannot stand the rigors of those
regions.
* * * *
“Walrus”: What claims to be the most
exclusive golf club in the world, knock-
ing Royal Sydney, Sunningdale, St.
Andrews and several American million-
airish institutions to leg in this respect,
is situated in the Arctic circle, some-
where about 67 degrees N. There are
only four members, the R.C. missionary
to the Esquimaux, the Anglican ditto
ditto, the Hudson Bay Co.'s factor and
his offsider. All are life members, and
the combined entrance fee and subscrip-
tion—there are no green fees in that icy
paradise—is 10 polar-bear teeth. There
are only three holes, and these are played
three times in succession to complete a
round. There being no grass in that
region, the greens are of beach sand, and
the caddies are Esquimaux boys.
“Fernlander”: One of the differences
between Maoriland and Australia is that
the phrase “public-school education in
the Shivery Isles means free tuition in a
State primary school, whereas in the
Commonwealth it implies an Alma Mater
outside State jurisdiction to which the
parents of pupils pay fees. And though
M.L. is in many respects much more
English than Australia, its folk in this
respect show a colonial democratic spirit.
A Maorilander who has a string of
academic letters after his name, or who
has achieved distinction in any path of
life, mentions the fact that he got his
first education “at a public school” with
just as much pride as an Australian, simi-
larly fortunate in career, makes use of
the same words, though socially the
meanings are at opposite poles. Wealthy
Maorilanders who send their boys to
Eton or Harrow, with Oxford or Cam-
bridge to follow, are not encouraged by
the leaders of society to make a song
about it. It isn’t that the Maorilander
is immune from snobbishness —there are
many points on which he can out-snob
most Australians —but the beginnings of
settlement in Fernland are too recent and
the influence of independent-minded
pioneers is still too strong to permit of
finicking distinctions about the way in
which a citizen mastered the three R’s.


The Princess.
BY MERVYN GKIPPER.
THE lawyer, Mr. Gawford, was being
dressed in his bedroom, the largest
and best-furnished bedroom on
Palau Anu. Most bedrooms on Palau
Anu were furnished with native-woven
bamboo mats and cane chairs and tables.
Mr. Gawford’s bedroom was in the Louis
Quatorze style.
He had got the idea from an American
monthly, and in order to carry it out he
had had to sell a rubber plantation. It
looked hot and uncomfortable.
Two liveried Chinese servants stood
behind Mr. Gawford, one ready to lace
up his white suede shoes and the other
waiting to help him into various articles
of clothing. Mr. Gawford surveyed his
suit of Shantung silk in a large gilt
mirror. Then he studied his tie intently.
He decided that a black tie was unsuit-
able for such an occasion as the arrival
of his only daughter, who had been 14
years absent in England. After some
hesitation he substituted a blue spotted
one.
He walked out on to the verandah of
his house, with the exception of Lim
Sam Kee’s and the British Residency the
only stone house on the island. An eight-
cylinder Lancia, the only car on Palau
Anu, was purring in the shadow of the
porch, a uniformed Malay sais at the
wheel and his personal servant, Amit, in
his own special livery of white duck
with blue facings, standing with the rear
door open. Mr. Gawford stepped into
the rear seat, and his Chinese valet
handed him his white gloves, his Malacca
cane and his yellow solar topee.
The car, glittering in blue and gold,
started gently to move, gathered way as
it swept down the long drive between
hedges and tropical shrubs clipped in the
English fashion, swung majestically
through the iron entrance gates and
began to drop swiftly down towards the
harbor between the big chemara trees.
It glided past the Residency, the dis-
trict officer’s, the thin, red-roofed Angli-
can church, the dark European cemetery,
the P.W.D. man’s house; past other
bungalows set back in disorderly gardens ;
past the hospital, the tuan doctor’s, the
courthouse, the gaol, the European cricket
ground, the Eurasian cricket ground and
Lim Sam Kee’s ornate mansion ; then
it entered the main street of the capital,
called Albert, after the Consort.
It slowed down as it joined the tide of
fowls, ducks, goats, sacred cows, bullock-
carts, rickshaws and strolling natives, and
threaded its way past the Chinese and
Tamil shops, the Chinese temple, the
Hindu temple, the mosque, the Sikh
place of worship, the pork market and
Lim Sam Kee’s store, drawing up on the
wharf, behind the Resident’s carriage.
All Palau Anu had come down to wel-
come the mailboat. Mr. Gawford
approached the first group, which repre-
sented officialdom. He removed his
helmet and bowed obsequiously to the
Resident and a little less obsequiously to
the district officer. He nodded curtly to
the tuan doctor, to whom he had lent
2000 dollars at 30 per cent.
The next group was composed of the
staff of the cable station and their wives.
Should he take his hat off or should
he merely nod nonchalantly? If they
cut him the nod might not be
noticed, but if he took his hat off no
retreat would be possible. He solved thd
problem by removing his hat and wiping
his brow before he passed them, as if
the heat oppressed him. However, none
of the group took any notice of him.
He next approached a group of Tamil
moneylenders in their national costume,
a white cloth wound round the hips,
another white cloth thrown gracefully
over the right shoulder, gleaming golden
stomachs, leather sandals, yellow caste
marks on their foreheads. He nodded to
them coldly. He greeted with slightly
more warmth Lim Sam Kee, that mer-
chant’s five sons and chief clerk. A cluster
of Eurasian clerks and minor Govern-
ment officials in white ducks and yellow
shoes he ignored altogether. A few paces
further on he came to a halt and stood
facing the water, with Amit holding a
green silk umbrella above him.
The s.s. Chowfah swept round a point
and approached the wharf. Mr. Gaw-
ford’s face, unusually black for a Hindu,
was shining with perspiration and his body
inside the neat silk suit was trembling
violently. What pose should he adopt on
this momentous occasion? Should he
be the self-controlled English gentleman?
Five years at Oxford and three years of
marriage with a middle-class English
woman had made that pose as easy to
him as any other. Should he be the
eminent lawyer and successful financier,
conscious of his commercial importance?
Should he be the proud father, a little
relaxed at this reunion with his only
daughter? Should he be his natural self,
the emotional and delighted parent, or
the Hindu, with the traditional contempt
for female offspring?
By the time the Malay wharf hands had
caught the ropes and dropped the springs
over the bollards he had made his deci-
sion in favor of the English gentleman.
He mounted the gangway sedately behind
the Resident and the district officer and
ahead of the tuan doctor.
The saloon deck of the Chowfah was
an epitome of the wharf below it. At
one end stood a group of rubber-
planters, Government officials and mer-
chants. Against the rail apart lent a
Japanese woman, mistress of one of the
planters. A couple of Tamil merchants,
travelling second-class, conversed quietly.
A Chinese towkay and his wife stood
statuesquely near them. Some Eurasian
second-class passengers were chattering
excitedly. A sultan of a principality in
the Solos sat fast asleep in a deck-chair.
Mr. Gawford’s daughter leant against
the rail in a white starched dress and a
sun helmet, her small, neat figure alert,
her eyes laughing, her lips parted with
excitement. Except for her golden-yellow
skin, she looked the perfect English
schoolgirl.
As Mr. Gawford approached, Miss
Gawford was joined by a tall, young
white man. All Mr. Gawford’s assur-
ance vanished. He forgot his pose of
the self-controlled English gentleman, and
his plump little body suddenly became in-
significant. His cheeks sunk in and
became ashen-colored, his Oxford voice
rose by an octave. He shook hands with
his daughter nervously, and dully heard
her beautiful voice, so musical, so cul-
tured, introducing Papa to Mr. Campion,
who was coming to the cable station.
Mr. Gawford told his native servant
peremptorily to find Miss Gawford’s
cabin-boy and see about her luggage.
Then he invited Mr. Campion to tiffin.
Mr. Campion said he was sorry ; the
superintendent had arranged for him to
have tiffin at the cable station.
Mr. .Gawford’s procession, now aug-
mented to three, started to make for the
gangway. The internecine warfare going
on in its leader’s bosom was now rein-
forced by some fresh elements. He felt
he was under the scrutiny of his English-
bred daughter. He had to run the gaunt-
let of a row of white -men lying in long
chairs drinking gin-slings.
He waved his hand gaily to the Resi-
dent, shouted to the district officer that
it was a nice day, if a trifle hot for the
season, and stopped to shake hands un-
necessarily with the tuan doctor.
He sat quite still and silent while the
car made its way to the Gawford man-
sion. As soon as they were both in the
drawing-room, however, he kissed his
daughter’s hands ravenously. His eyes
gazed into hers with the adoring look of
a dog. He seized her by the arm
and took her into all the rooms, chatter-
ing incessantly. He turned the electric
lights on and off and showed her the
private power-house through a window.
Finally he took her back to the drawing-
room, sank on a couch and wept unre-
strainedly.
Next morning Miss Gawford faced her
father across a breakfast table which
was modelled on the best English county
traditions. The silver shone, the por-
ridge steamed and there was a bowl of
exquisite roses in the centre. The four
liveried servants looked like attempts of
a Chinese caricaturist to depict the Eng-
lish serving-man and butler from hear-
say. Through the great glassless window
could be seen the roofs of the houses of
the European community.
Mr. Gawford’s heart swelled with pride
when he looked on his daughter, serene,
poised, self-contained, bathed, exhilarated
by an early-morning gallop—except for
her dark face the ideal of English girl-
hood. The vision of young Campftm as
a son-in-law flitted across his mind.
Then he was filled with terror as he
thought of his impending bankruptcy, in-
curred by his reckless expenditure, the
big house, the car, the bribes of part-
nerships in his rubber estate he had made
to white men who might be socially use-
ful to him. Then he thought of young
Ramasamy, son of the Tamil money-
lender, to whom he was as heavily in-
debted as the white men were indebted
to him.
“My dear,” he said, “I have a surprise
for you. I have invited all the young
men at the quarters to dinner to-morrow.
You would like to renew your acquaint-
ance with Mr. Campion, yes? It is the
festival of Tai Pussum. We will go
afterwards to the temple. You will see
how our Hindu friends comport them-
selves. The religion of your ancestors,
my dear. Very funny, very funny! ”
Miss Gawford smiled affectionately at
her father. He was a dear, her papa.
It had been something of a shock to dis-
cover that he had a black face. She had
forgotten that fact during her absence in
England. She had remembered only her
first infantile impressions of an indulgent
father. Her education had superimposed
on those impressions an English mind,
with all its racial prejudices.
Unconsciously it had turned her father
into a white man, with all the qualities
of an ideal European parent. She had
forgotten his physical appearance. Now
she was making a painful adjustment in
order to be loyal to two conceptions
simultaneously.
Only Mr. Campion turned up for
dinner. He was silent and awkward. He
had had a hell of a time before he had
escaped from the quarters. The mess
president had told him he was a young
fool, and would have to drop his niggers
or be dropped by his fellow-countrymen.
Campion had looked at the mess presi-
dent and as he did so the image of Miss
Gawford flashed across his mind. The
shame of it! Out of the union of an
Englishwoman and a Hindu a creature
had been evolved of as fine a grain as the
finest of either race. She had been given
the same education as his own sisters.
She had been kept in England until she
was almost a woman. She had become
imbued with English culture, sensibility,
love of sport. She had been kept in
ignorance of the disabilities her birth
would bring upon her. Then she had
been brought out to this little transplanted
hell of English provincialism, prejudice
and arrogance!
“She’s a decent girl,” said Campion.
“She’s white inside, and she was jolly
nice to me when the English women were
standoffish.”
“Exactly,” said the mess president. “I
suppose she told you she was an Indian
princess. That’s all right, and fine on a
boat, but here you are in the area of
hostilities. Do you think those niggers
love us? Not a bit. They hate us.
We’ve got to stick together.”
The dinner was more of a success
than either Mr. Gawford or Campion
expected. Mr. Gawford was the perfect
English country gentleman. His well-
trained servants plied Campion with
wines in the correct rotation. Miss Gaw-
ford chatted with girlish spontaneity.
After the dessert she retired, and Mr.
Gawford told smokeroom stories.
A silence fell, and from the town below
them came the deep thudding of a drum.
Mr. Gawford broached his project of
completing the evening by visiting the
temple. Campion looked momentarily
alarmed, but decided it would be caddish
to raise any objection.
They got out of the car at a barred
gateway set in a lofty wall. Outside were
standing the Resident’s carriage and sev-
eral rickshaws. From inside came sud-
den shouts, a babble of voices, the
rattling of chains and inexplicable quak-
ing silences. In the environs of the
temple were cockshies, giant wheels and
hurdy-gurdies. A devotee, naked but for
a loincloth, was standing at a shrine. A
stupefied woman was being driven
through the crowd, the excited natives
sticking needles in her body. Some men
were hanging weights to their flesh and
performing a dance on boards studded
with nails.
Campion, following in the wake of
Mr. Gawford and his daughter, was
jostled by priests and drunken worship-
pers. A handsome young man, who
reeled in his walk, approached. He shook
hands with Mr. Gawford and his daugh-
ter, and Mr. Gawford introduced him
as his dear young friend Mr. Ramasamy.
Mr. Ramasamy was naked to the
waist, had a garland round his neck and
smelt of whisky and cheap perfume. He
smacked Campion on the back, and, buy-
ing a garland from a woman, threw it
around his neck, despite his protests.
Then he seized the young Englishman
by the hand and began to pull him to-
wards a part of the temple where the
crowd was thickest.
“To the shrine!” he cried.
A priest hung a second garland of
sickly-smelling flowers round Campion’s
neck, and, disclosing a scent-spray,
drenched his clothes with perfume. A
score of hands laid hold of him and
dragged and pushed him towards the
shrine like an unwilling sacrifice.
The crowd roared with delight at Cam-
pion’s bewilderment and agitation. He
turned to make his escape, but Ramas-
amy seized him, talking volubly. Cam-
pion went red with anger and flung
Ramasamy from him. The Hindu youth
slid several feet along the slippery floor,
looking ridiculously as if he were skating,
and then fell. He immediately picked
himself up and hurled himself on the
white man.
The crowd swirled round the strug-
gling pair. Menacing shouts were heard.
Mr. Chomley, the police inspector, and
half a dozen Europeans pushed their
way through and closed round Campion,
Mr. Gawford and his daughter. They
began to move towards the main doors
of the temple, Mr. Chomley with an
expression of professional competence
on his face, other white men stern and
silent, Mr. Gawford chattering excitedly,
Campion flushed and sullen, Miss Gaw-
ford serene.
When they got outside Mr. Gawford
hustled his daughter into the car. Cam-
pion had disappeared amongst the Euro-
peans.
As the car snorted upwards past the
chemaras alive with fireflies Mr. Gawford
spoke. “These damn niggers! No teach-
ing them! Got no manners! No tradi-
tions ! ”
Then he remembered all the white
men who didn’t mind owing him money
but refused to eat his dinners.
“These white people,” he said. “All
snobs! Call us niggers! Crawl to us
for money and then kick us. Haven’t
we as much right to live as they have?”
He remembered his daughter and
began to cry. The girl took his hand
in hers and patted it.
Miss Gawford went straight to her
room and sat down for a while staring
straight before her. Then she suddenly
got up and went back to the verandah.
The car was still standing under the
porch with the sais sitting at the wheel—
Mr. Cawford had forgotten to dismiss
him. Miss Gawford ordered the sais out
and took his place. She pressed the
accelerator and the Lancia began to
sweep down the drive.
It swung into the road away from the
town and began to climb rapidly. The
driver quickened her pace and roared
past the P.W.D. man’s house and the
cable quarters. Men were talking on
the verandah. She began to descend, and
after a couple of miles the white gate
of the golf course rose up before the
headlamps.
Miss Gawford stopped, reversed, went
forward, reversed, swung round and
began to mount again. The car turned
into a road that seemed to go off into
infinity. It had reached sixty miles
an hour when a dark wall rose up before
it. Miss Gawford rammed on the brakes
and the car slid to a stop just as the road
dwindled to a footpath through the sec-
ondary jungle.
The girl, with her hands gripping the
wheel, sat staring at the dark wall ahead
of her. It seemed symbolical of her own
position. So papa had deceived her,
even in the matter of the car. She had
been driving fifteen minutes, had turned
up every side road, and here she was at
the end of everything. There couldn’t
be more than seven miles of road
on the island. And the big house and
the English education and the learning
of the piano and the riding lessons were
all dead-ends! And the lying letters from
papa about the social amenities of Palau
Anu! She reflected that she had begun
to realise the truth on the voyage from
England when Mr. Campion’s warm in-
terest in her began to become furtive as
the ship approached India.
There was no place for her on Palau
Anu! Her Indian body might find a
physical environment amongst those
naked worshippers she had seen and
shuddered at in the temple, but her Eng-
lish mind revolted at the thought of
being pawed by Mr. Ramasamy. She
might feel a spiritual environment in the
company of Mr. Campion, but he must
feel the same horror at her Indian body
as she felt at the thought of Mr. Ramas-
amy’s.
Resentment began to rise in her against
her father, so indulgent, so anxious to
please, so doglike in his affection. What
had he done it for? Why had he allowed
her to be turned into a caricature of an
English schoolgirl?
Then she thought, with a shiver of
disgust, that in every bungalow English-
men must have been lying in long chairs
listening to the progress of the car and
making jokes about the trapped Indian
princess.
The girl silently returned to Mr. Gaw-
ford’s too-ornate mansion and got out
wearily.
As she mounted the steps she became
aware of a figure squatting cross-legged
under the light of a lamp. It was a
Hindu, naked to the waist, with the yel-
low brand of Siva on his forehead. His
head and chest were white with ashes.
There was a doglike look of contrition
and devotion in his eyes. Miss Gawford
recognised Mr. Ramasamy. She ran past
him into the front room of the house.
The girl caught a glimpse of her
father’s unhappy face turned apologeti-
cally towards her. She rushed up to her
room, threw herself on her bed and
began crying.
The sobbing of a drum rose on the
silent air from the dark town below.


England via New York
by the most varied and colorful route, em-
bracing New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Van-
couver, across Canada or U.S.A. to Montreal
and New York.
Next Sailings from Sydney:
November 9tli M.V. Aorangi
» 15th S.S. Monterey
„ 23rd S.S. Mukura
December 7th S.S. Niagara
connecting with
THE CUNARD BIG THREE
Berengaria Aquitania Mauretania
54,000 tons 46,000 tons 30,000 tons
which give a weekly express service from New
York to England. The Cunard Line also
offers the choice of the largest Cabin Class
Fleet in the World.
Specially reduced Round the World Tickets
available one way via Suez or the Cape.
Write for full information, or call and discuss
with ns the plans of your trip. )Va can
effect your reservations throughout.
0. & D. Line, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., 34 Queen St., Melbourne ;
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Cunard
PHENOMENAL STARTING
“Increased mileage
too,’’ says Fiat
owner.
“Since using Leggetts
Spark Plugs, the
ease with which my
car starts, even on
the coldest morn-
ings, is really
phenomena 1,”
writes a Fiat owner.
“The mileage in-
crease is also re-
markable. I attribute
from 10% upwards
increased mileage to
your dynamic plugs.
“R. A.”
(Name on application)
Change to - day
with confidence to
Leggett Spark Plugs
for easier starting,
sweeter running,
more miles per gal-
lon, dynamic power.
4/7/33
liPi
.v -.y.v'
II
«
m
8
*?
Popularly
Priced at
ALL GARAGES
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd. ; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; arid at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
m
-
"
;
mm
m
m
• This pair of Lady's Golf Shoes
is over 4 years old. Uppers have
retained new appearance after regular
polishing with Kiwi Dark Tan.
Owner, Mrs. J. P„ Melbourne.
Kiwi Black or Tan Polish will
make a good shoe last . . .
and give a good shine to boot
BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
The Whisperer.
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
MAGISTRATES, here and there in the
past, and even Judges and what-
not, had told Shrewdy Wilson a
good bit of the truth about himself. But
all men are liars, in and out of the game.
Shrewdy gave himself a half-inch and
slid past the lorry, the indicator still at
48. There was no hurry, but he had the
habit of driving fast. And taking what
looked like a risk in the crowded town-
ship street stiffened his belief in him-
self.
He wasn't young now. And all
men are liars, especially if it’s their job
to be. It was in the distant past, too, all
that rough stuff, when he used to tackle
the jobs himself and once or twice got
nipped and had to listen to the sergeants
and the supers, and the Bloke on the
Bench. Far away in the past all that.
In the nearer past he heard the Dago’s
broken voice again over the ’phone.
“I got to get money, see, Shrewdy—
plenty money. For my home.... Can
1 get it?”
Funny. He’d never hear the Dago
whisper again. He'd been gassed in
France and couldn't speak—only whisper.
It was a queer game to listen to him
sometimes. Well, Shrewdy wouldn’t
have to hear him again.
“Depends what you call plenty—there’s
only chicken-feed lying around these
days, Dago”
“Oh, yeah?” the hoarse whisper
mocked. “Like in the bookmakers’ safes,
they tell me —Randwick and these places.
I think I step round to see you to-day
or to-morrow, Shrewdy.”
Shrewdy might have known, of course;
even if the Dago had been out of the
game a couple of years now —or near
enough to out of it—he’d have his
ways of spotting a show. Especially a
sizable show like Nick Marsh’s safe at
Randwick and the 9000 quid he missed
out of it.
Not that it mattered ; there was no-
thing left, of course, by the time the
Dago reached Shrewdy’s flat —nothing of
Shrewdy’s small cut, that is. The Dago
whispered like a ton of bricks for a
couple of minutes, but Shrewdy only
smiled, while his little eyes watching the
Dago slanted nearer and nearer together.
He must have money, the Dago said ; it
was for his home, a mortgage.... His
whispering ceased—it always did when
he came to his home.
But Shrewdy knew all about his home ;
other people had their ways of spotting
a thing, too. The car slipped smoothly
out of the township, and Shrewdy let
her out a little more ; there was a good
long stretch to go, and he didn’t want
to find ’em in bed. No particular hurry,
but
| The Dago and his home —that was his
soft spot. That was what had done him
in in the end. This mate of his, Bill
Vasari, had been killed beside the Dago
in France, and the Dago—well, you
know what Dagoes are.... He found
the two kids, both babies —the boy was
born after Bill had left for the dogfight
in France—and Bill’s wife, their mother,
pretty near dying. She did die. And
the Dago took on the lot —got this farm
at Bindi, got a woman to look after them
(“Aunt,” they called her), and had run
it for 15 years.
Could you beat that?
Even now, after the 15 years had gone,
Shrewdy looked in wonder at the after-
noon shadows on the road, at the under-
growth, the tall, stark gums flickering by,
at the yellow road ahead —in his amazed
inability to beat that for a soft spot.
You couldn’t believe a man’d be such a
flaming fool.
And a man like the Dago, too. Hard
as Hell and quicker than a box of mon-
keys. Never a spree ; never a squeal;
never a word out of him. He came into
the game when he found he couldn’t
run it with only the farm ; and he was
good. Twice he went up and did his
stretch with his mouth shut; and he was
only nipped then because the shows
Shrewdy gave him were the toughest, the
ones no one could tackle.
And all for this home, for these kids
of his dead mate’s! This home....
Shrewdy’s supple fingers looked like
ghosts on the wheel in the gathering
shadows. He slowed her down a bit —
,the road wasn’t too clever —as a breeze
whispered suddenly in the trees. A
shadow of fear flickered across his nar-
row face. Or was it only of memory,
memory of the last time he had heard —
would ever hear —the Dago’s whisper?
Like that lost sound up in the trees..
That faint, empty pumping stirred in his
chest. Indigestion —nerves He let
her out again. Damn the road. And
damn the Dago ; he’d asked for it. No,
he hadn’t. But he’d taken it himself
He must have money, he said. Well,
there were ways, Shrewdy told him—
there were always ways, if you took a
risk. A big risk. The Dago shut his
mouth and watched Shrewdy ; he knew
when he meant what he was saying. He’d
been out of the game for a couple of
years but he was ready for anything, so
badly did he need this money. Shrewdy
settled down to it, and told him how he
could get it.
Well, he got it —lifted the mortgage
and put a nice piece of change in the
bank (all in Aunt Tessa’s name—
Shrewdy knew all about that), and lay
low in Surry Hills.
But the watchman, who was wounded,
died. And presently a plainclothes had
a word or two with Shrewdy; later
Headquarters sent for Shrewdy and had
another word or two with him.
He thought a trip to Melbourne —but
they nipped him on the road and brought
him back for still another word, explain-
ing that they had him coming and going
this time, and that he’d be wise to be
pleasant about it. The murder, they
pointed out, was what irritated them.
Come at it, they said; you’ve got this
alibi, but we’ve got plenty little things,
and taking trouble is what we’re paid
for.
Shrewdy thought about it on the three-
legged stool. Only he and the Dago were
in it; and he had his alibi, as they said.
But there were those little things ; they’d
got him here now. And....
It was a lifer at the best. For the
Dago....
He asked to see the sergeant and came
at it.
“The double-cross, eh?” the sergeant
said, looking as if Shrewdy’s face was
some dirt on the wall. “Come into the
office.”
So it was arranged that they—Shrewdy,
the sergeant and two plainclothes—should
meet at Shrewdy’s flat, he to have the
Dago there for them.
The Dago whispered morosely all the
time they waited. What did Shrewdy
want him for? He was sick of lying
low—he wanted to go home (always
home), but it was a flaming big risk to
break cover now. And
Shrewdy asked him a couple of ques-
tions. When he had answered them the
sergeant and his offsiders came round
the screen....
The Dago looked up. Turned and
looked at Shrewdy, his face a mask of
scorn. Whipped out his gun —but they
crowded ; there wasn’t a hope.... One
shot he got —they couldn’t crowd that —
in his own heart.... As he heeled over
he clutched Shrewdy—his fingers sunk
into the arm like iron talons —and whis-
pered.
The sudden wind shuddered in the
trees again, swept over Shrewdy’s narrow
face.
“If I have to come out of Hell to do
it, I’ll get you for this, Shrewdy”....
Thinking, remembering, he had slowed
her down. He stepped on it, watched
the indicator slip up to 60, slowed her
down again....
All men are liars. If he wasn’t young
he wasn’t old either. Not by a good
piece. If you came to it, what else could
he do?
These kids... .up at the Dago’s home
—in half an hour or less he’d be there...
Well, you see, he knew a lot—what
had been keeping the home going, how
their education had been paid for, where
“Uncle” really was when he was sup-
posed to be abroad....
Knowing things that the other fellow
didn’t know was the best of all jumping-
off places. And there was the farm, and
still a good piece of change left in the
bank....
All this stiffened him well, so that
opening the gate he was himself, quiet
and easy, his little eyes smiling gently.
At work, in fact.
Having his ways, he had caused Aunt
Tessa to be informed that Uncle Ugo
had died suddenly after a slight opera-
tion ; the home’s affairs had always been
nominally in her hands. All was set.
He rang the bell and waited, glancing
back at the garden. Quite a garden, the
Dago had had, round his home. It was
hot, now that he was out of the car.
Damned hot.
The girl’s fine eyes flashed in greeting
as she held out her hand at the door.
“A friend of Uncle Ugo’s?” Her rich
voice had a music. “Come in, come in!
Auntie —Aunt Tessa!”
A fine handsome piece, in her black
frock, and with the come-hither look in
{Continued on next page.)


1
i
C
rx
■woeiy
jm
SOUTH SEA
HOLIDAYS
What a difference between
just an ordinary holiday and a
cruise to the Solomon Islands.
Four and a half weeks of novel
and amusing incidents and the
delights of a sea voyage under
the best conditions. Numerous
ports —coral lagoons—colourful
native life wonderful scenes.
There are no hotel expenses on
the trip and the fares from
Australia are free of exchange.
Next Sailings from Sydney, Bth Nov.—l6th Dec.
I At your request we shall |
be pleased to forward
illustrated folder No. 22 I
Wis.Phiip
k CO, LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . . TELEPHONE
8790 I
m
iS!wc_
VVWWIa ' O «»S«JS
JO(ygs{ {»»soflM«w»''^
OF ROMANCE
Come to New Zealand only three days sail from Sydney—
steeped in the tradition of ancient Maori heroes; land of
romance and sport; land of high mountains, where the air
is tonic, like good wine.
Infinite in its variety of thermal wonders, ever changing
forests, haunting beauty of sea girt fiords, roaring cataracts,
and peaceful sunlit lakes. Teeming with game and fish from
the graceful red deer and chamois to wild cattle and pig,
giant trout and the world's gamest game fish.
Come from the heat of summer to renew your health and
youth in this mild and bracing climate. There will be parties
of jolly people, on pleasure bent, to laugh with you in the
daytime and dance with you at night.
Mail this coupon TO-DAY, with-
out obligation, for complete infor-
mation, suggested tours and fares.
w
N.Z. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Corner Martin Place
and Pitt Street. Sydney, and
Box 2136, Collins House, 360
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated
leaflets and full details of a
holiday in New Zealand.
Name
Address
B
REFILL TO-DAY
with 100% Pennsylvania Motor Oil
PENNSYLVANIA VEEDOL offers
you the first chance you ever had
to buy 100% Pennsylvania Motor Oil
from an internationally-known oil com-
pany.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is the newest
and greatest achievement of the world’s
largest refiner and marketer of 100%
Pennsylvania crudes ... It is both
heatproof and coldproof . . . Made so
by a new and secret refining process
with ultra-modern equipment.
So drain your old, worn, thinned-out
motor oil to-day . . . Refill with Penn-
sylvania VEEDOL . . . Learn how
Pennsylvania VEEDOL gives extra
economy . . , extra mileage . . . extra
protection.
A LWAYS
ASK FOR
MOTOR Oil
100% PENNSYLVANIA.
Neptune Oil Company Ltd. All States.
Distributors for .. . TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY.
her eyes. Quiet now, of course, so soon
after the Dago’s death; but he could
tell. You could do a lot with a piece like
that if you knew how to go to work.
She smiled at him and took his hat.
“I’ll find Auntie,” she said.
Big, quiet room ; easy chairs, books
lying about, magazines, papers. Music —
a violin was being played somewhere in
the house ; otherwise the house was quiet,
at rest.
Shrewdy looked about him again.
It was good. A fox-terrier trotted
over, smelt his boots and went back to
the hearthrug, turning its back on him.
The music ceased and, presently, the
girl came back, a white kitten in her
arms.
“Aunt Tessa will come in a moment.
She hopes you will stay the night; it is
hot and the roads are bad—you will stay,
no?” She put her head on one side and
looked at him over the kitten. “Paolo —
my brother —will put your car in the
garage. There is Uncle’s room. Our
visitors are few. Say ‘Yes.’ ” Her eyes
persuaded him.
Not that he needed persuading. He
meant to stay the night. Uncle’s room
wasn’t too
I’ve got the bench,
I’ve got the park,
I’ve got the moonlight. ...
A raucous voice cut into his thoughts ;
a big white cockatoo flapped its wings
on the back of a chair
“Shut up, Athos,” she said. “That is
his one song—he is showing off for you.
You mustn’t mind all the pets ; Uncle
was very fond of them,” her voice fell a
tone, “and they of him”....
A boy, a dark, dreamy-looking boy,
came across the room holding out his
hand, a white supple hand, thin and
strong. “How d’you do?” he said. “May
I put your car in the garage for the
night? I am Paolo.”
“Yes, thanks. It’s good of you to —
to take me on trust like this.”
“Not at all. A friend of Uncle’s is
one of ourselves. Excuse me”—he went
out to the car.
A smooth, easy-mannered boy. About
16, but old for his years. And those
hands—he could use a pair of hands
like that....
This was the Dago’s home. These
were his dead mate’s kids, welcoming
him.
“Oh, Auntie, this is Uncle’s friend”
He shook hands with a dark, small
woman, grey-haired and somehow
shadowy. Athos flew up to her shoulder,
chuckling at Shrewdy. She put him
gently back on his chair. “You would
like to go to your room,” she said. “We
have dinner early in the summer.”
The aunt was easy ; she’d be eating
out of his hand by breakfast-time. And
those kids: there was good stuff in them,
flaming good stuff. The boy’s manners
and his hands were worth a fortune ;
so was that look in the girl’s eyes. He
looked at the three dark faces at the
table.
The Dago did himself well. This
home of his felt as if it had been here
for donkeys’ years. And the boy and
the girl and the old woman—they'd made
a good thing out of the Dago. Fifteen
years in clover they’d had out of him.
Well, he’d see if he couldn’t make a good
thing out of them now. There was a
little bombshell waiting for them up his
sleeve. The faint pumping flickered in
his chest again— too much dinner. He’d
have to diet.
The boy played his violin and the girl
sang ; the old woman chattered. It was
a soft spot all right. You couldn’t believe
the Dago could stand it, year after year.
Yes, you could... .you could see him
sitting here with his dogs and his cats
and his birds.
“It is hot, and you must be tired after
your long drive,” the old woman said.
“We shall go to bed early.”
Athos flew clumsily across the room,
settled on Shrewdy’s shoulder and
flirted his comb at him.
Paolo laughed and took him off. “You
must excuse him, please,” he said. “He
is spoiled. He and my uncle were great
pals ; that gives him too much idea of
himself —he thinks he can do anything.”
He smoothed the bird’s feathers. “They
would sit and talk together for hours.
Uncle often did not sleep well and Athos
and he would keep each other company
—you must forgive him. He is a good
bird, in spite of his manners.”
“Put your precious violin to bed,
Paolo,” the girl said. “It is the first time
it has performed in public since
Uncle”....
The old woman crossed herself and
bowed to Shrewdy. “Good-night,” she
said. “Sleep well.”
Paolo snapped the lid of his violin-
case. “Good-night— good-night.”
Too hot, too damned hot. Shrewdy
got out of bed and lit a cigarette, pushed
both windows up as far as they would
go, threw the half-smoked cigarette out
of one of them, and tried the bed again.
No good. He stared at the moon-
light on the floor, at the dim shapes of
pictures on the walls, at the ceiling.
The Dago’s room, eh? Funny he
should find himself here, lying on the
Dago’s bed after an evening with the
Dago’s family. The family he had wished
on himself.
This was what the Dago had done his
two stretches for, what he’d worked all
out for when he was at work, what he’d
died for.
Funny.
You could feel him in the place,
somehow. In the moonlight, the shadows,
lying on this bed. A sigh shook itself
out of Shrewdy, who slipped off the bed
again and went over to the windows.
Hpt, too damned hot; he hadn’t a
hope of sleeping. He lit another cigar-
ette and drifted back to the armchair.
The Dago seemed to be there, too.
What was the matter with him to-
night? He’d got to get a grip on him-
self. ...
The bar of moonlight was narrower
on the floor. He’d be in darkness pretty
soon ; perhaps he could sleep then, when
the moon had set. The light, silver
against the shadows, got on your nerves.
The darkness was better, more natural.
But when darkness came it wasn’t
better. It was thick, heavy with heat,
stifling.
The Dago, eh?
Well, there it was. You couldn’t do
anything with it; it was the Dago or
himself. He wouldn’t have got a lifer
but
What was that?
A raucous whisper, hoarse and —
Christ!
A shudder of horror swept over him.
Back there in the room —in the dark.
He stumbled out of the chair as the
whisper became a sudden chuckle. ...
Come out of He 11.... Dago, Dago....
Don’t be a fool, he told himself.
Now the whisper mocked him, here,
there, everywhere. Words—Paolo, Lucia,
Tessa, money—came into it. It was up
in the ceiling, by the window, over by
the bed... .hissing, mocking. The room
was full of tumult and despair and
horror. ...
Shrewdy stretched his arms out and
walked, shuddering, into the heavy dark-
ness. Might stumble against
The whisper became the Dago’s sudden
chuckle again, close at hand. Iron talons
closed round his arm, sunk deep into 1
the flesh
The empty pumping flickered in his
chest, was a swift stab of blinding pain,
was nothing as all that was left of him |
crumpled to the floor.
The whisper ceased.
I’ve got the bench,
I’ve got the park —
Athos told the darkness uncertainly, and
fell silent again.
Daydawn.
The children of the morning hear the bell,
The silver bell of morning in the pearl
White tower, and rise to sing the canticle
Of day; the milky and the rose sea-whirl
Of morning flushes; and the purple wood,
The purple waters now are woven and shot :
With thread of gold and summered apricot,
And drawn is earth’s dark hood.
And we arise and go out from the place
Of sleep, the quiet house where we have kept
The night; day stole the mystery of your face
While still in the pearl light of dawn you
slept;
And your white feet, that last night seeming
were
Moon flowers, are now swift feet; we laugh-
ing run
Toward the blue sea, and all the golden sun
Is tangled in your hair.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Earth-laughter.
The gullies, now the clear-cut days are done,
Are bubbling up with gold; new creepers run
Their crimson-studded trailers on the hills,
And gorse again from threaded amber spills
A scent of nuts and honey in the sun.
The grass along the creek, road-edge and lane
Is starred and daisy-gay; and once again,
Like little jewelled things, goldfinches feed
And flash in brilliant flight, grey minahs
speed.
Sweet-voiced, through silver threads of sun-
warmed rain.
With horn and trumpet, and sweet honeyed
spear,
With blossom bunches there, and tassels here,
With plume and spray are gardens garlanded;
And canopies and minarets are spread
In tapering colors, tier on lovely tier.
But through it all the browns predominate l
The damp brown earth, and branch-brown trees
elate
With blossom-smockings on brown traceries;
Brown of boronia, and the brown of bees 1
Brown pansies; wallflowers through each
garden gate.
And though the gardens drip, and flare, and
burn.
Most beautiful is brown. All things must turn
Back to the burnt-sienna of the earth 1
Back to the brown that gives each color
birth,
iJ l a t thus in the petalled patterns we discern
Life, and the brown soil’s mirth.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


Specially ■made fo
JROOFIIVr.
ŵ
ORQ
o»"
costs
yio
r/t
or#
ẁ
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron for Roofing
Made by John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
i 4 T 3 ED Orb” Galvan-
AV izcd Iron is
essentially a ROOFING
iron. It can be walked
on without fear of dent-
ing. It is heavily galvan-
ized for long resistance
to any weather. It costs
no more than "Blue
Orb,” but is not suitable
for curving.
Specify "RED Orb” for
ROOFING and secure the
best that money can buy.
John Lysaght (Australia), Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
YH
und Ur i
m
mon
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holidayl
_ SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £4O
23 Days' Tour, Cabin Class Return, £32/10/-
„ W, ... PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga __ Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks Tour _ Cabin ~ „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-
feet service . . Every assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange:
charges.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd-
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
RIZE MEDALS.
ẃ
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bor.
Tlie Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
The Only Morning Newspaper in
Queensland’s Capital City,
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt ST., ’P.hone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, Newspaper House,
Collins St. ’Phone F 3906.
■AUDIT
•BUREAU OF-
.CIRCULATIONS.
✓
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 92nd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania,
Full information, copies. advertising rates “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sona Pty., Ltd.,
73-76 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Stillanall.
BY GEOFFREY CUMINE.
I JUST been to his funeral. Funny,
when you come to think of it, a bloke
like that dying of such a thing as
influenza. Stillanall, you got to go some
time and I suppose he don’t mind now.
But what I want to get at is that I
never hardly thought of him dying from
what they call natural causes. It seemed
unnatural to me. One time he was in
bad and I expected him to go off any
minute. Then when he got over that I
never thought of him going at all. Never
thought of sickness, what I mean.
That time I speak of he was up against
something fierce all right; but, there you
are, he got out of that, and now he’s
gone with the ’flu. Well, since he’s gone,
I don’t suppose it matters if I tell what
I know about the business.
You see, there was him and Gatehouse
Kelly and Billy Downs and one or two
more mixed up in the start of it. It
doesn’t matter now exactly what they
had on, but you can take it from me it
was profitable all right. But the long
and the short of it was that Gatehouse
and Billy reckoned he was holding out
on them, though as far as I know the
others had no complaints to make. Per-
haps they didn’t fancy coming out defi-
nitely on one side or the other. Anyway,
it wouldn’t surprise me if it had been
the other way round.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of it,
it was generally known amongst the
talent that Gatehouse and his sidekick
meant to give it a fly, though there is no
record of the big fellow saying anything
either one way or the other. Instead of
which he shot the pair of them stone
dead, and had a perfect alibi, which
was greatly to his credit, especially as he
always disliked using a gun—bound to
get you into trouble, he used to say.
Just another unsolved mystery. How
he managed it, that’s what I’m going to
give you the strong of now.
Of course, I don’t suppose it all
worked out as simple as it sounds to
tell, but the start of his scheme was that
he reckoned it was all a misunderstand-
ing, and could be cleared up if once they
got together again and Gatehouse and
Billy went to call on him where he lived.
There was nothing in that, and they
carried nothing with them, for they
reckoned he wouldn’t start any shooting
in his own house, of all places. And if
it came to serious business they were
two to one, and in case of accidents it
does you no good to be found with a
gun on you. So his tart showed them
into the lounge-room, and he dropped the
pair of them, holding the squirt in a
handkerchief. He waited only long
enough to make sure the finger-tracks of
one of them were well and truly on the
gun and went out the back way.
Well, there it was. Gatehouse was
dead by the time the John got there, and
Billy had joined him before the sergeant
arrived. It wouldn’t have made much
difference if he’d lasted long enough to
be questioned. The “poor wife”—as the
papers called her—was hysterical. Whilst
the rumpus was at its height, who should
come to the front door but the big
fellow, just returning from the city in
time for tea.
There was a nice homecoming for a
man. Blood all over his lounge-room,
on a carpet that cost a lot of money, and
a little cabinet affair all smashed where
it had got knocked over, and his wife
all upset, and two of his friends lying
there stiff—or soon would be. That’s
what comes of leaving a woman alone
in the house, but what’s a man to do?
Got to attend to his business, hasn’t he?
It seemed, according to the “poor
wife” when she was fit to make a state-
ment, that a strange man called while
the boss was out and particularly wished
to see him. She told him that the big
fellow was expected back at any moment,
and let him wait in the lounge-room.
She closed the door of the room, but
left the front door ajar, for she had
found the boss’s latchkey still on his
dressing-table when she was upstairs just
before the visitor called.
To tell the truth, she thought at first
that it was her old man’s ring that time,
he having forgotten his key. As it was,
she left the door ajar so as to save her
steps a second time. Well, there you
were. The next thing she heard a lot of
shooting and there were the two blokes
lying on the lounge-room floor and no
trace of the visitor. She had never seen
him before, but would certainly know
him if she saw him again.
So that was that, and plenty of people,
no doubt, had seen the big fellow going
towards his house from the end of the
street. Then there was the squirt with
finger-marks. Those men seemed to have
come to the house up to no good and,
finding the front door open, had marched
straight in. As far as was known there
was no bad blood between them and the
big fellow. About the only bloke who
could be expected to throw any light on
things was the visitor, and he never
turned up again. A mysterious business
all right. There was no telling but what
they were out to get the visitor.
Well, there it is and he’s gone now,
with influenza. What do you know about
that? Stillanall, I suppose a bloke’s got
to go some time, one way or the other.
Sonnets of a Shopgirl.
My birthday. Twenty-six. I’m getting on!
I here used to be a party and a cake,
And candles, presents, games—oh, it was
jake!
But all that sort of thing is dead and gone
With mother, poor old girl! No word from
John.
My noble brother’s always on the make:
100 mean to send a wire; and that old rake
The dad is on his own—he takes the scone.
He hasn’t wrote for donkeys’ years; not since
I sent for splosh, and thought I’d make him
wince
By slinging off a bit about the shicker.
“I’ve had to pawn my watch,” I told him flat.
“You’re better off than me,” he barked, “you
brat!
Your poor old father doesn’t own a ticker.”
My birthday; and I’m lonely as a lamb
That’s lost its yowe. You’re apt to get that
way,
Thinking of nights, before you hit the hay.
This dull old round! The tea and bread and
jam;
The scramble for a possy in the tram;
The shop, the boss, the Bundy; pests who
say,
“This bit of ribbon’s all I want to-day”
(You put the boxes back and breathe a
“damn! ”);
The sly old tarts you have to watch, who steal
(There’s some’d pinch the singlet off your
back);
The faggots who would get a hand the sack;
Then homeward, for another gas-ring meal.
A single girl in lodgings—what a life!
There’s one thing worse: I might have been
a wife.
I might have gone and took the dizzy leap
For some flash loafer with a style, like dad,
Who would have broke my heart, near drove
me mad,
And left me stony, with his kids to keep,
As he did mother. “As ye sow ye reap.”
But is it true ? See what a life she had.
He married and he settled her, the cad!
He’s here. She’s gone to’ her eternal sleep.
I set a higher value on myself.
I’d rather die a crotchety old maid
Than tie up with a twicer or a tank.
My troubles if they leave me on the shelf!
I have my health and strength, I have my
trade
And ten pound twelve and sixpence in the
bank.
What’s marriage but a lottery of pash?
And prizes go to freaks. That lass from
Doan’s!
Nothing to look at —just a bag of bones;
No brains —they kept her in the haberdash.;
And yet she clicked. With old stuff. Bondi
mash;
Girl thanks the hero-simpleton, with groans,
For saving her from cruel Davy Jones;
He takes the credit, and she gets his cash.
They came into the store to-day for lunch.
She stalking yards ahead —you would have
thought
She was at least the Countess Muddy-
creeke;
He carrying the baby, pleased as Punch.
He’s nice, and steady, x too, the chap she
caught;
I’ve heard he makes his five pound ten a
week.
I’ve had my chances, and temptations, too.
No china doll am I, but flesh and blood.
Still, men to-day are mostly up to mud;
They’ll take you down and never see you
through. .
The married are the worst: a priceless crew,
And brazen when the blighters come a thud
(Perhaps it’s been their fashion since the
Flood);
But single blokes are bad enough. Too true!
A lot of them expect to get their fun
At bargain prices. And the way they go
About it, bless ’em! Evening at a show
(Front stalls, if it’s the pictures); tea and bun;
An ice-cream cone, a ferry trip; and then
They put the hard word on you. Oh, these
men!
“Thursday,” I said to Arcourt. Wish I’d let
Him book the seats and take me out to-night.
Like he suggested (Gosh, I look a fright!).
Arcourt’s a trick —the queerest bird I’ve met.
Tells me he’s well connected. “In Debrett,
You know, and been concerned in every fight
That England’s ’ad since Astings field, too
right,
The Willoughby Carters. Pa’s a bar row net.”
The girls make fun of Arcourt—call him Arc,
And hang around, they say, to hear him bark,
Him being like a dog that’s had the mange
A widower he is, and twice as old
As I am; bald and bandy. Still, a change
From other knuts I’ve known. He isn’t
bold.
“I wish you’d call me be me Christian name,”
He says. ‘‘Not Mister Carter. Sounds so
stiff!
I’m not so young, but I don’t wear no ziff
It’s Willoughby Carter, thank you all the same •
But Arcourt to a friend.” “Hey, what’s your
game?”
I counter, standing on my dig. “Say if
You think I’m Simple Sue, I beg to’ diff
And from this building you just prat your
frame.
Some chaps expecks a shop, for what they’ve
spent, .
To chuck a lady in.” ‘‘l’m not that kind’”
He moans; and looks so glum that I relent
“Well, all right, sport,” I says; “the con-
track’s signed.
But, Arcourt, boy—no funny business
mind! ” ’
“No fear! ”he answers. “I’m a thorough gent ”
N.S.W.
AMY EMPSON.
(To be continued.)


are
you
iveris
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. That feeling of “No energy”
and “Not too well” are hut symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When ti>e Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use of treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach—thus bracing
up the system generally.
ẅ
mu
*
w
ŵ
They Make You Feel Brighter
Worms
A COMMON COMPLAINT WITH
CHILDREN
HOW TO TREAT THEM.
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasiness
in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic, some-
times gnawing and biting, and not infrequently
of a vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the Nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is charac-
teristic of the affection. The Bowels are often
disordered, sometimes relaxed, as in Dysentery.
The appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The Abdomen is.often
hard, swollen, and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the Alimentary
Canal, and various derangements of health
are experienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the dis-
ordered digestion which they occasion. Amongst
the most common of these are nervous affec-
tions, such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ment of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted
vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffering
intense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother
need have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes peevish
and irritable in its temper. Another point
to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to
start in its sleep, its repose being in the way
of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation com-
pounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms-, but cause no injury to
the Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they would
an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang-street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price 4/-
per packet (6 packets 23/-), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA.
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6 (4d.) ; THE SOW’S EAR, by Bernard
Cronin, 6/- (3d.); BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin, 6/- (3d.);
STORIES BY KODAK, 5/- (3d.); “SATURDEE,” by Norman Lindsay,
6/- (3d.); JONAH, bv Louis Stone, 6/- (3d.); IN PURSUIT OF
PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer, 6/- (3d.); THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,
by A. B. Paterson, 2/6 (2d.); IN THE WAKE OF THE “BOUNTY,” by
Charles Chauvel, 6/- (3d.) ; THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose
Pratt, 5/- (2d.); CONTRACT BRIDGE, by Ena Burrows, 2/- (2d.); A
MESSAGE FROM BAWRA, by Harold Sims, I/- (Id.): WARDENS OF
THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady, 2/- (2d.); NIGHTS ASHORE, by Capt.
Jack Hamilton, 6/- (3d.).
POSTAGE SHOWN IN BRACKETS.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
2^
3*
o
❖
\p
13
<pv
<l*
o e
V* eC V 0^ V d*’ -V /
V
ovVV #
*°° ** c oS
&
v<
>■
V
&
C$
<V> X A%
NV*
&
O' V)
N
V %
s 6 '
tjy #
r o'
#"•
e ....
0°
e
o’
■r
.• *
, s*s*
4® 1 ■{)
*+fy*oss**‘
C*V&*
'o*'’
,V** o' ’
jt s .


LOOK FOR THE WHOLE BULL DOC ON THE LABEL
Mi l
f *
IISs
mmmmrni
■; ..;
v-
ISSSi
sssssm;
U *
oMg^v
#
«5
<9
IP
<*s/,-
W
sW A/
<
. .
45 OUR trade
MARK* LAOcl
A
<
O
q
U MIT£Q
H
d
» - BOTTLED BY
<> t ROBERT PORTER &CO
LON DON,ENGLAND
*
LTD
S
v
Th
II Dog
&
Bottling
a
<r
s
"e*
gar%
mm
wmm
MM
lIIIIMI
liilggigll
v
illllll
HRM
mtasi
■MB
L>
as
(■(■l
«
ii
Efc
#
mm
mm
t&
ipp
FOR TONING UP
JADED NERVES AND FLAGGING
ENERGY, THERE IS NOTHING
TO EQUAL A GLASS OF THE
WORLD-FAMED “BULL DOG”
GUINNESS STOUT.
Doctors unhesitatingly recommend this Superlative
Stout as an excellent STIMULANT and
APPETISER.
Be sure you get this famous bottling.
waiwi
Qm\
|UU|
