

m
MOTOR OIL
S E
PURE PAR
HI
=S;
m
m
rasa
■
m
tm
ssSsSss*
il®
mm
tmm
■m-
:<■:■■'■
B
■:mm
■
i
'VJitjWrit
ln'vAi?
.a*
-■* • <»
- ff-vV
©
<B5
igfi
ft*
iv:y
53$^
g^«iV
Atlantic’s steel-tough film posi-
tively seals in the power. You’ll
enjoy the added pep . . . the
extra miles per hour. Atlantic
sells at regular price at your
garage. Start using it to-day.
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of Petrols, Lubricants, Creases, etc.
AMI .48
The Bulletin
"ike, L 'Mavk ~to WmA /
Vol. 54.—N0. 2794.
Wednesday, August 30, 1933.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•"THE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
m
sraii
i HJw I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College "
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Soolclet, explaining how to Write for Protit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘ ‘
My Name .
Mr Address
s b. m ..
h
PURE
SOAP
|H
0
& 1
1°
/^HEALING
OINTMENT
ĥ
Cleanse Regularly
with
CIJTICUItA SoAI*
Anoint Irritations
with
Cuticijra Ointment
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 112,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
3 Temple Avenue, London, E.C.4.
K
Tla&Ae S'Science,
S/urvt SUrtieJ, Stcupe
* Sateen TurteJ, rtc&cS Art
t&e 2&ru*v? &rC&d. *
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pN SALE ALL STATES €>°
MJ©III
llBuipiea© CT
OlfcCllll AffllCS*
THE PERTH
The LARGEST NEWSPAPER
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A.B.C. Audited Net Cir-
culation, 6 months ended
March 31, 1933,
40,122
COPIES WEEKLY.
THE MOST POPULAR ADVER-
TISING MEDIUM IN THE WEST.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House.
’Phone: 85690.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN ALLAN, 271 Collins Street.
’Phone: F 5302.
the mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson. Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 13W 5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Ricnsset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday .
W hat a market
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
E centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
Is
that
with
so
you
mm
mm
j
TEIEGRAPH
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
People We Know
An immense number of modern novels
are about essentially ordinary folk. It
is one of the many respects in which
they differ from the works of the giants
who were fascinated by fantastics. It
is delightful to read about Sam Weller,
but it is impossible to believe in cold
blood that an elderly Londoner ever pi
up with such a servant for a day ; Sam
tireless brightness and loquacity woul
drive any retired business man insane
There are no glorious eccentrics lik
Sam or Pecksniff or Jingle in th
romances of to-day, and they are th
duller for it; but in many of them th
characters, for what they are worth, can
be fitted into societies we all know
societies whose members imitate the old-
world aristocracies to the best of thei
ability and provide the tabloids with
most of their news.
The principal characters in the novel
reviewed below are an Irish girl em
ployed in an English store ; an American
girl who, when first encountered, is
vaudeville dancer, and a Viennese chauf
feur. With some trifling language-adjust
ments they could all be incorporated in
a novel about the English provinces o
Australia. Under their skins they are
familiar identities in the sets whose acti
vities interest the outer-suburban bar
barians of innumerable cities and towm
all over the Empire.
Society Leader
Fanny, heroine of Describe a Circle
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), is the immemoria
smart-setter. In Martin Hare’s wittily
malicious book she is only the £5-a-week
secretary of Sir Max, the gay and charm-
ing old proprietor of Jopling’s, a provin-
cial Selfridge’s. But Sir Max is her
lover. The situation was common when
British royalties and colonial Governors
were supposed to be less monastically
virtuous than they are to-day; and it
is still to be found in many a mercantile
community with a prince of commerce
in the role of Sun King. Fanny becomes
a power in Jopling’s. She is well bred —
her mother, Lady Carrie, and a titled
aunt are introduced to prove it —but she
is an arrogant and mannerless snob. She
has a typist, Miss Dawson.
“Dawson.”
“Yes, Miss Le Fanu.”
“This office is in a pig’s mess. What are we
going to do about it?”
Miss Dawson, in addition to her other
talents, was refined. She did not care for
Fanny’s robustness of expression.
Fanny continually hurls her aristo-
cratic robustness of expression and be-
havior at the other employees, who are
vulgarly refined and moral for the most
part, but it isn’t impressive ; it merely
suggests a resolutely Bright Young
Thing in an outback township saying
“bloody” to the Methodist at the soft-
goods counter. Sir Max goes abroad,
and Fanny, in an attempt to free her-
self from his influence, experiments with
several other men. The reactions of the
staff are those of the groundlings of any
suburban circle when the local Pompa-
dour plays up, and Fanny’s response to
their furtive sneers is appropriately con-
temptuous: the grande dame facing the
canaille. Then Max returns, and she
goes back to him. Her obvious destiny
is to marry him, on the death of his
wife, and become virulently upright.
Fanny is clever and amusing, and it
is easy to believe in her attraction, but
she isn’t —to use an old-fashioned expres-
sion that would make her smile —a lady.
In her readiness to hurt the feelings of
humble people who can’t defend them-
selves, she is more like a newly-enriched
girl, who has had to swallow insults and
is determined to get some of her own
back.
Highly Respectable
Irma, of The Marriage Racket, by
Vina Delmar (Philip Allan ; 7s. 6d.), is
one of Nature’s social climbers. She is
as tigerishly careful of her virtue as
Fanny is careless of hers. It is the
foundation on
which she intends
to build her
career. When Bill
Fitzroy, the Cas-
anova of a small
American town
in which she and her dancing partner
are doing their act, tries his wiles on
her, she puts him in his place.
“What’s the matter, girlie? Scared to go
upstairs at the same time as the big terrible
man?”
“£!ay, listen, a girl’s a tool to go in show
business, but there’s no excuse for being a
damn fool.”
“I was merely interested in getting my clothes,
1 assure you!”
“Bees’ feathers, Fitzroy, my good man—bees’
feathers.”
She marries an elderly widower—the an-
tithesis of Fitzroy—and they fall out.
Fitzroy tells her why.
“Wallace married a hard little self-sufficient
dancer, and how does she show her gratitude?
She turns out to be a wife.... He didn’t pick
you because he expected a model housekeeper.
He wanted you to stay the little wise-cracking
waif he married. And look at yourself. You
go in for mothering in a big way. You trans-
late your choicest expressions into Thracian.
You start reading books on bridge, psychology
and calorics. My God, Trma, how you misre-
presented yourself to Wallace.”
This is an interesting story up to the
stage where Irma takes to bridge ; after
that it gets as dull as a bridge club. In-
evitably Irma goes back to the reluctant
Wallace, and settles down to talk
Thracian and be a prig for the rest of
her life.
Social Pest
Passion in Algiers, by Alma Koenig
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.), has been somewhat
over-literally translated from the Ger-
man by J. Heron Lepper. The collo-
quialisms remain foreign. However, the
hero, Allain Leslie (allegedly the son of
Lord Sutheram, actually the illegitimate
offspring of a ballet-dancer), comes
vividly to life. In Australia he is usually
a remittance-man. Hotel managers curse
the day they admitted him and his worth-
less luggage ; tradesmen give him credit,
and then throw good money after bad by
serving him with writs, judgment sum-
monses, bankruptcy, ne exeat and other
legal orders ; husbands assiduously kick,
smite and horsewhip him, and hurl him
into ponds and rivers and out of houses.
All to no purpose. Their womenfolk go
on admiring him,, and when the patience
of the business community is exhausted
he moves cheerfully on.
Allain begins by crashing the gate at
a Government House party in Algiers,
and, from then on, he is successful up to
a point. Various women fall in love with
him, and one, Maria Schlueter, keeps him
when he is disgraced. He has some good
points—for example, physical courage.
But on the whole he is a mean-souled,
disloyal and cruelly selfish blackguard.
We leave him sailing from Algiers in
luxury. Of course poor Maria is there
to see him off.
She kissed him on the lips.
“I thank you,” she whispered.
For one moment’s space she had forgotten
everything; he was once more the immortal
dispenser of happiness, he whom all creation
obeyed.
Such men are most successful with seri-
ous women. If Allain had met Fanny
she would no doubt have had a liaison
with him, but she would have given him
his marching orders at his first demand
for money. Irma might have behaved
like Maria.
RED PAGE.
Realism and the Cinema
Under the stigma of being called a
from the Past by “J.D.” (R.P.
16/8/’33), I remain comparatively calm.
Some voices from the past still remain
artistically respectable, and some voices
of the present may never reach poster-
ity’s ear. “J.D. ’ is of the opinion that
the talkies give a “colorable illusion of
t eal life. lam not, and the only ques-
tion is, by what criteria do we judge 9
“War films,” says “J.D.,” “show those
who have seen active service what they
saw and heard in the line—a thing no
stage battle has ever done.”
In these words, I suspect, lies enshrined
the old misunderstanding of the function
of art. Art is revelation, and it isn’t
revelation if it tells us only what we
already know. Millions of soldiers who
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


SPRING
and Men’s
“THE SENIOR STORE "
“Truth in Advertising” Always
thoughts! turn to New Clothes!
Beaverskin Trousers
21/-
You practically cannot Wear these trousers
out, and here’s why. They are made of
genuine English “Beaverskin,” are extra
well finished and made in our own work-
rooms. Grey shades.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair .... 21/-
Stockman’s Trousers
23/6
Men’s Stockman’s Cut Trousers of
Woollen Saddle Twist—a cloth we know
to be hard wearing. These Trousers are
made in our own workrooms. Dark and
Mid Grey, Fawn and Olive.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices 23/6, 29/6, 35/-
Riding Breeches
18/6
If you want Riding Breeches to give the
utmost in wear we recommend these. Cor-
rectly cut and finished in Fawn Riding
Twist. Laced knees and self strapping.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices 18/6, 21/-, 25/- and 35/-
Tiger-twist Trousers
14/6
Working Trousers with a complete
guarantee. Men’s Tiger-twist Trousers
made in our best possible manner. Shades
of Dark Grey, Olive and Fawn and they
are absolutely unshrinkable.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair .... 14/6
Riding-style O’coats
35/-
In every way these are good Oilcoats.
Made right, too strongly sewn, buttons
firmly fastened on, riding style. Lengths,
48in. to 58in. The “Storm King.” Price
35/-. Guaranteed 12 months. The “Dry-
back.” Price 47/6. Best quality Japara.
Price 65/-. Guaranteed two years.
Men’s Jodhpurs
19(6
Jodhpurs—they’re the last word in style
—incorporating finest workmanship and
best quality Riding Twist. Jodhpurs dis-
pense with leggings.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, pair 19/6, 21/- and 25/-
Smart Plus-Fours
19/6
Men’s Plus Fours—made in various styles
full or semi-cut available. Correct and
comfortable in every detail. A selection
of fancy patterned Tweeds in all shades.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices 19/6, 22/6, 29/6, 35/-
Flannel Trousers
8/11
Flannel Sports Trousers for Men, cut and
made as a Sports Trouser should be.
Latest "Silver” Greys, Mid Greys and
Fancy Fawns for your selection.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
Pair .. 8/11, 10/6, 13/9, 15/6, 18/6
MERCERY
correct in Style and Price
New Akubra Hats
17/6
The most economical way to be well
dressed is to buy the latest Akubra Hat.
The shades are the newest for this season,
too—Pearl-grey, Zinc, Steel, Slate, Light
and Mid Fawns. Snap-brim style.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 17/6
Fancy Half Hose
2/11
“Hordura” Half Hose that will stand the
test of time. Fancy Cashmere in all new
and smart designs in Checks, Overchecks,
Diamond and Stripe effects in Blue, Grey
and Fawn. Sizes, 1 Oin. to 1 1
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair . . 2/11
Sizes 1 2 and 13.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair . . 3/6
Dressing Gowns
29/6
Art. Silk Dressing Gowns, correctly tail-
ored of rich English silken weaves. A
large assortment of popular colors and de-
signs. Order early for these!
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 29/6
Men’s Quality
Golf Shirts
or Three for 30J-
Men’s Golf Shirts, made in our own
workrooms. Featured in “Durax”
Broadcloth, a fabric - that will not
shrink, fade or stretch. Blue, Green,
Fawn and Cedar stripes on colored
grounds. Double cuffs, V-cased
front, linen neckband and two soft
collars to match. Sizes, 14in. to
18in. neck. Price 10/6
Or 3 for 30/-.
Silken Weave Ties
Broadway Ties in rich silken weaves.
Tonings of Blue, Grey, Brown, also Black
—tonings that will match any suit.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 4/3
0 Men's Mercery—Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in
N.S.W.
ill
* >
m
I
m
Your New Spring Suit
Tailored - to - Measure
• Perfect Fit
• Best Materials
• Finest Workmanship
Offered from
796
No Extras
Quality is the keynote of these All Wool Suitings, which
include Tweeds, Serges, Worsteds, Vicunas, Flannels, Saxonies,
2tc. Our skilled cutters are aware of the latest moves in the
fashion world, and are ready to give you their advice and
knowledge and incorporate any extras without additional charge.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices . 79/6, 96/6, 115/-, 135/-
Special Offer for Country Men
A request for patterns will be considered a privilege and we
will forward them by return with an easy-to-follow self-measure-
ment form.
£ Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor , George Street. Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W .
h
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone M 240!
Day and Night.


V \
'i
m
* •. >
-
w RAPPING
•m*.
&DV
\
B.D.V.’s are now wrapped inside the packet.
This guarantees that you buy your cigar-
ettes as fresh, as firm, and as pure as when
they left the factory. It is the first time
you have ever been offered such quality and
value in a ten-for-sixpenny cigarette.
fflmnSm
BDV
m
The “Everfresh” Wrapping keeps B.D.V.’s
fresh in any climate. ... It wraps the cigar-
ettes inside the packet, holds them firm
during transportation by boat, train or
truck and gives you better filled cigarettes.
... And it prevents contact with cardboard or
printed surfaces which quickly affect the
flavour of tobacco.
RDV
3$
B.D.V. is the only cigarette at its price to
guarantee you perfect smoking. It offers
the same protection as more expensive cigar-
ettes. B.D.V.’s “Everfresh” Wrapping assures
you factory freshness and full enjoyment of
its 100% pure imported Virginia tobacco.
IO;&6
70 mA 1
CORK TIPS
OR PLAIN
D
D
□
□
'EVERFRESH'
CIGARETTES
Coloured Photographs are included in every packet.
GUARANTEED 100% IMPORTED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,


ĥ
K
Famous
Is
NOW
A
Reduced in price but not in quality!
The far-famed Murdoch “Akooka” Hat
for men now comes to you, with all its
winsomeness of style and inherent “good-
ness,” at this striking value. Made from
pure Australian Fur Felt in shades of
Fawn, Beaver, Light, Mid and Dark
Greys and the latest Pearl Grey.
Medium or narrow “Snap Brim,”
“Prince” and “Nail Curl” are the shapes.
Formerly a genuine guinea 4
value! NOW 16/9
Quality
30
L
The Rolls Royce of Headwear! Mur-
doch’s exclusive and superb “Al”
quality silk-lined pure Fur Felt Hats for
men, in the most attractive shades and
in “Snap Brim” shape.
“Drover
Hats . .
h
Superlative quality Fur Felt “Drover”
Hats for men, specially designed for
country wear. The crown is slightly
higher than ordinary hats, is well ven-
tilated and finished with plaited leather
band.
“Sombrero
Hats . . .
27
Another special model for the country
man. Made from pure Fur Felt that
keeps its shape, in shades of Dark Fawn,
Black and Slate. Brim wide and
crown 6|in. high. Well ventilated.
Plaited leather band.
We pay freight.
Summer Catalogue—FßEE.
Kindly Write to Desk “R.”
ĥ
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
saw active service regarded “All Quiet
on the Western Front” as a libel on the
war. If it is the same millions who find
the mock battles on the screen an illusion
of life we are no further on.
“J.D.” seems to think that realism is
a matter of mathematics, and depends
on the number of supers, engaged. Thus
the old stage battle between a dozen red-
coats was not real; a film battle with
a couple of thousands taking part is. But
there were millions of men engaged on
the Western Front, so the difference be-
tween a dozen and 2000 actors in uni-
form doesn’t seem to be important.
As a matter of fact, “J.D.” isn’t con-
cerned with the art of the drama at all,
although he thinks he is. He talks of
the “popularity of the cinema.” Not
being blind, I didn’t deny its popularity.
CAUBOY.
‘J.D comes back:
“Cauboy” is hard to please. I disagreed with
him regarding the cinema on one point only;
when, speaking with the voice of 20-odd years
ago, he said that Charlie Chaplin was “by
common consent the one artist who has
thoroughly understood the cinema medium.”
This is not a matter of “artistic respectability”
but of fact. To say that Chaplin, who hasn’t
made a silent for years, and who has never
made a talkie, is still the outstanding authority
on the cinema is equivalent to saying that
Jack Johnson is still the heavyweight boxing
champion.
The rest of my article was no more than an
elaboration of “Cauboy’s” theory that the
cinema is a folk theatre-meaning a people’s
or popular theatre. I tried to show why it was
popular, and submitted that its realism was one
of the causes. The number of soldiers in a
stage or film battle is as irrelevant to this issue
as the fact that millions of Germans thought
“All Quiet” a libel. The Germans didn’t object
to the mechanical processes of “All Quiet”;
many of these processes originated in Ger-
many. Their complaint was that the film was
all too realistic, and that the director had used
his medium to show German soldiers to the
world as brutes. As for numbers, any number
of film soldiers in action —two in a shell-hole or
2000 in advance —will give a better idea of a
battlefield than any number of stage soldiers. If
“Cauboy” doesn’t know this then it can only be
because he hasn’t seen a war film since
“Shoulder Arms.”
Let me finally protest against the way art has
been pitchforked into this discussion. I didn’t
mention the overworked word in my article, for
the good reason that art has nothing whatever
to do with the question of whether or not the
cinema is representational and hence popular;
and I try to avoid mentioning it in any article
because the intrusion of high-sounding, but
totally meaningless, references to art has long
been the last refuge of the muddle-headed. “No
case, drag in something about art,” is beginning
to rival “Solidarity for ever” as a slogan; and
they both deserve to be disqualified for stupidity.
J. R. McArthur —on the principle that
it is no private fight: —
The cinema, after all, is only the theatre,
with differences.
On the stage we see living people; on the
screen, the portraits of living people. On the
stage we see the color of the heroine’s dress, the
blue of an imitation sky through the back-stage
window, the color of the flower in the
hero’s buttonhole; on the screen, only degrees
of white and black.
But the cinema trees are real trees, while on
the stage trees are only the green and brown of
stage properties. The stage’s facades of noble
buildings are waving back-cloths, while the
screen’s are genuine. So the realism of the
stage is illusion, and the black and white
shadows on the screen are the shadows of
genuine things. On the stage the development
of a writer’s theme and plot is restricted to a
small space enclosed by three walls and a
wooden floor; on the screen the world is at his
disposal. The stage producer must drag nature
on the stage by using glass for water and elec-
tric light for sun or lightning; all the earth be-
neath his feet and all the sky above his head
are at the camera-man’s disposal. Therefore
the cinema is a more flexible medium than the
theatre.
There are bad stage productions as there are
bad pictures, and we find sincere thought and
depth of feeling in some pictures as we do in
some plays. Why be intolerant of either kind
of popular entertainment?
The Censorship
Why all this pother about the new Cen-
sorship Board? “S.M.” (R.P. 26/7/’33),
while allowing the authorities ciedit for
good intentions, complains that “a train-
ing in appreciation of the classics does
not necessarily prepare the mind for
appreciation of living literature.” Neither
does a training in agricultural methods
ensure the making of a successful farmer.
The point is, however, that if there is
any literature more entitled to the adjec-
tive “living” than the classics I have yet
to discover it.
“S.M.’s” argument is that history
proves that books are banned by “those
very people who read the banned books
of the past with approval once they had
been accorded the rank of classics.” But
has any censorship been one primarily
of minds trained in appreciation of the
classics? Rather has it not been too
often one representative of established
interests, civil, military, ecclesiastic?
This much is certain, that there was
never anything new in the books sup-
pressed; merely the same old truths,
with the one distinction that they were
focussed a little too finely on current
evils.
Rabelais satirised the Church, and the
Church of his day exercised an autocratic
censorship. Heine, the second of the
“classics” instanced by “5.M.,” was offen-
sive in that his theme was the liberating
of humanity from Philistinism. And be-
cause Philistinism is notoriously incap-
able of recognising the necessity of any
sort of liberation from its own respectable
bonds, Heine was banned.
Similarly with Lawrence, Joyce, Hux-
ley and the rest of our stimulating “liv-
ing” writers. Suggestions for banning
them arise, not from other writers, but
from our latter-day Philistines.
In short, truth and human nature being
always the same, customs only changing,
and the classics being essentially repre-
sentative, what people could be more
fitted to act as literary censors than those
trained in the traditions of the classics?
A.J.E.
“This Russian Business”
The title, of this Allen and Unwin
book, by E. T. Brown, a Melbourne
lawyer, suggests at first the tuttuttery of
some elderly clubman annoyed at the
persistence of the U.S.S.R. and wanting
it explained away. This attitude is regu-
larly ascribed to one of the personalities
assumed by the author, providing com-
ments that are unhelpful. On most pages,
though, he makes way for two other
Browns. One is young, eager, absorbed
by all he sees. He writes an account of
the Red Square after sunset:
And there is Lenin in his proper flesh, lying
back with his head on a pillow and hands
crossed on his military coat, very calm and
lifelike, as if asleep LENIN (which was not
even his name) is cut in capital letters on the
monument; that, and nothing else.
One could wish for more of this young
man’s impressions.
The third Brown is the dominant
thinker. He it is who supplies the pro-
digious historical perspectives of the
book, looking before and after. He it
is who concerns himself very seriously
not so much with Russia in itself as with
Western men’s attitude towards this Rus-
sian business. What, after clearing their
minds of cant, may Western men believe?
The nationalisation of women he shows
to have come from “some vague
resolution in that sense passed in an
excited moment by the local Soviet of a
village somewhere near the Urals.” No-
body he met in Russia seemed to have
heard of it.
He turns to actualities, to definitions,
demanding that if conditions in this
“U.S.S.R. in construction” are compared
with those of the West, one must com-
pare analogous things. “The West End is
not a fair sample of London. But, roughly
speaking, every part of Moscow is a
fair sample of Moscow,” and every part
of Moscow, as he sees it, with over-
crowded trams and houses and a scarcity
of razors and baths, is so far pretty un-
comfortable. He lets the young man’s
Russia pass before his mind in a chapter,
“The Changing Landscape”:
Red flags on imperial fortresses, Communist
Pantheons cheek-by-jowl with the secular monu-
ments of despotism—it is perhaps in these
violent and studied contrasts that the Revolu-
tion discloses itself most vividly to the outward
eye.
But, he discovers, not all the new con-
trasts are studied. The picturesque is
simply disappearing from the scene with
beggary and the hurly-burly of, for in-
stance, markets.
Then what about personal liberty, what
about the use of force? If Western man
was shocked by the Czarist censorship,
what is he to think of the censorship in
proletarian Russia to-day? In a chapter,
“A Censorship or Two,” the matter is
hammered out with the help of a Rus-
sian or two: in a word, Soviet Russia
is still in a state of siege, and the censor-
ship is, frankly, part of temporary mar-
tial law.
This witty, anxious Brown 111. dis-
cusses the future in two chapters,
“When Bolshevism Fails” and “After
Bolshevism Succeeds.” Suppose if fails,
then “it is more and more certain that
Bolshevism will not fall a10ne.... All
the slow past of the Russian land will be
cancelled in a matter of months.” Should
it succeed, the future will belong to the
young, the Russian young, whose world
began with the Revolution, and who are
at least free from twentieth-century blues.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Samuel Butler’s The Way of All Flesh
and French Short Stories of the Nine-
teenth and Twentieth Centuries are the
latest additions to Dent’s Everyman’s
Library. The French stories include such
gems as Gautier’s “A Night with Cleo-
patra” and Anatole France’s “Crainque-
bille.”
Capajon, which has been published by
Jonathan Cape at 7s. 6d., contains 59
short stories by British, American and
Australian writers. There are five Law-
son’s “While the Billy Boils,” and
two extracts from Katharine Prichard’s
“Kiss on the Lips.” Also some great
stuff by Hemingway and “A Chicago
Hamlet,” which is perhaps the best thing
in its line that Sherwood Anderson ever
did. Marvellous value for the money.
J. M. Spender’s The Charge Is Murder
(Dymock’s ; 65.) demonstrates that Aus-
tralia can do crime stories quite as
well as England or America. The writer,
as the wife of a well-known Sydney bar-
rister, is in no danger of falling in over
her law ; and her plot is credible as well
as exciting. From the murder which
occurs at once to the touching finish the
interest doesn’t let up for a page.
Crime de Luxe, by Elizabeth Gill (Cas-
sell ; 7s. 6d.). Two murders are com-
mitted on the Atlantic between South-
ampton and New York. Benvenuto
Brown, artist and amateur ’tec, whiles
away the ennui of the voyage by trying
to discover the criminal. Various pas-
sengers are suspected, and at one stage
there are grounds for belief that Ben-
venuto is the assassin. The yarn goes with
a swing, and there is a surprise ending.
Little Man—What Now, by Hans Fal-
lada (Putnam ; 7s. 6d. net). This story
of a bourgeois couple is sentimental, yet
it gives a realistic picture of modern
Germany. Pinneberg, a clerk, marries
the girl with whom he has been living,
and they have a baby. He is sacked, and
is gradually forced lower in the social
scale until he goes on the dole, with the
alternative of joining either the Com-
munist or the Nazi camp. He hasn’t the
initiative to do either, and the story ends
inconclusively with Pinneberg and his
wife, helpless ships on the political sea,
waiting, half-starved in a hut, for some-
thing to turn up, like millions of other
Pinnebergs.
Tops and Bottoms (Heinemann ; 7s.
6d.) concerns aspects of English life of
which Noel Streatfield has expert know-
ledge. Felicity, the love starved maiden
lady who adopted Beaty, the illegitimate
slum child, is charming ; and Beaty be-
comes charming as she grows up. The
background is the English music hall
Variety, which was killed by the cinema.
The end is tragic. Fate strikes poor Beaty
an unexpected and senseless blow,
which is like life ; and she recovers and
carries on, which is also like life. Few
living writers do the London poor so
well as Miss Streatfield. This novel has
half a dozen slum characters whom
Wells, at his best, might have been
proud of.
Yisroel (John Heritage ; 10s. 6d.) is the
first Omnibus of Jewish writers that has
been published in England. A hundred
authors are represented, and they range
as regards period from Gliickel von
Hamelin, who was born in the first half
of the seventeenth century, through
Heine and Benjamin Disraeli to moderns
like Gilbert Frankau and Edna Ferber.
The Yiddish section is particularly in-
teresting, and so is the Foreword, in
which Joseph Leftwich recapitulates the
amazing number of Jews, and persons
with an admixture of Jewish blood, who
have shone in the world’s literature.
Montaigne, Anatole France, Browning,
Maeterlinck and, most astonishing of all,
Cardinal Newman are claimed to have
been partly Jewish.
Marching Spain, by V. S. Pritchett (New
Adelphi Library; 3s. 6d.). A series of
pen-pictures by a wanderer who is less
interested in buildings than in his fellow-
creatures—in “the breathing human
architecture the tramp sees ; the Baroque
nostril, the Romanesque brow, the
Plateresque, faintly sententious manner.”
He has been compared to Borrow, but
he has humor, which Borrow lacked, and
so he can see things that Borrow couldn’t.
He has a theory that the Spaniard deteri-
orates from his head downwards:
The coat is respectable enough, but when
your man rises from the table and you see his
trousers, the full shock comes. They will be
old, shiny, dusty, having no relation to the
coat whatever, and the bright red or yellow
shoes will be cracked and out of shape from
long usage. Spain is a country of fine heads,
shoulders of grace, coats that fit the figure,
and of anaemic, starved, exhausted trousers. A
proud character in slender pretensions.
Such a writer will tell you more of a
country than a hundred guide-books.
Harriet, heroine of The Advances of
Harriet, by Phyllis Bottome (John Lane ;
7s. 6d.), is extremely modern. At 17
she has a free union with the moronish
son of Lady Sybil Thesiger. Not that
she likes him; merely that he is less un-
washed than the other lads of her circle.
So she is sent to a relative in Paris, where
she gets a job typing, and meets other
young men. Notably Pierre, who is half-
English and a conversationalist with an
impressive line in epigram. She marries
Michael, and then there is Ren6, who is
almost as witty and didactic as Pierre,
and on a note of sound advice from him
the story ends. The people are real in
their trivial way.


m
■f*
4m
>
mm
mm
m
warn
c
X
■
■
Jpf...
S • ■
m
m
ss?S.
■
■
m


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2794.
August 30, 1933.
NEARLY DINNER-TIME.
Sydney naturalists report that a native bear has been roosting in an eagle’s nest, instead of the accustomed tree-fork, in National Park. This
is a risky proceeding. Eagles eat native bears.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
YVestralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 month l ,.
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
OFF THE DOLE AND BACK TO
WORK!
The depression is now nearly four years
old. Australia has endured it without
cheating its overseas creditors, as one
set of politicians wanted it to do, and
without inflating its currency, as was pro-
posed by another set; but it has suf-
fered severely. Its most important in-
dustries, with one exception, are still
hard put to it to carry on ; and, except
for casual engagements on the pick-and-
shovel schemes of Governments and
municipalities, a great many of its people
are still unemployed. Those who tried
to get along without Government help
have long since spent their savings and
have been forced to go on the dole or
do unfamiliar and uncongenial work —
almost worthless, as they bitterly realise
—for the dole.
A U.A.P. member boasted in the N. S.
Wales Leg. Assembly the other day that
the Government had been able to give
work to 20,000 men. He did not enlarge
on the nature of the work, but it is suffi-
ciently well known. It consists for the
most part of shovelling sand, scraping
footpaths, making cricket pitches and
spoiling beauty spots ; and there is not
enough of it at the rate of wages to
enable the men to pay a bit of rent, much
less buy new outfits of clothing.
Victoria has a “work-for-sustenance”
scheme which has given profound dis-
satisfaction, so “the allowances,” it is
announced, “have been made more
liberal.” The “liberal allowances”
quoted are 12s. a week for a single man,
20s. for a man and wife, and 2s. 6d. for
each child. The beneficiaries are per-
mitted to earn something in other ways
without disqualifying themselves from
sharing in the “liberal allowances,” but
even in the case of the man who has
given many hostages to fortune it is pro-
vided that “the total income from susten-
ance and outside sources must not ex-
ceed £2 175.” And so that they may get
“liberal allowances” for exertions that
are useless or worse, “the Ministry has
decided to discontinue the policy of pro-
viding developmental farm work.”
This is no good to Australia. A great
deal more will have to be done for the
unemployed. Artisans and craftsmen,
clerks and professional men, as so many
of them are, they must not be condemned
to go on doing futile donkey-work, per-
haps for more dreary years, living the
while on the smell of an oil rag, and
seeing their wives and children go short.
And something will have to be done for
the ever-growing army of lads and girls
who have never had a job and see no
prospect of getting one. Governments
have conspicuously failed in both these
directions, and by imposing crippling
taxes, partly to finance their pick-and-
shovel plans, they have made it impos-
sible for private industry to succeed.
Yet the elements of industrial recov-
ery, which would mean productive jobs
for a great proportion of those now idle,
are present if the politicians would only
realise it, and set private industry free
to employ and re-employ.
Gold-mining is in a flourishing condi-
tion, thanks in the first instance to the
gold boqus, which was opposed as “un-
economic.” Of itself, of course, it could
not have brought about the 50 per cent,
increase on pre-depression output re-
ported for the first six months of 1933
and being added to every month, but it
was of immense service in establishing
the feeling that companies with pros-
pecting and development schemes could
go ahead with confidence. There is no
way of getting an equivalent of the pre-
mium on gold for industries which are
feeling the pinch ; but corresponding re-
sults might be secured if there were a
sweeping reduction in taxes.
Wool prices are obviously going back
to profitable levels. It is greatly to be
desired that sheepmen should be in a
position to take advantage of this situa-
tion when it arrives. Obviously the in-
dustry is capable of great expansion, and
of providing a considerable amount of
work in the process (the same is true
of cattle-breeding); but expansion is re-
tarded by taxes which keep interest rates
artificially high, which inflate cost of pro-
duction, cost of living and hence wages,
without benefiting the receivers of the
wages, and by the feeling that it is little
use launching out when greedy Govern-
ments will grab nearly everything that a
man makes. Income taxes and unem-
ployed-relief taxes which go up to 15s.
6d. in the £ of net income, and Federal
land tax which has worked out at 4d.
per pound on wool sold at a substantial
loss, are no incentive to a pastoralist to
clear and fence more paddocks or im-
prove the quality of his stock.
During the first two years of the de-
pression we borrowed heavily for defi-
cits. Balancing of Budgets being in sight,
it is now proposed to borrow for public
works, regardless of the millions that
have been thrown away on public works
in every State and of the heavy annual
charges consequent on these follies, re-
gardless, also, of the utter failure of pub-
lic works in every country; Australia
above all, to give much employment for
any length of time. It would be far
better to borrow for reduction of taxes
so that industry might be stimulated in
every branch. And the success of the last
Commonwealth loan and the vogue of
useless lotteries show that money suffi-
cient for a 50 per cent, reduction of all
industry-stifling imposts for two years
could be raised by issues of premium
bonds, \\ per cent, interest to be paid
annually and per cent, set apart for
redemption of bonds, with and without
prizes (the prizes would be greater than
any of the litter of lotteries now offers),
at monthly drawings.
In that way 50 per cent, could
be taken off the revenue duties, cus-
toms and excise both, without weak-
ening the protective incidence of the
tariff, and 50 per cent, off the Com-
monwealth income and sales taxes and
the State income, relief and land
taxes. The Commonwealth land tax and
the N. S. Wales family endowment tax
could be abolished altogether. Em-
ployers might be compelled, under the
laws that would be necessary, to put on
hands to the extent of the tax-relief given,
in respect of income and relief taxes at
all events. But most of them would be
glad enough to do it without compulsion.
There is this to be said for President
Roosevelt’s national-recovery programme.
It would not suit Australia, the circum-
stances of this debtor-country, so greatly
dependent on its export trade, being
vastly different, but it has been a god-
send to Americans who had lost heart
and hope. It has given a great mass of
unemployed misery immediate relief and
something to look forward to. Without
copying Roosevelt’s methods we should
aim at the same results. They could
be achieved without perilous experi-
ments —achieved by a 50 per cent, re-
duction in taxes, Commonwealth and
State, for two years, accompanied by a
great national campaign for giving work.
THE NEED FOR BRUCE.
It seems a long time since the Bruce-
Pages were in office. Their faults are
remembered, but their virtues are not
forgotten. Their worst sins were sins
of omission; on the financial side in
particular they erred less in what they
themselves did than in what they suf-
fered the State Governments to do. They
were at least an Administration whose
acts were based on principle.
The Bruce-Pages were not vindictive
or there would have been no Hughes
in their party to lead a cabal against
them in 1929, with the shout that he
“would make Janus and Co. sit up.”
They played fair with the electors ; at a
referendum and a general election they
tried to educe order out of the industrial-
arbitration chaos, whereas they could have
prolonged their Ministerial existence by
letting the thing slide. They were up-
right ; their term of office was untainted
by the breath of scandal. And defeat
was not disgraceful to them ; they were
beaten on the dishonest cries that they
were “out to destroy national arbitra-
tion in order to bring down wages/’ and
that, in respect of their plan for making
the Hollywood moving-picture interest
pay its fair share of taxation, they pro-
posed to “rob the kiddies of their pic-
tures.” .
The spoken conviction that bad times
were coming contributed to Bruce’s fall.
His forebodings were ridiculed by the
Labor Opposition, and even the Sydney
Employers’ Federation greeted them
with smiles. He went out of the Prime
Ministership and out of Parliament with-
out losing his head or his temper. He
spoke kindly of his conqueror, and even
expressed hopes for the success of the
new Government.
Much has happened since. Australia
has employed many fishers in the waters
of salvation and found them mostly
wanting. Sculiin and Theodore caught
nothing for us but the toadfish of infla-
tion. Lang’s catches all savored of the
mudfish of Torres Strait, which is indi-
gestible, furtive in habit and covered
with leather and poisonous spikes. In
a situation comparable to that of 1917,
(he Libs, again took a man from on;
of the Labor factions which were pound-
ing one another to smithereens and
placed him at the head of their party,
changing its name again for the occa-
sion. He deserved some reward for hav-
ing left the Sculiin Government rather
than be a party to inflation ; but he was
rewarded beyond his deserts.
Lyons went to the polls in 1931 with
stronger backing than any previous Fed-
eral party leader enjoyed. In a foreign
political tongue he pleaded for aspira-
tions which he had never before voiced
at a general election. He ceased to be
a prophet of his own causes ; he became
a mere advocate of those of others. His
thought was still the thought of a Labor-
socialist. He did not understand his
new friends, nor they him.
In the circumstances, his backers and
the financers of his organisation took far
too much for granted when they believed
that election unity meant Governmental
unity. It soon became evident that there
was to be no such thing. Earle Page,
who was a Protectionist when associated
with Bruce, demanded control of the
Customs Department as the price of the
Country party’s acceptance of office.
Lyons tried to compromise with school-
boyish advances tempered by a little
light bullying. Since then there has been
nothing but muddling, schism and drift.
Lyons has been bullied and blackmailed
by the States, bullied and blackmailed by
the House of Representatives. Some-
body leaves his Ministry every few
months. His last session was a series
of defeats in the Senate on tariff items.
Recess brought the ex-Labor U.A.P.
Prime Minister no respite. He is faced
with a rebellious Westralia, which voted
nearly 2 to 1 for secession after a cam-
paign in which he took an unhelpful
part. He scurried to Queensland to take
credit for concessions weakly made by his
Government to Forgan Smith. In Victoria
the C.P. is pushing itself into metropoli-
tan politics. In N. S. Wales Page is
returning to the C.P. leadership with a
plan for forcing the Government to
accept tax-reduction or get out. Thorby,
the member for Calare, has transferred
to Lyons the political hate that as a
State Minister he felt for Lang. In every
State the Government is losing ground,
and the election pact with the C.P. is
broken.
Lyons is near the end of his tether.
As if to seal his fate, he turned on the
most powerful deputation that has met
him since he assumed office, and shouted
that he “would not be dictated to,” and
that its plain-spoken but not impolite
request for some measure of relief from
the difficulties that land men and busi-
ness men are laboring under was “the
most indecent request made to me since
1 have been Prime Minister an
insult.” The man who introduced the
deputation was F. H. Tout, M.L.C., who
brought about unity during the cam-
paign which put Lyons in office, and
acted as chairman of the combined
forces of the Nationalists, Agrarians and
All for Australia Leaguers in N. S.
Wales.
The differences between the U.A.P.
and the C.P. are not so wide that they
could not be bridged with a little tact
under a leader in whom both sides had
confidence. There was no quarrel dur-
ing the seven years of the Bruce-Page
Administration, and there need be no
quarrel now. The U.A.P. is committed
to Protection, but so was the Country
party during its alliance with Bruce’s
men, when the number of factories
for the six years 1923 1 29 increased
from 19,173 to 22,916, the average
number employed in factories from
412,410 to 450,482, and the value of
output from £326,497,100 to £420,445,200.
The U.A.P. is not interested in the main-
tenance of outrageous revenue duties,
but the C.P. is vitally interested in get-
ting them down.
These parties ought to come together
again. Lyons, who three years ago
opposed both, blocks the way. There
is only one man who could lead a
U.A.P.-C.P. Government, only one man
strong enough to frame and carry out
the clear-cut recovery programme which
the Commonwealth so badly needs. The
man is Bruce. He has learned a lot
from his misfortunes and the misfor-
tunes of his country, and if he were at
Canberra now he would make Lyons,
his superior, look like a flea leading a
mastiff. The return of Bruce is inevit-
able, and every day by which it is
delayed is costing Australia dearly,
though precious to Lang.
Bruce must come back, and soon. Aus-
tralia is getting no leadership from
Lyons. And it cannot afford leaderless
and divided Government.
THE JAPANESE QUESTION.
It was a boycott on a much more modest
scale than that suggested by Western
competitors of Japanese manufacturers
which forced Japan into the Manchurian
war.
The Chinese refused to buy Japanese
goods. The goods had to be sold or
allowed to rot. They could not be
bought by those who had made them,
because hands are still paid as hands,
although in Japan, as well as everywhere
else in this incredible age, they are now
hands plus enormously productive
machines. Factories would close, and
the people thrown out of work might
start a revolution.
In order to postpone this fatal wed-
ding of chaos with industrial efficiency,
the Japanese army, more logical than its
Government, seized Manchuria. The
result was a testimony to its sapience.
The factories began working overtime on
military contracts. Nobody had to buy
the goods produced, because they were
fired at the enemy ; the extra wages were
available to buy ordinary goods, and to
the increased demand the industrial
machine responded splendidly, as it
always will do. But it was bad strategy,
if good tactics. The improved industrial
machine was now capable of producing
more goods than ever, but the army and
the people could not go on being con-
sumers on the previous scale unless war
as a business continued to expand.
Japanese prosperity, in short, was a dog
with a tin tied to its tail.
It was now necessary to find peace-
time customers for the surplus. That is
the position to-day. The tin is being
offered at cutthroat prices to foreign
countries. The foreign dogs, however,
have tins of their own which they are
only too anxious to dispose of to Japan
or anybody else who will take them.
If other nations, in self-defence, de-
cided to boycott the tin, Japan would
have to stop making more goods than it
can consume or resort to war, as it did
in the case of China. If it decided to
fight it would probably not be against
the boycotting countries but against some
country that is weaker or more access-
ible—China again or the U.S.S.R. The
Japanese might add the Russian mari-
time province to their colonial posses-
sions or seize Mongolia. It might not
be possible to localise such a war. Other
countries are faced with precisely the
same internal problem as Japan, and war
on some external enemy might appeal
as a welcome temporary solution to the
bewildered and incompetent statesman-
ship so appallingly common to-day.
The Japanese rulers may choose to let
the dog eat its tin. Orthodox economists
offer no suggestions as to how this is to
be done. Marxians maintain that if the
workers are put in possession of the
means of production, and if the output
is distributed equally among them, there
will be no surplus, except for exchange
for foreign commodities ; but revolution
is an indispensable preliminary. Another
school believes that the problem can be
solved if purchasing power is expanded in
conformity with production inside a coun-
try’s borders —rather like the dole, but
to employed as well as unemployed, in-
flation being prevented by price-fixing.
If this scheme is feasible, Japan appears
to be one of the few countries capable
of applying it.
Democracy has never taken firm root
in Nippon. The Elder Statesmen are
the actual rulers. They have frequently
forced realistic policies on the Govern-
ment in the teeth of popular clamor, as
when they made it accept the Treaty of
Portsmouth after the Russo-Japanese
War, although peace on such terms was
regarded as a national humiliation. The
Elder Statesmen advise the Emperor.
And when the Emperor speaks no dog
durst bark.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by Regulation.
A young Sydney barrister, Frank Louat.
recently secured his LL.D. with a thesis
on government by regulation. It is said
to be a comprehensive thesis, and
Louat was well advised to write it now
instead of waiting till his old age, when
the task might be beyond him or any
other man, old or young.
1 Every authority in Australia with a
Dog Act in its grasp is busy framing
regulations. Nominally they are sup-
posed to come under the purview of Par-
liament, but any House which attempted
to deal with them would have to sit 365
days in the year and 24 hours in the day.
So, in effect, the makers of regulations
legislate. Some of their laws are auto-
cratic ; many of them, no doubt, are
ultra vires ; most of them are expensive.
It took a Sydney pressman, with the
assistance of four trained librarians,
exactly four days to discover the regula-
tion under which the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners present their 40,000 em-
ployees with free passes. The Railway
Commissioners would not give the infor-
mation. They seem to claim that the pub-
lic has no right to know what the law is,
as made under the statutes in a country
which allegedly has representative gov-
ernment. The Government Printing
Office mentioned, in the course of the
investigations, that there are “literally
thousands of railway regulations,” and
that “if they were printed they would
occupy 12 or 15 volumes—too many to
print.”
Here is the tally of sets of regulations
laid on the table of the N. S. Wales Leg.
Assembly by various Ministers when Par-
liament resumed business:
Sets of
Regulations.
Stevens (Premier) .. .. 4
Chaffey (Chief Sec.) .. .. 2
Bruxner (Transport) .. 1
Main (Agriculture) .. .. .. 4
Martin (Justice) .. .. .. 3
Spooner (Asst. Treas.) .. .. 2
Buttenshaw (Lands) 6
Total .. .. ..22
Each week of the session will see a new
batch in force. It is time Parliament
appointed a board of review, independent
of the departments, to scrutinise and re-
port on every batch of regulations, by-
laws and ordinances tabled. It might kill
a lot of autocracy and save some money.
4 _
Bonds for Small Investors.
Our public-borrowing system makes no
provision for the small investor. Bonds
are only for those who, at some stated
time, can raise money in terms of hun-
dreds of pounds. The man who wishes
to invest a shilling for his country’s good
and his own must put it in the Savings
Bank and take a lower rate of interest
than the bigger man. From the State’s
point of view this is a distinct disad-
vantage, because, having paid his shilling
in on Tuesday, the depositor may need
it to buy a drink on Wednesday.
Why not continuous provision which
would allow any citizen who has six-
pence to put it into a bond fraction?
During the war it worked. All the
machinery needed is a supply of cards
marked out in squares and a supply of
fractional bond stamps at post offices
and at other public centres. Many em-
ployers would, no doubt, readily give
facilities for the sale of stamps to their
employees, without making any charge
to the Commonwealth. When the card
was filled with stamps, the borrower
would merely present it at a post office
or savings bank and buy a bond with it
—denominations, say, £l, £2, £5, £lO.
They would provide a flexible security
capable of being mortgaged.
Moreover, they might also, if they
were sold under premium-bond condi-
tions, such as have been advocated by
The Bulletin, give the average man and
woman the mild gamble which every
Australian likes without the obnoxious
features of lotteries.
4
An Animal Looks at the World.
“The Waw-waw,” from his cage:
I see that sundry well-meaning people in
Melbourne have been agitating for the clos-
ing of the Zoo and the returning of the inmates
to our native haunts. I can assure these
humanitarians that their attitude is quite mis-
taken. They are barking up the wrong tree,
in fact.
We animals have a great deal to be thank-
ful for during this period of depression. We
enjoy a remarkable immunity from disease at a
time when, according to Dr. Dale, the City
Health Officer, disease amongst human beings
is on the increase owing to malnutrition and
starvation of the health services. When we
do fall ill we get prompt and skilled attention
instead of having to wait in a queue outside a
public hospital, only to be told, perhaps, that
.there is no accommodation. Such a scandal as
has occurred over the Infectious Diseases Hos-
pital, where cross-infection is. common and
children have to be returned uncured to their
homes, is simply unthinkable at Mr. Wilkie’s
establishment. Our death-rate is very low,
whereas amongst you humans it is reported
to be rising.
When human beings grow old, and their teeth
wear out, and they are unable to earn a living
through physical weakness, they get pensions
in some countries, though not in all. The Aus-
tralian pensioners complain that the pension
is far from adequate and are organising to deal
with the politicians who reduced it. However,
they are better off than the millions of healthy
and vigorous adults in the world who cannot
earn a living, there being no jobs available,
or who have to work for sustenance, although
their diet is so poor that they have less than
the necessary energy.
Certainly many of us would prefer to take
our chance in the struggle for existence in the
jungle, but since most animals are not cursed
with an intellect they are blissfully unaware of
being deprived of their liberty. Human beings,
possessing highly developed minds, haven’t this
satisfaction, so they suffer from all sorts of
frustrations and repressions. My friend the
Russian brown bear is the only inhabitant of
the Zoo whose lot is comparable to the human
beings in the country of which he is native. He
hasn’t eaten anything for four months; but
his is a voluntary fast, like Gandhi’s. He has
meat offered to him every day by Mr. Wilkie.
He won't eat it, because doing without has
always been the custom of his ancestors during
the Siberian winter.
My bear friend’s behavior, it seems to me, is
more logical than that of you human beings.
Your Americans are reported to be actually
destroying food, because they can’t sell it to
the millions of hungry people who haven’t
the money to buy it. Destroying cotton crops,
too, and compensating the growers who pull
up the plants with tax-money wrung from
people in jobs, which would otherwise be
available for the employment of people who
have no jobs.
Your world is quite mad. I’m glad I am an
animal and safe and comfortable in the Zoo.
*
Westralian Labor’s Bad* Start.
After the defeat of his Government and
the loss of his seat at the Westralian
general election, James Mitchell was
named Lieutenant-Governor in succes-
sion to Chief Justice Northmore. The
Bulletin hailed the appointment as a
sign of “the absence in the Western
State of that factious bitterness which
makes a dogfight of politics in New
South Wales.” Evidently it was mis-
taken.
As soon as the new Parliament met
the Labor Government was tackled on
the subject of the appointment by some
of its supporters, notably a young gentle-
man named Hawke, who unseated
Mitchell in Northam. Mr. Hawke is a
Johnny-come-lately from Adelaide, where
he was a State member for a time. He
has been praised by Perth newspapers
for his fluency, and, as often happens in
these cases, the praise seems to have gone
to his head. Getting no information
from his embarrassed Government, he
transferred his fire to the Chief Justice,
charging that gentleman with having
nominated his successor. He fatuously
asserted that “not only was the present
Government not responsible for the
appointment, but it was not . paid the
courtesy of being consulted.”
The Chief Justice waited in vain for
the Ministerial denial which should have
been forthcoming immediately. He then
saw to his own vindication, in the pro-
cess administering a pretty dressing-down
to the young man from Adelaide and the
silent Ministry. Mr. Northmore said
that “the statements made by Mr. Hawke
in Parliament were grotesquely inaccu-
rate, and I had expected that they would
be authoritatively contradicted.” He drily
added that the Mitchell appointment
“was made by his Majesty the King,
upon a recommendation of the Premier,
made through me in the ordinary way to
the Secretary of the Dominions, and, as
I understood, with the approval of
Cabinet.”
That ought to have closed & contro-
versy in which Hawke and his Govern-
ment figured so ingloriously ; but Caucus
stupidly let it go on. Little Mr. Need-
ham, who is old enough to know better,
asked the Government to reveal what had
led up to the appointment, the reply of
the disconcerted Premier being that “such
matters are strictly confidential.” An-
other worthy demanded to know how
much Mitchell was getting. He was in-
formed that, although it had been pro-
vided since 1917 that a Lieut.-Governor
should receive half the salary (£5OOO a
year) allotted to a Governor from Brit-
ain, “no payments have yet been made
to the present occupant of the office.”
It was supposed that Labor was every-
where in favor of Australian-born Gov-
ernors. Certainly the Scullin Govern-
ment made a native-born Australian
Governor-General, and Westralian Labor
joined in the chorus of approval. But
when an Australian so universally re-
spected as Mitchell is made Lieut.-Gov-
ernor, as a step towards the higher office,
Westralian Labor members perform like
dyspeptic jackals, to the confusion of
their own Government and to the dis-
gust of the public.
After this bad start, the Collier Gov-
ernment has allowed Kenneally, the Min-
ister of Employment, to announce that
its “policy does not provide for prefer-
ence to returned soldiers,” and to add
airily that “all returned soldiers will
have to get inside the unions” and take
their chance as unionists of getting any
morsel of work that may be provided.
It has also fallen foul of the Leg Coun-
cil over its unemployed-relief-tax
measure, which was whisked through
the Assembly after one speech on the
Labor side. The Government talks of
going to the country on this issue. It
would be a very risky proceeding, par-
ticularly in the case of young Mr. Hawke.
The Craze for Speed.
“Conductor” quotes a text:
“Driver Collapses. Trams in Collision. Ten
People Injured.” — Sydney “Sun,” 22/8/’33.
And holds forth as follows:
The first result of the attempt to get modern
speed out of obsolete trams has fortunately
ended without loss of life. Shall we be as
lucky the next time? Sydney trams have the
fastest average speed in the world, and the stock
that is doing it is probably the world’s worst.
At one time, when the service was growing,
there was a constant infusion of young blood.
With the advent of the motor-’bus, plus the
depression, the average age of the driver has
increased to such an extent that the pressure
he has to work at now is getting beyond him.
A driver to-day who is not grey-headed is a
rarity. The amount of sickness in the service
at the moment has got the officers of the
mutual-aid and sick-benefit societies scratching
their heads. But, sick or well, a driver has to
maintain the speed standard set by officialdom.
A man wilh a coupled set of cars has the safety
of anything up to 200 passengers in his keep-
ing; but speed must be maintained at all costs.
A new officer is now going the rounds of
the system. The driver who is three minutes
late, even in peak hours, gets a trip to head
office to explain. He knows his job depends
on his ability to run the timetable; being
human, and fearing the dole, he will take risks.
And not on the road only; the employee has
to take risks with his health. He cannot have
a day off when he feels off color. There is no
sick pay for drivers; it is a concession re-
served for salaried officers.
The mental strain of dodging traffic in Syd-
ney’s crooked streets with the speeding up that
is in operation must be experienced to be under-
stood. It may be good policy to cut down
the staff so that fewer trams are required. It
may be good policy to speed up so that the
same service may be given with fewer trams.
Perhaps State finances are in such a parlous
condition that the sacrifices are necessary; still;
human lives are precious. Should the condi-
tions now operating be continued the “accident”
at Chalmers-street will not be the last of its kind.
.
Protecting Police Commissioners.
The N. S. Wales Stevens Government
has a bill on the stocks designed to make
the Commissioner of Police independent
of the caprices of politicians. Victoria’s
Argyle Ministry is also concerned about
its Police Commissioner.
Blarney is liked by the Force, and has
given satisfaction to his employers ; but
in Labor circles he is unloved. Trades
Hall worthies object to his carrying out
the law when Communists arrange illegal
street processions that might lead to
bloodshed, though, as trade-union offi-
cials, they are the first to ’phone up for
some of his myrmidons when Com-
munists stage a demonstration in the
vicinity of the Trades Hall. Their dis-
like of Blarney is so great that they
would probably instruct the next Labor
Government to get rid of him if the man
were at its mercy.
Blarney was a soldier. He was
appointed for a limited period, reappoint-
ment being subject to Parliamentary
approval. In short, the man at the head
of the Victorian police hasn’t the rights
and privileges of the latest cadet taken
on at the barracks.
The Argyles have hit on an ingenious
way of getting round this difficulty.
Blarney’s three-year term is expiring. He
is to be degraded to the ranks and then
sworn in as an ordinary constable. His
promotion will thereupon be so rapid
that the ink will scarcely be dry on the
document when he will have risen to the
rank of Chief Commissioner. As a pro-
moted constable, he will have pension
rights, and his job will be permanent.
The last Labor Government showed its
friendliness towards him when his first
five-year term expired by throwing his
job open to all and sundry and reducing
the salary from £1750 to £9OO.
♦
Tuppence-ha’penny a Minute.
Air travel is as well established over
most of the civilised world as the train
and the motor-’bus. But not in Aus-
tralia, where it is most needed. Excel-
lent services are, of course, run by Aus-
tralians ; but, except in these instances,
flying is discouraged by Australian Gov-
ernments.
The De Havilland Co. has developed
a seven-seater machine, the Dragon
Moth: double-engined, easy to fly, eco-
nomical, all enclosed. It is as safe as a
’bus and more comfortable ; the ideal
quick transport facility. A thousand or
so of them in this country, apart from
their civil purpose, would be an incal-
culable reinforcement to our defences, a
suberb training-ground for war-time
pilots.
In England, these machines —the
Prince of Wales uses one —cost £3OOO,
so that they are not beyond the means
of the rich private owner. In the com-
mercial field they represent a very dis-
tinct step towards air transport as cheap
as ground transport.
The D. H. Co. proposed to put two
of them on the route between Bathurst
and Sydney, which are 100 miles apart
by air line. The Bathurstian who wants
a day in Sydney now must spend 12
hours in a train, largely at night, and be
about three days away from home. The
D. H. Co. could have given a service
which would allow of an early-morning
journey down and return the same day,
with an interval of several hours in the
city. The journey would have taken a
trifle more than an hour in the air
each way, plus time from Mascot to the
city, and vice versa, by car.
But the State and Commonwealth
Governments prevented it. Though
these machines, which would be such a
boon to country people, cannot yet be
built here, timely encouragement would
undoubtedly lead to the establishment of
a De Havilland manufacturing plant in
Australia. The Commonwealth authori-
ties nevertheless impose revenue duties
which make Dragon Moths 70 per
cent, dearer than they are in Europe.
The price of the petrol they use
is 38 parfs taxes and duties and 16
parts cost of material, administration and
labor. And now the State Transport De-
partment will not let their builders pro-
mote the Bathurst service unless each
passenger carried pays a tax of Id. per
mile over the rail distance, which is 49
miles longer than the air distance —£1
4s. lOd. per passenger for the double
journey.
This equals a tax of,2yd. for every
minute the passenger would be in the
air.
If the N. S. Wales Railway Depart-
ment were prepared to institute modern
aerial services itself, nobody Would
growl; but it isn’t. Its attitude is plain
dog-in-the-manger. One wonders what
the constituents of Bruxner, the N. S.
Wales Minister for Transport, who is
a country member, and who is very per-
sistent in advocating that country people
should have facilities equal to those
available in the towns, think about it.
♦ — :
The High Cost of M’s.L.A.
Every member of a Lower House of
Parliament in Australia to-day has a free
railway pass, a free club with cheap food,
wine and cigars, a stationery and post-
age allowance and a salary.
An Assemblyman in N. S. Wales gets
£670 p.a. In S.A. the pay is £360 p.a.;
and Leg. Councillors are paid to watch
their lower brethren. In the aristocratic
days just after the war, the N. S. Welsh-
man could have been a social light in
the Rabaul Club, in which everyone had
to have a salary of £6OO per annum, but
the Croweater would have had to dine
at a Chinese restaurant. A Westralian
is worth only £4BO, a Victorian from
£402 10s. to £447, according to whether
he comes from the city or the country,
a Tasmanian from £320 to £4OO, accord-
ing to location.
It is a nice concession to the local
belief in the equality of man that the
man who represents a Gulf electorate
1200 miles from Queensland’s Parlia-
ment House has no salary advantage
over the lucky fellow who represents
Brisbane City. Even that cannot be
attributed to the fact that Gulf members
are notoriously short-spoken, and that
the election manifesto of one of them
consisted of the shyly-uttered declara-
tion: “I don’t know nothin’ of politics,
but vote for Darby and you’re on the
pig’s back.”
A South Aus. legislator proposes to
move, when the Parliamentary Salaries
Bill comes up for consideration, that the
local rewards of statesmanship shall be
reduced by the full 22+ per cent, cut
which civil servants and members of
Federal and other State Houses have suf-
fered —except in the Federal home and
Tasmania, in which the reduction has
been 25 per cent. Already elisions of
from 10 per cent, to 20 per cent, have
been made ; so this proposed new piffling
reduction means nothing.
The whole Commonwealth-wide sys-
tem of payment of members should be
revised to provide (a) special allowances
according to distance from home for
country representatives, ( b ) payment of
all members of whatever State on a uni-
form basis and strictly according to
attendance at sittings—no work, no pay,
(c) travelling warrants for specific jour-
neys to replace gold passes.
Salaries of Australia’s 675 members,
outside travelling privileges and other
perquisites, and forgetting the remunera-
tion of Speakers, Presidents, Chairmen
of Committees and their Deputies and
Public Works and other Committees,
Whips and Leaders of the Opposition,
tot up to roughly £325,000 per annum.
Being a member of Parliament is, on the
average, the highest-salaried profession
in Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.”: A party of Y.A.L. boys was
being shown over the Nestle factory at
Warrnambool. A friendly and enthusi-
astic guide showed them how the tins
were made, how the milk was put into
the tins and how the labels were put on
the tins. Then thev were led into a huge
room packed to the ceiling with boxes
waiting to be sent away. “Now, boys,”
said their leader, “Mr. Blank has been
kind enough to tell you everything.
Would any of you like to ask him a ques-
tion?” There was the usual painful sil-
‘I want to see Mr. Sniggs about a bill. I”
“Paying or the other thing? Because if it’s the other thing he ain’t in.”
ence. Then a still small voice piped
up, “Yes, sir, please, sir, would you tell
us what is in all those boxes?”
* * * *
“Mouchoir”: Touching these pocket-
handkerchiefs, moral and otherwise, over
40 years ago I encountered in Lisbon
an article designed to serve the double
purpose of a newspaper and what Fagin’s
pupils called a “fogle.” It was a news-
sheet about the size of those “dailies”
which are tossed over Sydney front
fences free, the only difference being
that it was printed on some sort of
coarse linen. Our Portuguese guide drew
attention to the novelty with considerable
pride as evidence that his country was
in the front rank of scientific progress.
A customer, it appeared, bought the
newspaper and after assimilating its con-
tents at leisure sent it to the wash, or
washed it himself. The print having
been eliminated by this process, he found
himself in possession of a useful addi-
tion to his wardrobe, replenishing his
stock of handkerchiefs with every paper
he bought. The quality engendered
doubts whether the “wipe” would survive
many washings, but there seemed to be
an idea in it for the utilisation of waste
products which 1 have never seen copied
elsewhere.
# * t'
“Walkabout”: The solemnity of a
police court up North was disturbed by
an Italian’s evidence. He was being sued
for car-painting expenses, and was asked
why he contested the claim. “He says,”
translated an interpreter laboriously,
“that the plaintiff painted his car just
as a woman paints her face ; sometimes
here and sometimes there.” Even the
austere P.M. permitted himself a smile.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The long arm of the law?
Eight years ago a Melbourne firm issued
a warrant for the arrest of one of its
employees for the embezzlement of £l7.
It was only the other day that the police
found a man whom they felt justified
in charging with the offence. It turned
out, however, that important witnesses
alleged to have suffered by the defalca-
tions could not produce records going
back eight years. Another man who
might have had something to say had
been declared a bankrupt and didn’t have
access to his papers, and the most im-
portant witness of all was dead.
* * * *
“Keppoch”: There has been a mild
newspaper controversy in Melbourne
over the origin of the expression “the
real Mackay.” Weight of opinion assigned
it to the strength and purity of rum made
in Mackay (N.Q.) ever since the 1860’s.
But, before the vexed question was
settled, somebody butted in and roused
Highlanders to fury by offering for his
explanation of the phrase the fact that the
clan Mackay is the oldest and most
famous of Highland clans. This has
drawn a shower of contradictions, all de-
signed to show that the Mackays were
mere upstarts who came over from Ire-
land at quite a late stage. The original
subject is in danger of being forgotten
in the claims of the various clans and
their septs.
s*; 5 * ; & $
“A.R.”: “H. 8.” (B. 16/8/’33) has odd
ideas about the purpose of the tem-
perature observations recorded at Syd-
ney’s Meteorological Bureau. These
are intended neither to reveal (he
occurrence of frost in Mr North
Shore’s garden nor to show the rare in-
cidence of such a thing at Bondi Beach
Gr ° nuba > tbey indicate nothing more
than the temperature of the atmosnhere
or t v, e terrestrial radiation Qf c; P f
tnow of no S where ri”’,/ 1 Sy t" ey ' 1
Know ot no spot where they may be more
accurately made. How the citv build
ings can ive protection and jgrmth lo
,he j s ° lakd ~,ogical office™ be
f'hmkW p erched*olf V"' exp,,cable
a bulldln S perched on the top of a hill
and f P n Sed £ ? e four winds of Heaven
can b e described as “sheltered”
* * ~
“Soso”: I was CP S in a western
N.S.W. town when the police sergeant
applied for 87 summonses against ner-
sons who had not obeyed the statutory
provision that gun licenses must be re
turned after expiry. Among the offenders
was a J.P. After getting his summons, he
stormed my office and abused me person-
ally for the indignity inflicted upon him,
although I had done no more, and could
have done no less, than sign the sum-
mons. “If I wasn't a gentleman I would
strike you!” he began, pushing the
summons into my face. “To think
of me, a J.P., who sits on the Bench and
fines people for offences, having to stand
in court and be fined myself! If you
were a man of honor you would have
’phoned me to return the blasted thing.
“What did you think of the curtain-raiser?”
“That show will soon put him out of a job.”
I will speak to you again, and I
won’t sit on your Bench while you are
in the town!” And he kept his word.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Two accident cases were
brought to Melbourne Hospital within
three minutes of each other on a recent
Saturday. One had collided with a
motor-car and the other with a rival
footballer. They were both named
Andrew Hammond, although they were
in no way related.
*** * *
“Selma”: I quite believe the tale of the
M.L. firm that declined a Canberra florin
(B. 23/8/’33); even in the average Syd-
ney shop any money out of the ordinary
seems to arouse the darkest suspicions.
1 tendered an open ten-shilling postal
note in a city shop recently, and was in-
formed, after a queue of employees had
scrutinised it and me curiously, that the.
firm did not accept postal notes. I went
over the road to an Italian fruitshop,
spent a shilling, tendered the note and
returned with the change.
•k *i* -k ;{:
“Black Shag”: Somebody recently
essayed to prove that cigarette-smoking got
its first hold in England after the Crimean
War. It seems just as indisputable that
the cigar was another war product; it
crossed the Channel from Europe after
Napoleon Bonaparte had taken the count.
In the eighteenth centpry smoking lan-
guished and actually lost favor in Eng-
land, among the upper and middle classes,
at all events. Snuff took its place. Cow-
per’s woodcutter might still
Adjust the fragrant charge of the short tube
That fumes beneath his nose,
but smoking in public was accounted bad
form by Regency bucks and frowned on
by the leaders of fashion. On the other
hand snuff-taking became a ceremony
and something of an obligation for any-
one having pretensions to be a fine
gentleman. When George IV. died, the
rappee he left behind him fetched over
£4OO at auction. But the golden age of
snuff was already ending. The close of
the Napoleonic wars introduced the cigar,
and bit by bit the pipe came back into
its own.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Before John Monash died he
discussed the question of floodlighting the
Shrine of Remembrance in Melbourne.
A. M. Wilson, a member of the Illumina-
tors’ Society and display officer of the
Vic. Electricity Commission, was deputed
to make inquiries in other countries, and
it was found that the Buchan marble was
an ideal surface for the purpose. The
plan worked out includes four 8000-c.p.
lights located in pylons outside the edi-
fice and hidden colored lights inside, the
combination of the two bringing out the
requisite effects of chiaroscuro without
destroying the architectural balance. The
completed job requires a pool com-
manded by the proposed equestrian
statue of Monash in which the whole en-
semble will be reflected. It has been
discovered that visitors arriving by sea
will get their first view of the memorial
on entering Port Phillip Heads, 30 miles
away.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne connoisseurs are
concerned because H. Carew-Smyth, a
Nat. Gallery expert, has announced that
the place is full of fake antique glass-
ware. I would go further than that and
say that it is full of fake antiques of
every sort —imitation Louis Quatorze
furniture, Persian tapestry, Ming pottery
and Oriental bric-a-brac of every sort.
Faking old art is a huge industry, and
many European firms find it a profitable
sideline. Agents are sent out to remote
corners of the world to acquire the pat-
terns, which are copied on mass-produc-
tion lines and then shipped either to
countries like Australia, where there is
a “new rich” class avid of culture and
without the necessary knowledge of
what it is, or to the home of
the original articles and there sold to
tourists, some of whom may have come
from the very European district where
the fakes are fabricated. It is difficult
to feel any sympathy for the antique
lovers. They are a nuisance to the living
artist and make it more difficult for him
to make a livelihood.
“Verri”: The small township of Col-
lector, near Goulburn, was thrilled the
other day at the discovery of a book
over 250 years old, which turned up in
some lumber at a pub, of all places. The
volume is called “The Parson’s Monitor”;
it is by G. Meriton, and bears the date
1681. The 300-odd pages are intact and
well-preserved. There is some doubt who
brought it to Collector, but the present
possessors believe it was part of the lib-
rary of the Rev. Robert Cartwright, the
second chaplain commissioned by George
the Third, who spent some years in those
parts.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has presented its
butcher’s bill for traffic accidents in the
past twelvemonth. The horse shows a
come-back with 15 people killed. Motor
vehicles score 53, -cycles being in 14 of
them. Traffic altogether had 86, and
1564 hurt, an increase of nearly 50 per
cent, on the year before. But, contrary
to the popular idea, the pedestrians
among them were only 22 killed and 396
injured.
“Caractacus”: Analogous to the up-
country urge to destroy anything that
bears leaves is the suburban passion to
barber and lipstick Nature. Almost all
the remnants of bush that fringe Syd-
ney Harbor have been pecked at and
stripped in the name of Arbor Day and
civic “improvement.” Ball’s Head, Cre-
morne Point, Park Hill, Sirius Cove,
Bradley’s Head and Nielsen Park are
instances ; good soil has given place to
dust patches in which a few dejected
shrubs struggle to exist in the summer
heat and wind. Another misapplication
of cash and energy, entrusted to “relief”
workers, is path-making: perfectly good
tracks beaten by the feet of trampers
following natural scarps and contours are
converted into dusty paths fitted only for
level parks regularly tar-dressed. I find
myself hoping there is a special Tophet
for Nature-improvers.
I DON’T BELIEVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t believe in royal roads
To lead us hence and hither;
I set scant score by Blanket codes
Or Douglas Credit blither.
I’ve no specific, I confess,
To fill an empty larder,
Except it’s talking rather less
And working rather harder.
I don’t believe they’ll banish war
By caveats or caves !
By extirpating armies or
Obliterating navies.
If such were sense, ’tis surely time
We put effective stoppers
On ev’ry sort of violent crime
By abrogating coppers.
I don’t believe in Lottery Lancs
To fan the gambling fever; ’
Or that which still a crime remains
In Lang is chaste in Weaver.
I don’t believe the State should buzz
With joints for odds and evens,
And if our Tubby cracks he does
I don’t believe in Stevens.
I do not hold that M.L.C.’s
Soon to be overboarded
Should have to hit the winter breeze
Entirely unrewarded
For all their tugging at the oar
And toiling on the treadles....
Where golden passes erst they wore
I’d give them leather medals.
I don’t believe in bodyline
Or any other shoddy;
I ask no more than wool and wine
To line my precious body.
But still 1 doubt such blame they’d throw
At Larwood’s deadly smashes
And whizzing shots if (whisper low!)
Wc hadn’t lost the Ashes.
I don’t believe we’ve leaders got
These days to thrill and dizzy us;
I think the bolt is almost shot
Of Joseph Aloysius.
But by our classic motto —Sic
Etruria fortis crevit —
Stout hearts will always turn the trick:
Don’t tell me in the mud we’ll stick,
Because 1 don’t believe it.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The Grafter”: At the initial meeting
of the Bribery and Secret Commissions
Prevention League in Sydney it was re-
vealed that no profession, not even the
Church, can escape having nefarious
attempts made on its probity. A
bishop said he had been offered a
tenner if he would lend the im-
primatur of the C. of E. to a busi-
ness proposition. Only his cloth, one
gathers, restrained him from throwing the
miscreant out; as it was, his eye merely
fell with withering eloquence upon the
door. There aren’t many things that
bishops could be expected to do for a
surreptitious quid pro quo, but one can’t
help wondering what the man who
thought he could nobble -a bishop for
a tenner would have offered, for a simi-
lar service, to a rural dean or a mere
curate. In the U.S.A. they have a cer-
tain scale in these matters; O. Henry
somewhere features a man “up against
a bribe —Senator’s size.” Even in a
humorous story that form of measure
gives one to think.
* * # *
“Gondola”: A centenary which passed
unnoticed last month was that of the
hansom cab, which was registered in
July, 1833, as the “patent safety (Han-
“Smile again, Emily; I have insured the old ’bus for more than it cost me.”
Goodo —now you won’t be so fussy about telling me to drive carefully.”
som) cab.” Joseph Aloysius Hansom,
the inventor, sold his patent to a
company for £lO,OOO and then turned
his gifts in the distinctly opposite direc-
tion of designing churches. He is said
to have done little good at this last, and
even his hansom deal proved a Dead
Sea apple, for all he got out of the com-
pany which bought the patent before it
went insolvent was £3OO. Hansom took
his last drive in 1882—to Woking ceme-
tery.
* *
“Country Ped.”: The recent decision
of the French Courts that a hale man
who was legally presumed dead must
stay dead has an analogy in the story
of two brothers I know. Following a
quarrel over their father’s will, the
younger left the old Victorian home for
N. S. Wales. Some months later an un-
known was found dead on a country
roadside. His published description tal-
lied with that of the younger brother, and
the elder journeyed thither. Satisfying
himself and the authorities that the body
was that of his brother, he attended and
paid for the necessary obsequies. When
the younger brother presently returned
home in the flesh he was horrified to
find that the elder would not recognise
him. That happened years ago, and
though they live within a mile of each
other, the elder brother still insists on
regarding the other as an impostor.
* * # *
“Strict Veg”: Melbourne “Age” waxed
facetious over a “public benefactor” who
recently knocked a head off one of the
statues in Fitzroy Gardens. Hooligans
may now finish the remaining speci-
mens off, probably without showing
the imagination of the midnight
revellers who once purloined a whole
body, laid it on the mat at a
neighboring foundling hospital, rang
the ball and departed. The statuary in-
dividually is unattractive, but it at least
makes a note of variety amidst the foli-
age, and artistically is no worse than the
modern effigies of political nonentities
that decorate the city.
ill ifc
“Haksheesh”: “Lao-dah” (B. 23 /8 / ’33)
suggests that the “deadly insistence” of
the opium habit —the idea that the stuff
can’t be taken in moderation, as a man
might take a few beers or whiskies a
day without becoming a slave to either
—is a “movie superstition.” Actually, it
goes back a good deal further than that,
through Kipling’s Indian stories, notably
“The Gate of a Hundred Sorrows,” to
De Quincey’s “Confessions” (1820),
though De Quincey is vaguely believed to
have broken himself of the addiction.
And the inference that the majority of
Chinamen can be trusted to take no mbre
poppy-juice than is good for them hardly
squares with an item I find in the “Dic-
tionary of Dates”; “August 9, 1907: All
opium dens in Canton reported closed;
great rejoicings in the city.” It was, by
the way, an Imperial, not a Republican,
edict in the preceding year that ordered
the abolition of the use of opium with-
in 10 years—a less drastic though per-
haps not a more successful ukase than
that which ushered in Prohibition in
Uncle Sam’s country.
* * * *
“Ayrton”: Further discussions in the
English press on the subject of the “Cook
cottage,” which is to be translated from
Yorkshire to Melbourne, suggest that the
Great Navigator’s connection with it is
even more slender and shadowy than
was at first assumed. The structure was
built in 1755, when Cook was 27 years
of age and had been nine years at sea.
And seeing that he remained at sea, with
rare intervals, for the rest of his life he
can have had few opportunities of visit-
ing it. It is not even certain that he ever
spent a night under his father’s humble
roof. However, this probably won’t
worry the Melbourne centenary autho-
rities in their determination to do the
thing thoroughly, even to the extent of
transplanting some of the ivy from the
old walls and giving it a fresh start be-
side Yarra’s banks.
* * *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: One of the
most interesting documents in Austra-
lia’s archives is an inventory of the effects
of Dr. John Gold, killed, along with
storekeeper J. H. Green, by natives at
Melville Island in 1827. It lists numer-
ous articles of clothing, ranging from
shirts and jackets to a cravat and pocket
comb ; the presence of bookcases, table-
cloths, salt-cellars, wineglasses, etc.,
shows some of these old-time pioneers
didn’t rough it. Even more imposing
is the catalogue of Gold’s library of over
130 volumes. Most were medical works,
but there was a sprinkling of poetry—
Dryden, Milton, Akenside, Thomson—
Latin, French and English dictionaries,
several Latin works, some French ones,
“I want some grapes for my sick husband : Do you know if any poison has
been sprayed on these you have?”
“No, mum. You’ll have to get it at the chemist’s."
and a good many volumes of essays and
sermons. Taken along with the list of
jewellery, which included two wedding
rings, a cornelian brooch set in gold,
a silver waist buckle and a coral neck-
lace, you can sketch in your imagination
a mighty fine picture of the doctor’s
character.
* * * £
“Schooner”: One by one the founda-
tions of British supremacy are crumbling.
Following on the news of the defeat of
English athletes by Americans and Ger-
mans come tidings that an Italian pro-
fessor has discovered how to turn wine
into a more palatable beer than ever
came out of hops and malt. Italy, like
France, has been producing too much
wine and is finding that the modern trend
to outdoor sport has set the Italian
lightly turning to malt liquor as a more
satisfactory quencher. The surplus wine
will in future be converted into grape-
beer and the national bill for imports cut
down thereby.
* * * *
“Strad”: One always feels an interest
in things that have been lost in the mist
and dust of dges, such as Atlantis, the
Sibylline Books, a whole lot of Euclid,
the purple of Tyre, and the Roman art
of road-making, as practised in Britain.
The present eisteddfod in Sydney has dis-
closed yet another secret that has gone
into the discard—the proper mixture for
varnishing fiddles. A lecturer disclosed
that the precise ingredients which gave
the old Italian violins their incomparable
tone are known no longer. The prescrip-
tion—probably a family monopoly--
perished about 1760, and no amount of
research has availed to restore it. Con-
sidering all the advances made by chem-
istry in the last couple of centuries, this
seems an amazing thing. Possibly Mus-
solini may be able to do something
about it.
* * ❖ *
“Centurion”: An unusual exhibition has
been opened in London, Captain Arthur
Jocelyn’s collection of medal and order
ribbons. The wonder is that the subject
has not been more widely taken up by
collectors, for it is full of historical and
other interest, while comparatively inex-
pensive, which is more than can be said
for collecting medals themselves. There
are some weird and previously unheard-
of ribbons in the collection. One is
French, for a decoration only given to
Central African chiefs and bearing the
high style of “The Order of a Hundred
Million Elephants.” Others include “The
Order of the Seal of Solomon” (Abys-
sinia) and the Polish “Order of Military
Virtue.” A Turkish ribbon is for a
woman’s decoration, “The Order of Chas-
tity—Second Class.”
»!' 'k »!»
“Bert the Carpenter”:, The idea that
the boss is always out to take his em-
ployees down dies hard. When the Eyre
Peninsula (S.A.) railways were being built
the contractor went to the mullocking
gang and said “Instead of bringing the
plate-laying gang back from the end of
the line to lay the loops at the sidings,
I’m going to get you chaps to do the
work. I’ll pay you an extra sixpence a
day on your wages in return for one
day’s plate-laying a week.” There was
a hurried conference ; then the spokes-
man replied “You won’t get at us like
that. If we’re to do one day’s plate-laying
a week we want pi ate-layers’ wages for
that day, see?” The boss shrugged his
shoulder and acquiesced. It was some
time before it dawned upon the navvies
that plate-layers’ wages were 12s. 6d. per
day, so they had turned down the boss’s
offer of an extra 3s. a week in favor of
an extra half-crown. It ended with a
fight between the spokesman and the man
who discovered (his interesting fact, but
it didn’t bring back the vanished six-
pence.
$ $ $ $
“Ehoa-o-te-Manu”: Another link with
Marsden’s Maoriland mission came to
light the other day in Wanganui when
a Maori dictionary, dated 1818, was
found amongst the papers of the original
owner by his great-granddaughter. It
was printed in Sydney on thin Chinese
paper, comprises 48 pages, and is entitled
Kendall’s “Maori Grammar.” Probably
it was the first ever compiled : even the
famous Turnbull Library at Wellington
is without a copy of it
“D .J.”: So there is to be a
£5OOO golf tournament in Australia next
year. I have seen it coming for quite
a while. In all our big cities there are
lads —many of them mere schoolboys—
who are virtually golf pros, already. The
immense majority waste important years
• —years in which they might be fitting
themselves for serious work—and then
find they are only second-raters. A few
cling to the golden vision of a career com-
parable to that of Jones. If they go on
improving, if by practice as arduous as
that of any vaudeville sleight-of hand
artist they achieve skill at their game com-
parable to the skill of the ex-caddie
Joe Kirkwood, then there may be a
future for them. But what a future!
Even Kirkwood, who is incomparably the
best golfer Australia has produced, can
only make a living by doing trick shots.
Cricket and other shamateurs are battling
desperately to make something out of the
sports which have superannuated or
otherwise discarded them. By the time
the golfing shamateurs get going there
won’t be a city street without its spoils
shop or a daily paper without a herd of
ex-champions writing golfing articles in
the intervals of broadcasting.
SECESSIONER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Premier Collier is to endeavor, by a dutiful
address to his Majesty and humble applications to
both Houses of the Imperial Parliament, to procure
legislation to effect the withdrawal of Westralia from
the Commonwealth.”
The shades of night were falling fast
As through the London streets there passed
A single sandwichman, no more,
Whose board the simple slogan bore,
“Secessioner! ”
His brow was knit; he seemed to know
No easy row was his to hoe.
But ever to the curious crowd
He told his job in accents loud,
“Secessioner! ”
In happy pubs he heard the clink
Of glasses and the calls to drink.
It clearly cut him to the bone,
And from his lips escaped a groan,
“Secessioner!”
“Try good King George,” an old man said,
“It’s odds he won’t be yet abed,
Or take St. Stephen’s in your stride.”
And deep that dogged voice replied,
“Secessioner!”
“O, stay,” cajoled a vision fair,
The sort you see in Leicester Square.
He turned away in deep disdain
And refuge found in the refrain,
“Secessioner! ”
“Beware,” said someone in St. Giles,
“Dominions Office tricks and wiles!
You’ll find it hard to crash the gate.”
A voice replied, serene and straight,
“Secessioner! ”
At break of day, in streets and squares
Where merry milk-ohs shrill their wares
And butchers’ boys are thick as bees,
A swan-song quavered on the breeze,
“Secessioner! ”
A traveller from far away,
There, deadly stiff and cold, he lay;
And solemnly a passing char.
Spelled out the label from afar,
“Secessioner!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


LIFE—A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
tor in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
is spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
famonwealtf) Savto Jtafe of Australia
(Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government)
The diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality Blue
White Ge
c Diamondsl
£2O
Diamonds*?
£3O
and Diamonds
£lB
The illustrations represent the actualsize
Hand - made throughout with Pure
Platinum settings
Diamonds
£l6
Fme Diamonds
£2O
lamonds
Fine Diamonds
£7O
These Rings represent the best value in
Australia Write lor a selection on
approval
Diamonds
£l6
£2O
Diamonds
,£36
A Cataloging of Rings, Jewellery. Silver*
plate. Silver and Wedding Presents, sent
post free on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
BRISBANE MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
This is better. At the first of the sea-
son’s wool sales at Sydney there was a
20 per cent, increase on June closing
rates and a 45 to 50 per cent, increase
on prices at last year’s opening sales. The
average was about 13d. a pound. This
would be profitable if taxation came
down 50 per cent.; and it is now up to
the seven Governments.
Bruce gave nothing away at the Lon-
don wheat conference. The agreement
by which we are to restrict immediate
seasonal export by 15 per cent, against
the average figures of bumper seasons
merely endorses what nature has already
done. The price at Australian ports is
now 3s. 3d. a bushel. If the hopes of
the leading delegates to the conference
are realised, it will go to 4s. A good
deal better than when the depression
was at its worst, but it won’t be enough
without a sweeping reduction in taxes.
The beginnings of the N. S. Wales ses-
sion were up to sample. Same old
speech, with less in it than usual because
of the imminent reconstitution of the
Upper House; same old Lang censure
motion; same old howl from Auburn’s
rich landlord about the “monstrous con-
duct of the Government in refusing to
supply adequate food relief to the unem-
ployed.” Same old humbug, in short,
and waste of time.
Westralian Labor followed up its
attempt to snatch a seat in the Senate
from a returned soldier by announcing
that preference to returned soldiers in
Government employment was at an end.
The notification was made by Minister
Kenneally. Nowhere are the Diggers
stronger than in Westralia. If they allow
the likes of Kenneally to play tricks with
them they will have changed marvel-
lously.
Dentists are not in it with these Taxa-
tion Departments. A case has come to
light in South Aus. in which portion of
the estate of a deceased person has had
to find probate and succession duties for
four authorities on £ll,OOO worth of
B. H. Pty. debentures. The owner died
in S.A., so clearly Adelaide had a claim.
The head office of the B. H. Pty. is in
Melbourne, so Argyle gets his portion.
The B.H.P.’s steelworks are in N. S.
Wales, so there’s a cut for Stevens. Lastly
Lyons must have his pound of flesh. It
is sheer robbery, but our glorious Con-
stitution permits it.
Scullin said at Cairns that the party he
is leading in the wilderness will always
be for the White Australia policy. This,
coming from a politician who allowed
himself to be pushed into the practical
destruction of what remained of Aus-
tralia’s defence policy of pre-war days,
.and so aimed a felon blow at the White
Australia policy, would be staggering if
it were not just what one expects from
Scullin.
Introducing his bill for extending the
life of the South Aus. Assembly to five
years, Premier Butler mentioned that
“one practical result would be that the
Leg. Council would have a maximum of
10 years and a minimum of six, the life
of the Council being governed by the
life of the Assembly.” This point was
not stressed at the general election, when
Butler’s party gained a majority of seats
with a minority of votes. It is one more
reason why the measure should be
kicked into the middle of next week.
When the Australian trade ship dis-
covered Java it found that populous
island in the grip of Depresh and seri-
ously concerned about the influx of
Japanese oddments. The Government
has now clapped a 50 p.c. surtax on
luxury articles and primary products for
revenue purposes. Australia will be
affected, but not Japan. The Dutchman
is afraid to tax the food or the imported
knick-knacks that the native buys for fear
of raising the cost of living and trouble.
Subject colored races on a low standard
of living are not the business proposition
they used to be.
The logical extension of the P.W.D.’s
Yarra-beautification scheme, as stated in
a .recent Bulletin, has received semi-
official endorsement, the chairman hav-
ing announced that the only permanent
cure for the erosion that has occurred
since the trees were removed is to beach
the banks with stone and concrete. An
alternative method would be to erect a
galvanised-iron roof over the watershed.
This would provide twice as much work
for the board’s employees.
Collier will get nothing out of his
appeal to the Imperial Parliament to
carry out the wishes of Westralia as ex-
pressed at the secession referendum.
Downing-street has a long memory, and
it is sure to remember that Joseph
Chamberlain had a lot to do with driving
MRS. COCKATOO: “What sort of a father are you? Chairman of the local U.A.P.,
and little cocky here can’t speak a word yet!”
Westralia into the Commonwealth. Any-
way, since the 1926 Imperial Conference
and the Statute of Westminster, the Com-
mons have washed their hands of local
matters. Their rigid policy is not to in-
terest itself in any local agitation which
can be consummated under the provi-
sions of a Dominion Constitution. More-
over, it is all to Britain’s interest to keep
Australia whole.
A 25 p.c. reduction of rail freight-
rates on livestock has been sanctioned
by Vic. Cabinet. It is expected to cost
the Treasury about £150,000 p.a.; the
recent lowering of wool rates is reckoned
at £50,000 p.a. The railways will be
credited and the taxpayers debited with
the amount. Notice has been given of
a bill for the appointment of a board
to regulate transport services and pre-
vent duplication. It will have no easy
passage.
In 1926 an anti-imperialist conference,
to which went Labor delegates from
Sydney, was banned from Japan and
later hunted out of Shanghai Inter-
national Settlement into the native
city. Worse has happened to a
similar collection this year, even the
Ah Sin Government putting up the
shutters. Although it was led by Lord
Marley, an ex-British Under-Sec. for War
and a Lord-in-Waiting, it remained un-
acceptable. Ah Sin has lost faith in vocal
pacifism since the peace-loving League of
Nations sat back and talked while Japan-
ese guns blew to perdition a Chinese
industrial city as big as Balmain.
The Institute of Pacific Relations was
told by a Japanese professor at its meet-
ing in Canada that the Japanese cannot
solve their population problem by birth
control. He prophesied that by 1950 there
would be 10 million more mouths to feed
in the island empire, and said that social
unrest, already serious, would become
intensified. When Governments are
faced with popular bad temper at home
they usually give it a vent by letting it
loose on neighbors.
The fact that the French have decided
not to repair the Australia-New Cale-
donia cable, since Australia’s wonderfully
efficient A.W.A. has established a satis-
factory alternative route via the atmos-
phere, does not mean that the day of the
submarine cable is done. The beam is
young, and all its possible diseases have
not yet been diagnosed. Sometimes it
works splendidly ; if the ether is fractious
the operators have to wait until it be-
haves itself. And if war came, the parties
would jam each other’s wireless. During
the World War our Defence Department
was in continuous communication with
the War Office, even during the 24 hours
when Cocos was put out of commission
by the Emden —the Darwin-Singapore
and the Pacific routes were available.
To checkmate Barry and Holland, the
Labor M’s.L.A. who pegged out a claim
on the old Carlton cricket oval, on the
pretence that they proposed to dig for
gold there, the Argyle Ministry has, by
proclamation, reserved the land from
occupation under miner’s right. Barry
and Holland are thinking out other ways
of blocking the seizure of the cricket
ground for a Uni. college. There’s room
for the college in the Uni. grounds if the
’Varsity council, on which Argyle and
Jones have seats, liked to make a corner
available. If this filching of a playground
is consummated it will leave a nasty
taste in the mouth.
Queensland’s Land Administration
Board comes close to heresy in its re-
port to the Labor Government on “re-
productive” relief work. It says that be-
cause landholders have to choose labor
from the ranks of intermittent relief
workers many applications for loans
have been cancelled. It recommends
that, as before, employers should be
allowed to pick their own men, provided
these are among the registered unem-
ployed ; “on any other basis, the scheme
would be bound to fail.”
The idiotic proposal to allow a Boy
Scout to act as Lord Mayor of Sydney
for a day was cancelled at the last
minute. A Scout turned up, prepared to
run the risk of being smothered in the
rabbitskins ; but it was discovered that
he wasn’t “representative” or something;
so he was sent away again. It was just
as well. Had the urchin been compelled
to listen to a debate he might have be-
come an ambulance case.
Langsters on the northern (N.S.W.)
coalfields, Badly in particular, are award-
ing themselves three cheers over the
miners’ vote to retain their A.L.P. affilia-
tion —it was 3805 for and 1395 against.
They’re silent about the failure of approxi-
mately 3800 of the 9000 working mem-
bers of the organisation to vote, and the
disfranchisement of roughly 7000 unem-
ployed, whose hard cash faas dragged
into the federation’s coffers during the
palmy days.
Hitler’s language is full of blood and
iron, like a patent medicine. But beyond
the boundaries of the nation which sees
destiny in his toothbrush moustache,
the people it is prescribed for won’t take
it, and laugh in the dictator’s face.
Even little Austria has succeeded
in calling his bluff. His latest move is
said to be a Nazi upheaval in Holland
demanding union with the Fatherland.
It would be a cheap method for Ger-
many to acquire the third-largest colonial
empire. That is the way Napoleon got
possession of Java for a while—but
Adolf is no Nap.
A 50 p.c. reduction of taxes would be
the best possible answer to pensioners
and civil servants who are organising to
wring concessions from the Government
at Canberra, and it would remove the
necessity for thinking out such economies
as are proposed in South Aus. There 160
male public servants under the age of
23 are to be subject to reclassification
and an average salary reduction of £l2
per annum, which will save a whole
£2OOO p.a. Then several hundred men
in the water and sewerage services are
to have their pay cut from 4s. to 7s. 6d.
per week. This means that some of
the poor devils will come down to a
basal rate of 10s. 6d. per day.
Refused a pistol permit by the police,
Frank Clarke, President of Vic. Uppish
House, went to law about it and won his
case. Mr. Clarke’s friends say he has
rendered the public a great service, but
signs of public gratitude are lacking. The
Government says it. won’t alter the Act,
anyhow. About 99.9 p.c. of Melbourne’s
population sleep soundly o’ nights with-
out pistols. The knowledge that the
police motor patrol can get from one
end of the place to the other in eight
minutes is more of a deterrent to gun-
men than any domestic arsenal.
POLITICAL POINTS


MS Weaver gets the Government lottery girls to enhance the lure op the first perz.E f
The Taxation department f=inos a fetching substitute fou.
thrbmeming, letters
"The Country party cottons on to the ioba for emphasising, its objectioks to allyikiGi
‘TSELP NNMTH THE U. A.P.
SAYING IT WITH LEGS, AND SO FORTH.
“President Roosevelt has enlisted the support of the theatres for his National Industrial Recovery Act. Revue girls adopt a familiar recumbent attitude,
and with a forest of legs spell out N.I.R.A.”


CRAVEN “A* are always FRESH THEY NEVER VARY
Wherever and whenever you buy Graven ‘A,’you get them Fresh
in fine smoking condition, as surely as if you had bought them
direct from Arcadia Works. Their patented, exclusive wrapping
of moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE” seals-in Factory-freshness.
CRAVEN A
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGINIA.
20Jbrl'6 10/or 9 “
IkadJL specioMu to fmoent sore t/uoaU
W
m
■
SEALED-FRESH
SOLD-FRESH
The entire pro-
duction of mois-
ture-proof
‘CELLOPHANE’
is reserved to
Carreras for
Craven “A” : no
other Cigarette is
so adequately
protected against
Damp and Dry-
ness and SHOP-
STALENESS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays:
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 62, on 2nd; his-
torian A. W. Jose, 70, on 4th; Melb. barrister
A. D. Ellis, Litt.D., 48, on sth; artist Chas.
Nuttall, 61, on 6th; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental
Bloke”), 57, on 7th; Bishop Coleman
(Armidale), 46, on Bth; Bishop Cecil
Wilson (Bunbury), 73, ex-Justice A. B. Pidding-
ton (N.S.W.), 71, P. V. Storkey, V.C., 42, and
Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer), 55,
on 9th; Adelaide’s ex-Lud Mayor Lavington
Bonython, 58, on 10th; Field-Marshal Bird-
wood, 68, and Vic. Senator Guthrie, 61, on
13th; W.A. Chief Justice Northmore, 68, and ex-
N.S.W. Minister R. T. Ball, 76, on 14th; Prime
Minister J. A. Lyons, 54, Col. Percy Owen, 69,
and Col. Hurry (ex-M.H.R. for Bendigo), 65,
on 15th; Bishop McGuire (Townsville), 52, and
Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.), 59, on 17th;
ex-Prime Minister Scullin, 57, Justice McArthur
(Vic.), 72, and Melb. architect W. A. M.
Blackett, 60, on 18th; Major-Gen. Edwin
Tivey, 67, on 19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.), 58,
on 20th; Philip Charley, 70, on 21st; Major-
Gen. Brudenell White, 57, on 23rd; Bishop
Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 66, and knight Sam Hor-
dern, 57, on 24th; W. M. Hughes, 69, on 25th;
Josiah Symon, K.C. (S. Aus.), 87, and S. Aus.
Chief Justice Murray, 70, on 27th; Prof. Oxer
(Ormond Coll.), 65, on 28th; Brig.-Gen. T.
Griffiths, 68, and author Rev. Father Eris
O’Brien (St. Francis’s Presbytery, Sydney), 38,
on 29th; Brig.-Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 63, and ex-
W.A. Senator Needham, 59, on 30th.
Hats off to Alderman Massey, of the
Brisbane City Council, who has just
waived his rights to the whole of the
salary which he has earned during his
two years in the council. He says he is
going to keep the uncashed cheques as
a memento, and he deserves them.
Alfred Hill, the performance of whose
cantata “Hinemoa” was one of the fea-
tures of Sydney’s Music Week, is Aus-
tralia’s most prolific composer. A quiet,
unassuming person who looks more like a
country grocer than a musician, he is Mel-
burnian by birth, but is regarded as a
Maorilander by circumstance and a Syd-
neian by adoption. He was trained in the
Leipzig Conservatorium, and lived in the
Shivery Isles only a few years before he
settled down in Sydney. However, his
“Waiata Poi,” one of the world’s most
popular songs, and his Maori operas
have given his fame a distinct flavor of
the fern. Hill has conducted the Welling-
ALFRED HILL, composer of “Waiata
Poi” and many other good Antipo-
dean melodies.
ton Orchestral Society, the Sydney
Liedertafel and some of J.C.W.’s shows,
as well as making visits to England and
America and turning out operas, cantatas,
and classical works, most of which are
better than their reputations. He has
cause to regret his name. If he had
been born with a moniker which sounded
like a bad cough, Europe probably would
have stolen him from us long ago.
John Vanstone, who celebrated his
105th birthday in S.A. the other day, re-
calls the coronation of Queen Victoria.
He remembers all the excitement, as he
was in England at the time. He came
to Australia in 1847, and, apart from
short experiences in gold-mining at Forest
Creek (Vic.) and Gympie (Q.), spent most
of his working life in farming.
R. J. RUDALL, the
first S.A. Rhodes
scholar to enter
Parliament.
R. J. Rudall,
recently elected
as a member of
the S.A. House
of Assembly, is
the first Rhodes
scholar in that
State to become
a legislative re-
cruit. In other
States there have
been a few—•
Davy, who was
Attorney-General
in W.A., and
Kent Hughes,
who holds a port-
folio in Victoria,
for instance. Gen-
erally, however,
Rhodes’s post-
humous proteges
have not shown
the qualities
which “would
guide them to
esteem the per-
formance of pub-
lic duties as their
highest aim.”
They have, how-
ever, produced a
fair smattering of
solid, useful men
—Fairbairn the
coloniser, Halse
Rogers, J., of
N.S.W., an edi-
tor or so and
a captain of a British international
Rugby team.
George Robertson is dead at 73. The
bluff, bearded, twinkling-eyed giant of
the Australian book-selling world was a
Glasgow-educated Englishman who com-
bined a passionate love of his business
with a sound financial instinct. He was
trained under Maclehose, Glasgow Uni-
versity bookseller, served his apprentice-
ship in Australia with George Robertson
and Co. in Melbourne, and, with D. M.
Angus, founded Angus and Robertson in
1884. The firm’s early essays in publish-
ing included creditable editions of the
works of Lawson and A. B. Paterson, and
among some of their bigger and later
jobs were “The Australian Official War
History” and “The Australian Encyclo-
paedia.” The Australian Fellowship of
Authors honored Robertson by making
him their first fellow. He had been ail-
ing for 18 months before his death.
G. H. Knowles, Commonwealth
Crown Solicitor, has just lost his father
at 79. The pair helped to pioneer the
hereditary principle in the Common-
wealth service. The parent was taken
over with the Post Office and the son
transferred from the Queensland P.S. a
few months later. Both have always
been firm Methodists.
A. E. Morris, Traffic Superintendent
at Townsville, becomes district superin-
tendent of the Queensland railways at
Cairns, in succession to A. J. Hudson,
who becomes general manager of the
system in the North. Morris has spent
most of his service life in the North—
he went there in 1899, and has been there
ever since, holding every position, from
porter to chief clerk.
Can any other public body in Aus-
tralia equal the peculiar record of the
Queensland Land Administration Board,
all three members of which came out
of the one school —Brisbane Grammar
School? Payne, the chairman, who has
the status of a Supreme Court Judge,
is an authority on wool and prickly-
pear and the author of the modern
Queensland land administration and lease
system. A. G. Melville was Under-Sec-
retary to the department under the old
regime, and the junior member, Victor
Grenning, is a trained forestry expert
who won a Rhodes scholarship before
the war and represented the northern
State at Rugby Union football.
Only the retiring-age regulation pre-
vented James Macdonald from serving
half a century in the N. S. Wales Educa-
tion Department. He put in 49£ years,
and when he finished up at West Dapto
the other day citizens and ex-pupils gave
him a number of presentations. Most of
his time was spent on the South Coast;
he also had charge of schools in the
Braidwood district, and one at Mt. Cos-
tigan.
Centenarian William Clayton, of Adel-
aide, who was born in Manchester in
1833, has just died after living under
four monarchs. He came to Australia
as a youth, jumped off to America to
help run the Civil War, and returned in
time to assist in the erection of S.A.’s
telegraph system. Like many other
pioneers, he had his try at the Victorian
goldfields. He was a friend of Adam
Lindsay Gordon.
Thomas W. Skewes, during 50 years’
school-teaching in Victoria, schooled
four University professors, several doc-
tors and undertakers, many clergymen,
a notorious confidence man and an ex-
pert burglar. One of his pupils, he con-
fesses, has been hanged. Skewes, who
belongs to Colac, is probably the oldest
repertory actor in Australia ; he has been
associated with Gregan McMahon for
many years, and is now rehearsing for
one of McMahon’s productions at the
Melbourne Garrick.
M. G. Haymen, whose picture appears
herewith, is Queensland’s leading banker,
as much through the merit of his own
personality as through the g.m.-ship of
the Q.N. He has been with the bank
for more years than one cares to count
and had most of his training under Ral-
ston in the days when the institution
was being pulled out of the mess into
M. G. HAYMEN, general manager,
the Queensland National Bank.
which it had fallen during the crash of
1893. His level head was an asset to
Queensland when the Theodorians were
throwing things about and in the darkest
days of depression. Except that he is
a bigger man physically, he used to have
a striking likeness to another great busi-
ness man —Somerset Maugham, the
novelist —but it has been dissipated by
time.
The death of Nicholas Lockyer cuts
one of the last links with the days of
Brisbane and Bourke. His father. Major
of the 57th Regiment, a corps which was
evolved from a regiment in which Mac-
quarie served, was the Phillip of W.A.,
where he founded the first settlement on
Jan. 21, 1827. He also explored the
NICHOLAS LOCKYER, whose death
breaks a link with early Australia.
district back of Brisbane which, now a
chessboard of smiling farms, bears the
family name. Lockyer, junior, was born
in 1855, and entered the N. S. Wales
public service in 1868, when most of the
founders of the Constitution were still
flourishing. He knew all the great Aus-
tralians of the Wentworth-Parkes eras,
knew men who had talked with John
Macarthur, Collins, Phillip and Joseph
Banks, and an old lady whose father
had sailed with. Cook. He lived to hold
several high offices under the Common-
wealth —Comptroller of Customs, mem-
ber of the Inter-State Commission and
first Repatriation Commissioner were
among them. He retired from the public
service in 1920, and was knighted six
years later.
Dr. C. V. Brown, of Longreach (Q.),
deserves well of his country for his re-
search work in the interest of western
Queensland children, which the Queens-
land Director of Education says is the
most valuable yet done in the schools.
The Australian Council of Educational
Research and the Carnegie Trust have
granted him a sum of money to enable
him to continue his studies, which will
now cover 2300 children dotted over a
district which spans as wide as from
Winton to Jundah and Boulia to Bar-
caldine.
Walter Massy Greene, who is aban-
doning the Assistant-Treasurership of the
Commonwealth, was born under an un-
lucky political star, as are many men
whose fathers come out of Kilkenny.
Before he was cast out of the Reps, by the
Richmond (N.S.W.) electors whom he had
served for 11 years, he seemed to be one
of the natural heirs to the Prime Min-
istership, for which his ability qualified
him. But though he went into the Sen-
ate at an extraordinary election a few
months after the disaster, his heart has
never been in the job since, and he has
given himself more and more to business.
At 59, his health is not good, and he
seems well content to retire to the world
of board-rooms with a knighthood.
Greene is the only member of the Lyons
Ministry who is not an Australian native
—he is of Irish origin, but was born and
educated in London.


I
;<£cs<~
x^r.
33^
ssS
«*•
i^Jr
H
\
sli§
a
B ■
" - .<*
r /
HA
HEAT
RESISTING
|
**>
m
■
«»«
wv
S 3
si
5^
«W
SSK
ogg
SS&S
TRUCK AND
BUS OWNERS!
REDUCE YOUR PROFIT-EATING OVERHEADS
KEEP YOUR BUSES RUNNING TO SCHEDULE!
Barnet Glass Truck Tyres are built for one purpose only. With a tread of the
resiliency and strength of tempered steel... powerful armoured walls ... they definitely
resist the gruelling, biting wear of modern high-speed industrial and transport condi-
tions. By miles longer lasting, these amazing tyres substantially reduce overheads .. .
prevent truck owners time-losing delays ... help bus owners to keep moving strictly
to schedule —saving resultant loss of business through running late. Fit a set
and make a test yourself!
Barnet Glass
ARMOURED WALL
TRUCK TYRES
• . . CATERPiUAR TRACTION TREAD
MT18.FP.33


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the 'sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
A.RTHUK EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
economical processes for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Your Last Year’s Will
May Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. Y. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Call or Write for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Any Test Will Prove
PIONEER SUPERIORITY
In Australia’s leading industries
where transmission belting is
selected with the same care as
other sections of the plant you
will find Pioneer Belting giving
many years of efficient service.
When you buy Pioneer Belting
you immediately overcome
breakdowns, loss of power and
costly repairs.
10NEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St.. Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
Ju £ £ £
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ ~ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written oil old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 101,890 3,627,607
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,029,490
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
The efficiency and strength of the organ-
isation are reflected in last year’s profit.
Iron and steel are particularly suscep-
tible to slump, the greatest demand com-
ing from construction trades. The rail-
ways, however, are fairly consistent in
their custom. The co. is practically self-
contained, drawing coking-coal from its
own Newcastle pit, ironstone from Iron
Knob and Whyalla (S.A.), and limestone
from near Devonport (Tas.). Freight is
cheapened by the backloading of coal
in the co.’s own steamers, while inter-
locking share interests strengthen this
great Australian industrial undertaking
on the marketing side.
After three years of slow motion, the
big Newcastle steelworks responded to
a quickened demand last term ; though
only one of the three blast furnaces was
in operation (as in the three preceding
years), there was a remarkable recovery
in output of pig iron, steel ingots and
coke:—
1927. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Pig iron, tons .. 343,801 187,517 153,563 262,714
Steel ingots, tons 353,682 265,929 195,188 298,534
Coke, tons .. 350,865 129,109 167,160 268,033
Though still only 76.4 p.c. of the co.’s
1927 (peak) output, the outturn of pig
iron for the twelvemonth to May 31
was 71 p.c. greater than that of the
preceding year. Steel ingots were up
52.8 p.c., and coke 60.4 p.c.
There was a reduction in prices fol-
lowing a drop in the N.S.W. basic wage,
but the year’s sales, plus products on
hand, were more than half as much
again at £3,105,815 (up £1,067,007).
Manufacturing exes. (£2,467,166) were
£771,958 heavier; thus working profit
(£638,650) was £295,050 stronger. The
difference between gross earnings and
the amount available for dividends and
reserves is accounted for by the follow-
ing appropriations:
1929. 1932. 1933.
Depreciation .. .. £417,592 £252,590 £300,483
Office and other exes... 61,854 44,230 53,825
Debenture interest ~ 81,094 47,419 34,128
Income tax .. .. 45,710 25,000 40,000
£606,250 £369,239 £428,436
Thus net profit (£313,617) improved
£209,897, being equal to 10.5 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 3.4, 2.7, 5.4 and 12.3
p.c. in the four preceding terms. After
a hungry three years shareholders were
treated to a 10 p.c. div., and £14,846 was
carried to reserves, which were drawn
upon for £200,000 during the year to
write off old plant.
This table shows how the co. has
financed its business:
Paid All Other
May. Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
1918.. £475,402 £2,760,181 . £901,700 £801,730
1919.. 2,100,000* 2,255,280* 848,600 742,253
1923.. 2,455,048 2,867,643 1,962,200 598,399
1925.. 2,687,708 3,470,964 1,702,300 675,701
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1930. . 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922,469
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,353
1932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 , 889,788
1933.. 2,987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1,022,179
* £1,500,000 of reserves capitalised.
Features are the absence of preference
capital, and at present only a small
interest-bearing debt. The debentures
are being steadily reduced. The total
debt (£1,646,379) was £16,891 higher
when the accounts closed. But the
floating portion is well covered by
liquids and semi-liquids totalling
£1,412,612. Despite the installation of
the new Wilputte coke-ovens at a cost
of over £1,000,000 2\ years ago (they
are largely responsible for the reduction
in operating exes.), book value of the
undertaking has been kept at a moderate
figure:—
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. nient, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
1918.. £2,845,400 £113,288 £929,224 £760,323
1919.. 3,365,000 97,388 1,006,924 1,189,724
1923.. 5,698,279 249,546 705,132 943,213
1925.. 5,778,770 225,670 698,517 1,649,309
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
1929.. 5,243,725 407,797 512,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5,532,218 458,224 686,129 1,910,467
1931.. 5,491,632 462,453 514,063 1,787,332
1932.. 5,335,700 441,953 513,669 2,107,787
1933.. 5,222,846 425,555 488,965 2,093,480
In addition, the mine, etc., figures at £32,731.
The old mine at the Barrier remains
closed. The treatment-plant at Hannan’s
North, Kalgoorlie, was Operating con-
tinuously at the close of the year. The
last line of the table includes the co.’s
holding in associated and other enter-
prises, valued in the books at £1,149,833,
up £43,813.
In conjunction with Stewarts and«
Lloyds, of Glasgow, it is intended to
erect new works for the manufacture of
steel pipes and tubes. 8.H.P., in addi-
tion, is preparing to establish the tin-
plate industry in Australia.
Compared with the same period of last
year, during the first eight weeks of the
current financial term there was an im-
provement of 35.3 p.c. in the steelworks’
output of pig iron, and No. 2 blast fur-
nace is to be blown in. It is an encourag-
ing sign, not only for the Prop., but for
all construction trades. The revival in
demand for gold-mining equipment has
helped.
The market prices the shares at 375.
3d., as against 19s. 6d. a year ago. Re-
turn at the latest figure is 5.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1023 piovfd 1 4°%inl P -£15,0Z’ 650 } 36 > 356 783 ' 295
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 .. 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11.440 .. 685,085
1924 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) 92 652 777>737
Provident Fund, £5OOO )
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,851 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1,254,700
1931.. 99,820 4,, „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100,685
1933.. 105,279 4 ~ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
Australia’s record wool clip of 3,060,000
bales, sold at an average of 10s. Bd. a
bale higher than in the previous season,
brought £5,400,186 more into the coun-
try, but mostly in the shape of imported
goods. However, the wool grower had
more money in his pocket, though it went
out again very quickly in interest and
working charges. In S.A. the clip (262,062
bales) was 64,108 bales heavier, and the
grower benefited by an extra £757,018
(£2,604,963 altogether), but, as usual, the
price per bale (£9 18s. lOd.) was the
lowest of all the States.
Elder Smith handled a large portion
of the local clip, but gross profit, written
after providing for bad debts and strik-
ing off £B2BO for depreciation, was only
£23,680 better:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 .. 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1926 .. 1,756,800 f 652,260 438,202
1928 .. 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 .. 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
1932 .. 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 . . 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
‘lncludes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here,
tlneludes £229,650 of reserves capitalised from here.
Exes. (£339,458) were £21,100 heavier;
thus net profit (£105,279) was £2580
stronger, and the best showing since
1930. It was equal to 4:4 p.c. on capital
compared with 4.2, 4.1, 5.3 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The usual 4 p.c. was
handed to shareholders, and £9533 was
carried to reserves (£1,110,218). They
were tapped for £165,044 in the preced-
ing year to strengthen the co.’s shock-
absorbers, the inner reserves.
Balance-sheet figures, always sound,
showed further improvement last year:
1920. 1926. 1932. 1933.
Deposits, £ £ £ £
etc. .. 2,201,305 1,971,052 1,420,672 1,487,029
Other lia-
bilities . . 65,587 73,331 13,787 11,122
Property, pre-
mises, plant,
etc. . . 278,598 446,622 561,588 562,337
Q (i v eminent
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 1,284,421 857,309 1,168,058
A d v a nces,
etc. .. 2,016,536 3,110,943 3,784,245 3,582,443
Other assets 02,630 158,317 38,249 14,663
The most vulnerable item, advances
(£3,582,443), was worked down £201,802;
that’s where some of the gross profit
went. The debt (£1,498,151) was in-
creased £63,692, mainly to help add
£310,749 to the co.’s holding of Govern-
ment securities and cash (£1,168,058),
which includes £277,608 held on account
of the staff fund. Treating this fund as
a debt, outsiders could see 13s. 2d. per
£1 owing to' them in readily-realisable
securities at balance-day.
The £lO shares, paid to £6, are at £6
16s. on the market. They show 3.5 p.c.
at last year’s div. rate, and the backing
amounts to £8 15s. 7d. in net tangibles on
book values.
Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves, served
1923.. 168,721 8 p.c. = 195,660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ ~ 216,921 22,883 33,887
1925.. 232.918 8 „ „ 237,752 29,053
1926.. 259,169 8 „ „ 261,109 27,113
1927.. 291,913 8 „ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928.. 348,362 8 „ „ 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 8 „ „ 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 8 „ „ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6i „ „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
After a steady decline over three years,
gas sales (6377 million c. ft.) showed a
recovery of 150 million cubic feet last
term, and for the first time in the co.’s
history consumers number more than a
quarter-million. Gas sold for industrial
purposes was 23.5 p.c. greater than in
the previous year. Read in conjunction
with B. H. Pty.’s surprising performance,
the figures suggest that things have defi-
nitely taken a turn for the better. But
to shareholders the improvement in
sales at present means nothing more than
that the 6 p.c. div. (the maximum allowed
under the Lang Act) is safer than it was
last term, when reserves were drawn
upon to pay it.
Helped by the drop in the basic wage,
consumers benefited by a cut of 3d. per
thousand in the price last September, the
charge to the private user now being ss.
3d. per thousand. Though there was thus
a net drop of £29,576 in the co.’s total
revenue, it was more than offset by sav-
ings in exes. Exactly how the ss. 4d. per
thousand averaged for gas, and the pro-
portionate returns from residuals, etc.,
were spent or appropriated is shown in
this analysis of income and outgo:
, 1932 v 1933 N
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Gas.. ..£1,747,961 57i £1,698,682 54*
Residuals .. 177,222 6f 197,658 7*
Meter rents 51,670 2 50,937 if
Total .. £1,976,853 6 4 £1,947,277 6 1*
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. £1,182,527 3 9* £1,140,287 3 7
Other charges 203,772 7i 206,639 7-f
Interest . . 135,736 5-1 122,188 4*
Special purposes 200,171 7J 193,715 7|
Total outgo. £1,722,206 5 6* £1,662,829 5 2*
Though the drop in revenue was equal
to 2}d. per 1000 c.f. of gas sold, the sav-
ing in exes, was 3Jd.; thus on every 1000
c.f. there was the equivalent of an extra
penny for dividends and reserves. The
only feature of the table that the man-
agement and shareholders are not likely
to be pleased about is the reduction in
the amount appropriated to special pur-
poses and depreciation fund. Under the
Lang Government’s Gas Act the co. is
allowed to set aside only 3 p.c. p.a. (3£
p.c. under the old Act) of the capital
outlay on buildings and plant for this
purpose. Should it not prove sufficient
to provide for wear, tear and obsoles-
cence on the assets concerned it will
mean over-capitalisation and a high price
for gas at some future date.
During the year a large programme of
plant- and mains-replacement was car-
ried out. A fourth water-gas plant is
also being installed. Steel pipes are being
replaced with cast-iron mains, which
have been found cheaper and more
durable. After charging an unspecified
portion of this expenditure to re-
venue, book value of the undertaking
(£6,608,347) moved up only £37,087 dur-
ing the year, and the debt (£2,758,523,
including £2,100,000 of debentures) was
£69,657 heavier. Sundry debtors were
£25,991 higher at £100,988 —the bad
debts problem is improving—while stocks
(£258,724) were practically unchanged.
Including suspense accounts, but leaving
out staff fund investments, cash and
public securities totalled £543,483 at
balance-day.
At £7 ss. the £6 shares show 5 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Johns and Waygood, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 15,549 12* p.c. = 12,375 3,174 6,084
1921.. 18,604 12* „ „ 13,750 4,854 10,938
1922.. 35,542 15 „ „ 26,558 8,984 19,922
1923.. 28,224 17* „ „ 24,062 4,162 24,084
1924.. 26,619 17* „ „ 24,063 2,556 24,640
1925.. 19,384 12* „ „ 17,188 2,196 28,836
1926.. 34,644 20 „ „ 27,500 7,144 35,980
1927.. 40,735 20 „ „ 27,500 13,235 49,215
Reserves capitalised, £45,834 .. 3,381
1928.. 52,867 20 p.c. = 36,667 16,200 19,581
1929.. 35,062 17* „ „ 32,083 2,979 22,560
1930.. 47,523 17* „ „ 32,084 15,439 37,999
1931.. 19,349 10' „ „ 18,333 1,016 39,015
1932.. 13,796 10 „ „ 18,333 34,478
1933.. 13,651 7* „ „ 13,750 34,379
Income equal to 2.2 p.c. on capital
from outside the business and 5.2
p.c. from trading satisfied all but a frac-
tion of the 7\ p.c. div., which is 2j p.c.
less than the previous year’s. A busi-
ness of this kind needs to be well-
handled indeed these days to show any
profit at all. Following the war profits
mounted with the wave of building
activity, and the impetus given in the
boom period kept earnings up even in
1930, when 26 p.c. on capital was ex-
hibited.
Stagnation was fully felt in 1932.
However, after a drop of £17,246 in gross
earnings that term, there was a strength-
ening of £579 in the figure, (£37,918) ex-
hibited last year. Returns (£4053) from
investments were £343 lower, and exes.
(£28,320) were £382 heavier; thus the
net result was £145 lighter at £13,651.
Melbourne suburban building activity
has picked up considerably, but it is big
city jobs, with structural steel fabrica-
tion, that Johns and Waygood look for,
and early recovery in earnings is not
likely.
Strong finances should enable the co.
to reap the benefit of any improvement
in trade:
1929 1931. 1932 1933.
Paid capital. . £183,334 £183,334 £183,334 £183,334
Liabilities .. 19,814 3,732 8,411 9,745
Freeholds .. 27,944 29,161 30,304 30,228
Plant, etc. .. 22,698 22,163 19,944 18,462
Stocks .. 103,691 72,546 73,619 70,852
Book debts .. 33,462 14,733 13,480 18,991
Cash, etc. .. 63,745 102,643 101,794 99,301
Plant (£18,462, down £1482) is in the
books at £7993 less than in 1908, and
represents a very low valuation compared
with the co.’s normal earning power.
Lumped together, fixed assets total
only £48,690.
Including stocks (£70,852, down £2767)
the more or less liquid surplus (£179,399)
was £lOB3 lighter. Visible cover for the
scrip amounts to £1 3s. 10d., about 18s.
9d. of it in surplus liquids. Of the
£183,334 of capital, £73,334 represents
bonus scrip, which makes last year’s dis-
tribution equal to 12j p.c. to old holders.
To purchasers at 31s. shares return 4.9
p.c.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold. Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates’
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold. Silver or Copper ’
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone)
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Companv’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype/ Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange and will settle in full withip seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
HIGH AND LOW
Share-market influences discussed.
Are stocks worth present prices?
Wool and Share Prices.
The June 30 balance sheets are coming
out now.
The wool sales are on.
Metal prices are rising.
If you are interested in these things,
you can’t afford to miss this month’s
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
SEPTEMBER ISSUE ON SALE
SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEE ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS: .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 18,071 8 p.c. = 10,389 3,682 29,000
1923.. 27,803 10 „ ~14,609 8,194 34,000
1924.. 40,170 12* „ ~ 23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 12* „ „ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ „ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 „ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ „ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12* „ ~ 37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 „ „ 23,908 7,259 93,000
1932.. 21,365 7 „ „ 20,920 93,445
1933.. 20,924 7 „ „ 20,920 93,449
The beer trade in southern and west-
ern Queensland is largely in the hands
of this co. and Castlemaine-Perkins, the
latter concern holding the lion’s share.
Though thus favored to a large extent,
and notwithstanding that the trade is re-
puted to hold well in bad times, the con-
traction in the public’s spending power
has been so great and taxation so heavy
that the gross earnings of the co. have
dropped from £214,397 in 1926 to
£138,384 (after taking stock at £7140
higher) last year, when the shrinkage was
£5096. Exes., including provision for
bad debts—the directors believe that all
contingencies have been provided for —
were £4655 lighter at £117,461. Thus
the drop in net earnings (£20,924) was
£441, and though the 7 p.c. div. was
maintained, only £4 was left for reserves
(£93,449, excluding £40,973 earmarked
for contingencies). In the four preceding
years the declared results were enough
to pay 7.1, 10.4, 13.2 and 14.7 p.c. re-
spectively on capital.
Towards the close of accounts the
directors noted some improvement in
trade, which had been very slow during
the term. For over 30 years it was a
small concern, paying moderate divs. on
a capital which amounted to only
£83,975 in 1919. But Perkins’s faded
ingloriously out, and the two remaining
breweries collared the trade. Thus over
the seven years to 1926 the Queensland
put on £214,876 of new capital by par
issues. Divs. are shown in the intro-
ductory table.
The new capital went mainly into the
Brisbane and Toowoomba breweries and
hotels ; it was also used to strengthen
the co.’s trade in N.Q., where the Mel-
bourne C.U.B. is well established. The
reduction in the outside debt and
amounts owing to co. over the past six
years suggests a process of consolida-
tion:—
1920. 1927. 1931. 1932. 1933.
£ .£ £ £ £
capital.. 112,500 298,851 298,851 298,851 298,851
Liabilities 31,476 257,141 125,084 97,379 103,460
Fixed assets 73,043 305,824 289,844 286,433 308,614
Stock .. 44,795 89,790 92,674 77,055 84,195
Book debts 45,804 276,058 186,338 167,862 145,477
Cash, etc. 9,846 5,485 8,265 8,265 8,907
Last year’s drop of £22,385 in debtors
(£145,477) was due to bad debts provi-
sion and slackness in trade. During the
year £22,181 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off; this was
mainly responsible for a contraction of
£20,484 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£135,119, including stocks).
At 265. 3d. the market buys net tan-
gibles with an equal book value (exclud-
ing contingencies reserve), and shows a
return of 5.3 p.c. on its investment,
assuming that the 7 p.c. remains un-
altered.
Bellambi Coal Co.
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923*. , 19,241 10 p.c. = 13,333 5,908 5,908
1924.. 55,266 10 „ „ 40,000 15,266 21,174
1925.. 56,369 10 „ ~ 40,000 16,369 37,543
1926.. 41,119 7* „ „ 30,000 11,119 48,662
1927.. 56,194 10 „ „ 40,000 16,194 64,856
Profit on sale of assets, £6OOO .. 70,856
1928.. 40,450 10 p.c. = 40,000 450 71,306
1929.. 51,153 12i „ „ 50,000 1,153 72,459
Capital returned, £200,000
1930.. 30,945 15 p.c. = 30,000 945 73,404
1931.. 22,506 10 „ „ 20,000 2,506 75,910
Capital returned, £70,000
1932.. 4,629 2\ p.c. = 5,000 - 75,539
1933. . 5,736 3.8 „ „ 5,000 736 76,275
*Four months.
Working one of the solidest colliery
propositions in the Commonwealth, this
co. has been able to return 13s. 6d. per
£1 share in cash over the past four years,
thus revealing a financial position much
stronger than the accounts had suggested,
and liquid assets in excess of the book
value of mine and plant.
The colliery is well equipped and handy
to the waterfront, bunkering connections
are of the best, management is right,
while labor conditions are more satisfac-
tory than at Maitland. Southern coal
is not suitable for gas-making, but is an
excellent steam coal. During the fight
on the northern coalfield Bellambi and
its neighbors made hay. Div. climbed
from 10 p.c. in 1928 to 124 p.c. and
15 p.c. in the next two years; then
work was resumed in the north, coal
prices fell, and so did Bellambi’s profits.
But last term they were a little better,
the amount exhibited being equal to 4.4
p.c. on capital, compared with 2.3, 11.2
and 15.4 p.c. in the three preceding years.
Div. rate was 3.8 p.c., as against 24 p.c.
in 1932.
In the past the co. has been a great
money-spinner. But the outlook has
changed vastly. Shipping activity, both
coastal and overseas, has slipped con-
siderably, while most new ships built are
motor-vessels or oil-burners.
The co. keeps details of finances as
much to itself as possible, but balance-
sheet movements suggest that profits were
not over-estimated last term:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £200,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities .. 72,000 04,302 65,435 03,303
Mine property,
steamers, in-
v e s tments,
etc. .. 538,759 324,741 262,736 248,351
Book debts .. 31,304 17,890 8,925 10,902
Cash.. .. 4,997 7,575 4,313 9,325
Mine, railway, plant, freeholds, steamers,
stocks and investments are lumped to-
gether at £248,351 (down £14,385).
Debtors moved up £7977, indicative of
some recovery in trade. The colliery and
fleet have been thoroughly maintained,
the board says, and the profit was written
after providing for taxation, depreciation
and contingencies.
For the 6s. 6d. shares, backed by net
tangibles with a book value of 10s. 4d.,
the market pays ss. 6d. Return at that
figure is 4.5 p.c. on last year’s div. basis.
The seers in North Queensland are
wondering what is going to happen to
Chillagoe Government Smelters if Herbert
Gepp recommends a smelter at Clon-
curry to use up the 5 p.c. ores there
that are too low-grade for Chillagoe
treatment. And Cloncurry is keeping
the smelter open, for July returns showed
that 1368 tons of ore was forwarded,
which gave the gougers 216 tons of
copper (15 p.c. ore) and pickings in
silver and gold. Anyhow', E. N. Goode,
who has just taken the smelter over from
Cliff Rutledge, has a three-year term in
his pocket.
* * * *
Mention was made in this column re-
cently of George Goody and his good-
luck claim at Calliope, near Gladstone
(C.Q.). George and his mate sold a half-
share to a Rockhampton syndicate, mem-
bers of which went out with the Mining
Warden recently and in his presence took
out two sugar-bags of ore which, when
washed up in trough and dish, returned
over 350 z. of gold, worth £242. The
gold shoot occurs in a pocket of quartz
rubble and clay, and to a depth of
seven feet only this has yielded the
prospectors over £lOOO worth of gold
already. Apparently there is plenty more
to come, for it looks to be going down.
Slugs up to five ounces are sometimes
found in the workings.
* * * *
The Canberra Tin Mine at Herberton
(N.Q.) changed hands last year when
prices were low. It has proved gilt-edged
for its new owner, a Herberton business
man ; it has kept up a steady stream
of high-grade crushings, while the price
of concentrates has nearly doubled. The
last 29 tons of ore produced 64 tons of
concentrates, value £llOO, so that the
ore was worth nearly £4O a ton. This
is from a shallow depth. The pipe of ore
is going down strongly.
* * * *
After installing an up-to-date plant,
consisting of a 10-head battery of 10001 b.
stamps in two units, ore-breaker, com-
pressors, classifiers, etc., building a con-
crete dam, and laying tramlines to the
various tin lodes, spending all told some
£BOOO, Carpenter Creek Tin Mines, Ltd.,
Stanthorpe (Q.), has been compelled to
close down “temporarily” owing to in-
ability to find further capital. Tributors
working dredges in the district have won
224 tons of tin, worth £3516, over the
last three months, and stream-tinners col-
lected about six tons, worth £750.
* * * *
A new co., Nukenindah Mines, N.L.,
has secured a 12 months’ working option
over a gold-arsenic find at Nukenindah,
in the Nanango (Q.) district The lode has
been traced for three miles, and a bulk
parcel of 3 tons Bcwt. on analysis showed
13.40 z. of high-grade arsenic and lldwt.
of gold to the ton, equal to £8 per ton
of ore. There has been no arsenic ore
raised in Queensland since 1927 ; from
1917 to 1927 production totalled 4251
tons, valued at approximately £124,100.
* H= * *
Mining engineer O. J. Carlson is
carrying out extensive prospecting work
on behalf of Commonwealth Mines Pre-
liminary Syndicate (London) on its
10,000-acre concession on the old Wool-
gar goldfield, 82 miles n.e. of Richmond
(N.Q.). The area is at the head of the
Woolgar River, and takes in, among
others, the old Perseverance, Soap Spar,
Chicago, Blue Jacket and Parson reefs.
Up to 1895 the Perseverance yielded
5000 oz. gold, worth £21,000, from 6500
tons of stone, while the Soap Spar re-
turned 13040 z., worth £5500, from 900
tons. The others were also good pro-
ducers. The field has been idle since the
’nineties.
❖ :J< :1c »{c
Lake Views have been one of the
Australian gold-share features on the
London market during the past few
weeks. Co. has already declared three
interim divs. of 6d. each for the year
ended June 30, and the final in Novem-
ber or December is expected to be at
least as much. Gross working profit
for the 12 months is estimated by one
London financial journal at £435,925. It
allows £135,925 for depreciation, admini-
strative expenses, etc., and gives £300,000
as the net profit. The three interim divi-
dends will absorb £202,500, leaving a
balance of £97,500. This, it is suggested,
would enable the payment of a final div.
of 6d. a share, with a balance of
£30,000 to carry forward. It is further
suggested that on the basis of the
monthly profits made since the close of
the year, which are at the rate of
£480,000 p.a., divs. aggregating 3s. 6d.
per share may be paid in respect of
1933-34.
❖ * * *
South Kalgurli shareholders can’t com-
plain. After many regular 25 p.c. divs ,
the payment for 1931-32 was sweetened
by a 25 p.c. bonus, making ss. per 10s.
share. The same amount has just been
paid for last year, but a capital repay-
ment of 2s. 6d. last December makes this
distribution equal to 66 2-3 p.c. A further
capital return of 2s. 6d. a share was
authorised at the recent annual meeting,
when chairman Marker intimated that
after making the payment there would still
be in cash and its equivalent practically
the same amount as after the. first capi-
tal return. After appropriating £26,000
to write off the remainder of property
account, a strong balance sheet results.
Other fixed assets had previously been
written down to £l, so that the whole of
the assets disclosed in the accounts are
liquid. In dealing with the year’s de-
velopment the chairman said that it
had not, on the whole, been productive
of any substantial result. Tonnage and
reserves had been fairly well maintained,
but the grade was down and seemed
likely to fall further. Consequently, like
most others of the bigger gold-mining
concerns operating in the West, the co.
must rely on the profits on exchange and
gold premium, failing any important
discovery.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder’s remarkable perform-
ances: Production to end of 1932,
4,419,858 fine oz.; profits, £7,668,173 ;
dividends, £6,173,466; boring done, 12
miles ; development work, 33 miles.
t- * * *
In the Stevenson’s shaft at Temora
(N.S.W.), 200 ft. level, values go 7dwt.
over 15in. in the winze (100 ft. south).
In the east crosscut a bulk sample went
4dwt. On the 260 ft. level 16dwt. values
were obtained, but the results generally
appear to be patchy. The north drive
has been extended to 171 ft. ; the 33-inch
reef gives low values.
He * *
For the quarter ended June 30 Tas-
mania’s mineral output was valued at
£254,301, biggest returns coming from
copper, 2207 tons (value £83,847); tin,
228 tons (£42,964); cement, 11,972
(£41,902); coal, 29,915 tons (£22,876);
and carbide, 1140 tons (£22,808). Silver
yielded 134,1790 z. (£11,374); gold,
£8076 ; and osmiridium, £1458. In addi-
tion, the E.Z. Co. recovered 13,559 tons
zinc, valued at £279,435, and 40 tons of
cadmium (£5600) from other-than-Tas.
ores.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) In what part of Africa is the Komata
Reefs G.M. Co.’s mine ? (2) What was the
cause of the recent rise in the value of shares ?
(3) Is the co. on paying ore ? —7629.
(1) Komata Reefs is not a South African
but a London co., which had a property in
M.L. and still has a share register in Auckland.
The M.L. holdings were realised in 1915, and
the co.’s chief assets now are shares in West-
ralian g.-m. cos. (2) Cannot say; probably due
to increased values in Westralian holdings. (3)
Can t say.
(1) What is the value of virgin platina ? (2)
Where could 1 procure it in Newcastle ? (3)
What is it generally used for ? (4) Where could
1 obtain a crucible in Newcastle ? —7424.
(1) Virgin platina is an old name for native
platinum. The price is subject to fluctuations,
the latest quotation available being £7 15s. per
oz. (2) The metal is not likely to be procurable
in Newcastle; supplies should be obtainable from
Harrington’s, Ltd., 386 George-street, Sydney,
or Garrett and Davidson, Regent-street, Sydney.
(3) The refined metal is used in the electrical
trade for the manufacture of contact points
and electrodes, in the chemical industry for
making acid- and heat-resisting vessels, and also
as a catalyst. A certain amount, which fluctu-
ates with the dictates of fashion, is also used
for jewellery. (4) From H. B. Selby and Co.,
Bulletin-place, Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Ltd., 35
Bligh-street, Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.C.F.: No. 1 has the best prospects, and
you are certain of a run for your money. Nos.
2 and 3 are very speculative T.J.H.: No
information... .C.McC.: (1) No. (2) Ask for
paid-up policy... .8.C.: Sorry, can’t tip
Ambitious: There is no guarantee of more than
bank interest, as co. has paid no div. for some
time. Shares have possibilities as a spec. Inter-
colonial Invest, paid 5 p.c. last year, and has
possibilities... ,A.S.: Mt. Coolon and perhaps
Granites Devel. But both are gambles....
H.E.S.: (1) Berlei, David Jones, Morris Hed-
strom. (2) Howards, United Provisions, Inter-
colonial Invest., Morris Hedstrom, Aust. Securi-
ties, David Jones, and perhaps McWhirters....
R.D.D.: You can keep on paying or ask for a
paid-up policy. If you can get the latter (write
to the office) it is the better proposition....
G.A.J.: Compounds are now at 18s. If they re-
cover to what you paid, sell. Cannot offer advice
otherwise F.E.J.: Stay where you are....
G. 8.: (1) It’s the net cost of insurance that
counts. (2) It was the A.M.P. or National
Mutual... .A.8.C.: (1) Mt. Coolon. (2), (3) and
(4) Don’t know enough about them W.C.:
Leave them alone. There isn’t (or wasn’t) a
sugar man on the board... .P.K.: Write to us
when you have something more concrete to
analyse... .E.J.P. andH.T.N.: Leave them alone.
....P.J.K.: Taxed on profits only F.R.:
(1) Can’t say more than is told by these pages
from time to time. (2) Answer would be guess-
work. (3) If mining shares, more guesswork.
(4) A spec, with possibilities. Shares (10s.)
paid to Is., but it may be a N.L. show.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“Hindle Wakes,” at Melb. Majestic, is
a Gainsborough version of a stage play
written 25 years ago which terrified the
censors of the day into paroxysms of
moral indignation. The audience on Satur-
day surveyed it with the unshaken calm of
a church congregation with lottery tickets
in their pockets listening to a sermon on
the wickedness of State-aided gambling.
The film is minus some of the most sig-
nificant dialogue, but plus some impres-
sive spectacular atmosphere relevant to
the Lancashire cotton-weaving industry.
It retains much of the vitality of the
original, which, incidentally, was done by
Beresford Fowler in Melbourne some
years ago. The ability of the camera for
conveying emotion without words when
there is an intelligent person behind and
in front of it is well exemplified in the
parts where Sybil Thorndike, as a cotton-
weaver’s wife, rams home to Belle Chry-
stall the necessity of taking opportunity
by the forelock by forcing the rich young
man who has spent a week-end with her
to marry her. Edmund Gwenn, as the
cotton-weaver father, concerned more
with his daughter’s happiness than her
social advancement and moral salvation,
is another bit of brilliant characterisa-
tion, as also are the cotton-weaver be-
come rich man and his wife become
snob, whose actor-names have slipped
present critic’s memory. Well rendered
also is the counterpoint of motives and
emotions in the fire scene where, the
girl’s future having been arranged for her
by her elders, she explodes a mine of
unexpected and unconventional personal
values by declaring she has no intention
of marrying her paramour simply be-
cause she had “a bit of foon” with him.
A pity that such a fine picture, full of
observed human nature, should be pro-
vided with a happy ending, but no doubt
this is a trade necessity.
“Yes, Mr. Brown,” is an engaging
paraphrase of the engaging “Sunshine
Susie,” set, too, in Vienna, with plenty
of fine girls in it and lightweight music ;
very warm and good-humored stuff, like
a smooth liqueur after a solid dinner.
Vera Pearce and Jack Buchanan are in it.
“Destination Unknown,” at the Hay-
market, is “The Passing of the Third-
floor Back” with a sea-setting.
A rum-runner, leaking, with masts,
captain and mates gone overboard in a
gale, drifts becalmed. Armed bootleggers,
led by Pat O’Brien, keep the rest of the
crew off the one barrel of water. This
is burst open by the money-mad bos’n
(Alan Hale), who has discovered water
in the cook’s galley. They can’t shoot
him, for he alone can bring the ship to
land when wind comes. Thirst-maddened,
they are broaching the liquor cargo when
a mysterious Stowaway, Ralph Bellamy,
appears. He discovers to them that casks
of alleged claret contain water, and that
water-logged wood, jambing, has stopped
the leak ; and he reconciles O’Brien to
Betty Compson, who had spent most of
her time hiding from O’Brien. A wind
comes and the Stowaway steers, but the
ship is piled up. The ex-desperadoes,
healed, regenerated, safe, stand on shore
in the dawnlight and watch the ship with
its naughty cargo sink. Only then they
notice that the Stowaway has dis-
appeared.
After which “Rustler’s Round-up” with
Tom Mix —poor old Tom Mix.
¥ * *
“Radio Parade” at the Plaza consists
of vaudeville teams with or without music.
Florence Desmond is perhaps the bright-
est of the Bright Spots. She portrays
in turn hostess and guests—Durante,
Garbo, Bankhead, Gracie Fields —at
“Janet Gaynor’s Hullywood Par-rty.”
Stainless Stephen, as a railway porter,
ruins his patter act by noisily catch-
ing parcels as he makes his points.
Elsie and Doris Waters are amusing as
marketing gossips.
The stars of “The Hawleys of High-
street” are Leslie Fuller and Amy
Veness. Fuller, a comedian of the same
genus as our George Wallace, is a High-
street draper ; Amy is his better seven-
eighths. Sydney Girl Judy Kelly is their
daughter.
# * *
Katharine Hepburn, of -“Christopher
Strong,” at the Regent,'is about the only
film actress of her years that this critic
has encountered who can play-a char-
acter-part. Her Cynthia is an English
girl who has been too interested in air
stunts to notice men. Then she meets
Sir Christopher Strong (Colin Clive), who
has been happily married for 20 years,
and they fall in love. The girl is reck-
less, vigorous, happy; the man is re-
served, deeply interested in his Parlia-
mentary work, still devoted in many
(1) Katharine Hepburn in “Christopher
Strong” (Regent), (2) Wallace Beery and
(3) Marie Dressier in “Tugboat Annie”
(St. James), (4) Fairbanks, jun., and Bette
Davis in “Parachute Jumper” (Capitol).
FILM FACES AT SYDNEY SHOWS.
ways to his wife. A difficult situation,
and the author disposes of it by an
obvious device.
There are others, but though they
act well enough they don’t really
matter. The Hepburn holds the stage,
even when she is silent.
In “Strictly Personal” the personalities
are an escaped convict and his wife, an
innocent lass, and a blackmailer. The
wife runs “The Lonely Hearts’ Club.”
Enter the blackmailer. There are two
murders before the slick young reporter
—inseparable from Hollywood d rammers
of this type —folds the gyurl in his arms.
“Tugboat Annie,” at the St. James,
is just another pathetically-humorous
film", with Marie Dressier trying to make
the best of her lovable but boozy and
generally useless spouse, Wallace Beery.
Robert Young, their boy, becomes
master of a liner, and gets fed up with
his dad, but Marie sticks to the old
waster, and does it as naturally as any
wife would. Of course, Wallace gets a
chance to make good, and, of course, he
takes it.
A storm is driving Robert’s liner on
the rocks. Marie takes charge of the
tug and manages to get a line aboard.
But the tug has leaky boilers. Beery
mends them, is badly burnt, becomes a
hero and is acclaimed as such by his son.
Marie is a winsome old character at
any time, and no living mummer can
teach Beery anything about the art of
making a drunk in underwear seem
humorous. There’s another character,
too, though she makes little difference
to the story: Maureen O’Sullivan. She
plays Robert’s sweetheart.
The rest of the programme consists of
shorts —a Zasu Pitts-Thelma Todd
comedy, a color get-up of nursery
rhymes and a Maoriland travelogue.
* * *
At Sydney Capitol is “The Past of
Mary Holmes” (R.K.0.). Rex Beach,
who once upon a time was the Ameri-
can equivalent of Hall Caine, supplied
the plot. Even Helen MacKellar, who
has almost everything a playwright
could require in a middle-aged role, can-
not make the story convincing.
Mary Holmes was an opera singer who,
as Madame di Nardi, mistress of an en-
trepreneur, achieved fame. When her
son was born her voice and her lover
deserted her, and she farmed pigs and
took to gin. Son rose superior to his en-
vironment, though his mother hated him ;
the youth became an “artist” (sort un-
specified) ; was able to run round in
a smart sports roadster, and thus met
an actress (Jean Arthur), who, like son’s
mamma, was her manager’s mistress.
When pure love dawned the affair was
off, and to keep it that way the manager
was shot by the sentimental old keeper
of the stagedoor. Importation of senti-
ment in this direction deserves a tall
monument. Ex-opera-singer mamma
gives a lot of fake evidence to get her-
self into the news, and professes herself
horrified to find it implicates son. It all
comes right, the doorkeeper confessing.
At the finish the old opera singer burns
down her shack, starting the blaze with
her press-cuttings, her photographs, her
letters from admirers, and an old phono-
graph record of her voice. She saves
a pair of baby shoes from the holo-
caust, and sobs are in order.
“The Parachute Jumper,” on the same
bill, is a sort of bowdlerised version of
the De Maupassant story of the young
lady who lived on a houseboat. As Bette
Davis remarks, in the character of Miss
Brent, stenog., if a girl needs a job these
days she has to make the grade. She
and the two ex-Flying Corps men with
whom she makes her domicile achieve
employment in the bootlegging and dope-
running industry, and exactly how they
get out of it without suffering long terms
of imprisonment is one of those mys-
teries created possible by the difficulty
of understanding the American language
when it is very rapidly spoken, and pos-
sibly by the activities of Mr. Creswell
O’Reilly. The flying stuff is an ingenious
combination of fakes and realities, and
Bill Keller, impersonated by the younger
Fairbanks, proves himself a chip off the
old block.
Sundry Shows
If F. W. Thring maintains the form
struck at his initial intrusion into legit.,
“Clara Gibbings,” at Melb. Garrick, he
will earn the gratitude of playgoers.
Aimee and Philip Stuart get some
of their laughs by the simple pro-
cess of inverting psychology, but there
is rippling comedy in the play, together
with sound drama and genial satire of
war-time aristocratic London, which
“when it is found in somebody else’s bed-
room, blames the air raids.” This is one
of the lines put in the mouth of Clara
Gibbings, a barmaid who, learning that
she is the daughter of a belted earl by a
former marriage, bursts into the family
circle, sees herself as an embryo duchess,
and bolts back to the pub, after having
upset everybody’s applecart. The key-
note of the McMahon production was
the general excellence of the characterisa-
tion of the local players. The two best
bits of acting were that of Campbell
Copelin, as a more or less sound upper
storey of the social pyramid, and Ruby
May, as the unspoiled product of the
basement. Copelin displayed a restrained
and finished artistry and Miss May was
excellent all through, but more so when
she submitted to the urge to become a
duchess. Adelaide Repertorian Noel Boyd
showed a tendency to overload with
pathos the part of Copelin’s mistress, but
was otherwise impressive. Nellie Mor-
tyne, Countess of Drumoor, rushed at the
last moment into a vacancy caused by the
illness of Beatrice Day and filled it. Pat-
rick Hamilton’s high-class drama, “Rope,”
with Frank Harvey in the leading role,
will be Efftee Films’ next production.
* * *
One of the high-lights of Sydney’s
Music Week was the A.B.C. orchestral
concert at the Town Hall. The com-
mission presented an orchestra and a
choir which wouldn’t discredit any city
of the Empire. Three Australian works
figured on the programme, each con-
ducted by its composer. Alfred Hill’s
“Hinemoa” cantata has been heard be-
fore in Sydney, but it has never been
quite so charmingly done. Maggie Teyte
was Hinemoa ; Tudor Davies was Tiki,
and a Maori ‘maid with a very pleasant
voice represented the priestess. Lindley
Evans’s “Australian Symphony” (choir
and orchestra) is melodious, well-bal-
anced, simple and direct in style, and
works up to a satisfying climax. Fritz
Hart’s symphonic suite, “The Bush,” is
the effort of a composer with every re-
source of modern orchestral technique at
his finger-tips to express the spirit of
our “eucalyptered cloisterdom.” As Brun-
ton Stephens went on to say, it is “any-
thing but gay.” At first hearing Mr.
Hart’s conception of the bush doesn’t
seem likely to arouse many responsive
emotions in the breast of the average
Australian ; the sophisticated musical ear
finds in it echoes that seem to come from
sources 12,000 miles away. But that,
perhaps, is not a fair criticism. Grainger,
in an explanation of his “Colonial
Song,” describes certain musical attributes
that he considers characteristically Aus-
tralian, and Mr. Hart seems to have
come to very similar mental conclusions.
Possibly none of us would know our
own soul if we had it presented to us
in any of the idioms of art. For the
composer’s fertility of ideas and the
adroitness of his orchestration there can
be nothing but praise, while the perform-
ance of the orchestra in other mediums
gave confidence that it was interpreting
the score intelligently and sympathetic-
ally.
* * *
Sydney’s Eisteddfod culminated in a
blaze of choral and vocal solo glory at
the Town Hall on Saturday night. The
programme was a tremendously long one,
and it was after midnight when it was
announced that a Sydney choir —Richard
McClelland’s students —had won the
City of Sydney Inter-State Choral Cham-
pionship. Eight choirs competed, includ-
ing representatives from Melbourne and
Brisbane. All sang Gustav Holst’s setting
of the 148th Psalm and Alfred Hill’s
“To Music” (the latter unaccompanied),
and added an “own-choice” piece by
some living British composer. The win-
ners chose Granville Bantock’s “Lepre-
chaun.” General standard was high, and
comparable with that of the finest choirs
from abroad that have visited this
country. Opera aria championships also
went to Sydney singers, and a Melbourne
adjudicator said that the level of talent
in this section was higher than at Bal-
larat, so the audience and the competi-
tors went home feeling that if it hadn’t
done anything else the Eisteddfod had
wiped out the legend that the Ma State
isn’t musical.
* * *
Steuart Wilson, English tenor, delighted
a moderate audience at Melb. Town
Hall with glorious renderings of songs
from Schubert’s “Maid of the Mill” and
plunged it into the blackest gloom by
singing modern lyrics and folksongs,
admirably devised to conceal the quality
of the voice of any singer. Australian
pianist Marshall Sumner played a Scar-
latti piece interestingly. His modern
group was listened to with more polite-
ness than enthusiasm, the audience feel-
ing too close to it to see it in perspec-
tive, though where there was recognisable
melody in it the executant responded
brilliantly.
* # *
Joe Marks, a Semitic comedian from
America, is the latest reinforcement at
Melb. Tivoli. Marks is a small, hard-
working wisecracker whose foil is the
inevitable tall, metallic blonde with a
voice of poignantly arresting quality.
The quickness of the turn conceals its
worst defects. The rest of the bill is
satisfactory vaudeville, with some excel-
lent ballets, presented against more than
usually elaborate scenery.
* * *
The chief objection present writer has
to that Viennese pasty “Fair Exchange, ’
at Melb. Palace, is that with 15 inches of
snow on the ground within 20 miles of
the city, Theo Shall’s slow-motion dumb-
show acting as a spectable is unseason-
able. A little dumbbell exercise would
liven up the show, and the sight of beads
of perspiration on the actor’s brow would
help the audience to forget its rheu-
matism.


Qu f theOmskilling TIN
of Cork tipped. Cigarettes
Why break into a two-shilling piece when one
shilling gives you all the cigarettes you need at any
one time--14 fragrant Country Life Cigarettes, in
the compact purse-and-vest-pocket-fitting tin.
PHOTOS. OF FILM STARS IN EVERY TIN.
Country
life
3
14 for V-
-11 jor Vq
Also in Tins of SO, 100
and 150. Also 50s, Round
Air-tight Tins.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lucerne Flea”: Paddy the shearer
was never stuck for a reply. He found
that he had caught the cobbler, as far
as wrinkles went, and tried to make up
for it by blind slashing, with the result
that he sliced one of the wrinkles right
off. Old Woolbale happened to be stand-
ing beside the classer when that particu-
lar fleece was thrown on the table, and
with a scowl he picked out the lump of
skin and opened it. It was bigger than
the palm of his hand. Muttering to him-
self he walked down the board and held
it under Paddy’s nose. “Look at this,
you butcher!” he roared. Paddy took
it, cleaned the wool off with a few flicks
of the blades, then lifted up his oilstone,
laid the piece of skin down on the shelf
and put the oilstone back on it. “Thanks,
boss,” he said as he bent once more over
the sheep he was barbering ; “I was want-
in’ a bit o’ hide to stand me stone on.”
# * *
“Gulliver”: Quite the most enlivening
brew I have ever sampled was distilled
from blackboys ( Xanthorrhoea australis )
by a Westralian sheepman on whose
place I was employed as tutor. The
SARAH: “And to think Dave made it all out of butter-boxes!”
DAD: “Wonder wot ’e’d be like on a pianner.”
old chap usually changed the subject
when people became curious, but I gath-
ered that the still was the product of his
own ingenuity and information culled
from an ancient scientific encyclopedia,
Except for a slight flavor of burnt cork
it could hardly be distinguished from the
genuine product of Scotia. It had a
bite like an Alsatian’s, and many a merry
evening we spent under its cheering in-
fluence. One dark day I was tutoring
the woodheap when a mounted police-
man made his appearance. There could
be no question about his errand. The
old squatter, however, did not appear to
be disturbed. He invited the constable to
join us at dinner. After dinner we
gathered around the fire and the old
gentleman boldly introduced the illicit
spirits. It is possible that the arm of the
law may have noticed the unusual flavor,
but, if he did, he did not appear to dis-
like it. Later on, while the old boy cour-
teously assisted “sergeant” to his room,
my stalwart pupils transported the illicit
still to a place where all the forces of
Scotland Yard would not have found it.
* * * *
“Best-seller”: I wandered into the vast
closely-populated region that lies at the
south-west of Sydney’s Town Hall, a
sinister district where almost anything
might happen, from a sale of linoleums
at next-to-nothing prices to an. attempt to
establish a luncheon emporium that
wouldn’t shock the finer feelings of a
gorilla. Winding my way through the
dense jungle of furniture shops, I de-
bouched upon a street so drab and dreary
that it whs a wonder anybody had ever
had the nerve to set up a shop in it. Appa-
rently nerve was what the Australian
pioneers had too much of, for that street
was lined from end to end with shops.
It was here I saw her —a pearl amid un-
fathomable ocean caves. I liked her eyes.
They seemed to be searching, searching,
searching into the infinite. Her body
was lissome, but pathetically thin and
fragile. I spoke to her. Her ideas of
conversation were as fragile as her body,
but I gathered that she was dissatisfied
with her environment. She wanted....
more.... A man —he looked like a Greek
—came into view. Turning into the
miserable hovel where she had her abode,
he crooked his finger at her with a hide-
ous smile. She lingered a moment. What
could I say? I was an exile. What could
I offer her? In the moment of hesitation
all was lost. She scurried into the oyster
saloon, and I went on my way reflecting
that she probably was a darned sight
better off than I am. It isn’t every skinny
tortoise-shell cat that can win the affec-
tions of a fish-shop proprietor.
He * * *
“Epsilon”: I have sat in courts half
my life, and I am conversant with the
errors a perfectly honest witness may
make in matters of observation. I made
a bad visual error the other day, not
because my eyesight is deficient, my
powers of reasoning defective or my
knowledge of the physics of light insuffi-
cient. My wife and I, after window-
shopping in George-street on a Friday
night for a couple of hours, decided that
a cup of tea would be welcome. There
were two Neon signs in view directly
ahead that announced “cafe.” “We’ll
go to the one with the red sign,” said I.
We did. I could have sworn it on 14
Bibles. But when we came out I noticed
that the sign above the door was blue,
and just two doors further along was the
eating-place with the red sign. Physical
explanation, of course, is perfectly simple
—rays of lights of different colors have
different velocities or frequencies of
vibration. The variation is slight. It is,
however, sufficient (as I have proved
since) to give an appearance of projec-
tion forward to a source of red light
when contrasted with lights of colors at
the other end of the spectrum. But if
I’d seen anything that called for testi-
mony happen in front of what appeared
to be to be the blue-light cafe, and had
no opportunity of checking up on what
I saw, I would have given false evidence.
“Will ’ee come up and see my missus, doctor? She broke ’er gall.”
“Her GALL? How do you know, Mr. Polly dick?"
“I can tell by all the bitterness tha’s comin’ from ’er."
“FY7”: As “E.S.” says (B. 16/8/’33),
there are more ways of starting a team of
bullocks than by whip and inflammatory
adjuration. I remember the time old Jim
Currant bought a team as it stood at
a Barcoo shed, loaded up with bales for
the railhead at Jericho. Jim yoked up
and then, as often happens, the cows
refused to move to the unfamiliar voice.
The new owner exhausted his vocabulary
and voice until at last he gave up in de-
spair, with the tears running down his
big, black beard. Then an inspiration
descended on him. Pulling a paper from
his pouch, he ran down the team, push-
ing it under the nose of each bullock in
succession. “Don’t believe y’re my bul-
licks, don’t y’?” he gasped huskily.
“Then look at the receipt! ”
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides):
On Tanna, owing to the
native habit of digging up
and eating bodies buried by
the opposition after a tribal
brawl, sea burial was gener-
ally accorded the slain. The
corpse was lowered from a
boat. Old men have told me
that on the outbreak of wail-
ing which followed the com-
mittal of the body, out from
the depths of its cavern
home, far under the reef,
glided a “something all same
big feller starfish.” Discern-
ible to all the watchers on
the reef, the horror glided
slowly over the white sand
patch, and then, heaving itself
up, fastened around the waist
of the upright, feet-anchored
body, which it slowly pulled
to the ocean floor and there
completely enveloped it.
“Him he sit down along head
belong man, he cover him
up altogether.” After about
an hour the monster would
slowly propel itself back to
its cavern, and “Body belong
man he finish altogether. I
think that devil something
Nim-rau-ro he got mouth be-
long him underneath.” The
thing inhabited the one spot
year in, year out, and only
appeared at burials. Sharks
never came near this burial
ground.
“Bogaduck”: It was the last day of the
season, and perishingly cold, but Steve
was determined to have one last taste
of roast duck. He set out in company
with Stan. They spotted a big mob on a
swamp, and after half an hour s crawl-
ing over mud and through prickly thistles
they got within range. Then Steve
jumped to his feet, and as the ducks rose
in a whirring cloud he opened up with
his automatic. As each of the five
shots crashed out a bird fell into the
rushes. Stan waded into the icy water to
retrieve them. For a long time he
splashed about in the reeds, while Steve
sat on the bank and pulled prickles out
of his hands and knees; then Stan came
out of the water empty-handed, and with
a scowling face began to dress. When
Steve asked him where the ducks
were he only scowled the harder and
muttered that it was “a dam’ silly trick.”
At last Steve gave it up, pulled off his
own clothes, and waded in, to presently
announce, through chattering teeth, that
he was damned. He said that five times,
then also came out empty-handed and
began to dress. There were a few shags
mixed up with those ducks, and Steve had
dropped one with every shot.
* * * *
“C.P.C.”: What’s the longest droving
trip? Alfred Giles, who squatted for
many years at Bonrook, just outside Pine
Creek (N.A.), put up a good record in his
younger days. In 1880, for Dr. Brown,
of Adelaide, he took 2000 head of cattle
and 12,000 sheep from within 300 miles
of Adelaide across Central Australia and
landed them in the Territory. The trip
was made in a bad season but only a
few beeves were lost on the track. Giles
started Springvale station, on the Kather-
ine, with the stock, but after two years the
sheep were taken out to Delamere, 100
miles south-east and between Willeroo
and Victoria River Downs head stations.
Though the country looked better there
than at Springvale it didn’t suit the jum-
bucks, and they were taken back again to
the Katherine. Another shot was made at
stocking the western side of the Territory
with sheep in 1891, when Goldsbrough,
Mort put 5000 sheep on Victoria River
Downs, which, though running 140,000
head of cattle, doesn’t worry these days
about sheep. This lot did well, but in 1894
the flock was sold to Bradshaw, of Shaw’s
Creek, and he took it on to the coastal
sandy country and lost the lot in no time.
Larry Wells, who years ago made a
trig, survey of the Victoria river country,
reckons that to the east of the river’s
source there are 20,000 square miles of
good valley and downs country all ready
for sheep when we wake up to the need
of more railways in the North.
* * * *
“Mako”: Another kind word for the
water diviner. Some years ago an Auck-
land (M.L.) meat co. tried for months
to discover good water on a property
near Otahuhu, a few miles from the city.
It had about given up when someone
suggested that the Rev. Mason, Anglican
parson at Otahuhu, who had achieved
local fame with the forked twig, should
be asked to divine. A very sceptical
manager consented, and the vicar came
along. It took him but a few minutes
to indicate where good water lay.
* * * *
“Plankton”: The association of the
caterpillars of small blue butterflies with
certain ants, referred to in a recent par.,
is such that ants have been observed tak-
ing the caterpillars into their nests, carry-
ing them carefully in their jaws, like a cat
does its kittens. Ants much appreciate
the sweet liquid secreted by these larvae,
and the latter eat ant-grubs, without excit-
ing the enmity of their hosts. It has been
proved that some of these caterpillars can-
not live without the ants. Ants frequently
tend species of scale-insects, tree-hoppers,
frog-hoppers, and nurse certain beetle
larvae for similar purposes. Small kinds
of cockroaches and crickets found in ants’
nests act as body-servants to the mem-
bers of these busy communities.
DROVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When ants are busy and flies are bad,
Mosquitoes worse, and the stock routes bare,
Or rain persists till the cook goes mad
And horses are bogging everywhere;
With blankets sodden and tucker rough,
Or eyes half closed in the duststorm’s haze,
It’s then you reckon you’ve had enough
Of droving to last you all your days.
This yarn of watching the cattle string
Through grass that “waves like a field of
wheat”
Is just like many another thing
You often read of but seldom meet.
There’s not much beauty in stars and moon
(At least there’s nothing to rave about)
When somebody wakes you all too soon
With “Time you were up, old man; turn
out!”
“The life of a dog,” you think, and say
First chance you get that you’ll sling the job.
And then, when the boss remarks “1 may
Be going back for another mob;
I’ll know for sure in a week or two.
They haven’t decided yet, but still
II things break right there’s a place for you.”
You answer “Take it? Of course, I will.”
Long days, short nights, as it takes a while
For station bullocks to settle down;
Mo use to growl if the weather’s smile
Turns to a lachrymose, dismal frown;
But life and movement, the prop and wheel
Of racing horses and wild-eyed steers
Are stirring strains that will ever steal
Like sirens’ songs on the drover’s ears.
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBL.


“Northampton”: That story of the
Westralian attempt to dress the abo.
ladies (B. 16/8/’33) reminds me that in
the days of my youth on a Queensland
station a way was found to make the
costuming satisfactory to all parties.
The blacks (there were plenty about)
lived as much in their natural state, hunt-
ing and fishing and so on, as they did in
white pfeller fashion. There were always
two or three gins employed at the home-
stead to do the rough washing and simi-
lar work. These were provided with
dresses, but it was the rule that, when
they left for the big camp a mile or so
away at knock-off time, they doffed the
trappings of civilisation, each gin being
provided with a peg in the washhouse to
hang up her finery. When she arrived
first thing in the morning, the garb was
donned and worn for the rest of the day.
Going and coming from the camp she
was theoretically invisible and I cannot
recall any complaints.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The largest axe that I have
ever seen in the bush was used by a
man named Fitzgerald at Pipeclay Creek
in the Pambula (N.S.W.) district. It was
his ambition to get an axe equal to the
301 b. implement reputed to have been
wielded by Brian Boru. Fitzgerald for
years used a 71b. axe on a 6ft. handle and
delighted in showing how he could swing
it with one hand. At last he achieved
his life’s ambition by making an axe for
himself which weighed 351 b. He actu-
ally used this for cutting sleepers, but it
was a slow business.
* * * *
“Brach”: It gives me a pain to read
pars, by defenders of Alsatians claim-
ing that the “staghounds” which were
once tried in western N.S.W. for dingo-
killing (B. 16/8/’33) were even more
dangerous than the German sheep-dog
is supposed to be. The dog referred to is
the deerhound, and, like his close relative
the greyhound, is one of the oldest known
breeds of dog, with a history going back
"Why did you desert your wife when she had four children?”
"Aw, I didn't think it a fair thing to leave it till she ’ad
six.”
to Noah, and perhaps further. This big,
speedy fellow is a hunter pure and
simple, pursuing his quarry by sight.
The staghound is only an overgrown fox-
hound most staghound packs in Eng-
land are recruited from cast drafts from
the foxhound packs—which hunts the
deer by scent alone. The two breeds are
as different in disposition and character-
istics as they are in appearance.
* * * *
“Gallinule”: I’m not so sure that the
hen is as big an ass as “Dr. Nil” makes
out (B. 16/8/’33), and I fancy anyone
who has attempted to keep the brutes
out of a newly-planted garden will agree
with me. For undefeatable ingenuity,
let me recommend the hen which has de-
cided to lay its eggs where its owner
has made up his mind it shall not. Time
seems to be of no consequence to it.
Shut the creature in a nest and it will not
allow an egg to go into circulation save
at its own time and in its chosen place.
It will wait for hours for a door or a
window to be left open, or even a special
drawer in a wardrobe, and its ultimate
success in overcoming all obstacles leaves
no doubt as to its mastery of tactics.
Even more aggravating than its diabolical
ingenuity is its undisguised and vocifer-
ous delight when the trick has been
turned —quite different from the ordinary
laying paean of self-congratulation.
* * * *
“R.K.D.”: New facts concerning the
Byers and Holtermann nugget have been
unearthed. Old miners declare that the
piece was not a nugget at all, but a rich
slab of specimen stone carefully cut from
an auriferous vein at Hawkins Hill. Since
Holtermann is said to have offered
£12,000 for the specimen to his partners
—he contemplated touring the world with
it for exhibition purposes—the idea has
risen that it was worth that figure. As
a matter of fact, no one really knew the
exact value of the specimen, as it went
in with other stone in a crushing, the
result of which was 15,6000 z. of gold.
Gold at Hill End was round the £4 mark
in those days.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Touching the report that
a youngster on the Bellinger (N.S.W.)
died after chewing the leaves of the
native cork tree (Duboisia myoporides),
this small tree, which grows in the
coastal brushes, is related to the pituri
plant CD. hopwoodi ) of western Queens-
land. It is also known as scrub pituri,
and on the northern side of the border as
Bancroft’s eye plant, from the fact that
Dr. Joseph Bancroft cultivated it and
regarded duboisine, the extract from the
leaves, as superior to atropine for dilat-
ing the pupil of the eye. Aboriginals
used to make an intoxicant from the
leaves, and also bruised them for stupe-
fying fish. The leaves of the inland
pituri were chewed like tobacco by the
blacks, also by some whites, and they
were a medium of exchange over a wide
area. This species is a narcotic shrub
that grows from two feet to four feet
high, and produces a volatile alkaloid,
called piturine, that is somewhat analo-
gous to nicotine. A child might suffer
from chewing the leaves where an adult
would be merely stimulated. In 1917
two children on the Richmond River
chewed scrub pituri, and suffered nervous
arid muscular derangement accompanied
by delirium. They recovered.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: A fabled insect of the North
is the “Familiar” butterfly, a myth of
pale-blue wings and cerise body, with
a wing-tip to wing-tip measurement of
6in. or more. Its
peculiarity is that
it will allow any
number of persons
to pass its haunt
unnoticed, but will
suddenly take a
fancy to a particu-
lar man and fol-
low him for days
or even weeks,
resting on his
clothing occasion-
ally, and never be-
ing more than a
few inches from
him. At night it
takes up a position
on a bough or
grass-tussock near
the chosen one’s
head, and no mat-
ter how often dis-
turbed will return
to its post. Many
natives profess to
have seen it and
been favored with
its attentions. I
have met a few
white men who
made similar alle-
gations, but they
weren’t very trust-
worthy witnesses.
Barclay, who wan-
dered round the Top a couple of decades
back waving a theodolite, used to swear
he knew the insect well. He also recorded
a native lion and a few other such zoo-
logical trifles.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: “The 0.D.” proffers a
handsome apology to James Crow
(Corvus coronoides ) (B. 9/8/’33), but let
him be quite certain of the gentleman’s
identity. Except by ornithologists, the
Australian raven ( Corone australis ) is
commonly called a crow, and as a matter
of fact unless one is familiar with their
notes it is difficult to distinguish them
without close inspection. Both are out-
wardly black and shiny as a polished
golosh, but the feathers of the crow are
pure white at the base and those of the
raven a sooty grey. When in doubt it
is pretty safe to class it a crow in N.
or W. Australia and a raven in the South,
since they keep more or less to their own
areas. It would be hard to find a crow
in the whole of Tasmania. The raven
(English variety) immortalised by Poe is
a much larger bird ; it also is seldom to
be seen now except in the wilder dis-
tricts of the North.
* * * *
“Wai-Hoi”: One of the liveliest little
customers in the North Australian bush
is the green-ant, colonies of which con-
struct nests of leaves about the size of
a football —as many as 100 nests in one
tree. The adult ants delegate the hard
work of weaving the nests to smaller
“It's just twelve months since we took out our marriage license, darling. Don’t
forget to renew it.”
fry. Several ants play “kiss in the ring”
on the edges of two or three leaves, which
they then grip with their tiny, sharp and
powerful jaws. Simultaneously, another
ant comes along carrying a little whitish
grub or larva that has been brought from
a near-by hiding place. Grasping the
grub by the centre of the body,
the ant holds it in such a posi-
tion that its extended head just
comes in contact with the edges of
the leaves. The grub tries to attach itself
thereto by exuding a glutinous, silky
fibre from its mouth, and meanwhile the
boss ant forces the grub again and again
from one side to the other of the leaf
edges until its silk supply is exhausted ;
then it is carried back to its resting place
and another grub is forced into service.
The nests, when completed, have dozens
of leaves fastened together in this way
and hundreds of ants inhabit the one
show. You’ll have a hectic time if you
fall foul of a sapling that supports such
a nest, for you’ll be showered instantly
with ill-tempered, beautifully-green little
devils that have a go at your face and
get inside your togs. Ant Cliffs, on
the southern side of Melville Island,
Darwin’s sentinel, 40 miles out, is a re-
minder that Captain J. Lort Stokes, when
surveying in the Beagle in 1839, be-
came smothered by ants whilst he was
ashore taking observations at the foot
of the cliffs.
* * * *
“Whaup”: The sea curlew frequents
the N.S.W. coast in larger numbers than
twos and threes (B. 16/8/’33). Anyone
living on the lower shores of Sydney
Harbor can see considerable flocks of
them at times towards sundown passing
north or south, black swans being in evi-
dence at the same time. The trips seem
to have Botany Bay and the lagoons
north of Manly as their termini, the
birds probably leaving one end when the
flood tide has covered the feeding banks
so as to arrive at the other by the time
the ebb is baring them.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: An unusual kangaroo-
drive was recently made on White Bros.’
station, near Muswellbrook (N.S.W.).
About 1500 animals were mustered along
a wire fence; but the only shooters
were cameras. The Whites have a kindly
feeling for the ’roo, and there are some
boomers, eight feet high, on the run.
Occasionally there is shooting to keep
down the numbers, but nothing com-
parable to the wholesale slaughter of the
old days. Perhaps the biggest of all was
the battue on Trinkey station, on the
Liverpool Plains, where a huge yard was
built, with calico hurdles extending out
from it for a couple of miles. A hun-
dred horsemen took part and 12,000
kangaroos were yarded and shot. The
skins, which averaged about 10s. each,
were given to the men who built the
yards. An earlier drive at the same
station resulted in 9000 being yarded, but
at that time there was no ready market
for the skins, and only a few were taken.
On Harry Bracker's Waroo station, across
the border from New England, 17,300
were shot in a six-weeks’ battue with 12
guns; a second battue accounted for
12,000, and the third and last one for
5000.
* * =h *
“Homfrey Beale”: The Melville Island
natives are far ahead of anything the
mainland can produce as vocalists. The
average male voice is a rich tenor, and
the majority of the lubras are sopranos
of no despicable order. The aggregate
repertoire is fairly extensive and touches
most themes, earthly, heavenly and some
of them very hellish. The favorite com-
munity item is entitled “Yams, you are
our fathers,” and is sung (though not with
levity) as “Yes, We Have No Bananas”
used to be among whites. On ceremonial
occasions it is sung as a national anthem,
amid much stick-beating and other noisy
enthusiasm.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: A feature of all abo. myths
about the sun and moon is that the sun
is represented as the female of the species
and the moon the bloke —or cove. One
common to north-west N.S.W. tribes
tells how one day Moon overtook Sun
as she was indulging her weakness for
imbibing rivers. She repulsed his ad-
vances with scorn, but the argument
ended in his giving her such a trouncing
with a river gum that she capitulated and
went to share his celestial mia-mia. The
stars are the result of the connubial
partnership. I asked a half-civilised abo.
once why they always represented the
sun as a woman and the moon as a man.
“Oh,” he said, “sun plenty pfeller bad-
temper ; moon cool one —think big heap.”
“Oxmead”: Vic. Attorney-General
Menzies has stirred up some trouble for
himself among Gordon-lovers by refer-
ring to Adam Lindsay as a third-rate
poet. Whatever Gordon’s ranking as a
poet may be, it is a pity Australia hasn’t
had more verse-makers of his kind. It
is unlikely that he rated his own gift
over-highly, but at least he gave his
readers what they could understand in
words that ring and stir and stick. It
might be written of his verses, as Saints-
bury wrote of Macaulay’s “Lays,” that
they are “coin for general circulation,
but not base coin.” And they have stood
the test of two generations without losing
their popularity, which is more than can
be said of much ambitious poetry.
•I* v :j:
“Dep. Clerk”: “X.S.” (B. 9/8/’33), re-
cording that a Melbourne detective gave
evidence for an hour and ten minutes,
says that if the rate of verbal flow is
estimated at 150 words a minute, there
were 10,500 words. Such an estimate is
ridiculous. I have spent years in courts,
“depping,” and know dozens of others
who do the same, but none of them can
touch anything like 150 words per minute
on a typewriter, which is the method
employed in the lower courts for record-
ing evidence. At Quarter Sessions I have
taken shorthand verbatim reports of pro-
ceedings, and never had to get above
80. Apart from this, no witness gives
prolonged evidence so perfectly that the
Court does not desire to stop him occa-
sionally. If “X.S.’s” witness got more
than 5000 words off his chest in the
allotted 70 minutes it was good going
for a court of law.
THE SONG OF BELARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where fog mists linger from year to year
And rain in the wind abides;
Where gales that bluster and tempests drear
Are born of the ocean tides;
Where the ceaseless wheels of the city grind
And the din of the city jars,
Does the peace of the uplands come to mind
And the song of the green belars.
Sooner or latdr a man bush-bred
Will yearn for the haunts of old,
Where the cloudless skies and the sunsets red
Are fairer a thousandfold;
Where in nights of winter the log fires fling
Their sparks to the blazing stars,
And the dawn winds waking the bushlands sing
And the song of the green belars.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


Springtime at Jenolan Caves
A Delightful, Inexpensive Holiday
TWO-DAY TOURS LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY
Specially Reduced
Inclusive Rates at
Week-ends.
39/-
Covers Travel and
Hotel. Stay may
be extended.
ASK FOR JENOLAN PICTORIAL FOLDER.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST
Challis House, opposite G.P.O. : :
BUREAU
Sydney
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
h
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“At Sheffield, England, to Mr. and Mrs.
Blank, a daughter. By radio.”
Wonderful invention, wireless!
y y
“Old golf stockings for sale.”
With 18 holes, presumably,
y y
Hitler’s opponents have started to get
it in the neck.
y y
The Federal Government stable has
a new Groom.
y y
“Never read whilst lying flat on the back.”
—Brisbane doctor.
It certainly makes it harder for the
pedestrian to spot the number of the car.
y y
“The Melbourne typist who was missing mys-
teriously for a week has been found.”
— “Herald.”
The explanation may be that she got
lost in her novel.
y y
“The average woman has the same vocabu-
lary as the average man.”
But the woman has a bigger turnover,
y y
“Said Judge Morchauser, of New York,
‘Husbands are invariably to blame for matri-
monial disputes.’ ” — “Argus.”
It’s no new discovery ; wives have been
saying it for centuries.
“Yes, I’ve had previous experience. I was editor
of my school paper.”
“Too bad! We've got an editor already.”
“The right kind of a woman is the salt of
the earth.” — Woman’s Weekly.
And a few are the cayenne pepper,
y y
“Scotland Yard is considering the adoption
of the Indian system of taking criminals’ foot-
prints in addition to their fingerprints.”
Lives of criminals remind us,
If we turn to villain-ee,
We’ll, departing, leave behind us
Footprints in the C. 1.8.
y y
“Intending suicides used to stand before the
Mona Lisa; since 1913 when it was stolen and
a fake restored in its place no intending sui-
cide has visited the Louvre.” — Cable.
What a saving in human life if some-
one would only pinch Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge!
“Though Australia is comparatively young,
its events have aged rapidly.”
—Brisbane * Courier .
The same may be said of its taxpayers.
¥
“It is proposed to hold flying events in con-
nection with the Melbourne centenary that will
attract the world’s best airmen.”
All the birds of the air, in short,
y y
“A new ring is added every year to the
scales of a herring, and this enables scientists
to tell the age of the fish ."—Sydney “Sun.”
Americans are able by a similar pro-
cess to tell the age of a Hollywood mar-
riage.
y y
“A young man, on being ordered from the
home of his sweetheart, turned upon the girl’s
father and bit him on the ear.” — Sydney “Sun.”
It is customary, even in these hard
times, (o leave the old man alone till
after the ceremony.
OUTRAGE.
My landlady having made drastic
threats regarding the rent, I repaired (o
a pawnshop.
Isaac stared at my offering and then at
me, with rage in his eye.
“Oh, so t’at’s vot you are!” he roared.
“Veil, get out —GET OUT, I say”
Only then did I realise that I had been
trying to pawn a brown shirt.
T. N.
“North Australia is a medical problem.”
—Brisbane “Courier.”
The rest of Australia has had to take
its medicine, too.
BY OUR OWN REPORTER.
At the annual dinner of the Asso-
ciation of Letter Writers to the “S.M.H.”
the president, Cui Bono, paid a
warm tribute to the efforts
of members during the
past strenuous year. The
Prof. Angus case had
provided evidence of the
wide tolerance both of
members and of the ven-
erable journal to whose
pages they vied with one
another in seeking en-
trance. Of the 192 letters
which appeared on the
subject, 189 regarded the
Professor’s teachings as
rank heterodoxy.
The U.A.P.-U.C.P. dog-
fight over the tariff split
and the Alsatian Menace
were also deservedly popu-
lar. He was pleased to
see so many old friends
in attendance Audax,
Civis, Pro Bono Publico,
Fed-up, and a host of
others whose names were
household words to the
mittened dames of a hun-
dred suburbs.
During the evening
prizes were distributed,
among the recipients being
Justitia for sheer optimism
in writing to the editor
eight times on the “Evils
qf Classified Advertise-
ments in Daily Journal-
ism” ; Disgusted, for
being the only member
who actually finished his
letters with “Yours, etc.,” ; and Mr. A.
G. Huie for his fine aggregate of 3500
published letters.
S. W. K.
y y
HISTORICAL ERRORS CORRECTED.
Why did the Romans fail to conquer
Scotland? Recent research has estab-
lished that they sent a spy disguised in
the national costume into the Highlands.
He staggered back, a gastronomic wreck,
and, falling on his frost-bitten knees, re-
ported that the only food available was
a queer mess called haggis, and that no
wine was to be had —only a.liquor that
burnt the throat. The invasion was called
off immediately.
The same investigators, while shatter-
ing a common error, have proved that
Scotland’s first great metaphysician was
Kenneth Mac Alpine. He it was who
invited the people to services in his
private chapel, sending out the stirring
slogan, “All Seats Free —Absolutely No
Collection.” Hence the establishment of
the Free Kirk, which flourishes to this
day.
It is true that Robert Carr became the
favorite of James 1., but not for the
reasons given by the popular historicides.
His meteoric rise to the peerage followed
his invention of the thimble, when the
“They’re all barmy, them artists, Mrs. ’Aggitt. ’E says to
me, ‘Y’re a distink type. Come up to the stoodio and
sit fer me.’ Then blessed if ’e don’t keep me sTANDIN’
fer an hour an’ a ’arf!”
sovereign was casting about for some
means of cutting down the Court usque-
baugh bill during a depression. There-
after the thimble was accepted as the
standard tot for Scottish hosts—a custom
which survives in Aberdeen. It was not
until a century later that it was used for
sewing. The term “ a finger of whisky”
derives from Carr’s invention.
Maroubra.
MALNUTRITION.
“Between 100 and 200 bdellid mites, which are
an active enemy of the lucerne flea, have been
sent to Mr. H. Womersley and set to work by
Dr. Davidson in paddocks at the Waite
Research Institute.”— “West Australian.”
“Completed your flea-count yet, Mr.
Womersley?”
“I make it 1372 males and
1985 females in this lot, Doc-
tor.”
“That’s 5,894,857 all told—
-2,101,568 males and 3,793,289
females.”
“How does it compare with
last month?”
“A decrease of 152,322.”
“Those bdellid mites are ly-
ing down on their job. Line
’em up, Doc., and we’ll have a
talk to ’em.”
The mites appeared at the
word of command, dressed by
the right and stood to atten-
tion. They were looking far
from robust.
“Now then, you boys, what’s
the idea of accounting for only
150,000-odd of those fleas in
a month’s work? You’ll be
on the dole before long if you
can’t do better.”
“Aw, go easy, Cap.,” said
the mites’ spokesman. “We
need a change of diet. Give
us a go at a dead cow or two. How’d
you like to live on vegetarians?”
H. W. N.
y y
“Harold Vere Douglas Cholmondeley de
Chumleigh is beings sued for divorce in Queens-
land on the ground of desertion.”
The lady at Cholmondeley looked
gholmondeley.
“Though you told me,” she said, “I was
cholmondeley,
You went off on a dash
And you left me no cash,
And I’m broke !” But he just stood there
dholmondeley.
M.
CONFESSIONS WE NEVER READ.
As a schoolboy I was rated as sub-
normal by my headmaster, while my fel-
low-scholars agreed that I was “dull in the
dome.” I was, and
still am, incurably
lazy. /
All I have ever
asked of life is a
soft, well-paid job,
in the performance
of which I may in-
dulge my passion
for slumber, and
which will permit
of a holiday of at
least six months per
year.
My ambition has
been gratified. My
one talent helped
me greatly —“Here
I lie where I longed
to lie,” as someone
sang. My question-
able morality and
mentality are often
cast up at me in
public, but I laugh.
Nor am I with-
out my proper
pride. Since land-
ing a safe seat,
after winning my
first pre-selection
ballot, I have taken
a modest gratification in the knowledge
that I have developed into an ideal party
hack.
S. W. K.
HIS STAND.
“A French scientist estimates that the average
man spends a third of his life in the prone
position. For as much as 25 per cent, of the
rest he stands.” —■“ World’s News.”
He stands sft. Bin. (on the average). He
stands drinks. He stands income-tax de-
mands, bad cookery, street musicians,
uncomfortable clothes, his wife’s nagging,
the boss, the neighbor’s howling dog,
politicians, tough steak, overwork, under-
payment, incessant bills and his friends’
funny stories. He stands standing in
trams when women ignore empty corn-
“Be a sport, mister, and lend me five bob. I’ve
’urt me ’and on the larst bloke.”
partments and push into a crowded one.
At the end of a long life, worked to a
standstill, he finds he stands where he
started, which isn’t in the grandstand of
life.
And then the end comes and he loses
all his standing.
H. M.
y y
“Jardine will not be dropped, although Aus-
tralian propagandists are saying that he will.
To drop Jardine would be cowardly.”— Cricket
writer of the “Daily Herald.” {England).
Apparently he’ll never be dropped—
provided he isn’t asked to stand up to
Larwood’s bowling.
K.O.
/ fell for her; for she was small
And fair, the type that I prefer.
Her jealous spouse was strong and tall.
And, as I say—l fell for her.
N.
METAL-URGY.
Let others sing with passionate and soul-
ful ecstasy
Of the gold that beautifies her crown-
ing glory.
Quite candidly it bores me stiff. But an
apostrophe
To the brass she’s got — ah, that’s a
different story !
K.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Engineer (ex-Royal Navy), certificated steam,
internal-combustion and refrigeration, twenty
years’ exp. Diesel engines, good knowledge
air-compressing plant and electricity, seeks posi-
tion.—7s7s.
Two Australians in Canada, returning soon,
wish to get into touch with experienced rabbit-
trapper, view to partnership.—762s.
Returned soldier requires board and lodging
at Canberra, close to Census office, early Sep-
tember. —7652.
To share-farm eight acres of bananas, cleared,
fenced, netted, new scrub, no frost, no disease.
Adjoins railway town, N.Q. —7689.
To exchange 2C Kodak Junior camera (single
lens) for a V.P.K. or similar size or make. —
7646.
To buy Havell’s “Stories from the Odyssey.”
—7586.
To buy, second-hand, Havelock Ellis’s
“Psychology of Sex.” —7658.
To buy British Official History of Naval
Operations, with maps (Newbolt), Vol. IV.—
7657.
To buy “Book of the Nursery” and “Pro-
pagators’ Handbook,” by Prof. L. H. Bailey.—
7633.
Words of verses which appeared in The
Bulletin years ago: “The Tin-pot Mill,” “The
Boundary-Rider” and one that contains the
lines
Sun that arose like a hall of vermilion ;
Wind that assures us Gehenna lies west.
—7655.
To buy Mudie’s “Felonry of N.5.W.,” Tas-
manian edition of “Pickwick Papers” and any
early Australian newspapers, letters or maga-
zines.—7692.
Words and author of poem beginning:
If your luck is out with women,
And you’ve looked too long on wine.
—7697.
Information Sought.
(1) Will the platypus live in captivity ? (2)
Are there any alive in America? —7s3s.
(1) The platypus could only be successfully
kept in captivity under conditions closely
approaching its normal habitat. One has been
in captivity for about six months in a pool sur-
rounding a small island in a sanctuary near
Melbourne, and fed on worms dug up from the
ground. It is doubtful if the abnormal con-
ditions would lead to success in keeping the
animals generally, and permission would have
to be sought from the N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s
Department before attempting to do so. (2)
No. Only one platypus has ever reached
America alive, and it survived only a few weeks.
A most elaborate contraption was designed for
transportation and great difficulty was experi-
enced in landing the sole survivor.
How long must one be a resident of Can-
•berra before being eligible for relief work in the
Territory ? —7241.
Must have resided in F.C.T. during the period
December, 1929-June, 1930. Arrivals subsequent
to such period are not eligible.
Addresses of Sydney pottery firms which use
fine clay ? —7544.
R. Fowler, Ltd., Marrickville; Bakewell
Bros., Erskineville; Mrs. Grace Seccombe,
Campbell-street, Eastwood.
(1) Names of books dealing with collecting
and mounting of butterflies and moths ? (2)
Is there a book dealing with the butterflies of
New Guinea ? —7438.
(1) A chapter on collecting and setting butter-
flies will be found in Dr. G. A. Waterhouse’s
“What Butterfly Is That?” (2) There is no
book, but articles on the subject have fre-
quently appeared in scientific periodicals.
(1) What are the points of difference between
the chassis of the 1932 and 1933 9-h.p. Riley
car ? (2) l am thinking of buying a Riley
Lynx, for which standard tyres are 21 in. by
4.4 m. {on 19 in. rims). Could I, in lieu, fit
29in. by sin. heavy duty tyres and tubes ? I
have been advised that oversize tyres may
cause serious rear-axle, differential and. gear-box
trouble. Is this the case ? (2) If larger tyres
are fitted what correction would have to be
applied to the speedometer readings for speed,
and distance run ? —7061.
(1) Tubular cross members under rear engine
support and at rear chassis replace the flat
members used in the 1932 model. The 1933
model has four silent gears in place of two. (2)
The bigger tyres could be fitted, but may cause
front wheel wobble, and acceleration will be
slower owing to slightly greater strain on engine
when starting; 28 by 4.75 is recommended by
the makers as being the more suitable for this
car. (3) The speedometer will read 27 miles
when the wheels have actually covered 29 miles,
so that the speedometer reading will have to
be multiplied by 1.07. If 28 by 4.75 tyres are
fitted, multiply by 1.036.
(1) Minimum and average salaries paid to
commercial air pilots in Australia ? (2) Is an
air-transport co. liable for injuries to passen-
gers ? What is the general practice in regard
to the insurance of passengers, pilots and
machines ? (3) What is the average charge
(passenger fares) per mile of air-transport cos.
operating in Australia ? —7377.
(1) Not disclosed. Probably average about
£5OO p.a. (2) Depends on the conditions of the
issue of the passenger’s ticket. There is no
general practice for insuring passengers; pilots
would be insured privately. The machines
are in most cases not covered by insurance
while in the air. (3) Present passenger fares
on some of the more important services in
Australia are: 2067 miles, £25 ; 1269 miles, £2l;
1453 miles, £l2.
J have a large dam which I wish to stock with
7314 erC Can I °^ ta^n suitable fry? —
The State Fisheries branch off the Chief Secre-
tary s Department, N. S. Wales, can supply
trout fry at £1 per thousand.
Date and circumstances of the loss of the
Yongala ? How far from Townsville is she
thought to have foundered and was wreckage
ever found ? —7509.
She is believed to have foundered with all
on board on the night of March 23, 1911,
between Mackay and Townsville. In the
absence of direct witnesses it is assumed the
vessel was overwhelmed in a cyclonic disturb-
ance. The hull has not been located, but
floating wreckage was picked up off Townsville.
How is the density of salt water, as used m
steam boilers, measured ? —7578.
By means of a salinometer, which consists of
a glass stem with a bulb at its lower end
loaded with mercury to make it float upright.
The point of the stem level with the surface
when immersed in fresh water is marked zero.
The corresponding point when immersed in sea
water of average density is sometimes marked
10, the scale of graduations being extended
down the stem to 35 divisions or degrees. A
reading of 15 degrees indicates that the boiler
water contains 15 divided by 10, or 1.5 times
the quantity of salt in solution as sea water;
a reading of 20, twice as much, and so on.
How is fire-eating accomplished ? —7554.
Many feats performed with melted lead, etc.,
are undoubtedly mere tricks or illusions per-
formed by sleight of hand; others are capable
of scientific explanation. There is littje differ-
ence between stuffing blazing tow into the
mouth and eating flaming plum-pudding or in
dipping the finger into methylated spirit and
letting it burn like a candle. It is well known
that the tongue or the hand may be rubbed
with impunity against white-hot iron, as the
layer of vapor developing between the hot metal
and the hand prevents contact. Certain per-
formances of this nature are explained by the
well-known power of the living body to main-
tain its normal temperature for a time inde-
pendently of the external temperature.
(1) What is the velocity of light ? (2) Sound ?
(3) Wireless waves ? (4) Electrical waves trans-
mitted by cable ? —7565.
(1) 186,330 miles per second in the atmo-
sphere. Its velocity through transparent bodies
is not definitely known, but probably varies
inversely as the square root of the specific
gravity of the transparent substance. (2) It
varies with the temperature, being greatest when
the air is warmest. At 50 degrees Fahr., it is
about 1110 feet per second in air. Its velocity
is much greater in liquids and solids. (3)
Same as light, usually taken at 185,000 miles
per second. (4) According to Heaviside it
varies from one inch, or less, to 186,000 miles
per second, according to the value of the
resistance, inductance and capacity of the line
or cable.
Why is it that a near-by thunderclap takes
the form of a sharp report while distant thunder
arrives as a prolonged sound ? —7589.
In the former case only the sound due to the
electrical explosion is heard, whereas in the
latter the sound waves are thrown back and
forth between the layers of various densities
and objects on the ground, so that instead of a
single sound impulse a prolonged roar is
developed.
Name of a book dealing essentially with
wireless reception; one not too advanced ?
7543.
“Wireless,” by R. Stranger, 4s. 9d.; “Wireless
Step by Step,” by “Dictron,” 3s. (Swain and
Co., Ltd., Sydney); “The How and Why of
Radio,” by Hunter, 3s. 9d. (Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney).
(1) Why is the time in the far west of Queens-
land the same as in Brisbane, when Adelaide is
half an hour different ? (2) What difference in
time is sunrise between Camooweal and Bris-
bane ? —7247.
(1) The daily programme of public and pri-
vate business is arranged in each country or
community to suit the hours of daylight. Thus
Q’land, N. S. Wales, Victoria and Tasmania
have adopted the time of the 150th meridian
east of Greenwich, and South Australia that of
the meridian of 147° 30' east. (2) The differ-
ences between times of sun’s rising at Brisbane
and Camooweal are not constant throughout
the year owing to the difference in latitude of
these places combined with the change of the
sun’s declination from 23|deg. N. in mid-
winter to 23|deg. S. in midsummer. The cor-
rection to Brisbane time of rising in the first
case is plus 44 minutes, and in the latter plus
1 hour 16 minutes.
(1) Where was the first graving dock in Aus-
tralia situated ? Name of first vessel to make use
of it ?— 7606.
(1) At Biloela (Cockatoo) Island, Port Jack-
son. It was known as the Fitzroy and was
commenced in 1847. (2) H.M.S. Herald in
1857, but the dock was not then completed.
How did the word ‘‘bushranger” come into
use in Australia ? —7613.
It apparently had its birth in Tasmania. Food
was supplied to the first Tasmanian convict
settlements from Sydney. Floods and droughts
periodically interrupted supplies, and convicts
in these times of famine were released to range
the bush and procure food for themselves.
What was the Peel scheme to colonise West
Australia ? —7624.
Following a most eulogistic report by Cap-
tain Stirling, who had been commissioned in
1827 to investigate the Swan River district, Peel
and some friends proposed to bring out 10,000
emigrants, provided the British Government
gave the settlers 4,000,000 acres of land. The
offer was not accepted.
(1) What are the vibrations per second of
each of the eight notes in music ? (2) A book
on bells states that the note A has 880 vibra-
tions per second. Can the other notes be cal-
culated from this ? —7506.
(1) The middle C on the pianoforte is tuned
theoretically to a frequency of 256 vibrations
per second; practically, if the instrument is up
to “philharmonic” or “concert” pitch, to 258.5.
The upper octave C is double the rate of
vibration —either 512 or 517. For making
notes between these intervals there are two
ratios. For the correct harmonic ratio, tak-
ing the middle C as 1, the progression upwards
is D, 1|; E, Iff; F, 1 1-3; G, H; A, 1 2-3;
B, If; upper C, 2. As these intervals are irre-
gular, keyed instruments adopt what is called
the “tempered scale,” in which the 12 intervals
(including half-tones) are equally spaced, mak-
ing possible modulation from one key to
another (impossible with the true harmonic
intervals). (2) It would be a very hign-
pitched A. Rules for calculating progressions
are outlined in the foregoing answer.
What is the origin of patron saints, such as
St. George of England and St. Andrew of Scot-
land ?—' 7515.
It derives from pagan mythology. The
Romans assigned tutelar gods to cities and
people. The practice was familiar in ancient
times when Apollo and Minerva guarded
Athens, and Juno Carthage. The Roman guar-
dian changed from Mars to St. Peter.
Who was the Paul Revere of Longfellow’s
poem ? —7473.
He took part in the “Boston Tea-party”
(1773) and became a member of the Boston
Anti-British Society. His midnight ride to Lex-
ington and Concord (April, 1775) was to warn
the people of the approach of the British troops.
(1) Is there any evidence in support of travel-
lers' tales about ‘‘red snow” ? (2) If so, what's
the scientific explanation ? —7562.
(1) Yes. Scientific observers of undoubted
probity have reported the phenomenon in
British Columbia, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla
and the South Orkneys (in the Antarctic).
Charles Darwin saw it in the Andes. (2) None
has been offered, so far as can be traced;
What is the exchange rate between Australia
and the U.S.A. ?— 7360.
Varies from day to day. On the day your
query was received the Commonwealth Bank
quoted for telegraphic transfer $3.64| buying
and s3.sBff selling. The highest rates quoted
during the last 18 months were on July 19, 1933,
when the t.-t. buying rate was $3.90 and the
selling rate $3.83£.
(1) What is the correct action in ‘‘putting
the shot”? (2) Any books on the subject ? —•
7668.
(1) The shot is balanced in the right hand
held well behind the right shoulder, with right
shoulder twisted back, then steps forward are
taken and the shot is delivered with the right
hand at as high a trajectory as possible. (2)
There are chapters on the subject in many books
on athletics.
What are the purposes of the Felton Be-
quest ? Is the sum involved known ? —5995.
The amount originally involved was about
£375,000; invested it may be worth more to-day.
The bequest dates from 1904 and the interest is
divided annually between charities in Victoria
and gifts of works of art to the National Art
Gallery of Victoria. The sum available varies
from year to year, but is not necessarily spent
in that year.
Is it recognised that the earth moves in any
way other than around its axis and around its
ecliptic ? —7614.
Yes. Astronomical science has classified 11
forms of motion: (1) Orbital. (2) Diurnal. (3)
Movement in space with the rest of the solar
system. (4) Precession. (5) Displacement by the
moon. (6) Autation. (7) Variation in obliquity.
(8) Variation of eccentricity. (9) Movement of
the line of apsides. (10) Perturbation by other
heavenly bodies. (11) Elliptical motion round
the sun.
Recipe for a car polish neither acid nor
alkaline in action ? —7598.
Mix together lib. boiled linseed oil, 1 quart
benzine, 6oz. cedar oil. Apply with a sponge,
running only one way. Let stand for half an
hour, then polish with a dry cloth.
(1) How is lime-water prepared to add to
children’s diet ? (2) In what proportion is it
given to children under 10? —7522.
(1) Thoroughly stir 1 tablespoon of freshly
slaked lime into half-gallon of boiled water,
and cover to keep out dust. After 12 hours,
pour off the water and throw it away, as it
contains impurities. A thick cream of lime will
remain at the bottom of the vessel. Again add
half-gallon boiled water, stir for 3 minutes and
allow it to stand; cover as before for 12 hours.
The clear fluid is the lime-water, which should
then be carefully bottled for use. (2) At least
one wineglassful a day, but this will not supply
sufficient lime to the system. Milk and green
vegetables must be given in plenty as well.
How to rid a kitchen of cockroaches ? —7561.
The principal point is to leave no food where
the insects can get at it. Keep all food in
proper containers, and burn all scraps. Mix
4oz. powdered borax, 2oz. starch and loz.
cocoa; place in likely spots. Paint crevices
with hot turpentine.
Who was the South Polar explorer who
started from Tasmania ? What was his route,
and the date of the expedition? —7sl9.
Captain James Clark Ross, R.N., left Hobart
in 1840 with the ships Erebus and Terror.
After crossing the Antarctic Circle the expedi-
tion cruised about, but, being unable to find
winter quarters, returned to Hobart in March
of the following year.
Recipe for a black enamel for fireplaces and
fenders ? —7513.
Thin 1 part of sodium waterglass with 2
parts of water. Then add sufficient lampblack
to make a smooth black enamel, and paint on.
allow to dry thoroughly.
What is the longest sermon on record ?
7569.
There are not very reliable records of such
performances. The one that holds the field as
far as can be traced is that of the Rev. G. Z.
Brown, a negro, who preached for 12 hours 10
minutes at Mt. Zion Baptist Church. Washing-
ton, U.S.A. He spoke of gambling, com-
panionate marriage, prohibition, the evil of
dancing, famine, pestilence and drought. While
on “famine” he ate a leg of chicken; and he
moistened “drought” with a glass of milk.
Anything known about John Bacon, sculptor,
who did the monument to Guy in the chapel
of Guy’s Hospital, London ? —7656.
Born 1741, he became a famous sculptor.
He invented the pointing instrument which
enabled apprentices to work on a large statue
from a small model, and did his own metal
casting. He tried to corner the Government
market in statuary; he wanted a monopoly for
the supply of allegorical figures, but didn’t get
it. Guy died at 58 worth £60,000.
Does Anybody Know?
Who was the author of verses entitled “The
Stockmen’s Pledge,” containing the lines
“The camp-fire has burnt brightly,
The coals are glowing red”?
—7672.
Where a Meadows Model V washing-machine
can be bought?—764l.
Brief Answers.
D.G.: Write to Resident Commissioner,
Mbabane, Swaziland E.W.: The junior
clerical staff is recruited from candidates suc-
cessful at Public Service exam. Get pamphlet
about forthcoming exam, from N.S.W. Public
Service Board... .A.A.: Silos consist of
from 9 to 13 cylindrical and irregular-shaped
bins; diameter of bins varies from 14ft.
to 30ft.; height of walls, 60ft. to 70ft.;
thickness, 6in. to Bin F.J.L.: See Jane’s
“Fighting Ships” at the N.S.W. Public Lib-
rary... .A.A.8.: (1) Henley’s “Twentieth
Century Book, of Recipes, Formulas and Pro-
cesses” (275. 6d.) and Jones’s “1000 Practical
Recipes” (2s. 3d.). (2) Mitchell and Hepworth’s
“Inks” (215.), Lambert’s “Glue, Gelatine and
Their Allied Products” (10s.), Smith’s “Glue
and Glue testing” (12s. 6d.), and Fernbach’s
“Glues and Geiatine” (28s. 6d.)... .W.T.S.:
Kerr s “Elementary Coal Mining” (10s.) and
Cockin’s “Elementary Class Book of Practi-
cal Coal Mining” (105.)... .L.M.H.: (1)
Stewart's “Latest Dance Book” (35.) and
Graham’s “the Dancing Master” (35.). (2)
Marsnall’s “true tales for My Children”
(9d.), Bryant’s “Stories to Tell to Children”
Os. 3d.), Browne’s “Songs and Stories for the
Little Ones” (ss. 3d.), and Lindsay’s “More
Mother Stories” (ss. 3d.)... .E.J.W.: Their
import is prohibited except for exhibition pur-
poses b.G.: Apply to Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane... .H.VV.: Need more particu-
lars... .E.L.G.: (1) Bradman, with 56.57 (8 in.,
1 n. 0., h.s. 103, aggregate 396) as against Ham-
mond’s 55 (9 in., 1 n. 0., h.s. 112, aggregate
440). (2) Paynter, 61.33 (5 in., 2 n. 0., h.s. 83,
aggregate 184); Bradman, 56.57; Sutclitfe, 55 (9
in., 1 n. 0., h.s. 194, aggregate 440); Hammond,
55; Wyatt, 46.71 (9 in., 2 n. 0., h.s. 78, aggregate
327)... .H.C.: Director, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney M. 8.: See “Encyclo-
pedia Britannica”... .J.S.P.: They are the ille-
gitimate children of the mother no less than
of the father. It is very ancient English 1aw....
M.G.S.: Short and Ham’s “A Synopsis of
Physiology.” (165.), Leonard Hill’s “Physiology
for Beginners” (3s. 6d.) and “Manual of
Human Physiology” (10s. 9d.), Furneaux and
Smart’s "Human Physiology” (6s. 6d.) and
Foster and Shore’s “Physiology for Beginners”
(ss. 3d.) M.F.: The rhyme (author un-
known) is based on an extract from Martin
Farquhar Tupper’s “Proverbial Philosophy,”
which begins “Ihere is so much of good among
the worst, so much of evil in the best”....
J.C.8.: In the Small Debts Court professional
costs are not allowed; beyond that all depends
on the services rendered by the solicitor. If
you think the charges are excessive submit the
detailed account to the Taxing Master, Supreme
Court, Sydney... .G.C.: (1) A promissory-note
is an unconditional promise in writing, engag-
ing to pay a fixed sum on a fixed date to the
order of a specified person or bearer of the
note. (2) Yes.... W.J.8.: Get in touch with
the Superintendent, Vermin and Noxious Weeds
Branch, Department of Lands and Survey,
Melbourne... .C.M.: Write to the Dept, of
Agriculture, Brisbane, for a pamphlet on the
subject... .N.M.: Write E. V. E. Neill, secre-
tary, Centenary Council, Town Hall, Mel-
bourne W.D.J.S.: Value of the Common-
wealth’s tin production for 1932 was estimated
at £305,566; value of exports for the same
period was £132,990 G.J.: You are not likely
to get a good course for less W.H.: Com-
municate with the Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, Sydney, stating the name of the society.
. ...H.P.8.: (1) Get a copy of the Service and
Installation Rules, obtainable from Standards
Association of Australia, Science House, Glou-
cester-street, Sydney. (2) Maycock and Kemp’s
“Electrical Wiring, Fittings and Lamps” (13 s.)
will be found helpful C.W. (1) No, deser-
tion without reasonable excuse during three
years and upwards is a ground for divorce
under N. S. Wales law, but your case does not
come under that category, the separation being
by mutual agreement. (2) The original has been
501 d... .W.P.: (1) It is a Swedish one-sixth
ore (1673); value, Is. (2) It is a medal struck in
honor of the Duke of Wellington to com-
memorate his victories in Spain; value of speci-
men submitted, 3d.... .R.L.8.: (1) From
C. J. V. Weaver, hon. sec., Australian Numis-
matic Society, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney. (2) Value above par, which is small,
depends on mint condition and variety of issue,
excepting those dated 1860, which are worth
face value only. (3) Do not know of any.
(4) “The Numismatic Circular” (monthly, ss.
p.a.), from Spink and Son, 5 King-street, St.
James’s, London, S.W.I; and “Coins and How
to Know Them,” by Gertrude Burford Raw-
lings (65.)... .J.G.M.: Cannot recommend any
particular solicitor nor act as intermediary be-
tween solicitor and client A.J.C.: Nothing
can be done without emptying the tank. The
bottom must be cemented over again
J.C.H.: Write McKnight Bros., Peel-street,
Tamworth, N. S. Wales G.J.: The treat-
ment is not recommended... .W.W.: (1)
Cannot diagnose without examination. (2)
Bicarbonate of soda relieves many stomach de-
rangements, from mild dyspepsia to gastric ulcer.
There is no use keeping on taking it without
ascertaining the cause of the trouble....
D. : The paragraph was based on an article
in “Popular Science” by H. J. Fitz Gerald....
A.C.: None in stock in Sydney. “Theory of
the Rifle and Rifle Shooting,” Bs. 3d., including
postage, could be imported for you... .A.B.H :
“Infinity” in algebra, symbol for which is an
8, lying on its side, arises (among other ways)
in equations where a quantity is divided by
zero, the logic being that if the divisor be infi-
nitely small the product must be infinitely great.
. ...R.A.; Secretary of the Interior Albert B.
Fall was convicted of bribe-taking in connection
with Teapot Dome oil concessions and sen-
tenced to one year's imprisonment. He went
to gaol on July 20, 1931. Can’t say how long
he stayed there F.C.D.: (1) to (4) There is
no N.S.W. State Award for gardeners or “use-
fuls” on stations, and unless you come under
the Federal Pastoral Award you are bound by
the agreement with your employer. (5) Yes....
G.T.: From meagre information given as to the
marks, the tankard must be after 1720 and
before 1823. Presuming it be late eighteenth
century, its London value is about 12s. per
ounce, which would go up to £1 if it was as
early as 1750. Doubt if it would fetch more
than 10s. per ounce in Sydney.. . .A.A.S.:
Obtain bulletin on “Grass Tree Resin from
Sydney Technological Museum, 7d. posted....
D.C.: Obtain bulletin on “Tung Oil from Aus-
tralian-grown Trees” (Hemsley), from Sydney
Technological Museum, Is. Id. posted. Seeaho
article in Bulletin of March 22 last (Many
others mailed).


THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S MEAL
NECK WOOL.
“Sheepo”: Neck wool is usually the
finest quality of the fleece, and the best
grown. But foreign matter is picked up
in the neck when the sheep is feeding.
It pays to take the neck portion out of ail
fleeces. Neck wool has realised more than
the fleece.
If the fleeces have been well skirted,
one line of neck wool is sufficient,
keeping, of course, the sexes and the
different ages of the flock separate. Take
a note of the bale numbers where each
flock begins and ends, and notify the
broker. You can obtain a better degree
of uniformity in spinning qualities with
neck wool taken off. In the average run
of merino sheep, the balance of the fleece
is generally four to eight counts lower
than the neck portion.
The same applies to the breech portion
of the fleece, except that it is usually the
strongest quality of all. Treat this por-
tion in the same manner as the necks.
Buyers ask for this procedure.
CLASSING THE FARMER’S CLIP.
“Jumbuck”: Many helpful articles on
preparing a small clip have appeared on
this page, and, no doubt, will be followed
by many farmers during the approaching
shearing season. Further improvement
will be effected if they class their sheep
when shorn. The smaller the flock, the
greater the need for uniformity of type
and high average quality. It costs no
more to feed or tend a high-grade ani-
mal than a poor one. The increase in
quantity of wool and the higher price
per pound will mean a substantial addi-
tion to the wool cheque, without any cor-
responding increase in expenses. Go
through the sheep in the yard and deter-
mine the average standard to be aimed
at, having regard to body type, size and
density of fleece, length and quality of
wool. Then, when shearing commences,
mark on the head with a piece of raddle
any sheep which do not come up
to standard, paying particular atten-
tion to any producing a small, yellow-
colored fleece. Draft off all raddled
sheep, keep apart till shearing ends and
then sell without delay.
CARE OF SHEEPSKINS.
“Eirwal”: The skinning of sheep and
the subsequent treatment of the skins will
considerably influence their market value.
Any care taken for improving the condi-
tion of skins will amply repay the
owner. Always dry skins in the shade.
Hang them while green over a round
rail 6in. to Bin. in diameter and with
neck and back lines along support.
Shanks and feet which are left on to
assist in stretching should be cut off as
soon as dry.
Never hang skins on wire, as when
dry they frequently crack along this line.
Following arsenical solutions when
painted on the skins are quite effective
against attacks of blowfly and weevils:
lib. arsenate of soda, 2 galls, water; or £lb.
commercial white arsenic, ilb. washing soda, 4
galls, water.
The favored parts for parasite breed-
ing are in the folds, turned-up edges and
along points. Solution may be applied
as soon as surface is set. A week later
the skins may be stacked.
THE CACTOBLASTIS.
G. Lightfoot (Commonwealth represen-
tative on the Prickly Pear Board):
Under the heading “The Friendly Caterpillar”
(B. 9/ 8/ ’33) you again raise the bogey as to
what Cactoblastis will eat when the prickly-
pear is finished. The answer to this is pro-
bably that the prickly-pear may never be
finished, but that a balance of nature will be
restored, as is the case with hosts and their
parasites and predators all the world over.
As to the Cactoblastis turning its attention
to lucerne or other crops, the most exhaustive
tests were carried out by the Commonwealth
Prickly Pear Board before Cactoblastis was
released in order to ensure beyond all doubt
that it cannot pass through its life-history
except on prickly-pear.
In areas where the original heavy growth of
pear has been destroyed by Cactoblastis, millions
of the following generation of insects have
already died from want of foodstuff.
BREED HORSES.
“Agri”: Tell “Benign” (B. 16/8/’33)
not to discourage anyone from breeding
horses. In Riverina horses are an
absurdly high price. An 18-year-old
mare, said to be in foal, brought £4O
at a recent sale. The cheapest was £27.
Many tractor farmers are replacing worn
tractors with horses. Many more would,
if prices went down.
Local breeders supply little more than
their own requirements of young horses.
If Queensland breeders brought down
500 young horses for sale at £25 or £3O
each someone would be killed in the
rush. The demand for good draughts in
the wheat belt of N.S.W. will be heavy
for at least ten years.
MINERAL-DEFICIENCY DISEASES.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Bear in mind that
stock on a well-balanced ration require
little mineral except salt. Cereals and
oil-cakes are rich in minerals. When they
are fed with good roughages deficiency
diseases seldom occur. Lucerne is valu-
able because of its high protein and lime
content. The mineral content varies
greatly according to stage of growth and
variety of herbage, but a maximum of
both minerals and protein will be yielded
when young and succulent.
Many cases diagnosed and treated as
mineral-deficiency diseases are due, not
to food shortage, but to lack of digestible
protein or fat or an excessive percentage
of indigestible fibre. Animals in low
condition do not readily take to a lick
designed to correct mineral deficiency,
but if they do it is not always efficacious,
because their digestion is out of order.
Protein and mineral starvation go to-
gether, and should be treated only with
protein-rich grain and oil-cake meals.
STOCK-WATERING.
“Minthall”: After seeing many inland
watering systems I have come to the con-
clusion that the log type of trough can-
not be beaten. A handy man can easily
overcome the difficulty of cleaning it out.
He should set his trough on cross-logs,
so that the main timber does not touch
the ground. This counteracts white ant
and rot. A current of air should be
allowed to pass underneath, as it keeps
the water cooler. The cross logs and the
under part of the trough can be adzed
down to get a firm base, with either stone
or gravel on both sides of the approach.
Dust is the worst enemy of stock drink-
ing ; it means mud during wet spells.
Gravelling done each year wears down
slopes and allows the overflow, if any,
to run right away. At the far end of
the log trough should be bored a large
auger hole, with a slope outwards, and
a plug with a piece of pine, tapered
round, stake-pointed fashion, inserted
tightly. It may leak at first, but the pine
will soon swell and make a snug stopper.
Scrub the sides and bottom well with a
stiff broom before emptying.
CONCRETE MIXING.
“A.S.”: The main point is to ensure
that every particle of the sand and coarse
aggregate gets its coating of cement
while still dry. The ideal way is first to
mix thoroughly the cement with the sand,
.and re-mix with the gravel, metal or
whatever else is used. The quantity
of water depends on the work. For
block-making use just enough to make
the materials hang together. For cast-
in-place jobs enough water should be
used to make a solid mass, which can be
plastered with a shovel.
Never mix concrete until it can be dis-
posed of immediately. The initial set
takes place about half an hour after mix-
ing, and when this has begun no amount
of re-mixing with water will restore the
binding effect lost.
Setting is slow, although it is soon
obvious, and is not a mere drying-out.
If dryness appears too quickly, cover the
cement with bags, sand or straw and
sprinkle the cover with water. In
summer concrete sets much faster than
in winter.
When gate- and fencing-posts, or other
things in which the full strength of the
concrete is to be called upon as soon
as it is put into use, are made, at least
a month —three, for preference—should
be allowed for “curing.” Concrete does
not gain its full strength for nearly nine
months. “Curing” can be achieved by
letting the posts lie in water.
VINE IRRIGATION.
“Kilkivan”: F. de Castella says the life
circle of the vine provides for a sprouting
in September. The period of the vine’s
most active growth follows, and it blos-
soms in November. The growth rate
almost ceases in December, appears to
languish, and recovers as the -fruit ripens.
Irrigation practice upsets the life cycle.
Application of too much water lets the
vine grow through summer at the fruit’s
expense.
The needs of the vine can best be sup-
plied by a system which gives good
winter watering, wetting the subsoil
deeply and then withholding water alto-
gether in October and November. This
ensures adequate soil moisture for a good
bud burst, and leaves the vine free to
grow on through blossoming without
irrigation. Should the spring be wet and
fungus diseases about, the ground is not
too wet for the spray pumps to be
worked.
Sunscalding of fruit is prevalent on
vines forced by spring irrigations, and
can be prevented by Mr. Castella’s
methods.
Swan Hill growers have harvested
heavy crops of sultanas on this system,
taking water in late August and going
up to early December for the next. Dur-
ing January and February water is
applied every three weeks, untii harvest
commences in early March. The autumn
irrigation is only used to start the cover
crops of peas and tick beans.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My four-year-old filly is suffering front an
itch between the hoof and knee, causing it to
stamp in stable at night and rub against posts
a”'* stumps in paddock. Cause and cure ?
7204.
i-iobably the filly is affected with a form of
mange, Soak the parts in an emulsion
made by mixing a pound of soft soap, a pint
of kerosene and a gallon of water. If neces-
sary application should be repeated in a fort-
night’s time.
A few months ago a sweat-boil came on my
pony’s back, just behind the withers. He had
a sore back at the same spot before. Last
week the top scab —about half a dozen layers .
of apparently dead, calloused skin—came off,
leaving thin though tough-looking skin, not a
raw wound. Unless that skin is dead, it looks
as though anything that will make hair grow
would be enough to effect a permanent cure.
Any suggestions ? —7270.
From the information supplied it would
appear that the wound has healed. Tincture
of iodine should be applied to the area affected
and the padding of the saddle continued. If,
however, the ulcer has not healed, apply hot
foments and boracic acid powder. Consult a
veterinary surgeon if no improvement is noted
in the condition of the wound.
I hold a permit to destroy ’possums on my
N.S.W. property. How can I poison or other-
wise eradicate them ? —7343.
Poisoning is prohibited; a very heavy penalty
is provided for such offence under the Birds
and Animals’ Protection Act. The N.S.W.
Agriculture Department’s entomologist suggests
that if the ’possums come from some inacces-
sible region, a watch should be kept for their
arrival, so that they might be shot or trapped.
It is probable that after some are trapped or
shot, the others will be scared away.
(1) Can you tell me how to timber a well from
the top, as / sink it, using round pine timber ?
(2) Best size of timber to use ? —7374.
(1) The planks are halved so that they can
be inserted whether working from the bottom
or from the top. Thus, as excavating
proceeds, timbers A and B are first set in posi-
tion, after which C and D are worked up from
underneath. On the next set timbers C and D
should be placed under A and B; that is to say,
they are alternated on each band. A and B
should always rest on solid ground; C and D
may be held up with short cleats fixed tem-
porarily, but as A is immediately put under C,
many workers do not use cleats at all. The
same procedure would have to be followed
with round timber, but unless it is straight and
of uniform thickness it will be difficult for an
inexperienced worker to handle. (2) Sawn
timber is chiefly used. Next to this split logs
of 6in. to Bin. diameter would be the most
convenient to handle. The timber should be
the same width on each band.
(1) Cure for smut on orange-trees ? (2)
Cure for scale on orange-trees? (3) Something
to stop ants from climbing up fig-trees ? —7542.
(1) and (2) The smut referred to is doubtless
fumagine or sooty mould, due to the presence
of scale insects. The mould develops on the
sugary substance secreted by these pests. One
of the commonest scales responsible for the
presence of fumagine is that known as the
pink wax. Method of control for fumagine
and also for red scale is by spraying or
fumigation with hydrocyanic gas. Get bulletins
“Pests of Citrus” and “Diseases of Citrus” from
Q. Agriculture Department. (3) Some relief may
be obtained by using a banding substance such
as Tree-tanglefoot or Ostico.
Best method of dealing with the red-legged
earth mite ? —7484.
For spider mite ( Penthaleus bicolor ) use the
following mixtures: (a) Carbolic powder (15
per cent, actual carbolic content). —One part
hydrated lime or kaolin three parts. Mix
thoroughly. ( b ) Sulphur. —The finely-divided
sulphur obtainable from firms like Buzacotts
gives the best results, although flowers of sul-
phur will do. (c) Tar-distillate dust. —Two and
a half ounces (by weight) of tar distillate like
ovicide (Cooper and Nephews), 91\ parts (by
weight) of hydrated lime to make the tar-distil-
late dust. This can be home-made by slowly
adding the tar distillate drop by drop to the
hydrated lime and continually mixing until the
tar distillate is thoroughly incorporated in the
dust. This dust may injure delicate plants, but
should be applied in the warmest part of the
day, as the mites are then on the ground or
drop to it when disturbed, so the bulk of the
dust would be applied to the ground. Tar-dis-
tillate dusts are available from F. Chilton and
Co., Fruit Markets, Hay-street, Sydney. _ The
other materials mentioned are applied in the
same way.
Where to apply for employment on the rabbit-
proof fences between Queensland and other
States ? —7037.
The fences have been vested in the Crown,
and it is intended to dispose of them to adjoin-
ing landholders. The Government is. not em-
ploying anyone at present to supervise main-
tenance.
(1) Recipe for honey mead? (2) Methods of
making cider or wine from “specked apples,
pears and oranges ? —7474.
(1) Boil 34-lb. honey in 1 gallon water for
1 hour. Skim frequently, strain the skimmings,
and return to the pan. Remove from the fire,
allow to cool, and when almost cold stir in l
cup of yeast to every 9 gallons liquor. Put in
a cask, close it, and store in a cool place lor
about one year, when it may be bottled. (2)
Apple cider is made by crushing the apples
after they have been allowed to get very ripe,
placing the pulp in coarse bags and squeezing
with heavy weights to obtain all the juice. The
liquid is placed in an open tub, and kept at
a temperature of about 60 degrees. After
about 3 days for weak cider, or 8 to 10 days
for strong cider, the liquid is drawn off by a
tap from the bottom, placed in clean
casks, stored in a cool place, and left to
mature until the following- spring. For orange
wine, slice 12 skinned oranges into 1 gallon
cold water, add raisins and leave uncovered,
stirring lightly every day for 8 days. Strain off
the liquid, add 41b. granulated sugar and c tir
daily for 10 days. Leave for a day to settle,
strain again, add 1 tablespoon best brandy,
then bottle. Leave corks loose until fermen-
tation ceases, then seal.
Recipe for gluten flour ? —7472.
It is impossible to make gluten flour at home.
The nearest you can get is a rough meal, suit-
able for gluten cookery, as follows: Take 4 cups
cold water and enough plain flour (about 10
to 11 cups) to make a stiff dough; mix into
a loaf, knead thoroughly, then place the loaf
in a large pan and cover well with cold water.
Let it stand for an hour or longer, then wash
out all the starch by kneading and working
with the hands in the water. Change the water
several times until clear. When the starch is
all out, dry the gluten in a clean cloth, roll out
thinly on a slightly-floured board, cut in small
pieces, and bake in a moderate oven until a
light brown. Set in a warm place until
thoroughly dry and brittle. Roll fine with a
rolling-pin, or put through a fine mincer. Makes
a good porridge by boiling for a few minutes
with milk or water.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Only Dave”: About a week after
heavy rain examine your haystack and
get rid of all mouldy parts. Mould is
one of the greatest germ-breeders and
-carriers. While the majority of the germs
may be harmless, some may be harbored
that will spread death through the herd
or flock. One mouldy spot can con-
taminate for yards around. When you’ve
removed the disease spot, burn it.
“Agri”: Each tooth from the comb of
old strippers can easily be forged into
two good narrow points for a McKay
cultivator-drill.
“Marsh”: Steel fencing-wire, when
strained during cold months, often snaps
near the posts. Put a panel length of
wire on each side of the strainers, well
burnt in an open fire. It should last
then.
“Outback”: To make cheap, service-
able sandpaper, spread hot glue over
thick wrapping paper. Then sprinkle
with sharp, selected sand.
“Gulliver”: The earlier lambs are
tailed and doctored the better for their
development. Yard the ewes and lambs
the night before. Keep your knife really
sharp. Sterilise the clams and knife. Take
plenty of Stockholm tar. Fix the tin
securely or it will be knocked over. See
that the catching pen is not too large.
Choose a warm day. Finish early so
the ewes may find their lambs before
sundown. Tie up the dogs.
“Waranbini”: To keep eggs fresh a
long while dip them in melted fat before
storing. You may pickle them in lime
water, but the shells become discolored
after a time.
“Floodmark”: When a poddy lamb
begins to scour and loses interest in his
milk, give him two teaspoons of castor-
oil, and repeat the dose if necessary.
Skimmed milk, given in a bottle with
ordinary rubber teat, every two hours
for first fortnight, then every three, rears
a good lamb, with grass "three times a day.
“Speargrass”: Worn-out car-tyres or
machinery-belting of rubber and fibre
composition can be used to make hobble
straps. Saw them into strips with a hand-
saw, under water. Weather will never
shrink or harden them. They are always
easy to undo. They will never chafe
the horse’s fetlocks and will outlast four
pairs of ordinary leather or greenhide
hobbles.
“Nipped”: A recent hint advised care
with the wood-box and termites. Paint
the wood-box with preserving oil every
three months, or have a zinc-lined match
case. Allow ant-infested wood to lie,
when split, to the sun and air for two
days. Termites can’t stand light or ex-
posure.
“Cockyson”: Never use young broad-
leaf or mountain ironbark for house
stumps or outbuilding posts in white-ant-
infested localities. Never use it in build-
ings where it comes in contact with the
ground, unless every trace of the inner
heartwood has been removed. Fence
posts split from hollow or well-grown
trees stand well in the ground ; but like
other varieties of ironbark they are
highly inflammable. Gaps are often left
in the fencing after a bush-fire.
“Golightly”: I agree with “Lion” that
landowners fortunate enough to have
surplus water ought to plant willows (B.
2/ 8 / ’33). Lucerne and the willow will
thrive alongside each other, as the willow
is not greedy of the soil, and gives the
lucerne the necessary sunlight during
winter. A Rylstone district settler a few
years ago planted willows along two
miles of a running creek. Now the trees
are used regularly for fodder, thus treb-
ling his cattle-carrying capacity.
(Land Page continued on page 27.)


m
\
31
ET
: 2
T ;• Ail
Fit your foot for width
Here’s a shoe that does it per-
fectly. . .you at once feel the
extra comfort it gives. The foot
muscles are free to function as
Nature intended. It’s an exclu-
sive Abbey model. . . smart-
looking and hard-wearing. It
holds its shape!
ORDER BY POST.
There are four widths.... narrow,
medium, wide and extra-wide. When
ordering, state which you need, and
ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 348
“AMAZING!”
SAYS CONTRACTOR
Tough Haulage Jobs a Real Test
Through many months of gruelling strain,
in back-breaking haulage work, heavy cart-
ing, and general transport, the Leggett Spark
Plug proves its power of difference.
J. Bennett, fleet owner of 45 trucks,
reports: “The
Leggett Spark Plug
is the best we’ve
ever used. We arc
amazed at its ability
to give perfect per-
formance under
severest conditions.
We recommend the
Leggett Spark Plug
for trouble-free per-
formance, extra
power and in-
creased mileage.”
The hotter spark
principle, exclusive
to the Leggett
Spark Plug, in-
creases engine effi-
ciency by more per-
fect fuel combus-
tion, resulting in
easier starting,
sweeter running,
and more miles per
gallon.
Change to-day,
with confidence to
Leggett Spark
Plugs.
5/4/33
?s,
0,
m
Dynamic,
! F. «
ft
Popularly
Priced at
ALL GARAGES
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872. ,
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
YES... they both come from
Pennsylvania
But Pennsylvania Motor
Oils Are Not All Alike
Mot<»
Opt
PENNSYLVANIA Crude is the
basis of the finest motor oil the
world knows. . . . But crude oil is
not MOTOR Oil until it is refined and
purified. That’s why only the finest
Pennsylvania motor oil can win every
fight in your motor. The one sure
way to get the finest Pennsylvania is
to ask for Pennsylvania VEEDOL.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is made by
the world’s largest refiner and mar-
keter of Pennsylvania crudes. Penn-
sylvania VEEDOL is heatproof and
coidproof. Made so by a new and
secret process with ultra - modern
equipment.
No other motor oil at any price can
give you more miles of perfect lubri-
cation or more complete motor pro-
tection ... yet 100 per cent. Penn-
sylvania costs no more than ordinary
oils. . -
A LWAYS
ASK FOR
EDOL
MOTOR OIL
100 PER CENT. PENNSYLVANIA.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LTD. ALL
Distributee's for . . . TIDE WATER OIL
STATES,
COMPANY.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
, ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: J. K. DRYHURST.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd. ; National Provincial Bunk, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
• Pair of tan Oxfords over
4 years old. Apart from wear-
ing creases, the uppers are as
sound as the day they were bought
—thanks to regular cleaning with
Kiwi. Owner, V. /., St. Kilda.
- m
• Kiwi makes a good shoe last,
• and gives a good shine to boot
BLACK
pol7sh“
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
Hsna
NVI
H7OIM
pf
r<
'und < Jri
ITon
to
Sunny Pacific Islands
“Where Winter Never Comes.”
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
hy the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 Witliam Street, Melbourne


ĥ
ENCLOSED
GEAR
DOUBLE
GEARED
SELF
OILING
r
Windmill
See It
At
Melbourne’s
ROYAL
SHOW
WROUGHT
IRON
PIPES
AND
FITTINGS
ALL
SIZES
AT
LOWEST
PRICES.
An exceptionally powerful Windmill and very Easy-running. Thorough
lubrication, with Ball-bearings on the Main Shaft and a Ball-bearing Race
on the Tower Cap make this mill respond freely to light breezes and quickly
adapt itself to changing winds. Thus with the Billabong there is more
pumping done—and its perfect oiling system ensures a longer life with
fewer repairs.
Full Particulars and Prices Post Free on Request.
For Centrifugal and other Power Pumps, Hand Pumps and Pump
Accessories, see our General Pump Catalogue. It is Post Free.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fife.
-
m
■1f,.1
m
'//'
S'h
"<*jyvZ.
w
HY keep renewing fences when for one
pound seven shillings and sixpence you can
purchase the cement required for 24 con-
crete fence posts 7ft. long, 3in. x sin.
at base, tapering to 3in. x 4in. at top?
Concrete posts will not rot or burn, and will give
a finished and solid appearance to the home or
farm.
Sand and stone are available everywhere, and you
can easily make the posts yourself from directions
in a leaflet which is sent free on application to:
The Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Association
14 Spring Street, SYDNEY or Temple Court, MELBOURNE
Please send instructions how to construct concrete posts.
NAME
ADDRESS
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
Prom the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
m<
Too Old At
Vitality comes this
simple way
THE unforgivable sin to-day is to be too
old.” Yet young women —men, too find
themselves just “worn-out when they
should be at the zenith of a happy, healthy
life.
You want to enjoy life. You want to let
others find you fit and vigorous. Yon don’t
want to be an “always-ill” wife or an "ever-weak
husband.
Young men and women, finding capacity for
work or pleasure destroyed by constant down-
dragging pain, weakness, back-breaking bod>
pains, agony to move or turn, bad nights perhaps,
and serious worries such as bladder trouble; most
surely you should realise that the kidneys lie at the
seat of your trouble.
Rheumatism, too, “the illness with a hundred
symptoms”; starting perhaps with sharp twinges
of pain in the muscles, the trouble, if neglected,
will develop until every movement of the body
seems just sheer agony.
Joints swell and become stiff, muscles ache _
and burn, the back seems almost ready to break—all day there is constant down-
dragging pain and at night the tortured nerves refuse to sink to sleep.
Mudern science has conclusively proved that the cause of rheumatism lies in
the blood. Poisons, such as uric acid in excess, harmful bacteria and toxins, are
carried through the system. In the case of uric acid, the tiny razor-edged crystals
are deposited in joints, etc., which flash to the brain their pain-struck symbols of
distress.
Weak kidneys, what misery they cause. If they are not filtering and purifying
the system they are allowing uric acid and other poisons to accumulate. That
is why you have pain night and day. That is why you feel and look “too-old.”
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lie 3 within the system, through
faulty kidney action. There are thousands of men and women suffering daily
“untold agonies” because of kidney trouble in one form or another who could
end their trouble in a very simple way. The only possible means of doing this
is to cleanse the body of pain-giving poisons, and that is a function the kidneys
must carry out.
Years Roll {Back
It is the testimony of not one but thousands
of one-time sufferers which enables us to state that
if you will commence a course with a simple
straightforward remedy, De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be
ended.
It does not matter how long you have suffered
or what disappointments you may have had in the
past—get a bottle of De Witt’s Pills to-day and
start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your
nervous system and building once again the real
foundations of health.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why
continue in constant nerve-destroying pain? Why
be weak and ailing?
If you persevere with this tried and trusted,
40-year-old remedy, you will find your old, tired,
“worn-out” feeling replaced by new vigour and
vitality. Your day’s work will be a pleasure and
your spare-time pleasures doubled. No more
sallow, spotty complexion, no more sleepless
nights, no more stabs in the back. No more
rheumatic pains, bad back, bladder troubles.
Try just one bottle of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills and prove this. If within 24 hours
from the first dose you canriot see (from colour of
urine) that they have started their health action,
return the partly-used bottle to the manufacturers
and your money will be refunded in full.
This guaranteed remedy has been tried and trusted for over 40 years. It can
be taken by the very young, the weakest, the oldest and women at all times, with
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the very first dose.
De WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder Pills
Invaluable in all cases of:—
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
®tc., etc.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Streep Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\ ic. Office : 3CO Collins St.. Melbourne.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
Gc-eral Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FREDK. liEVY,
Managing Director.
The Wheat Agreement
Provided the wheat agreement reached
in London does not go beyond next
season, Australia has got the best of the
bargain, in spite of the bad principle
involved. Trade estimates are that our
export crop should be 20 per cent, less
than last year, and the reported arrange-
ment calls for a 15 per cent, restriction,
with no restriction of acreage, while other
countries are said to have involved them-
selves in an acreage reduction to meet the
threatening American attitude. One Ameri-
can delegate to the conference, in an in-
terview with the London “Daily Express,”
told the European delegates plainly that
they must restrict their acreages or pay,
and Australia, Canada and the Argen-
tine that if they did not come to heel
their Asiatic trade would be crushed by
the unloading of surpluses from the
U.S.A., which would bring the price of
wheat down to the price of dirt.
* # * *
All this emphasises Australia’s special-
ised position. She is not impregnable in
the whole wheat market, but with close
study of world requirements, specialisa-
tion in a wider range of grading grains
and careful attention to the time factor
in deliveries, she might conceivably make
herself so for a very large proportion
of her crop, provided production does
not increase abnormally. At present
there is some land under wheat which
nationally might be more useful fatten-
ing lambs; and there is much more
bought at high boom levels of price
which, while it grows good wheat, must
remain unprofitable unless its burdens
are written down capitally ; but that is
an argument for reorganisation of output
rather than for reduction.
* * * *
The wheat situation, the fruit situa-
tion, the butter situation, all combine to
illustrate two points: Firstly, since Aus-
tralia is a comparatively small producer
but a big exporter in proportion to her
production, she has a better world-
market opportunity than any other coun-
try on earth, because she can afford to
pick her market, provided she has the
right material with which to win it. If
she can grow sufficient of the only blend-
ing wheats needed for certain purposes
and put the rest of her crop on a high
level of quality and grading, she can snap
her fingers for the time being at over-
loaded and surplus-ridden world markets,
in regard at least to the staple of her ex-
port crop. Secondly, she is not using her
opportunities to the full. There is too
much distinction of method drawn be-
tween primary and secondary industries.
The manufacturer who wants business
experiments to find out what pleases his
customers most and then proceeds to
standardise, with a view to assuring that
he will produce exactly the right article
every time and reduce his costs by mass
production.
* * * *
The farm should be just as much a
factory as the industrial plant which
builds wireless sets. Argentine beef pro-
ducers, Danish bacon producers and a
growing section of Australian butter pro-
ducers so regard it, but a great many
Australian farmers and graziers look on
it as a place where, if you have a large
enough area and enough stock of indiffer-
ent quality and sufficient fencing and
bank overdraft, an income will fall from
Heaven in due course.
* * * *
The Danish farmer looks on grass,
fertiliser, etc., as the ironmaster looks on
his ore or flux. He uses the minimum
necessary to produce the ideal standard-
ised carcass or the maximum quantity
of milk or butter. Moreover, he looks
on land in the same light as the fac-
tory man does —waste space is waste
effort; waste fencing, unproductive ex-
pense. His land policy is to use just
so much as will produce without waste
enough fodder to manufacture whatever
his product is in the most economical
manner possible. Many an Australian
is using twice as much land as he needs
—is carrying twice as much fencing and
twice as much stock, doing twice as much
work, because none of the three is effi-
cient.
* * * *
Australia has the finest marketing
opportunity in the world —in many lines
she is throwing it away and is at the
mercy of other countries which should
be at her mercy. Within her own coast-
line she has a sovereign example which
should steer every industry into the right
line of policy. You don’t hear any
foreign bully trying to intimidate us by
a threat to dump fine wool against us
in the Orient at a price which will make
it “as cheap as dirt.” He can't —we pro-
duce the best wool of certain types in
the world and our competitors can’t
dump against us any more than they
could dump against our best white mill-
ing wheats in appropriate markets.
* • * * *
No boycott will keep out raw or manu-
factured essential materials. Indian cot-
ton-growers do not treat Japanese tariff
threats seriously, for instance. As one
authority has declared, in an interview
with the London “Financial Times”:
Tariffs or no tariffs, the moment that Japan
finds it does not pay her to buy Indian cotton
as largely as before, she will stop doing 50....
In the meantime, I am not inclined to attach
any importance to the threat of boycott.
Wool Statistics
“Yerbua”: It is undeniable, as “Kamil-
roi” (B. 23 /8 / ’33) says, that our wool
trade has suffered because of our failure
to gather sufficient statistics of a world
character. The blame for this tragic
neglect of the woolgrower, on whom all
Australia depends, must be laid at the
feet of the politicians, who should not
leave the grower in the dark on a matter
of such vital national importance when
they have cheap, ready-made and easily
accessible regular sources of information
available. In the Federal sphere we have
a Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, and in the Ma State a Market-
ing Bureau, both costing the taxpayers
nearly £BO,OOO annually, but neither of
these bodies gleans any information out-
side Australia. The only remedy is for
the Federal Government to collect world
statistics and make them available to the
press immediately. The United States
Government has an efficient economics
branch which performs this service.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Marketing Bureau deals
almost entirely with local market prices,
which are conveyed through the broad-
casting stations to the producers. Accord-
ing to the citrus growers, who met in
annual conference recently, these reports
are not always correct. The aim of the
report is to show the trend in local pro-
duce prices, in order that the small
farmer may determine his selling policy.
No information of real value to the major
primary industries is supplied. Wool,
wheat and dairying are almost entirely
neglected. Wool- and wheat-growers
need statistics in regard to world move-
ments of stocks, i.e., lists of weekly ship-
ments to and from all countries. The
Bureau has a staff of 16, including a
director, and costs the N.S.W. taxpayer
£7500 annually in wages alone. The ink
and paper bills must also be enormous.
Damp Wheat and Newcastle
There is trouble over the proposed
erection by the N. S. Wales Government
of a wheat silo at Newcastle, which
naturally wants the facility built, more
especially since its existence would
almost certainly force the deepening of
the basin and the improvement of the
port. Experts, however, oppose the
scheme. G. C. Boehme, Dalgetys’ autho-
rity, recently asked the Minister to allow
McDonald, Director of Agriculture, to
express his views, and McDonald said
that it was doubtful whether north-west
N.S.W. wheat could be stored in silos
for lengthy periods, as that area was sub-
ject to seasons which made the wheat
damp and promoted conditions favor-
able to weevil development. In Sydney
storage, this danger is overcome by mix-
ing the n.-w. grain with dry-type grain
from other districts. Storage in New-
castle would make it impossible to even
up grain quality as at present—the extra
freight of dry wheats past Sydney would
not pay—and n.-w. farmers would suffer,
in common with those of the rest of the
State, through deterioration in average
grain quality. Lower quality means
lower sales and lower price, and, of
course, any price deficiency is likely to
fall on the taxpayers as a whole. But
politics must be served.
Manchurian Competition
“O-Mei-Shan”: Any fear that Man-
churian wools might prove to be a seri-
ous competitor of our own product is,
1 think, without foundation. Man-
churian wool is very coarse ; the highest
quality would not spin to more than 30’s.
Its only use is for making carpet yarn,
and for this purpose it is exported to
America. The production of fine wools
of the merino type is impossible in Man-
churia, where a temperature of-40 de-
grees below zero is not uncommon and
winds are very strong and bitter. To
stand this sort of climate sheep must
have a heavy, coarse and strong fleece.
It hardly seems possible that the breed
will improve.
* * * *
Ten or fifteen years ago a flock of
1000 ewes and 100 rams were imported
by the Shensi provincial authorities with
a view of establishing a higher type of
sheep. Within two years all traces of
the breed had disappeared, as they were
unable to hold their own with the local
species. Those that did not die were
absorbed by the local flocks, but they
have left no trace in the flocks.
* * * *
Whether the experiment would be suc-
cessful in a more southern locality with
a less rigorous climate remains to be
seen.
The Wrong Kind
“XT4”: The Department of Com-
merce jubilates in its latest bulletin —a
closely-guarded document issued each
month with costly secrecy—about the
results of Australian trade publicity in
Britain. Our expensive director has, as
usual, “performed much valuable work
to disseminate a knowledge of Austra-
lian fruits... .season opened with official
function at Australia House... .extensive
advertisement by means of outdoor and
indoor publicity, press publicity, novelty
features, shop displays... .‘vigorously
push sales’... .moving pictures.... pres-
ence of the Lord Mayor,” etc., etc. —all
the old familiar time-wasting phrases and
time-wasting methods.
* * * *
I have seen the fruit-buyers of Great
Britain operating, and I know just
exactly how to market to them. They
are an ordinary lot of cusses, not unlike
Australian fruit-buyers. They sit round
of a morning in auction rooms that look
like our wool salerooms facing an auc-
tioneer who looks and sounds like our
produce auctioneers. They don’t seem
to be interested in Australia, in Hyland,
Bruce, the Lord Mayor, window displays
or any other adventitious aid. What
they want is cases of fruit which they
can buy for a fair local price in sound
condition and sell with as good a gross
profit as can be managed. If Australian
fruit is all right, good, but if Portuguese
or Liberian is better for their purpose,
it’s all the same to them.
* * * *
An open case comes up in a lift in front
of the auctioneer, and some cove in the
back row says: “Here! ” and a boy takes
an apple out of the case and heaves it
at him. The auctioneer then says: “Thou-
sand cases —come on, gents.!” Three or
four people scream as if they had been
poisoned, and an old gentleman scratches
his head. The auctioneer says: “Kruger,
four and eight,” or something like that,
and the sale is over. It takes a minute
or so —1000 cases sold on one apple.
The spruiking of Hyland and co. in that
galley has no more influence than a puff
of wind. Give Britain fruit that will
stand up to British auction methods, and
keep a British trained fruit man in Lon-
don to keep us informed of requirements
and to report frankly where we fall down,
and the product will do the rest.
Farm-made Butter
The Australian hutter industry is defi-
nitely threatened because of the increas-
ing amount of poor-quality product
turned out. The sale of farm-made butter
is causing concern. The chairman of
Queensland’s Dairy Export Central Com-
mittee, Flood Plunkett, M.L.A., lately
stressed the need for enabling legislation
to control butter on an Australian-wide
basis. It was essential, he said, for Aus-
tralia to produce and export the highest
quality butter. His statement is sound.
* * * *
Plunkett said that in Tasmania farm-
made butter was interfering with the
factory-made product; in S.A. and Vic.
its production was increasing very
quickly; and in N.S.W. 3500 tons of
butter was made on farms last year. Of
course, being a politician, he defended
his own State. Queensland weather, he
said, prevented the manufacture of farm-
made butter for sale. But the fact re-
mains that, whether it was farm-made or
not, only 30 per cent, of Queensland’s
exported butter last year was choicest
grade. And the pineapple State exported
35,000 tons.
Freights and Apples
“Five Crown”: Reduction of freight-
rates on apples will not benefit Queens-
land this year—the last shipment was
made from the North in April—and
other apple-exporting States will not
score much from the concession, which
is 2d. per case in June and 3d. in July or
later. Freight-rates are a grievous burden
on export fruit. This season about
6,500,000 cases of apples were shipped.
They will not bring, at the outside, an aver-
age of 7s. per case, and freight has worked
out at 4s. lyd. per case, and incidental
charges are sufficient to absorb the rest
of the price in most instances. So that
at present the Australian grower seems
to do his hard work for the benefit of
oversea shipping companies and agents.
If this sort of industry is worth while
to the country —and every freight-mak-
ing industry must be, since it contributes
its tithe towards keeping the carrying
charges on big staple exports like wool
down, beside giving homes and liv-
ings to thousands of families —some-
thing should be done to spread the bur-
den a bit. Either those who keep the
business alive should be freed of taxa-
tion up to a point during their estab-
lishment stage or some special means of
protection should be devised. At pre-
sent any secondary industry which can
produce £2,000,000 worth of saleable
goods can get all the protection it wants
against foreign competition. But where
do the primary industries come in?
“Wirrah”: “Hortus” (B. 28/7/’33) says
“no farmer in the Tamworth district will
put in lucerne without a cover crop.” I
can name 12 farmers on and close to the
famous Nemingha Flats who would
not think of using a cover crop. If the
land is dirty they work it until it is clean
before sowing it down.


q be all sorts of a hat to ail types of people is not within the range
of Hats. Rather definitely these hats are styled for
the young man. The type of man who usually pays about a guinea
or more for his hat. He insists upon style correctness above all
things. That dignified conservative touch that marks the smartly
dressed ones. That is exactly why he selects a .
It conforms perfectly to these requirements.
u uuinui periet;uy iu me:
ALWAYS AHEAD
OBTAINABLE IN THREE GRADES AT ALL LEADING STORES
••JUNIOR** QUALITY 21/-: “MELOLITE” QUALITY 25/-; “SUPER-FELT" QUALITY 30/-
MANUFACTURERS ALSO OF THE FAMOUS “MILLS" HAT. 17/6.
ry
m
; AwT
MADE
IN AUSTRALIA AND GUARANTEED
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The performances of Autopay and
Chatham at Warwick Farm were excel-
lent. Humping 9st. 101 b. in the Campbell-
town Handicap, the stocky Maoriland
stallion (10 to 1) beat a good field bril-
liantly. Still, he had a good run all the
way, which is more than can be said for
the runner-up, Dermid (5 to 1), who de-
prived Tom Pinch (5 to 1) of third place
with a late run. Autopay, who won the
Epsom two years ago with Bst. 61b., has
9st. 71b. this time.
Chatham’s win in the Warwick Stakes
(also at tens) was full of merit. He put
up a course record (lmin. 37isec.) for a
mile, making hacks of Kuvera (6 to 1),
Rogilla (5 to 2), Silver Scorn (11 to 8),
Lough Neagh and other lesser lights. It
was his first race for many months, and
as his recovery from his wind infirmity
had been despaired of, owner A. E. Blair
and trainer Fred Williams were naturally
delighted. Blair is anxious to win
another Epsom, but realises that the son
of Windbag has a huge task to score
with 9st. 101 b.
• J. T. Jamieson has high hopes of win-
ning his second A.J.C. Derby. In 1928
Sert; "Do YOU PLAV cont ( rac.t-
BRID.GE , &ER,T-f"
Bert; "a fwe amount",
G|ERT ; "DoYT YOU P'ND 'T
Dl I=FMC.UI_T ? "
Bert: *Onl-< when it come* to
My DEBTS'^
he scored with Prince Humphrey, and
after Limarch’s easy victory in the
Hobartville Stakes (he started at 5 to 4)
he has reason to feel confident of land-
ing another blue riband. Limarch is by
Veilmond’s sire Limond, from Queen
March. The second horse, Blixten, who
carries the colors of the “Smithden” com-
bination, came home in good style. He
will be all the better for the race, and
quite a few good judges are selecting him
as the winner of the Derby. Shakuni,
who was supported in preference to his
stable-mate, bucked Jim Pike out of the
saddle early. It was unfortunate for that
fine horseman, as he had to forfeit the
ride on Chatham.
William Kelso has Topical in great
heart. The Windbag horse outstayed the
opposition in the Spring Handicap, where
he carried two pounds more than his
A.J.C. Metropolitan impost—Bst. 51b. He
started at 5 to 4, after twos had been
laid, and if he keeps well will be at a short
price for the Metrop. Topical is a
genuine stayer, having won the last Aus-
tralian Cup, and though he was not
opposed to many stayers at the Farm he
came home in capital style. When he
dropped back at the five furlongs it
looked a pretty hopeless job, but Topical
unwound a real Windbag finish to win
comfortably from Cherbourg (8 to 1) and
Satmoth (5 to 1). He was timed to run
his last half-mile in 48.
The finish of the Glenlee Handicap
was full of excitement. Topical’s stable-
mate Nord (6 to 1) and Maltdale (10 to
1) could not be separated. Both are in
the Metropolitan, with 7st. 31b. and 7st.
121 b. respectively. The favorite. Movie
Star, had every chance ; he dropped right
out in the last furlong.
* * * *
For Canterbury on Saturday:
Three-year-old Handicap: Measure;
next, Journal.
Flying Handicap: Porcia ; next, Mul-
tudo.
September Handicap: Magmtas ; next,
Ramrod.
Canterbury Stakes: Chatham; next,
Silver Scorn.
Campsie Handicap: Mountain View;
next, Opera Pie.
* * * *
Melbourne turf followers are confident
that Hall Mark will carry everything
before.him as a three-year-old this sea-
son. C. B. Kellow’s colt lost by the nar-
rowest of margins to Brutus at Fleming-
ton on August 19, but he conceded the
son of Windbag just on 2st. At Williams-
town on Saturday, Hall Mark faced the
starter in the Underwood Stakes, run at
standard weight-for-age over a mile He
was not nearly so forward in condition
as Waltzing Lily, and punters made her
an even-money favorite, Hall Mark being
quoted at 5 to 2. Of the other six
runners Ogwell (9 to 2) was the only one
at less than a double-figure quote.
The raC£ be and ended senS ation-
Waltzing Lily i ost ground at the
y J , ~, D r -.
start, but Daniels rushed the _Beau Fds
mare up into third place at the end o
two furlongs, and she was proclaimed a
winner on taking command from Ogwed
and L’Elite after entering the straight.
Dempsey—who will do the principal
riding for Holt’s stable now that Duncan
is incapacitated—did not ask Hall Mark
for a serious effort until they headed for
home. He tried to get through on the
rails, but could not find an opening,
Changing his course, Dempsey took Hail
Mark to the outside. Waltzing Lily had
a lead of three or four lengths and the
winning post was less than 100 yards
away.
How Hall Mark came to win, run-
ning away, by half a neck was a source
of wonderment to spectators, who
cheered themselves hoarse as the colt
returned to scale. Dempsey subsequently
stated that never in his career had he
known a horse to finish so fast. Hall
Mark ran the mile in lmin. 39sec., which
equals the record for the race.
Holt was taken somewhat by surprise
when Top Hole appropriated the six-fur-
longs Truganina Handicap. He allowed
the four-year-old son of Heroic to go out
at 7 to 1, Good Hunting, one of the horses
brought from M.L. by G. W. New, being
a 2-to-l favorite. Handy to the leaders at
the home turn. Good Hunting faded right
away at the business end of the journey.
Top Hole vanquished the Windbag stal-
lion Astronomy by half a head after a
thrilling finish. Count Orloff was a head
farther off and would have won if he
had not hung out.
Great Don, Mira Donna’s brother,
came out of his shell in the Three-year-
old Handicap, squeezing home by a head
from Excelic, who was many lengths in
advance of him at the distance. So elated
were those associated with Great Don
that they expressed the intention of send-
ing him across to Sydney to compete in
the A.J.C. Derby.
Dick Brad field, of Flemington, has
trained many Cup winners, and perhaps
he entertains hopes of landing the Caul-
field Cup for A. T. Creswick with Mural
Crown. This Rossendale mare has never
been seen to better advantage than in the
August Handicap, which she won in the
last stride by half a neck from the Adel-
aide mare Gay Girl, with the favorite,
Ben’s Fort, only half a head behind Gay
Girl. Weighted at 7st. 111 b., Mural
Crown would have an outside chance
at Caulfield. The mare is now six years
old ; she may be gaining in calibre as
she matures.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A novelty was introduced at Leich-
hardt on Saturday night; Tom Lurich
lost to King Elliott on a foul. Each had
scored a fall —Lurich made his man sub-
mit to a body scissors in the second, and
Elliott evened with flying tackles, fol-
lowed by a body press, in the fourth.
They started the fifth strenuously. Lurich
tossed Elliott over the ropes and banged
him on the face. For some reason or
other, this brought a reprimand. Luricn
then took the referee on, and was dis-
qualified.
Fool brawl
Vic. League games still draw the
crowds; at Geelong 22,250 parted up
£615 on Saturday to watch Richmond
play the locals. Up to half-time the game
was open and even, Geelong showing
better pace and marking ability, but on
resuming the Tigers let loose such superb
concerted play that they piled on 43
points to Geelong’s 2. At the end they
had 94 points to 70. Carlton kept its place
and improved its percentage by scoring
129 to Melbourne’s 71 ; and South
Melbourne did likewise by totting up
113 to Hawthorn’s 60. The surprise of
the day was at Essendon, where 12,000
watched Fitzroy hold a moderate lead
until almost the end, when the “Same
Old” staged some flashing bursts that
gave them victory by 85 to 'Roy’s 77, thus
deposing the Maroons from third to fifth
place. Collingwood licked North Mel-
bourne with 165 to 121, and St. Kilda
smashed Footscray’s semi-final hopes by
booting 137 points to 105. With one set
of games to play Richmond is the only
team safe for the four. Geelong, South
and Carlton are level for second place ;
Fitzroy is half a game behind.
# $ * *
Losing the fourth Test with South
Africa at Port Elizabeth by 11-0 (two tries,
one converted, and a penalty goal) the
Wallabies are two matches down. They
lost Biilmann at five-eighth early,
and the back division had to be re-
arranged, Biilmann, with a sprained
ankle, doing what he could in the scrum.
The visiting forwards were well mastered.
Malcolm reappeared at the base of the
scrum. There was again a record
attendance.
* Ms * * 1
Of the two Rugby Union matches in
Sydney on Saturday, that between Uni-
versity and Northern Suburbs was for
the right to figure in the semi-finals of
the grade competition. Played at North.
Sydney it was a dreary performance,
which Northern won 6-0, scoring two
tries.- Manly and West fought for the
minor premiership, the Villagers taking it
by 11-6, or two tries, one converted, and
a p.g. to a try and a p.g.
* * * *
In the League semi-final in Sydney,
South Sydney, premiers and victors on
many previous occasions, finished a poor
season by taking defeat from the burly
Newtown team, scores being 17 (three
tries and four goals) to 12 (two tries
and three goals). Newtown had the
better of things all through, yet it was
minus Righton most of the game and
also lost a forward in the second half,
carrying on with only four men in
the pack. Once more goals from the
boot of T. Ellis (four) played a big
part in Newtown’s victory. Wearing,
playing his last game for South Sydney,
scored his usual try.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby League team
opened its tour of the North of England
with a match against St. Helen’s
Recreation, a Lancashire club, and won a
closely-contested game by 13-9, after
scores had been 6-3 against it at half-
time. C. Pearce, Thicknesse and Prigg
were notable among the tourists.
(Continued on page 30.)


Wool Yarns No. 1.
BUY! BUY! WOOLBUYER!
Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer! But not just three
bags full. Not just one for the Master and
one for the Maid, and one for the Little
Boy—but 18,000 bales! Enough to keep
a complete Australian industry going, to
employ 1250 Australians producing Worsted
Knitting and Weaving Yarns, Twills and
Fancy Worsted Suitings, Venetians, Bara-
theas, Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes, Wool
Georgettes.... Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer!
If ***** Jt
SCOURING GREASY WOOL.
18,000 Bales
Figures in themselves are uninspiring things. We
can tell you, for instance, that Yarra Falls, in its
Worsted, Spinning and Weaving Mills, uses 18,000
bales of wool per annum in producing 2,500,000
pounds of yarn and 1,750,000 yards of woven
fabrics. We can point, with justifiable pride, to
plant and buildings representing a capital invest-
ment of over £BOO,OOO, with mill floor space
of eight acres. We can show 1250 names on our
pay, roll.
But even so, it is difficult to convey to you the
Romance that lies behind it all. For there is
Romance in building up a big Australian secondary
industry, and one that is the natural outcome of
Australia’s greatest primary industry, Wool.
In Wool, Australia is self-contained. In her primary
industry, she is producing thp bulk of the fine
merino wool of the world. In her secondary indus-
try, she is now transforming that raw wool into
finished woollens equal to the world’s best.
At the Yarra Falls Mills, the marvel of that
transformation is to be seen. From the wool-sort'ing
and -blending rooms, where the raw, greasy wool
is thrown in great heaps—symbols of a nation s
wealth—on the floors, to the finished cloth coming
off the looms, is evidence of the accumulated
knowledge and experience of centuries of spinning
and weaving, crystallised in the wonderful machines
that effect the transformation.
Yorkshire, that home of the British Wool Industry,
has supplied the bulk of the machines, which were
chosen for Yarra Falls by one of the leading
British spinners of to-day. Under expert guidance,
Australian employees work those machines. That
they have done so successfully is indicated by the
growth of Yarra Falls since operations were started
in the Wool Combing Department 14 years ago.
Then the primary objects of the Company were
the combing and spinning of wool into yarn.
But success calls for progress. And to-day Yarra
Falls—in addition to making yarn—is also weaving.
Specify YARRA FALLS Materials
Twills and Fancy Worsted Suitings. . . .Venetians
.... Baratheas, .... Covert Coatings .... Wool
Crepes .... Wool Georgettes and other dress
materials—You, Sir, and you, Madam, are amply
provided for, in material. . . . in design. . . . in color
by Yarra Falls.
In color alone the Yarra Falls Mills offers 700
solid shades.... and 4070 tonings. 18,000 Bales
of Wool per annum, grown, scoured, spun, woven
and worn. . . .in Australia.
Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer! And when ordering your
next suiting or dress material, specify “Yarra
Falls.”
YARRA FALLS L.mited
WORSTED, SPINNING AND WEAVING MIUUS—ABBOTSFORD, N 9, VICTORIA.
150—W. JNO. BAKER STATION OR
FARMER’S KNIFE, the standard favorite
of the Australian Bushman; 4in. Stag
Haft. Each 13/6
m
m
6006.—Three-blade Stock, with
Castrating, Sheep and Long Skin-
ning Blade, 4in. Smooth Horn
Handle. Each . 8/6
MM
mmmWM
581.—Strong Grip Stag Haft, Two
Castrating Blades.
Each 7/6
Picker and Tweezer.
Each 9/6
ALL POST FREE FOR CASH WITH
ORDER, EXCEPT BLOODLESS
EMASCULATOR.
w. JNO. BAKER ltd.
3 Hunter Street
SYDNEY
FOR QUALITY CUTLERY
HH
77.—W. JNO. BAKER FINEST QUALITY
AND FINISH EXTRA FULL HOLLOW
GROUND.
fin. wide 9/6
fin. wide 9/6
fin. wide 10/6
We also stock the Gotta Razor 12/6
Bengali 11/6
Hand-forged Steel Sheep and Cattle
Earmarkers. Write for illustrated
leaflet of reduced prices.
2022. —Trapper’s Knife, Smooth
Horn Haft. Each ........ 4/6
With Picker and Tweezer.
Each 5/6
BLOODLESS EMAS-
CULATOR. Length
over all, 1 2in.; width
of jaw, 2§in.
Price, each, £3/18/6
Postage, 2/-.
This size is the most
suitable for all-round
work.
Smaller size for
Sheep. Length over
all, 9in.; width of
jaw, 1 f in.
Price, each, £2/19/6
Postage, 1/-.
Send for New Illustrated Catalogue
<S*i
LADIES’ SCISSOR CASE, hand-
made, of Finest Leather, containing
high-grade Scissors. All nickel
plated. 6 Pairs 62/6
4 Pairs .. 37/6 3 Pairs .. 25/-
Strroppinq Block BI ad <z Carrier
rr with blade
\ \©
\ W.il'M SHUNTER ST Sy.DNEY
a m
IMPROVED ALLEGRO SHARP-
ENER FOR SAFETY RAZOR
BLADES, automatically strops and
hones both sides of blade without
removing blade. No skill required
—just slide blade holder up and
down. For Gillette, Auto-Strop or
Gem 25/-
No. I.—IMPERIAL MODEL ROLLS
SAFETY RAZOR. This Rolls Safety
Razor has one hollow-ground blade,
a honing device on one side and
stropping on the other. Thus it
enables you to keep the blade
always keen and ready for use. 60/-
No. 2 Imperial Model 50/-


■ j J
X
0
W *m. x {***■-. #*\ r- \,
f I~.V
TOP " r LITE
/». /’"'% /**N,
t
"N
:^r:
~V r*~N, /""T
X ~"N
SpaltUn*/ Utitis again
Jh e 7WPAINTLESS
* TOP-ELITE
CLs uwh.it e cls .snow a.LL the usa.y thru.'.
jirowL play surfa.ce to core:
illSli
( The Winner & ihe Runner-up ©f the BRITISH €PEM 1933 )
V each played wifh a Sjpalding TOP-FLITfc . . . • J
Obtainable from. uLL
Professionals- lc Sports Stores.
Multi-Dot in. Meskor DimpLe ntarkin^s
This cross section of a
new Pointless Top-Flile
shows the latest Spalding
advancement in golf ball
manufacture . . . a cover
that is pure white all
through . . . giving a ball
that stays white all its
life . . . without the aid
of troublesome paint . . .
Footbrawl
“Rover”: The inter-State meeting of
the Australian Rules footballers in Syd-
ney has moved the N.S.W. heads of the
game to try to arrange regular matches
with the Tasmanians. Tassie has been
asked to stage a couple of matches with
N.S.W. at Hobart next June, and it is
hoped that these will be the beginnings
of a regular exchange of inter-State
visits. It is also proposed by N.S.W.
that a team go to Queensland next
season. This also should become a regu-
lar thing. Periodical inter-State matches
have proved the lifeblood of the Rugby
codes in N.S.W. and Queensland.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Victoria’s playful practice
of luring away the best footballers in
other States has been referred to in bitter
terms by the chairman of the South Aus-
tralian League, O’Halloran, K.C., who
quoted the case of oneTroughton, of West
Torrens. Troughton was given a job by
an Adelaide firm and then transferred to
its Victorian branch, being thus able to
play for Geelong without fulfilling the
agreed-on residential qualification of three
months. South Australia and other States
want the qualification term extended to
12 months’ residence, but an attempt to
get this was defeated by Victoria at a
conference last November.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: What opportunities there
are for Rugby Union players in Aus-
tralia is seen in invitations received from
India and Ceylon for the visit of an Aus-
tralian side in 1934. The N.S.W. Union,
which is running the show for Australia
at present, is keen on acceptance, since
matches can be played with Ceylon and
the tourists can then take part in the
All-India tournament at the end of the
year. At present, the idea is to send a
team of young players, since the stand-
ard of the game in India and Ceylon
does not reach the highest international
plane, and the experience gained would
be invaluable.
X- X * *
“Old Q.”: As a player almost old
enough to claim to have represented The
Ark v. The Rest at Ararat, writer is
naturally filled with admiration for the
sporting spirit which reigned in those
days. In an extract from a Brisbane
paper of 1883 I read that “the gentle-
men” —none of your common “selectors”
—“appointed to select the team for the
forthcoming football contest between
N.S.W. and Queensland” were gratified
to find that one of the lot first picked
had voluntarily retired and “thus saved
the committee the difficult task Of decid-
ing between two players whose respec-
tive merits are so equally balanced that
it is merely a matter of opinion which is
the better man.” How nicely they put
things then contrasted with the crude
methods of to-day, and what a consola-
tion for being dropped!
“Yarker”: Like the Wallabies in
Africa, the Kangaroos in England have
early accumulated a list of casualties,
though in their case they are minor ones.
Half a dozen of the team are laid up
with small injuries, including boils, which
seem to be a special affliction of the
modern footballer, who is apt to be over-
trained. The quarters at Ilkley have been
specially fitted up with vapor baths and
other luxuries not ordinarily found in
minor Yorkshire hostelries, while it is
a relief to hear that the cooking has
improved.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Australia’s Joe Kirk-
wood won the first really important golf
trophy of his American career last week
when he took the Canadian open cham-
pionship with a score of 282 for 72 holes.
Joe, who started his golf as a caddie
with the Manly (N.S.W.) club and was
later with the Brisbane and Riversdal?
(Vic.) clubs, early specialised in trick
golf, in which he became noted through-
out the world. In Australia he was suc-
cessful in the open championship of
1920, but he has never done much in Bri-
tain, while in America his best perform-
ance prior to the Canadian one was the
winning of the Illinois open title in 1923.
No doubt the showman side of the game
spoilt his capacity for tournament play,
and the fact that he has lately dropped
the trick stuff may account for his im-
provement on the links.
* * * *
“Bilgil” (Port Moresby): Mention of
the lad who was “bound over” for pinch-
ing 15 balls (B. 19/7/’33) suggests that
he is luckier than a youth of 1637. Scot-
tish records of that day show that
“Franceis Broune, son of John Broune
(wabster), in Banff,” was found guilty
of stealing “sume golff ballis.” Fifteen
people sat in judgment upon him, and
the sentence was that he be taken to the
Gallows Hill of Banff and “hangit on the
gallows thereof to the deathe.” There-
upon the infuriated populace fell upon
the unhappy Franceis, dragged him off
and scragged him.
POMOTER: “Has he had much experience?
TRAINER: “Too right—no one knows the ropes better!”
“Marino”: South Australia has a
juvenile golfing star to set against Ferrier
and Williams at the Australian cham-
pionships in Melbourne. Acland-Hor-
man by name, and 19 years of age, he
last week beat the holder, W. S. Rymill.
for the State amateur championship by
the solid margin of 4 and 3. He was
also runner-up in the State open tourney,
in which he was beaten by professional
Fergus McMahon. In the South Aus-
tralian women’s championship, Helen
Seeck, a long driver for a girl, downed
Kate Rymill, the title-holder.
“Brassey”: There is a proposal afoot
to form an A.I.F. golf association in
N.S.W. The idea has much to recom-
mend it, and every club in the State has
a fair quota of A.T.F. members who
could join up with the proposed body,
which would also include members of
the B.E.F. There are already annual
competitions in most of the States for
ex-soldier and -sailor players, and many
of the clubs hold one annually, but room
could be found for more. An Austra-
lian A.I.F. championship sounds attrac-
tive. A provisional committee, with
Colonel Thane, of Ryde club, as hon.
sec., has the matter in hand, and clubs
interested are asked to send two dele-
gates to a meeting at Ryde on Sept. 5.
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: The latest about the en-
durance run on Montlhery track with a
Citroen car shows that the ’bus had then
been running continuously for 109 days
and nights, covering 150,886 miles in that
time without any mechanical trouble.
Average speed, including stops for re-
plenishment and change of drivers —
with engines running—was 57.67 m.p.h.,
and that in spite of the car’s absence from
the track for seven hours while the
French Grand Prix was being run.
* * * *
“Juice”: A new substitute for petrol
is ordinary lighting gas compressed in
cylinders. It has been tried by a leading
motor engineer in a run from London to
Edinburgh and back with a 20-h.p. Rolls-
Royce. The average run on the gas, car-
ried in two cylinders, one on each run-
ning-board, was 70 miles, and the total
cost was about 7s. Nothing is said about
the extent of cylinder carbonisation, an
important point, but a system which will
enable every motorist to use his own gas-
meter as a bowser would appear to have
its points.
$ H* $ $
“Kick Starter”: The Australian T.T.
championships for motor-cycles will not
be held next year, as arranged, at Bath-
urst (N.S.W.), but on Phillip Island next
January. The reason for the change is
the holding of the Vicforian centenary
celebrations. The proposal to invite
a team of English riders to compete
is being followed up, and Jimmy Pringle,
who has just returned from his visit to
the Isle of Man T.T. meeting, is certain
that Stanley Woods, Tim Hunt, and Jim
Guthrie will be available if sufficient in-
ducement offers.
Racquet and Baw’
For the English team to tour Australia
Austin is not available, but Perry,
Hughes, Lee and Wilde will open in
this country in November. Perry and
Wilde will come on from the U.S.A.,
reaching Sydney on November 3, and the
others arrive a week later from England.
The side starts for home on February
19, after playing in Perth. Australia pays
all expenses.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Perry, Lee
and Hughes are ranked 1, 3 and 4 in
England and Wilde 12, though he is
junior champion of his country. Matches
between him and McGrath should be
specially interesting. So will the first
meeting of Perry and Crawford. There
is a suspicion on this side that Perry
dodged Crawford in Europe. At Wimble-
don and Paris he suddenly developed in-
ability to play when his turn for meeting
the Australian came round. No pro-
gramme has been drawn up yet lor the
tour, but the English heads have asked
that the visitors be not overworked. They
will probably start their tour in Brisbane
and play through to Perth, with an extra
showing in the Australian championships
in Sydney in addition to the five Tests
with Australia.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Recent rumors of a
landslide of amateur tennis players to
the professional ranks in America re-
mind me that only in that country does
professional exhibition and match tennis
pay. Jn England and Europe it had a
short run, even with Suzanne Lenglen
as a star attraction. In Amferica, as
many people go to professional as to
amateur tennis, £5OOO gates having been
recorded, while a match between Tilden
and Kozeluh drew £lO,OOO. There is an
American Professional Association, and
it holds an annual championship tourna-
ment, the next on October 1. Its great
ambition is to persuade the amateur ten-
nis authorities to permit open tourna-
ments with amateurs and professionals
playing side by side, but so far all re-
quests have been turned down by the
lilywhites.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: The blighting wind of
depression has ceased to blow over our
amateur N.S.W. cricketers, at least. The
N.S.W. cricket heads have decided to
restore the allowances of the poor fel-
lows to the 255. per day (Sundays in-
cluded) of happier times, when they are
playing in the big stuff. Two years ago
they were cut to a measly quid a day,
with a baggage allowance of £1 a match
on tour. The hapless umpires remain
at £1 per day for inter-State games, with
15s. for other whole-day matches and
10s. for half-day games. The latter sum,
however, means a rise of a whole bob
a day on last season’s figures.
* * * *
“Lying Two”: Australian cities are
sadly behind many of their British cob-
bers in that they have no provision for
public bowls. Golf, cricket and foot-
ball have been provided for, but the
comparatively inexpensive and most com-
mendable institution of a public bowling
green has been ignored. Some enthusi-
asts are suggesting that one be laid down
on a large vacant allotment near Sydney’s
Fort-street school, and part of the bridge
approaches. At present an unsightly
piece of unused ground, its conversion
to. a well-grassed bowling green —there
is room for six rinks —would advantage
the city and the public. Bowls could
be supplied on hire and a small fee
charged for playing, and the receipts
should more than pay for the making
and upkeep.
* H« H« *
Richmond (Vic.) Council has wakened
to the fact that organised dog-racing is
a regular Sunday feature in Richmond
Park. Over £5OO is alleged to have
passed between bookies and punters in
a single afternoon. Scores of the ani-
mals have been seen there on the Sab-
bath, but it has been supposed that their
owners were taking them for a consti-
tutional.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 5.
The Chronicle of Concord.
Concord can fairly claim to be one
of the early sources of golf infection in
N. S. Wales. Some 50 years ago, when
a nine-hole course at Dame Eadith
Walker’s estate at Concord was a gather-
ing-place for the few addicts of the time,
there was formed the Concord club,
which had the use of Dame Walker’s
lodge for quarters.
The course was extended to 18 holes
and a wooden cottage on the Homebush
side of the railway-line was leased as a
clubhouse. Most of the course was cattle
paddock, and members were kept in good
condition outrunning “looney” bullocks
or dodging them round trees.
In 1906 the present club was started
on an organised basis. A company
was formed and an area of 113
acres purchased on Major’s Bay-road.
After another building had supplanted the
weatherboard cottage, a new clubhouse
was built in 1920. This is of the bunga-
low type and yields to none in Sydney
for completeness and comfort of equip-
ment. The course of 6211 yards is on
undulating ground. Most of the original
trees have gone, but the club has spent
a good deal in replanting with others,
including flowering varieties.
Among the men who did the spade-
work were D. W. Roxburgh, now presi-
dent, Alex. Orr, Dr. Frizelle, J. O. Fair-
fax and Irving Kent.
Notable player-members include R. B.
Godbolt, club champion for years, H. F.
Kent, who can claim a similar record,
W. R. Dobson, who holds his ninth club
championship, and W. E. Bain, who has
been skipper for 17 years.
Trophies include the Concord Cup —
not to be confused with the cup of the
same name presented long ago by
Dame Eadith Walker to Royal Sydney
and still played for—a scratch amateur
event competed for annually. This was
won outright by Eric Apperly, who gave
it back to the club to be played for in
perpetuity. Another important trophy
is the A.I.F. Cup, an annual handicap
in which most of the 75 Digger mem-
bers take part. Cyril Docker, one of the
founders of the competition, is the pre-
sent holder. There are many others, in-
eluding several for the associates,
Club membership totals 548. There
are 165 associates and 333 full members,
with the balance made up of country,
life and non-playing members,
First on Frith’s scroll of fame is Cyril
Docker, one of heads of the E., S. and
a. Bank in Sydney, and a man of weight
i n the community, as his portrait testi-
ties; a useful golfer to boot. After
him we have Leo Rossel, who is in the
flour trade. Apart from the style in hats
he affects, L.R. has a peculiar swing in
which he changes gears several times, not
forgetting the reverse. Withal he plays
a decent game. W. E. Bain is a mem-
ber of one of Sydney’s oldest stock- and
sharebroking firms. His long captaincy
of the club has been marked with suer
cess, and he is a player above the aver-
age, having been twice runner-up for the
club championship. He is also president
of the State Golf Council,
No. 4 is Archdeacon Davis, principal
of the Moore Theological College. A
Welshman, his golf lacks the national im-
pulsiveness. He is noted for his one-
handed putting. G. H. Turner, the mili-
tary-lodking lad on No. 5, is an architect.
He is one of Concord’s best players and
won the championship, when W. R.
Dobsop, of whom more anon, was absent
in Mabriland. J. T. Todd, No. 6 on the
list, served with the M.L. forces in the
war - He is one J of the brigbt you A ng tbi H gs
of the club and very popular. A middle-
marker.
Roy Shedden succeeded Channing
Heron as secretary a couple of years ago
when the latter retired. A capable and
indefatigable'official, he used to be with
the Commercial of Sydney. No. 8 plape
is occupied by D. B. Logan, a son of the
late David Logan, founder of the old
Dobroyd club. He is a notable player
with a full swing reminiscent of Eric
Apperly in his younger days. Away from
golf he is in the Permanent Trustee Co.
P. S. Chapman varies golf with insur-
ance broking. He is a very popular mem-
ber and, though he took to golf late
in life, has acquired a steady game. He
is an active member of the committee.
No. 10, of the anxious but determined
expression, is W. S. Brookes. He is a
popu ar local medico a vice-president of
the club, and a middle-mark player with
a strong interest in his game
W. .R. Dobson, who is with Dunlop-
Perdriau, is in the front rank of N.S.W.
golfers. He has played for N. S. Wales
in the Kirk-Windeyer Cup and inter-
State tourneys, and has figured success-
fully in many big competitions. F. J.
Wallis, who makes up the dozen, is a
vice-president. Apt to worry his
game, in Frith’s picture he has evidently
got one well away and is hoping the
handicapper is looking. F. A. Crago is
No. 13. His golf is unique of its kind
and he displays a tendency to sit back
in the breeching when finishing his swing.
G.D. Hamilton, an ex-banker, has been
playing golf for over 30 years without
getting much forrader, though that does
not worry him. His expression shows he
is not quite sure where that one went,
Marcus Griffin is managing director of
Joyce's Biscuits, and, in spite of an arm
injured in the war, plays a good game,
being a long hitter.
J. S. Irwin, on No. 16, is a partner in
Richard Hughes, Ltd., the canister manu-
facturers. He is an enthusiast, and at one
time took regular lessons, though he is
probably too busy a man for serious
golf. A. E. Rearick, who follows, is an
American who is connected with the
Goodyear Tyre interests. He is a well-
liked member who has improved his
game since joining the club. He may pick
up a few tips from Gene Sarazen and co.
during ms coming trip to his native land.
Sydney Hall is a member of the furnish-
ing firm of Hall and Co. He is a player
of long standing and a popular club
member. Last comes A. F. Waters, once
connected with the King-street drapery
firm which bore his name. He is a limit-
marker.
“Ausblid”: Percy Alliss has won the
German open championship for the fifth
time. Alliss was professional at the
Berlin club for some years, and there
evidently acquired the facility foi play-
ing in German which brought him suc-
cess in 1926-27-28-29.
“U.S.”: The golf course at Tanjong
Katong, Singapore, is different. A nine-
holer, it is laid out in a grove of
cocoanut palms about 30ft. apart. One
plays down the avenues between the
rows. Shots often finish behind the
player, and it is hard to follow the flight
o’f a ball after it has hit a palm, as it
may cannon off half a dozen more before
it comes to rest. Since some of the fair-
ways cross, a cry of “Fore!” sends
everyone within range scuttling behind
a palm-tree, safe from all save ricochets.
“Callan Park”: Recent arguments
among golfers about increasing the size of
the hole remind me that Chertsey club in
England has two on each green, one the
regulation and the other 6in. in
diameter. How they are used is not ex-
plained, but the experiment is worth try-
ing as an addition to the usual methods
of handicapping. For instance, a long-
mark player would be allowed to do his
putting on the big hole, while his low-
mark opponent would have to sink his
pill in the small one. The advantage to
the long-marker would probably be
greater than many would think.


“Good Health results
from internal
Cleanness ”
. . . explains
Dr. F. de COURMELLES
of the Paris Society of Practising Physicians
and Surgeons
Do YOU suffer from every ailment that
happens ? Have YOU constipation, indigestion,
gastritis, backache, catarrh, pimples ? Do YOU
suffer from headaches, rheumatism, eczema,
neuritis, weakness of any organ, gas in the
stomach and bowels or bladder complaint ? Is
YOUR appetite poor .... vitality lacking ? It
is because you are unconsciously permitting
poisons that bring on disorder and disease to
remain in your system.
The scientific way to keep
your body internally
clean
No matter how regular your daily habits, par-
ticles of food waste become encrusted in the
walls of the intestine. This waste accumulates
and breeds germ-producing poisons which enter
the blood stream. The poisons undermine your
health —-taking power from the life-giving organs
of nature —making you old years before your
time. Most sickness is now traced to dreaded
self-poisoning (autoxima) —the result of hidden
unsuspected constipation.
Brink COLOSEPTIC
Be clean INTERNALLY. Dislodge this crust
from the intestine and cleanse the blood stream.
Free the system from the poisonous waste. Drink
COLOSEPTIC in hot water of a morning.
COLOSEPTIC acts on the intestine, the
kidneys, the pores of the skin, and the respiratory
organs—Nature’s four great channels for the
disposal of impurities from the body.
COLOSEPTIC increases secretion of the gastric
and intestinal juices .... it keeps the intestinal
and digestive tube CLEAN . . . combats lassi-
tude, fatigue, “blues,” and other symptoms of
self-poisoning.
I
*
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL
Chronic Constipation Cured.
“Burke Road N., Camberwell, Vic.
“1 was a chronic martyr to constipation and other
troubles it induces. Laxatives and cathartic drugs
only increased the trouble in my case. Your Colo-
septic acts like magic without the slightest purging
pain or inconvenience. I shall do all I possibly can
to make it widely known. You can make whatever
use you please of this unsolicited testimonial to its
efficiency.
“L.E.8., Surgeon Dentist.’’
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the
Head Office of the Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
COLOSEPTIC—ReguIar full-sized jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’ regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself.... Fill in the
coupon and send it in, together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
COUPON.
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find !/■
(stamps or postal note). Send me one SPECIAL
DEMONSTRATION JAR and “AUTOXIMA
Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Sovereign-sweat-
ing was once a lucrative trade; and
it was simple enough. A pound
weight of gold coin was placed in
a chamois leather bag, a teaspopn
of quicksilver poured in, and the mix-
ture shaken vigorously. In due course
the sovereigns were tipped out into a
china bowl, and each one was carefully
scraped free of the amalgam; the inside
of the bag was also cleaned and the
amalgam retorted. The result was about
half an ounce of gold and some quick-
silver, which could be used again. The
greatest difficulty, perhaps, was that of
getting the sweated coins back into cir-
culation. Not only were they slightly
underweight, but they had a worn
appearance and shiny newness, for which
every bank cashier kept a watchful eye.
* * * *
“Hanky”: Printed pocket handker-
chiefs, designed for educative purposes,
date a lot farther back than Dickens’s
time (B. 16/8/’33). Queen Anne’s speech
to Parliament in 1710, with her Majesty’s
effigy at full length, was thus displayed
for the enlightenment and edification of
her subjects. Nearly everything of public
importance was commemorated in this
fashion during Anne’s age. The treaty of
Utrecht, in abstract, with the effigies of
the plenipotentiaries, appeared on the
handkerchiefs of the day; so did the
representations of the victories gained
by British arms ; so did the mob’s heroes,
such as Dr. Sacheverell. Handkerchiefs
were also produced at this period giving
a map of the roads of England, with
the distances in miles from London to
the chief towns and cities.
* * * *
“D.”: In “Hell Below” an incredible
young submarine officer has a liaison
with an equally incredible Society girl.
When he learns that her wounded hus-
band is going to recover he gets out of
the way by taking charge of the sub. and
hurling it single-handed at the enemy.
The London critic Rudolph Messel
treated this rubbish very seriously in a
recent issue of the socialistic “Clarion”:
Why shouldn’t the crippled husband make a
sacrifice? We do not hesitate to criticise
capitalist economics, and are loud in our
denunciations of its methods of business, but
when it comes to a matter of ethics or morals,
we are too inclined to lie down and say:
“These things have always been, therefore they
must always be.”
It is an example of the way the cinema
is being used for propaganda. An im-
pressionable worker has only to see a
production like “Hell Below” to be filled
with distrust of naval officers, ashore and
afloat, and with contempt for their
womenfolk and the wealthy classes in
general.
* * * *
“Charlie Middlewick”: “Senex” (B.
19/7/’33) is not quite correct in his cor-
rection. My late lamented parent only
raised his lid to a pig. In recounting his
experiences to Sir Geoffrey Champneys
in “Our Boys” he says: “I believe the
Government went to war simply to give
me an opening for contracts. Lord!
what I made out of bacon alone. Why,
I never see a pig in the street but what
I takes off my hat to it.”
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The West Indies are prov-
ing an even more fruitful recruiting-
ground for Lancashire League cricket
than M.L. or Australia. Batsman Head-
ley and Trinidad Chinese Achong, of the
W.I. side now in England, have signed up
with Rochdale. They should soon be
able to muster a Darktown team in Lan-
cashire, for Constantine, Griffiths and
St. Hill, of the W.I. eleven in Australia
a couple of years ago, are all well set
in the County Palatine.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The export of Australian
cricketers to England continues. The
latest prospective wanderer is Frank
Warne, who is to sign up as a profes-
sional with Worcestershire. He will not
be qualified until 1935, and in the mean-
time will play League cricket. Warne is
a spin bowler who plays for Carlton
club and has not figured in Sheffield
cricket. His father, Tommy Warne, was
a fine batsman and a fair bowler.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Britain, which has recently
lost the air speed and distance records,
is to make a strong bid to regain the
speed-boat title, at present held by Ameri-
can Gar Wood. A new boat, Miss
Britain 111, has been shipped from Hythe
to America. Steel built, she is ol revolu-
tionary design, and the single engine is a
Napier developing 1375 h.p. and cost-
ing £22,000. Speed trials in England
have shown runs of over 100 m.p.h.
Hubert Scott Paine is backing the show.
Wood’s record is 124.91 m.p.h.
“Shell”: The Wingfield Sculls, which
carries the championship of England, was
won this year by J. Southwood, of
Thames R.C., who covered the classic
Putney-Mortlake course in 21min. llsec.,
a second better than professional Ernest
Barry’s time when he beat George Towns.
These times are no criterion, however, in
the Thames especially. There are always
variations of tide, wind and current to
affect conditions.
* * * *
“Blade”: Cambridge, which has held
some revolutionary ideas on rowing of
late years, has discovered that the invol-
untary jerk forward of the cox as the
rowers come to the finish stops the run
of the shell. Pembroke College, which
recently went Head of the River, tried
the plan of strapping its unhappy cox up
in such a fashion that he could not move
forward or back. A case recently
occurred on the Thames in which a crew
was attacked by a couple of swans
with such ferocity that the oarsmen had
to dive into the water. What would
happen to a strapped-in cox in such cir-
cumstances is too dreadful to visualise.
*' * * *
“Shrewsbury”: It would seem that
Jardine and Larwood are running late
with their exposure of the iniquities of
Australian cricketers. I have just come
across an extract from London “World”
of 1883. It notes that the Australian team
in England the previous year drew a divi-
dend of £7OO per man, and goes on to
say indignantly that the players actu-
ally asked that private-stand takings
be divided with them next time in addi-
tion to the ground gates. Says the
“World”: “Nothing but contempt can
be expressed for such rapacity ; and it
is highly gratifying that our authorities
have refused to entertain the suggestion.”
The Palette.
The walls of the Macleod Gallery,
Sydney, are at present a riot of fair girls
and gay horses, sad dogs and bright
flowers, all from the brush of H. Sep-
timus Power. There is no la-di-da
affectation about this direct, vigorous
work ; if it is a matter of building up
vivid color contrasts Power has dauntless
courage. His “Girl with Cat,” in which
all the primary hues laugh together, would
give an air of reckless gaiety to the
waiting-room of a morgue. Not since
the days of Frank Mahony has there
been a painter with such an eye for the
points of a thoroughbred, and Power is
equally at home with Clydesdales and
hunters, greyhounds and pekes. His
draught horses —they fill his biggest can-
vas, “Australian Timber Team” —march
with a sturdy good humor that warms the
cockles of the heart. An interior, “My
Studio,” is a happy way of demonstrat-
ing that the artist, in addition to his other
qualities as a draughtsman, is a past-
master of perspective. There are oils,
water-colors and pastels on view, and the
show is the best antidote for gloom pre-
sent critic has discovered in an art atelier
for many a long day.
• Rain is beginning to fall in the Vic-
torian art Riverina, after four years’ con-
tinuous drought. S. H. Power sold 1800
guineas’ worth on the first day of his
Melbourne show and Streeton took
1130 guineas on his first day. The
Streeton show netted over £2200 alto-
gether.
Ralph Malcolm Warner (Sedon Gal-
leries, Melbourne) is rare amongst com-
mercial artists. As a change from the
pursuit of bread and butter he goes forth
and contemplates Nature in the alto-
gether, preferably when she has snow on
her. His Kosciusko, Feathertop, Bogong
High Plains and Mount Hotham pictures
are a demonstration that he has a genu-
ine talent and isn’t afraid of the weather.
He is least interesting when he exploits
a fondness for those stereotyped forms
of expression which picture-lovers de-
scribe as “poetic,” and he is most effective
when he looks for the broad facts of
Nature.
F. E. Strangward’s wood mosaic work
is on show at the Athenaeum Galleries.
This St. Kilda craftsman’s decorative
vases and other ornaments are said to con-
tain 9,000,000 pieces of mosaic all applied
by hand, and the value of the collection,
which is to go to London, is placed al
£25,000. There is charm of color and
refinement of texture in most of the
articles, but they remain artistically more
or less in the category of the thrippences
on which industrious persons engrave the
Lord’s Prayer.
The current show at S.A. Society of
Arts is by Leila McNamara, a local pro-
duct, who studied under the Ashtons,
James and Will, and later with J. R.
Jackson. From some or all of them she
acquired skill in depicting water, especi-
ally; and the Adelaide Gallery trustees,
who already had a study by her of ship-
ping in port, have bought a charming
Narrabeen (N.S.W.) shorescape. ,


For Sale
ATHERTON TABLELAND, N. QLD.
Rich volcanic soil. Wonderful mild climate.
Heavy rainfall. Rivers, creeks and springs.
Healthy conditions.
Two Freehold Farms For Sale.
(1) 245 acres, 85 acres grass, fenced, £9OO.
(2) 240 acres, 90 acres grass, divided 12
paddocks; house stocked usual accessories.
Walk in, walk out, £l4OO.
TERMS.
For details —
J. A. PLANT, Agent,
Box 8, Atherton P.O.
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO. NO LIABILITY.
Notice of Call.
A.M.P. Chambers,
August 18, 1933.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a CALL
(the 15th) of ONE SHILLING per Share has
been made on all the Shares issued in this
Company, and will be due and payable on
WEDNESDAY, the 11th day of OCTOBER,
1933, payment to be made at the following
places, viz.:—
As to all Shares on the Hobart Register,
at the Registered Office of the Company,
at A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart.
As to all Shares on the Siam Register, at
the Registered Office of the Company, at
Puket, in Siam.
Provided, however, Shareholders on either
Register who are resident in Great Britain and
Europe may have the option of paying their
Calls to Messrs. F. W. MOORE & CO., LTD.,
Clarence House, 8 Arthur Street, London
Bridge, London.
Dated this 18th day of August, 1933.
By Order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE, F.C.A. (Aust.),
Manager.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN COUNTING-
ARRANGEMENTS FOR TOTALISATOR
AND OTHER TOTALISING
APPARATUS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29095/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
GRIFFITH, HASSEL & GRIFFITH,
Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Probate jurisdiction.
IN THE MATTER of the Estate of HAROLD
DAGLEY GIBBS late of 160 Chelmsford
Road North Perth in the State of Western
Australia Accountant deceased intestate.
Pursuant to the Administration Act 1903
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that every credi-
tor or other person having any claim against
the estate of HAROLD DAGLEY GIBBS the
above-named deceased who died in or since the
year 1921 intestate and administration of whose
estate was on the 11th day of August 1933
granted by the Supreme Court of Western
Australia to Elizabeth Gibbs of 494 Newcastle
Street Perth in the said State the lawful widow
of the said Harold Dagley Gibbs IS HEREBY
REQUIRED to send particulars in writing of
such claim to the said Elizabeth Gibbs in care
of the undersigned Messrs. Nairn and McDonald
at their offices hereunder mentioned on or
before the 25th day of November 1933 at the
expiration of which time the said Elizabeth
Gibbs will proceed to distribute the estate of
the said deceased amongst the persons entitled
thereto having regard only to claims of which
she has then had notice AND NOTICE IS
HEREBY FURTHER GIVEN that the said
Elizabeth Gibbs will not be liable for the assets
or any part thereof so distributed to any person
of whose claim she shall not have had notice
at the time of such distribution.
DATED this 15th day of August, 1933.
NAIRN AND McDONALD.
69 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, Proctors for the said Elizabeth Gibbs.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
T. No. 25 of 1933
BETWEEN THE PERPETUAL EXECUTORS
TRUSTEES AND AGENCY COMPANY
(W.A.) LIMITED as Executor of the Will
of Evelyn Hastie deceased Plaintiff
AND ROY STIDWORTHY Defendant
TO the above-named Defendant ROY STID-
WORTHY late of Suburban Road South
Perth in the State of Western Australia
Agent.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Western, Australia T. No. 25 of 1933 by THE
PERPETUAL EXECUTORS TRUSTEES AND
AGENCY COMPANY (W.A.) LIMITED in
which the Plaintiff claims as Executor of the
Will of the above-named Evelyn Hastie deceased:
(a) To have an account taken of the partner-
ship dealings between the said deceased
and you and to have the affairs of the
partnership wound up.
(b) For the appointment of a Receiver and
Manager of the partnership property.
(c) For an injunction to restrain you from
dealing with the partnership property.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has bv
Order dated the Bth day of August 1933
authorised service of the said Writ of Summons
on you by insertion of this notice twice in the
Sydney “Bulletin” Newspaper AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you are required within
forty-five days after the last insertion of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such inser-
tion to cause an Appearance to be entered for
you at the Central Office of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia at Barrack Street Perth and
that in default <pf your so doing the Plaintiff
may proceed with this action and judgment
may be given against you in your absence.
Dated the Eighth day of August 1933
ABBOTT, ABBOTT, ANDREWS AND
ROBINSON,
of 42 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Plaintiff’s
Solicitors.
MICK SIMMONS
“Firearms and Ammunition
Specialists.”
A .303 Rifle
h
for 50/-
We have been extremely for-
tunate in purchasing from the
Federal Government, at a price
so low that we can afford to
sell at 50/- each, a limited
number of
303 MARTINI - ENFIELD
SINGLE SHOT RIFLES
guaranteed in perfect mechani-
cal order and fitted with
BRAND - NEW ENGLISH
BARRELS.
These rifles are extremely accu-
rate; the strength, reliability and
speed of the . Martini “falling
block” action are too well known
amongst well-informed riflemen
to need our endorsement.
Chambered and regulated for
the .303 British MARK VI
Cartridge. The Military Back-
sight is marked in ranges up
to 1800 yards.
Representative Lines of
SPORTING RIFLES
from Mick Simmons’ Great Stocks!
h
No. 2—T HE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT ACTION
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long or
long-rifle cartridges ; 21in. round
barrel ; weight, about
3Jlb 37/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 3—BAYARD SEMI-
AUTOMATIC SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, 22-cal., 19in.
round steel barrel, dismount-
able, handles short or long
cartridges; weight, about
3*lb 50/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 11—-STEVENS’ BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal.; magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10 long-
rifle cartridges, mixed or sepa-
rate ; 22in. round barrel, slide
action, gold bead front- and
ladder rear-sights; weight, about
4ilb 72/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 20—WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 53 , 25/20 or 32
W.C.F. 22in. round nickel steel barrel,
lever action similar to 1892 Model, handles
the ordinary cartridge, also the special
Hi-speed; weight, about 61b. £9 5;-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons' comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MickSimmonsltd!
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports Organisation of Australia”
h
No. 131
The
“Boundary
Rider”
Stock
Saddle,
£6/15/-
BARE
Leathers, Girth
and good N.P.
Irons 20/- extra.
Freight paid for cash
on N.S.W. Railways.
The “Boundary Rider” is a substantial
saddle for station use, worth a couple of
pounds more than we are asking for it.
Write for our Catalogue, No. 329.
Saddles from 72/6.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
ESTATE of late JOHN ELLEGET, Blampied,
Victoria.
DOROTHY ELLEGET, formerly of Blam-
pied, near Creswick, Victoria, last heard of in
Western Australia 30 years ago, is entitled to
share in the estate of her deceased brother
John Elleget. Will the said Dorothy Elleget,
or anyone who can give information concerning
her, please communicate with CUTHBERT
MORROW. MUST AND SHAW, Solicitors,
Ballarat, Victoria, or ROBINSON, COX AND
WHEATLEY, Solicitors, 20 Howard Street,
Perth.
PERSONS having information as to the where-
abouts of GEORGE FREDERICK JEFFERY,
who was last seen near Murray Bridge, in
the State of South Australia, and who is inter-
ested in the Estate of William Jeffery, late of
Booborowie South, in the said State, Farmer,
deceased, please communicate with DAVIES
AND GILES, Solicitors, Selborne Chambers,
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
IF WILLIAM CROMPTON, last heard of
in Merredin, W.A., about 20 years ago, will
communicate with JOHN LEFROY, Solicitor,
Merredin, he will hear information to his ad-
vantage.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Mater”: A sample of the treatment
meted out to the small farmer. On August
3 bran was quoted at £4 per ton, but was
unobtainable at the Nowra (N.S.W.)
butter factory. Every day for a week the
ordered supply was expected, but it had
not arrived on August 11. Then “S.M.H.”
announced a rise of 10s. per ton.
* # * *
“Veritas”: I suppose every State can
furnish notorious instances of abuse of
the gold pass. Queensland harbors an
ex-Minister who uses his pass for fre-
quent business trips to Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and it is reckoned to be worth at
least £250 a year to him. Naturally his
business competitors think he possesses
an unfair advantage over them, but what
can they do but growl?
* * * *
“Eureka”: For months I have been
taking a mixture of pot. cit. with buchu,
and have been paying 3s. 6d. a bottle for
it. Last week another chemist gave me
the same mixture for 25., and admitted
that he was making a fair profit on the
transaction. When a doctor writes a pre-
scription he should tell the patient what
he considers a reasonable charge for the
medicine. This would prevent cold-
blooded profiteering.
* * * *
“Hornby”: The depression has opened
up a helpful sideline for outer-suburban
landholders. Every Sunday and holiday
cars and lorries dot the roads, their des-
tination one of the small holdings where,
for a bob, drivers are given permission
to go in and fill their vehicles with fire-
wood. A man on the Sydney-Liverpool
route has reduced the price to ninepence
and he tells me he clears 30s. a week at
that.
* * * *
“S.H.K.”: “D.E.” (B. 2/8/’33) sug-
gests that because petrol has come down
in price the cost of running a car has
been materially reduced. Not so; a
variation of a few pence in the price of
petrol varies the cost of running from
1 per cent, to 3 per cent. The biggest
item is depreciation. A taxi-driver must
keep his car up-to-date, so his de-
preciation or sinking fund must natur-
ally be high. And the man has to make
a living.
* X X X
“Bim”: The married woman in com-
fortable circumstances who takes the.
bread out of a single girl’s mouth by
beating her for a job is a very obnoxious
feature of the times. Often she is the
wife of a civil servant, which makes the
offence ranker. In Sydney she is even
to be found typing for a complaisant
Commonwealth Government. Heaven
knows there is a multitude of unem-
ployed typists, widows as well as single
girls.
X X X X
“Chev.”: The Defence Department
has learnt to its horror that Melbourne
flappers are encasing their limbs in cloth-
ing issued to trainees. Female hikers
have been observed wearing breeches of
service khaki, presumably cut down from
brother Bill’s unmentionables. The
losses are alleged to be large, but it is
hard to see what the respectable elderly
gentleman at the head of the department
can do about it. He can scarcely pursue
offenders and pull the appropriated pants
off them by main force.
* * x x
“Sixenate”: There is a debt which I
do not intend to pay. Reasons: (1) I
haven’t the money; (2) it isn’t my debt,
At me was hurled the latest imitation
of the blue police-court form headed
“Notice of Creditor’s Intention to Pro-
ceed in the Court of Petty Sessions under
the Small Debts Recovery Act.” It may
be hard, these times, for a debt-collect-
ing agency to do any collecting by ordi-
nary methods, but if people are allowed
to use forms of this kind they might as
well be permitted to don uniforms and
represent themselves as officers of the
Law.
* * * *
“Aub-aub Bird”: More and more ille-
gal trafficking in ’possum skins is being
discovered. A reputable co. interested
in the rabbit- and fox-skin trade closed
most of its N.S.W. country depots owing
to the drastic fall in values ; but obvi-
ously persons with skins of protected
animals in their possession can still find
purchasers. A buyer for export conduct-
ing a legitimate business finds it difficult
when the Government opens an area to
get his fair share of the trade, since his
illicit competitors have stocks, bought
under the lap at bootleg prices, which
they are able to sell at a cut. What is
wanted is not desultory raids on snide
buyers, but an effective system to prevent
breaking of the law. Westralia has one—
provision for the stamping of skins and
p yment of the fees to Government offi-
cials.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.W.: Two lines, then:
Tempestuous tears that flood the flues
Of life with cataclysmal dews.
Seems a laborious way of indicating spring
showers R.E.L.: It wouldn’t get a second
reading in a nursery-rhyme competition... .B.B.:
A deal too recondite for u5....8.T.: The
“L’Allegro” mood suits you best, but that
isn’t saying much.... Per Se: Not even its
raciness carried it through... .J. 8.: Unsuccess-
ful to ° rambling A.R.: Unconvincing—
you fall down on details A.F.S.: You can’t
hang a story on such a puerile jest, and it’s
something of a chestnut, too H.G.: There’s
a good idea in it; pity you sling it together so
untidily... .M.G.: They are entirely “unsatis-
tory to our ideas”; impossible to post criticisms
to contributors... .J.L.W.: Merely an echo....
H.D.:
I want; to go where the kindly messes creep
Auc] the tired birds chant the sleepless trees to
sleep.
Sounds like Topsyturvy-land R.M.: It had
the same effect on us as a jigsaw puzzle....
Underground Sailor: Come right aboard: —
I’m sick of sending manuscripts
To granite-hearted Editors ;
I’m sick and tired of getting bills
Front far too hopeful creditors.
They write for cash; I write for cash;
But none of us get any.
It costs me twopence when I write;
They do it for a penny.
It seems a stalemate has been reached.
The P.M.G. must grin.
I write; they write; he doesn’t write,
But rakes the money in.
. ...N.V.: The libertine doctor who allows
himself to be blackmailed for £5OO for one of
his liaisons—he isn’t sure which —is the most
unreal person we have met for many a long
day... .P.O’L.: A crude and gory thriller,
with no clue as to where the scene is laid....
8.A.L.: Worth a humorous paragraph at most.
. ...H.W.K.: Prosings in blank verse, and
hackneyed prosings at that 8.F.X.: Read
Gordon’s “Ride from the Wreck” and you may
get a glimmer of your shortcomings
D. : No space for philosophical disquisi-
tions on youthful illusions T.F.: You should
have stopped when you had compressed your
irrigation town “on any Saturday in February”
into these four graphic lines:
There being little recreation, the men were drinking
beers
And being charged eightpence by flamin’ profiteers
When in walks a big fat sergeant who said “Look
here, you boys,
Not quite so much darn noise!”
. ...C.M.: Not a bad ending, but it isn’t
worth more than a two-inch par L'.E.:
There ought to be some good sketch-material
in the timber-mills country, but you don’t quite
click. And the “Gilded Pan” has a cracked
ring... .R.H.: On the tedious side... .G.A.L.:
We are tired of people who have all kinds of
weird adventures with the dead dogs (or cats)
they are carrying about to consign to the deep.
..... -P.J.A.: About as appetising as uncooked
tripe A. 5.8.: There must be cities as well
as countrysides. Otherwise where would the
markets be for wheat or wool—or even for the
pastoral poet’s wares? J.C.8.: It failed to
get into the straight D.W.: Weak to feeble-
ness. .. . R.P.: Forced... .E.L.P.: It might
make a hymn G.R.: The interest is per-
sonal ... .J.D.: Dave’s sort isn’t ours... .1.W.:
“Useless” is an over-harsh word. But we get
so much of that dreamy, wistful verse that we
can only take the best D.J.R.: No stoushing
match between sailormen is worth 200 lines of
verse J. Stone: Unreal at the beginning
and strains credulity too far at the close
G.M.T.: They miss by very little... .R.M.:
You don’t read anything fresh into the rain
A.E.Y.: The benevolent English aunt would
scarcely like being described as “a London tart.”
M.R.:. It has no moral, as you say—no
merit, either... .H.L.W.:
A sheet of white paper, a pen and some ink
Can bring about horrors to make demons shrink.
True, and we are impelled to add:
And harassed sub-editors yearn for a drink.
L.A.S.: There’s some ginger in them but
it’s over-stringy, like the stuff you sometimes
buy with a chocolate coating L.G.J.: Too
crudely melodramatic E.J.R.: That cheap
Cockney humor is too heavy a handicap
F.L.: The situations are a bit too riotous....
A.V.K.: Bushranging went out with the Kellys
or thereabouts. Your “Killer Morris,” who
beats a poor old prospector to the draw, has
strayed right out of his time... .R.W.A.:
House took too much building, for print any-
way. .. .E.V.8.: Outpourings like
Oh, let me run
A silver shadow before the sun
His dowry to amass
leave us as stumped as Gilead P. Beck when
he struggled for glimpses of the meaning in
Browning’s “Red Cotton Nightcap Country. ’
A.M.: An artist who could illustrate that
would need to be a mind-reader... .J.H.R.:
There are echoes of Keats everywhere, and
some are unfortunately more than echoes....
J. 5.8.: Using one of them; the others are
below the mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.P.W.: You say you color your drawings
so that they will reproduce better in black-and-
white. It makes us hate them worse than ever.
. ...P.H.: Stick to your sign writing
E.C.M.: We have seen worse “first attempts.”
L.D.: Gags are brighter than the drawings,
but that’s not saying much F.L.H.: That
woodcutty effect needs a surer touch....
E. Scratchy and shapeless F.H.:
Shows promise; keep on trying... .C.F.M.:
You’ve a long way to go R.W.J.: Hope-
lessly wooden.... .A.M.S.: Terrible F.J.0.:
Feeblest we’ve seen this year C.E.M.: Very
crude H.V.A.: There may be hope for you
if you stop cross-hatching. Study Phil May.
D.E.H.: Tottered on the edge of the basket
and fell in W.G.: They’ll reproduce all
right, and we like your- line. But why copy
other fellows’ stuff? S.T.: Awful S.D.:
Not bad, but we’re sick of those fire-insurance
jokes.


TV
,aV> O
A
MESSAGE
Hr- IN A
m
m
cr
K
»
;v;
'4®
MAO
J;: 15,>
WfSS
I
im
*»«T:u.rc J. »artt SC »V
ItPERAIBIsmiERIESHrifc
***&£s?***'■ ' •-•'• /.KSlR«¥‘ : ; :
W WITOTO; 1 ?»S*#T S fIM S, »*<&*
gcon^
V*
FilDifn.’
gss® B9 **
Court
tUTtisky
The World’s Purest and The Nation’s Favorite
'jtirf*'
pJ^T
The of f u „ 3
ted rS
li^ n
fin
Ba
est
rley
>ass c
s u<
088 s P ir
dqW <tW?
c° lTl "
A llB '
tf®
n't 1 ’ 1 S tt le-
tra Uttn
ioW
H e P u "
the".
0" ft *et t,l ,7l
011-P


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Cry from the Tropics
“Mossman”: The North is getting a
little attention now Queensland has a
Premier from Mackay. The Government
is considering applications for the position
of Director of Tropical Agriculture and
the Minister assures us that there will
be “no difficulty in getting the right man
for the job.” We shall be glad to have
him, of course —if nothing else, it adds
one male (and, we hope, his wife and
kids) to our population. But what would
be a good deal better would be the real-
isation by the powers that be that we up
here are pretty good on tropical agri-
culture ourselves.
Our sugar methods enable the white
man to compete with the black, and
our maize, butter, bacon and fats are
equal to anything in Australia. What
I’d like to be able to do is to put an-
other man on to extend my little farm
and allow me to do a bit of thinking,
but I can’t afford it. Our great country
believes that I, who came to this remote
spot in the North to carve a farm out
of tall scrub and keep my wife and kids
remote from beauty parlors and dentists
and universities and ice-cream, should
pay just as heavily in taxation as the
gent, who drops into a comfortable city
job when he leaves school and never has
an unprofitable developmental year in
his life. When I do get a spare moment
I seem to spend it travelling in to join
the Progress Association in welcoming
Lyons or Scullin or some other vote-
hunter.
It seems to me that we pioneers should
have some special consideration, apart
from tax freedom when we don’t earn,
and that part of the money we spend
in the years when we are burning stumps
should be a charge on the national divi-
dend in the form of cheap fares and
freights, bonus reductions on taxation,
etc. It pays the Yanks to subsidise their
Pacific steamer services to stimulate trade
and travel and compete with British ships.
Why shouldn’t I be subsidised—directly
or indirectly—so that I can compete on
more equal terms with the more comfort-
able South during the years I am getting
on my feet and getting my children edu-
cated?
I read the other day in the southern
press that N. S. Wales and other
railway servants receive free passes for
themselves and three of their family
every year and that civil servants in Can-
berra want a special living allowance be-
cause the remoteness of the capital of
Australia puts up their cost of living!
Well, what about me, up here among
the mosquitoes and the tall timber, where
every ton of stuff that arrives carries an
impost of about £7 a ton freight over
and above Brisbane costs? Don’t I de-
serve a free pass and a living allowance?
The Governments don’t think so —all
they think I need are land-tax assess-
ments, directors of tropical agriculture,
imported zebus and, if I don’t pay my
taxes, the boot.
Renewing Western Pastures
“Curly Blade”: In common with other
Australian grazing areas, western
Queensland is beginning to show signs of
pasture deterioration. The country’s old-
time capacity for renewal after good rain-
falls seems to have fallen off, and the
better qualities of feed grasses are fail-
ing to make headway against the crops
of rubbishy growth that invariably gets
a foothold under such conditions. The
obvious remedy, the renewal of the pas-
tures by the planting of new grasses, is
an expensive one, even for small areas,
and there is a good deal of difference of
opinion as to the most suitable variety
for replenishment. In the hardy and
full-eared Mitchell grass, a large area
of Queensland possesses one of the best
natural grasses in the world. Its heavy
seeding habit and its persistence under
adverse conditions put it ahead of nearly
all the foreign varieties, while in nutri-
tive qualities for stock it is not surpassed
by any, home-grown or imported. At
present it is largely confined to the open
downs country of central and north-
western Queensland.
. .P r - Hirschfeld has domiciled
Mitchell grass on his property near
Goondiwindi, and is confident that
the same success would follow attempts
to extend its range southward. He goes
further and claims that cultivation would
so increase the size of the already con-
siderable, ear that it would in time prove
a valuable substitute for wheat in places
where the latter does not grow kindly,
its deep-rooting habit making this per-
ennial largely independent of the rain-
fall. Crossing and breeding the grain are
part of the scheme, and the officials of
the Prickly Pear Commission have been
officially instructed to gather seed where
opportunity offers for the purpose of
carrying out experiments.
“Goccia”: Innisfail, where the sport-
ive oaf sometimes removes the Italian
Consulate’s shingle from its pegs, is put-
ting up a great rain record this year. Be-
tween June 1 and August 11, 30 out of
72 days were wet. Some wiseacres say
that as the scrub which festoons the hill-
sides round about is cut down there will
be less moisture, but the thing seems to
be acting the other way round. Clement
Wragge, once had a theory that he could
produce rain out of nothing with a vor-
tex gun. This he demonstrated through
Queensland during the 1903 drought, with
no effect on the weather, but with great
profit to the ear specialists. Perhaps,
having regard to the fact that income-
tax returns were due about the time of
the heaviest falls this year, the old gentle-
man was on the right track. The staccato
hail of Latin explanation, objurgation
“Wotcha think o' the all-day pitcher theayters in Sydney?”
"A takedown, Dave. They show the same dam’ things over and over again.”
and damnation which goes on in Innis-
fail at income-tax time is like the firing
of a whole battery of Wragge howitzers,
* * * *
Narine”: Latest report of the
Queensland Land Administration Board
records the death of a scheme which was
one of the best employment plans in-
vented during the depression. The board
asked the Government for £250,000 and,
after a struggle, got most of it. This
it made available on loan to selectors
who were willing to spend it on
giving employment. Most of it was put
into clearing of pests, ringbarking,
buildings and general improvement. So
as to keep a check which would assure
that it was devoted to its purpose, the
board handled the money and paid the
wages after inspecting the results. Under
the plan over 7000 men were given work
at a living wage, and at the end of the
first year, in the heart of the depression,
97 p.c. of interest payments on the loans
were met, which speaks well for the
board’s judgment. Then some politician
saw that the thing was efficient and had
none of the usual marks of uselessness
and degradation which distinguish the
charitable schemes of bumbledom, and
the business ended abruptly.
*** ' *
“Vic”: Scullin got a lot of applause
from the tobacco-growers of Mareeba
when he dwelt on the iniquity of the big
companies in importing 15,000,0001 b. of
leaf out of the total of 17,500,0001 b. used
in Australia. He accused them of laying
in stocks of the imported article against
the- day when he should be returned to
power, but he warned them that when he
did become Prime Minister he would
put a stiff excise on tobacco imports as
well as a heavy customs duty. All the
same, at the Brisbane sales, only 60 per
cent, of the 110 tons offered this month
was sold, the balance being low grades,
dead and broken leaf and lines showing
spot. The industry should have sound
Protection, more especially as its success
is of vital importance to some northern
districts. But no amount of Protection
can make manufacturers or smokers buy
rubbish.
* * * sf
“Kaloa”: A fierce argument is going
on in the Mandated Territory as to what
constitutes copra and whether it includes
the green kernel of the nut. The inter-
est in the fight is that certain piratical
persons are entering licensed trading ter-
ritories and, under the very noses of the
licensees, buying up green kernels at
boom prices and accepting delivery on
the spot, which saves the tired kanaka
from carrying his load to the trading
station. Naturally business is brisk.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Australia is safe for
democracy at last. A garrison of 30
men has been sent to hold the fort at
Darwin against invasion. One does
not quite see how they are going to do
it, but they are in a better strategic posi-
tion than the 30 or so who used to garri-
son Thursday Island. If a foreign cruiser
had arrived and put their gun—yes, gun
in the singular— out of action, the most
useful thing they could have done would
have been to disguise themselves as Jap-
anese divers and retire to the suburb of
Yokohama to await rpcmp Rut TW-
win’s garrison can at any rate leave for
the hinterland. It certainly 'isn’t big
enough to fight an invading force larger
than a few canoes full of niggers though
it w jU a dd to the social attractions of the
North.
* * * *
“Lorengau”: What are our tropical
possessions coming to? Last time I was
in Rabaul, the traffic consisted entirely
of boys, kong kongs, hullamacows and a
rare assortment of marys, monkeys and
civil servants. The only danger to life in
the streets lay in falling over the bottle
you were taking home from Ah Chee’s.
But now, on the nineteenth anniversary
of the Australian occupation, they have
acquired a traffic dome at the “danger-
ous corner” of Park-street and Mango-
avenue. Traffic domes, lakal They’ll
be having a beauty parlor there next!
* * * *
“Fair Do’s”: Queensland’s Land Ad-
ministration Board is an institution which
has done an immense amount of good
work and been content to say very little
about it. In a recent report, however, it
hits out at what it calls “southern lack
of appreciation” of its pioneering work
in the campaign against prickly pear.
The board takes exception to the growing
custom of ascribing to the C.5.1.R., the
success of the prickly-pear biological activ-
ities in restoring large areas of land to
the State, southern politicians being £he
chief offenders. It has been suggested
that Queensland should pay the Com-
monwealth or even hand over some of
the regained territory, because “of the
great Commonwealth services that have
been given.” The board, in contradicting
this contention, points out that “biological
activities were under way in Queensland,
and successes were achieved, long before
the Commonwealth had any scientific
organisation.” So that’s that.
jfc sji *l*
“Cowan”: Moreton Island (“Bribie,” B.
16/8/’33) is not “almost entirely sand.”
It has wide, sandy beaches with sand-
hills, but its backbone is a range of
wooded hills, some 20 miles long, rising
900 ft. In the hills and on the open
grassy plains and the deep fresh-water
lagoons below, there is remarkable bird
life. The island swarms with wild pigs,
goats and horses, all descendants of
domesticated ancestors, which, in the
early days, served the lonely lighthouse
keepers. The island is one of Queens-
land’s undeveloped tourist resorts. It has
every attraction for the seaside-camper,
hunter and fisherman. The only resi-
dents are the keepers of three lighthouses
and their families. Cook landed on the
island on May 16, 1770, on the headland
now known as Point Lookout.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
Lovely rain has made the pastoralists
smile and predict a good spring.
Although most sport was postponed, the
hockey players had their fun plus a good
deal of mud. Scientists did not enjoy
the trick played upon them. They were
cheated from taking observations on the
partial eclipse.
One of our best elocutionists, Dorothy
Free, said “I will” to James Dougall at
the Park Presbyterian Church. Dorothy
is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
E. N. Free, of Sydney ; in Brisbane she
has made a host of friends, on stage and
off. She dressed as a bride should, in
frock of ivory chiffon velvet, carrying
golden roses. Mrs. Edgar Free and
Bessie Dougall followed the bride up the
aisle, and lan Whitehead and James
Whittaker supported the bridegroom.
Brisbane women are pow-wowing just
now about all the good things women
should do. At the N.C.W.’s annual, presi-
dent Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart had the plea-
sure of welcoming Lady Wilson and Mar-
jorie, who that day had returned from
Charleville. Unemployment was dealt
with, and Madam President suggested
that pig-farming for boys and house-
decorating for girls might help the situa-
tion. Another speaker protested that
women wasted time at bridge and pre-
wedding teas instead of interesting them-
selves in public matters.
A concert version of Gounod’s “Faust”
was presented at the City Flail by the
State and Municipal Choir. Soloists
Myrtle Power, Lena Hammond, W. Ash-
lin, W. Crisp and J. E. England warbled
brightly, and our city organist, George
Sampson, conducted the show.
The Government seems to find money
for most things, but cannot find any to
employ more women police, in spite of
the fact that Home Secretary E. M. Han-
lon admittedly approves of the work
already accomplished by our few women
police. He had to turn down a depu-
tation.
At Port Moresby there’s a woman
stevedore, Mrs. Vieusseux, whose jour-
nalist husband died a few years ago. Of
practical mind, she quickly turned her
energies to a man’s job, and now has a
big gang of natives working at top speed
as she directs the loading and unloading
of ships.
Lady Allardyce, who flew to Mt.
Isa, likened that far-away spot to Cor-
nerbrook in Newfoundland. On arriving
she was given a hearty welcome, and
in her fluent little speech of reply she
particularly mentioned the wonderful
work being carried out by the Country
Women’s Association.
It was not a very hot day for Tatter-
sail’s Ascot meeting, but some ladies
wore their new spring frocks, many
appearing in organdie. There was no
National Anthem, as their Exes, were
not present. President Healy turned on
his usual committee luncheon, and the
Isaac Moores and Cadell Garricks en-
tertained friends to tea.
It is not often that Thomas’s famous
bougainvillaea gardens at Indooroopilly
are open to the public, but our Anglican
Church crying out for money was suffi-
cient reason for 3000 people to wander
through the grounds and admire this
blazing flower, which in these gardens,
more than anywhere else in Queensland,
has reached perfection. Dean Barrett
came along with Mrs. Barrett, and the
Scottish Pipe Band enlivened proceed-
ings.


Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff,
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEE
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold w r ater
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Bunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager: E. HYN.DMAN.
Australian Art Exhibition
“THE MACLEOD GALLERY'’
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St. (near Bridge St.),
SYDNEY
ADMISSION FREE
Special Exhibition of
Paintings by
H. SEPTIMUS POWER, R. 0.1.
Closing Date —September 7
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday
WOODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
Sold in 3 Sizes:
1/3, 2/1, 3/5
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The most glittering show of the week
was the opening of Parliament. The
warm sunshine poured down on Mac-
quarie-street. It glinted on the bands-
men’s instruments and white helmets, on
the burnished buttons of the khaki guard
of honor, drawn up before the iron rail-
ings of Parliament House —surely the
most tottery talking-shop in the world.
Still, it hasn’t the gaping-gum look of its
old Burdekin neighbor across the way,
which has had its windows extracted pre-
paratory to general dissolution.
The street was packed with onlookers,
as were the windowless openings of Bur-
dekin and the roof of its small lodge next
door. Here and there gay little hats flashed
scarlet or sky-blue above the murk of
winter clothes, and down the steps lead-
ing to the Upper House a carpet poured
its ruby-red stream in readiness for his
State Ex.’s passing. If it hadn’t been
quite down for Lady Game’s earlier arri-
val, this was counteracted by the warmth
of the handshake she received from the
official dragons before the portals.
Heralding the Governor, up clattered
the Mounted Police —horse and man
sleek and well-groomed, and with all
the dignity of a job superbly done.
Then they lined up, adding themselves to
the spirited street scene, and Sir Philip,
busbied, and in his Air Force blue, and
surrounded by a small company in
cocked and befeathered hats, stepped
up the red carpet and was taken in hand
by the Usher of the Black Rod.
Only three of the six hundred who
went armed with pink tickets got a seat
in the Council Chamber, with its tall
wooden pillars and its walls punctuated
by busts of politicians of other days.
Still, the Governor’s speech was merci-
fully short, and was followed by the sol-
ace of tea in the room of Professor Peden.
Here came Lady Game, very slim and
black-clad, with her David and Rose-
mary, in a powder-blue cloth outfit.
With them were Mrs. A. T. Anderson,
who aired one of the new spring wide-
brimmed hats with a shallow crown, and
Mrs. Harry Budge, very cosy in brown
suit and furs. Mrs. Chaffey, who brought
her daughter, talked country polo ; Mrs.
J. Phipps, fresh from Java, was specially
looked after by Margaret Peden, who
was an efficient and pictorial hostess in
her royal-blue outfit. Premier Stevens’s
wife wore sapphire-blue. The State Com-
mandant Phillips couple were among the
notables, as were Speaker Dan Levy’s
sister, the Consul-General for Italy and
his Marchesa, and the Mayoral Walders.
Mrs. Dettman brought her young daugh-
ters, and Mrs. T. S. Gordon, Mrs. A. V.
Roberts and Miss I. Leeson were others
who enjoyed the color and movement of
the scene.
Musical and artistic Sydney streamed
into the Town Hall to the A.B.C. Music-
Week concert —to render Fritz Hart and
Lindley Evans ovations and laurel
wreaths, for each composer conducted
the orchestral work which had won him
a competition prize, and to hear again
Alfred Hill’s “Hinemoa,” Maggie Teyte
singing the part of the Maori hero-
ine. Maggie wore lustrous white satin in
contrast to the emerald-green silks and
rata-red wreath worn by the distinguished-
looking Princess Wiki, who combined
dignity and tunefulness as the Maori
priestess. Miss Teyte’s frock, whether
you liked it or not, kept the eye of
womanhood glued upon it. It was en-
tirely backless, and was brought up in
front to a blouse-like collar, while from
a satin cuff on the right wrist trailed a
streamer of black cire ribbon.
To the Mayoress’s afternoon music
party last week came Nathalie Rosen wax
and soprano Renee Maxwell. Nathalie
it was who, as head priestess of the
Opportune Club, offered a first prize of
£lOO and a second of £5O for an Aus-
tralian opera, which started the fashion
of stimulating the local composer.
Septimus Power has hung the Mac-
leod Galleries with his inimitable studies
of horses and dogs. Ferguson, J., made
the opening speech, a thing of fine English
and clear utterance, and director of the
National Gallery Jimmy Macdonald gave
a foreword in favor of hard work and
perfect craftsmanship—the qualities that
remain in art after the fads have passed
into oblivion. Artists were present by
the dozen, fellow-Maorilander Maud
Sherwood being an early arrival, while
handsome Mrs. Tom Rolin, in raspberry-
red kasha, was one of the latecomers.
President of the Women Painters Mary
Irvine, poet Derek Burnell, Queensland
pianist Teddy Cahill and novelist Harry
Tighe were among the shifting groups.
The flower pieces in their unusual
frames attracted the eye of womanhood,
and Mrs. Power, very handsome in nut-
brown suit and furs, told this Letter that
there is a tremendous vogue in England,
which was started by the Queen, for
these canvases. The fashionables have
their walls done in putty, against which
the rich tones of the gladiolus, rose or
petunia glow lusciously. The frames of
the pictures are like those in the exhibi-
tion, gold brushed over with a grey or
white composition, which is then rubbed
until the gold begins to show through
in a blurred design. If you are rich as
well as fashionable you have your rugs
to tone with your favorite flower picture.
The nice-looking girl in this picture is
Betty Higgins, one of the secretaries
(Noreen Dangar is the other) of the
Picnic Ball, which promises to be one
of the successes of Race Week. To this
dance guests will bring their own tucker
and do everything towards their own
supper except boil the billy. The Palais
Royal is the meeting place, and the Com-
monwealth Excellencies as well as the
State ones have undertaken to come
along and join in the fun. The Home
for Incurables and the Far West Child-
ren’s health scheme will benefit.
To face a wind that seemed straight
off the North Pole Lady Isaacs wrapped
herself snugly in white Arctic fox when
she came with the G.-G. to St. Vincent’s
Ball. This filled the Empress Room at
Mark Foy’s with light and cheerfulness,
and the intervals before the stern busi-
ness of the night began gave the women
guests a chance to trail their fine plum-
age. One of the handsomest bits of
color was the turquoise crushed velvet
worn by Lady Isaacs herself. White
frocks of distinction appeared on the
blonde Mrs. Dan Carroll (who was one
of the secretaries) and Surgeon McKel-
vey’s brunette lady. The first was of
ivory velvet, the second. of brocaded
angel-skin; both drew trains and were
admirable in their absence of fuss. This
Letter liked the puffed sleeves of Mrs.
Toby Browne’s silver-grey velvet, the
friendly smile which Mrs. R. Forrest
Hughes wore with her black chiffon, and
Mrs. M. J. Slattery’s offering of parch-
ment lace and red roses.
Doctors can’t be afraid of pneumonia,
for they and their womenkind turned up
by the score, though Dr Weston Maher
was unable to come owing to an early
tryst with the carvers the following
morning. However, the name was well
representedthere was quite a company
of Odillo Mahers. And Joan Meagher
handed the offering of scarlet sweet-peas
and violets to Lady Isaacs. Secretary
Mrs. Britnell Fraser was vivid in grass-
green and cherry-printed ninons under a
swagger little coat of green taffeta with
berufffed sleeves. Winsome Jennings s
mist-grey tulles were restful to the eye,
and Mrs. John Tansey, who with her
doctor husband entertained a large party,
was another wearer of grey. Mollie
O’Neill wore sapphire-blue velvet, and
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks went caped in green
ostrich feather fronds. There were prizes
for the most novel shoes, the best-dressed
head, the most attractive white and the
most attractive black frocks. Sylvia Wel-
ling and Frank Sale, from “Music in
the Air,” were pressed into service as
judges. .
Charles Nicis, singing with the Bala-
laika orchestra, was the most heady brew
of the cocktail party engineered by Mrs.
Norman McLeod to help the Artists
Ball. When Charles’s voice rang through
the Arts Club in the “Volga Boatmen”
you didn’t care whether your cup was
filled with water or wine. Another pulse-
stirrer of the afternoon was the organ-
iser’s spring hat. The straw was one ol
those exotic cousins to the Leghorn, and
in its narrow ribbon banding red and
green were delicately mixed with white.
The Erik Langkers, Charlie Westmacott
and Tommy Spencer were early arrivals.
Mrs. Paget and Estelle Oxnard Smith
kept the door. Mrs. Florence Taylor’s
lei of pink camellias, a Spanish tango
that might have been danced by Carmen
and her Toreador in a moment of exul-
tation, and sketches by Arthur Mailey
were other gaieties.
Queensland pianist Teddy Cahill was
one of the keenly-interested in the group
of artists and writers who viewed the
show of Japanese prints on the Kamo
Maru the other morning. Captain Taka-
hata, who has been gathering his trea-
sures for many years, displayed them
with a wealth of interesting information.
The pictures by artists who labored
over wood- and lino.-cut from 1742 to
1858 were acclaimed more charmful than
their modern brethren. Teddy owns
12 old Chinese paintings on silk, given
to him by the dowager Lady Quilter ;
they are among the few treasures the
pianist saved when his home was burned.
Two grand pianos and all his gifts from
world notables, including Royalty, went
up in that holocaust.
This is the latest Falk picture of Emily
Marks, a vital spark in the city’s musical
life. Emily, who is a front-rank singer,
was one of the committee that founded
Music Week, which, now in its fourth
year, has put forth such a sturdy shoot
as the eisteddfod. Miss Marks is a mem-
ber of the council of this successful ven-
ture, and in addition is the founder and
president of the Music Lovers’ Club.
Elizabeth Allan, head of the Lyceum
Club Literary Circle, was a pleased
woman last Thursday night, when mem-
bers rolled up in fine array for their
Mary Gilmore’s birthday dinner. Essay-
ist Elliott Napier, poet Lance Fallaw,
Cecil Mann and Bill Moore were among
the guests who spoke to the toast of the
night. After dinner Harry Green, of the
Fisher Library, discoursed controversially
on Australian novelists of the 1930’5, and
then the company trailed back to the
dining-room, where Mary Gilmore,
glowing with the appreciation of her
literary fellows, cut the candle-bedecked
birthday cake.
Beatrice Ternan, of Melbourne, who
demonstrates her love of the living Aus-
tralian poets by reading and reciting
their works, is now giving a series of lec-
tures in Sydney on the art of becoming
graceful, attractive and successful. The
lectures are free, and the good-looking
Victorian with the compelling blue eye
is filling the pews of the Adyar Hall
every second day or so. She promises
one grand night with the poets early
in September.
The North’s songbirds figured largely
on Mayoress Hagon’s Music Week pro-
gramme. Jean Campbell, Phyllis Dauth,
Gerwyn Jones and George McFarlane,
all from Brisbane, charmed the ear of
the crowded reception-rooms, as did Syd-
ney’s Mary Neal, violinist Phyllis Mac-
Donald and pianist Charlotte Mills. The
hostess was aided by daughters Margaret
and Mrs. Roy Furley, and among the
applauders were those engineers of Music
Week Roland Foster, Miss Elizabeth
Plummer and the D. G. Macdougalls.
The McKelvey lady was a front-seater,
and Mrs. Eva Wunderlich’s grey frock
and furs were an oasis in a desert of heavy
fur and cloth coats —for the westerly blew
its coldest. The opera George Nassoors,
Lindley Evans and Frank Hutchens,
organist Lilian Frost, Miss Hilda Marks,
Mrs. Val Osborne, pretty little Mrs.
Frank Crane, Mrs, W. G. Layton and the
Walder, Taylor, Julius and King ladies
were a few of those who accepted the
civic lady’s invitation to music and a tea
of real party proportions.
This Letter spent a hundred per cent.
Australian night with the Gould League
of Bird Lovers last week, and forgot that
the cold winds of winter were lurking
outside the doors of the Assembly Hall,
for, within, the place echoed and rang
with the call of bird, like the bush on a
spring day. Quite an important part of
the yearly celebrations are the birdcall
competitions. These are done by teams
and then by individual enthusiasts, and
the notes of the whipbird, the kooka-
burra, the butcher- and the bellbirds, not
to speak of seagulls, wrens and doves,
were repeated with an amazing fidelity.
Songs and recitations about bird and
tree and flower, varied by selections from
a fife band, made up the rest of the pro-
gramme ; the artists were all youngsters
under 14.
Enid Baumberg has launched her first
venture for the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital with flying banners. In re-
sponse to the Gordon lady’s coo-ee
dozens of the city’s best-dressed and best-
known girls rolled up to Bryant’s play-
house a few nights ago and offered them-
selves as a willing sacrifice to the spot-
light of publicity in a ragout of amateur
theatricals. The headliner of this revue
will be a Pageant of Eve. Society males
are eagerly offering help, following the
lead of aide Gifford and David Game.
It is to the former that the theatrical
patchwork owes its almost bright Ameri-
can but somewhat ambiguous English
title of “Snappy Sydney.” A sketch
called “The Squatter’s Slaughter” and
Mrs. Venour Nathan’s Spanish ballet are
already in rehearsal for the two-night
season at the Savoy.
Dungowan went gay last Thursday
night to. help the good cause of the
Manly District Hospital. The G.-G.
Isaacs pair descended upon the Village
for the occasion, and local medicoes with
their frilled and beruffled wives proved
that the intricacies of the dance held no
terror for them. The 18 debs, showed
modern youth’s lack of prejudice by re-
volving and pirouetting in the old-time
waltz and minuet, after Mrs. Moncrieff
Barron, matron in charge, had done her
duty by them. Dark-eyed Mrs. David
Mackie floated around in orange chif-
fons with the pleased smile of a success-
ful treasurer, and Mrs. J. H. Cross sat
beside her mayoral husband reflecting
his pride in the affluent-looking assem-
blage of Villagers.


h
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations. Speak
Without Notes, Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Iloolclet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Y ounger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
Estate of the Late Max Mitchell.
IF MR. HARRY MITCHELL, son of the late
Max Mitchell, will communicate with the under-
signed, he will hear something to his advantage.
If any person who sees this notice and knows
of the present whereabouts of the said Harry
Mitchell, will he be good enough to communi-
cate with the undersigned.
ISRAEL & DURING, Solicitors,
26-29 Anchor Mansions, Kerk Street,
Johannesburg, South Africa.
DANIEL PHILIPS, late of Much Hadham,
Hertfordshire, England, or his nephew, Mr.
Ansell, last heard of about 1910. Inquirer,
FRED SMITH, 56 Cardigan Street, Luton, Bed-
fordshire, England, son of the said Daniel
Philips’s sister, Ann Philips.
ANY person having any knowledge regarding
the whereabouts of MARION ELIZABETH
MILGATE, otherwise known as BASSETT
[wife of W. H. Milgate, late of Bendigo, Vic-
toria], is requested to communicate with
MESSRS. ALEXR. GRANT, DICKSON
& PEARCE, 119 WILLIAM STREET, MEL-
BOURNE, SOLICITORS.
IF JAMES WILLIS, who left South Africa
about 1892, will write to “A. 8.,” care of
Bulletin, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
WILL BESSIE ELIZABETH WYATT, late of
Salisbury, South Australia, or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with her
son, ALFRED WYATT, c/o Wertaloona
Station, via Copley, South Australia.
The Truth
About Catarrh
ISs
Remedies Galore
You have, no doubt, tried dozens of
remedies, but you are still looking for the
one that will give you happy relief. The
one remedy you have not tried is waiting
for you—a preparation containing vola-
tile oils known as Catarrh-Clysmac. This
ne\t volatile oil treatment has proved a
boon to thousands of sufferers through-
out Australia. They have found its value
for chronic cold in the head as well as
for Catarrh in its more serious stages.
It has been so thoroughly tested and
nroved so consistently true that the
money paid for the first package will be
refunded if it does not do what is
claimed. Catarrh-Clysmac can he bought
from any chemist for 1/9 or nearly three
times the quantity for 4/6.
Melbourne
Chatter
Williamstown had spring weather for
its races on Saturday. Pansies, daisies and
other blossoms made pools of color about
the well-kept lawns, and the bluest of
seas beyond filled in an attractive pic-
ture. Dressing was a shade less chill-
some than usual, coats and skirts taking
the place of fur coats. Chairman J. J.
Liston was there with Mrs. Liston, whose
black velvet hat topped a black cloth
coat trimmed with cocoa-hued fur. As
usual Mrs. Liston, who was accompanied
by May Duggan, entertained the wives of
committee-men and officials at luncheon.
Aid. and Mrs. Stapley were in the throng.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, all in pale grey ; her
daughter Jill, and Mrs. J. J. Daly and Dr.
Dora McMahon, of Sydney, were a parly
seeking winners. Mrs. Charles Perry
came with her daughter Inah, whose cos-
tume was of Lido blue shade with a hat of
the forage-cap order. Mr. A. G. Hunter
and Mrs. Hunter, she with a big collar
of snow leopard upon her black cloth
coat, Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Sheahan and
Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson were others
who patrolled the lawns.
Followers of the chase met to dance
at Rumpelmayers’ on Saturday night at
the invitation of the Oaklands Hunt Club.
Molly McCauley, hon. sec. of the hop,
was there in a white flat crepe gown that
was traced with gold. The Master of
the Oaklands, E. C. Robertson, brought
along Mrs. Robertson, who wore drap-
eries of ruby-toned georgette and lace.
W. H. Magennis, deputy-Master, brought
Mrs. Magennis, whose black gown was
brightened with a spray of crimson car-
nations on the corsage. Other hunt
clubs were well represented.
Pupils of Xavier College had a dance
at Wattle Path, St. Kilda. The colors
of the school, red and black, were pro-
minent in the decoration, and there was
a good rally of grown-ups, most of
whom played bridge. Mrs. P. L. Cole-
man, president of this bunch of women,
was there in a gown of parchment satin,
and received a posy ; a tribute also being
paid to Mrs. T. J. Smith by the boys.
Mrs. H. T. Federico and Mrs. J. J. Cof-
fey were others who helped to make the
jollo successful.
Proceeds of the gymkhana run by the
Riversdale Golf Club went to the Child-
ren’s Hospital. A bit extra was made
by bazaar stalls and a bridge party in
the evening. Aylmer Langley, the cap-
tain of the club, and Mrs. J. B. Bellair,
president of the associates, were the chief
engineers.
Thomas, son of ex-Lud Mayor Luxton,
and Betty Ranking, daughter of a Tun-
bridge Wells medico, plighted their troth
at St. Paul’s Cathedral. Archbishop
Head tied the knot. The petite, dark-
haired bride, still in her ’teens, wore a
trained robe of ivory satin with cascades
of tulle veil depending from a silver
bandeau. The ’maids, who included the
bridegroom’s schoolgirl sister Mary, wore
organdie frocks in various shades of pink.
Silver ribbon and roses banded their hair,
and they carried posies of pastel-hued
blossoms in antique silver holders. After-
celebrations were staged in the lower
chamber of the Town Hall, in a setting
of palms, peach blossom and other pink
flowers. The bride’s mother stood with
the Luxton couple to welcome the guests.
Lewis Luxton, who was his brother’s
best man, is engaged to the bride’s elder
sister.
Molly, only daughter of Captain and
Mrs. Percy Chirnside, of Brandon Park,
was married in London last month in
draperies of parchment satin and clouds
of tulle to Nicolas, only son of Captain
and Mrs. Geoffrey Charlton. The knot-
tying was at St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge,
with a reception afterwards by the bride’s
mother at the home of Lord and Lady
Hawke in Belgrave-square. Three small
girls wearing Kate Greenaway frocks of
deep cream satin with blue sashes and
wreaths of forget-me-nots attended the
bride. A little boy train-bearer sported
blue satin trousers and an ivory silk
shirt.
The marriage of Sylvia, daughter of
the Mayor and Mayoress of Prahran,
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Cole, to Robert,
only child of the W. A. Camerons, of
the same suburb, took place at All
Saints’ Church, St. Kilda, with rejoic-
ings afterwards at the Windsor. The
bride’s princess robe gown of white silken
crepe was lit up with sparkling em-
broidery, and the veil was of tulle. Two
’maids attended the bride in crinkled
muslin frocks of leaf-green, matching
straw hats and frilled organdie gloves.
A trio of maids in frocks of figured
blue and white mousseline with blue
cire satin sashes followed Jeanne, youn-
ger daughter of the C. Russell Gabbs,
of Toorak, to the altar when she plighted
her troth at Grammar School chapel
with Ernest, son of the David Carnegies,
of Kew. The pretty bride was in white
chiffon with lengthwise groupings of tiny
frills, which were repeated upon the
ethereal train with its embroidery of
seed pearls. A wealth of Honiton lace
and tulle veil fell from a coronet of
pearls and heather. There were after-
rejoicings at Grosvenor. As Mrs. Gabb
is at present in England, her place was
taken by Mrs. Keith Aiken, who lent her
father a hand in welcoming the numer-
ous guests. She held a posy of rosy
camellias against her gown of vellum-
tinted satin. Mr. and Mrs. D. Carnegie,
the lady in draperies of fine black lace,
also gave their support to the youthful
hostess.
Past pupils of the Academy of Mary
Immaculate, Fitzroy, gathered about
tables at the Australia on Saturday night,
and after dinner there was a dance.
Among the engineers of the party were
Mrs. C. Batten, in filmy laces of wood-
brown hue, Mrs. T. Mardling in cicada-
green lace, and Nell O’Driscoll, whose
draperies were chalk white. In the throng
were Mrs. Goff, wearing a black velvet
robe that had a yoke of myriads of tiny
gold pailettes, Mrs. G. Finlayson, a re-
cent bride, trailing a gown of white silken
lace, and Mrs. A. Wright, in a gown of
French blue.
Old girls and present-day students of
Lowther Hall, with their parents, joined
in a farewell party to Elizabeth Kirk-
hope, who is transferring to the Lauris-
ton Girls’ School, Malvern. The Parents’
Association gave Miss Kirkhope a wrist-
let-watch and the ex-students presented
her with a reading-lamp.
The latest fashion contributions from
Paris are dainty little bolero jackets with
frilled or puffed sleeves and capes con-
taining tier upon tier of frills, made of
the new stiffened chiffon, georgette or
organdie. These are for both day and
evening wear, but until winter departs
they will be seen only in ballrooms. In
great demand will be the all-white ones
which look fascinating with a dead black
robe and also chime nicely with pastel
tones.
A song recital at the British Music
Society rooms by soprano Dorothy Pen-
fold, pictured here by Jack Cato, featured
songs by old composers —Purcell, Linley
and Dr. Arne —old songs in modern set-
tings, and modern lyrics. For the first
two groups the songbird sported an old-
time panniered gown of deep blue velvet,
and after the interval she came forward
in an up-to-date frock of turquoise-blue
chiffon painted with golden flowers.
Linda Phillips, in trailing black flounced
chiffon draperies, besides being accom-
panist, played harpsichord dances and
some later compositions. Two of her
own songs were sung by Miss Penfold,
who is a former resident of Bendigo.
Nellie Mortyne, who took the role of
the Countess of Drumoor in the perform-
ance of “Clara Gibbings” at the Gar-
rick on Saturday, dressed the part in
gowns of pale grey and black-and-white.
Ruby May, who made a hit in the title
role, wore flamboyant clothes, flower-
trimmed hats and much jewellry. Noel
Boyd wore over an ensemble suit of
patterned crepe an ivory cloth coat
bordered with black bear fur and having
a bow of monkey fur at the neck. She
struck another up-to-the-minute fashion
note in a black cire satin short coat with
a draped collar of scarlet lacquered satin
that was allied to a white satin evening
gown.
Off the beaten track were the plays pre-
sented by the Standard Players’ Society
at Kelvin Hall under Eileen O’Keefe’s
direction. Chief draw was “The Bower
of Wandel,” Gordon Bottomley’s most
recent poetic drama, which had an Aus-
tralian premiere. The story of Catharine
Carmichael and King James y. of Scot-
land is the theme. Three scenes are
linked by a prologue and chorus. Effec-
tively setand dressed true to period, the
piece met with much approval from a
full house. Nancy Dobson was excel-
lent as the tragic Catharine There was
s ? ? .dramatised version of the Dante
Gabnel Rossetti ballad Sister Helen, in
which Alberta Lederman, of the deep
voice, was the revengeful Helen. Off-stage
a phnrnc nf aFnetlv vnirpe wa< lifted in
a chorus ot ghostly voices was lined in
supplication. Time was found, too, for
two short plays by Arnold Bax.
. • , , c ~
As president ol the junior section ot
the League of Nations Union, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, who is pictured by a Broo-
thnrn rampn i« helnina mnnv vnnmr
horn camera, is helping many young
folk to improve their knowledge ol
foreign affairs. This lady, who is a B.A.
of Melbourne Uni., is also interested in
Girl Guide extension work, which draws
into the movement girls unable through
ill health to take an active part in G.G.
activities. These members, called “Post
Guides,” are kept in touch by corres-
pondence. A good pianist, Mrs. Bake-
well is also interested in the develop-
ment of musical culture.
Mrs. Xavier de Bavay, who came over
from the Apple Isle for a short visit, re-
turned to Hobart at the week-end. Fare-
wells were said at a luncheon party
staged at Menzies by Mrs. de Bavay’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Merson Cooper.
Perth’s pleasant days:
The Kindergarten’s annual party was attended
by hundreds of children, who streamed into
Government House, clad in fancy dress and
guarded by a grown up. Mollie Learmonth,
who had the floor arrangements in hand, put
on a programme which entertained both young
and mature.
Mrs. Harold Boas was responsible for the
adult dance which followed the children’s party.
Her distinctive black laces were often seen be-
side chairwoman Mrs. Hubert Momber’s cherry
velvets. Molly Noble gyrated in orchid silk
crepe; Peggy Butcher and Molly Taylor clung
to misty floral ninons; Elsie Saw’s black taf-
fetas were splashed with blush-pink water-
lilies ; Dorothy Powell’s honey velvet ensemble
was effectively draped; Hope Robertson had
a self-toned lei on her off-white marocain,
and Mabel Teather’s petunia cape was befeath-
ered.
Ida Geddes’s parchment gloves matched the
flower at the throat of her epaulletted black
velvet gown when she raised her voice in song
at a recital given in conjunction with Flora
Bunning. Her effortless contralto soared forth
to strains from Schubert, Schumann and
Brahms. Flora Bunning, in oyster crepe, with
swathes of billiard green, accompanied dex-
terously and contributed pianoforte solos by the
same composers.
St. George’s College rang with sounds of
revelry by night when Mrs. Sinclair McGibbon
steered the committeeship of the Toymac Ball
in its cloistered rooms. The bright colored
frocks of the dancers were reflected in the
jarrah panelling of the hall, while bridge players
shuffled cards in lecture-rooms gay with abun-
dant flowers.
An occasion for wassail was the coming-of-
age of Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Vincent’s daughter
Helen. The chatelaine of Minnewara, in flow-
ered chiffon velvet, flung wide the portals of the
Peppermint Grove home and ushered some
scores of dancers to the artistically-lighted ball-
room, where Helen received congratulations in
reseda-green elephant skin. Sister Lesley bil-
lowed in white silk crepe as she directed the
traffic.
Topsy, the dusky-haired daughter of Mrs. and
the late R. P. Hyem, crept off one morning
and quietly exchanged “I wills” with Tom
Sherwood, scion of the Arthur Sherwoods of
Claremont; then popped back to receive a
blessing from' her mother, who has been con-
fined to her crib for many months.
Mary Main, only offspring of the late A. G.
Main and Mrs. Percy Wickham, is wearing a
new ring, the gift of Tom de Pledge, who hails
from Surrey, England.
Adelaide’s chronicles:
The Commercial Travellers’ Ball at the Palais
Royal drew a large crowd, and the Children’s
Hospital and Bedford Park Home benefited.
A cap and balloon stall arranged by Mesdames
Taylor and Kemp added to the profits.
Another ball at the Palais Royal was that of
the G.P.O. About 1000 were present. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, in burgundy-toned marocain,
accompanied by Rosemary Fleischmann, in
tango satin, arrived at 9.30, and was received
by the postmaster, E. P. Ramsay, and his wife.
Acting-Lud Mayor J. R. Cain was also present.
Mrs. Ramsay was a graceful figure in wedg-
wood-blue chiffon velvet, and she carried a posy
of pink sweet-pea presented to her by the staff.
Mrs. Graham Wald is going to Sydney for
the marriage of her son Irvine and Miss Poide-
vin early next month. Joan Dale, her niece,
will accompany her. Miss Dale is a Sydney
girl who has been spending a long holiday
in Adelaide. '
The Speck’s new Excellencies explore
their domain:
Launceston welcomed them at the A.1.F1
Ball in the Albert Hall. The president of the
R.S.S.L., H. F. Ritchie, and his wife received
the v.-r. party. The stage, arranged garden
fashion with flower beds bordered with primulas
and a background of pussy-willow, had comfy
seats placed about it and was used for the dais.
Supper tables were all in pink, with pink wax
candles in silver candelabra. Lady Clark wore
black under an Oriental brocade wrap with deep
gray fur collar. Mrs. Ritchie was in vellum-
tinted heavy satin, and Mayoress Hollingsworth
sported angel-skin lace. Three debs, emerged
from the chrysalis—Patricia Robson, Jean
Tabart and Olga Rowell.
His Ex. and Lady Clark were guests at “Pre-
sident’s Day” at the Royal Hobart Golf Club at
Rosny, and were entertained at tea in the club-
house by the president and Mrs. Pearce. It was
a perfect day of winter sunshine, and the
panorama of harbor and mountain looked its
best. Sir Ernest, who is a golfer, has been
made an hon. member of the club.
One of the smartest farewell functions in
honor of Mrs. W. H. McDonald before her
departure from Launceston was a bridge party
at the Launceston Hotel. There were 24
hostesses and the lounge was ablaze with spring
flowers. Mrs. McDonald was presented with
a green flower : bowl.
Ruth, elder daughter of Mrs. Patterson, Mel-
bourne, who has made many friends in Tassie
during visits to her aunt, Mrs. R. C. Patterson,
will soon be settling here permanently as the
wife of John, youngest son of the Percy Harts,
Leatholme, Launceston.
Social-service-minded folk in Hobart have
started a home, on Toe H lines, for unem-
ployed women and girls, and Mrs. W. F. Darl-
ing, one of our most energetic public-spirited
women, has been appointed president.
Launceston provides the Speck’s Rhodes
scholar for 1933, for the first time since 1911.
L. R. McFntyre, of Launceston Church
Grammar School and Tas. Uni., the selected
candidate, was fareweiled by the old boys of
Ihe school at the Brisbane Hotel.
Mrs. C. E. Davies, with her young daughters
Cicely and Pat, is coming home after a long
stay in England.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
HEENZO
i&i
mm
wm
m
m
«' -
il
'
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HE.ILNZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
Sift
m
m,
■m
ess s
T T J r 1 • „ for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
Here s a wonderful money-savmg recipe tor a y g mixture coukJ b Order
children and adults and is far better han the foncent P ated B H EENZO. Add the Heenzo to
from your chemist or store a 'Z easv directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
sweetened water, acc yjmg to the easy d recUo reme dies that would cost up to £l.
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of g Thereforej it can be given with perfect
feJTto the vSiLest bLby You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats the fhest and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis and whooping
cough. ’ Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


The Fifth Estate.
BY RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE Three Estates are the Clergy, the
Nobility and the Commons: Lords
Spiritual, Lords Temporal and the
ordinary people who do all the work and
are properly despised therefor.
The Fourth Estate, a term ascribed at
first to hackney coachmen and other
irresponsible gossipers and merchants of
rumor, at last by natural extension came
to be applied to newspapers, and for the
reasons of its origin it still belongs, just
as Mercury is the god of Commerce and
of Journalism and of the lies necessary
for the survival of both.
There is a Fifth Estate, comprising all
those who are not Lords Spiritual,
Lords Temporal, politicians of the Com-
mons, nor traders, newspaper pro-
prietors, Liars for Gain —the Estate
of Good Fools. These are the kindly
people of the earth who live to do ser-
vice to others. Single-hearted men and
women, blind to the main chance ; per-
sonifications of the charity that thinketh
no evil, believeth all things, hopeth all
things, endureth all things and is not
puffed up. The Good Fools often agonise
to help the unhelpable and the unworthy.
They die poor, but beloved.
The man who made me write all this
is Arthur Calhoun. At school he was
imposed on by all the selfish, who knew
his weakness as soon as they looked at
him. By manhood and in business he
was such a dove that he called hawks
until the sky was dark with them, so that
they could only get one peck apiece.
Rapacious friends got his money, and
became such acquaintances as the Levite,
and thereafter passed by on the other
side.
To say there is no such thing as luck
is but to repeat the maunderings of the
stodgy people whose lives run never full-
current. Arthur Calhoun’s life was punc-
tuated and interrupted and restored to
movement in unforeseen ways. He sup-
ported, even when conditions were at
their worst with him, his widowed sister,
her little daughter and her old uncle by
marriage. Other people of his blood
were too comfortable to trouble about
poor relations. But, as he said, “diffi-
culties are only challenges,” and in
proportion to his responsibilities his
cheerful grin became almost permanent,
and his shoulders grew broader for the
load—unrecognised even by himself. For
the man who carries the elephant forgets
that he had to learn by first carrying
the calf.
He had had experience of home-
soldiering, first in the old “colonial”
militia, and then as a lieutenant in the
Commonwealth Defence Force. And
when the plagues of war began to rage
he got a commission in the A.I.F. and
departed—the more cheerfully because he
knew that his pay would make life easier
for his responsibilities than his small
earnings as a civilian had done.
His only success as an officer was to
be beloved in conditions that made his
cheerful grin the most desirable of things.
Late in the war he lost his leg by shell-
explosion, the same damnable agency
thoughtfully providing shock-conditions
that kept him a cot-case for long after
the Armistice.
To lose a leg early and be repatriated
early while gratitude to the wounded was
still something of an honest enthusiasm
would have been luck for Arthur Cal-
houn. But he came home late ; when
there were no more voluntary bees to
build soldiers’ homes, when the late sol-
dier’s claim had staled to rottenness and
all the mouth-fighters were weary to
death of war and the name of it.
Tom Whaley saw one day near the
Caravanserai the back of a big broad
man he seemed to have known before.
Crutches and the empty trouser-leg com-
pleted the personality for that memory
of pre-war friendship.
“Arthur!” Whaley said.
“Tom Whaley! Give us a hand, old
man!”
“Poor old Arthur! So they got you
too, did they?”
“Just a bit,” replied Calhoun, smiling
his brave grin as of old. “But I’ve only
got one boot to clean, and one of these
the slow old Government is to give
me a new dinkum leg. They’re doing
wonderful things in artificial legs, and
it’s good to know I’d never get rheu-
matics in it or grow corns on any of the
toes.”
“And how are they treating you other
ways?”
“I’ve got an invalid pension, and
they’re finding a job for me. They don’t
seem to get the right job yet. I’d like
something in a soft chair telling the
others how to do things ; but I can’t do
anything they’ve offered yet.”
“What do. they offer? Designing
stained-glass windows for cathedrals in
the Mallee?”
“No, not yet; but they’ve offered me
work as impossible to a one-legged man
as slack-wire-walking in a circus. And
I am to have a house one of these days.
‘When you are old and grey, daddy, and
I are big like you.’ ”
“When can we have a yarn, old man,
and talk about speeding up the Govern-
ment for you with some newspaper-ink?”
“Not now, Tom. I’m dot-and-carry-
one, and I mustn’t stay out after dark
or mamma would be cross.# What about
you coming out with me to the sister’s
place and drink and eat with me?”
“I wouldn’t leave you for all the
crowned faces of Europe, Arthur. Go
now?”
“Keep step with my three legs, and
you’re on.”
Cheerfully stumping on his crutches
Calhoun led the way from the Street
of Magic. They boarded a Woollahra
tram ; and in a quiet street Whaley found
the little cottage that had housed Cal-
houn’s responsibilities while he had lost
his leg so that war might end.
There were Calhoun’s sister, a slight,
graceful woman, prematurely grey and
faded by anxiety and widowhood ; and
Calhoun’s little niece, a long, thin slip
of a schoolgirl about to cast off the drab-
ness of the ugly duckling for the beauty
of the swan ; and the widow’s uncle by
marriage, a fat, overfed, dribbling old
man, breathing heavily through purple
lips. His red face was garnished with a
large nose that said its owner consumed
alcohol to keep the home fires burning
on his obscene altar.
This shameless old egoist was as in-
sistent as a hungry baby, and not more
reasonable than that. At the complex
meal of the evening, tea-dinner, his wants
were made paramount. He ate all before
him, and broke into the conversation to
ask for more, being apparently the Uncle
of the Daughter of the Horseleech.
“Y’ won’t forget me supper, Alice,”
he said while still busy with the meal
preceding it.
“No, Uncle,” said the long-suffering
niece, who had gained the questionable
honor of caring for him by the death of
a better man.
“A bit uv ’am,” said Uncle. “A bit
uv ’am an’ pickles is all I arst.”
Addressing the disgusted Whaley,
Uncle added, “I got simple tastes, mister.
Less a man has, less he wants ; more
he has, more he wants. Gimme ’nother
cup uv corfy, Al. S’pose me beer’s in?
That’s right. A bit uv ’am an’ pickles
an’ a bottle uv dinner ale’s all I arst.”
In such charming ways did Uncle
Horseleech prove his prudence, prepar-
ing his lunch while hungry and before
sitting down to breakfast.
“I’m no trouble,” he went on. “Just a
bite an’ a sup. An’ when I die all I have
goes to me neist. Not a penny to me
own people that wouldn’t take care of
me. Every penny to Ally—every
copper.”
Whaley began to think better of Uncle.
He bore patiently Uncle’s habit of inter-
rupting the conversation of friends, with
the blanks of four stirring years to be
filled in ; of breaking tediously into the
interesting tales of the soldier with the
good memory that remembered the hum-
orous side of soldiering and forgot the
ills of it. There was always the damn-
able iteration of Uncle Horseleech.
“Me relations is no good to me.
Never give me bite or sup nor come to
me when me wife died. On’y Al here
come to the rescue. ‘Come you to us,
Uncle,’ she says ; an’ so did Arthur there.
‘Come to us,’ they says, ‘an’ take the run
of y’r teeth.’ ”
Judging him by his performance at the
evening meal Whaley felt that Arthur and
his sister had been misled as to the run-
ning limits of Uncle’s teeth. In the pre-
sence of food the aforesaid teeth ran a
tireless marathon.
“When the times comes,” continued
Uncle, “I make me will in favor of Ally.
She’s been good to me, she has. Not a
’ouse will I leave to me darters, or me
sons, or me sister—not a farm. Not
any o’ me money—not a copper. All
fixed up an’ reg’lar they are—clear o’
mor’gige down in Melbourne, an’ money
in Gov’ment bonds down in Melbourne,
too; houses in Carlton an’ farms at
Poowong an’ Koo-wee-rup. An’ not a
smell of ’em will them others get; they
treated me crool. Not enough to put
under y’r thumbnail, not if their tongues
was hangin’ out.”
As a further proof of benevolent in-
tention he remarked, “If I see their
tongues hangin out I’d stick a fork in
’em.”
At that Calhoun’s sister asked the girl
to go to bed. The beauty-to-be said
good-night to her mother and to Cal-
houn and Whaley, and withdrew willingly
enough.
The old ruffian muttered to himself for
an hour as the three normal people talked,
Calhoun’s sister brightening under the
influence of the stories and the visitor.
They had almost forgotten Uncle Horse-
leech when he suddenly spoke again:
“Nine o’clock! A bit uv ’am an’ pickles
an’ a bottle uv dinner ale—all I arst.”
The cheerful talk and laughter stopped
as if turned off at the meter. Cajhoun’s
sister lost her brightness and went about
her duty. Whaley said his farewells and
left the house, Calhoun slumping after
him to the little garden growing cleanly
in the clear and quiet night.
“It’s a good contrast, isn’t it?” said
the soldier, reading Whaley’s unspoken
thought. “He’s a habit now, and common
decency would prevent us sending him
adrift. If he keeps his promise it will
put Alice out of the reach of trouble,
if my luck should take my head off next
instead of the other leg.”
“There’s no meanness in waiting for
the shoes of that dead man,” replied
Whaley. - “Your sister has earned all he
leaves, even if he were Rothschild. But
get him to make that will.”
“I couldn’t ask him outright,” said Cal-
houn. “But it’s only just to Alice that
I should give the old chap a hint.”
The last Whaley heard of Uncle Horse-
leech was his remark about “a bit uv
’am” and its accompaniments being “all
he arst,” the meekness of the words con-
tradicted by the greed of his voice and
the intimation that he would have ’am
an’ eggs for breakfast.
Whaley went back to town measuring
the sacrifice of the soldier and the sordid
servitude of the widow who provided
sustenance for the obscene egoist who
had become a habit.
Only a week later Arthur Calhoun
sought out Whaley. He stumped on his
crutches into the bar-room of the Cara-
vanserai.
“The old man died last night,” he said.
‘“His will made?”
“No, not to our knowledge. But there’s
sure to be one ; and we’re looking for it.
The relatives turned up this morning—
they’d seen his death notice in the papers.
They were cheeky to Alice and hungry
as wolves for what he left.”
“H’m. Did they attend to the funeral
arrangements?”
Calhoun flushed as though he were
taken in the commission of crime.
“No, I gave the undertaker instruc-
tions last night.”
“Charged to you?”
“Yes.”
“Find that will, Arthur, and find it
quickly.”
“I’ll do that all right,” replied Calhoun,
but uneasily and without confidence. “It
will be as right as rain.”
Whaley left town for three weeks.
When he returned he heard from a sol-
dier friend of Calhoun’s that the will had
been found, that Calhoun’s sister was
sole executor and legatee, that applica-
tion had been made for probate and that
the hungry relatives had lodged a caveat.
He did not see Calhoun, and did not
intrude on the house at Woollahra, know-
ing that Calhoun would be full of busi-
ness.
Nearly a month passed before Mer-
ritt, a solicitor friend of Calhoun’s,
stopped him in the Street of Magic one
morning.
“Calhoun’s your friend, too, isn’t he,
Whaley?” Merritt asked.
“Of course. Why?”
“He wants a friend now —more than
ever he did.”
“Well, I’m on. Where is he?”
“Long Bay gaol.”
“Good God, man! What for?”
“Remanded on a charge of forging a
will.”
“The will of that old ruffian, the uncle
by marriage, who ate them poor?”
“That’s the gentleman. He was
arrested this morning. He told me to
see you about bail.”
“Come and get the bonds fixed, and
we’ll get that genius of misfortune out
of the boob.”
They got him out; and he gave them
the ghost of the old grin.
“Don’t rag me,” said Calhoun to
Whaley. “I shouldn’t have done it, but
when I saw that crowd of scoundrels
there and knew the years of service my
sister had, given that old-man-of-the-sea
something went wrong in my head. I
fixed the will and got a Digger-mate to
type it, and I signed old Uncle Greedy’s
name and witnessed it, and my Digger
mate was the other witness.”
‘‘And did your mate give you away?”
“Not by a mile. D’y’ think mates
who’ve been over there together wouldn’t
do a bit of harmless forgery for each
other? I don’t know how they found it
was a forgery. It beats me.”
“It doesn’t beat me,” said Merritt.
“The Crown case is that he couldn’t
write, and that’s true.”
“Well, well!” said Calhoun. “Now,
what about that? The old cuss couldn’t
write! Funniest thing I’ve heard for
many a long day.”
“It’s so funny,” said Merritt, “that
you’re on remand for forgery.”
Whaley interposed with a gesture of
deprecation. “Don’t rub it in, Merritt.
We’ve got to get him out of this —by
perjury or embracery or simony or bar-
ratry or the act of God. We’ve got to
get him out of it.”
Merritt laughed. “I won’t keep either
of you in suspense,” he said. “It will
be a case of liberation under bond as a
first offender.”
“That’s it,” said Whaley. “Sympathetic
act —gallant soldier —lost a leg—shell-
shock —condition of sister after splendid
duty made him mentally irresponsible for
the time.”
“Nobody shall say I was off my head,”
said Calhoun firmly. “I did it and it was
right, and I’ll say so.”
“There’s no need to say anything,” cor-
rected Merritt. “This charge will blow
you out of the Court in laughter. D’y’
know the value of dear uncle’s estate?”
“No. Ten thousand?”
“Not ten thousand gum-leaves. It was
all in the Melbourne Savings Bank and
the total, lock, stock and barrel, is two
pounds five.”
“Cripes,” cried Calhoun, his old grin
in full working order. “If it had been
ten thousand they might have given me
five years. Haven’t I got the luck?”
The two whole men almost danced
round the one-legged optimist.
“Anybody who says I’m not lucky is
a liar,” said Captain Calhoun.
Robber-wind.
The spring wind came to my garden uninvited.
He swarmed the walls. With his airy ruthless
hands
He set the wide warm terrace of flowers dancing
As if to fairy bands.
He robbed the poppies of silk and satin petals.
He fingered buds before they were half
unrolled,
And wandered jauntily down my pathways
singing,
To pluck a marigold.
He passed the edge of the creek where the bare,
brown quinces
Are sprayed with greeny dots like a beaded
rain,
To loiter where the blossoming peach-tree ballet
Has made a rosy lane.
The spring wind came from the hilltops empty-
handed,
But took away his loot in a fragrant load.
He pushed through the weeping willow’s slender
hangings
To take the mountain road.
He has been before from the hilltops uninvited,
But not with empty hands does he come at
dusk;
He swings from his mountain road with frag-
rance brimming
From myrtle, and moss and musk.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.
Nocturne.
The full moon in the middle skies
Stands moveless with a diamond crown;
Unchanging rapture fills her eyes,
Entranced in her straight crystal gown.
She, in this moment strewn with stars,
Beholds Endymion face to face;
No life-pulse with its death-beat jars
The ring of rest that holds this place.
Only upon the level floor
Of silken silver of the lake
Her love-lax hands have dropped a score
Of her white diamonds, that shake
With the same ecstasy that keeps
Her beauty breathless on the height....
The moment neither wakes nor sleeps:
Joy’s trance is visible as light.
This island-garden outside time,
Moored like a ship on faery seas,
Hears the unceasing soundless chime
Of one bell —Peace. Its masts are trees
Shaped like the cypress. Butterflies
Asleep, wide-winged, the white flowers seem;
A lisping splash as mermaids rise
Hangs drops of silver to the dream.
But to the south the Cross is bright;
Two sentinels with pointing spears
Stand stark below it Must Delight
Wear the great talisman of tears?
Peace Peace The soundless bell rings
sweet;
The raptured, changeless smile is shed
Where, in tranced shade at her still feet,
The moon beholds, Endymion dead.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


All Industry is
Financed by Savings
The foundation of our financial system is the thrift of
individuals. It is the accumulated savings of the people
that constitute the deposits held by the Bank of New
South Wales.
For individuals who have difficulty in safely investing
their money in commercial and other ventures, the Bank
provides perfect security and regular interest payments.
The savings entrusted to the Bank'stimulate production
and develop the trade of the country.
To producers, manufacturers, traders and others the Bank
has advanced over £(>4,000,000 and in addition has in-
vested nearly £22,000,000 in Government and Municipal
Securities.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
20
two hemus^h
U/tthui' one■
CD
n
b=HY
SYDNEY cuulh MERICA
on iAe JLiMMlioui
MARIPOSA (r MONTEREY
The top-most pinnacle of ocean luxury on new swift
ships which speed in 18 days to California; distin-
guish America as the shortest route to England! Half
the world within 28 days! Scenic New Zealand—bizarre
Fiji — serene Samoa —flashing Hawaii —and miraculous
America!
Also we invite your consideration of Cahin Class accom-
modations aboard these famous ships —a revelation in
sea-going luxury at popular prices.
Itineraries arranged to any point in America or England.
NEXT
SAILING TO
AM E RICA
via ; New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
MONTEREY
from Sydney
SEPT. 20
from Melbourne
SEPT. 14
FAKES to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY.
first class, from £125/10/. cabin class, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/. cabin class, from £9l
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
FARES to ENGLAND
From Sydney
first class ( Single ) from £lOl Return : £lB5/18/.
cabin class ( Single ) from £l7/9/ . Return : £l4l/10/.
From Melbourne
first class ( Single ) from £lO2/13/. Return : £lB9/2/.
cabin class ( Single) from £79/2/. Return: £144/16/.
THESE FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
To Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji £35/0/
pago pago, Samoa.. £33/5/. 65/0/. 24/5/. 47/10/.
Honolulu, Hawaii . . . 75/0/. . . . 55/0/.
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE
rp FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Ao Single Return Single Return
suva, Fiji £39/0/
pago pago, Samoa.. £35/5/. 69/0/. 26/5/. 51/10/.
Honolulu, Hawaii . . . 79/0/. . . . 59/ 0/.
THESE FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
Interesting literature free upon request
THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
BM-3A
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . PHONE B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE 341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street
BRISBANE . . . 291 Elizabeth Street
ADELAIDE . . . .54 Currie Street
PERTH . . . . 15 William Street
The Country Doctor.
BY JACKBOOT.
No. 11.
Dr. peter bordington, m.b.
(Adel., 1923), F.R.C.S. (Eng.,
1928), considered the interest bill
on his debts. What a killer it was! Three
pounds a week!
All very well to say “Pass it on to
your patients” ; but the most patients
could do nowadays was to pay about hall
of the fees they used to pay. One was
lucky to get three guineas for a baby and
ten for an appendix in these times.
Three guineas for a baby! Occasion-
ally one got more; very often one got
nothing. There were a dozen sturdy little
toddlers about the village who were not
paid for yet. And what value he gave!
Ante-natal care: probably ten attend-
ances at the surgery, with tests, and much
advice to prevent difficulties and com-
plications, which might add to the
patient’s suffering and, incidentally, to
the size of Peter’s account. The actual
confinement was sometimes easy; too
often a source of anxiety and hard
work. Post-natal care of mother and
baby until both were assured of good
health. Then visit by the mother six
weeks after. He insisted on that to
see that all was well, and prevent the risk
of chronic troubles in a dozen years’
time.
And he gave the mother advice on
the various problems of baby welfare up
to twelve months of age. He knew this
was a bit irregular, but he’d rather look
after the kids himself than have the
mothers mistreating them and then com-
ing along to him to clean up the mess.
Only fair to the kids. If there was one
spectacle in all medical practice that
really threatened to break through his
cultivated armor of equanimity in the
face of distress it was that of the alert,
anxious eyes, the pinched facies and the
thin wailing cry of misery of the misfed
athreptic baby.
A rotten business it was to have to
stick needles into the poor infants’ flabby
skins and make the necessary life-saving
injections of saline and antitoxin. And
the helpless, miserable fear in their eyes!
They cried at the sight of you.
Later on, when they were better, they
soon forgot the tortures you had inflicted
on them. A real pleasure it was then
to watch them visibly swell as, the
deadly enteritis overcome, the fluid you
forced into them was passed on to the
dehydrated tissues ; to rub their cheeks
and see the smile dawn; to hear the
merry gurgle as one knuckled their dis-
appearing ribs.
There must be a few kids’ jobs
amongst those bad debts, thought Peter
idly. Yes, here was one. D. White, five
guineas. That had been for young
Trixie’s gastro-enteritis, an obstinate case
in the village slum quarter down by the
railway line ; a place to which he was
always chasing the health inspector, and
yet getting no results. Decent enough
little houses down there in the “native
colony,” but the people in them had not
even the rudiments of a sanitary con-
science. They and the flies lived together
in harmony. Trixie had been the first
case in the township that bad year, and
there were half a dozen more cases which
still figured prominently on the list be-
fore him.
Frank Woodhill, £l4. He had charged
Woodhill £3 3s. for three weeks’ work
in repairing the damage wrought by the
misguided enthusiasm of a mother of
seven, who, having buried two, was con-
fident that she could cure the third by
feeding him in the same way. After all,
she did have a sister who was a nurse,
and they had talked about child-feeding
quite a lot. The picture of that unhappy
brat hanging dolefully over the side
of his hospital cot, with his shrunken
limbs and perpetual grizzling whine for
his daddy and his grano, remained a
sickeningly vivid reminder in Peter s
brain of the harm that the conceit of
ignorance and the foolish cozening of
doting parents can do.
An itemised account for Woodhill.
To repairing and unspoiling one spoilt
child, £3 35.; to successful delivery
of another to be spoilt, £5 55.; to
dealing with other spoilt and refrac-
tory children for various complaints,
from tooth extraction to bronchitis
and chronic indigestion, £7 12s. 6d.
Total, £l6, from which two pounds had
been knocked off in three years. Poor
wretch, with seven kids under fourteen,
trying to scratch a living out of that
three hundred acres of barren sandhill,
he must have a pretty thin time! Hope-
lessly insolvent, of course, but doing his
best. After all, his children were his
only relaxation from the deadly mono-
tony of farm labor.
Peter’s jaw set grimly as he looked at
the next entry: J. Williamson, £l2 15s.
6d. Repairs to a broken head one early
Sunday morning. Peter had been haled
from his bed, to find his waiting-room
full of intoxicated but badly scared
laborers, while on the floor lay James
W. Blood on the chair, on the couch,
the floor; a scalp wound four inches
long, from which blood oozed in a thick
and heavy stream; James W.’s face
bluely pale, his breathing shallow. Some
hurried stabs with artery clips to stay
the bleeding ; a rapid cleansing of the
wound with eusol and iodine ; shaving
of the dirty, matted hair about the
wound ; a dozen neat sutures while two
intoxicated friends held the victim’s head
and silenced his expostulations with
oaths ; a careful examination .of eyes,
ears, reflexes and blood-pressure ; a shot
of apomorphine to cleanse the loaded
stomach —and a pious hope that the
cleansing process might not prove too
unpleasant for James and his draggled
friends.
“What happened?” he had asked.
“Must ’ave ’ad a fit, Doc.,” was the only
answer he had got. What fools to think
that Peter’s apprenticeship in city hospitals
had not taught him to recognise a bottled
head! In his mind’s eye he again watched
the draggled group depart in the moon-
light ; Bacchus exhausted in the revel
trailing his broken lute in the mire.
And there was Mrs. W., twice with
babies, and once with a broken arm, re-
ceived in a domestic quarrel. Williamson
made good money in harvest-time carry-
ing wheat. He would pour £l2 or £l3
away in a week-end, drinking and gamb-
ling ; but, pay that bill —never. And here
was the rub: whenever James was
threatened with prosecution for a debt
his first act was to get tight and go home
and beat his wife. However bad times
were, J.W. and his kind always had
money for drink and gambling, but a
forced collection of five pounds from
J.W. meant that J.W.’s wife and kids
would starve for a fortnight and receive
an added issue of cuffs and bruises to
dull the edge of their appetites. “Let
it be on the creditors’ conscience to col-
lect that bill when they make me insol-
vent,” thought Peter. Part of it was for
J.W.’s last attack of the horrors,
Peter smiled at the thought of what
he’d like to do to J.W. next time he got
the horrors. What he would do would
be to pat Mrs. W. cheerily on the arm
and tell her poor old Jim was doing
fine, even while Jim was costing him five
bob a day in petrol, time, trouble and
medicine. After all one couldn’t make
a business of the job, however much one
might desire to do so. One had to go
on carrying the other fellow’s burden,
or the other fellow’s wife’s burden, and
damn the expense. The only compensa-
tion with this sort of chap was that
emetics and purgatives were a definite
part of the treatment of alcoholism.
Here was another of the same brand.
Ted Waterson, public-house loafer,
bookies’ tout. Flashily dressed, working
when he had to, but usually able to avoid
the necessity by his sharp wits and
sleight of hand. He had got his nose
•badly smashed one night when he tried
to put too shrewd a trick over too big a
man. The sleight of hand wasn’t clever
enough for the sleight of fist, and Ted’s
nose had cost him a bit of pain and Peter
a mint of trouble before he was able to
show himself in company again.
Four guineas. A fee made small
in the hope that it would be quickly
paid. Two years ago now ; but no good
trying to summons Ted —he’d rather
spend a fortnight in the cooler and see
you lose your summons money. A dead
loss of five bob and a lot of time and
trouble.
What a galaxy of loafers and good-for-
nothings in that list of bad debtors of
his! Bad debts and bad lots.
G. Canning, ten guineas ; C. Lincoln,
eight guineas. Twelve months ago in-
fluenza had hit the district in a severe
form. The hospital had been full ot
pneumonias—complexions of yellow and
purple, grey and blue, any old color but
the normal ruddiness of rural health.
People with lungs waterlogged like full
sponges, whose breath rattled as the\
lay asleep. Days chockful of work and
anxiety ; nights spent running about with
oxygen cylinders and the hypodermic
syringe. Old Mrs. Canning must have
consumed a couple of pounds’ worth ot
oxygen and had him up every night for
a week.
o Continued on next page.)


<
◄
“The specifications say it has a 6-cylinder
valve-in-head engine of 26 h.p.—full range
of bodies all smart in appearance—available on
the easy G.M.A.C. deferred payment plan.”
. . Brown was a “Live Wire ”
“And they’re priced very low. Let’s go
and sign up. We can’t do better than this.’*
. . . Smith was a keen buyer
Model 2900—Utility Chassis
Of great strength and proved relia-
bility, this chassis takes bodies for
every type of load, allowing an
exceptionally large packing space.
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
8.T.4
EADE’S PILLS
Dispel Rheumatism
Eade’s Pills are indeed a famous remedy,
they make no extravagant claims to cure
everything, only to be what they are, namely,
a famous and marvellously successful
remedy for all Rheumatic Complaints.
Read the following letter; it is one of
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. The
sum of £5O will be paid to anyone proving
that testimonials published by Eade’s are not
unsolicited appreciations from the public.
2 Portland Terrace ,
Moons Hill, Freshwater, 1.0. W.,
October, 1932.
Dear Sir, —Thank you for the good your
pills have done me. I have been talcing
them for .Vf years, and they have com-
pletely cured me of Gout and Rheumatism. I
take one Pill, and pain leaves me like magic.
I have recommended them to all my friends,
tcho have also found relief. I would not be
without them for love or money. My wife
is now taking them for Rheumatics in her
arm.
W. KELLE WAY.
Every high-class Chemist in the Common-
wealth sells Eade's Pills, which are packed in
two sizes.
The Expert
View
Clk li.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee”
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SERVICE IN ADVERTISING
Advertising ser-
vice in “The
“Examine r,”
Launceston,
Tasmania, for
92 years.
Supplying news for NEARLY A
CENTURY is the strength of the
service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Est. 1842), the only daily
paper published in Launceston, and
the oldest newspaper in Tasmania,
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS REACH THE HOMES
IN LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors allso of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening-
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Famous for Blood and Skin Disorders
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO
ECZEMA
ULCERS
RASHES
SORES
CLARKES
BLOOD MIXTURE I
Of all Chemists and Stores
Avoid all Imitationi
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
Lincoln had refused to stay in bed. He
walked about the house and yard sigh-
ing like a Victorian maiden, his heart
weakened and stretched to the size of
a football. Peter found him at it one day
and, slipping him into hospital as his
pneumonia was developing and his pulse
was fading, bled him. He sat up a couple
of nights with the fellow; pumped
oxygen under his skin and into his lungs,
and finally pulled him through.
Peter had never actually worked out
what Lincoln cost him that time. But
there was no doubt that the care and
strain of looking after the fellow, who
had so thoroughly neglected to look after
himself, had led to Peter’s ultimate sur-
render to the influenza germ, and to the
precious holiday-money he had managed
to save being squandered in a week’s
creeping convalescence at the sea.
What was it? Four weeks and two
week-ends in six years from his seven-
day-a-week job. And he was the chap
that preached the necessity of three
weeks’ spell a year to his patients, rich
and poor. He wondered what the credi-
tors would think of that.
„ Great days, those influenza days. Days
of hard, interesting work, keen, clear
thinking, dramatic action and, unfortun-
ately, great burden-bearing. There must
be a fat sheaf of influenza debts con-
cealed in the bare statements before him.
Seven-and-six here ; ten-and-six there ; a
guinea or two somewhere else.
James Logan, seventeen pounds-odd.
Mostly on account of Mrs. L.’s confine-
ment, of course. How well he remem-
bered that night and morning. A frantic
’phone message to come at once. Haem-
orrhage—the dread word that every
obstetrician lives in horror of hearing.
Went to bed perfectly well; woke up
feeling very faint and queer. Bleeding
like mad. Come at once! A hurried cast-
ing on of outer clothes over pyjamas :
rush to the hospital to pick up matron,
instruments and other necessities ; a forty-
mile-an-hour dash over twelve miles of
back-track into the hills ; a hushed and
agitated household, gloomy with the pre-
sage of calamity ; a rapid examination.
Pulse 110, weak and thready.
“Yes, Sister, you’ll have to give her
some chlo.”
The sickly smell of chloroform. Rapid
manipulations. Must be speedy but pre-
cise ; must make every post a winner in
a case like this.
“Now, Sister, the morphia.”
Now we must get her to hospital.
A precarious business, but safely man-
aged. An unspoken prayer that the baby
won’t come for hours yet; we use the
time between to buck her up a bit. “Saline.
Sister! Intravenous, yes, of course.”
Pains coming on quietly, but she’s rallied
a lot. “More morphia, Sister.”
An anxious watch through half a day.
Get Jones for the anaesthetic, this time.
He can give ether. Safer. Logan says
don’t spare cost. All ready now.
“All right, Jonah, get on with the
ether.” “All ready, Sister.”
Ten minutes’ breathless work ; a safe
delivery, but stillborn. There'll be more
haemorrhage now. “Thank you, Sister.”
“Come on ; jump to it, Nurse.” “AH
right, finished. How is she, Jonah?”
“Might be worse.” “Elevate the foot of
the bed, Sister, and give her some more
saline.” All right n0w.... An exciting
morning, but wearing.
And afterwards the constant dread of
fever, always probable in these exsanguin-
ated mids. Nothing more blighting to
one’s peace of mind than fever in mids,
thought Peter. And all for three guineas.
Mrs. L. had been a pre-depression job,
but Logan had gambled on the price of
wheat and left the bill unpaid. He’d lost
two thousand pounds on his gamble and
dragged his creditors down with him. He
was now under the Relief Act. True, he’d
done his best, and he always paid cash
nowadays at Peter’s reduced rate for his
poor parishioners, but that £l7 was a debt
that was beginning to decay badly. These
fellows who gambled in wheat made too
much of a good thing. It was all right
if they paid their bills first and gambled
after; but there were too many who
gambled first, and didn’t pay after.
A slamming of a distant door within
the house, the patter of childish feet, and
shrill voices calling “Daddy, daddy!”
brought him out of his reverie. The wife
and children were home and tea would
soon be ready. Oh, well, they still had
their three meals a day. Perhaps if the
family cut out a couple of them, the
creditors might be satisfied. There was
nothing else left to cut out —holidays,
clothes, car-use, recreation and enter-
tainment, all down to the minimum com-
patible with self-respect and the mainten-
ance of health and sanity. Nothing left
but to go on keeping faith, and hoping—
if only those damn creditors would do
the same.
Meanwhile, let him go and tell the
kids a story.
With a long yawn Peter shook off his
load of care and, rising, passed slowly
from the room.
"Gentlemen, the Press!"
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
YOUNG Mr. Jeremy Harpies was a
bright lad. He was well aware of
the fact, and dressed to look the
part.
He wore a top-hat, a bright blue
broadcloth tailcoat with shiny large brass
buttons, a red satin cravat, a waistcoat
embroidered with a neat design in crossed
spurs and riding-crop, tight and emphati-
cally checked pantaloons strapped be-
neath the insteps of his highly-varnished
boots, and a downy fringe of reddish
hair below the chin. A single tortoise-
shell eyeglass depended from his thin
neck by a black ribbon of watered silk,
and he flattered himself that with this
adornment stuck in his quizzical eye he
was elegance, up-to-date smartness, liter-
ary culture and sparkling wit personified.
Young Mr. Harpies worked for that
newly-launched journalistic venture of
Messrs. Stephens, Stokes and McGarvie,
the Sydney “Herald.” He was the
“young man about town” of that enter-
prising publication, and had a style of
his own that was nearly a hundred years
before its time. He it was who wrote the
report which gives occasion for this
story:
Elizabeth Hannah Guy, a showy dame,
assigned to Mrs. Bunker, was charged with
intermarrying without the consent of the Gov-
ernment to her Sydney husband, her London
one being yet alive. It appeared pretty clear
she had not obtained the consent of the
Governor, as the indents, which are always
referred to in such cases, contained her state-
ment that she was a married woman at the
time of her arriving in the Colony.
There was a lot more of it. in a strain
which Mr. Harpies thought very divert-
ing. It closed with the statement that
the Bench had remanded her to ascer-
tain the facts of her matrimonial
manoeuvres.
“Damme,” said Mr. Harpies to his
friend Robert Jimson, who represented
the horse-power that worked the Colum-
bian handpress on which the “Herald”
was printed, “i’ll follow this up and find
out all there is to be known of Elizabeth
and her matrimonial ventures. First of
all, I’ll go and interview Mrs. Bunker.
Who’s she, d’ye know, and where does
she hang out?”
“She’m th’ viddy o’ Cap’n Ebor
Bunker, Mr. Harpies, zur —a right lusty
woman she be, an’ ye’ll find her a-livin’
in King-street. A purty cottage it be,
wi’ a garden o’ roses in th’ front of it,
and just alongside Tim Dooley’s public
—the Black Swan —at th’ corner o’
Castlereagh-street. But I’d go careful wi’
that ’un, Mr. Harpies—she be a forth-
right woman, zo she be.”
With a brisk air, Mr. Harpies betook
himself to the King-street cottage, and
jauntily asked for “the lady of the
house.”
The door had been opened to him by
Elizabeth Guy herself, who seemed to
regard the young gentleman with suspi-
cion, though it was obvious enough to
Mr. Harpies that she did not recognise
him. That the Bench of magistrates must
have admitted her to some sort of bail
was the probable explanation of her pres-
ence in Mrs. Bunker’s house. She was
a brawny and well-set-up female, who
looked as if she might be formidable in
taking her own part. It would be good
policy, he considered, to dissemble a
little, and not to announce himself as
the emissary of the “Herald.”
“And what may your business be?”
she asked ungraciously.
Mr. Harpies reflected that his descrip-
tion of her as “a showy dame” had not
been altogether unapt. She was a good-
looking woman of forty, with a piled
mass of red hair that looked as if its
dressing occupied a considerable amount
of her attention.
“I desire to see Mrs. Bunker,” he re-
plied conciliatingly, “if she should hap-
pen to be at home.”
“She is, then,” the woman replied, a
little roughly. “Come inside. Who’ll I
tell her?”
(Continued on next page.)


CORN PAIN
STDPS INSTANTLY
• Remove
painful corns
with Blue-Jay,
the scientific corn
remover. Invented by a fa-
mous chemist and used by
millions for over 35 years.
• Blue-Jay is applied quick-
ly—pain stops at once. Corn
is gone in three days.
• Don’t take chances with
harsh methods —or with
cutting. Play safe . . . use
Blue-Jay.
How it works: A is the B&B
medication that gently under-
mines the corn. B is the felt pad
that relieves the pressure, stops
pain at once. C is the
adhesive strip that holds
h
At all
chemists
the pad in
place, pre-
vents slip-
ping.
Special sizes for bunions
and calluses
ĥ
h
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54/. Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Fa
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
__ C Tor
COUGHS
The Scoop That Scoops the P ool!
ts 1 \ o
ilsssggaEan
□
The “STANDARD” Automatic
Built, and Well Built, for Sinking Dams, Sand Scooping, Levelling, etc.
Sizes, 14, 17 and 20 cubic feet.
One man only Drives the Team and Handles the Scoop.
Ito. a wooi-pres3
DONALD S WOOL PRESSES
Recognised all over the world
for their Superiority.
ORDER NOW from—
PUMPS AND IRRIGATION PLANTS
Centrifugal, Bulldozer and Hand Pumps,
Windmills, Pump Cylinders, Automatic
Water Systems, Piping, etc.
D
DO
A
DONALD’S WIRE STRAINER
Quick and Handy. Combines a complete
Fence Repair Outfit in one article.
Headquarters
- House ~
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
ĥ
N-Q-Branch
ST DPT ST
TOWNSVIIIt
fNfiNFfRINf) Supply ALSTRAIiA H
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE
Sunday Mail
BRISBANE
Queensland’s Greatest
Sunday Newspaper.
It ia the ideal Queensland medium for those
advertising campaigns which are planned to
concentrate on the metropolitan area of Bris-
bane and the adjacent country districts.
The “Sunday Mail” is a journal of character
and distinction and offers the advantage of a
leisure reading public.
Advertisers are unstinting in their praise of
the “Sunday Mail,” which
never fails to produce gratify-
ing results. Rates and other
particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 81522.
liBwHCAfl; c*
a
LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C.
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
❖
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader —classified or display ad-
vertising—is in
Che Brisbane Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Newspaper House,
Collins St., Melbourne. F 3906.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
“A gentleman on public business,” re-
sponded the young man with his best
air of importance.
“You’re not one o’ those d d con-
stables, are ye?” asked the woman, glar-
ing at him.
“No, indeed!” answered Mr. Harpies, a
little put out at being taken for a police-
man. Surely his appearance didn’t war-
rant that!
“I might have known as much,” she
said contemptuously. “Inquisitive devils,
they are ; but they look like men, and
not whipper-snappers. What did you say
your name was?”
Mr. Harpies presented her with a large
square of gilt-edged pasteboard on which
his name was printed in bold black type,
such as was used for the crossheads of
the “Herald.” Without glancing at it —
probably, he thought, because she could
not read —she took it to an inner room.
Presently emerging, she showed him into
a darkened parlor at the front of the
house.
“Th’ missus will be here in a minute,”
she flung at him as she retired.
“Demme,” remarked Mr. Harpies to
himself, “she don’t seem to take much
stock in me, at any rate!”
Presently a stout, florid and black-
ringleted lady in voluminous skirts sailed
into the room and made a little curtsey.
Mr. Harpies, always the young gentle-
man, rose and bowed, effectively releas-
ing his eyeglass as he did so, and allow-
ing it to dangle carelessly betwixt his
bosom and his slightly “pot” belly on the
front of the ornate and sportive waist-
coat. . „
“May I inquire your business, sir?’
asked the lady as she deposited herself
on a horsehair sofa beneath the window
with her back to the light.
“I —ah —represent the Sydney ‘Herald,’
ma’am,” announced Mr. Harpies, a little
pompously, “and I have called to make
some inquiries concerning a woman in
your employ, of the name of Elizabeth
Guy, who has recently been called upon
in the police court to answer to a charge
of bigamy. Naturally, as the custodian
of public morality, our paper is inter-
ested in the case, and any information
you can give me will be of great value
to our”
He was interrupted by a scream from
the lady.
“’Liza Hannah! ’Liza Hannah!” she
cried loudly. “Come quick an’ bring your
whip. Here’s the blackguard who wrote
that muck in the ‘Herald.’ Hurry up —•
now’s your time!”
A shout from the back of the house —
a savage shout of direful threat, Mr.
Harpies recognised it to be —and then the
shuffling thud of running feet in loose
slippers urged the young man to swift
action. Just as the doorway was dark-
ened by ’Liza Hannah’s ample figure, he
acted swiftly. With a leap of despera-
tion, he sprang upon the sofa beside Mrs.
Kunker and immediately dived through
the open window, landing on the front
verandah of the cottage upon hands and
knees.
Gathering himself together, he ran
down the short pathway, jumped the
gate in the little white wicket fence, and
sped down King-street without once look-
ing behind. Had he done so he might
have had a glimpse of a largely-built and
angry woman who shouted objurgations
after him and flourished a horsewhip.
But he did not slacken his pace until he
had turned into George-street.
At the office in Redman’s Court he was
met at the door by Mr. McGarvie, who
hailed him with enthusiasm.
“Ah, Mr. Harpies,” cried the junior
partner with an air of being relieved of
some anxiety, “I’m glad you’ve returned.
There is a dinner to-night at Poulteney’s
Hotel, given by the respectable inhabi-
tants of Sydney to the officers of the
63rd Regiment, which I was to have
attended as representative of the
‘Herald.’ I find, however, that I shall
be unable to be present, and will be
obliged if you will relieve me of the
duty. You will find it, I’ve no doubt, an
entertaining function, and we will want
your ‘copy’ by midnight, so be careful
as to refreshments. Mr. Stokes has the
ticket of invitation. Be bright and witty,
Mr. Harpies; but remember that you
will be in the company of personages and
not in the police court. I hope you will
enjoy yourself.”
“The d d ninny,” muttered Mr.
Harpies as he entered the printing-house.
“Does he suppose I don’t know what is
due to the gentry! I’ll show them how
this job should be done.”
The dinner was one of those decorous
and solemn gorges in which our fore-
fathers took dignified delight, and at
which the functions of the toastmaster
■ enjoyed transcendent importance. After
a tremendous and over-abundant quan-
tity of heavy and rich food had been
consumed, and much wine drunk, that
impressive personage called upon the
chairman to propose the health of “The
King.”
When “The Colonel of the 63rd,” “The
Governor,” “The Chairman,” “The Citi-
zens of Sydney,” “The Ladies,” “His
Majesty’s Forces” and a number of other
healths had been toasted and responded
to, the toastmaster called upon someone
to propose “The Press,” and, that having
been done, requested Mr. Harpies—Mr.
Robert Howe, of the “Sydney Gazette,”
being unavoidably absent —to respond on
behalf of the Fourth Estate.
So Mr. Harpies, much flattered by the
applause which greeted mention of “the
enterprising organ of publicity and
patriotism” he represented, and conscious
that his evening-dress was eminently cor-
rect and becoming, adjusted his eyeglass
and rose in his place, well aware that he
did fine credit to the profession of letters
in New South Wales.
“Mr. Chairman and gentleman,” he
began, “unaccustomed as I am to public
speaking, I deem it a very great honor
to be called upon to respond to the toast
of ‘The Gentlemen of the Press.’ I am
all unworthy”
There was a yell in the doorway lead-
ing to the kitchen, which was immedi-
ately behind Mr. Harpies’s place at one
of the long tables.
“Ye fool, so ye are!” screamed
a woman’s voice. “I’ll learn ye worthi-
ness. I’ll teach ye to poke fun at pore
unfort’nates! Take that, d n ye!”
The officers of the 63rd and the “re-
spectable inhabitants of Sydney'’ had a
vision of an infuriated and stalwart red-
headed female with rolled-up sleeves and
wearing the apron of a kitchen-maid,
who suddenly intruded her presence
upon the company, carrying an immense
saucepan in her hands. With a cry of
vindictive triumph, she brought it down
over the orator’s head, deluging his im-
maculate person with dirty water.
Then she hurled a curse at the com-
pany.
“Gentlemen o’ th’ Press! ” she shouted.
“There ain’t none! Take a look at y r
little gentleman now!”
The files of the Sydney “Herald” may
be searched in vain for an account of
that dinner to the officers of the 63rd
Regiment. It seems to have been over-
looked.
Two Grey Butcher-birds.
Dawn upon the hilltops, the roseate lights
return,
Painting in the sunshine, painting out the
grey;
And, like a fairy bugle winding through the
fern, , . , ,
Two grey butcher-birds whistle in the day:
Whistle up the sunfire, whistle down the stars;
Through the sighing eucalypts the silver chal-
lenge soars;
Down the bends o’ the river, in broken staves
and bars, ,
Two grey butcher-birds, the bushland s
troubadours.
Noon upon the hilltops, shimmering into haze,
Shrilly of cicadas as the hours wheel round,
While two sweet clarions of the summer days
Cut the summer silence with a sword of
silver sound.
Thick with goblin gold-dust, down the ferny
glen,
Sunset gathers up the saffron light,
While two grey butcher-birds call and call
again,
Singing up the star-shine, whistling down
the night.
All day long, in the sleepy yellow noonlight,
All day long again across the green divide,
Answer, call and echo, till the mopokes bring
the moonlight,
Two grey singers on the grey hillside.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


11l
W-
I
:
■
iiiiiHiliiii
SfpKi!
.
m
iili
n « Hi J
'M ■ ;
KirjalS
■H
4r
Ir' ■ ’
iiip i
ii 11l i I
pppppa
liHlnlli;
■Uiiil!,,-
slffiliiliSn!
lips
ICinl 6 " ’
O'SMIM
; ii!
111
hilpls'lp
■ I
llllili
0 «minis m**« > ,1
llllil
iiiili
(TfCaJLLuum's
II
Scots CCJhisky
ffc«NnußG>i (loaded »*o/) ionS*'*
m
•: \!r :
• ' :
BSB
m
m
[ - : ':. ‘ •
m
mm
m
a
1111111
■
iSSfI
: •:
h m
wuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiw
T:
lgasg|lggfipil
SMSSKI
ilffllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
ii-:-..!-!., ga
.
ittpsaiagisi
■
ms bs
: ■ I
V : , K; ;
ill
'i- . 1
■ ' ' ■■ '■ ■
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Ilip§i
m
■" r., ' m) V' I' 1
Slit
v-Mt
a
■
d
•liii,; -
f
:r,;n
C*
S
fr: I
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
Australian Fiction:
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6; THE SOW’S EAR, by
Bernard Cronin, 6/-; BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin,
6/-; STORIES BY KODAK, 5/-; “SATURDEE,” by Norman
Lindsay, 6/-; JONAH, by Louis Stone, 6/-; IN PURSUIT OF
PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer, 6/-.
Australian Gift Books and General Literature:
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. Paterson, 2/6;
IN THE WAKE OF THE “BOUNTY,” by Charles Chauvel, 6/-;
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt, 5/-;
CONTRACT BRIDGE, by Ena Burrows, 2/-; A MESSAGE
FROM BAWRA, by Harold Sims, 1/-.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
o*. -
V'.
o
IS
V" O c°:V^
&^s\*££*?s
v<
$
<>*
&w. a®’
r* 0 K >'
v? y
<$
p*
9
0
9
0°
»v
0
S e <$ e
v
o" 6
*»*
£<P\<
W
v '■,
<>>;&• ’
#•’


He touches “LIVE WIRES”
but Rubber keeps him Safe!
Just as the
Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulators save the life
of the Willard Battery!
INSULATION! . . that’s the job of the Willard Patented
Threaded Rubber Insulator. It must separate each positive plate
of the battery from the negative. The better it does this, the
longer the battery lives! That’s why Willard uses rubber as
insulation!
This Patented Threaded Rubber Insulator has an insulating value
higher than any other used! Willard Insulators actually outlive
the plates! Thoroughly porous, they allow the electrolyte to
circulate freely at all times —which means that maximum battery
performance is obtained. 4,
A Willard Thread Rubber Battery will give you real economy —*
longer battery life and no reinsulation expense! You’ll get easier
and quicker starts, under all conditions —and more of them!
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator has established new ideas of
battery value—battery performance—and battery life! Ask your
dealer about the Willard Thread Rubber Battery!
:
mm
*This Illustration Explains
the Porosity of the Willard
Thread Rubber Insulator .
Porosity simply means the ability of the separa-
tor, or insulator, to permit proper circulation of
the battery solution between the positive and
negative plates. The illustration above shows
clearly the tiny threads, or wicks, which carry
the acid through. There are 5,000 of these wicks
to the square inch in the Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulator. This means easier and quicker
starting for you under all conditions! Practically
85% of all battery ills can be attributed to the
premature failure of conventional insulators.
Buy a Willard Thread Rubber Battery.
Motor Supplies Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.
