

11l
k '■
\m-&
m
r
i
tftJK
V
w
wk
%
S':
IS
I
j
M
*
m
mm
m
m
SC-'' . s’lii’il. I 1
IlliiSfe
iipsP^Tlißii
e
ow to minimise that main
n. cause of tyre destruction the
terrific heat generated by road frio*
tion —is a problem at last mastered
in the new design Barnet Glass Tyre.
.. . Heat is reduced by a new scien-
tific balance between the stretch of
rubber and cords.. .. Heat is dissi-
pated by the fan-blade action of the
buttressed side walls. These stout
buttresses also provide an effective
armour for the casing, protecting it
against curb cutting and abrasion
and preventing distortion. ... The
new Caterpillar Traction Tread
maintains pos : road grip at all
angles, ensures direct driving without
slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking.
U 3
c sJ
HEAT-
TING
Standard High-Grade
MOTOR TYRE
r
CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
ARMOURED WALL
Barnet Glass Tyres
%
forfric/i
M 14.48.32
urance
The Bulletin
sj\£jCAxJl yH&fcidLoA* <
Vol. 54.—N0. 2774.
Wednesday, April 12, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


gEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
‘storu Writing
Hjlnl VI > -at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
. SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Fame
My Address
8.8. 333
Iff
IN A
(MRCOMTUXIi
6j using
CUTICURA
regularly
Cleanse your face thoroughly every
night with hot water and Cuticura
Soap, using plenty of Soap. Rinse
with tepid water and finally with
cold. When the skin is irritated,
gently smear with Cuticura Oint-
ment. In five minutes bathe as
directed above.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE ”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUMIQ WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 lIUNTEB STREET.
IT.
m
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)—
an industrial company,
doing business w T ith work-
ing people—had an im-
portant message for those
people. How should they
make it known? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the homes
you visit?” The reply was
unanimous—
Thf
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative
Robt. D, Fisher—Bsoo7,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander," 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Heading-room at the offices,
414-17. Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the .telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
hat a market-
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land . Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so with
you y
m
M
■
msm
mm
{■ ' WM
A
TEIECBKAEU
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Objectivity
It has often been said that almost any-
body can be interesting about something.
The only requirements are experience and
sincerity. Boswell wrote the best biography
in- the English language with hardly any
other qualifications. There are absorbing
books waiting to be written on countless
themes which no one has thought of
handling. What does life on the dole in
Australia mean to a formerly successful
barrister or doctor? If such a man could,
set down the unadulterated truth about
his day-by-day experiences and inmost
thoughts, he might produce a masterpiece.
Imagine a detailed history of a year in the
life of a politician, however obscure, or of
a hotelkeeper, a tramguard, a barmaid, or
a Judge, related with .the frankness which
Pepys employed in his Diary! It ought to
sell better than a novel of genius. The
three books which have been chosen for
review this week don’t reveal the secret
places of their authors’ hearts to any great
extent, and only the first has claims to
literary distinction. Also the subjects are
familiar. However, the writers, by standing
off and viewing them from the outside in
a certain spirit of independence, have been
able to cast new lights on them. Works
like these in which, perhaps, only part of
the truth as it appears to the writers is told
are the next best things in their line to
those rare works in which we get the whole
truth.
An English Untouchable
Roger Dataller, author of A Pitman Looks
at Oxford (Dent; 5s.), is a Yorkshire miner
who won a scholarship at an unnamed
Oxford college in 1928, and went up in
October. There is nothing exciting or
strange about Oxford as it appears to the
typical freshman from an English public
school; the voices, conventions, jokes, pas-
times, even the college buildings and quads,
resemble those he has been familiar with
since boyhood. An Australian miner would
soon feel at home in an Australian univer-
sity. This English miner, it is evident, was
never able to take Oxford for granted, to
settle down and wear her comfortably and
uncritically, so to speak, like a favorite
suit. The class barriers were too numerous
and high. It is the very fact that he
always speaks as an outsider, coupled with
his quick eyes and ears and unusual powers
of expression, that makes his little book so
enlightening. Unlike the average young
Oxonian, he is able to see the absurdities
of Oxford and to jeer at them, having no
middle or upper-middle class tabus. A
couple of undergrads meet near him in
New College Lane. One emits a conversa-
tional sound: “Wha gha?” (“Where are
you going?”) It is the miner’s first intro-
duction to the Oxford accent. A friend
(described as “a lower working-class
student”) talks of his first appearance in
his College Common Room.
“There was a crowd chatting around the
fire. They gave me a full stare on entering,
and kept on staring. I took no notice,
picked up a journal and took a seat. I
coughed—without intention. They all
clapped at that. First and last nobody
spoke.”
He agrees with the others about the
poisonous hauteur of the baser kind of ex-
public school boy (Old Etonians are
identified as the most caddish), but he
also has some salutary jeers for the hearty,
hefty bogus democrats of the Labor Club.
(“There is an air of the Trade Union
arriviste about so many—a type with which
one becomes familiar in Trade Union
organisation.”) Being the type of young
man he obviously is—earnest, industrious
and the possessor of an exceptional mind—
he meets nil kinds of interesting people:
Humbert Wolfe, Dean Inge (his pen-picture
of the Dean is the most life-like that this
critic has come across), Gilbert Murray
and his wife, G. D. H. Cole and many
more. Then he finishes his thesis, goes
down, goes back to his village. A friend
meets him in the ’bus, and grins: “How
do? Home again, lad?” “Yes.” “For
good?” “Ave.” Oxford seems to give such
men, whether they are white Britons or
colored Africans or Indians, too much and
too little. It sharpens their class enmities
as well as their wits. But the very fact
that they are excluded, wholly or in part,
from the normal social life of the univer-
sity enables them to see it in the round as
the others can never hope to. In this
book Oxford isn’t sentimentalised about, it
is judged.
A Tory
Revolutionary
Norman Tiptaft,
The Man Who
Went on Business
(Tiptaft; 55.), is
a Bir ming ha m
manufacturer. He has no politics, in the
party sense, but he is a strong nationalist.
Mr. Dataller’s political principles would
seem insane to him—he believes in Empire
unity—but on many political questions they
.see eye to eye. Here is a paragraph—one
of many—which epitomises the resemblances
and differences between their philosophies:
The fact is we have a certain section in
India, drawn from the idle-rich county family
class, pitchforked into various jobs, and they
are not as much good to the Old Country as
remittance men. They are utterly useless
parasites. If the Government had guts, it
would sack any man abroad —particularly
these days—who didn’t move heaven and
earth to see that business came to the Old
Country.
He is able to write like that because his
vision is not clouded by the class senti-
mentalities and reverences which English-
men absorb at public schools. Most of the
friends he makes on his trip round the
world in search of orders belong to his
financial class, and they also are scornful
of the cant of Jingoism. Like to like. Some
of them refer to Parliaments and Parlia-
mentarians in much the same terms as the
members of an Australian socialisation
group. The managing director of a big
Madras firm says “lunatics in Parliament
are telling us. that India must ‘work out its
own destiny’ in order that a gang of
Oriental capitalists may get away with large
profits while British Trade Unionists starve”
and prophesies the outcome “unless Englan'd
gets rid of the political method of dealing
with economic problems.” Mr. Tiptaft may
be right, or he may be wrong, but he has
written a remarkable book because he has
recorded what he believes to be the truth
about the Empire regardless of the hostility
he is certain to arouse in the city, in West-
End clubs and in other influential quarters.
Not one English factory-owner in a thou-
sand would have had the moral courage
to do it.
The Sport of Fools
In Raymond Spargo’s Betting Systems
Analysed (Research Publicity Co.; 3s. 6d.)
our most popular national pastime is de-
bunked by a lifelong follower of racing.
Every gambling system—pin-stabbing sys-
tems, of course, excepted—is based on the
common martingale principle. “Doubling-
up,” “halving,” and all the other forms of
progressive betting are variants on a device
which was known to the Egyptians of Cleo-
patra’s day, and probably much earlier, and
which has been letting punters down ever
since. While deriding all systems Mr.
Spargo plainly likes the Good Horse Mar-
tingale best, meaning by “good” a horse
which is good in its class. He takes the
honest Victorian Yappoo as an example,
and shows that, with a £5 martingale, it
would have returned a profit of £6 5s. in a
given eight weeks. But strange things
happen to much more reliable horses than
Yappoo.
There are several reasons why no martin-
gale is followed repeatedly to the bitter
end; the chief being lack of nerve on the
part of the punter when faced with the
necessity of putting a doubled re-
doubled stake on an outsider. Most Aus-
tralian racegoers use their pet systems for
laying imaginary wagers at home, and for
practical purposes follow newspaper tips.
This method is also fatal in the end, but
it gives the punter a longer run for his
money. Mr. Spargo analyses the tips of
Melbourne’s five biggest papers over a year:
Number of Races, 11G3.
Number Wins—
A B C D E
363 297 348 327 354
Average Odds—
A B CD E
2.7 to 1 3.35 to 1 2.8 to 1 3 to 1 2.8 to 1
So the punter would have risked £1163
and collected under £1000. This admirably
detached exposure of the Ring’s inhumanity
to man has as an appendix a short treatise
on the Australian betting laws by G. L.
Mayman, barrister-at-law, Melbourne.
RED PAGE.
Australian Movie Plots
John Long and Co. published a novel
of mine in 1927 called “No Armor.” It
had previously appeared as a serial in the
Sydney “Evening News” under the editor-
ship of Mr. E. G. Knox. It was listed as
a best-seller in England for a week or so,
and it ran into a second edition there in
about a month. The Australian edition
didn’t go so well, but it sold out fairly
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTlSlNG”—expresses Anthony Horderns' belief in sound trading methods.
Super Values in
Best Quality
Australian
“THE SENIOR STORE
With the approach of the cold weather one
naturally looks for warmth and comfort.
Anthony Horderns’ are featuring these special
lines from the blanket section, which should
interest every thrifty buyer.
Enticing Values that prompt
immediate buying for Winter.
Fashion your
WINTER FROCKS
NOW—
and take advantage
of these low prices.
Light Donegal Tweed
Donegal Tweeds
with assorted flecks.
In a 1i g h tweight
7.i
quality. Suitable for ladies'
skirts and frocks. 54in. wide.
Price, yard 7/11
Boucle Mat Coating
Boucle Mat Coat-
ings. Soft and warm
material for ladies’
911
coats. In Navy, Nigger, Wine,
Beaver, Lido, Fawn, Burgundy
and Bottle. 54in. wide.
Price, yard 9/11
Wool Crepe de Chine
All-wool Crepe d e
Chine. Fine soft grain
in Silver, Claret, Grey,
Bottle, Mustard, Jungle
7 7 ii
Gold, Love-apple Red, Royal, Navy,
Parma Violet, Nigger, Beige, Bur-
gundy, Cardinal and Almond. 54in.
wide. Price, yard 7/11
(Dress Materials—Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Freight -paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W. )
vgMßßßnaßmssiaHßaHHjKara
'VI»
When at the Show-
Be sure to visit Anthony Horderns’
Pavilion, which contains many inter-
esting exhibits of goods made in our
own factories as well as a wonderful
show of other merchandise for
which Anthony Horderns’ name is
famous.
Country Visitors are invited
to make full use of Anthony
Horderns’
COUNTRY CLUB
on the second floor, George Street.
It has been created particularly for
your comfort and convenience, and
a warm welcome awaits you. There
are no fees—simply sign the mem-
bership card.
. ••
am
t ■;
m I Mm ■
| Igil '
BLANKETS
/K)W
\ USE THE "D.P.S.'J
• Soft fleecy quality
• Good long service
• In plain white only
• Keenest of prices
USE THE “D.P.S ”
• If it is inconvenient to pay cash, use the
“D.P.S.” First select the goods you require,
leave a deposit on them, and pay oft' the
balance in instalments, and the purchase is yours.
You pay no interest at all, nor any increase in
price for the accommodation, but on the con-
trary you have always the advantage of Anthony
Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices.”
Sizes, in. 54x72 54x78 63*81 72*90
Single Bed, Single Bed, %Bed, D'ble Bed,
81*99
L’ge.D’bl
Prices
Pair
I4'n Isn 1%23u 29u
Buy now —
and benefit by
KEEN PRICES
I—All-Wool “Hordura”
Ih White Only
All-wool .White Australian “Hor-
dura’’ Blankets. Blue or Pink head-
ings. Guaranteed full standard
weights and sizes.
Sizes, inches
54 x 72 54 x7B 63 xBl
Single Bed. Single Bed. x B e d.
Pair 17/11 19/11 25/6
72 x 90 81 x 99
Double Bed. Large Double.
Pair 32/6 39/6
2—All-Wool Tasmanian
Silver and Dark Grey
All-wool Tasmanian Blankets, in
Silver and Dark Grey. Full standard
sizes and weights.
Sizes, inches—
-54 x 72 54 x 78 63 x 81
Single Red. Single Bed. f Bed.
( Manchester—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.)
f. ill I-WOO I
gmmfM
\T\\
PAIR
PAIR
&^r
2. All-wool 4?
A
K
m
<#'
'mm?-.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
"Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.


\
IS
BUILT WITH
CORD
Extra elastic, durable Supertwist
Cord gives greater mileage to
all Goodyear Tyres.
IT wouldn’t mean much if we were to claim that Goodyear Tyres are the best
tyres in the world. Fortunately, we need not say that. The public says it
for us. Says it in good hard coin-of-the-realm. More people BUY Goodyear Tyres —
IN AUSTRALIA, AS THE WORLD OVER, MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR
TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE. Goodyear Tyres are elected to first place
by the public . . . the public knows—it USES tyres, all kinds. Naturally, you want
YOUR money to buy the All right, then, ask this question:
“Why buy any SECOND-CHOICE tyre when the FIRST-CHOICE costs no more?”
C6H-31


4
&I.'
Winter Outfit
4
@8
6
*
A Complete Winter Outfit for 87/6
Tl/lURDOCH’S motto of “pay less and dress better” was never
more strikingly evident than in this amazing bargain. Read
the list below and see for yourself the wonder value for such a
surprisingly small outlay icr a complete outfit for men.
One Grey Tweed Sac SUIT.
One Fur Felt HAT.
Two Fashion SHIRTS.
Two pairs SOCKS.
Two Fleecy U’SHIRTS.
Two Fleecy U’PANTS.
One TIE.
Two Cambric H’D’K’CHIEFS.
One pair BOOTS or SHOES.
One pair BRACES or BELT.
Packed in Strong Fibre Qpj //»
SUITCASE, ALL FOR 01/O
We Pay
Freight
sjl^Sytdme^
lunnou
Kindly Write
to Desk “R.”
soon. So one may assume that it interested
a good many people. The plot is almost
identical with that of “Cynara,” now run-
ning as a play and talkie in Australia. Some
points of resemblance: —
“NO ARMOR.”
The devoted wife of the
faithful, serious hero,
Robert (a successful
business man), goes
abroad alone with great
reluctance because she
has promised to visit
their daughter.
Robert is inveigled by
a mischievous friend into
meeting Betty, a dancer.
He tries to drop her
afterwards, but fails.
Robert and Betty begin
a liaison.
Robert’s wife decides to
return, and he tells Betty
that they must part.
Betty is killed, after vir-
tually making an end of
her life by taking to
drugs.
Robert’s wife is at first
bewildered by the change
in his manner; then she
understands, but doesn’t
upbraid him; and when
the crash comes she
stands by him.
“CYNARA.”
The devoted wife of the
faithful, serious hero,
Jim (a successful pro-
fessional man), goes
abroad reluctantly in
the interests of a sister.
Jim is inveigled by pre-
cisely the same kind of
friend —a good-natured,
raffish cynic—into meet-
ing Doris, a shop-girl.
He tries to drop her, but
fails.
Jim and Doris begin a
liaison. Doris, like Betty,
is the pursuer. Phyllis
Barry, the former Sydney
dancer, who plays Doris
in the film, is a replica
as regards appearance
of the B,etty of “No
Armor.”
Things happen more
quickly when Jim’s wife
decides to return ; she is
only a few hours away.
Doris reacts to the news
on the same lines as
Betty; they are both
neurotics.
Doris kills herself.
Jim’s wife is bewildered
at first (like Robert’s
wife, she isn’t the type
to have heard anything
from gossip) ; then she is
understanding, and fin-
ally she decides to stand
by him.
There are some minor points of difference.
Robert is a Sydneyite, Jim is a Londoner.
Robert is older than Jim, but not much;
Jim is old enough to be an eminent bar-
rister and the guest of honor at an import-
ant public function in London—say 40, or
over. Robert suffers from jealousy after
the break, Jim hasn’t time to; he would
have renewed the affair, or suffered as
Robert did, if Doris had lived, being no
more a casual philanderer than Robert.
Jim and his cool, sensible wife leave to
start a new life in Africa—a weak arrange-
ment. The scandal would do them more
harm in an overseas community than in
tolerant London. In “No Armor” the cool,
sensible wife tells Robert that they must
face it out together at home. The weakest
feature of “Cynara” (the talkie, I haven’t
seen the play) is the device by which Jim
and Doris are brought together after he has
resolved to put her out of his life. • She
pretends to sprain her ankle at a baths,
and he—the guest of honor at the opening
of the place!—picks her up in her swim-
ming costume and walks off with her, and
is subsequently shown carrying her up-
stairs to her room. Such things don’t
happen in London, though, if Hollywood
is to be believed, they do in the U.S.A. In
“No Armor” the mischievous friend traps
Robert into meeting Betty at a flat, a
much more plausible development.
The significant aspect is this. The plot
of “Cynara” has been singled out for
praise by New York “Life,” and by the
“Sunday Times” and other important
London papers. I entered “No Armor”
for a local film-plot competition (urged on
by a well-meaning but misguided friend),
and it wasn’t placed, or even mentioned.
A local producer, who said he was after
an effective film-plot with an Australian
setting, returned it post-haste, and without
comment. Yet, judging by the resounding
success of “Cynara,” an intelligently-pro-
duced version of “No Armor” would have
made money, not only here but overseas.
No doubt there are dozens of other Aus-
tralian plots much more human and inter-
esting than that of “No Armor” mouldering
in their authors’ desks, and with as little
prospect of being used in Australia. The
explanation seems to be that our film mag-
nates, and their advisers, have a deep
distrust of any Australian subject or en-
vironment which hasn’t been well and truly
tried out on the local stage—city plots
about larrikins, country plots about comic
settlers, and so on. They simply can’t see
things happening in Australia which are
happening every day in other parts of the
globe, though human nature, needless to
say, is the same here as elsewhere: In
short, the intellectuals of our entertain-
ment world suffer from a restricted and
conservative, not to say provincial, outlook,
and I submit that iftitil it is got rid of
Australia won’t begin to produce talkies
with more than a freak appeal to the audi-
ences of other countries.
JOHN DALLEY.
Thoughts on Literature in Australia
The Censorship
“Chief, there’s a book of verse here by
an Oscar somebody. What’ll I do with it?”
“Do with it? Burn it, of course. Haven’t
you been in the Customs long enough to
know that anything written by anyone
named Oscar can’t be pure?”
Inspirational
A woman writes: “I am enclosing copies
of two poems which I have written. Won-
derful what bad times will make one do,
isn’t it?”
ma n writes: “I felt in a foolish mood
the other day and wrote the enclosed.”
Hence the term literature as we under-
stand it.
Verse Read Aloud
If one day the mail brings an invitation
to go along and hear a poet read his
poems aloud, do not hesitate to go. Only
a veiy young, or a very old, or a very
bad poet will make this public exhibition
of himself. The work of very young or
very old poets is usually bad, so you will
be almost sure to hear something that is
not good whichever way it goes. By this
means you may come to recognise bad
verse when you meet it, and be on the way
to appreciating what is good.
Judgment
A leading actress receives so many play
manuscripts that she cannot read a third
of them. She reads none of them. She is
a shrewd business woman, which some of
us possibly are not; also she is a peacock, as
is every one of us. So she sends a routine
letter, in which the author is told that
the product has merit and should be brought
under the notice of a theatrical producer.
The recipient is flattered, and so no harm
is done to the box-office; the actress wins
the opinion that she is the only under-
standing genius in the world, and so the
peacock in her is satisfied. Stamps are
sold, and the revenue of the country is
increased. Thus, though this is the general
lot of those who seek opinion of their work
from persons who have not to back up the
judgment by producing the article, as editors
and book publishers have to, the practice of
authors hawking their stuff round for the
almost invariably eulogistic opinion of irre-
sponsible persons is not one lightly to be
discouraged.
C.M.
A Satchel of Books
A. R. Chisholm, Associate Professor of
French in the University of Melbourne, has
edited Gautier’s Le Capitaine Fracasse for
Dent and Sons, Dondon. It is in French,
and contains a comprehensive glossary, and
explanatory notes on practically every page.
A useful little book for schools or for those
desirous of brushing up their French on
enjoyable lines. It costs 2s. 6d.
Guy Fletcher's Chasing a Dream (Cassell;
7s. 6d.) is a first-class love-story with a
Cinderella theme. Hard-working, self-respect-
ing Shirley Warren is only a clockmaker's
daughter, and the fact that she has been edu-
cated in a Council School causes her humilia-
tion when she begins to meet “County’'
people. But she has charm and common-
sense, so after making a success of two jobs
—one in the city, which she loses through
no fault of her own, and one in the country
—she wins aristocratic John Desmond and
happiness. A murder and suicide add to the
excitement.
The Scaled Door of Love, by Pamela
Wynne (Philip Allan; 7s. 6d.). Diana Tar-
rant lived in Semi-genteel poverty in
Streatham. Then she got a job as Mrs.
Ponceford’s companion and met David
Flight, Mrs. Ponceford’s nephew. By the
time poor Diana knew she was going to have
a baby David had left for India, and she took
the odd step of joining the Church of Rome
and entering an Italian convent. Then David
heard of her plight, and rushed back to
rescue her, and Mrs. Ponceford, who hap-
pened to be in Rome at the time, was highly
sympathetic. “My advice is,” she said, “that
we get out of Rome before the Vatican gets
on our track.” The notion that “the Vati-
can” can cause refugees to be dragged back
to convents in modern Italy is ridiculous,
but it gives a touch of excitement to an
otherwise commonplace romance.
Of the writing of vocational books there
is no end, and What Shall I Be? by Amabel
Williams-Ellis (Heinemann; 65.) is another
of them. But it is different from all its
predecessors. The writer (or should it be
editor?) has conceived the bright idea of
getting a number iof people in more or less
interesting jobs to jot down in simple
language a description of typical days in
their lives. A biochemist, for example, chats
about his dietetic experiments on animals,
and volunteers odd scraps of information
about his charges.
These rats vary less than ordinary humans, for
they are what are called Wistar rats. Wistar rats
were all originally bred from orte pair in America,
and all their grandfathers and grandmothers have
ever since been laboratory rats. They have never
been outside to places where they might pick up
chance infections.
The only danger of this kind of book is
that it may lure an impressionable youngster
into plunging into some calling for which he
is unfitted, by the sheer charm and glamor of
the articles. Who wouldn’t be a geo-physicist
in an oil-camp or a biologist on a tropic
reef? There is a useful appendix which con-
tains, inter alia, an almost complete list of
the callings in which a high order of intelli-
gence is demanded.
And a Little Verse
RETRIBUTION.
I came, a child, in childhood’s hour,
Where rippling spring was at its prime,
And saw—the figure of his flower !
A fairy prince, in timely time;
Who watched, beside some amourette,
Between the dewy petals laid,
Bright-coated flies within a net
His dancing-master spider made.
Their masque of Death was mirth for him:
And, with the smile still on his cheek,
The Duke of Birds, Sennacharim,
Picked up this lord; and, in his beak,
Bore him away: either to die,
Or be his back-yard slave to dig
Beetles from bark, and worms, for aye—
Warning for me when I am big.
NAW.
HUGH McCEAE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Paula H.: Good start; weak finish....
P.F.Q.: Nothing in it except its easy canter....
Jim Stroud: Two verses from “The Taming of Bull
Hogan”:—■
Two shots rang out like one report,
And then the shivering barman caught
Bull Hogan as he span to fall
And dragged him sagging to the wall.
And Murphy crooned, “Hell, he’s not hurt!
I shot a button off 'his shirt
To teach, him not to be so vain—
Aye, barman, fill ’em up again.”
Far be it from us to call any poet a liar; in
silence, therefore, we dips our lid to Marksman
Murphy J.S’.T.: Awful W.M.: The subject is
too big for you, and too familiar to newspaper readers.
.. . E.R.A.: Too many warts on it. . .H.H.L.: Heavy.. .
L.8.F.: A chap as well-balanced as Simon would have
gone to his doctor for a sleeping draught... .11. B.:
The killing, at the end is inartistic T.A.D.: Wasn’t
worth dredging up P.A.T.: Threat to send us a
“Mike and Dooley” story every week fills us with
terror.., .J.lt.H. : “Delirium” almost describes it....
P.G.W.: Still confused and slightly improbable....
L.S.: The end didn’t justify the 1450 words that
went before Dal.: Far-fetched F.R.H.: Off our
beat V.W. : Resubmit a s a par H.L.H.: A
long way to go yet....C.5.; Much too discursive for
us. . . .V.C.: Might suit a woman’s paper not squeam-
ish about the end.... J.W.: Landlady yarn only mildly
humorous; other should find a market elsewhere....
A.M.W.S.; Sell better in London E.G.T.P.: The
tragedy of “batching” has been often poured into
our ears.. . .P.W.8.; The fate of the lovers left us
calm... .R. 0.; Excellent idea; now see if you can’t
handle it better.... K.P.: Slight interest 0n1y....
R.K.D.C.: Heavy going, and you should have brought
the young man mor e into the picture... .R.H.L.:
Conventional. .. .N.D.A.; Overlong and ends like 99
out of 100 ghost yarns D.T.P. ; Landed on the
junk heap J.A.G.: Feeble flutter C.M.P.:
Trivial par. spun out to story length E.R.H.: It
met a more ferocious brute at 252 George-street
R.W.H.: Fair plot; needs stronger writing....
W.W.8.: No, with hesitation. There is poetry in
it; but there is also too much prose cut into stove
lengths... .L.H.: No market here for that sort of
thing Boronia: Trite thoughts; and poorly done.
.. . .L.A.C.: Nothing in it E.M.J.: Well ex-
pressed; but over-melodramatic... .Lloyd W.: Not
an unexpected stroke in it. .. .W. C. WynnumHope-
less. .'. .Forget-me-not : Ditto M.M.M. : Not quite.
J.A.S.: It’s unappetising damper still J.E.:
Hail, dear Mother Australia,
Thy form with beauty is replete, ’
Bedecked in flowered regalia,
A 1 from head to feet.
Bad luck for you it was too late for the compe-
tition.... Morobe: First-class philosophy, anyhow.
•• > -M.C.G.: There’s promise in it, but you throw
your words and images about too lavishly, and the
effect is cloying J.M.C.: Seventeen, are you?
Well, that’s the best excuse 8.V.: Is it an allegory
or what ?... ,A.S.: It’s good, honest jingle, but that’s
not quite enough iri these unspacious days. .. .R.L.:
Send them to the lady F.A.: Can’t do anything
with either version. . . .H.M.C.: You have a heavy
hand for light verse... .E.M.C.: It’s a large subject
and you don’t throw any new light on it....One-
ooseeizit: Not a bad vignette if some of the rhymes
were less forced.. . .A.J.K.: Political economy may
be your strong suit; verse isn’t.. . G.P.D.: It might do
for a church magazine... .Impo: “Charming” might
get through, with a little tinkering. ... .W.D.: Dull as
ditchwater... .Moa: No demand for pirates’ reveries.
... .ii.C.S.: Eighty lines of jeremiad try us too
high... .V.C.J.: Your lady of romance wasn’t
romantic enough to get past the gate....V.: The
form is correct, but how hackneyed the thought
and phrasing!... .J.J.S.: There’s some art in it, but
the whole conception is unnatural. .. .J.A.: It’s put
too baldly. .. .A.A.: You say things twice over that
aren’t worth saying once. .. .G.1.L.: Blank verse must
be very good and full of feeling to get past; yours
might find a corner in a magazine. .. .W.M.E.: Stale
as beer that has stood all night on the bar counter.
....Violet E. S.: Too late; and if it had been in
time it would not have got in the first 20... .
0.L.C.: Sentiments as old as they are admirable....
D.A.S.: T.ast two stanzas are awful.... A.M.R.;
Slight, but very neatly worded... .C.W.P.: Cut oif
the frills and get it into 300 or so words. Remember
there are hundreds crying to be heard.... J.11.C. II.:
Thank you ; it shall be passed 0n... . Bellerive: Now
for a “Series of Stirring Events of the Past”:—
THE GREAT FIGHT BETWEEN JACK JOHNSON
AND TOMMY BURNS, DEC. 26, 1908.
With his belly tucked in
In his crouching style,
The Canadian did frown
And the negro did smile.
Cheered by admirer’s
And well-known sports,
Burn’s daringly weathered
The negro’s onslaughts.
Battered and outclassed
In the thrilling bout,
He defied his antagonist
To knock him out.
Though in vain were his
Efforts his title to save,
No warrior of the ring
Ever fought more brave.
. ...E.M.: You spoilt a superb plot. .. . M.N.: Mis-
fired .... M.E.M.: Condensed, it might make an Abo.
par D.D. : Ghastly.... V.B. A. : Nearer this time.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.M.: Took a dislike to both of them. .. . J.S.D.:
Caricature of Roosevelt preposterous,. .. .J.J.: Just
scraggy lines... .W.T.: Deformed figures and feeble
jokes... .L.L.: Wooden drawings and gags.... W. 8.:
Training might save you from becoming a nuisance
to editors... .N.M.S.: None up to the mark....
M.V.: Seeing you are an islander we’ll forgive you
for those bathing “beauties’'... .R.I-1.L.: Bits of it
are good, but they are too few. . . .H.A.S*.: Crude.
. ...R.C.: Better done it would be among those
fighting for a place... .G.S.: Feeble drawing and the
last word in poor puns. .. .M.P.: Joke is at least as
old as beer-bottles... .C.R.: Gets no bouquet....
H.H.: And you call, that a horse !... .T.E.: Why do
they all look as if they had toothache?... .E.L.:
Don’t care for the females with simian features....
J.H.8.: The week’s worst. .. .L.W.: Washwork muddy.


9
%
«I|
-'V. ■ i
' fi
A .
jnErai I
■\a
■I
- n
f
" »k
Cj
* f4l'i3'" ■ ■"
■—i
t
3.7.
■
■
HH MHP
HHL
H
Wl
M
st VI
I
;t
-
y
mmm
HI
:


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2774
April 12, 1933.
THE SPIRIT OF THE AIR.
"In spite of the tremendous advances made in the conquest of the air there were more casualties during March than in any , previous month since the war."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 2-47-S-49 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 57.95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s ? 6d.; 3'months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’’: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via Franca or America: Id. for J/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
REFORMING THE N.S.W. LEG.
COUNCIL.
As might have been expected, efforts are
now being made to confuse the issue in the
forthcoming reference to the people of
N. S. Wales. During the past week a new
bogey has been invented: if, it is said,.the
new Leg. Council is created, nothing on
earth can shift it unless it consents to be
shifted, so that the position will be worse
than it is to-day.
Hitherto the practice has been that all
proposals for the reform (including the
abolition) of a Chamber must originate in
that Chamber. There is no doubt at all
about that. But an entirely new system of
legislation has been introduced. So far as
Australia is concerned, the Commonwealth
Constitution first embodied it in the pro-
visions for its own amendment. Such an
amendment, even one involving a change in
either House, may be made according to
the provisions of section 128 of the Con-
stitution. “If either House,” this section
says, “passes any such proposed law by an
absolute majority, and the other House
rejects or fails to pass it,” then, after
certain other processes, “the Governor-
General may submit the proposed law as
last proposed to the electors.” There
is a further provision/that “no alteration
diminishing the'proportionate' representation
of any State,” or altering the boundaries
of any State, shall become law unless the
majority of electors voting in that State
approve the proposed law; but the old
practice, under which only the House
whose “rights and privileges” were attacked
could initiate the measure, has been wholly
discarded. And of course that was due
entirely to the appearance of this new
•form of legislation, this introduction of a
new legislative arm—the referendum. The
people of N. S. Wales are being told by
one section of the Labor party that the
old practice still holds: that only the
House whose rights and privileges are
attacked can initiate the attack. The
Commonwealth Constitution illustrates the
complete abandonment of that rule on the
arrival of < the referendum.
And there is an obvious reason why it
was abandoned. In the pre-referendum
days the consent of both Houses was neces-
sary before a measure could become law.
Therefore it was a mere waste of time for
one Chamber to, proceed with a measure
reforming the other Chamber until it was
ascertained whether that other Chamber
would agree to the reform. But the
agreement of the two Houses is no longer
necessary. In.the event of their disagree-
ment the people decide. That indeed is
the whole basis of this new system of legis-
lation.
The position in N. S. Wales, then, is
quite' clear. The law says that a measure
for the reform of the Leg. Council shall
not be presented for assent until it has
been approved by the people. A measure
for the reform of the Leg. Council has been
passed by both Houses, and it is now to
be submitted to the people. The only
question is whether they approve of this
measure or not. If they say no, then the
measure lapses, and the present Leg. Council
continues. Further, the laws which govern
it will continue to operate. That is to
say, the Council will remain a nominee
body; all its present 120 members will
still be members, and the only way to over-
come differences between the two Chambers
will still be by swamping the Leg. Council.
A “No”-vote or a million “No” votes will
not abolish the Council. The question of
abolition does not and can not come into
the matter at all.
Some people, not realising that it is
democracy which needs * protection now,
want to abolish the Leg. Council. For them
there is really only one point worth con-
sidering: which will it be easier to abolish
—the present Leg. Council or the one which
this measure proposes? Now, how can the
present Leg. Council be abolished? In the
first place, the Council must pass a bill
for its own abolition. It will not be
impossible to get this done; but it will be
very difficult. And even after this great
difficulty has been overcome, and both
Houses have passed a bill to abolish the
Council, it must still be agreed to by the
people. Certainly there is one other way.
The measure which laid down this course
may be repealed; but it can only be re-
pealed by the same process —first both
Houses must pass the repeal measure, and
then the people must approve of it. The
law on these points has fortunately been
made clear. Mr. Lang passed two measures
through both Houses: one repealing the
Bavin Act which prescribed a referendum,
the other abolishing the Council. The
highest Court in the Empire, the Privy
Council, unanimously decided that neither
bill could become law without a referendum.
That, then, is the very difficult process of
abolishing the present Council if the present
plan of reform is rejected. But if that
plan is accepted, then all that will be neces-
sary is for the people's House to approve
of abolition; and if the people also approve,
on a direct appeal to them, then the thing
will be done.
From the democratic standpoint there is
not one single thing to be said in favor
of a “No” vote in this referendum. Such
a vote means the continuance of a nominee
House, whose members, appointed for life,
have been for the most part thrown into
the Chamber in order to get some par-
ticular bill through, and with very little
regard for their general knowledge or cap-
acity. Many of them no longer even vote
with the party which called them up, and
therefore have no more moral right to
legislate for the State than the mob stand-
ing at the first street corner has. Further,
under the present system, which a “No”
vote would perpetuate, disagreements be-
tween the two Houses ai»e settled, not by
the people, but by the Governor, since
it rests with him whether the Government
shall be given another batch of members.
And, finally, as we have seen, it will be
infinitely harder to abolish the present
Council if this reform measure is rejected
than it will be to abolish the new Council
if the reform measure is carried—always
provided a majority of the people want it
abolished.
OUR OWN LAND.
There is always good browsing in “The
Official Year Book of the Commonwealth,”
prepared by the Federal Statistician and
edited by the very competent John Ston-
ham, M.A.; and the 1932 volume, just
out, carries as many facts to the acre as
any of its predecessors.
You get into good grazing from almost
the first page. Here, very early, is the cost
of government, including salaries and up-
keep of Governors, Parliaments and Minis-
ters, and of “Hansard” and other Parlia-
mentary printing, with elections and Royal
Commissions thrown in. You discover, prob-
ably to your surprise, that the Common-
wealth institutions have never during the
past five years run to more than Is. lid. per
head of population per annum and have
averaged only Is. Bd., whereas the cost
of the corresponding State institutions in
Westralia has been 6s. Id. at the most and
ss. Bd. as an average. Compare a few
Westralian and South Aus. items for 1931: —
S. Aus. Westralia.
Governor, staff, etc. .. .. £6,713 £B,lOB
Executive Council . . .. 125
Ministry 8,443 15,709
Parliament .. .. .. 58,760 79,112
The populations at the end of December,
1931, were: South Aus., 584,968; Westralia,
421,609. Which, if it does not show that
Westralia does things lavishly, at any rate
suggests that South Aus. maintains an old
reputation for doing things thriftily.
In respect of the cost of the principal
State Government services, Westralia again
leads the procession. For each man, woman
and child in all Australia the outgo is,
109 s. For every one in Westralia it is
128 s. Id. South Australia follows with
114 s. 9d.; N. S. Wales copies third, 112 s. sd.
And it is not a matter of area, either, be-
cause little Tasmania (945.) only just beats
great Queensland (945. Bd.). There were
at June 30, 1931, in the Commonwealth and
State services 203,303 people, made up as
follows: —
Railways . . . . .. 111,653
Police—Male . . . . . . 8,654
Female . . • ■ 36
Teachers —Male . . . . 13,987
Female • • • > 19,546
Other departments—Male . . 41,597
Female. . 7,830
“Railways” includes tramways, and there
are more in these services in N. S. Wales
than in the services of any other three States
put together: N. S. Wales, 51,186; Vic.,
Queensland and Westralia, together, 51,087.
There is enough in those figures to suggest
overmanning in N. S. Wales.
The public-service figures suggest a com-
parison of population. N. S. Wales at Sept.,
1932, had 2,534,368 people; Vic., Queensland
and Westralia, 3,206,678. The two most
populous States, N.S.W. and Vic., had
4,342,470 people; the others (including
Federal territory) had 2,219,203. So, leav-
ing Victoria out, N. S. Wales had more
population than all the other States and
the Federal territories (including Canberra)
put together. The advocates for New
States, remembering that every present
State has equal representation in the
Senate, will find in these figures something
to encourage them.
Among the. States the best rate of in-
crease during recent years (1926-31) has
been shown by Westralia: 2.17 p.c. per
annum. In the previous quinquennium only
Queensland did better. Australia seems to
have a vague idea that both Canada and
the United States have been piling up
population at a much more rapid rate than
we have done. It was so some years ago;
but it has not been so again until quite
lately. Take the last three five-year
periods:—
Annual Kate of Increase P.C. of Population.
1916-21. 1921-26. 1926-31.
Australia .. . . 1.99 2.09 1.32
Canada .. .. 1.81 1.33 1.97
United States .. 1.21 1.67 1.26
So for the last 15 years Australia has been
regularly adding more per cent, to its
population than the U.S.A.; and generally
it has been doing better than Canada. If
we carried the comparison to European
countries, the results would be rather start-
ling. England and Wales gained 0.47 p.c.
p.a. in the five years 1926-31; Scotland lost
0.21 p.c., Ireland lost 0.12 p.c. Of all the
countries of Continental Europe apparently
only Holland is gaining more than 1 p.c.
p.a. There is surely encouragement in
these figures, too. “Why aren’t you
settling your empty spaces?” we are re-
peatedly asked. We can answer that we
are acquiring population at a greater rate
than almost any other country in the world.
During the past three five-year periods
Queensland’s increase p.c. has compared
with Japan’s like this:—
1916-21. 1921-26. 1926-31.
Queensland .. 2.21 2.81 • 1.78
Japan .. 0.37 1.42 1.48
So Japan, at any rate, has no cause to
throw this stone at us.
The excellence of our figures in this
respect is largely due to the natural in-
crease of population. And here we get
some astonishing results. It might have
been thought that we were going downhill
at matchless speed when the natural in-
crease per annum for Australia fell from
16.7 per 1000 of mean population in the
1909-13 period to 11.1 per 1000 in 1927-31.
But almost the world over the birth-rate
has fallen—or been pulled down—with the
result that there has been this extraordi-
nary shrinkage in the annual growth of
population figures (per 1000)
1909-13. 1927-31.
Australia. . . . . . 16.7 • 11.1
Denmark . . . . . . 13.9 ' 8.0
Norway . . . . .. 12.4 6.6
Germany . . . . . . 12.8 - 6.3
Scotland .. .. .. 10.7 5.9
England and Wales .. 10.7 4.1
Sweden .. .. .. 10.4 3.5
Our birth-rate is not extraordinary, but
opr death-rate is. In 1901 the death-rate
was 12.22 per 1000 of mean population.
It is now 8.70; and the fall has been steady.
Almost every country has improved its
figures; but none can equal ours. The
rate for England has fallen from 14.1 in
1908-13 to 12.3 in 1931. No later figures
than for 1928 are available for Russia: the
death-rate then was 18.8 per 1000 of popu-
lation—ours for the same year was 9.45.
Our saving of infant life is largely re-
sponsible for our good showing in the death-
rate table. Of every 1000 infants born,
Australia lost 74 within their first year in
1906-15 and only 42 in 1931; Maoriland
did even better, leading the world with
a loss of only 32 infants of every 1000
born—still including all losses within a year
of birth. England and Wales loses 66,
France 76, Scotland 82, and so down the
list to Italy 125, Hungary 163 and Rou-
mania 197—some of these figures are for
1929 or 1930 and not 1931. When we 6on-
sider that Auckland and Wellington have
an infant death-rate of only 30 p6r 1000
of births, and Adelaide (for infants, the
healthiest city in Australia) only 40, the
104 of Glasgow, the 112 of Montreal, the
245 of Madras and the 272 of Bombay
sound a good deal like murder. You are
probably left wondering, among other
things, why the reformers from Glasgow
don’t stay at home and help to clean
things up a bit in front of their own door-
step.
A FORGOTTEN COUP.
Last week—on April 4 —occurred the
fiftieth anniversary of the annexation of
New Guinea by the Queensland Govern-
ment on behalf of the Crown. Almost from
the beginnings of Queensland’s existence as
a separate colony in 1859, schemes for
occupying portions of the great island across
Torres Strait had been put forward, but
in every case the British Government
vetoed the proposals. In 1875 the New
Guinea Colonising Association was refused
permission to carry out an ambitious
scheme of settlement in New Guinea. A
similar fate befel another organised by
“General” Mclvor —“Fourteen Flags” Mc-
Ivor. At that time Admiral Moresby had
taken possession of some of the island
groups off the south-east coast of New
Guinea on behalf of Britain. A little later
the Queensland Parliament passed a resolu-
tion recommending the annexation of the
whole island except that portion to the
north-west already occupied by the Dutch.
The Colonial Office, however, persisted in
refusing to sanction even the acquisition of
land in New Guinea by British subjects,
stating on several occasions that there was
no possibility of any foreign nation attempt-
ing to acquire interests there.
In spite of these setbacks, Australian
attention continued to turn to the empty
spaces so dangerously close to our shores.
Then, early in 1883, Thomas Archer,
Queensland’s Agent-General and a man
exceptionally well informed in German
affairs, cabled to his Government that
Germany was preparing to annex New
Guinea. Thomas Mcllwraith, then Premier
of Queensland, on his own initiative forth-
with .sent Robert Chester, police magistrate
at Cooktown, to Port Moresby with orders
to hoist the British flag and annex the
whole of the island not occupied by
Holland. This done, he cabled the action
he had taken to the Colonial Office. Lord
Derby was then Secretary for the Colonies
in a Gladstonian Ministry. He not only
repudiated the annexation, but administered
a severe rebuke to Mcllwraith and his
Government for “taking on themselves the
exercise of powers they did not possess.”
He added that he “was confident no foreign
Power contemplated interference with New
Guinea.” But in the following year the
Government suffered a change of heart
following on Germany’s intimation that it
proposed annexing “the north side of New
Guinea”; and Queensland was informed
that Britain consented to a protectorate
“along the southern shore of New Guinea,”
This was the beginning of British New
Guinea, later to be known as Papua. The
Germans formally took possession of their
portion the following year, the various
spheres of ocupation having been defined by
agreement between the two nations. There-
after British New Guinea was a sort of
hybrid Crown colony, the Governments of
Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria exercising
a measure of supervision and contributing
to its upkeep; and so it continued until the
Federal Government took over control in
1901. Five years later British New Guinea
became an Australian possession under the
style of the Territory of Papua.
Time has proved Mcllwraith’s judgment
right. He had to be content with seeing
only a portion of his dream come true; yet
how valuable his foresight has proved can be
realised when one reflects on what might
have happened in the earlier days of the
Great War if the Germans had been able
to include Papua in their annexation scheme
of 1885, and had thus provided themselves
with an ideal jumping-off place at Port
Moresby, on the south coast of Papua,
from whence to launch an attack on, and
perhaps establish an occupation of, the rich
and helpless north-eastern areas of Aus-
tralia.
ONE MAN’S WORK.
Though secession has caught the fancy of
sOi many of the younger Westralian electors,
it cannot be called a youth move-
ment. Elderly men predominate on the
executive of the Dominion League, which
has been directing the agitation for several
years. Noel Brazier, Norbert Keenan and
James MacCallum Smith, three of five vice-
presidents (one of the others is a lady), are
all in the sixties. Lud Mayor Franklin, the
treasurer, owns to having been bom in
1854. Alfred Chandler, the president,' has
turned 80.
Chandler began it. He has been a. work-
ing journalist most of his long life, and
when sub-editor of the Perth “Sunday
Times” (he was to become editor and is
still on the staff) he organised the first
secession meeting, hiring the Town Hall and
arranging for the speakers and for what
those who needed priming were to say.
Some of them failed him at the last
moment; others wobbled in the sight of the
audience, which was curious but not en-
thusiastic; and the meeting was voted a
failure. But Chandler, already an old man
in years, was not discouraged. If others
were apathetic or afraid of ridicule he would
cany on the fight alone. This he did virtu-
ally for years —writing hundreds of news-
paper articles and paragraphs, making
speeches, journeying long distances to beat
up recruits. In time his pertinacity im-
pressed men who ’ could help him, and the
going became easier. An Under-Treasurer
of the period wrote a striking report on
the condition of Westralia under Federa-
tion. A Disabilities Commission was
appointed by the Bruce-Page Government;
the case for Westralia was forcibly presented
by Keenan, an able lawyer from Dublin,
and the Commission reported that the State
had genuine grievances. Bruce-Page
thought to remedy them with copious grants
from the Commonwealth Treasury; but the
secession movement went on. Federal poli-
ticians began to proclaim their sympathy
with it. The Dominion League came into
being/ with Chandler as president. And
after many years the work of this stubborn
old man, whose very name is unknown to
the majority of his fellow-Australians, has
been crowned with success at a populai
referendum —though what is going to happen
now neither lie nor anyone else knows.
It is believed in some quarters that the
Westralian disruptionists have been in-
spired by British manufacturers; but this
is absurd. Chandler is no agent for or
dupe of any overseas interest. He is a Vic-
torian with a passionate love for the State
of his adoption. His family had its roots
in Australian soil before Westralia, Vic-
toria, South Australia and Queensland were
founded. Visiting Sydney in 1923, he asked
the St. James’s Church people to let him
examine their records; “my father, ’ he ex-
plained, “played the flute in this church
a hundred years ago, before you had an
organ.” Mild and benevolent in his private
life, with a poet’s eye and heart, he yet
recalls Robespierre as seen by Mirabeau
(“This man is dangerous; he believes every
word he says”); in another respect he is
like Talleyrand, of whom Napoleon com-
plained, “He always turns round the same
idea.” But perhaps in his unfaltering
championship of his one unrealisable idea,
he resembles Don Quixote most. Not the
Quixote of Cervantes, who smiled bpains
chivalry away, but the Quixote of whom a
contemporary poet sang, turning awa>
impatiently from the levity and mdecisioi
of men: —
Yet would to-day, when courtesy grows chill,
And life’s fine loyalties are turned to jest.
Some fire of thine might burn within us still.
Ah! would but one might lay his lance m «-
And charge in earnest... .were it but a mull


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Secesh Wins—and Loses.
Westralia has had its general election and
its secession referendum, with bewildering,
though by no means unexpected, results.
By a great majority the electors voted for
“withdrawing from the Federal Common-
wealth established under the Common-
wealth of Australia Constitution Act (Im-
perial).” By a majority not so great they
rejected the proposal for a convention to
suggest Constitutional amendments. This
was logical, if provincial. But while de-
claring for secession they dished the seces-
sionist Government. Northam, a strong-
hold of the separation movement, even
cast out Mitchell, the secesh Premier, who
has represented the place without a break
since 1905. Parker, Mitchell’s Attorney-
General, went down in North-east Fre-
mantle; Scaddan, another Minister, was
ousted in Maylands; in Perth the secession-
ist member, Mann, was unseated by the
veteran Needham, who, during his long
career as a Senator, stood consistently for
the extension of Commonwealth powers.
No doubt, local grievances influenced the
secessionists who turned down the seces-
sionist party. Many country people were
dissatisfied with the Government’s farm-
relief measures. Many Perth and Fremantle
electors objected to the abolition of news-
paper crossword competitions for prizes, a
manoeuvre with which Scaddan was associ-
ated as Minister and Mann as a member of
the Lotteries Commission. Evidently farm-
relief measures and newspaper crossword
competitions mean more than secession to
the electors who changed sides. Be this as
it may, political control of the separation
movement has, as a result of the election,
been transferred from Mitchell to Collier
—from the Nat.-Cockies to Labor, which
long ago committed itself to unification,
with abolition of the Senate. Kenneally,
the re-elected member for East Perth, is
actually president of the Federal A.L.P.
executive, which issues orders to that
ardent unificationist Scullin. The position
of Mr. Kenneally, who is likely to become
a Minister, is as ludicrous in its way as
that of Mr. Lynch, who as a Federal repre-
sentative of Westralia is in favor of immedi-
ate secession, and as President of the
Senate will defend the Commonwealth to
the last. During the campaign the Ken-
neally party took good care not to come
out for or against secession, but in the last
week McCallum, the deputy leader,
announced that he and his associates would
honor the people’s verdict. In all proba-
bility they will ignore it, if they can do so
without endangering their hold on office.
But the rulers of the Commonwealth must
not ignore it. That 2-to-l majority for
secession is a challenge to their statesman-
ship.
Butler Comes Back.
South Australians voted as State electors
on Saturday and, like the Westralians, are
to have a change of Government. At the
general election of 1930 the Labor party,
led by Lionel Hill, undertook to start all
sorts of loan works, as Lang did in N. S.
Wales later in the year, and the country
authorised him to go ahead. When his
Government realised that loan works -were
out of the question it went in for rigorous
economy, where Lang tried bluff and
brigandage, and became the most fervent
supporter of the Premiers’ plan. For this
Hill and those of his followers who re-
mained faithful to him were expelled by the
controllers of the party machine; but they
carried on. With the election in sight the
Premier tried to arrange a coalition with
his old opponents on the other side of the
House. They refused to have anything to
do with him. Port Pirie, his constituency
since 1918, was plainly hostile. Other elec-
torates, sounded on his behalf by press
supporters, were not enthusiastic. ■ Hill weak-
ened. Barwell’s term as Agent-General was
drawing to a close; Hill had himself
appointed to the London office for five
years. He left R. S. Richards, his Com-
missioner of Lands, to lead the Govern-
ment, or what was left of it; Jelley, one
of the Leg. Council Ministers, angrily re-
signed.
In South Aus., as elsewhere, Labor usually
prevails when it is a united party; never
when it is divided. , On this occasion it
went to the country in three factions, which
fought one another more bitterly than
they fought the “Tories”; and it has paid
the price. The Richards Government has
suffered the fate which its members helped
to inflict on the conscription Labor Govern-
ment of Crawford Vaughan. Most of the
Ministers have been defeated; only the
Premier and Pedler, his fellow-member for
Wallaroo, are sure to be seen in the new
Assembly. The A.L.P. group did better,
but it has apparently lost its leader, Dawes,
one of the old members for Sturt, who
delivered what he was pleased to call its
policy speech. Langsters contested Port
Adelaide and West Torrens, with unflatter-
ing results, but in Adelaide D. H. Bardolph
and two others polled a whole two-fifths of
the first preferences. This was enough to
assure Bardolph of a seat —for years he
has had a local following, apart from his
connection with Langism—and he may carry
the others in with him; even so it is a
poor return for the N.S.W. trade-unionist
money which has been squandered in South
Aus. since Lang and his heelers persuaded
themselves that the people of other States
were ripe for conversion to Sydney mob-
politics.
So R. L. Butler, who preceded Hill as
Premier, is to fotm another Ministry. The
Liberals and the Country party have joined
forces, and the Lib.-Cocky Government
will have big majorities in both Houses;
in four Leg. Council electorates eight
L.-C.P. men were returned unopposed,
while a supporter of the Government is
pretty sure to get in for the Central No. 1
Province, in which Whitford, the Chief
Secretary, was defeated. Butler will, of
course, adhere to the Premiers’ plan. In
his campaign speeches he declared himself
in favor of five-year Parliaments. But some
of his followers hedged when tackled on
this subject, and he cannot fairly claim
a mandate for extending the life of the
new Parliament to 1938. It is not even
certain that there is a majority of electors
for his party. Redistribution has been
dodged for so many years that the arrange-
ment of boundaries has degenerated into a
travesty on the principle of one vote one
value. There are eight three-member and
eleven two-member electorates. Of the
former, Sturt has 54,422 electors, East
Torrens 38564, Burra 12,981. Adelaide
12,959 and Wooroora 10,946; of the two-
member divisions, West Torrens has
34,669 electors, Port Adelaide 29,456, North
Adelaide 21,988, Port Pirie 6927, Newcastle
6120 and Wallaroo 6021. This is a blot
on the fair fame of South Aus. democracy;
and electoral reform should be the new
Parliament’s first job.
Mr. Lang and the Nominee House.
The daily papers say that Lang never made
a worse speech than the one with which he
began the campaign against the N.S.W.
Legislative Council reform bill. The truth
is he never had a worse cause to fight for.
If the referendum had to decide between
abolition of the Council and retention of
the Council in its present form, there would
be no doubt as to the side Lang would
take. He would pour scorn upon the
present Council, which he has accused again
and again of standing in the way of his
reforms. Yet to-day he actually takes the
platform to appeal for the maintenance of
the very institution which he has blamed
for his failures.
And this Leg. Council deserves all In-
former scorn; for it is the most appalling
legislative institution within the British
Empire. There are men in that Chamber
who have been there for more than a
quarter of a century and whose only quali-
fication at the outset was that they had
been rejected by the people. Mr. Lang
defends that method of appointment on
the ground that the nominations are
made by Governments which know that
they will presently have to answer for their
actions to the electors. Nobody denies it.
But what happens if the people are so
shocked by the appointments that they
enthusiastically throw the Government out
of office? Do the men who have been
appointed to the Leg. Council go with
them? Not a bit of it! Though the people
of N. S. Wales rose in their indignation
at the first possible moment and flung Mr.
Lang from office, the 25 Trades Hall
officials whom he had nominated, whose
appointment had so shocked the com-
munity, remained in the Leg. Council
and will continue there unless the electors
vote for this reform bill on May 13.
Mr. Lang says that the measure which
will put an end to this iniquity is a sin
against democracy. No greater sin against
democracy could be imagined than that
which Mr. Lang recommends; for the
maintenance of a Chamber whose members
are nominated for life outrages every prin-
ciple of democracy. And Mr. Lang’s
oast attacks upon the Chamber prove that
he knows it.
The Grazier and His Debts.
Every other feature has been fully can-
vassed. The only thing that remains to do
is to discuss and decide upon a practicable
course for the relief of the overweighted
man on the land. On that point there
has been some useful correspondence.
“Grazier” writes from the Darling:—
The mortgagee has three courses open to
him.
(1) He may as soon as the moratorium
allows him institute proceedings to recover
his money. Even the most unenlightened
mortgagee in the community must see that
by this means lie would not on a wholesale
scale get 10s.. in the £, while tens of thou-
sands of farmers and graziers would lose
their properties. The result to the nation
w ; ould be the loss of those men’s experi-
ence and ability in growing the only things
that have kept the Australian nation sol-
vent. And it may be stressed that you
cannot make a good farmer or a good
grazier in a day or even a year.
(2) He may l<jt things run on as they are
in the hope that something may turn up to
redeem his paper. In this regard I would
like to say that it would be well for the
mortgagee to remember that it is only by
some measure of inflation, either local or
world-wide, that his paper will be redeemed.
It will not be redeemed by reduction of the
primary producer’s costs, however drastic such
reduction may be, until it is realised that
capital'indebtedness is the greatest cost con-
fronting the grazing industry, and as such
it must take its share of reduction with
the other costs affecting the solvency of the
nation’s greatest industry.
(3) As the natural corollary of No. 2,
the mortgagee should write down the primary
producer’s debts.
Indeed, it would seem that the mortgagee
really has only two courses open to him:
take what he chn get through the Bank-
ruptcy Court, or forestall the ruling of the
Court and make an eouitable arrangement,
which I am certain would be more in the
interests of the mortgagee, the grazier and
the nation than any wholesale bankruptcy
proceedings would be.
Another grazier puts it this way:—
We are told that confidence is essential
to our recovery. The mortgagor, allowing
him to be an honest man, is struggling with
all his might to pay interest and keep the
security together, well knowing that the
bank may foreclose at just the time when
there seems a chance of the mortgagor
saving his assets. How can we have confi-
dence under such conditions? If the banks
really want to inspire it, why do they not
say to me and thousands of others, “You
owe us so much money, which cannot be paid
at the moment. In order to keep values at a
reasonable rate, and give you confidence to
do your best for yourself and us, we are
willing to fix a set period for your loan
(say ; 33 1-3 years), and at a much reduced
rate of interest, 3 p.c. of the principal to be
paid each year. The bank gives a guarantee
to the mortgagor and his family or executors
that, while the conditions are observed, no
attempt at foreclosure will be made, but if
the mortgagor fails at any time to comply
with the conditions, then the bank has the
right to foreclose”? There are thousands of
good men which an arrangement of this kind
would so assist that they would begin at
once to employ more labor and would cer-
tainly direct all their energies to the pay-
ment of the agreed Sum and more. Unless
something is done to give mortgagors confi-
dence in the institutions which hold their
securities, I fear the result of the next
Federal elections. I meet men daily who
two years ago would have kicked Lang and
Theodore out of their road, but are now
prepared to support them in an effort to
obtain this relief.
A more personal touch:—
My bank manager is a personal friend of
many years’ standing, and past generations
of our respective families were also friends.
So far he has never had occasion to speak
a hard -word to me, nor to disapprove of
any expenditure I asked for. Yet after a
visit to his office I suffer from a dread-
ful depression, due to the strain of realising
the uncertainty of my position. If
the banks would say that they would honor
our cheques for a definite or indefinite period
we would know where we stand. It is the
uncertainty of tenure which is tearing our
nervous systems to pieces, and we anticipate
that every mail day will bring a letter in-
structing us not to write out further
cheques.
*
Education in Victoria.
It is time the Vic. Government decided
what it is going to do about the control
of its schools. For many months the chief
administrative positions have been filled
by “acting” heads, and no plans for for-
ward movements are likely under such con-
ditions. The “director” system has had a
fair trial, and there seems to be general
agreement- that there would be no justifica-
tion for changing it if a man of the calibre
of Frank Tate or the late M. P. Hansen
was forthcoming. But there are men now
in the service who promise just as well
as either of those great educationists did;
and of all Governments in Australia that
of Victoria might least be expected to
bemoan the littleness of the men of to-day
compared with those of yesterday.
Too often in the past when Governments
have done that 'sort of tiling the reason
has presently been made obvious—a pro-
fessional head had to be discarded to make
room for a Commission or board, generally
one in which politiciar i have been conspicu-
ous. But surely nothing like that can be
in the mind of the Vic, Government. No
system has been found so economical as
that controlled by a director; on the other
hand. Commissions and boards consisting
largely of non-professional men have
almost invariably been found to be extrava-
gant. This Government certainly cannot
take . any chances of extravagance: as its
deputy-leader lately announced, in order
to do what it has engaged to do every
present economy must be continued, and
even then it may be necessary to increase
the already heavy burden of taxation.
In favor of the system which there is
some reason to believe is now threatened
there is one other point of first-class im-
portance. The knowledge that such a prize
as the directorship may be won must have
its effect upon the quality of the men offer-
ing for this most important service. There
ought to be more prizes; to take away the
best, of the few that are offered will be a
tragic mistake.
■ ♦
The Polish Corridor.
Dear Bulletin,— The Polish province of
Pomorze (the so-called “Corridor”) is not,
as you suggest (B. 15/3/’33), a “clumsy
patch” arranged merely to give Poland an
outlet to the Baltic. It is an integral part
of Poland, whose inhabitants are over-
whelmingly Polish by race, Speech and
custom. In 1466, by a popular uprising,
West Prussia, including the city of Dan-
zig, came directly under the rule' of Poland,
and for centuries was an integral part of
the kingdom. At the same time East
Prussia retained her autonomy under her
own ruler, though owing allegiance to
Poland. About a century and a half later
the Duke of Brandenburg, whose family
name was Hohenzollern, became also the
ruler of East Prussia through hereditary suc-
cession. Shortly after this the rise of
Prussia commenced, and in 1700 the reign-
ing Hohenzollern had the title of King of
Prussia conferred upon him by the Emperor,
and the whole of his possessions came to be
known as Prussia, though the original East
Prussia was still separated from the re-
mainder by West Prussia, a Polish pro-
vince, which by now was better known as
Pomorze.
The Hohenzollerns at this time began to
cast avaricious eyes on this “corridor,”
which divided their dominions, and the
dismemberment of Poland became part of.
the Prussian foreign policy. Poland had
suffered from a succession of weak rulers,
and there was a good deal of internal
dissension, much of it fomented by Russia
and Prussia. Then, in 1775, Frederick the
Great persuaded Russia and Austria to take
a share in the First Partition of Poland.
The Second Partition followed 20 years
later, and Danzig, West Prussia, Posen,
Upper Silesia and other provinces came to
be Prussian possessions.
The new Poland, which was carved out
of Germany, Russia and Austria after the
Great War, coincides fairly accurately with
the-Poland which existed from 1466 to 1775.
It represents the culmination of the aspira-
tions of a people who had been for a cen-
tum and a half denied their nationhood.
The Poles, of course, have not forgotten
their sufferings, and realise that their two
old enemies are once more casting covetous
eyes in their direction. Prussian foreign
policy favors a Third Partition of Poland,
eventually to be achieved by force, but to
be prepared for by diplomacy. To rhove a
sentimental section of European public
opinion in favor of “frontier revision” is an
easy task. Then one may expect a “Four-
Power Agreement” favorable to frontier re-
vision; pressure brought to bear on Poland
by the Powers; an aggression by Prussia
under the mantle of the benevolent neutral-
ity of the Powers. The main difficulty will
be the squaring of France—perhaps an
impossible task.
For some unknown reason the English-
speaking press throughout the world has
continued for years to belittle Poland’s
just claims by contemptuous references to
the “Polish Corridor,” and the sympathy of
the world has been elicited in favor of the
East Prussians, “cut off from their com-
patriots.” It is a false sympathy; the Poles
would be deserving of much more sympathy
were they to depend upon the Junkers for
an outlet to t ! ~ n sea, and they will fight
with their traditional courage and patriot-
ism to prevent a third dismemberment.—
Yours etc., Michael Kelly, M.B., B.S.
■ ♦
The Socialisation Cry.
Dear Bulletin,— It looks as though the
Lang-Garden Labor faction in N. S. Wales
is able to work off any sort of stunt in the
metropolitan papers. This “Socialisation”
racket is merely a clever trick of theirs put
up to fool the public into believing that
Lang, Garden, Grant and co. are a body of
reasonable, constitutionally-minded men
who are resisting the strenuous efforts of
the Socialisation crowd to force on them
a Communistic policy.
And the game has worked! “Herald,”
“Sun,” “Daily Telegraph” and all the rest
have swallowed it hook, line and sinker, and
have broadcast the attacks made by the
socialisers on the “inner group”—attacks
made, with a few exceptions, by men with
their tongues in their cheeks. The hand-
picked Easter Conference will, of course,
wipe out the -wild men; the “Labor Daily”
will trumpet this forth as a “victory for
constitutionalism within the party”; and
the “Herald” will mourn the loss of an
opportunity to attach additional odium to
the A.L.P., though it well knows the Lang-
Garden gang is in no way connected with
that organisation.
Lang, of course, has not the imagination
to think out such a scheme; but Jock
Garden and Emil Voigt are master-tac-
ticians and are really deserving of our
admiration. Brains and audacity are of
much more value to a, political party than
the noblest aspirations.—Yours, Arthur
Griffith.
The Call of the Bush.
Send me your youths that are dole-fed,
Arm them with sickle and share;
Bountiful harvests are waiting
Those who are willing to dare ;
Those who are ready to venture,
Men who will fallow my lands,
Fluming the flush of my rivers,
Quenching the thirst of my sands;
Blazing new tracks through my forests,
Scaling my ruggedest peaks,
Carving out homes in the valleys,
Skirting my rivers and creeks,
Ringing the sledge on the anvil,
Feeding the saws at the mills,
Sending the song of the axes
Echoing down from the hills.
Men of a pioneer spirit
Bearing the drill and the hoe,
Gladdening the heart of the desert,
Setting the water aflow—
Mine is a promise of plenty,
All that I have I will give,
Mothering them at my bosom,
Nourishing them that they live.
Even the dregs of your cities,
Broken and weakly and mean,
Reared in the slum or the gutter,
I will succor and nurture them clean,
Warming their blood with my , sunshine,
Building their bone with my grain,
Making them stalwart in manhood
To conquer my mountain and plain.
Bring out your youths that are dole-fed,
Help me to foster a race!
Hear me, O men, I am lonely!
Come, there is plenty of space!
Banish your narrow traditions,
Quibbles of class or of creed;
Wholesome and clean are my teachings—
Stout hearts are all that I need.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand,-and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
$ Fine Diamonds
I £2O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2B
HARDY BROS. Ltd
Diamond
e
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
gjjggggZfi Vjj^(
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Kings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Bings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Bings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Our imports are still far too large. Our
merchandise exports for the first eight
months of the statistical year were
£2,695,000 greater (in sterling) than for
the same two-thirds of the previous year;
but our merchandise imports were no less
than £11,332,000 greater. The dangerous
drift is being hidden behind the export of
our gold reserve, which is being turned into
sterling ; because we have sent away over
13 millions of gold in eight months, our
trade balance is shown as over 26 millions,
whereas, even counting in gold won as mer-
chandise, it is actually not more than 16
millions, and that is not enough to pay our
interest.
“Walter James, K.C., one of the framers of the
Constitution, issued a last-minute statement advising
Westralia to vote for secession.”
COOK: “I made the pie meself, mum, and
if you’ll take my advice, knowin’ how
I made it, you’ll give it to the dorg.”
Wcstralian Labor cut a wretched figure
during the campaign just concluded. Though
vociferous on the trifling subject of cross-
word competitions for money prizes (votes
were to be got by opposing their abolition)
it refused to declare itself for or against
secession. It dodged the question altogether
till McCallum, the deputy-leader, was
hounded into saying that “the platform binds
the party to do its best to give effect to
whatever the majority of the people decide;
and that will be lived up to.” The same plat-
form —the Federal portion, anyhow—com-
mits the party to unification ; but McCallum
didn’t point that out. Neither did he men-
tion that the Queensland people voted at a
referendum for the retention of their Leg.
Council, and that Queensland Labor did away
with it in spite of them.
Westralia’s Mitchell Government took 19
weeks to make up its mind about the suc-
cessor to Colebatch, transferred from the
Senate to the Agency-General; then, three
days before the general election, it nominated
Colonel Collett, president of the State
R.S.L. The new Parliament may, if it
pleases, pick someone else, and, if Mitchell’s
choice had fallen on anyone but a returned
soldier with a good record, Labor might be
tempted to put up one of its own men—a
defeated Assembly candidate, perhaps. It
is unlikely to do so now. Colebatch was
elected for six years from July 1, 1929, so,
unless anything goes wrong, Collett will fill
the vacancy for two years or so. He will
be the second returned soldier from West-
ralia to sit in the Senate; Drake Brock-
man, now a Commonwealth Arbitration
Judge, was the first.
Tiely Roos, the South African lawyer-poli-
tician, continues to imitate Billy Hugnes.
Baulked of the Prime Ministership by the
Hertzog-Smuts coalition, he has come out
with a new party, which will put up candi-
dates for the elections in May. If the
parallel is made perfect, the Roosters will
all get it in the neck, and the sad scene will
close in a petty-debts court, with’ Tiely
doggedly contesting the claim of an unpaid
printer.
After wondering whether they were ever
likely to sell their grain, Queensland
farmers were informed last week that the
Wheat Board had accepted the millers’ offer
of 3s. 3-|d. a busliel. The Federal bounty is
additional; calculating it at 3d. a bushel, the
same price was offered by the State Govern-
ment and refused. The board thought
it could do better on the open market. It
was mistaken, and for months the growers
have been vexed with anxiety and lack of
pence. Australian farmers are losing their
faith in boards.
South Aus. is glad its general election is
over. The profusion of “Labor” candidates,
all claiming to be true-blue, excited merri-
ment at first, but the joke soon palled, the
factions (there were three, not counting the
Communists) being a humorless lot. Lang
kept away from the dull shindy; but Beas-
ley, Rosevear, Ward and Dunn, the Sena-
tor, supplied a surfeit of Sydney mob-politics
and oratory in the fancied interests of the
Lang “party.” Their former protege Collaton,
M.L.A., hurled defiance at them from A.L.P.
platforms: Makin, Scullin’s Speaker, shouted
for the A.L.P., and Daly, Scullin’s Minister,
for the P.L.P., Premier Richards’s faction;
Jelley, Richards’s fellow-Minister till he re-
signed in a huff, pitched into his old col-
leagues, alleging misuse of Ministerial motor-
cars and other things; but the public refused
to be interested. There were more candi-
dates and canvassers than electors at some
meetings, and it was no rare experience for
a dejected aspirant, billed to be the principal
in a “great open-air rally,” to find that he
was the only one present.
In spite of its malodorous 1 history, the
tin-hare is still coursed in Sydney, and par-
ties to the practices exposed in the Royal
Commissioner’s report are sharing in the
profits. From the end of April, however,
unless Stevens weakens, only one license
will be issued, and only a bona-fide non-
proprietary club will get it. This would
read well if it were not also announced that
any club racing for profit in the country may
he relicensed “so long as such club has not
been covered by any censure or adverse
finding of the Royal Commissioner.” With-
out betting tin-hare racing would soon die
out. Governments can’t do away with bet-
ting, but they should not allow any new
syndicate to exploit it.
To induce the Maorilanders to lift their
embargo on imports of Australian fruit,
Massy Greene, most tactful of Ministers,
was sent across the Tasman. His mission
was successful, and there is to be a new
trade agreement, covering dried fruits and
other articles, as well as fresh fruit. Of
course he had to give something away, and
howls of protest are anticipated; but the
Government is already being howled at by
Freetraders, fiscal prohibitionists, socialists,
inflationists, secessionists and other dissatis-
fied elements, so a small addition to the din
should not Vorry it.
The undisguised intention of Japan to
hang on to its Pacific mandates in spite of
its withdrawal from the League of Nations
is another lighted match thrown into the
world’s powder magazine. Yet the decision
had to be expected: Japan’s possession of
the Carolines, overlooking the Western
Pacific, is very important to it. One nation
likely to take the Japanese decision ill is
the U.S.A., itself with strong posts estab-
lished in the same waters. It strongly
objected in 1920 to. the grant to Japan of
a “C” class mandate over this group, and
it has repeated the objection twice since then.
“Beer is once more flowing freely in 19 States
and the District of Columbia, and President Roose-
velt and the British Prime Minister are about to
have a conference.”
“Can’t letcha off the war debt, Ramzhay.
Norra red shent. But pay the next
inshtalment in whusky.”
It took a Vic. Royal Commission two years
to inquire into the grievances of 312 British
settlers, and to find that flowery promises
made to most of them had not been fulfilled.
Now their solicitor wants the State Minis-
try to provide three-quarters of a million or
so for compensation, including free passages
to Britain and allowances for lost oppor-
tunities. A Cabinet sub-committee is rue-
fully considering his letter, and the conun-
drum may be referred to the new Closer
Settlement Board, of which Clive McPherson
is chairman ; McPherson, with Detliridge, J.,
and W. E. B. Macleod, constituted the
Royal Commission. It is a discreditable
chapter in the history of the post-war land
boom, and reparation will have to be made;
but the State Treasury is empty, and the
borrowing days are gone.
“In the election of the Archbishop of Sydney,
every code of etiquette, except that of the race-
course or of N.S.W. politics, has been violated.
Caucus meetings have been held to run ‘tickets.’
In sporting circles, odds have been laid on the
various starters.” —“Church Standard.”
“Hey, sport, I got a coupla quid on the
Bishop o’ Baluchistan. Ring in this
box with a slidin’ panel, stuff it with
the dummies I’ll give yez, and y’re on
’arf the winnin’s.”
Westralia also sent confiding Britons into
the hush to grow things, fhough it
didn’t ask them to put up money—
it borrowed that. Australians were like-
wise drafted into the group settlements,
as they were called, and during the
election campaign it was stated that the
Mitchell Government, which started the
scheme, had spent £280,000 on it and the
succeeding Labor Government £6,417,000,
whereupon £3,460,000 had been written off.
In effect, each party blames the other. The
settlers —all that are left of them—blame
both.
Returned soldiers in the Repatriation
Department were refused superannuation
rights when the Commonwealth Act was
passed in 1922 —just before the general
election that year—and dated back two
years. The Hugheseliers did that, and the
Scullidores forced them to join public-ser-
vice unions. The result is that those who
enlisted in the forties and were invalided
home are in danger of being thrown on an
overcrowded labor market without pension
or retiring allowance. Marr, the Minister,
says he sympathises with them; but sym-
pathy won’t keep them going. If compul-
sory retirement is enforced in these cases
the veterans should receive superannuation
benefits, with deduction of what they would
have paid in dues had they been allowed to
contribute from the beginning.
Forty-two' years ago a strong delegation of
Maorilanders (George Grey was one of
them) took part in the Federal Convention
at Sydney. In the Constitution. Act to which
that convention led it was provided that
Maoriland might join the Commonwealth.
The two sister-nations have drawn apart
since those days, to the benefit of neither.
It will be to the advantage of both if they
come together again. There can be no poli-
tical partnership such as the men of the
’nineties dreamed of, but there can and
should be the friendliest relations in trade
and commerce. And now that the position
in the Pacific has changed for the worse;
now that the European Power which lost its
Pacific colonies is demanding their return,
and the Asiatic Power which occupied the
Marshalls and the Carolines is saying “If
you want them come and take them,” there
will have to be the most cordial understand-
ing and co-operation in matters of defence.
Reduction of the duties on matches led to
a lively rumpus in the House of Reps. Cus-
toms Minister White declared that an indus-
try which had been “treated very generously”
had “profiteered on an unprecedented scale,”
though good Australian matches can be
bought retail at sixpence the dozen boxes.
Little Parkhill continued the attack; Labor
members of both factions swarmed to the
defence; Riordan, the massive Queenslander,
was “named” and suspended ; so was Riley,
Of Cook (N.S,W.) ; Blakeley (Darling)
apologised, and Rosevear (Dailey) was
admonished for refusing to act as teller.
The gentlemen concerned in the hullabaloo
soon calmed down, and before the House
adjourned for Easter the familiar assurances
were given that they would still be jolly old
friends and implacable political enemies.
Seven followers of Argyle and Menzies
are in the field for the Boi'oondara (Vic.
Assembly) seat which Dick Linton,, the new
Agent-General, has relinquished. The very
proper feeling is to let them all have a go
and give the revenue the benefit of a few
forfeited deposits. The poll will be held not
later than May 13.
The sheeted ghosts of former speeches
have more than once risen up to gibber at
Queensland Premier Foggy Smith. Hold-
ing forth at Ipswich railway workshops,
Foggy commented bitterly on the writing
down of the Government railways capital
account by Moore and co. Godfrey Morgan,
who, as Moore’s Minister of Transport, was
largely responsible, points out that when in
Opposition Forgan ardently supported the
manoeuvre, and quotes “Hansard” to prove it.
Forced by pressure of public opinion, Vic.
Cabinet has authorised its two legal mem-
bers, Menzies and Macfarlan, to draft a bill
giving a wider discretion to the police than
Chief Commissioner Blarney holds they now
possess to permit street meetings where
there is no real obstruction to traffic. It
required the prosecution of three members
of the State Labor-Opposition party to bring
about this promise of a commonsense reform.
Indications are that the next Greater
Brisbane municipal election will be an even
more tangled Donnybrook. than the last.
“Parties” which nominated and elected can-
didates then were Labor, Civic Reform,
National Citizens and Non-party Progres-
sives ; there were nondescripts also. Now
the Country-Prog.-Nat. crowd is to run a
ticket. It talked of doing so last time, but
decided to withdraw “as a protest against
the introduction of party politics in a muni-
cipal election.” The restoration of the adult
franchise is the excuse for its swallowing its
earlier profession.
Queensland’s Labor Government has been
embarrassed by statements of indiscreet sup-
porters that the residential conditions govern-
ing the issue of rations to persons in distress
are to be relaxed. The present requirement
is that before a man can get rations he must
have been resident in Queensland for six
months. There has been an influx of appli-
cants for relief from N. S. Wales and other
States, and Hynes, the Minister of Labor,
protests that if all unemployed strangers
were accommodated, and no questions asked,
Queenslanders might have to go short.
Lang arranged with' one of the national
stafons to broadcast his speech on the Leg.
Council referendum, which was in the fami-
liar strain of abuse and misrepresentation.
But just when he was ready to begin a
“What’ll happen if this referendum’s car-
ried? Sixty of the noble reps, who
passed my ten per cent, tax on the
securities of the A.M.P. and other blood-
sucking institutions will lose their rail-
way and tramway passes? Can anyone
have the heart to vote Yes?”
condenser blew out, and his ’orrible revela-
tions had to be suspended for nearly a
quarter of an hour. It has been said that
modern machines work like, the human mind.
The 2BL plant seems to have a rudimentary
soul.
This Japanese disarmament proposal is
reported, amongst others, in the last
“Monthly Summary of the League”:—
Aircraft-carriers shall.be abolished, prohibiting at
the same time the construction of aircraft landing
platforms or decks on naval vessels.
It deserves to be remembered, whether or
not the Japanese complete the long opera-
tion of leaving the League. A hostile
warship couldn’t do any damage worth
mentioning to an Australian city even
if it was able to get so far. A man-o’-war
carries a limited number of shells (800 in
the case of a battleship) and it would take
ten times that number to make an impres-
sion on a great and scattered metropolis like
Sydney; while Melbourne and Adelaide are
protected from a sea-bombardment by their
inland positions. A bombardment from aero-
planes would be a different proposition. Rail-
way stations, wharves, docks and the like in
all our coastal cities could be destroyed from
the air in short order, to make no mention
of the damage that might be done to the
inhabitants by gas. And our air defences
are virtually nil.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Curtain Raiser”: Please mark this move-
ment Rondo. An orchardist made a bit
of money, and, desiring to see his son’s name
on a brass plate in the city, moved to Mel-
bourne. He gave the youth two or three
years in architecture at the Workingmen's
College, and then sent him to the Univer-
sity. The depression arrived, and the
boy had to go out and look for a job.
He tried at successive architects’ offices
wth negative results, and his father
began to be critical, accusing him of lack
of initiative. The lad interpreted this as
meaning that he was not audacious enough.
Next morning he walked into the office of
the venerable head of one of the oldest archi-
tectural firms in the city and, slapping his
hand on the great one’s desk, said breezily.
“I’m starting in on Monday.” “Eh?” said
the startled old gentleman. “I’m starting
here on Monday!” “What do you mean,
starting? Who told you you could?” The
youth’s courage was beginning to ooze away,
but he set liis. teeth and blurted out, “I did.
What you want is a capable, enterprising
young man to get your business moving, and
I’m the man to do it.” The old gentleman
fixed his eye coldly on the aspirant. “Look,
my boy,” he said slowly and deliberately,
“it’s lads like you this country wants. Go
to the country and grow oranges.”
* * * *
“H.P.”: James Edmond was a great
humorist, but I like best to think of him as
a humanist, one of the kindliest of men.
Early in this century I sent in a photograph
of my little daughter, aged four years, The
Bulletin having been printing a picture or
two of this kind. Edmond returned the
photo., explaining that if it were used there
would be an inundation of such from proud
parents. With the picture he enclosed ss. “to
buy the little , one a small gift, hoping she
will always be as good as she looks.” It
touched me more than I can say, coming
from a man who was immersed in the busy,
strenuous work of early Federation days
and helping to shape the destinies of a con-
tinent. The little girl is now a married
woman, and amongst her most treasured
possessions are the gift and the kindly note.
* sfc * ❖
“Rateower”: There is nothing the average
man likes better than taking a rise out of
authority. The other day the Lithgow
(N.S.W.) Council received a letter enclos-
ing a small dead fish. The writer remarked
that while he appreciated free fish, he would
be obliged if the council would foot the bill
of the plumber who removed the deceased
from his water-pipe. The council is con-
sidering the matter. An effective riposte
would be an inquiry as to whether the citi-
zen had taken out a fishing license, but per-
haps such things are unknown in Lithgow.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A Singapore paper recently
printed the information that H.M. the King
of Siam was bankrupt. A frenzied snort
from the local Siamese Consul-General
caused the staff to rush to its cable file. It
then transpired that it was a Mr. King, of
Bangkok, who had filed his schedule.
He * * *
“Kendall”: Hundreds of N. S. Wales and
probably other States’ unemployed know
exactly how Damocles felt with the sword
hanging over his head. Under the stress of
sheer necessity they have signed false declar-
ations as to their earnings in the previous
fortnight, and so made themselves liable to
a criminal charge. A man with’ five children
living near me was to my personal know-
ledge worried almost to death because, with
winter rapidly approaching, clothes for the
kiddies were an impossibility. After a long
workless spell he got a week’s job and earned
£3 10s. The way that money was spun out
in clothing was a work of art; the mother
tramped four miles to the cheaper shops so
as not to waste a precious sixpence. And
then someone potted him. Cqme an inspec-
tor, and next dole day food relief was
refused. I do not know how they got through
the ensuing fortnight, but they are still
alive. Surely a more humane system can be
devised for judging eligibility for food re-
lief, and one that makes some slight pro-
vision for the fact that a man must get
a' few pounds from somewhere annually to
clothe the kiddies. The present One places
a premium on legal (if not strictly moral)
dishonesty, and prevents hundreds of men
from seeking odd jobs.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: There is one aspect of the
proposed London-hlelbourne centenary air
race that ought to be considered. There will
probably be a wild rush of nominations, and,
even if rigid restrictions are placed on en-
trants, experience has shown that the route
is not one to be lightly tackled even by
flying aces. The San Francisco to Honolulu
race was a case in point. Several lives
were lost and thousands of dollars spent
searching for missing aviators.' Who will
accept the responsibility for lives lost and
cost of search parties in this case?
“COULD YER SPARE ME A TRIFLE TOWARDS PAYIN’ ME
PEW RENT, LADY?”
“Ixones”: The old Bluebell Inn, off
Hunter-street, Newcastle, now being demol-
ished, had a lurid past. In the days when
sailing-ships lay three abreast along the
wharves at Bullock Island, the Bluebell was
the headquarters of the operators who earned
a livelihood by “providing” crews at so much
per head. One Jack Sullivan, whose card
bore the inscription, “Boardinghouse-keeper,
pianos and Epsom salts,” used the Bluebell
and its strong waters to the detriment of
honest sailormen for many years. It was
recorded of Jack that he once shanghaied his
own partner, and on another occasion took
a corpse on board to make up the comple-
ment, the rest of the crew being as inani-
mate, when leaving the Bluebell, as the
dead man. In those days the masters’
accounts showed sums of money debited “to
providing a crew” as a regular thing, no
questions being asked, about the methods
adopted.
# ifc & ❖
“Farleigh”: How they still crop up in
the cables, some of these long-extinct cele-
brities! Horatio Bottomley, for in-
stance, allegedly twice a millionaire,
and a war-worker (on the home
front) whose services Kitchener
gratefully acknowledged, was para-
graphed the other day as a recipient
of the old-age pension of ten bob a
week at 72. And Robert Sievier,
who first leapt into the fierce light
of fame in the ’eighties as a Mel-
bourne cash bookmaker who punched
a Government House A.D.C. for not
paying him cash, and after that re-
turned home to marry a marquis’s
sister and make a great splash on
the turf, bobs up once more in the
evening of his chequered days as a
man who has tired out the patience
of the Bankruptcy Court by his
periodical insolvency. Sievier must
be older than Bottomley, and his
career has been quite as variegated.
He carried a rifle in the Kaffir and
Basuto wars of the ’seventies long
before he ever shouldered the bag on
Australian racecourses.
“Mells” : Charles Miller, a wealthy Can-
adian lawyer, who died seven years ago,
struck something novel in testamentary bene-
factions when he bequeathed £lOO,OOO to the
Toronto mother who should give birth . to
the largest number of children in the ten
years following his death. Canadian papers
describe Charles as an incorrigible practical
joker, but this bequest might be regarded
as a practical piece of anti-Stopes propa-
ganda ; Miller’s reputation as a humor-
ist apparently rests rather upon his
action in having bequeathed parcels of
distillery shares to several prominent tem-
perance reformers. Generally speaking, tes-
tamentary humor is more apt to be of a
grim or spiteful variety (han of the merely
rollicking sort, and it is indulged in at the
testator’s own risk, the Courts being liable
to regard attempted posthumous jokes as
evidence of an unbalanced frame of mind.
* * * *
“Cantilever”: “Spasebo” ■ (B. 29/3/’33)
slips when he accuses the Nauru Admin-
istration of prohibiting the use of toddy.
Toddy ferments in a few days, and
develops a kick and a smell unapproaclied
in any sort of alcohol I have ever
sampled. It is this “sour” stuff which
has been prohibited, and not the fresh,
which is quite palatable and non-intoxi-
cating, The increase, in infant mor-
tality was due to the Nauru mother
bottle-feeding her infant on sugar and water.
The Administration then rationed the sugar,
and the native population can now purchase
only lib. a head ~ per week by means of
coupons. Brown flour and brown rice are
also sold to the natives for their own good;
any storekeeper who sells “white” flour or
“white” rice to a Nauruan is liable to
a heavy penalty.
“Ibn el Issar”:
The fact that the
late Jam Sahib
of Nawanagar
was an adopted
heir to the digni-
ties of his prede-
cessor, just as is
his own succes-
sor, Raj Kumar
Digvijsinhji, calls
attention to a
very ancient In-
dian custom
whereby relation-
ship by adoption
carries with it all
the privileges of
actual blood.
Nowadays the
consent of the
Indian Govern-
ment must be
obtained, and this'
has not always
been easy to get.
The custom is re-
sponsible for the
inordinate length
of the pedigrees
of Indian reign-
ing princes, pedi-
grees which their
bards are wont to
chant at full
length at their-
i n a u : g u ration
ceremonies and
other great func-
tions. That of
the Maharajah of
Udaipore, whose
dynasty is the
most ancient in
India, takes two
days to recite,
and the unfortu-
nate English offi-
cials who have to
listen to it are
said to be never
the same again.
The historic
Welshman whose
pedigree carried
half-way down it
the note “About
this time the
Flood occurred”
would be considered a parvenu by a Rajput
herald-poet.
* if. *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: “Cosmos” (B.
29/3/’33) is right in advancing its winds as
the chief objection to open-air cafes in
Sydney. In Melbourne the objection is
invalid ; you get weeks of still, sunny weather
round about October and in March and
April, and also many lucid intervals even in
the depths of winter. In Europe there is
plenty of blusterous weather, but the cafe
proprietor checkmates it by having part of
his cafe enclosed and part open-air; as the.
waiters live on tips, there is no lack of
hands for shifting the props in or out of
doors, as occasion warrants. However, the
important thing is what advantage is taken
of the open-air convenience. The average
Australian is curiously self-conscious when
eating in public and congenitally hostile to
any environment other than that of his sub-
urban residence. A party of Bohemian artists
dining uproariously under the trees in Paris
excites no comment in the passer-by, whereas
in an Australian city they would probably
create a scandal, and, if wine was included
in their menu, bring down the Cold Tea
phalanxes on them.
* * * *
“Jeames”: Sydney’s Union Club never does
things in a hurry. It is nearly 15 years
since the Armistice, yet the aged institution
has only just decided to delete its war-time
rule that “no German or Austrian subject
shall be eligible for membership or shall be
introduced as a guest.” The great London
clubs readmitted their pre-war German and
Austrian members years ago. Perhaps the
most interesting reconciliation of the sort
was the re-election of Prince Bliicher to
thp Wellington. This club is within a stone’s
throw of the town house which the nation
gave to the Iron Duke (and whose windows
he refused to have mended when a London
mob smashed them as a protest against his
attitude towards Catholic Emancipation) ,
and the present Bliicher is a descendant of the
man who helped Wellington to win Waterloo.
All the Germans and Austrians who once
belonged to the Union are now dead, or in
Germany, but there are several former
enemy-subjects who may benefit by the
deleted rule. Dr. Asmis, for example The
German Consul-General has always been a
member of the Union. *<
* * * *
“X.S.”: A young man met a perfect
stranger in Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. The
p.s. had a friend with something interesting
on his person. It was a gold "watch worth
at least £l5, the young man’s new friend
considered. Still, the second stranger was
prepared to part with the treasure for a
tenner, as he wanted the passage money to
return to his native country—probably
Utopia. Moreover, to make everything fair
and aboveboard, he insisted o’n taking the
young man to a Collins-street jeweller to
have the watch valued, and by an extraordi-
nary coincidence they met the manager just
coming out to lunch. The manager had no
hesitation in confirming the original valua-
tion as he walked along the pavement, and
the voung man promptly drew £lO out of
the bank and bought‘ the timepiece. A few
hours later the police found him wandering
in the street with a severe head wound, self-
inflicted with an iron bar after he had learnt
that his purchase was worth 7s. 6d. The
damage to the head was an alibi for the
benefit of his mother, who was nomt-holder
of the banking account, tp go with a story
of how he had been, set on by robbers.
“IF IT COMES TO THE WORST.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In an address with the above title at the Con-
stitutional* Club, Melbourne, Professor L. F. Giblin
expressed the opinion that the world would not
recover from the present depression without a general
lowering of established standards of comfort.”
If it comes to the worst —well, there isn’t
a doubt
Of the numerous things we can manage
without.
When boiled leg of mutton the menu is on,
Caper sauce isn’t really a sine qua non ,
As Weller admitted a century agone,
While the absence of horse-radish caused him
but brief
Regrets in the presence of plenty of beef.
And there’s many a man who’s accustomed
to drain
His bottle of hock or his pint of champagne
May find, in the slogan that breweries sling,
That a quart of good ale is a dish for a king,
And just as effective in slaking a thirst—
If it comes to the worst.
If it comes to the worst, we might go
-without hats
(As lots do already), white vest-slips and
spats,
And other quaint fads of the natty and
spruce
Intended for ornament rather than use.
For which, in the male, there’s but little
excuse.
We might struggle along with less numerous
bars ;
We could put an embargo on fags and cigars.
And make these extravagant flappers and
snipes
Blow clouds (if they must) like Stan Bald-
win from pipes.
For myself, from remote academical days,
I’ve always been partial to corncobs and
clays;
And I’ll tackle black shag, which I boggled
at erst—
If it comes to the worst..
If it comes to the worst, we can do, I
suppose,
Or continue to do, without vaudeville shows.
We can do without opera, comic or grand,
The theatrical fare they denominate
“canned”
Being seemingly ample to meet the demand.
We could do without racing, I’d venture
to say, ,
Except for the howl of dissent and dismay
Such a statement would bring—but I think
you’ll confess
We’d survive if the clubs were restricted
to less.
We could do without Tests, that at least I’ll
affirm,
If not in perpetuum at least for a term.
And there won’t be much more upon Can-
berra disbursed—- '
If it comes to the worst.
DON’T BLAME THE WOMAN!
“I think a woman should be willing to go through anything for a man nowadays.”
“So do I—but so few of them have anything.”
If -it comes to the worst, these political
birds
May have to be docked by one-half or two-
thirds.
He’s a rare one wdio merits the wage that
he draws
For the onerous labor of wagging his jaws,
And our sesquipedalian lawmaking horde
Is more than the wealthiest land could
afford.
I repeat that there isn’t a shadow of doubt
There are oodles of things we could manage
without :
Tin hares, for example, and astrachan coats,
And the Government gambles that Whiddon
promotes
Each week. We may yet see his cohorts
dispersed— •
If it comes to the worst.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Old Banker”: In my early career it was
usual to send the newly-joined junior on an
errand to buy striped paint or to get a red-
and-black ink fountain-pen from the mes-
senger. I didn’t fall for these, but I did
on my first balance night, having been duly
instructed to that end, collect all the blot-
ting-paper and the pens, take the nibs out,
count them and put them in separate heaps
during the absence of the staff at tea. I can
still remember what the first clerk to return
said. But the modern junior seems just as
unsophisticated. I recently heard of a new
entrant who marched into another bank,
: dumped a large cashbag on the counter and
said he had been sent to collect the spare
overdrafts.
* * *
“Mug”: It has-been reserved for the win-
ner of a Government lottery to establish the
fact that buyers of lottery tickets need not
give their right names or addresses. Hitherto
the lias been for drawers of big
prizes—particularly those who' brought
off the 100,000-to-l chance against landing
a first prize—to confide reluctant details
of their careers to newspaper reporters.
What matter that four-fifths of them claimed
to be on the dole? The effect was to bring
every sponger and impostor for miles round
to their front doors with often truculent
demands for immediate assistance. The
writer heard of one £5OOO winner who re-
ceived so many urgent appeals from chari-
ties, allegedly • ailing and destitute . strangers
and previously unheard-of neighbors, who
would be ruined and driven to self-destruc-
tion unless they were promptly supplied with
sums ranging from £5 to £lOO, that he left
for a remote part of the country, and hasn’t
dared to return home since. The name given
by the buyer of the ticket that won the first
prize in the lottery in question “does not
appear in the directory or electoral rolls
for his district.” It doesn’t matter. In
future 999 buyers of lottery tickets out of
HOPE FOR THE FUTURE.
REBELLIOUS HUSBAND: “I don’t believe there’s another man in the world who’d be
such a fool as I am.”
CONFIRDENT MADAME: “Well, that’s something to know.”
every thousand are likely to use impene-
trable aliases , and'the members of the power-
ful Cadgers’ Union will be deprived of a
fruitful source of revenue.
* * * *
“T. 1.”: Thursday Islanders who had
heard rumors of strange craft in the Strait,
and had even seen one disappear in rapid
time when a launch went out to investigate,
were able to get an eyeful of one of the
visitors last month. A launch with officials
of the Customs and Shipping Departments
aboard hurried out when the most recent
caller was reported from Goode Island signal
station, apd persuaded her to come in and
explain why she had omitted to answer sig-
nals. About a hundred feet long, shaped
like a big junk, without masts and pro-
pelled by crude-oil' engines _of powerful type,
she caused considerable interest with her
crew of 40 Japanese. Several tons of trochus
was aboard, and she had diving equipment;
but her papers were in order and she was
allowed to pass on after contributing a
tenner for failing to respond when called
upon. Her captain admitted working the
rce f s <jown the coast; but a suggestion that
bp had been poaching was indignantly
denied Other similar craft have been re-
pol.te(j- £r0 U m along* the coast and in Torres
Strait waters; and they seem to accord
with the description of a fleet of Japanese-
owned and -licensed vessels which are said
t& be ope rating f rom a point north of New
Guinea. They carry full supplies of fuel.
StoSf a Som^''wMle a back^ a tihe
of Dutch New Guinea discovered a foreign
ttsi
Bland visitor should congratulate him
selt - -
*
“Percy Pawnticket”: “.Teames” is right in
his assumptioh that there are establishments
in Sydney which rent out “toppers and the
rest to bridegrooms for the fatal day” (B.
22/3/ 3o) ; but they aren t all old-clo. shops.
At least two concerns specialise in
Providing top-hats, frock-coats and evening-
suits for occasions on which y ,
yarded as essential. They also supplj
theatrical and fancy-dress costumes; mt tip
other thin g is their mainstay. Ihe clothes
are kept pretty busy and they are invariably
t”d me that one frSek-coat and the correa
'fc eaTali"
ie - 1 ™ reS at the short-
“J out ab i m h ” decided pr”-
e f f re " a e for Owning the clothes they are
111,111 1 ■
* * *
“Retired Volt”: I find “Morse’s” story (B.
29,/3/’33j of the two cousins who were
brought together through the similarity of
their touch on a telegraph key somewhat
hard to swallow. The touch of a .Morse
sender is the same in kind, if not in the
quality of its final product, as that of a
piano virtuoso. An operator may, for phy-
sical or psychological reasons, have more
difficulty with one letter than another; he
may have to slow down over the four dots
of an “h” or rush the dash-dot-dash-dash of
a “y,” for instance. In order to possess the
same peculiarities, the two cousins would
have had to inherit the same muscular con-
ditions and be influenced by the same
environment. However, it is true, that a
telegraphist at one end of a wire . can
be recognised at the other as easily as if he
were speaking to you on the telephone; and
I knew of one cable operator whose pres-
ence on a route could be recognised 10,000
miles away. He always made an anguished
pause before, the letter “e,” and this tended
to break a single word up into two or even
more. If he were in Perth and you.Avere
in London, you always knew the blighter
was on duty somewhere in the system be-
cause of the enormous number of messages
arriving with “wrong number of words’ in
the preamble.
“Binduli”: It is rare to read of a civil
servant helping . himself to Government
money (though it does happen occasion-
ally) ; harder still to recall one who has
taken down his employers for a considerable
sum and absolutely baffled detection and pur-
suit. Westralia had one amazing case a
quarter of a century ago. The delinquent
wa s a trusted officer and a popular citizen
through whose hands there passed (or should
have) all the Government dues collected on
the eastern goldfields. His headquarters were
a t Kalgoorlie. The first story of his disappear-
ance came like a bolt from the blue, after
which a lot of people remembered that they
had seen him betting heavily at the races,
presumably in a desperate effort to make up
his shortages. But he timed his exit with
a deal of astuteness; it. was just on the
eve of the Easter holidays, pnd it was
several days before his accounts could be
investigated. Still, even with a few days
start of the police, it was no easy thing for
a well-known man to get out of an isolated
State, let alone out of Australia, in those
days. None the less, he managed it, probably
nobody but himself will ever know how, leav-
ing no trace or clue of any kind behind him.
He simply vanished, as into thin air, pos-
sibly to begin a new career in some other
part of the world. The amount that had
to be replaced ran into thousands.
* * * *
“Borossia”: The Hitler Government
has restored sword-duelling among members
of the various student corps at the German
universities; it had
been banned since
the Kaiser’s day.
The practice is con-
fined to members of
the corps, admit-
tance to which is
jealously guarded.
They must take part
in a fixed number of
duels, after which
they are free from
obligation. The duel-
ling is done with the
Schldger , a keen-
edged, whippy sabre.
Both combatants are
heavily padded, and
while the head is
bare the eyes are
goggled. All the
sword play is done
with the wrist, the
padding of the arms
preventing any use
of them, and the
fencers must .stand
firm. The “give” in
the Schldger enables
it to be flicked down
over the adversary’s
guard, and thus are
inflicted the face
and head scars which
the German corps
student values far
more than an Eng-
lish university man
does a Blue. The
game rises to its
supreme heights in
inter-corps and! inter-
university encoun-
ters.
“X.S.”: Thieves
recently purloined
£3OOO worth of false
teeth from a Mel-
bourne dentist. The
disposal of the goods
should provide a fine
exercise for their in-
genuity. There is not one chance in a million
of a set fitting a customer. Country store-
keepers used to keep a stock of these human
spare parts for individual selection, just as
some of them still keep a small range of
spectacles, but nowadays most settlers can
reach a proper dentist.
* ❖ *
“Youngest Inhabitant” : Re the statement
(B. 5/4/’33) that the late W. H. Teale’s
great-grandparents arrived as free settlers in
1788. Apart from the convicts, every man
who came with the First Fleet held some
appointment in the military or civil estab-
lishment. Phillip was constantly lament-
ing the absence of free settlers, but not
until January, 1793, did the first batch,
11 in all, arrive by the Bellona. John
Teale’s flour-mill at Windsor was in exist-
ence as early as 1830, being then known as
the Endeavour Mill. Its tall chimney, a
prominent landmark for about 65 years, was
demolished in 1896.
#%* * .
“ Jeviel”: The reception of Kingsford
Smith at Mascot on his arrival from M.L.
showed the psychology of a hero-worshipping
crowd at its worst. Fifteen thousand ex-
cited beings broke the barriers, overwhelmed
the police and rushed .crazily towards the
spot, where the ’plane was aiming to land.
It just beat th,cm, and then they surged
round the taxi-ing machine, blind to the
danger of the racing propellers, clutching at
the fuselage door and cabin windows. The
weary pilot, his nerves frayed by the strain
of 14 hours at the joystick, and stone-deaf
from the roar of his engines, was forced
out of consideration for the lives of his tor-
mentors to stop the machine. A squad of
police dragged several souvenir snatchers off
the tail, and rescued the airman; they had to
do some hard battling through the crowd
before they could get him to the Aero Club,
where he was treated for injuries received
from a barbed-wire boundary-fence. _ And
then, with heroic regard for convention, he
had to express appreciation of his enthusi-
astic reception !
* ❖ * ❖
“Buna” : I don’t want to detract
reputation of the M.L. soldier (B. 5/4/’33),
but it was probably something a little more
substantial than conscience that urged the
return of that Bloemfontein church bell. The
M.L. Government not long ago had a muster
of Boer souvenirs in the Dominion, and
returned Bibles and other mementoes. offi-
cially to their rightful owners or inheritors.
An item like a church bell would be looked
upon with severe disapproval, it being the
height of bad form in M.L. to exhibit any
relic of the South African campaign other
than a stamp with a cut of Oom Paul ou it.
* * * *
“Lex”: Cecil Bishop, a former Scotland
Yard ’tec, said, according to Sydney “Sun,
“Australian criminals, as most people know,
are the finest safe-blowers in the world. Me
gave as a reason that Australian banks were
“often in small and isolated towns.” But
America has a hundred small-town banks
to Australia’s one, and Yanks are notori-
ously incompetent bank-robbers. Actujlly,
there have been relatively few bank rob-
beries —barring amateurish smash-and-grab
counter affairs—in Australia during the last
decade and Australians were not responsible
for the few really big jobs that have been
pulled off. A late unlamented, sometimes
referred to as “Australia’s best safe-blower,
was born and trained in M.L. Fences have
done much to kill the industry. The hign-
class safe-blower prefers pearls and
diamonds to notes —the passport system
makes it impossible to take them out or
the country—and iences pay st ™£ on
prices for jewellery. Cm*l-sha and c
fidence-trickery are the fields nn which Au.
tralian crooks enjoy an “Bernational repu
tation. Their prep, schools are country
race-meetings ; they go on to K“awicK
and Flemmgton if they show ollls ®' allc ’
after short graduation on I . andl D.
and Orient liners, tjiey usu ay > 1
fessional chambers m the M est L nd A
London. Still, at least °0 pe c •
practitioners who, when arrested, claim to De
THE FIRST ROW.
“I mean exactly what I said, Ethel. I call a spade a spade.
“But you don’t call a chib a club. You call that working back
at the office.”
Australians are Britons or Americans. One
notices a similar phenomenon in the case ot
those who follow an even older profession
than confidence-trickery they almost invari-
ably claim to be actresses.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The Oxford Union Society re-
cently passed a pious resolution that “in no
circumstances will this house fight for king
and country”—or words to that effect —and
the Sydney Uni. debaters, I read the other
day, would have followed suit if the
“speaker” hadn't refused to take a vote by
leaving the chair. These pacifist gestures
are all very well, but the attitudes taken
seem to me to rest on the utterly false
assumption that it takes two nations to start
a war, whereas one has often proved suffi-
cient. I want to know what young men who
declare that they wouldn’t fight for their
country in any circumstances would do if
it were invaded without a word of warning
or a glimmer of excuse. Would they
cave in, crumple up, take it lying down, set
their necks under the foreign yoke? As
well ask what any citizen worth his salt
would do if his house were invaded by bur-
glars. Alderman Jock Garden reasoned on
the same false premises as these university
pacifists when he remarked last week: “A
time would come when people would say to
the few who wanted war —‘Go and fight it
out by yourselves in a paddock.’ ” But what
did Jock himself do when his house was
entered last year at the dead of night by
persons who had no business there? Loosed
the dog, didn’t he?
* * * *
“E.D.”: “Spare Wren” (B. 22/3/’33) in-
cludes Lincoln Cathedral among those “built
on alluvial flats close to a river.” One of
its chief glories is that it, together’ with
Lincoln Castle, is on the top of a hill.
* * * *
“D.”: A queer reversal of form is notice-
able in the respective advts. of movie and
“legitimate” shows. Some years ago moral-
ists were scandalised by the pornographic
flavor of the talkie advts. Things got so
bad about the time “Flaming Youth” was
screened that reformers who had never pre-
viously had a good word to say for the stage
began praising it as a comparatively healthy
influence. Nowadays, most talkie advts. are
“respectable,” inasmuch as they deal chiefly
with murder and robbery, while the legit,
is pursuing business on such lines as these:
The things they are saying about
“WHILE PARENTS SLEEP”
“I was staggered.” 1 “Hot stuff for a cold
“I took my boy. John j night.”
blushed first.”
The truth is the theatre in Australia has
always purveyed “hot stuff for a cold night ’
with a far more generous hand than the
films, though those who, like most clerical
critics, rely on advts. for their information
can’t be induced to believe it. I have rarely
known a seeker after blushes who didn’t
come away from a movie with complaints
that his money had been obtained under false
pretences. On the other hand, I have rarely
known one who failed to admit, that plays
like “While Parents Sleep” had indeed stag-
gered him. The fact that the theatre isn’t
much troubled by the censor may have
something to do with it.
' * * * *
“Pot ’At”: The “bowler” hat, may be
hideous in feminine eyes (B. 5/4/’33), but
it has its good points. One is that it is a
fair protection against a whack on the head
or a fall thereon. Another is that it can
be fitted on tightly enough to resist the wind,
which should recommend it to the citizens ot
Sydney.
IN THE MOONLIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the daylight she is plain and unattractive ;
The blemishes show up upon her face;
Her hazel eyes are quite devoid of sparkle ;
Of real beauty there is scarce a trace.
She doesn’t dress in modernistic fashion;
There’s nobody would call her “chic” or
“smart” ;
But when you take her out into the moon-
light
She’s* a girl to find her way into your
heart.
Her face is soft as silk and smooth as safin;
Her hazel eyes seem dark, yet flash with
light;
Her lips are warm and red, her teeth are
gleaming;
Her little arms are, round and very white.
She has a pose that 'makes her fascinating ;
She’d stir the coldest from his mental
calm;
She fires your blood like wine and leaves
you spellbound.
A David would have put her in a psalm.
VICTORIA.
IMPO.


The dipstic/i Ml proiHi
Drain your crankcase and refill with SHELL OIL.
The Dipstick will prove its Greater Mileage and
Economy Start testing today.
\\\l
\
€
SHELL OIL
is bettor
SI34S.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Right Rev. Howard West Kilvinton
Mowll, Sydney’s new archbishop, is 43 years
of age and 6ft. 4in. in stature. Dover was
his birthplace; the King’s School, Canter-
bury, and King’s College, Cambridge, were
his educational training grounds; and after
being ordained he was tutor, professor and
finally Dean of Wycliffe College, Toronto.
He left Canada to become an assistant
bishop in China and went up a step seven
years ago. In China, too, he married ; his
wife’s father was the Rev. John Martin, of
the Church Missionary Society. The Mowll
family has strong _ church tendencies; a
cousin of the archbishop is Rector of St.
Aldate’s, Oxford.
Bill Denny’s is the most surprising defeat
in South Aus.; he has (unless last-minute
figures upset all calculations) been tossed out
of Adelaide after sitting there for 27 years.
Bill, who was running the local R.C. weekly
paper at the time, followed Charley Kings-
ton in West Adelaide in 1900 ; but he didn’t
settle down comfortably until seven years
later. Since then he has mostly been
Attorney-General whenever a Labor Attorney-
General was wanted —he read for the Bar
soon after he was sent to Parliament. Jimmy
Mitchell, the W. A. Premier, who also loses
his seat, lias sat in it for 2S years contin-
uously. Denny sat for Adelaide altogether
for 30 years.
Butler, who will be the new Premier of
South Aus., is a. son of a former Premier —
“Dismal Dick.” The new man, another Dick,
isn’t much of an optimist either. In South
Aus. the political bug is apt to be passed
on from father to son. Homburg, who will
be Attorney-General, is the son of a former
Attorney-General and Judge. Other S- Aus-
tralian fathers and sons wlio have climbed
high in local politics include the Bakers
(John Premier, Richard Attorney-General and
first President of the Senate), Kingstons
(father Speaker, son Premier), Hawkers
(father Speaker, sons M’s.P.), Stirlings
(father M.L.C., son 30 years President of
the Council). And Tom Price, first Labor
Premier, was followed in the Assembly by
a son.
The N. S. Wales Government made a
happy choice when it named L. F. Harper
Government Geologist. Harper succeeds
E. C. Andrews, who was appointed in
1920 and gave up active work a couple of
years ago, prior to retiring. During 41
years’ work with the Government Geological
Survey, his successor has gained a good
knowledge of all the important mineral fields
of the State, and the results of his labors
are reflected in numerous departmental pub-
lications. Some of his most useful work
for the man outback has be e n done in
L. F. HARPER, new N.S.W. Government
Geologist.
connection with the underground water re-
sources of western N. S. Wales. His wide
knowledge and readiness to assist have made
him a real friend to all in search of infor-
mation. „ He was at King’s School in the
late ’eighties, where he was a contemporary
of David Maughan, K.C.
W. J. Ryott Maughan, whose death in
Queensland is reported, was at one time a
prominent figure in State and Federal Labor
politics. He came to Queensland as a lad
and became a journalist, eventually running
one of the Ipswich papers. He entered State
politics as member for Ipswich in 1898,
being defeated next year. He went back to
the Assembly in 1904 and became Deputy-
Speaker for a time. In 1913 and the follow-
ing year he was elected to .the Senate, but
was defeated in 1917.
Major Conder, who has doubled the £lOOO
p.a. he was drawing as organiser of Mel-
bourne’s centenary by taking on the job of
supplying Australia’s radio menu, came into
prominence during the war, when he had
charge of the biggest concentration of German
internees in Australia —at Langwarrin (Vic.).
He kept them quiet by putting on very fine
MAJOR CONDER, new broadcasting
chief.
theatrical entertainments, taking down car-
loads of Melbourne’s leading stage talent
pretty well every week-end. After that he
was in charge of Pent ridge for three years,
during a very hectic period in the history of
the prison. From that job he graduated
to J.C.W., where he was grouch man,
and had the onerous duty of keeping the
staff sweet; during the Firm’s control of
Victorian broadcasting he became. 3LO’s
manager, and helped to double the number of
listeners, an incentive being a percentage on
new licenses. His next was the centenary
preparations. Conder is an amateur pug. and
still referees at Victoria’s amateur citadel
of stoush.
The Vic. Ministry paid Sir T. Vansittart
Bowater, M.P., who was Lord Mayor of Lon-
don in 1913-14, the compliment of inviting
him to lunch at Parliament House. As one
of the members of the Commons for the City
of London Sir Vansittart is entitled to sit
on the Treasury bench on the first day of
the opening of a session. This was a privi-
lege bestowed by the House in recognition
of the city’s protection of the five members,
Pym, Hampden, Hazlerig, Holies and Strode,
whom Charles I. tried to arrest when he
invaded the Mother of Parliaments.
Brig.-Geiieral Carl Herman Jess, C.M.G.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., who relieves Major Conder
as organiser of Melbourne’s centenary cor-
roboree, is Bendigo-born. He began his
war service at the front as a staff captain,
and ended as one of the youngest brigadier-
generals—he was 32 when he commanded the
10th Infantry Brigade in 1918. After the
Armistice he was appointed Director-
General of A.I.F. demobilisation. He started
work as a school-teacher.
G.-G. Isaacs and Duffy, C.J. of the High
Court, are the only two survivors of the
first batch of 17 K.C.’s created by Vic.
Executive Council at the beg'nning of 1901,
just after Queen Vic. died. Most of the 17
were Q.C.’s and hadn’t to bother about tak-
ing out fresh letters patent. Isaacs, as Vic.
Attorney-General, signed the Order in Coun-
cil appointing the K.C.’s.
Fred Scarfe, chairman of directors of
Harris, Scarfe and Co. in Adelaide, retires
after 30 years on the board, about half of
them in the 'chair. There has not been a
Harris in the co. for 60 years : it has been
all Law-Smiths and Scarfes; and Fred
Scarfe is the last of his name. The new
chairman is P. J. A. Lawrence, director of
several companies and chairman of the Auto-
mobile Association.
There are probably not many cases in Aus-
tralia of father and son each enjoying a
civil-service pension, but Charles French,
Vic. State Entomologist, who has just
reached the 65-year age limit, will join his
father as a pensioner. The elder French,
who is still going strong at 90, was the
Cabbage State’s leading plant biologist in
the days of the great Baron von Muller;
his son has followed in father’s footsteps.
The younger French’s services to Australian
horticulture have been enormous, and if his
researches are not preserved in book form
science will be the loser. The Government,
badgered for funds, may not even appoint
a successor.
Colonel Herbert Collett, who succeeds Hal
Colebatch as a Westralian Senator, was
born in Guernsey 55 years ago and arrived
in Perth at the age of seven. He entered
the public service when he .was 14, and
joined the volunteers at 17, rising to the
command of the 11th Regiment. When the war
came he raised and commanded the 28tb
Battalion of the A.1.F., and served in Egypt,
on Gallipoli and in France. The D.S.O. and
the C.M.G. are among his war winnings.
For many years he has been Assistant Sec-
retary and Librarian of Perth’s Public
Library, Museum and Art Gallery, and since
1925 he has been State president of the
R.S.L. The colonel has published two books,
“Infantry in Attack” (1906) and “The 28th,
a Record of War Service” (1922).
Died at Dongarra (W.A.), at 80, C. W.
F. T. Russell, one-time Chief Inspector of
the Union Bank at Adelaide, and later
general manager at Melbourne. His grand-
father, Thomas Jameson, was surgeon in the
First Fleet.
Sid Kidman, the cattle king-more-or-less,
is off to Europe, with his wife. The restless
old man—he is 76 —has been going for a
year or so, but always the doctor has said
no. However, his deafness has been gradu-
ally getting worse; and probably he couldn’t
hear the doctor at the end.
The Salvation Army has been celebrating
the half-century of its existence in Maoriland.
Captain George Pollard preached the new
evangel in Dunedin on April 1, 1883, and
received £3O from General Booth to establish
the M.L. organisation there. Pollard, who left
the Army a qtfarter of a century ago, is a
forceful personality in London, and cham-
pioned the cause of Bramwell Booth in his
bout with the High Council a few years ago.
When The Bulletin sets up its own
peerage it is going to make John Flynn a
duke and Allan Vickers an earl—-or a
viscount, whichever he likes. John Flynn
is the Presbyterian parson in charge of the
Inland Mission and Allan Vickers is the
mission’s “flying doctor.” He has been
doing the job for over two' years now, with
his base at Cloncurry, in the Farthest West
of Queensland, and, with Eric Donaldson
as pilot, flown over 50,000 miles. Prac-
tically all the flights have been in response
to wireless or other calls for help (the mis-
“The Flying Doctor.”
sion is responsible for a network of wire-
less stations, too, the power for some ot
them supplied by human legs working a pair
of bicycle pedals), and, though the landings
have had to be in all sorts of places, there
has not been one accident of any conse-
quence. The flying doctor’s longest dash
was 1500 miles. A man had been terribly
injured by an explosion. Dr. Vickers saw
that the only hope was to get him in to the
operating theatre of a well-equipped hospi-
tal ; so picking up the patient and his
mother (the ’plane is big enough to carry
a stretcher), a bee-line was made for Bris-
bane. The service costs £2500 a year—and
money doesn’t grow on bushes out where
the flying doctor goes.
James Kell, who followed Denison Miller
as governor of the Commonwealth Bank,
died last week, aged 68. Kell was no show-
man: he was shy and often inarticulate.
But he had a quick brain in his heavy body,
and there was force of character behind it.
The inside story of his separation from the
JAMES KELL, late governor Common-
wealth Bank.
Commonwealth Bank is mostly a story of
conflict with the then Treasurer, Dr. Earle
Page. The two were widely unlike. Page
wanted the bank to do much more for the
farmer; Kell insisted that he could not
allow the bank to be used for anything but
strictly banking business. Kell had reached
an age when he felt that he would like more
ease and comfort than the future promised
in office; so he refused reappointment and
he went out. H'e had got liis early training
with the E., S. and A. (he was born near
Mittagong), and afterwards transferred to
the ’Asia, whose inspector he was when
Denison Miller invited him over as his
deputy.
Louis Stone’s “Jonah” has just been issued
from the Endeavour Press with this remark-
able recommendation from John Galsworthy,
reproducer! in facsimile 011 the back of the
“jacket”: “Dear Mr. Stone, —I’ve lapped up
your novel, which I think extraordinarily
actual, vivid and good.—John Galsworthy.”
Knight J. W. Ivirwan, President of the
Westralian Leg. Council, who has been
examining the Dail Eireann at close range,
might more conscientiously have stayed at
home and given the anti-secessio'iists a lead,
for few men had more to do with bringing
Westralia into the Union 33 years ago than
the young man who was then editor of the
“Kalgoorlie Miner.” In those days strenu-
ous advocacy of Federation floated three of
the State’s first quintette of Reps, into their
seats. The three were Kirwan, the late
Hugh Mahon and J. M. Fowler, who was
secretary of the Federation League in Perth.
Fowler held his seat until 1922 and Mahon,
though out of a couple of Parliaments,
didn’t finally disappear until 1920, but Kir-
wan was beaten by Labor after his first
term and betook himself to State politics.
John Scott, once chief reporter on Auckland
“Herald,” was discovered dead recently in a
small farmhouse at St. Leonards (Otago).
Living a h'ermit-like existence, he was
assumed to be poor, but search revealed that
he was worth £lO,OOO. One room of his
house was filled with ancient Bulletins
and stacks of other journals; the veteran
had made a hobby of collecting first editions
of all sorts of newspapers.
During the past three years it has been
necessary to reduce the space previously
given to fiction, with the result that The
Bulletin has accumulated the finest collec-
tion of short stories ever held at one time.
It is now possible to. again give more space
to these stories, and the first of the series
are now being printed—they began with
“Old Mortality” in The Bulletin of April
s—and5 —and they will be continued week by week.
The writers include Katharine Susannah
Prichard, Vance Palmer, Albert Dorrington.
Arthur Adams, William Hatfield, Randolph
Bedford, Hugh McCrae, Steele Rudd, J. H.
M Abbott, John Dailey, E. M. Gurney
(the writer of “Old Mortality”), Harold
Mercer, E. V. Timms and practically every
other of front, rank in Australia, Maoriland
and the islands.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether- with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
n'oriobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Your Last Year’s Will
May Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Direotor. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Call or Write for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Any Test Will Prove
PIONEER SUPERIORITY
In Australia’s leading industries
where transmission belting is
selected with the same care as
other sections of the plant you
will find Pioneer Belting giving
many years of efficient service.
When you buy Pioneer Belting
you immediately overcome
breakdowns, loss of power and
costly repairs.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Finds.
££,£,£ £
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
193 J . . 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
Mncludes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458 ;
1923, £3708 ; 1926, £5208 ; 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Prdfit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO . . 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 625,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 658,766
*lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £l4BO ; 1924, £1966; 1925, £3473;
1926-32, £7500 p.a.
In the two departments combined £70,229
of last year’s takings remained in the busi-
ness, or £19,230 less than was ploughed in
during the previous year. The contraction
was due to (1) a drop in interest earnings,
(2) growth in exes, and (3) heavier crop of
Ordinary claims. Nevertheless, bonuses to
policy-holders were maintained at the old
rates, thanks to the stronger protection
which had been given to policy contracts by
lowering the basis of valuation (this has
helped to soften the blow from reduction in
interest), and to the provision which had
been made for other contingencies. When
the books closed, in addition to Assurance
funds totalling £1,105,732 (up £69,992 dur-
ing the year), there were other reserves
aggregating £85,637.
The office now assumes that the amount
reserved to cover liabilities under Ordi-
nary policies ■ftill net only 3 p.c. as
against 3i p.c. formerly. In the Industrial
section the assumed rate is still 3£ p.c., but
the margin of loading has been increased, the
aim being to lessen the shrinkage in the
divisible surplus there. Thus, over the last
two years, an extra £43,992 has been added
to the actuarial reserves as well. After de-
ducting taxes, last year’s net return on mean
funds was 3.46 p.c. in the Ordinary and 3.66
p.c. in the Industrial branch as against s*B
p.c. and 5.9 p.c. respectively in 1929. The fall
is due to ■ the growth in taxation and cuts
in interest, the full effects of which were
felt for the first time last year.
In the Ordinary department th*re was a
spring of £22,389 in the amount, of new busi-
ness put on the books during 1932: —-
1920. 1929. 1931. 1932.
New policies. . 1,226 1,911 1,009 1,316
Assuring .. £186,988 £476,786 £198,787 £221,176
First premiums 7,349 15,024 5,032 6,966
Renewal
premiums .. 23,225 62,343 68,545 68,005
After deducting taxes, the balance of
the year’s exes, took 19.7 of the year’s net
premiums (including consideration for annu-
ities, £2732) as against 19.2, 22.3 and 25.7
p.c. for the three preceding years. The new
business cost 115 p.c. as against 123 p.c.
in 1931; that is assuming that first pre-
miums are 10 times more expensive than
renewals.
An extra £43,485 of new business was put
on the books in the Industrial section:—
1920. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Policies .. 11,771 13,511 8,381 10,538
Assuring . . £505,638 £661,230 £341,375 £384,360
Net premiums 65,655 143,646 134,185 132,039
Interest, etc... - 27,525 26,462 23,994
Again excluding taxes, exes, got away with
47 p.c. of the net premiums compared with
44.7, 48 and 48.9 p.c. back to 1929. The
slip of £2146 in the year’s net premiums was
due partly to lapses.
The £1,251,250 of funds, etc., were in-
vested in this way :
1931. ' 1932.
Freeholds, etc. £210,615 17.-9 p.c. £259,821 20.6 p.c.
Govt, securities 466,980 39.5 ~ 534,009 42.7 „
Shares other cos. 19,000 1.6 ~ 19,000 1.5 ~
Mortgages . . 342,479 29.0 ~ 290,102 23.2 „
Loans on policies 81,179 6.8 „ 92,371 7.4 ~
Book debts .. 40,819 3.5 ~ 43,025 3.4 „
Cash .. .. 20,288 1.7 „ 12,922 1.2 „
Thus the year’s surplus income (£70,229) and
the mortgage money that came in (£52,377)
were put Out again in Government securities
(up £67,029), freeholds (up £47,504) and
loans on policies (up £11,192).
Over the last four years shareholders
(there is £50,000 of capital) have received
25.4 p.c. p.a., of which 15 p.c. came from
the Industrial and the balance from the
Ordinary branch. Profits in this last-named
section belong 80 p.c. to policy-holders and
20 p.c. to shareholders, tyho are also en-
titled to what is left in the Industrial sec-
tion after providing for liabilities under poli-
cies and bonuses.
Commonwealth General Assurance
Excess Out-
Dec., Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
Premiums on new shares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-sellfng costs .. 1,360 25,824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments .. 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
From Sale of Fire business, £25,378 31,299
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
From Fire Dept., £3BB .. .. 30,911
Added to
Funds.
1925.. 77,258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl .. 20,683
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.*
1927.. 80,583 17,504 44,056 19,023 16,120
Added to establishment, £8394 .. 7,726
1928.. 91,531 17,233 56,015 18,283 26,009
Loss on security, £503 .. .. 25,506
1929.. 105,379 14,674 64,585 26,120 51,626
1930.. 105,505 19,532 62,361 23,612 75,238
Forfeited shares, etc., £17.811 . . 93,049
1931.. 100,326 21,036 44,084 35,206 128,255
Forfeited shares, securities’ appre-
ciation, £7322 .. .. .. 135,577
1932.. 95,782 26,076 43,206 26,500 162,077
*After deducting intangibles.
This 12-year-old is struggling desperately to
get out of the wood, and it is doubtful
whether it has made much, if any, real
progress during the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts. Its present precarious
position is due to (1) the high cost of put-
ting the business on the books, (2) heavy
lapses, (3) large losses in the Fire and
Marine section (sold in 1924 for £25,378 in
scrip) and (4) the purchase of some ready-
made industrial contracts at too high a
figure.
At the end of last year the Life fund stood
at £306,037; the book vfflue of net tangibles
was £258,116. Thus, assuming that the fund
exactly covered liabilities under policies, what
was left of the paid capital (£96,021) and
£47,921 of policy-holders’ money besides was
no longer visible, notwithstanding that
shareholders had put up an extra £18,531
in 1930. Meanwhile the actuary had com-
pleted his second quinquennial qverhaul of
the business as at the end of December, 1930.
But his figures were not sent out (a prac-
tice which the Legislature ought to discour-
age), the result being “incorpofated in the
accounts” at the end of 1931. For the 12
months to that date, £74,837 was added to
the Assurance fund. But only £35,206
of the increase was accounted for by the
year’s excess of incomings over outgoings;
the other £39,631 was apparently the amount
by which the fund fell short of requirements.
" This shortage was added to the establish-
ment account, which was also reduced by
£17,811 on account of share forfeitures, leav-
ing the net growth therein at £21,820. A
further £7322 was struck off last year—
£2792 on account of share forfeitures, and
£4530 on account of the rise in the market
value of Consols —thus reducing
to £143,959 at the end of Dec. last.
The protection that remained for policy-
holders was in this form: —
1929. 1931. 1932.
Government securities.. £78,934 £119,929 £142,398
House-purchase loans .. 47,821 47,130 47,432
Cash and deposits .. 6,069 2,521 1,264
Loans on policies, etc. 2,941 40,866 44,861
Book debts .. .. 10,543 12,526 14,162
Agents’ balances .. 632 1,415 1,500
Shares in other cos, .. 1,107 1,066 1,107
Furniture, car*j stationery 3,744 4,186 3,710
Freeholds .. .. 3,630
£151,791 £229,639 £260,064
Sundry creditors .. 3,944 2,509 1,948
Net tangible assets .. £147,847 £227,130 £258,116
Thus the £26,500 by which last year’s in-
comings exceeded outgoings was invested
mainly in Government securities, loans on
policies and a freehold. Owing to the writ-
ing up of the book value of Government
securities, the year’s improvement in the
net tangible position was over £30,900.
When the books closed shareholders could
be called upon for a further £22,905, but
it is doubtful whether more than a fraction
of that could be got in now. However, taking
the lot into the reckoning, and assuming that
house-purchase loans, secured by first mort-
gage, and other assets are worth_their book
value, net tangibles still £25,016 short
of the Assurance fund.
Thus the time has arrived when the direc-
tors need to consider whether they are justi-
fied in continuing to expose policy-holders’
funds to the possibility of further loss.
Policy-holders’ prospects would be greatly
enhanced if a robust concern could be in-
duced to take over the management of the
business.
Splitting administrative charges in pro-
portion to net premium income, and assum-
ing that the consideration for annuities
(£6000) cost £3 pCr cent., the balance of
last year’s exes, gut away with 50.5 P-<-* o*
the Ordinary premiums as against 30. b, bo.o,
58 6 and 59 p.c. back to 1928. There was a
slip of £22,742 in the amount of new busi-
ness written (£72,742), and the renewal
premiums (£15,057) were £5143 short of
renewals plus first premiums m 1931. on
the generally-accepted basis that new busi-
ness is 10 times more expensive than old,
the year’s first premiums cost 231 p.c. as
against 155 p.c. in 1931.
In the Industrial branch an extra £50,52_
of new business (£337,164) was ® n t^ie
books; but premium income (£61,538) was
£7659 lighter, and exes, took 55.6 p.c. of the
premiums as against 53.2 p.c. in the pre-
vious year. Also the surplus of incomings
over outgoings (£5919) was £11,913 lighter.
The office assumes that its Assurance fund
will net 4 p.c. Last year’s gross interest,
etc. (£10,911) was 3.72 p.c. on the mean
fund.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re ‘ R e '
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 37,791 5 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 61 „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6s ~ „ 50,000 10,806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6s „ „ 50,000 6,725 55,556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928". . 65,141 7$ „ „ 56,250 8,891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 71 „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 71 „ „ 56,250 4,239 86,410
1932*. 56,695 5l „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6-| ~ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
*l3 months.
Last year opened with copra at £l4 os. a
ton in London; the figure, which had receded
to £l9 10s. in June, was £l4 7s. 6d. when
the year closed, and that was little more
than half the price of four years ago. The
effect of this and other things upon the c?. s
merchandising and other sales, shipping
revenue, etc., is reflected in a drop of
£34,016 in gross earnings over the last three
years, despite expansion of the business and
the spring in exchange :
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dec Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1926 .. .. 163,457 106,732 - 65.3
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1928 .. .. 181,584 116,443 64.1
1929 . . .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 .. .. 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 . . . . 169,182 112,487 66.4
1933 . . .. 158,121 105,933 66.9
So the slip of £11,061 in last year’s gross
earnings was partly offset by savings of
£6554, leaving the net result at 6.9 p.c. on
capital as against 7.5, 8, 8.1, 8.6, 8.5 and
7.6 p.c. back to 1926.
The div. was kept at Is. 3d. per share, and
the market, which has always had a high
opinion of the scrip, prices the pound paids
at 345. as against 31s. a year ago and 275. 12
months before that. The return at 345. is
3.7 p.c. on a 6-1 p.c. div. basis; so the inves-
tor who looks for 5 p.c. on his money counts
on the div. going to 81 p.c. Visibly the
cover is 225. Bd. in net tangibles.
Last year the co. opened new branches at
Pago Pago (American Samoa) and Wallis
Island, replaced two of its old hulks in the
inter-island trade with a couple of new motor
vessels, and started the erection of new con-
crete premises at Apia. Nevertheless, only
£5604 net was added to the book value of
fixed assets: —
1093 1090 1039 1033
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750;000
Liabilities .. 57,058 85,092 41,753 58,540
Proper ties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 435,890 481,008 486,612
Stocks afloat.. 353,549 ( 2 87,613 212,981 238,208
Merchandise.. 179,665 ) ’
Book debts .. 126,148 189,962 204,668 197,161
Cash .. . . 28,083 60,048 36,201 34,976
Thus £25,227 was also added to the stocks
item, etc., and £16,787 to the still moderate
outside debt. Altogether, the more or less
liquid surplus (£411,805, including stocks,
etc.) was only £292 lighter than at the
previous balance.
Ever since the co. took over the parent’s
extensive island-produce and -shipping busi-
ness in 1920 the policy has been to pay
moderate divs. and extend and strengthen
the business. From the beginning, share-
holders have averaged a shade under 61
p.c.; but the board has wiped £245,861
off the outside debt and openly added
£314,552 to the book value of the fixed
assets.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
r —Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1929*. 9,866 8549 Nil 1,317 1,317
1930.. 19,149 Nil Nil 19,149 20,466
1931.. 1,530 Nil Nil 1,530 21,996
1932.. 1,065 Nil Nil 1,065 23,061
*Five months.
At the start much was expected of this co.,
in which Howard Smith, Australian Iron and
Steel and Noyes Bros, are interested; but it
missed the market. It was formed in 1927,
and put up a very modern plant, capable
of turning out 160,000 tons of cement annu-
ally, at Berrima (N.S.W.) ; production
began in May, 1929. The profit for the first
five months was £1317 more than the pref.
div. called for. Since then there has been
such a continuous and’ heavy falling away
in the demand for cement that the works
have had to close down from time to time
as stocks accumulated, and prices have been
cut in the fight for whatever business was to
be had. Hence the poor showing in 1930
and the meagreness of the figures for the
last two years. The co. is fortunate to
have pulled through thus far without show-
ing a loss.
The industry is heavily over-capitalised.
Thus technical efficiency and a good sales
organisation don’t mean all they should. The
position is worst in N. S. Wales, where
plant capacity is as follows :
Co. Tons.
Kandos .. .. .. .. 225,000
Commonwealth .. .. .. 225,000
Southern .. .. .. .. 160,000
Standard .. .. .. .. 100,000
Sulphide Corp. .. .. .. 80,000
Total 790,000
Peak-year consumption in N. S. Wales
(395,650 tons in 1927) was little more than
one-half of present total plant capacity.
Either of the two larger cos. alone could
have supplied nearly double the demand for
the whole State in 1931 (116,500 tons), and
last year’s sales for the State totalled no
more than 121,000 tons. Capitalising plant
at £5 per ton of capacity, this means that
on the average about £3,300,000 of the capi-
tal invested in the industry was not earning
anything in 1932.
As for tEe future, work in connection
with the Warragamba and Nepean dams,
H'ume reservoir and the Sydney high-pres-
sure tunnel ought to help keep the pot sim-
mering; but expenditure on public works,
on which the industry chiefly depends, prom-
ises to continue restricted. Meanwhile the
Cement Manufacturers’ Association is doing
good work in widening and cheapening the
uses of cement.
Financially, Southern Portland is not par-
ticularly well equipped for a struggle. At
the close of accounts there was £226,106
coming to the bank and £76,728 to trade
creditors. The lot exceeded more-or-less
liquids, including stocks, by £241,684, an
improvement of £1919 during the twelve-
month. Fixed assets figured at £1,114,633.
Southern Blue Metal Quarries
This co., formed in Oct., 1926, to work
deposits of blue metal near Moss ■ Vale
(N.S.W,), also' missed the ’bus. Between
them, Howard Smith and Australian Iron
and Steel took 83,000 shares, the public lifted
100,000 and 65,000 paids were handed to
the vendor, making paid capital £248,000.
The prospectus figured on an Output of
300,000 tons and a 15 p.c. div. in the third
year. But heavy overburden stood in the
way; and then the old steam shovel failed
to do what was expected of it, and had to
be replaced by a new electric one early in
1929. The plant has worked smoothly since,
but the market for the metal has become very
sluggish, and doesn’t look like reviving much,
for ’a while at any rate. Thus, following
profits of £1522 and £l9l in 1928 and 1929,
losses of £827, £6864 and £3832 were
recorded for the three years to the end, of
1932. In order to keep losses at a minimum
and conserve the assets, the quarry has been
closed down temporarily.
At the close of accounts freeholds figured
at £65,900; leaseholds, £21,615; plant,
£164,115; the lot unchanged during the year.
More or less liquids, including stocks
(£9261), totalled £10,177. There was £6021
coming to sundry creditors and £20,596 to
the bank.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923. . 48,104 271 p.c.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves .. .. 6,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 31.351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.e.= 30,000 447 19,880 61,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.e.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
12$ p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
■ 5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
The spring in last year’s earnings was due
to (1) the management’s success in deal-
ing with the new trading problems, especi-
ally in connection with stocks, and (2) im-
provement in conditions generally. After
paying the pref. div. there was enough to
show 5 p.c. on the £200,000 of ord. capital
(Continued on page 16.)


It's suck a pity she has
nerves, n
otherwise she is so attractive
X
R
mm
m
y
For Constipation, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, Sluggish Liver, Backache,
Bad Skin, Irritability, Lumbago, and
all Uric Acid Complaints take a regu-
lar morning dose of Schumann’s Salts.
Schumann’s Salts
Relieve Quickly.
It is most noticeable that early results
are obtained from Schumann’s Mineral
Spring Salts. The dose in warm water
flushes out the kidneys and effectively
and quickly expels from the system
poisons that accumulate in the blood
stream.
A rather disturbing remark —but in these days of
anxiety and worry one is apt to be rather jumpy,
irritable and nervy.
This condition isn’t chronic—and a simple treat-
ment will soon make you fit and well.
Try Schumann’s Salts in the
morning and f£et relief cjuicKly
A daily dose of Schumann’s Mineral Spring
Salts in a large glass of water will soon drive out
poisons from the blood stream —cleanse the
system and leave you a healthy, vivacious per-
sonality.
Schumann’s Mineral Spring Salts are manufac-
tured from the most important active ingredients
found in the natural Spring Waters or Spas in
Europe. Thousands of people go to Europe to
take the waters for Uric Acid complaints and
Constipation.
You can have the benefit of Nature’s Fountain
of Health in your own home.
TaKe a glass of Schumann’s Salts To-day
and Feel Better To-morrow.
i s
M
:
Schumann
MINERAL SPRING
Salts
i
At all Chemists and Stores.
é


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coemson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.l. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
economical processes for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
$ m
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The American Crisis.
Gold and Commodity Prices.
Outlook for Investors.
Are Bank Shares Too High?
Prospects for Base-metals.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the April issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIt ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane. Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
as against 1 p.c. in the previous term, and
the div. was kept at 5 p.c.
Further improvement in earnings will
largely depend upon continued expansion of
turnover. In this connection it is worth noting
that the store is on the corner of Elizabeth
and Bourke streets, a busy spot,. that the
co. is a cash trader, it has sufficient ready
money to buy to advantage, and is well
equipped in other directions to seize any
opportunity that offers.
The market, which sees only slow improve-
ment in trade generally, notes that one-third
of the capital carries a cumulative 9 p.c., and
prices the pound ords. at par as against 17s.
a year ago. Over the same period the
prefs. advanced from 225. to 305.; the, return
at the higher figure being 6 p.c. The net
tangible backing is 28s. lid. ords., and 775.
lOd. prefs.
During the year the co. bought the free-
hold of a property which it formerly held
under lease in Bourke-street. To do this
and add £B4SB to the stocks item, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £28,489: —
1920 1931 1932 1933.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 36,100 139,391 134,018 133,548
Property etc... 40,199 385,086 385,086 404,276
Plaut, etc! . . 4,714 5,306 4,830 4,845
Shares in other cos. 5,767 5,804 5,804
Stock . . . . 98,819 103,168 80,652 89,140
Book debts .. 5,054 6,075 4,590 4,981
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 35,040 55,590 27,101
There was only £4548 coming to trade credi-
tors when the books closed; the mortgage
(£129,000) was unchanged.
For many years the co. had nothing in-
vested in bricks and mortar, and was there-
fore able to get along with a handful of
capital (£70,000) and pay dazzling divs.
(an average of 18£ p.c. for the five years to
the close of accounts in 1925). Then share-
holders put up £lOO,OOO of pref. monev
and £129,000 was raised on mortgage to
buy the present freehold and erect a new
11- building. Meanwhile, £lOO,OOO
of bonus scrip was scattered, lifting paid
capital to £300,000. , The work interfered
with earnings for a while, but the figures
responded as space became available, and
12- p.c. was paid for each of the three
years to the end of February, 1930. How-
ever, the circumstances which made those
achievements' possible no longer exist, and
are not likely to return.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd.
This little Sydney co. is offering £lO,OOO
of 7 p.c. mortgage debentures of £25 each.
The mohey is wanted to pay off the mort-
gage, overdraft, etc., now totalling approxi-
mately £4500, and to finance expansion of
the business. The debentures will then be a
first charge over the undertaking. They are
redeemable at par on July 1, 1938, or at
holder’s option they may be converted into
ord. shares at par prior to July 1, 1935.
From this date till maturity the co. has
the right to redeem at a premium of 255.
per debenture.
At June 30, 1932, paid capital was
£31,918, with a further £3507 to come. Pre-
mises and plant figured at £15,776; more or
less liquids, £2837; patents, etc., £13,243;
establishment, £6743. There was £3353
coming to trade creditors, £lOOO to the bank
and £2148 was owing under contract on the
premises, etc. When the present issue is
fully subscribed and paid, and including un-
called and unpaid capital, the net tangible
cover would thus be £2 11s. 2d. per pound
of debenture money.
The co. was formed in 1930 by J. M.
Descliamps—he used to be managing director
of Hadfields (Australia), Ltd. —rto turn out
ploughshares by a patent process at greatly
reduced cost. Much is claimed for the new
ploughshares, the agency for which was re-
cently taken by S. Hoffnung and Co.
(N.S.W.), Eliza Tinsley (Vic.), W. A. Mad-
den and S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. (S. Aus.) and
Westralian Farmers, Ltd. (W.A.). Last
month the co. turned out 8000 ploughshares,
and the figure is expected to exceed 20,000
per month before the end of this .year.
Profit-earning, of course, will depend largely
upon the growth of turnover, and the co.’s
prospects in this connection are encour-
aging.
“Picky Bhoay”; Hand-sorting of gold
ore has not been widely adopted in Austra-
lia, though the scheme has much to recom-
mend it. By the expenditure of not more
than 2s. per ton it is frequently possible to
raise the grade above the payable limit, and
to show a fine saving in milling costs per
ounce. On one large American property,
hand-sorting at a cost of 7d. per ton raised
the grade by no less than 75 p.c. Where
there is a marked difference between the reef
and country rock, as on most mines, or
where gold is associated with pyrite or arseno-
pyrite, hand-sorting is worthy of. close con-
sideration. Sorting on the surface is usually
much more satisfactory than sorting below.
Also the job is of sufficient importance to
warrant employing the best type of labor.
* * * *
During 1932 Mt. Isa mined and milled
591,000 tons of mixed carbonates and sul-
phides, the average assay being 5.30 z. silver,
10.5 p.c. lead and 4.4 p.c. zinc. Over 373,000
tons was cheaply extracted from the glory-
hole on the Black Star, another 186,244 tons
was obtained by stoping and the balance
from development and dumps. The mill pro-,
duced 114,552 tons of lead concentrates
assaying 44.7 p.c. lead and 19.70 z. of silver.
When smelted, these concentrates yielded
47,949 tons of bullion containing 47.612 tons
of lead and two million ounces of silver. The
bullion was shipped to the Northfleet Re-
finery of the Britannia Lead Co., London,
and the finished lead commanded a ready
market because of its,purity, due partly to
the treatment of carbonate ore. Develop-
ment and exploratory work included 5205 ft.
of driving and crosscutting, 4117 ft. of rising
and winzing, and 2550 ft. of diamond drilling.
* * * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), after pay-
ing £19,000 for the leases over which it
held options, has £20,000 in hand. More
than 50,000 tons of high-grade ore has been
proved to a depth of 100 ft. The tunnel,
which is being driven to cut the lode at a
depth of 185 ft., is now in 365 ft., and has
nearly double that distance yet to go. Total
expenditure on the mill (to be erected at
the mouth of the tunnel) and development
is estimated at £23,000. If enough wafer
for milling cannot be obtained by boring, it
will be necessary to lay nine miles of pipes
to the Dawson River. This would cost a
further £12,000. E. G. Banks, formerly
g.m. of Waihi (M.L.), is advising the co.
* * * *
Australian Gold Development and Cracow
Gold have agreed to share equally the cost
of boring the Tyak leaises (held under
option by the last-named co.) in the Morobe
district, New Guinea. The area, which can
be worked by hydraulic sluicing, is esti-
mated to contain 25,000,000 c.y. of wash.
* * * *
During February 767 tons of copper ore,
containing 101 tons of copper and 18oz. of
gold, was forwarded to the Chillagoe
smelters from the Cloncurry district (Q.).
The lot was valued at £4329. The Treke-
lano, in the Duchess area, was the principal
contributor with 513 tons. The smelters
also received 416 tons of tribute ore from
the Consolation, Westward Ho and Una in
the Herberton district. The ore-body on the
Consolation is 80ft. long and 40ft. wide.
* * # *
Mount Elliott, which owns the Hampden
Cloncurry. Mount Cuthbert, Mount Oxide and
Mount Elliott copper shows in the Cloncurry
district (Q.), will shortly commence opera-
tions on the Caralulup Plains lead, near
Talbot (Vic.). The Talbot Alluvial’s shaft,
named after an English co. which formerly
worked the area, will be unwatered, and
bores are going down to fix the site of a
second shaft.
* * * *
The cyaniding of old tailings at. the
Phoenix. Gympie (Q.), is yielding satisfac-
tory results; 960 tons is being treated
monthly for a return of 1240 z. of fine gold.
These tailings are put through at the Scot-
tish w’orks.
$ He * *
For some months past English, American
and German interests have been investigat-
ing Australian supplies of amblygonite, a
white-colored lithium-bearing mineral con-
taining 9 p.c. lithium oxide. This is twice
as rich as the Canadian and six times richer
than the German deposits, which two sources
form the present world supply of the min-
eral. Amblygonite occurs in igneous peg-
matite dykes and in the adjoining wall
rocks along with tourmaline, garnet and
cassiterite. The mineral has been found in
large quantities at Euriowie, about 60 miles
from Broken Hill, and on some of the West-
ralian tinfields.
* * * *
Since February, 1931, the Victorian
Department of. Mines has provided 11,384
men with sustenance, tents and tools, and
5696 with explosives and other goods. It all
called for £86.775 from the Unemployment-
relief Fund. This assistance has been largely
responsible for increasing the State’s gold
yield from 24,1190 z. in 1930 to 47,7450 z. last
year. About 6000 Government-assisted pros-
pectors are now on the hunt.
* * * ❖
The latest crushing of 203 tons for 4290 z.
from the Hercules, Bendigo, brings the total
yield from the new reef below’ the 1620 ft.
level to 10,8580 z. fine from 5667 tons. A
rise is being put up from the 1725 ft. level
to hasten extractions from this reef, and
to improve the ventilation. Over the last
eight months the co. has handed out about
£60.000 in divs. Paid capital is £7500, and
the market prices the 10s. paids at 345. or
thereabouts.
H! * * #
For the first quarter of this year Ben-
digo’s gold production was 70990 z., or 35000 z.
better than in the corresponding quarter last
year. At present over 1400 prospectors in
the district are receiving Government assist-
ance.
* * * *
Bendigo Gold Sands has been formed
with a capital of £3700 to treat the sand
heaps on the Great Britain, Lazarus and
New Chum. The plant, to be erected on
the last-named property, will comprise 10
cyanide vats with a total capacity of 3500
tons monthly. The grade of the feed is a
little better than ldwt.
* # * *
A co. has been formed to work the deep
lead at Italian Hill, Daylesford (Vic.), which
yielded over 170,0000 z. of gold in the early
days. The average width of the lead is
100 ft., and at least 3000 yards remains to
be worked. An attempt is to be made to
drain the wash by gravitation from a tunnel.
* * * *
Golden Arunta is being formed in Mel-
bourne with a capital of £82,500 to take over
a property 300 miles north-east of Alice
Springs from Arunta Gold Options. Mining
and milling costs are figured at 28s. per ton.
* * * *
Summerhill Anticlines, at Malmsbury
(Vic.), lias completed the erection of its
plant. On the co.’s May Queen mine, first
worked in 1876, the shaft is down to 180 ft.
on a well-defined saddle reef. To test the
formation at depth, sinking is to be con-
tinued.
* * * *
United Gleesons at Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.)
has advanced No. 6 level to 1410 ft., and
nice gold has been met at several points
over widths up to 2ft. A programme of
driving, crosscutting and shaft-sinking has
been laid out, and the mine is equipped with
a good 10-head battery.
A new find of osmiridium has been made
near the Gordon Gorge, about seven miles
nor’-west of Adamsfield (Tas.). The wash,
4ft. thick, carries 2-3 grains of metal to the
dish. All the ground in the vicinity of the
find has been pegged, and many old diggers
are returning.
* ' * * *
At the North Mt. Farrell, Tullah (Tas.),
prospectors have located a surface lode
carrying 6in. of clean galena. The forma-
tion, which has been traced for a consider-
able distance, looks like an important find.
* * * *
Byles Mongolata Gold (S. Aus.) reports a
loss of £525 for the nine months to the end
of January. The new Government battery
at Mongolata has started up, and the co.’s
first crushing of 50 tons yielded 530 z. by
amalgamation, with tailings carrying 4dwt.
About 500 tons is at grass. From a rich
pocket in a drive at the 52ft. level, 60oz.
of gold was obtained recently.
* * * *
Lake View and Star will pay the second
of its new series of divs. on April 20, when
6d. a share will be distributed. London
counts on the co. being able to pay a further
9d. per share in August, making Is. 9d. for
the twelvemonth. Developments at depth
are reported to exceed anticipations.
H:
Kanowna (W.A.) is promised a glorious
resurrection, as the- result of a new treat-
ment process. Previous attempts to obtain gold
in payable quantities from the pug failed, it
is claimed, because of extraction difficulties.
The “Wild Cat” suspects that, with gold
at its old .price, the metal was not there in
sufficient quantity per ton to make extrac-
tion worth while. The exchange premium,
of course, has completely altered the outlook.
* * * *
When the Southern Cross (W.A.) coun-
try w r as made available to wheat-farmers, it
was expected that clearing operations would
unmask some pay ore. This happened at
Edwards’s show, 20 miles south of the Cross.
The ore-dumps have yielded over an ounce per
ton, but the reefs exposed are a bit on the
narrow side.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has acquired 2500
acres about 10 miles south-west of Tampa,
between Menzies and Leonorav Indications
are reported to be promising.
* * * *
On the Idaho lease, at the south end of
the Kalgoorlie field, rich ore has been struck
on the 182 ft. level. Development work is
being carried on by the Imperial Mining Co.,
of Adelaide.
❖ * * *
Four new dredges will presently help to
swell Maoriland’s gold production. The
Freshford Co., Waikaia, has started up its
machine, which is opening out a face. In
the same district the Nokomai Co. has com-
menced work with a drag-line excavator,
capable of delivering 300 c.y. per hour, which
is on a par with the big Malayan dredges;
the original co. recovered £213,050 worth of
gold from the valley, and paid £54,680 in
divs. Mataki Gold will have its plant ready
at Murchison by the end of May, and Brian
Boru has had a satisfactory trial run with
its 70,000-c.y.-a-month dredge at Nelson
Creek, Westland.
* * * *
On the Great Barrier Island, on the east
coast of the North Island (M.L.), an area
of 600 acres, embracing several reefs, has
been pegged. An English syndicate is in-
terested, and a representative is reporting
on the prospects. Large-scale operations are
talked of.
The Reefton Prospecting Association
(M.L.) has dispatched two parties to test
likely country between Stevenson’s Flat and
Kirwan’s Reward.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
What do you know about the Australian
Investment a\nd Discount Go.? —5343.
There are 37,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
49,128 ords. issued all of £1 each, and paid
to 10s. only. All the ord. capital and
£1313 besides has disappeared in losses and
preliminary exes. In addition the pref.
div. is £4406 in arrears. Even it
net assets (deposits, cash, etc., £16,Ool;
sundries, £1695; less liabilities of £063)
could be realised at their book value, the ords.
would be faced with a call of 2s. 4d. per
share in order to pay off the prefs. Last
year a profit of £303 was shown, after strik-
ing off £635 for bad debts. As the pref. div.
calls for £lB5O p.a., the position of the ords.
grows worse.
Position of Gladstone Theatres, Ltd. (Q.) I
—5098. . ,
At the end of June, 1932, paid capital
was £9017, and shareholders could be called
upon for a further £10,463. There was £4996
coming to outsiders —mortgage, £1611; bank,
£2286; sundry creditors, £1099. Book debts
and cash totalled £146. Freehold figured at
£1411; buildings, £6235; plant, £2960. The
book value of the net tangible backing was
thus 12s. 9d. per pound of paid capital.
Intangibles (£3560) include £lOOO for good-
will of an hotel, which may be worth some-
thing. Operations for year to June 30 last
resulted in a loss of £2013, as against a
loss of £l9O in the previous year. Film
hire, rents, etc., were responsible. There is
a possibility of shareholders being asked for
a bit more.
What is opal? Describe the various types?
—5344.
A gemstone consisting of silica, with
which water is chemically associated. Chief
types are potch or seam opal, a banded
variety usually pale grey or bluish-grey in
color; common opal, which has a resinous
lustre, and pale play of colors beneath a
milky appearance (when the milky appear-
ance predominates it is called milk opal);
wood opal, which is wood petrified by opal;
precious, noble or fire opal, which exhibits
a brilliant play of colors; and black opal,
which has a base of black common opal over-
lain by patches of brilliant colors, with much
fire. The commercially important deposits
of opal in N. S. Wales are associated with
a sandstone formation, which occurs in the
west and nor’-west parts of the State beyond
the Darling.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.G.H.: (1) To separate the gold from the quick-
silver, retort the amalgam; the mercury vapor
passes off, is condensed and discharged into a vessel
of water. (2) The residue left in the retort is
melted in a graphite crucible Interested: The
co. does not publish its balance sheet, nor are its
shares listed on ’Change. In the past, much of its
earnings came from the sale of bonds for N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., which co. now sells its
own bonds F.L.A.: (1) It promises to be very
slow, especially in areas dependent upon coal. (2)
Goodwill is a will-o’-the-wisp which is exceed-
ingly difficult to value these days. The fee paid
to a public accountant for an independent valuation
now may save you money in the long run....
D.T. : (1) Yes; at 30s. the return would be 5.3 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. (2) . Impossible to say
definitely, but doubtful whether co. will be able
to pay a steady.B p.c. (3) Nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest it; production figures continue
to grow. (4) No.. . . J.W.: (1) No. (2) Such
Federal Courts as Parliament may create for the
purpose, or such State Courts as are specially
authorised. Supreme Court in each State does
most of work. (3) State taxes, including unemploy-
ment relief, are allowed as deductions by Federal
authorities in arriving at talible income. But
the State authorities do not allow deduction of
Federal taxes. (4) No, but they can register under
the Commonwealth law W.H.H.: The interest is
free from all State taxes. Impossible to advise
definitely with regard to Commonwealth taxation
unless full - particulars of loan are furnished. The
interest from some issues is exempt; from others
it is not. The question of allowing the new stamp
tax as a deduction has not yet been definitely
settled.... H.G.: (1) and (2) 87,630 shares of ss.
each, paid to Is. 4id. (3) Lease is held under
option by B. H. Prop. The drill has stabbed a
new lode channel, but no importance is attached
to find.


e
....
f.
4 Q
I
<>
mi Km
. 1 m
m
m
m 1
',-n
m
hi
M
■
B
‘f
S 9
: ■ l . ■
H
«
.
■ I
Large Ball Mill recently designed and made by us and supplied to the order of the Mount
Lyell Mining and Railway Co., Ltd., Tasmania. This Mill, which is 10ft. in diameter by
7ft. long, represents one of the largest Ball Mills that have been made in the British Empire
and is an example of the high-grade work which can be executed in Australia. The whole
of the essential parts of the Mill are made from Steel accurately machined and finished.
WEIGHT: Mill, 70 tons. Ball Load, 30 tons extra. Circulating Feed, 10 tons. Total, 110
tons without Motor.
POWER: B.T.H. synchronous induction Motor 450 h.p. direct coupled to Pinion Shaft.
CAPACITY: 500 tons per 24 hours of new feed. Mill will work in closed circuit with very
large Classifier, so that the Mill will be actually handling about 3000 tons of pulp per
24 hours.
We Design, Manufacture and
Erect complete Mining and
Treatment Plants, for any
capacity, in accordance with
the most Modern Practice.
Including:—
Ore Breakers.
Rolls.
Feeders.
Ball Mills.
Tube Mills.
Classifiers.
Thickeners.
Wilfiey Pumps.
Flotation,
Drying,
Roasting,
Cyaniding,
Precipitation
and
Power Plants.
Offices.
Buildings.
Organisation
and
Operation.
THE “WILFLEY” CENTRIFUGAL
SAND AND SLIME PUMP (Patented),
used in every large Milling Plant in
Australia.
Low Operating Cost
Extra Heavy Parts
Ball-bearings Throughout
NO Gland or Stuffing Box
We are the Sole Manufacturers for
Australia and carry full stocks of Pumps
and Parts for All Sizes from 2in. to Bin.
A 4in. “Wilfley” Pump opened up showing
facilities for very quick change of parts.
To MINE MANAGERS AND PROSPECTORS.
Dur Mining and Metallurgical Engineering Staff will be glad to assist you in advising and equipping any
genuine Mining Propositions that you may have. Please send us full particulars.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEGRAMS: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Sat.) . .“Waltzes from Vienna”
Criterion “While Parents Sleep”
Royal (coni. Saturday) “Twinkle”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) “Our Miss Gibbs”
Comedy (com. Sat.) “The First Mrs. Fraser”
King j s (com. Sat.) Dante
State Movies and Talkies
*
“Down for the Show”: The Latest G. C.
Somerville Production
“Seems to be simply a crib from ‘Bring
’Em Back Alive,’ ” snarled Frith to the
Talkie Critic (the Sundry Showman’s sub-
stitute) as he dodged a truculent monster,
“When did you get back from Oxford, my
deah boy?”
afterwards identified as Gleneagles. Charlie,
Pride of Drought Creek XXVII.
“More like a ‘Society,’ ” amended the T.C.,
and indicated little Mrs. Jimmy Limelighter.
who had bailed up the harassed editor of
Sydney’s projected Social Register to show
him her Society Page press-cuttings and list
of pet charities.
And then, suddenly, dramatically, the
action began. It turned out, after all, to be
just another simple little human story, with
a dash of “Over the Hill,” and hints of
“One Night With You,” and an Aeschylean
tragedy, blended enchantingly with gangster,
deserted-child and Farrell-Gaynor love
themes—the sort of thing that has been en-
thralling Moore Park audiences for years.
We first meet Dave, of Drouglft Creek
(down for the Show in charge of the animal
with the preposterous name previously men-
tioned as having attacked Frith), admiring
the frescoes on the outer walls of Haydn’s
Flea Circus. Behind him stands the lovely
girl to whom he has pledged his troth, and
for whose swe'et sake he is prepared to give
all, dare all —Sarah, champion milker of
Cow Valley. Dad and Mum have not yet left
the Supreme Coffee Palace; for the day is
still young.
Out of the void appears a Smart Society
Man. Black velour hat, brown and white
golfing shoes, diamond ring, puce shirt and
collar, pink tie set off with ruby pin, a
cigar—he radiates the refinements of wealth.
A stupefied expression passes over his face
as he sees Dave. He grasps the arm of his
taller, stouter companion, a bottle-nosed man
of somewhat dissipated mien. “Why!” he
ejaculates, “if it isn’t young Baillieu! When
did you get back from Oxford, my deah boy?
And why are you not with the family in
Melbourne ?”
To Dave’s surprise he finds his hand being
warmly shaken. Fragment of dialogue : —-
Dave (grinning) : “My name’s not Bail-
lieu. You bin had.” (Triumphantly) “It’s
Dave! I never bin in Melbourne ; never even
bin in Sydney before.”
Stranger: “The resemblance is amazing.”
(With genial laugh) “Now that we have
met in this fortunate fashion it would be a
pity to part. Allow me to introduce myself,
I am S’Samuel Hordern.”
Dave: “Not the president of the Show!”
S.S. (modestly.) : “The same. And this is
my old cobber, Mr. Colin Stephen, chair-
man of the A.J.C.”
Dave: “Well, I’m blowed!” (To Mr. C.
S.) “My dad often backed your mounts at
Bong-Bong, Mr. Stephen. You muster put
on a. lot of weight since ’e saw yer ride.”
Mr, S.: “I ’ave.”
And so the delicious little idyll proceeds.
Sarah is introduced. The quartette taste
the joys of Life to the full. The Pig Pavi-
lion ; the Bar (so appropriately placed over
against the Wood-choppers’ Dressing-room) ;
the flagrant area in which the Fertilisers
are displayed; “D” Pavilion near the Cattle
Wash, where Gleneagles Charlie is housed
“Boo-hoo! I’m lorst!”
—all are inspected and expertly appraised.
But ever Mr. Stephen keeps leading them
back to the Wine Industry Exhibit. “A
’undred (hie) million gallons a year! A
million quid a year (hie) spent on booze
alone!” The thought seems to inspire him.
He leaves them repeatedly for an adjacent
bar.
And now Pathos intrudes. “800-hoo ! I’m
lorst! Where’s me muvver?” It is a Little
Child! As kindly Sarah tries to comfort
him two large,- augry-looking men with im-
mense feet aret seen approaching. “Quick !”
This way!” cries S’Samuel, and pilots the
party deftly along Burgundy-st. to Machin-
ery-av. “A coupler Government House
A.D.C.’s,” he gasps. “Fair terrors fer bor-
rowing money, they are!”
Fragment of dialogue :
Mr. S. (to Dave) ; “S’Sam’s title is (hie)
’ereditary.”
S’S: “It’s not only hereditary, Dave,
it’s transferable.”
Mr. S.; “Wouldn’t be surprised if S’Sam
was agreeable ter (hie) sell yer the dam’
thing. Wosser good uv a title to (hie) ’im?”
S’S. (thoughtfully) : “I might consider the
idea—seeing that Dave is a friend.”
Dave: “How much do you want for it?”
S’S.: “How much have you got?”
Dave: “Fifty quid.”
S’S : (reluctantly) ; “Many a man ’ud give
me more, but I’ve taken a fancy _ to you,
Dave, and seeing it’s a cash transaction”
Dave (living up to his Drought Greek
reputation as a shrewd bargainer) : “Any
property go with the title?”
S’S: “Our Pavilion, of course. And then
there are”
Climax/ A sturdy, white-haired old
gentleman, accompanied by the two angry-
looking men already referred to, and fol-
lowed pantingly by an elderly lady, rushes
round a corner. Dave’s new-found friends
are grappled with as they bolt for the front
door of Broken Hill Pty., Ltd. “ Kerm on,
‘Darky’!” “Best go quiet, ‘Fat’!” The fade-
out shows Dave getting a clip over the ear
from his mother as Sarah faints in his arms
and Dad feverishly examines his pocket-
book.
The handling of the crowd scenes (by In-
spector Childs) was masterly. “Darky”
Lazarus and “Fat” Brannigan were far
from convincing as the president of the
R.A.S. and the chairman of the A.J.C. re-
spectively ; however, as the Crown Prosecu-
tor remarked a few weeks later, “they were
triers, and now they are being tried.” As
a “Down for the 1933 Show” spectacle, one
can only say that is an example of that
Napoleon of the Parade Ring, G. C. Somer-
ville, of the world-famed Royal Easter lot,
at his best. Let Hollywood produce his
master if it can!
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes
breathlessly:—
Well, I went to see Miss Athene Seyler
and Mr. Nicholas Hannen in “The Middle
Watch” at the King’s last week. It was
written by Mr. lan Hay with the assistance
or interference of Mr. Stephen King-Hall,
and the knitted suits worn by Miss Maureen
“Quick! This way!” cries S’Samuel.
O’Moor and Miss Margery Caldicott were
made by the Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.,
and Miss O’Moor’s hat was by Dorothy
Grindrod, Collins-street, and the hosiery
worn by the principals was by tlie famous
Holeproof Hosiery, supplied by the Hole-
proof Hosiery Co., and the pyjamas were
supplied by Messrs. Buckley and Nunn, Ltd.,
and the wines by Seppelt’s, and all the beer
drunk was the famous Richmond Pilsner,
and the play was all; about a party on
HALS. Falcon and a. couple of girls and a
chaperon get left behind as the last launch
to go ashore bust its boiler so the ladies
are compelled to remain on board against
the rules and Admiral Sir Hercules Hewitt.
K.C.8., has a wife and daughter who go
for a cruise in a yacht and the yacht breaks
down and the Admiral goes to the rescue
and the Admiral 1 gets hustled from one
cabin into another so that he won’t know
that the boys have got the girls
aboard and early in the morning the
Admiral’s wife and daughter board the Fal-
con and find traces of the feminine and
somehow or other everybody meets in tjhe
captain’s cabin and they all talk at once and
everything is explained satisfactorily and
five of the women fall into the arms of five
of the gentlemen and all start kissing their
way into a state of happiness and Miss
Athene Seyler played the leading role of
Mary Carlton who manages to guide the
boys of the Navy into the right women’s
arms and she was full 1 of vivacity and
aplomb as usual and you could forget the
emptiness of her words in listening to the
Charm of her vocal tones just as you could
forget what a silly old fool Admiral Sir
Hercules was in watching the talented Mr.
Nicholas Hannen and I suppose it is sup-
posed to be a funny play but the thing that
struck me as funniest about it was Messrs.
J. C- Williamson. I mean, if the R.A.A.F.
imported a lot of expensive airoplanes and
used them for hencoops or if the Electricity
Commission imported a lot of costly
dynamoes and sold, them for drawing-room
ornaments we would think there was some-
thing wrong with the management or the
direction or the airoplanes or the dynamoes
or something. I mean, Mr. Hannen and
Miss Seyler and the rest of their company
are very” fine actors but as for the play it
i« an Insult to the Meanest Intelligence.
At Melb. King’s “The Middle Watch” has
received all the support it deserves and
even more. The Seyler-Hannen co. will turn
to “The First Mrs. Fraser” on Easter Satur-
day, transferring to the Comedy for the
occasion. “Our Miss Gibbs” will make her
umpteenth appearance in the Theatre Royal
dock on the same date and demonstrate that
she has more than the ordinary amount of
visible support in the shape of Madge Elliott,
Messrs. Ritchard, Bluett (Gus), Franklyn,
Leighton and others. “The Command to
Love” ended its ignoble career at the same
theatre last week. This was Theo Shall’s
farewell appearance. The magician Dante
has been seen loitering in the vicinity of
the King’s with intent to perform the miracle
of filling that playhouse with paying clients.
No change is reported at the Princess, where
“Honi Soit” is only rivalled as a fixture by
Eimest Rolls’s cigar.
* * *
In “Art and Mrs. Bottle,” performed by the
Little Theatre at the Fawkner Kiosk, Mel-
bourne, Benn J. Levy endeavors to present
us with a portrait of a painter, Max Lightly.
Max makes off with the wife of George
Bottle, a sanitary engineer, after she has
been three years married and had two babies.
Six months later he abandons her to starva-
“I’ve taken a fancy to you , Dave.”
tion in Paris, having first pawned her fur
coat. His next affair is with a French
grisette and it lasts four months. During
the following twenty years he becomes a
great pursuer of women and a great
painter. In the meantime his first seduction
becomes the kept woman of a Russian noble-
man. When he dies she returns to the sani-
tary engineer and finds her children grown
up and becoming crack pupils of the Slade
School, as Max had been. Max also turns up
and sets to work to seduce the daughter of
the woman on whose fur coat lie had had a
spree in Paris over 20 years previously. The
mother knows all about artists now. She
considers that Art is a degrading activity
and that the occupational disease peculiar
to it is a passion for seducing unsophisti-
cated females and pinching their fur coats
off their backs. Sanitary plumbing, by
comparison, is a sublime occupation.
Her daughter, however, sincerely believes
in Art and also in love, and although she now
knows that her prospective seducer is a com-
monplace scoundrel, she believes that love and
Max can somehow be made to synchronise, on
Einstein’s principle that parallel lines do
meet, despite all evidence to the contrary.
Her belief remains unshaken even when Max
throws a new light on his character by offer-
ing to accept a large sum of money from
the sanitary engineer in lieu of six months
of the daughter’s company, although he
is now a rich man. However, Mrs. Bottle’s
experience of great artists hasn’t been in
vain and she insists on Max taking the in-
fatuated girl over immediately. It now
appears that he hasn’t got rid of his existing
mistress. Max retires. Mr. Bottle’s son
tears his paintings up and decides to join his
father in the sanitary-engineer business.
The gild is left with the alternative of mar-
rying a young.moronic farmer or remaining
single, and Mrs. Bottle returns to the roof-
tree, if not the arms, of her sanitary engin-
eer.
There would be nothing wrong with this
play if the author were not strongly sus-
pected of taking sides for or against his
characters along the line of least resistance,
which in the case of a playwright is the line
of his audience’s prejudices. But Mr. Levy's
portrait of Mrs. Bottle is very good indeed
and was well done by Mrs. George Bell.
Frank Nelson made a very sincere, if ama-
teurish, job of the sanitary engineer, and
Margaret Reid was delightfully'sure of her-
A clip over the ear from his mother.
self as the infatuated daughter, and pretty
to look at in addition. Brett Randall did
not support Max Lightly’s claims to intel-
lectual distinction.
* * #
Adelaide Royal switched back to its real
business in life with “Waltzes from Vienna.”
The sentiment and humor and the Strauss
music are all a world away from modern
musicomedy Americanisms. Miriam Salbage
is perhaps the most charmingly sophisticated
thing since Grace Palotta, and as a fun-
maker Donaghey does easily his best work to
date. Shirley Dale and Moore, a competent
pair of lovers, were backed by the sound
acting of Bradley, Mallalieu and Wenman.
Business was big.
H- H-
Sydney will be well catered for in the
theatrical line at Easter. “Waltzes from
Vienna” arrives at Her Majesty’s on Satur-
day* (i The same evening Clarkson Rose and
his Twinkle” revue company will replace
D an te t * le Theatre Royal, and at the
Grand Opera House “Mo” will follow Jim
Gerald. “While Parents Sleep” will con-
tinue at the Criterion Theatre, and Wirth’s
Circus will still be under canvas at its new
stand at the corner of Riley and Goulburn
streets. The amateurs will also be busy.
the Savoy Doris Fitton’s Independents
will on Saturday give another perform-
ance of Mary Webb’s “Precious Bane” —an
uncommonly fine production—and Scott Alex-
ander will stage “East Lynne” at his Kent-
street playhouse.
H*
Don Finley’s stage designs have enhanced
the appeal of many Sydney amateur produc-
tions. An exhibition of “theatre arts” at
the Blaxland Galleries was a review of his
work for the Playbox, the Turret Theatre,
the Burdekin House Players and the Inde-
pendent Theatre, together with a wide range
of designs for stage settings, curtains, cos
tumes, masks and posters, as well as model
stages and completed masks. Mr. Finley’s
contributions to the exhibition revealed him
as an imaginative designer with a fine sense
of theatrical values. Another feature of the
show was a collection of prints, reproduced
from originals in the Vienna National
Library and elsewhere, illustrating cen-
turies of theatre history; prints deal-
ing with the Japanese classical theatre;
original costume designs for characters
from “Chu Chin Chow,” “The Gondo-
liers” and three Shakspearean productions
by the late Percy Anderson ; Russian ballet
sketches and photographs; early Australian
playbills and programmes; engravings by
Gordon Cram: New Guinea dancing masks;
and some fascinating marionettes by Fraulein
Lange.
Shadow Shows.
“The Sign of the Cross,” at the Prince
Edward, is a most ingenious production. It
caters for practically all tastes. Do you
like elaborate and beautiful spectacles? Some
of the sets out-Hollywood ITollywood in
splendor and realism. The shots of the
Colosseum must be very nearly exact repre-
sentations of the mighty structure as it
looked on a gala day eighteen hundred years
ago. Are you enthralled by love stories
sacred and profane? This show offers both
kinds. Do you like a good cry? This critic
was almost flooded out by a fair neighbor on
the opening night. Then people get thrashed,
tortured and slaughtered. You see lions
nuzzling their victims, gladiators giving the
death-stroke, bodies being carted off the
arena in heaps, a transfixed pigmy grimac-
ing hideously as he is held aloft in triumph
by a victorious Amazon. And these horrors
culminate in the snatching of the pagan
soul of Marcus Superbus from the burning.
But we see no public baths, though fashion-
able Romans of the period almost lived in
them. Charles Laughton’s Nero is the
immemorial decadent in appearance, manner
and gestures; as. he lolls in his box at the
Colosseum he is as obscene as any of the
horrors going on below. Unfortunately,
Laughton’s masterly and original study makes
the other players seem dull, and. in any case,
the diversity of the accents is a fatal bar to
illusion. If Laughton’s voice is accepted as
the Court standard then Poppsea (Claudette
Colbert) and Marcus (Frederic March), who
have American accents, are provincials. Elissa
Landi. who plays Mercia, has the clipped
articulation of an ultra-modern London lass,
and her hair is shingled! Still, it’s a superb
show;. and as a spectacle-—well, for once,
the blurb-writer probably told the truth
when he called it “the greatest in the his-
tory of the cinema.”
H- %• *
In “Obey the Law,” at the Haymarket,
Leo Carrillo is Tony Pasqual, a kindly
Italian barber in a New York slum. It’s
one of the best bits of work he has done,
but Jie is handicapped by the faulty con-
struction of the film. The story is con-
tinually held up by irrelevant incidents. One
of the best of them is an impersonation of
Chevalier by Eddie Garr, a down-and-out
soldier whom Tony helps. There are the
usual gangsters and sharpshooters who infest
every Carrillo film.
# * *
Sydney Capitol has reopened with an all-
Australian programme. Both feature-films
get away to a flying start, but tire towards
the final fadeout, “Harmony RRot”w t ” especi-
ally. It is one long patter number by that
clever vaudevillian George Wallace, who has
changed his comic clothes for the equally
comic garb of a Victorian cop. Few sets
are used; the. camera angle is rarely
changed, and most of the action takes place
“off,” and is reported to Wallace so that he
can respond with appropriate gags. The
method gets wearisome after a time. \\ al-
lace should either find a comic cobber or con-
centrate on his talkie-shorts, which are un-
doubted winners.
“Diggers in Blighty” was produced by
Raymond Longford, who knows his job. The
French and English scenes, which were done
in Melbourne, are convincing, and the group-
ing of the characters is harmonious. Intro-
duced vividly by some official war scenes,
it promises to develop into an interesting
melodrama, with German spies being frus-
trated by officers and A.I.F. privates alike,
all along the line. Then someone seems to
have remembered that no Australian film
can be any good unless it makes the audi-
ence laugh. So the thing dissolves into
a knock-about farce, with Pot Hanpa,
George Moon and Joe Valli romping through
cellars, smelling out rum and giving the
Horseferry-road basewallahs apoplexy, and
■with glimpses of Frith getting fun out of a
singlet. Certainly the audience laughs.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Purchasing Power and Profit
I am living in a country town with one
bank. I am a manufacturer, and got an
overdraft of £2OOO by which I can produce
goods which I sell to Jones, a distributor,
for £2500. Jones gives me a cheque (also
on a credit) which I pay into the bank, and
the bank and I are square. I have made
a profit of roughly £5OO. But what about
Jones? His customers can’t raise overdrafts
to make his profits, and where is the addi-
tional purchasing power coming from ? —
J. M. P.
There might be a difficulty if this were
the first transaction that ever took place,
and if t’here were no such thing as credit.
But other people have just been making pro-
fits on other transactions, and those profits
are now available to buy from Jones and
make profits for him —just as Jones, when
he makes his profit, will have money avail-
able to make a profit for Smith.
Machinery for Everything
The Bulletin, in dissenting from the
view that machinery displaces labor, asserts
that “it only releases labor to be employed in
other production.” A nation has, say, a
thousand different kinds of industries and
occupations; one and all have labor-saving
machines and contrivances for permanently
dispensing with hand labor to the extent of
75 p.C. of total employees. Where is this
released labor to be employed or absorbed?
—L. Liz.
The same question has doubtless been
asked at every point in our industrial his-
tory ; it certainly was asked a hundred years
ago when machine-wrecking was common.
Well, a man has just been building a house
near Sydney and digging a well. While he
was on this job he discovered new ways of
doing certain things, which meant a saving
off £lOO. The saving was wholly in wages.
But immediately he found he could do the
job for less, he discovered that he needed
a septic tank, with' sewerage connections;
and the £lOO was thus absorbed. The same
thing is .happening in connection with all
labor-saving discoveries and developments.
A man puts in a pliant which reduces the
cost of, say, boots by one-half. Either he
pockets the extra profit, or lie reduces 1 the
price to his customers. If he pockets the
extra profit, it means that, he has received
altogether as much money as he did pre-
viously, in which case he can afford to pay
out as much in wages, if not for making
boots then for some other service; if his
customers benefit, then they can afford to
buy something else as well as the boots. And
the something else means labor. Unemploy-
ment will be necessary only when all the
wants of mankind have been satisfied.
Exchange
The truth is this. There is a continuous
demand for funds in London to meet Gov-
ernment commitments and the cost of im-
ports. The law of supply and demand holds
good with money as with other commodities,
and this is what governs exchange. The
exporter provides those funds and is entitled
to get their market value. Before the ex-
change rose to 30 p.c. it had been pegged,
and so great was the demand for London
funds that . the banks had to ration the
exchange. This process did not suit people
who wished to get money out of the country.
Outside operators were prepared to give them
what they wanted at a price, and that price
was £l3O for £lOO English. The banks were
losing the business, and were obliged to un-
peg the exchange, and in the process return
the primary producer some of the money
which had been pillaged from him through
a high tariff. Peg the exchange again at
par and there will be a rush of capital from
Australia, and the process will be repeated.
—G. S. M. (W.A.).
The answer to that is that the facts are
misstated. The banks were not obliged to
unpeg the exchange because outsiders were
getting the business. One bank pushed the
rate up and the others were obliged to
follow. The Bulletin has said so much
on this question that for a change it will
quote what somebody else says. At a meet-
ing of the Senate of the University of
Queensland in Oct.. 1931, it was decided to
send A. C. V. Melbourne, M.A., Ph.D., to
“the East” to “make a comprehensive sur-
vey of the possibilities of extended inter-
change, commercial and otherwise, be-
tween Queensland and Eastern countries.”
In the course of his report (June, 1932)
Dr. Melbourne said: “The concerted action
of the banks has maintained the rate of
exchange between Australia and London at
a high unnatural level. .. . The reason
frequently avowed, namely, that it is in-
tended to assist and subsidise the primary
producer, is largely superficial. It is pos-
sible th’at at least 75 p.c. of the primary pro-
ducers in Australia are indebted to banks
and other financial institutions.... By
maintaining the rate at 130 the banks gave
to primary producers £l3O in Australian
currency for every £lOO sterling received
from the sale of Australian goods abroad....
In the majority of cases the bulk of the
extr'a money received by primary producers
was used to pay interest on advances, much
of which would probably have remained un-
paid had the rate of exchange between Aus-
tralia and London been left to adjustment
by supply and demand. If this arrangement
is allowed to continue for a sufficient time
the banks will minimise their losses; they
may even 'recover debts which are of doubt-
ful value; and, notwithstanding the fact that
other interests in Australia are suffering
severely, they may eventually emerge from
the present crisis with their assets unim-
paired.” This report has just been issued
by the University of Queensland.
Mortgagor and Mortgagee
Isn’t too much sympathy being given to
the mortgagor farmer and grazier, and too
little to _ the mortgagee? I know very well
a case in which a woman lent all she pos-
sessed to two farmers, having been per-
suaded that she was doing a patriotic thing;
and to-day she is st'ruggling to get bread
and butter by selling a few flowers from her
garden? —T. T. E. (Vic).
They both demand our sympathy, the
mortgagor and the mortgagee; but what
good is that going to do them? The hard
facts that have to be considered are that
the borrower can’t pay and the lender’s
security isn’t worth the money advanced.
Further, it isn’t generally in the public in-
terest that the borrower should be dispos-
sessed. Public policy seems to require,
then, that the borrower shall be given an
opportunity to pay what he owes. If he
will pay at once, the debt should be written
down in proportion to the rise in the value
of money since the loan was made; or the
loan should be extended for a fixed period,
principal repayable by instalments. One or
other course will best, serve the interests of
all parties.
Graziers and Others
Thousands of people have put their sav-
ings into business — grocers, bakers, garages,
cte. —and failed. We don’t hear of these
cases, because they don’t squeal. A few
years ago I was a wheatgrower ; I sold out
and bought a milk- dis tri b u ting business
which shoioed me a profit of £lO a week until
the Government passed the Milk Bill. Since
then lam lucky to clear expenses. But I’m
not squealing, and why should graziers, like
“Dialectica”? —R. T. D.
No reason why they should squeal, per-
haps ; but there is a very good reason why
the State should be concerned about keep-
ing experienced men on the land. We have
to pay oyer 30 millions a year for overseas
interest —at present, in fact, on account of
exchange, nearly 40 millions —and the only
way we can do it and escape default is by
exporting wool and other staples. The aban-
donment of a thousand groceries, garages and
milk-runs would be very regrettable; but
it wouldn’t be of the smallest national con-
sequence compared with the abandonment
of a thousand farms.
Work and Leisure
You say man’s wants are un limited, and that,
by proper application, he can be surrounded
by comforts and luxuries if his hours of labor
remain at eight a day and he is assisted by
modern machinery. But what are comforts
and luxuries ? I think the greatest comfort
or luxury would be a little more leisure.
Can you, hold out no hope? —July (Vic.).
What The Bulletin said was that, even
with modern machinery, man can find plenty
of work to do to keep him going eight hours
a day. How long he should work depends
Wholly upon the number of comforts and
luxuries with which he thinks he ought to
be surrounded. The South Sea Islander
works only an hour or two a day. - He has
heaps of leisure, but very little else. The
white man can have heaps of leisure on
exactly the same terms.
Representation by Trades
In a recent issue (B; 15/2/’33) you blame
the politician for the financial drift, and
plead for honest politicians. But is there
room in a democracy for the politician at
all? lam a consulting mining engineer,
and in between jobs live at St. Kilda. Occa-
sionally three neighbors drop in for a game,
and our four then comprises, in addition to
myself, a doctor, a lawyer and a merchant.
How can one man in Parliament look after
our varied interests? We could be adequately
represented only by members chosen respec-
tively by our societies; and if our four in-
cluded a butcher and baker then by mem-
bers selected by their unions. This idea is
the logical development of the Crown colony
system. In British. Malaya it lias satisfied
the political needs of a population composed
of 37 different nationalities, and has enabled
that country to provide itself with excel-
lent public works without biiilding up a
national debt, and without levying an in-
come tax.—Ml F. (7. B. (Vie.).
During the past few years. Parliaments
have spent most of their time passing mea-
sures for the regulation of industry. It is
exceedingly doubtful whether this has done
the workers in work any good, and it is
certain it has prevented very many would-
be workers from getting work. It is certain
also that it has led to the waste of enormous
sums of public money. The trouble has been
that the majority of Labor members —in
N. S. Wales particularly—are under the
control of the Trades Hall; in other words,
the system which this correspondent sug-
gests has been practically in operation. The
results have not been good enough to encour-
age us to extend the experiment.
Debts and Debtors
If a man Who bought more land than he
could pay cash for is to have part of his
debt wiped off, what is wrong with giving
the same concession to a man who bought
only what he could afford to pay for, but who
now finds he made a bad deal? Why dis-
criminate? Unless you are going to upset
the social system, the old rule must apply
and a man who is “broke" financially must
give way to someone else. It doesn't matter
whether I am the nominal owner of sheep
and land or Billy the Bull is. If the good
Lord sends the rain the grass will grow and
the sheep ivill fatten and generally produc-
tion will go on, no matter who is the owner.
It is a tragedy to me to lose my all, but
that's all there is to it, and apart from
myself no one will lose any sleep about it. —
Kismet.
A man has been in business many years,
goes broke, and pays his creditors 2s. in the
£. He has paid other creditors in the past
20s. in the £. Is it seriously suggested
that they should refund 18s. in the f ? When
a seller stipulates for cash he announces in
effect that he is not prepared to take any‘>
risks, and generally he has to make a con-'
cession in price. When a man sells on
terms, he knows or ought to know that he
accepts certain risks. That is one reason
for discriminating. And, anyhow, a composi- -
tion is not reached in the interests only of the
debtor. As a rule it pays the creditor to write
down a doubtful debt in order to reach a
settlement. This is particularly true where
the security is farm property of any kind.
Thousands of farms in Australia are going
to ruin because the mortgagor’s debt is so
heavy that he cannot maintain the improve-
ments and keep down pests and use the land
reasonably; wherefore not only will Hie
mortgagee most probably not be paid in the
end, but his security will be heavily depre-
ciated. To suggest that one man can handle
a farm or station as well as another is very
ridiculous. If that were so Our agricul-
tural colleges might as well shut up, and
our agricultural scientists be sacked. Very
large numbers of highly-skilled agricultur-
ists are in danger of being turned off their
holdings; and it would be a national
calamity if their services were thus lost.
That is why it is of national importance to
get this matter arranged.
Why Unemployment?
Machinery must displace labor. If there
exists other work to he done by the “re-
leased’ ’ men you speak of, why are there un-
employed?—F. A. A. (Q.).
If 100 people are put on a fertile island,
it is quite clear that they can all find work
to do. Every one of them is a market for
something which others can produce. (It
is to be assumed that they can neither
import nor export anything.) There need
be no unemployment until all their wanffe
are satisfied. But if a dozen of them
insist upon growing asparagus, then
obviously there is going to be trouble. Un-
employment is due to maladjustment. But
the fact that the asparagus-growers can’t
make a living does not mean that there is
no work for them to do. The chances are
that not half the population is decently
housed, for example; or it could do with
more fish ; or even some tobacco. You ask
how are the people to buy better houses or
more fish —they spend all they get already.
But if these men who are overstocking the
market with asparagus were at work pro-
ducing something of value, they would create
their own market. They would want things,
and they would exchange their products for
the pi'oducts of others. > Money doesn’t
really buy things: it is goods and services
that buy things. Money is mei-ely a handy
counter.
Money in London
According to a press statement the Com-
monwealth Bank has now over 17 millions in
London. Presumably this accumulation is
dice to the high exchange rate. If it goes on
growing, what will happen? Can it grow
indefinitely and will such growth be to our
advantage? —ll. M. (Vic.).
Nominally this 17 millions-odd represents
the excess of exports over imports and over-
seas interest. But the true figure is not
quite so large, because an unknown but cer-
tainly considerable amount payable abroad
has been left in Australia pending a fall in
exchange. Oil cos., for example, are under-
stood to have retained large sums, instead
of remitting at a heavy discount. Three
things can be done with money accumulated
abroad. (1) It can be used to buy Austra-
lian loans abi’oad ; it is thus very handy in
case of a conversion. But it has to be re-
membered that every £lOO in London has
cost from £125 to £l3O in Australia. (2)
It can be sent back to Australia. But as
soon as an attempt was made to .send it
back, the exchange rate would probably be
forced down; and if it fell even to 120 ft
would mean a loss to the Commonwealth
Bank of a million pounds. (3) It can be
left there to assist in stabilising exchange;
it would go a long way in preventing a rise
should a bad season hit us and our exports
fall away.
HIS EASTER EGG.
“Mr. Lang opened his referendum campaign on Thursday, making a strong appeal to the electors of N. S. Wales to vote
down the measure for the reform of the Legislative Council.”
J. T. LANG (to his cobbers): “Looks pretty cheerful again, doesn’t she? Well, you watch me make another mess of her.”


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. • - -♦ •• ..
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . .
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
. held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . .
£241,341
£3,660,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
(fomionwealt!) Savings JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
ABORIGINALITIES
“George St.”: From Brisbane comes a
story of a dog and a canary which reflects
great credit on canine intelligence, even if
it imposes a strain on the credulity of those
hearing it. The dog, a terrier, was insanely
jealous of the attention shown the canary by
their mistress. One day the canary escaped
from its cage into the street and was pur-
sued by the dog. Spectators immediately
wrote off the bird, which had perched in
the gutter, as a total loss. Not so. The
intelligent tyke carefully gathered up his
feathered enemy in his mouth and, with
PUTTIN' UN IN ’IS PLACE.
MRS. POLMEAR : “Passon he be puttin’ on too much jam. He be forgettin’ we do
maintain he!”
tail wagging and eyes beaming, laid it un-
harmed at the feet of the admiring owner
of both of them One would like to add
that the dog thereafter joined the canary
in the singing which was the original cause
of his jealousy, but that has not happened
y et
“Homfrey Beale”: “Poultices,” said Danc-
ing Jack, breaking in on the pharmaceutical
conversation. “I remember the time ole
Bill Noggs’s waggon got bogged on Gunna-
woorawarradin station in Queensland. It
went right down to the axle-bed. There
was seven of us teamsters camped there be-
sides Bill, an’ we ’ooked the .whole .0 the
eight teams on an’ couldn’t shift it —it was
wunnerful ’ow the pole stood it. Date that
niglit after we’d all gone ter bed I sees Mick
Andrews messin’ about the fire, cookin . \\ ot
yer doin’?’ I asks. ‘Makin’ a stoo,’ he sez.
Next mornin’ at grey dawn ole Noggs rouses
us all up roarin’ frantic erbout ’is waggon,
which ’as vanished. Mick Andrews jumps
up in a great ’urry. ‘I forgot ter take that
blasted poultice off—went clean ter sleep,
he sez. We found the waggon 12 mile along
the road, still doin’ three mile, an hour, an
on the pole was the poultice Mick ad
made outer lantana leaves.”
k * * *
“C. Coral”: It was at the time of the
gold rush to one of the islands of the Prince
of Wales group. A couple of Thursday
Island business men thought they would haye
a look at prospects and sailed across 111
their boat accompanied by a Japanese. A
stone demijohn was used to carry the water
supply, and while they went off on a short
tour of exploration the Japanese was re-
quested to make a fire and boil up some
tea. Some little while later a terrific re-
port rent the air, and the two gold-seekers
hurried back to see what was amiss. The
cook had put the full demijohn on the fire
with the screwed plug firmly in place, in-
stead of using the tin billy, and the wholo
of the water supply had gone west!
* * * *
“Captain Tyarki”: Working the reefs
around Kaewieng, New Ireland, for trochus,
beche-de-mer and the chance of an occa-
sional patch of black-lip pearl-shell, I landed
at Nusa-lik to try to trade with the Lu-lu-
hai of the tribe for a few bags of copra.
Being well received by the Tul-tuls, or sec-
ondary chiefs, in a few minutes they had
the Lu-lu-hai seated on his throne, a block
of Neoli wood hollowed out into the - shape
of an armchair, while the rest of us sat
on short lengths of palm-trunk, laid in a
circle before him. Ordering my boss-boy to
bring forward the box in which he carried
the articles I had to exchange, a big brightly-
nickelled mouth-organ took the old chief’s
fancy, and he picked it up and examined it
with a great deal of interest. After he had
decided to give, and I to accept, two bags
of copra in exchange, he looked about for
a safe place to put the treasure out of the
reach of his Tul-tuls, who were gazing at
the wonderful thing with longing eyes. At
last the thought struck him to put it in the
hole in the cartilage of his nose, through
which was thrust a human thigh-bone. The
thigh-bone went out and the mouth-organ
went in, the chief holding his breath as he
stretched the cartilage to his fullest extent
to encircle the instrument. Then he sank
back in the throne with a deep sigh. At
once there arose a most unearthly wail,
With one mighty leap the Lu-lu-hai was ten
feet away, his eyes bulging and rolling with
fright, every indrawn breath making the
instrument wail uncannily, and causing the
chief to dance with fear. The Tul-tuls ran
in all directions, shrieking their dread at
this new debbil-debbil. Struggling desper-
ately to keep from laughing, I ran after the
old chief to calm his fears and explain the
uses of the instrument. I reached him just
as he fell in a fit, foaming at the mouth.
I lost no time in leaving that island.
* * * *
“Mitre Rock”: That story of the old
N.S.W. lady who nailed a marauding
goanna to a tree
with a shotgun full
of nails (B.
29/3/’33) recalls
the plucky feat of
the wife of a
Papuan magistrate
of the once-upon-a-
time. The river
reach on which the
station was built
was frequented by
a huge crocodile
which had been the
cause of several
tragedies among
the natives of the
near-by village.
One day when
walking on the
river bank she saw
the beast lying at
full length on a
fallen tree beneath
her. There were
no white men
about, so, rushing
back, she seized an
old muzzle-loading
gun which was
used by the shoot-
ing-boy. Realising
that shot was use-
less, she slipped in
an 18in. iron bolt
from the station
store head-first,
having first re-
moved the nut.
Then, sneaking to
the bank, she fired,
the bolt going right
through the croco-
dile and , the tree
he was on. As lie
. writhed in agony,
the brave girl ran
down the bank and.
keeping out of
leach of the fear-
fdl jaws, screwed
the nut on the
worm of the bolt, which was projecting
under the log, thus securing the reptile until
assistance could be got to dispatch him.
% * * ❖
.“Azrym”: Mentiop on this page of the
existence of a subterranean river near Mt.
Gambier- (S.A.y has; set the district talk-
ing. S. Johns,; of Gambier West, says his
father-in-law with a companion explored the
underground stream in a boat. The entrance
is just behind the homestead of the Benera
station, and. is to-day surrounded by a fence.
Mr. Johns also states that John Thomas
Mounce, a runaway sailor, navigated the
river 00 or 70 years ago, when a boat was
lowered and rowed down the underground
waterway “until another opening was
found,” whatever that means. Temsbn-
Woods, in his book, “Geological Observa-
tions in South Australia,’’ declares that the
“deep stream. ... .has been followed in a boat
without the passage becoming more narrow
or the water more shallow, and very likely
continues to the coast.”
**. * • *
“E.K.P.” : “Jayke’s” mysterious-light story
(B. 15/3/’33) recalls that about 20 years
ago residents at Lowood, in the Brisbane
Valley district (Q.), were startled by the
appearance of a light on a bank of the
Brisbane River. It first made its appear-
ance on the night of the death by drowning
of one of the district’s oldest residents, a
German. The light came from the spot on ■
the bank where the man was drowned.
Several persons went to investigate, but
when within a certain distance the light
always disappeared. On dark nights its glow
was brilliant, and even on moonlight nights
it could be seen quite clearly. Examination
revealed no phosphorescent fungus around
the spot. For two years the light shone
unfailingly every night, but it is a firmly-
established legend in Lowood • that on the
night following the death of the son of the
man who was drowned it vanished for ever.
* * * *
“Callan Park”: My attention has been
drawn to a newspaper statement that a
woman called on Melbourne Museum ask-
ing for instructions in frog-breeding, her
idea being to supply the medical schools at
the University, which require some thou-
sands a year for demonstration purposes.
The idea might be carried much further.
In many countries the frog is ■ a table deli-
cacy in high demand. In this country we
are cursed with an eternal round of beef,
mutton, pork and poultry, something for
a change is badly needed. Why do we not
establish frog stations and, by judicious
selection and cross-breeding, produce a new
frog as large as a polled Angus? Precau-
tions would have to be taken to guard the
runs —-or should it be hops?— against snakes,
cranes and Frenchmen, but the last at least
are not plentiful in Australia.
* * * *
“Soak”: Prof. Whitridge Davies, of Syd-
ney Uni., has come to the conclusion, after
investigations in C'entralia, that the wild
LOCATION.
JONES (meeting badly-battered friend) : “Great Scott, old man!
Where did the accident happen?”
B.B.F. (sourly): “In church, really.”
blackfellow’s ability to go without water
for a longer period than whites was due
to acquired habit, and not to the blackness
of his skin being a check on the evaporation
of body moisture. Every soldier who has
served in hot, dry climates will back up the
theory. In the Sinai desert officers found
great difficulty _at first in preventing them'
selves and their men from emptying their
water-bottles at the beginning of a march.
Rigid control resulted in the end in accus-
toming all hands to do without what earlier
had seemed an imperative necessity. The
animals also afforded examples of what
training can do in this direction, and some
of the waterless spells of the Light Horse
mounts after a time astonished their most
experienced riders. Even the mounts of
the Camel Corps, coming from the daily
waterings of Egypt, had to be broken in
before they became fully effective.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: The Maori is ever
ready to claim as a relative one of his race
who achieves greatness—and just as ready
to disown a dinkum connection who has
fallen from grace. Recently I was dis-
cussing with Henare Waipiro a clever young
Maori who is making good in the legal
profession. Henare claimed him as a re-
lative. ‘‘How are you connected?” I asked.
Henare beamed. “Py kindness,” he said
proudly. “He was an (orphan, an’ my
cousin pring him up.”
* * * *
“Dai R.”: Can any Abo. scribe explain
the origin of the peculiarly-shaped stones
that punctuate a hill on Whittabrapah
Creek; at the top of S.A., known locally
as Skull Hill? They are mostly very white
and strongly resemble plaster-of-Paris casts
of human heads; with half the neck
attached. Bush savants who have inspected
the collection advance the theory that the
rise is the site of a prehistoric battle, the
resultant corpses of which were beheaded
and eaten in accordance with tribal custom,
and that subsequent cataclysms of nature
buried and petrified and later threw up the
skulls. There used to be a tale among
settlers of the last generation of a scream-
ing banshee that ran trailing clouds of fire
after it across the hill at midnights, search-
ing among the stones in its flight, and it
was assumed that it was the spook of a
departed female looking for the brain-box
of her sweetheart.
A DRINKING LULLABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
H'ere I am walking in the forest’s dripping
shadows;
Odors of the night are in my brain;
A moon-drenched fog falls slowly on the
meadows.
O rich benevolence of rain!
I have heard leaf-lips noisily devouring
The luxury as any toper may;
Heard the ripple music of the overflow
scouring
Snaky little runnels in the clay.
I have been walking in the forest’s dripping
shadows;
The timid moon emerges; clouds pass;
The moon-drenched fog moves slowly from
the meadows.
“God, but I was thirsty,” says the grass.
The grey, sodden bark of the messmate
blackens ;
The dry creek bubbles at the source;
And the rustle of wet leaves swells and
slackens
As a scared wind feels for a course.
Silence, drenched and gradual, has gone into
the shadows,
The famished infant kneaded at the breast;
Silence, pricked with soaking noises, falls
upon the meadows;
Baby, bathed and fed, is put to rest.
VICTOKIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


/membeb\
Am'dhij ]
JBuiRiEA'D t>»
QIRCtIIAITO**
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
„ , ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes ot Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN, General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
w
r ARMERS
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture . Veteri n ary
.. Notes Etc ....All in „
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES C»2
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete -
Board from 10/0
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but,
j*\
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the tiotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
“Loin. Chops”: The experiences of those
yquths in their gruesome first attempt at
sheep-killing (B, 29/3/’33) recall some-
A WAY THAT MARY HAD.
VISITOR: “Your wife ever had twins, Jacky?”
JACKY: “Mary ever had twins! Why, twins that-pfeller Mary’s hobby.”
thing of the sort encountered by Clarence,
who came jackerooing to a small Queens-
land station in the long ago. He was fresh
from either Eton or a Barnardo Home, and
knew nothing of the ways of the wild, but
one day when Mrs. Grazier begged him to kill
a fowl for her he, being the only person
handy at the moment, faced the task as a
Briton should. He was absent in the fowl-
yard a. long time, and when he at last turned
up it was a question whether he. or the
bedraggled mass of feathers in his hand
was the bloodier. Investigations showed
that Clarence had selected the boss’s pet
gamecock and had nailed the old warrior
after a fearful tussle in which the fowl
punished him heavily. He then held the
protesting bird between his knees and, after
many ill-directed attempts, stabbed it to the
heart with a to.rtoisesliell-handled penknife
presented to him by his great-aunt Louisa
on his departure from England.
* * M= *
“Naturalist”: Who told “E.S.S.” that the
female koala camps by day in the hollows
of trees (B. 15/3/’33) ? I’ve lived all my
life in native-bear country., and never in
all my experience have I seen a native bear
of either sex sleep anywhere but out in the
open—in the crotch of a branch of a tree.
As for the family preventing Mammy Bear
from resting in a crotch of a tree, that’s
utter nonsense. A marsupial’s pouch isn’t
situated where it sits down.
# * * *
“Te Kapo”: Next to the almost extinct
k'wi and the stately kotuku, Maoriliand’s
rarest bird is the ngutupare or wry-billed
plover, but one dropped into the main street
of New Plymouth with an injured wing the
other day, and after being treated was re-
leased at the mouth of the Waiwabaiho
River. . Dark grey, with a velvet band across
the breast, it was formerly common along
the mountain rivers of the South Island, but,
like the white heron of the southern lakes,
is as rare to-day as a Treasury surplus. I
saw a couple on the West Coast a few years
back, and if there’s a faster feathered runner
in the world I’ll be surprised. They simply
skim over the ground, even though the going
may be as rough as Hades, and a human
would stand no chance with them over a
furlong. After that they seem to tire, and
usually take to the wing.
* * * *
“Endiadere”: Torres Strait |s far from
being the last home of cat’s cradle (B.
29/3/’33). From one end of the Papuan
coast-line to the other the natives are
adepts in the fascinating game, though in
other respects the many differing peoples
may have nothing in common. A Govern-
ment official’s wife who had been considered
a champion at cat’s cradle in her school-
days—it is, or used to be, a favorite game
with the flappers, and there is nothing to
beat it for showing off pretty hands and
arms—told me that she was a mere ama-
teur beside some of the Papuan women
and children, many of whose designs she
could not fathom. Perhaps that was just
as well, for in Papua, as elsewhere, many
of them have a significance which would set
the Australian Customs censors writhing if
they were detailed in print.
“Erua”: We were
launching on the
Como, a tributary of
the Hawkesbury, and
on a June afternoon
noticed, as we
chugged up-stream,
a large bird stand-
ing on a rock. The
launch slipped be-
side the rock, but the
bird, two feet away,
gave no indication
that he had seen us.
He stood upright, a
huge creature with
plumage of glossy
1 blue-black, and in an
extra-ordi nary
fashion, like some-
thing under a spell,
he danced. Swaying
from side to side,
opening and closing
his glorious wings,
gyrating, leaning
backwards, with a
slow, indescribable
grace he went
through a long per-
formance, apparently
utterly unconscious
of six amazed and
delighted spectators
almost beside him.
The sunset caught
his wings, bringing
out iridescent hues in
the satiny black, as
with the air of one
who knew his beautv
he • stretched his
wingtips to their
widest and stood
rigid facing the
glowing west. W e
pushed off in awed
silence after ten
minutes, leaving
him still standing.
An old river identity
told us later the bird
was a species of ibis,
and added that he
had only once, in
the course of years
spent up and down
the creek, seen one
dancing as we de-
scribed it.
“C. Coral”: E. L. Grant Watson, in a
recently-published work, “The Common
Earth,” states that if a snake is
killed and skinned, and its skin
is dried and mounted, each spring-
time, for an indefinite number of
years, the skin will cast off from
itself a thin layer of scales. It
seems still in some mysterious
way alive and, following a sea-
sonal rhythm, to be making an
attempt to slough itself. The
author asserts that he has
watched this happen for a num-
ber of years on various different
skins, both English and Aus-
tralian, in his possession. He
doesn’t say whether the Aus-
tralian skins follow the English
calendar. Is there anything
in-it?
* * * *
“Maeti”: In the old days ef
head-hunting in Torres Strait,
care was taken that the trophies
were brought home in the right
way. The big fighting canoes, 60ft.
long, of the type which attacked
Bligh when he passed through
the Strait, were furnished with a
Tau and Mimi. The Tau, a pole
of bamboo, decorated with cocoa-
nut and banana leaf, was placed
forward; the Mimi was an up-
right with a pole projecting over
each side at the stern, adorned
with cassowary plumes, etc. On
these the heads were hung. The
biggest man in the canoe was
placed amidships holding a pair
of dried eagle claws with which
he hauled the enemy’s boat to-
wards his own craft—the T.I.
equivalent of grappling-irons.
When the islanders attacked
Bligh they sallied out in
full force, and only grapeshot
prevented what might have been
the murder of the whole party.
As it was, the 'arrows discharged
from the six-foot bows (which required the
efforts of two white seamen to bend) pene-
trated the ship’s sides and split some of the
boat paddles.
* * * *
“Idle Imp” : The odd thing about Maori-
land’s white butterflies (B. 15/3/’33) is that
until three years ago they were utterly un-
known in the ShiveryTsles. They made their
first appearance in the Hawke’s Bay district
and stayed there until this summer, when
they spread as far north as Hamilton ahd as
THE SATURDEE MORNING CLUB.
MOTHER: “Come on, Herbert. I want you to run a message
in a hurry.”
HERBERT: “Can’t I finish makin’ me century now I’m set, Mum?
Eve on’y got seventy-four more to go.”
far south as Wellington. How they got
into the country is a mystery; the persistent
rumor that they were introduced to check
ragwort is a furphy.
-jf * * *
“1.A.A.”: I thought a spider could eat
anything till I saw the terrible experience
of an ardent young daddy longlegs. She
was half-grown and hungry. A little black
ant came scouting up the wall, and she ran
out to meet it, pounced, and had it trussed
up between her hind legs in a couple of
shakes. Back in her corner she eyed the
luscious tail part for a second, and then
sank into it as one who engulfs a healthy
chunk of melon. There was one ecstatic
suck, and then she fairly flung the brute
away. For a moment she just clung upside
down and quivered on her long legs, and
if a’ spider can shed tears of disappointed
rage and horror I bet she shed them then.
I’ve tasted black ants myself. Then, one
after the other she drew each of her four
front legs between her jaws, and when she
came to a foot she wriggled it urgently in
her mouth. Her whole attitude and action
expressed violent disgust.
* * * *
“Wobey” : Bill the loco, shunter was in
the witness-box being cross-examined. . It
had been his job on the night of the accident
to hold a lamp. The opposiug counsel, who
used many graceful gestures, wanted to
know if he joggled the lamp up and down
or from side to side or moved it round in
a circle, to all of which questions Bill
stolidly replied that he held the lamp steadily
at arm’s length—he showed how. After the
inquiry Bumper, the loco, boss, commended
Bill, and said “That lawyer couldn’t shake
your evidence, William.” “No-o,” replied
Bill thoughtfully, “but he might have if he
had asked me one question.” “What was
that?” asked Bumper. “He didn’t ask me
if the lamp was alight,” replied Bill.
“Black Mountain”: What is reputed to be
the oldest rose bush in Australia is to be seen
in the northern N.S.W. town of Kempsey.
The shrub was planted. about 100 years ago
on the property of William Rudder, pioneer
of the Macleay River, who had received a
Government grant. It was Rudder who
actually gave the name of Kempsey to the
town ; it was the name of the village in Eng-
land where he was born. The rose was
planted by the side of the settler’s house,
long since pulled down, and the site is now
portion of the town’s reservoir reserve.
PAROO HARRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you chanced on some far-western. run to
tarry,
From round Wanaaring out to Pinnaroo,
You were sure to meet or hear of Paroo
Harry,
Who knocked about that part and loved
it, too.
He never heard, the siren call of far ways
or of towns;
He liked the narrow range and station
work,
A jaunt to Urisino and a trek to Thurloo
Downs—
Though once upon a time he went to
Bourke.
O’er the border was to him the Never Never,
And foreign parts the region of the
Frome;
One modest ambit held his life’s endeavor
And the reedy Paroo River was his home.
When work was scarce he rambled round
and round the beaten track,
Or camped in scrubby bends where rabbits
lurk,
But never left the river long before he
wandered back—
Though once upon a time he went to
Bourke.
He had seen the trickle o’er the valleys
spreading
In the gladness of the too-infrequent rain ;
He had seen it shrink, amid the red sands
threading,
Till it dwindled to a dust patch on the
plain.
But lover-like it held him till his locks grew
scant and grey,
It held him spite of duststorms’ sting and
murk;
Nor would he ever leave it even for a holi-
day—•
Though once upon a time he went to
Bourke.
Neither kin nor plot of land had Paroo
Harry.
Nor mattered it to him if banks were shut,
For all he owned was just what he could
carry
When slack times sped him from the
station hut.
But always he was happy while the river he
could roam,
Where nothing came to bother or to irk.
The Paroo was his mother and his ever-
lasting home—
Though once upon a tim<* he went to
Bourke.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
Ba
&
m
m
T l
Z
m
m
Even more luxurious—even more charming—
Sydney’s “Australia,” brilliantly redecorated
in the modern manner.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF—ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Reduced Costs are reflected by a Reduced Tariff—but
Quality and Service are maintained at the same world-
famous “Australia” standard.
A Single Room is to be had for 10/6 per day, with a
Double Room costing only' 20/- per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/-, and a la carte. Luncheon and
Dinner, a la carte. Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
" after all, there’s only one ‘Australia’
Australia
The Hotel of the Commonwealth.
SYDNEY.
ẁ
o I^4
SMOKE-OH!
America wished itself many hoppy returns
last week.
* *
German Jews would like to see some-
body out-hit Hitler.
* *
“What distance from the house should I erect
my dog’s kennel ?”— “Sun.”
A bone’s throw ought to be about right.
* *
LANG’S PAPER WRITES IT UP.
At the Royal Show.
Political Sensation.
G.-G. Admits Lang Is Right!
The dairying sections are well represented,
while fat stock generally is in splendid con-
dition. No true-blue Labor supporter, how-
ever, could gaze on the Ilerefords without
thinking of the many bulls that the present
alleged Government has committed. A 'big
attraction is the sheep display, the pure-
bred and crossbred merinos predominating.
Not only sheep, alas ! , are crossbred. Cer-
tain U.A.P. legislators—forsooth ! —have the
same bar-sinister writ large across their poli-
tical escutcheons!
The R.A.S. luncheon was conspicuous for
the inordinate number of U.A.P. heelers and
urgers in attendance. What booted it that
thousands starve and that orphans cry
piteously for the crust denied them, so that
these political misfits and accidents may
“Now, Dickie, after papa told you about Santa Claus, was it
nice for you to tell the neighbors that I also laid your
Easter eggs? "
gorge and deliver themselves of windy plati-
tudes !
The speech of his Ex. the Gov.-Gen.,
which evoked loud applause from the few
democrats present, was marked by a candid
admission that Lang is Right ! How the
Premier with the Wilted Halo squirmed as
his Ex., in reviewing the economic position,
thundered, “It would demonstrate to the
world the courage with which Australia is
facing these difficult times.” Who has shown
courage but Mr. J. T. Lang? Perhaps the de-
luded voters of N.S.W. may now realise the
truth of what we have all along said of mu-
great and fearless leader. The First Citizen
of the Commonwealth has himself acknow-
ledged it!
S. IV. K.
* *
Will America’s Fourth of July be over-
shadowed in future by the Froth of April?
* *
Most of those European treaties seem to
liave been signed on the dotty line.
* *
“There are three bars on board this palatial liner.”
She ought to have a good carousing speed,
anyhow.
* ¥
PUTTING PERCY IN HIS PEACE.
(Sydney “Sun’s” ferry quintette gives poli-
tics a miss for a change.)
Mr. Hawkes : “And what, Mr. Weston, is
your considered opinion of the relative
merits, literary and artistic, of British,
American and Continental films?”
Mr. Weston : “On such an issue, Mr.
Hawkes, I fancy that I shall bo voicing the
sentiments of the assemblage if I call first
on our esteemed friend Miss Betty
McMahon, of the Better and Better Films
Club.” (Rises and bows.) “Miss McMahon,
we are all expectancy.”
M K - Percy Burford (butting hi with his
usual bone-headedness) : “I like murder-
films, I do. And gangsters. I like to see
stabbing and shooting”
Me. Cunningham (removing his cigar
and speaking with cold fury) : “May I draw
your attention, Mr. Burford, to the fact that
expressions of opinion on your part anent
the, subject under consideration were neither
demanded nor desired? Miss McMahon, may
we hear from yon?”
Miss McMahon : “The subject, gentle-
men, is a wide one, and I am more than
appreciative of the honor you have done the
Better and Better Films Club through the
agency of my humble self in thus singling
me out for notice. I trust that my ensuing
remarks may prove alike entertaining and
instructive to all right-thinking persons and
lovers of our great
and glorious Em-
pire.” (Directs
meaning glance at
Mr. Burford.) “Be-
fore I embark on
the wider field of
the talking films it
may not be out of
place if I give a
brief r6sum£ of the
development of the
industry from the
early days of the
silents.”
Mr. Percy Bur-
ford : “Ah, those
were the days!
Many’s the time
I’ve taken my
tab. —my young-
lady to the
silents. All dark
the y us e d to
be”——-
Mr. Cunning-
ham ( starting en-
ra g e dly to his
feet) : “Sir! This
is an outrage, no
less!”
Mr. Weston:
“We have neither
the time nor the in-
clination, Mr. Bur-
ford, to listen to
your inept and vul-
gar reminiscences
respecting—pardon
the word, Miss
McMahon • —• your
amours. Remem-
ber, sir, there is a
lady present.”
Mr. Hawkes
(.s- har ply) ; “Be
silent, Mr. Bur-
ford.”
Mr. Burford
(whiningly) : “Talk
about Hitler and
the Jews ! It’s nothing to the way you all
pick on me.”
Mr. Cunningham (thunderously) : “And
for what other purpose are you here, Mr.
Burford? Are you so besotted as not to
realise that in every gathering of this de-
scription there must be at least one chop-
ping-block ; at least one—if you will forgive
the vulgarism, Miss McMahon —er, mug,
sir?”
Mr. Bubford : “Must I always be the
mug?”
Mr. Cunningham, Me. Weston, Mr.
Hawkes, Miss McMahon : “Ahcays.”
Mr. Burford (weakly) : “Oh, all right, all
right. I only wanted to know.”
Mr. Cunningham (ignoring him) : “Miss
McMahon, pray proceed.”
D. J.
# *
“There’s no doubt about it; a woman who keeps
her good looks has the best chance of keeping her
man.” — Woman’s paper.
A thing of beauty has a boy for ever, as
the poet says.
“I have a good mind to fire you”
“Be a sport, boss —have a bad mind
and keep me on.”
“Defendant struggled so that Constable Macleod
had to sit on his head.” — “Sun.”
That he was wild I need not say;
He was the centre of the row.
But who would not he wild when a
Macleod had settled on his brow?
M.
* *
SALE BY AUCTION.
Opportunity to acquire Old-Established
POET’S BUSINESS, complete with Bottle-
Opener, Copy of Omar Khayyam, Numerous
Half-Carpentered Rhymes, etc., etc.
(Owner Going on Dole—Must Sell!)
The large Stock includes (a) 4-line Poem
entitled “Sunset,” complete but for last word
to rhyme with “zephyr.” A free suggestion
is included to the effect that it should be
recast to fit the cow country, allowing the
use of “heifer.” Valuation 6d. (or offer).
(b) Ode to “Dawn” —first verse written in
true poetic style on outside of shirt-cuff, sec-
ond on inside of collar, third in red ink on
undervest. Opportunity for man in need
of wardrobe. The lot Is. 6d. ( c \ Assorted
sonnets, rondeaus, epics, etc., on “Sunrise,”
“Moonrise,” “Morn” and “Eve.” Bundle of
65. ss. Also some rorty Eimericks at 7s. 6d.
EACH! ! !
Unused properties on hand consist of
further morns, eves, etc., together with some
exceptionally fine longings for bush, old
homesteads and silver-haired mothers, six
nineteenth-century horse-poems and several
dozen fine unused Titles, “To Madge,” “To
Mildred,” “To Muriel,” etc.
VALUATION.
Seven doz. assorted poems (including
Omar Khayyam) .. .. .. ■ • 9 Si
Four Limericks . . . . • • .. £1 10 0
One bottle-opener . . . . . . • • 6
Empties on hand .. .. ..100
Goodwill .. .. • • • • • ■ i
£2 19 10
T. B.
* *
“Hordes of larrikins use our beaches for sun-
baking. ” — “D.T.”
Gentlemen, of course, prefer to be blonde.
POPULAR HOBBIES,
Pets. —One can keep many different kinds
of household pets. Many men keep their
Avives’ relations. Others, contrariwise, elect
to keep t h e Avolf from the door. The rela-
t;ons re quire regular feeding, and must be
c i ot h e d and housed well. With generous
treatment they will never stray. Neither
will the wolf.
Coin Collecting.—Coins are of two colors
s i( ver an( j broAvn. Those of a golden hue
now obsolete. Different collectors favor
different methods. The beginner may start
at an aged ladies’ bridge club arid so work
up till he is competent to collect in a crowd.
Specimens are usually found in men’s
pockets, ladies’ handbags and blind men s
hats. The police take an interest in those
who pursue this hobby; and from time to
time award free holidays to prominent col-
lectors.
Stamp Collecting.- —The most important
point is to distinguish between desirable and
undesirable issues. Amongst recent un-
desirables are relief-tax stamps. Make sure
that your employer does not buy these for
you. Then there are duty stamps. _ The
easiest way to avoid getting these is not
to pay bills. The most sought-after stamp
is the impressed stamp on cheques received.
As many of these as possible should be col-
lected. A disadvantage which many find
insuperable is that the infernal things have
to be worked for.
* *
MURDER.
Dulcie choked down a scream as she saw
the half-breed creep on to the verandah,
and tiptoe his way to Margaret’s hammock.
What was he doing with that knife? No
help was in sight. Even old Pedro had dis-
appeared. With a gasp of despair, she
gazed at the half-breed again. He was smil-
ing at her insolently across Margaret’s un-
conscious form.
“She stands between me and my free-
dom !” he snarled.
Dulcie did not see him plunge the knife
into his victim’s bosom. She kept her eyes
tightly closed, and held her hands over her
ears so as to shut out' the death-yell. She
loathed murder-talkies anyhow. “Why,” she
asked herself irritably, “didn’t I go and see
Maurice Chevalier instead of this rotten
show?” R. X. B.
* *
THE PLAY-GIRL.
Rich oldsters and millionaire pops
Were the class that she specialised in;
She called them her “darling old tops” —
And gave them a terrible spin!
N.
TRUE TO TYPE.
She screams icith happiness or fear;
Shouts in her joy and yells with hate;
Her. top note pierces on the car
Wherever females congregate.
She squeals to urge her heroes on,
Or in her terror at a mouse;
When she proceeds new clothes to don,
Or gives a party at her house.
Staccato noises she lets out,
Whatever comes to please or vex,'
Leaving no shadow of a doubt
That woman is the shrieker sex.
H.M.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN APPARATUS FOR
EXTRACTING THE VOLATILE CON-
STITUENTS FROM CARBONACEOUS
MATERIALS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12107/28 is prepared to negotiate
tor the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a llicense to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
TRAVEL HOME VIA
NEW YORK
AND THE
CUNARD LINE
rw^Y a 5 d T , bound ’ Tia U.S.A., Canada and
C-unard to Europe. See Honolulu, San Fran-
“ S i o cJ a s CoUver - Montreal and New York,
and the fascinating cities of America and
v^£ d £' Weekly Express Service from New
York by the renowned
MAURETANIA, BERENGARIA,
46,000 tons. 30,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
Also
The Largest Cabin Fleet in the World.
Connecting with the following Sailings from
Sydney:
| Makura Sailing April 13th
S.S. Niagara Sailing April 27th
S.S. Mariposa Sailing May 6th
SdL Maunganui Sailing May 11th
M.V. Aorangi Sailing May 25th
Return tickets issued by the Suez Canal and
Lape Lines are available for return by this
route. Apply to—
CUNARD LINE
(C. AND D. LINE),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY,
OR
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
WM
m
v $ v
1
■
t
Sssj
iii
*w;
m
. ; .
in
v': :
e
m
e
| |||J| lili - m
ESS
ggijj
m
e>
- ■
m
UUI
M
m
A-:-:-:?
mwmm
m
£#v»
ii?
Si
?:%>:
P^C,
Prove it J
Fill up at the
VACUUM Pump
Red with the
White Band.
To save delay in writing to
London, J. Ilott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON? -then The Langham!
Here is an hotel, set in the heart of
London’s shops and theatres, yet peace
and seclusion reign within its doors.
Here is an hotel, old-world and very
English in its dignity, its welcome,
and its solid unpretentious comfort,
yet well abreast of the times with
telephones, electric fires and running
water in every bedroom. Your head-
quarters in London, your quiet haven
after busy days. The starting point for
joyous evenings. The Langham Hotel!
r • E r OR ™ for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
ptam is, ang am Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.


SUNSHINE FARM
Work Well and
ẃ
m
ZiM
W
WM
mk
Mb
Combined Grain and Fertiliser Drill
and Spring Tyne Cultivator.
The Machine that prepares the seed bed
and sows the crop for the great bulk of
Australia’s annual grain yield.
The popularity of the Suntyne is based on the solid
foundation of efficiency.
It prepares a perfect seed-bed, briifging the coarse
particles to the surface and sifting the loose earth to the
bottom.
The bottom is consolidated, evaporation is retarded,
and the seed, which is placed with the fertiliser on the
compacted seed-bed, is enabled to take full advantage
of the stored moisture in the soil.
Sowing and cultivating can be accomplished
as deep or as shallow as desired.
The jointed floats have a stump-jump action that
reduces tyne breakage to a minimum.
For perfectly cleared country the floats can be locked
and rigid tynes can be fitted.
8 row —17 tynes —cultivating 5 ft.
14 row —29 tynes —cultivating
20 row —41 tynes —cultivating 12ft.
12 row —25 tynes —cultivating 7
16 row —33 tynes —cultivating 9
24 r ow —49 tynes —cultivating 14ft.
M*- 1 -N*- 1
H. V. McKAY’S
SUNSHINE
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
(H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., Ltd.)
State Distribution jrom
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 27 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Corner Murray & King Streets, PERTH. Stanley Street,
95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
SOUTH BRISBANE.
This is the cause of your
Backctche
a
H! OH! my back—it’s nearly breaking! I can’t get straight again
once I stoop down. It seems just as though an iron hand is
gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making me just sick with
pain. ...” That is the daily story of a host of people just crippled
with pain. Thousands of women and men, too suffer for years
with chronic pains in the back, and believe it is due to sudden cold, a chill or
too much work or fatigue. As a matter of fact, the stabbing, weakening,
lowering backache, that dreadful down-dragging weakness is almost certainly
due to hidden kidney trouble.
o
There are thousands of men and women suffering daily untold agonies
because of kidney trouble in one form or another. It is no use doping the system
With drugs. The c-nly possible means of ending your trouble is to cleanse the
body of pain-giving poisons, and thfet is a function the kidneys must carry out.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers, backed
by our own 40 years’ experience, which enables us to state that if you wi
commence a course with a simple straightforward rem e d y< De Wltt 8 Kldney
and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be ended.
In 24 hours you will see results. Persevere and your pain goes for good.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-destroying
pain? Why be weak and ailing when you can, at such little cost, start once
again building up full vigour and vitality?
No extravagant claims are made for these pills. They do not represent a
cure-all, craze-of-the-moment find. Solid testimony proves their efficacy in all
r.nmnlaints which
V*’
51
an;
m
~: ~:i. -
are caused by weak
or sluggish kidneys,
especially backache,
rheumatism, bladder
trouble and general
weakness.
QHARP twinges,
stabbing pains —
Nature’s urgent
•warning of serious
Kidney Trouble!
TV Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering
V, 11 else has failed Men and women in dreadful pain for years say ey
ended pmn and brought back health, strength and vigour in a
If you will only give these pill, a fair trial by taking them regularly for a
, : we feel confident they will end the cause of your chrome rheumatic
££ „r kidney trouble. 11 you would like to "try before you buy. write for
:he free sample offered below to-day. T ' A nd
Why pu, .. until £
Bm'bi *urT a y" y u y ger'the "genuine remedy, sold only in the original white, blue
and gold box. , n
n _ Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made specia y
for the relief’ of khlney and bladder troubles. Refuse all substitutes, there is
nothing just as good.
DE WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder
Pills
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address b'e-
low. Use Id.
stamp.
Please send me, free and ■post paid,
a trial supply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
NAME
ADDRESS
E. C. De WITT & Co. (Australia) Pty., Ltd., P.O. Box 26, MELBOURNE.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHITE BRUNSWICK PEA.
“Namoey”: It is surprising that the field
pea _is not more extensively grown in Aus-
tralia, as it may now be regarded as a
more profitable crop than wheat, oats or
barley. It is more valuable still as a rota-
tion crop because of its action as a soil-
renovator, particularly in making the soil
triable and increasing the nitrogen content.
The experience of W. S. Kelly, of Tarlee
(S.A.), a member of the Tariff Board be-
cause of his practical knowledge of agricul-
ture, should attract wide attention. He has
grown peas as a rotation crop for a number
of years with marked success, varying the
rotation for the purpose of getting the most
from the same soil in a given period. He
grown seven successive crops in the one
paddock, each alternate crop being peas.
1 robably the most reliable rotation is fallow,
wheat, peas, and either wheat, oats or
barley. Every precaution should be taken to
ensure that the fallow is free from weeds.
Immediately after the wheat crop is har-
vested the stubble should be burned off and
the land summer-ploughed. This will give
an opportunity of one or two workings to
destroy weeds germinating after the first
autumnal or early-winter rains. The peas
should be sown when the wheat seeding is
normally two-thirds through. Immediatelv
the peas are harvested and the haulms fed
oft, the sml should be cultivated, followed by
a harrowing after each subsequent rain until
the following April, when the third succes-
sive crop (preferably oats or barley) can
be sow».
finds little to choose between
White Brunswick and Dun’s where the rain-
fall is from 15 to 23 inches a year. But
where the rainfall is from 12 to 15 inches he
thinks the White Brunswick stands alone.
Its advantages may be summarised thus : (1)
It matures three weeks earlier than Dun’s.
U) It largely resists the attacks of grubs,
because the peas become hard before the
grubs are developed sufficiently to damage
the pea. Under similar conditions the
Dun s pea is still soft and suffers severe
damage from grubs. (3) It commands a
premium of 3d. per bushel over Dun’s for
splitting. The White Brunswick should be
sown at the rate of 801 b. to 901 b. per acre,
as it does not produce the amount of haulms
grown by Dun’s. Growing peas—particu-
larly White Brunswick—do not like weeds.
Col. C. E. Martin,
M.L.C
Jas. Walker,
President-elect.
F. B. Fleming,
Vice-president.
J. M. Brown,
Bourke.
R. Mor ell,
Inverell.
C. M. Buck,
Treasurer.
A. F. Manchee,
Council.
N.S.W. GRAZIERS’ CONFERENCE.
Peas may be sold, or will be found a
payable proposition fed to pigs, or for
topping lambs.
DUNDEE WHEAT.
“Agri”: J. T. Pridham has given Aus-
tralia another great wheat in the Dundee
variety. . Last season it showed splendid
results in variety trials throughout the
Tern ora district (N.S.W.). Among late and
mid-season wheats it gave the highest yield
at the following places: Junee, Dirnaseer
(45 bus. 281 b.), Keefton, Yannawah, Thud-
dungra (43 bus.. 281 b.), Young, Kingsvale.
In the Cowra trials it has averaged 8 bus.
more per acre than Federation for the last
nve years. . Local baking tests had proved
it of superior quality, and this verdict has
been corroborated by Dr. Kent Jones, Eng-
lish cereal chemist, who states that Dundee
is a decided improvement in general strength
(i.e.,_ baking quality) over even good com-
mercial .Australian wheat. On account of its
productiveness, disease resistance and other
good field characteristics the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department considers that Dundee
should become popular in its home State
and probably other States also.
With the development of wheats of such
good gram quality, the British miller will
realisq that the Australian product lias
improved in strength, and he may therefore be
expected to use it more freely in his blend.
BUY HOGGETS.
,^GoHslitly”; it is a good plan to buy
well-bred merino hoggets, keep them until
t ley are five years old, sell them, and repeat
ie procedure; especially if they are care-
-classed for quality and length of
-a a * Jr coarse an d uneven sorts are
got ria ot. Some woolgrowers are caught by
hanging on to their sheep after they are
we tbers at this age soon de-
m and become almost unsale-
k fo ly , t 0 beep old sheep on hand
™ y . beCau i. e they cost about £1 P er bead
; m i„ s ago > the same sheep are now worth
r-onTri ill 106 ’ First-quality merino hoggets
at Wlt bm my knowledge be bought
hrpd bsU a es ; neighbor with a well-
on bock, forced to reduce numbers
fCGntlawn °vi V le lately-threatening drought
(Central Tablelands, N.S.W.). sent a thou-
sand four-tootli wethers to Homebush ; they
were from fair trade to prime fat, with a
six-months skin, and they netted back to the
farm 3s. lid. per head. Last shearing they
cut 36 bales wool, which grossed £l2 10k.
per bale, or over 9s. per head. Similar
sheep and younger, in store condition, can
be bought in the paddock for about 3s. per
head; and even at present low wool values
they’d cut next shearing about 9s. worth of
wool.
MONGOLIAN WOOL COMPETITION.
The following translation of a portion
of a manifesto issued in Japan for propa-
ganda purposes, just before the Manchurian
campaign was started, should prove of
interest to Australian pastoralists:—
According to the careful surveys carried out by
our War Department, there are large tracts of
country in Mongolia suitable for cultivation. With
proper development there should be room for
20,000,000 of our people. There is also the possi-
bility of producing annually two million head of
cattle suitable for food supply and for export to
Europe apd America. Wool is also a special product.
It is far superior to that of Australia, and its low
cost, high quality and abundance make Mongolia
a potential source of great wealth in wool.
When this industry is facilitated by railway
development the total production will be raised at
least tenfold. We have withheld this knowledge
from the rest of the world lest Europe and America
should compete with us. Therefore, we must first
control the transportation and then develop the
wool industry. By the time other countries are aware
of it, it will be already too late to act. When this
railway is in our hands we can develop the wool
industry, not only for personal needs, but. for export
elsewhere.
The full text of this Japanese manifesto
is to be found in a recent book entitled
“Manchuria, the Cockpit of Asia,” by
Colonel P. J. Etherton. Of course it has
to be remembered that it is war propaganda;
and we know what war propaganda is.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
“Yeoman” ; At the Waite Research Insti-
tute (S.A.) one series of tests now extend-
ing over a period of eight years shows the
reaction of natural pasture to top-dressing
with various types of fertilisers—lßslb.
super, per acre; 1851 b. super, plus 781 b.
nitrate of soda; 1031 b. ground rock phos-
phate ; and 2601 b. basic slag. There is also
one plot untreated. Each treated plot is
top-dressed in the autumn. The natural
herbage included Danthonia penicillata
(perennial), Festuoa myuros (annual), Poa
bulbos-a (annual) and a number of dif-
ferent legumes. Each fertiliser treatment
was responsible for an appreciable increase
in the production of herbage and in the
stock-carrying capacity of the pasture. The
increase from rock phosphate was rela-
tively negligible during the first three years,
but after that there was a noticeable im-
provement. The increased carrying capacity
was: Rock phosphate, 20.7 p.c.; super.. 56.2
p.c.; basic slag, 62.1 p.c.; super, plus nitrate
of soda, 84.6 p.c. It was noteworthy that
super, stimulated a larger increase in the
legumes, such as clovers, than did any other
manure.
Nitrate of soda is too costly for top-
dressing, but if sulphate of ammonia were
substituted —provided that the unit of the
latter was as good as the unit of the nitrate
—then a dressing of super, plus sulphate of
ammonia would be more profitable than
super, alone. It is probable, too, that the
most economical quantity of super, to apply
for an annual dressing at the Adelaide foot-
hills would be lcwt. per acre. Probably
any quantity in excess of lcwt. of super,
would bring into play the law of diminish-
ing returns.
The results obtained may not be as
striking as some in other districts; but -a
factor which must be taken into account
is that Urrbrae (the home of the institute)
is in a good rainfall and is naturally good
pasture without top-dressing; also it had
not been heavily stocked before it came
under the control of Dr. Richardson.
SAVE THE SHEEPSKIN.
“Valerin” : When a skin isn’t worth sav-
ing, it may be the fault of the man who
dresses the sheep. Here is my method.
Use a small platform above the ground
to prevent blood and dirt spoiling the skin.
When the sheep has been bled, start at the
knuckle on the left-hand front leg, open up
just below the brisket, and then up the jaw.
Next treat shoulder, neck and inside leg,
pulling back the skin on brisket as far as
possible. Back legs are skinned by opening
down back of leg to tail, and the skin cut
away from the purse. Now swing up the
sheep, open up front and pull th* skin down
from the legs, punching off the sides with
the fist.
Use the knife as little as possible and
don’t cut the skin. Hang the skin across
a wire in an open shed until dry; then paint
with arsenic solution and stack carefully.
RABBIT EXTERMINATION.
“R.S.H.”: This is one man’s experience.
The property is on the north-western slopes
of N. S. Wales, 7000 acres, 3000 acres badly
infested. The complete boundary has been
netted a number of years, and periodically
attempts had been made, using various
recognised methods, to check the pest or get-
rid of it. In Jan., 1930, however, serious
war was declared. First, all hollow logs
and other likely harbor were destroyed by
firing. Next all shallow shoots of burrows
were dug out and the deeper parts of all
warrens and burrows fumigated with cyanide
dust, using a cheap hand machine. A pack
of dogs were taken out every day, and they
accounted for many rabbits, besides insuring
that all the others were at home to receive
their whiff of gas. This procedure was con-
tinued until every warren and burrow had
been treated three times with the dust. The
nature of the country made digging-out
rather difficult in parts. One hill of 200 acres
had to be netted off separately; but, with
the exception, of a few small cultivation
paddocks, no other country was n,etted off
inside the boundary. As for cost of treat-
ment, £5 for machine, £SO for cyanide dust
and £2OO for labor saw the whole job
thoroughly done. Quite naturally a hundred
per cent, kill was not effected, but there
remained, very few rabbits, and these were
easily caught by persistent dogging and a
little trapping by one man, a part-time job
for four or five months. By the end of
August thh property was absolutely free,
and, with a little care of fences after rain,
has been so ever since. It is quite needless to
stress the point of increased carrying capacity.
This is the experience of a man who, after
using many methods, aid more or less, now
realises it never pays to half do a job. How
often does one see a small property netted
in, presumably, on the face of things, to
keep the rabbits from escaping!
THE WESSEX PIG.
“Thormanby”: Queensland pig-breeders
have lately been interested in importations
of the Wessex Saddleback pig, a breed little
known in Australia, but one that should
prove suitable here. The Wessex was origin-
ally a Dorsetshire breed, which survived
largely because of its ability to maintain
itself by grazing, while it could be topped up
for killing at almost any age. The Queens-
land Department of Agriculture has acquired
a few of the breed, and State farms are to
make thorough tests of its adaptability.
The Wessex is said to be indifferent to
weather conditions. Hence it has proved less
expensive to maintain than pigs which have
to be housed, and the breed should commend
itself to that increasing band of Australian
farmers who are grazing their crops with
pigs. With fine shoulders, long straight
snout, and wholly black except for the white
saddle on the forehand, the Wessex is, more-
over, a good looker.
Fecundity records show that 520 litters
averaged 9.60 pigs and 7.64 were reared;
that was in 1929—the latest statistics avail-
able. Though other breeds head the Wessex
in the number of pigs born, it compares very
favorably with the best in regard to the
number reared. The sow is a good mother,
and this characteristic extends to the
crosses.
The rapid weight-gainer is acknowledged
the most payable pig, because the younger
the pig the more economical it is to feed.
The Wessex puts on weight rapidly from
birth, and for four years up to and 'includ-
ing 1931 the breed had the highest aver-
age gain per day at Smitlifield show on the
total entries, the gain ranging from 1.41 b
daily to 1.461 b., while other breeds averaged
from I.lßlb. to 1.211 b. Most breeders would
be satisfied with pigs that gain lib. foi
every of food consumed. In one herd
of Wessex pigs tested, it was found that
lib. of weight was gained for 2.81 b. of food
consumed.
The standard for the Wessex as set up by
the National Pig Breeders’ Association of
Great Britain is:—Color: Head and neck
black, white over shoulders and forelegs, rest
of body black. Head: Fairly long, snout
moderately long and straight, face very
slightly dished, medium width between ears,
underjaw clean and free from jowl, nose
black and velvety, ears medium-sized and
pointing forward, with fine hair. Other
points: Neck fairly long and muscular; wide
and deep chest, with fine sloping shoulders;
legs well set in each corner, with good bone;
back long and straight, with strong and broad
loin; tail stout and long with tassel of
black hair: sides long and deep, ribs well
sprung and up to flank; belly deep with
straight underline; flank full and well let
down; quarters long and full; hams broad
and full, deep to hocks; coat abundant
long and straight: action firm and free.
DO NOT PRUNE NAVELS.
“Citron”: Experiments in pruning Wash-
ington navels in California have shown defi-
nitely that no improvement in tree or fruit-
quality resulted, but there was a drop in
yield about in proportion to the severity
of the pruning; also the bad effect on the
trees has lasted 17 years. In 1915 six
growers each tool; a plot of 20 12-year-old
navels and pruned alternate trees. So notice-
• i M as the drop in yiel(i of the P rune d trees
m 1916 that no further severe pruning was
attempted, but several light prunings and
brushing out” of dead wood were given from
time to time till 1932. After each of these
treatments a drop in yield was noticed. The
figures for the 1932 season have just been
published. In every one of the six plots
the pruned trees averaged half case to a case
less than the unpruned in the same plot.
The average yield of all the pruned trees
was eight cases per tree, and of the unpruned
cases. _ The pruning caused a loss of 9*
per cent, in yield, with no benefit to trees
or marked difference in size or quality of
fruit.
BANANA-GROWING.
“Mons Mari”; Those of us who watched
tne progress of banana-growing on the
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.), then wei-e stag-
gered by its collapse through bunchy-ton,
and finally saw science master the trouble
are once more perturbed. Much land that
had become overrun with lantana on steep
hillsides has again been turned to use, and
good returns are being made. But the
future ot the industry depends entirely on
those engaged in it, and unfortunately a
tew careless or ignorant growers can
jeopardise the whole position. Any grower
who allows the banana aphis, which trans-
mits bunchy-top, to breed on his plantation
may infect other places miles away, and
plantings have increased to such an extent
that it is impossible for the inspectors to
view them often enough. To those who do
hn.ow the disease I would therefore say,
Get advice from someone who does’.”
Enough is known to absolutely control the
disease. Instructions on this are quite
clear and can be obtained by anyone from
the inspectors. Surely it is worth whil«
exercising every possible care.
TUNG-NUT CULTIVATION.
Writing on the crop that may be expected
from tung-nut trees, and commenting on
Frank Cotton’s estimate of 2751 b. to 8301 b.
of oil per acre, G. de Vahl Davis writes:
I am now in possession of a letter from
the Chamber of Commerce, Gainsville
Florida—ffhe centre of the United States
tung-oil industry—as follows ;
We had yields from six producing groves in the
sixth year from planting. The highest yield was
13801 b. of oil, and the lowest 11201 b. of oil per
acre.
“I would remind critics of the apathy
and direct opposition which met those who,
only a few years ago, attempted to foster
rice-growing. One heard then of ‘coolie-
labor’ ; yet the industry prospered, our pro-
duction grew a hundredfold in six years qnd
we are now exporting rice. It is possible
that tung-oil production may also prove to be
possible without ‘cheap negro labor. l Anal-
ogy may be misleading, but, at any rate let
us try!”
'
AArr . rnowAcvo
(i AIsD DISEASES,
Hortus” : I have been using for years
“ie white ash residue of timber burnt in a
l a^£e boiler.' After sowing beds of vege-
tables, I top-dress with a thin layer of ash,
aild > i Q the case of beans and peas, tomatoes
and all root crops, I put in a supply of ash
at intervals during growth. Apart from
adding the manurial requirements to the root
crops and tomatoes, it aids the root growth
tbe beans and peas, and makes it strong
and more able to produce nodules for these
leguminous plants’ self-manuring scheme,
The ash also seems to counteract the com-
moner diseases ; with Canadian Wonder
bean-crop failures all round me, I had a
splendid healthy crop this year. I generally
add a little soot to the ash; insect-life in
general hates soot. If young cabbage plants
are troubled with aphis at the centres a
sure remedy is to hose the plants first and
then throw a small handful of ash plus
soot into the centres. And a good way to
obtain a healthy potato crop is to burn
heaps of clippings, primings and other rub-
bish prior to the ploughing The ash of
young wood is especially rich in potash
and, generally speaking, more valuable than
that obtained from the trunk or heart of an
old tree. The ash of the despised bracken
contains an exceptionally high percentage
of potash.
Aamixmcs
«<-> „. mu- c t- 1 .’
mnf .«: VQ '„ he sting itself is a most ingenious
a cc ' consists of two barbed darts
■j’ on each other, with muscular attach-
wuf*’tl and - a c ! iaan . el fo . r P° lSoa between,
18 dnven in i d ? rt pushei?
t i ]f , , nd hangs on, and this becomes a
• mear J s w . bicb the other dart
1 lt i a . ct lts tp F n
f • a 0 ,astfor the. first dart. Hence the
sting works its way in, even if the bee has
been brushed off, and a detached sting will
fix itself on the hand. The professional
(Continued on page 26.)


Cheaper in the long run
You will get much more than twice
the usual length of wear out of this
hand-sewn Abbey Shoe. It fits well
. . . .there are three widths for each
size. . . .and is actually the same as
one made to measure for you.
Nothing but the best leather is used
for sole and upper, and the last is
an exclusive one, designed by
Abbey. Hand-sewn shoes are guar-
anteed for extra comfort and greater
durability.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
ADDRESS IN GEORGE STREET—
No. 316 —ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 328
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORLD.
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled in
THE PERTH
The Leadin Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest to motorists. for
years the ‘‘Sunday Times’ has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
The Expert
View
Ok Vi.l. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers. „
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
w. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ANOTHER HOLE
in the HAYSTACK
FARMER'S
BANK N
ACCOUNT
S 3
b
COST
Fence
JCEPAVBc
,ra\ Pi
W
Why
put up
with it?
H 8
m
<-JL
They're so unnecessary these never-ending
inroads into your funds for repairing “old-style”
fences! This month some new wire....and time
and cost of labor. Next month some new
droppers... .and more labor. It’s all waste of
money! And you have more profitable things to
do than patching fences.
“Cyclone” Fence stops all this waste. Once it’s
up it looks after itself. Your stock-control
worries are over! You’ve no fence patching to
do. No repairs or maintenance to worry you.
No new fencing materials to pay for! “Cyclone”
is practically 7 everlasting. Made from high-quality
galvanized wire. Cannot sag or stretch’.... per-
manently stock-proof.
And you can fence £8 a mile cheaper with
“Cyclone.” Cost of materials is the same as for
the “old-style” fence, but it is easily erected in
a little over half the time!
“Cyclone” is not a “type” of fence, but is fence made
exclusively by Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. Pty., Ltd
X
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C°P"L TD
•24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
■ :ul Gate, and Ring-Loeli “
<q>=
Gala log a. 1 ol “Cyclona"
• B. 12/4/’33.
tft)=
db
=<s=
And at Melbourne anti Adelaide
beekeeper soon becomes immune to swellings
and after-effects, but in most cases the first
pain of a bad sting is still acute, htmgs
vary very much both from the character ot
the bee and the position of the sting. A
sting from an active bee on a tender spot,
such as the quick of the nail, can be very
painful. It depends mainly on the depth
of penetration and the time the sting is
left in. A bad sting often draws blood. The
best antidote this beekeeper knows is a
tiny bottle of pretty strong ammonia inverted
and pressed down over the part stung, a lie
poison is pressed out and the ammonia
drawn in when the bottle is removed.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is there anyone at present engaged
in research into methods of dealing -with the
rabbit pest, under either Government or
private auspices? (2) Has there ever been
anyone so engaged? —4674.
(1) We know of none. (2) In 1888 ex-
periments, were carried out in N.S.W. con-
sequent upon the proposal of M. Pasteur
to introduce chicken cholera, then unknown
in Australia, for the destruction of rabbits.
A Royal Commission reported unfavorably
on the proposal, which was not accepted.
In 1895 the Queensland Government Bac-
teriologist, C. J. Pound, announced that he
had discovered chicken cholera in Brisbane.
Exhaustive experiments were made by Mr.
Pound, and, the results being encouraging,
the Central Rabbit Board appointed two in-
structors to travel round the infested dis-
tricts and demonstrate the use of the method.
It was unpopular, however, and operations
were afterwards abandoned. At the request
of a committee of pastoralists Dr. Jean
Danysz, of the Pasteur Institute, in 1906
carried out. experiments at Broughton Island
and in laboratories in Sydney with a micro-
organism similar to _ one that had been
isolated during an epidemic among rabbits
at Yalgrogin and Gundagai (N.S.W.).
There was no practical result.
(1) How is flour made from wheat? (2)
How much flour, pollard and bran go to
a ton of wheat? (3) Are there any small
plants procurable, producing half to one
ton of flour per day? (4) Where obtain-
able? (5) Name of a reliable booh on flour-
milling?—4467.
(1) The wheat, after tempering, is crushed
several times between rolls. The crushed
material is placed on a series of sieves to
divide it into different grades. All coarse
material is subsequently crushed and sieved,
separating the flour. (2) Average mill re-
turns are flour 72 p.c., bran 14 p.c., pollard
14 p.c. (3) The Midget Maxima mill, made
by Tattersell and Cos., 75 Mark-lane, London,
E.C.3, might be suitable. (4) Henry Simon
or Thomas Robinson and Son, milling engi-
neers, Sydney, may have second-hand
machines in stock. (5) “Modern Flour
Milling,” by William R. Voller.
How to tar-surface a brooder house? —
4819- .
Bituminous emulsion (an emulsion of tar,
duratenax or bitumen) is more satisfactory
than tar for this class of work. Spread a
mixture of emulsion and sand to a depth
of about lin. upon hard, firm foundation,
using Igal. of emulsion and lewt. of sand
per sq. yd. The mixture is spread with a
rake and rolled or tamped the following day.
(1) How to tell when watermelons are-
ripe? (2) Ditto rockmelons? Should they
be pulled and put aside to mature? —501 S.
(1) An experienced grower can tell by
the look of the fruit. An immature melon
is shiny, while a mature one is slightly
duller. It is an indication of ripeness if the
“curl” at the stalk end of the melon is
dead. Also a ripe melon when thumped gives
a hollow sound. Scratching the skin with
the fingernail is a fairly reliable guide. A
ripe melon has a skin that separates cleanly
from the white rind, while the skin is rather
sappy and does not come away clean when,
the fruit is green. (2) The true netted
rockmelon is mature When the fruit can
be released from the vine by gentle pressure
of the thumb. In the case of Honeydews,
Cassabas or Californian Creams, it is neces-
sary to wait until the fruit becomes slightly
dull in color. In some cases the mature
fruit feels slightly soft when pressed.
(1) Is shell lime (burnt or pulverised )
more saleable for agricultural or horticul-
tural purposes than ordinary rock lime? (2)
If pulverised, to what degree of fineness
should it be brought for sale as carbonate
of lim-e? (3) Is there any book that would
guide me as to construction of kilns and
'method of burning and hydrating shell lime
in a small way, say one ton per day? —4l9o.
(1) Asa rule shell lime is preferred, but
the two varieties have the same value. (2)
Not less than 80 p.c. should pass a sieve,
with 40 meshes to the linear inch, and not
less than 50 p.c. should pass a sieve -with 80
meshes to the linear inch. (3) Know of no
book dealing with the construction of lime
kilns. A small cylindrical rotary kiln simi-
lar to those used in the cement industry
would be best for shell-burning.
How can I clarify beeswax from old-brood
comb? Have tried melting over water, with
only partial success. —-4721. _ ,
Break the wax up into pieces, place it in
a tin, cover it with twice as much' water as
its own bulk and heat until the mass is
liquid. Remove from the fire and let stand
until it is all quite cold. The clean cake
of wax should then be removed and scraped
underneath. Repeat the process till clean.
If very obstinate owing to particles which
may be unsinkable, strain through a cloth
before setting aside to cool.
(1) Recipe for rosella jam and jelly? (2)
Recipe for mango chutney? —4797.
(i) For jam, cut off husks and remove
seeds of rosellas, cover the seeds with water
and boil for 1 hour, then strain through
a muslin bag. To this juice add the rosella
husks and boil for 20 minutes ; then measure
or weigh, and add cup for cup or weight for
weight of sugar; then boil again rapidly for
20 minutes, stirring frequently. For jelly,
remove the husks, and to every quart of
husks allow 1 pint of water; boil 15 minutes,
strain through a jelly-bag, and to every lib
juice allow li'lb. sugar. Boil foi 15 to 20
minutes, and fill into heated jars. (2)
Twelve green mangoes, 2ilb. sugar, 2lb.
tomatoes, lib. raisins, apples, -gib. dates,
2oz. ground ginger, 1 saltspoon cayenne, ilb.
onions, 1 dessertspoon salt, 2 large bottles
vinegar. Slice mangoes, seeds and all, very
finely with a 'sharp knife, put into pan, add
peeled and sliced tomatoes, then all other
ingredients. Mix well, and boil for 1+ to
2 hours.
My bread, after the third day, assumes
the consistency of stickfast. 1 have washed
everything in strong soda water without any
apparent benefit. Cause and remedy ? —-
5043. , ,
This is a difficult matter for the home
baker to rectify, particularly in hot climates,
as the germ which causes sour, ropy bread
does not develop under a temperature or
60deg. F. Bakers counteract the infection
with acetic acid, the basis of cheap vinegar.
If a small cup of vinegar is added to the
mixing, the bread should be improved. It
is better to eradicate the germ, which does
not come in the flour, and therefore must
be suspected on the premises. Burn every-
thing used in the breadmaking which can be
spared, and sterilise all tins and utensils
in a very hot oven. Before making the
bread, dry the flour before the fire until it
is light and feathery. Make a fresh start
with new yeast bottles and fresh yeast.
Boil or burn the cloth which has been used
for covering the rising dough ; see that every-
thing is sweet, clean and dry ; finally, scald
the bread-crock or -box, and keep away from
damp or musty places.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin” : Dry grass will cause impaction
in sheep, especially weanex-s. If succulent
feed is not available Epsom salts or molasses
should be mixed with the salt. Hay well
damped with molasses aixd water, 15 gallons
water to 1 gallon molasses, is a fairly safe
diet. Many owners allow their sheep to get
too low in condition before commencing feed-
ing ; the hungry sheep eat the fodder too
greedily and impaction follows.
“Willeroo”: In dairies bails can be dis-
pensed with when the cows are pi v opei!y
quiet. I have seen them milked in stalls
with a strong strap, stapled to the wall or
rail, buckled round the neck. This con-
siderably lessens the cost of the shed, as only
one or two breaking-in bails are necessary.
“Forty Winks” : Never administer nause-
ous doses of physic to a cow in a bail. If
you do, she not only may afterwards be shy
of the bails, but often turns from a clean
cow into a dirty one.
“Wcrrimee”: When you have finished
ploughing, give tlic ploughshare and mould-
board a rub over with tallow that has no
salt in it. This will prevent rust.
“Wrash”: Put a horse that loafs in the
team between two honest toilei-s. Attached
to their trace chains and passing behind
the slacker swing a crupper of hemp or
greenhide rope. When he hangs back the
chafing will soon induce him to pull forward.
“Le G.” Twelve months ago I bought a
hollow-steel axe-handle. I was prejudiced
against -it; but I now say it is quite as
satisfactory as any I have used in 20. yeare
and appears indestructible. There is no
evidence as to where it was made; but there
is no reason why it could not be made in
Austi’alia. It cost 6s.
“Sylvester” : In planning a pig-run there
are two important things to remember: per-
manent water and proximity of cultivation.
If ,you can get a plot for cropping near
your pig-run it will be a great labor-saver,
especially for foods that are fed uncooked.
“Gumblegubbin” : When plants are crowded
in the seed box, and are too small to trans-
plant in permanent rows, shift them to an
open bed of the same fineness of soil as that
in the box, and put them a couple of inches
apart. When ready to go into their proper
drills tliev will be strong and healthy, and
can be lifted with soil on the roots. If left
in the box, or even in a thick, broadcast
bed, they will be weak and spindly when big
enough to put out in the garden or field.
“Eggist” : Seeing we produce far too many
eggs for local consumption and must export
—at times at a loss—to sustain anything
like a decent local market, why not foster
industries that use eggs as a raw material?
At one factory in England where a well-
known food-beverage is made, million
fresh.eggs are used annually. Quantities of
fresh milk and certain beef products are
used, too —all lines that we have too much
of. Most of the boards and selling agencies
only think of getting the surplus eggs on
the water and never bother to explore or
foster local consumptive channels. The ex-
port loss is paid by levy.
“Gumblegubbin” : Don’t use a hammer on
chisels. It has the same effect on the
handles as a sledgehammer has on wedges.
A mallet is easily made. Nearly any tough
and fairly light wood is suitable, that cut
from the root of a wild lemon or spurwood
being the best.
“Sunny Hill” : Railway Departments sell
old railway sleepers cheap, and they are
handy for fence posts and many other jobs ;
but it is not wise to use them for timbering-
wells. Many railway lines have been pois-
oned for desti’uction of weeds, and the
arsenic in the poisoning compounds may lie
in the crevices of the sleepers for years.
The trickle of water down the sides of the
well may carry the arsenic to the supply,
with dangerous effect. Surplus sleepers at
many depots have been trucked many miles,
and have been shifted from depot to depot
for wheat stacking, etc., and nobody knows
whether they come from poisoned roads or
not. It is well to play safety first where
drinking water is concerned.
Anthony Horderns’ display is always a
feature of Sydney’s Easter Show, and no-
thing better in the printed line can be got
on the Showground than the Anthony Hor-
dern catalogue. It contains particulars and
the price—usually with a neat illustration —
of everything required by the man on the
land, from adzes to veterinary sets, from
agricultural implements to windmills. The
catalogue—which, incidentally, contains
some capital examples of color-printing—is
to be obtained at the Anthony Hordern
pavilion. Two recent additions to this his-
toric Australian department store are a
country club and a fruit-order department—
an enterprise welcomed by orchardists.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (24), Q’land, able ride and milk,
lair education, requires position as jackeroo on
West Q’land station.—sl92.
Chief (ship’s) steward (45), N.S.W., seeksi respon-
sible position, hotel, club or cafe. Refs.—slB2.
Lady teacher, N.S.W., wants position teaching or
other refined work. —5225.
Experienced tobacco-grower requires working
partner with about £3OO capital for farm of 154
acres, with permanent water, in one of the best
tobacco areas of Mareeba (Q.) district. —5168.
Tas.. lady (32) seeks position as companion on
station. Exp. in office and home duties; plays
bridge.—s2o4.
Young man, Q’land, mechanic, windmill expert,
wants employment on sheep or cattle station.—soBB.
Sydney millwright, fitter and blacksmith, can
instal, maintain and repair all machinery, seeks
position anywhere. Refs.—sllo.
Educated couple desire positions; man, returned
soldier, knowledge tractors, cars, teams, book-
keeping ; wife, companion, governess, cook or
laundress. Refs. —5122.
To buy “Zanoni,” by Bulwer Lytton.—so66.
To buy book on making fishing rods.—slo6.
To buy “Practical Leather Manufacture,” by H.
G. Crockett.—sl32.
To buy “The Ways of Many Waters” and “Aus-
tralia, Unlimited,” by E. J. Brady.—sl9B.
To buy any books or pamphlets printed in Sydney
or Tasmania before 1835. —5188.
To buy books on oxywelding.—slB4.
Words of verse beginning “But O’Brien, forgetful
of kingly renown, at the feet of the invader his
honor laid down.”—slsl.
Words of “Dangerous Dan McGrew.”—sosB.
Words of poems, “Only a Simple Picture” and
“The Old Bark Hut.”—slo2.
Words of verse “The Battle of the Wassar,” by
C. J. Dennis.—s2ol.
Words of verse “The Man Who Went to Sleep,”
by “Gerardy.”—s229.
Copy of handbook issued with Baby Citroen, 1923
m0de1.—5232.
Information Sought.
I be away from N.S.W. on the day
of the Upper House Referendum, How can
1 avoid being fined? —5000.
Obtain from the Electoral Commissioner’s
office, Chief Secretary’s Bldg., Sydney, an
application for a postal vote.
Particulars of Australian Literature
society s short-story competition? —4973.
A P r .^ z . e °f £5 ss. is offered for a hitherto-
'b?d short story of not more than
0000 words, portraying some phase of Aus-
tralian life or character. Entries close May
31 with W R. Cottman, 294 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne. Pen-name, with proper
name, in sealed envelope. Entrance fee 2s.
The Bulletin has quoted Todd as an
authority on constitutional law. Who was
be? —499B.
Alpheus Todd, author of “Parliamentary
Government in the British Colonies” and
Parliamentary Government in England ”
waa . Eondon, 1821. He emigrated
with his family to Canada when eight years
ot age* settling down at Toronto, then
known as York. At the of 14 he was
assistant librarian of the Upper Canada
Parliamentary library at Toronto. In
Canada, at the age of 19, he laid the founda-
tions of his reputation by publishing in
Toronto Practice and Privileges of the Two
Houses of Parliament.” In 1854 he became
principal librarian and subsequently was
appointed constitutional adviser to both
Houses of the Upper Canada Legislature.
Alter the provinces of Canada were federated
Todd was appointed librarian at Ottawa to
the Parliament of the Dominion, an office
which he retained up to the time of his
death in 1884.
How to raise dahlias from seed? —4989.
how the seed in rows, in boxes (which
must be well drained), in late September or
early October, allowing two inches between
each and cover with a piece of glass as soon
as the plants show. When the seedlings
are abont two inches high, transfer to pots,
and establish thoroughly before putting out
m the open.
(1) What was the proportion of casual-
ties m the Great War due to gas attack?
(2) Constituents of mustard gas? (3)
A ames of books on the subject of qas in
warfare? —4410. J
(1) The approximate total gas casualties
admitted to medical units in France from
the British Expeditionary Force from 1915
to the end of the war was 185,706, repre-
senting 9.72 per cent, of the total wounded
, b ™' ar fi B' u res for the A.I.F. in France are
:LM99 gassed, representing 12.62 per cent,
ut.tbe total wounded. (2) Dichlor-ethyl-sul-
Phide; chemical formula, (CH2CI.CH2)2S.
Tt was used with various solvents. (3)
Bee bibliography in the British “Official
History of the War,” Vol. 11.
m j} ) is buff leather and how is it
. , e ; ; ie Kent Reqiment
and the Seaforth Highlanders derive their
laJinST? e ° f the leath6r aS
U j s » leather of a dull, pale yellow
J? r ,Ui made T from South American ox- and
I L Used to be made from buffalo-
skins, hence the name. (2) Yes.
drllu-ll C VI 1 bl f‘ ( . !ch photograph prints after
draining the outlines in ink? —49l4.
for rmmLT 4110 -’ if the drawin g is wanted
from aCtl °+ ; ls to make a bromide print
££ he negative, and, after making the
re]iahlp g e; I C - b lt aTl y of the very
parffii hiwa hin f com P°unds used for pre-
paring bromides for toning. The permanency
of the bleaching is doubtful. Another method,
which gives a permanent bleach-out, is to use
blue-print paper and bleach in a solution of
common washing-soda.
(1) What are proteins? (2) What are
the chief protein foods?— 4B4B.
(1) Complex organic substances forming
the most important part of animal and plant
cells. They consist of carbon, oxygen, nitro-
gen, hydrogen and sulphur, in the approxi-
mate proportions of 53, 22, 171, 7 and 1
per cent, respectively. Sometimes phos-
phorus is a constituent. (2) Proteins exist
in practically all foods. Cheese, almonds,
dried peas, pork, mutton, peanuts and lentils
contain particularly large percentages.
What is Gresham’s Law? —5008.
Bad money drives out good.
How to dye feathers so that they will he
suitable for making flies for fishing? —4B7o.
Wash the feathers in warm soap and
water and rinse first in warm and then in
cold water. Then soak in petrol. Suitable
dyes may be obtained from Abel, Lemon and
Co., 94-96 Harrington-street, or Robert
Bryce and Co., 414 Kent-street—both
Sydney. In some instances it may be neces-
sary to bleach the feathers with hydrogen
peroxide before placing in petrol.
(1) Who is Martin Mills, the author of
’’The Montforts”? (2) Who is “Brent of
Bin Bin,” author of “XJp the Country” and
“Ten Creeks Run”? —4768.
(1) Martin a Beckett Boyd. He resided
for some time in Australia. (2) We cannot
disclose it.
How to plant and raise tree maria olds? —
4978.
When planting out allow sft. to 6ft.
between each specimen. A medium-rich soil
is required, and manure should be used,
sparingly. Staking is advisable, and the
leading shoots should be removed from the
lower branches to a height of about 24in.
from the ground. Water liberally.
How can I clean small alabaster statu-
ettes? —4969.
Paint with a mixture of two ounces of
aquafortis to a pint of cold filtered water.
Rinse in clear cold water and dry in the
sun.
(1) What provision is made for dental
treatment of school children in Australia?
(2) Is each State responsible? (3) Which
department controls such matter's? —4938.
(1) In N.S.W- there are nine travelling
dental clinics, six working in metropolitan
and three in country districts. In Yic. each
child receives dental treatment each year
till it is 12. In Queensland nurses examine
the children and report to the dental hos-
pital; there is also a rail dental clinic. In
S. Aus. each child is examined once in every
three years. _ The officers of health appointed
by Westralian local authorities are also
medical officers of schools. In Tasmania a
system of dental inspection was discontinued
in 1931. (2) Yes. (3) Usually the Edu-
.cation Department.
(1) Was the cost of living higher in Eng-
land than in, Australia in 1928? (2) Does
the Australian pound to-day purchase more
in Australia than the English pound does in
England? (3) Has the ratio of difference
beticeen the two countries been constant
from 1928 to 1933?—4637.
(1) A computation based on necessities
showed that in 1928 £1 in Australia had
the same purchasing-power as 16s. 2d. in
England. (2) and (3) A similar computa-
tion for the fourth quarter of 1930' gave
practically the same result. In the third
quarter of 1932 costs in England had fallen
by 9 p.c. and in Australia by 11 p.c.
When a player has a contract to make in
sfolo whist, in which position would it be to
t° have a novice sitting?
It is a matter more of psychology than of
card mathematics. Our preference'would be
to have the inexperienced player opposite,
rather than on either hand. If he is on
the left hand he will probably stick to the
rule of playing low on declarer’s leads the
same as the most experienced player in the
school. If he is on the right he will take
a card led by the declarer if he possibly can
again according to rule. If he is opposite th*
declarer he must exercise more judgment
and memory of cards played. But of
course a great deal depends upon where the
lead lies at the commencement of plav
especially if the call is “misere.”
How did the ‘ science” of astrology origi-
nal ?? How is it regarded by modern scien-
tists?—4Bll.
W hen, as in the days of Paracelsus, man
was regarded as a microcosm or little world,
it was thought that the movements of the
world and of a man corresponded, and if one
could be ascertained the other could be in-
ferred. From this ancient theory arose the
system of astrology which professes to inter-
pret the events of a man’s life by the cor-
responding movements of the stars. There
is nothing in modern science to support such
a theory.
Medically , what is the funny-bone?— sol3
~ a ' he f unny-bone is th ? Popular name for
that part of the elbow where the ulnar nerve
passes down the inner condyle of the
humerus. . The nerve being comparatively
unprotected, a blow on this point will cause
a tingling, prickling sensation down the whole
length of the nerve to the ulnar side of the
hand, followed by numbness.
(1) How does the dormouse ’possum net
therTrl W i 2 } S 9 arc
istiS ri iwl * - SpeGia ! Racier-
lie m Amfraha «*•
(1) From its habit of curling up like
a dormouse when it hibernates. (2)
and (4) In the pigmy dormouse ’possum
(Dromicia naria), found in Tas., N.S.W.
and Vic., the head and body together are
about four inches long, the tail a little more
than four inches. The fur is soft and thick,
of a uniform dull fawn color above, lighter
below. The ears are relatively large and
thin. The tail is slender and cylindrical,
furry at the base, scaly in the rest of its
extent. It forms nests of leaves in hollow
limbs of eucalyptus trees. Still smaller is
the lesser dormouse ’possum, found only in
Tas. There is also the long-tailed dormouse
’possum, whose tail is nearly half as long
again as its head and body. This species
inhabits north-western Papua. The west-
ern dormouse ’possum occurs in South and
West Australia.
What is the origin of the common eel? —
4604.
The common freshwater eel goes to the
sea_ to breed. The young are transparent,
leaf-shaped “glass eels” which migrate, often
over large tracts of ocean, to freshwater
rivulets entering the sea. Here they are
transformed into elvers Or small eels about
2£in. long; they then ascend rivers, water-
falls, or even travel overland on dewy nights
until they reach, the head waters of rivers,
where they attain full size before returning to
the sea to mature and lay their eggs.
What do native cats live 0n? —4836.
Birds, and birds’ eggs, with an occasional
small mammal, but insScts and reptiles are
not despised, and species living near the
seashore feed largely on dead fish or other
animals thrown up by the sea. In districts
where they are numerous they do great
damage in poultry-runs.
When and by whom was the first news-
paper published in Adelaide?— 4776.
The first newspaper published in South
Australia was issued by Robert Thomas,
who arrived in the Africaine in November,
1536, brought a printing press with him,
and printed his paper in a rush hut at
Holdfast Bay until the site for the city
was fixed. The plant was then removed to
a “town acre” in Hindley-street, a little
west of Morphett-street. The newspaper,
the “South Australian Gazette and Colonial
Register,” had first been, published in Lon-
don under that title on June 18, 1836,
prior to the departure of the first band of
settlers; the second number was published
in South Australia on June 3, 1837.
(1) What is the cause of woollen garments
shrinking when washed? (2) Do fleeces,
when scoured, shrink?— 4677.
(1) Inferior wool cheaply manufactured;
water too cold; water too hot; soaking too
long ; or most probably washing in baths of
different temperatures. In the laundry wool
must be washed and rinsed at the same
temperature, preferably just above blood heat.
(2) Yes, to varying extents, depending on
the methods used and kinds of wool.
A. few years ago a conference was held
at which Australian fisheries were dis-
cussed. (1) Date? (2) Recommendations
or other important results?— 4oll.
(1) Sept., 1927. (2) The conference
urged the establishment of a marine biolo-
gical institution to study the scientific pro-
blems connected with Australian fisheries,
and an experimental trawling unit to explore
the fisheries resources of Australia. Com-
mittees were formed to deal with problems
concerning the preservation, transportation,
marketing and distribution of fish, canning
and curing, utilisation of by-products, fac-
tors of destruction in fisheries, the develop-
ment of the oyster industry, etc. The re-
ports submitted by these committees to a
further conference held in July, 1929, were
adopted and forwarded to the Federal and
State Governments.
My dog has inmred a stiffle joint. He is
very lame, lifts the leg, and the joint is
stvollen, more particularly on the inside, and
is very painful. Treatment?— so2B.
Absolute rest for about three weeks; hot
poppy-liead fomentation 0 f the afflicted part
two or three times a day. After three or
four days apply a soothing liniment.
What work is being carried out at the
Institute of Anatomy, Canberra? —4933.
Research work in comparative anatomy.
A feature of the records is a collection of
tissues of Australian fauna mounted for
microscopic examination.
During the war W. M. Hughes blocked a
boatload of Maltese from landing in Aus-
tralia, but finally consented to their entry
after some months' delay. ,For what reason
did he first stop .them landing? —4993.
In 1916 during the conscription referen-
dum the charge was levelled at W. M.
Hughes that lie intended to replace the men
withdrawn from industry for active service
abroad with cheap Maltese labor. Soon after
the rumors became current a French mail
steamer was reported off Fremantle with
about 200 Maltese aboard. Hughes, being
anxious not to prejudice the conscription
issue, informed the captain of the vessel
that the immigrants would not be allowed to
land ; and so for almost six months the un-
fortunate Maltese, taken first to New Cale-
donia by arrangement with the French Gov-
ernment and later brought to Sydney and
detained on a hulk in the harbor (no trans-
port being available to return them to their
country of origin), suffered much distress
until they were finally admitted under
guarantees of employment.
Who teas Quetzalcoatl, and where would
I find references to Mm? —4B74.
A figure in Mexican mythology, a fair-
skinned god, controller of the winds, who
disappeared across the sea, promising to
return at a future date. Cortez made use
of this legend. Jesuit authors embellished
the myth, and sometimes identified Quetzal-
coatl with St. Thomas. See Prescott’s “Con-
quest of Mexico” and Lawrence’s “The
Plumed Serpent.”
(1) How to make a typewriter ink? (2)
How to re-ink a typewriter ribbon which
has gone dry? —4B76.
(1) Mix together loz. aniline black, 15oz.
pure alcohol • and 15oz. concentrated gly-
cerine ; put the black and the alcohol
together first, then add the glycerine. (2)
Wind the ribbon off on to a piece of card-
board, spread some newspaper on a table,
then ink the ribbon in sections with an old
toothbrush, rewinding it on to a spool. Let
it stand for a day or two before using. If
the ribbon is only dry and still contains
sufficient ink, brush it with glycerine alone
m the same manner.
Brief Answers.
M.M.D.: J. S. Duncan, Commonwealth
Public Service Inspector, Commonwealth Bank
Building-, Martin-place, Sydney E.M.: Sales tax
is not payable on the purchase price of a third
share in a cane farm.... G.H.: Epstein was born in
New York of Russian Jewish parents in 1880. He
started his artistic career in America, but later went
to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, Paris. He became a
naturalised British subject in order to. compete for
the sculpture commission for the B.M.A. building
in the Strand, London... ,C. 8.: Russell’s “History
of the Gold Standard” (25.) and Basil Blackett’s
“Planned Money” (6s. 6d.) D.D.: The employee
is liable to unemployment relief tax of Is. per week
as from October 1 last... .A.S.: “The Science of
Pattern Construction for Patternmakers,” by B. W.
Poole (605.). .. .S.T.M.: They are very common
brass imitations of guineas and half guineas of
George 111. and have no value... .F.R.F.: The
practice is unknown to experts. .. .R'.C.: From
trank Johnson, 273 Pitt-street, Sydney....
E.M.: Yes; as from Oct. 1, 1931, you were entitled
to deduct nine-fortieths in every pound of interest.
. ...G.R.K.: Jundah (or Yunda) means a water-
hole C.J.V.: Write Agriculture Dept., Melbourne,
for pamphlet entitled “Home-made Cheese”....
J.S.: Write Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney... .F.W. : (1) Full details are not
available in Sydney. (2) We would want the whole
facts in front of us before venturing to express an
opinion. .. .W.T.Iv.: Write Amalgamated Wireless
(A’asia), Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney E.R.D.A.:
“The Native Problem in Africa,” by Raymond Buell,
“White Capital and Colored Labor,” by Lord
Olivier, “White and Black in Africa,” by J. H. Old-
ham, and “The Race Problem in Africa,” by C. R.
Buxton.... T.R.: See Andrew Lang’s “James YI. and
the Gowrie Mystery” D.H.M.: (1) He would have
to pay probate duty in Vic. on the estate situated
there; in N.»S. Wales, on the estate there; Federal
death duty on the two combined. (2) There is no
escape ; duty would have to be paid on amount
assured.,. . M.E.F.: There are no vacancies for
policewomen at the present time in N.S.W.
G.D.: (1) No, though publishers prefer them slightly
longer. (2) Yes. (3) Cannot say without a know-
ledge of the work. We suggest a royalty basis,
(4) Yes. (5) By lodging a copy at the Copyright
Office, Brisbane, and paying registration fee of ss.
. ...C.P.M.: You are not liable to any tax in
respect of such payments. The brother will be
subject to unemployment relief tax, and to ascertain
the amount divide the annual salary by 52 to
arrive at the weekly rate. If the weekly earnings,
pins the value of board and lodging ( £1), do not
exceed £2 10s., tax of Is. per week is payable; if in
excess of that sum, but not more than £3, Is. 6d.
should be deducted W.D.M.C.: The V.R.C. advises
that such records are not available. .. .P.L.8.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Lands, at the various
capital cities... .P.M.C.: Write Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney, for Leaflet No. 17, “White Ants”
F.G.8.: Write J. Jardyne, 28 Wyndham-street,
Alexandria... .W.F.M.V.: No recorded sales within
recent years. The opinion of an expert is that you
could hardly give his stuff away... .N.J.: The
war expenditure of the Union of South Africa from
August, 1914, to March, 1920, was £39,092,028.
. ... .P.K.: See Chief Librarian, Mitchell Library,
Macquarie-street, Sydney T.L.: The volume in-
cludes “Musical Chairs,” by Mackenzie; “Somebody
Knows” and “There’s Always Juliet,” by Van Druten;
“See Naples and Die,” by Rice; “The Rose Without a
Thorn,” by Bax; and “Once in a Lifetime,” by
HArt and Kaufman. .. .B.B.: British and Dominions
Film Corp., Boreham Wood, Herts; British Inter-
national Pictures, Elstree, Herts; Gainsborough
Pictures, Poole-street, Islington, London, N 1; Gau-
mont-British Corp., Lime-grove, S'hepherd’s Bush,
London, W12....F.W.: It should interest “The
Aquarist and Pondkeeper,” 14 Astonville-street,
Southfields, London, SWIB. They accept photographs
accompanying articles W.N.: Two of the J. M.
Dent Memorial Lectures have been published, Basil
Blackwell’s “The World of Books” and Michael
Sadleir’s “Authors and Publishers”... .D.H.S.: Posset
is a hot drink of curdled milk, usually taken at
bedtime, to cure a cold or cough. The milk is
boiled and curdled by the addition of some acid,
such as wine, ale, sherry, vinegar or lemon juice,
and sweetened with treacle. ... F.L.A.: “Rabaul
Times” (Rabaul, New Guinea), “Papuan Courier”
(Port Moresby, Papua), “Fiji Times and Herald”
(Suva, Fiji), “Samoa Herald” (Apia, Samoa), and
the “Pacific Islands Monthly” (247 George-street,
Sydney) ... .C. 8.: Rider Haggard was knighted for
his services to agriculture. He published in 1902 a
valuable book on the subject. . . ,W.V.: Applicants
must be natural-born or naturalised British subjects
of the age of 21. The preliminary exam, to articles is
the Melb. Uni. Matriculation exam. The student must
serve articles for four years to a barrister or
solicitor and pass an examination in nine legal
subjects... .W.H.L.: Lubrigan is an aboriginal word
meaning “a rainbow” E. 8.: Madang was the
former capital of German New Guinea. .. .M.H.:
Write L. M. Browne, Wingello House, Angel-place,
Sydney. .. .D.H.E.: (1) Yes, but a new patent
application must be made and any patent for the
invention will date as from the date of the appli-
cation ; its validity will depend on the novelty of the
invention at the date of that application. (2) As
often as desired if, in the meantime, the novelty
of the invention has not been destroyed by use or
publication. (3) Australia about £24, U.S.A. about
£45... .P.M.D.: Study the “Woman’s Mirror” for
a few weeks, beginning with the issue of 21/3/’33.
... .G.N.L.: The oil should dry out in the course of a
few weeks if the bat is hung in any airy shed,
but you can remove it fairly quickly with liberal
applications of turpentine. Apply with a brush or
rag, and hang up 10 drain; repeat daily....
J.G.M.: We are holding no novel competition this
year S.P.: Amaurosis is total blindness where
the outward appearance of the eye is unaffected.
It is usually accompanied by brain trouble....
F.E.W.: Write Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd R.M.E.:
it is not practicable for “outsiders” to acquire land
on Lord Howe Island with the object of settling
there. There is no possibility whatever of employ-
ment being obtained there N.S.: (1) A murmur
is merely an abnormal sound in the heart beats as
heard by the stethoscope. Its importance varies.
(2) Depends entirely on the significance of the mur-
mur. (3) Depends on the particular lesion causing the
trouble.... H.N.: Particulars based on information
furnished by the secretaries of trade unions show
that for the period 1927-28 there were 391,740 em-
ployed and 40,232 unemployed members, while for
1931-32 the figures were 301,268 and 120,965
respectively. No statistics available on other points
mentioned... .P.C.D.: No certain cure, but relief
can be given by proper treatment... .M.M.: E. V.
Lucas’s address is 36 Essex-street, London, WC2.
.F.R.: (1) Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney. (2) Write Poultry Expert,
Agriculture Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney... .A.K.S.:
The money could not be drawn by the children. If
claimed at all it would be by the executor of their
father’s will. The children might, however, if left
without adequate provision for their proper main-
tenance, apply to the Court of Equity for provision
to be made for them out of their father’s estate....
(Many others mailed.)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
HI-POWER RIFLES
will make the
KANGA-ROO THE
DAY
Savage, 22 cal., £l2 and £l3/10/
Mauser, 6.5 cal £l5/15/-
Mannlicher Schonnauer, 6.5 cal., £2O
B.S.A. .303 Sporting .... £l7/10/-
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer/ of High-grade i irearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near MarlJ et street). ’Phone: MA3540.
‘‘FISHING tAc.KLE TO TACKLE FISBIAG^
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Warwick Farm was in astonishingly good
order on Saturday, considering that it
had rained for a week prior to Friday morn-
ing—-almost incessantly for three days, lhe
track was not quite at its best, but it was
so little impaired that novices in the two
divisions of the Farm Handicap broke
lmin. 28sec. for seven furlongs. There were
24 runners in the first division, which began
the programme, and 21 in the other. Each
went to an outsider, Touchit (25 to 1) and
Fortuneola (14 to 1), so McShortodds com-
menced the autumn meetings on excellent
terms with himself and the world.
For the Fairfield Handicap 19 youngsters
were, saddled up—an unusual field for this
important two-year-old race. Again the
favorite let the public down badly; Venantit,
backed to 5 to 2, never looked liked doing
it. Another offspring of Moabite, in Moa
Lap, led into the straight, but Hall Mark,
ridden in Duncan’s dashing style, came
through, and was well clear at the mush
from Limarch and Shakuni. Tens could be
got about all three, but Hall Mark firmed
to sevens. He is a chestnut colt, trained _ by
Holt for 0. B. Kellow, who owned the sire.
A capital start in Sydney for this strong
Melbourne combination.
Fields were good all through; even the
w.f.a. race, the (Chipping Norton Plate, saw
11 go to the post. Peter Pan was
scratched; he has worked pretty well
since his failure at Rosehill, but there
is a notion in some quarters that he
has made no improvement since the spring
—if, indeed, he is as good as he was then.
Though there was 51b. between Lough Neagn
and Kuvera, as there was in the Rawsou
Stakes, Kuvera was favorite at 5 to 2, Lough
Neagh being at sixes and fives. The Queens-
land chestnut proved' £he form true, for,
brought along with a perfectly-timed run by
Tanwan, who is a real star, he won nicely
by half a length from the three-year-old,
Bert! "] Haven't seen you
WIEEK. Geß.t“
Giert’, "No,whw have you seem
OO'Mc^;
Bert; "Foluowung, the Gee-Gees'
G*ER.T '."why, HAvVe. YOU Taken Uf=»
FARMINq ! ' _____
Rogilla (5 to 1) being another length and
a half away. Johnnie Jason (10 to 1)
was a good fourth, after setting such a pace
that the electric timepiece recorded 2min.
s|sec. when they had traversed the 10 fur-
longs-; and Johnnie is pretty sure to win a
fair race at Randwick. Topical surprised
by running fifth, ahead of horses held m
higher esteem.
It was anticipated that Tom Pinch would
go out favorite for the Liverpool Handicap,
but that distinction was reserved for Closing-
Time (5 to 2) ; Tom Pinch and Parkwood
were next in demand at fours. Parkwood began
slowly, but Tom Pinch, always prominent,
was leading a furlong from home There he
was tackled by Jacko, and passed, though he
battled on well, Closing Time separating the
pair before the judge came into action.
Jacko was a length and a quarter in front
of Closing Time; Tom Pinch a long head
further away. Jacko has evidently overcome
his dislike for going that is on the heavy
side; and it was a good Doncaster trial, lom
Pinch, however, is not out of that race,
nor is Parkwood, though Whittmgham can-
not be recommended on his showing.
A favorite had a turn at last Braeburn.
7 to 4 in a field of 13- for the Warwick Farm
Autumn Cup, it being 5 to 1 bar one. Last
for part of the way, his performance satis-
fied observers that he has an unquestion-
able Sydney Cup chance; but it was no easy
victory. Mince Pie (10 to 1), who had heen
running in behind the pacemaker, Golden
Flash, singled out at the home turn, but
New King (20 to 1) did not let her have
the lead long. ,When the pair were battling
it out, Bartle brought Braeburn along on
tbe outside, and it was all over—or so it
looked. But Mince Pie, after seeming to
be settled by New King, mustered up an-
other run on the rails, worked ahead of New
King, and was only a neck behind the favo-
rite at the finish of 12 furlongs, run in
2mi'n. 32Jsec. She is a game filly, and is
improving. Agincourt was a good fourth,
but Satmoth, Peter Jackson and Oratory
gave their backers indifferent runs for their
money.
Bill Wedgewood (12 to 1) beat the favo-
rite Trevallioii, in the Cabramatta Mile,
the’last race, and punters went home discon-
solate Bill is a four-year-old stallion by
Windbag’s brother Bicolor out of Marie
Wedgewood.
If the weather doesn’t turn dog on it,
the A J.G. should have good Easter meet-
ings The class of horses engaged is de-
cidedly above tbe average for the last ten
years, and though two or three weeks ago
it was thought that Peter Pan dominated
the St. Leger, there are many who now
believe the chestnut will be thoroughly tested
by Kuvera, Oro, Eastern Chief, Metallurgy,
Braeburn and co. The most thrilling post-
war race for the St. Leger was witnessed
13 years ago; then Artilleryman —like Peter
Pan, a Melbourne Cup winner, and one ot
the greatest of them —went under to Kelso ,s
little gelding Millieme. May the leading
club, which endows its classic races so genei-
ously, be rewarded with another struggle
like that! ...
The Doncaster generally goes to a long
shot, and this year’s handicap bears the fami-
liar open appearance. Winooka is favorite
—nominally, at least —but a horse that could
not get a place last year with Bst. 31b. can-
not be recommended with 9st. lolb., even
though his four-year-old form has been highly
creditable. It is a weight that has seldom
been carried to victory in the Doncaster, and
better horses than Winooka have failed with
less. Autopay (9st. 51b.) and Johnnie Jason
(9st. 41b.) are to be preferred to Windbag s
son • so are Gallantic and Dermid (each Sst.
81b.).' Last year’s Doncaster was won by
Jacko (fist. 101 b.) from Legislator (75t.111b.)
and Tom Pinch (Sst. 121 b.) All three are in
Saturday’s race: Jacko goes up 211 b. to Bst.
31b and Legislator 71b. to Bst. 41b., while
Tom Pinch comes down a pound, lhis 1 age
expects Jacko to run well, but it has a greater
regard for Tom Pinch. If there is .any-
thing in appearance and form Tom is a
better horse than he was a year ago, and,
though he is generally reckoned a mere
sprinter, he won a seven-furlong race at
Randwick as a two-year-old and another at
Warwick Farm in January. In that he car-
ried lOst. lib. and equalled the course
record, lmin. 25|sec., and an animal of that
sort should be capable of running out a
mile if he is not bustled early, as he was on
Saturday. Cynical, a fair three-year-old, is
nicely handicapped with 7st. 51b., and Bold
Boy (7st. 31b.) is a possibility.
As a rule, the Sydney Cup is even harder
to pick than the Doncaster. Some very ordi-
nary horses have won it at forlorn-hope
odds, and Prince Charles, Scarlet, Murray
King, Crucis and Gwillian G. did not catch
the judge’s eye again. Condition tells in this
two-miler, and form over a distance is a fair
guide to it. Johnnie Jason won last Easter
Monday with Sst. 41b., and has 9st. 21b. now.
If he has improved 121 b. he will have to be
reckoned with, but it is doubtful whether
he is a true stayer. The same applies to
Rogilia (Bst. 101 b.), Newcastle’s other repre-
sentative, but not to Shadow King (9st.),
a worthy old candidate from Victoria. oat-
moth has a chance with Bst. 71h., and there
is a strong lot'of three-year-olds: Kuvera,
Oratory, Oro (each Bst. 21b.), Eastern Chief,
Braeburn (each 7st. 121 b.), Metallurgy (7st.
71b.) and Mince Pie (6st. 121 b.). As a
staying three-year-old with a light weight
and respectable recent performances, Mince
Pie makes a strong appeal, even though the
stable (Payten’s) has another and more popu-
lar candidate in Pretzel (Bst. 41b.). On his
w.f.a. successes, Lough Neagh is well in with
Bst. 51b., and Topical (Sst. 41b.) has proved
himself a good and game little horse, though
difficult to train. Kelso’s own neddy, Nord
(6st.'7lb.), is by no means to be despised,
and Perth and Melboutne form speaks well
for Isle of Astur (7st. 101 b.). Horses from
Westralia have a wonderful Sydney Cup
record considering how few of them have
come over. Lilyveil scored for Westralian
owners in 1914, lan ’Or in 1919. Eur.vthmic
in 1921, Lilypond in 1925 and The Dimmer
in 1931. Fancies for the first two days: —
Autumn Plate: Lough Neagh; next,
Rogilia.
St. Leger: Peter Pan; next, Braeburn.
Doncaster: Tom Pinch, 1; Jacko, 2;
Cynical, 3.
Vaucluse Handicap: Cabaret; next,
Spearman.
Sydney Cup: Mince Pie, 1 ; Lough Neagh,
2 ; Topical, 3. Best outsider, Nord.
* * * *
Before leaving for Sydney to attend the
A.J.C. autumn meeting, A. V. H'iskens,
secretary of the V.A.T.C., stage-managed a
very successful meeting at Caulfield. Tote
receipts were £24,591, as compared with
£9093 at the corresponding fixture in 1932.
This shows the striking growth' in popularity
of machine-betting on Melbourne courses.
Only one first favorite rolled home: Phocis
in the Khartoum Hurdle. Weight does not
trouble this cast-off from the stable of “S. A.
Rawdon”; he had list. 131 b., yet made
the opposition look cheap. Heavily-backed
Bon Haven, with a pull of 311 b., could not
extend W. D. Bauld’s prad.
Golden Warbler, a stable-mate of Phocis,
was made an equally hot pot in the middle-
distance Glenhuntly Handicap ; W. D. Bauld
must have played up a lot of his Phocis
winnings on the Magpie mare. She set a
cracking pace, but. could not last out the
journey under such conditions against a
strong field. Viol d’Amour was the first
to range alongside Golden Warbler in the
straight. He settled the favorite after a
sharp tussle, but was in turn overpowered
by Yaropian and Thrawn, the former scor-
ing by a neck, with Yiol d’Amour a head
farther off. Yaropian belongs to R. Brown,
who prepared Jullundur for a V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle success in 1916. The
Ethiopian gelding carried a 31b. penalty for
his success at Moonee Valley two days
before.
Ned O’Hwyer, owner-trainer of Viol
d’Amour. considered that the recent form
of that stallion did not warrant his being
taken to Sydney this autumn; but the chest-
nut is now coming to hand and ought to be
at his best before long. Waterline (20 to 1)
kept on terms with Viol d’Amour, and m
the immediate wake of Golden Warbler, for
six furlongs, and then faded out. Another in-
teresting competitor was Red Sun, newly
arrived from M.L.
Philip Russell, of the V.R.C. committee
had a tardy win with Nuit d’Or who led
home the Katandra Two-year-old field, I his
colt, a beautiful chestnut by The Night
Patrol from a mare of the famous Aura
line, relished the seven-furlong journey—a
longer one than he had previously attempted
—and scored easily from Lord Caledon ana
the pacemaker, Johannes. 11l luck pursues
Semitist. The Moabite mare went out at
6 to 4 for the Glenferrie Handicap. Shut
in on the rails until a furlong from home,
she came with a rush, to finish third, a
head behind Ezic, who lost to Sonmca by
half a neck.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Mitt Shover” : As the result of the death
of Ernie Schaff after his fight with the giant
Camera, the New York Athletic Commis-
sion has re-established the “Dreadnought
class for ringmen. Consequently, Camera has
little hope of future fights of importance,
for he can no longer meet opponents under
16 stone and six feet. His only visible
opponents in the new class are Ray Impelle-
tiere, a Yank-Italian, and Jose Santa, a
Portuguese.
* * * *
Walter Browning is the roughest of the
wrestlers appearing at Leichhardt, and his
work against Bonny Muir on Saturday was
the roughest he has yet shown. He bit lus
way out of a short-arm scissors in the first
round and threw Muir over the ropes m the
fifth. Browning then jumped on his fallen
foe’s face. Ordered back to mid-ring, he
refused to obey, and the referee, McMaster,
dropped him with a swing to the chin; it
has become part of the Leichhardt referee s
duty to punch wrestlers. Browning stag-
gered up and began mauling the Melburnian
again. The fellow was then disqualified.
Footbrawl
“Stork” : An interesting competition came
to an end in Sydney the other day. When
the Waratah footballers went to England
thev took with them a teddy bear as a
mascot. At the end of the tour, manager
Gordon Shaw announced that he would pre-
sent it to the first member of the team to
marry and become the father of a son. Sev-
eral marriages and interesting events took
place in due course, but in each case the
progeny was a daughter. The prize has now
gone to Syd King, one of Australia’s best
centre threequarters, who has fulfilled the
specifications. Members of the team have
subscribed for a silver collar, suitably in-
scribed, to adorn the mascot when it is pre-
sented.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide, which made a begin-
ning w T ith Rugby football last year, is show-
ing strong signs of approving the game, a
new one to the Wheatfielders. It is expected
that several new clubs will join the tour
formed last season. University is forming
one and the Railways Institute, which cuts
a prominent figure in the Australian game,
is also on the job, the proposal being to
extend membership to all civil servants.
Noarlunga and Prospect are other centres
considering the matter, while there is hope
that the Wallabies, on their way to' South
Africa, may play an exhibition game.
* * * *
“Blind Side”: Experiments with, a new
Rugby formation are being made in Eng-
land The scheme provides for three full-
back, four halfbacks or three-quarters, a
scrum-half and seven forwards, one of whom
might be a rover. The scrum-half sends the
ball to the centres, who work as usual. The
fullbacks watch the direction of the attack
and the one on the blind side drops back to
defend as would the ordinary fullback. The
other two join up with the three-quarters.
It reads like some of the N.S.W. League
formations last season when the Blues were
being towelled up by Queensland
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The British Interna-
tional Football Board has again refused the
request of the French Rugby Union to be
readmitted to the annual European tourney.
Britain passed her neighbor out some seasons
ago because of veiled professionalism and
an epidemic of rough play. France has
drastically dealt with these evils, but so
far to no purpose as far as international
games are concerned. The Rugby League
has now great hopes of establishing itself
in France, where the handling game is tre-
mendously popular. Something of the sort
is needed, for ine North of England, N. S.
Wales and Queensland are the only coun-
tries where the professional game flourishes.
So far France has professed rigid amateur-
ism in all her sports, but the action of the
British unions may change that as far as
football is concerned.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: Shrewsbury is one of the
few English public schools which adhere to
soccer football, most of the others, including
Eton and Harrow, which once affected their
own rules, having gone over to Rugby. Re-
cently soccer history was made there when
Aston Villa, one of the oldest and most
famous of the English professional soccer
dubs, visited the Shropshire town and
played against the school eleven. _ This is
the first time on record that a public school
or university in England has met a team of
professional players in the field.
(Continued on page 80.)
“J. Hop.” : Sydney is the richer for a new
rowing club, the Police. The concern already
has a membership of 200 and is thus as
large as Sydney, the oldest of the Ma State
combinations. More than one policeman lias
figured prominently in inter-State rowing,
notably Charles Hurley, who was in the
Light Blue boat in 1924, 1926 and 1928.
Another good one is George Hancock, who
was a State representative in 1921-22. He
is the coach who achieved fame by bringing
the “unknown” Sydney High School eignt
to the Head of the River roster four times
in five years. If he repeats his success there
with his fellows in blue. Police should prove
a hard nut to crack in the days to come.
“Shell” : The perennial rumor that Bobby
Pearce intends to turn professional is mak-
ing its rounds again. The responsible party
is another Australian, Major Goodsell.
former world’s professional champion, and
now a coach at California University. Good-
sell says he, Pearce, Ted Phelps, the world s
champion, and Bert Barry, the last holder
of the title, will meet in a four-mile race at
Toronto in September. Why. Pearce, twice
Olympic champion and winner of . the
Diamonds, should want to turn pro. is a
mystery. There is little glory in it nowa-
days, and, as Phelps told the world alter
his ’match with Goodsell in America, a
championship meeting has come to be a
money-losing proposition. _ *
“Backwoodsman”: Some of Sydney s
bowlers are convinced that a revolution on
the best Soviet lines is at hand. At the
City Club’s green the other day certain
members of the proletariat offered rude com-
ments on the play. The green is portion of
a public park, and is only separated from
the street by a low railing. So shocked were
the authorities that they transferred the
final stages of the criticised game to an
enclosed green where the barracker could not
break in.
*.* * *
“Aigburth”: The five leading English
cricketers featured in this year’s “Wisden
are F li. Brown. V. Voce, A. S. Kennedy,
W. E. As till and C. K. Nayudu. Brown
and Voce were members of Jardine’s team.
Kennedy and Astill are well known to
recent Australian Elevens in _ England,
though neither has figured in Tests.
Nayudu was the leading batsman of the
Indian team in England last season. A tall
Hindu, he is a powerful hitter, a useful
change bowler and a splendid field.


Mr Can’t
- ? s;\ i
is \ y > \ ?
X*' 1 ' * '
ft
r"
i
Mr Can’t has heard the clock
strike one. Mr Can’t has
heard the clock strike two.
Mr Can’t has counted a.
whole prairie 'full of sheep.
But still Mr Can’t can’t sleep,
and can’t think why he can’t.
He doesn’t know, you see,
that clogged and stagnant
foodways fill the blood with
poisons and make the whole
nervous system irritable and
restless. What a shame some-
one doesn’t tell him!
Mr Can
Ml
Sshh! This is Mr Can’s room.
And can he sleep ? Of course
he can ! Like a top ! Mr Can,
you’ll remember, is most par-
ticular about keeping himself
clean inside. Every morning
as regularly as the sun rises
Mr Can takes his Eno. Every
night his system is clean and
comfortable and so never
keeps his brain awake with
signals of distress. What
about you tonight ?
Sleeplessness, headaches, indigestion and a score of
other ills are the penalties you pay for omitting the
vital inner cleansing which Eno gives you. Take Eno
every morning. Even as you drink it, you feel it cleans -
ing and purifying —relieving that heaviness with which
you so often start the day. Instead of Mr Can’t —he
a Mr Can !
Eno’s Fruit Salt
£ 3' be words Sno and '"tfruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: c s#e SBritish fKarold 9 r . Slitchie Go. £td. ; Sydney, ZN.S.^D.
NOW! a U H.P.
Semi-Automatic
Electric Lighting Plant
ŵ
Another
RONALDSON
TIPPETT
SUCCESS.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim
Bringing Electric Light and
Power to Your Home at a
MUCH LOWER COST .
Ronaldson-1 ippett 1| h.p. Semi-
Automatic Lighting Plant
Embodies all the Good Points of their Larger Plants
—only Costs Less and is Cheaper to Run.
Is specially suited for homes where only two or
three lights are kept burning continuously each night.
Provides ample power for operating small Electrical
Appliances.
ENGINE DYNAMO, SWITCHBOARD AND BATTERIES
(as illustrated),
Price £.125
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
ẁ
N-Q-Branch
STLRT SI
TOWNSVIIU
ItNCINEERINC Supplyc<?cr AIJSTPAIiA IV|
UNBELIEVABLY KEEN
As a climax to thirty years' experience
Gillette now offers you a blade of unbe-
lievable keenness. New in manufacturing
process, it is new in quality. Indeed these
new English blades represent the greatest
advance in safety razor blade manufacture
ever achieved. Gillette slotted blades are
sharper, smoother, longer lasting than any
blades produced before, and every blade
has the same uniformly perfect edge.
Prove this statement yourself by buying
a packet bearing the words "Made in
England."
7»
07
ZO
07
0>
O'Z
Gillette Slotted Blades for old and new type
razors, 2/6 per packet. Of all dealers.
ẃ
ero
<o
- Jir)
O'—
<cr
Sen
GILLETTE INDUSTRIES LIMITED
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.I,
r
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous of their past', jealous of
their present', jealous of their
future ■, they etch the name
STUART on every piece ol the
crystal they fashion so lovingly,
so that it is known and admired
wherever Beautiful glass is sold.
And because their shill is heredi=
tary, handed down from father
to son for many generations, you
can still pay as little as a few
shillings for a genuine example.
w*
%
m
m
ZJk
**
wat
9
i
r
>s^r
S&y~~.r .?'..
»2S*fcBSJbW
I
I
A
je
-'vT
Jr
s»Us®
H
■
Be sure to look for the registered name “Stuart” on every piece you buy.


LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY AND RESIDENTIAL HOTELS.
Make a note of these addresses
for yourself and your friends.
Within three minutes Hyde Park and
Tube. Daily terms as required. Pas-
senger lifts. Garages. Central heating.
Hot and cold running water. Exchange
telephone and gas fires in all bedrooms.
BRIDGE, BILLIARDS, TABLE TENNIS
and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 gns.;
Double from 7 gns. Bath, Bed and Break-
fast from 9/6. Tel.: Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 3£ gns. Single; 6J
gns. Double, Bath, Bed and Breakfast
from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Hotel of refinement with young and
cheerful society. Accommodation for 90
guests. Delightful Rooms arranged as
Bed-Sitting Rooms. Terms: 3 gns. Single;
5 gns. Double. Tel.: Padd. 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Owing to its popularity you are advised
to secure accommodation —if possible —in
advance. Terms: 3 gns. Single; 5 gns.
Double. Room. Bath, Breakfast, 7/0.
Tel.: Padd. 8022.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director, Mrs. J. E.
Stevenson.
A SADDLE WE CAN STRONGLY RECOMMEND
E
PRICE
£6/15/-
BARE.
Leathers 7/6
Girth . . 57-
Good
Irons . . 7/6
COMPLETE
£7/15/-
Our No. 300
Hair Saddle
Cloth prevents sore
backs 217-
Postage:
N.S.W., 1/6; Q., 2/6
Write for Catalogue No. 329.
No. 131
THE “BOUNDARY RIDER”
STOCK SADDLE
Suitable for station work and honestly
worth a couple of pounds more than we
ask for it. It has a comfortable hogskin
seat, good firm capped kneepads set well
up in the skirt and long-wearing kip flaps.
If you prefer low pads, the same saddle
with pigskin park pads will be the same
price and makes a good-looking saddle.
For Cash with Order we will send Freight
Paid to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
WHIPS
All Kangaroo, with inner-plaited belly
—there are no better whips.
No. IS. —K’Burra Whip, 16-plait
handle and 7ft. 12-plait thong, 397-
No. 16.—K’Burra Whip, with Bft.
thong 41/6
Postage: 1/- N.S.W.; 1/6 Q., Vic.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
New Book Creates Sensation.
“Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,”
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
/W 8
M
in
Ducks
already and
quail with May Ist in.
N.S.W., Sth. Q’land, and
Tas. —sport indeed for the keen
shooter, and with birds in abundance.
“LIMIT” BAGS ASSURED
IF YOU USE
ELEY & KYNOCH
ALL
BRITISH
Swift and accurate, these world
foremost cartridges have a velocity
a*nd pattern that mean clean
killing and avoidance of “lost”
birds.
Get Your
Supply NOW
Obtainable
Everywhere
355
ẅ
-o-r
A#
V*.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian football season
opens with the usual biting of. thumbs be-
tween the League and the Association. Some
time ago the antagonists came to an agree-
ment to recognise one another’s clearances,
but when the Association found that these
were all going one way—from the Associa-
tion clubs to the League’s—it refused to
grant any more. The League retaliated, and
the war was on again, though the original
agreement has yet a year to run. The Asso-
ciation is very hard up, and its wealthy rival
has naturally a greater attraction for young
players of promise who can command good
money. That is the situation at present and
the Association has a headache wondering
what to do about it.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The affiliation of part of the
Riverina (N.S.W.) Australian football area
with the Victorian League (B. 29/3/’33) will
result in two new districts being formed.
Riverina and Murray Border, both within
the 100-mile radius of Albury. The first
will have its headquarters at Wagga and
the second at Albury. The Murray district
will take in country leagues as far as Yarra-
wonga and Wangaratta up to Tooma and
Corryong on the Murray, then across to
Tumbarumba and back again to Corowa.
That part of N.S.W. round Berrigan and
Tocumwal will be handed over to the present
Goulburn Valley Council.
* * * *
“Mayne” : Australian football in Queens-
land has a hard row to hoe in face of the
Rugby codes. Leo O’Connor, the Queens-
land batsman and wicketkeeper of yore, is
one of the hardest workers for the national
game. Brisbane sees little of the southern
cracks, so O’Connor is trying to persuade
two of the State teams which will be in
Sydney for the big carnival in August to
come on to Brisbane and show their paces.
Time and expense are two obstacles, find if
these cannot be overcome it is suggested that
a Queensland team go to Adelaide and play
two matches.
* * * *
“Stand Off” : Sydney University Rugby
players have decided to accept the invitation
of the Japanese Rugby Union to tour the
Cherry Blossom Isles early next year, but
the touring side will be made up of men from
the Australian universities playing the ama-
teur code. As these include. Melbourne and
Queensland, as well as Adelaide, there should
be a good field for selection, even with the
Wallabies away. The tourists will pay their
way to and from Japan, which will foot all
bills in that country. There will be 2a
players, so expenses will be heavy. The
N.S.W.R.U. is donating £4OO, and the
team will receive 75 per cent, of the
gates from the seven matches to be
played between January 25 and Feb-
ruary 18. The Canadians last year cleared
£lOOO from their Japanese tour, and it is
hoped Australia will do even better, the Nip-
ponese having taken to the game like ducks
to water.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League, now
busy with its trial games in Sydney, intends
to play two of its matches with Queensland
on the Sydney Cricket Ground and one on
the Sports Ground. The latter has been
all too small for the big events, and the
League has seen the wisdom of burying the
hatchet it has- been flourishing at the Cricket
Ground trustees. The C.G. games are down
for June 3 and 5, and that at the Sports
Ground for June 10. the selection of the
Australian side for England following.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Swish”: Canberra is to have the prefix
“Royal” tagged on to its golf club. Royal
Canberra will be the fiftieth club to carry
the brand, there being now 32 in Britain,
15 in the Dominions and three in Belgium.
The title can only be granted by the King
or a member-of the Royal Family, and there
is the handicap that gambling .is not per-
mitted in its shadow. In Australia the
distinction is reserved to one club in each
capital, so Canberra is likely to be-the last
on the Australian-run list until, perhaps,
Port Moresby, Rabaul and Lord Howe
Island come in.
# * * *
“Carnoustie”: Australian Joe Kirkwood,
who may be showing in his homeland with
Gene Sarazen next* season, has recorded
a good golfing performance in North Caro-
lina by winning the North and South open
championship. He returned a card of 277
for the 72 holes of the Pinehurst course,
Walter Hagen being well back with 295.
This is Kirkwood’s first big success in Ameri-
can golf for a long time, it being nearly 10
years since he last won a major champion-
ship. He has specialised in trick shots,
which do’ not make for serious golf.
* * * *
“Muirfield”: That durable golfer Walter
Hagen is again to captain the American
Ryder Cup team which is to clash with the
professionals of Britain at the end of June.
Walter was skipper of the Tanks m the
first match of the series, which took place
in 1927, and he has been a starter m all
subsequent matches. The British profes-
sionals are approaching the contests in a
do-or-die spirit. Last year, trial matches for
the selection of the team were inaugurated.
They will be held again, and there is to be
a non-playing captain. Twenty-two players
have been nominated for the team ot ten.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : The N.S.W. Golf Coun-
cil, which is about as popular with tne
general run of players as a lighted cigar in
a cordite factory, is still toying with the idea
of sending young pros, to compete in tne
British open championship in 19J4. lo do
this money would have to he raised, and betore
THE WAGES OF SIN.
WARDER: “Can you play golf?”
PRISONER: “Yes. sir.”
WARDER: “Then go and re-turf the governors lawn."
committing itself the G.C. is wording the taxa-
tion authorities as to its liability to be taxed
on money so collected and on similar collec-
tions to defray the cost of the proposed tour
of Gene Sarazen and Joe Kirkwood. Char-
acteristically, the council appears to have
given no thought to asking the other States
to take a hand in the open-championship
scheme. There is too much of that attitude
in Australian golf, as the glassy eye given
the N.S.W.-run Kirk-Windeyer Cup contest
by the other States shows only too clearly.
* * * *
“Fluffer”: Killara (N.S.W.) Golf Club
staged a 36-holes scratch event for profes-
sionals recently, a handsome trophy bight
the Bedford Cup going to the victor. This
was C. Booth, a young professional who;
is assistant to D. G. Soutar at Moore Park.
The pick of the Ma State professionals turned
out, and one from Queensland, J. Cohen,
the .ex-caddie, of Moore Park, who has been
prominent in northern golf for some time
and is now back in Sydney. Booth’s rounds
were 75 and 72, and he finished in great
style to overhaul the leader in the second
round, W. Bolger. Booth plays attractive
and sound golf, and should go far in the
game.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let” : When in Australia Ellsworth Vines
attracted almost as much attention by his
soliloquies ou the courts during a game as by
his play. He was particularly severe _on
Ellsworth Vines whenever he lost a point,
and the delighted audience used to wait ex-
pectantly for some such remark as “Ells-
worth, you big mutt; whadya mean by a
dumb shaht like that?” Recently he resolved
to take a spell from tennis, and to mdke
sure of himself cut the strings of all his
rackets. To be consistent he ought also to
sequestrate his cheque-book in order to foil
his own surreptitious attempts to buy fresh
strings.
“Ivooyong”: The A.L.T.A. intends .to
appoint a paid secretary with an office
in Melbourne. It is high time. In
these days of frequent visits from over-
seas teams and the dispatch of Davis
Cup sides abroad, to say nothing ot tne
heavy work of the annual national cham-
pionships, the job of the secretarial staff
has been exceptionally heavy. It is expected
that H'arley Mathews, who has filled the
honorary job with ability, as well as acting
as manager and chaperon of Australian
women’s teams to Europe without casualty,
will be the appointee.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian tennis
championships provided a beanfeast for Hop-
man, though the local junior Schwartz ran
him to five hard sets in the singles. With
Gar Hone, Hopman won the doubles and
with Miss Woodward the mixed doubles.
The singles win is Hopman’s third in suc-
' cession and gives him the A. J. Roberts C up,
which has been battled for since 1924. Joan
Hartigan won the women’s singles.
“Hotham” : The itinerary of the Austra-
lian Davis Cup team (B. 5/4/’3S) is by no
means assured after Wimbledon. To go on
to Japan after America may mean a long
wait in the latter country, and it is now pos-
sible that the team may come back to Aus-
tralia from Europe and then go to Jajian.
The tour of America and Japan will be an
expensive proposition, and no guarantee is
forthcoming from America.
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: The severe winter conditions
under which this year’s Monte Carlo Rally
was carried out were responsible for some
ingenious devices to enable competitors to
get their cars through the deep snow. A
successful one was the attachment of im-
provised skis to the front wheels, which
were fixed. The driving wheels forced the
ski-clad front wheels over the snow most
effectively, while drivers following after had
the benefit of the track trodden down by
the skis. Others fitted extra drums to their
hubs, enabling spare wheels to be bolted up,
thus providing a twin-tyre grip. This is
an idea that "should be useful on the loose
sandy stretches so often'encountered in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Australian Auto-
cycle Council decided last week to send a
second rider to represent this country in
the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy races, and
the choice fell on Weatherby, of N.S.W.
Pringle has already set out, and Weatherby
is starting at once, since the race is held
in June. Two other Australian riders are
at present in England, Arthur Simcoek and
Allan Bruce, and if the T.T. authorities are
agreeable they will also ride for Australia,
four entries being a record for this country
in the famous Manx events.
*-* * *
“Fitzcray”: Hubert Opperman. who has
been lying doggo of late, intends to tour
Australia this coming season, taking part in
Continental-style road races for push-bikes in
all the States. When that is over the cham-
pion will leave for England, where he is
to try to break the record i.or the 86- miles
from Land’s End to John o Groats—bl
hours 22 minutes, held by John Rossiter.
Opperman also intends to have another sny
at the Tour de France. , and when he returns
will bring with him a team of leading Euro-
pean road riders to' compete in cycling events
during the Melbourne centenary celebra-
tions. . *
“Sprocket”: Though Queensland cyclists
have been unable to snare any of the motor-
cycle road-racing championships of Australia
this year, they will stage a couple of the big
events for the pushbikers. Both are un-
paced events, the 62* miles for champion-
ship seniors and the 25 miles for juniors,
and will be run off on August -9, which
should give the southern cracks who ap
expected to compete plenty of time to tui
UP.
Miscellaneous
“Green Chequer”: Three Victorian hom-
ing pigeons were taken up m a pmne
which started to fly Bass Strait from Mel-
bourne with mail and passengers and were
released lialf-way across. The plane had to
turn round and come back, and arnved to
find the fowls had beaten it home There
are points about a homer as a mail-carr e ,
even if he has no accommodation for pas-
scngers. If he is tired he can land in a
tree without crashing and he refuels him
self neither of which a ’plane can do.
’ * * * *
“Shell” : This being the season when Syd-
ney flapperdom gets hysterical over the pros-
pects of its pet public school in the annual
head-'of-the-rivcr championships on tne
Parramatta, I am moved to advocate the
institution of a sculling race for the young
grntlemen in addition to the customary
eights and fours. Sculling is, perhaps, the
most delightful form of rowing, and an
attractive one to watch. The hero who wins
has not to share the glory with otners.
Sculling should be learned young—though
Dick Arnst furnished an exception and
offers many attractions- to the oarsman who,
because of lack of weight or inability to
team with others, finds crew rowing unpalat-
able. , *
“Mosgiel” : Collecting the Maoriland eight-
oar championship is becoming a habit with
the Otago eight. The other day the men
from Scotland-on-Pacific won the title tor
the fifth time in succession. The race was
rowed on Wellington Harbor, which was m
an unusual state of good behavior. Dtago
■was followed home from the start by Auck-
land and Canterbury in that order.
M: * * *
“Albacore”: Once more N.S.W. amateur
fishermen are talking of forming a deep-
sea anglers’ club to go after the big
game fish in the coastal waters. There was
a club of sorts headed by Dr. Herbert Mait-
land, but this petered out in 1927. Develop-
ment of a fine sport would have other advan-
tages. M.L. has converted its game-fishing
into an asset that is attracting moneyed
tourists who spend a lot of cash m the
country. Best of all, they are finding good
employment for the coastal fishermen, and
that is something urgently needed in iS.b.W.,
where the disciples of St. Peter have always
had a rough spin.


s>/>
BIC SAVIHCJ
L
WIRE.
IRON
Q &
Jam\
GROCERIES
V, DRAPERY.
Q.P.S. Prices
Down Again.
Send cash with order and you get 2% per cent,
discount off all our catalogue prices.
A Tremendous Saving.
This means a further big saving on all your
purchases.
THINK OF IT!
Just compare the following and remember—
a further 2i per cent, off all the prices and no
Sales Tax to pay extra on anything we sell.
WHY PAY MORE ELSEWHERE?
■f\if lA T+ jRIAIj T 88 ' Galv - Wir 6. 16/6 cwt. We manufacture Barb Wire and
sell it direct-to you from 17/6 per coil, 440 yards. On “K” Wire we give 25 per cent.
aoiT hitn m 4r/ teS ’i 0 -,?® r cent and 5 P er cent. Hibiscus Special Hinge Fencing,
100 1/9 , 7 0 ? 1 ’ 110 yards - Hibiscus Steel Fence Posts, 1/6 each, or lots of
ruu J./3 each. Autoscrew Droppers for 4-wire fence, from 20/- per 100. Netting
we have reduced still further. Get the latest list.
ON BARB WIRE AND NETTING WE PAY THE FREIGHT FREE
OF CHARGE BY BOAT TO MARYBOROUGH, BUNDABERG,
GLADSTONE, ROCKHAMPTON, MACKAY, BOWEN, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
GALVANISED IRON—Reject Corr. Galv. Iron, 6ft. sheets, 2/- each. Bft. sheets, 2/6
each. This is perfectly new iron, heavily galv., but it is a little thinner than
standard, and, therefore, we would only recommend it for cheap buildings, sheds,
or fowl houses, lining of barns, fences, hay sheds, etc. Lowest also for Orb and
British Crown.
BUILDING LINES—Bath Heaters. Our big seller is the Hibiscus Chip Heater at
16/- each. Galv. Piping, 40 per cent, and 10 per cent, discount. Galv. Baths,
roll top, sft. 6in., 37/6. New Oregon Doors, 18/9. Tkreeply, 12/- per 100 sq. ft.,’
or 2/1 per sheet. Ormonoid Roofing and Flooring. We allow you 10 per cent,
off roll lots. Dover Stoves, No. 7, 67/6; No. 8, 77/6, complete with piping.
Ivonkrete Best Red Roof Paint, 17/9 gallon. Raw Oil, 4/6 gallon. Boiled, 4/8.
AVhitelead, 13/- keg.
HIBISCUS COTTONSEED MEAL— Twice as rich in protein, the milk-producing
element, as bran, pollard, maizemeal, wheatmeal, barleymeal, etc. Price., £6/17/6
ton, or 15/- hag 2001 b.
DRAPERY BARGAINS —Something New! Men’s Tan Elastic-sided boots, finished
with reinforced elastic. They have double soles and can be used for walking
and riding. Price, 18/9 pair, post free. Men’s Fawn Gaberdine Trousers, with
cross or side pockets, the best for hard wear. Price, 4/10 pair, or 3 for 14/-,
post free. >
WRITE FOR COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE. IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
TRUE BLUE AND BRITISH.
rrrrrrrTTTTTTTrjtrtTiJTSTTOtTO
u^Saa
■
Pi
T he Kangaroo is seldom
blue . . . but he’s “plus
a little somethingtoo !
He’s earned his place as a
national emblem because
he has the fighting Empire
spirit... And it’s the extra
“punch” and “kick” in the
only true blue British
petrol that has earned its
popularity in Australia’s
petrol tanks . . .
t
11
♦
PLUS WHAT ?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING*
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
“C.O.R” Plus is a fine quality
\ motor spirit plus a special soluble
compound of lead which eliminates
“pinking” and meets the needs of
today’s higher-compression engines.
For your protection it is coloured
BLUE by the addition of a minute
quantity of perfectly harmless aniline
dye which eannot separate from the
petrol.
C49/16/33
The Commonwealth Oil Refineties Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Poolman Street, Port, Melbourne; 5.p.7. ’Phone: M 3261. - 11? Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agents for South Australia and Queensland: :: :: Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
/-V
I
'JaT / 7
BUNGENDORE BRANCH, 1884.
PIONEERING
WITH THE PIONEERS
In outback settlemcmts, such as Bungendorc was in 1884, the
Bank of New South Wales stood beside the pioneers whose sturdy
character made possible the development of Australia's Agricultural
and Pastoral industries.
But for the financial assistance the Bank was able to give to these
early stalwarts, many of them would have been unable to hold on
to their selections and thus the expansion of our primary industries
would have been seriously retarded.
Now, as in those days, the policy of this Bank is to utilise the funds
at its disposal to stimulate production, thus giving employment
and adding to the wealth of the country.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
Paid-up Capital, £8,780,0C0. Reserve Fund, £6,150,000
10
A JOURNEY OF UNRIVALLED APPEAL
"MARIPOSA" "MONTEREY"
T'
::
4
sn
fe
A
■MUI
"*<» '•AUnn
7A
SYDNEY #o
America and England
A travel EPIC ! Combining the primitive mystery of the South
Seas, the modern wonder of America, and the shortest route
to ENGLAND! From California—reached in 18 days—-
there unfolds the moving pageant of America—a thrilling
travelogue with a new adventure every mile!
The trans-Pacific route of these splendid new ships is springtime
all the way! Never than 5 days between each fascinating
port of call—Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu—each hour
brimming with pleasure and cushioned in the luxury only such
ultra-modern ships as the “Mariposa” and “Monterey” can
provide. Complete itineraries arranged to any point in America
or England.
FARES to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP PROM SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS, from £125/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £8?
ROUND TRIP PROM MELBOURNE
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £9l
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
TO ENGLAND FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
( Single ) from £lO5/10/- ( Single ) from £B3
( Return ) from £194 ( Return ) from £152
FROM MELBOURNE:
First Class ( Single ) from £lO7/10/- Return £l9B
Cabin Class ( Single ) from £B4/10/- Return £155/10/-
FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS
The swift service of the new “Mariposa” and
“Monterey” and the exceptionally low fares
which prevail, urge your contemplation of the
South Seas as a new and inviting vacation-
land! Nowhere is romance more genuine, in-
spiration more real than in these storied isles!
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- 65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 75/0/- 55/ 0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £4l/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £35/5/- 69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 79/0/- 59/10/-
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
Sailings to
AMERICA
via New Zealand
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
"Mariposa"
from Sydney
M A Y 6
from Melbourne
MAY 2
11l the WORLD’S SPOTLIGHT International Exposition
Chicago, June 1-Nov. 1, 1933. America invites you to visit this World’s Fair.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY - PHONE 87981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
341 Collins St. & 461 Bourke St., Melbourne - Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
4M-2A


w
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
]2 Y.ounger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
“THE BARRIER MINER n
had its 45th birthday on March 1!
Forty-five- glorious years in the most
Look-alive town in Australia. What a*
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was, and its. newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past 45 years. The only newspaper m
Broken Hill covering the whole of the
Far West. Biggest sales West ot
Sydney.
R
ecover Your HEALTH in this delightful Rest Home.
Ideallv situated, clear health-restoring air. peaceful, cool, airy, restful wards,
glorious panoramic ocean view, high position, spacious sun-bathed lawns,
capable staff of specially-trained attentive nurses. Unexcelled invalid and
recuperative cooking.
“NEEOLA” Private Rest Hospital
FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
Home for Convalescents and the Aged.
Glebe and DicK Streets, RANDWICH, Sydney.
Private and semi-private wards. Exceptionally moderate fees.
Address inquiries to SISTER ANN FURNIFUEL. FX6iGI
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18(2.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 9..
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, alto,, n
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Read the B.P. Magazine
A DOOR TO THE WORLD—THE WORLD TO YOUR DOOR.
Australian artists—Australian writers.
Beautiful color and sepia pages.
Pine photographic studies.
1/- PEB COPY.
At all bookstalls or direct from _
burns, philp & CO., ltd,,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Short Story
Writing
Free Lance
Journalism
NEW COURSES
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus.
ICS 140 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
Amusements.
1 c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
COMEDY THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANXEX m
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
Missing Friends.
n OOD, CHARLES.— and Robert-
son, Solicitors, Invercargill, 4 .
information concerning W.A
one time of 101 Harold Street, Perta, w.a
To his advantage.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Well, yon can’t look a gift horse in the
mouth, and any man from out west will
tell you last week’s rain brought far more
joy to him than could be conveyed by myriads
of clouds of confetti or battles of flowers.
Still, the rain would have been just as wel-
come a week earlier, and then Sydney would
have worn her Festival Week like a hibiscus
in her hair, instead of keening over it as
something in the way of a shamrock that
Nature, gone all Irish, seemed determined to
drown.
But if the streets looked like imitations
of the Grand Canal, and the weeping skies
gave festive raiment the knock-out in day-
time, at night-time Sydney frivolled with the
abandonment of Southern France, of pulsing
Spain. Balls occurred with persistency, and
the temperature was a mixture of warm
blood and champagne off the ice.
Why do we call them Venetian carnivals?
Venice never staged a scene of magic such
as Sydney spread before us on Saturday.
Up till Friday the week had been sullen
and lowering and rain-drenched, but on
Saturday Port Jackson was looking like a
polished glass with an unwrinkled surface,
which caught and held and elongated the
lights from innumerable craft. First there
were the ships of crystal (by daytime ships
of war), now magicked into fairy things of
fragile beauty. Across the secret waters
of Farm Cove lantern-liung boats moved
eilkily, and electric-bright launches laughed
giddily. High in the air rockets blazed rose
and emerald against the black velvet of the
night; handfuls of golden balls were tossed
into the air by a conjurer on Fort Denison;
every noiy and then (though to be sure
he might have done it oftener) he_ flung high
when you weren’t looking a window box
or a fish bowl, and down came the lobelias
and the pansies and the pink geraniums or
the red goldfish, their colors vivid in the
long spears of searchlights. Fairy foun-
tains splashed their diamond and emerald
and sapphire spray in the courtyards below
the Bridge, and that lady flung her be-
diamonded arms wide embracing the shores.
A ’plane like a golden wasp roared up the
skies, Kingsford Smith her pilot, with the
pretty little goddess of the air for passenger.
The Itoyal Motor Yacht Squadron fin-
ished up the aquatic excitements with a
dance in the clubhouse, and in David Jones’s
a military ball was the crescendo to Festival
Week’s programme. Trumpets and drums
announced the arrival of the Governor-
General and Dady Isaacs, and the scarlet
of the military vied with the blue and gold
of the Navy. Here came five debutantes
partnered by young officers in scarlet mess
dress; the Mayor arrived with his lady;
Admiral Dalglish brought his tall English
wife; our new Base Commander, Brigadier-
General O. F. Phillips, and his wife were in
the group presided over by Lieutenant-
Colonel and Mrs. Smith, the official host and
hostess of the evening.
The International Ball was one of the
stars set in the Festival Week firmament.
This is a yearly baby born of the League of
Nations Union, and is always introduced
amid the gay clamor of national costumes
and the brave unfurling of the flags of all
the countries in the League. This year the
pageantry had the finish of cloth of gold, and
the credit goes to Belgium’s Consul-General
S.egaert, who has “produced” the ceremonies
every year since the ball’s beginning. Japan
did not walk among the nations of the
League, but was unofficially present, her
pretty daughters flashing in the dance like
bright-plumaged birds in their embroidered
kimonos.
The floor of the Town Hall overflowed
with dancers and the galleries were comfort-
ably filled with lookers-on. Just below the
stage another dais had been set for the
vice-regals, but without dislocating their
necks they could scarcely have retained then-
seats and viewed the entry of the procession.
So Sir Philip Game gave the nod, and the
whole of the Government House party turned
and faced the tableaux which, one by one,
the nations formed upon the stage. First
came those real internationals, the Boy
Scouts. In phalanxes of youth they
stepped forward on the stage, dipped the
57 flags of the League to their Excel-
lencies and bore them on to the ballroom
floor. There they formed a rampart for the
nations, which, led by Australia and her
handmaids, circled the long hall, and finally
were grouped in company on the stage
before the massed flags.
Each set was dressed to represent the his-
tory, the produce and 1 the arts of its
particular country. With Australia came
the fleece and the waratah. The red train
that rustled after France was of Lyons silk.
Sophie Segaert was Belgium, proud of her
laces, her handmaids carrying specimens ot
that art. Behind the Swiss you sensed a
background of Alpine peaks, leaning chateaux
and yodelling mountaineers. China's daugh-
ters walked modestly, clothed from throat
to ankle in lustrous silks ; Italy swept past
with the outflung arm of Fascism. All was
color and movement, as fluid and harmonious
as the League hopes to make the relations of
the world.
Lady Game rose to the occasion in a long,
slim dress of blue brocaded in gold, and at
intervals waved a blue ostrich-feather fan.
She and Sir Philip received a long, long
trail of white-clad debs. These approached
through a guard of honor formed of Boy
Scouts, and were presented by the Julius
lady, who wore notable frocking of amethy-
stine hue. Among the Mighty also sat
Chief Justice Street and his lady, Mayor
and Mayoress Hagon, Belgium’s Consul and
Mrs. Segaert, and France’s Consul-General
Dussap and his wife, her black chiffons
covered in a coat as green as Erin. Lady
Allardy.ee, one time vice-reine of Tasmania,
wore rhythmic black and white; Professor
Francis Anderson, president of the union,
came with Mrs. Anderson; Mrs. Charlie
Lloyd Jones’s fair head emerged from lorelei
greens; the Festival Week Macdougalls and
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax were other importants.
Herewith Marjorie West, who, Cinesound
Productions claim, is Australia’s only
“script” girl.
A “8 cri]) t”
girl is one who
sits besides
the director
and conveys
his ideas and
changes in the
script to
pap c r. Her
ability to visu-
ali s e action
and follow
scene sequences
decides her
value in the
scheme of
movie-making.
Marjorie West
proved her
merit as far
back as the
making of
“The Romance
of Runnebede,”
which was filmed five years ago by Wallace
Worsley. Wallace is the famed American
director who made “The Hunchback of Notre
Dame,” and he selected Miss West to' pick
up the intricacies of the script for his Aus-
tralian productions. At present she is hold-
ing the script of “The Squatter’s Daughter”
for Ken Hall.
The busiest woman in Sydney is Ruby
Trevarthen. She is secretary to R.A.S.
assistant-secretary Rafferty, and her office
is the clearing-ground for all inquiries
relating to show. matters. She and her
assistants deal with over a hundred a day,
and do it smilingly; the inquiries range
over anything from honey to Herefords. Miss
Trevarthen confesses that women, apart
from those who come to town to help arrange
the district exhibits, and those who enter for
the riding events (and, by the way, there’s
a record number this year), have very little
finger in the Show pie. She has been hand-
ling her job for seven years, and, although
she won’t admit it, she’s almost capable of
running a show lone-handed.
Evidently Ludmayor Hagon and his lady
have succumbed to the appeal in that jazz
classic “Let’s Keep the Party Clean,” for
those were the lines on which they ran their
ball last Friday night. Immaculate is the
word to describe it, and not even the tempta-
tion of a flirtation with a beaker of claret
cup assailed this Letter. The candelabra in
the vestibule did its best to look like a
gay lady in full blast in the halls of old
Versailles, and within the ballroom the ever-
recurring palm whispered of blue lagoons and
South Sea nights. But of what avail were
such against the armies of well-dressed citi-
zenry bowing over the hand of Vice-royalty?
For the flutter was the mayoral gesture of
Festival Week to the Governor and his lady,
and man walked in tails and white ties, and
woman displayed her best frock, whatever
the architectural variations thereof. There
was one who wore her black satin skirt slit
in the new fashion, and there was Mrs. John
Waugh in all the dignity of wine-red velvet
and family lace. In between these two styles
everything happened.
Lady Game was graceful in cobwebby pink
silk laces ; Mrs. Hagon wore de luxe bla.'k
that swept to a train and glittered with
diamente about the shoulder straps; daugh-
ter Margaret was slim and fair in ivory flat
cr@pe made in the high-waisted princess
fashion, the waist outlined with crushed
velvet roses. Two ladies of Japan struck
the national note in their frocking ; they were
the wife of the ConsuFGeneral and her niece.
II ar-Admiral Dalglish and Mrs. Dalglish
were in the official group; and later in the
evening the Kingsford-Smith couple claimed
Sir Philip Game’s ear. She was in white,
topped by one of tbe sequinned capes of the
moment/ Perhaps the sequins had a dash of
real gold, for Maorilanders whisper that
Iv.S. must have taken thousands out
of Enzed. Pretty Mrs. David Maughan, in
claret satins, talked French with Mrs.
Dussap, the wife of France’s Consul. One
of the lovely black frocks of the evening was
worn by Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones; Mrs.
Eden and daughter Joan, who are visiting
Government House, .added lustre to the elect;
Tonga’s Prince Consort strode impres-
sive through the night; shipping magnate
T. S. Gordon squired his wife and a daugh-
ter of the Union Company’s G. Hughes. Dean
Talbot’s pretty little wife, who might have
been an archbishop’s lady if the Synod elec-
tion had resulted differently, bloomed in ice-
green chiffons. Jean Cheriton, the beauti-
fully turned-out Mrs. H'arry Harris, bright
Mrs. Toby Brown, Captain Pope and Mrs.
Pope, the smiling Budge girls, William
Morris Hughes’s fair-haired Helen, the edu-
cational Pedens, the Town-Clerkly Hendys,
Frank Crane and his wife, the Garnet Hal-
lorans, Lady Allardyce (the shoulders of her
rose du barry chiffons wreathed in _ ostrich
feather), the tall Layton couple, Chief Jus-
tice Street and his lady, the Stan Stillings
(who go With the show boat to the Dutch
Indies next week), the George Fitzpatricks,
Philip Game with his fresh complexion—all
these and hundreds of others helped to con-
sume the mayoral supper of chicken and
towering jelly shapes and trifles in a base-
ment, the top of which was bunting-hung
while tbe lower part suggested an art exhibi-
tion, so decorated was it with landscape and
seascape.
A visitor to Sydney who is causing a stir
among older inhabitants is the Hon. Mrs.
Hanbury-Tracy. She is a daughter of the
late Frederick Darley (one-time. Chief
Justice) ; widow of the Hon. A. C. Hanbury-
Tracy, of the Royal Horse Guards,
and mother of Lord Sudeley, who suc-
ceeded to the title on the recent death of
an uncle. It is over 30 years since the lady
visited her native land. She brings with her
her daughter Ursula, and the two are stay-
ing at 52 Macleay-street.
The last dance of its career was held in
Burdekin House last week, when the God-
dess of the Air frivol, one of the fixtures of
Festival Week, put a sparkle into the old
rooms. China’s citizens in Sydney gave
generous support, and the room was decked
with trails of wistaria and chains of daisies,
as a room might have been for a feast in
old Pekin. One side of the wall was covered
with a spirited scene in China. Miss Young
Wai and a group of attractive Chinese girls
helped greatly with the success, while the
daughter of China’s Consul-General in her
national dress did a brisk trade in cigar-
ettes. The guests of the night were Air-
goddess Heather Searby and the finalists in
the competition, and prosperity seemed just
around the corner when the winner was
presented with a purse of sovereigns. Prince
Alfred’s will benefit; Mr and Mrs. William
Epps did the honors, she very handsome and
bright-eyed in black lace lit discreetly with
diamente.
Mina Shelley Baily, the subject of this
Dorothy Welding photograph, has the spec-
tacular mind
that revels in
pageantry, and
has the ex-
perience to
put her visions
into material
form. She has
already for the
Empire Mar-
keting Board
staged page'
ants at Too-
woomba and
at Townsville,
and on May
22 will pre-
sent another
at Brisbane.
The whole has
been written
and. designed
by the clever
girl, and as
over 500 plus .
a choir of 60 voices will take part in the pro-
duction, which shows the countries, of the
Empire in song and dance and historical
tableaux, something of the size of the job
can be imagined. The Empire Marketing-
Board uses all the money raised to adver-
tise Queensland products.
T. S. Gordon, head serang- of Birt and
Co. (who, by the way, doesn’t mind hand-
ing out a bouquet for service to the Orient
Company), is lately back from London., where
he saw Gwladys Bonsor, niece of his late
chief, knight Owen Cox. Gwladys, who is
a considerable heiress—she inherits almost
everything the departed Owen possessed
apart from settlements on his wife and
daughter—was going back to Monte Carlo
to live There she and her uncle had a
luxurious flat above that occupied by Mrs.
Lachlan Beaton and Ruby Adams. Sydney
remembers the blonde- Miss Bonsor as a
hostess in the nth degree. She presided
over the knight’s Potts Point establishment
and his Castle Hill house, and ran the latter
like some country home in England.
Bernice Agar, formerly of Toowoomba,
who for some years has been in the fore-
front of Sydney photographers, slipped into
matrimony last week. The knot was tied
at St. Andrew’s Presbyterian kirk, Rose
Bay, and Bernice emerged as Mrs. James
March Hardie. The' wedding meats were
spread at the Australia, Bernice looking
handsome in parchment satin covered with
a matching velvet cloak collared m sable.
Sister Alice ’maided in grey chiffons, and
Gerald Morgan best-manned. A cruise in
the ’groom’s yacht Windward will be the
pair’s first venture on the seas of matrimony.
The women grads, of Sydney Uni. added
their own little festivity to the week, and
although there was a thick grey pall over
the city and the rain fell therefrom in great
sad gouts, the learned ones were chirpy as
crickets in Manning House at the Univer-
sity. The party resolved itself into some-
thing of a farewell to Susie Williams,
principal of the Women’s College, who is off
to Europe, and a welcome to Janet Mitchell,
who will be acting-principal. Padre Mick -
lem’s bride (she was a grad, of Sydney
Uni.) ; Mrs. Arundel, who was Enid Arm-
strong, of Vaucluse, and three visitors from
Queensland, Mrs. W. Leslie, Mrs. G. D. Mac-
intosh and Mrs. G. Phippard, were ambng
the honored at the tea-drinking. Miss M. A.
Bailey, president of the Women Grads.
Association, did the honors at this fore-
gathering of brains and charm.
Patricia Baird, youngest daughter of the
Henry Bairds, of Mona Yale, and well
known among the city’s young butterflies, be-
came the bride of Colin Syme, of Mel-
bourne, last week. Hers was an afternoon
wedding, the little church of St. Michael s
in Vaucluse blessing the vows. There were
no bridesmaids, no wreath, no veil, the bride
wearing a walking frock of beige marocain
plus a brown velvet turban and a sable -neck-
let. Father armed her to the altar, and
Keith Carnegie, of Melbourne, attended the
bridegroom. Over a hundred guests want
to the subsequent party at the Queen’s Club.
In aid of the Rawson Institute a Nauti-
cal Pair w r ill be launched on June 22 at the
Town Hall, and will be continued on the
following day. The overseas and inter-State
shipping companies to the last man are at
the back of it, and D. J. Mackay Sim will
be at the wheel.
From the Sugar State: —
Sir Leslie Wilson returned from Toowoomba to
open the Health Week exhibition in the City Hall,
and was also at the Homecraft School luncheon,
where Home Secretary Hanlon presided. Dr. A.
Murphy, president of the 8.M.A., made a stirring
appeal for more municipal interest ini health matters
in what Alderman Decker declared to be “the third
healthiest city in the world.”
The Governor and daughter Marjorie were present
at the Toowoomba Turf Club’s meeting at Clifford
Park. Dr. and Mrs. T. P. Connolly entertained
the vice-regal visitors and other guests. Marjorie
Wilson, in white and grey, with a large white
hat, decorated the Cup winner, Terry Tone. Mrs.
T. P. Connolly wore mastic; Mrs. A. R. Godsall
was in black and white; Mrs. Dave Cullen chose
black and red.
The Toowoomba Golf Club entertained Sir Leslie
Wilson and his daughter. Fifty members took
part in matches, Miss Wilson swinging clubs in the
foursomes. Bridge was played in the clubhouse of the
lounge, overlooking an exquisite view of the range.
In the Masonic Hall, Toowoomba, the 25-49th
Battalion gave its first annual ball. Captain E. S.
Miles, Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M. Ralph,
Colonel and Mrs. Craven and Lieut. Lee received
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson and their daughter.
Lady Wilson was in black cobweb lace; golden
Chantilly lace and velvet was worn by Miss. Wilson;
Mrs. Ralph and Mrs. Miles were both in black
mariette and Chantilly.
Audrey Anderson’s recital in the Albert Hall was
well attended. She wore luminous ivory satin and
velvet. Bessie Dougall, in emerald green, sang;
Hugh Brandon was accompanist. Miss Anderson is a
pianist of masterly technique, not long returned
from study in Europe.
Brisbane is mourning the Rev, James Cosh, who
was much beloved by his congregation of the Ann-
street Presbyterian kirk, where Melba was married.
Son of a Professor of Theology at Sydney Uni., he
was born at Vila, New Hebrides, 65 years ago. A
graduate of Sydney and Melbourne Unis., he was
also a B.D. of St. Andrew’s, Scotland. Mrs. Cosh
and one son survive him.
The “On Our Selection” dance at the Trocadero
was a success. Mesdames A. Dunn and J. Camp-
bell were the conveners, and the atmosphere was
all in the best Steele Rudd style. Mrs. Dunn wore
cameo pink and Mrs. Campbell Nile gieen.


2ktt
„ m
/«a
r r\
m
present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift—a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! “All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that' are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
“Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hjecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name and look for the “Hec-
worth” brand on every article.
r&
u-r./i
I
/
..
m
A
11
p
x
AJhS
und VTri
Tsioh
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holidayi
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £45
Twenty three Days'Tour, Cabin „ „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin „ „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-
fect service . . Every assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Melbourne
Chatter
Commencement Week saw the usual ball
put on at the Wattle Path, St. Kilda. Among
the guests were the Chancellor of the Uni.,
knight John MacFarland ; the Vice-Chancel-
lor, knight James Barrett; and the council
and professorial staff. Dressing was most
attractive, what with satin, dulled fabrics,
angel-skin and wool laces, though there was a
good percentage of bared backs, too. The Bar-
rett lady wore a brown grosgrain silk gown
and an ostrich-feather wrap; Mrs. W. E.
Agar’s black lace upholstery had a dash of
gold, while daughter Elizabeth was furbished
up prettily in ivory satin ; Mrs. J. I*. Bain-
bridge was robed in reseda-green satin, airrl
Mrs. A. Gunn aired draperies of figured
geranium-red chiffon. Mr. and Mrs. Ben-
jamin Chaffey, of Dos Angeles, were pre-
sent, she clad in black velvet. Jean Picken
caught the eye in golden-brown georgett >
trimmed with velvet of darker shade, while
Rosemary Downes’s fair coloring was set off
by her frock of deep blue velvet.
In pre-war days the subject of this
Broothorn picture was a young lead-
ing lady in
come dies of
t h c J.0.W.-
II ugh Ward
period. She is
u o w M r s.
Douglas Gar-
rick ; she was
then Rose
Musgrovc, a
very delightful
actress in the
name-role of
“The Marriage
of Kitty” and
other pieces.
She left the
stage on her
marriage and
has since lived
in Ceylon. She
lately made a
flying visit to
Melbourne to
see her mother
and sister, and left again by the Orsova.
Her son David is at Cambridge.
The Undergrads.’ procession on Saturday
morning brought crowds to the city am]
held up traffic about the Block for an hour
or so. The parade itself was a hopeless sort
of affair, and suggests the need for a Chair
of Humor and Satire at the University. A
high dogcart, with painted-up horses, occu-
pied by two ladies in early-Victorian uphol-
stery and male companions of the same
period, was perhaps the best thing in the
motley show. The leg-theory racket was
demonstrated by a game with a batsman in
Ned Kelly armor. Entertainments were
given in front of the Town Hall and the
Hotel Australia by nomadic companies, and
for* a space loud-speakers and cat-calls were
heard above the roar of the traffic.
The conferring of degrees at the Univer-
sity a fixture of the early afternoon, fol-
lowed by the customary garden party. In
Wilson Hall, where the Commem. ceremony is
held, the light filtering through the untinted
windows at the sides is awfully hard on the
complexions, and the group of marshalled-up
grads, had rather a ghastly look. Lieutenant-
Governor Irvine sat with the Chancellor and
Vice-Chancellor, and gave a short address.
Among those who collected degrees were two'
nuns, one as Bachelor of Science, the other
as Master of Arts. Constance Crawford
Gepp bore away the Bachelor of Commerce
degree.
Knight John MacFarland and knight
James Barrett stretched out the welcoming
palm to the guests at the tea party. All the
nice eatables were made by tlie students resi-
dent at Janet Clarke Hall, a course of cooking
being a compulsory clause for such under-
grads. according to a legacy of the Manifold
bequest to the Uni. women’s hostel. The
Irvine lady was in draperies of navy blue
georgette and a large black hat. She was
joined by his Ex., Professor and Mrs. Agar
(.she in flowered patterned gown), Gaud
Mayor Gengoult Smith, the Spencer lady
and some other folk. Premier Stanley Argyle
and his lady, a study in black and
white, were others in the v.-r. party. Knight
Richard Slaw ell and his lady, Mrs. Gilruth,
Dr. and Mrs. Jon.a were glimpsed. The
Barrett lady wore a costume of strawberry
hue with a small shiny black straw hat.
St. Vincent’s Hospital has gathered in
about £lO.OOO from its latest appeal, and a
dance (with bridge) at the Hotel Aus-
tralia on Saturday night will swell the
sum. This was. a tribute by the nursing staff
of Mt. St. Erin’s —the private hospital of
the big institution run by the Sisters of
Charity. The president of the organising
committee was Miss Mary Rawson, whose
pretty jade-green georgette frock had a
sparkle of crystal beads, while Miss Agnes
McLean, hon. sec., had bugle beads upon her
robe of Parma violet. Miss Pat Renwick,
treasurer, danced in satin robe of tourma-
line pink. The Gaud Mayor showed his
sympathy by being present. Mr. and Mrs.
»• C. W esthoven, Mrs. W. R. Burston, Mr.
and Mrs. T. V. Millea (she in chalk-white
draperies). Mrs. T. ,T. Ryan (in black),
t r °V‘* sor an d Mrs. Bernard Heinze and Dr.
and Mrs. J. J. Daly were others,
Not since depression descended on the
land has there been a wedding with such a
floral setting as that of Mary Robertson
Murray and George Patrick Fairbairn.
hcots kirk was a colorful sight; thousands
or dahlias, gladioli and feathery Michaelmas
daisies dressed every pew and covered per-
gofa-like arches that spanned the aisle. The
bridesmaids dresses blended with the color-
-2 and the bride had a perfect back-
ground tor her ivory draperies. Both th"
principals are air travellers ; Mr. Fairbairn,
on leaving Cambridge, returned to Australia
y his own plane, and the bride is one of
irl ir T J oremost: Pilots, having picked up honors
1? ma . n y an aerial pageant. None the less,
rney looked rather nervous facing the dual
atrimomal controls. The bridegroom is the
youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Fairbairn ; the bride, the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. D. Stuart Murray. She wore a
gown of ivory Nottingham lace, with court
train of the same of tremendous length,
sprinkled with seed pearls and crystal. Her
short veil of Brussels rose-point lace and
her coronet of orange blossoms had been
worn by her grandmother. An armful of
white and gold liiium auratum provided just
the right finish. The five 'maids were Jean
Russell, Audrey Poolman, Pat- Hammond,
Beverley Jackson —who will be a bride her-
self on Easter Tuesday—and Joan Syme;
and the trainbearers were Althea and Jean
Renton. They were all in sunset-pink
chiffon georgette, and great sheaves of blend-
ing gladioli and tuber begonias were carried.
Scobie Mackinnon, junior, was best man.
The* reception was staged at Grosvenor,
with much the same floral effects. Mrs.
Stuart Murray hostessed in lace upholstery
of gentian-blue shade. Within the house,
while the magnificent wedding presents were
viewed, a string orchestra played. There
was another band in the garden and the
tea was spread in a huge marquee. A minia-
ture aeroplane adorned the wedding-cake.
Among the guests were knight George Fair-
bairn and the Fairbairn lady ; Major and Mrs.
C. Q. Fairbairn, she in beige-colored crepe ;
Mr. Ross Grey Smith and his wife (the
bridegroom’s sister), her begonia-red frock
topped with a brown felt hat; the G. A.
Fairbairn couple, Senator Guthrie and Cap-
tain and Mrs. A. Treacy.
Wedding bells rang at St. John’s, Toorak,
on flic same day for Betty Raynes Dick-
son and Angus Martin Gibbs. The bride,
only daughter of the Raynes Dickson couple,
of Toorak, wore what might be termed a
dress of memories. Her gorgeous stiff bro-
cade gown of cream and gold pattern had
been worn by her grandmother at the altar,
and fitted as if it had been moulded to the
figure. The voluminous Limerick lace \cil
had been aired by the bride’s great-grand-
mother. Audrey Sprague and Plelcn Gibbs
’maided in dainty gold silk net, with bands of
gold tissue upon their skirts. The Fairbairn-
Murray nuptials took place a couple of hours
earlier, and the first bride thoughtfully
hurried up her partying on her friend’s
behalf. Mr. and Mrs. Raynes Dickson en-
tertained numerous guests at their home,
the hostess having a copper-tinted velvet
coat over her beige lace. Mrs. R. H. Gibbs,
who received with Mr. and Mrs. Dickson,
was in ensemble of black satin with a shady
black hat. Mrs. Raynes Dickson, jun.,
looked charming in the faintest enamel-green
frocjv.
The Arthur Whitelaw couple dropped in
here again from England the other day;
an evening reception was given in their
honor by the president and members of the
Women Citizens’ Movement, in which the
lady has shown practical interest. Mrs.
Britpmarte James said the welcome to' the
visitors, and there was a musical programme.
Mrs. Whitelaw’s banana-colored lace gown
was topped with a short coat of green velvet.
This Dickinson-Monteath picture shows
Jean Alpass, only daughter of the A. E.
Alpass couple,
of Malvern-
road, Gardin-
er, who is
lion. gen. sec.
of the Presby-
terian Girls’
Folio wship.
The P.G.F.
consists o f
60 0 0 young
Aust r alians
who find £l5OO
a -year to
maintain three
missionaries in
Korea, one
in the New
Hebrides
and one in the
Inland Mis-
sion of Aus-
tralia. Funds
arc raised in
part by enter-
tainments given by its own concert co., of
which Miss Alpass is a valued member. She
is a clever elocutionist, a pupil of Iris Shaw,
and holds the. Teacher’s diploma of the
London College of Music.
Wirth’s Park is once more occupied by
the Nurserymen and Seedsmen’s Asso-
ciation for Garden Week. Here may be
seen dahlias, gladioli, masses of white, gold
and bronze chrysanthemums, roses, irises,
carnations, ferns and staghorns. The grounds
have been made to blossom into a garden,
with water-lily pools, green lawns, beds of
petunias, larkspurs, geraniums, begonia-
bordered paths and crazy pavements with
sundials. Marquees boast more flowers
and garden requisites—everything necessary
from seedlings to shrubs and trees, and from
a hoe to a bird-bath and a 'rustic seat. And
with the vivid coloring of autumn flowers
and the scent of roses is mingled the fresh
sour-sweetness of apples and pears. The
Gaud Mayor opened the show and approved
of the association’s project for building a
permanent hall of horticulture. Secretary
G. R. Gould got a special mention.
S. Aus. slips in;—
The polo players had delightful weather for their
pre-Easter tournament. The veteran Frank Downer
presented the prizes. Mrs. F. W. Porter (wife of the
captain of the Adelaide team) looked charming
in Lido-blue silk crCpe and a band of the same
round her white hat. The frocking throughout was
smart.
A fine day brought a large crowd to St. Wilfrid’s.
Aldgate, when the beautiful grounds -were thrown
open to the public. A small charge for admission
and afternoon tea netted £43 for the Free Kinder-
gartens at Bowden and Hackney. The American
and Japanese maples were gorgeous, and the garden
was a sight worth the run from the city.
At the Licensed Victuallers’ Club meeting at
Victoria Park, chairman W. A. Piper and his wife
entertained at afternoon tea. Mrs. Pioer looked
well in a burgundy wool georgette toilette with
touches of blister velvet, worn with a mink fur
and small black velour hat.
Dr. A. S. Randell’s home on Pennington-terrace
North Adelaide, was the scene of a cheery dance
when his daughter Elizabeth and her friend Ida
Murray, of Cappeedee station, entertained some
young friends. The hostesses wore respectively
tabac-brown chiffon velvet and flame-red georgette
The annual gift tea in aid of the Mothers and
Babies Health Association was a great success.
Mrs. Lavington Bonython gave her home at St.
Corantyn, East-terrace, for the party; stalls were
set on the wide verandah and afternoon tea was served
in a ballroom decorated with lovely dahlias from
the garden of Mrs. Richard Wilton, who carried off
most of the prizes at the Show. An amazing number
of woollen garments for the babies were featured
among the gifts.
Mrs. Monte Jackman, about to leave for England
with her husband and small daughter, is living in a
whirl of farewell parties. Phemie Armstrong was
hostess at a bridge party at her home, Glenunga,
and there was a similar function given by Mrs.
Douglas Neil at the residence of Mrs. R. Homburg,
•Medindie. Gwen Hall was hostess at a farewell at
her home, Beulah-road, Norwood.
Sir Alexander and Lady Hore-Ruthven will leave
England for Adelaide by the Otranto on April 29.
Knight Henry Barwell, the late Agent-General, will
travel by the same boat.
Drs. A. V. and Ethel Ilillier have let their resi-
dence on Fullarton-road and taken a practice at
Carramulka, Yorke Peninsula. But the Home School
will not lose the services of Dr. Ethel, as she
intends making periodical visits' to the city.
Perth paragraphs:—
Holding their precious diplomas, another batch of
students stepped from the dais in the Winthrop
Hall on Graduation Day. This year the undergrads,
were content with songs, a few noises, a half-hearted
fight and a very dead squid labelled “Federal
Octopus.” Premier Mitchell, Chancellor Walter James
and Prof. Paterson made longish speeches.
Gowns and mortar-boards were shed for best bibs
and tuckers at the Grad. Ball. The floor of the
Winthrop Hall had a special coat of slipperiness
for the event and Colin Smith's orchestra made
snappy music. Dr. Roberta Jull came along in
violet georgette; Mrs. Battye wore black; blonde
Mrs. Beasley was wrapped in mist grey and pinky
chiffon; Mrs. Alec King chose buttercup taffeta ;
Betty Sewell wore flower 'broidered taffeta; Mrs.
Alan Preshaw was in blue lace ; Pixie Pretty's
shell-pink showed a sparkle of silver, and Barbara
Pretty’s flame was ornamented with metal lace;
emerald-green was chosen by Barbara Prisk.
In honor of the brothers Spivakovsky and
Edouard Kurtz, en route by the Oronsay for the
other States, a tea party was spread in the Karra-
katta Club on the morning of the steamer’s arrival.
Itittie Gillies, with her usual charm and efficiency,
piloted the principal guests and made introductions.
Miss Gillies was in navy blue ; Evelyn Gardiner’s navy
silk was patterned with cream ; Marie Bremner’s big
hat was in toning an echo of her duck-egg gown.
Madame Spivakovsky, through ill-health, was unable
to be present—unfortunately she haa a term in hos-
pital ahead of her.
Mrs. Dudley Kerr and Mrs. Barnett, with son
Cleve, are off for a Noumea tour by the Oronsay.
Blue-eyed Cecilia, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. James Brennan, became the bride of a Scotsman,
James Muirhead, against the lovely tropical back-
ground of Kandy in Ceylon. The wedding garment
of magnolia satin was allied to a yoke and sleeves
of ivory lace. An ornamental train of silver lame,
gleaming through a cloud of Limerick lace veil, was
in the care of bride’s niece, small Jacqueline Vigne,
in a frou-frou of blue organdie. Bride’s sister
Mollie ’maided in blue organdie over blue satin
and a wee tulle hat.
Senate President Patrick Lynch is engaged to Mary,
daughter of the late Michael Brown, a pioneer of
the Narrogin district.
The Meares clan foregathered to see Jessie, one
of its younger members, become Mrs. Bob Sturkey
in the Colin-street kirk. The blonde bride was
garbed in white silk pique, the neck-line of the
simply-cut frock being outlined with flat flowers of
the same material. Her mother’s wedding veil
misted in her wake and she wore her mother’s gift,
a diamond star. Joy Lathlain and Mollie Lloyd
’maided in beige lace, a cape effect being introduced
to the shoulders of their corsages. Their toques
were of a similar toning and they carried gold and
bronze bouquets. The couple are off to Sydney,
the first lap of their journey to Papua, where their
first home will be.
“Marry at Leisure,” as produced by Perth Reper-
tory Club for three nights, met with excellent houses
and much applause. Molly Ick and Tom McGregor
successfully defied convention as Helen and Nigel
Forbes. In a particularly pfoficient cast, Beatrice
Hassen, as the mannish Joanna, Norman Wingrove,
plus, a beard, as the artist, and Betty Campbell, as
young Marjorie, gave most support to the leading
pair. Pat Hannah merits a word for her tabloid
of a saucy office girl. James Ottaway produced.
Tassie tunes in :
Still, golden autumn weather made the day at
Elwick extra enjoyable for the Tas. Amateur Jockey
Club’s meeting. Frockings were chic and seasonable
—one or two brave spirits hung on to summery
garb, for there’s some satisfaction in getting an
extra day’s wear out of garments which have reposed
in the wardrobe most of the season. Mrs. Lindsay
Miller was in black and white, with wide-brimmed
hat; Mrs. Lloyd Oldmeadow looked handsome in
black ring velvet; Mrs. Fred Grant wore a light
linen coat heavily embroidered in scarlet and blue.
Coats here and there showed a fancy tendency,
even in woollen materials.
The Hobart Symphony Orchestra held a conceit
at the Town Hall, w’ith Mollie Whitelaw, our promis-
ing young violinist, as the star draw. Lieut.-Gov.
Nicholls and his lady were among the audience.
Assisting artists were J. Scott-Power, Madame Vera
Tasma, Madame Helen George, Frank Purchas, Myra
Gillon and Mrs. B. E. Saunders. The young
musician goes to the Melb. University Conservatorium
to study under Prof. Bernard Heinze.
The Keith Archers are off to Canberra immediately.
The popular young pair—-she was Grace Stops—
leave a big circle of friends behind them.
Launceston’s Anti-Cancer campaigners have got
within £3OO of the full amount wanted, and deserve
full praise for hard work and good organisation.
The last effort was a bridge party arranged at
the King’s Hall by Mrs. H. Bearup and Miss Trewin.
The hall was crowded and about 50 tables were
filled. Other supporters had tables in their own
homes for the cause.
Major Donald Cameron and his daughter Kathleen
were passengers for Europe in the Strathnaver. Mrs.
St. Clair Cameron gave them a farewell family party
at the Metropole, Launceston.
Representatives of many of the leading mainland
papers gathered at Hadley’s Hotel for their half-
yearly conference. Some of them brought their
wives, and Mrs. C, B. Davies entertained four of the
visitors, Mesdames Holt, Doutreband, Greig and
Thompson, with three local newspaper men’s better
halves, Mesdames Usher, Broinowski and Robertson.
The function included a motor run through the
Dement Valley, lunch at the “Bush” at New Nor-
folk, and tea at the Lavender Gardens.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“G. 8.”: I doubt the genuineness of many
of the reputed Australian progeny of the
willow-trees that once drooped over Napo-
leon’s tomb in St. Helena. There were only
two willow-trees over the tomb when Napoleon
was buried in IS2I. Bertrand, who revisited
the spot in 1840 with the Prince de Join-
ville’s expedition, for the purpose of taking
the remains of his Emperor back to France,
says in his memoirs that “only one of the
two willow-trees was alive, the other being
dead and fallen.” A photo, of the site
taken in 1878 shows no sign of any willows,
and a description of the island, given about
the end of last century, says that the two
trees had been dead for many years. It
seems likely that slips brought to Australia
in the earlier years after Napoleon’s death
were genuine, but by the time the ’eighties
were reached the souvenir willow slips offered
by the . bumboats and waterfront vendors
of Jamestown to passengers of vessels
which made St. Helena a regular port of
call on voyages to Australia must have
been spurious.
* * * *
“Mish”: The German mission station at
Morobe (New Guinea) imported a young
stallion and a few mares with the idea of
breeding hacks for the Christian penetration
of the interior of New Guinea. The horse
was gentle and docile when handled by
native boys. The near approach of a native
woman, however, drove him frantic, and he
would charge and chase her till she
climbed the nearest tree. Eventually the
mission shot him so that the female workers
around the place could get back to work.
* * *
“V.S.M.” : Up in the Skippers district of
Central Otago (M.L.) a man has a claim
yielding gold already minted. So far _ one
sovereign,’five half-sovereigns, and 120 silver
coins, all bearing dates of more than eighty
vears ago, have been recovered from his
sluice boxes. A flood in ’53 drowned over
20 miners in the river, and it may be the
coins they were carrying in their pockets
that are coming to light.
* * * *
During 1932 the Melbourne Mint pur-
chased gold articles of a total weight of
8£ tons, containing gold worth £l,OOO 000.
The weight is six times the amount lodged
in 1931, and 17 times that in 1930.
* * * *
Tommy Solomon, the last of the full-
blooded Morioris, w 7 as about 50 at his death.
He was a sheep-farmer at the Chatham
Islands, 536 miles east of Christchurch, and
rode his own horse at the races till he
passed the 15-stone mark. Of late years he
had tipped the beam at 28 stone. He was
married to a Maori woman and had a
number of children.
* * * *
Wilfrid White, who revisited his native
Melbourne the other day, is another of the
many Australians who have achieved dis-
tinction in other countries. Son of a well-
known Victorian shipbuilder, his fancy
turned to the navigational side of seafaring.
He was fortunate enough to be accepted as
a student in the famous Kelvin laboratories
at Glasgow, and, after graduating in nautical
science there, went to America, where he
formed a company for the manufacture of
modern compasses and nautical instruments.
Lord Kelvin was a shareholder, and the
business became the American agency for
the great scientist’s patents. To-day _ the
White firm supplies most of the American
warships with navigational requisites, as
well as most of the leading mercantile craft,
including the big Matson liners now running
to Australia.
* * * *
Queensland timbers are having a good
run in England. Hollinses have used walnut
extensively in their new quarters at Not-
tingham—their simple instructions were to
put in the Empire’s best panelling—and the
same wood is going largely into the Shell-
Mex building. Silky oak has been used m
a new library at Stonyhurst. The London
firm mainly responsible is Betty Joel, Ltd.
*‘* * *
“O. Kay”: Three of Hollywood’s best-
known screen butlers are Australians. Sidney
Bracy, Robert Greig and Charles Coleman.
Bracy has buttled in more pictures than
any other actor in Hollywood, his score
being over 200 appearances. Greig and Cole-
man left the stage for motion-picture work
about two years ago, since when they have
each buttled in more than 50 talkies.
“Wooden Rim”: A German inventor has
completed a gadget which he claims will
enable cars to be driven by the gas given
off by smouldering wood—a variation,
apparently, of the consumer gas method.
All the plant required is to be carried on
the car. The first “wood-filling station” has
already been opened, the usual petrol pumps
being replaced by piles of wood. It looks as
though the bowser-girl of the future will be
a brawny axewoman.
*‘* * *
“Benicia Boy”: American “sport” has
some weird manifestations. One of the
latest was a boxing match over four rounds
between Corporal Williams, of Kentucky—
probably the only Blue Grass militaire who
does not enjoy colonel’s rank —and Pa
Washington Brown, of Virginia. The first
whs 92 years of age and the other 80, and
the mill, described as a “grudge fight over a
lady” by their publicity manager, was billed
as for the “wire-whiskered championship,”
both contestants being liberally endowed
with face fungus. The medical profession
of Jacksonville (Fla.) tried to have the
meeting stopped, but in vain, and 'the meet-
ing duly came off, ending in a draw.
* * * *
“PTE” (Milan): Some Australians
seem to think theirs is the'only country with
waste lands. All countries have them. Not
all are dry deserts, of course: some are
rough mountain country; others, swamps.
Italy has a full helping of both ; and of all
the "things his country has done during the
past 10 years the Duce is said to be proudest
of the reclaiming of such lands. One Act
authorised the draining of 74 million acres
of malarious swamps, and there are hun-
dreds of associations at work draining other
land, or irrigating it or propping it up (this
by building retaining walls on hillsides) or
straightening out streams to prevent flood-
ing. What interests the Australian is that
a great part of this recovered territory is
to be used—some of it already is used —for
growing wheat. For years there was
scarcely a movement in Italian agriculture;
in 1919 there were 10,694,000 acres under
wheat, and in 1929 there were 11,804,000
acres. But in 1931 there were 14,217,000
acres, and last year about 15,315,000.
* * * *
“F.S.” : Shaw was credited with the usual
facetious remarks when he landed in
America, but there is no need to take them
too seriously. American reporters seldom
scruple to put words in the mouths of dis-
tinguished visitors if what they actually say
is not sufficiently sensational. The reporter
of a Chinese newspaper in Shanghai, who
was unable to obtain an interview with the
playwright, got over the difficulty in a
manner that reflects eternal honor on his
profession. This, translated, is what was
printed: “Questioned on the subject of mar-
riage, Mr. Shaw said that he was naturally
incompetent to speak about Chinese institu-
tions, but in England marriage was really
founded on the morality of the Tenth Com-
mandment, which Englishwomen would one
day succeed in obliterating from the walls
of "their churches by refusing to enter any
building where they were publicly classed
with a man’s house, his ox and his ass, as
his purchased chattels. Questioned as to
the present situation in Europe, the eminent
writer remarked that he did not know how
it would all end. When wolves combined
to kill a horse, the death of the horse only
set them on to fighting one another for the
choicest morsels. Men were no better than
wolves if they had no better principles;
Here are two interesting old-time photographs. On the left is Phil May, taken
with his favorite bulldog, after he had returned from The Bulletin to London and
was l in the midst of his artistic triumphs there. The picture is dated 1890. On the
right is J. F. Archibald as a young man of 21, in the days when he was a clerk
in the Education Department, Melbourne. This photo., which has been preserved
by Archibald’s old friend and schoolfellow John Woodford Hyland, to whom Archibald
presented it, was taken in 1877, three years before he and Haynes founded The
Bulletin.
accordingly, in Europe they had found that
the Armistice and the Treaty had not extri-
cated them from the war. The Allies were
helpless before a slate scrawled with figures
of National Debts, 'and as there, was no
money to pay them, the sensible thing to do
was to wipe the slate and let the wrangling
States distribute what they could spare on
the sound Communist principle of > from
each according to his ability, to each accord-
ing to his need. Regarding the crime wave
in Europe, Mr. Shaw stated that they were
still flogging criminals and clamoring for
more floggings, and not even the most sen-
sationally frightful of these atrocities in-
fluted on its victim the misery, degradation
and conscious waste and loss of life suffered
in their modern prisons, especially the model
ones, without, as far as he could see, rous-
ing any more compunction than the burning
of heretics in the Middle Ages.” The first
remark is from the preface to “Getting Mar-
ried,” the second from “Back to Methuse-
lah,” and “St. Joan” was the source of the
final one. The volumes were borrowed from
an English bookshop.
❖ * *
“Nakhoda” : Most travellers in “the East”
are only too well acquainted with the
Government convenience provided in remote
places, known as the dakh bungalow in India,
the passanggrahan in the Dutch East Indies
and the resthouse in British Malaya. They
are usually supplied with a native mandur
and a functionary euphemistically called the
cook, and the white district officer is, ex
officio, responsible for them. About 50
per cent, of the local humor is associated
with these institutions. Here is an example
from the suggestions and complaints book
of an F.M.S: specimen.
“A damn bad tea.” —Billiam Billiamson.
“A comment of the above description, accompanied
as it is by a fictitious signature, is in singularly
bad taste and reflects very little credit on the
person responsible.”—District Officer.
Followed by an entry made long afterwards
when 8.8. was passing that way again.:—
“Nevertheless, it was a damn bad tea.” —Billiam
Billiamson.
* * * *
Even whaling in the Antarctic is to be
limited under a quota system this year, the
Norwegians having agreed to fish only up
to the average of the 1930-31 season, less
38 per cent. Very few ships operated last
year owing to the large stocks of Oil On hand.
Is there another pub in the world which
within seven years has been kept by an ex-
Premier, an ex-Speaker and an ex-Clnet
Kailway Commissioner? The Hotel Alex-
andra at Leura (N.S.W.) has that record.
James Dooley was the ex-Premier and ex-
Speaker. Joachim Goode, the man whom
Lang chose to supplant Cleary, is the ex-
Kailway Commissioner.
* * * *
“Yhteistoimikaamme” is the Finnish word
for “Let us trade together,” and was the
slogan at a recent dinner given at Helsing-
fors by the President of the Finnish National
Committee of the International Chamber of
Commerce.
; j. ijj * ifi
Natural quinine is now being rapidly
chased off the market by synthetic equiva-
lents The Netherlands East Indies, which
produce nine-tenths of the world’s quinine,
are bowing to the inevitable, and, in spite
of the advantages of market control and
cheap labor, are reducing the areas under
quinine-tree cultivation.
* * * *
Fiji’s official air-mail service made a be-
ginning last month, when the first plane
carried a mail from Suva to Lautoka. Fiji.
Airways is carrying out the service, helped
by a Government subsidy, and special en-
velopes were used to mark the inaugjiratioh.
The flight there-and-back takes about four
hours, and passengers are carried. Two
'planes are employed.
* * * *
“Ex-Bananalander” (from a British rail-
way office)’: I have just finished a little
statistical job, and you may be interested in
it. From the-beginning of this year we are
keeping our records in four-weekly periods;
we have reformed the calendar, and given
the year 13 months instead of 12. It was
a siily business, anyway, to have a month
of 28 days and others ■of 30 and 31; com-
parisons of monthly figures could mean, no-
thing under such conditions. Most British
railway cos. have come in on the new
scheme, which is largely practised also m
the U.S.A.
* * * *
“P.T.R.” (Milan) : You have got an idea
that you would like to start a factory to
make, say. jew’s-harps in, say, Venice; and
you have the capital for the purpose. But
Italy is much too well regulated nowadays
to allow you to start your factory. “No,
no,” it says in effect. ‘‘There are quite
enough factories making jew’s-harps. But
there is a shortage of factories making dolls
eyes. We shall be glad to give you autho-
rity to start a doll’s-eye factory.” You may
not even enlarge an existing factory or plant
without the authority of the Government
board appointed for the purpose. It is done
partly with the object of conserving re-
sources; partly to prevent a big man in-
creasing his plant or wrnrks with the object
of killing off little men. The board works
in with the foreign representatives of Italian
industry. For instance, if the representa-
tive in Australia reported that there was an
opening for some particular line of goods,
efforts would be made to switch somebody
over on to that line. No doubt about it,
the Fascists do the regulating business thor-
oughly. A surplus of factories in any in-
dustry, they argue, means a surplus of
workers and broken time; and broken time
is an economic waste. It might have been
a good thing for Australia if there had been
an authority to regulate the opening of new
coalmines.
* * * *
It isn’t easy to buy Australian butter in
England, in spite of the shiploads that go
there; and a case recently tried at Ealing
explains why. Green’s Farms Dairies, Dtd.,
was charged, among other things, with “offer-
ing for sale foreign butter without indication
of origin and blending butter on premises
not registered as a factory.” _ On behalf of
the Middlesex County Council it was said
that the defendant had mixed a very large
quantity of Siberian and Australian butter
with a very small quantity of local butter,
and had sold it, sometimes as “Empire
brand, sometimes as “Choicest Devon Vale.
They fined the swindler £44 and 10 guineas
costs.
$ * * *
“Jeames”: Arthur Roberts, who died the
other day, aged SO, was the last hierophant at
the altar of the “sacred fire of burlesque. ’ A
typical Arthur Roberts production was
“Gentleman Joe,” in which he played a han-
som-cab driver, complete m rakishly-tilted
top-hat and short covert-coat with enormous
pearl buttons. In one of his turns he appeared
as Lord Randolph Churchill, who was then
touring Rhodesia. “I’m a regular Rancly-
Pandy-o,” the song began; there were lines
in it regarded as offensive, and the Lor
Chamberlain banned the act. He probably
regretted his action when on the next mgnt
Roberts produced an amended version:
I’m only Jack the Dandy-o
From the great Mashonalandy-O,
And I wouldn’t pain
The Chamberlain
' By speaking of Randy-Pandy-o.
For the folks who have commandy-o
In this free and enlightened landy-o
Would license again
Such a play as “Jane,”
But not a song about Randy-o.
Roberts on the stage was the embodiment
of the raffish, racing, pub-liaunting mid-\ic-
torian Cockney, and probably the wittiest
and most spontaneous gagster that London
has known. In private life, though a cheery
little man, he was anything but a roysterer.
* * * *
“Cutter”: A Maorilandcr who has made
good at Hollywood is young Tad Alexander,
of Feilding. He does the part of the Czare-
vitch in M.G.M.’s “Rasputin and the
Empress,” with the three Barrymores, exceed-
ingly well. His first big role was the son
in the M.G.M. version of Eugene OAeills
“Strange Interlude,” starring Norma Shearer,
and now he is to be kept busy by M.G.M.
* * * *
How severely the Malayan tin industry
has been hit by low prices for the metal can
be judged from the following table, which
shows the labor employed in mining during
December and the average annual price of
tin (London j over the last four years:—
Number Av. Price
Employed. of Tin.
December, 1929 . . 104,400 £204
„ 1930 .. 73,600 142 •
„ 1931 .. 57,400 TlB
~ 1932 . . 42,645 136
Some of the Chinese labor has been repatri-
ated by the F.M.S. Government. The posi-
tion of the industry would be worse but for
a 40 p.c. exchange premium.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: According to a trade journal,
a French firm is producing a bicycle which
returns to the principle of the old high-
wheeler. save that the small wheel is in
front instead of behind. Though it is
acclaimed as a new idea, there is prooLto
the contrary in the hall, of the Light Car
and Cycle Club in Sydney, where a machine
on this principle is preserved. According to
a member who rode both types in the days
of his youth, the only difference was that
in falling off the original machine you went
forward on to your nose, and when doing
ditto off the “improvement” you went back-
wards on to your brain pan.
“The Old Chap” : I wonder if there are
any old playgoers who remember Julia Mat-
thews? She lives in my memory as the em-
bodiment of all that was sparkling, gay and
bewitching. Petite, pretty, volatile and
graceful in her movements, her entrance on
the stage was like a flash of sunshine. She
appeared first in Australia at the old Sydney
Vic, in 1854, and acted there for a season of
twelve months without a break. Then she
was at Melbourne Olympic (the Iron Pot)
with' George Coppin, after which she toured
the Vic. goldfields. She came back to Mel-
bourne to join G. V. Brooke in Shakspearean
plays at the old Royal, (burnt down in 1872)
in parts ranging from Moth in “Love’s Labor
Lost” to Ophelia. She went to M.L. and
married W. H. Mumford, leaving the stage
for 18 months. But the lure of the foot-
lights prevailed, and idle received a wonder-
ful welcome when she reappeared at the long-
dead Haymarket in 1862. Next year she
went to Covent Garden to play the chief
part in “Tlie Grand Duchess.” She was
given a memorable send-off at Melb. Hay-
market on September 17, 1863. The comedy
was “The Irish Heiress.” In the cast was
Marion Dunn, who afterwards married Mar-
cus Clarke. At the end of the performance
the audience rose to their feet and screamed
“Good-bye. Juley! God bless you, Juley!
Come back soon, Juley!” But Rhe never
came back. After successful seasons at
Covent Garden she toured the U.S.A. Dur-
ing a performance at St. Louis she was struck
down with rheumatic fever and died there
on May IS, 1876, aged 32.
x x * *
There are 12 big motor-car manufac-
turing cos. in the U.S.A. Their capital and
reserves amount to 1,106 million dollars. In
1930 they showed combined profits of 161 mil-
lion dollars; in 1931 the profits were down
to 94 millions; last year they showed a loss
of 7 millions.
* * * *
In the U.S.A. last year the tobacco manu-
facturers made more profits in proportion to
capital than any other big group of manu-
facturers or traders —20 companies averaged
13.2 p.c. The next most heavily gilded lot
were makers and sellers of confectionery
and soft drinks, 10.8 p.c. Actually there
were not very many groups that showed any
profit at all. The biggest aggregate loss was
made by iron and steel makers, $l2 < ,194,0UU.
Profits were made in the following groups.
Tobacco, 13.2 p.c.; confectionery, 10.8 p.c.:
drugs and sundries, 9.9 p.c.; chain stores,
8.7 p.c.; bakeries, 8.0 p.c.; printing and
publishing, 5.8 p.c.; food-products (manu-
facturers), 5.4 p.c.; chemical manufac-
turers, 5.4 p.c.; sugar (other than
Cuban), 5.1 p.c.; household. goods (kitchen
and other utensils and furniture), 4.3 p.c.;
shoes, 2.6 p.c. No other group showed 2*
p.c. While chain stores were well up m
the list, department and wholesale stores
both showed aggregate losses. So did res-
taurant chains, automobiles, auto accessories,
rubber tyres, wool-spinners and fertiliser-
makers. In all 840 big concerns are in-
cluded in those figures. I"
an aggregate net profit of $oo9,2 1 1,000; last
year they showed an aggregate net loss or
$15,349,000.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in ‘‘The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that deb’ghted an earlier one.
The “breeze” between Justice Hodges and
i urves, Q.G., in Melbourne Supreme Court
recalls the quarrel between two Sydney prac-
titioners-—Mr. William Manning and Mr.
James Martin, who were engaged on opposite
sides, as usual, when the former obiected
THE REASON OF IT.
INQULRING FREETRADER FRIEND (to newly-elected M.L.A. in buggy): "Glad to see you
got in! But, I forget, you're o Prolectionist, ain't you?"
M.L.A.: "Yes."
FRIEND: "Then what the dooce are you driving an imported American buggy for?"
M.L.A.: "Well, ain't I suppartin' a Prolectionist country?"
[Phil May-18/2/'88.]
to some line of examination taken by the
latter. Martin’s answer was not, perhaps,
over-courteous, when Manning said : “Thank
trod, I am a gentleman.” Martin’s retort
came like a snap: “We have only the learned
counsel’s -word for that.” It was years before
the breach was healed. [3O/5/’9l.]
Miss Aston, a blind pupil, aged 37, at the
Melbourne Asylum, has passed for the Uni-
versity matriculation examination—an un-
paralleled feat. £l7/1/’9l.]
Queen Victoria, we read, is a vigorous
hater of electric-l'ight, on the ground that it
isn t so warm and comfortable as gas.
[l7/1/’9l.]
Don t-you-feel-wel] f f Smith, according to
a contemporary, was interrupted lately, while
making a speech, by an usher who brought
mm a note marked “urgent.” It contained
afl note. [l7/1/’9l.]
In the days when the old Union Club was
XL '!„ . ln Brisbane, and Jimmy Tyson
°" e of the members, Tom Pickett was
PJ c °, ldo J e - A big brown parcel, securely
•in S wi? ( ’ and wi th dabs of sealing-wax here
’ a 7 lve <i addressed to Tyson. It
came from America— from Chicago. Tom
Ul } der Tyson’s bed, and left it for
wUT eck 2 ti! T - v - son : returned. Then, he
ght out the parcel and placed, it gently
on the table. Tyson told him to open it.
Now the time was about a month after the
Phoenix Park tragedy, and imaginative
people were filled with excited visions of
slaughtered kings and mangled millionaires
and red-haired anarchists. Therefore Tom
Pickett calmly replied that he was not pre-
pared just then to accept the risk of open-
ing that package. Then Tyson observed that
he was not feeling very well that morning,
and was also in an unusual hurry to go and
attend a meeting which he had nearly for-
gotten ; and consequently Tom might just as
well put the package away until some future
occasion. He warned Tom, however, not to
put it back under the bed. So the mysterious
object was placed in the storeroom and re-
mained there for two> years. The day before
Pickett left the Union Club, he hauled out
the long-forgotten relic and opened it. The
infernal machine from the Chicago anarchist
proved to be a 141 b. tin of beef, preserved
by a new process, and sent as a sample to
Tyson and the Queensland squatters!
[26/1/’9S.]
At a leading Sydney hatter’s I [Sappho
Smith] was shown the other day a card-
board shape of the massive skull of Sir
Henry Parkes. It was very narrow in front,
but swelled nobly out behind, of course,
and, regarded dispassionately, it was very
like a kidney potato or a lady’s “sponge-
finger'’ with one end highly developed. Sir
Henry takes sevens in hats, which he in-
variably gets measured for, and he doesn’t
accompany his order—-as I am told a dis-
tinguished politician once did—with the feel-
ing request, “You might make it a little
large and put a stiff rim inside that I could
take out.” One’s head—er—alters some-
times, doncherknow. [3/l/’9l.]
Signor del Puente, of. the Grand Opera
House (N.Y.), like baritone Ryley, of Mel-
bourne, refuses' to receive flowers while sing-
ing. When he was being applauded for his
rendering of a passage in “Rigoletto,” up
the aisle rushed two ushers with huge bou-
quets, which, when they reached the stage,
they held aloft, expecting 1 the singer to destroy
the ‘scene by coming to the footlights for
the flowers. Del Puente ignored them, and
when the situation became simply embarrass-
ing for the ushers, they laid down the flowers
and walked sheepishly down the aisle. A
few minutes later, when the baritone was
again applauded, the ushers again ran up
the aisle vvitli more bouquets, and held them
up for his acceptance. Again he ignored
them. At the end of the act, he, of course
received all the bouquets. [lO/1/’9l.]
Toole was presented'with a splen-
did Maori skull at Auckland. He intends
to lend it to Irving for use in “Hamlet ”
By the way when the Napier cabbies called
tor those three groans, Toole said: “Whv
[lO/1/’9l ]* four? ” They saw no obstacle.
At Auckland (M.L.) the other day, a fire
occurred, by which, among other matters
copies of old treaties connected with Tahiti
were consumed. Which is a reminder that
at one time, Britain and France were perF
lously near to war over rival claims upon
the Society group. At that time a Frenc
frigate sailed into the harbor at Hobart dur
mg the night, and anchored off the old bat-
tery. Captain Moriarty, R.M. was then
post-officer. When the old chap arose in
the morning, and looked out of his bedroom
window he beheld the Frenchman flyi™
the tricolor over the British ensign at the
peak off the spanker-yard. He called for
lus uniform cocked hat and sword and
commanded that his barge should be ready
Thus he boarded the French frigate, where
he was received by the officer of the watch
with many bows and compliments. But he
paid no heed. He mounted to the quarter-
deck, drew his sword, and with one sweep
severed the halyards. Down came the flags.
Then the old chap marched back to the
gangway, took off his cocked hat, made a
prodigious bow and departed, leaving the
Frenchman agape. When he got ashore he
went to Government House, reported to
Governor Wilmott, and then—and not till
then —called for his morning dram. The
“incident” led to reams of correspondence,
and a leader in the “Times” upon the royal
temper of Van Diemen’s Land. [29/l/’9B.]
The Monowai arrived off Sydney Heads
late on Monday night, but in Sara Bern-
hardt’s reception interests lay off until
morning, and steamed up the harbor at an
early hour in company with the steamer
chartered by the “Firm,” which had anchored
during a harmonious and convivial evening
at Watson’s Bay. Tuesday was bright,
warm and clear.
and a goodly com-
pany—in which
all the arts were
strongly repre-
sented, except the
histrionic one
(there was not a
single actress on
board) —steamed
from Circular
Quay to Darling
Harbor to meet
the great French-
woman. Arrived,
folks streamed up
the side to the
strains of “The
M a r s e illaise,”
brayed forth by a
German band,
into the “social
hall,” where the
divine Sara, sur-
rounded by lovely
flowers, stood
awaiting the tor-
ture. It was as
good as a play to
see her posed
artistically, with
her ruddy hair
floating round, a
fascinated look in
her dreamy eyes,
a faraway smile
on her lips,
twiddling a violet
between her
white teeth, while Dan O’Connor' delivered
an oration in which he said, at least ten
times, that “the gift of God-given genius was
not for a cottery, but for the wurruld.”
Everyone circled round to be introduced, and
the actress’s small white hand received many
a good Australian grip. This got over, every-
one drifted back to the little steamer, where
wine was served and the “God-given genius,”
who climbed on board over the rail, made a
little speech in which she thanked everyone
from her heart for their kindness, and, arriv-
ing at Circular Quay, was driven to the
Grosvenor, amid the cheers of the populace.
Sara has already made a comprehensive
“mash”—-everyone is already in love with
her, and the women especially don’t know
how to gush enough. We had nearly for-
gotten to remark that Sara, 47 years old
and a grandmother, is now pleasantly plump
and, with a healthy color on her cheeks,
doesn’t look much more than half her days
when compared with some of our withered
Australian buds. [3O/5/’9l.]
Sir John Robertson not long ago was try-
ing to secure a candidate for a certain
N.S.W. Parliamentary vacancy. A Sydney
newspaper proprietor having declined
Jack’s nomination, the old man sat nursing
his wrath at the Reform Club. Presently
a well-known city man blundered in.
“Hello,” said the veteran, cheering up,
“you’re the very man I’ve been looking for.
I want some —— fool to shove in at !”
[3O/5/’9l.]
The inventor of the now famous Wolseley
sheep-shearing machine was, when in the old
country, a maker of horse-clippers. When
hard-up and in want of a job he chanced to
stroll into a Melbourne engineer’s shop
(McCann, Sloss and Co.’s) and was told
there was no work in his line. “But,” said
the manager, “we had a sh'eep-shearing
machine left here some time ago—can you
make it work?” “No,” was the answer, “not
that one”- —and hurrying home to his lodg-
ings he started to make what is now the
Wolseley machine. The first thing shorn was
a rabbit, and the invention, we are glad to
say, has given the engineer a modest little
fortune. [3O/5/’9l.]
The tallest couple in the world are the
Biffords, of Champaign, Illinois (U.S.). Biff
measures Bft. 7jin. in his stockings, and the
missus overlaps him They are the
descendants of Irish kings, and therefore
have never condescended to enter the show
business. [l7/1/’9l.]
Jimmy Mirams has been sent to gaol be-
cause his building society went bung and
according to the Victorian gaol regulations
the little politician’s big beard, the now
srey beard which the little man has worn for
so many years, will have to be shaved. To
the average man who has not a consnicu-
ously large beard, nor a particularly luxu-
riant crop of hair, gaol-shaving and cropping
involve no particular indignity, especially as
the hair and beard are allowed to grow for
three months before the expiry of the sen-
tence. But a beard such as Mirams’s does
not grow in a fear, and it will be cruelly cx-
tending the little man’s punishment should
he be treated in the same fashion as the
short-bearded man. A man’s suffering should
so far as possible, be allowed to expire with
his sentence, and this can never be the case
where release from prison is attended bv a
marked change in personal appearance This
plea is offered on behalf, not alone of well-
known and comparatively influential men
like Mirams, but also for all obscure long-
bearded men who may be so unhapnv as to
PROPOS OF THE SYDNEY TAILORS STRIKE.
HIS WIFE: "Augustus, if you will get No. 2. And she succeeded.
the material....I really do be-
lieve I could make you a pair."
["Hop"-5/12/'91]
come within the grasp of a law which should,
while no respecter of persons, be in all
things humane. [lO/1/’9l.]
That vulgar vegetable, the onion, is the
sort of bulb that no really naice woman
would own up to eating, but it is much
devoured in private by youth and beauty,
as it has quite a reputation as a complexion-
clearer. Boiled onions and a glass of stout
have formed for years the prosaic midnight
meal of a bewitching comic-opera soprano,
who would disencliantingly swallow her
savory supper after capturing all the male
hearts in her audience by warbling, in her
alluring way, come-and-kiss-me-ditties. The
handsome Gaiety Girl, Maud Hobson, takes
her nightly onion raw and sliced with
vinegar. [29/l/’9B.]
Said Labouchere recently: “The expres-
sion of a fashionably-dressed woman now is
emphatically one of nakedness. Her sleeve-
less bodice cut half-way to the waist betrays
much and suggests more. Her large, white
arms, her uncovered shoulders crossed with
an airy line, her bust displayed to the last
inch permitted by the law, which protects
morality and forbids obscenity, her back
bared in a wedge-shaped track to her band,
the color of her gown scarce distinguishable
from her skin, and the ‘fit’ one which moulds
the figure and makes no pretence at disguise
—in this indecent nudity she offers herself
to public admiration, and the bold looks of
the men are the caresses which make her
purr with pride and pleasure. Her dress is
her note of invitation.” [3/l/’9l.]
LEARNING HIS PROFESSION.
P ARSON: “It’s shocking to hear a hoy like
you swearing to himself for mere fun,
as you think it.”
BOY (who is temporarily imagining log to
he a sulking bullock ) : “I’m not swearin’
to myself for fun, I’m learning to drive
bullocks. I’m going to drive father’s
bullocks next shearin’.”
[Frank P. Mahony —24/2/’94.]
“St. James’s Gazette” asserts that General
Booth, of the Salvation Army, lent W. T.
Stead £5OOO from the Army funds to enable
him_ to buy out the share of Newnes, M.'P.,
in the “Review of Reviews.” We shouldn’t
wonder. Booth, like Barnum and Bismarck
and all good showmen, believes in printers’
ink. [l7/1/’9I.J
THE ROSE OUT OF REACH.
A red rose grew on a southward wall,
There was never a rose on the tree so tall;
Though roses twined at my lingering feet,
Roses and roses, scented sweet,
And roses bent to my love-lit eyes,
Roses flaming in wanton guise,
And roses swung at my shoulder height,
Damask and crimson and golden and white,
With a curse for all and a frown for each
I longed for the rose beyond my reach.
The gold sun shone in the summer days,
The wee buds oped in a hundred ways ;
Winds of the morning, whispering sweet,
Tossed the blown roses down at my feet,
Dainty petals for lovers’ tread,
Ruby and ivory—brown and dead !
Rut morning to nooning, noon to night,
One rose only glowed in my sight—
Silently, all too rapt for speech,
I worshipped the rose beyond my reach.
I stormed her tower on the southward wall,
To drop fatigued from the bastions tall,
Thorns made sport of me, red as the rose,
A hundred wounds ran blood at their blows,
The soft little roses red and white
Changed to the bitterest foes in spite,
Scourged my face with their stinging wands,
Mocked my toil and my bleeding hands,
Till I learned at last what they .strove to
teach :
The great red rose was beyond my reach.
And so I watched in the autumn days.
‘ Summer is dead,’’ so I mused, a-gaze,
“The cold mists creep when the night is
nigh.
Day after day the roses die;
Storms of winter will gather soon,
Frosts will follow the coming noon ;
Here if I wait where the blooms are cast
My love will drop to my arms at last.”
But wild winds laden with death for each
Blew the red petals beyond my reach.
[4/6/’9S.]
WILL H. OGILVIE.
THE EROTIC BARD.
A tall lamp burned above his head
And o’er his tumbled ringlets shed
A golden grace.
He wore a quaint and flowing dress
Of woven silks. The torturous stress
Of wrinkling thought made deep impress
On his pale face.
His hand lay on the creamy sheet
Where sprawled some lines of “raptures
sweet”
And “wild desire,”
And on a rug as black as night,
In dreamy, indolent delight,
A fair girl basked, all lily-white,
Before the fire.
How fair she is, disrobed as then,
Not all the minted words of men
Can tell. I vow.
The poet from his labor rose,
And lisped in unaccustomed prose:
“You know, dear boy, that I compose
ifrom models now.”
[lB/9/’97.]
SHAS SNELL.


Eastertide.
WHEREIN J. H. M. ABBOTT GIVES ANOTHER AMUSING VIEW OF
LIFE IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE IN THE FIRST DAYS OF
THE GOLD RUSHES.
THOUGH not a religious man in the
fullest sense of the word, the ancient-
friend of my youth, the late Baron
Augustus von Big, from whose unpublished
“Memoirs” I have so freely quoted, was
always a profound admirer of the work of the
churches during the long lifetime (1817-90)
he spent as a useful and enterprising colon-
ist of Ne.w South Wales. He could never
have been’described as a sectarian, for whilst
preserving a free mind towards each aspect
of theology, he was quite prepared to accord
to every man the right to practise any form
of devotion, however fantastic or unortho-
dox. This attitude is well exemplified in
entries made somewhere towards the end of
1855, when he had reached the fairly np«
age of five and sixty—though he was des-
tined to enjoy his hundredth anniversary.
“It is with much pleasure,” wrote the
'Baron, “that I recall an event which hap-
pened in the early part of the present year
—an event which concerned myself to the
extent that I was able to assist a reverend
gentleman whom I believe to have been a
little misjudged in some quarters, both as
to the quality of the dogma he advocated and
the sincerity of his own belief in it.
“When the gold diggings broke out, they
were the means, as is well known, of attract-,
ing to these shores vast quantities of human
beings of both sexes and every social condi-
tion. Not only did they draw hither the
adventurer and the steady-going man of
business, but they also induced a certain pro-
portion of professional preachers to cross the
ocean in the hope of finding new fields for
their activities. There seemed to be hardly
any end to the numbers of these missioners
who swooped down upon the goldfields, or
settled themselves in Sydney or Melbourne,
where they erected the tabernacles peculiar
to their beliefs.
“In the month of January last I had occa-
sion to drive into Sydney from my home
near Parramatta on a matter of business
which was likely to detain me for two or
three days, and, as is my wont on these
occasions, I engaged a room at the Royal
Hotel in George-street, which comfortable
and imposing hostelry has been so ably con-
ducted by the widow of Mr. John Sparke
since that gentleman’s death in 1851.
“Since the Royal was rebuilt by Mr. John
Terry Hughes, after the disastrous fire of
1840 wiped out Mr. Barnet Levy’s original
structure, its meeting rooms have echoed
with many diverse topics and many enter-
prises have been born within its walls. The
first Municipal Council held its meetings
there, from the end of November, 1842, until
the following January, and in that same
month I was one of several business men
who met there to form the Sydney Salting
Company, which- had for its object the ex-
portation of salted beef from the colony.
The preliminary meeting for the formation
of more than one prosperous steam-packet
company has taken place in those commo-
dious rooms. . • . . ■
“I have been particular m emphasising
the peculiar attributes.of the Royal, because
it wrns there that I met with the Reverend
Dionysius Apollo Ogg, from the United
States of America, the founder in Sydney
of the short-lived but very attractive sect
known as the Beautiful Lovebirds. . And
as the crowning injustice which overtook
that apostle of refinement and female love-
liness had its origin in the hotel, it has
seemed to me only fitting that I should
ENTOMOLOGY.
“My daddy says my mummy’s a butterfly.”
“Well, my daddy says my mummy’s a moth, the way she goes through his clothes."
acquaint posterity with its character and
attributes at the beginning of this present
year of grace 1855.
“It was a warm afternoon when I arrived
in Sydney, and, as soon as I had ■ disposed
of my horse and gig, I hastened into the
principal lounge-room of the Royal Hotel,
seated myself at a table, and instructed
Walter, the waiter, to bring me two pint-
bottles of Munich lager and a tankard so
that I might moisten the parched, blood
coursing in my veins and restore my equili-
brium, a little upset by the heat of the day
and the dustiness of the Parramatta-road. I
had but just finished the first pint, and was
about to lift the second to my much-
refreshed lips, when I felt a tap on the
shoulder, and looked up to behold a clerical
gentleman —whom I presently discovered to
be. the Rev. Dionysius—standing beside the
table.
“ ‘Forbear, brother —forbear!’ he said in
a deep and musical voice which was dis-
tinctly American, though not nasal.
“Respect for the cloth forbade my utter-
ing the retort, which would other-
wise have been' to consign this interfering
stranger to an even warmer place than the
Parramatta-road on a hot day in January.
“ ‘Well, sir—well?’ I demanded of him,
with just sufficient resentment in my tone
to convey to him that my conduct in this,
or any other matter, was not to be ques-
tioned. ‘Why should I?’ I asked him, noting
at cue same time the extraordinary beauty
of his eyes and the ugliness of his face.
“•‘Oh, brother,’ he replied, shaking his
unhandsome head, and laying his top-hat arid
white cotton gloves upon the table —‘wine
is a mocker!’
“ ‘This, sir, is good German beer,’ I
responded. ‘But even if it were wine, I can
hardly see’
“ ‘Sir,’ he interrupted, though quite cour-
teously, ‘any unnecessary indulgence in
liquor is a sinful thing. I beg you to con-
sider whether it were not better to ■ refrain
from sin before it is too late.’
“ ‘lt is too late,’ I said, ‘and my indul-
gence is very necessary.’
“ ‘ln that case, brother, I will join you—
if you are sure it is necessary.’
“ ‘I am quite sure,’ I said, draining my
pot, and then calling to Walter, who hap-
pened to be passing with his tray and napkin,
to bring two more bottles and another,
tankard. With small delay they arrived.
“ ‘Brother,’ he said, wiping the froth from
his mouth after sampling the excellent
lager stocked by Mrs. Sparke, ‘I am a man
of broad mind, and the Lord says—or St.
Paul, or someone —that we may sometimes
take a little wine for the stomach’s sake.’
“‘Did he include German beer?’ I
inquired slyly.
“‘Brother,’ he replied as he lifted the
pot a second time to his thick lips, ‘this
is no time for hair-splitting. I will obey
the Lord’s —or St. Paul’s—behest.’
“After we had consumed two more bottles
at the reverend gentleman’s expense, we
became very good friends, and I invited him
to dine with me at the hotel. I had become
greatly interested in what he had already
told me of the peculiar ‘call to grace’—-1
use his own words —that was his. By the
end of the evening he had completely con-
verted me, and I had the pleasure of giving
him my arm—-a necessary proceeding, so
little of a bigot did he prove to be —to his
bedroom. He was also a guest of good Mrs.
Sparke. . , . , '
“The Rev. Dionysius had informed me,
during the course of dinner and whilst* we
conversed afterwards —drinking a good deal
of port ‘for our stomachs’ sakes’—of many
of his spiritual efforts prior to coming to
New South Wales at the end of the pre-
vious year. It would seem that in the
, United States he had been the founder of
a number of religions—l forget how many;—
which had one object in common, the uplift-
ing of the;female soul. He had always felt,
he said,, that the regeneration of the mascu-
line one-could safely be left to - others, but
that he had a peculiar ‘call from Jehovah
to attend to women. Especially women with
pretty faces and comely bodies, for they
were, he was convinced, of all humanity the
most exposed to the terrors of eternal dam-
nation. The prettier the woman, the more
she needed such' attention as he could give
her. He was quite sure that those whom he
had brought into ‘the better way’ might be
counted in their hundreds. When the gold
rush set in to Australia —it was the first
time he had heard of the .country—much
prayer had led him,to, believe that he might
be as useful to good-looking womanhood in
that distant land as he had been to them in
America. •
“In the morning we breakfasted together;
he looked a little bilious, and explained to
me that his dry toast and brandy-and-soda
was merely his way of mortifying the flesh
at the beginning of the day’s good deeds.
Such pious austerity made me feel a little
ashamed of the large steak and two poached
eggs, together with a tankard of English
stout, which was my'own way of breaking
fast, but- he gave me a sort of absolution by
saying:
“ ‘Brother, we are as God made us. To
each his portion.’
“Before I returned to Parramatta, this
worthy man was so' good as to invite me to
attend one of his meetings, which I did
with a pleasure that I considered afterwards
to have been quite well rewarded. I cannot
say that, short-lived as the Rev. Mr. Ogg s
special Australian cult of ‘The Beautiful
Lovebirds’ was, I ever regretted having
become a convert, to its tenets and beliefs.
“The ‘Temple of Dionysius,’ as its founder
had christened it, was in a cottage in Castle-
reagli - street, fi
little north ,of
King-street, which
had a large front
room capable of
seating on chairs
before a small
platform at one
end between
twenty and thirty
people. At the
back of the pre-
mises were a
couple of rooms
where Mr. Ogg
gave private
tuition to such ot
his fair followers
as he considered
worthy of it—one
at a time," of
course. At the
rear of the plat-
form, or stage,
whence Dionysius
preached, was an
alfar, lavishly de-
corated with em-
broidered hang-
ings—the work of
some of his con-
verts —upon which,
stood a gilded
cage, on the cross-
bar of which were
perched a pair of
those pretty green
parrakeets known
as ‘lovebirds.’ On
the chairs, spaced
wide apart, so
as to accommo-
date their - crino-
lines, were seated
about a score of
the best-looking
women it has
been my good for-
tune to see gath-
ered together "in
one place since I
have been a resi-
dent of New
South Wales.
“Mr. Ogg’s dis-
course was very
eloquent and
beautifully word-
ed, and evidently
excited much
admiration
amongst his con-
gregation ; but I
was too interest-
ed in the latter to
pay much atten- ,
tion to it, and had, moreover, dined
particularly well, so that I was not
altogether in the mood to pay much atten-
tion to points of dogma either.' I telt that
I could take them for granted. But when
he afterwards introduced me to a ravishing
blonde, who w*as a member of a theatrical
company then playing in Sydney, and begged
me to take her for a walk by the side or
our beautiful harbor and endeavor to instil
into her something _ of the ‘loveliness or
love’ (those were his own words), I telt
that there was much to admire in his reli-
gious activities, and promised to do my
best with ihe lady, if she would permit
me to have the Jionor of attending to her
conversion. I may say that I succeeded
admirably, and she was afterwards my guest
at Pampeluna. When she went away to play
in Melbourne I was
quite sure that she
was a true convert
to the doctrines of
‘The Beautiful
Lovebirds.’ I had
some mind to fol-
low her to the Port
Phillip district, but
when she told me
that she • was. in
private life, Mrs.
Janet Stubbs,
whose husband was
at the Ballarat dig-
gings, I could only
commend his con-
version to her able
hands.
• “A week before
Easter this year I
received a letter
'from the Reverend
Dionysius Apollo,
inviting me to a
grand Eastertide
gathering, to be
held in the large
assembly-room on
the first floor of
the - Royal Hotel
on Good Friday
evening, when _
he hoped to entertain at a banquet most of
the converts, male and female, whom he had
succeeded in gathering around him during
his mission in Sydney. It concluded a.
follows- ‘I am exceedingly' anxious that a
gentleman of your standing in the. com-
munity, my dear Baron, should, be present
at our Eastertide. I am not blind to the
fact that the success of my mission, in
Sydney has aroused some jealousies amongst
the evil-minded, and I am sure that your
presence at our festival will do i much to
allay those unworthy suspicions which some
narrow-minded people entertain concerning
“Tlie Beautiful Lovebirds.” I would also
be obliged if you would back the enclosed
bills for £75, to pay for the. demonstration
of our Faith, since funds which 1 am
expecting from America cannot reach me
until after Eastertide.’ .
“I wrote to say that it would give me
the greatest satisfaction to be present at
the Church Festival, and was happy (at
the time)' to accommodate my friend hnan-
. cially.
“I drove ro town on the afternoon cf
Good Friday, and repaired immediately to the
Royal Hotel, where I bespoke a room from
Mrs. Sparke. I had some idea at the
time that the amiable lady looked a little
queerly at me, but did not think anything
of it. 1 went into the lounge-room and
ordered some beer, and was surprised to
find that the place was full of. all sorts
of angry gentlemen who discussed some
urgent matter amongst themselves which
METHODS.
THE REVEREND ONE : “I always sigh when an insufficiently-dressed
girl passes me.”
THE OTHER ONE: “Does that pull ’em up? If it doesn't, try
winking.”
was evidently too private for my ears;
for, when I came into the room, an
immediate silence fell upon the gathering,
and my nods and greetings to a few acquaint-
ances amongst them, though returned
heartily enough, were a little ‘distant, as
though I were not one of themselves. How-
ever, I sat down and consumed my usual
two bottles of lager beer, lit a cigar ana
was about to leave the room, when my friend
Captain Michael Jones, of the 40th Foot,
intercepted me at the door, and desired the
pleasure of a moment or two of conversa-
tion.
“ ‘Certainly, my dear Jones, I said, with
the greatest delight. Pray, what is it,
then?’
“‘These gentlemen present, my dear Von
Big’—he waved his arm towards the room
generally—‘with whom I am happy to be
numbered, would be glad if you would accom-
pany us to a little ceremony on'the whaling-
ship Daffodil, of Nantucket, lying in the
Cov.e, when we desire jointly to make a
presentation to her worthy captain, Mr.
Elijah P. Hamm, a very _ estimable gentle-
man. The Nantucket sails to-night. Me
sincerely hope you will join us.’
“He iinked his arm in mine, and we drove
down to the Cove. Here three boats from
the whaler awaited us, and • I saw, as we
shoved off, that with us were most of the
gentlemen who had been- present in the
lounge-room at the Royal not long before.
We climbed aboard the ship, and went aft
to the cabin, where I was introduced to
Captain Eamm—one, of the most truculent,
muscular and hard-looking Yankee skippers
I have ever seen.
“After ■ a few general remarks to this
gentleman on the part of the company, to
which he invariably used the same for-
mula .in reply—‘My. Gard-.damn oath, gents .
—Captain Jones, addressing him, said:
“‘With your permission. Captain, we
would now like to make the presentation
to your worthy self. Might the present be
brought in here?’
“ ‘My Card-damned oath, gents!
“Captain Jones whistled, and in a moment,
his eyes black and his face caked with
dried " blood, whilst his hands were tied
behind his back, the Reverend Dionysius
Apollo Ogg was pushed into the cabin by
two rough-looking sailors. • Captain Jones
spoke briefly. ‘ , .
“ ‘Captain, here is the fellow who stole
your wife from you in Boston —we wish
to make him a present to you. Do you
accept him?’ .
“If ever I. saw the look of a tiger in a
man’s face, it'wag in that Yankee skippers.
However he made no remark, save:
“ ‘My Card-damn oath, gents, I thankee
hearty—l do.’ , . t
“The Reverend Dionysius was gagged, mu
he looked most'pitifully at me with those
dark and eloquent eyes. Captain Jones to '
me by the arm, and led me, stupefied, ir
the cabin. , ,
“ ‘Baron,’ he said gently, prav
interfere. The captain .of .the daffodil
will know how to treat him, and sydn •
can . well spare the reverend gentlem•
Come, let’s go ashore. Dine with me m
Mess, won’t you, and forget your othei
gagement for this evening.’ ”


IT'S VALUE-
irS VAUXHALL!
n
u
%
ERE’S the man
with a machine-
gun mind ... a
chilled steel heart . . .
and a face like the
Vauxhall Wyvern.
He wanted and he
got it! a motor car
of time • tested prin-
ciples ... a little
luxury and a lot of
investment value.
Drives a Vauxhall
for the best of reasons.
He’ll never change to
another car for the
same reasons.
WHAT a car for the money! Powered with the
famous economical Vauxhall 26 horse-power
engine. The Synchro-mesh Gearbox and Silent
Second make gear changing positive, speedy,
silent. Prevent wear in the transmission, too.
The English-styled body is by Holden, upholstered in real
hide, with adjustable front seat and flush-folding footrests
in the rear compartment.
Every time-proven tradition of the British Vauxhall is upheld
in this British-built model of to-day. In addition you get a
performance, an ease of handling, and a stylishness that you
have always wanted in an English car.
Prove it yourself in a few moments ask your nearest
dealer for a demonstration drive it and satisfy your-
self.
VAUXHALL
Not only because it is British
but because it's a BETTER car,
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
Buy from
Your Local Authorised Vauxhall Dealer
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 92nd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
Weekly Courier
Published
Every
Wednesday
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Mamie Dines Out.
BY VELIA ERCOLE.
JOSEPH POTTS, despite his public life
in the boot department of a city store,
and his private life in Mrs. Mean’s
highly respectable boarding-house, liked to
consider himself rather a dog. The fact that
a man has never put out to sea except on
the occasion of that fishing-trip down Middle
Harbor does not ‘prevent his feeling that
nothing differentiates him from Nelson ex-
cept clothes and opportunity ; nor does the
man whose only battle has been a few well-
chosen words to the people next door about
throwing rubbish over the fence refrain from
visualising himself as Napoleon. A man
needs no excuse for his view of himself.
Joseph had acquired the grand manner as
nearly as one can acquire it on six pounds
a week and a continual association witli
Ladies’ Boots, retail. When he went down
on one knee, he did it as though his pur-
pose were to kiss his client’s hand, not jam
a No. 4 shoe on a No. 6 foot. And that,
after all, was something.
But there was nothing doggish about tak-
ing Mamie O’Connor out for the evening.
Even Joseph, with his powers of sublimation,
that. Mamie, on his arm. had a
queer power of making Joseph look and feel
exactly what he was; and, ( though lie took
her out from time to time,’ he never knew
why he did it. As far as he knew, no other
man took her out, a fact, he argued reason-
ably, which showed what a fool he was.
Taking Mamie to dinner was not a triumphal
procession. No one noticed poor Mamie,
with her negligible little face and her worse
than negligible clothes. She would hang on
to his arm, in spite of his telling her re-
peatedly that it was “not done,” and they
got into trams and out of them and marched
through the streets, and for all the notice
they attracted they might have been march-
ing through the less-populated portion of
the Sahara. And Joseph liked to attract
attention. He would have, liked his dining-
out to excite the gossip-writers:
“We saw that well-known clubman and
man-about-town, Joseph Potts, dining last
night with the Countess of E.... Rumor
has it!”. . ..
But rumor hadn’t a thing to say about
Joseph, except, perhaps, that he was chang-
ing to the front first-floor room or was being
moved from the Ladies’ to the Men’s.
To-night, as he piloted Mamie along
George-street, Joseph told himself firmly that
this was the last time, the very last time.
That urge which he felt to seek out Mamie,
and the gratification obtained (in private)
from her adoring gaze, could no longer be
satisfied at the cost of his self-respect. What,
he would have asked you, was the use in a
man’s pressing his trousers, and putting on
his new tie, with handkerchief to match,
when the whole was to be dimmed,, like
smoke on a mirror, by this female person
who to-night looked worse than usual?
His first sight of Mamie as she came
dowm her lodging-house steps to meet him
had roused in him a revolt which would have
carried his smartly trousered legs round
the corner and home but for his conviction
that well-known clubmen never hurt a lady’s
feelings.
Mamie had a cold. A cold had gripped her
larynx and aspirin had paled her cheeks and
taken away any desire to redden them arti-
ficially. The cold, too, was responsible for
the dress she wore, a skating costume with
a high Russian collar of rabbit fur and a
fur-banded, flared skirt. Mamie, who lived
on two pounds a week, had a scanty ward-
robe. The skating costume, an undeniable
luxury, had been bought with ill-founded
optimism. A young man who had said some-
thing about having a grand time at the rink
this season had lost his enthusiasm after
one visit, and Mamie was left with a rather
bizarre outfit in place of a winter coat. Her
summer coat, with which she had so far
managed, would be, she felt, an unnecessary
exaggeration of the risk she took in going
out at all to-night.
Because of her closed throat she could
not explain any of this to the outraged
Joseph, nor tell how an evening spent in his
company was worth all possible sacrifice.
Pneumonia, Mamie thought, was a small
price to pay for a night out with Joseph;
but when her landlady, a gloomy soul, had
said that in her opinion anything short of
bed and hot-water bottles was suicidal, she
had compromised with the skating costume
and some asthma cigarettes given her by a
friend.
From the hoarse and dreadful sounds
which issued from her Joseph understood
that she had a bit of a cold, but was crazy to
go out, and not to waste any time. He
understood, too, that there was to be no
conversation, a fact which let the last air
out of the punctured balloon of his evening.
Because Mamie had a way of saying things
to him —things which (in private) could
confirm his opinion that he was rather a
dog.
During the tram-ride Mamie did not utter
a single word and so did nothing to alleviate
the distress caused Joseph by her appear-
ance. If he had not been so hungry he would
have cut out dinner and gone straight to a
picture-show, where darkness would cover
his shame and the screen supply entertain-
ment, which apparently was not to be had
from his companion. But he was hungry.
So in a state of inward fury but outwardly
suave as a well-known clubman, he ushered
Mamie into the basement restaurant which
was known as the Cafe Cossack, and which,
in support of its name, offered its customers
a Russian-bloused orchestra and a cook who,
if put to it, could turn out a Russian dish.
Luckily he was seldom put to it. The cus-
tomers of the Cafe Cossack were as local as
its staff.
But Joseph did not know this. In his
pursuit of doggishness he favored restau-
rants which he called unusual; and Mamie,
who if left to herself would have chosen
something called the Wattle Cafe, had become
rather a cosmopolitan diner-out. She had,
led by Joseph, been to French, Italian, Greek,
German and Chinese restaurants and had en-
joyed them well enough, finding their some-
what dingy quiet quaint and instructive, at
Joseph’s dictation. But she was never
lured by ravioli or birds’-nest soup. A
grilled steak with chipped potatoes was
Mamie’s idea of a good dinner, and this was
a further source of distress to Joseph, who
ate adventurously. But not even love could
affect the cravings of Mamie’s under-
nourished little body.
As they took their seats in a corner of
the restaurant and a waiter bustled up,
Joseph saw his lady’s throat contract and
he knew that the hoarse sound which came
of the contraction meant grilled steak and
chips. But for once he chose to ignore her
wishes.
“A menu?” he said to the waiter, who,
after his moment of bustle, had fallen into
a trance.
When the somewhat greasy menu card
was produced Joseph studied it with the
correct boredom.
“For Madame,” lie said at the end of his
inspection, “a little bortscli, bitokes il la
Russe, and to follow, I think, prakinoskis il
la rhubarbe. Would that please you, my
dear?” ' •
Mamie’s throat worked and she achieved
a few croaks of violent dissent. But Joseph
smiled amiably.
“And the same for me,” he said, because
lie was a fair man at heart, and, whatever
these things turned out to be, they were
listed intelligibly under Soups, Meats and
Sweets.
But the waiter was staring at Mamie with
a puzzled expression. He retreated with his
order, as interested as a waiter can be, and
when he passed the palm-bordered stand
where the orchestra was resting between
numbers he confided to Henry Bell, first
violin: “Say, we got a Russian woman in
here to-night. Over in the corner.” Then
he realised that the attention of every man
in the orchestra was already focussed on his
customer.
“Do you know who she is?” the waiter
asked the bemused Henry.
“We ain’t sure,” Henry said, lighting a
cigarette, knowing this lawlessness would be
hidden by his personal palm. “Did she speak
Russian?”
“Sure she spoke Russian. At least, she
made a noise I ain’t never heard before and
she ordered all Russian dishes.”
Henry leaned across and dragged Ernie,
the leader of the orchestra, from his contem-
plation..
“Ernie, Mike says she can’t speak English.”
With some pride Ernie said he had told
them so.
“It’s her all right. Better tell the boss so
he can blow his little horn about it.”
“But who is she?” said the still-puzzled
Mike.
Ernie was compassionate. “Say, boy, don’t
you ever read your papers? That’s that
Russian Princess Something-or-otlier who’s
on a world tour with her husband. There
was columns in all the papers yesterday
about her when the boat got in. And photo-
graphs. I recognised her the moment she
came in. She escaped from Russia with all
the Crown jewels or somethin’ in the revo-
lution and worked as a waitress in Paris.
And now she’s married some American mil-
lionaire and they’re on their honeymoon.
Say, go tell the boss, will you?” He resumed
his ardent contemplation.
“That chap don’t look like the photograph
of her husband,” said Henry Bell, who in
business hours was known as Henry Belikov.
Ernie was scornful. “D’you think a
woman like that can’t get any man to take
her to dinner except her husband?”
“But on her honeymoon !” Henry objected,
with visions of his own recent honeymoon,
when his wife’s company had been like a
blanket wrapped round him and never lifted.
“S,ay, listen, boy. Even a honeymoon don’t
give a man the right to keep a woman like
that to himself,” said Ernie, who was a
romanticist. “Didn’t you read the papers?
She’s had two hundred and sixty proposals
since she got out of Russia with the Crown
jewels.”
Henry's eyes grew round.
Bert, who played the drums, ventured a
remark.
“That’s a Russian costume she’s wearing,
ain’t it? I never seen any girls dressed like
that about here.”
“Sure it’s a Russian costume,” said Ernie,
the authority. “What do you expect her to
wear? Chinese national dress? You never
seen any girls dressed like that because you
never seen any Russian princesses. Take a
look, boy.”
The waiter, Mike, carrying two plates o"
bortsch with care and reverence, came
through the kitchen door. He was followed
by the proprietor. Henry dumped his cigar-
ette and Ernie unwillingly dragged his eyes
from the woman who had had 200-odd pro-
posals of marriage.
“Some Russian music, boys,” said the pro-
prietor as he passed, and Ernie caught up
his saxophone as if it were an offering to
be laid at the feet of the goddess.
“Sure we’ll give her Russian music, poor
kid. D’you read where she was so home-
sick that she cried every night for three
years?”
Henry recognised that tone in Ernie’s voice.
The latter’s susceptibility to female charm
was a source of disgust to his staider
friend, but for once he was inclined to find
excuse for Ernie. There was something about
these foreign women when you saw them
close. Sitting like that, with her elbows on
the table, not saying a word hardly, just
smiling. Like Greta Garbo. Mysterious.
And that queer get-up!
“Give her the ‘Volga Boat Song.’ boys,
and make her think she’s at home. Put all
you got into it. I’ll take the solo.”
Suddenly, as if someone had thrown hot
and cold water over him, Joseph realised that
Mamie was attracting attention, and after
(Continued on next page.)


“Self-poisoning is the
Underlying cause
of many diseases’ 9
.... explains this Famous Specialist
Dr. AGASSE-LAFONT
(Ancien Chef de Clinique of the Paris
Faculty of Medicine).
THROUGH incomplete evacuation of the bowels,
fragments of food-waste from digestion become
encrusted in the walls of the intestines. Germs
breed in this fermenting waste and enter the blood
stream. This results in dreaded self-poisoning
(autoxima) caused by hidden and unsuspected con-
stipation.
The germs absorbed into the blood stream and
the poisons arising from constipation circulate
throughout the body.... undermine the health ....
weaken the vitality.... directly sap the strength.
Thus, the life-giving organs of Nature fail to function
properly.
Leads to Constipation.
This leads to chronic constipation, headaches,
indigestion, gas in the stomach and bowels, sleep-
lessness, catarrh, backache, rheumatism, bladder
complaint, neuritis, eczema, weakness of certain
organs, high blood pressure, and hosts of other
ailments.
Restore Youthful Health.
Before youthful health can be restored this
poisonous matter must be got rid of. And the safe,
sensible way to do this is to drink COLO SEPTIC .
It first loosens and dissolves, then smoothly washes
out the decaying waste.
COLOSEPTIC combats constipation and in-
vigorates the intestinal muscles.... It stimulates
the flow of gastric juices and keeps your body intern-
ally active and clean.
COLOSEPTIC increases metabolism and rids
your blood of all poisons and impurities through
Nature’s four outlets.
With the decaying crust removed, the colon
scrupulously clean, and the circulatory impurities
driven from your system, how much better you
feel. Pure wholesome blood once again flows through
your veins. No more headaches. . . .no more drowsy
days.... no more indigestion.... no more aches,
pains and ailments.
m
Help yourself to health. Drink COLOSEPTIC
in hot water of a morning. Feel your old vim and
vigour returning—your pulse leaping to the thrills
of Life.
COLOSEPTIC —ReguIar full-size jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’ regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself Fill in the
coupon and send it in, together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
“Bangalow, N .S.W.
“1 cannot speak too highly of this wonderful medicine,
for after years of terrible suffering from constipation and piles,
one bottle of Coloseptic did me more good than all the medi-
cines that 1 had ever taken; and after talking a course of it I
am overjoyed to be able to say that 1 am now completely cured,
"l am, yours faithfully,
“Mrs. M C "
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of the Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
COLOSEPTIC CO,, LTD., 24 Jamieson St, Sydney.
COUPON.
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
Dept. A 4,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (stamps
or postal notes). Send me one SPECIAL DEMON-
STRATION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
Name
Address
a minute of horrid doubt he knew it was
the right kind of attention. He knew de-
ference in a waiter when he saw it. -the
way that chap put her soup in front of
Mamie! and here was the proprietor, bowing
and scraping!
“I trust Madame finds the soup to her
liking?” said the proprietor.
Mamie, who was regarding with dismay
the cream which lay astonishingly on the
top of what seemed to be cabbage-soup, did
not reply immediately. She was not used
to being addressed by the proprietors ot
restaurants.
“Some cream or something has been spilled
in this cabbage-soup,” she tried to say, but
all that emerged were croaks, curious gut-
turals suddenly shot with nasal whines, and
the proprietor bowed even lower. But he
was not a man to overdo things.
“If there is anything Madame requires
which is not on the menu we will be able
to supply it for her,” he said, taking a big
chance and banking on an article he had
read somewhere which said that the tastes
of Royalty were simple.
He walked slowly down between the tables,
forgivably savoring his moment. The news
had got about, and now every eye was
flatteringly fixed on Mamie.
“Croak, croak,” said Mamie, taking up
her spoon.
But Joseph was busy with his thoughts.
At first his sensation had been definite and
single enough. He had come into his own.
He was dining unusually well with a woman
wlio attracted admiration —though God
knew why—from every man in the room.
But gradually this warm and pleasing sensa-
tion was broken up, shot through with
unease. The men in the orchestra were
blowing and sawing away as if their lives
depended on it, and, without exception, their
eyes were fixed on Mamie’s face. Mamie,
making the best of a. bad job, saw none of
this. All her attention was given to avoid-
ing the spilled cream in the middle of her
soup. When she had eaten enough to avoid
offending Joseph, she looked at him again
and found his face grim.
“Croak?” she said in amazement.
“Those swine,” said Joseph through
clenched teeth. “That fellow playing the
saxophone! Making eyes at you ! I’d like
to knock him! And it must be your fault.
This hasn’t happened before. Perhaps
you’re coming out in your true colors. I
must say I didn’t think you were the sort
of girl who couldn’t go out with one man
without trying to attract attention from
every other man in the room!”
Mamie’s was a tender heart, easily bruised,
and she adored Joseph. The unfairness of
this attack, when she had done nothing but
eat spoiled cabbage-soup to please him,
brought tears to her eyes.
She cried better than she did most things;
tears fell in great glistening drops from her
eyes and twinkled on her lashes, and she
was too overcome to wipe them away.
The orchestra, witnessing this exquisite
phenomenon, put down its instruments and
each man took those tears as tribute to
himself.
“Oh, the poor kid !” said Ernie. “Did you
see how it affected her? It said in the
paper how she has never ceased to long for
her native land. It must be terrible to live
in exile like that!”
“Is she in exile?” said Bert, who was a
little dull but curious about life. “I wouldn’t
call her exactly pretty, would you?”
“She’s more than pretty, boy. She’s the
kind of woman you won’t never have to
worry about.”
Joseph, after his one outburst, had dropped
into a sullen silence, where he tried to rea-
son himself out of the grip of these surpris-
ing emotions. Mamie’s tears no longer fell,
but her face was -woeful enough for any
exiled Russian’s, and she was only partially
cheered by finding fried potatoes with the
bitokes ala Russe. Approval of the potatoes
was all she could, in fairness, give to the
proprietor when he came up for the second
time, but as this was not intelligible and
the smile which accompanied it was, the pro-
prietor went straight out to the kitchen and
raised the cook’s wages. Because this meant
something. He could get advertisement out
of this. It only needed one or two of the
smart people to bring the whole herd flock-
ing to the Cafe Cossack.
But poor Mamie loathed rhubarb even
when it was called crakinoskis, so the sweet
course, to which she had been looking for-
ward, ' passed in melancholy fashion. She
hardly dared lift her eyes from her plate,
because of Joseph’s inexplicable outburst.
The boy playing the saxophone was looking
at her occasionally, but then orchestra-boys
made eyes at anyone, even at her, to get
a little practice. Her shoes, she realised at
this stage, were hurting her, and because she
thought she had enough to bear she slipped
them off. The cloth came well down and
no one would see. She felt a little better
with her shoes off, but, strangled by the grip
on her larynx, there was no chance of talk-
ing Joseph into a good humor; so, in default
of anything else to do, she ate the repulsive
rhubarb and pondered on the strange ways
of men. Her landlady said men never did
what you expected them to do. Certainly
she had not expected Joseph to be jealous.
No one had ever been jealous of her before.
She had begun to feel mildly thrilled by
the implications of Joseph’s jealousy when
she became conscious of anew discomfort.
Crying had closed her already suffering nos-
trils and she could hardly breathe. “Croak,”
she said, and Joseph glared at her. So she
drew one of the asthma-cigarettes from her
bag and inserted it in a long green holder.
She seldom smoked, but the holder had been
given her by a friend and she thought it
pretty, though awkward. Still, the donor
of the cigarettes had assured her that they
, were less unpleasant if smoked through' a
holder.
Ernie nudged Henry.
“Boy! What a woman! Will you take
a look at her now !”
Henry did, and his look was as a high
wind on Joseph’s smouldering wrath.
“Now that swine’s beginning! Come on.
We’re getting out of here. Waiter, the
bill!”
The waiter was hurt. In the kitchen the
cook was brewing coffee with incantations,
the proprietor was on his way to the table
for the third time, and now. in the way such
people had, these two were clearing out.
“Come on,” said Joseph. “Never mipd
powdering your face. You’ve done enough
damage.”
As Mamie groped with her feet for her
cast-off shoes, Ernie, racked by knowledge
of his limitations, had an inspiration, To
the orchestra all Russian music was the
“Volga Boat Song”; but the pianist, hastily
implored, said he thought lie could vamp
through the old Russian “National Anthem.
Henry could do tlie same, and the diuin,
Ernie said, could do what he liked.
When the unusual chords burst on the
Cafe Cossack, Mamie stood up, but she did
not advance. She stood, rigid and miserable,
trying to thrust her feet, swollen by their
release, into the tight shoes. But her heels
refused to be accommodated, however she
thrust and strove.
“Will you come on!” Henry muttered
tensely. “Standing there staring at that
coot!”
But Mamie could not come on. She
couldn’t lio'bble across the room with only
her toes in her shoes.
“Croak,” she said miserably, and it was
not until the final chord of music she had
never heard before, and didn’t listen to then,
fell on the ears of the diners that her diffi-
culty was overcome. With a sigh of relief
she moved away.
“Them White Russians never forgive or
forget,” said Ernie. “D’you see her?”
“What’s that we just played?” said Bert.
“I don’t think much of it.”
“No you don’t, boy. But she did. See
the way she took it? That’s Russian for
‘God Save the King.’ ” His young eyes
watched Mamie’s following of Joseph down
the room, as though they watched a falling
veil.
At the door, flanked by waiters, was the
proprietor.
“I trust that Madame has been satisfied
and that Madame will honor us again,” he
said, with just the right air.
“Croak,” said Mamie, in extreme bewilder-
ment.
“Oily scoundrel,” said Joseph, and ran her
up the stairs. “If you g° there again it will
be over my dead body.”
* * *
Their progress up George-street was un-
remarked, but the strange, new, seething
creature which was Joseph Potts saw
menace in every passer-by. Let them look
when she belonged to him, but not before.
And without reflecting whether well-known
clubmen did such things or not, he said,
loudly and intensely :
“I’d like to sock that saxophone cqpt on
the jaw!”
“Croak?” said Mamie.
“Mamie, will you marry me? And soon?”
said Joseph.
“Croak !” said Mamie. “Croak.”
The Little Brothers.
I think when Eve ran from the Glen of
Apples
.While red lightning scrawled the blue-
black roof of sky,
And the ball of flame crashed shrivelling
through the treetops,
And anger roared to life that it must die,
She clutched the stick she prized for digging
earth-fruits —
Fire-sharpened and well-smoothed to
please the hand —
And in the hollow of her arm she shielded
A kitten orphaned in that forest land.
A scrap of tabby fur with eyes of topaz,
That clung in fright and tried to lass at
fate;
A wee, closed soul-bud, a wee heart sore-
shaken,
Borne into safety through a fiery gate.
And, when the storm was over, on some
wood-lawn
Tlic kitten played with leaves, and Eve
was glad,
And milked the wild docs for it, and an
angel
Strewed sunshine, and the world no more
was sad.
For when the Little Brothers run before us
On friendly feet, and come to seek our
touch,
The Fear of God lifts from us, and the
Kingdom
Shines out like sunshine from the trust
of such.
I think the granite forests of the Pharaohs,
Where basalt piers rose up through dusk
to dark,
Painted with azure lotus, scarlet lions,
And lamps burned before the sun-gods
gilded ark,
Were trod by tall Unseen Ones, crowned
and gracious, ,
Because, where sunlight found one pillar s
' base,
A spotted temple-cat stretched sleek ana
blissful ....
Beside its dish of milk in that grave
place.
They held in Egypt that the mother-goddess,
Tender as any dark-eyed girl might be,
Gathered the Little Brothers to the sun-
world . TT ,
To purr for child-gods, helping Heaven s
glee.
I think the man who called spring flowers
his sisters
And softly talked to trees, and blessed all
things, , . ,
Would have lent smiling aid to such a labor.
Though the teaching came from shrines
of heathen kings.
If ox and ass crouch by the world-wide
■Manger . ,
Above which burns the white and mjst
Who may deny the dream that childiens
kittens „ ....
Play where the fadeless Eden lilies a •
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


9
f.
n
- BS Bm
Hi.
■
Ififiajs
I
m
n
. * I
III
a m
i
■e
ISillliiliil
i!|I
B3SB :
OisMie*/
. . ga«ssiBBsfci
,n StuMjmd
I <’,.v ori
II
i: ' '■ ■■ •' ■.
mm
ill
.... -: : 'i
ii'r >;
H
m
■
■M
■■■111
I-::
Splliiifflfeliia |||
CTfCaibJjn 5
——
I'
Scots CCJfc^
■
■
m
i n
‘ i-i t,
- - i! .'
m
d-^uiUL-
;
***** *•’> U
<;h
isiliifiii
EM6
SlilliiilSillS
:
ini i
■ B
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay. “Those
who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.” 6/- (postage 3d.).
“CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
» Cup). 2/- (postage Id.)
"THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Patersons new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
Ready for Easter:
“JONAH” —Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
so
o
<3*
o
a
<v x/
❖
G c
r xo
• cV %> *#
fci
*3 V
&
\>
*v>v
v<
K n \3
0®
•\ cv e°' #'
*?
of
0 rfO"
,» (fi
\cr %
A\®V
#•’
#*■
A’
a* •••' MA
■ <AAv^°
&* V


o
K
1
Mi
£
9
✓a
m
tr
nMHWtm "«
1 2 C
m
rt
f c z.
M -ssr
l.i.a-3
g©*
v/>
£& 1
II
c: CO
ililfi
> o
> 73
jUlUlltllliltUli
tVvßiftullH tt
t*
m ■»
./;./• wm 1
Mi
|l i<ii|imI | <J!JwI )
&
111'* (»
A
its £
Ittt
s- a **
ye*
s'^v.l
n
i :
I 3 «
«<*w« >
CO
Ct_
GILBEY’S
DRY GIN
CHERRY BRANDY
ORANGE CURACOA
WHITE CURACOA
CREME DE MENTHE
MARTINI & BRONX
COCKTAILS
Quality rather than
price has been the
guiding principle of
the House of Gilbey.
For years Gilbey’s
has been the stand-
ard by which all
Gins are judged.
It is distilled from
the very finest in-
gredients and is the
purest spirit made.
