

sdf
BUILT WITH
CORD
Extra elastic, durable Supertwist
Cord gives greater mileage to
all Goodyear Tyres.
|T wouldn't mean much if we were to claim that Goodyear Tyres are the best
tyres in the world. Fortunately, we need not say that. The ijubhc says it
for us. Says it in good hard coin-of-the-realm. More people BUY Goodyear Tyres
IN AUSTRALIA, AS THE WORLD OVER, MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR
TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE. Goodyear Tyres are elected to fjrstjjdace
by the public .. . the public knows—it USES tyres, all kinds. Naturally, you want
YOUR money to buy the All right, then, ask this question:
“Why buy any SECOND-CHOICE tyre when the FIRST-CHOICE costs no more?"
sf
The Bulletin
'4icitex)' tfwrvp,
VoL 54.—N0. 2776.
Wednesday, April 26, 1933.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


gEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
pooklet, explaining how to Write for Protit a*
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name
Mil Address j ’/ '
S.B. 133 ■
h
NS
to
Does Your Mirror Reflect
Rough , Pimply Skin?
TUen Use
CUTICURA
and have a clear skin
Anoint the affected parts with
Cuticura Ointment. Wash off
after a short time with Cuticura
and hot water and continue
bathing for several minutes. Pimples,
rashes and all forms of skin troubles
quickly yield to this treatment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- p.er quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from .
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
sdf
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFF'E,
2 HUNTER STREET.
m
m
sdfs
speak only in
terms of the highest
praise of the pulling
power of our adver-
tisement in
The
Brisbane
Courier.
So writes Mr. J. R. Robertson,
manager in Queensland for Over-
beck’s Rejuvenator (Aust.), Ltd.
His advertisements in the
“Courier” bring business from all
over Queensland. Letter on request.
“Courier” Representatives:
SYDNEY.—Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt
Street. 85^07.
MELBOURNE.—Louis S. Marks,
Argus Bldg. F 3906.
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians, in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
me£t their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd,. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
49M-Q5 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
dfsdf
the Soundest State
it*
-M/u
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver
tJsements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGRAPH
l BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Underworlds Never Change
Government resumption schemes have
wiped out slums on wholesale lines in all
the white cities, and education has altered
some of the habits of capitalism’s natural
enemies. Yet, though London has no
quarter now like the Seven Dials of
Dickens’s day, and though Sydney has no
quarter like the Rocks of 40 years ago,
the criminal and near-criminal worlds of these
and other cities retain their national charac-
teristics. Bill Sikes and Nancy—blunderers,
doomed to ruin by their weak wills and in-
capacity to think clearly—are still typical
members of London’s underworld. The
highly-educated mechanic who shot out Con-
stable Gutteridge’s eyes a few years ago
disclosed a vein of superstition, brutality and
thoughtlessness which has been noticeable in
illiterate English murderers for generations.
Contempt of every form of law—based
on a belief that every Judge and juror
has his price—and a tendency to enlist
under the banners of criminal bosses have
always characterised the polyglot under-
worlds of the U.S.A. Australians re-
spect the law in the sense that they don’t
believe its toils can be evaded by bribery
and the only bosses they owe allegiance to
are political ones; but they can be organ-
ised in packs just as easily as Americans
The basher gangs of to-day are the pushes
of yesterday. It is the fashion to talk
of gangsters as cowards. Unfortunatejy for
the police, and others who have to contenc
with them, they are nothing of the sort. It
is the courage of the malefactor, whether he
is a London Raffles or a Chicago gunman
that makes novels, plays and movies about
crooks so popular. Publishers have not
shown much interest hitherto in the under-
world heroes of the past. Now two novels
have come along which deal respectively
with the underworld of Sydney 30 years ago
and with that of New York a hundred
years ago. They are admirable as stories;
and, further, they emphasise the important
sociological truth that underworlds, like
leopards, don’t change their spots.
Portrait of a Larrikin
Jonah, by Louis Stone, was published in
Sydney before the war, and allowed to go
out of print. The Endeavour Press has had
the bright idea of bringing out anew edi-
tion at 6s. Jonah is a Sydney hunchback
of the ’nineties. He has brains, nerve and
animal callousness. The combination makes
him the natural leader of the push which
congregates nightly at the corner of Car-
digan-street, off the Botany-road, smoking
cigarettes, talking of racing and girls, and
insulting passers-by, just as similar gather-
ings are doing now in sparsely-policed areas.
When a safe chance offers they put the
boot into a policeman—a practice which is
still common in certain suburbs—and if a
civilian aPnoys them thpy make a chance
to put the boot into him. A drunken brick-
layer is oPe of their victims. Jonah orders
the push to open out and let the terrified
wretch run for home.
As his pursuers gained on him he gave
a hoarse scream—the dolorous cry of a
hunted animal.
But it was the cat playing with the
mouse. The bricklayer ran like a cow, his
joints stiffened by years of toil * the larri-
kins, light, on their feet as hares, kept the
pace with a nimble trot, silent and dan-
gerous, conscious of nothing but the desire
and power to kill.
As he turned into Abercrombie-street
Chook ran level with him, then stooped
swiftly and caught his ankle. The brick-
layer went sprawling, and in an instant the
push closed in on the fallen man as foot-
ballers form a “scrum,” kicking the strug-
gling body with silent ferocity, drunk with
the primeval instinct to destroy.
The book is an odd blend of realism and
Edwardian sentimentality. The truth about
Jonah and his friend Chook is that they
are natural outlaws, cold and cruel as the
grave, destined by every law of recidivism
to spend their lives in and out of gaols,
and perhaps end on the gallows. But this
story was written 20 years ago. Jonah
is abruptly reformed by a baby’s love.
He has avoided his illegitimate child, fear-
ing he' may be trapped through it into
marrying its mother. And then:—
As Jonah watched it, there suddenly
vibrated in him a strange, new sensation —
the sense of paternity which Nature, crafty
beyond man, has planted in him to fulfil
her schemes, the imperious need to protect
and rejoice in its young that preserves the
race from extinction.
After that Jonah never looks back morally
or materially. He marries Ada, for whom
he has no affection,
to give the child
a name, starts a
boot-making busi-
ness and becomes
rich. Chook is
saved by the love
of a nice girl.
Chook and Pinkey did not need to stare
at sixpence before spending it, but their
fortune was long in the making. Meanwhile
Chook consoled himself with the presence
of a sturdy son, the image of Pinkey, with
a mop of curls the color of a new penny.
However, these are only spots on the sun.
Jonah would be an outstanding novel in
any country for its simple yet vivid style;
its ruthless pictures of slum life; its studies
of slum-dwellers—Mrs. Y.absley, the gener-
ous, feckless washerwoman; Ada, loafer
and slattern; Paasch, the gentle old German
whom Jonah ruins, and many more—and,
above all, for Jonah. In a sense Jonah’s
criminality is universal, but in its efficiency
and feline remorselessness it is peculiarly
Australian.
Lawless New York
Human Tempest, by Manuel Komroff
(Heinemann; 8s. 6d.), is offered as a record
of events which actually happened. The
period is 1835. Oliver Benson, a young
New York business man, murders Jane
Holden, a prostitute. She is described by
the characters who knew her as supremely
lovely and lovable, a true underworld
queen—a form of consolation prize which
is often awarded to ladies of her type who
suffer as she did. The citizens immediately
take sides. The society people want Benson
to be acquitted; so do the members of the
New York Female Moral Reform Society,
on the ground, chiefly, that people like
Jane deserve all they get. On the other side
are the members of the underworld, and
the resemblance of many of them to the
characters in a Hollywood “gangster” is
startling. One of the witnesses against
Benson is the keeper of the house of ill-
fame in which Jane was strangled. She
keeps dragging maudlin tributes to the de-
ceased into her evidence. (“She was to me
a turtle-dove, and her face was filled with
loveliness.”) Polly March, one of Jane’s
friends, talks in a similar strain (“Jane
was lovely, and she was good”), but as
Polly is a vatideville singer she has oppor-
tunities to vindicate justice on other lines.
She introduces verses about the accused into
her songs which lash the public to frenzy.
An old cab-driver who knew Jane is homi-
cidal on the subject of her destroyer; and
there are many others. However, Benson
has a relation who can afford to employ
good lawyers. They persuade one Hopkin-
son to appear. Hopkinson is more anxious
to make a fool of his enemy the District
Attorney than he is to save his client’s neck.
By means of perjured evidence he does
both. Polly breaks the news to her public.
“Ladies and gentlemen, important news
has just come to my ears, and you, too,
should know it. The murderer has just been
acquitted.”
There was an angry growl from the gallery
and a long-drawn-out hooting “boo.” Some-
one called: “We’ll settle him, Polly. We
will. Won’t we, boys?”
In point of fact, they don’t. Benson goes
into hiding, and the sacred duty of organis-
ing a lynching party devolves on a sea-
captain who was in the habit of visiting
Jane when his ship was in New York.
Benson shoots himself shortly before the
avengers arrive and Dusty, a negro, takes
his body to the Rat Pit behind Patsy
Hearn’s grog bar. Two days later—
There was a skeleton of bones white as
snow, dressed fully in the clothes of the mur-
derer. The torn clothes remained, but all
else was eaten' clean. The skin was white
and a small black hole showed plainly on one
temple.
This horrible tale is told in the matter-of-
fact language of a police report. It is easy
to believe that it all happened if only be-
cause, with a few trifling differences—-cars
instead of cabs, revolvers instead of pistols
—similar horrors in which similar characters
figure are constantly being reported in the
American papers of to-day.
Red Page.
Shaw’s Swan Song
Gregan McMahon’s Melbourne produc-
tion of Shaw’s “Too True to Be Good”
was exceptionally able. Shaw has been
better treated by this local company of
unpaid amateurs than he was in Dame
Sybil Thorndike’s production of “Saint
Joan.” and if social snobbery prevented the
Garrick being attended as the King’s was
for Dame Sybil, a recognition of theatrical
merit at least prolonged the season for a
fortnight. Shaw’s play provided good sport
for the hostile critics. If they could not
controvert the ideas in it they could at
any rate impugn the author as an artist.
It is possible to agree with them and yet
(Red. Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —Always with Anthony Horderns' Advertisements. “THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Warm Winter
UNDERWEAR
buy now at low prices
6/6 Wool and Cotton 4/6
Mens cream wool and cotton underwear. Soft finish.
Medium weight. Undershirts with short sleeves.
Underpants to ankle. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chest or
waist. Price, garment, 6/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, garment 4/6
6/11 Natural All Wool 4/11
Men’s natural all-wool underwear. Light weight.
Best finish with flatlock seams. Full fitting garments.
Undershirts with short sleeves. Underpants to ankle
or knee drawers. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chest or waist.
Price, garment, 6/11.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ............ 4/11
8/6 Pyjamas now for 6/6
Men’s Flannelette Pyjamas, for soft and warm wear.
In a wide range of new stripes. Sizes 34 to 46 inch
chest. Price, 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 6/6
11/6 Striped Pyjamas 8/6
Men’s Striped Flannelette Pyjamas, in a warm winter
weight. Soft finish. Sizes: Small Men’s, Medium and
Outsize. Price, 11/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 8/6
12/6 “Hordura” PyjamaslO/6
“Hordura” Pyjamas. A quality sleeping suit that will wear
well. Soft and warm in a good winter weight flannelette.
Sizes: Small Men’s, Medium and Outsize. Price 12/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 10/6
Extra Outsize. Price 13/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 11/6
A Fine Shirt makes a
man feel well dressed!
Especially when he knows he has obtained
such a fine, expensive-looking shirt at such a
low price!
11/6 “Hordura” Golf Shirts
Men’s Broadcloth Golf Shirts. “Hordura" Q jQ
make. A quality shirt made in our own work- '
rooms. A shirt that will neither shrink, fade nor
stretch. All the newest stripe designs on Blue? Fawn,.
Brown or Cedar grounds. Sizes 14 to 19 inch neck.
Price, If/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each . . 9/6
12/6 Fancy Coat Sweaters
or Pullovers at only 10/6
Men’s fancy Coat Sweaters or Pullovers. Dressy
jacquard colorings. All wool in a medium weight.
In Grey, Fawn, Brown or Blue effects. Sizes 34 to
42 inch chest. Price, 12/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 10/6
Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
■
mm
m,
Wm
i
i
■
m
Commences to-morrow,
27th April, at 9 a.m.
Men’s 95 1- Leather
COATS now at...
Men’s Leather Overcoats in shades of dark tan
or nigger. Real hides that will not crack, chip
or peel. Perfectly matched skins. One-piece
back and also forepart. Seams are specially
reinforced and will not break. Smart double-
breasted Raglans finished with all-round belt.
Suitably lined with serviceable materials. Price,
each, 95/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 89/6
Others, prices . 105/- 135/- 147/-
Sale Prices ......... 99/6 126/- 137/-
■ k
Also available in Boys’ and Youths’ sizes.
Sizes ....... 9 10 11 12 13 1 2
Prices,. each, 77/6 SO/- 82/6 85/- 87/6 90/- 92/6
Sale Prices.. 72/6 75/- 77/6 80/- 83/6 85/- 87/6
35/- Oilcoats at 32/6
Men’s Oilcoats.. Fully guaranteed- Waterproof
against any' weather. Our celebrated “Storm King”
•Riding Coat. Full pommel slicker style. Fully
lined. Cape shoulders and double arm pieces.
Leather bound. Lengths 48 to 58 inches. Price, 35/-
Anthohy Horderns’ Sale Price 32/6
73/- Overcoats at . . 49/6
Smart Double-breasted or Single-breasted Over-
coats in All-wool Tweed. Smart, warm and
cosy. Swingback Raglans or double-breasted,
form-fitting styles. Price 75/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 49/6
18/6 Tweed Sac Coats,
Men’s All-wool Tweed Sac Coats. 1/Jll 1
Made just like your suit. In neat Ivl i 1
Dark Grey. Sizes 3 to 8J
Price 18/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each ... 16/11
69/6 Sac Suits . . 65/-
Men’s Sac Suits, tailored in our own workrooms. All
the materials used are guaranteed by us to give
lasting service. English trimmings used throughout.
All-wool Worsted in Dark, Mid or Light Grey. This
material is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Smartly cut and made in our best possible manner.
All sizes. Price, 69/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 65/-
\
£
%
i
r
mm
Cv M
Oe
U
Ox o /
\
I Vi
\ y\
\
*
I:
\/
Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor.
George Street. Freight paid to
all seaports in the Common-
wealth and railway stations in
N.S.W.
16/6 TROUSERS,
Men’s All-Wool “Buckskin”
Tweed Trousers. In dark * **/ *■*
grey. S'mooth faced —
warm and serviceable —ensuring the
maximum wear. This cloth obtain-
able only at Anthony Horderns’. Made
in our own workrooms. Sizes 3 to
10J. Price, pair, 16/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 16/3
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


[ADVERTISEMENT.]
REFORM OF THE
LfOSUTIVE COUNOL
is your only Protection
against Socialisation and Confiscation
The Legislative Council of New South Wales was
established in 1842 by the efforts of that great
champion of the people, William Charles Wentworth.
The Council was established to protect the people
against arrogant or corrupt Governments, no matter
what party was in power. It was established to prevent
any unscrupulous Government from forcing through
legislation for which it had no mandate from the
people.
The Lang Revolutionary Government endeavoured on
two occasions (in 1926 and 1931) to abolish the Legis-
lative Council so that there would be no barrier to its
violent, socialistic legislation. The same Government
gained control by swamping the Legislative Council
with new members, but, fortunately for you, the
Commonwealth Government intervened and stopped
the operation of legislation that would have ruined
the State, and placed everyone under the heel of
Revolutionary Tyrants.
To protect the people of New South Wales, the Bavin
Government amended the Constitution, making it
unlawful for any Government to abolish the Legis-
lative Council without the consent of the people by
referendum.
The Lang Revolutionary Government fought the
validity of this law before the Privy Council, which
decided that a referendum must be taken before the
Legislative Council can be abolished or reformed.
The decision to reform the Legislative Council was
submitted to the people of New South Wales at the
last election by the United Australia Party. By an
overwhelming majority the people approved the
proposal, and now the promise to reform the Legis-
lative Council is to be honored.
The proposed reform of the Legislative Council is the
most important decision that the people of New South
Wales have ever been called upon to make. It is far
more serious than the vote you cast at an election.
The present Legislative Council consists of 121
members who were appointed for life. In 1919 it
contained only 68 members. It has grown to its
present number owing to swamping by successive
Governments, but mostly by the Lang Revolutionary
Party.
In the Reformed Legislative Council there will be
only 60 members, and this will save the State over
£lO,OOO per annum. Members will retire in rotation,
their term of office will be limited to 12 years, and
they will not be paid.
Any citizen will be eligible for election to the
Reformed Legislative Council if nominated by any
two Members of Parliament. The election will be
carried out by the two present Houses of Parliament
—i.e., the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative
Council—on a basis of proportional representation.
Should the Reformed Legislative Council reject any
legislation submitted to it and there is a deadlock,
the Government, whatever party is in power, will be
entitled to carry out a referendum of the people in
order to obtain their decision on the matter in dispute.
Nothing could be fairer than that!
A Reformed Legislative Council, limited to 60
members, will terminate for all time the strife and
corruption that have characterised the Parliaments of
New South Wales for a decade, and brought dis-
credit upon the State. A Reformed Legislative
Council will mean protection for you and your
children, and all that you hold dear.
TO BE SAFE
ON MAY 13
Voting is Compulsory
1
2
NO
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield and E.
No. I—FP3.
Munro, Joint Secretaries, United Referendum Campaign Committee, 12-14 O’Connell Street, Sydney


d
AUSTERITY OF THE AGES IN
The fame of Stuart Crystal has
heen passed down through the
ages, gaining all through the
years fresh glory and power. From
generation to generation, father
teaching son, the tradition has
been carried on, every craftsman
etching the name Stuart on every
piece. Wherever beautiful glass is
sold an exquisite example of this
beautiful crystal may be purchased
for no more than a few shillings.
GLITTERING
CRYSTAL . . .
m
*£
d*
'"' 33* •-
WBL
it
WM
ff
v
m ■
"
Bg KSHK, *:
WK
■Hg
_ i
/&■
p*' *
'r ■’**- "A
■P|L 8L.,.,...,.. MBiipßßMil
Be sure to look for the registered name “Stuart” on every piece you buy.
assert that the wonderful old boy remains
extraordinarily significant. It is the fashion
in intellectual circles nowadays to dismiss
Shaw in a somewhat lordly manner and
without any particularly vigorous attempt
to define the objection to him, yet the aged
lion bobs up again in “Too True to Be
Good,” still smiling, though somewhat wist-
fully. I should say that this play, which
is possibly his last, is Shaw’s final will and
testament, and it is a completely pessimistic
document. Shaw tries to communicate his
pessimism to his audience, but they con-
tinue to roar at his quips and cranks and
to regard him as an incurable j oker. But he
is-a Pagliacci with death in his heart; one
feels it.
In effect he says man is destined perpetu-
ally to be disillusioned, while being ever
unable to live without illusions. Here, it
seems, he is merely rationalising his own
failure as an artist. In “Candida” and in
“Saint Joan” he approached artistic great-
ness, but at heart he has always remained
a propagandist. The propagandist is always
fated to be disillusioned because he is
always limited by his own propaganda. The
artist is not bound by rules and regulations;
he explores, he does not exploit. Propa-
ganda is static; art has no boundaries, or at
any rate any that man has yet encountered.
Shaw’s misunderstanding of the function
of the painter in this play is symptomatic.
Colonel Tallboys dabbles in water-colors —
of all ineffective media—and Shaw sends
him off to Russia to teach the proletariat
how to employ their new-found leisure by
dabbling in painting. Art, he infers, is an
escape from boredom. But art is not an
escape; it is a way of life, probably the
only way. In “Back to Methuselah” there
is precisely the same misunderstanding. In
this play Shaw was trying to avoid the
pessimistic conclusion he has come to in
“Too True to Be Good” by going another
way round—the romantic. In it he is com-
pletely romantic but with sufficient Shavian-
ism to be interesting as a perversion is
interesting. The ordinary romantic re-
duces us all to children, what he calls
heroes. Shaw turns us into superhuman
beings. Since the Psalmist’s span is not
long enough for us to attain to perfect
wisdom let us be born at the mental age of
18 and live to 1000. Once more it is only
an escape from reality he is seeking. He
even forgets to be philosophical in his pre-
face, where he is, as usual, extremely effect-
ive in his true medium—dialectics. When
he attempts to be artistic—in the play—
he is clumsy and unimpressive. He drops
into all the old conventions, dresses his
Heaven on earth after the classic Grecian
model—the Greeks would be staggered to
survey themselves in Shaw’s monstrous
mirror.
As for the philosophy of the play, it
seems to fall down on a fundamental.
The aim of Shaw’s Methuselahs is Pure
Mind, which seems as incredible as mindless
body. The ordinary subject matter of the
artist is forbidden them; even a damp
cloud would have some of the abhorrent
characteristics of matter: so the Methu-
selahan sculptor fashions himself instead of
a statue. Shaw understands that all an
artist can create is himself, as The Ancient
remarks, but does not like the obvious
corollary that he can only create per-
fection in himself by striving to create
perfection in something outside himself.
Doesn’t the _ old man’s failure to achieve
artistically lie in that? A painter paints
only in order to see. If he could learn
to see in a better way than by painting he
would stop painting and pursue the better
way, but . no painter has yet found a
better way, and is not likely to waste his
time trying to live for 1000 years in order
to attain to bodiless perfection. In “Back
to Methuselah,” as in “Too True to Be
Good,” Shaw is rationalising his own failure
to make further progress in the art of the
drama.
As the highest expression of propaganda
in art, however, “Too True to Be Good”
is interesting, if only as a splendid failure.
The Soviet writers are the latest to dis-
cover that propaganda may be art, but
after Shaw they are incredibly dull fellows.
F.S.
The Freelance and the Slump
Probably the freelance has suffered more
keenly through the slump than any other
section of the public. His market has been
cut to ribbons. Not only are there fewer
papers, but those that are left are taking
next to nothing. It is the same story in
England as in Australia. Profitable side-
lines of the past exist no longer. Country
papers, for instance, were at one time quite
a good market for the freelance who knew
his subjects and how to exploit syndication.
In Maoriland many country papers
accepted leaders and topical articles from
the freelance. They paid a mere pittance
a week, perhaps ss. or 10s., but when the
same articles went to half a dozen papers
it represented a fair return to the writer,
to-day those same country papers either
don t run leaders or the staff writes them.
As for the larger papers, most of the
specials are staff work, and the slash in
“ as further restricted the space avail-
’or the twopence-a-liner.
But if the slump has cut the ground from
under the feet of most freelances, driving
them to the dole or some other employ-
ment, it has improved the quality of the
matter published. A freelance who seeks to
knock bread and butter out of freelancing
to-day lias to be a craftsman. He’s got to
write 50 per. cent, better than he did five
years ago. There is no market for
unoriginal, slipshod work. The best and
only the best gets through; the near-best
is not good enough. It doesn’t matter,
either, whether it’s a short story, a topical
article or a humble par. Unless it attains
a high standard, it drops into the w.p.b.
Though the struggling freelance will
not admit it, this is all for the good of
the game. The man who can get stuff
accepted to-day is receiving valuable train-
ing. He may be having a thin time, but
when newspaperdom returns to normality
the quality of his work, improved by the
slump, will give him a far greater per-
centage of the market than he would ever
have captured before.
HENRY BATESON.
Ave, Australia!
[This characteristic example of the late A. G.
Stephens’s work was written on the eve of the
accomplishment of Federation.]
There’s a word in the south where the
winter speeds forward,
That kindles young hearts into jubilant
flame;
There’s a word where the summer is fleeing
to nor’ward,
That; lights up young eyes with the pride
of the name;
There’s a signal and token, there’s welcome
bespoken,
There’s a star at whose shining the dark-
ness grows pale;
There’s barriers broken, there’s sleepers have
woken—-
She comes, a fair Nation! Australia,
hail!
The bush winds breathe freedom above and
around her,
From feud and mean quarrel she brings
us release;
With blessing and healing she’s girt her and
bound her—-
Tinctured with harmony, sandalled with
peace.
And yet they could slander her! Yet they
could fear her!
Before that calm beauty could tremble and
quail !
Ah, heed not, delay not! Draw nearer, draw
nearer,
Our Lady of Promise ! Australia, hail!
Long have we cried for thee, long sought
and sighed for thee,
Bowed with a burden of jealous regret;
Let not our children be alien and rent as we,
Knowing our folly—and hugging it yet;
Break the traditions that chain and enslave
us,
Shame into silence .self-seekers who rail,
Make us more worthy the boon that Fate
gave us,
From ourselves save us! Australia, hail!
Give us a scutcheon as wide as our con-
tinent !
Give us a flag that will shelter us all,
Fold us and shroud us, if ever on blood
besprent
Battlefield fighting, wo falter and fall.
I'or ill communion, give brotherly union;
For catchwords, a watchword ; for marsh
fires, a grail;
Whatever is to be, let us front Destiny
Shoulder to shoulder ! Australia, hail!
There’s thrills and there’s tremors that set
the blood tingling,
There’s lighting of beacons through all the
broad east;
There’s scent of blown orchids with wattle-
bloom mingling—■
Strew fern for her pathway! Pour wine
for her feast!
For she’s coming—and singing! you hear
her ! you hear her!
They slink to their kennels, the prophets
of bale!
She’s for us ! She’s with us ! O cheer her !
O cheer her!
Our mother and lover! Australia, hail!
A. G. STEPHENS.
A Satchel of Books
The Psychology of Sex, by Havelock Ellis
(Heinemann ; 12s. 6d.), is a compressed and
simplified edition of his classic "Studies in
the Psychology of Sex.” In addition to being
less cumbersome, this work is better adapted
to the requirements of the average lay
reader. The chapters on the Biology of Sex
and Marriage are of general value, and it
would bo all to the good if a paternal State
forced all legislators and Judges to study this
great authority’s views about sexual devia-
tions.
Eric Bedford has written in The Pen-
dulum a three-act drama which reads well
and should act even better. The theme isn’t
exactly new—the sexagenarian Richard Stan-
worth longs for youth and is rejuvenated
for a while —but it is handled on original
lines. There are some stirring situations
between the hero’s joyous acceptance of Dr.
Renault’s New Life and his tragic finish.
It’s a great part for the right man.
Forest Exile, by Otwell Binns (Ward
Lock; 7s. 6d.). Rogue Bosanquet is the
hero of this one. He finds Oaterina and her
grandfather in the heart of a South Ameri-
can forest, and after that it is mysterv
mystery (also bloodshed, bloodshed) all the
way. The climax comes when the Albino
clears off with Oaterina, shoots Texas Jo-
(but fails, we are thankful to say to kill
the worthy Dago), and is, in his turn, im-
paled in a vital part of the neck by the
knife of Mr. Bosanquet. The genial Father
Manoel then does his bit.
One Fine Day I Was Walking Along, bv
Margot Roberta Adamson (Dent; 65.). A
travel-book which is as quaint and “differ-
ent” as its title. ' The reader walks with the
authoress through Freiburg to Heidelberg
travels by night-train from Frankfort to
Cologne, has a look at Ely on a fine spring
day, reaches Scotland in the autumn- —
and all the time she chatters, sometime*
lightly, sometimes learnedly, like the best
of good companions. Occasionally she bursts
into song, and in these moods she is particu-
larly delightful. A fascinating book to those
who have visited the places described and
want, to see new and vivid lights cast on
them. r.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. A’o liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
O.J.Mf.: What is it exactly you want?
If it’s a sales tax, to give the local primary producer
the benefit of protection, The B. has been advocat-
ing that for years.... .Corney, M. 8.: Of course. What
we are looking for now is a better title.... lan It.:
Not yet; but there is promise in it... . S.D.S.: A
cheap tinkle.... Joyce S.: Look at the second stanza
and blush.... A.H.T.: You can get atmosphere ; but
the fabric is very thin. And it is a pity to
encourage the ear to tolerate bad rhymes....
Bellerive: Yes, and you're quite right—fireworks are
not what they used to be:—
RECOLLECTIONS OF PAYNE’S' FIREWORKS ON
THE MELBOURNE CRICKET GROUND.
Brilliant sparks from rockets
Dispersed in mid air;
Illuminated were the grounds.
By a colored glare.
As the strains of a band
Wafted sweetly out,
Crowds of spectators
Sauntered slowly about.
Crimson scarlet and
Revolving blue rays.
.Shed a rainbow reflection
At the firey displays.
Flaring wheels, squibs
And twinkling lights
Flashed o’er the grounds
During summer nights.
... .Bushloafer: It makes terribly hard reading.
. ...U.A.G.: The lilt of music is precisely what
they haven’t got Rinponlea: “Vortices-notiees” ;
’■'“distahces-instances” —have a heart!... .N.Y.:
Sorue skill in phrasing, but that’s all. .. .T.W.W.:
Read some real parodies, Calverley’s or Owen Sea-
man’s, say, and you may realise your shortcomings.
.... Kayeff: But that doesn’t dispose of the other
man’s contention. In fact, doesn’t even touch it... .
Ten Years: Hopelessly long-winded... .M.W.•.
Nothing in them. .. .0.K.F.: No blue riband
for your Pegasus.... Das: Don’t know where
you could place it. It has dramatic value.
....Phil W.: The title told the story... .E.S.:
Anti-climax P.F.R.: No need to be discouraged.
It is never bad... .N.A.D.: Failed to link up...
8.G.Y.: All as obvious, as Irish stew.... Doris B.:
Pan and the rest of them are rather at a discount.
But you’ve got a musical note... .G.M.S.: A bit
on the light side for print .Clare M.: First stanza
good; after that tt weakens. Let’s, hear again....
Var L.: Here and there a Hint of promise; but
many of the lines are almost everything lines
shouldn’t be... .M. J.M.: Why don’t'you write out
of your own experience?... .R.F.W.: Your memories
have a synthetic flavor, too Hafiz: Just the old
nebulosities that rhymesters seem to think they
must get into verse, though they’ve been put there
ten thousand times already.... Faith: You moralise
too obviously.... Marie D.: A hotch-potch....
R.P.T.: Nicely phrased.. . .Wal P.: It takes a very
practised hand to do things that way. You don’t
make a success of it... . J.R.IL: Glad to reconsider
it. Still doesn’t appeal to us... .W.G.G.: “Still
riseth the night in the east.” And still sinketh
another freak poem in the west ... .M.G.: One of
the mob... .G.W.J.: Raw. .. .Shirley: Too vague... .
N.C.8.: Neat rhyming; but seems to us to miss'
the spirit... .C.J.S. : Form quite correct, and some
of the lines are sonorous. But there is a poor
market for uneventful pastoral verse. Get on to
something with more movement. .. .J.P.: Your effort
to advance the “poor but happy” cause met with
no success... .C.R.S.: Found it hard to wade through.
. ...J.F.G.: “A Voice from the Past” has no future.
. ...J.5.8.: Turned the office body-line bowler on
it... .F.E.H.: Try it on a woman’s paper.... 8.H.:
Both melodramatic J.G.: Juvenile G. 8.: Glad
you had a good time at Easter, but don’t want
your impressions.... F.R.: Learn to write legibly
first... .0.L.: Calls for brighter treatment... .E.G.H.:
Too bloodthirsty.... E.,G.M.: Take your tipster away.
. ...A.P.C.: You missed' a fine chance there....
T.P.: Only a small par. in it.... K..T.5.: Forced
humor and plot conventional... .M.G.: Immature....
R.W.H.: Cowards who miraculously find their courage
before the end of the story are offered to us at
the rate of about a dozen per week... .E.M.: Too
much sobstuff... .Polloi: Much obliged; but we
couldn't undertake the job... .K.F.D.: You do it
very well; but you don’t say anything that hasn’t
been said many times... .H.M.C.: You’re not a very
musical moralist, but your query as to what our
“democratic fathers” did when money was tight
may awaken an echo somewhere:—
Did they loaf and curse creation?
Did they rant and rave and roar?
No, they grabbed the spade and mattock
And scratched harder than before.
.. . . J.S.P.: We should say you had about as much
chance of selling it as N. S. Wales has of finding
a buyer for its railways... .D.S.H.: Poem eulogising
our fathers who “conquered the ' dessert so bare”
firmly declined.... A.M.11.: The old bush home —the
deepening twilight—-the gumtrees—the magpies.
We’ve read it all before so often.... Covot: A
bullet for the secessionists to chew, eh?
Words can no frontiers shift, and if those bounds
Are bridged by consanguinity and mutual aims
Then intercourse must cease to martial sounds
And friendships perish in such martial fiames.
. ...R.G.R.: Your Muse is a bit heavy on her feet.
.. . .G.J.A.S.: The J strikes us as superfluous....
Geepee: Engee.... C.R.: There are glimmers of merit
but the defects far outweigh them. The attempt to
rhym “succour” with “hour” positively hurts....
M.M.: A bit too feathery... .I.B.: Sorry we can’t
find a corner for it... . J. 0.: It weathered several
readings. . ..H.D.: Missed by inches 0n1y... . 0.M.:
('annot undertake to criticise by letter. You show
some swing, marred by slovenly diction... .T.L.G.:
You ask whether your impressions, gathered while
fumigating rabbits on a sheep station, are vers
libre or only rubbish. A bit of both, son.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.D.F.: No life in your lines. .. .R.L.: Just
scratches... .P.M.: Lady looks as if she had been
cut out of galvanised iron... .N.M.S.: They all miss.
. ...A.C.: That oblique linework merely distresses
the eye....F.C.: Gag doesn’t fit the drawing....
A. J.M.: Placed Lang-Lenin cartoon in our chamber
of horrors... .P.T.: Some other editor, caught in an
indulgent mood, might publish it....H.C.: Too
many artistic lapses. .. .T.J.: We want crisp jokes
beneath drawings, not wordy narratives... .T.F.: By
the size of the hands it looks more like a diagram
illustrating a . treatise on palmistry... .H.R.: Appa-
rently you are a one-drawing man. We’ve seen
that one at least seven times, with a different gag
each time... . A.S. : Post-mortem revealed many
anatomical defects.


d
FAMOUS
WINES
mmmm
mmm
.--..1
,
& 4Kf3
■ «*§**
m
*::■
; i s '
illl
‘Mm
. mi ..
sat-
■iim
r
s
Itosr
|r ' a«, 7:
m..... .......... ...:. '
5
HHKf ; ' |■ ■ ■ :m .. . IJH
#JBF 7 7? 1 ?
i
jMHj|
7
Wm
m
0 }
■ ■
Jlfeiilltl i
■
j'-v:
•-
Mil wwmm
7” yjHMWjgjwaMWMMg
mmm
i
i
■i II
7 ; 7:C
I
”■ ■ *
■
1
- * <&»
■ ,7v77 :
aj 7 I
■
&.IpMWMBpM
OffiflM I.WM
1
S- •
MU
* fi
r V
• *
#*
Aove n&v-esi/


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—-No. 2776.
April 26, 1933.
OUT OF THE BAG.
"Jock Garden's unguarded assertion at the A.L.P. Easter Conference that Lang was greater than Lenin and in advance of him has caused consternation among
the political managers of the party.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 2b7-2b9 Collins Street,
gll) 0UV716
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, lb Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ; G months, 12s. Gel.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address ' Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
G months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” Id, New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. To all other places, 3d.
THE RIGHTS OF THE LITTLE
SISTERS.
The science of modern government con-
sists largely of devising means for making
the majority think before it acts. It does this
in the interests of democracy itself. Democ-
racy means government by the majority;
but if democracy is to be saved, the majo-
rity must be something more than a mob.
What is lacking in mob rule is a proper
consideration of all the facts, including the
rights of minorities. The rights of minori-
ties are, it is admitted, veiy difficult to
define. But beyond question minorities
do possess this right: to have their opinions
and representations weighed.
Their rights, however, vary with the
system of government. In a State, such
as N. S. Wales or Tasmania, every adult
person in his proper mind and out of gaol
has the same' rights as every other such
person. The purpose of the machinery of
government here, then, is to give every-
body an opportunity to have his views
on public matters considered, and even his
private wrongs, so far as they are a matter
of public concern, and after that to see
that the considered verdict of the majo-
rity prevails. To that end States are
divided up into electorates and various
methods are adopted to get as nearly as
possible a perfect representation of the
whole body. of electors. On top of that
various systems are imposed to make cer-
tain that the majority does not impose its
will without full consideration of all the
facts. It is with this in view that second
Chambers are now set up. At one time
they had another purpose—to protect the
interests of the propertied minority. To-
day, in the words of Lord Bryce, chairman
of the Bryce Conference, their proper func-
tion is “the interposition of so much delay
(and no more) in the passing of a bill
into law as may be needed to enable the
opinion of the nation to be adequately ex-
pressed upon it.” In the pursuit of that
opinion the referendum has been added to
the machinery of government in some
countries. No Constitution was ever drafted
with such meticulous care as that of the
Irish Free State. This provides that any
bill may be suspended for 90 days on the
demand of two-fifths of the Chamber of
Deputies or the majority of the Senate,
to permit of a referendum, if one is de-
manded by three-fifths of the Senate or one-
twentieth of the voters. And in the bill
lor the reform of the N.S.W. Second
Chamber provision is made for a referen-
dum in the event of that Chamber holding
up bills passed by the Assembly.
But the Second Chamber of a Federal
Parliament has or should have a different
purpose in life. In a Federation the com-
ponent States do not surrender their State-
hood. They only surrender to the Federal
body certain of their self-governing powers.
Either they specifically transfer some, or
they specifically retain some and transfer
the rest. The Convention which framed
the Australian Constitution had no diffi-
culty whatever in coming to the conclusion
that there should be a Second Chamber.
Rightly or wrongly the smaller colonies
insisted that there must be one House—of
limited power certainly—in which the
States would be equally represented. It
seemed at one time indeed as though this
House would be known as the States’
Assembly; its chief purpose, overshadow-
ing every other, was the preservation of
State rights and the protection of State
interests.
Perhaps if it had been better realised
that the States had rights, that purpose
would have been kept in view. But the
party system soon swung the Senate, as it
had been finally called, right away from its
proper purpose. Labor scarcely knew State
boundaries, and for Federal-election pur-
poses it soon ceased to know them at all.
The other side had to follow suit; so we
soon had a Chamber specially set up for
the protection of State rights but with no
more regard for them than the other
Chamber had.
A second line for the defence of State
rights was mapped out by the Convention.
It provided for an Inter-State Commission
which was tp keep Parliament informed
regarding practically every kind of material
movement under Federation. It was to
be, in Deakin’s phrase, “the eyes and ears
of Parliament.” Part of its clear duty
was to assist in carrying out the intentions
of the Constitution with regard to the
preservation of State rights. And there is
very little doubt that, a State’s rights in-
cluded generally a State’s interests; no
State was to suffer that another might
be aggrandised. If that was not the inten-
tion. why the States’ House, in which the
smallest State had as many representatives
as the greatest? But the Inter-State Com-
mission failed of its purpose almost
instantly, mainly owing to the attitude of
the High Court towards it; and presently
it was permitted to disappear altogether.
So we had both lines of defence of the
smaller States thrown down —the Senate
turned into a mere party Chamber and
the Inter-State Commission which might
have kept it up to the collar first ham-
strung and then abandoned. In the circum-
stances it is not at all surprising that the
States with the small populations have
wakened up to discover that things have
been done which are not to their advantage.
But if they should ever approach the
British Government to be released from
the “indissoluble union” on that account,
surely the reply would be: “But why did
you neglect the precautions which the Con-
stitution put in your hands?”
However, the more practical question is:
How can the smaller States get that pro-
tection—that consideration for their inter-
ests —which the framers of the Constitution
undoubtedly said they ought to have, and
which the Constitution was believed to give
them? Is it possible to secure a House
which will be a guardian of State rights
and not a mere party Chamber? It ought
to be for a Convention to explore every
avenue with a view to the discovery of
such a Chamber even if Federal Arbitra-
tion has to be jettisoned in the process.
And the Inter-State Commission should be
re-created, with such added powers as the
circumstances call for. We have by our
own folly destroyed much of the plans
which the Federal Convention made for us;
and the whole question now is whether we
shall have unification or set up those safe-
guards which the Federalists of the Con-
vention rightly decided were necessary. At
the present time we have neither one thing
nor the other': we have Federation with most
of the disadvantages of unification and none
of such advantages as unification may
possess.
SOCIALISATION OF CREDIT.
Socialisation of credit—what is this social-
isation of credit which has brought the
Federal Labor party and the Lang party
on to a common platform, and threatens
to be the rallying cry at the next Federal
election?
Those who lead the campaign picture a
man going into a bank with £lOO, which he
leaves on fixed deposit. Following him
comes a farmer who wants £lOOO on the
security of his freehold. The banker knows
that, if a man can draw a thousand pounds,
he will not, on the average, ask for one-
tenth of it in cash; more than nine-tenths
of it will be drawn by cheques, which will
be accepted as payment by creditors, and
it will then be simply a matter of book-
keeping between banks. Therefore, say the
apostles of socialisation, since the banker
gives a credit of a thousand pounds on
the strength of a hundred-pound deposit,
he lends £9OO which he never possessed
and collects interest on it. To that interest,
they say, the banker has no right. More-
over, if the £9OO which he lent did not
belong to him, then it must be public pro-
perty; as such only the State should have
the granting or withholding of it, and, if
there is any profit in letting it out, then
the State and not the banks should have
the benefit of it. That, in short, is the
case for socialisation of credit.
The case is, however, carried further
than that. It is claimed that the Common-
wealth Bank financed Australia’s share in
the Great War. The countiy needed hun-
dreds of millions; and the bank “made the
money.” In this connection the ex-
Chancellor Reginald McKenna has been
quoted ten thousand times as authority for
the statement that banks can make or
create money. If, it is argued, Denison
Miller could create hundreds of millions,
using the public credit, for war purposes,
his successors could just as easily create
hundreds of millions for peace purposes—
including the provision of wages for the
unemployed—and in our present circum-
stances it is their duty to do it.
In the first place, what is credit itself?
If a man goes to the grocer’s and gets credit
for a pound of tea, we know he incurs a
debt. And that is what credit is, whether
you get it from the grocer or the banker
or the State. When the farmer came in
and got credit for a thousand pounds, he
incurred a debt of that amount. It is
quite true that the banker did not have a
thousand £ notes in his till. In exactly
the same way a fire insurance office issues
policies for £150,000 with only £lO,OOO in
hand. It knows from experience that not
one house in 20 of those insured will be
burned during the year. But it has to
carry the risk of things going wrong, and
for that reason the shareholders have to
put up capital of their own. The banker
accepted £lOO of a customer’s money on
fixed deposit, and on the strength of that
borrowing he lent £lOOO. But he had to
risk his shareholders’ actual money to do
it. If the land on which £lOOO was advanced
was presently found to be worth only £5OO.
and was sold for that amount, it would
not be the public purse that would be
dipped into for the other £5OO. The bank
shareholders’ own funds would have to
stand the loss. This surely shows that it
was not public credit the bank traded on
when it lent £lOOO on the strength of a
£lOO deposit—it was its own reserves, either
actually paid up or in the pockets of its
shareholders. The demand for socialisation
of credit is thus, to begin with, based on
a fallacy.
A credit is a debt owed by the man who
gets it. If he does not pay the. debt, then
the issuer of the credit must lose what he
advanced It does not matter who the
issuer is—whether he is a private banker
or a grocer or the State. What the debtor
does not pay the creditor must lose. Hence
the socialisation of credit means also the
socialisation of bad debts. Besides being
based on a fallacy to begin with, socialisa-
tion of credit may thus simply mean heavier
taxes to finish up with. The extent of
the bad debts, and the consequent liability
of the country to pay heavier taxes, will
depend upon the quality of the manage-
ment.
There are two ways by which credit might
be socialised. The State might take over
the exclusive right to issue advances, except
in actual currency. It would, in this case,
carry on the ordinary business of banking,
accepting deposits and making advances—
doing, in short, precisely what the State
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales did until a
year or so ago. Indeed, no other course
would be open to a State (as distinguished
from a Commonwealth) bank. The stabil-
ity of a State bank would consequently
depend upon the confidence which it in-
spired in depositors. And that would
depend mainly upon the ease or otherwise
with which credit was got from it. Once
suggest that credit was being given over-
freely, whether to the State for public pur-
poses or to the individual, and deposits
would be withdrawn. There are those who
believe that the nationalisation of credit
would make credit easy to get. How do
they think a State bank could itself get
credit in such circumstances? And. as the
N. S. Wales Savings Bank showed, if it
cannot get credit, then it cannot give credit.
You don’t create credit by nationalising it
any more than you create whales by nation-
alising the whaling industry.
A Commonwealth bank, having control
of currency, could, however, be independ-
ent of deposits. It could make money—
could print it. But it could not maintain
the value of an over-issue of paper; so
its position would not be essentially differ-
ent from the other’s. Lang, no doubt,
thought that if he could have issued notes
the Savings Bank of N. S. Wales would not
have been obliged to close its doors. That
is true —just as it is true that a hotel-
keeper need never run out of something
that may pass for beer so long as he has
an unlimited supply of water and is en-
titled to use it. Money is worth anything
only so long as it is , represented by
goods or property. Increase the volume of
it without increasing the goods or pro-
perty in proportion, and the money must
be worth less.
If socialisation would increase the world’s
supply of credit, there might be some sense
in socialising it. But there is no limit to
it to-day, any more than- there is a limit
to honesty, thrift or diligence; it is not
like coal, of which there is only a definite
quantity in the world. If the State can do
the business of issuing credit better than
the banks, there is no reason at all, even
now, why it should not go ahead with the
job. All it has to do is to get more con-
fidence reposed in itself than the banks
have secured for themselves, and there will
be no limit to the credit it will be in a
position to extend. The only honest reason
it can have for requiring a monopofy is
that it has doubts whether it can get that
greater confidence, and, if it can, whether
it can do the business better. The dis-
honest reasons why certain people should
seek to acquire control over the people’s
savings and the whole body of credit were
fortunately made obvious during the latter
part of Mr. Lang’s reign in N. S. Wales.
THE PEOPLE’S DAY.
All good democrats will condemn the wicked
misuse which electors are being asked to
make of the referendum in N. S. Wales
on May 13. A referendum is an appeal to
the people over the heads of party leaders.
No two men are absolutely alike; no two
men think absolutely alike. The best that
a man can do, so far as political parties are
concerned, is to attach himself to that one
which seems to be going generally in his
direction. But in its platform of 30 or 40
planks there are almost certain to be one or
two upon which he would like to be free
to express an opinion of his own. There
are, moreover, hundreds of things on which
it is simply an impertinence for any party
to attempt to control its members. What
right has a party to attempt to say what a
man shall think about Bibje-reading in
State schools, for instance, or the registra-
tion of prostitutes? The referendum gives
a man an opportunity to express his
opinion on such subjects as a citizen; and
every democrat ought to see to it that any
attempt to make a party matter of this
form of appeal is defeated. Indeed, n
party leaders were wise they would insist
upon the absolute independence of the
referendum, because it is one of the fev
things that make party tolerable and not
entirely undemocratic.
In the present case there is absolutely no
case for the intrusion of party. There
is only one question before the electors:
Do they approve of the Leg. Council Re-
form Bill? If they do, they will give that
proposition their No. 1 vote; if they don t,
they will give it their No. 2 vote. The
voting paper might have been improved
upon; but there it stands: Do you approve
of this reform ? Do you disapprove of it. ?
Every elector will have to vote 1 and 2.
There is no vote for abolition. That does
not come into the matter at all. If a
majority approves of the bill, the Leg.
Council will be reformed in accordance with
its provisions; and if in its new form the
Council is not a success, the law provides
that it may be swept away or otherwise
altered—again by referendum. On the
other hand, if a majority disapproves ot
the bill, then the Leg. Council will con-
tinue in its present dreadful form, as un-
democratic as any in the world.
UNCLE SAM HAS A HEADACHE.
“We are going to have some kind of in-
flation,” the Speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives announced the other day;
“the form it will take I do not know.
Commenting on the situation a Washington
correspondent reports that the President is
committed to a rigid enforcement of the
embargo on gold, which means the country’s
departure from the gold standard. “Pres-
sure for relief of domestic debtors,” he adds,
“has assumed overwhelming strength; and
the inflationist agitation is no longer con-
fined to agricultural and silver-producing
communities.”
Three years ago we thought Uncle Sam's
position was infinitely better than our own.
To-day we know our position is infinitely
better than his, and as good perhaps as
any country’s. And the explanation seems
quite plain. We had a fair-sized boom, but
the U.S.A. had a far greater. America was
supposed to be the one country which had
grown rich through the war; instead of
being, as before, a great debtor nation, it
became a very great creditor nation.
Almost every other was rocking on its
foundations. The gold of the world began
therefore to flow towards the one country
where prosperity was unchecked. Already
it had taken from other nations an enor-
mous quantity in payment of their debts;
now it was made the banker of further
colossal quantities. The owners did not
want it to be quite dead money; so they
offered to lend it for short terms at ridicu-
lously low rates. That could mean only
one thing—a prodigious boom. The whole
country was swept into it. Alongside
it our little boom—in city and country
property, and in stocks and shares —was
not worth mentioning. The crash found
the whole country buried up to the ears
in debt.
But other things had happened. Under
the stimulus of very chetlp money vast,
additions had been made to factory and
mill plants. Uncle Sam saw his the great
manufacturing country of the world as well
as the dominating financial power. But
very rapidly the other countries ceased
buying because they had to. We know
how it was with Australia: our imports
were cut down to about one-third of what
they had been, and the bulk of that one-
third was raw or semi-raw material. Even
for the little trade that was offering America
found itself handicapped. Australia was
one of the first to “go off gold.” Britain
and most of the other countries followed
sooner or later. But the U.S.A. felt that
such a course was impossible. With all its
wealth in gold how could it depreciate its
own currency? So, w r hile exporters in
countries with a depreciated currency get
a bonus on their exports, whether of primary
or secondary goods, the American gets
none, and is thus handicapped in the com-
petition. Suppose there was a machine
which at one time could be shipped, from
either Britain or the U.S.A. for £lOOO in
our money. To-day we would have to
pay Britain for it in our money £1250 and
the U.S.A. £1770. Naturally the U.S.A.
cannot get the business.
Some form of inflation in America does,
therefore, seem inevitable. And what then?
At the moment our wheat producers, for
example, get their export bonus, giving
them theoretically a 25 p.c. advantage over
the American grower, even without the
depreciation in sterling. If the American
grower also gets a 25 p.c. bonus, then our
advantage goes. Does that mean a further
depreciation of our currency in order to re-
gain the advantage we had lost? And if so
how far is the competition going to last
how far are we going to chase one another
down the hill? It is a most unsatisfactory
and uncertain method of arriving at the
desired increase of prices. Yet no other
plan seems to offer the same prospects oi
success as an increase of prices. We aim
really at two things. First, what is sought
is relief from the pressure of debt; and
that can best be secured by raised prices.
And, second, there is need for a, higher
return to the primary industries without a
corresponding increase in ?osts .(which
largely means industrial wages); and it looks
as though the raising of price levels would
best serve there also. Only international
agreement can do the job.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bolshevism and Justice.
The offence charged against the British
engineers in Russia is not half so heinous
as that charged by the British Government
against the Soviet. The engineers were
accused of sabotage—of planning the de-
struction or disablement of machinery. It
is not .impossible for them to be guilty.
Just as there are men who have sabotaged
the machinery of private firms whom they
did not want to succeed, so it is possible
that there are enthusiastic believers in indi-
vidualism who would sabotage Communist
machinery in order to thwart the Soviets’
Five-Year Plan. Hundreds of British men
are sentenced to imprisonment in foreign
countries every year, and no notice, is taken
of it. They are assumed to have had a
fair trial and to be guilty. But no sooner
had the sentence in this case been pro-
nounced than a meeting of the Privy Coun-
cil was held, presided over by the King,
and a proclamation was signed shutting
out 80 p.c. of all Russian imports from
Britain. There can be only one inference:
on the strength of reports from the British
Ambassador at Moscow and his officers,
the Russian Government is charged with
attempting to cover its own failures by ter-
rorising accused persons and witnesses alike
and by procuring men and women to
commit perjury.
But from the very nature of the case,
are not such things to be expected? It
is not even denied that of the hundred-odd
millions in Russia not one million are Com-
munists. The “daring, conscious minority 4 ,”
adequately led, can always, so the Com-
munist teaching runs, impose its will upon
the stupid, amorphous majority. In a de-
mocracy there is no need for lying and
trickery and subterfuge and false swearing
and plain murder; what the majority says
goes. But under Communism and minority
rule, the majority must be kept in ignor-
ance of unpleasant facts; dangerous men
must be removed, even though, like Trotsky,
they be within the party itself; excuses
must be found for failures—there is no
better excuse than that an enemy has done
this thing. “In the Revolution,” as one
Communist writer says, “right and wrong
have no meaning.” That is the state of
things we get into when we throw aside
majority rule; and that is the state 1 of
things in Russia to-day.
So Russia’s' Courts stand charged with
being instruments for carrying out the
Soviet policy, no matter how justice is
treated in the process; and than that there
could be no more telling condemnation of
Communist policy, nor would it be possible
to more thoroughly undermine faith in the
reports of Soviet industrial and other suc-
cesses. Nothing which any Russian tribunal
can do will give the world confidence in
Soviet institutions or Soviet claims. In
only one way could that be done. If
Russia put the matter to the League of
Nations, and appealed to it to appoint a
judicial committee of the highest calibre to
review the whole proceedings—giving it
power to call evidence and make whatever
investigations it deemed necessary—it might
get such a report as would restore confi-
dence both in its Courts and its industrial
policy. On the other hand, it might get
such a report as would shatter the very
foundations of Sovietism. It will be inter-
esting to watch whether Stalin and his
Ministers have the courage to put the
matter to the test.
—♦
The Position of the Wheatgrower.
South Australia has lately received the
report of the Pain* Committee —it was pre-
sided over by Judge Paine—appointed by
the Government “to investigate the finan-
cial position of the agricultural and pas-
toral industries” and the adequacy or other-
wise of the State’s relief measures. The
committee was informed at an early stage
that the pastoralists asked nothing of it;
so the inquiry concerned itself almost ex-
clusively with the wheatgrowers.
Now, a full inquiry into the wheat-
growers’ position is very desirable. There
are doubts which badly want clearing up.
Especially we ought to know just what
is the effect of the tariff on the industry.
This committee was told that it bears very
heavily on the farmer; and the committee
repeats what it was told. But nowhere does
the report show that the statement was
tested. The committee believes that “the
present burden of the tariff upon the
primary producer is excessive and inequit-
able,” and it urges that the Commonwealth
Government should be informed of “the
necessity for a scientific revision.” If the
tariff is bearing “excessively and inequit-
ably” upon the primary producer it ought
to be altered; but surely the first thing
to be done is to produce figures showing
just what the farmer pays by reason of the
tariff. There never was so much anxiety
on the part of the general community to
help him; but he cannot expect help so
long as committees appointed to investigate
his position, and upon which he is
adequately represented, content themselves
with vague statements.
This inquiry ought to be made as part
of an investigation which the committee
recommends to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment—as to the practicability of a sales
tax for the benefit of farmers. The real
injustice done to farmers is not that they
pa .y a little more for goods than they,
might under Freetrade, but that they get
no direct benefit from the Protectionist
policy; and that is an injustice which ought
to be remedied.
Upon one other point the committee could
not come to any definite conclusion; but
here no conclusion was either necessary or
perhaps possible. Again and again state-
ments have been published as to the cost
of growing a bushel of wheat. This com-
mittee finds that it may be and actually is
anything from Is. 3d. to Vs. lid. A re-
search worker from the Melbourne Uni-
versity found that exclusive of interest the
average cost of delivering at siding ran
up to 2s. sd. inside “Goyder’s line” and up
to 3s. beyond it. But in a business of this
kind, average figures are of little value.
The poor, thriftless farmer, who stops a
hole in the fence with his harvester, ought
not to be taken into the reckoning at all.
And, anyway, so far even as the good
farmer is concerned, it is just as well to
recognise at once that the business is to
a great extent a gamble. In average bad
times he knows he can just about live; in
an extra-good time he can make more profit
on his capital than almost any other class
of producer, primary or secondary. And
that constitutes one of the great attractions
of the business.
The tremendous variation in costs shows
one thing clearly: the weakness of the plan
of reducing production by calling upon all
producers to make a percentage cut m their
acreage under crop. To require the man
who can produce at Is. 3d. to reduce his
production so that somebody who can only
produce at 7s. lid. may carry on is like
putting a tax on trains so that bullock
waggons might still get a living.
S. Australia has two measures for the
relief of farmers; and the committee finds
that it will be quite sufficient if the pro-
visions of these are extended a little. It
refuses to be hopeless about the future.
It does not believe that any scheme for
funding farmers’ debts is practicable. It
found a “complete absence” of any claim
for the general writing-down of farmers’
debts: “it has been a unanimous feature
of all the statements received that any such
scheme [of writing down] should apply
only to farmers in financial difficulties.” It
found opinion generally to the effect that
with “average seasons and reasonable
prices” the large majority of wheatgrowers
would be able to surmount their financial
difficulties; and while one may realise that
because of the words “reasonable prices”
this may mean little or nothing, there still
is comfort in the committee’s further deli-
berate opinion that “the present condition
of the wheat-growing industry, while admit-
tedly serious, is not such as to afford any
occasion for panic.”
■ ♦
Rescuing Binghi.
Queensland, which has been apt to con-
sider its handling of the aboriginal problem
far ahead of that of other States, has been
mildly shocked by the report of Dr. Cilento,
Chief Federal Quarantine Officer of the
Northern Division. The report asserts that
the mainland natives of North Queensland,
living as hangers-on about white communi-
ties or restricted by white settlement to
small and unsuitable areas, are ill-nour-
ished and diseased, and that only fast-
vanishing tribal remnants remain. Dr.
Cilento points out that conditions in the
isolated Palm Island settlement, where
supervision is direct and continuous, are
infinitely more hopeful. Here improvement
has been so marked as to promise a brighter
outlook, given similar isolation and control
in additional native-reserve areas. Such
a scheme would ensure a more liberal and
suitable food supply, strengthen the control
of disease and banish the often unfortunate
influences of indiscriminate contact with the
white population.
In Queensland, as elsewhere where primi-
tive man has been permitted unchecked
contact with white settlement, the primi-
tive has inevitably gone to the wall, and
this very often in spite of the best inten-
tions on the part of the white invader.
The aboriginal was a nomad who lived by
hunting and had no idea of fixed settle-
ment. The problem of fitting such a people
into the scheme of Eui’bpean occupation,
which has taken from him or made use-
less to him the lands which were once the
Black Man’s hunting-grounds and afforded
him the only means of livelihood the ages
had taught him, has perplexed the most con-
scientious of the many who have desired
to save the dying race from the fate thrust
upon it by circumstance, a fate which it is
powerless to avert on its own initiative. Few 7 ,
if any, are better fitted than Dr. Cilento
to envisage a way out. That his idea of
isolated native settlements has proved unsuc-
cessful in earlier experiments does not argue
that, under improved conditions and more
expert control, the success of the Palm
Island experiment cannot be repeated in
other aboriginal communities, and help to
save a fine race from the extinction which
threatens so soon to overtake it.
In the old days of settlement the Ameri-
can axiom that the only good Indian was
a dead Indian was too apt to be applied
to the aboriginal. The “dispersals” in those
days on the ground that Binghi was a
source of danger to the early pastoralists
and the mining rushes of North Queens-
land are a black blot on our history. Yet it
may be questioned whether the rapid end
which overtook so many then was not more
merciful than the fate which often ill-
advised and perfunctory guardianship has
visited upon their people since. But no
self-respecting nation can leave it at, that.
We are bound to do the best that expert
advisers can suggest in the way of replac-
ing the means of living we took from them;
which means that this report of Dr.
Cilento’s must not be' pigeon-holed.
• ♦
The Grazier and His Debts.
“Ex-Banker” analyses the position:—
“Dialectica’s” “replies to critics” are not
replies at all. He continues to make bald
statements which cannot be substantiated by
facts and figures. Obviously forgetful of
what he wrote in the first instance, he now
tells us that, “after paying interest, rates,
etc., and allowing for depreciation of sheep, ’
he cleared £4200 in the first three years,
and this on a property capable of carrying
only 1600 sheep in good seasons. No one
knowing the rudiments of the business will
believe that such a result was possible. He
omits details to show how he arrived at such
a profit, for the very good reason that he
could not know how.
“Dialectica” joins in the popular chorus
about the “lavish banking premises,” etc.,
but this sort of thing is irrelevant and does
not cloud the issue. Having paid the vendor
nothing out of the £4200 profits said to
have been earned; having, indeed, obtained
£2500 from a bank on a second mortgage,
this man has the effrontery to seek sym-
pathy against his mortgagees, who are them-
selves deserving of any there is to spare.
“Larrapinta” (S.A.) tells of a case where
the mortgagee went into possession, and,
through subsequent mismanagement, the pro-
perty rapidly depreciated “quite 50 per cent.”
He apparently regards this as an almost
inevitable result. My experience, extending
over nearly 50 years, has been exactly the
reverse. Banks invariably stick to the man
who applies himself to his job and is worth
sticking to. Hundreds of cases could be
cited where, the incapable and improvident
mortgagor having been replaced by a manager
working under the close supervision of the
mortgagee, the improvement has been such
that the property has been ultimately handed
back to the debtor on a sound working basis.
Like “Dialectica,” many borrowers and
plungers, who by gambling on the seasons
and purchasing at boom prices have become
hopelessly involved, blame the banks for the
mess they have landed themselves in, some
claiming that the inflated values were largely
the result of the liberal advances made to
them by the financial institutions. The
truth is that, on the contrary, the banks
insistently set their faces against high values,
and their records will show that advices to
country managers were absolutely opposed
to following market values which the aver-
age earning power could not justify. It was
the adoption of such a policy and the stipu-
lation for wide margins that _ make the
banks’ position to-day, in relation to their
country interests, so sound.
When “D.H.F.” talks about “a clearing-
up of-country mortgages,” it is as well that
he, and other correspondents like him, should
be reminded that country properties are not
the only ones which have suffered heavy
depreciation during the past few years. The
cases of many investors in real estate and
industrial concerns, in the city and else-
where, lots of them retired country men,
are just as hard and deserving of considera-
tion ; and, further, these investors have never
had the same magnificent returns from their
properties that the pastoralist got in the
period of flush seasons and high prices pre-
ceding the present depression. It seems
very desirable that it should be impressed
upon certain graziers and farmers that,
despite the transcendent importance of the
industry with which they are associated,
they are not the only pebbles on the beach,
and that the question of rehabilitation is by
no means confined to their affairs.
Incidentally, it is pertinent to draw atten-
tion to the sale, lately reported, of a set of
Queensland leasehold stations in the south-
west of the State, carrying 90,000 sheep and
6000 cattle, for £90,000, which surely indi-
cates that the grazing industry is not, in
the opinion of some, in such a parlous con-
dition of bankruptcy that certain corres-
pondents would have us believe.
*
The Unmarried Girl—and Man.
Dear Bulletin,—lt’s all right for “Sandig”
(B. 5/4/’33), earning at least £BOO a year
as a genei’al practitioner, to talk about mar-
riage dowries for daughters, but what about
the fathers earning less than half of that
amount or nothing at all?
Take my own case. I have two unem-
ployed and unmarried daughters already
past the age when their mother had both
of them. The condition is bad for the girls,
I know, but the majority ol young men
from whom they should select husbands are
out of work, and the few in work are able,
because of that fact, to have such a giddy
time in a large harem that they are not
able, and have no desire, to make a selec-
tion from the many applicants for the
position of permanent and acknowledged
wife. Even if men were waiting, the girls
could not supply their own trousseaux, and
if those and dowries were provided by
myself and wife after torturing self-denial
of ourselves and the remainder of the
family, we would be doing it only to
qualify for the additional burden of main-
taining daughters, sons-in-law and their off-
spring.
A girl crave enough to defy convention,
and, when the inevitable happens, face the
terrors of an abortion, is not going to funk
settling down with her man, no matter how
hard the task before them, provided hope
is at the end of it. And that brings us
back to what The Bulletin has been
preaching—get the men back to work.
And it can be done, as The Bulletin
has been saying, with no extra cost to the
Government. Here in Broken Hill 2000
men and their families are being main-
tained on the dole with no hope of any-
thing better. Seventy miles away there is
a huge body of water flowing through rich
soil on either side. For stretches of 100
miles or more the only use to which that
land and water are put is the feeding and
watering of a few sheep, millions of rabbits
and hundreds of foxes. Around Wentworth,
a good-sized country town, some of that
land and water has been put to use, and
consequently not one dole is drawn in that
town! Along the Murray there are also
great stretches of vacant arable land.
Throughout the area large amounts have
been spent in relief road work, costly jobs
because no man can be interested in what
offers no continuity, and which he knows
will be carried to the rim of Australia by
the first gale. Spent properly, the same
money would pay for the cutting up into
suitable blocks of the long, vacant water-
front, the supply of seed and the provision
of rudimentary tilling tools. The same dole
would support them until production was
reached. Curlwaa, Coomealla, Mildura and
other irrigation areas show what can be
done; they show, too, what is cheerfully
endured by a man and his wife when com-
fort and security can be seen through the
scrub.—Yours, Far West.
♦
The Policy of the Smart Alec.
To-day when you order an article from
abroad you simply do not know what it is
going to cost you. You may have the
seller’s catalogue of prices before you; but
he will quote in the currency of his own
country, and what it will be in the cur-
rency of this country depends on changes
in the exchange rate between us and London
and between London and the seller’s coun-
try. The great advantage of a gold
standard was that a trader knew almost
exactly what he would have to pay in his
own currency for anything he might, buy
anywhere. The world will have to get back
either to gold or to some other standard
that will serve the same purpose, if there
is any other. At present, as the organ of
the International Chamber of Commerce
put it the other day, a race in currency
depreciation is in progress; and it is not
to be wondered at. In the first half of 1932
(later figures are not available) imports to
the U.S.A. from countries with depreciated
currencies—like Australia—fell off only 7.7
p.c., while imports from countries that were
still on gold suffered a decrease of 34.6 p.c.
Seven countries with depreciated currencies
showed an actual increase in exports to the
U.S.A. compared with the first half of 1931.
Where is that sort of thing going to lead?
As the International Chamber says, “In
an isolated instance! a depreciation of cur-
rency gives the country in question a tem-
porary advantage by way of an export pre-
mium; but the moment the same thing is
done by others, it becomes a race in cun'
rency depreciation.” Australia to-day gets
a 25 p.c. exchange premium; so its wheat-
shippers have nominally a 25 p.c. advantage
over the shippers from other countries
whose currency is not depreciated. The
obvious reply to that is for other shippers
to destroy the Australian advantage by de-
preciating ffceir currency. When that
happens the two sellers are again on the
same mark; so to regain an advantage one
of them must further depreciate his cur-
rency—and so on until we reach the abso-
lute limit, which is a worthless currency,
like Germany’s was. “To this situation,”
the International Chamber says, echoing
what The Bulletin has been saying for
two years, “there seems only one answer.
It cannot be a general sauve-qui-peul down
the hill of universal currency depreciation.
It can only be the pursuance of a policy of
international co-operation and mutual con-
cession in dealing with the causes of trade
disorder and currency confusion, and of
measures which will arouse confidence
rather than alarm in capital, and put cur-
rency and credit to work again.” The use
of the exchange rate for the purpose of
gaining an advantage over a competitor is
an offence against the peace and good order
of the world. It is the policy of what our
American friends call the “smart Alec”; of
the milkman who is prepared to put a little
water in it in order to secure a temporary
advantage over his rivals.
• ♦
Taxing Inter-State Trade.
A case before Justice Douglas in Queens-
land the other day adds to the already over-
whelming evidence that so long as States
can assess and collect income tax, so long
will inter-State trade be liable to inter-
ference. In this case the Palmolive Co.,
with headquarters in N. S. Wales, sold goods
in Queensland. The N.S.W. Commissioner
claimed that 75 p.c. of the profit made on
goods sold in Queensland but manufactured
in N. S. Wales was taxable in N. S. Wales.
The Queensland Commissioner took the
total volume of sales, found out what pro-
portion were Queensland sales, and claimed
that a like proportion of the profit was
Queensland profit, and therefore taxable.
Thus it followed, as it has followed in
almost eveiy case, that much of the same
income was taxed in both Queensland and
N. S. Wales, and also of course by the
Commomvealth. Justice Douglas held that
the Queensland Commissioner was only
justified in assuming that Queensland
profits bore the same proportion to total
profits as Queensland sales did to total sales
in Australia if there was no other satis-
factory way of determining Queensland
profits; and' he was not satisfied there was
no other satisfactory way.
But, though this gives some relief to
inter-State traders, it leaves the position
quite unsatisfactory. Inter-State trade will
never be as free as the Federal Constitu-
tion declared it should be so long as income-
tax assessment is in more hands than one.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Fine Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
RINGS
0 Sapphire & Diamonds
i £2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Bings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
The High Court chewed peanuts last
week, but it didn’t settle the thing that
wants settling. In fact, it isn’t its job.
What it decided was that a State may not
set up a marketing board with power to
seize a man’s produce for purposes of sale,
because this prevents him sending it to
another State. The big question is whether
any Government, State or Federal, should
have the right to seize a man’s work and
sell it where, when and at whatever price
some official may decide.
_ Telephone rents were raised in the early
days of the depression, and Parkhill, the
Postmaster-General, has been asked to
reduce them. His reply is that it can't
be done, inasmuch as £1,500,000 has been
lost on the telephone branch in five years,
last year’s contribution being £350,000. Yet
in other English-speaking countries private
concerns pay large sums for telephone fran-
chises and make steady profits. Politicians
and bureaucrats are chiefly to blame for the
disgraceful showing, though public-service
arbitrators have helped.
“You are not like Cerberus,” asked Mrs.
Malaprop, “three gentlemen at once, are
you?” Admirers of J. J. Kenneally, who
has been voted into the Westralian Min-
istry by the Labor caucus —he is member
for East Perth —may proudly claim that
their hero is three politicians at once. As
president of the Federal A.L.P. Mr. Ken-
neally is pledged to unification, with aboli-
tion of the Senate. As president of the
State A.L.P. he is neutral on the secession
issue. As a Minister he is bound by the
Premier’s declaration that the Government
will give effect to the vote for secession.
It is expected that the Dominion League
will invite the gentleman to its victory ban-
quet when it has one, and call on him to
make three speeches at once.
South Australia’s freak electoral system
was rough on the A.L.P. faction at the
late conflict of six “parties” and odds and
ends. Dawes, the leader, wails that his group
polled 46,000 votes for a total of six seats
(he lost his own), whereas 6000 votes put
three Langsters in and 55,000 gave 28 seats
to the Lib.-Cockies —they have since gained
another in Flinders. Dawes’s arithmetic
may not be perfectly accurate, but it is
pear enough. With a majoi’ity of ten and
the Speaker the Butler Government will be
grossly over-represented. In common fair-
ness it should pledge itself not to go to the
country until it has passed an honest redis-
tribution measure, with single seats; also
it should leave the remodelled electorates
to determine whether Parliaments should
last for three years or five.
“The Country party and ourselves should _ be
fighting shoulder to shoulder.” —The Prime Minister
at the U.A.P. conference, Sydney.
“1 repeat, we ought to be fighting shoulder
to shoulder.”
“All right; that way’ll suit me. Who are
you shovin’?”
By acting with energy at the right moment
the British Government saved four of the
Metropol'itan-Vickers engineers from the
fate of the 35 poor devils who were shot
without trial for “agricultural sabotage.”
There was not a shi*ed of evidence against
one man, and the cripple who “confessed”
under torture, pleaded guilty, wanted to
withdraw the plea, was removed from the
court by the secret police, and, returning
half-dead, was refused permission to with-
draw—he, for services rendered, might not
have been handed over to an O.G.P.U. shoot-
ing party. MacDonald was nevertheless sen-
tenced to two years in a Russian prison,
and Thornton to three years. Britain has
replied with an SO p.c. prohibition of Rus-
sian imports, and the Reds swear they will
boycott all British goods. One of the items
on the British embargo is butter. Australia
and Maoriland will gladly supply the de-
ficiency.
No more Fiji bananas are to be sent to
Australia at the grower’s risk. That, at
least, is the statement of one Major Joske,
who roundly declares that the trade secured
to his group of islands by the Ottawa agree-
ment is not worth a rush. On top of the
duty of 2s. 6d. a cental, the Australian Cus-
toms levied 10 p.c. prhnage, the Gom-
We walk along Macquarie-street in a comical row, we three:
The joker I was, the joker I am and the joker I shall be.
monwealth’s Mr. Ewing charged sales tax
and income tax, and the States’ Mr.
McMahon and Mr. Chenoweth demanded in-
come and unemployed-relief taxes —“with the
result that the return from every £1 worth
of bananas sold was only Bs., and we lost
another shilling on exchange.” The embit-
tered Joske suggests that Fiji should re-
taliate with a sales tax on Australian com-
modities, but Canberra should open up nego-
tiations before the matter goes that far.
Bayley, Opposition candidate for Wynnum,
is finding his opponents chiefly interested in
the Douglas cx-edit scheme, which is trotted
out at evei-y meeting. It is probably as
good as anything else to divert the electors’
attention from the failure of the Foregone
Smiths. The Douglas-planners, of course,
have a reply to everything, but there is no
reason to believe they will be any more suc-
cessful in satisfying Wynnum than they
were in satisfying the British Labor party,
the Macmillan Commission, or those Aus-
tralian economists who recently reported
that their short cut led to a bottomless bog.
The Wynnum by-election will be the second
in Queensland since the Forgan Smiths came
in. There are four candidates: Bayley
(Nat.-Pi’og.), Donnelly (Lab.), Argaet
(Queensland party) and Hurworth (some-
thing or other). In 1932 the late W. H.
Barnes scoi'ed 4224 votes, Donnelly 3658
and Argaet 651. Since then Labor has found
that relief works were urgently needed in
Wynnum, and the number of new electors,
mostly Labor-unionists and their womenfolk,
exceeds Barnes’s majority.
If the Loan Council agrees in June, the
Yic. Ministry will go ahead with the bulk-
handling scheme recommended by a com-
mittee. The total outlay is estimated at
£2,000,000, of which £350.000 would be re-
quired in the first year and £650,000 in
the second year. The Cockies in the Cabinet
are pushing the thing; the Nats, are apply-
ing the brake while estimates are being
checked.
Chief Judge Dethridge, of the Federal
Arbitration Court, thinks it is “disgusting”
that wages fixed by one tribunal should be
where they were while those fixed by another
should be subject to a 10 p.e. reduction. He
might be more disgusted if he considered
what reductions have been made in the eaim-
ings of men whose pay is not fixed by any
tribunal —farmers, for example. A youth
who delivers bread gets £4 ss. a week; the
man who bakes it, £5 3s. What does the
man who grows the wheat get ? W orse,
what does the man who grows the fruit and
vegetables get? The wheat-cocky may have
a chance of making a “punch” some day;
the cabbage-gardener, who in Melbourne is
getting 15s. for a load, hasn’t even that pros-
pect. This position is disgusting all right;
and what are arbitration courts doing to
make it less so?
The U.A.P. is not feeling well in some
States, but it is quite chirpy in N. S. Wales;
it had upwards of 1000 delegates at its con-
ference in Sydney. Stevens made them all
laugh by showing how the industrial situa-
tion has improved in Lang’s district since
Lang went down. In Auburn, Lidcombe
and Granville municipalities (Granville was
represented by Lang’s pale echo, Ely) the
number of unemployed was reduced from
5843 to 3170 in .nine months; in twelve
months 15 factories have been opened in
Auburn and 16 in Granville, and in these and
neighboring places 450 of 600 houses vacant
a year ago have been reoccupied—-doubtless
with profit to Lang, the house-agent. The
truth is that so many Auburn people were
fed up with Lang that he could have been
unseated had the U.A.P. put up a strong
man. Instead it nominated an unknown
youngster, and then told its supporters t«
give their first votes to a Federal Laborite,
In 1919 there were 68 N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cillors. Chiefly because of Lang the number
increased to 124, and there are 120 now.
They all travel free on Government trains
and trams. The privilege accompanies them
when they go to other States, and it is
worth quite £250 a year to those who make
a welter of it, and whose services as legis-
lators would be over-valued at tuppence. If
the referendum is carried at least 60 of these
nominees will have to contribute to the sup-<
port of the deficit-ridden railways and tram-
ways, like other citizens. For this reason
alone, thousands of electors who are tired
of being taxed for deadheads will vote Yes
on May 13.
Hynes, the Queensland Minister of Labor,
has been studying Sydney and Melbourne
unemployed-relief methods on the snot. In
Melbourne he proudly declared that the dole
had practically vanished in Queensland,
except in the case of unemployables. A
single man gets a day’s work in two weeks
and 6s. worth of rations for the blank week;
a married man receives coresponding treat-
ment, with allowances for dependants. More-
over, the relief work is of greater value than
the amount expended. This is a comfort,
but isn’t it “capitalistic”?
It is expected that N. S, Wales, like South
Aus., will soon have three Labor “parties.”
There are already two, Lang’s and Scullin’s,
and the bosses of the coalminers’ and rail-
waymen’s unions threaten to start “an In-
dustrial Labor party, based on full socialisa-
tion.” The Scullinaries held a conference
the other day, and boldly resolved to have an
executive council consisting of “one president,
three vice-presidents, a general secretary and
30 members, at least five of whom should be
women.” The other two sets of comrades
insinuate that there are pot that many in
the “party.”
After all, Craigie, the South Aus. single-
taxer, will remain a party of one in the
State Parliament. As in 1930, he headed
the poll for Flinders, and after the first two
or three counts it looked as if he would pull
his team-mate, Moore, in with him, and also
that Groth -would get a seat in Albert; but
later preferences went against the pair. Tin
South Aus. single-taxers are mostly elderly
gentlemen who meet at night in tea-and-
bun shops and fondly recall the great days
of George. They have never been afraid
to plead their cause in the constituencies, in
which respect they have the advantage over
the cocksure Douglas credit crank, for whom
and for his nostrum they have an abounding
contempt.
Tracing to their source the bad smells left
by the Lang regime is necessary, but it
comes expensive. Sometimes the expense
seems unduly high. The Royal Commission
which has been learning things about “stan-
dardised” milk, collections of money for
mysterious purposes, rebates and other fea-
tures of Sovietised control of the metropolitan
milk supply is to go on for another month.
Stevens, who has a civil-service mind, called
in “Hansard” men to report the proceedings,
and every morning printed copies of the evi-
dence arc handed to Commissioner, advocates,
solicitors and distributing cos. at an esti-
mated cost to the taxpayer of £3O a day.
Any firm of shorthand-writers would have
done the job for nothing, provided it was
allowed to charge the private interests for
reports which they have no right to expect
the public to furnish.
Addressing a gathering of lawyers,
Attorney-General Manning said that mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Bar had, during “a
period of grave anxiety,” consoled themselves
with the reflection that they had “stuck to
the traditions which guided the Courts.” His
colleague Martin presently announced that
so many solicitors had stuck to things more
negotiable than “traditions” that it was pro-
posed to ask N.S.W. practitioners to raise
£lOO,OOO by levy “to meet the accidents of
the profession.” All concerned in the “tradi-
tions” will have to pay the levy, and “the
standards of the profession” are to be “stif-
fened up” in other ways. “Traditions” are
a great matter, but twenty shillings in the
pound is a greater.
In an “Advertiser” report of the declara-
tion of the Assembly poll at Port Adelaide
it is mentioned that “Mr. Zwolsman, the
defeated Communist candidate, burst into
tears and, swinging his arms wide, cried,
‘Comrades, it’s no good. When I see what
they have put across the worker’ He
then rushed from the platform.” Still,
things might be worse. Mr. Zwolsman
might have contested an election in Germany.
Friends of J. P. Jones would like him to
give up his Melbourne East seat in the Vic.
Leg. Council next year and stand for the
South-Western Province in place of H. F.
Richardson, who does not intend to re-
nominate. Melb. East is Labor; its other
member (each province has two) is Danny
McNamara, secretary of the Vic. A.L.P.
executive. Jones leads in the Council, and
holds the Works portfolio, as he did in
three Labor Governments —Prendergast’s and
Hogan’s two; McNamara as A.L.P. secre-
tary handed him his passports a year ago
when he would not follow Tunnecliffe.
“Federal Laborites claim that President Roosevelt's
measures are strangely like those they would have
introduced in Australia.”
“Jimmy, the Yanks have stolen our policy!
“Ted, do you think there’s any chance of
their stealing you?”
It: looks as if Queensland Labor is tenta-
tively tapping what promises to be an abound-
ing reservoir of votes. The Warwick (Q.) Turf
Club asked the Government to save mugs
from the hordes of tipsters infesting the
racecourses. Home Secretary Hanlon has
replied that the matter requires serious con-
sidering, since dispensing the oil, unlike
fortune-telling, is held to be a skilled pro-
fession.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Old Q.”: Though far from being what
our American friends call a '“chicken hawk,”
I keep a paternal eye on modern flapper?
dom and am struck especially with its in-
finite resource. This was particularly the
case during the recent wet weather in Syd-
Dey. After the first day’s rain numerous
young persons discarded stockings. The
legs did not always repay inspection, and,
apparently realising this, many girls on the
second day liberally powdered their extremi-
ties. This often produced worse results, for
the rain quickly cut revealing channels
ANOTHER FELLOW MUST HAVE BORROWED IT.
“And what does this blonde hair on your coat mean, Henry?”
“By Jove, that’s strange. I’ll have to find out about that.”
through the powder until the limbs were as
spotted and ringstraked as Laban’s cattle
after Jacob had worked his will on them.
The girls were undismayed, however, and
on the third day most of those I noticed
had coated their lower limbs with grease-
paint in tints to match their color scheme.
Off this the raindrops rolled helplessly, and
the unconquerable female once more emerged
triumphant from her tribulations.
“Osric”: Besides his Latin tags (B.
19/4/’33), Adam Lindsay Gordon occasion-
ally indulged a pleasant fancy' for archaic
English words, which suggested a wide range
of reading in his younger days. Britomarte,
i for instance, was the “bravest of destriers.”
A destrier is a warhorse, but the term has
long been obsolete. I can’t remember en-
countering it in any modern author with the
exception of a lady who recently published
a novel about William the Conqueror and
introduced it lavishly, probably regarding it
as good local color. Again, itf “Ashtaroth,”
a boar is “slaughtered by Thurston’s whin-
yard.” The unfamiliar whinyard puzzled
me considerably when I was a boy ; I finally
set it down as a variety of staghound. It
wasn’t until years later I discovered it
meant “a sword or hanger.” It is a useful
word, too, because it supplies what is pro-
bibly the only decent rhyme to “vineyard.”
* * * *
“Euthan”: The discovery of a young
woman’s body, with the head and limbs
shockingly' mutilated, in a gully near Bee-
croft (Sy duey) raised
the usual suspicions of
foul play in a city that
has supped full of this
sort of horror lately.
But the further the de-
tectives probed tic
more overwhelming be-
came the evidence of a
singularly determined
suicide. A brand-new
Winchester lay beside
the body, with indica-
tions that it had been
just sufficiently “as-
sembled” for the victim
to fire a shot into her
own forehead; after
that, whether designedly
or not, she had stag-
gered and fallen into a
little stream, and the
eels and crayfish had
done . the rest. Most
women bent on self-
destruction turn to
poison or pe rh ap s
drowning; firearms and
razors are equally abhor-
rent. The objection to
manual violence is
almost certainly one reason for this pre-
ference ; the dread of disfigurement even
after death perhaps a stronger one. But
every rule has its exceptions.
:J: * ' •:= *
“Ex-Loco.” : Almost every calling has its
stock tricks for new hands (B. 12/4/’33).
In my time the newclmm engine-cleaner, before
he began on his first locomotive boiler, was
solemnly handed two large pieces of rubber
cut from an old wash-out hose and instructed
to tie them on his boots to prevent scratch-
ing the paintwork. Cleaning the “motions”
underneath the engine at night-time, the new
hand was told to get his sluslilamp close up
to his work so that it could be done pro-
perly. Invariably the “patch” of kerosene-
soaked c< ton-waste was ablaze in an in-
stant. The stock joke with the 1903 (strike
year) men in Vic. was an instruction to turn
the handbrake on and off rapidly when
rounding a curve. This was to steer the
train round it!
* * * *
“Barangkali”: The Post Office has a lot
of absent-minded beggars among its cus-
tomers. During the twelvemonth to June 30
137,057 letters and parcels were posted with-
out any address,
and over 400 of
them contained
banknotes, total
value being £lBl9.
From letters re-
ceived at the
Dead Lette r
Office money and
valuables aggre-
gating upward of
£62,000 were ex-
tracted, and, the
senders having
omitted to head
their letters with
addresses, only
about half of that
sum could be re-
turned. Over
16,000 letters
wer e reported
as not having
reached their
destination; 4000
were subsequently
traced and deliv-
ered. This repre-
sents a loss of
one letter in
every 50,000
handled by the
Post Office, a
high percentage.
“P.R.” : Nippon
is an extraordi-
nary mixture of
deadly efficiency
and old-world sen-
timent. In Ho-
bart’s now-disused
Q ii e e n b o rough
cemetery lie the
remains of a sea-
man of the Jap-
anese ship Iliyoi,
who died whilst
that vessel was
at Hobart in
.1902. Qn the rare
occasions when a
Japanese warship
visits Tasmanian
waters, one of
the first acts,
after the vessel
has anchored, is
... to dispatch . a
uoi king party to the cemetery, where the
grave is tidied up and the glass cases above
it are filled with fresh flowers. Although
there is no Japanese Consul, and, as far as
the writer knows, no Japanese resident in
the > peck, visitors from Chrysanthemumland
invariably learn of the grave, and no
Japanese vessel leavest these shores with-
out a tribute having been paid to the
deceased.
“Bangemall”: That eminent scientist the
late Dr. Walter Roth raised a storm in
Westralia when that State “borrowed his
services for aboriginal research” (B.
19/4./’33). It was in 1905. Roth had been
engaged to report on the conditions and
treatment of natives in the Nor’-West and
the North, and after a leisurely journey into
those parts he issued a report that was a
somewhat stinging indictment of Black
Brother’s white employers, the squatters
particularly. Then the row began. Ever
since the days of Gribble, some people had
been ready to believe anything about the
treatment of natives in those parts and
others to believe nothing. Police Commis-
sioner Hare, regarding the report as a slur
on his department, cut in with the curt
remark that Roth had collected his evidence
from “the scum and riff-raff of the northern
seaports.” The Government, the first Labor
one, was new to office and nervous. It
hadn’t engaged Roth but. having accepted
BRINGING IT UP TO DATE.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER: "And when Saul wax on his journey he was struck to the
ground by a bright light. Now, what did he do?”
BRIGHT BOY: "Got the number of the car.”
him as a Iloyal Commissioner, it reckoned
itself bound to support him, so it suspended
Hare for his outburst. The usual inquiry
followed with no particular results, except
that Hare was presently reinstated and
Roth’s report pigeon-holed.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: There is a lot of talk just
now about the importance of preserving the
inviolable secrecy of the ballot; nevertheless,
I have repeatedly seen it threatened and
occasionally thrown overboard. In Westralia,
for instance, it used to be customary to pub-
lish the polling figures piecemeal, even when
they came in from isolated mining settle-
ments where there were only a handful of
voters. Supposing all these happened to vote
the same waj a not infrequent occuiienee ,
there were instances of it at the Federa-
tion referendum in 1900, and there must
have been plenty since—everybody who felt
any interest in the matter knew how every-
one at Sandy Creek or wherever it was had
voted and the secrecy of the ballot went for
nothing. Obviously it could only be pre-
served by throwing small parcels of votes
together, and people were much too impatient
to wait for that.
* * * *
“Farleigli”: These bogus scions of the
British nobility who occasionally appear in
our police courts charged with imposing
upon trustful Australians seldom bother to
pick a title which might pass for a genuine
one. A “smartly-dressed man” who was
sentenced to eight months’ imprisonment at
Sydney Central last week for some petty
frauds upon hotelkeepers posed as the Earl
of Thornton, of Thornton Castle, Kinross,
There is no such title and no such person,
and if there is such a place it is not listed
among the stately homes of Scotland, which
furnish residences for titled persons. The
police, it is recorded, after making indus-
trious search, discovered that the alleged
earldom was an extinct one; if that is so
it must have disappeared over a century ago,
for there is no mention of it among the
titles that have petered out in the last three
reigns. The curious thing is, with refer-
cnee books so easily available nowadays,
that tradespeople and publicans should be so
ready to accept barefaced impostors of this
sort on their own say-so.
* * .
Ivismet : I crossed the Atlantic with
three handsome young Mexicans, brothers,
all dressed faultlessly in grey. A Yankee
lady told me that they belonged to a very
wealthy family and that the eldest was an
army officer who had served with distinction
m the Great War. All day he wore a
knitted skull-cap with a broad band of black
taffeta across the forehead. “You were
wounded in the head/ ’ I inquired of him.
Oh, no,' he smiled; ’it is to keep my marcel
in continuance. ’ And that was what it was,
a fancy kind of curl-paper.
7 __ ~ , * , „* „
Strict Veg. : Ilie propaganda for sen-
sible summer dress ’ lias died a natural death
in Melbourne with the season that has just
closed. Last year it was announced that a
wave of rationality was sweeping over the
community, largely due to the apparition of
two bronzed men in ducks and helmets, pro-
bably on leave from Borneo. When the
advent of the meteorological summer was
announced this year the pictorial press re-
vived the stunt and printed the old photos.;
and John Citizen looked at them and though*
how nice it would be, and even went as far
as talking to his wife about it. That was as
far as he got. Sensible summer dress is
impossible when vou have no summer worth
speaking of.
* * * *
“Neliemiah” : According to the cables, the
German drive against the Jews has even re-
suited in the dismissal of Jewish officers
and seamen of the mercantile marine. Yet
the Chosen must be few' and far between
as professional seafarers. Writer has en-
countered only one in the course of a fairly
wide experience. For long he kept a tobac-
conist’s shop in Queen-street, Brisbane, and
also ran a tote in the days when such things
were legal. Then he turned up at an in-
land Government station in British New
Guinea in charge of a launch party from
the Merrie England anchored at the river
mouth'. He explained that business had
fallen off with the passing of the legislation
which wiped out shop betting in Banana-
land, so he had taken the job of second
mate. Only then was it revealed that he
had been a mate in tlic old A.S.N. service,
though for the years I had known him his
shop was close to the Petrie’s Bight wharves,
* * * *
, .. , Tr ~, rri , ,
, Corporal Waust*’: The fascinating m-
ducements held out by recrutmg posters
the Old Contemptible days of the regular
aim -Y ("■ 5/4/33) paled beside those which
earned the urge to serve m the times of the
Napoleonic wars. One Preserved m
the museum of the United Service Institute,
reads :
Y °ur pay and privileges equal two guineas a
week ; you are everywhere respected ; your society is
!:' our Ji ccl ’ Y?/ ,? re admii-ed by the fair, which,
widow or brushing rich hdrel renders
the situation truly enviable and delightful,
Y et in tw o o-winna „„„,i tv,mo-
r ■ e T 10 „ n , S r liyS ftl , o „Jwl
and non-comimssionod
. . I' 0 for the
, -9. f llv a l military offences, 500 lashes
% S® uncommon sentence. The poster,
da , cd September 25, 1801, ignores that and
0 lcr ummportant details,
XT * * * *
‘Nakhoda : America puts its women on
a pedestal of sham sentiment, with curious
results. I was travelling down the Seine in
Baris once with a typical American woman
tourist when she suddenly cried, “Look at
that disgusting sight!” The disgusting sight
was . a fat Frenchwoman strenuously
working the tiller of a huge barge. The
American thought it was revolting that one
?f her own sex should show capacity, even
hi such a lowly form. I told her to watch
the helmswoman closely as she passed and
note her keen face and how she would scan
everyone of us with an alert and appraising
eye, adding that I thought a voyage
with her would be very interesting and that
she would be able to teach us a lot of things
worth knowing. My American friend didn’t
understand me, of course. Her head was
stuffed with culture acquired at finishing
schools and she had the names and dates of
the Merovingian kings off pat.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: “Bill O’C.” complains (B.
5/4/’33) of the goats of both sexes who
cause fires by throwing away burning
matches and smouldering fags. I wouldn’t
speak too dogmatically about the cigarette
ends. A colleague with whom I worked for
four years in -a telegraph office habitually
dropped his butts into a w.p.b. packed with
a ll sorts of refuse. His shift at the office
closed at midnight. As I was responsible
f or the outfit and went off at 5 p.m. I used
to lie awake at night visualising the in-
evitable conflagration and the appalling
amount of work that would be thrown on
my shoulders if the place had to be refitted.
Nevertheless the offender insisted that he
had been addicted to the custom all his life
and had never caused a fire, and lie continued
the practice despite my expostulations. The
place was burned down finally, but he wasn’t
to blame; it was the result of rats gnawing
away the insulation of some batterv cables,
* * * '■.s
~, .... ’ .
9 or gio : ilie suggestion that Richard
Burton had gipsy blood in lnm because his
name was one common among English gipsies
'}'■ 19/4/33) is a shaky one. Gipsies in
ad countries have taken local names, mostly
well-known ones. In addition to Cooper
au d Lee, mentioned by ‘ Lara, one of the
commonest Romany names m England is
Stanley, yet I doubt if anyone would sug-
-B'est_ that the patrician house of Derby was
°f gipsy origin. In Scotland, Scottish names
are taken. One of the most famous on the
Border is Fea, the then head of the tribe of
that name having been elevated to the peer-
age by James 1., under the title of Earl of
Little Egypt.
A DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Elkin, lecturer on anthropology at Sydney
Uni., said that ‘among ourselves’ polygamy was
usually due to desire for change or variety, whereas
among the Australian aborigines it was pursued for
social and economic ends.’’
An apt and apposite reminder, truly!
So, when inclined to judge your fellow-
man,
Remember Boston’s far from Ballyhooley
And Ciapham quite remote from Marta-
ban ;
And where the ambulating abo. pillows
His ebon head, where desert dust-storms
burst,
Things are O.K. which might be peccadilloes
If noised abroad by Coogee’s creamy billows
Or (say) in Darlingliurst.
Never conclude, O moralist omniscient,
That lubras three behind a sable gent
Denote lie’s found one consort insufficient
For absolute connubial content.
His ways are not our ways, nor yet our
laws his.
Unlike, conceivably, some erring friends
Of yours who’ve tampered with Mosaic
clauses,
He grabs his extra gius for social causes
And economic ends.
Caucasian Bluebeards deprecate disclosure;
There’s few to downright sheikdom would
confess;
Most set themselves to obviate exposure
With ev’ry indication of success.
But the bland savage, the untutored nigger,
No dread of Grundy to deception drives.
Fact is he knows he cuts a finer figure,
His lot. more enviable grows, the bigger
His stock-in-hand of wives.
Ah, well, it’s always circs, that alter cases.
Morality, _ when all is said and done,
Is just a thing- of climes and skins and races,
Of latitude and ice and snow and sun.
Mere love of change may move the fickle
Aryan
To give polygamy a spin or whiz,
And call for homilies disciplinarian.
But there’s excuses for the gray barbarian :
It’s biz for him —just biz!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Jeames” : I learn from the ever-amusing
“Sun” that Sydney “is shortly to have its
first Book of Social Reference” :
The publisher is sending out little questionnaires
to ail those folk eligible for this signal honor, in
which it is required to know such intimate details
as ancestry (always a dangerous subject), distinc-
tions, clubs, pet charities.
I wonder if the publisher realises the mag-
nitude of his job. Sydney society is the
most transient thing of its kind on earth.
Our Capulets and Montagues usually con-
verge on the Edgecliff-Bellevue Hill sector
from outer suburbs at about the time they
enter the £5OOO-a-year class. Bill Bloggson,
say, may have made goo'd financially -as a
result of dealings in anything from socks
to shares; it doesn’t matter, provided he
really has made good. He decides to enter
society. Mrs. B. acquires a comic variant
on a Mayfair accent and -a pet charity. The
Misses B. are sent to a school where they
can meet the offspring of the already
arrived Personages who are avoiding their
parents. The girls grow up, acquire pet
THE DOMESTIC
PLAN.
“They’ve started off well
—he says he’s going to
be ruler in his own
house.”
“Oh, yes, he can be the
ruler, but if I’m a
judge of faces, the lady
will draw the line.”
charities, and begin to talk scornfully about
the latest quotas from their suburb of
origin. And now many of the families who
have all along refused to associate with Mr.
and Mrs. B. start moving on to England.
(Sydney’s static .or permanent families,
Knoxes, Stephens, Allens, Dangars, can be
numbered on the fingers of two hands with
ease.) The Bloggsons, for the first time
in their long years of strife and self-adver-
tisement, find themselves persons of relative
importance, eligible for inclusion in a social
register. And then Bill falls dead or goes
bankrupt, and the Old Bloggson Home, as
the tabloids have by now started calling it,
is taken over by some other aspiring family
from Burwood or Five Dock or wherever
it may be, and the process of family build-
ing begins all over again.
:J< ❖ * :{:
“Louisades”: If the writer of that par.
about strangling New Guinea widows (B.
19/4/’33) had read the report he refers to
more carefully, he would have seen that the
widows do insist on being strangled in order
to accompany the dear departed to the
shades. The custom is world-wide, though
there are valuations. In Rossel Island the
relicts had to lie beside the defunct under a
heap of heavy mats for 10 days. Strangling
was the penalty for showing signs of dis-
satisfaction with their part in the ceremonial.
Personally, I should have plumped for
strangulation at once as the lesser of two
evils. Rossel has an exceeding hot and
humid climate.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cruiser”: Touching the reference in The
Bulletin to modern art as “transmitted
emotion.” Bevies of schoolgirls were admitted
to Mrs. Zander’s show in Melbourne, where
they were lectured by leading modernists.
In the middle of one lecture a damsel fell
down in a dead faint. I cannot imagine a
higher tribute to the aims of the modernists.
sj: :}: s|:
“Katana”: Mention of the pogrom
launched by the Dutch on the Chinese
settlers in Batavia in the long ago (P>.
19/4/’33) recalls that the Japanese also
made some pretty play of a similar nature
with the Jesuits and their Christian con-
verts in the seventeenth century. Owing to
propaganda by the Dutch, the Jesuits and
some 50,000 of their followers were herded
into a narrow peninsula and massacred, men,
women and children, by Japanese swordsmen.
The Dutch, then seeking an extension of trad-
ing privileges with Japan, obligingly assisted
the Japanese by bombarding their fellow-
Christians from their ships.
“Oran”: I should hate to think of hand-
writing ever being taken as a test of
sobriety (B. 19/4/’33). Almost any physical
or mental exertion affects the hand, causing
a temporary unsteadiness that might turn
any signature into an accusation. I have
known a man to have his signature, penned
under stress, queried by his bank as beins
unlike his regular writing; and not long-
ago a Maoriland Minister, given a new
lease of life by a famous London doctor,
stated he sat for half an hour before his
hand was sufficiently steady to sign a
cheque. How much chance would “the lead-
ing actor in a nasty smash” have of pass-
ing the writing test?
4: 4= 4: 4=
“P.M.”: The internment camp at Lang-
warrin (Vic.) was not the largest in Aus-
tralia, and Major Conder was never in
charge of it (B. 12/4/’33). During the
early part of 1915, it consisted of two sec-
tions—the Internment Depot and the A.I.F.
V.D. Depot; Major Lloyd, a Gippsland Light
Horse officer, w T as in command. In August,
1915. of the 500 interned Germans,
all but 60 transferred to Liverpool
(N.S.W.), which was the largest depot in
Australia. The remaining 60 were sent to
Point Cook Flying School as a labor gang.
Langwarrin then became a V.D. camp only,
and it was not till long aftbr that Major
Conder took charge.
“Jeviel”: “Chevroford” (B. 12/4/’33)
exaggerates the dangers of the 1934 London-
Melbourne air race; it is unfair to compare
it with the disastrous Dole race, a lengthy
non-stop ocean flight necessitating accurate
navigating and a dash of luck to avoid miss-
ing Hawaii altogether. The England-Aus-
CONFIDENCES.
“Why ever do you call your husband Zippt”
“Because of the tight way he holds the purse together, of course.”
tralia route, despite all its perils, is one
on which many novice fliers have reached
the ranks of successful long-hoppers. Also
the specialised machines to be used in tiie
London-Melbourne race will further reduce
brdinary risks; in fact, the contest will
bring to Australia some of the finest long-
distance ’planes in existence.
* 4-- 4: 4=
“Mells”: At a recent discussion about the
form of a memorial to the late Mrs. Edith
Cowan, of Perth, it was emphasised that she
had put up a record that must endure —she
was Australia’s first woman legislator. It is
incontrovertible, of course, but it sets one
wondering who was the first male legislator
sent by a constituency to represent it in an
Australian Parliament; after all he has a
record equally unassailable. Yet if his
memory has ever been perpetuated in any
way I never heard of it. -
4: 4! 4! 4!
“Farleigh”: A notable feature of the
Moscow trial w T as the declaration of Home
Secretary Simon that not one of the accused
men had ever been employed, directly or in-
directly, by the British Government in the
collecting of information that could be used
for military purposes. Such a statement has
never been made before, and the fact that it
should have been thought necessary to make
it is an eloquent commentary on the rotten-
ness of the gravest charge made against the
Vickers _ engineers. Espionage of the kind
alleged is only undertaken for Governments :
to no other body could it be of any possible
use. And every Great Power doe.s employ
spies and buy information in peace-time
as in war-time, though hs little as possible'
is said about it. When the spy is caught at
his work in a foreign country, a heavy cur-
tain of silence almost invariably descends. He
knows, if he is guilty, that his principals
can do nothing for him; the very nature of
his calling ensures that. And it also ensures
that little more is ever likely to be heard
of him, however well he may have served his
country.
;|: * rj:
“Lao-dull": Melbourne “Age” has lately
been inviting its readers to send in their
lists of the 50 best Australian novels written
since 1900. In all the categories Bulletin
writers predominate—Katharine S. Prichard,
John Dailey, Vance Palmer, the Eldershaw
duo, Bernard Cronin, Norman Lindsay, F. D.
Davison (author of “Man-Shy”) amongst
others. A few of the cognoscenti have re-
membered “Such Is Life,” Tom Collins’s
neglected masterpiece. Fifty of the best is
too large a figure, but the symposium has
shown what a surprisingly large number of
worth-while books have been published since
Federation.
4= * 4j 4:
“Raeakiaki”: A Rotorua (M.L.) man had
to walk off his farm, broke. He heard
of a State Advances farm that was vacant,
and as an alternative to going on relief
work applied for it, ' provided the depart-
ment would waive rent for 12 months. It
took a. month for the reply to come; farm
not available. Knowing better, the man
pressed the matter through an M.P. This
time he was told to make an application on
the form enclosed. He did so, and six weeks
later was asked for the number of his family.
The information given, he was told the home-
stead was not suitable for housing a mar-
ried man. He persisted, knowing the farm-
stead. He was then fold he could have the
place if he spent £lOO on specified repairs.
He gave it up then. The farm is still un-
occupied and deteriorating every month,
while the man who offered to keep it from
falling further back at no expense to the
Government is a relief worker and a charge
on the State.
* * * *
“Cato”: In an article dealing with the
ever-changing fashions in whiskers and
beards —the latter are said to be coming back
into their own among naval men—a Sydney
paper remarks that the imperial, a mous-
tache combined with a pointed tuft spring-
ing from mid-chin, arrived in the ’seventies
and was “popularised by the ill-fated Prince
Louis Napoleon, killed by the Zulus.” I
suggest that it was his father, Napoleon 111.,
who gave it its vogue and its name. Web-
ster’s dictionary supplements its informa-
tion on the ■word with a cut of a stout gentle-
man facially ornamented thus, one who
couldn’t be mistaken for a man who died at
23. The imperial, I fancy, lingered longest
among painters and South American Presi-
dents and generals; a well-known Sydney
artist sported one up to his death a couple of
years ago.
* 4= * *
“.T.R.K.”: “Link’s” gold chain (B.
29/3/’33) compares but poorly with one
that I handled in the hectic day.s of Charters
Towers, when taste in jewellery ran to the
massive. It was 12in. long and each oval-
shaped link went -SAdwt. The whole weighed
a little under soz. It was made to the order
of Pat Hehir, of Victoria Downs station ; I
helped.
* 4: 4* 4=
“The Goy” : Had the Commonwealth been
willing “000’s” speculation about Jews
occupying the Northern Territory (B.
19/4/’33) might have been fact ten years
ago. During the early Soviet coercion of
peasantry, largely Jewish, in the Ukraine
and Little Russia, Victorian Jewry ran an
“underground railway” from the Black Sea
to Port Phillip, an organisation providing
and transmitting funds and employing rescue
agents in Sovietland. The system was work-
ing well enough for representatives of Jewry
to approach Bruce with a scheme for found-
ing a sort of Chosen State in Northern Aus-
tralia. He jibbed at it, and the plan was
abandoned.
4: 4= 4= *
“A.L.” : There’s an excuse sometimes for
the detention of false teeth (B. 29/3/’33), I
gathered from a dentist who complained that
two sets that should have been paid for had
been handed over on doubtful security that
day. His clients, he pointed out, always
grabbed the repaired teeth and put them
in their mouths to test the fitting, and once
in, if they demur about payment, pincers
can’t drag them out of the mouth again.
Lawful payment must be left to their con-
sciences, or maybe the debt collectors.
4! 4= 4= *
“Pawang” : “Chirurgeon” justifies the use
of Latin in medical prescriptions on the
ground that this makes them dispensable
in foreign pharmacies (B. 29/3/’33). _ How
many prescriptions written in Australia are
made up abroad? No doubt there are
complicated medicines which are most easily
described under their Latin aliases, but 1
have never yet met a doctor who could even
prescribe a dose of salts night and morn-
ing without dragging in his absurd dead
language. Moreover, the g.p., like the
ordinary citizen, is apt to be mesmerised by
the lordly nomenclature of the manufac
turing chemists. A more than usually frank
doctor whom I consulted recently on account
of a small boy read out some printed direc-
tions and a string of formulae 'which soil ruled
as solemn as a Buddhist incantation. ( “And
that,” he remarked as he finished, “means
just as much to me as it does to you.
worms was the trouble in question.
A CHANT OF THE DEVIL’S PIPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though experience teaches, I’m fain to
confess
There are matters in plenty that puzzle
me yet;
For example, the fashions in feminine dress;
One Douglas on credit (and dozens on
debt) ;
The wonderful ways of a maid with a man,
And the wiles of a wife with cold spinach
and prunes;
But a problem profounder—resolve it who
can—
Is why should the Devil have all the
good tunes?
I wonder at times if the oyster makes love.
When the waters grow gold with the
beacon of spring
Does he swear by the sun-sprinkled ripples
above
To his sweetheart for ever to cleave and
to cling?
Art, friends, may be long, but the artist
must pass,
And the feast wears away, and the dawn
is eftsoons!
Drink deep! let there linger no wine in the
glass
When we’ve gone to the Devil with all
the good tunes.
This world’s full of wonders and wondering
why,
Of riddles full many and reasons but few;
And if angels trip past, o’er the star-
cobbled sky
They must shake their blonde tresses at
me and at you—
Such absurd little creatures, so quaint and
so queer,
With our fashions and passions and penny
balloons,
On our Bedlamite planet where nothing is
clear
Save the fact that the Devil has all the
good tunes!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLWAY.


yhe dipstic/i Ml profiG it.
Drain your crankcase and refill with SHELL OIL.
The Dipstick will prove its Greater Mileage and
Economy .... Start testing today.
« «
\\!\|
%
is batter
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some May birthdays
Prof. G. G*. Henderson, M.A., 63, and Vic. Crown
Prosecutor Book, 38, on Ist.; Senator Charles Cox,
70, on 2nd; Justice Rich (High Court), 70, Prof.
Laby (Melb.), 63, Colin Stephen (Syd.), 61, and
Chas. Glover (Lud Mayor, of Adelaide for seventh
time), 63, on 3rd; C. L. Abbott, M.H.R., 47, Chas.
Earle (“Dominion,” MX.), 62, and David Gordon,
M. (Adel.), 68, on 4th; T. R. Bavin, 69, and
Douglas Mawsori, 61, on 6th; former Vic. Premier
Prendergast, 79, on 6th; -J. T. Heathershaw (Federal
Treasury),• 62, and Harold Clapp (Vic. Railways),
68, on 7th; J. C. V. Behan, M.A. (Trinity Coll.,
Melb.), 52, and Col. Lord (Tas. police chief), 63,
oil Bth; Geo. Mackaness, 51, on 9th; Claude Read*
ing, 69, and N, F. Spielvogel (Vic.), 59, on 10th;
Canon Hughes (Melb.), 73, on 12th; Bishop James
(St. Arnaud), 56, on 13th; ex-S. Aus. Premier
Hill, 52, and ex-N.S.W. Senator P. Pi Abbott, 64,
on 14th; Q. Chief Justice Blair, 62, on 16th;
Newton Moore (sometime Premier W.A.), 63, and
Leon Gellert, 41, on 17th; Brig. Harold Grimwade,
64, Dr. P. R. Cole (Syd. Teachers’ Coll.), 54, W.
B. Mclnnes, 44, and J. A. Perkins (Min. for the
Interior), 55, on 18th; ex-P.M.G. Gibson, 64, and
F. J. Rae (Director Melb. Botanic Gardens), 50, on
20th; Justice Parsons (S.A.), 61, Judge Beeby, 64, and
N. Min. for Lands Buttenshaw, 57, on 23rd;
Q. ex-Gov. Goodwin, 62, and William Vicars (Syd.),
74, on 24th; Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 71, Fred Waley
(Syd.), 73, and Brig. McNicoll, M.H.R., 56, on
27th; ex-N.S.W. Chief Justice Cullen, 78, arid ex-
Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 82, on 28th; former
Melb. Uni. Prof. Berry, 66, and Prof. Steele (Q.),
63, on 30th ; Q, Senator Foil, 43, and Capt. Brace-
girdle (G.-G.’s staff), 52, on 31st.
Vice-Admiral William Rooke Creswell, dead
in Melbourne at 81, will always be recalled
as advocating, as long as 50 years ago, the
establishment of an Australian navy to re-
place the British squadron subsidised by this
country. He lived to see his dream come
true, and at the time of his retirement in
1919 he was Director of the Commonwealth
Naval Forces and Naval Member of the
Commonwealth Defence Board. Entering
the Royal Navy in 1865, the Admiral saw-
much service before launching out as a
pastoralist in Queensland, to become later
Naval Commandant in South Australia. He
filled the same position for Queensland in
1900, transferring to the Commonwealth
when it came into being. A brother, Colonel
F. H. P. Creswell, was until recently Min-
ister of Defence in South Africa.
While W. R. Creswell was commander-in-
chief of the navy of South Australia he
married a daughter of Judge Stow; and the
lady survives him. Between them, father
and daughter, the Stows cover practically the
whole life of South Aus. —the lad who was
later to become Judge Stow arrived less
than a year after the province was “pro-
claimed.” A brother of the Judge, the
Creswell lady’s uncle, was Jeff Stow, of the
“Advertiser,” the most picturesque daily-
paper editor S.A. ever harbored.
W. E. H. FERGUSON, Brisbane P.M.
In William Harry Tietkeus, who died at
Lithgow (N.S.W.) at 89, Australia has lost
a veteran explorer who took part in some not-
able expeditions in the ’seventies and ’eighties.
Tietkens, London-born and a Bluecoat boy,
arrived in Australia when still in his ’teens.
He was with Ernest Giles on a journey
into Central Australia in ’72. Two years later,
as second in command to the same leader,
he made the long trek from Beltana
(S. Aus.) to Perth. Hq was one of
the first to discern the possibilities (still
unrealised) of the Nullarbor Plain; he was
convinced that there were immense supplies
of subterranean water running to waste in
the Bight, which, if they could only be
tapped, would open up vast stretches of
country for pastoral purposes; the late John
Forrest shared this view. Tietkens’s last
expedition on any scale was in ’S9, from
Alice Springs to Charlotte Waters. He was
an F.R.G.S.
H. C. Ilogben,
who reaches the
S. Aus. Assem-
bly at the second
try, is one of the
young lions of
the Liberal and
Country party.
He is a son of
the Rev. George
Hogben, a vet-
eran of the
Baptist Church,
held in affection-
ate remembrance
and still living.
The son (a
brother was in
the Agent - Gen-
eral’s office) is a
public accountant
who took the
Economics course,
and lie can talk
effectively. He
sits for suburban
Sturt.
Townsville is
preparing to' cele-
brate the 20th
anniversary of
the Bishop of
N.Q.’s gaiters.
They deserve it.
Before he came
to Australia as a
Bush Brother,
Dr. Feetham was
a slum-worker in
Bethnal Green
for eight years;
he rose to be
principal of that
fine company; the
Bush Brotlier-
H. C. HOGBEN, one
of the new members
, for Sturt ( S.A. ).
hood; and as
Bishop of N.Q. he has been still a
Bush Brother. The North knows him too
well to offer him a personal gift; but it is
going to try to pay off the last of the debt on
his diocesan schools.
John Waddington, chairman of Great
Boulder, the oldest of London-controlled
Westralian gold-mining cos., was 78 on April
5. His connection with the West dates
back to 1883, when he took a hand in the
establishment of the Midland Railway Co.
—he was the original concessionaire. Later
lie was prominent among the promoters of
Boulder and other Golden Mile flotations.
He is a director of Associated Northern and
Wiluna.
Colonel J. C. .Wickham, D. 5.0., who is
visiting Australia on leave from India, bears
a name well known in this country. Ninety
years ago his grandfather, also J. C. Wick-
ham, retired from the Royal Navy and was
appointed police magistrate and Govern-
ment Resident in Brisbane. He had com-
manded HitS, Beagle during her voyage
round the world; it was he who named
Darwin after the renowned naturalist of the
Beagle. In Brisbane Captain Wickham
married and reared a family. The eldest
son became a gunner officer in the British
Army, reaching the rank of colonel. The
representative of the family now in Aus-
tralia is his son and is a sapper.
“A.S.K.”; The late A. G. Stephens cer-
tainly had the run of the late W. H. Groom’s
printing office at Toowoomba; but he did
not learn the trade there. H'is father, S.G.,
was part-owner of the “Darling Downs
Gazette” (White and Stephens), and as a
youngster A.G. used to poke about the com-
posing-room. A very intricate piece of typo-
graphy in the shape of a big sheet almanac
was kept standing in type from year to year.
A.G. on one of his explorations wanted to
see if he could lift this mass of metal from
the “stone.” He lifted it. but it got away
from him, and the mess those mixed founts
made as they pied was a nightmare of the
office for years after. Eventually young
Stephens was sent down to Sydney and
handed over to a Mr. Beard, who ran a
lucrative printery in George-street. Fifty-
one years ago, coming down to Sydney, I
called to see how my young friend was get-
ting on. “You can’t keep the young devil
from his books,” Beard told me. The
mechanics of the business had no interest
for him, and he dropped them as soon as he
could.
One of the oldest pioneers of the Clarence
River, G. S. Munns, passed out the other
day at 91. His father, Captain Munns,
master mariner, and Dr. Dobie were two
of the first five white men to cross in over
the Clarence bar. G. S. Munns was born
near Maitland, but left there early in life
for the northern district.
Journalist J. M. Drew is the oldest member
of Westralia’s new Ministry, both in years
and Parliamentary service. Drew entered the
Leg. Council a few months before Federation
(of which, by the way, he was always an un-
swerving opponent) and, except from ’lB to
’24, lie has been there since. He was a mem-
ber of the first Labor Ministry (’O4-’O5) and
he has been a Minister, as well as leader of
the Upper House, in every subsequent one.
Drew is one of the very few prominent
Laborites in Westralia who are natives of the
State; he was born at Northampton, whither
his parents came from Ireland in the days
wffien lead and copper were the colony’s
most precious metals.
Melbourne University has a first-year
medical student who is unique. He is J.
Bernickc, the first native-born inhabitant of
Nauru to be sent abroad for education, the
Commonwealth Government having given
him the chance so that he may return and
minister to his fellow-islanders. Nauru fas-
cinates scientific men. In order to acquire
its blanket of bird manure it must have had
periods when it was above the surface of
the ocean and without human inhabitants.
So that the guano might be turned into
phosphate the island had to sink. The
seawater has to leach out the phosphate
from the guano and the latter must be
coagulated under pressure. This has hap-
pened several times with Nauru. The pre-
sent inhabitants art 1 Polynesian, but speak a
language with unidentified elements.
The “mother church” of the Congrega-
tionalists in Australia is having a centenary,
though it looks as if Tasmania beat the
mainland by a year or two. Generally, the
church records of those early days are foggy.
There no doubt was a “chapel” in Sydney
before the site of the present Pitt-street
tabernacle was secured. And before that
again there was a schoolmaster named Crook
(he ran the first boarding-school in Aus-
tralia, at the corner of Hunter and Bligh
streets), who held services in his school-
room. (But when he proceeded to hold a
communion service old Sam Marsden fell on
him; and that part of the programme had
to be cut out.) The Independents’ first
regular chapel in Pitt-street was where the
School of Arts is now; the present site
doesn’t seem to have been occupied till 1841.
No man used to be better known on Mel-
bourne’s Poverty Point than Alec Isaacson,
who has managed every sort of theatrical
show from a Tiny Town to grand opera. An
early collection of dwarfs he brought to
Australia turned the scale collectively at
34 stone; subsequently he had charge of an
Italian opera troupe, two of whose prima
donnas between them exceeded that figure.
ALEC ISAACSON, old-time Melbourne
showman, now in the broadcasting
business.
His private passion is medals, and he has a
complete set of Allied and German Great
War decorations. On Anzac Day parades
he furnishes soldiers who have lost or sold
their emblems with replicas, under an ar-
rangement with the Commonwealth authori-
ties. These days he studio-manages 3KZ,
the station that broadcasts from an ante-
chamber of the Trades Hall.
Shann having gone back to his job at
the University in Perth, his friend Hytten,
professor of Economics at Hobart, has been
given 12 months’ leave to sit at the feet of
general-manager Davidson, of the Bank of
N. S. Wales, and take the part of Economic
Adviser. Of all these economists Shann can
Professor HYTTEN, economic adviser of
the Bank of N. S. Wales.
write the most readable stuff; but Hytten
isn’t far behind. He is not new to the job
of Economic Adviser: he has been in attend-
ance on most of the Speck’s political dele-
gations to the mainland for years past.
John Bitchener, who has been chosen to
succeed Downie Stewart in Maoriland’s
Government, is a typical farmer—stolid and
cautious. Born 70 years ago in the English
Midlands, he came to Maoriland in 1878.
and has spent all his life in South Canter-
bury. He entered Parliament in 1919 : for
some years past he has been Government
Whip.
Nonagenarian William Ardlie, of Warr-
nambool, the oldest practising solicitor in
Vic., if not in Australia, passed over last
week, He was born at Moonee Ponds, and
went to Warrnambool with his father in
1852. His pursuit of Costs started in 1864.
Told by AVasley, J., in a will case
that his evidence was “more like an
advocate’s speech than the testimony of
a medical witness,” Dr. S. V. Sewell
demanded that the remark should be
withdrawn. ’Sonah replied tartly, “I will
not withdraw. That is my opinion.” Dr.
Sewell, as tartly, “Then I object to your
opinion.” Dr. Sewell is one of .Collins-
street’s leading medicine men, has an opu-
lent estate at Berwick, and six children who
all ride to the hunt.
Colonel G. A. Ferguson, dead in Brisbane
at 61, was Director of the State Children’s
Department in his native State, and was
connected with the State and Federal De-
fence forces since lie began as a boy with
the Brisbane Grammar School cadets. He
formed the 26th Battalion of the A.I.F. and
served with it on Gallipoli and in France,
being severely wounded and winning the
D.S.O.
The late A. G. Stephens, like his old Bul-
letin associate James Edmond, was respon-
sible for a gleam of lightness in the ponder-
ous pages of “Who’s AVho.” Stephens (who
signed himself A. G. Gower Stephens of
recent years) gave his recreations as “read-
ing, writing and arithmetic.” Edmond’s
recreations are set down as “when younger,
pedestrianism and mountain-climbing; now
when the money runs to if,
which happens now and then.”
Dr. M. 11. Downey, dead suddenly in Adel-
aide at 54, studied under Beattie Smith in
Melbourne. He was in the Boer War as a
very young man, and then specialised at
Edinburgh in mental disease, finally becom-
ing head of Parkside, Adelaide’s chief asy-
lum. In Belgium he gained a D.S.O. and
the rank of colonel. His son Don is a bril-
liant young lawyer and one of the stars of
Adelaide Repertory Theatre.
W. L. Russell Clarke, M.L.C., who is off
to England for a holiday, lias been 23 years
in the Vie. Leg. Council; his present term
lasts till 1936. He represents Southern
Province, which includes part of the district
which elected his late dad, the first baronet,
and his brother Rupert, the second baronet,
to the same House. His brother Frank has
been President of the Leg. Council for the
past 10 years and was previously a Minister.
Russell served with the A.LF., enlisting as
private when well up in years, and gained a
couple of pips.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
i W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. g. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends- —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits.(7* p.c.) Ord, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,360
*Declared but not paid.
The big plant and the staff are both highly
efficient, and the co. has a very extensive
goodwill, of which no account is taken in
the books. Still, these things don’t mean all
that they might unless production can be main-
tained at a satisfactory level. Last year
additions were made to the Margam mill to
provide for the manufacture of steel plates,
and orders for these were received from all
over the Commonwealth and Maoriland. But
the plant as a whole worked only intermit-
tently ; sales for the first two-thirds of the
term were the lowest yet. Hence the meagre
profit (£2203/ down £15,868) and the
absence of divs.
There is £3,292,382 of capital to feed in a
million 74 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,700,007
ords.; a further £407,625 could be got
in on the ords. when the books closed.
The statutory cut of 224 p.c. has lowered
the pref. div. to a shade over 5.7 p.c.
(= £57,125 p.u.) from Oct. 1. Thus there will
be £186,000-odd (= 3s. 9d. per share) com-
ing to the prefs. at the end of November
next. Trade improved towards the close of
last accounts; but the market, doubtful
when divs. are likely to flow again, prices
the scrip at 11s. 6d. The backing is
£3 10s. 4d. in net tangibles, all plant,
etc., worth what it can earn. The ords.,
which are not listed, are held mostly by tne
Hoskinses —out of their allotment (1,446,400
ords.) they handed Dorman Long 396,400
shares and Howard Smith 50,000 shares for
coming into the venture.
The co. paid £jL,771,400, or £443,731 less
than their net book value, for Hoskins’s
assets at Lithgow and elsewhere. Dorman
Long’s structural steel business in Australia,
excluding the Sydney Harbor Bridge con-
tract, was bought for £399,136, and a heavy
steel-rolling mill was purchased from Bald-
wins (Eng.) for £168,000. On the strength
of all this and the old co.’s earnings, the
public snapped 675,000 prefs. to help finance
the venture. Results for the first two years
were ahead of prospectus estimates, not-
withstanding that the first blast furnace
was not blown in until after the middle
of 1928, and that the transfer of the mer-
chant bar and structural steel mills from
Lithgow and the erection of the 36in. mill
from Baldwins were not completed till 1931.
In 1929 enough profit was claimed to pay
the pref. div. and show 7.7 p.c. on average
ord. capital, and a 5 p.c. div. was declared :
it was not paid owing to the sudden change
in outlook. The plant slowed down
as expenditure on public works eased and
the slackness in the construction and other
trades reduced the demand for iron and
steel products.
At Nov. 30 the book value of fixed assets
was only £119,094 less than paid capital and
reserves combined. So, to carry shares in
other cos. with a book value of £391.309
and more or less liquids totalling £448,708,
the board had gone to its bankers and others
for £720,923, which includes the ord. div.
(£91,675) already referred to:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capital.. 2,741,037 3,253,007 3,279,257 3,292,382
Sundry
creditors 475,215 770,443* 697,607* 720,923*
Fixed
assets . . 2,277,672 3,212,596 3,326,492 3,415,654
Shares other
cos. .. 242,918 391,309 391,309 391,309
Stocks .. 494,361 430,907 289,938 264,432
Book debts 351,617 188,652 191,814 164,537
Investments,
cash, etc. 21,695 22,078 17,474 19,738
*lncludes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
Last year £89,182 was added to the book
value of plant, etc., and £2264 to cash, etc.
To do this an extra £13,125 of capital was
gathered, £23,316 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, and debtors’
balances and stocks were reduced by £27,277
and £25,506 respectively. Excluding arrears
of pref. divs. and shares in other cos.
(chiefly scrip in Southern Portland Cement
and Southern Blue Metal, both disappoint-
ments), liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £272,216, which was £73,845
more than the excess at the close of accounts
in 1931.
Union Trustee Cos.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £,£,£.
1923.. 15,309 10 p.c. = 11,000 31,814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~ 11,000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20,853 10 „ ~11,000 47,691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 „ ~ 11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~ 11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 („„„
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) 1100
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 (
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) 040
Transferred to capital, £12,500. .59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,376 ( R 1 SQn 74
Staff Super. Fund, £IOOO J 01,8au
1932. . 10,044 64 p.c. = 8,938 ( R -i qq R -iqnq
Staff Super. Fund, £IOOO ) 01,996 12 9
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 f afit - , 7lft
Staff Super. Fund, £SOO J 61,865 _ 1710
This co., which has strong connections in
pastoral circles, started in Melbourne 4S
years ago; it lias since set up outposts at
Sydney, Brisbane and Townsville. It does
not disclose the volume of trusts on hand,
but its corpus and other earnings have suf-
fered severely from the fall in values, cuts
in interest and rents and growth of taxa-
tion, while the moratorium and lifeless state
of the property market have delayed the
winding up of estates: —-
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 .. .. £17,318 £9,728 56.1
1920 . . 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 . . . . 80,658 59,805 74.1
1929 . . . . 95,036 74,695 78.6
1930 ■ • ■ ■ 104,567 83,534 79.8
1931 . . . . 98,904 80,895 81.7
1932 . . . . 89,833 77,789 86.5
1933 . . . . 83,880 73,261 87.3
The great difficulty has been to reduce the
cost of handling the business in proportion to
the fall in earnings. Exes, were reduced a
further £4528 last year; yet they made off
with an extra 16s. of each £IOO of income.
After setting aside £2OOO for taxation, the
net result was 6.2 p.c. on capital as against
7.3 p.c. and 11.6 p.c. for the two preceding
years; so half a point was knocked off the
div., reducing it to 6 p.c. Still, the £37,500
of reserves capitalised since 1920 makes
6 p.c. worth 8.2 p.c. on old par holdings. To
pay 6 p.c. on capital as it now stands, the
co.’s own funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) need net only 4.1 p.c. And that is
leaving out of the reckoning whatever profits
there may be from the trust business, which
can be expected to grow.
At the end of February shareholders’
funds were in premises, £131,681; public
securities, etc., £62,457; mortgages, £1508;
book debts, £6108; cash, etc., £6030. There
was only £B3 coming to creditors.
The shares are 50s. paid to 275. 6d.; all
but 2s. 6d. of the remaining 225. 6d. is a
reserve liability callable only in the event of
liquidation. They fetch 445. in the market
as against 365. a year ago. At 445. the
return is 3.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or
5 p.c. should the distribution rise to 8 p.c.
The net tangible backing amounts to 295. Bd.
per pound of paid capital.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 p.c. = 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 5600 12J „ „ 37,500 440 43,196
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45.336 5600 12* „ „ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO . . .. 48,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 .. .. 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 Hi „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. ... 115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. .. 99,769
5.4 p.c.
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 88,780
*After deducting bonuses to staff.
Blessed with an alert and enterprising
management, this co. (it was founded by the
Wunderlichs in the eighties of last century)
has developed into the largest and most suc-
cessful of its kind in Australasia. It turns
out metal ceilings, shop fronts, show cases,
tiles, terra-cotta and other architectural
embellishments and furnishings, and its fac-
tories are scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland.
During the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930 shareholders put up an extra
£140.000 of capital, while divs. aver-
aged a shade over 12 p.c., and £74,009,
including £45,000 of share premiums, was
visibly added to reserves. In addition,
£107,369 worth of share certificates to staff-
partners was paid for out of earnings, and
£36,454 was distributed in dividends thereon.
But slump and moratorium and other legis-
lation have brought operations in the build-
ing and ancillary trades almost to a stand-
still ; hence the abrupt contraction in earn-
ings. Over the last three years reserves
of one kind and another have had to be
tapped for £44,606 to pay the pref. divs.
and give the ords. a regular 5 p.c.
Last year’s declared net result (£15,725)
advanced £4316. No specific allowance was
made for depreciation, but £B6OO was spent
on renovations, etc., and charged against
earnings; a further £9917 was spent on
extensions of property and plant, and
a like amount of reserves was rubbed
out. Also £10,051 was brought into
p. and 1. from undisclosed specific reserves
no longer required. Thus, after handing
shareholders £26,714, the net shrinkage m
visible reserves was £10,855, leaving them
£88,780 in excess of goodwill, not treated
as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
Paid capital: 1920. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Shareholders’ £379,666 £520,000 £520,000 £520,000
Employees’. 14,040 81,673 50,100 39,700
Liabilities .. 38,244 66,855 62,148 111,919
Freeholds . • 151,559 347,538 347,538 380,142
Leaseholds .. 9,659 1,027 1,003 801
Plant etc. .. 108,926 242,990 242,990 242,990
Stocks .. 136,396 138,140 109,401 109,490
Book debts •• 64,342 32,972 33,64* 33,901
Cash, etc. .. 16,598 18,891 10,736 6,436
The year’s contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£37.908, including stocks)
was £53,728, of which £32,604 was on
account of a mortgage, previously deducted
from the book value of freeholds it was
raised in 1929 in connection with the pur-
chase of a kindred business in Westralia.
The other £21,000-odd represented with-
drawals totalling £10,400 from the staff part-
nership fund (now £39,700), and expendi-
ture on additions to plant, etc. The amount
coming to sundry creditors (£79,315) in-
creased by £17,167.
The £520,000 of capital is in 40,000 first
and a like number of second prefs. and
440,000 ords. The prefs. carry a nominal
7 p.c. cumulative, which has been reduced
to 5.425 p.c. by the statutory cut. They
are priced at 21s. on the market; at which
figure the return is 5.1 p.c. The ords. at
17s. 6d. yield 5.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The board, having found fresh opportuni-
ties for the extension of the business, is
giving shareholders first offer of 80,000 new
£1 7 p.c. cum. third prefs. at 21s. each in
parcels of five shares or multiples thereof.
The issue will rank for capital and divs.
after the first and second prefs. and in
priority to the ords. The div. will not be
subject to the present statutory cut of 221
p.c.; thus at 21s. these shares will return
an attractive £6 13s. p.c. When the issue
is fully subscribed and paid, it will call for
£5600 p.a., making total pref. requirements
(while the div. on the firsts and seconds
remains at 5.4 p.c.) £10,314 p.a., or £5411
less than was netted last year. On the basis
of figures at the close of accounts, the book
value of the net tangible cover will be
£l7 4s. sd. firsts, £l6 4s. sd. seconds, £7 12s.
2d. thirds, 245. ords.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd.
In the following table goodwill (£10,000),
preliminary exes. (£Bl2 to commence) and
patents are not treated as assets:——
, Dividends x To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles £32 .. .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 . . • • 9,114
1929. ,39,590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 . . • • 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added Intangibles, £9O . . . . 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil = 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added Intangibles, £8 .. . . 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil = 12,030 2,800 52,702
Pref. div, subject 22£ p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
Domestic and other differences were given an
airing at an extraordinary general meeting
of shareholders last month. Shareholders
expressed their confidence in the. board,
which now reports that the matter is being
dealt with by arbitration. It involved a
claim by the Lustre Cos. for over £BOOO in
connection with debts said to be guaranteed
by Henry H. York and Go. and others.
The co., which was formed in 1921, ex-
panded rapidly, and it looked as though it
might develop into a steady 10 p.c. proposi-
tion. But slump flooded the market .with
stocks, prices suffered, and discriminating in-
dustrial legislation in N, S. Wales brought
unequal competition from Victoria,. de-
priving the co. of some of the early benefits
from the fresh opportunities which the tariff
and exchange provided. Earnings collapsed,
the pref. div. fell into arrears and the ords.
have gone without for the last three years.
Over the last two of them, however, there
has been a heartening improvement in the
figures, due partly to better production
methods and savings in administration and
distribution charges, which allowed the co. to
further lower its prices. Also, selling
branches have been opened in Melbourne
and Brisbane. The spring in last year’s
gross earnings (£128,452) was £22,447.
Exes. (£113.825) took £18,068 of the in-
crease, leaving enough, including minor
reserve adjustments, to meet a year’s pref.
requirements (7f p.c. after allowing for the
statutory cut) and then show 5 p.c. on the
£166,667 of ord. capital as against a shade
under 1 p.c. for the previous term. The
prefs.’ slate was cleaned to the end of 1931,
leaving £12,916 to come at the end of this
year.
Balance-sheet movements are encouraging:
1928. 1929. 1931. 1932.
£££,£,
Ord. capital.. 133,334 1 „, 0 7ro ( 166,667 166,667
Pref. „ .. 66,666 ) | 83,333 83,333
Overdraft . . 35,386 43,171 59,070 48,910
Creditors .. 67,434 94,940 28,095 35,391
Freeholds .. 27,615 40,472 41,600 41,600
Plant . . 87.015 135,934 140,530 135,864
Stocks . . 123,115 180,527 128,228 124,042
Debtors . . 95,556 85,239 95,371 104,451
Cash, etc. . . 1,179 1,352 1,691 2,831
Thus, while £10.160 was knocked off the
overdraft and £9OBO was added to debtors’
balances, only £7296 was tacked on the
amount coming to trade creditors. Includ-
ing stocks (down £4186), the more or less
liquid surplus (£147,023) improved £BS9S
during the twelvemonth.
The market prices the ords. at 11s. as
against ss. 9d. a year ago. Over the same
period the prefs. have advanced from 16s.
to 255. The return, at 255. is 0.2 p.c. on a
7f p.c. div. basis. The net tangible back-
ing, mainly plant, worth what it can earn,
is £3 12s. Bd. prefs., 265. 4d. ords.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 32,921 8 p.c. = 31,828 1,093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ ~ 35,997 1,103 109,505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40,000 2,376 111,881
1925.. 47,371 10 „ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares .. 32,500 151,752
1926 " 64,924 10 .P' C ;= 4 \’ 9 'c l 7.950 159,702
Staff provident fund, £SOOO )
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 —(. 7 5 , 5 167 537
Staff provident fund, £IOOO ) lb/,OiW
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 ( . 004 168 541
Staff provident fund, £3OOO )
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. = 52,974 —l ]6 33c 184 ,877
Staff provident fund, £3500 j IG ’^ () 184,8
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,87/
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295
Staff provident fund, £3500 ) ’
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 1 , 469 143,461
Staff provident fund, £3OOO )
1932.. 49,052 7J p.c. =43,725 —( 2,827 146,28 S
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
1933.. 47,125 74 p.c. =43,725 I 900 147,188
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
Considering the size of its plant and stocks,
this co. has weathered the storm very well
to date. It runs four fertiliser works, four
drug warehouses and a pharmaceutical fac-
tory. During the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930 it added over half a million
net to the book value of plant and stocks,
mainly on account of super., and leant upon
outsiders for an extra £175,813, raising the
debt to £252,463, as the following comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows :
1920. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Capital . . £367,140 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities ~ 76,650 252,463 157,327 129,268
Factories, etc. 140,114 466,943 431,767 413,942
Stock.. .. 188,874 373,891 295,222 304,450
Book debts .. 105,283 172,094 146,015 133,825
Cash, etc. .. 133,976 39,429 33,058
So, over the last three years, £123,295
has been knocked off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. fthe etcetera might
mean that the staff provident fund is in-
cluded), and £33,058 of cash and invest-
ments has been accumulated. To do this stocks
and book debts have been reduced by £69,441
and £38,269 respectively. Allowances for de-
preciation and surplus earnings have provided
the rest, together with divs, averaging 8J p.c.
But not much encouragement is to be
had from movements in the figures over the
last 12 months; they reflect continued slack-
ness in the business. However, finances
are comfortable; more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £342,065 when the books closed,
the slip being £1274 over the twelvemonth.
Both stocks and debtors’ balances are
claimed to be valued at a safe figure; and
much depends upon that. The premises and
plant, too, are said to have been maintained
in first-class order out of revenue.
Gross earnings fell away a further £13,431,
of which £11,504 was offset by savings m
exes.—•
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1929 . . 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
1930 . . 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1931 .. 177,996 115,227 64.7
1932 . . 145,388 96,336 66.2 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
Enough remained to show 8 p.c. on capital
as against 8.4, 10.7 and 12.3 p.c. for the
three preceding years, and the div. was kept
at 7i p.c.
llow the current term will pan out it is
difficult to say. The Government subsidy
of 11s. per ton to manufacturers of super,
continues to be a big help ; but export prices
are shockingly low; it is too early yet to
say definitely what effect developments in
connection with the Soviet will have upon
the price of butter. Certainly the spring
of 15 p.c, in the exchange premium on
London, making it 25 p.c., will afford a little
relief to producers, but it will be an extra
burden upon this co. so far as its imports
are concerned.
The market prices the fully-paid £2 shares
at 58s. The return at that figure is 5.2 p.c.
on a 7-1 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
£2 10s. "id. per share in net tangibles.
Ulawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 ~ 10,500 10 p.c. = 10,000 500 1,887
1923 . . 10,045 10 „ „ 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 „ „ 10,000 47 1,979
1925 . . 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 .. 6,542 7 „ „ 7,00.0 1,563
1927 . . 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 .. 8,626 8 ~ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500.. .. 15,198
1929 . . 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 ~ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 . . 8,058 8 ~ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 . . 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
The dry spell on the N. S. Wales South
Coast, which affected the 1932 figures, broke
half-way through the last term, and. the
co.’s ships carried more produce. But freights
were lowered, and the board put profit at
£8 less than the previous year’s, and kept
the div. at 8 p.c. There is nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest a recession in
(Continued on page 16.)


THE BANK OF
ADELAIDE
SIXTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
of the Directors to the Shareholders.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 27th March, 1933, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 27th
March, 1933 (including the balance brought forward
from the previous year, £40,5 71/2/2), amounts to
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 4 per
cent, per annum was paid in November last
Leaving available
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for
the half-year ended 2 7th March, 1933, at the rate of
4 per cent, per annum, payable after the General
Meeting on 3rd May, 1933
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . .
£94,298 8 0
25,000 0 0
£69,298 8 0
25,000 0 0
£44,298 8 0
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 3rd May, 1933, at
1 2 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in place of Mr. A. G. Rymill, who retires in accordance with the Articles of
Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year,
and fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
BALANCE SHEET, 27th March, 1933.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up. £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,000,000 0 0
I’i'ofU and Loss 69,298 8 0
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation and other
Liabilities
Balances due to other Banks ..
Deposits-
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted
£2,319,298 8 0
6,599 0 0
01,744 17 11
283,951 3 9
G,667,037 8 3
46,702 17 2
£9,385,333 15 1
Contingent Liabilities, consisting- of
Letters of Credit, etc. . . . . £243,262 16 9
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion and
Cash Balances.. £36,620 19 2
Australian Notes
and Cash with
Com womvealth
Bank of Aus-
tralia . . . . 1,037,023 3 1
Government Securi-
—£3,924,591 15 10
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 345,361 4.11
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted
and all other Advances, after
providing for Contingencies . . 5,115,380 14 4
£9,385,333 15 1
Liabilities, of Customers on Letters ,
of Credit, etc., as per Contra . . £243,262 16 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Year from 28th March, 1932, to 27th March, 1933.
To Dividend in May,
1932 . . . . £25,000 0 0
~ D i v i d e n d in
November, 1932 . . 25,000 0 0
Balance 27th March, 1933
£50,000 0 0
09,298 8 0
By Balance 28th March, 1932
„ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Interest
Accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted, and
Deducting Expenses at Head
Office and 58 Branches, includ-
ing Salaries, Rents, etc;.
£65,571
53,727
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date .. ... ..£1,000,000
£1,000,000
By Balance 28th March, 1932 .. ..£1,000.000
£1,000,000
W. J. MASSON, General Manager. S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of
the Bank of Adelaide for the year ended 27th March, 1933, and certify that it is
a correct abstract of the same. We have counted the cash and examined the
Bills and Government and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head Office. The
Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on
the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and
those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 1 Ith April, 1933.
G. R. ANNELLS )
K. W. NEILL j
Audito
rs.
Chartered Accountants (Aust ) .
AN EXAMPLE FROM
REAL LIFE
£4,120 FOR £3l:Bs.
ON THE 19th MAY
A Proposal was completed for
a Prudential “Tieritage” Policy
ON THE 23rd MAY
The Proposer was killed
in an accident ....
HE HAD PAID ONE YEARLY
PREMIUM OF £3l : Bs.
e=f==E=g»
UNDER THE TERMS OF THE POLICY the
FOLLOWING AMOUNTS WILL BE PAID:
£lOO Immediately
£3 A WEEK for the next 20 years
£9OO at the end of the 20 years
A TOTAL OF £4,120
To THE PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Herald Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please supply me with particulars of your “ ‘Heritage” Policy
My age next birthday is
Name
Address.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Patents.
THE-Proprietors of Commonwealth Patents
A Nos. 17898/24 in respect Of an inven-
tion entitled “Improvements in the Refining
of Oils and Fats,” and 28050/25 in respect
of an in volition entitled “Improvements in
and Relating- to Plants for Distillation and
Other Purposes,” are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license or licenses to
make, use and vend either of the inventions
within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
attorneys, Sydney.
"IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO CARTOGRAPHY.
’"FIIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 27821/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
THRUST BEARINGS.
'"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 1015/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Don’t imagine that Broken Hill is
populated by Bolshevists or any other
sort of undesirables. The Broken Hill
people are just an ordinary British
community; a little more given to free
spending than most, but otherwise just
the same as the best class of citizen
elsewhere. The character of the average
Broken Hillite can bo gauged from its
famous newspaper, “The Barrier
Miner,” which is famous for its motto
of “Fair Play to all parties.” It comes
out twice every day.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.l. — Advt.
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO&CO.PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.).
Telegrams: Victor I.eggo, Melbourne.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The Worlds Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves —
The Company's provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 146,000 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
I
□3BON
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
l
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, YV.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.YV.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.YV.: Dalgrety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Clias. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
earnings; indeed, recent rains have bright-
ened the. seasonal outlook, while a little
benefit might be expected from the addition
of another vessel to the fleet—it was bought
from the Sawmillers’ Shipping Cos. last year,
and continues to be employed in the lumber
trade.
To finance the deal, which added £2700
to the book value of shipping property, carry
extra £3581 of book debts and knock
£773 off the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, cash, etc., was drawn upon for £6742:
1920. 1928. 1931. 1932. 1933.
&££/£>£,
Paid capital 75,000 l()0,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Liabilities.. 11,505 11,282 9,815 10,786 10,013
Ship pro-
perty .. 49,500 60,844 54,600 50,630 53,330
Other pro-
perty .. 1,717 2,807 2,895 2,895 2,795
Plant, stores,
etc. .. 3,362 2,645 2,078 1,954 1,792
Book debts 14,078 15,936 6,652 3,970 7,551
Consols and
cash .. 43,062 48,268 89,323 96,127 89,385
Thus, excluding stores, etc., the more or
less liquid surplus (£86,923) slipped £2390
over the twelvemonth ; but it was still equal
to 17s. 4d. per share. When the books closed
Consols figured at £59,334 (cost) and fixed
deposits and cash at £30,051. Thus the co.
is in a position to return most of its capital
should the need arise.
For many years the co. had a struggle
to pay 7 p.c. The rate climbed to 10 p.c. in
1918; an extra 5 p.c. was paid from inner
reserves two years later, and £25,000 of
bonus scrip was scattered. The div. remained
at 10 p.c. until it was interrupted by the
seasons and industrial troubles. In 1929
£Io,SOO dropped from somewhere into visible
accumulations; it appears to have been the
amount by which the insurance received
exceeded the book value of the Merimbula,
which was wrecked.
Over the last 12 months the market has
lifted its bid for the pound shares from
255. 6d. to 335. 4d. The return at the
higher figure is 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Each rise or fall of 1 p.c. in the div. would
affect the return by one-half of 1 p.c. The
backing is 28s. 3d. in net tangibles.
North Broken Hill has commenced the
haulage of ore through its new main shaft,
which is. being put down 900 ft. north of the
old one in order to quicken and cheapen the
extraction of crudes below 1700 ft. The new
shaft, now equipped to 1850 ft., has six com-
partments—two for cages, two for skips
and two for ladders and pipes. It is
to be equipped to 2150 ft., and an eight-
stage centrifugal pump, to deal with
1,250,000 gallons of water weekly, is to be
installed to facilitate work on the bottom
levels. At June 30 last ore reserves above
1700 ft. were put at 4,200,000 tons. Cross-
cuts on the 1850 ft. and 2150 ft. levels have
proved ore of average grade and width, so
there is a very large tonnage not yet
measured up. Also, there is another mil-
lion tons or more in the British and Junc-
tion sections awaiting treatment when prices
and costs make stone assaying 11.8 p.c. lead,
6.70 z. silver and 8.6 p.c. zinc profitable to
the co. For the 12 months to June 30 last
the North netted ss. lid. per share, of which
approximately 3s. lid. came from invest-
ments in associated enterprises, etc. The
co. distributed ss. per share. The average
London price of lead in terms of Austra-
lian notes was £l6 6s. lid. as against
£ls ss. Bd. for the previous term; last week-
end the figure was around £l3 18s. The
market, which notes the improvement in the
statistical position of lead, the rise in the
price of silver and the co.’s assault upon
costs, prices the pound shares at 70s.
* * * *
During 1932 Mt. Lyell milled 365,505 tons
of ore for 10,995 tons of copper, 48660 z. of
gold and 16i,6330z. of silver. Compared
with the previous year the figures show an
increase of 65,641 tons of ore, 1112 tons of
copper, 107Ooz. of gold and 12,8510 z. silver.
The bigger throughput, better recoveries and
a drop in wages have greatly helped to
reduce costs, and exchange and the high
price of gold have assisted earnings. Still
electrolytic averaged only £36 7s. lOd. per
ton in London last year as against £43 13s
3d., £62 2s. Bd. and £BS Bs. Id. for the
three preceding years. The figure was
£34 10s. at last week-end (worth £43 2s.
6d. in Australian notes), with a ten-
dency to strengthen. . For the 12 months
to Sept. 30 last Lyell’s average mining and
treatment cost was £43 ss. Id. per ton of
copper produced. The co. paid 2| p.c. as
against 7J, 18| and 13f p.c. for the three
preceding terms. The outlook for the red
metal is very uncertain. The market prices
the co.’s pound shares at 21s. 3d.
Shareholders in Mintaro Slate and Flag-
stone (Adelaide) have gone hungry for the
last three years ; they received an average of
4J p.c. for the preceding triennium. For the
12 months of 1932 the loss was £3340, raising
the p. and 1. debit to £7151. When the books
closed there was £4209 coming to sundry
creditors. Book debts, cash, etc., totalled
£2359; stocks, £8103; quarry and plant,
£25,216. There have been peculations in
the Melbourne office, but their extent has
not yet been ascertained. The market sums
up the co.’s prospects by pricing the fully-
paid pound shares (there are 30,000 of
them) at 2s. lOd.
* ;>; * *
London interests have taken an option
over 400,000 ss. shares in Oil Search, Ltd.,
at.'7s. 6d. each, payable 4s. on exercise of
the option and the balance as required. The
co., whose methods have won high praise
from Dr. Woolnough, has done a lot of
important work in New Guinea, where a
bore is to be put down. It is also testing
likely areas at Lakes Entrance (Vic.). Mt.
Gambier (S. Aus.) and in Westralia.
* * *
Broken Hill South is now producing lead
concentrates assaying 76.4 p.c. lead, the
highest grade yet reached at the Barrier. The
recovery is 95.3 p.c. For the year to June
30. 1928, the co.’s lead concentrates assayed
65.6 p.c., and the recovery was 93.1 p.c.
Pure galena contains 86.6 p.c. lead.
* * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has practically wiped off
the overdraft of £136,630, raised in October,
1932, to speed up construction, etc., ahead ot
calls. Since crushing commenced at the
beginning of November last till April 4, the
co. has treated 25,570 tons for 16,732 fine
ounces, an average of 13dwt. per ton. The
crosscut at the No. 4 level has proved oft.
of ore, assaying 475., with gold at 84s. This
grade corresponds to that shown in the four
winzes sunk from No. 3 level; driving under
these will now follow. The market, which
had been expecting a div., may have to wait
a while yet. It has shortened its bid for
the fully-paid pound shares from 245. early
this year to 19s. 6d. last week-end.
$ $ H* ■
In the .Cloncurry district (Q.) the Boom-
erang recently crushed nine tons for 14oz. of
gold. Anew leader has been struck on the
Comet, and a first crushing of nine tons
yielded 2710 z. At the Gilded Rose, 25
tons of dump sands and slimes was con-
centrated for 1640 z. The .Comstock, at
Soldier’s Cap, put through eight tons for
24-|oz. Also there is a lot of activity at
the old Top Camp diggings (it was the
scene of a rush in 1867), and a syndicate is
driving a tunnel into the Mary Douglas
Hill, from which much gold was obtained in
the early days.
* * * *
Frank Delaney, owner Of the Double
Chance, one of the richest producers at
Batavia on Cape York Peninsula, says there
are great possibilities there. But it is not
a poor man’s field; Government assistance
is needed to open up a lot of promising
country, embracing old diggings where much
gold was won 40 years ago. To date the
Government has spent £IOO on a road which
is never used. Were it not for the fact
that the John Burke steamers land freight
and mails at Weymouth Bay, and that the
Springall family run motor-trucks from there
to the field, Batavia would be an impossible
place. Over the last six months the field
has yielded 1604 fine ounces of gold.
* * * #
The Little 180, Bendigo (Vic.), has de-
cided to erect an up-to-date 10-head battery,
with room for an additional 20 head. The
co. expects to be crushing 250 tons weekly
by the end of July. There is a lot of 3dwt.
ore available. This, the management figures,
can be mined and milled at a cost of 10s. per
ton; a remarkably optimistic figure.
* * * *
The last two crushings from the A 1 at
Gaffney’s Creek, Vic. (147 tons for 630 z.
and 93 tons for 33k>z.), have yielded a
nice profit. The stone, taken from the
220 ft. floor, came from one of the numerous
reefs in the diorite dyke that are known to
occur to a depth of 1300 ft. The mine is
being opened up for large-scale production,
and 3dwt. ore is expected to show a profit.
* * * *
Carngham Hydraulic Sluicing has taken
up leases totalling 1000 acres at Snake
Valley (Vic.). It proposes to spend £25,000
on development and equipment.
* * * * ■ ,
Tasmania’s output of osmiridium last
year totalled 7850 z. as against 12790 z. in
1931. Total production since 1910 is
26,6760 z., valued at £598,000. Most of the
metal came from Adamsfield, where the
richer patches have now been worked out.
The low-grade wash is unprofitable with the
metal at £8 per ounce London. Hoarders
are believed to hold a good supply.
=s * * *
At the Aberfoyle Co.’s tin-wolfram mine,
Storey’s Creek (Tas.), a fire recently
destroyed the boiler house and portion of
the mill building. The loss, estimated at
£750, was covered by insurance. No material
damage was done to the plant, which in-
cludes anew rock-breaker, and only about
three days have been lost in the main
workings.
■* * *
At Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) the output of tin
by tributors is being maintained, the latest
fortnightly return showing 19 tons. Last
year’s total output at Biscnoff was 456 tons.
* * *
All the old residue dumps of any size in
Westralia are either being re-treated or
sampled or held for speculative purposes. A
Perth-Kalgoorlie syndicate, headed by George
Ridgway, has started to extract wealth from
a pile of 250,000 tons at Lakeside, near
Boulder; Gt. Boulder Proprietary is experi-
menting with the re-treatment of a mountain-
ous heap of 2,000,000-odd tons; and a Mel-
bourne crowd, connected with Collins House,
holds an option over that portion of the
Gt. Fingall dump which has not fallen into
the workings. Also, during the last few
months, several gold-mining concessions in out-
landish parts have been granted, and others
are being applied for. Melbourne and Lon-
don are mostly interested in these.
* $ * *
“Deep Lead”: At Kanowna (W.A.) there
is strong evidence that much of the gold in
the pug, which lies on soft bedrock, was
not deposited by natural panning, as is
usual in deep leads, but was brought in
solution from some distance and reprecipi-
tated. Gold has been found around the
small rootlets of living trees at a depth of
60ft.; also, crystals of pyrite coated with
fine gold have been seen, and a surface body
of ferruginous clay, carrying appreciable
gold, quickly passed into a solid dyke, barren
of gold, on sinking. One of the main lodes
at Kanowna was a fault fissure filled with
crushed rock and into which gold solutions
had percolated.
* * * «
Recent developments on Frank’s Reward
at Wannaway (W.A.) are disappointing.
On Shea’s lease, the richest stuff seems to
have been mined, and little good ore is now
showing. Driving on a reef, sin. wide, is in
progress from the Frank main shaft; but
the country is disturbed. On the old Reward
lease, crosscutting from the shaft has dis-
closed nothing of value.
* * * *
At Norseman (W.A.) the 470 ft. level has
now been driven north and south a total
distance of 400 ft., and re-sampling showed
an average of 21.5dwt. over widths ranging
from sft. to Bft. Owing to the improvement
of values at depth, fhis mine shows promise
of developing into something worth while.
The intention is to go down to 620 ft. There
is 10 head of 12501 b. stamps on the spot,
capable of crushing 1500 tons monthly.
* * ![: *
“O.B.”: I doubt whether the geophysical
prospecting about to be tried in some auri-
ferous parts of Westralia will prove to be
as successful as optimists think it will.
The locating of gold by this method depends
upon tremendous electrical reaction, which
is only possible when the the ore-bodies
contain a high percentage of mineral. For
instance, in a wide quartz , reef containing,
say, loz. per ton, there would be little elec-
trical _ reaction. It may be, however, that
the big sulphide lodes of Wiluna will re-
spond to geophysical methods; as to this
I have an open mind.
* # * *
During March Sons of .Gwalia, Leonora
(W.A..), mined 12,104 tons for an average
yield of 265. 6d. per ton as against 245. 3d.
per ton for the six months to the end of
December, 1932.
* * * *
A. Francis, attorney, Lake View and
Star Ltd., writes :
Local [Wfestralran] newspapers which complained
of the London extravagance of the big mining cos.
(B. i2/10/’32) were wide of the mark in puttiiig
Lake View and Star’s London office payments at
£21,000 last year. Actually, these amounted to no
more than £11,675, which included non-recurring
items, for the year to June 30, 1931. For the
following 12 months the figure was only £BO4B.
* * * *
Backwater Mines, Reef ton (M.L.), has
driven 88ft. on the reef on No. 12 level in
ore averaging 19dwt. over a width of 31ft.
A winze has been sunk 65ft. from the level
above in 15dwt. stone. During Feb. 3310
tons yielded 1702oz. Working costs _ were
£5421, and the profit was £4365. Capital is
£200.000.
* * * *
At Golden Point, Macrae’s Flat (M.L.),
the ore occurs in graphitic schist, which has
proved to be very troublesome so far as re-
covery of the gold is concerned. Neither
Wilfley tables nor strakes were satisfactory,
so flotation was tried; but tailings from a
12dwt. ore assayed l.Sdwt.
* * * *
During the last few months there has been
a slight over-production of tin in the F.M.S..
and the Government has announced that
during the June quarter of this year quotas
will be reduced a further 2 p.c.
* * * *
The American Bureau of Metal Statistics
estimates world production of gold in 1932
at the record figure of 23,911,000 fine ounces,
valued at 494.240,370 dollars (£98.848,074
sterling at par). In 1931 22,168,000oz.
was mined, valued at 458,212,560 dollars
(£91,642,512 sterling at pafr). The Trans-
vaal showed the greatest increase with an out-
put of ll,566,000oz. as agginst 10,87S,000oz.
in 1931. The supply of newly-mined gold
last year was almost equalled by the release
of gold hoards in India, Britain and Russia.
* •!* *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Has the spring in Finney Isles's net earn-
ings been due entirely to the coming of Coles
and Woolivorths into Queen-street, Bris-
bane? —5550.
No. Woolworthshave been alongside Finneys
for the last five years ; Coles had been operat-
ing in the neighborhood for only the last four
of the 12 months covered by Finneys’ latest
accounts. Woolworths also have a store next
door to McWhirters in the Valley. Never-
theless, the concentration of large retail
stores in a definite locality brings a
lot more people to the spot, and all cos.
operating in the neighborhood benefit. The
coming of Myers and others into Bourke-
street, Melbourne, clearly illustrates this.
It should be remembered, however, that Fin-
neys have a distinct pull of their own. The
store is bright and attractive, the manage-
ment says stocks are new and well bought,
and trading results support the claim. The
two cos. operating on the chain principle
have probably gained as much by being near
Finneys as Finneys have by their coming,
/ hold shares in a no-liability co. regis-
tered in N. S. Wales. The liquidator is
asking me to pay allotment money. What
is my liability in this respect? —5454.
None. The N. S. Wales Companies Act
says that acceptance of a share in a no-
liability co., whether by original allotment
or transfer or otherwise, shall not be deemed
a contract on the part of the person accept-
ing same to pay 'any calls in respect thereof,
or to pay any contribution to the debts and
liabilities of the co., and such person shall
not be liable for any such calls or contri-
butions.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.P.: The ords. cannot hope for anything during
the current term, which ends at June 30. The
pref. div., which calls for a minimum £120,000 p.a.,
is still 12 months in arrears J.A.N.: Nicholson
and Co., Southern Cross Assurance and Samuel Allen
and Sons were reviewed B. 25/5/’32, B. 21/12/’32,
and B. 16/ll/’32 respectively. Bowen Consolidated
(paid capital, £132,309) has not handed out a div. for
the last five years. The loss for the 12 months
to November 30, 1932, was £400. When the books
closed, liabilities amounted to £22,942; more or
less liquids totalled £22,9.60. Shareholders’ pros-
pects are not encouraging... .Want: (1) The process,
which is covered by an Australian patent, is fully
described in “Chemical, Engineering and Mining
Review,” June 6, 1930, page 329. (2) The method
is suitable for the treatment of large quantities of
low-grade ore; it would not affect gougers.
There is no smelting; the process is being tried out
at Mt. Morgan at the moment; results not yet
announced.... M. J.P.: Try Gold Mines of Australia,
.Ltd., 377 Little Collins-street, Melbourne... .A.S.:
(1) Hold; a div. is expected next year. (2) They
are amongst the most promising gold ventures in
Westralia.... F.F.B.: You can forfeit the scrip,
but that will not relieve you of your liability.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Make Marriage Easier
Dear Bulletin, — Re “Sandig’s” article
(B. 5/4/’33) on the problem of the unmarried
mother, one cause is that custom has laid
it down that those who marry must spend
a lot of money for no return at the very time
they most need every penny they can scrape
together. It is still considered “not the
thing” to marry at the registry office. Yet
the only part of a marriage ceremony which
the law regards as binding is the signing of
the papers. So custom makes us go on pay-
ing priests and parsons from three to five
pounds for a job which the State will do
for ten shillings. Before marriage, custom
demands that the girl be given a ring whose
value is a quarter of what, is paid for it.
And so it goes on. When a house is bought
most couples pay a deposit and give a mort-
gage for the rest, which means that for the
next 40 years they pay out an average of
one-quarter of their income in interest and
mortgage. Yet if a couple were willing to
start off in a two-roomed wood and iron
cottage—erected and furnished for less than
£lOO-—they could buy a good home outright
within 10 years out of the money so saved.
The way convention loads the newlyweds is
like setting out on a walking tour with a
knapsack filled with bricks —you carry a
heavy load for no benefit save the doubtful
pleasure of knowing you are doing what all
your friends have done. If a few bold spirits
would only give a lead, the rest of the
human sheep would follow.—Yours etc.,
Labrapinta (S.A.).
The Development of the North
Dear B., —Discussions regarding the north
of Australia and the merits of rival railway
routes to the south are numerous at present.
But why build a railway south to feed the
middlemen and agents in the big cities? It
will only load the North’s products with
extra costs, making it harder to compete
with the outside world. Far better for the
Commonwealth to create a new State, builds
ing short railways inland, developing the
pastoral, mining and other industries, and
so peopling the empty North. Only thus
shall we block the encroachments of the
Asiatics, who are ready to grab the first
opportunity of getting a foothold in that part
of the Commonwealth. —Yours faithfully,
J. H. Salmon (Q.),
Northern Railways
Dear Bulletin,— ln considering the build-
ing of northern railways there is this to
keep in mind: even in boom, days very few
store cattle were trucked, it not being a
paying proposition. So don’t let us build
lines to develop cattle country; they won’t
develop the country, but they will be an
addition to an already over-heavy burden of
capital debt. If this country cannot be
developed by sending stores in on the hoof,
it will never be developed by the more ex-
pensive method of trucking. The only time
the trucks would be used would be in a
drought. Even the Cooper’s Creek country
is too far from the market. There is too
much_ bruising in the long train journey,
trucking exes, are too high, and the bloom
has gone from the beef when the beasts
reach the works. Leave the fattening to
the close-in country; we’ll never compete
with Argentine by fattening on the Cooper.
Let us have the railway by all means if it
is really wanted, but not just to develop
cattle country.—Yours, Cattleman (Q.).
Melbourne’s Social Evil
Dear Bulletin,— l read with interest
your article on Melbourne’s social evil. I
know a good deal about it: it is not neces-
sary to' go into details. The greatest tragedy
of ,it all is perhaps cocaine; the next, I
should say, is the corruption of the police.
Personally I think Little Lon. should go.
It is entirely unsuitable for its purpose.
But. wherever the business is carried on,
it should be a matter mainly of regulation
by the health authorities; and that would
cut out most of the graft which is now so
bad and demoralising a feature of it. —
Yours, One of Them (Yic.).
Medical Rings
Dear B.,—After consulting a radiologist
I was directed by him to see a prominent
surgeon, being informed that the X-ray prints
showed that an operation was unavoidable.
The surgeon gave me two minutes, making
a brief note of symptoms, etc., and taking
a glance at the X-ray prints. Then he
handed me a letter to a specialist, explaining
that, although an operation was necessary, it
was outside his sphere. For that advice he
charged two guineas. Why wasn’t the
radiologist in a position to refer me direct
to the specialist? Obviously because he had
an arrangement with the surgeon to pass
patients on to him in return for having-
patients sent to him by the surgeon. I sug-
gest that the law should prohibit such con-
duct. —Yours etc., Idle Imp.
Primary Producers’ Problems
Dear Bulletin, —Devaluation by high
exchange brings about a reduction of
costs in the easiest way, and will place
on economically sound lines industries that
are at present artificially maintained.
Exchange is the correction of inflation, and
as we have already altered the value of our
currency by forcing costs up, some measures
should be taken to correct the trouble. When
Australia had a gold backing to its currency,
that currency remained stable, because gold is
stable ; but Australia sent her backing to Eng-
land to purchase sterling. Now the only back-
ing behind the paper issue is the wealth we
produce, our primary products. As the prices
of all primary products, in the main, rise
and fall in sympathy with wool, we can
regard wool as the only export of Australia:
therefore wool would be the only backing of
our currency, the notes being worthless in
themselves. Now, if we have a fluctuating
backing, it follows that our currency will
fluctuate; in other words, if it takes us as
woolgrowers ten of our notes to gain title to
a bale of wool, that being the cost of pro-
duction, and we have to sell it in the world’s
market for £5 gold, it means that two of
our notes are worth £1 gold, and therefore
exchange on gold should be 200, exchange
being simply the means to adjust prices.
To assume our notes represent gold or ster-
ling when we haven’t any to ship for the
adjustment of trade balances is absurd; the
only thing we can ship is our primary pro-
duce. It is no moi'o right to tix the price
of our currency on sterling by a pegged rate,
as we do at present, than to fix the price of
primary exports in terms of gold. No control
is necessary, as the exchange will find its
own level; English sterling fluctuates daily
on gold. There may be disadvantages; but
is it worse than the present system of
pegged exchange, under which woolgrowers
are using their capital in order to maintain
production ? —Yours etc., C. W. Russell
(Q.).
Water Conservation
Dear B., —All available money is spent in
this State on roads and railways, and water
conservation is neglected. Drought has
always been the greatest menace here. Make
the settlers safe with abundant water, and
they will practically defy the long dry spells
by irrigating a small area.. Railways and
roads will be justifiable when settlers are
well dug in against droughts. The course
of the Condamine is through fertile land.
From Wax-wick to Cecil Plains, about 180
miles of channel, the fall is 297 ft.; Dalby to
Miles, 231 miles, 135 ft.; Miles to Dix-ranbandi.
435 ft. over 550 miles of channel. The chan-
nel is deep, and the banks high and strong
for hundreds of miles. Imagine the quantity
of water that would be impounded by a series
of weirs! The sooner those who preach “go
on the land’’ realise that nothing really safe
can be accomplished in our dry spaces with-
out tackling this problem fix-st, the better.
Is thex-e a Big Statesman to start it? —•
Yours, Sidcum (Q.).
“Yes, You Are Squealers”
Dear Bulletin, —“Jon Gee” (Vic.) hits
the nail on the head (B. 22/2/’33) when he
suggests that Australians are a nation of
squealers. As a youngster of 18, when I
went to Australia 10 or 12 years ago, I well
remember that Australians loudly claimed,
and wei-e given, prefei-ence over Englishmen
for all the best jobs. During five years’ resi-
dence I followed station work from Victoria
to the Gulf. Many times I applied for
jobs, but always when I revealed that I
came from England I was excluded in favor
of an Australian who frequently had lower
qualifications than myself. In 1928 I came
to Fiji and found, much to my surprise, that
the Government made no distinctions between
Englishmen and Australians when reci-uiting
for the service. When depression hit the
colony, the business concerns run by Aus-
tralians or with Australian capital at once
started to squeal and retrench staff, and
picked on their English employees first. The
Government, on the other hand, retrenched
only on merit (or lack of it). Then there
is the case of Fiji bananas. What about
the howling which was done in Queensland
when Lyons agreed to admit a mere handfulV
Yet the Australian people were anxious
enough to share in the advantages of
the Imperial Conference. In Fiji we could
see the funny side of it because many
of the men most interested in the shipment
of bananas to Australia were themselves
Australians. They, of course, were squeal-
ing against the squealers. Collectively you
cannot take a licking in a gentlemanly
manner. You always make an excuse, no
matter how feeble. You are bloated with
self-esteem, and you have become so insular
that you have forgotten the big world beyond.
And my suggestion is that you “take a
tumble” to yourselves.—-Yours, with no
apologies, Na Vodre (Suva, Fiji).
What Must Govern Prices
Dear B., —All this business of exchange,
bounties, subsidies, etc., is only prolonging
the agony; it is taking it out of one pocket
and putting it in another. As primary pro-
duction i,s the backbone of the country (to-
day very like a worm’s), the only way to
remedy the maladjustment is to base our
rates of pay for all other work on the capa-
city of primary production to pay. Our arbi-
tration system of fixing wages on the cost
of living has only created a vicious circle,
and is economically unsound. If our main
exports are cheap, then money and labor
and, incidentally, everything else must be
cheap also, or there is a breakdown. It is
the big disparity of prices in primary and
secondary industries that is at the back of
the minds of Westralians. Even if it were
possible, it would be a calamity for W.A.
to secede; but the cause of discontent —
shared to a lesser extent by S.A. and Tas-
mania—should be immediately investigated
and, if possible, removed. —Yours, J. F. 11.
(S.A.).
Bad Wool-classing
Dear B., — Complaints from Japan re-
garding the classing of our wool are justi-
fied. Here in Central Queensland fairly large
clips are “classed” by men who have no cer-
tificate of competency. They are often the
products of the contract system of shear-
ing. Contractors, unable during busy
periods to secure a recognised classer for a
run of small sheds, will give the job to one
of their experienced rouseabouts, and, if he
has a normal amount of nous, he can usually
get away with it; and thus another “classer”
blossoms forth. Strange as it may appear,
these unqualified men generally get as good
a price for the wool as a good classer will,
since under our present system of handling
clips it is impossible to prepare wool for
market in an efficient manner.
Some of the things contributing to this
grave state of affairs are: (1) The average
shearing-shed is not nearly large enough to
permit of proper classing. At the most 12
or 14 bins are provided, and these are suffi-
cient to allow of “matching” wools only,
even where a fully competent classer is
employed. (2) The contract system has
speeded up shearing and reduced shed-labor
to such an. extent that it is impossible to
have such important operations as skirting
and piece-picking carried out correctly. The
treatment meted out to oddments such as
bellies and locks is correspondingly lax. (8)
Practically all shed-labor is unskilled. That
it is time we changed our system seems to
be indicated, not only by the Jap complaints,
hut also by the existence of Australian firms
which are buying wools here, reclassing or
sorting them, and making a profit.
It seems to me we have arrived at the stage,
where wool should be merely shorn at the
station shed. Packed in three lines only
(fleeces, bellies and boardlocks), it should
then be forwarded to the nearest port. At
every port we should establish classing
depots under the co-operative ownership of
the woolgrowers. Each depbt would be con-
trolled by a wool expert, and periodical con-
ferences between these experts would ensure
classing on standard lines, the standardisa-
tion being based on trade requirements.—
Yours, Rthkeg ukra (Q.).
Speed Limits in Queensland
Dear Bulletin, < —Queensland’s Home Sec-
retary in the Moore Government, Godfrey
Morgan, being a draught-horse enthusiast,
was agin any x-elaxation of the speed limits,
viz., 12 m.p.h. within the metropolitan area
and 25 m.p.h. on highways controlled by the
Main Roads Board. It was hoped that his
successor would see that Queensland fell into
line with southern States where speed limits
have been abolished; but E. M. Hanlon,
although he hasn’t emulated Godfrey Morgan
by riding a draught horse in the “Back to the
Horse Week” demonstration, says he will not
consent to the abolition of speed limits, but
invites motorists to break the law, by stating
that traffic policemen will not prosecute
unless 35 m.p.h. is exceeded. If speed limits
are good things, they should be enforced. It
seems to be a most dangerous course to lure
people into breaking the law and then leave
it to a policeman’s discretion whether they
shall be prosecuted or not. It is as unfair
to the police as to the public.—Yours, Mark
Patch (Q.).
THE GALA-DAY HABIT.
“Sydney had a ‘gala week’ from April 1 to April 8. Its ‘Easter gala’ lasted from April 12 to April 19. April 22 was a ‘gala
day with a procession of decorated cars. April 25 was celebrated as a public holiday.”
SYDNEY MAN: “Don’t be a nark! Join in our Gala Day.”
COUNTRY MAN: “No, thanks. Luckily for you I’m going home to join in a few Work Days.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ,3^*% from . V ~
Criterion ‘While Pare^ w f^..
.State ‘.'‘‘.'.'!' Movies' and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
RoYAII “Our Miss Gibbs
koyal “Escape”
o° M * DY ;;;;;;;;Dante
State .'.. Movies and Talkies
♦
The Flapper on Propaganda
Marvellous ! Wonderful! You will excuse
me, writes the Melbourne Office Flapper, if
I keep going off like a packet of crackers in
a frying-pan. I have been to see a Soviet pro-
pergander film. I was told to by a consult-
ing engineer, a Canberra senator, an advei-
tising artist and lots of other people. -Lhey
said it was wonderful. AH the leading him
critics went and they were positively bug-
eyed over it, even the “Argus critic, teo
I went. It was called “Turk-Sib and it
was at the Auditorium. There was a Uzar-
ist grand duke from Footscray at the front
door. That was part of the propergander.
Well, either I’m mad or they are or proper-
gander’s simply wasted on me.
I mean, part of the propergander was the
music and the captions. It went like this.
Music by Beetlioven.
Picture of moojik hitting a nail with a
hammer.
WE
More moojik hitting nail on the head.
MUST
More moojik and music.
MUST
More nail and hammer.
MUST
More moojik-nail-hammer-music.
FINISH
Moojik and hammer again.
TURK-SIB
Moojhoven-beethammer-nail-on-the-head.
BY 1930!
Then a lot more moojiks came along and
started throwing soil about with shovels.
Then some more moojiks unloaded a lot ol
sleepers from a lot of trucks and laid them
down on top of the soil. Then, more moopks
unloaded a lot of rails and laid them down
on top of the sleepers. Then a real live
train, just like the East-West one, came
along and ran over the rails. Then all the
moojiks cheered like mad and the; only
person that wasn’t lost in amazement at
the marvellous skill and enterprise of the
Soviet was a camel. It just smiled sar-
castically, but then it was only an animal
and impervious to propergander. The
Dramatic Critic said that the camel repre-
sented the Wisdom of. the East and it
oughtn’t to have been included because it
spoilt the propergander.
Well, the next item on the programme
was a collective farm called “Gigant.”
Well, it was 200,000 acres or something,
which would be a good-sized paddock, up
on the Darling Downs, and it was all given
over to weeds until the marvellous Bolshe-
vicks came along with thousands and thou-
sands of American tractors, or perhaps there
were only fifty, and they cleared all the
weeds away and they ploughed the 200,000
acres and then they planted something. We
didn’t wait to see what it was. Things
were getting too marvellous for us so we
went and had a look at Dante. Perhaps
it was turnips. Or perhaps it was only one
turnip but the largest turnip ever, grown
and twice as big as the biggest capitalistic
turnip.
Well, the D.C. has a theory about it. He
says the people who made the Russian revo-
lution were people from Woopwoopski and
Wagga Waggaskaya who went to America
and were positively stunned by the size
of everything. They gaped at the sky-
scrapers and Henry Ford’s factory and the
boiling-down works at Chicago and when
they thought of the pig and the old woman
at home and the wooden plough and the
smallness of the Russian turnip they got
an inferiority complex and they there and
then determined that they wouid. go home,
turn the Czar out, establish the dictatorship
of the proletariat and show the world that
they could grow the biggest boiling-down
works in existence and the largest turnip.
Well, I ask you. I mean, as the Dramatic
•Critic said, leaving out the turnips the Czar
built railways and he (the D.C.) travelled
on them before the Bolslievicks were invented
and they were perfectly good railways but
he (the Czar) didn’t make a song and dance
about it. New South Wales turned the first
sod of the first Australian railway in 1850
and it didn’t make a song and dance about it
either. I mean, not that I have any objec-
tion to the Bolshevicks making railways. or
giant turnips anil skiting about them like
a lot of kids -with a new toy if they want
to and if they can put the stuff over on
us as propergander or entertainment or
whatever it is supposed to be, more power
to them. But why should we fall for it
and get all bug-eyed about it is more than
I can fathom. I mean, if that is what
propergander does to one the sooner the
laboratories at Royal Park make a serum
against it the better for all of us. I mean,
you can’t talk to a boy up at the University
about the latest Vicki Baum nowadays but
lie looks at you sorrowfully and says some-
thing like this: It is a commonplace of
marxian idiotogy that art is immediately
conditioned by the social structure of an age
and the bourgeois writer you mention,
though not without interest from a psycho-
pathological viewpoint, is to the marxian
critic merely significant as another indica-
tion of the approaching collapse of the
present economic order, to be replaced by the,
collective ideal of society as adumbrated by
Marx in terms of dielectric materialism in
the 490th chapter of the 27th volume of
his colossal work Das Capitol which has,
already run into 3456 editions and has been,
read by no less than 45,000,009 people.,
Well, it seems to me, there is the turnip
all over again.
Well, the D.G. says that he usen’t to
believe in censorships but after seeing
“Turk-Sib” he thinks we ought to have lots
more of it. He says that Lieut.-C-01. White
ought-to tell Mr. Stalin, in firm yet courte-
ous tones, that in future this country will
insist that fOT every 1000 feet of Russian
railway admitted into Australia 1000 feet
of Australian Rabbitproof fence, Kalgoor-
lie-Mundaring pipeline or Vic. Electricity
Commission high-tension cable must be
admitted into Russia.
The Seyler-H'annens essayed St. John
Irvine’s “The First Mrs. Fraser” at Melb.
Comedy last week. The piece had been pre-
sented two years previously by J. B. Rowe
and Ethel Morrison. The new interpreta-
tion was inferior to the old and the
prompter was more in evidence.
H. H- *
“Escape,” pur on by the Seyler-Hannen
co. for the first time in Australia before a
large house at Melbourne Comedy, is a typi-
cally Galsworthian piece, on precisely the
same lines as the novelist’s previous work,
“The Roof.” It deals with a problem which
troubled the eminent Englishman’s mind all
Ins life, the question of now a public-scnooi
man, who has been brought up to “play
cricket” in every circumstance, _ should be-
have when faced with a major crisis in adult
life. The public-school man in “The Roof
jumps .back into the fire he caused in
a state of drunkenness because he has shown
the white feather/and cannot face his con-,
science. In “Escape” he is an ex-captain
who accidentally killed a constable, foi
which he gets a term in Dartmoor. He
escapes, and is hunted over the countryside
like a fox. In the course of his flight he
meets people from the city, who regard him
as a wild beast from the woods, and vil-
lagers, who regard him as that far more
dangerous thing, an educated city man. He
meets at least six women who are the same
woman in various disguises. The conven-
tional ones want to hand him over to the
Law; the unconventional (and young) ones
are romantically stirred by a lawless situa-
tion and want to ,be heroines and hide him.
He finally bolts into a vestry and demands
the ancient right of sanctuary from a priest.
The clergyman is a Protestant, and says
that nowadays the Church has a duty to-
wards the' State as well as towards God.
The fugitive asks him what Christ would have
done. The parson replies that nobody knows
what He would have done. The parson s
parishioners rush into the church in full
cry, and.the parson hides the fugitive behind
THE SPIVAKOVSKY-KURTZ PARTY, AT SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
Tossy Spivakovsky. Jascha Spivakovsky. Edmund Kuttz.
his surplices. Challenged directly to say
whether he has seen the fox, the parson is
about to tell a lie when the hunted man
steps out from his hiding-place and gives him-
self up. The spirit of cricket has triumphed,
“Escape,” in short, is a somewhat bald work
of art, its chief interest lying in the dramatic
incidents connected with the runaway’s night.
The public likes to see a hunted thing have a
good run for its money, and Nicholas Hannon
mixed vulpine instincts with the lacerated
sensitiveness of an educated man so skil-
fully that he frequently produced an effect
of tragic beauty, while most of his col-
leagues devoted themselves enthusiastically
to farce. Maureen O’Moor, as a married
woman who finds a convict under her bed,
and Harold B. Meade, as a cultured Judge
and tolerant English gentleman, provided
excellent vignettes.
# # *
Quite the most entrancing show in Mel-
bourne at the moment is Dante at the King’s.
The dapper Danish magician with the acute
American accent has caused so many nice-
looking girls to disappear since his arrival
that the city is in danger of depopulation.
His most remarkable achievement is the
discovery of the most anaemic girl in Aus-
tralia. He saws the damsel in half, separates
the pieces, then joins them together again,
and not a drop of blood flows. His powers
are limited, however. He draws enough live-
stock out of a hat to supply the Victoria
Markets, but lie can’t draw out a wad of
Commonwealth one-pound notes or he would
long since have given up the show business.
“Our Miss Gibbs” has returned to Melb.
Roval as fresh as.the day she first painted.
It is presumed that the age of the lady is
anything between five and 50, and she bears
up wonderfully under the battery of lights
of the new illumination system imported by
the Firm for “Waltzes from Vienna.” “Miss
Gibbs’s” music is as familiar as the National
Anthem, and it finds its chief channel to the
eardrums of the audience via Madge Elliott’s
gentle whisper.
* # *
Dorothy Canberra will have to call her-
self Canberra or Madame Canberra. If
this paper has to call her Miss Canberra it
w*ill be obliged to explain each time it does
it that she is not the winner of the Most
Beautiful Molonglo Bathing-Girl competition
but the Melbourne singer who for the last
Jfew years has been earning appreciative
‘notices in Paris, London and Berlin. On
Saturday night Canberra appeared at the
Auditorium, and the enthusiasm of a good
bouse steadily warmed as the tall, handsome
woman wended her way with taste and dis-
crimination through a first part of classical
simplicity. Canberra has a coloratura
soprano which is pure artless tone Iu
“L.Allegro e il Pensieroso” of Han- <■
del it was barely distinguishable as a
musical instrument from Americo Hag-
liardrs flute. With a voice trembling
just this side of silence she sang, a panel
of Schubert’s : tenderest songs. Naturally
her choice of a dramatic number- wasn t
dramatic at all. “The Mad Scene’’ from
‘‘Lucia” has-as much maniacal, frenzy in it
as a page from the Commonwealth “Year
Book.” It is a typically urbane: Domzet-
tian melody ending in a decorative cadenza
equally distributed between >the\. voice and
the flute. This was the. highlight of the
evening. Henri Penn accompanied . at; the
piano sensitively', and also played some items
excellently on liis own.
* * *
Sydney has a high regard for—Jascha
Spivakovsky, and at the Town Hall ■ on
Saturday it learned that during his absence
abroad lie has added to his fine -powers as
a pianist. He played, among other things,
the G Minor Ballade of Chqpin, , Liszt’s
Rakoczy March and the “Jeux, d’Eau” of
Ravel with such skill and feeling that the
crowded audience was ;reluctant to let him
go. And with his brother. Tossy he attacked
victoriously the Mendelssohn Concerto.
Tossy has a Strad. with a superb .tone, and
the instrument, is : in' worthy liands;;_ the
young man is - a master of the violin.
Edmund Kurtz also rejoices in a noble ’cello,
and plays: it beautifully. .His solo, was
Tschaikowsky’s “Variations ; on- a Rococo
Theme,” and lie was heard with the Spiva-
kovskys in Schubert’s i B Flat Major Trio.
There will .be other concerts on Saturday
and Tuesday.
The audience which flocked to Gerhart
Hauptmann’s “Hanncle,” the initial effort
of the Impressionist Theatre, at the Sydney
Savoy, expected to witness an unusual and
vital drama, about the .significance of which
controversies have been raging in. Germany
and Switzerland for over 30 years.. Actually,
there is no mystery about the meaning or
purpose of “Hannele.” It is not beyond the
comprehension of a Sunday-school class.
In a mountain village on a - winter’s night
Hannele, the wretchedly treated-young step-
daughter of Mattern, a drunken stonemason,
tries to drown herself; Gottwald. a school-
teacher, rescues her and carries, her to the
almshouse. There she dies, first seeing visions.
The deaconess who nurses her becomes her
mother and presents her with the key to
Heaven; the- schoolmaster, whom she adores,
is transformed into a.- person who dilates at
some length on the happiness which awaits
her. Angels finally escort her safely through
the Golden Gate. The players were inclined
to overact their parts. Norah Cazabon
played Hannele like a betrayed heroine in
a melodrama, and Richard Parry, convinc-
ing enough to begin with, in the dream
sequences overdid his outbursts. Nancy
Gardiner, as Sister Martha, got nearest to
the spirit of the pious fantasy. The stage
groupings and the lighting effects were far
the best features of the production. The
stage setting wasn’t so good ; it took a lot
of imagination to believe that what looked
like a modernistic design for a fashionable
shop window represented an almshouse. The
musical score, composed for a string quartet
by Albert Cazabon, was an excellent piece of
work for the purpose.
* * *
“Bread,” a Russian play, presented by the
Sydney Players’ Club at St. James’s Hall
last Saturday evening, is by S. Stedman, the
writer of some admirable short stories for
The Bulletin. As a dramatist he is less
successful. There is some excellent material
in “Bread,” but the characters are mere
mouthpieces for the expression of revolu-
tionary or anti-revolutionary views. The
method of production was an experiment in
constructivist stagecraft, and the wooden-
ness of the characters rather helped it. The
settings were arranged in different levels to
demonstrate the relationships and social
status of the persons represented. Gestures,
mbvements and make-up were also what is
termed in modern stage parlance “stylised.”
li’ad the script reached the level of the pro-
duction it would have been a memorable
effort. Laura West, Kenneth Fowles and
John Appleton were the pick of the players.
* * %■
Adelaide Royal is seeing the last of the
G. and S. co. in Australia. Menzies, Man-
ning, Darnton and Stroud, with Evelyn Gar-
diner and Marie Bremner, repeat their old
successes. Ralston and Mary Hotham are
much missed. Gordon Bell’s fine voice makes
him prominent among the rising players.
Shadow Shows.
“I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang, ’
at the Capitol, is claimed to be auto-
biographical. According to a Warner Bros,
blurb “The author’s name was on the front
pages of the nation’s press. The shocking
conditions he revealed have been made the
subject of hundreds of editorials.” It con-
cerns the imprisonment of an ex-soldier
whom the war turned into a waster. A
fellow-hobo forces him to rifle a cash-regis-
ter. The other is shot and the ex-soldier is
given 10 years in a chain gang. His night-
mare experiences are shown in detail. Pres-
ently, he escapes. Back in civil life, he works
hard and does well till - a scheming female,
who has discovered his past, first blackmails
him into marrying her, and then in a fit of
jealousy gives him away to the police.
Officials of the State in which Re has made
good refuse to give him up to the State in
wjiicli he was convicted, but the' latter gets
hold of him by a trick, and lie -is next seen
back in the chain gang with the horrors mul-
tiplied as . a punishment. He escapes again,
and the end of the film shows him leading
the life of a hunted animal. Paul Muni
gives a hideously efficient performance as the
martyred warrior. , The production has a
side-interest as showing the lengths Ameri-
cans are ready to go ‘in slinging, mild at their
own institutions.
, “They Call It Sin” has been filmed
umpteen times before under other titles.
When our old; friend the , pure, country lass
rebels against-,her narrow-minded guardians
and- flees to New York, we know she will
be disillusioned by the spectacle of her
sweetheart getting ready to marry an heiress,
and that a dissolute theatrical manager will
attempt to deprive her of that without
which life itself were of little worth.
We also know that he will retire utterly de-
feated and eventually meet a violent .end.
Never a would-be seducer in this class of
play but dies with his boots on. George
Brent, David Manners and Loretta Young
are in the cast. . < ,
* # *
Imaginary conference' at, Elstrpe . .
Film Magnate: ‘‘Now boys, I’ve' yngaged' Polly
Walker and Eupino Pane,"and I want aii absolutely
original, comedy ; something to make Hollywood,, sit'
up and understand" that English films really have
arrived at last.”
, Scenarist: “Suppose we start with a complete
novelty—a Night Club, sequence.”
Director: “Splendid! And show the care-free,
unconventional. West Enders dancing into, the street
at daybreak”——-
Scenarist: “Yes, and milkmen, policemen and-so
on joining ■ in. The music sort of infects the
neighborhood. A novel touch of whimsy.”
Film Magnate ( dubiously.) : “Hasn’t Lubitsch done
something of the sort?”
Scenarist (ignoring him,) : “And then Lupino goes
to a luxury hotel’.’-
Director: “And Polly’s there”- ——
Scenarist : ‘.‘And she gets locked* out of her bed-
room’’— 1 ' ■ '--- "• 1 ’ , :
Director: “And goes into his bedroom. Ha! Ha !
This .is going to be unusual all right! And in all
innocence she gets into his bed, and”— — ' . . .
Scenarist: “They find her there! Ha! Ha!”
Director: “And he tries to get out of it by
saying they’re married.”
Scenarist: “And she’s furious, poor girl, because
she thinks she hates him, but she has to say they’re
married, too. Can you beat it?”
, Director: “And he puts on his pyjamas, and
gets into the bed”
Scenarist: “And there she is in her pyjamas. Ha.
Ha! Ha!” T „ .
‘ Director: “Stop, stop, for pity’s sake! I’ll have
hysterics if this'goes on.”
Such is the venerable plot of “Sleepless
Nights,” at the Plaza. It is practically all
Lupino Lane. He is a first-class acrobatic
dancer, but he can’t sing, and his humor has
none of the humanity which makes the im-
becilities of Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy
so winsome. He just acts the goat at top
speed. The minor players are good, and so
is the photography.
“After Dark,” which is a thriller, was
also made in England, and the cast is all-
English. There are no effeminate young
men or dowdy. girls, and the action is brisk
up to a point. About half-way through; the
emeralds which have been stolen from the
hero by ;thc heroine’s deplorably vacillating
uncle at the instigation of George Barraud
come to rest in a country house, and the
action comes to rest too, and is replaced by
tame comedy.- That, great old mime Polly
Emery has a small part as housekeeper, to
the crotchety but kindly old gentleman who
clears up the mystery.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Strange Justice,” at the Empire, swings
a wild left at Circumstantial Evidence, but
the punch doesn’t connect. It. isn’t the fault
of the cast, which is topped by Richard Ben-
nett, an Irish lawyer who; hates , circum-
stantial eyidence so much that he is willing
to fight it ,for nothing! Reginald Denny is
a bank president who lias embezzled a mil-
lion dollars. Irving Picliel (suggestive ot
a monkey-glanded Arliss) is the bank vice-
president, who dnsists on a half-share. Denn.t
disappears, -and Picliel, dumps a body m
Denny’s car and sends it over an embank-
ment. Norman Foster, who had threatened
to kill Denny for thrusting his embraces on
Marian Marsh, is arrested and sentenced to
death. And now the repentant Denny turns
up, chokes Picliel —the villain must get his
deserts, dang him ! —and , the thing tizzies
out in a last-minute rescue, from the chair.
Circumstantial evidence might have taken
the count, or at least sustained, a Jhiek ear,
if Foster had been electrocuted—this Show-
man, for one,, wouldn’t have minded it he
had been—but that would have left adorable
Marian unhappy, not to mention the box-
office.
“The Most Dangerous Game,” which fol-
lows, is solely designed to, thrill. No time
is wasted over ripping emotions to shreds, so
it couldn’t have had a better hero than
casual Joel McCrea. Anyone else might
have wanted to act. Wrecked on a Carib-
bean island reef, with bis companions to
right and.deft being dragged down;in,-a swirl
of bubbles and sharks, Joel- casually-swims
ashore.,: Casually entering a forbidding stone
castle 1 ' of the Norman-Malay-Gothic style ot
architecture, he casually tells, his story anu
casually receives the hospitality of the pro-
prietor, a Russian count (Leslie Banks.).
He is still casual when Fay Wl’ay (from
another wreck) bursts into his rooni an<
leads him to their host’s trophy room. Inere
they discover the nobleman’s dangerous game
is man-hunting. They are examining the
collection of pickled heads with interest when
the count arrives with his latest spoil li-
the chase in the form of Fay s brotbei s
corpse. Joel, armed with -a knife, is sen i
out to be hunted; Fay insists on complicat-
ing matters by going with him. Witn a
.Tartar war, bow the count follows an un-
intentional Cupid. His quarry escapes mt
a foggy swamp. The count calls out in-
bloodhounds. Follows an exhilaratingji'opip.
at tile e:iid •of 'which thfi; count, slo.wly die*,
whilst Joel casually fades Out into the noii-
zon with Fay aboard' ' deceased s motor
launch.


Mick Simmons
AND
AMMUNITION
f \M •V/ /
SPECIALISTS
World-Famous
Shot Guns
&
No. 8 HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. SPECIAL
DUCK GUN, 12G., 34in steel barrels,
both choke, Greener cross bolt, speci-
ally built for heavy charges and long-
distance shooting; similar in appearance
to the No. 3; weight about
8 Jib
Carriage Paid.
£l6's'-
No. 18 THE CERT D.8.8.L. GUN,
steel barrels, left choke, extension rib,
bar locks, X bolt, walnut
stock, pistol grip
Carriage Paid.
£4'ls'6
No. 19 CERT. D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12-gauge, 30in, steel barrels,
choke, Greener X bolt (A.
& D. action)
Carriage Paid.
£7'l2'6
d
WORLD-FAMOUS
SPORTING RIFLES
No. 1 THE MAINE RIFLE,
22-cal., bolt action, fitted with
plain V-back sight; for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, 18in long, bored
and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate,
weight about 3Jlb ..
24'9
Postage, 2/Other States, 3/6.
No. 4A F.N. SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down,
with safety bolt. For short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges;
21in round barrel;
weight about 331 b ..
35'-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12 WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short, long,
or long - rifle rimfire cart-
ridges; 23in round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol grip stock,
bolt action, ladder rear- and
gold bead front sight;
weight, 4ilb ........
Carriage Paid.
52'6
Mick Simmons’ Contribution to the
Babbit Extermination Campaign."
Quality English
Sidebotham’s
RABBIT
TRAPS
Usually 25/- Dozen
Now 18/- Dozen
The most efficient Rabbit Trap on
the market. Strong spring and
efficient.
(Carriage extra on Rabbit Traps.)
All letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonslid.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY,
'ThePremier Sports House of Australia.”
Sl\
.
wm
I
.
i
j SEND
j NOW
FOR
C A COPY
* OF OUR
NEW
♦ CATALOG
J No. 33.
ENTIRELY NEW/
The “TRITON” Vertical Plunger Pump
Those requiring a small, inexpensive, yet powerful
pump will find that the newly-designed “Triton”
measures up to requirements.
It is small—l9|- inches high.
Low power required is ample.
500 r.p .m. gives 600 gallons per hour. Can be
operated at a higher or lower speed if desired, the
output varying accordingly.
Fitted for 1 in. suction and delivery pipes, and can be
supplied for Belt, Chain or Gear Drive.
Altogether the “Triton” is a splendid unit, needing
but little attention and is practically noiseless.
Its low price is also a decided advantage.
Full particulars and prices on request.
c
Proprietary Limited.
51 Bathurst St. .... SYDNEY
582 Collins St. - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth St. - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray St. PERTH
m
w \
i
eaaeMeaa&iaa^as
J3# ->?
f !
Cx
WINTER CRUISES
BV
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
"MALOJA," 21,000 Tons
The R.M.S. "Maioja" will leave Sydney on the
16th June for a twelve days' cruise to Papua,
via Brisbane, Whitsunday Passage and the
Barrier Reef. Fares 18 to 24 guineas.
First Saloon only.
"STRATHAIRD," 22,500 Tons
The R.M.S. "Strathaird" will leave Sydney on
the 26th August for a twelve days' cruise to
Papua, via Brisbane, Whitsunday Passage and
the Barrier Reef. First Saloon fares from 18 to
24 gns. Tourist Class fares I I and 13 gns.
FARES ARE FREE OF EXCHANGE
■FOLLOW THfE SUN
B V
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes .your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
w,
L
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
“arages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for .vour letter.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
sf
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
/mem
am 1 1
jIBuiPIEA'U ®»
Oi pcni^vfiiicsi*
,N 1
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position lias been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
NO GOOD THAT ONE.
JACKY: “The missus bin very sick, boss.”
BOSS: “You can have the use of a horse, if it’s any good to you, Jacky.”
JACKY: “No good that one, boss; horse neber do all her work.”
“Le Glorieux”: Old Bill watched the
youngest j ackeroo disrobing preparatory to
turning in. “If I was you, young feller,”
he said. “I’d leave them rammies on. For
why? Well, you might need ’em in a hurry,
I did once. First time I ever done any
night-watchin’ was on the road from Win-
ton to Kynuna. There was three of us an’
the cook, with a mob of Territory bullicks;
and they was pretty fly. We left the truck-
in’ yards late an’ camped a mile or two
out o’ Winton. I ’ad the middle watch, an’
when I come in I ’adn’t ’ad time to go to
sleep when we ’ears the cattle ring up
sudden. The boss makes a run fer the spare
'orse an’ canters out. A few minutes later
the cook yells out ‘Look out. Bill, they’re
cornin’ /’ They was ; straight fer the camp.
Well, there ain’t a tree ’andy, so me an'
the cook ’ops up in the buggy. The mob
comes surgin’ round an’ carries the buggy
with ’em back along the road ter Winton.
with me an’ the cook ’angin’ on fer our
lives. It starts ter get light: Just as we gets
into Winton ; but them bullicks keeps goiu'
right up the main street. Presently the mob
strings out and drops the buggy. Be now
the sun’s up, an’ nearly all Winton’s lookin’
out o’ winders an’ laughin’ fit to kill their-
selves. The wimmen was the worst. So’s
the cook laughin’; but not me. Before I
turned in I’d taken awf me pants, an’ I ’ad
to stand up in front of the North Gregory
’Otel in me singlet.”
v
“Tyke”: Circumstances were against that
citizen whose bulldog failed to recognise him
as he emerged from his bath (B. 19/4/’33).
It is an accepted fact in natural history
that a dog’s chief powers of perception lie
in his nose and that he always recognises his
acquaintances by their scent. I suggest that
either the dog’s owner had washed himself
whiter than snow or that he had been using-
one of those widely-advertised brands of
soap which the manufacturers back to
eliminate what they are pleased to style
“B.O.” If this theory is untenable, the
bow-wow’s intelligence was C 3. He is de-
scribed as a bulldog and, despite his many
amiable qualities, the hound always depicted
as John Bull’s offsider is no highbrow.
* * * *
“Methane”: A much more probable ex-
planation than “Y.Z.’s” of the mysterious
floating lights about Airey’s Inlet, Vic. (B.
19/4/’33), is that they are caused by marsh
gas. This is responsible for the will-o’-the-
wisp of tradition —on Dartmoor and other
boggy areas of the West of England they
are known as “Jacky Toads.” These, like
the Vic. lights, have the property of dis-
appearing and relighting without visible
agency, and of keeping a fixed distance from
the observer, though the reason for this last
has puzzled many a scientist.
# * * *
“Old Gira”: Two Australian aboriginals
have left North Queensland to act as mis-
sionaries with the Seventh Day Adventists
in Papua. They will not be the first of their
race to tread those shores. When Clark, one
of the discoverers of Charters Towers, was
murdered by Mamba River natives in north-
east Papua, two N.Q. abos. were of
the party. These were not killed with
the whites, if stories told by the murderers
are to be believed; they escaped and vanished
into the unknown. Sir William MacGregor
was quickly on the spot, but he was never
able to learn their fate; and the same
applies to the many officials who have
administered that district since. The natives
were frank in their admissions of what they
had done to the whites, but they knew or
professed to know, nothing of what happened
to the blacks.
* * * *
“Gunna John”: That Sydney lady who
dropped a line from .Tapoon Vale, N.Q. (B.
l/3/’33), must have had a very short stay,
Still, she was long enough in the valley to
have her leg wril pulled, doubtless by an-
other lady ; they do it so artistically when
they have a sense of humor. Bartle Frere
THEY HAVE THEIR TROUBLES, TOO.
MRS. SETTER (to Mrs. Fox Terrier ): “My husband's a perfect brute lately. I daren’t
make a sound when I go out after his buried bones at night."
and Bellenden Ker are 40 miles to the north,
and there are several mountain ranges in
between. The valley—l’ve lived in it for
six years—is 10 miles wide at the mouth,
and that is 10 miles from the sea. There is
one small stream, Liverpool “Creek,” wind-
ing through; railway bridges cross it in
three places, running different ways. I’ve
forded those “rushing rivers” dry-footed in
wintertime, and I’ve never seen those “gor-
geous birds,” nor yet the plant which has
“a flower like an inverted rose.”
“Plankton”: The males of the insect-
world take little interest in family affairs,
but the females of at least one Australian
species have distinguished themselves by in-
ducing (or dragooning)' their mates to
assume some of the responsibility. This
water-bug (Splmroderma rusticum) lays
her adhesive eggs on her husband’s back,
and he carries them during the incu-
bation period. An entomologist says he
has found eggs on the back of a female;
perhaps another lady put one over her.
Relatives include the big fish-killer, the
water scorpions and water boatmen. The
family is distinguished by peculiar branched
feelers fitted into ear-like pockets on the
undersides of the head. The appendages may
serve as accessory breathing organs.
“Northampton”: Reference to coursing the
once-plentiful rat kangaroo in western
Queensland in the long ago (B. 15/4/’33)
calls attention to the discovery that the
little fellow shows signs of returning to
haunts from which he \yas supposed to have
vanished for ever. In a paper read before
the Royal Society in Melbourne, C. W.
Brazenor stated that the marsupial is
again making its appearance between Lake
Eyre and the headquarters of the Diaman-
tina, many having been noted thereabout
after years of absence. The _ lecturer laid
special stress on the animal’s speed and
stamina, it being- necessary to use relays of
horses to run it down.
“H.K.”: Great is the vitality of the
rabbit. A Bathurst resident out shooting
fired at one a bare 20 yards away. It
sprang up and galloped a hundred yards
before it collapsed. On examination it was
found that the .22 calibre, soft-nosed bullet
had passed through the centre of its heart.
“Raeakiaki” : The old-time Maori had an
unusual but effective method of training
youthful athletes. First, a tall and straight
tree was selected; then a narrow path, its
width governed by the girth, was cleared for
a distance roughly equal to the tree’s height.
As a general rule, the path would be 50 to
60 yards long and sft. or Oft. wide. The
tree having been all bat severed, the runner
would take his stand at its base, while
on the other side axemen wonid be waiting
to finish their particular job.
of the first blow rang out oft the lunnei
would go. If he was fast
goodness knows lie had enough in ceivnve to
break even time—he w 7 ould have con ?P .
his 50-yard dash before the tree crashed
earth; if he wasn’t, there was never muen
left of him by the time the huge trunk was
rolled’ off the pathway.
“Boulia”: While on the subject of cats
cradle (B. 12/4/’3S), we can give Binghi
favorable mention. Our first landlord is or
was an adept at the fascinating game. Dr.
Roth, who lias just died in Demerara, long
ago drew attention to the fact and published
many diagrams of “compositions” by his
sooty friends of north-west Queensland.
“Mundowie” : 1 was travelling through a
droughty part where the stench of dead
beasts was now and again wafted across the
track. A casual mate, who was something
of an expert in the matter of smells, sniffed
the tainted air like a dog, and from time
to time said “Dead cow,” “Dead liorse,” “Dead
goanua,” and so on. “Every animal has its
own stink,” he explained. Then he struck
an unusual fragrance and turned off to
investigate. “Blackfellow’s grave in a tree,”
he announced on returning. “Sniffed some-
thing like that a couple of years ago, an’
didn’t bother to look. Next day a dead
Chinaman was found there, with nearly a
hundred sovereigns on him. Since then I’ve
been more particular. When I get a whiff
that’s not familiar, I make it my special
business to find out the brand of the per-
fume.”
* sis * *
“S.D.”: “ ’Gator is our local term for
crocodile,” says “Parson” (B. 19/4/’33) ;
and not only in N.Q. is this the case. When
will people in eroe.-infested localities learn
that there are no alligators in Aus-
tralia? Alligators are found only in the
southern States of the U.S.A. and in
China. In our crocodiles the fourth tooth
on each side of the lower jaw is enlarged
and fits into a notch in the upper jaw, being
thus visible when the mouth is closed. In
alligators a Similar tooth fits into a pit
within the border of the upper jaw. The
typical alligator, moreover, has a more
rounded head and is more sluggish than the
crocodile, with its pointed snout.
* * * *
“Wandi”: If you want to find a native
bees’ nest look round for grass-trees. The
grass-tree ( Xanthorrhwa) sends up a spear-
like seed-stem, up to. Oft. long, from the
centre of the grass top; that stem is covered
with little flowers, very rich in honey, which
attract the native bees from a wide radius.
Dozens of them may be seen about a single
stem, and flying to and from their home.
They are so small that the flight can’t be
followed far, but the course they take is
the straight line to the nest. They are
generally fully laden when they leave the
grass-tree, whereas, when gathering among
terrestrial flowers, they wander about. If
fossicking on the stringybarks, bloodwoods
and redgums, which are other favorites, they
are too high up for observation.
TWENTY YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It's hard to earn a crust these days;
You get no chance to show
You’re made of stuff that sticks and stays,
Like twenty years ago.
In old times on the Overland,
With cattle on the move,
The drover was in good demand ;
He only had to prove
He knew his job, and lie could turn
To work at once; the dough
Was worth the sweat it cost to earn
’Bout twenty years ago.
A man could save a tidy bit
As station-hand them days,
If for a twelvemonth tight lie’d sit
And let them hold his pays.
The cheque he’d lift at last would be
A decent one to' show
(Unless lie blewed it in a spree)
’Bout twenty years ago.
At sli earin’ then you might be “new,”
Or do your hundred head,
But there was whips of graft for you
Around the lively shed.
I’ve seen the blades a-fiashin’ fast,
Aye, scores on scores arow;
But them good times are gone and past
Full twenty years ago.
Now there’s no shearin’ to be had,
Machines have took their toll :
And things have never been so bad,
With drovers on the dole.
There’s scarce a station wants a hand ;
For me it’s always “No!”
Australia’s little like the land
Of twenty years ago.
The row was easy hoein’ then,
That now is hard to hoe.
There ain’t no work for dinkum men
Like twenty years ago.
N.S.W.
NODO.


Read the B.P. Magazine
A DOOR TO THE WORLD—THE WORLD TO YOUR DOOR.
Australian artists —Australian writers.
Beautiful color anrl sepia pages.
Fine photographic studies.
1/- PER COPY.
A t all bookstalls or direct from
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD,,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed - ~ think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
tf you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdf
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Why Stammer
or Stutter?
When you can be permanently and perfectly
cured of stammering, stuttering, etc., by my
own original scientific, method. I am in no
way connected with any other person of similar
profession in Australasia, and my method is in
no way similar.
Testimonials from Doctors, Great Public
Schools, Education Dept., St. John’s, Cambridge,
England, and many .others cured by me may
be inspected. I guarantee a perfect, permanent
cure.
’Phone, call or write for appointment.'
MRS. E. G. rHILLIPS,
Bishop’s Chambers, <»0 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney. Phone: RW7035.
Short Story
Writing
Free Lance
Journalism
NEW COURSES
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus,
1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
“Bill O’C.”: The navvies in Kelly’s bar
were getting noisily angry. The disturbance
centred in a group where Grogan, Hogan
and Geoghegan were shouting and gesticulat-
ing ominously. Grogan had said something
disrespectful about the Hogans, and Il'ogan
had countered with a contemptuous ‘‘To Hell
wid the whole tribe of Grogans; they’re no
damn good!” Both parties appealed to
Geoghegan to tell them whether they were
not insulted beyond toleration. “It’s this
way with me,” said Geoghegan judicially:
“me mother was. a Hogan and me grand-
mother was a Grogan and I’m damn well
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
“ ’Ow’ll this do, boay? I’ve told un ’e be a liar, a this] and a rotter, ’n none the
best o’ they.”
“Do splendid, Cap’n. And now finish un off —‘yours respectf'ly! ”
insulted by both of ye.” He also prepared
for battle, but added as an after-thought,
“Hei;e, Burke, you’re indepindent; come and
settle it or see fair play.” Burke stepped
up promptly, listened for a moment or two
to the angry clamor, and then started the
“settlement” by swinging willing rights and
lefts himself. Micky the barman steered the
outbreak skilfully through the swing-doors
into the road, from which a rather dishevelled
Burke was presently dragged. “What did
ye want to get into that scrap for?” they
asked. “It's like this.” explained Burke;
“me mother was a Finnegan.” “What’s
that got to do with it?” “Well,” he
answered, scratching a trifle of gravel from
his hair, “it seemed to be the sort of thing
they were arguin’ about, annyway.”
“Cucharacha”: Looking over the samples
of Australian-made goods displayed on the
Nieuw Holland, which is to tour the Nether-
lands Indies as a “showboat,” I was struck
with one omission. Intensive search failed
to reveal any sign of a tinned-cockroach
industry having been established here. A
friend recently returned from Eastern Asia
gave me the impression that there is an
opening for goods of this description.
Attracted by a large crowd in a native
market lie found it had gathered to hear a
dispute between a roast-cockroach merchant
and a customer. The customer had bought a
cockroach for a sum equal to a fortieth of
a penny, and was complaining of its quality.
As lie had partially eaten it, the vendor
dccl’ned to refund the. purchase price ; and
the matter was still in abeyance when my
friend left. Much was made in the speeches
farewelling the Nieuw Holland of the neces-
sity for studying Asiatic requirements. In
Queensland there is a splendid field for a
tinned-cockroach industry, the cockroaches
there being the largest, juiciest and most
flavorsome of all I have encountered in
years of knocking about the world.
“Pourri Pourri” : Why single out poor old
Binghi because he clings to his belief in the
death-bone and other magical menaces (B.
19/4/’33) ? One of the heartbreaking facts
the" Papuan missionary has to face is the
impossibility of weaning lus converts from a
profound belief in sorcery and a fear of
the sorcerer’s powers, though liis proteges
may be baptised Christians of the second or
third generation. The heathen, converted
or otherwise, is not alone in his folly. The
Sydney streets arc full of people who prac-
tise such rites as the throwing of spilt salt
over the shoulder, the crossing of fingers
when meeting a swivel-eyed person, and a
hundred other futile superstitions which sur-
vive in sophisticated mankind.
* * *
“Liss”: How’s this for a record? Work-
ing with one “Packy” Bryce, a. windmill-
erector employed by Sidney Williams on
Woolfield station (N.Q.), I pulled the whole
of the top gear from a 20ft. Comet mill,
stripping it down to the tower-cap, replace and
the main bearings, fitted anew main sliafi
and crank disc, drew 200 ft. of pump rods
and 4in. casing, soldered a leak in the latter
and renewed the leathers on the pump. Wo
had no assistance other than plenty of good
ropes and a double-geared winch. Taking
the working time from when we started ro
load the gear on the truck to when we had
unloaded it again, the whole operation occu-
pied 22 working hours; the bore was about
three miles trom the house.
* *
“Arebee”: Here’s one way not to catch
a hare. A lad of 15 was out hunting in
Avoea (Tic.) when his dog, some distance
ahead, put up a hare. The quarry turned
and ran towards liim. He crouched behind
a tree, and, when the hare came up. sprang
out and grabbed it. He caught his hare, but
not before it had bowled him over, cut his
mouth open and knocked out two front
teeth.
“Larrapinta” : It isn't only in the case of
tyres that sizes are liable to confuse the
buyer (B. 29/3/’33). In my prospecting
larger cartridges, I did the job. I would
have been in a pickle if those myalls had
got nasty before I had found out the cart-
ridges wouldn't fit,
“G.J.A.S.” : Dirty and sozzled, he wan-
dered into a South Westralian hall where
a dance was proceeding. lie was quickly
shot out, and disappeared into the darkness
expelling fumes of whisky and vows of ven-
geance; “I’ll put in the boot.” he roared.
Nothing more was seen of him. The
dance wont on. Gallons _of tea were
consumed, tlic wafer being boiled in a copper
set up outside. It was a thirsty night, and
we emptied the copper —to find a much-worn
and overboiled hobnail boot in the bottom.
Our uninvited visitor had “put in the boot.”
“Waranbini”: Some more bones of the
marsupial lion were recently discovered near
Goulburn (N.S.W.), buried among a mass
of other fossils, suggesting either a sudden
catastrophe that overwhelmed the mob or a
natural pit into which the mammoths
stumbled from time to time. The lion must
have had a wide range over N.S.W. and
Queensland; it was numerous in tin' Take
Frome district. Searchers find its bones
deep in the beds of vanished lakes. The
greatest cemetery of the ancient beasts, how-
ever, is the Darling Downs, which has given
up native bears the size of cows, wallabies
14ft. high, lizards 20ft. long, marsupial lions
and other terrors, including an alligator (not
crocodile) .‘loft. long. Also the Talgai skull,
which added to Binghi’s importance as
evidence of his great antiquity.
“Thugine”: Men at a sawmill in our
North Coast (N.S.W.) district put through
a long blackbutt log, sawing it in halves
lengthwise with a vertical saw. The log
was returned along the same line, the ver-
tical saw again completely dividing the two
halves; the chains were released and the two
halves allowed to fall apart. As they fell
they strained the sinews and almost broke
the back of a large black snake, coiled in
the hollow centre, part of its body being
twined tightly in the groove in one half of
the log and part in the other half. So
clays I carried a
rifle and revolver
of the same bore:
you could use
either weapon as
long as you had
a cartridge left.
I ordered 501)
n e w cartridges
from Perth with
my usual list of
supplies. When
they came 1
merely looked at
the packets be-
fore pushing out
again. The time
arrived when I
had to break into
the new cart-
ridges, and any-
one who has been
far from the
sound of the train
whistle can
imagine my feel-
ings when I dis-
covered that, in-
stead of the
.380’s which I
had ordered, I
had been sent
.38. Of course,
by all the rules of
arithmetic, they
should be the
same size, but
they aren’t. There
were wild Kimber-
ley myalls “yacko-
ing” to e a c h
other about my
camp, and I had
an uneasy time
of it while I was
making a reamer
out of a farrier's
rasp by heating it
and forging it to
shape with my
knapping h a la-
mer, using the
back of the axe
for an anvi 1.
Keaming out the
chamber of my
rifle, and then
those of my re-
volver, so they
would ’ take the
securely was it wedged in both halves that
even the weight of that huge log falling
apart did not dislodge it. The teeth hail
not harmed it at all.
* * * *
“Rotom”; Raiding mobs of magpies were
pulling our sprouting wheat to eat the grains
that came up with the roots, so we set traps
and caught a load of them. We didn’t like
killing the morning carollers, but to frighten
THE ETERNAL TRIANGLE.
them off the premises we tied two together
with a yard-long cord. Then we released
all the prisoners, and the circus commenced.
Trying to depart in different directions the
tethered pair gyrated upwards, whirling
and screeching, till tliey nearly bumped the
empyrean. Then they spiralled downward
again till they flapped the earth. With
beaks snapping like ratchets, their liberated
mates took a claw in the hostilities as the
tied couple madly fought. They mobbed the
struggling pair, rending and pecking, till
the air was filled with drifting feathers. We
came to the rescue and unyoked the victims.
There was no further interference with our
wheat.
* * sis ' *
“.Sailor": There is a shelf of grim relics
at the Burketown (N.Q.) police station. It
contains half a dozen fire-blackened billy-
cans. On the sooty bottoms are the names
of the men who owned them and pitiful last
messages—all scratched by weak bands
before the lonely travellers died for. want of
the precious fluid that once brimmed and
spilled from those same cans. The billies
were found alongside the bleached bones, and
toll a tale that should be well heeded by
the dry-season traveller in those parts.
# * * *
“Plankton”: There are no marsupial frogs
in Australia, but some half-dozen species
are found in certain tropical areas of South
America, mainly between Peru and Vene-
zuela, and one kind hops round in the
suburbs of Pernambuco. None of them are
large and the smallest ( Nototrema pyq-
ntCßum) could squat comfortably on a half-
penny. The narrow pouch of the female ex-
tends along the back (in one instance reach-
ing to the head) and opens at the hind-end.
How the eggs are placed in it is still a
family secret, but it seems more than pro-
bable that father-frog knows the trick. The
tadpoles of some species wriggle out of the
pouch at the first opportunity and complete
their metamorphosis in the water; but in
at least one kind (which lays very few eggs),
the youngsters remain in the pouch until
fully developed. The yolk of the egg affords
means of subsistence during the early stages,
as in the ease of birds.
REPENTING AT LEISURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I mind the time right well,” said Jourdie
Joe,
“An’ that was three-and-thirty years ago,
We swore, if others Federation tried,
AYe wouldn’t be left outside.
The bare suggestion raised an angry yell,
The very thought was hell.
‘No lonely-furrow business for us,’
A thousand clamorous
Speakers declared defiantly. An’ now
It seems the only sort they want to plough.
For getting in they’d argue, roar and shout;
To-day they’re just as set on getting out,
Though how they aim to do it I dunno,”
Said Jourdie Joe.
“ ‘Keep us from federating? Let them try,’
AA r e boasted. ‘Soon they’ll see their schemes
awry
An’ find our threats are something more
than kid,’
An’ mighty soon they did.
AVe put the fear of God, right quick an’
smart.
In Bigjohn Forrest’s heart.
AA r e showed ’em that they didn’t own the
earth,
Those Gropers down at Perth.
AA r e made appeal for help, an’ not in vain,
To Downing-street and Joey Chamberlain.
We wouldn’t ha’ bothered if we'd had to
break
The State in half for Federation’s sake.
AYe showed the diehard crowd the way to
go,”
Said Jourdie Joe.
“An' now it looks we took the turning wrong
As surely as the sheila in the song.
The horse we backed so solidly to win
Has done our good brass in.
’Tis we who ought to get our nappers read
Not those (now mostly dead)
AAlio begg’d and prayed us, while they
almost wept,
To look before we leapt.
They couldn’t see beyond their parish
pumps,
AYe scoffed ; but, spare me days ! they weren’t
the chumps.
A pretty bed it was that you and I
Ala do, so they tell us now, whereon to lie,
An' how they’re goin’ to smooth it I dunno,”
Said Jourdie Joe.
W.A.
MULLINGAR.


YOUR SUIT—Now,
OR LATER.
QUALITY CLOTHES
from our Now Patterns—
prices from
£4 4s. to £8 Bs.
COUNTRY CLIENTS: We guarantee.a
perfect fit with our new scientific
measurement chart. All our suits have
unbreakable fronts and are silk lined.
Specially to introduce our Leather
Overcoat department, we are offering a
genuine £6/6/- overcoat at £4/7/6.
Made from finest selected hides, and
storm-proof lined. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded.
Call or write for patterns and chart.
G. S. BELL & SON,
Lyceum House, 214 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
/ Tel. : MA1376.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The American Crisis.
Gold and Commodity Prices.
Outlook for Investors.
Are Bank Shares Too High?
Prospects for Base-metals.
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the April issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
AT LAST
QUICK RELIEF
FROM CATARRH
SPLITTING HEADACHE
DIFFICULTY IN BREATHING
AFFECTED HEARING
COLD IN HEAD
Is there anything more distressing than the
difficult breathing of Catarrh sufferers and the
inconvenience it causes? END IT —for your
own sake and for the sake of those about you.
Those sickening pains in the region of the
eves, the ringing noises in the ears —why
suffer when Catarrh Clysmac will give you
quick relief? Made from pure volatile oils, it
goes right to the seat of the trouble, bringing
soothing relief and leaving the head as “clear
as a bell.’’
Get a supply of Catarrh Clysmac to-day. Every
package carries a guarantee, and all Chemists
sell it at 1/9 or nearly three times the
quantity for 4/6; or direct from Santox
Chemical Co., Ltd., Box 1035 H, G.P.Q., Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“There are brighter days in store.”—Joe Lyons.
Well, all we ask is the address of the store.
Y Y
“ ‘Emelia,’ said petitioner’s mother, ‘would have
out herself to pieces for Camera. Must she wait
until his boxing career is over?’ ” — “Sun.”
Why this anxiety to see Emelia cut her-
self to pieces?
Y Y
THE SOVIET JUDICIAL SYSTEM
REACHES SYDNEY.
Crown Prosecutor : “The prisoner stole
the overcoat; he has confessed.”
Accused: “I never; I got witnesses to
prove it.”
C.P.: “Liar and brute beast! Be silent!
You will need not one overcoat but many
shortly, Mr. Pineher. It is cold at Long
Bay in the winter, Mr. Pineher. Be thank-
ful if your worthless corpse is not employed
to manure the farm of our Great Leader.”
"Yes, her clothes are all here—-she must be out."
(A Scottish Juror : “Gfeeterr than
Lenin, forbye!”)
A.: “I never done it, I say. If yer want
to know, I 1 was in quod at the time. Yer
own johns can prove it.”
,C.P.: “This is intolerable, ruffian.” (To
police sergeant) “Take Mr. Pinch er away,
Sergeant. I need say no more. You, are a
loyal proletarian.”
(An hour elapses. Accused is carried in.)
A.: “I done it.”
C.P.: “Alia, scurvy stealer of overcoats!
So you admit to your noisome. Soviet-
regime-overthrowing offence! Our good
Soviet gaols were built for such as you,
foul capitalistic louse”
A.: “I nev.er done it. I wouldn’t ’ave
said I did only the sarge got ter me with a
waddy. .1 tell yer I wuz in quod at the
time.”
C.P. ( menacingly ): “Sergeant!”
A. ( hurriedly ); “Orl right! Or] right!
’Ave it yer own way. I done it.”
C.P.: “So at last, scoundrelly overcoat-
purloiner, we arrive at the truth. You done
it —er—did it. To think that the land of our
Great Leader (A Scottish Juror: “Good
old Jack o’ Auburm Toon!”) should be
defiled by the counter-revolutionary activi-
ties of a capitalistic minion such as you, Mr.
Bert Pineher ! What sentence can I demand
for you, Mr. Pineher, when death is insuffi-
cient ? What”
A.: “I never done it.”
C.P.: “Foul liar !”....
(And so on till the usual adjournment for
vodka. )
10-2-4.
Germany’s Mussolini will presumably sub-
stitute pork for castor oil.
Y Y
“Younger sons of a family have more brains than
their elder brothers.”— “Argus.”
Yet younger sons sometimes become
M.L.A.’s, too.
Y Y
The Japs seem intent on making the
Chinese go west.
Y Y
“Under Nazi rule, German workers are paid £'-
per week and work 12 hours a day.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
The paper might have added that there's
no Peace work in Germany just now.
Y Y
Our milkman is a most convivial fellow,
Despite his raucous matutinal bellow.
When dealing out his lacteal elixir,
No one denies he is a splendid mixer.
S. K.
Y Y
TECHNIQUE OF SECESSION.
W.A. having decided to secede, it only
remains to put the policy into effect on
practical lines. For a start our Western
Hitlers should kidnap George Pearce, Joe
Lyons and any other politicians they can
get hold of. This will make the rest of
Australia friendly. All debts to be repudi-
ated at once. This will cause an influx of
Lang Planners, and their de-
parture from other' parts of
Australia will be regarded as
ample compensation for the
lost cash.
W.A. will need money badly
and soon, and a bumper lot-
tery with a first prize of
£50,000 should do the trick.
Prizes to be payable in the
proportion of 80 per cent.
W.A. currency to 20 per cent,
sterling. This will keep most
of the money in W.A., while
still making the lottery attrac-
tive enough to tempt outside
mugs.
Erection of a line of Cus-
toms posts, and their lease on
a percentage basis, from the
Bight to the Timor Sea should
help to solve the unemploy-
ment problem.
Increase of prize money for
the Perth Cup to, say, £30,000
will attract the crowds which
at present flock to the Mel-
bourne Cup, and the erection
of the World’s Biggest Single
Span Bridge over the Swan
will sidetrack to W.A. the
overseas tourists who are now
making special trips to sec
the Sydney Bridge. All-night
pubs, State-owned two-up and
uak-a-pu schools, and a free
go for tin-hare and pony-race-
course magnates, with casinos
on the lines of the one at
Monte Carlo in the chief
towns, should complete the
good work and make W.A. the Mecca of
every dead-game sport in the Empire.
A. O’C.
Y Y
“His solicitor mentioned that the accused had
been brought up in a religious home, but had become
associated with thieves.”
The thieves seem to have shaken his very
faith.
Y Y
THE COMMISSION CRAZE SPREADS.
The Royal Commission which is inquiring
into royal commissions entered upon its
seventieth week yesterday, when further
evidence was taken regarding the conduct
of the inquiry made into railway refresh-
ment-room sandwiches in 1886. Mr. Boof-
head, K.C., who was Royal Commissioner on
that occasion, was carried into court to give
his evidence.
Mr. Gridiron, Iv.C. (assisting the commissioner) :
“What fee did you receive for your services on the
Sandwich Commission?”
Witness: “I can’t remember.”
Mr. Gridiron: “Come, come, surely you have your
bank book of that date.”
“I don’t think 1 had a bank book at the time.”
“Well, what conclusions did you come to as
commissioner?”
‘I don t remernbei. If m. memo) seiacs me
rightly, a war began somewhere and the inquiry was
dropped for patriotic reasons. Or someone may
have died.”
At this stage the witness collapsed and was
removed for medical attention.
The next witness was Algernon Buggies,
aged 92. who stated that he covered the
Sandwich Commission for the “S. M.
Herald” as a junior reporter. He said lie
still had his shorthand notes.
Mr. Gridiron, K.C.: “Do you recall any evidence
being given as to component parts of the sand-
wirhes whose integrity was questioned?”
It says here that, when Death takes a wife, the husband
is often so helpless that he has to marry again.”
I sec—a sort of Reaper and. binder.”
Witness: “I remember the whole thing perfectly.”
Mr. Gridiron (angrily) : “None of your imperti-
witness.”
The Commissioner: You can safely leave the
dignity of this compassion in my hands, Mr. Grid-
iron. ' Let me tell you, witness, that unless you
are very careful I’ll commit you for contempt.
Your years, witness, give you no authority to be
vulgarly facetious.”
The commission then adjourned sine die in
order that excavations might be made under
the Chief Secretary’s Department in an
effort to locate some of the sandwiches which
were exhibits before the original commission.
A.
Y Y
By a regulation under the N.S.W. Margar-
ine ‘Bill, butter-substitute must not con-
tain palm oil. Men in the industry
understand that this is because all available
supplies are required for political and near-
political purposes.
Y Y
MISUNDERSTOOD.
“ ‘You admit being at this party for five hours, yet
deny that you were drunk?’ ‘I do. My glass was
filled often, but 1 emptied it into the pot-plants.’ ”
—Evidence in divorce case.
It explains with the simple brevity of
sheer truth what happened
in Flossie’s King’s Cross
flat. The way those pot-
plants started dancing about
was exstra —eggs—you know
what I mean 1 I’d gone to
sleep under the couch or on
top of the radio or some-
where when a pot-plant
hopped off its stand and
kicked me. “Wake up, Perc
—hie—y !” it hiccupped.
Just a.s I sat up or fell off
the big aspidistra staggered
across the room. “Gosh, I
do feel shot!’’ it said. I
stepped forward to hold it
up—ever the gentleman—
and it wrapped its leaves
round me. “Come on, ole
dear,” it said; “come an’
have a bit of a dance!”
Picture my surprise when at
this awkward moment in
walked the wife and her
mother.
Draw the curtain! If
you’ll credit it they refused
to believe me when I said
that I wasn’t drunk; that
all the liquor had been
mopped up by the pot-plants. Percy P
Y Y
“An old racing moat seems to suit the crew
better than the newer craft.”
— “S.M.H.” riming comment.
Aren’t they afraid of being ditched?
THE DIDDLERS.
THREE GENERATIONS OF SPORTS.
’T’he Uitt-street kerhstoner ill the mauve
, c 1 ltt Street KeiDSTOUtI ill uie
shirt and black-and-wlnte golf shoes spat
bitterly into tlie gutter and held forth : A
bloke gets sick an’ tired uv these Lamonds
and Capels that the ‘S. M. Herald’ keeps
boosting at every Show. Bah ! What about
the Ifiddlers? r
“In the ’fifties tlie Diddler brothers,
Darky. Spike an Thuggo, wuz among the
leadin’ pushites uv the Rocks. Darky ad
f bent ter orseflesli an when e come out
f er the third time (they useter send em to
Berrirna iii those days) ’e decided ter chuck
park touting an’ join the
ponies. ’E married Kate
Nark, an Underworld Queen
uv rare beauty (like wot
Cleopatra mighter bin with
’er front teeth out an’ ’er
nose broken), an’ the fam-
bly’s bin prominent in the
game ever since. It wuz
Darky 11. (progenitor uv
the present , Robbery Park
fambly) wot dyed the grey
mare Mother’s Girl black,
an’ won some good races
with ? er up-country. Six
munce they give ’im fer
that. -
"Then there wuz Spike,
ancestor of the three boys so
well known ter the perlice
at the Dogs. Young Joe
1 fiddler, Spike’s grandson —
the same wot had ’em all
beat at the Tin Rabbit Com-
mission, an’ wuz twice
accused uv bein’ a perjurer
by the bloke in charge—
took on a bit of fizgigging
as a side-line, an’ ’e wuz a
star pressman (Special In-
vestigator) fer a while; but
’e goes back to ’is old love
when ’e comes out of orse-
pital. Tliuggo—spoken of
ter this day as ‘the first uv
the razor-men’ —on’y ’ad one
son. This coot, Marxy
Diddler, wot they ’anged
the same year as Deeming,
leaves five kids, an' they all
trains on inter politicians.
Art Diddler claims to ’ave
worked the first ballot-box swindle, and is
voung brother Leffin organised the original
Redfern Basher Gang. At the present time
there’s no less than three uv the third gen-
eration of the fambly in Parlyment. An'
the ‘ ’Eraid’ talks uv yer Lamonds and
Capels! Bah!”
D. J.
Y Y
l NAP BUD Cl A TED EERY ICE.
“ ‘When he married,’ said witness, ‘his wife was
a waitress. She had a bad temper arid frequently
liit him when he came home at night,’ The.
magistrate found for the wife.”
tfhe waited on him with a tray,
And then in quite another way
Bhe waited on him every night.
“Bhe served me in a restaurong ,”
He trailed. “Now all I get's a dong.”
The Judge said that she served him right.
“As- to the habit of talking to yourself—
well, there’s no need to worry about
that.”
“P-perhaps not, Doctor —but I'm such a
dreadful bore.”
THE NOSE-GARDEN.
“I don’t grow flowers
In leisure hours,”
Remarked old Levi Moses.
“ Forget-me-nots
Don't, bloom, in pots
For me, nor bulbs, nor roses.
But when in line
Mg children (nine)
Fall in, the sight discloses
.1 scene whose bliss
I’d hate to miss:
My nosegays all are
Noses.'’
L. A.


INVINCIBLE
DIESEL ENGINES
(MARINE AND STATIONARY)
Run on cheap Crude Oil at a cost of less than
One Farthing- per Horsepower per Hour.
All Sizes up to SOO H.P.
Prices now drastically reduced.
Write for Catalogue, stating your
requirements.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED,
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at Chicago, lli.
Established in 1906.
TRAVEL HOME VIA
HEW YORK
AND THE
CUNARD LINE
Homeward bound, via U.S.A., Canada and
Cunard to Europe. See Honolulu, San Fran-
cisco, Vancouver, Montreal and New York,
and the fascinating cities of America and
Canada. A Weekly Express Service from New
York by the renowned
AQUITANIA, MAURETANIA, BERENGARIA,
46,000 tons. 30,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
Also
The Largest Cabin Fleet in the World.
Connecting with the following Sailings from
Sydney:
S.S. Niagara
S.S. Mariposa
S.S. Maunganui
S.S. Monowai
S.S. Monterey
Sailing: April 2“th
Sailing: May 6tli
Sailing: May 11th
Sailing: May 25th
Sailing: May 31st
Return tickets issued by the Suez Canal, and
Cape Lines are available for return by 'this
route. Apply to—
CUNARD LINE.
(C. AND D. LINE),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY,
OR
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
family and residential hotels.
Make a note of these addresses
for yourself and your friends.
Within three minutes Hyde Park and
Tube. Daily terms as required. Pas-
senger lifts. Garages. Central heating.
Hot and cold running water. Exchange
telephone and gas fires in all bedrooms.
BRIDGE, BILLIARDS, TABLE TENNIS
and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 gns.;
Double from 7 gns. Bath, Bed and Break-
fast from 9/6. Tel.: Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
C 6-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 gns. Single; 61
gns. Double. Bath, Bed and Breakfast
from S/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Hotel of refinement with young and
cheerful society. Accommodation for 90
guests. Delightful Rooms arranged as
Bed-Sitting Rooms. Terms: 3 gns. Single;
5 gns. Double. Tel.: Padd. 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W 2.
Owing to its popularity you are advised
to secure accommodation—if possible—in
advance. Terms: 3 gns. Single; 5 gns..
Double. Room. Bath, Breakfast, 7/6.
Tel.: Padd. 8022.
TAe above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Directory Mrs. J. E.
Stevenson.
CHRONIC
RHEUMATISM
OR ARTHRITIS
Turns Active People into
Dependent Cripples
There are three main types of Rheumatism, all
painful and dangerous. The Arthritis type causes
intense suffering; interferes with work and pleasure;
frequently disables, and sometimes leads to other
ills resulting in death. Among the signs of Arthritis
are: a * below par" feeling, bowels disordered, diges-
tion poor, breath bad, headaches, feverishness, aches
and pains, stiff, sore joints, stiff back. If the
disease is not treated it progresses, causing over-
giou ths on the joints and thus crippling. Loose
bodies of bone and gristle may form, suddenly
n t * le al) d preventing movement,
e thing to do is to tone up the kidneys; assist
the urinary organs and eliminate uric acid by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy of a London doctor,
being effective in all three types of rheumatism, is
fast supplanting old-style kidney pills. Harrison’s
Pills accord with recent scientific findings in regard
to kidney, bladder, urinary and rheumatic disorders
tiey are antiseptic in action and give such quick
and relief that most sufferers regard them
m, raeulous.” Harrison’s Pills clear up aches,
nw : f lffneSs and swellings where other things fail;
® el J them in three inexpensive sizes, and
the distributors offer money back to any sufferer
trying this remedy and failing to get relief from it.
It is Safer
to Pay by Cheque
Money in the pocket or the home is frittered away;
sometimes it is stolen ; sometimes it is lost.
Money lodged in your bank account is protected against
such mischances, and your cheque book is a permanent
record of your expenditure. Moreover there is a cer-
tain prestige in paying by cheque.
It is not necessary to keep a large credit balance, for when-
ever you have a surplus of five pounds you can place it
on fixed deposit and have the interest paid in regularly
to your cheque account.
An officer at any one of the 705 branches of the Bank
of New South Wales, the oldest and largest bank in
Australia, will explain the opening of a cheque account
and how you can. invest your savings on fixed deposit.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd, are amalgamated.
Deposits exceed £83,000,000.
A VOYAGE RICH IN DISCOVERY!
SYDNEY
to ENGLAND or AMERICA
on the super-liners
MARIPOSA^MONTEREY"
America, in the flush of Spring, extends a gala welcome
to the traveller! From California (reached in 18 days!)
to the Atlantic Coast, there unfolds a pageant of brilliant
sdf
natural wonders and inspiring works of man. Discover them all, as you
make this interest-laden trip your next holiday. Though the shortest route
to England, it jhcludes the breadth of the American continent, and a
romantic interlude through the enchanting South Seas!
The “Mariposa” and “Monterey”—new, swift and superbly appointed—
sustain a tempo of the utmost modern luxury between the Antipodes, San
Francisco and Los Angeles. Intriguing glimpses of Auckland —Suva—Pago
Pago—Honolulu— never more than 5 days between ports!
Itineraries may be arranged to any point in America or England.
FARES
to LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
ROUND TRIP PROM SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS, from £125/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £B7
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE
FIRST CLASS, from £129/10/- CABIN CLASS, from £9l
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
To ENGLAND
FROM SYDNEY
FIRST CLASS ( Single ) from £lO5/10/-
CABtN CLASS ( Single ) from £B3
FROM MELBOURNE:
First Class (Single) from £lO7/10/-
Cabln Class ( Single) from £B4/10/-
Return: £194
Return: £152
Return £l9B
Return £155/10/-
THESE FARES SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
SOUTH SEAS.
The fascinating, ever-romantic islands of the South
Seas offer a rare vacation opportunity, due to the
rapid service and extremely moderate fares obtaining
on these splendid new ships. For an experience
wholly different, this should be your goal!
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
SUVA, Fiji
PAGO PAGO, Samoa
HONOLULU, Hawaii
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
£3s/0-
£33/5/- 65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
.... 75/0/- .... 55/ 0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
SUVA, Fiji
PAGO PAGO, Samoa
HONOLULU, Hawaii..
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
£4l/0-
£35/5/- 69/0/- 26/5/- 51/10/-
.... £79/0/- .... 59
FARES NOT SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE
NEXT
Sailings lo
AMERICA
via New Zealand
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
"MARIPOSA"
from Sydney
MAY 6
from Melbourne
MAY 2
Interesting literature will be sent you on request, absolutely free
In the WORLD’S SPOTLIGHT International Exposition
chicaco, June 1-Nov. l, 1933. America invites you to visit this World’s Fair.
the oceanic steamshTp
MATSON LIN E
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY • PHONE 87981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED 4M , A
341 Collins St. & 461 Bourke St„ Melbourne - Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
All-wool
RUGS ,
sďf
■ “ • ;
MURDOCKS
Formerly - - 22/6
Now - - 13
Never has Murdoch’s offered such
a Rug of Quality, made from good
warmth-giving Australian wool, at
such an amazingly low cost. Attrac-
tive, neat overcheck patterns in
Fawns, Browns and Greys. Size,
60in. x 80in.
REMARKABLE VALUE AT 13/11
27/6 Wool
Rugs - - -
217-
These are delightfully warm and
serviceable wearing all-wool Rugs
in the latest of overcheck designs,
including Blues, Browns, Greys and
Fawns. Top-notch value! Size,
60in. x 80in.
Pure Merino
This is certainly a remarkable low
price for a pure Merino Wool Rug.
In latest overcheck designs. Warm,
and woven for a full term of service.
Size, 60in. x 80in. Finished with
fringed ends. Heavyweight quality.
Usually 357-
SPECIAL PRICE
27/6
srs?
Snug All-wool
BLANKETS
When you snuggle under Murdoch
Blankets you will realise why Mur-
doch’s are famed for their quality
in Winter wants. These Blankets
are of exceptionally long-wearing
quality and are standard weight and
size.
Prices, per pair—
Sgl. Bed. |-Bed.
54in. x 78in. 63in. x 8 1 in.
Dark or Silver
Grey .... 21/6
White Wool 217-
Superior Quality
White Wool 29/6
27/6
26/6
34/11
Ex. Large
Dbl. Bed. Dbl. Bed.
72in. x 90in. 8 lin. x 99ih.
Dark or Silver
Grey .... 33/6
White Wool 33/6
Superior Quality
White Wool 44/6
41/6
39/11
54/-
We Pay Freight.
Kindly Write to Desk “R .
Murdoch's Ltd.
SYDNEY
“Still Rising in Public EstimationV


“Help,
It’s
Out!”
;
2
SSSSfiS
1
i
mi
m
S
m
m
m
$& .$
jgS3«S&ayes
,? / "vf
$ / /
The cat is out of the bag
In advocating socialisation of credit as the issue to be placed before the people, Mr. Garden
made it quite clear to the delegates of the Lang A.L.P. Easter Conference that Lang Labor ’s
real plan is revolution.
Mr. Garden said that revolutions in the past, including the French and Italian
Revolutions, had failed because workers had failed to realise that finance was
the nerve centre of the system. They must attack the financial institutions to
be successful. He added that the State Labor policy was in strict accordance
with the teachings of Lenin, whom he quoted at length. He dramatically
declared that Mr. J. T. Lang, in his recent financial proposals, had gone further
than Lenin.
Upper House Reform will prevent any party from winning its way to office on one policy and
then producing another from the bag.
It will provide a complete safeguard against revolution and two-faced political trickery.
A “YES” vote will make the politicians your obedient servants.
sd
1
2
YES
NO
Voting is compulsory—a number must be placed in each square.
More Power to the People
Authorised by A. de R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The Sane Democracy League, a strictly non-party organisation, supports the Referendum proposals because it believes that a “Yes” vote will be
in the best interests of Democracy.
TO CARRY ON THE FIGHT THE LEAGUE NEEDS MEMBERS AND FUNDS.


DOUBLE
GEARED
Bgsgsni
\
US*
- 1 - m
1
BETTER IN EVERY WAY
For Australian Conditions
JTose thinking of installing a Windmill Pumping
i lent should get the descriptive folder of Our latest
model.
Billabong Windmill
. * totally encased mill, with several special features,
Double Gears, Ball Bearings on the Main
Ball Bearing Race on the Tower Cap,
thoroughly Self Oiling.
WROUGHT-IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS.
ALL SIZES AT LOWEST PRICES.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
334-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fsfa
SELF
OILING
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
Vic. MAT,LEE FARMERS.
“Glenfiekl”: Characteristics of the wheat-
; growers in the older-settled areas of the
•north-west Vic. Mallee were keenness in re-
search, pride in the efficiency of their farm-
ing. and faith' in the country. Since the
“depression came upon us, one has been eon-
: scions of the grim determination of every-
one to hang on, but the strain is telling on
.many.
| Those with a fighting chance, if conditions
improve, have got back to the safe rotation
methods which were upset by the disastrous
‘Grow More Wheat” campaign. By stinting
themselves of everything but the barest neces-
sities and growing everything possible re-
quired for food, a few are very gradually
|nit perceptibly moving forward. A, hundred
*wes have been obtained under stock mort-
gage, the lambs and wool have slowly paid
yfor them, and the cocky now has his own
mieat and a few pounds coming in apart
from wheat.
- Two hundred acres of wheat sown on fal-
aow, 200 acres of intelligently-cultivated
“tallow and 200 acres of oats, 100 for hay
and 100 for grazing the sheep and fattening
the lambs: there you have the only pre-
scription that will, if he can take it, enable
the financially-sick Mallee farmer to hang
on. And every man who expects to remain
m tbe Mallee will have to take it.
Those farmers more deeply involved are
desperately sowing large areas to wheat each
season in the forlorn hope that the price
will suddenly rise. Stubble paddocks are
being sown year after year, diseases such as
takeall and flag smut are extending, barley
glass (that host plant of takeall) is spread-
ing everywhere, and the coming season will
see an increase of such troubles. For these
men the prospects seem hopeless.
As fin- the men under the Closer Settle-
ment Board in the newer country, many of
whom were inexperienced in Mallee condi-
tions, there is only one method by which
they can be saved. Zone men who are triers,
so many farms to an experienced super-
visor, who will see that they farm efficiently
and strictly to timetable in rotation methods
--cropping to be finished by the end of May,
fallowing by the end of July, and hay re-
serves to be built up for the dry years. The
easing of their financial burdens by the Gov-
ernment will be pitiably insufficient if they
are allowed to muddle on.
FEEDING CONCENTRATES.
“P. Aitch ’: The wool of the sheep con-
tains roughly 13 p.c. of cystine, and cystine,
as “8.8. D.” (B. 29/3/33) states, is an
amino-acid; but that doesn’t make the cocky
any wiser. For ordinary purposes he may
take cystine to be akin to protein (it is
really one step removed), and he may rest
assured that should the food fed to his
woollies not contain sufficient cystine to give
a payable clip of wool of the desired quality,
the animals will quickly manufacture it (the
cystine) from the grass and from other
tucker which falls in their path.
It is a recognised fact that pure protein
cannot be synthesised in the animal body.
The beasts rely on plants to produce the
goods, but the plant proteids are turned into
animal protein by the animal at will. Straw-
berry changes gluten (the protein of wheat)
into casein (the protein of milk), and the
rooster would change it into albumen if he
could lay an egg. In the same way the pro-
tein of the various foods fed to a beast
may be changed into cystine in the animal
body. Therefore the percentage of cystine in
any given fodder is not of much conse-
quence, but it is of the utmost importance
to blend the various proteins (i.c., vary the
food) in feeding.
If a herd of calves or a flock of lambs are
being fed with rations showing no deficiency
in any element —properly balanced, as we
say—growth cannot be accelerated by the
simple expedient of adding, say, dried blood
(which is comparatively high in cystine
content) to the ration. Nor is it a case of
bigger worms, bigger blackbirds, for size
depends on constitution. It therefore fol-
lows that excess protein, with the con-
stituent amino-acids which accompany it, is
useless. However, as “8.8. D.” states, it is
still believed that cystine (i.c., a concen-
trate containing cystine) is of importance
in pig-raising and poultry-farming, although
it has been definitely proved that it is un-
necessary in the fodder consumed bv cattle
and sheep. This is, in all probability, due
to the difference in the make-up of the
animals. Regarding the tainting of milk,
flesh or eggs, the only sure way of overcom-
ing this annoyance is a spell away from the
offending fodder. This is the method fol-
lowed by butchers when buying mutton off
subterranean or lucerne pasture, the sheep
being held from the tainting fodder for two
or three days prior to killing. Dairymen
cut and wilt lucerne prior to feeding, or
dilute the lucerne fed during grazing by
clocking the time allowed on the lucerne.
The tainted egg is a problem, for the bird
lays when it suits her, but usually this is
in the daytime, and consequently the sus-
picious fodder (say, an onion) should be
fed in the evening meal.
Meat-meal for cows not stall-fed (as is
the case in Australia), even to the extent
of as little as 10 p.c. of the crushed wheat
fed, is, from the stock-food standpoint, un-
worthy of consideration. If it is to take
the place of bonemeal for phosphate defi-
ciency, my opinion is it is dearer and not
as good. Irrespective of phosphate defi-
ciency, if Strawberry be given the choice
between meat-meal and grass, she will “buy
grass” every time.
SOW MORE OATS.
“Galah”: After the prolific years we
have had, dry years must be close* at hand.
Every Mallee cocky should, sow as much-
oats as possible so that a maximum amount
of hay • may be cut. The reserves on most
farms have been depleted by the mouse
plague, ai\d every wise farmer’s first objec-
tive should be a good hay reserve.
With the horse replacing motor-power in
the cities, the demand and the price for hay
in the coming dry years should be good. A
spare stack sold at that time should make
the bank pass-book good reading.
And that water supply. Are there suffi-
cient dams* to water all the stock through
a dry season? If you are not served by the
channels, but rely on catchment, are the
drains well-made and cleaned out? It is all
work, but work that will repay doing
even in these hard times.
PALESTINE OATS IN N. S. WALES.
There have been references in the M.O.L.
section to good yields of Palestine oats in
H estralia and Victoria. This variety is
proving itself in parts of N. S. Wales 'also.
Last season was a good one for growing
oats and some remarkable returns are re-
ported in the “Agricultural Gazette.” Deal-
ing with the Central-western district, the
“Gazette” says: “Exceptionally heavy vields
were registered, particularly at Tyagong.
Palestine was the most outstanding, being
the heaviest at three centres out of five, and
yielding 86 bushels in Grenfell district
trials.”
Of Parkes district trials it is reported:
The most notable feature was the consis-
tency of Palestine as a grain-producer. Its
short straw makes it less liable to lodge
than the _ taller sorts.” C-oonabarabran-
Mudgee trials also resulted in favor of Pal-
estine, as far as Baradine is concerned.
There the crop gave upwards of 53 bushels
per acre, but at Tambor Springs the yield
got below 20 bushels. “Palestine,”' the
observer states, is drought-resistant. . . .but
unless sow r n late is highly susceptible to
trost damage.”
The Coonabarabran-Mudgee officer men-
tions interestingly that the stubble of Mulga.
Buddah and Palestine is readily eaten by
stock. “The fallacy that stock prefer wheat
to oats for grazing is not borne out by
actual experience. In two instances where
wheat and oats were grown in the one pad-
dock sheep refused to leave the oats until
eaten. bare, and on one property two oat
varieties were practically eaten out. At
Birriwa, where some outstanding yields
were obtained, oats sown early in April
were grazed from May 14 to 24, and again
from June 1 to 13, and for the period car-
ried at the rate of eight sheep per acre.
The area was further grazed at the rate of
one sheep per acre until July IS. The oats
;| t Tallawang, though not fed off until the
prolific growth was seriously damaged by
the heavy mid-June frosts, carried for the
six months (April to September) equivalent
to 3.8 sheep per acre.”
“THE STACK’S ON FIRE.”
“S. Quire”: Arguments often take place
as to whether a haystack has taken fire from
spontaneous combustion, at the hands of the
incendiarist, or by accident. As a rule an
insurance co., protecting itself by the terms
of the policy, is not responsible for a cer-
tain time after the stack is completed, unless
it is proved that the stack was deliberately
fired or took fire by accident. Spontaneous
combustion is never covered by insurance.
Hay which fires has a smell resembling
the aroma of tobacco. When this is detected
look out! A stack will fire spontaneously
at any time between five and 13 weeks after
it is built, usually round about eight weeks.
Should it be cut into or disturbed, the period
of fire danger is considerably shortened.
Badly-made hay. stacked while wet, will
heat and fire for a certainty. Hence haystack
firing is comparatively common in a wet
season, in spite of the fact that it is a com-
mon saying amongst farmers “More hay is
spoiled by heating in a good season than in
a bad one.” This is due to the outside of
each stalk during hot weather becoming very
dry, while the pith remains moist. Under
dry conditions the sunlight kills a large pro-
portion of the ferments which remain in-
active if the hay is correctly cured, but they
heat the hay by acting on the internal mois-
ture if the hay is rushed from the field to
the stack. During wet, cloudy weather, more
ferments and moisture exist to do the dirty
work. This does not mean that hay wetted
by rain after ample sunlight causes spon-
taneous combustion, although it is the cause
of the hay going mouldy.
Certain changes occur in a stack of
tightly-packed, improperly-cured hay which
give rise to firing. It is not known exactly
what these changes are. One theory (which
is probably correct) is that ferments attack
the phosphate present in the hay to produce
phosphine gas (the phosphuretted hydrogen
so largely used in the war), which is highly
inflammable, and takes fire when it reaches
the air outside the stack.
Instances are known where a sheaf of
hay pulled from inside a heated stack and
thrown aside has burst into flame before
it reached the ground.
Apart from the use of salt and the ordi-
nary practised care in hay-making, the firing
of haystacks can be definitely avoided by
testing and controlling the temperature of
the stack. Attach a thermometer firmly
to the. end of a crowbar, and drive it into,
the stack. After a few minutes (say five)
withdraw the bar and quickly read the ther-
mometer. A temperature of 150 degrees F.
is dangerous, and when this temperature is
approached the wise farmer sets about turn-
ing the hay.
THESE PRODUCTION RECORDS.
“W.D.McC.”: Nearly every week or so
you will read that Gwendoline Kiteflyer
Pearl (or some such name) has broken this
or that record, having produced umpteen
thousand gallons of milk and nearly as many
pounds of butter in 273 or 365 days. Or
that the wonderful two-year-old heifer
Gretchen von Bustem has in the same period
yielded more butter-fat than her own bodily
weight. But you are never by any chance
told in print what it costs to produce these
“records.” Such achievements are not worth
a continental unless they are accomplished
under commercial conditions. Unlimited
feed will work wonders.
Many years ago I saw a cow that cost
fifty bob. and didn’t look to be worth any
more, win a butter-fat test at the Royal
Show, Melbourne. She made nearly 31b. of
butter in 24 hours. As far as breeding was
concerned she was a mongrel; and yet £5O
was offered and refused for her. She had
only one heifer calf and it proved a dud.
I don’t rnean to say that no thoroughly
accredited records have been established.
There is no doubting the wonderful per-
formance of that greatest of milking Short-
horns Melba XV. of Darbalara (Gundagai.
N.S.W.), which, under test by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, produced
32,52211 b. milk and 16141 b. butter-fat in
365 days. Her breeder, the late .T. T. Cole,
manager of Darbalara for the Scottish Aus-
tralian Investment Co., was a past-master at.
the business. He realised that tests are of
little value without an accurate table of
costs, and he had them published. I have
kept a copy; perhaps it ought to be repro-
duced for the benefit of dairy-farmers who
may own prospective record-breakers.
Melba XV. was not housed at any period
of the test. She was kept on good pasture
and supplied with liberal quantities of green
fodders grown on the estate.. She also con-
sumed 32601 b. of bran, costing £l2 4s. 6d.;
23951 b. middlings, £0 19s. lOd.; 12261 b. cracked
maize, £4 ISs. 6d.; 11601 b. crushed oats,
£6 10s. 6d.; 5171 b. barley. £3 4s. 6d.; 5071 b.
linseed meal, £4 4s. Od.; 4561 b. oilcake,
£3 165.; 1201 b. wheaten chaff, 75.; 301 b.
cotton seed, 55.; 151 b. molasses, 5s. —96891 b.
of feed, costing £45 15s. 4d. Cost of attend-
ance was estimated at £25; total expenditure
on feed and attention was put down at £B5.
Allowing 17 per cent, overrun, the quantity
of butter yielded was 1944.661 b., which at
Is. 3d. a pound amounted to £l2l 10s. lOd.
To this was added 3122 gallons of skim milk
at Id. a gallon. £l3 os. 2d.; making a total
of £134 11s. In effect Melba’s production
expressed in figures exceeded the cost of
feed and labor bv £49 I Is.
No record should be accepted without a
Department of Agriculture certificate, or.
failing that, a statutory declaration of the
full cost of maintenance and attendance.
Tests without costs are a delusion and a
snare. On the other hand, proper state-
ments given to the world would be an edu-
cation to dairymen how to feed in order to
get the best results from their herds.
WORM-INFESTED RUNS.
_ “Golightly”: Some N.S.W. graziers are
dismayed at the wormy condition of their
sheep runs, even in districts that were
fondly believed to be immune. It may be
ascribed to the long run of good seasons,
followed by overstocking. Graziers who feel
impelled to overstock should try a straight
line of four-tooth merino wethers. A neigh-
bor of mine, dissatisfied with the necessity
of dosing lambs, weaners and hoggets,
cleared the lot right off for what they would
fetch in the fat market and restocked this
month with 4000 four-tooth, one-mark
merino wethers, shorn August, at 3s. 7d.
Per head. These will not be troubled with
worms on his country (Central Slopes).
Graziers disinclined to follow this lead
should consider dosing their lambs at an
earlier age than is the usual practice.
Lambs commence to be loaded up with
worms at eight weeks old; that’s the time
to give them their first dose. Most worm
physic destroys the parasites themselves,
but not the eggs deposited in the sheep’s
intestines; so a follow-up dose should be
given about 10 days later.
TO BEAT THE BLOWFLY.
“Kripple”: Ou Rodney Downs (C.Q.) a
new method of applying specifics for blowfly
treatment has made its appearance. It. has
been devised by J. Y. Shannon, whose cradles
for lamb-marking have become so popular on
many properties, and is designed to do what
jetting, in effect, does without the use of
engines, pumps, pressure gauges and jets, all
of which are liable to mechanical troubles.
The device consists of a short section of
race, in the form of a crate, pivoted on
axle and bearings to swing after the manner
of a see-saw, and operated by lever action.
Beneath the approach end there is set a
tank containing the specific.
As sheep from the forcing race step on
the crate, they are dipped at an angle to
immerse hindquarters only in the tank, a
form of sitz bath. Saturation completed, the
crate is brought to the level position for
sheep to run off into the receiving yard.
On comes another, and so on. In this way
1500 sheep can be comfortably treated per
day, and close observation has shown excel-
lent results. Other than elimination of mucli
mechanical gear and its running costs, an
outstanding feature is that there are no
losses in sheep due to the impinging of
specifics at high pressure on open wounds,
as is the case when jetting.
“DRY IRRIGATION.”
“J.W.W.”: I laughed at old Hans Kjer-
gaard at Callignec (Vic.) when settlement
first came. We had a dry spell, and the spuds
stopped growing, as they mostly did in Vic.
this autumn. Hans said “If we can’t bring
water down on the ’taters we must fetch' it
up to them,” and he set about doing it. He
called it “dry irrigation.”
There was only one scarifier in the settle-
ment. Hans was not among the dozen who
wanted to borrow it; he adzed down the
small billets of mountain ash (then very
plentiful), connected them, fore, aft and
centre, with crosspieces, then put wooden
handles on. Result, a good scuffler. The
fore part came together at the head, and at
the hind part the timbers were spread apart
as wide as the rows of potatoes. Four har-
row tines were driven into each of the
timbers, about 6in. apart, and the whole
contraption was weighted so as to be a fair
pull for one horse.
The old chap would do no scarifying in
the forenoon if very dry. The late sun, lie
said, would not damage the plants, whereas
if the job were done in the morning some
might wither after the roots had been dis-
turbed and the plants exposed all day. He
worked from 3 p.m. till as long as he could
see, and the potatoes looked quite vigorous
in the morning. They were kept growing
rapidly in this way for another five weeks —
all dry. He worked the same soil every
second evening if very dry and hot; every
third afternoon if cool; about twice a week
in mild weather. And he dug 7| tons of
Browne’s River potatoes and ove~r S tons
of Pink Eyes per acre; that was before
Carmens arrived.
Some neighbors who copied old Hans came
very near his yield, but those who let the
spuds go, after hilling them up, had only
inferior ones for home use. The land was
a chocolate loam, with a reddish clay sub-
soil : this held the moisture which was coaxed
up by the dry irrigation to the roots of the
’taters;
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


For winter wear
This heavy-soled Abbey shoe,
splendid for wet-weather wear, is
made in four fittings, narrow,
medium, wide and extra-wide, in
each full and half size. That guar-
antees absolute comfort. . . .there’s
no cramping of the foot.
ORDER BY POST: State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS—No. 316—ALMOST
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 330
The Expert
View
Che n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing.
Trotting, Horse Breeding. Boxing.
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head, Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
piss
#
mm
II
o
L % H iy§! i
S m iltUg §
■1
gjgS
c*
S
Scots CCJhisk?
1
iij*snbr_
•■.''Niumo. iwi/l ionV"*
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son .
Melbourne and Brisbane. , , , D . ~
Gibbs, Bright &Co Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co.
,Fremantle
.. .. Hobart
DATE CULTIVATION.
J. Simmons: Touching this controversy
about dates, I am sending along a small box
of fruit grown in Roma (Q.). The trees
were planted 25 years ago (from seed) and
have been bearing for 16 or 17 years. 1
trust the sample will arrive in good order.
[lt did, and the fruit was delicious. Halt
a dozen members of the staff are now pre-
pared to swear that excellent dates are
grown in Queensland.]
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the host sort of steam holler
for dairy purposes? I have 45 milkers.
(2) Name of a firm in Brisbane or Sydney
that makes them.? (8) Is there any more
economical method of working milking-
machines and the like than by generating
steam in a boiler? —5249.
(1) A 2-h.p. boiler is suitable for provid-
ing steam and hot water for general dairy
purposes. The steam boiler is not now used
for operating milking machines. (2) Waugh
and Joseplison, engineers, in both Sydney
and Brisbane, are makers of small boilers.
(9) The best method of operating- milking-
machines is by means of an oil-engine where
electricity is not available, together with a
vacuum pump. All milking-machine agents
stock oil-engines and vacuum pumps for
rhis purpose.
Total production of butter in Australia for
the past five years? Amounts consumed
locally and exported to the U.K. and else-
where during the same period? —49oo.
1927-28: Production, 280,037,4041 b.; local
consumption, 187,847,8281 b; exports, U.K.,
82,925,0911 b.; elsewhere, 16,239,8551 b.;
total ex., 99,164,9461 b. 1928-29: Production,
289,883,2001 b.; local consumption.
187,441,3211 b.; exports, U.K., 87,857,8421 b.;
elsewhere, 14,585,0011 b.; total, 102,442,8431 b.
1929-30: Production, 299,080,5451 b.; local
consumption, 191,421,2281 b.; exports, U.K.,
92,226,1291 b.; elsewhere, 15,437.1351 b.;
total, 107,663,2641 b. 1930-31: Production,
350,405,1041 b.; local consumption,
187,227.4251 b.; exports, U.K., 146,409,0271 b.;
elsewhere, 16,771,6681 b.; total, 163,180,6951 b.
1931-32 (subject to revision) : Production,
388,000,0001 b.; local consumption,
186,400,0001 b.; exports, U.K., 185,367,5961 b.;
elsewhere, 16,271,8051 b.; total, 201,639,4041 b.
In soldering seams of galvanised-iron,
what is the reason why the soldering bolt,
though well-tinned, clean and of the correct
heat, does not run the solder along smoothly?
—5OlO. . ,
Generally due to the use of an unsuitable
flux. Use unkilled spirits of salts (muriatic
acid) and apply -along the seam to be
soldered with a stiff brush. A single appli-
cation only will be needed in the case of
new sheets, but several applications of both
flux and soldering-iron may be necessary
when old sheets are to be soldered.
We use a tin for boiling meat in; made
at home, it is of galvanised-iron, soldered.
Would it be injurious to health? —5195.
Galvanised-iron is undesirable as a con-
tainer of any food; to boil meat in it is
dangerous. Chemicals associated with it are
liable to be liberated under the action of
heat, salt and acids in foods, and may cause"
ill health if its use is persisted in. Meat
should be boiled in only the usual metals
used for saucepans—iron, aluminium or
enamelled . iron. Galvanised-iron should not
be used for milk.
You informed me (B. 30/11/’32) that,
although there is no tree in Australia re-
lated to “Picroena excelsa,” there is a quinine
tree which yields a bitter principle, with no
commercial value. What is that tree? —
5114.
We have no plant in Australia having pro-
perties similar to that of Picroena excelsa.
There is a tree commonly known as “bitter
bark” or the “quinine tree” ( Petalostigma
quadriloculare ) which' belongs to the family
Buphorbiacew. It is a native of the north,
the Clarence River, Richmond River and
Tweed River districts. It yields a bitter
principle, but it is in no way related to the
Bimarulacece.
How to waterproof concrete ichich is
porous ? —4583.
The silicate-of-soda method gives good
results. Silicate of soda —also known as
water glass or egg preservative syrup--
should be mixed with water in the propor-
tions of 11b. per gallon of water. This'
mixture is then painted on to the surface
and allowed to dry. As many coats as
needed may be applied, taking care that
each is allowed to dry thoroughly before the
next is put on. Silicate of soda costs about
6d. per pound.
llow to make a paint from lime, ground
rice and whiting ? —4910.
Put half a bushel of good lime into a tin
and slake it with hot water; then add 8
quarts salt dissolved in hot water, and stir
well. Take 211 b. ground rice, mix smooth
with a little cold water, add more water and
boil' to a thin paste; while still hot, stir
into the lime mixture; then add lib. fine
whiting crushed to a powder, and mix all
together to a creamy consistency, _ adding
hot water if it needs thinning. Let it stand
for a day or two, then heat it again, and
apply hot.
How to make common soap? Pome tell
me to use caustic soda;, others say lime and
washing soda with resin. Of what, use is
resin? ' Caustic soda is most convenient for
me. —4981.
Resin hardens the soap and makes it
“wear” better. Lime and wasliing-soda
together produce the effect of caustic soda,
so there is nothing gained in trying to avoid
the soda; there is not enough caustic soda
in the following recipe to be dangerous, and
it makes a good household soap. Clarify
51b fat by boiling in water and allowing to
cool • remove salt and impurities; place it
in a’ kerosene-tin, add 5 quarts water and
11b crushed resin. Bring to the boil, then
add’ slowly and in small quantities 2 quarts
water in ' which lib. caustic soda has been
dissolved overnight. Boil all slowly for
half hour, then lift from the fire and allow
to stand until the next day. Cut into neat
pieces, and allow to dry before using.
(1) Recipe for preserving lemon-juice to
be used as a cordial? (2) Arc glass bottles
fitted with corks suitable for holding the
mixture? (8) Will the same recipe also be
suitable for the juice of oranges and the
juice of limes?- —4966.
(1) and (3) This method is suitable for
all citrus fruits. Squeeze the juice from the
fruit and strain it. into a preserving-pan,
preferably one made of enamel. Place over
the fire, and bring it up to about 200 deg.
Fahr., or just under boiling point. Allow it
to steam at that stage for one hour, or, if
you require it highly concentrated, until it
is much reduced in bulk. Have the bottles
heating in the oven, with heated corks and
a pan of hot, melted paraffin wax. Pour the
hot syrup into the bottles, add enough wax
to seal, then cork quickly; complete sterili-
sation by heat is necessary for a good result.
Allow the bottles to cool, tlien store in
the coolest possible place, shaded from the
light. (2) Any clean bottles may be used.
The corks must be sweet and sound.
Recipe for kerosene soap? —so4l.
Clarify 51b. fat by boiling it in water and
allowing to cool, when the cake of fat can
he removed and scraped on the bottom.
Place it in a kerosene-tin, then add lib.
crushed resin and 5 quarts water. Bring
to the boil, and add slowly and gradually
2 quarts water in which has been dissolved
overnight lib. caustic soda. Boil 'all slowly
for half an hour, lift from the stove, and
stir in a very small cup of kerosene. Let
stand until next day, when it can be cut
into bars.
Concerning that machine (B . 22/3/’33)
which destroys weeds by the use of a flame.
Who is the maker, and from whom in N.S.W.
is it procurable? —sl23.
The machine is made and patented by
R. W. Sidco, Mellor-street, Gympie, Queens-
land. The N.S.W. agency is held by A. C.
Bennett, The Grove, Fairfield.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mulgo”: Drought will come sooner or
later, and now is the time to prepare for it.
A good store can be provided on farms with-
out. drawing on cultivated crops by convert-
ing everything of fodder value, including
corn husks, into hay and ensilage. During
tho last big N.S.W. drought some dairymen
were glad to buy maize cores, which were
ground and mixed with molasses. Much
that is regarded as rubbish in good seasons
is valuable fodder in a bad season.
“Deekay”: When lopping kurrajong for
sheep or cattle, don’t let horses run in the
paddock. They will eat the bark and fibre
of the fallen boughs; this will quickly
result in impaction of the stomach.
“Gumblcgubbin”: A chaff-bag makes a
good towel —if not the best —for milking-
hands. Cut it long and narrow, like a roller-
towel, hem the sides and sew the ends
together, or make a loop at one end. It
gets soft with washing and boiling.
“Tenrag”: When repairs have been made
to iron roofs, spouting or anything necessi-
tating use of galvanised-iron, don’t put on
paint straightway. Let the iron get a good
white film on it; in other words, let it get
well “oxidised.” This process takes several
weeks, but the oxide prevents further action,
and then with the paint on top you have
double protection.
“Floodmark”: To bore wire-fence battens
quickly and regularly, use any fallen tree
about 3ft. above ground level. Bore five
holes on top side with half-inch bit. two
across log 21 inches apart, with a similar
pair 2ft. 6in. along the log, boring holes at
an angle of 75deg. outwards. Bore the
fifth hole upright on centre line 6in. in
front of first pair. Drive pegs 6in. long
into holes; mark log with batten-boring
measurement; place batten upright on its
side between pegs, and bore away.
“Deekay” : When clearing a piece of new
ground, don’t burn the spare wood; it’s too
valuable. If there is not the time or means
to cart it to the woodheap, stack it neatly
against the nearest shade-tree, and the day
will come when you will be amply repaid
for your trouble. Good firewood is getting
scarce even outback.
“Bill R.” : To make a eornsack safe, hang
a sack on a lengthwise wire stretched under
the branch of a handy tree. Spread it with
a shelf of boards, leaving enough lap for
tying up the mouth. Place the vittles
within, and over the outside throw a wet
bag. Renewal of the moisture now and
then will keep the contents cool.
“Austral”: For caked udders in cows try
a lotion of camphor and olive oil —loz. cam-
phor, 4oz. oil —applied to the parts twice
a day after milking,
“Beady”: A neighbor of mine gets good
results during dry spells by placing a jam-tin
full of water near the roots of a plant and
using a piece of rag to syphon the water
over the side.
“Dimon”: When putting up a wooden
building, see there are no buried roots or
old stumps on the site. These make ideal
foundations for white ants. In parts of
Queensland it is not an uncommon practice
to plough the ground before starting to build.
“Le Glorieux” : To burn a dead tree stand-
ing beside a fence without injuring the
fence, wait for a windy day. Put a long
pole in the fire and leave it till the end is
well alight; 'then prop the lighted end
against the tree as high as it will reach.
The longer the pole, the better. If there
is dead bark the branches will quickly burn
away and the trunk will slowly burn down
to the ground. Watch for lighted fragment"
falling beside posts and your fence is safe.
“Beefo” : Odd cattle are born moon-blind.
They lose their sight at sundown, even
though there is no moon. As soon as one
of these freaks is noticed in a travelling
mob shoot it for beef. Moon-blind beasts
are one of the chief causes of cattle rushing
at night.
“Kooragai”: Eggs dipped in melted fat
will keep a long time. This is the way that
the inland blacks preserve them in the laying
season, when hundreds of eggs are gathered
from the swamps for camp use.
N.S.W. wlieatgrowers needing help in their
cropping operations are notified that appli-
cations must reach the Rural Industries
Branch by May 15. In the past supplies
have been granted when the sowing season
was over—very bad business for both
settlers and taxpayers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search; every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
..n- Ybe ia ght of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ aiited to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mechanic (35), Q’land, experience with pumps,
engines and windmills, wishes situation on station.
-—5428.
Experienced grocer and book-kcepet requires em-
ployment in Sydney.—s4lB.
Young engineer and draughtsman, N.S'.W., seeks
position. Has practical engineering experience as
well. Willing to go abroad or to country.—s 423.
Station mechanic, N.S.W., also capable station
carpenter, refs., wants work. —5377.
Refined young lady, Q’land, seeks position, teachei
to one or more families; willing to help household
duties ; go anywhere.—s4o3.
To buy following copies of The Bullktin : 1881,
Mar. 26; 1884, July to Dec.; 1885 to 1889, whole
of each year; 1890, Jan. to June;' 1891 to 1898,
whole of each year; 1899, Jan. to June; 1900, Jan.
to June; 1901, whole year; 1902, Jan. 5 to April
12; 1926, June 3. Must be in perfect order. No
fancy prices.—5393.
To buy good edition Wheatley’s “Pepys.”—s373.
To buy old comic-song albums such as Francis
and Day’s, Feldman’s and Sheard’s, with music.
—5424.
To buy 1.0.5. course for first-class mine managers
(c0a1).—5431.
Information Sought.
(1) Type of glider suitable for an amateur
to construct? (2) Where can plans be got?
(3) Approximate cost of such a glider? —
5093.
(1)_ A training-type glider; in English-
speaking countries usually called a “prim-
ary.” (2) American and English firms
advertise plans in aviation magazines; a
Brisbane organisation was* advertising some
in “Wings.” D. Milne, c/o 0. and S. Motors,
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, lias built a success-
ful machine which the Sydney Uni. Glider
Club has flown and recommends. Write to
him regarding drawings. (3) Cost of plans
varies from £1 os. to £5; of materials, from
£25 to £5O. A serviceable machine can be
built for £25.
Any market for good white pottery clay
iii Sydney?' (2) Firms likely to handle it?
(3) What is it worth per ton? —5027.
(1) It is very limited. (2) Firms that
buy clays of a grade suitable for pottery
purposes are Bakewell Bros., Erskineville;
R. Fowler, Fitzroy-street, Marrickville; Aus-
tral Rock Milling Co., Gladstone-street,
Newtown. (3) About £1 to £2 per ton.
Is it possible for a person living in Tas-
mania to become an officer in the Maoriland
military forces? If so, how? —4935.
It is out of the question unless he takes
up residence in the Dominion. Territorial
Force officers are selected from n.c.o.’s serv-
ing in units who are between 18 and 25
years, who hold a Standard VI certificate of
education, and who have passed the pre-
scribed examination and course of instruc-
tion. . Candidates who have held commis-
sions in the military forces of any part of
the Empire may, without examination, be
recommended for appointment in any rank
not above that which they held in such
forces, and may be given seniority as the
G.O.C. considers equitable. For the Per-
manent Forces officers are appointed from
M.L. cadets who graduate at one of the Brit-
ish service colleges. The few vacancies are
filled from specially-selected warrant officers
or n.c.o.’s who have passed the prescribed
exam.
llow to grow the Kentia palm from seed
in. a Sydney garden? —sl76.
Good seed can be procured from the Lord
Howe Island Board of Control, N.S.W. Sow
as soon as received 2in. deep in light sandy
soil, well drained, in a bush-house or under
a tea-tree covered roof. When seedlings are
4in. high, transplant into nursery rows 4in.
apart in the rows and 12in. between rows.
See that the plants never suffer for want of
water or from scale in sects. When 6in. to
9in. high, transfer into 4in. pots and into
larger pots as they grow.
Thomas Otway wrote: “What mighty ills
have not been done by woman? Who was
it betrayed the Capitol?” Well, who was it?
I'll be the mug.-— 5273.
Tarpeia, in Roman legend daughter of
the commander of the Capitol during the war
with the Sabines, caused by the rape of the
Sabine women, offered to betray the citadel
if the Sabines would give her what they
wore on their left arms, meaning their brace-'
fets. Keeping to the letter of their promise,
they threw their shields upon her and
crushed her to death. Simylus, a Greek
elegiac poet, makes Tarpeia betray the
Capitol to a king of the Gauls.
j have been reading Wells’s “Outline of
History. (1) Has Wells been accused of
partiality; if so, by whom? (2) Titles of
works which cover much the same around as
his history? —sl6o.
(1) Wells has been accused of under-
rating the influence of great men, notably
Alexander the Great, Caesar and Napoleon,
and of having an anti-clerical bias. Belloc
‘ outlille of History” to sup-
If'-mrU, 10 ] . cliar se. (2) Two very good
1 hlß ,V? r !, ofi coveri , n g much the same
f3 d ;- aS ,} are “The Conquest of
of cfv;&- H Breasted, and “The Ordeal
IS by J - H - Robertson. A
atffi D’ + V lO History of British Civilis-
volumes * by E. Wingfield-Strat-
i orcl, is also very good.
teU me anything about a Baron
ccmetrru . m S numen t is in the Anglican
cemetery at Parramatta? —5157
in 1 TrT T .beodore Henry Alt, born
tffiinisLff £ anove . nan Parents, after a dis-
.-> ■ d caieer m the British Army in
France, Germany and at Gibraltar was
appointed surveyor of lands for N. S. Wales
under Governor Phillip. He had been an
engineer of roads in the Scottish Highlands
in 1763. He accompanied Phillip in the
First Fleet, laid out the settlements at Syd-
ney and Parramatta, and surveyed most of
the earlier land grants. Age and ill-health
soon incapacitated him ; in 1797 lie retired
from active duty, and in 1802 was retired
on half-pay. The rest of his life was spent
at Parramatta, where lie died' on January
9, 1815.
(1) A book 'dealing 'with the repair and
Maintenance of the At orris-Cowley cart (2)
Other books on motoring suitable for anyone
w-i+k 'oily a slight knowledge of the subject?
—5173.
( i ) Handbook of the Morris car, by W.
Iliffe. obtainable through Dymock’s, Sydney;
4s. 6d. (2) “500 Motor Wrinkles,” by G.
H. W. Goodge, Cornstalk Publishing Co.,
Sydney; 2s. 9d.
I am installing a bucket-elevator with boot
at the bottom to convey ground clay from
floor level to loft. Should this elevator be
driven at the top or bottom? —5133.
At the top, so that a direct pull will be
applied to the load, and to allow the take-
up to be located at the bottom.
(1) When do sea mullet enter the Clarence
and Macdeay rivers (jV.IS.W.) ? (2) Best,
month for bream-fishing at Yamba (N.8.W.) ?
—4804.
(1) Sea mullet are estuarine fish; the only
time they visit the sea is during their migra-
tory season, which generally covers their re-
productive stage. Under normal conditions
the season runs from March to July in each
year; they will then be found entering and
leaving the estuaries on the N. S. Wales
coast, including the Clarence and the
Macleay. The migration of these fish is
governed by wind conditions. They will not
travel against head winds, but in heavy
favorable winds they travel night and day.
(2) January and February.
(1) How are rubbings taken from monu-
mental brassesf (2) May anyone take
them ? —5203.
(1) Place a sheet of plain paper, large
enough to entirely cover the brass, over if.
and then, with a shoemaker’s heel-ball, a
composition of tallow, beeswax and lamp-
black, rub carefully wherever the brass is
solid. The color will adhere to the paper
and give the pattern. With care a perfect
facsimile can be produced. You can buy
special rubber that, if applied to black paper,
reproduces almost the exact appearance of the
brass. Black lead aud linseed oil applied
with a pad of chamois leather give a very
sharp result and will take a pattern from
any kind of raised surface. (2) If church
brasses, it is usual to ask permission from
the clergy; if in a public building, from the
director or whoever may have authority.
Was Leonardo da Vinci famous in any
sphere other than painting? —sl99.
Yes; the painter of “The Last Supper”
and ‘Mona Lisa” was musician, sculptor,
architect, engineer, scientist and mathemati-
cian. At Milan he constructed the Martesana
Canal; he was also associated with the build-
ing- of the Milan Cathedral. He made
astounding observations in meteorology and
knew the earth’s annual motion. He origin-
ated the science of hydraulics and probably
invented the hydrometer. As a mathemati-
cian he takes high rank, especially for his
study of spirals; as a man of science he
towered above his contemporaries.
What is cellophane and how is it made? —
5095.
Cellophane is the trade name of the per-
fectly transparent paper so much used for
wrapping boxes of sweets and easily-soiled
articles in shops. Name and paper are
both French, and the manufacture is a trade
secret. There is a similar British produc-
tion known as transparent wrapping paper.
llow to remove (1) impressed gilt initials
from a. leather travelling-bag (2) ordinary
painted letters from a like article? —s66l.
(1) and (2) Place one part oil of turpen-
tine and two parts ammonia in a bottle, and
shake vigorously until the solution becomes
milky. Make a mask for the letters so that
they are exposed while the surrounding
leather is covered —any stiff paper will do.
Apply solution with a fine brush, allow to
stand a few minutes, then wipe up with
clean rag- and clean up with turpentine.
My cat is always scratching his ears. There
appears to be a sort of black wax inside
them. What can 1 do for him?— sl4B.
It’s canker. Use a lotion composed of one
part nitrate of mercury ointment and 20
parts of olive oil; pour it into the ear and
manipulate the base to ensure its diffusion
throughout the cavity. After two or three
dressings the ear should be carefully cleared
with cotton-wool' on the end of a smooth
bone penholder. Then for a few nights
another lotion—equal parts of liquor plumbi,
the strong solution of diacetate of lead
and rain-water—should be poured in. ’
Extent of Australian trade with Canada
during the last five years? —so64
1927-28: Imports, £3,278,269*; exnorts-
£7oB,olo. 1928-29: Imports, £4 871 643 •
SEH&rt . f737 > 71 °; J>29-30; ’infeoS*,
£3,002,421; exports, £773,742. 1930-31 •
lSE°qo’ £1 >377.217; exports, £958,730!
£1033 782. mP ° rtS ’ £1.392,271; exports,
iMUmt’fVmn**? cm ' d
It requires a well-drained, thoroughly-
trenched, deep, rich, sandy loam. If the soil
is poor, cow or stable manure should "be
thoroughly incorporated. Plant during
March and April, about 4ih. deep, allowing
at least 36in. between the plants, as they
expand and require plenty of room to
develop. During the growing season keep
the ground cultivated, and water regularly.
An occasional application of liquid cow
manure at. flowering time is the only other
treatment required.
What was the status of Eustace Miles
as a tennis player and physical culture
authority? Was he proficient in yolf or
■ cricket? —47oB.
lie was one of the best tennis and racquet
players of his time, but his tennis was the
ancient game played in elaborate walled and
roofed courts. As a cricketer he played in
the Marlborough School and King’s College
(Cam.) elevens.
Tlow can I make marbled paper suitable
for end papers far a set of books / am bind-
ing?—4966.
Make a thin mucilage by soaking a little
gum tragacanth in water, and pour it into
a shallow dish. A large photographer’s dish
ts as good as anything. Dry color mixed
with gum water and a small quantity of
ox gall to the consistency of paint is put
into separate pots and, a color scheme being
decided on, a little dipped out of each pot
with a separate brush and added to the dish
of mucilage. The usual order of using
the colors is blue, red, yellow, green and
black. VV hen the colors decided on are float-
ing on the surface of the water a. coarse-
toothed comb is drawn from one end of tin'
dish to the other to cause the pattern to
take the irregular shapes required. Have
ready a pile of damped paper and carefully
apply _ sheet after sheet to the surface of
the mixture so that the floating colors may
adhere to the surface of the paper. The
dipping must be done quickly so that the
color has no time to soak into the paper but
only to tint the surface. The papers must
he laid out flat to dry.
Arc piaster figures hand-modelled or
-carved? Name of a book giving directions
how to make them? —soo9.
Plaster figures are first modelled in clay
on a framework composed of lead wire or
tinn lead piping, which is bent into the pose
the figure is to take. When the modelling
is completed the clay is allowed to dry for
a day or so and then given one or two
coats of thin shellac made by dissolving
orange shellac in methylated spirit. On to
this a mould is made in plaster of Paris
mixed with water to the consistency of
cream. If several copies of the figure are re-
quired it is necessary to make a piece, mould.
Ihis is composed of several pieces which can
be fitted together and taken apart without
damaging the finished figure. The mould
is treated inside to two more coats of shel-
lac and when dry is oiled inside with olive
oil. Liquid plaster is poured into the mould
thus prepared. Lanteri’s “Modelling,” in
three volumes, is procurable from the N.S.W.
Public Library
I am haring trouble in soldering with
b lunette. What is the correct method of
using this paste? —soBs.
Same as any other flux. Trouble in sol-
den ug 18 usually due to using too small an
iron or one insufficiently heated, or to
attempting to solder surfaces not properly
cleaned.
, A l l,n Hov - are smatl articles gold-pllatcd?
, 1 l-s rolled gold? (3) Books dealing
with the subject? —so34.
. U) object to be plated is immersed
in a solution consisting of distilled water,
one gallon; gold chloride, 30z.; potassium
cyanide, lOoz. The positive pole of a 2-volt
ILL. supply is connected to an anode con-
sisting of a thin sheet of pure gold, also
placed m the solution, but separated from
the to be plated, which is joined by
a length of wire to the negative supply pole.
rJl e . solution IS kept at a temperature of
12odeg. Fahr. A faint film of gold is
deposited and the article lightly scratch-
brushed to lay down the grain. It is then
washed and again immersed in the solution
and kept there until the deposit is of the
required thickness. (2) Rolled gold is pro-
duced by applying thin sheets of gold to a
Fnw ol / a ol oJ l<rm ld i' olli , n » down tlle compound
sheet. (3) The Modern Electroplater,” bv
Iv. M. Coggeshall. ‘
Pressing for « black motor-car hood
which lets ram through? —4927.
c a ,? oat or two of car hood-dressing.
Awn by S i°- es which st ock paints,
bilno. 1 mcth m IS , as follows; The hood
bein & thoroughly dry, brush off dirt and
dust, and wash over with petrol or turpen-
tine applied with a rag. Allow two or tlm-
hours to dry, then paint with cellulose paint.
it the hood is old or worn it will require
two or three coats, allowing at least 24
hours between each painting.
Recipe for a soap powder? —44os.
Not easy for , a n amateur to make this at
borne, as some experience is required, as well
as a good deal of gear. Take 5 parts dark
yellow soap and 1 part ordinary soft soap:
cut up the yellow soap into small pieces, and
Place it with the soft soap and 10 parts
washing soda crystals in a pan over a gentle
fire Stir constantly until the mass has
melted but do not allow it to boil; remove
from the fire, and add another 10 parts
soda/ Stir until it becomes a smooth liquid,
which thickens as it cools. Before it be-
comes solid, place it on trays or sheets of
iron to cool thoroughly, and turn it fre-
quently with a shovel until it cools down to
a triable mass. _ It must now be rubbed
through three sieves or wire nettings, the
fiist coarse and the last two fine, when it
should appear as a powder and may be 4
stored in tins or jars or in small packets
made of strong paper.
Information Supplied.
4821.—T0 preserve prawns, take for each
three quarts of prawns 21b. white sugar, lib
coarse salt, and U tablespoons of glacialiue,
and mix ingredients well together in a dry
state. Prawns must be fresh, and use a
stone or earthenware jar. Put a layer of
prawns in bottom of jar and sprinkle a
handful of the mixture over them, then an-
other layer of prawns, etc., until jar is filled.
Stopper it, or put a piece of board over it
and put away in a cool, dark place; the
prawns will remain good bait. I am using
some preserved in this manner for nine
months. —E. G. E.
Brief Answers.
A.G.: Write . Director-General of Public
Health, 93 Macquarie-street, Sydney... .K.S.: Im-
portation of “While You Wait” cameras has been
discontinued by photographic warehouses. Pictures
generally made by operators of such cameras are
usually the size of half a postcard. Paper negatives
are made and then copied to produce the positive,
which is handed to the customer... .E.C.H.: Cost
will be ss. Id 1.K.: If for year to June 30,
1930, and subsequent years you had an income of
£lOO (including value of allowances) and you
furnish returns, you will be assessed for Unemploy-
ment Relief Tax. It will be necessary for you to
indicate that tax has not been deducted from pay-
ments made. . . .L.J.0.: Brisbane—Sanitarium Health
Food Co., 360-362 Queen-street, and Webster, Mary-
street. Sydney—Sanitarium Health Food Co., 216
Sussex-street, Joseph Nathan and Co., 215 Clarence-
street, and Nut Foods, 74 Edinburgh-road, Marrick-
ville. .. . R. 11.5.: Write N.Z. Agricultural Dept, for
pamphlet on white ants... . L.A.T.: Impossible to
dogmatise on such a subject, but critics would put
De Maupassant and Tchekov above 0. Henry, though
not above Poe. . ..J.D.K.Z.: (1) Insanity is a ground
for divorce in Queensland and Tas., but not in the
other States. (2) Where he is domiciled....
T.M.: “Orchardist of New Zealand,” published by
the N.Z. Fruitgrowers’ Federation, Ltd., Box 882,
G. Wellington, N.Z G.C.: You have confused
E. A. Yidler with Mrs. M. T. Vidal. Edward
Alexander Vidler had published a book of verse,
“The Rose of Ravenna,” in 1913. Mrs. M. T.
Vidal wrote three works of fiction, “Cabrama'tta”
(1850), “Tales for the Bush” (1846), and “Bengala”
(I 860) .. . . A.J.R.: “The Flag Lieutenant” was
written by Major W. P. Drury and Leo Trevor, and
was first produced in London in June, 1908....
R.K.C.: “The World’s Population Problems and a
White Australia,” by 11. L. Wilkinson, and “History
of the White Australia Policy,” by M. Willard....
H. : Write Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street,
Sydney... .W.J.G.: Washing soda is sodium carbon-
ate, baking soda is sodium bicarbonate. ... W-H.J.:
Write Local Government Dept., Watson House, Bligh-
street, Sydney.... J.W,: No local income tax exists
in the Solomon Islands., There is a head tax on all
non-natives of £1 p.a D.L.8.: Fanning Island
is 34 miles in circumference and has a population
of 29 Europeans, 6 Asiatics and 136 Gilbert Islanders.
All the land on the island is owned by Fanning
Island, Ltd. It is the connecting link of the
cable between Bamfield (Canada) and Suva (Fiji).
. ...J.J.M.: Fundamental question is whether case
comes under the Moratorium Act (1932) provision
by which all Crown lands, with a few exceptions,
are removed from its jurisdiction. Does a sub-
lessee suffer from the same absence of protection qs
lessee from Crown? One solicitor contends that he
does, another that he doesn’t. Until this is settled,
action remains in abeyance... .H.S.T.: Not a subject
for this page; there are excellent works in the public
libraries... .K.S.C.: You both disclaim responsibility,
but such would depend on the evidence. If respon-
sible, yo*i could be made to answer in damages;
if not, then you could claim half from your
neighbor for re-erection of fence. Your father’s
payment may be construed into an admission of
responsibility. You, personally, would have no claim
to the return of the money. .. .0.W.H.: (1) A record
is a musical work and the owner of copyright exer-
cises his rights through the A.P.R.A., from which
license to use it in public—a cafe is a public place
—must be obtained. (2) Under wireless regu-
lations, holders of licenses are prohibited from trans-
mitting copyright matter without permission. Owner
of copyright also could take action... .G.A.81.:
Should an undischarged bankrupt become entitled to
property, it may, by order of the Court, be applied
towards payment of creditors... .F.A.: In the
ordinary course, deed would be sent to the Lands
Titles Office; it may be in communication with
the Pensions Department with regard to your pro-
perty. Write to Registrar of Lands Titles, Queen’s-
square, Sydney, furnishing names, locality, descrip-
tion of land, etc., and ask for information concern-
ing the deed... .Blan: Blandford (N.S.W.) is on the
upper reaches of the Hunter River. It was named
by an early property owner named "Waldron, who
hailed from Blandford, England.... G.M.: Write
Under-Sec., Dept, of Health, Brisbane, Q’land....
M.P.: (1) Proposed appointment should be sub-
mitted to a special meeting of members. (2) Com-
mittee may draft the rules, but when drafted they
should be placed before a meeting of members for
confirmation or otherwise... .11.M.P.: As all contracts
are construed according to the intention of the
parties, it may fairly be implied that purchaser
intended to buy a beast free from disease which
would render it unmarketable. Claim for return
of purchase money would appear to be reasonable
and would probably be supported in an action at
1aw....E.G.: (1) Board is within its powers. (2)
Your certificate of title would show dimensions of
land; otherwise a survey would be necessary. Write
and ask board to define the line. (3) and (41
Probably. In certain cases where a fence forms
the common boundary between public and private
lands and the Minister consents to its erection, the
Crown contributes half the cost; yours does not
appear to be such a case. Afraid the cost of removal
will fall on you, but ask the board for a contri-
bution .... J.C.W.: Crockett’s “Practical Leather
Manufacture” (38s. 6d.) ... .0.11. L.: H. N, Moseley’s
“Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger” (1879)
is worth 12s. 6d. ; F. H. H. Guillemard’s “The
Cruise of the Marchesa to Kamchatka” (2 vols.,
1886) is worth £2 18s W.E.D.: Study adver-
tising columns of “S. M. Herald” J.L.: This
department bars religious controversies... .J.R.F.:
You will have to write to (1) Director of Recruit-
ing, Adjutant-General’s Dept., War Office, Whitehall,
S'.W.l. (2) Secretary, Metropolitan Police Force,
New Scotland Yard, 5.W.1... .M.M.: Supplied by
J. IV. Eaton, 16 West Crescent-street, North Sydney.
Write for quotations, giving size and shape required
and nature of work or pleasure purpose of boat....
IV. J.W.: Mortar, for bricklaying, should consist
of one part of cement to three parts of sand. These
are mixed dry first, then water is added until a
quaky consistency is obtained. D.D.: Apparently
the decayed fence at the lagoon at one time con-
stituted portion of the dividing fence between you
and your neighbor. If so, you are liable each for
half its cost of repair or reconstruction.... J.H.IV.:
A cheque is a bill of exchange drawn on a banker,
payable on demand. All such bills are subject,
under N.S.W. law, to a duty of twopence. It is
not a Commonwealth impost.... J.M.: You could
have the property transferred now, but would prob-
ably require the assistance of a solicitor. Duty and-
eosts should not exceed a few pounds... .W.J.M.C.:
Taxes are due to the Crown, and the Crown is not
bound by the Moratorium Act; you cannot get relief
in that quarter. Should the department take the
matter to court and get a judgment, it could, if it
pushed the matter so far, obtain a writ of execution
against your goods, but probably you would be given
time to pay by instalments. Your wisest course
would be to write, at once, to the Commissioner of
Taxation, Warwick Buildings, Hamilton-streei,
Sydney, and make him the best offer you can....
(Many others mailed.)


New Book Creates Sensation.
"Betting Systems Analysed,”
by Raymond Spargo.
10/6 Post Free 10/6
“ NOSCERE,”
The Basement Bookshop,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne, C-l.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
DIRECTORS —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia arid the World, this
Bank, offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Amusements.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITOHARD in
OUK MISS HI BBS.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With 131 b. off his back as compared with
liis Doncaster weight, Winooka picked up
some easy money for liis bookmaker-owners,
McDonald and Matthews, in the All-aged
Plate on the third day at Randwick. He
waited on his three opponents till Pike de-
cided it was time to accelerate; then the
handsome bay cleared out, to win, pulling
up, by five lengths in lmin. 37|sec. Tom
Pinch was meeting him a stone worse than
in the Doncaster. Naturally, Tom had no
chance, but, after making most of the run-
ning, he came away from La Moderne and
Autopay at the finish, strengthening the con-
viction that, more patiently ridden, he would
have got a place on the previous Saturday.
But his two mile races seem to have knocked
him out; he faded out dismally on the fourth
day in the Rous Handicap, which went to
t he improving Irish Bard (14 to 1).
Winooka had only two to beat in the
G. W. Cropper Plate, a new w.f.a. race, run
over six furlongs. He was never at his top,
yet there were five lengths between him and
Greenline, and two between Greenline and
Autopay, at tlie end of six furlongs, traversed
in lmin. lojsec. There is talk of sending
Windbag’s son to the U.S.A., but, for the
sake of the Australian racehorse, it is to be
hoped he will he kept here ; so magnificent
a specimen of the thoroughbred could ho
relied upon at the stud to carry on the high
traditions of the Magpie line.
• In these two races, and in the Cumberland
Plate on Thursday, the A.J.C. was by the
timidity of owners deprived of receipts from
the place tote, which is still a good deal more
attractive to small punters —ladies especi-
ally—than the straightout machine. Any-
thing may happen in racing, and refusal to
take on the best horses of their year at the
distances set for w.f.a. races is a short-
sighted as Avell as cold-footed policy; it is
certainly a rotten return for generous treat-
ment in the matter of stake-money. This
Page has previously suggested that there
never seen vou plav
so evADuv"
BECT : IvE NEVER SEEN VOU PLAV
SO well".
(=,ERT : " z "
Bert .*>%s, you verv neaw-v
BEatt N^e"
should be a club horse in such events.
Johnnie Jason would fill the bill admirably,
and he could doubtless be bought at a price
which, with ordinary luck, he would return
over and over again by swelling the field
to the number required for the place machine
to operate, and by earning a bit of second
and third money. He likes to cut out the
pace, always makes it sound, and can be
depended upon to run decently over any
distance, from six furlongs to 21 miles. With-
out Johnnie Jason in the field, the Cumber-
land Plate would have been a farce; as it
was, be made Peter Pan travel, and refused
to be passed when Oro drove at him in the
effort to get second. Duncan had to shake
Peter Pan up, so well did the despised out-
sider hang on.
Again it was Johnnie Jason who made
the A.J.C. Plate interesting. An unknown
called Great Expectations relieved him of
the pacemaking for about a mile; then
Johnnie went to the front and made a capi-
tal effort to stay there. Peter Pan gradu-
ally got the better of him in the straight,
but Johnnie battled on, and Rogilla _ and
Lough Neagh joined in a most exciting
finish. Lough Neagh was doing the best
near the judge’s box, but victory went to
Peter Pan by a neck, Johnnie Jason being
a length behind the Queensland chestnut.
They say Peter Pan loafs when he catches
a leader, as Windbag used to do; but he
will have to shape a lot better to be classed
as a second Phar Lap.
Hall Mark must be adjudged the best
voungster of his year. He went back to
Melbourne unbeaten at Sydney in the
autumn. Other two-year-olds from beyond
the Murray have done that and failed to
-mature into Derby colts, but this chestnut
son of Heroic —Herowinkie looks and gal-
lops as if the Derby distance will not be be-
yond him, provided he winters well. He is
a determined finisher, and Duncan must
enjoy riding him. It was a treat to see
Kellow’s colt gather up his field in the
Champagne Stakes, making light of a 101 b.
penalty. Again Maid of Orleans ran
second; Burlesque was an indifferent third
—the pace (“six” in lmin. llisec.) palpably
told on him.
Tried the better of Kelso’s pair, Topical
did not get a place in the Sydney Cup. in
which Nord was a close second to Rogilla;
but Topical compensated the owner. Robert
Miller, in the City Handicap. However,
Knox had to ride him hard to beat Mince
Pie, who —as at Warwick Farm, when Brae-
burn narrowly defeated her—unwound an-
qther run when passed by the winner, with
the race apparently decided. There is no
gamer bit of stuff at Randwick than Mince
Pie, and. if put aside until next year, she may
avenge her defeat in the Cup race,; she has
all the qualities of a Sydney Cup winner
except the requisite seasoning. Topical, who,
of course, is another son of Windbag, looked
dangerous for a while in the Dangar Handi-
cap on Saturday, but was interfered with
by Yosela, who fell and had to be destroyed,
and the finish was fought out by Pretzel (7
to 1) and Peter Jackson (8 to 1) ; Pretzel
just got there. Agincourt, nearly knocked
over by Yosela, had to be pulled up.
Duncan and Pike, each with four win-
ners, were the most successful jockeys dur-
ing the round. Appropriate, for they are
certainly the best horsemen in Australia.
Duncan is probably a trifle the superior
these days ; certainly he is unequalled at
riding a finish.
The meetings were excellently managed
by G. T. Rowe and his staff, and the weather
was delightful. Autumn is the most beauti-
ful season of the year in Sydney, and rarely
has the A.J.C. been so favored.
$ * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Caravel Boy; next,
Dunerc.
Canterbury Handicap: Gippsland; next,
Love Song.
Highweight Handicap: High Boy; next,
Accepted.
Ashbury Handicap: Confab; next:,
Dilemma.
* * * *
O’Brien is in great form in Melbourne.
Following upon successes at the Easter fix-
tures, he rode Radiant Boy and Blue
Chequer to victory at Epsom on Wednesday
and Headman at Mentone on Saturday.
O’Brien and Skidmore are having a tussle
for second honors on the premiership list,
where Duncan holds an almost unassailable
position. Melason, O’Brien up, led into the
straight in the Two-year-old Handicap at
Mentone. The home stretch is very long,
and Melason tired when challenged by Great
Don, a 7-to-l chance, who beat E. Y. Sheil s
brilliant gelding by more than a length.
Great Don (Great Star —Donna Marie) is a
brother to Mira Donna, who did so well last
season when trained by Leek for R. G.
Power.
There was a plunge on Red Sun for the
chief event, 10k furlongs. While exercising
at Caulfield in the early morning Red Sun
bolted with his little jockey and covered two
miles. George Jones and other track-
watchers clocked the concluding five fur-
longs at 1.7. It was assumed that any idea
of starting Red Sun in the afternoon would
be abandoned; hut Red Sun is a hardy
customer, and Lowe decided to go on with
the business. Support for the gelding was
so solid that he went out favorite at 5 to 2.
After being near the tail of the field. Red
Sun suddenly shot up to the leaders at the
half-way stage. These tactics were wrong,
and Red Sun, lacking any reserve of strength
for a finish, was beaten out of a place.
Croscon, a stable-companion of Great Don,
defeated Oof Bird by half a neck, with
Cupidity a moderate third. Oof Bird, is by
Magpie from Note, a sister to Purser, and
has made headway as a galloper since he
joined the stable of Fred Foulsham, who
now owns him.
Even money was accepted about Trilacre
in the Brush Steeplechase. H'e was in
receipt of a stone from Redditch and
appeared to be favorably handicapped, even
with list. 71b. Redditch, who developed a
wind infirmity, drifted to 5 to 1. hut firmed
again to 7 to 2. Trilacre marred his chance
greatly by blundering at three of the fences,
and in the run home he could not overhaul
Redditch, on whom Bob Inkson —just re-
turned from Sydney after winning there on
Suntan over hurdles—scored by three
lengths.
Bert Price, whose father won the Easter
Cup at Williamstown with Flail, led in his
first winner for the season when Byron
landed tlie first division of tlie Welter Han-
dicap. The heavy burden of lOst. 21b. did
not stop Byron disposing of the opposition
in brilliant style. Minor places were filled
by Whipster and More Cyllene, the last-
named being, like Byron, a son of Cyllene
More (imp.). Harold Jones, who weighed
out for Byron, had not ridden a winner
since Boxing Day. Gold Bag, the Mentone
Plate winner, gave Windbag another stud
advertisement. He was next in demand to
Araunah, and downed the grey by a neck.
* * *
“Thormanby”: This season’s yearling
sales in Sydney showed a marked improve-
ment on those of 1932, 405 youngsters going
under the hammer for £52,570, an average of
£l3O per head, cutting out fractions. The
toj) price obtained was 1400 guineas for a
splendid chestnut by Heroic from Green
Peach, a mare by the Australian sire Green-
stead. The buyer was C. B. Kellow, of
Victoria, and the breeder Herbert Thompson,
of Oakleigh stud. Four others reached four
figures. A grand-looking colt by Pantheon
(imp.) from the Valais mare Palfrere was
taken by Brosnan and Moore, of Queens-
land, for 1100 guineas. He was bred by
T. A. Harris, of Holbrook, and the same
stud supplied a hay colt by Constant Son —•
Valwyne, bought by E. J. O’Dwyer, of Vic-
toria, for the same amount. Another Heroic,
a chestnut colt out of the Cooltrim (imp.)
mare Winter, also went to Victoria, the
bidder being F. Foulsham, the price 1000
guineas. A bro.wn Rossendale colt out of
Nazetha by the Carbine horse Pistol was
bought for 1000 guineas by A. Cooper, of
Sydney. A colt by Spearhead from Valotte,
sister to Manfred, was turned in at 1000
guineas, hut was later bought by E.. J.
O’Dwyer for 1250 guineas. Others to bring
good prices were a chestnut colt from a
Eudorus mare, which went to A. W. Cook,
of Sydney, for 900 guineas; another by the
same sire from Kalyanni, by Treclare, for
which W. Kelso gave 500 guineas • two Con-
stant Son colts, bought by F. Williams, of
N.S.W., and F. Tighe, of W.A., for 000 and
628 guineas respectively, and a brown filly
for which R. 11. Daugar gave 675 guineas.
Peter Pan’s owner also took a brown
Magpie—Margenthal colt for 800 guineas.
Another Magpie from the Martian mara
Lovelock went to L. Ilaigh for 650 guineas.
* * * *
Clem Hill has given Indiana the steadier
of 9st. 71b. for the Adelaide Cup on May 10.
Isle of Astur is next with Bst. 91b. The
Goodwood Handicap starts with Foursome
at 9st. 121 b., a weight never yet carried by
a winner, though True Scot in 1909 came
near it with 21b. less. Steel Guitar is the
only other with 9st.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Melbourne’s Bonnie Muir did not wrestle
up to previous form against Alex. Lundyn
at Leichhardt on Saturday. In the second
round the Finn, as a counter to a full Nel-
son Muir liad on him, .somersaulted, then
pinned his opponent. The Aussie did better
after that, and Lundyn was punished plen-
tifully before Muir evened the score with a
combined cradle-hold and body-press in the
fifth. Muir had the better of the last round,
and was adjudged to have won on points.
Many hoots were heard when he was
crowned.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian League and
Association football heads continue to sit up
at night considering ways and means of
spragging the other cow’s wheel. Recently
a player named ITughson, whose services
were ardently desired by Carlton, St. Kilda
and Melbourne, all of the League, resolved
to transfer to tlie Association. The League
has now notified the reptile contemporary
that Hughson’s passports are not in order
or something, and that it will be obliged if
he he put on the chain until pourparlers
between the rival bodies result in some
settlement.
# * $ #
“Central”: The Australian football sea-
son has started with revised rules aiming
at the elimination of rough and foul play.
One change urgently called for, but per-
sistently ignored by the. ruling bodies, is
the empowering of the central umpire to
send players guilty of dirty work off the field.
Both Rugby codes and Soccer do this, with
the result that tlie cause of the trouble is at
once eliminated, and the chance of a game
turning into a “pay-back” melee is lessened.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Victorian Health Depart-
ment is again falling foul of those control-
ling football grounds. It says that few
of them have anything like adequate sani-
tary accommodation for the big crowds, while
what there is is mostly unspeakable, pol-
ling wood is among those specially cited,
though others are as bad. There is little
excuse after the conditions which pre-
vailed on the M.C.C. ground during the
cricket Test. The row made by the public
and health authorities then should have
warned those in charge of the grounds to get
busy for the football season.
“Hotliam”: The Victorian Rugby Union
reports great progress in the code in the
stronghold of the Australian game. Several
of the Great Public Schools, as well as the
University, have taken up the game, and
several new clubs have been formed and have
affiliated with the Union. On April 29 in
Melbourne Victoria will play Australia, the
latter side being drawn from the Wallabies
on their way to South Africa. The Victorian
members of the touring team will play with
their State. The Victorian State team will
play N.S.W. in Sydney on June 3 and 5.
The Union has a credit balance of £142.
* * * =;■
“Amateur Pro.” : One of the N.S.W. Rugby
League’s thorns has been the maintenance of
a side in the University. With nearly all the
best players from the G.P.S. going to the
Union club, the University Leaguers have
never risen to a high standard, though out-
side players of note have been enlisted under
cover of attending night and other classes
for which they have been eligible. The
League is making special efforts, this season
to raise the standard of its University pro-
tege. A cash advance has been made the
club for special training and coaching pur-
poses, and the services of Arthur Plennessey,
a noted Union and League player of the past,
have been enlisted. On past showing, it all
seems a case of sowing the wind.
(Continued on page 30.)
The Sydney University regatta on the
Parramatta River, which marked the official
close of the 1932-33 season, was especially
interesting as affording the first glimpse in
public of the much-discussed Fairbairn .style.
The light King’s crew, which ran Grammar,
rowing a modified Fairbairn stroke, to the
last inch in the maiden eights, impressed
greatly with the speed it got out of its
boat with the new style. The inter-collegiate
eights were won by St. Andrew’s, whose
crew should represent the University in the
coming in ter-university Cambridge Cup. It
also lias adopted the Cambridge style. St.
Joseph’s easily won the maiden fours.
* e # *
“Tufthuuter”: One result of the body-
line bowling controversy in England is tlie
revelation by a society journalist that Con-
stantine thought of adopting Jardinian
methods. Hearing of this, “-a member of the
peerage” invited the big darky to tea and
persuaded him to forego his determination.
The idea might he carried further. I suggest
as a patriotic Australian that Larwood be
entertained at dinner (none of your teas!)
by the whole House of Peers, headed by the
Lord Chancellor in his robes.
* * * *
“Lond.”: English respect for Vested In-
terests has let the Portland Club assume
all authority in bridge, like the M.C.C. in
cricket and the Jockey Club in racing. But
the idol made the tactical error of coming
down off its pedestal and meeting the other
clubs in a match. This was on the dupli-
cate system, which equalises the cards and
makes a true test of skill. The Portland
team was knocked out in the quarter-finals
by the Royal Aero after the Junior Carl-
ton liad just previously given them a nasty
jar, calling and getting a safe small-slam
in hearts and scoring 1580 ; while at tlie
other table the Portland pair wildly called
seven no-trumps on tlie same hand —and
went down 500.
... if if
“Shabash Wallah”: It is fitting that the.
late Ranji should be succeeded by a cricketer.
This is Raj Kumar Digvijsinliji, who is 38,
and, like his uncle, was at Cambridge,
though he never attained to the eminence
of a Blue, as did Ranji and Ins younger
brother. Duleepsinhji. like himself a nephew
of the dead ruler of Nawanagar. At the
same time he has been prominent in Indian
cricket, and is a member of the Indian Board
of Cricket Control Duleepsinliji, by the
way, is still at the Switzerland health resort
whither he went last year, and says lnmselt
it is doubtful if he will ever play cricket
again, in England at least.


mt
In N. S. Wales
Sth. Q’land
& Tasmania
It ay
0P enS
B e Z eadv!
Authorities
and correspondents
report an abundance of
quail for the coming season. With
a good dog, a well-conditioned gun, and
—above all—cartridges that can be relied upon to
get ’ the birds, fine sport is definitely assured.
A Full Sag Assured If You Use
aer- fcrmcM
MBritish CARTRIDGES
NOBED
They are the brand KEEN sportsmen prefer
because they combine a high velocity and
wonderful pattern that makes sure of the birds.
Get YOUR Supply TO-DAY
Obtainable Everywhere
-V
or
m
m
ma
o
m
m
m
T
O'
“There’s Not a
Faulty Cartridge
in a Million.”
m
Footbrawl
"Hotham”: Australian football will this
year be played under altered rules with
regard to the throw-in of the out-of-bounds
ball and “shepherding.” The latter was a
fruitful cause of dissension among players,
those shepherded off the man with the ball
being prone to retaliate with fisticuffs.
No other code, except that played in
America, permits the practice. Shouldering
and jostling will be cut out of the throw-
in, and in future umpires are to signal when
the throw-in should be made instead of leav-
ing it to the player.
❖ ❖ * jjc
“Jolimount” : Provident funds are a good
feature of League football in Melbourne.
The other day Richmond paid out sums rang-
ing from £5 to £2O in this fashion, one of
the recipients now being coach for a rival
club. Essendon was the first club to start
the scheme, and in the good old days forked
out some substantial wads, R. Lang, whom
old-timers will recall, once receiving £l5O
in a lump. Richmond is this year asking
its players to contribute 5 per cent, of their
football earnings to a special savings fund.
• =!' * *
"Stand Off”: After a long series of send-
offs, the Australian Rugby Union team for
.South Africa left Sydney this week, picking
up the Victorian section at Melbourne. Apart
from the tremendous amount of long-distance
tram travelling to be done, the tourists
should have a splendid time. How sporting
the Afrikander R.U. men are can be seen
from the fact that, in addition to paying for
board, lodging and travelling, South Africa
has insisted on footing the bill entailed by
assembling and disbanding the team in Aus-
tralia, and that for its playing outfit as well.
A splendidly sportsmanlike gesture.
* * * *
‘‘Birkenhead Park”: The English Rugby
Union is counted the most conservative of
all sporting organisations, the Scottish Union
perhaps excepted. In the past all a player
ever got in recognition of his services in the
internationals was a cap that couldn’t be
worn and a guernsey which was generally
so obscured by mud when the game was over
that it might have been that of a fourth-rate
pugilist’s boxing partner on the evidence.
.Now the Union has decided to give blazers
to all players of the present, and to grant
to those of the past who desire one, and are
willing to pay for the article, the right to
wear it. The English guernsey is white with
a red rose, but the blazer is to be plum color,
with the rose worked in silver.
* * =s *
"Five Ways”: The feud between the
Queensland and Brisbane Rugby Leagues
which brought the pair to the parting of
brass-rags for a season seems to have been
healed, as was high time, with the tour-
of the North of England close at hand. On
their showing against the Ma State last
season the Queenslanders are keen on get-
ting selection for at least a dozen players,
and should do so. The Queensland body will
have to find a couple of thousand pounds
for its share of preliminary expenses for
the tour, and it is proposed to raise this by
a debenture issue. On past experience there
should be no trouble about recoupment from
their share of the English gates.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Golfers in most parts of
Australia took advantage of Easter to
indulge in a riot of tournaments. In Queens-
land the big event was the Daiiing Downs
amateur championship. This was won by
Stan Francis, of Brisbane, from J. C.
Mcljitosh, of N.S.W. They were square at
the 17th, but a trifle of a 50ft. putt at the
18tli decided the match. In N.S.W. the
northern amateur open championship at
Tam worth went to W. R. Dobson, of Con-
cord, who beat the Manly Terror, young Jim
Ferrier, by a stroke, Canberra’s meeting
drew a big crowd from outside and a huge
entry, over 800 players taking part. LI. W.
Hattersley, amateur champion of Australia
in 1930, won both the open and amateur
tourneys, D. G. Soutar taking the Profes-
sional Purse. The Canberra greens: aroused
universal admiration.
“Brassey”: In spite of a popular super-
stition to the contrary, golf seems to come
naturally to many cricketers. When the game
was not as universal as it is now, A. E.
Stoddart was almost as notable a golfer as
cricketer. Many others have . followed in
his footsteps, Australia’s outstanding example
being Dr. Bettington. C- G. Macartney, a com-
parative novice, is coming along in splendid
fashion, his victory against a strong field
in the Roseville (N.S.W.) Cup being p roo f
of this. Others famous in various branches
of athletics who showed up during the
Easter holidays were “Slip” Carr, “noted
sprinter and Rugby footballer, who won a
handicap at Pymble: swimming and bil-
liards champion IV. Longworth, who took
the A grade trophy at La Perouse, and
Davis Cup crack J. O. Anderson, who
headed the field in a four-bailer at Strath-
field.
; "Sandringham” : Thus early in the s< ason
Mick Ryan, Australian open champion and
winner of the amateur title in 1929, is show-
ing that his game is better than ever In
Easter week he won the Yarra Yarra
trophy from a field including Victoria’s
best amateur and professional golfers. The
end of the 36 holes saw his score of 146
tied by F. Naismith, the Heidelberg pro-
fessional. A nine-holes play-off gave him
the trophy with 37 to Naismith’s 38.
* * * *
"Lakeside’’ ; In America, provided one is
sufficiently distinguished in anv walk of life
from racketeering to royalty, all doors seem
to be open to one. Take Sarazen. He had
Mi e iM d * f °u a Urney \ n Caliente, but
i U d not play in the first round.
Nevertheless he was notified that, if he was
"round” o ™*’ ro couid take part in the second
hbn ro d tba1 d faculties would be given
n lm P k y_ Jn the first round, which had
told” 0) i hiS account - We are not
firsf ronnVro pl S eri ? re »dy to start ill the
nist round thought about it.
cluh?Tbn : n Vit - b niany Australian golf
on their fai 1 gCt ? rass to S row
dicanf p7n^Whatever its other han-
dicaps, Papua is free from this irritation.
The golf correspondent of the “Papuan
Courier, in commenting on the fact that
the fairways at the opening of the season
approached jungle conditions, mentions a
native caddie who laid down his player's
golf bag while helping a mate to find a lost
hail and was unable to locate it again until
alter a long search, in which he was helped
by other caddies. Times change in Papua,
as elsewhere In the long- ago stories like
that were told about wonderful gold dis-
coveries 111 the interior, or miraculous en-
counters with hordes of ferocious cannibals.
±he place of these is now taken by golf
narratives.
* * ...
c Smashie”: The discovery in Melbourne
<\ a genuine Gourlay-made Scottish feather
7‘J? 1 ! recalls that the Gourlay brothers
ot Edinburgh were the exclusive manufac-
turers. Scotland’s oldest golf club, the
Royal Edinburgh Burgess Golf Association
at Barnton, treasures a few of these feather
pills.
Racquet and Bawl
“ Fut . SI ‘ ot ”: Tlie congregation is reminded
that Australia s first appearance in the
Ilavis Cup will be against Norway at Oslo
?" ? I % J r 13 and 14. The match should
b(i d gift for the tourists, but experience in
recent years has shown how easily the good
thing may come unglued. Crawford had an
afdack of asthma on his way to Europe. This
affliction has more than once handicapped
inn in the past, and it is to be hoped was
only a fleeting phase this time.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The heavy travelling
expenses of an Australian Davis Cup team
bound for Europe are always a source of
mental agony to the Australian tennis heads
who eagerly angle for “appearance-money”
un ni a bl £ e ls , .likely to be successful.
YVimbledon has this year obligingly raised
!coon d * no I Fran « e has offered to
shell out f—Bo for the team s presence at the
french championships and for a French-
Australian match j'ust before these. As the
renchmen are also paying all expenses
, lie the team is in their country, the offer
almost 66 * 1 aoe( ‘ ,Ifed wl 'fb tears of gratitude
* * * *
Top Spin : Jean Borotra evideimy finds
it as hard to retire from big tennis as does
a politician from office. The Basque has
frequently sworn on a stack of Bibles that
he is done with the game, yet lie bobs up
periodically. This time he asserts, as he did
last year, that he will confine his play to
the doubles events, and then only if urgently
required. Last year’s story will probably
be lepeated, and we shall sec Jean figurin'*
once more in the singles, in which, most for-
tunately for France, he turned our to clinch
his country s hold on the famous pot.
Car and Cycle
, R ‘ G ® ar / .Change’’ ; High-speed road records
(B. 19/4/3o) have their uses. For one
nnng they have done much .to improve the
design _ and mechanism of general-purpose
cars, since speed and consumption tests on
special tracks by racing cars are of very little
use as a guide in this respect. Further, they
have tlieir points as a school for skilled
drivers, who have to consider the safety
ratio as well as speed for their own sakes.
Road-racing in Australia and elsewhere has
resulted in greatly shortened travelling time
for the non-speeding driver. In 1912, 37
hours from Brisbane to Sydney was thought
wonderful. To-day 24 hours is only a fair
thing for paterfamilias driving a ’busful of
relations and nippers, while the record-
makers have cut the time to a little over
12 hours.
“Collector”: It is more than likely that
Cake George in N.S.W. may be tried out as
a motor-speed track, as has been suggested
(B. 5/4/’33). Wizard Smith is thinking
of making an attempt on the speed record
in the Enterprise, the aeroplane-engined car
in which he hoped to beat Malcolm Camp-
bell’s figures in Maoriland. The big car has
been reconditioned after the fire at the
Ninety-mile Beach, which did little damage.
In the meantime Smith suggests that the
local enthusiasts fix up for him a five-
mile circular stretch on the lakebed, and
on this he will try to break the Australian
24-hour record of 1701.25 miles, made by
himself and E. Poole on Lake Perkolili in
Westralia five years ago. For this he will
probably use a more standardised car than
the big special job.
* * :Jc *
“Formula”; The motor-car engine without
inlet or outlet valves lias arrived. Professor
A. M. Low, of England, has designed one
and _ claims 25,000 revs, per minute
tor it—an astonishing speed. He found
that with ordinary engines at high speed the
valves did not open and close as they should,
but just bounced about on their seats. In-
vestigation showed that this resulted in the
loss of very little power, so the idea of dis-
pensing with the valves followed. The new
engine has 24 cylinders and is said to be as
tlexible as a turbine, functioning after the
manner of a two-stroke motor-cycle engine.
It is to be marketed as a 20-h.p. unit.
❖ Jjt sj: sfc
“Glenelg”; South Aus. motor-cyclists have
been getting among the records at Sellick’s
Beach. In the 350-c.c. class 11. Butler rode
the mile at the rate of 104:56 m.p.h. one
way and 102.04 m.p.h. the other. This betters
American F. Brink’s 88.2 m.p.h., which has
stood since .1927. In the 250-c.c. class, L.
Thomas averaged 80.45 m.p.h. over the mile
course. W. Woolat, on a lf-h.p. Triumph
Gloria, had a mean average speed of 67.285
for his two runs, beating liis own record.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: Victoria’s Stawell Gift, the
Melbourne Cup of modern professional pedes-
tnamsm in Australia, drew a huge crowd to
the heats and finals in Easter week. C. G.
Heath, a young farmer, became such a red-
hot favorite after winning his first heat off
11 yards that the bookmakers closed up on
him. In the final he romped home by three
yards m 11 10-lQsee. His win was estimated
to have taken £6OOO out of the bag
=:= * * '*
“The Gaffer”: It’s like a breath of old
times to read that someone tried to lay out
Heath, the Stawell Gift favorite, before the
final. Assault is a crude method of readying
a dangerous runner; suaviter in modo is to be
preferred. A boy of mine was backed for a for-
tune to win the final of a North Queensland
Sheffield. The mugs were finding the money
and our crowd had fixed it that he should
run a bye. Some unscrupulous wretches got
at him with a good poultice to win. We
said nothing, but when he sat on the grass
at the track to put his shoes on it was
found that those I handed him were not his
own, which I had stupidly mislaid, but a
pair some four sizes too large. The starter,
a friend of mine, would allow no delay, so
the clever lad had to get into the holes with
the canoes on and, of course, lost by a street.
“Schreihals”: Following on the exclusion of
tennis-player Prenn from Germany’s Davis
Cup team because he is a Jew, a move is
already being made to cancel the allotment of
the next Olympic Games to Berlin. Leading
Olympic officials have declared that German
action in this regard is in direct antagonism
to the underlying principle of the Olympiads,
which insists that all races, creeds and colors
of mankind may compete on perfect equality
V * S: $
“Toowong” : The inter-State eiglit-oar race
for the King's Cup in Brisbane on May 6
will be notable in that the Queensland repre-
sentative crew, Wide Bay club, will boat a
blind oarsman at No. 2. This is P. Finney,
who lost his sight after rowing in the event
in 1924. Undaunted by his misfortune,
Finney carried on and soon found that blind-
ness was no handicap to him. His timing,
catch, etc., are as perfect as those of other
members of the crew, and no appliance is
used to assist him. .His case is probably
unprecedented in rowing.
❖ * * S:
“Blue Chalk”: Australia will see one of
the best of the old-school billiardists shortly
in Melbourne Inman, who will land in Perth
on May 2 to begin a tour under the Heiron
and Smith management. He will play in
all the. Australian capitals, his chief oppo-
nent being Horace Lindrum. Inman is a care-
ful player of the safety-first type, and, until
George Gray eclipsed him, was the leading ex-
ponent of the red losing hazard. He won
the English championship in 1909 and for
four years in succession from 1912 to 1919,
excluding the war years.
❖ * ij: $
“Bumpkin : In view of the admittedly
strained diplomatic relations between Britain
and this country, it is strange to read in
the press that Mr. Norman Bayles, a trustee
of the Melbourne Cricket Ground, has pub-
licly left for London “to see whether Eng-
land still plays body-line bowling.” It is
obvious that as soon as Mr. Bayles reaches
London all traces of leg-theory will be hidden
in backyards or buried under woodheaps. He
will be led by guides who will allow him to
see only what the authorities want him to
see, and on his departure he will be searched
and his findings censored. A spy who knew
his business would conceal his' identity or
give it out that he was engaged on a mission
to inquire into the prevalence of birth con-
trol amongst bishops, or some such plausible
project. However, one cannot but admire
Mr. Bayles’s courage and hope that he will
return uninjured from his desperate adven-
ture.


To save delay in writing to
London, J. Ilott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON ? - then The Langham!
You should reserve your room at the
Langham now, this very day! A room
quiet and restful, yet in the heart
of the West End. A room with a
telephone, an electric fire and running
water, cold and really hot. A room
in a hotel that knows only one way
of making you welcome the good
old English unobtrusive but intensely
personal way.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at the last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Langham, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The event of the week that really stirred
women to tlieir boots was the C.W.A. Handi-
crafts Exhibition. It was opened by the
<}..-< }.’« lady, and hundreds of the sex
trooped up to the 12th floor of the. “Sun”
building for the Great Moment. This exhi-
bition is an enormous field in which bloom
all the things that woman makes and embel-
lishes with her hands, and it sets oue won-
dering what doesn’t she turn her hand to.
There are thousands of entries, and wool
plays a great part. It has been woven and
knitted into cap and jumper, sock and slipper,
dressing-gown and lacy-kn.it frock. It is made
into floor rugs; soft and white, it furnishes
beautiful collar and cuffs for a coat (a
Queensland idea this). One Fair Isle jumper
shows the victory of mind over matter. It
was knitted on bicycle spokes by a girl
with crippled hands. Among the tapestries
a Last Supper worked 81 years ago com-
mands the eye from an easel;. a beauti-
fully fine tapestry showing a girl with a
cockatoo is in a frame, the treasured posses-
sion of Mrs. Harry Burrell. There are em-
broideries of the finest, and the display of
lace attracts every visitor; one exhibit of
point lace was worked when the needle-
Avoman was 91. There are fascinating patch-
work quilts (a notable one from Victoria),
teddy-bears and kangaroos (some of these
face a journey next month, when they sail
abroad with the Girl Guides), pottery and
paintings, embroidered shawls, quilted silk
dressing-jackets.
A demonstration of. the spinning of
Angora wool is given in one of the side
rooms, and small Assyrian girls, their heads
bound in white veils banded in gold, are busy
at their tapestry frames. The exhibition is
open for another fortnight.
Macbeth’s dining-hall set for the banquet
scene probably looked a good deal like the
great hall of the Uni. when that hoary stone
monument of learning went gay and staged
a spirited prologue to the ball held in Man-
ning House. There were no rushes on the
floor; the only rushes noticed were those
made on the 24 attractive debs, by young
men eager for dances; and though the
shadows weren’t chased by torches (mun-
dane electricity did the trick) there were
torches of learning to spare in the group
that ushered in the vice-regals.
No fewer than three of the dear Exes.,
complete with ladies, stepped into the pres-
ence of the crowded house, hot upon the roll
of drums and bugle-calls that were their
cue. They were preceded by the Chancellor,
the acting Vice-Chancellor and the Deputy-
Chancellor, resplendent in their University
regalia. After this company had been
grouped in dignity and comfort, violins
in the gallery breathed out a sensuous waltz,
and 24 snowy fledglings, each escorted by
an undergrad, in his gown, billowed on to
the dais. With an aplomb that will serve
them well when they go to Buckingham
Palace, the girls sank four times in a Court
curtsey; one to the Commonwealth’s Gov-
ernor, one to his lady, one to Sir Philip, one
to Lady Game. Queensland’s Governor was
quite out of it, and looked so jealous that
one felt he might be capable of slinging a
banana-skin in the path of the oncoming
debs. However, his better nature _or an
absence of bananas saved the situation.
It was the gayest Easter Sydney has
known for a few years. The weather
was a round of golden days and soft, warm
nights; Randwick was perfect; the hotels
buzzed with country and inter-State visitors.
The dancing-floor of the Australia was one
of the most thickly-populated areas in Syd-
ney, and here on a race night you were likely
to see or bump everybody you had ever met
in the six States. One night Dorothy Brun-
ton brought a bustled and trained frock in
flame moire, and looked like some belle on
an old-time valentine.
The Macquarie Club gave a cocktail party
of outsize dimensions on Wednesday, and at
the Wentworth a tea-dance raged from five
to seven of the same afternoon. This was
for the benefit of Prince Alfred’s, and had
been organised by that hospital’s younger
set of which clever Margery Ward is secre-
tary. Up-to-tlie-minute frocks for every
occasion were displayed by a number of
pretty girls, svelte of figure and rosy ox
cheek. There was even a blushing Easter
bride frosted over in tulle in the parade, and
she was attended by two ’maids like pink
sugarplum creations.
Professor Leslie Wilkinson, introduced to
the waiting multitude as a “virile person
with an open mind,” opened the show or
contemporary British art in the Blaxland
Galleries.
Everybody loved John’s “Canadian feol-
dier,” but some were inclined to be ribald
about Dod Proctor's baby, and a little bit
put out about the portrait of Louisa Mac-
donald, first principal of the Women’s Col-
lege within Sydney Uni. In this company ol
artists our own Charles Conder and George
Lambert stand out bravely, and this Letter
liked Derwent Lees’s “Bay in the South ol
France.” The Epsteins unexpectedly made
a great appeal. In "Meum” and “Lydia
there is beauty, and there is fun in the kid-
dies’ heads.
Vida Lahey and Daphne Mayo were down
from Queensland, the one in quiet browns,
the other in dark blues; Ethelwyn Kirk
wore an ear-high chinchilla collar to her
grey coat; bright-faced Mrs. Zander, who
deserves thanks for bringing the show to our
doorstep, was smart in black and white; and
amid the crowds of women Surgeon McKel-
vey’s lady was notable. Her fitting black
frock was untrimmed except for a true
lover’s knot in soft white pique stitched fiat
on each shoulder; the ends were stitched flat
down the sleeves to about the elbow. In
the distance they gave the impression of
epaulettes. With it she wore a droopy black
hat lined with white. Two of the most
looked-at were Derwent Lees’s sisters; they
themselves were keen gazers at their brother s
“Orange Skirt,” a portrait study of the
sister-in-law they have never met.
Randwick more than held its own through-
out a week that was just broken up enough
with grey to make the wearing of new furs
and winter hats a joy on Ladies’ Day. Both
Lady Isaacs and Lady Game showed they
knew what’s what in the skin game, the
first displaying a de luxe collar of musquash
on the black coat she wore over her stone-
grey velvet frock, while the State vice-reme
clicked sables around the throat of her tweed
outfit. The vice-regal party was large and
included Mrs. W. R. Eden and daughter
Joan, the Captain Saunders couple and
Captain and Mrs. J. C. Bradley.
The lawns were green, the borders bravely
red, the stands gorged with men and women.
Queensland’s. Governor brought Lady Wilson,
and daughter Marjorie wore royal blue
topped by a small white hat. Mrs. Ellis
Fielding-Jones looked the world in the eye
over a collar of irreproachable fur; Hubert
Murray’s lady sported russet-red tweeds :
Admiral Dalglish came with his wife, and
Mrs. H. C. Osborne and sister Mrs. Sam
Hardy walked in company; Barbara Knox's
silver fox furs were conspicuous; Rita
Buckland’s soft blue outfit was one of the
most appealing. The O’Sheas from Bris-
bane shepherded Deidre Dalton, a pretty
young thing all fair hair and blue eyes;
Mrs. Laidley Dowling was in platinum
greys ; Mrs. Gordon Brady in a sapphire-blue
ensemble; Suzanne White was a pretty
deb. of the week ; and all the hundreds of the
well-dressed helped to make this Randwick
as bright and gay as hundreds of the well-
dressed and the well-known have been doing
since the beginning of things.
This is May Courtney, whose “Ark
Antics” is one of the strongest entertain-
ment draws of the C.W.A. Handicrafts
E x h i b i tion.
For some
years May has
been writing
amusing verses
concerning Mr.
Noah and his
cargo of live-
stock. These
have proved so
popular with
youngsters of
all ages that
with the help
of cousin
Marie Boyers
she has turned
them into a
stage present-
ment. The
animals formed
a guard of
honor for Lady
Isaacs on the
opening day
of the exhibition, when they achieved imme-
diate fame. May is a daughter of that fine
old journalist Tom Courtney.
Sydney is to see a new sort of procession.
Pitt-street Congregational Church is having
its centenary; and its heads are to call on
its neighbors, the Methodists. Their heads
will join up, and a combined call will be
made' on St. James’s. Dr. Micklem will
step in, and the snowball will roll on to St.
Stephen’s. Thence, with the Kirk now
incorporated, it will visit the site where
the first Independent service was held
in Australia—in Hunter-street—and so to
the Cathedral, where the Bishop and Dean
will be recruited; and they will all go back
to the starting-point. At another celebration
at least one archbishop will be present—his
Grace of the Greek Church.
The, Rose Bay Golf Club furnished the
setting for two of the week’s dances. The
first was a private affair, given by Mrs. W.
A. Mackay and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, and
served as the coming-out flutter for five
youngsters, one of whom was Mary Nelson,
of Toowoomba. All the who’s-who went to
this, as they did to the club dance at the
same address last Saturday. This was pre-
ceded by the usual dinner parties, and at
the dance itself still another four girls
slipped the chrysalis and joined the butter-
flies. They were Sheila Graham, Joan Tom,
Ruth Parker and Rachel Oatley.
Why doesn’t the Government hand over
the country to the C.W.A. for five years V
These energetic and capable ladies should be
able to formulate a plan that would make
everybody happy, for they make every post
a winning one. Some years ago they found
that an Extra Chukka Ball, slipped into
Polo Week, was a great success; to date
it has netted nearly £6OOO. The fact that
we’ve had no polo for two or three years
doesn’t make them drop their money-raiser.
This year they spun their web in Easter
week 'to capture the race and the Show
crowds, and not only did the flies walk into
the parlor, but they declared it was one of
the jolliest parlors they had ever been in.
The Harborside Branch of the C.W.A. was
responsible, and David Jones’s was full to
Plimsoll mark.
Both the G.-G. and the State Governor
came with their ladies, Lady Isaacs’s frock
being a shimmer of diamente ajid pearl en-
crustments on ivory chiffons. Lady Game’s
slim frock had a shoulder cape of lace edged
with beige Arctic fox. Mrs. Jimmy Ashton
was president, and wore the softest of grey
laces; and Mrs. H. G. Mclntyre, who
helped her marshal the debs., wore velvet
of a real summer-sky blue.
Herewith Mrs. Walter Treleaven, one of
the few women making piano records in
Australia; she
makes them
for the Colum-
bia Company,
and has the
pleasure
of knowing
that the salt's
of the first
record ran into
many thou-
sands. She is
the wife of
Walter Tre-
leaven, prin-
cipal of Lind-
fi e 1 d Boys’
College, and a
daughter of
the late R.
Davis, who was
on the adver-
tising staff of
the “Herald”
for 50 years.
The lady has a memorised repertoire of 150
classics, which speaks well for her teachers,
the still-famous though long-dead Sydney
Moss and Signor de Beaupuis.
The United Service Institution has added
a museum to its headquarters in Young-
street. The museum is on the ground floor,
and is brimming with arms and armaments
from the time of William the Conqueror (or
almost) to the present Anno Domini. How
full of the milk of human kindness man has
always been to the fellow across the border
or on the opposite coast!
Last week’s flutter was very represen-
tative. Sea, land and air forces were pre-
sent in admirals, generals, squadron-leaders
and their ladies. The G.-G. made one of
his excellent speeches, and his lady’s frock
was an admirable mixture, of black lace and
vellum velvet. Mrs. Spain, who with her
Colonel (he’s deputy-president) received the
guests, also wore black lace; the wife of
Brigadier-General Phillips was another who
was swathed in black; but Mrs. Pope flashed
geranium-reds, and Admiral Dalglish’s lady
turned out in a neat line of beflowered ivory
chiffons.
One of the prettiest sights of the Show-
ground at the Gala Day festivities last Satur-
day was the releasing of . thousands .of
pigeons, including 12 pure-white, ones which
are the descendants of homing pigeons
attached to the British fleet in the North
Sea during the war. All the stands were
packed, and the lawns in front of them looked
a tight squeeze. Literally thousands had
turned out to see the floats, the. decorated
cars, the chariots and the surf girls. The
floats were works of art: Woollahra, which
won first place with its faithful reproduc-
tion of a lyrebird, was run very close by a
marvellous interpretation of the Golden
Fleece, and by the rhythmic and beautifully-
tinted car of Neptune. The Newcastle float
brought a floral Nobby’s to the procession.
The Y.A.L. band, with the lads’ winter capes
of old Italian blue lined with gold, was quite
a dashing note in the day.
The Spivakovsky concert season is going
to be a success. The looks of Tossy Spiva-
kovsky and the ethereal ’cellist Edmund
Kurtz guarantee it. Jascha is an old favo-
rite, and liis music is oven better than Syd
ney had remembered it: but how the »ins
will love Edmund’s sensitive prohle bent t
his ’cello! He might be an archangel in a
stained-glass window! And his legs ai
long and slim, and Ins body likewise, lnc
violinist Tossy is not so beautiful, but nas
that terribly childlike, frail look that, wins
every woman. The artists’ room at the enit
of the concert was packed with young women
all eager for autographs, and there were
more brave attempts at German and I rencn
than have been made since schooldays, lnc
audience was worthy of the Schubert trio
and the Mendelssohn concerto. It was as
enthusiastic as well-dressed. Mrs. G. J j-
Jones was outstanding in her ermine coat
with its collar of white Arctic fox. badie
Budge was a front-seater with father, and
on the opposite aisle sat Dr. Orchard ; Bertie
Kelly was there, and Mrs. Stahl, who, spread
a party after the concert for the artists.
It is about three years since pianist
Jascha Spivakovsky was last m Sydney.
The opportunity to hear him so soon
is probably due to his wife's being an Adel-
aide girl. She, by the way, ricked her knee
when leaving the boat at Fremantle, and
that is why she has not been at the parties
spread by the Musical Association and the
Josef Kretschmann Club.
The 20th Battalion A.I.F. reunion dinner
is timed for G. 30 on April 27. The venue
is Miss Bishop’s cafe, 117 Batburst-street.
and the dinner will be followed by a “smoko.
The show of the week to which country
and town alike gravitated was “Waltzes from
Vienna.’’ It’s a colorful delight, sugar-sweet
with young love and the music of the older
and the younger Strauss.
All the bright young things turned up at
Sheila Sullivan’s party at No. 11 Onslow-
avenue. But if spring was represented by
the guests autumn was in the decorations.
Mrs. D. S. Sullivan, Sheila’s mother, and
aunt Mrs. J. M. Sinclair, of Victoria gave
a hand to entertain the guests. Among
them our own and Queensland’s Government
House were represented by Marjorie Wilson,
Philip Game, Joan Eden and aides Gifford
and Honnor.
Tasmanian artist Blanche Murphy, whose
way with a brush and color-box suggests
a masculine personality, is the most beguil-
ing little creature, with an elfin charm of
manner and a dreamy softness of speech.
Miss Murphy, who hails from the Rokeby
district, over the bay from Hobart, will pass
through Sydney on the Tanda on the way
to Japan with her lifelong chums Mabel and
Dora Hookey.
Viscountess Mandeville is attracting the
gaze in the Australia, where she is staying
with her Viscount and sister-in-law Lady
Louise Montagu till the Mariposa takes them
off to Honolulu.
Brisbane brevities: —
Motor-cars blocked the southern roads, campers
made for beaches at Southport and Coolangatta and
Tambourine Mountain was overrun with tourists
during the Easter holidays. Consequently, town
was very quiet, though the Empire changed its name
to St. James and opened a renovated building in
Albert-street and the Salvation Army seemed to be
banging the big drum with extra vigor. At St.
Phillip’s, Thompson Estate, Dailey Scarlett brought
back the old Easter carols, there was an Anglican
procession through the streets and there were the
usual picturesque ceremonies in connection with
St. Stephen’s Catholic Cathedral.
At Ascot Mrs. R, H. Edkins wore flecked brown
capeline with her brown marocain; Mrs. E. R. Tally
was in silk tartan with a short black jacket and
black mirror velvet cap; Mrs. Victor Cotton wore
nattier blue and blue hat; navy with a yoke em-
broidered in white beads was worn by Mrs. A. Leeds
(Claverton) ; Mrs. Colin Cadell (Dalby) chose sky
blue.
On the second day of the meeting, furs and woollen
frocks appeared. The Blair pair came early, attended
by Captain Stark, the lady in Manilla brown and
a red hat. She was accompanied by Mrs. R. W.
Dowling, in opal green, and Elsie Stirling, wearing
saxe blue with a black hat. Mrs. J. L. VI oolcock
was in canary and navy; the Glasgow lady wore
black with touches of white; Mrs. Brian O’Sullivan
favored green; Mrs. F. A. Hughes chose grey with
touches of brown; Madge Cullen was in red and
white; Tessie Reading wore a caped frock of nattier
blue with a small white hat; Alice Carter (Charle-
ville) chose ivory Canton crepe ; ■ Mrs. Frank Wilson
was in maroon silk.
Eunice Long, daughter of the N. Longs, Annerlev,
is engaged to Eric Cantelin, son of Mrs. A. Hayward,
Notts, England, and the late W. Cantelin.
In St. Paul’s, Brisbane, Edna, daughter of the
G. P. Campbells, Clayfield, married W. B. Fleming,
of Macleay (N.S.W.). The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in a princess model of
ivory Maltese, a veil of Brussels point carrying
frangipanni blooms. Coral-tinted ring velvet and
gold coronets were worn by the ’maids, Marian
Campbell find Helen Fleming. The feast was at the
bride’s home.
Miss N. Horn, daughter of Dr. A. Horn, Too-
woomba, is engaged to N. F. O’Sullivan.
F. Robinson, conductor of the Brisbane Eisteddfod
choir, has taken part in 156 choral contests and
won 68 first prizes. A presentation was made to
him at Ipswich.


f. x X
those
present(s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift—a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! “All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
“Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name—and look for the “Hec-
worth” brand on every article.
X'
mm
NJS
WALTZES
OF THE WORLD
(A,
lo meet the times, “ALLAN'S”
are issuing Folios of intrinsic
merit at prices that must appeal
to all. Posted anywhere in Aus-
tralia for 2/9. Send stamps or
post-office order.
24 Ever Popular
WALTZES
of the World
Well Printed, with Handsomely
. Illustrated Cover in Colours .
Amoretten Tanze Gungl
Barcarolle (Tales of
Hoffman) Offenbach
Black Hawk Walsh
Blue Pacific Hecker
Casino Tanze Gungl
Cherries . Clifford
Continental Nights . . . . Dare
Donauwellen Jvanovici
Dreams of Aloha Dare
Dreams on the Ocean . . Gungl
Faust Gounod
Hydropaten Gungl
Immortellen Gungl
Kismet Leon
Love’s Dream after
the Ball . . Osibullca
Over the Waves . . ~. . . Rosas
Palace of Palms . . Clifford
Poet and Peasant . . . . Suppe
Santiago Corbin
Sobre Las Olas Rosas
Soldiers’ Life Gungl
Songs of Scotland . Mackie
Coppelia (Valse Lente) Delibes
Venus Reigen Gungl
Voice of Spring Strauss
Waves of the Danube Icanovici
You and You . . Strauss
2/6
Posted 2/9
Separate Orchestral Parts
Violin, Trumpet, Saxophone, &c.
2/- each, posted 2/1
ALLAN & CO.
Pty. Ltd.
276 Collins Street, Melbourne
Sydney Bendigo Adelaide
Famous
STUDENT SONGS
of the World.
A wonderful collection of the
best-known Chorus Songs. Especi-
ally suitable for sing-songs, clubs,
picnics, etc.
Price 2/6 —posted 2/9.
Centenary Piano Folio
containing 24 Favorite Melodies,
including the famous “Barcarolle’’
from the “Tales of Hoffman.”
Price 2/6t —posted 2/9.
Melbourne
Chatter
Legal-light Desmond R. Fitzgerald and
his wife bid a bunch of the younger set to
the coming-out dance of their daughter
Blanche at their home in Kew on Saturday
evening. The debutante’s magnolia-tinted
flat crepe and velvet frock was topped with
a small cape of burnished gold sequins.
Mrs. Fitz Gerald had a scarf-like wrap of
sapphire-blue velvet upon a gown of chiffon,
patterned in blurred design of blue and rose
embroidered in gold thread. Among the
gathered were six newly-engaged couples,
which shows that even the depression
doesn’t keep Cupid out of action. Among
them were Stephanie Cox, Nita Phillips and
Noni Gallagher.
Dorothy Canberra, who scattered her flex-
ible soprano notes about the Auditorium on
Saturday night after seven years’ abroad, is
Miss Thomas off-stage. The singer is a
good-looking, unslimmed young woman with
brown hair, rippling to curbin’’ at the
nape of her neck. She wore becoming,
plainly cut raiment of saxe-blue chiffon velvet
attached to crystal shoulder-straps .and a
string of pearls. The array of flowers
handed her, a glowing mass of gladioli,
dahlias, African marigolds, roses, carnations
and violets, ran from mere buttonholes to
outsize sheaves.
Mrs. H. ,T. Yeats Wilson, from Olinda,
who is an aunt of Dorothy Canberra, poured
a welcoming cup of tea in her niece’s honor
at the Women’s National League Club.
Ida Scott, of the Albert-street Con., arranged
the musical programme for the afternoon.
Past and present students of the Con.
ai'e giving an at-home for Miss Canberra on
Thursday afternoon.
Wool Week was ushered in on Friday with
speeches and slogans and a sheep-shearing
exhibition on a lorry, which moved slowly
through the principal streets. This stunt
was the idea of Edmund Jowett, who saw
that the job was well done. It wasn’t really
an unusually cold day, yet the sheep huddled
close together, and there were sympathetic
exclamations of “How cold the poor things
look!” Possibly they were merely suffering
from stage fright.
Estelle Mark, who looks from out this
p a r., arrived
from London
as one of the
Femina Quar-
tette under en-
gagement to
J.C.W., doing
a tour of
South Africa
on her way
li om e. Since
then she has
m arried an
Aussie, David
Alston. They
settled for a
time in West-
ral i a before
coming this
way, to be
warmly wel-
comed in musi-
cal circles.
Mrs. Alston is
f . . often heard
over the air, and lately from 3LO. save a
recital of Brahms’s songs.
Society was present in force when Bever-
ley liand Jackson became the wife of James
Oswald Watt. St. John’s, Toorak, where the
Kev. Dr. Law officiated, was gay with trel-
lised screens twined with crimson and white
dahlias ; Easter daisies fronted the chancel
and posies tied with red satin ribbon bright-
ened the pews. Choristers rendered “The
Voice That Breathed” and bells rang out
a Joyous peal after the ceremony. The
youthful, fair, slim bride is the daughter of
Vvr c< xfr'? ' , Jackson, Urangeline
(N.S.W.) and of Mrs. Charles Cunning-
ham, of loorak. The bridegroom is a son
Of the late Colonel Oswald Watt. He has
lived mostly in England with his mother,
Lady Lawford, who, as Muriel Williams,
was once a belle of Melbourne. The bride
wore a graceful robe of white velvet of
very tine texture and crepe-like surface*
there was a train of silk net strapped with
bebe velvet ribbon at intervals, and the tulle
veil was fastened by a coronet of orange-buds
►She carried a long trail of orange-buds
twined about an ivory-bound prayer-book.
Her attendants were Nancy Syme, Patricia
Hammond, Audrey Poolman and Joan Syme
with Anthea Cunningham and Felicity Har-
rison : four grown-up ’maids and two school-
trambearers, in white “starched”
much flared of skirt, with epaul-
•> ifrVT lf 1 ; capes . and long, tight sleeves,
and little boleros of velvet. The elder ones
wore white toques; wreaths of velvet leaves
were the headwear of the other two All
carried immense shower bouquets of crimson
J®*™ 8 anc J “ aple foliage with dangling
stiearners of white satin ribbon. s
The finery was designed by a London
<liess-creator and executed by a Collins-
held «f CO S Um if re - The reception was
held at the home of Major and Mrs.
Cunningham,, the hostess wearing fawn
velvet Znf ln A gOWI \, w [ th cocoa-colored
velvet toque Among the bridegroom’s rela-
tives present were his uncle, Ernest Watt
of Sydney, and his aunt. Mrs. Pomeroy
Creene, whose ensemble suit was ni4 er
brown with shoulder spray of slipper orchids
and matching millinery. Gaud Mayor Gen-
gouit Smith was there; so were the Lauchlan
Mackinnon couple, whose son Colin was best
inan; Mrs. Otway Falkiner (N.S.W ) • Mrs
( harlie Lyon smart in black and white* her
ThT Fran® a Dd ra M * S ' W : J * T Clarke,
bright blue i ln tailore d suit of
bffie hue!" mS? Oswald^Svmf
rr 1 . .the knot-tvillo- of MinroiT
Helen Irwin, elder imgitj J the
Irwin couple, of Elsternwick, and John
McUutcheou Eggleston, eldest son of the late
"; ' Eggleston. The ceremony took place
m ‘, Mary’s, Caulfield; the reception was
at Tudor Court. The bride’s trailing drap-
eries of vellum tone were topped by a
Limerick lace veil flo'ating from a coronet of
orange-buds and pearl beads. Jessie Irwin
and Sidna Hareourt ’maided in frocks of
persimmon hue with leaves of blending
russet tints about their hair.
Representatives of the Empire Flag Day
Movement boiled the farewell billy for the
new Agent-General, Richard Linton. Owing
to illness Mrs. Linton was unable to join the
tea-gathering at the Lyceum Club, but
flowers were sent to her, and the A.-G.
received a. gift of a silver boomerang.
The Country Women’s Association is hold-
ing its annual conference this week. Sun-
dry social minglings have been arranged
and the handicrafts and home industries com-
imttee will stage the usual competitive ex-
hibition. Special demonstrations of wool
and of the weaving of tweeds will be put
on.
One of the new R.A.’s of the Melb. Univer-
sity is Barbara Cohen, who has .judiciously
mixed learn-
ing and sport.
In her final
exam ination
she was the
only one of
the year to
secure first-
class honors
in the School
of Hist o r y
and Political
Science, and
she also car-
ried off the
Dwight Prize.
Barb a r a
started early
to collect dis-
tinctions ; as
a student at
Lauriston she
gained an ex-
li ib i tion to
Trinity Col-
lege and followed this up by landing the R. G.
Wilson scholarship in British history. She
intends to round off with a post-graduate
course at Girton College, Cambridge. Out-
side the classrooms she holds a University
Blue for hockey, and has twice been awarded
the inter-State Blue. Miss Cohen is a daugh-
ter of Colonel Harold Cohen, M.L.C., and
Mrs. Cohen, of Melbourne. The fascinat-
ing picture of the clever maiden is from the
Broothorn studio.
That clever Melbourne girl who writes
short stories and novels under the pen-name of
Georgia Rivers is awaiting the publication
in London of her fourth book, “She Dresses
for Dinner.”
On the afternoon before tine German
cruiser Koln # steamed away to Hobart,
Captain Schniewind and officers welcomed
some 300 guests to tea, cakes and dancing in
acknowledgment of the hospitality extended
to them and the men while in port here.
The Jewish community here has a club at
Carlton known as the Kadimah Library,
where a fine hall has recently been erected.
The first musical programme was put on the
other night under the direction of Linda
Phillips, who played all the accompaniments.
The talent included contralto Estelle Mark,
David Sisserman with his ’cello, and violin-
ist Phil Cohen. A quartette for oboe, ’cello,
violin and piano composed by Linda Phillips
was a feature.
Ushers and programme-sellers at the Royal
now flit about in the white and yellow frilled
costumes that were aired by the Purity Bri-
gade in “The Belle of New' York,” and very
nice they look in the dress-circle. Down in
the stalls the lads who do similar service
toss about a bit of scarlet and blue in
uniforms suggestive of the Foreign Legion.
With the simultaneous fancy that audiences
have taken, to putting on glad rags, houses
are beginning to look cheery and pre-war
again.
The oldest inhabitant was hard pushed to
remember an Easter so genial. It was warm
enough to splash in the sea from daylight to
dark. Williamstown had radiant days for
its race meeting. The warmth turned'dress-
ing towards the summery; many spotted
silks and lightweight fabrics in frocks and
jacket' suits were worn, topped by felt hats.
Mrs. J. J. Liston, wife of the chairman of
the W.R.C., was present in tailored suit in
fawn and brown check, nigger-brown felt
hat, and a note of uplift in a green bag and
necklet. Mrs. W. P. Mein was all in black,
and Mrs. Cleve Pratt chose shepherd’s plaid
m magpie blends. Alderman and Mrs. F
Stapley, the J. B. Bellair couple and Mr.
and Mrs. J. F. Feehan were among the
throng.
The .T. T. Tweddle couple and their
daughter Betty were among those who left
by the Orama for Europe; Shirley Tweedle
went ahead of them. Mrs. Tweddle will hold
an exhibition in London of some of her more
recent work, which will include local color
gathered during a tour of the Solomon
Islands and Papua.
In “The First Mrs. Fraser.” revived at the
Comedy. Miss Seyler featured in two acts the
magpie blend of colors. A striking entrance
was achieved m a black satin frock with two
flouncings of deep tucks of white georgette
and kimono sleeves fashioned of the white
tucks or bands. Another version of the
half-mourning effect was attained with a
black flat crepe skirt, a high-necked, basoued
and belted blouse of white delustred velvet
and .a white felt hat. In the last act the
leading lady wore a black gown with nav
row ruchmgs of wine-tinted silk on the
cross-over front of the bodice, and verv
long streamers of ribbon dangling from the
neck at the back.
A recent mail brought news of the engage-
ment of Nancy Beatrice Osment
Howard Fitzalan Clayton-Dauheny, whose
mother lives at Ootacamund, Southern India
Miss Osment is a much-travelled miss and
was presented at Court in ’29 With w
mother she is at present visiting Ceylon
Ellen Joyce, second daughter of the Tf t
Webb couple, of Toorak, was another popn-
lar girl who changed her name at Easter
becoming Mrs. Thomas Henderson Mackay
The groom is son of Angus Maekay, of
Bendigo. The bonds were entered into at
St. John’s, Toorak; the lime-green crinkled
crepe frocks, with velvet capes of the same
tint, worn by the two bridesmaids were a
charming foil for the magnolia-toned satin
draperies, with a Spanish lace veil, aired by
the bride.
A line from Adelaide:—
The attendance at Onkaparinga races exceeded
the previous record' by 5000. The Lieut.-Gov. and
his sister, Miss Murray, were present. Chairman Harry
D. Young and his wife presided over a very large
afternoon tea-party. Mrs. Young was in a per-
venche-blue ensemble with a straw hat to match;
Miss Murray chose a brown marocain toilette with a
brown straw , hat. The frocking in general varied
from chiffons to furs and new winter coats.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Duncan gave a delightful
debutante, ball at their residence, Park terrace, Park-
side. The two large marquees for ballroom and
supper were draped in pale pink; in Hie ballroom,
huge bunches of pink balloons hung suspended from
silver cord; and the drawing-room was massed with
pink roses and dahlias. The hostess was gowned
in pale grey georgette with touches of gold tissue.
There were four debutantes; Margaret Duncan,
frocked in white tulle sequined in silver; Helen
Bakewell, in deep cream pin-'tuoked georgette;
Margaret Ashwin, in white chiffon; and Patsy Giles,
in pale pink angel-skin cut on long lines.
Married by the Rev. H. J. F. Bickersteth at
St. Peter’s College Chapel were D. W. W. Crozier,
son of the late W, W. Orozier, of Markaranka, and
Beryl, elder daughter of Mrs. and the late Horace
V oung, of Glenelg.
From beside the Swan:—
With flower-beds gay with reds and golds, plane-
trees still in their warm-weather green and Virginia
creeper spreading its rosy fingers over walls and
fences, Perth racecourse was in good trim for the
Easter meetings. Mrs. Marillier protected her beige
lace with a brown sunshade; Mrs. Durack, in royal
blue, accompanied her daughter, Mrs. Summerhayes,
perfectly turned out as always in a black suit;
Mrs. Lovell’s navy georgette showed cleverly ruched
sleeves; Mrs. Abe Herman, in a black tailored suit,
punted with Mrs. I. Herman, in grey; Mrs. Weir
had brown leaf traceries upon her buttercup geor-
gettes and Mrs. Cockburn wore a fur collar to
her beige romaine; Violet Holmes was trim in
tailored assani; Jane Bunning wore violet and a
dash of white.
■ vt* as ter Monday Mrs. Lee Steere came along
m blue; Mrs. Heron was tall and handsome in black
georgette patterned with pink and blue crocuses;
Mrs. M. O’Connor’s rose beige lace was echoed in
the toning of her lightweight millinery ; Mrs. Alec
McNeil’s black frock showed a white fleck; Mrs
Hadley was in black; Mrs. Brockman wore ivory
orepe patterned with navy blue, and daughter
Betty was green-clad with a diminutive toque; Mollie
Noble sported a nose veil with her coppery satin
frock; a cream lace yoke relieved Tynka Salom’s all-
green outfit. Joyce Burridge was a young miss
in black marocain; tall brunette Mrs. Strickland
sported a. red scarf with her black frock; Lenore
Kerr wore crinkly crepe in Robin Hood green-
Jacqueline Wright was in -burgundy.
Geraldine Montgomery, whose flair is music is
off to visit brother Rex and his wife, who live in
South Africa.
Tiny women in high heels and toques at a cute
angle, and little men who must climb up the
cage to press the lift-button in their hotel (the
smallest is only 30in.), comprise the Magda Palermo
midgets who have come with Chefalo to entertain
Perth. The magician tops off his performance by
emerging from an isolated cabinet on legs the
size of a butter-box.
For Molly Ross, lately become Mrs. Ronald Wade
Mrs. McKissock hostessed one of the first private
parties in the associates’ lounge at Perth Golf Club
The room, with furnishings just completed owed
its aar of festivity to bowls of dahlias and zinnias.
The hostess wore flowered georgette and the principal
guest, in cherry-red lace and her four-days’-old
wedding ring, went home with a load of kitchen-
ware under her arm.
Apple Isle items:—
Light-footed little Trixie Meech, whose fanev
dancing and that of her pupils have long been a
feature at Hobart entertainments, was wedded to
Milfiid Kemp at St. Andrew’s. The bride’s frock
had a long, tight-fitting bodice and a billowy skirt
and train of tulle frills. The long Veil was caught to
the head with orange blossom. Four bridesmaids,
a trainfoearer and eight little maids of honor made
a big retinue. The ’maids were in pink, blue, green
and lime shades; small hats with eye veils and
pink tulle muffs completed the picture. The maids
of honor were all in pink and blue organdie. About
100 guests turned up at Hadley’s for the breakfast.
The Turf Club’s meeting at El wick was held in
glorious weather, but there were no summer frocks;
autumn and winter rigs displaced them. Some were
smart and becoming, and others merely smart. The
new flat hat, which goes so well with the clustering
curls on a young head, doesn’t look its best over
longisli grey hair.
New Norfolk folk are sorry to bid farewell to
Hr. and Mrs. McPherson, who have gone to Sydney.
Presentations from different bodies included silver
entrfie dishes, coffee pots, pyrex dishes and a serviette
ring for the special use of small daughter Betty.
Betty, one of the Lance Archer twins, of Longford
Ilall, and Irevor Blake Brownrigg wore a. morning
bride and ’groom at St. John's, Launceston. The
bride wore an ensemble of champagne georgette, the
little short jacket having elbow sleeves, and a wide-
brimmed felt hat of the same shade as the frock.
Beggy Harrison ’maided in a blue woollen tailleur
and small blue hat.
Hr. and Mrs. John Ramsay had a big crowd to
tea at the opening day of the Launceston Coif
Cluib, of which the doctor is president. It poured in
the morning, but cleared up later. Country golf
clubs were well represented, a Longford pair, F. Youl
and Miss E. Falkiner, walking off with a trophy.
Open arms greeted “The Merry Widow” Co at
the Theatre Royal, after the long dearth of musical
comedy; Romola Hanson, Herbert Browne and their
supporters got a great reception.
Mrs. Charles Gavan Duffy has returned to Mel-
bourne after three months’ health-recuperation in
the Speck. Her sister, Mrs. J. B. Doyle, and her
husband are still at Hadley’s.


HOW A PAPER IS PRINTED.
“The Bulletin” to share the New Times Type.
The most important recent step forward in typography was taken towards the end of last TldT result of a P long technical and
whUe it occupies very little more space than the ’ .hitherto use , is■ jy £ Australia the compliment of permitting this paper
r s hafe C o^th Swarded in June, by which time the arrangements for the change-over to
the new founts will, it is expected, be complete.
The Early Days of “The Bulletin.”
WHEN John Haynes .and J. F. Archi-
bald founded The Bulletin 53
years ago, Archibald, the genius of
the two, knew very little about newspapers.
Except that he desired to voice the revolt of
youth—he was barely 24 at the time—he
had no very clear conceptions of what his
paper shouid be. In the beginning be be-
lieved that he could write: he fancied his
talent lay in description. So almost one-
half of the first number of the paper was
devoted to a single subject-—hanging. Down
to this time Archibald had had experience
only as a reporter; he had never handled
other men’s manuscripts. But contributions
soon poured in upon him; and then he found
where his remarkable talent did lie. He
was the incomparable eliminator of the un-
necessary. He delighted in taking the shape-
less 20 lines of a contributor and making
it into a hard, bright jewel of five or six
lines, with no single fact omitted from it;
and he was happier with a two-line epigram
than a two-column leading article. And
as it was with Archibald, so it was with
the men he trained and the men whose MSS.
he handled: they learned, every man of them,
to reach their point by the shortest and
most direct route.
Thus it came about that The Bulletin
established a reputation for close condensa-
tion : in those days every theatre-gallery had
its packer—‘‘Move up there, ladies and
gentlemen; room for one more, please”—
and one of the young paper’s best-known
sub-editors, later to wear a K.C.’s silk,
likened himself to this old companion of the
gods.
Archibald perhaps did not want to coyer
much ground, but the men who worked with
him or who followed him did. Traill re-
solved to put the “big things” in the paper.
Edmond wanted it to interest itself m
finance. Both Macleod and Archibald were
much interested in art. A. G. Stephens
developed its literary criticism. Others came
in who said that the man out back was not
getting a fair deal: more ought to be done
for him; and the “Land” page and the tre-
mendously useful Service Department were
brought into being. And all the time the
paper had to keep up its national character.
Its beat took in all Australia and the
Pacific Islands. No other paper in the wide
world set itself out to cater in this way for
a continent.
In all these circumstances it was not sur-
prising that the tendency was always to
use as small a type as possible; indeed, the
tendency of the day was generally in that
direction. How our great-grandfathers did
it nobody knows; but certainly they man-
aged to toil through printed pages with
type so microscopic that to-day the examples
preserved are regarded as curiosities. In the
earlier years of The Bulletin great use
was made of letters which in those days
were called minion and nonpareil; there
were at one time some even of “pearl” on
the premises. Later larger type was intro-
duced; but always the urge to crowd as
much as possible into the paper prevented
any great changes being made in its typo-
graphy.
The History of Type.
But type differs in many respects besides
size. The first printing was merely an imi-
tation of handwriting. It was done with
wooden blocks on which the characters were
carved, backwards; these were impressed
on one side only of the paper, and, as a
rule, two sheets of print were then pasted
together, back to back. Very often the
printed sheet was embellished by hand, so
that it was sometimes difficult to tell what
was done wholly by hand and what was
printed partly from blocks and partly by
hand. The real father of printing was the
man who first made a “block” of each single
letter, so that any word or sentence or
number of sentences could be built out of
what soon became known as movable types.
That great change came in about 1450—less
than 500 years ago. Gutenberg is generally
spoken of as the father of the art, but really
lie used only the wooden blocks on winch
letters were cut in the manner the Chinese
had employed for perhaps a thousand years;
the more important discovery of the movable
metal type is surrounded in mystery, though
the evidence points to one Peter Schoeffer
as the probable discoverer. However there
is no doubt about the character of the letter :
it was the old Gothic they first employed;
the British Museum has a priceless treasure,
produced somewhere about 1445, from which
these two lines are taken: —
Jaefedli amittj
prittio tapfo
From that date we can trace step by step
the development of the printed letter.
The first change of any consequence was
towards the Roman; in a definite form it
was used about 1464 —there is a fine example
of that also in the British Museum: —
Remifimuscle
cfinibD.Nucd
antonorrrafice
With that we can fairly claim to have
reached the modern character, though: in
course of time it was to undergo many minor
changes.
The “Times” as a Pioneer.
Foremost always in the pursuit of “some-
thing better” Was the London “Times.
Indeed, it was pursuing the something better
even in the years when it bore the clumsy
title of “London Daily Universal Register.
At that time the newspaper had to be built
up tiny letter by letter. The pieces of
metal, with the characters at one end, had
to be laboriously plucked out of small com-
partments in a “case” spread out before
the “compositor” ; and when the whole paper
had been thus set, and metal casts made ot
the various pages so that they might be put
upon the printing press, the process of
laboriously transferring the tiny pieces of
type back to their proper compartments or
boxes had to be gone through. The “Times’
—or the “Daily Universal Register,” as it
then was (1785)—decided that time might
be saved by combining various letters m
separate “types”—prefixes like “ad” and
“pre” and suffixes like “ing” and “ment.
The experiment was not a complete success;
the time saved was probably more than
lost by the hand in its longer travels over
the necessarily enlarged “case.” But it put
the “Times” in the forefront of the pioneers
of improvement of the typographic art; and
that position it has retained to this day.
The Birth of the Linotype.
As we have seen, the type had thus far
been picked by hand out of small compait-
merits, and, after
use, had been re-
turned to them
also by hand.
From early in
the nineteenth
century efforts
were made to im-
prove upon this
painfully slow
and laborious
process; and,
after many
machines had
been made and
generally discard-
ed, the Kasten-
be i n was in-
stalled in th e
“Times” office in
1869. The types
or stamps were
put into tubes,
and were releas-
ed by the opera-
tion of a type-
writer arrange-
ment of keys. It
had advantages
over hand-set-
ting; but it was
not what was
wanted, and it
was often out of
order. American
inventors in par-
ticular busied
themselves in de-
veloping the
machine that the
newspaper world
waited for. Some
of the produc-
tions were mar-
vels of ingenu-
ity : the Paige
machine is said
to havo had no
less than 18,000
parts. The very
complexity
of these appli-
ances and their
cost ruled them
out.
But though the “Times” found that, it
had to wait, for the perfect type-setting
machine, it could see no reason why it should
wait for the perfect type. It. accordingly
installed, somewhere in the late ’eighties, the
Wicks casting machine. Instead of the type
being returned to their proper compartments
after they had done their work, they were
melted and turned into new type at. the rate
of 60,000 an hour. Through the last few
years of the century the great pioneer used
the Wicks type-casting machine in con-
junction with “composing” machines already
mentioned.
But the thing for which the newspaper
world had been waiting was now on the
threshold; and in 1000 the “Times” an-
nounced the introduction of the linotype.
This, in its workable form the invention of
Ottmar Mergenthaler, of Baltimore, U.S.A.,
got rid of the individual type altogether.
If, it was argued, the “Times” could cast
new type or stamps at the rate of 60,000 an
hour and “set” them into lines in a com-
posing machine, why could not a machine
combine the two operations?
What a Linotype Is.
Mergenthaler’s machine . was . the first
satisfying, answer. It consisted, in part, of
a magazine containing a number of matrices
—dies, really, to be used in casting the type.
The operator, working on. a keyboard, re-
leases the required matrices, along, with
spaces between the words, until a line is
formed; this complete line of matrices is
then moved by a lever to the casting mould,
where a solid line of type is formed. These
lines are assembled, just as they were in
the hand-setting days, made up into pages,
stereoed (i.e., cast; into solid metal blocks)
and transferred to the printing presses. The
“lines of type” are then returned to the
linotype machine, where they are melted
and 'used as metal to cast new lines. This
machine, as we have said, reached the
-Times” in 1900. It was introduced to the
work of The Bulletin two or three years
later.
The machine has this tremendous prac-
tical advantage over the old hand-set type.
The latter in course of time became worn
and battered, chiefly in the process of “plan-
ing”—levelling the page prior to printing
or stereoing from it. The letters made by
the linotype are always fresh and sharp—so
long as the matrices continue in good con-
dition.
The Search for the Perfect Letter.
But all letters are not the same. We
have seen that the first type was in the
Gothic or German character; and the
German “black” letter of to-day is its lineal
and eye-destroying descendant. We have
seen also the beginnings of the Roman
letter. But the Roman letter has been found
to be capable of endless variations. Never-
theless, as the “Times” recently said, “all
the current newspaper types-—the so-called
‘moderns’ —are designed upon a century-
old model. If,” it continued, “it seems re-
grettable that one hundred years have passed
without providing the newspaper industry
with a new and serviceable type design, let
us remember that the problem of legibility
has only lately
become so much
more urgent. The
adjustment. of
type design to
the composing
machine had first
to be effected;
the critical study
of the best
models could only
come later; and
the adjustment to
changed reading
conditions remain-
ed to be tackled.”
Five years ago
the “Times” was,
however, con-
vinced that pro-
gress in this
matter was being
too long delayed;
and, in the
absence of any
letter which com-
pletely satisfied
modern require-
ments, it resolved
to consider the
creation of its
own letter. In
its own words -
“Having made
an examination
of founts, whe-
ther current or
obsolete, the
‘Times’ proceed-
ed to make its
own design
It recognised one
ruling principle.
Before everything
else it kept in
mind the import-
ance of increas-
ing the pleasure
with which the
reader turns to
the paper and the
ease with which
lie reads its
pages. But with
this went the
necessity of maintaining, if necessary with-
out reduction, the number of words in
the average column.... Fortunately, m
addition to its individual experience, t le
‘Times’ could draw upon a rich tuna
of knowledge derived from the compre-
hensive printing supplements which it
issued in 1913 and 1930 and the special sup-
plement dealing with the printing ot books
which was presented with its Lnterary Sup-
plement of October, 1928. With such an
accumulation of data it was possible to
design with some confidence the three new
body founts. 51, 7 and 9 point; to design,
also, a complete series of heading founts ; and
to prepare every detail in Printing House
Square. The new designs differ from the
text and heading founts of every other press
or newspaper or book printer in the world.
The “Times” and “The Bulletin.”
The new letter belonged exclusively to the
“Times,” which had used its extraordinary
facilities in the design and production of it.
No other press or newspaper or book-printer
was entitled to use it. The Hinotype Co.,
which produces matrices for the printing
industry of two hemispheres, was expressly
forbidden to make or distribute the “Times”
type. The Bulletin, however, believes that
it stands in some respects in relation to
Australia as the “Times” stands to Britain.
When, therefore, it realised what a tremen-
dous advance the new letter made in typo-
graphy. it had no hesitation in asking the
“Times” to be permitted to share in that
advance. And the “Times’’ paid this paper
the highest compliment of its career by not
only allowing The Bulletin to use the new
letters but assisting it to make the change.
In doing this the “Times did more than
pay The Bulletin a high compliment t
paid one also to Australia, m permitting
its most representative journal to share with
the great Imperial paper the benefits of ttm»
new development in typography.
Naturally it is not a matter of going
a printers’ supply warehouse and .fi"
outfit of these matrices. No printers supply
warehouse in the world has them. it is
necessary for the Linotype Co. to produce
them; and. although this process is now well
in hand, if not completed, it will probably
be June before The Bulletin will appeal
in its new dress. The new founts are m
three sizes. When the change is made the
main sections of the paper will be m type _
which the inset is an, illustration. in s
type will occupy a little more space thai
the present letter; but it will be infinitely
more legible. ~ .
There is, as yet, of course, none ot the
“Times” type or the matrices m which it
is moulded in Australia; but the inset is
as near the original as photography can get.
It is a photo, reproduction of an article m
the “Times” of March 2.
“The Bulletin” of the Future.
To compensate for the somewhat greater
space occupied, and that the public may have
at least as much reading matter as hitherto,
four pages will be added to the paper; this
will much more than make good tlm loss
Thus from some time in June The Bulle-
tin will not only be a much more legible
paper; it will be a larger paper. And steps
have been taken to ensure that it will be an
even better paper. Book-publishing having
been launched in Australia, there will no
longer be a call upon The Bulletin to print
Australian novels as serials. Most of the
space thus occupied during the past tew
years will be devoted complete. shoit
stories. It can be said without hesitation
that the stories accumulated during the years
when it was not possible to give this sec-
tion its old amount of space are the finest
collection ever got together in Australia.
They will be released week by week. Prac-
tically every well-known writer in Aus-
tralia is represented in this series, includ-
ing Katharine Susannah Prichard, Arthur
Adams, Steele Rudd, Albert Dornugton
(who contributes from England some remark-
able “Untold Tales of Bully Hayes”), Ran-
dolph Bedford, William Hatfield, John
Dailey, J. H'. M. Abbott, Hugh McLrae,
Vance Palmer, and others. The extra pages
will permit of the publication of special
articles —an entirely new feature of The
Bulletin —along with a fairly regular page
of the gems in black-and-white and verse
and story from old files of the paper. The
Service Department may also call for more
space. In all the years of The Bulletin
no section has ever achieved such wide and
rapid popularity as this. A characteristic
letter, typical of hundreds, reaches the office
as this summary is written. It comes from
Swan Hill (Vic.) :
May I congratulate that splendid and efficient
organisation, the Service Department of The Bulle-
tin, on its sixth birthday? I know of no other such
source of information in the English-speaking world
—and I have been over it twice. It is unique in
its comprehensiveness. I have inquired of scores
who have consulted it on all manners of subjects
—scientific, literary, musical, medical, legal, technical
—and in every case the inquirer has been completely
satisfied. They wonder, as I do, how it’s done. No
public need has arisen in my lifetime of 60-odd
years that has been so amply satisfied.
Service alone justifies a newspaper’s exist-
ence; it is in the trust that it will be able
to give greater service that The Bulletin
will make the changes now announced.
The Perfect Type.
The ultimate requirement in a type face
is that every letter should be highly legible
and that the combination of letters should
be also highly legible. It is with print as
it is with handwriting: many a man whose
letters are for the most part formed faith-
fully enough is nevertheless very difficult to
read. The “Times” tried to get specific
rules laid down on the subject. But, it said,
“notwithstanding all the work which has
been done towards the investigation, vague-
ness and hesitation mark the reports of the
medical, physiological and typographical
authorities.” Authorities of many sorts
were, nevertheless, consulted aftd “every
endeavor.” it adds, “has been made to render
the ‘Times New Roman’ obedient to the
canons of the Medical Research Council and
to the recommendations of the distinguished
ophthalmic surgeon to whom interim proofs
were submitted for testing.”
The Bulletin is conscious that its print
has sorely tried the patience as well as the
eyesight of many of its readers. There never
has been a month for many years past with-
out an appeal from someone to make the
type larger. But The Bulletin well knew
that what was chiefly wanted was more
legible type. Mere size would not alone serve:
if we need proof of that we have only to go
back to some of the earliest wood-block
printing. Indeed, it probably was the natuia
revulsion from that large but illegible letter
which gave the world that tiny letter, per-
fectly legible with the aid of a glass, with
which our great-grandfathers were afflicted.
What The Bulletin sought and sought m
vain was a letter far more legible than the
one in use, yet so beautifully designed that
in its use there would be hardly any sacri-
fice of reading matter. The “Times founts
give it what it has been looking and wait-
ing for. The Bulletin believes that the?
give what many readers also have been look-
ing and waiting for. The letter in which this
is printed will be finally discarded m June.
The Emden’s Nameplate
It is denied to most incidents of war to
have the sequel which Monday's ceremony in
Berlin gave the historic encounter between the
Australian cruiser Sydney and the German
cruiser Emden. On the quarter-deck of the
Sydney on November 9, 1914, Captain von
Muller, of the Emden, was given back his
sword surrendered after an honourable de-
feat ; and now the Emden's nameplate returns
to the German pe,ople as a token that after
nearly twenty years Australians have not for-
gotten either an adversary's gallantry or the
special place which that combat will always
hold in their history. Australians were more
than once matched conspicuously against
brave opponents on land , but the foitune of
war reserved for their one naval engagement
the character of a duel to the finish. On
Monday, when the mutual respect of war
time was confirmed in a friendly exchange of
peace, Australians perhaps recalled that they
were not without other ties of good feeling
with Germany. Something of that feeling
was shown a few months ago when a German
airman who had been lost and found in
North-West Australia was welcomed with
striking cordiality when he afterwards visited
the capital cities. Politically remote though
they are from most of the Old World, the
Australian people know that relations of
amity with the countries of Continental
Europe can supplement with value their
attachment to Britain. And if Mr. Bruce’s.
reception in Berlin owed on one side some-
thing to his rank as a Dominion Minister, it
owed as much on another to his character
as the representative of a new nation which
in the future will have its full part to play in
international affairs.


A SADDLE WE CAN STRONGLY RECOMMEND
sdfsdf
PRICE
£6/15/-
BARE.
Leathers 7/6
Girth . . 57-
Good N.P.
Irons . . 7/6
COMPLETE
£7/15/-
N#. 147.
STATION
ORIOLE.
in 11/9 lin 12/9
Bit Extra. 1/6.
Enough Cheek for
Saddle Cloth, 5/6.
Or by the yard, 7/6.
Write jot Our Catalogue No. 829.
The No. 131
BOUNDARY RIDER STATION
STOCK SADDLE
This Saddle is honestly worth a couple of
poupds more than we ask for it. It has
comfortable Pigskin Seat, good firm capped
Kneepads set. well up over the stirrup-bars,
and long-wearing Kip Flaps.
For Pash with Order wo will send it.
Freight Free to any N.S.W. Railway
Station.
asd
No. 222.
RIDING
BOOTS.
Black ... 21/-
Post 1/3
QM., Vic. .. 2/-
In Tan Year-
ling 22/6
Post 1/3
Queensland, 2/-
“KINGFISHER” STATION WHIPS.
No. 8, with 10-plait Handle and 7ft. 10-plait
all-kangaroo Thong 19/6
No. !), with 12-plait Handle and Bft. 12-plait
Thong, all-kangaroo 257-
Postage on Whips. ]/-; Qld. and Viet., 1/6.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
und *Drl
rfion
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holiday!
. , _. SUVA, FIJI,
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return £75
Seven-weeks Tour Cabin „ , £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £4O
23 Days' Tour, Cabin Class Return, £32/10/-
i/- w, . PAPEETE. TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga „ Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-
’ Every ass!stanc e given to ensure o
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three '
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
di
V'
w^.
u
vx
1
/
3
“>0
A
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
Dart of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G.
56 Hunter
Sydney,
Dougan,
Street,
fasdf
MEMORISE WITH
EASfe
Pass lixammations,
Speak Without Notes,
Gnp Lodge Ritual, etc.
'• (booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younepr Crescent, Cauitieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
NOTES-TIPS- RESULTS,,
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-©?
HOTEL
METROFOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from I 9/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
MEANDERINGS IN THE
MOTORING WORM). '
Men and Motors
Faithfully chronicled
THE PERTH
<§Ult)il£ ®ltHf3
The Leading Paper for
Motorists in West Australia.
Advertisers choose the leading weekly
newspaper in the West for adver-
tising of interest 1 to motorists. For
years the “Sunday Times” has been
looked upon as the best medium
for advertising motor-cars and acces-
sories. The section is compiled by
an expert in the automotive trade,
and right from the period when motor
sales were booming and the motoring
section covered eight pages, to the
present day, the “Sunday Times” has
been able to chronicle news and notes
for the motoring trade with marked
success.
If any illustration in Thk Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Water and Gold.
BY WILLIAM HATFIELD.
WEATHERBY had not been able to get
a drink for his camels this last week,
and it was still fifty miles to the
next certain water. Alice, his riding camel,
would never be able to rise with him
to-morrow if she didn’t get a drink before
sundown. She sorely needed water back
there this morning when the niggers had
chased him away from the rockhole; but,
though she was only a handful, as camels go,
she was carrying on gamely. Normally she
was a lovely thing to ride, moving with a
sweet, smooth gait like a boat on water, but
now she ivas kicking more spinifex tufts
than she missed, though Weatherby was
going yards off his course to get around
the worst clumps.
Yes. To-day would see her out.
With Snowy, the old bull pack-camel, he
might have pushed on for another two or
three days—four, perhaps, if he had been
able to walk and lead him. Walking
was utterly out of the question, though, since
that boomerang had smashed his foot. You
couldn’t ride Snowy, couldn’t get on him,
not if you were the best camel-breaker in
Central Australia and had your two sound
feet. Mistake, that, setting out with a
beast you could never trust, even if lie was
the best load-carrier in the interior—once
you got it aboard him. A man travelling
alone should have his whole outfit good
alike for saddle or pack; but it was too late
to be thinking of things like that now.
Snowy mooched along on a slack nose-line,
the very picture of docility, an air of
solidity and dependability about him in his
massive appearance and sure tread, only—
don’t try to get on his back ! No. Alice
had to get him into water, or Weatherby
stayed where she stayed. ITe would have
fought his way into water there this morn-
ing but for Snowy picking up a stray spear
and careering away across the plain. A
handful of the leanest spidery-legged Wonga-
pitcha that ever tried to put up a bluff; and
he had had to turn tail without filling a few
of them with lead to show them they couldn’t
do that sort of thing to a white man. But
when you see your pack-camel going bush
with a fortune you are apt to leave fighting
till another day.
. Y ?s, Weatherby had struck it rich. Half a
lifetime of hardship in the barren ridges of
the desert had at last brought its reward.
On the gold in Snowy’s pack he could sit
back now for life, even if there were no
buyers for his claim out near the Westra-
lian border. Yes, take it easy. Never mind
about investments for a while; spend a thou-
sand or so of the capital in travel, looking
leisurely for something to put the rest into.
But meanwhile he must get to water. His
loot hurt, and he wanted to stop and dress
it, yet he was afraid to let Alice sit down
m case she might refuse to rise.
God, but it hurt! And the kink in the
heavy stirrup-iron showed that, only for the
force of the blow being broken, it could have
been much worse—chopped half the foot
off as with a blow from a meat-axe. Where
did those black skeletons get the strength in
their throwing arms? Damn them, he had
taken them too cheap. Thought lie knew
luggers .after twenty years among them —
"never let them see you’re bluffed and you'll
never come to any harm.” He found strength
enough to work up a smile at the fallacy in
that oft-repeated advice of his to new-
comers.
Still, no use dwelling on the past. He
wouldn’t need liis experience with blacks
or anything to do with the interior from
now on. Pity he had had that five-mile chase
rrM l trailing that spear, though,
that was what had taken the last bit of
punch out of Alice. Old brute had tried to
bite his head off, too, when he pulled out
the spear and filled the hole with mud and
Condy’s—mud. made with some of the re-
maining precious water. Only about a
gallon left,, and he would want some of that
to bathe his foot. He’d have to stop soon
and fix that foot;. the pain was filling his
whole body, becoming the only thing in life
There might be a spring or a rockhole or
soakage somewhere in that range lying like
a big blue lizard on the horizon ahead, and
if any spindle-legged Wongapitcha thought
they could keep him out of it they’d need
some spearmen, among them who could out-
range his Winchester, and his shooting
would have slipped a lot, that’s all!
Hour after hour he plodded on over coun-
try as flat and unchanging as the ocean.
Sand, sand, sand, some of it soft and some
ot it firm, all covered with yellowing spinifex
and dotted at intervals with tired little
mulga bushes that threw as much shade as
a . 7 na ,k e( J nmbrella frame. Nothing moved in
all that waste but his camels and an occa-
sional dust whirly.
Midday passed and the hot air sat on
■ J®. Phun like a stove lid; even the dust
whirlies took a siesta. Weatherby felt every
breath searing his palate and the root of
ms tongue, and he wished he might try
breathing through a wet handkerchief.
Btupid, of course, because it would dry in a
moment and he would feel worse than ever.
It would take as much water to keep that
up as would do him for drinking till he
hit the soak.
The range came closer till he could see
lext,m hl^f ei Tl Smib a l ong its tO P and the
° the ground forming the steep,
' 01 1 ®V>pe. The drop from the top was
perpendicular for fifty or sixty feet and
'rumbled* o rWhm slope i Was as stee P as loose
ciumbled rubble could be. Barren and
sla a-he an" p a .builder’s tip or a furnace
ino S thrdu£rWb IShed /° C - k slowly disintegrat-
lifat n Sin centuries of stone-splitting
mil •i P r, of landscape to con-
Thev wonlJ^i^f 3 likelihood ot water here,
xnev would just have to plug alone to the
known water still thirty mil"! T °‘ ”
hadly, and looked round
reminded him le £ ovei 'e<l. Her big soft eyes
point of ° f 5, r hwdy woman on the
could liken an uncouth^e^f 1 h £ W anybod >’
to a lnvftPr lluC(,ll th beast such as a camel
to a lovely woman. still, a camel that
carries you faithfully for many months
ceases to be ugly, ceases to be a mere
animal, becomes the one living creature you
nave any sort of communion with, the one
thing that can get you back to your own
kind, to everything you hold dear, and itself
becomes your dearest friend. In concern for
the game beast he lost sight for a time of
the real reason for wanting her to stick it:
out. He must nurse her into water for her
own sake rather than for his own.
Quite suddenly he became aware of a dust
moving out across the plain from the nearer
ridge still a few miles distant.
Not a whirlwind this ; it was coming the
wrong way for the prevailing wind. Couldn't
be another mob of savages dashing out to
intercept him, surely ! The nigs, about these
parts hadn t suddenly become so bold, and,
anyway, there had been no smokes, as far
as he had noticed, from the other lot back
there.
Something glinted in the base of the dust,
moved and then was lost again behind the
nebulous screen of scattered mulga. where
it seemed to close in with the distance.
There it was _ again, but gone before you
could believe in it! Weatherby began to
wonder if he had been too long out. It
was worth much privation, the amount of
gold lie had secured, but not worth the pos-
sible undermining of his reason. There was,
a queer noise ringing in his ears, too. He
reached forward and allowed himself a
mouthful of water from the waterbottle....
Still there, working into his eardrums and
seeming to fill his whole body.... This
heat, of course, and the weeks and weeks
since his flour cut out, leaving him to sub-
sist on odd creatures that fell to his rifle—
kangaroos, emus, turkeys; even lizards at
times And perhaps he shouldn’t have
gone so long between drinks.
Alice went down on one knee, half-recov-
ered, blundered forward several paces, came
down on both knees, grunted, tried gamely
to get up, looked back at Weatherby as
though she hoped he’d understand, then
lowered herself clumsily astern, folded her
legs beneath her with a moaning sigh and
allowed her proud head to droop. Weatherby
got painfully to earth and patted her head,
fondled her ears and rubbed the angle of
her jaw.
“Had enough, eh, old woman?” he said.
“Got you down at last, eh?”
The camel answered with the petulant
whining groan that to strange ears sounds
always full of resentment.
“I know,” he said, “/ Jcnoic!”
He sat down and tried to pull his boot off,
but had to cut it away. Two bones in the
arch broken, as far as he could make out.
and terribly inflamed. If he could only
afford a little water to bathe it with! No
wonder he was getting head noises, riding
along in this heat, suffering all that pain
He rolled a cigarette of plug tobacco eked
out with used tea-leaves while he decided
whether the gallon of water left would be
of any use to a beast used to drinking
twenty to thirty gallons just as a normal
"spot.” The hum inside his head grew moie
insistent and he tried a snatch of song in
an effort to drown it The song was a
failure, and he returned to his vile cigarette.
Never mind the noise. There’d be whole
bands playing while he dined in the places
he was going to. This petty discomfort
would only be stuff to tell the reporters who
came to interview him once lie got in. It
was paying too much attention to things
that caused a fellow to break up.
He looked up at Snowy standing there like
a carved image. Snowy, the tough old devil,
wounded though he was, hadn’t sat down
yet. H'e hadn’t been told, of course, and he
was well behaved in that respect at least.
Better Ooshtah! him and let him rest. But
no. His shoulder might stiffen and he
mightn’t be able to rise. Hell! what a lot
of calculation had to go into piloting a
couple of smelly oonts! And what was
Snowy looking at so fixedly there ahead?
Could it be Oh, that strange dust —more
nigs., possibly. He had forgotten
Nigs, dashing out at such a pace as to raise
a dust? Rubbish! Nigs, didn’t come at
that.... Still, what about the gang this
morning? You never knew.
He got up and unslung his rifle. There’d
be something doing this time. He tried
a run of cartridges through the magazine,
catching them one by one as they spun
glinting in the sunlight. Then he carefully
reloaded to capacity and spread another
dozen cartridges on a black handkerchief on
the ground before him. He sighted on dif-
ferent clumps of spinifex, on stumpy ant-
hills and little bushes. Yes, his aim was
steady, and his sight perfect. H'e was sure
lie would get anything that moved behind
any cover there was hereabouts. Just let
'em try something, and see how they got on!
So ready was lie on the trigger he nearly
put a bullet in the car’s radiator as it
breasted an imperceptible rise from a fold in
the plain a bare 200 yards ahead. Only
that fraction of a second a good hunter waits
to pick out a vital spot saved the hideous
mistake.
But a car—out here? How the devil did
they get past—oh, any of a dozen bad
pinches he could think of offhand? It
couldn’t be >a car! This was just the begin-
ning of the end. He would see troupes of
dancing girls next. Perhaps h'e was done
already; he had heard of men going that
way—rescue parties, ice-cream, everything
you wanted to see. He gave it up, laid his
rifle aside and waited for them to come level.
Ha! this was the explanation of the head”
noises—just the distant hum of an exhaust.
Why hadn’t he thought of it at first? Then
he was all right, yet.
He got shakily to his feet and waved to
them. They had seen him, of course seen
his camels for miles, and came bouncing
over the spinifex straight for him. pulling
up alongside as if it was the most usual
on earth to drive out to places three hundred
miles off the Overland Telegraph line.
(Continued on next page.')


eelm
Vitality comes this
simple way
THE unforgivable sin to-day is to be too
old.” Yet young women—men, too —find
themselves just “worn-out” when they
should be at the zenith of a happy, healthy
life.
You want to enjoy life. You want to let
others find you fit and vigorous. Yon don’t
want to be an "always-ill” wife or an “ever-weak”
husband.
Young men and women, finding capacity for
work or pleasure destroyed by constant down-
dragging pain, weakness, back-breaking body
pains, agony to move or turn, bad nights perhaps,
and serious Worries such as bladder trouble; most
surely you should realise that the kidneys lie at the
seat of your trouble.
Rheumatism, too, “the illness with a hundred
symptoms”; starting perhaps with sharp twinges
of pain in the muscles, the trouble, if neglected,
will develop until every movement of the body
seems just sheer agony.
Joints swell and become stiff, muscles ache
and burn, the back seems almost ready to break—all day there is constant down-
dragging pain and at night the tortured nerves refuse to sink to sleep.
Modern science has conclusively proved that the cause of rheumatism lies in
the blood. Poisons, such as uric acid in excess, harmful bacteria and toxins, are
carried through the system. In the case of uric acid, the tiny razor-edged crystals
are deposited in joints, etc., which flash to the brain their pain-struck symbols of
distress.
Weak kidneys, what misery they cause. If they are not filtering and purifying
the system they are allowing uric acid and other poisons to accumulate. That
is why you have pain night and day. That is why you feel and look too-old.
It is no use doping the system with drugs, pick-me-ups or purgatives in the
hope of getting back new vigour, when the trouble lies within the system, through
faulty kidney action. There are thousands of men and women suffering daily
“untold agonies” because of kidney trouble in one form or another who could
end their trouble in a very simple way. The only possible means of doing this
is to cleanse the body of pain-giving poisons, and that is a function the kidneys
must carry out.
Years Roll {Back
It Is the testimony of not one but thousands
of one-time sufferers which enables us to state that
if you will commence a course with a simple
straightforward remedy ( De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will he
ended.
It does not matter how long you have suffered
or what disappointments you may have had in the
past—get a bottle of De Wit't’s Pills to-day and
start strengthening the kidneys, toning up your
nervous system and building once again the real
foundations, of health.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why
continue in constant nerve-destroying pain? Why
be weak and ailing?
If you persevere with this tried and trusted,
40-year-old remedy, you will find your old, tired,
“worn-out” feeling replaced by new vigour and
vitality. Your day’s work will be a pleasure and
your spare-time pleasures doubled. No more
sallow, spotty complexion, no more sleepless
nights, •no more stabs in the back. No more
rheumatic pains, bad back, bladder troubles.
Try just one bottle of De itt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills and prove this. If within 24 hours
from the first dose you cannot see (from colour
urine) that they have started their health action,
return the partly-used bottle to the manufacturers
and your money will be refunded in full.
This guaranteed remedy has been tried and trusted for over 40 years. It can
be taken by the very young, the weakest, the oldest and women at all times, wi
confidence. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a scientific preparation
will do you good from the very first dose. ,
De WITT'S
Kidney and Bladder
WEAK BACK
LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE
Invaluable in all cases of:—
KIDNEY TROUBLE
JOINT PAINS
LOSS OF VIGOUR
RHEUMATISM
SWOLLEN JOINTS
SCIATICA
A tall chap in a city man’s idea of a
bushman’s get-up (riding breeches and top-
boots) stepped out of the car and came over,
tapping a cigarette on his thumbnail. He
lit up from a patent lighter and said: “Are
you from the Granites? Can you tell us
how soon we’ll strike the road again? We
haven’t sighted it for ages, but it must come
in again—we never turned off anywhere.”
“Is that an orphan?” said Weatherby.
“Er—l beg your pardon? An orphan?”
“Do they put ’em up only one in a
packet?”
The tall chap laughed. “Sorry!” he said,
opening his case and proffering it. He
snipped his lighter again and Weatherby
drew luxuriously on the fragrant weed. He
didn’t answer immediately about the road,
being too preoccupied in enjoyment of his
first real smoke for months, and the city
man had to ask again, “llow far are we
from the Granites?”
“About a hundred miles,” said Weatherby.
“and about a hundred off the road! You
musta gone bush from about Brookes’s Soak
to be headin’ this direction. Never mind, I
can put you right from here. Thing is ; —
you got plenty o’ water? I’m right out,
bar a gallon or so.”
It was the city man’s turn to ignore : a
question. He turned to his companions and
said: “Hear that? A hundred miles from
anywhere, and our petrol done!”
Snowy lowered himself carefully down
between two spinifex clumps, shuffled his
knees under him till they bedded comfortably
into the sand, let out a long-drawn sigh and
brought up a hefty cud. The tall chap
watched the bulge running np Snowy’s neck
and studied his delibefate chewing as one
observes a striking new phenomenon. The two
men in the oar watched him also, and
Weatherby looked from one to the other of
them as though they had ceased to exist as
parts of the dreary' landscape. Alice’s sag-
ging underlip touched the sand. A big red
ant climbed up and bit her tongue, clawing
and kicking backwards in an effort to drag
away the morsel his jaws were clamped on.
Another ant climbed up and joined him. Her
long fringed eyelids barely flickered. The
other two men left the car and stood about
like distant relatives at a funeral which is
late in starting.
One of them got a sudden brain-wave.
“Could you tow us in?” he asked Weatherby.
Weatherby laughed. “One o’ my camels is
dyin’ before your eyes,” he said, “an’ the
other don’t care. Listen. We’re as near
goosed as damn it. You’ve got no petrol
an’ I’ve got no water. Nigs, chased me outer
the place I shoulda watered this mornin’—
I got this an’ Snowy got that”—pointing
first to his foot and then to the pack-camel’s
shoulder. “How much water’ve you got?”
“The waterbag and a four-gallon drum,”
the tall chap answered.
“Well, it’s this way,” said Weatherby.
“You got a right to keep your water an’ try
to walk back if you think that’ll get you
out of it. Never mind me, this camel o’
mine’ll prob’ly perk up durin’ the night, and
I might make it into water. On the other
hand, if you think it!s worth a go, let my
camel have your four gallons, an’ I’ll'push
on to water, fetch your drum back full, an’
then go back for petrol for you. It’ll mean
stickin’ in the shade an’ not exertin’ your-
selves for at least two days, allowin’ your-
selves about a pint of water a day to drink.
Gimme another cigarette and chew that over.
You’d make about twenty miles a day in this
class of going—that’s if you’re in tiptop nick
for walkin’, and to keep that, up you’d need
about a gallon a day each! You’ve got. your
back-tracks to follow, so you must hit the
road —-if you last out. Don’t rush it. Re-
member, if you give me your water you’ve
got to stop here, and you’ll never get out
if anything happens to me. I got a thousand
ounces o’ gold aboard that snarly old oont,
and you’re halves in it if you care to muck
in with me.”
“Rot!” said the tall chap, “you don’t have
to pay a thousand quid a gallon for water
from us!” speaking for the others. “There’s
no point in wasting time considering it.
Giv.e your camel the drumful and push on.
You’re the, only bushman among us, and if
we hadn’t struck you we’d be food for the
crows in a day or two. What do you say ?”
.—turning to his companions, though his atti-
tude was definite.
“Let him go on,” they said.
Alice opened her eyes at the sound of
water, gurgling and splashing from the drum
into the gold-dish, flicked the ants from her
mouth and started in to drink. The four
men watched her, fascinated. Never had the
importance of water been so forcibly rammed
home to them as while they watched their
precious supply leave the dish and disappear
in huge bulges along the length of the camel’s
neck. When Alice shook her head with
much slop-flopping of her unlovely lips, im-
patient at. the supply being cut oft' before
she had got really started on the job of
quenching her long thirst, they looked at
each other in silent despair. What if it
did no good? What if they had wasted
it?
“I didn’t mention it before,” said
Weatherby. his voice almost startling them,
so long did it seem since anyone spoke,
“because I didn’t want you to think I was
persuadin’ 'you to part with your water. But
see them clouds low down in the south-west?
If this heat holds for another coupla days
we oughta get rain. So if— —if anything
happens me and I don’t just get back, don’t
drop your 1 bundle, fellers; you’d oughta get
rain certain in three days. I’ve watched that
patch o’ cloud now this last three days—
you’ll see • it night an’ naornin’ —and it’s
buildin’ up. Well, so long, and don’t shift!
Stick right here till I come back.”
And as they stood by their dead and use-
less car and watched him go, watched the
slow measured tread of his camels and saw
them get smaller in the east each time they
came in view again out of some slight depres-
sion or between mulga clumps that had tem-
porarily swallowed them from sight, they
realised what was meant by, the phrase “the
great dead heart of the , continent. ihe
sun went down and tipped the low-hung strip
of cloud with gold, augury of a brightening
future, but later in the fading light turner,
it again to a threatening smear of blood.
The flies zizzed sleepily to rest on the spim-
fex, and not a sound, not even the howl ot
a dingo, pierced the terrible silence of the
desert.
* * * *
In a quiet gorge still fifteen miles from
water Snowy turned it up. The moon had
risen an hour ago straight ahead, telling
Weatherby his course was right, and he was
feeling nearly home. The spinifex on. the
hillsides gleamed white as snow, and objects
in the gorge stood out with sharper clarity
than in the glare of noonday sun. Weatherby
got off a»d examined the wound in Snowy s
shoulder. That spear had undoubtedly been
gangrenous from contact with dead flesh of
other victims, a fighting spear intentionally
thus fouled, and in spite of Weatherby s
care the whole shoulder was now septic and
swollen like a second hump slipped down-
ward. Alice was still strong, so he sat
Snowy down to transfer the water-drum and
the gold sacks to the riding saddle; then he
would put poor Snowy out of misery with
a bullet.
But he should have done it before he un-
packed. Snowy was in no mood for inter-
ference. The. slight rolling of the pack as
the ropes were slackened hurt his shoulder,
and with' a snarl his head came round with
the swiftness of a striking snake, and his
huge jaws closed on Weatlierby’s neck,
crushing the vertebrae like an eggshell. As
the limp form dropped, Snowy bounded erect,
turned and dropped on his victim with all
his weight on the calloused brisket pad, ris-
ing and pounding till the man was only a
flattened shapeless mass.
When at last he rose and charged through
the night; screaming the hideous mating call.
Alice galloped after him. Weatherby had
eased her saddle girths for the moment or
two he would be attending to Snowy, and
after a few strides the saddle slipped off her
impoverished hump till she could' kick it
clear of her hind legs.
* * *
The search party which eventually found
the abandoned car and the three heaps of
crow-picked bones read this in the diary of
Allpin (the tail chap in the top-boots)
“Went off road on some blind deviation,
cut out of petrol, met camel man coming in
from claim near W.A. border with IOOOoz.
fine gold. Name Weatherby. Gone on with
our last water to reach desert soakage and
bring relief Third day, no sign
Weatherby. Our water all gone If
Weatherby failed reach water, follow tracks
and recover g01d..... made us half partners
in return for water.... Benefit of our
dependants' and his.... Last will, others
died yesterday. A%in”
But it had rained on the fifth day, so
there were no tracks, and the story of the
gold was ascribed to delirium.
To the Zinnias.
O zinnias! ;
O sister zinnias, lift high .
One who is kin to you goes by.
One who is summer-crazed —look. it is 1 •
If I bad lived a hundred years
Among the snowdrops in the snow,
Among the violets in the hedge,
The baby aconites a-blow, ' •
And all those shy, ram-misted thm o s
That open out on winter’s edge,
I should not know
Their little lives, I should not teel
That I was of their kin, or steal
Upon them breathing softly there
To filch their secrets from the air.
But zinnias!
0 sister zinnias, I come ,
Hot with your dreams upon my mourn.
For yon are dumb,
While I .
' Have all the words that you would sing
Could you but shout your worshipping
Beneath the blazing summer sky !
For I, too, know
The burning sun’s long-drawn embrace,
1 His sweet, fierce kisses •on my face .
The poured-out wine of purple noon
Has drugged my soul. I sink! I swoon ....
And you!
Crimson and bronze and gold you rear
Your painted heads tier after tier,
Ochre and pink and pulsing red,
Stiff, chiselled petals tightly spread—
Not paling to the day’s, increasing power
But glowing deeper, richer, hour by hour.
O zinnias!
O sister zinnias, lean low !
Soon will the bitter rains be here,
The drums of winter beating near.
Soon will the tempestfe break and blow!
O zinnias, where shall we go!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Under the Lilac.
Lie here, my weary One,
And watch the sky between
Cascades of warm blossom
And leafy hearts of green.
Where the lilac-tree is bending
'Neath her beauty in the sun.
Lie here, my thirsty One,
And drink of fairy wine
Where the wind is faint with perfume
And a murmur elfin fine
Comes from gold bees drunk with honey
And warm lilac in the sun.
Lie here, my faithless One;
Breathe in beauty, though it fade;
All Heaven bends above you—
Sapphire filigreed with jade
And clusters amethystine
Of lilac in the sun.
QUEENSLAND.
MADELINE MAY McGUIRE.


Essex Car Makes
Astounding
Beauty Record.
ORIGINAL FINISH LIKE
NEW AFTER 100,000 MILES.
Mr. F. Yott, a prominent Melbourne
business man, purchased a standard
model Essex Sedan from Neals
Motors Pty., Ltd., on the 31st Aug.,
1928, and on its fourth birthday
drove it to the agents for their in-
spection. Mr. H. J. Lane, director
of Neals Motors, Hudson Essex
Agents, writes as follows:
"Essex Sedan Reg. No. 93071 was
delivered new August 31, 1928, and
after inspection to-day we were
surprised to find the original duco
in extraordinarily good condition—
equal to new. To our knowledge
this car has travelled over 100,000
miles, including 10 trips to Sydney
and back, twice to both Canberra
and Adelaide and back, and has fol-
lowed reliability tests and 24-hours’
trials as official car. The only atten-
tion it has received to maintain the
duco finish in such condition was
periodical Simomzmg,”
Motor Cars, Furniture, Radios,
Refrigerators, Pianos and All
Objects with a fine Finish
Can Now Be Kept Beautiful.
There s nothing finer than Simoniz for
furniture. It makes furniture look new.
And keeps it? that way. Further, keeping
any Simonized surface bright and spot-
lessly clean is the easiest thing in the
world.
Simoniz protects the delicate finish of.fur-
niture in the same mighty way that it
does automobile finishes. Simoniz is made
to withstand outdoor exposure and the
constant wear and tear an automobile
finish get's. That's why Simoniz is so ex-
cellent in protecting furniture from
scratching and marring.
And Simoniz on a car lasts for months.
On furniture it lasts much longer, of
course.
How to SIMONIZ Furniture
Simoniz your furniture in much the same
way you Simoniz your car. That is, use
the Simoniz Kleener to restore the natural
lustre of the finish. It takes off all dis-
colorations and the oily scum left by
dust-collecting polishes previously used.
It really makes the finish like new by
removing surface scratches, stains, blem-
ishes and the like.
Next apply the Simoniz. Then a few light
strokes with a soft cloth and your furni-
ture looks bright and just like new again.
Makes Cleaning Easy
The Simoniz forms a hard, lustrous sur-
face to which dirt and dust can’t stick.
To keep it clean just wipe dust off with a
dry cloth. No polishing is necessary. It’s
positively the easiest and best way ever
heard of to keep furniture looking beauti-
ful all the time.
There are dozens of other uses for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener around the house.
Simoniz Kleener is excellent for cleaning
glass and pewter. And there’s nothing
like Simoniz for linoleum and hardwood
floors, woodwork, refrigerators, gas stoves
and the like. In fact, anything with a fine
finish needs Simoniz. Enamel, lacquer,
varnish and duco finishes last much longer
and stay beautiful if you keep them pro-
tected with Simoniz.
moto fusts wise
SIMON IZ
___ TRADE MARK REG. AT. OFF.
3:0
SIMON**
s*«V ,NO
Nt-W
:
'
. ■
...
v:. . ", ■
< . ;■' i ■ •- ■
#v ; ■
'
V
s
m
SIMON IZ
YOUR CAR
It Makes the Finish Last Longer
Don’t be surprised when people stop and admire your car after you
Simoniz it. Its rich, sparkling beauty will attract every eye. Those who
don’t know that Simoniz lasts for months will wonder how it’s possible
to keep a car so bright and new looking ALL THE TIME.
Year after year, in all countries of the world, and in all possible climatic
conditions, Simoniz keeps millions of cars beautiful. It protects the
finish in all kinds of weather, makes it last longer and keeps colors
from fading.
Simoniz is the recognised modem and scientific way to keep cars
beautiful. Nothing could be easier, quicker or safer. So don’t experi-
ment. Always use Simoniz
Kleener (green tin) to clean
the finish. It restores the
original lustre with amazing
speed. Then apply Simoniz
(yellow tin) for that famous
weatherproof protection.
iircj
am El.
caatchinr
£2^«ESS
m
is22®l±XJ2
plico
cQ^IP 5
ro q : :
ouco
I NT
ss^y*
BEAUTY AND P«oi
TO ALL FINISHES
SffPJEcrib
!S!
Ilij i
!w
NC* o ''
*f*S
OUCO
NEW PRICES
2/6 ea.
Small Size Simoniz
and Kleener pur-
chased together.
2/9 each separated
ea.
L,arge Size Simoniz
aiul Kleener pur-
chased together.
5/6 each separated.
Good Car Painters
RECOMMEND THIS
METHOD TO PRESERVE
THE FINISH
Simoniz imparts a hard, lustrous film
of protection which prevents the
finish “blooming” from exposure.
Good painters know this and always
Simoniz their best paint jobs to make
them look their best and to make
the finish last longer. Any experi-
enced painter will tell you that the
duco on a car which has been regu-
larly Simonized is in far better con-
dition than those which have
received any other treatment.
With a Simonized car you only have
to wipe down with benzol, which
easily removes all Simoniz, before
respraying with lacquer.
Largest Motor Accessory
Firms in Australia Distribute
SIMONIZ.
No better proof of the high prestige and
wonderful reputation of Simoniz and
Simoniz Kleener can be given than the
names of the interstate distributors for
these wonderful products. These firms are
the largest and most reputable in each
capital city of Australia.
interstate Distributorss
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd, Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros., Ltd. E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
CAR BEAUTY TREATMENT
Free Samples for “Bulletin”
Readers.
If your car is dull and faded and you
wish to test out Simoniz and Simoniz
Kleener just fill in the cbupon below and
enclose a penny stamp. You will be
astonished at the results on your car.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd.,
Peel Street, North Melbourne.
Enclosed find one penny stamp,
postage for FREE SAMPLES of
Simoniz and Kleener.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, April 26. .
Australian Booh Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
“SATURDEE”—a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay. “Those
who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.” 6/- (postage 3d.).
"CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Patersons new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“JONAH”—Louis Stone’s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
\p
o
li
6®
\P
ep
&
i*
c°
G®
v v
wv
r
V'
<p
<0
*>
\J> \s e
Q V\ N
O' \qV V >
0?
&
!0
A
. \ v
& 0 <
<s*&»


V
«00.<
10,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
Sf),OQO
2,0,000
to,ooo
The fight
for Child life
U partly won
AmMWMMWW
%v
mw
foriy
the fitfkt
'is hardest
=o>j
»r * ?
e averade Life
ends ax -
fifty-five
Steeper
<yrt& Steeper
slant* the Mne
QYem 5
10 i 5 20 25 30 35 to 45 50 ’55 00 0570 75 8065 QO 95 tOO 105
asdf
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may now be
extended; 5, 10— or more—
years of healthy, active life
being gained by timely atten-
tion to the symptoms of disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
. . . guard Yourself against these insidious “ After-40”
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women ..
A CCORDING to averages, you and I will
ZA die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years* time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy-—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should—if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,’’ prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISONS
K:-..cV « BLACOEB
o PILLS
-HANSON’S
AMD DL..uDfcA
PI LLS
HARM SON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches & Pains &
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again !
