

A CREAT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
TM £
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
C? L”
-MINE OWNERS* SHIP OWNERS.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS *
£ COLLIERY PROPRIETORS *
*f»Jg
m*
f.CJ
:.»v
«@«« JKilMMffaans'isa m
ill
a
Lf Ril-
:■ I 1
l -':
?W
’WkWffi
h Mm
?■**»*& vter : i
•*i* «f*V
m&mwi twmmwf-Z lEluJJrorsi ~ was?
m Wmm
mmm
Blast Furnace plant of
NEWCASTLE. * STEEL* WORKS
;v, r.m
u «
;
1
Brisbane
BROKEN HILL
Silver-Lead Mine
NEWCASTLE
IRON KNOB
„ Iron Ore 4
Coal Mines
Steel Works
xmammmmm
Sydney i. iijt V
Perth
Adelaide
Melbourne
OEVONPORT
Limestone j
LIST OF MANUFACTURES:
Tee Rails, Bridge Rails, Fishplates, Bridge and Sleeper Plates, Plates, Beams,
Channels, Clutch Bars, Angles, Tees, Locking Bars, Joint Ring Bars, Squares,
Rounds, Flats, Octagons, Alloy Steels, Pig Iron, Ingots, Blooms, Billets, Slabs,
Reinforcing Bars, Wire Rods, Benzol, Tar, Toluol, Crushed Slag, Solvent Naphtha, Naphthalene, Sulphate of Ammonia, Foundry
Coke, Coal, Bunker Coal, Household Coal, B.H.P. Blowfly Oil.
WIRE PRODUCTS manufactured from B.H.P. Steel by Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
“WARATAH” BRAND Steel Wire (all classes for all purposes), Black and Galvanised Fencing Wires, Wire Netting
(Rabbit and Assorted), Hinged Joint Fence, Motor By-passes, Barbed Wires (“Iowa” or “Waukegan” patterns), Nails, Steel
Fencing Posts (Star pattern 8.H.P.), Clothes and Guy Lines, Keyhole Wool Baling Ties.
For all classes of Wire Products, specify “ WARATAH” BRAND, and be sure of the bestl
the broken hiee proprietary company, etd.
Offices: Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tasmania), Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin
'Samuel op Ike tJuPfeJm/
Vol. 54.—N0. 2783.
Wednesday, June 14, 1933.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’"THE New Library Catalogue for 1933
A now ready, and will be posted free
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
"THE BLOCK,"
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, 1 your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
&B, 353 .
Of Course She’ll Keep
Her Good Complexion
è
é
She Uses
Cuticura
Soap
and Ointment
•
No matter how
much the skin
is wind-burned
this Cuticura
combination
will allay irri-
tation and prevent roughness of
the skin, and at the same time
cleanse and soften the face and
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N, S. W.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” ig a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development -of this young natibn,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise"
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from . .
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous"
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus’” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
[lf any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation tHat
has Veal worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
—■ — 1
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
If Your Message is of Interest to
Women, Choose the Perth
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL PAPER.
The Journal with a Remarkable
Appeal to the Women of
Western Australia.
The women’s section of (lie “Sunday
Times” is unequalled in the West. Social
Gossip, Itecipes. Illustrated Fashions,
Beauty Hints, Marriages and Engage-
ments create a real live section absorb-
ingly interesting to Western women.
Study the advertising in this section and
you will appreciate the popularity of the
paper in its appeal to women.
Net Sales 39,000 Copies Weekly
A.B.C. Certificate.
State-wide Coverage in a Weekly
With the Circulation of
a Daily.
Sydney Representative:
HAL, JOHNSTONE, sth Floor, Wingello
House, Angel Place. 'Phone: 85690.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander”* Reading-room at the offices,
434-17 Australia House, Strand, . London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TlcUutej'S&C&nce,
3Caic
s- Scxe&n ?UrCe4, ftu&eS fit
tAe: vfrrusrip 9 „
TheAUSTRALASIAM
pN SALE ALL STATES &y
THE PATRIOT
■DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN I
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
And nou) another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICE 2d.
The Red Page
More Australian Publications
Here are three Australian books which
can stand up to anything of their kind
that is being done overseas. Pageant is
already a Book-of-the-Month choice and a
best-seller in England, but the others are
recent Sydney publications. It isn’t sug-
gested that they are an average lot. No
Australian has written about animals with
the insight and charm of Mr. Davison, and
the author of The Giraffe’s Uncle is an
original humorist—a rare phenomenon. Yet
it can fairly be claimed that these works
show the way the literary wind is blowing,
and they also show the advances which are
being made on the technical side of the pub-
lishing business. They are as attractively
printed, bound and dust-jacketed as if they
had come from old-established London or
New York firms.
Tasmania: 1846-1933
Roy Bridges, J. H. M. Abbott, Barnarc
Eldershaw and others have exploited the
early-Victorian formula fairly thoroughly
It is our substitute for cloak-and-sworc
stuff; the only chance that offers to pro-
vide a period atmosphere. G. B. Lancastei
has done it astonishingly well in Pageant
(Endeavour Press; 6s. 6d.). The fine ladies
and gentlemen of Clent Hall in the county
of Somerset, Van Diemen’s Land, with theii
artificial manners and exquisite clothes
seem odd as pioneer farmers; but they are
living people. Particularly Madam, who
had followed the drum with her husband,
Captain Cornyn, through the Napoleonic
Wars, and who dies only as the story is
nearing its end. She is a snob in the grand
manner. “Do not marry among the bour-
geoisie,” she warns Jenny; and of some
visitors, “It was not fit, my love, that, they
should be enteiriained by the Comyns of
Clent.” The same kind of nonsense is,
being talked in scores of Australian suburbs
to this day, but sentiments which
sound comic in our noblesse come naturally
from this indomitable old eighteenth-cen-
tury traditionalist; We have met her be-
fore in other novels, of course, but she has
not often been seen so clearly. Running
through the history of the Comyns and their
friends is a history of Tasmania; not a
mere setting down of events and land-
marks—Cessation, the discovery of gold on
the mainland, the social problem presented
by the emancipated convicts, and so on—
but an enlightening examination of their
reactions on the inhabitants high and low.
Battle Epic
In The Wells of Beersheba (Angus and
Robertson; 2s. 6d.) Frank Dalby Davison
has written a prose poem of great beauty.
His eyes are constantly on the horses, the
gallant Wafers who did so much to make
the Light Horse victories in Palestine pos-
sible. His horses are not half-human crea-
tures, endowed with high reasoning powers,
such as Kipling drew; just plain, trusting
and sometimes frightened horses, and none
the less lovable for that. Their ordeal is
approaching, but they are unsuspicious.
The order “Feed !” had passed from troop
to troop and from squadron to squadron.
To the tune of grateful whinnying and the
stamping of eager horses, nosebags had been
stuffed on to heads which had reached to
meet them.
There was now a brief contentment. Big
dark eyes looked forth above the upper rims
of the bags. The smell of oats wet with
saliva escaped, and met the nostrils whole-
somely. The rhythm of a thousand jaws,
champing, engaged the ears.
Mostly the horses’ heads were lowered to
the ground; but now and then one was
thrown high in gestures of impatience, or to
free the grain from the stiff folds of the
canvas. There was an occasional muffled snore
as some horse cleared his nose of tickling-
dust motes. Here and there, one less com-
radely than liis fellows launched a kick at
his neighbors.
Now the battle has begun, and some of the
horses have come out of action, and are
waiting in the shelter of a dry watercourse,
four to a holder, while their masters are
fighting up the ridges on foot.
Like the men who held them and those
who were fighting, they were taking the
strain of battle. When their attention was
not on the bursting shells their thoughts
went longingly forward to water.
A trooper uncorked his bottle and raised
it to his lips to draw a lukewarm mouthful:
'•'here was a shuffling of hooves and four
dark muzzles were Thrust towards him; one,
that of his own horse, was pushed gently
against his arm.
“Sorry, old man.”
A shamed sense of the fellowship of all
flesh lent sincerity to tin; soldier’s words.
A description of
the famous charge
of the 4th and 12th
L. H. Regiments
follows in which
the sensations of
the men are
analysed with rare penetration. Beersheba
was fought for water—no less desperate
need would have justified the experiment
of sending cavalry against entrenched in-
fantry and artillery—and victory secured
water.
In the town men labored. The smell of
water, cold and sweet, was released on the
dusty air. Standing, weary and patient,
out among the ridges, the horses smelled it,
and a whinny ran from line to line.
Throughout the night the streets of the
town were loud with the clatter of hooves
walking. • Brigade after brigade, the horses
were led in to drink with slackened girths and
bitless mouths at the wells of Beersheba.
Madhouse Humor
Some humorists, like some poets, can only
be revealed in quotations. Les Robinson
is an example. He is preoccupied with
the delights of leisure, and his only re-
sentments are against those who have tried
to deprive him of it. Fish interest him, and
crabs, periwinkles and other denizens of
the seashore; also strange-looking animals
and reptiles and ants, spiders and flies. A
graveyard gloom enshrouds his characters—
no Robinson creation has been known to
smile—and they are practically all certi-
fiable. One of .his oppressors in The
Giraffe’s Uncle (Macquarie Head Press;
4s.) is Mr. Pinson, the monkey-faced
accountant. He has long suspected Pinson’s
secret, and the firm’s annual picnic gives
him his chance. Pinson disappears. To lure
him back, the narrator places a bag of
nuts, a pineapple and a piece of looking-
glass on a rock. He then retires, spanner
in hand, behind an adjacent tree. Crash-
ing sounds are heard and a peculiar forest
cry.
The crashing in the tree-tops came nearer
and suddenly something with long, hairy
arms, clad partly in a tattered pair of duck
trousers torn nearly in half, and a face
and hair smeared with birds’ blood, feathers
and sap, sprang into the tree opposite the
one behind which I was concealed. That
something, as no doubt you have guessed
already, was Mr. Percival Pinson, accountant
of Merton’s Mutoscopes, Ltd.
Pinson catches a fly on the back of his
neck with one of his feet, and after looking
about carefully runs backward down the
tree.
I waited until, with his back towards me,
lie was greedily devouring the skin of the
pineapple, when, stealthily creeping up
behind him, I brought the spanner down in
a well-judged two-handed •stroke precisely
upon the bald spot in the centre of his skull.
Next day he is handed a note from Pinson
intimating that owing to a contemplated
rearrangement of the staff his services will
no longer be required. There are people,
no doubt, to whom such lunacies mean
nothing, but the others will get a world of
amusement out of this writer’s fantastic
imaginings and grave, precise style.
RED PAGE.
An Impression of the Impressionists
Every layer of the theatre must have
been pleased at the resounding success of
the first production of the “Impressionist”
group. But, if I read Dr. Cardamatis’s aims
aright, he is concerned far less with com-
mercial than artistic triumphs, and as a sym-
pathetic observer of his work I can only
hope that the profits of “Hannele” will
enable him to devote his undoubted gifts
to material more worthy of them.
If the theatre is to remain a. living force
in our culture, its development must be
along “impressionist” lines. As Mr. Lewis
Casson pointed out, the cinema is the true
exponent of dramatic realism: the theatre
should not attempt to enter into competi-
tion with it. But- every economy in scenery
and costume, every simplification of gesture
and “business,” concentrates the spectator’s
attention more closely on the spoken word
It is surely, then, essential to an “impres-
sionist” play that the words should be
worth listening to. Possibly in the original
German, which I have not read, Haupt-
mann’s “Hannele” has the charm of a
dream-world simplicity, but this fragile
grace has been rudely shattered in transla-
tion, and the work, as rendered, is lacking
in literary merit.
The spiritual poverty of Hauptmann’s
imagination is strikingly illustrated in the
long dissertation with which Hannele” is
greeted on her arrival in Heaven. All this
talk of alabaster baths and malachite walls
would surely be more fitting to a major-
domo inducting a Hollywood “star” into
the splendors of his new home at Beverly
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"THE SENIOR STORE."
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our assurance and your guarantee
ANTHONY HORDERNS
e
m
Value,
NOW
3b6
The Latest Double-breasted
BLUE OVERCOAT
The season s most popular Overcoat for
young men is Navy Blue—dignified, smart
and serviceable. It is featured here in the
smartest double-breasted style of the season.
Fully lined Art. Silk Lining! Sizes 3 to 7.
Price 39 / 6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price .... 36/6
,l\
Si
m
<>/£l
m
i
7
V
i *
o
E-3
9/U
=HrU
SPECIAL SELLING OF
QUALITY MEN’S WEAR
Fancy Pullovers and Cardi-
gans. All wool winter weight.
In Fawn, Brown and Grey
effects, 36in. to 42in. Chest.
Price, 12/6. Special Price,
10/6.
Knitted Pullons, for Golfing
enthusiasts and general wear.
Jacquard designs. Size, 36in.
Price 28/-. Special . . 25/-
Others . . 13/6 and 17/6
All Wool Lumber Jackets. Collar attached,
neck. Jacquard design. 34in. to 40in. chest.
Special Price . .
Others, Price 17/6. Special . .
buttons close up to
Price 22/6.
. . 19/6
l3/6
Coat Sweaters in Pineapple Knit, All Wool winter weight. Fancy
Brown, Fawn and Grey Effects. 36in. to 44in. chest. Price, 15/6.
Special Price . . • • • • • • • • • • • • 12/6
Extra Warm Coat Sweaters. Dropstitch effect. Marl shades.
Heather and Grey. 36in. to 44in. chest. Price .. .. 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price .. .. • • •• -.15/-
Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth ana railway
stations in N.S.W.
m
¥
ftA.
M
m
C 0
m
mS
m
m
mz
m
mm
XNtX*
fm
.
m
m
m
m
m
m
m*
m
Am
$gxWS:
;s?*hs
s*B
s
i ' '■
mm
m
• ”» - w
ii
. "
..',■ i
- -
,-‘v J
■ .
«
I
€9^-
126-
5%
396
Featuring' Superior Cut and Finish
Latest Swing-bacK Raglan
This Swing-back Raglan Overcoat is in All
Wool Tweed. Fawn shade. It is well c ,
strongly made and well finished. Price . . 49/
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price .. /t>
Superior Quality Tweeds
Smartly styled Overcoats, tailored in English
Tweeds. Choose from tonings of fawn or
p"c y „ p ' rf " t,y . fi “ ,hed • in «7i7 ..'“9/9/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price . . 126/-
Made from English Tweed
Smartest Raglan Cut, of English Tweed, in an
appealing neat Grey, small herringbone design
Tailored in to-day’s smartest fashion.
Price . . . . . . • . . . 65/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price . . 59/6
Fawn Herringbone Tweed
This season’s Raglan is shown in smart Fawn
Herringbone Tweed. Highly recommended for
ample warmth and smartness. Price .. 69/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 59/6
Men’s Wear Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.,SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712, G.P.O. ’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.


««» ™® He.,.
th®
*
three distinct
advantages
QQ Atlantic is refined from 100% Paraffin Base Crude-
ly the costliest and richest crude in the world today.
Yet it sells at regular price.
QT) Atlantic flows freely—even at temperatures below
freezing point. It lubricates from the moment
you step on the starter and rids you of the
mechanical troubles due to “lazy” oil.
nr\ Atlantic shows no evaporation loss under
\£/ severe test at 760°F twice the temperature
reached by the parts of your engine which
require lubrication. Therefore you use less.
ATLANfl C
OIL
*oToa
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of
Petrols, Industrial Oils, Greases, etc.
AH8.48
<£uo>


SELECTIVITY...
m
HEALING NATURAL TONE
DISTORTED RADIO
NATURAL TONE
... not distortion
WHAT IS NATURAL TONE?
IN many Radios the amplifying of music for the loud-speaker
creates distortion and harsh unrealistic tone. If you are not
content with this performance, hear Healing Radio and
appreciate its NATURAL TONE.
Write to us for literature and we will direct you to your
nearest Healing Radio Dealer.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors:
A. G. HEALING Ltd.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin St.
ADELAIDE :
Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
IF IT'S A
fiEMJLNG
Uadio
ITS THE BEST YOU
CAN BUY
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
Please send me illustrated folder on the new
Healing Radios.
NAME
ADDRESS
Hills than on the lips of “the Lord Jesus.
Perhaps this plethora of material grandeur
is not Hauptmann’s idea of Heaven, but
his projection of a child’s imaginary Heaven.
If that was his intention, it could have been
conveyed in a brief suggestion without the
tedious mummery of dressing up the dead
child in silver raiment, laying her in a crys-
tal coffin, and placing shining shoes on her
feet. Though it may be good to become as
a little child in heart, it is not edifying to
see the adult simulating the child in mind.
In the prologue to “Hannele” no meaner
an authority than an angel states that the
play about to begin is symbolic of Life.
But surely that is- the aim of every play
worthy the name? The angel elaborates
the symbolic thesis by explaining that the
child Hannele represents the soul seeking
Beauty, her brutal and drunken stepfather
the obstacles that beset this pure quest,
while the Sister who tends her on her death-
bed symbolises Love. (Surprisingly, it seems
that she stands also for Art and Philosophy,
which I should never have guessed for my-
self by merely watching her kindly if rather
incompetent ministrations to the dying
girl.) This new “symbolism” or simplifica-
tion of character by letting a single domi-
nant trait do duty for the complex of war-
ring tendencies that makes up every
personality is merely a return to the tradi-
tion of the mediaeval morality play.
Is anything gained by this devitalisation
of character? It would not be difficult to
supply morality-play names for the char-
acters in “King Lear.” Lear himself is
Vanity, Regan and Goneril are Avarice and
Jealousy, Cordelia is Truth, Kent is Fidelity,
and so on. But each is also a human being,
and is therefore capable of communicating
in the theatre with other human beings,
whereas no communication can take place
between human beings and abstractions.
And communication is of the essence of
the art of the theatre. The “theatre” comes
into being at that moment of union when
the curtain rises and the stage and the
auditorium become one.
Di\ Cardamatis has announced his inten-
tion of explaining the significance of the
scenic and lighting effects used in “Han-
nele.” His exposition will doubtless be
interesting and worthy of respect. But the
impression created on me was of an un-
relenting symbolism which imposes its own
interpretation of life willy-nilly upon the
spectator. It was said of Falstaff that he
was not only witty himself, but the cause
of wit in others. The Impressionist raise en
scene , on the other hand, makes a final
statement, leaving no margin for comment.
The scene of “Hannele” is laid in a work-
house, symbolically represented by a kind
of tent, through rents of which the stars
stare awry at the doings of the people
within. Had the scene conventionally repre-
sented a workhouse, or if, after the bold
Elizabethan fashion, a notice had been dis-
played informing the audience that the stage
now ivas a workhouse, some room would be
left for the imagination to play on the
emotions summoned up by the very idea of
a workhouse. But the use of the “impres-
sionist” scene imposed on the spectators
only the emotions evoked in Dr. Carda-
matis. The exploitation of such freedom of
interpretation appears to me, an honest
seeker of dramatic beauty, a tyranny of the
imagination.
KATHLEEN PITT.
The Accursed Critic
The English Dramatic Critic, 1660-1982,
assembled by James Agate (Barker; Robert-
son and Mullens; 14s. 6d.). The only justi-
fication for a piece of criticism is that it
should be a work of creative art, indepen-
dent of its object. Surprisingly few of the
criticisms collected by Agate measure up
to this standard. William Hazlitt, George
Henry Lewes, W. T. Arnold, G. B. Shaw
and Desmond MacCarthy might be included
in this small group of the august; and the
late A. B. Walkley, of the “Times,” is still
worth reading, because he thoroughly en-
joyed the theatre and liked writing about
it. Richard Burbage, Mrs. Siddons, David
Garrick, Edmund Kean, Macready, Grim-
aldi and others stalk through these pages
in the majestic shape of giants, but we have
no means to-day of judging whether their
heroic proportions were genuine realities or
only the reflection of their commentators’
enthusiasm for purple patches. Charles
Lamb writes ecstatically of Munden, but
we don’t know whether that was because
Munden was a great actor or because Lamb
liked going to the theatre and had had a
good dinner. Probably the performances of
most of these giants and the plays they
appeared in would be incomprehensible to
us if we saw them to-day, though that
would be partly due to the fact that every
age has its own conventions and only under-
stands art through them. If Nellie Stewart
returned in the full bloom of youth and in
her greatest part we would perhaps wonder
why the country once went mad about her.
As for the reforming critics, their influence
has been equally negligible. “Mrs. Behn’s
The Rover Shocks the Ladies and Delights
the Men” was the title of a criticism written
by the anonymous scribe of the “London
Chronicle” in 1757.
It is a Matter of Wonder that the Upper Gallery
don’t call for an Hornpipe, or, “Down with the
Drawers,” according to their usual Custom of in-
sisting upon as much as they can get for +Viv
Money. But, to be a little serious, it .should be
remembered by all Managers that this Play was
written in the dissolute Days of Charles the Second;
and that Decency at least is, or ought to be,
demanded at present.
Except for its eighteenth-century robustness,
how like next week’s criticism in the
“Argus”! It is also of sad interest to note
that Joseph Addison made fun of Italian
opera in 1710, just as Tolstoy made fun of
German opera 150 years later, and as
Bulletin critics have made fun of both,
without in the least affecting the popularity
of those institutions. Addison recounts
how he met a man carrying a cageful of
sparrows and learnt that they were to be
released at the opera, so he went along to
see the phenomenon. This was his com-
ment -
But to return to the sparrows. There have been
so many flights of them let loose in this opera, that
it is to toe feared the house will never get rid of
them; and that in other plays they may make their
entrance in very wrong and improper scenes, so as
to be seen flying in a lady’s bed-chamber, or perch-
mg upon a king’s throne; besides the inconveniences
which the heads of the audience may sometimes
suffer from them.
Another fact that impresses one on reading
this volume is that most of the critics
flatly contradicted one another, just as
eminent critics do to-day. For some reason
or other, which probably has a deep psycho-
logical basis, people feel very passion-
ately about the theatre. If somebody
pleases them they are inordinately de-
lighted; if he displeases them they are in-
furiated beyond measure. A woman told
me at a recent performance which had left
me relatively unmoved that she wanted to
tear the leading man -to pieces. Most
critics, being just ordinary men in a privi-
leged position, unconsciously reflect this
temper. A Melbourne critic had for years
reported the theatre in the suavest manner,
and nobody suspected him of having an
ounce of bile in his composition. After Irene
Vanbrugh’s final Melbourne appearance, he
attacked her savagely. Possibly he had
just received his income-tax assessment.
Actors have to put up with a great
deal, unfortunate fellows, so it must be
gratifying to them to feel that the critics
are fallible, like themselves. It is a wonder
no actor has ever collected his criticisms in
book form and - shown us up as a lot of
blithering idiots with apparently no fixed
standards or criteria. Fortunately for us,
actors are not like that. What they do is
to collect all the favorable matter and
praise the writers as discriminating judges.
One leading Australian actress never allows
her manager to show her adverse criticisms,
as it would render her incapable of ever
appearing in the slandered part again. A
wise woman!
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
Moving Minds, by John Blane (Stockwell;
2s. 6d.). A series of essays on modern
social problems. The chapter headings
(“Earning Power,” “The Consumer,”
“Spending Power,” etc.) are guides to the
contents, and the style is lucid.
Ncwtimbcr Lane (Cassell; 7s. 6d.), is by
Ernest Raymond, who wrote “Tell England.”
The Lane is the chain which links four
Sussex villages. There are vivid pictures,
not old Sussex, but of old London,
old Boulogne, and old Paris. It is the life-
story of an arresting character wlio was a
gay spark in the seventies of last century.
The Fate of Jane McKenzie, by Nancy
Barr Mavity (Crime Club; 7s. (id.), has an
American pressman as hero, and inevitably
the wise-cracking is painful and free. But
it is an ingenious story. Jane, who was a
stiff-necked old fool for all her riches, rushed
upon her fate, and Douglas Howard, the
novelist, explains to Piper, of the “Herald,”
how she met it. Some unusual features of this
yarn are that the assassin isn’t altogether un-
likeable, and that one of the sympathetic
characters becomes an accessory after the
fact of the murder and gets away with it.
The entire action of Fog, by Valentine
Williams and Dorothy Rice Sims (Hodder
and Stoughton, Dymocks, Sydney; 7s. (id.),
occurs aboard the Barbaric during a trip
between New York and London. While tin-
liner is groping her way through the peril-
ous Atlantic mists a series of inexplicable
murders is committed. The victims are
strangled, some at leisure, some in obvious
haste. One corpse was discovered a few
minutes after treatment, and what this
critic would like to know is why no one
examined the neck for fingerprints. As no
one did. the excitement is kept, at fever-
heat until a few hours before the liner docks.
The variegated characters that go to make
up a great ship’s crew and complement of
passengers stand out clearly, and there is
a nice girl to supply the romantic element.
O. A. Sherrard, who has written A Life
of Lord St. Vincent (Allen and Unwin; 10s.
(id.), is an authority on the second half of
the eighteenth century. His monograph
on Wilkes is one of the best studies that
have been done of perhaps the most
scoundrelly public man of the age, and
his latest work is a perceptive study of one
of the most virtuous. St. Vincent’s career—
his victories apart—is notable for the naval
reform schemes which he formulated during
the decade that followed his entry into the
House of Commons (he did for the R.N.
what Lord Haldane was to do for the Army
130 years later), and for the disciplinary
innovations which’ he instituted in the Chan-
nel Fleet after Napoleon’s return from
Egypt. He was no more humane in his
treatment of the lower deck than his con-
temporaries. He had hundreds “flogged
down the fleet” —which often meant flogged
to death —and hanged within a few hours
of conviction for relatively trifling crimes.
But he looked after their well-being like
a father; made their health and the quality
of their food and clothing one of his first
concerns. Also he forced the wastrel offi-
cers with which the service was infested to
pull their weight or go on the beach. He
lived till 1823. Mr. Sherrard describes him
as “the grim conqueror of mutiny, the
spiritual father of Nelson, and the moulder
of the British Navy.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N.A.E.: Says nothing new. Might be about
any river in Australia. L.L.: Both very thin....
F.J.8.: Certainly not. Read the last stanza again.
. ...M.F.: Don’t care for either. Fairly well done
in their way, but they amount to formuke... .E.M.E.:
Gannas haven’t “olive faces”... .F.S.: Pretty in
parts, but a weak finish.. . .Z.F.: Can’t see the
point.... Fairykin: No new ideas. “Chrysanthe-
mums” seems to be a fatal word... .H.S.A.E.: You
soar too high in “Ambitions” and “The Gamble”
didn’t scoop the pool. •.. .M.C.: Commonplace:...
Y.M.N.: Two lines:—
As I gaze, I’m sure that a thunderstorm
Is the grandest sight of all.
Still, a ten-pound note has its attractions G.G.:
Old Dan isn’t strong enough to creep into print.
B.L,: You have the material; you fail in the
presentation.. . .G.M.: Knight-errant drowned in
moat... .A.E.H.: Wasn’t worth spinningout to that
length. .. .F. 8.0.: If you’re under ten you’re for-
given... .W.C.F.H.: Too much like one read lately.
.. J.C.: “Lay of Sir Nedde Kelly” laid to rest.
. ...H.C.: Too harrowing... .E.F.P.: It will never
see print C.C.: That matrimohial-ad. story has
been written scores of times. .. .J.M.1.: Trivial....
N.0.T.: Prophetic... .D.J.S.: Sort of plot Bland
Holt would have liked... .E. 5.11.: Among those
slaughtered... .A. M.: Very much off our beat....
C.R.A.: Want them with more plot and ampler
characterisations... .F.J.C.: Utter nonsense....
P. 0.5.: Absurd from beginning to end... .A.C.M.:
“Let’s talk of epitaphs.” Let’s n0t....E.M.: A
miss... .H.M.L.8.: Trouble with that sort of yarn
is that the reader never feels that the events happen
naturally... .A.G.: Banana story too long; the other
doesn’t grip... .Y.Y.Y.: You have a passion for killing
off your characters.,.. .E.S.G.: Try it on an English
magazine... .M.D.: Glad the good young man got
his reward, but not glad enough to print the story....
A.H.N.: No parking space for the camels... .P.K.P. :
Packing “Matilda Jane” home... .8.W.: Don’t like
the style; it’s stilted.... Tas.: Two Bulletin men
were in Westralia years before and after the alleged
discovery. They never heard about it, and are
positive no attempt was made to locate the “reef.”
.... Bellerive: Sing, brother, sing:—
WILD BEAST HUNTERS.
In recesses of a forest
Rifle shots doth boom.
It take? a daring hunter
To seal a lion’s doom.
A ferocious beast will pounceth
From a secluded spot,
To grimly writhe and roareth,
Wounded from a shot.
A sport of thrills and danger,
Aro hunters in a band,
Shooting lions and tigers - -
Away out in Jungleland.
N.S.H.: Send it to a juvenile magazine
Coaldust: That scheme was tried, but it gave the
buyer of a 2s. 6d. badge no immunity from girls' with
boxes... .K.H.: Try something with more body in it.
Verse that is merely descriptive makes no
.... J.S.P.: Far too long for u5....E.P.: Good idea
spoiled by melodramatic handling —.G. 8.: No Hun-
dred Days for your Na/poleon, nor a hundred seconds.
J.R.: Some promise in it M.R.P.: Your gal-
leon has atmosphere; but galleons are old props.
“The Balm” is sentimental treacle. Try to be
Simple and direct... .H.G.W.: So many of these
Little Ladies of Long Ago come knocking at the
verse editor’s door that he’s thinking of putting up
a “Back in Twenty Years” sign... .R.E.C.H.: Undis-
tinguished verse on lines worn thin... .W.L.R.: In
the kindergarten class... .Dec: A bit labored....
J.J.S.: Merely mildly funny... .G.R.: Begins and
ends like. countless other Central Australian stories
we have read... .W.S.: Only a par. in it. .. .G.A.W.:
Tell it more crisply and put more plot into it....
L.T.: Just the thing for “Home Chat”... .W.E.8.:
Heavy... .M.M.: Flapper’s fate too horrible for
print... .N.R.: Too obscure towards the end....
E.J.G.: Finish is unreal. .. .A.8.C.: Send it to a
woman’s paper... .G.A.: Coincidence far-fetched.
. ...G.S.: You gave the show away too early....
G. J. 8.: An old, old trick.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.R.M.D.: Don’t think anyone would want to
own him... .F.J.: Rough-and-ready. .. .P.E.S.: Re-
fuse to believe a human being could assume that
shape J.K.M.C.: Yes, we welcome sketches from
New Guinea; but you’ll have to improve... .8.H.:
Small boys have done better with chalk on a wall.
. ...R.S.: Unsightly stuff... .W.V.: Our eyes are
still smarting from gazing at that atrocity... .8.F.:
If you’ve never seen a real owl, surely you could
get a sight of a stuffed one... .C.S.L.: No
“Beginner’s Duck” for you... .C.W.: Lifeless.. . .G.P.:
All bad H.H.: Have often had him .T.M.:
One of the oldest nautical jokes on the register....
H. : Horrible 5.0. R.: What is it all about?
E.C.: Childish drawing and wretched pun... .S.M.R.:
Better drawn it might pass... .F.P.S.: Have Dolly
and Molly been throwing mud pies at one another?
. ...L.D.: Scrappy. .. .E.H.: If it is worth begin-
ning, it is worth finishing.. . .T.0.H.: You’re a long
way down the ladder... .8.W.: Still in the elemen-
tary grade M.G.: Those are not human shapes;
no wonder the cat was scared. .. .T.S.E.: Milk-and-
water jest... .M.W.: Misfits... .G.S.N.: Everything
out of proportion, including the price you ask for
tlie thing... .G.A.: Scratch less... .0.R.M.: Basketed
the two heavyweights... .C.H.: There’s a loaded
gun here for persons who claim that old joke as
one of their 0wn....D.J.: Lessons are what you
need... .N.L.8.: Tear up and begin again... .S.W.S.:
That drawing has made four trips here already.
Can’t you do another ?... .W.A.: If that’s your best
we should hate to see your second-best... .B.B.:
Put the gag in plain language first... .N.R.: Needs
cleaning up... .K.L.: An old one of Norman Lind-
say’s. .. .C.P.: Hurled out for the ninth time....
P. J.: Not like the Jim we know... .M.Q.: Blurred
sketch, tame jest... .M.W.: Joke has been over-
worked. .. .F.E.: All ancient.


TO
■
l 1
#v
:- ■" SmU
* .--H ; •
’ - ' * S’ ., .* ; ,
■ ■■■ : :-'v - y '' : ■ v r '-'’ v '
. - ■
*V. > * '
t >4
m
m
i
:
7
mm
\,^mm
:
m
7
~: 7777'■ f>;■
ass ■'
■
if
1
m
m
B
mr
mm
-77
1 V


The Bulletin
Vol. 54. —No. 2783.
June 14, 1933.
THE ALLIES.
MARS: “Let them amuse themselves! One bomb from you and their palace will be dust."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 2J7-2//9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
\\ estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, l-'i Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. Ha.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, J/d.
THE EIGHTH PARLIAMENT.
Canberra, as residents who paid fancy
prices for leaseholds savagely protest, has
ceased to be a rendezvous for the Pre-
miers, Treasurers and minor Ministers who
meet so often. The place, it seems, is too
bleak in winter and has too many blowflies
in summer; in any case, it is altogether
out of the wajc So, it being near the end
of the financial year, the Premiers, Trea-
surers, minor Ministers and their retinues
foregathered last week in Melbourne, as
they used to do before so many millions
were spent at ’Berra, partly in making it
habitable for such persons. The gentlemen
arrived in cheerful spirits, for Lang was not
among them, and things are brighter than
they were at the last gathering of the kind.
A public-works loan has just been success-
fully floated, and Australian politicians are
always merry on such occasions. Then por-
tion of the huge overseas debt has been
converted at lower rates of interest and
further operations of the kind are antici-
pated. Again, there has been a substantial
rise in the price of tin, and the outlook for
wool and wheat has improved. Above all,
the Commonwealth has a surplus, and at
least three Premiers entertained confident
expectations of sharing in it.
Spirits were momentarily depressed when
it was learned that the Lyons Government
was disinclined to reveal what it proposed
to do with the surplus, and to state defi-
nitely its financial arrangements for the
1933-34 twelvemonth. ‘‘lf you won’t show
us your figures,” some of the Premiers said,
“we won’t show you ours.” The little dis-
agreement was settled when Assistant-Trea-
surer Massy Greene arrived, more genial
than ever since he became a knight; and
all the cards were laid on the table. Some
of the Premiers disclosed their hands with
pride, others with diffidence. Victoria’s
Argyle said he had budgeted for a deficit
of £900,000, and £900,000 it would be. Tas-
mania’s McPhee announced that he had
saved £15,000 on the £135,000 assigned to
his State. Butler, of South Aus., declared
his shortage at £1,100,000, whereas Hill, his
predecessor, had been granted permission to
make it £1,215,000, Labor Premiers Forgan
Smith and Collier acknowledged that their
States’ estimated deficits would be ex-
ceeded by £90,000 or £lOO,OOO, Queensland’s
being now reckoned at £1,580,000 and West-
rglia’s at £865,000; but they implied that it
would be the fault of their Tory prede-
cessors. Stevens, from Sydney, owned that
N. S. Wales would be responsible for just
on half of the total deficiency for the year,
i£9,000,000. But he pointed out with satis-
faction that his actual deficit would be
£65,000 less than his Budget estimate;
though he was modest enough to refrain
from quoting a Federal Labor M.L.C.—
one of those gentlemen who are on extra-
ordinarily good terms wdth the U.A.P. Gov-
ernments at Sydney and Canberra—to the
effect that he had “accomplished a seeming
miracle.”
This exchange of confidences made the
several parties feel so friendly that talk
of economy, which is an uncongenial busi-
ness anyhow, was abandoned by mutual
consent. It was proposed that the deficits
for 1933-34 should be “reduced to £7,500,000
or. £8,000,000.” “Far too much,” someone
said. “Why cut them down at all? Leave
the total at nine millions anyhow.” And, the
atmosphere being so fraternal, this view
prevailed. McPhee, who is of Scottish
descent, seems to have suddenly remem-
bered that Robert Gibson, of the Common-
wealth Bank, comes from Glasgow or there-
abouts. He said Tasmania might struggle
along with £llO,OOO. Stevens and Argyle
also mentioned that they might not re-
quire as much as they have had this year;
so—the Commonwealth Bank permitting—-
N.S.W.’s further contribution to the float-
ing debt was arranged at £4,000,000 and
Victoria’s at £BOO,OOO. The other limits
were all raised, Queensland’s to £1,740,000,
South Australia’s to £1,500,000 and Westralia’s
to £850,000, in each case at the instance
of a Premier who was recently saying feroci-
ous things on the hustings about the finan-
cial administration of the Premier he was
to succeed. Then the Commonwealth Bank
Board sent word that it could not agree
to provide more than £8,500,000, and the
Commonwealth Government intimated that
it would let the small States have some-
thing out of its surplus, so the figures were
rearranged to bring the total to £8.500,000.
It was engagingly suggested that contri-
butions to the national sinking fund,
about £7.500,000 for the' year, should be
suspended, in whole or in part. This
would be a barefaced breach of faith with
the people who have supported the loans
floated since the national sinking fund was
established, but breaches of faith with bond-
holders have ceased to arouse indignation
except among those who experience them.
It was pointed out with greater force that
the thing would damage the prospects of
floating conversion loans and raising more
public-works money; so it was hurriedly
dropped. The hope that something might
turn up at the World Economic Conference
assisted to make the delegates feel satis-
fied with themselves, and with all the
world, reluctant bankers excepted; and, as
a chronicler put it, “the deliberations pro-
ceeded on a basis of friendliness and co-
operation.”
For some of these “deliberations” the
Premiers’ Conference was responsible, for
others the Loan Council. Premiers’ Con-
ference and Loan Council slide into one
another in such a way that it is difficult for
the public to determine when one ends
and the other begins. What is certain is
that Australia, which accepted a Federal
partnership in 1900, expecting to be relieved
of at least part of the. burden of support-
ing six costly Parliaments and Government
Houses, has, without realising it, had an
eighth Parliament thrust upon it in the
shape of this Conferenee-crtw-Council. And
it is a very unsatisfactory sort of Parlia-
ment, which runs up big bills for travel-
ling expenses and is apt to be unduly in-
fluenced by non-elected persons, professors
and the like, with whom it always sur-
rounds itself. At its Sessions national rep-
resentatives meddle in provincial affairs
and provincial representatives in national
affairs. In no other country do Premiers
meet every few months to discuss one
another’s business, nor do Loan Councils
wander all over the scenery. The existence
of this irregular eighth Parliament, which
frames policies for and forces its decisions
on Parliaments elected by the people, is
another count in the indictment against
our bewilderingly complex and wickedly
extravagant system of Government, if sys-
tem it can be called.
PUBLICITY GODS.
The world is full of them, and they are
nearly all false. Their common badge is a
blend of vanity and cunning. In almost
every community the men who are doing
the worth-while work—providing jobs by
their foresight and industry, moulding in-
telligent opinion, making discoveries
precious to humanity—are rarely heard of
by the people. The late editor of this paper
was a conspicuous example. T Over a. period
of 30 years he gave more Australians ideas,
political, financial and industrial, than a
paddockful of politicians; yet in the city in
which he labored for half his life not one.
person in 10,000 knew him by sight or
name. George Judah Cohen has for half a
century been wisely guiding the destinies of
companies, and so creating employment and
incomes for thousands; but he remains
almost unnoticed in the newspapers and
altogether unnoticed by the multitude.
An Australian, born in Adelaide, won a
Nobel Prize at 25. An Australian, born at
Sydney, is president of the League of
Nations Union. An Australian, bom at
Melbourne, has been hailed as the greatest
novelist of the day. If their fellow-Aus-
tralians were required to name all three
in their census papers, how many could do
it?
The men who get the cheers, for what
they are worth, resemble Sydney’s J. T.
Lang. He is as much a press-made god as
Horatio Bottomley was in his heyday, and
his claims to idolatry are as thin. Such men
flourish during wars. The World War
gave Bottomley his chance, and the eco-
nomic war is the mainstay of Mr. Lang.
Bottomley used the same rodomontade to
the men in the trenches as Lang uses to the
men on the dole. Bottomley promised to
hang the Kaiser, and knew he was talking
rubbish. Lang promises to abolish capital-
ism, and knows it cannot be done; indeed,
as a capitalist himself (“the £13,000 I put
into the 'Labor Daily’ is my own money”),
he would be greatly concerned if he thought
it could be done. Bottomley was pro-
jected on the public mind as a friend of the
workers and .a financial expert. He took
the workers down for their savings, and
demonstrated his business ineptitude by re-
peated bankruptcies. Yet the workers went
on voting for and cheering him.
Mr. Lang is being projected on the minds
of the workers by the paper which he owns
as effectively as Bottomley owned “John
Bull” as a friend of the worker, a worker
himself and a dour fighter. By defaulting
after he had borrowed every pound he
could pawn “my native country” for, by
smashing the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank, by breaking his pledge of fidelity
to the Premiers’, plan, by attempting
his capital levy on the mutual-insurance
societies—by, in short, drying up the
springs of investment and holding up over-
seas loan conversion for two years—he did
more harm to the workers of Australia than
Bottomley did to the workers of England by
way of his dud companies. He has never
labored as his dupes have labored, and he
lias never fought anybody. If Lang is a
fighter then so is any old woman who slang-
whangs a neighbor from behind the shelter
of a backyard fence.
The careers of such men explain some
factors which threaten civilisation. The
power that can get them accepted at their
own valuation is obviously so stupendous
that it is capable of almost anything. Dis-
armament conferences, Carnegie Peace
Prizes, pacifist societies and leagues fight
against it in vain, though, in many ways,
they have the natural instincts of humanity
on their side. When James J. Mattern,
the U.S.A. airman, landed in Norway he
collapsed and fell.
I lay a few minutes and the inhabitants
arrived and took me to a house, wliere I
slept an hour. I hadn’t a cent in my
pockets, but the fisherfolk treated me like a
brother.
The same thing has happened to foreigners
in other countries, black and white, civil-
ised and otherwise. Man is born kind but
is everywhere in arms, or organising for
civil war in some form or other; and press-
gangs are largely to blame. Statesmen know
that the atmosphere of peace and goodwill
which they have built up can be destroyed
by a single fusillade from stunt newspapers.
So no one nation dares to disarm. Experi-
ence has shown over and over again that
the mildest people can be transformed into*
tigers at a few days’ notice, or less, by the
agency of the printed word. It is the
Frankenstein monster which has been
created by this age of literacy, and while
paper is cheap and the masses can read it
will never cease to be a: menace to peace,
industrial and national, until education is
something more than a name.
SIXTY PER CENT.
In an equity case in Sydney the other day
the defendants were a pair of money-
lenders and the plaintiff was a woman in
their debt. She had given security over
her furniture, and this the defendants had
seized and disposed of at a price which the
plaintiff considered ridiculously small, and
which was not sufficient to repay the bal-
ance owing on an original debt of £5l 10s.
It was a repayment-by-instahnents trans-
action of the usual type, and, as is not un-
common in such cases, the borrower alleged
that she had received less money than she
signed for. On this point there was the evi-
dence of two moneylenders and of only one
debtor.
The main point at issue, however, was
that the rate of interest charged was 60
per cent. It wasn’t stated in the bond, of
. course —it never is in such cases—and the
debtor probably did not know until her
solicitor informed her that for every pound
she paid she was credited with only eight
shillings on capital account. Justice Long
Innes conceded that the interest seemed
unreasonably high, but commented that the
lender in all such cases ran a considerable
risk, and that part of the risk was that
the security might become impaired. In
this particular case it ,/md become impaired
—the borrower had disposed of a piano
which was on her bill of sale. Mr. Long
Innes decided that this dereliction put the
plaintiff out of Court. He refused to re-
view the, transaction, and added defendants’
costs in the case to the mortgage debt, on
which, presumably, the borrower will con-
tinue to pay 60 per cent.
His Honor, of course, took the legal view,
and he was, doubtless satisfied, having
before him much more evidence than has
been reported, that his decision was as
good, an example of abstract justice as it
was of law. But his justification of an ex-
cessively high rate of interest on the
ground of the poverty of the borrower
suggests that it is time Parliaments paid
more attention than has been paid to the
problem of private finance. Something has
been done in N. S. Wales under Moratorium
legislation. Before signing an agreement
to pay instalments the borrower is required
to have a solicitor to act for him. It
isn’t, a .costly business, the man of law
generally charging not more than half a
crown. It is his duty to explain plainly the
terms of the agreement, and the information
he gives should be well worth the money
to a client sufficiently intelligent to under-
stand it. But it is no part of his duty,
when the rate of interest is not stated in
the bond, to compute it.
The rate of interest ought to be stated.
Probably even 60 per cent, wouldn’t frighten
many ,of the moneylenders’ clients, and the
question arises as to the advisability of
putting a check on the whole money-
lending and instalment business by fixing
a maximum rate. If a borrower’s
credit is so poor and the prospects that
the debt will be repaid arc so remote that
only a fantastically high interest rate is
commensurate with the risk, it must
follow that the risk is greatly increased
by the terms of the transaction. It would
be better for more solvent folk if he
weren’t allowed to borrow at all. The
moneylender must make his profit out of
the more honest or the more fortunate of
his clients. Those who pay, pay for those
who do not. A great many of Australia’s
current financial troubles arc due to the
fact that in the past borrowing (which in-
cludes all time-payment transactions) has
been made too easy, and that applies to
citizens as well as to Governments. If the
world is ever to get back to that happy
condition described by Micawber of keep-
ing its expenditure within its income, there
will have to be reform at the bottom as
well as at the top.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ten Months’ Trade.
Australia's merchandise exports for the
first 10 months of the current fiscal year
were, at £67,740,000. £3,000.000 sterling
greater than merchandise exports for the
corresponding period of 1931-32. The com-
modity balance, £19,660,000, was neverthe-
less £9,128,000 lighter. Tinkering with the
tariff has been partly responsible, though
the exchange is not such an effective check
as it was in the preceding period. Imports
were £12,226,000 (34 p.c.) heavier at
£48,084,000. The principal increases were in
cotton goods, motor-chassis and petroleum.
This cannot go on. For the first 10 months
of 1931-32 the favorable merchandise bal-
ance was nearly sufficient to meet our over-
seas interest commitments in respect of the
full year. For the corresponding period of
the current term there is a shortage of about
£10,000,000. Taking current gold produc-
tion into account, the deficiency is reduced
to £5,000,000. We are cutting things very
fine. Any shortage this year can be met
out of the £11,265,000 drawn from the gold
reserve of the Australian notes fund and
shipped to London. Only newly-won gold
will be available for shipment next year.
In 1933-34 our exporters will be com-
peting with more countries which have de-
preciated their currencies, and the outlook for
prices is not bright. Our credit has shown
encouraging signs of improvement, and to
further the feeling of confidence overseas
our trade figures must be kept on an even
keel. One small 3| p.c. conversion, how-
ever encouraging, is no excuse for letting up.
. 4
The Need of a Citizen Army.
The belief that all that Australia needs
to protect it against invasion is a “cadre”
(in other words, a skeleton, or a line with-
out length or breadth, or a point, which
has no dimensions) has been attacked by
Major Goldstedt, who stated his views, very
patientfy and with great moderation by all
accounts, to the Sydney Legacy Club. He
made a sound military point when he sug-
gested that, in order to give prospective
enemies the check of transport difficulties,
we must be able to show a visible field
force of decent dimensions. Major Gold-
stedt is of opinion that if we had even a
quarter of a million men trained for home
defence an invader would consider that he
ought to transport a million men, and that
he would have to provide three million tons
of shipping to carry them in. Th<? Major
made a still sounder naval point when he
referred to the prospects, in the event of
another world-war, of Australia getting the
aid of even one capital ship from the
British Navy.
Most of the R.A.N. was recently accom-
modated very comfortably on one side of
Sydney’s Circular Quay. It didn’t look
impressive, even when seen all of a lump.
The only absentee was the plane-carrier
Albatross, and as to her value some hard
things have been said in naval circles.
Such is our navy, and we haven’t an army
in any way commensurate to the job of
defending even our eastern coast-line.
Probably we could quadruple our navy
without putting a single furrow in the brow
of war-lords who may look in this direc-
tion with a hostile eye; as Major Goldstedt
says, the thing he worries most about is the
number of men under arms we can muster.
Almost as important—it would be quite as
important if we had a real army—is the
organisation of a military (or naval) air
service. This might not be much use as
a fighting unit, but for patrolling our vast
undefended coast-line it would be essential.
As to the risks of invasion, history is
full of the sad cases of countries that
thought they never would be attacked, but
were. Switzerland, which used to be over-
run whenever Europe blazed up, at long
last shook off a foreign yoke. The repub-
lic came through the 1914-18 crisis without
a scratch, not because it was peaceable and
quiet, but because it has a decently large
citizen army that knows how to shoot.
From New Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —We Australian exiles in
our little colony in Paraguay are much as
the Pilgrim Fathers were. They quitted
their homeland because they wanted to
live their lives in their own way. We
wanted elbow-room to show the world how
we thought it ought to live, but we didn’t
show it anything worth talking about.
When we came to the conclusion that our
high ideals were not going to work, some
got back to Australia; the rest settled down
to live like ordinary white men, as near
as our environment would let us. We—
about 100 of us—are still beyond the pale
of civilisation; but for a time we did get
the benefit of clergy.
The Bishop of the Anglicans in Argen-
tina discovered our colony, and sent along
a combined parson and schoolmaster, who,
with his wife, did a lot towards taking the
rough edges off the pioneer business. Our
kiddies got an education. Nothing special,
just the three R’s and a few odds and ends,
such as how to play the game from a Briton’s
point of view; but to us it was precious.
Of course we paid fees, usually in home
produce. One time our parson received
eight little pigs in one week, and when he
sent out an SOS for foodstuff for them he
couldn’t get into his kitchen for maize and
pumpkins.
Then came the war and the post-war
slump. The mission that supplied parsons


to Argentina ran short of funds, and our
man was transferred to Buenos Ayres. We
are not in a position to import a clergy-
man on our own initiative. Though we
manage to knock out a living there is little
over for luxuries. So we are without benefit
of clergy.
The young folk miss the church Sundays
and the children miss the school week days.
Where we older Australian exiles miss the
parson most is when we are burying each
other. We have had seven burials since our
pastor left us. In five cases there was no
religious ceremony; in one a young fellow
volunteered to read the burial service. But
at the last funeral he objected—stage-fright
perhaps—so an old friend of the dead
stepped forward and gave his mate a send-
off. Perhaps we have no right to complain,
but it jars one’s sensibilities to «ee an old
mate turned in with as little ceremony as
one would bury a stray dog.—Yours etc.,
T. Martyn.
4
The Modern Policeman.
The annual report of the London Police
Commissioner, Lord Trenchard, recommends
the establishment of a police staff college,
the recruiting of the higher posts from
“well-educated men, from outside the force
if necessary,” and “a general elevation of
standards and training.” It is a recognition
of social changes which the Australian
States will have to take cognisance of be-
fore long. The day of the easy-going and
often thick-headed cop of whom little was
required but valor and the capacity to plod
consequentially about a beat has gone for
ever.
In Continental cities, such as Berlin,
policemen in the higher ranks hold the qualifi-
cations and status of university professors.
They are the logical response to the vastly
improved technique of criminals in nearly
every avenue of their calling, and, more
particularly, blackmail, breaking and enter-
ing in all its forms, highway robbery and
large-scale swindling. Radio and the motor-
car have been boons to malefactors every-
where. Aeroplanes are coming into favor
in Europe and the U.S.A. as means of
providing alibis and removing goods and
corpses.
Londoners have never felt quite the same
about their once-revered bobbies since a few
agitators persuaded the force to strike
during the World War. There have been
other incidents of the kind since. Left-
wing propaganda has been rife in all the
services for years, and the periodical
trials of members of the Minority group on
charges chiefly of attempting to suborn
R.N. ratings show how clever it is. Lat-
terly the Communists are known to have
turned their attention to the Metropoli-
tan police. The only counter is the crea-
tion of a class of policeman who is at least
as highly educated as his would-be seducers,
coupled with a tightening up of police dis-
cipline.
The position in this regard is even more
delicate in Australia than it is in England
or France. In such countries the army is
the first line of defence against social dis-
order. Here, if the police go every thing
goes.
*
The Dawson River Settlers.
The trouble over the Dawson Valley (Q.)
scheme has only just begun. While admit-
ting that the Royal Commission’s report is
correct in the main, the settlers, many of
whom have lost their lifetime savings, take
strong exception to portions of it. They
characterise the statement that they re-
fused to co-operate with the Administra-
tion as nonsense. At the beginning they
were willing enough, but when they realised
that intelligent direction and helpful
advice were not to be had from the con-
trolling authority set up by the Labor
Government, they quickly lost confidence.
As the scheme muddled its way forward,
it was found necessary to appoint a board
of settlers to advise the advisory concern.
One would have thought that the Govern-
ment of the day, when launching a project
to cost millions, would have placed expert
knowledge of irrigation, agriculture, main-
tenance work and farm stock at the dis-
posal of the settlers. The Commission
declares that this was not the case.
One outstanding complaint by the
settlers is that the report makes no reference
to compensation. The Dethridge Commis-
sion in Victoria recommended compensa-
tion for the unfortunates who dropped their
money in and put years of hard work
into a land-settlement project for which
the Government made itself responsible;
not so this Queensland Commission, though
it is contended that the cases are parallel.
The recommendation that payments be
lightened and areas increased has been
adopted by the Government, and will ease
the burden a bit, but the settlers are not
satisfied. They maintain that they took
up their land on the basis of a fixed con-
tract, and have performed their part of it.
'they expect the other party to observe the
contract or pay compensation.
4
Fifty Trade Commissioners Return.
Before the Australian delegation set out on
its journey to the Netherlands East Indies
and Singapore, a conference in Sydney
tried to thrasli out the vexed question
whether our business interests in those
parts, could be best cared for by private en-
terprise or by a corps of official trade com-
missioners. While on their travels the
delegates—mostly principals of various
Australian manufacturing and agency firms
—naturally made inquiries into the same
matter. Many have returned with the
opinion that, whatever good an official
commissioner might do, firms seeking trade
must send out their own representatives.
They alone can render the requisite ser-
vice and extend the trade which, the dele-
gates have opened up. Old-established
Australian merchants in the countries
visited have dug themselves in by these
methods. They have obtained a grip on the
flour and butter trades.
One result of the expedition is that com 1
mercial gentlemen who knew nothing pre-
viously of trading conditions in Java and
thereabouts are now well informed on the
subject. Another is the conviction that the
powerful and still-rising factor in trade in
those regions is the Chinaman. The advent
of Japanese price-cutters and dumpers is
serious but less important. In the Netherlands
East Indies, Singapore and all Malaya, the
Chinaman has made himself indispensable
to white traders, who rely upon him more
and more. He bears the climate better than
the white man; he does not leave off work
for tea parties and sports; he does not take
long holidays in his own country; he does
not retire abroad with a competency; he
stays for a lifetime, and for generations.
He learns the native languages and adapts
himself to the native ways. He marries
Malay women, and throughout the archi-
pelago Chinese blood is running at high
flood where European blood is a diminish-
ing trickle.
The Japanese, impelled by economic pres-
sure in his own country, is making a des-
The last likeness of S. H. PRIOR, who contributed to this Page for 30 years. In
every article from his pen he. expressed the truth as he saw it, and sought to
promote the welfare of Australia and the Australians.
perate but wavering attack on N.E.I.
markets. He is giving away money freely
in the game, but Jewish traders declare
that the effort will die eventually in bank-
ruptcy. On the other hand, the Chinese
are not making sacrifices but are making
money. They have no organised aggression,
but they pour in silently, filling every open-
ing. The Japanese will not sell Australian
goods in preference to their own; the China-
man will sell any man’s goods. The
Chinese merchant was found ready and
willing to take up Australian lines, and
gave strong evidence of his financial and
physical ability to handle them.
Nevertheless, the subject of Japanese com-
petition was discussed at the various ports' of
call by Dutch merchants and officials. They
were anxious to know whether the Aus-
tralians felt the stress of similar competi-
tion in their own country, and revealed
that they were sending a delegation of their
own to discuss this matter, and others, with
the Commonwealth Government. The
Dutch Administration has imposed luxury
taxes on alcoholic drinks, perfumery,
tobacco and petrol. The list is to be ex-
tended; if flour were included Australia
would suffer. The N.E.I. delegates may ask,
as a concession, for the removal of the Aus-
tralian embargo against Java sugar. They
won’t get it, of course, but the possibility
is a disturbing one. In Java, as the dele-
gates discovered, there are many thousands
of tons of unsaleable sugar in storage, and
many mills are not operating Owing to the
world slump.
“Make the Railways Pay.”
Dear Bulletin, —Numbers of people who
ought to know better continually repeat the
parrot-cry ‘‘Make the railways pay.” It
requires only five minutes’ thought to realise
that the railways cannot pay and never
will pay in direct returns. Even were the
wages of the railway workers halved, the
railways would still fail to pay unless all
wages paid for the future production of
materials and capital expenditure were also
halved and the costs of those already in
existence written down 50 p.c.
It requires merely a grasp of simple arith-
metic to know that the only way to make
the railways accounts balance is to so raise
freights and fares that the primary pro-
ducers will be ruined—and the railways with
them.
If the figures of all the Australian railway
systems were , adequately dissected, it is
highly probable that there is not one long-
distance line—even the Melbourne-Sydney
service—which shows a profit on its working.
The suburban systems are the only ones
which would stand unbiassed actuarial in-
vestigation.
But why should the railways pay—that is,
pay directly? The railways should no more
be expected to return dividends than the
roads—which, in fact, they are. And it is
very doubtful whether any railway system
in the world has ever paid in the business
sense. English railways—conducted by
private enterprise—have not as a whole re-
turned 1 p.c. on the invested capital; Ameri-
can railways show worse results. Though
they have brought vast wealth to directors
and those who pull the strings, the unfor-
tunate shareholders haven’t luxuriated in
profits. The; much-vaunted Canadian Pacific
—which, by the way, has just passed its
dividend—made all its money out of the
land it got from the Canadian Government,
not from legitimate railway business, and
the Canadian Government railways, like our
own, are now running at a nominal loss.
Australians must realise that the railways
are a necessary service, like the police, and
to expect them to return a paper profit is
just as logical as to demand the recall of the
Chief Commissioner of Police because his
department has failed to pay a dividend of
10 p.c.—Yours etc.,' M. G.
+
No Votes in It.
The indifference of elected persons to any
cause which doesn’t promise a block vote
of considerable tonnage is exemplified by
the parlous state of most of our public
hospitals. N. S. Wales offers the unedify-
ing, spectacle of a Government which came
into office pledged to wipe out Lang’s lot-
tery fighting for it against the Council of
Churches on the ground that, without the
£500,000 or £600.000 p.a. which lottery sub-
scribers provide, most of the hospitals would
have to file their schedules. Before the
lottery arrived, the N. S. Wales hospitals
were saved from bankruptcy by the almost
equally objectionable system of periodical
street-begging campaigns.
Australians pride themselves on their de-
votion to animals, and they should ; horses
provide a number of them with their chief
topic of conversation, and sheep and cattle
provide a large part of the national income.
But animals are of no more use at a pre-
selection ballot or the polls than invalids,
so the State leaves their rights to be
attended to by private enterprise. Victoria,
after years of agitation by its Animal Wel-
fare League, is only just considering an
Animal Protection Bill which provides for
the destruction of suffering, diseased and
unwanted animals, and for the prosecution
of people who grossly maltreat animals.
In Sydney, until comparatively recently,
the spectacle of starving and mange-tor-
tured mongrels and working horses with
sore shoulders and the like affronted the
eye as well as the heart. No politicians
made speeches about it, and nothing would
have been done if the R.S.P.C.A. hadn’t
stepped in, organised refuges for lost and
jettisoned dogs and for ailing horses, and
(very occasionally) proceeded against ill-
treaters of animals.
The schools have been inculcating
humanity for some time; modern edu-
cationists recognise the affinity 'between
bashers of animals and bashers of human
beings. Yet the traffic in decrepit horses
still goes on, and the barbarities of
some of the stock trains are viewed toler-
antly. We Australians have small justifi-
cation for condemning Southern Europeans
—or, for that matter, negroes or Asiatics —
on the score of callousness towards the
weak so long as our Governments, as Gov-
ernments, have to be kicked hard and often
by a few moneyed humanitarians into
recognising the claims of the sick and help-
less.
«
Striking for Fun.
A tinsmith who had been making cans
for the Ross Creek (N.Q.) meatworlcs
finished his job. An order for petrol-tin*
had been received from Vacuum Oil and
the manager re-engaged the smith without
first going to the Meat Employees’ Union
That concern declared the engagement to
be contrary to the award, and the men
were called out. They obeyed, leaving
behind them dropped cattle in the killing
races and carcases in all stages of dress-
ing on the butchers’ board, though the
manager offered to submit the trivial point
to arbitration. After stopping out two
days the strikers resumed work as sud-
denly as they had left off.
The idiotic performance cost them two
days’ wages. The dead and half-dressed
cattle were fit only for boiling down, and
this presumably cost the company a slight
sum. But mobs of cattle on several dis-
tant droving routes had to be stopped, while
other lots on near-by stations which were
ready for delivery were held up. Cattle
in the meatworks paddocks had to take
their chance; two mobs approaching the
works had to be turned back by their
drovers. The stop meant a drop in the
killing tally of 1080 cattle, and, as opera-
tions run on a rigid schedule, this signified
that at least a thousand head booked to
go through before the end of June would
have to be driven back to their pastures.
In effect, nearly all the loss falls on the
pastoralist, who was blameless.
It is no joke raising beef in North
Queensland. The cattleman has had to
contend with drought as well as slumped
markets. Trade-unionists who wantonly add
to his difficulties and threaten their own
means of livelihood by such tomfooleries
as this strike do not deserve the preference
they enjoy. They should be deprived of it
until they give proofs of having acquired
some sense of gratitude for the concession
and of duty to those who employ them and
to the community which protects them.
■ ♦
The Jury System.
Dear Bulletin,— The writer of that article
on the jury system (B. 7/6/’33) has over-
looked the greatest virtue of the British
judicial system—the unwritten principle
that it is far better that a dozen guilty
men should be acquitted than one innocent
man should suffer. That is the real danger
of trial by Judges. His remarks are equally
applicable in reverse to those courts where
we have already trial by virtual Judges—
police magistrates. In police courts one
constable corroborated by another will
always beat half a dozen citizens on the
other side. Some of the citizens are sure to
contradict themselves under police cross-
examination because of their honest desire
to be truthful.
Abolish the jury system and you have
abolished the only link between the. prisoner
and humanity, the only thing between the
watchhouse and the prison which is not
official. Judges are employed by the State,
just as the police are, and corruption would
be just as sure to creep in there as through
the jury system. Macrossan, J., is as
honest a man as ever graced the Bench,
but he is rather too fond of saying cutting
things. I am still sufficiently old-fashioned
to believe that 12 men are more likely to
be right than one—though the majority is
often wrong—and the thing which amazed
me in the Brisbane case was that the jury-
men did not tell the Judge where and when
he got off. Had an English Judge delivered
a like rebuke he would have got his telling
off from the Lord Chancellor.—Yours etc,,
Martro.


S'ntcrke Ttocboty-faiJi
CRAVEN A
in tne nea> moi&tute-ptoof
'CELLOPHAN E..'PACK
Will Not Affect Your Throat
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD. 145 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOP QUALITY.
lO for 9°
lOTimlfe
50..3'9
20
- V W
M
A
O
\
M
•m
V \
POLITICAL
POINTS
Minds were unsettled by the events of the
Bulli by-election, and a local strike followed.;
A mine management was held to have dealt
in a brutal capitalistic fashion with the case
of an employee who said he couldn’t work,
and his mates said they wouldn’t. Accord-
ing to one account, the miner is suffering
from a rare malady, but if the symptoms are
as described —frequent winking and a dis-
taste for toil —it is rather common in .other
parts, particularly among pretty ladies. It
lias never led to a strike in Darlinghurst.
McDicken, ex-M.L.A., eight otlfkr “com-
rades” aud two ladies have been flung out of
the Lang faction for supporting A. C. Willis.
Willis had been flung out already. One
of the eight is an Irish immigrant; another
“Clean us up, will yer? Well, do it out-
side!”
moved the “Hands Off Ireland” resolution
adopted by the Langsters in Easter Week,
1932. It is to be hoped that De Valera
won’t regard these particular expulsions as a
casus belli.
Inveighing against the Federal land tax,
Senator Guthrie said it worked out at.
10s. 3d. a bale in the case of a run carrying
3000 sheep, and soared to £6 4s. 9d. a bale
on a Riverina stud sheep property—6o per
cent, of its gross income for the year. The
figures were questioned bv Pearce, but he
brought no rebutting evidence; and he is
not a woolgrower anyhow. Guthrie is, and
Guthrie is not addicted to talking through
liis neck.
Little enthusiasm has been expressed in
Melbourne at the Argyles’ decision to bring
out another Governor. W. H. Irvine has
won approval from all sorts and conditions
of people, either because of personal good
feeling or of a fixed opinion that he is doing
the job well. It is recalled, too, that the
C.J. was considered big enough to carry on
when the Prince of Wales came to the Com-
monwealth.
Britain, Italy, France and Germany have
signed a pact in which all agree to be good
and to give benevolent advice to any party
suspected of an inclination to turn bad.
Mussolini saysi it will ensure peace in
Europe for ten years. The same was said
of the Kellogg pact, the Locarno agreement,
the Nine-Power treaty and the covenant of
the League of Nations. Still Mussolini
played only a minor rOle in these comedies
and he was due for a star part.
Flies to the honeypot are nothing to the
rush of Labor stalwarts for the Valley (Q.)
electorate to fill the shoes of the late Tom
Wilson. There are 14 candidates for the
plebiscite on June 17. All except Brassing-
ton, once an M.L.A. and now an industrial
inspector, and Riordan, an unsuccessful
candidate for Nanango last year, are trade-
union officials. It’s a great country for
trade-union officials!
Long before Chicago invented racket-
eering, Stalin had the gentle art going
strong in his native home town of Tiflis.
As a mere boy in the Revolutionary party,
he raised funds by sending word to wealthy
shopkeepers that a donation to the Red
funds would not be out of place. If the
cash were not delivered by Saturday night
a bomb might be cast through the window.
As Joe kept his word, the shopkeeper gener-
ally came to light. Stalin is really Zozo
Djugashveshsky; but who could run a re-
volution with a name like that?
S.S. Federation is topheavy and leaking
badly, and one-sixth of the company wants
to abandon ship; but Lyons and co. think
it can stagger on if another expensive com-
mittee is hired to write a report. They pro-
pose a convention of 36 members, 18 to be
nominated by them and three by each State
Government. Butler’s idea is that the debat-
ing society should be 70 strong, the States
to be represented by 60! After all, redistri-
bution of powers and rearrangement of boum
daries are no very abstruse subjects. In
any case, reports have been furnished, at
immense cost, by Westralian, South Aus. and
Tas. Disabilities Commissions, a Common-
wealth Constitution Commission and a New
States Commission in N. S. Wales. Surely
with this mountain of data to work on, and
with the experience of the last four years to
guide them, these Premiers, who meet every
few months, can hammer out a few ideasi of
their own.
Queensland Labor wants to continue the
State’s multitudinous marketing pools, in
spite of an adverse High Court judgment.
Bulcock, the Minister of Agriculture, is
pressing its claims on the Commonwealth
Government and has been asked to supply
full details of enactments and regulations
dealing with pooling and marketing in
Queensland. His Government wants the
Commonwealth Parliament to pass legisla-
tion giving it a free leg again. As always,
Lyons and co. are willing to oblige, but the
Federal Constitution stands in the way.
The Ilardy-Gullett wrangle over the
U.A.P.-C.P. fiscal discussions prior to the
general election was prolonged over the week-
end, and it embittered the debate in the
Senate on the first reading of the tariff bill.
Johnston, the separatist from Westralia,
moved for the reduction to 1921-1930 levels
of all duties on British goods raised with-
out Tariff Board recommendation. The
amendment was defeated by three votes.
For it were seven U.A.P. Senators and five
Cockies; against it, seven U.A.P.’s and eight
Laborites. And it is a U.A.P. Government!
One of the silliest things the Scullin Gov-
ernment did was to cancel the arrangements
for the decennial census, due in every civi-
lised country in 1931, on the ground that
Australia could not afford it. Thereby it
deprived many Australians of precise in-
formation necessary to them in their call-
ings, and many others—unemployed clerks
and professional men—of a few weeks’ use-
ful woi*k. And while neglecting this legiti-
mate Commonwealth job, the asinine Govern-
ment found another million —it had already
provided two millions p.a. under the Bruce-
Page scheme—for State Government roads,
largely speedways running parallel with
bankrupt State railways. The Lyons Gov-
ernment has repaired the omission so far
as it can. A census is to be taken on the
night of Thursday, June 29, and nearly
11,000 persons will be employed. The cost
is estimated at £300,000 and 90 per cent,
will go in wages. Meanwhile Australia has
been thrown out of gear with the statistical
world.
“Delegates to the World Economic Conference
number 168, and there are crowds of secretaries and
typists. Accommodation in fashionable hotels is at
a premium.”
“Suite of rooms, sir? Yessir. I’ll give you
the cheapest we have.”
“Sheapest, be hanged. Gif me de dearest.”
“Yes, of course, sir. My mistake, sir. I
thought that you said you were on the
‘Economy’ Conference.”
The South African mining interests are
continuing their protest against the Coali-
tion Government’s proposal to grab a big
share of the premium on their gold output.
They declare that high-grade mines will have
to pay up to 80 p.c. of it. The Mines
Minister admits there are discrepancies in
the proposals and has promised to look into
them with a view to modifications. He pro-
bably recalls the lesson Paul Kruger learned
that even the goose laying the golden eggs
can be overworked.
It is proposed in Queensland that the rail-
way from Brisbane to Cleveland, on Moreton
Bay, should be closed and a private motor
service run instead, the promoters guarantee-
ing to advance money to the bayside councils
to improve their foreshores and baths. The
line is only about 30 miles long, and serves
popular seaside resorts in addition to run-
ning through riverside suburbs and rich
fruit-growing districts, yet it doesn’t pay.
The Government has promised to consider
the matter after the transport conference in
Melbourne, but as consent would endanger
the jobs of many good Labor voters it is
not likely to be given.
“What’s the game, dad?”
“I’m a delegate to this Labor Unity Con-
ference that’s coming on.”
State Ministers gave a cold reception to
Federal Minister Perkins’s plan for handing
over the railways to a national corporation,
but they suggest no alternative, and Aus-
tralia can’t go on throwing away eight or
ten millions a year. Perkins estimates that
the railways have an exploitation value of
£240,000,000, and that £112,000,000 will have
to be written off. Could £112,000,000 be
raised in Australia it would enable us, at
the current rate of exchange, to pay off
approximately £84,000,000 of our overseas
debt. At 44 p.c. this represents an annual
saving of £3,780,000 in interest, equal to
over lls. per head of population. And the
interest on the £112,000,000 raised locally
would be kept in the family.
When a private trader writes off capital
as lost or unrepresented by tangible assets,
shareholders lose the amount involved. In
national and international finance this would
amount to repudiation. The capital lost has
therefore to be recovered somehow. Part of
the> plan for handing over the railways to
a national corporation is a revenue tax on
all forms of passenger transport—s p.c. is
spoken of. The exact amount depends upon
savings which would result from more effi-
cient control. On the figures submitted, a
5 p.c. tax on passenger transport would
realise £1,550,000, 25 p.c. of motor regis
tration fees would yield £1,130,000, and 25
p.c. of the duties on petrol and cars would
realise £1,275,000 —a total of £3,956,000.
Annual payments of £3,956,000, compounded
at Si p.c. p.a., would amount to nearly
£112,000,000 in 20 years. This annual sink-
ing fund payment of £3,956,000 for redemp-
tion of dead capital would be practically
offset ,by savings in overseas interest,
£3,780,000, when £112,000,000 of overseas
debt was redeemed, which, of course, would
only be done gradually.
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission has de-
livered a reserved decision in favor of the
44-hour week. It is sure that industry can
stand it, but it won’t have to find the wages
nor to wrestle with competition with States
working the" 48-hour week. The judgment
was coincident with the Railwaymen’s Union
application to the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, sitting in Sydney, for the 44-
hour week, its award being based on 4S
hours. During the hearing mention was made
of a gang in which some men work 44
hours and the rest 48. Drake-Brockman,
.T„ said this was ridiculous, and so it is.
But then the whole industrial-arbitration
business has become ridiculous.
In Brisbane last week a mob of unem-
ployed and relief workers tried to interview
Labor Minister Hynes in mass formation.
After the police had intervened, a deputation
of four was sorted out. It demanded
increased winter relief, an extra day’s work
for married men, one day a week and 6s.
worth of rations for single men, a removal
of the residential qualification for receipt of
rations and free transportation for out-of-
works hunting jobs, Hynes, who had been
regarding the deputation with a glassy stare,
wearily remarked that none of these things
could come about because the Treasury cup-
board was bare. He added that if any more
larrikinism of the kind displayed outside his
office occurred again “it would be met m a
way not beneficial to those concerned. 4alk
of this kind from a Cabinet Minister to the
comrades who lifted him to his high estate
is something new in Queensland.
The three civil servants who picked on
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) as the Australian
terminus and distributing centre of the
Lon don-Australia air mail had a good geo-
graphical reason for that decision. Suppos-
ing 100 m.p.h. is the speed of the Aus-
tralian ’planes in the service, distribution
from Cootamundra saves Sydney l.Slirs.,
Melbourne 5.15hr5., Adelaide 6.55hr5. and
Canberra 6.7hr5., as against a route down
the eastern coast that drops mails at
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne as it goes.
The only loser among the eastern capitals by
the Cootamundra route is Brisbane, which
is put 6.7 hrs. behind. Arithmetically, the
decision is unassailable —it is the logical re-
sult of making measurements on the map.
Commercially, it is not so immune from
criticism, because air transport companies
of the sort equipped to carry mails couldn t
consider for a moment the rate likely to be
offered in the contract unless there were
liberal side-pickings. As a commercial air-
route Cootamundra to anywhere is not worth
considering. .
Greater Brisbane City Council is being
hard pressed by ratepayers to reduce its
valuations, rates in some cases being more
than the rent. It pleads that its troubles
are such that the thing is out of the ques-
tion; and certainly it has had rotten luck.
Apart from borrowing overseas, it had to
take over huge water and sewerage respon-
sibilities burdened with a debt incurred in
the flush days of the Labor regime in Council
and Government, when the sky was the
limit for construction costs. The Govern-
ment tramways, for which a fancy price
was paid, were also unloaded on the new
council. Thanks to excellent management,
they are showing a small profit, but it may
be 50 years before the sewerage and water
service reaches the same position.
Another instance of the ancients having
anticipated our best thoughts was brought to
light by Tom Brennan’s remark, made under
provocation in the Senate, that if the Lord’s
Prayer were brought forward for ratification
Opposition members would oppose it. In
the early ’sixties in Vie. Leg. Assembly the
first Labor member, Charles Jardine Don,
told Peter Snodgrass, a relative of the present
President of the Leg. Council, that if Peter
had been there when Moses brought down
the Tables of the Law from Mt. Sinai he,
would have jumped up immediately and
moved an amendment.
“In Sydney a police constable is kept busy with
a hammer smashing up firearms taken from
criminals.”
MISS PEACE: “Oh, constable, why don’t you
come to Europe?"
Percy Pease, Minister of Lands in the
Foggy Smith Government, has again been
telling Queensland pastoralists of his party's
solicitude for their welfare. Percy says that,
a,s wool prices are not likely to rise sub-
stantially for some time, the Government
“desires to reduce charges generally, and
not deal with the problem piecemeal.” The
same Government has revived, among other
things, the super-tax on land and the 44-
hour week, and the not-so-bloated squatter
is wondering whether the promised gifts
will be as Greek.
Dr. Herbert Basedow, who died before hi'
could take his seat in the new S. Aus.
Assembly, represented a mutable constitu-
ency, Barossa. Here the doctor, a sturdy In-
dependent in politics, headed the three suc-
cessful candidates in 1927, a Labor man and
a Liberal following him home. Three years
later Barossa returned three Laborites. Last
April they were all swept out, two L.C.L.
choices leading the poll and Dr. Basedow
narrowly defeating another L.C.L. man for
the third place. Indications arc that there
will be another keen contest at the by-
election.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“The 0.D.”: Nudism of a sort was not
unknown in the Victorian Mallee 12 years
ago. Driving out from Murrayville one
breathless and moonlit January night, Mat
and I came round a corner of scrub to
Danyo bore. Not 30 yards away a nude
female form stood under the bore pipe and
up on the stand her husband, also nude,
was manipulating the flow. He saw us first
and, in panic, turned the icy flow full on
instead of off. Half-drowned, the vision
shrieked “Oo ! Alec, don't be mad” ; then she
spotted us and vanished, wet and gleaming,
into the scrub. Without a word, we drove
past the statue on the stand and continued
our ."journey.
“Lamentarian” : Reference to “Beware of
the Dog” notices (B. 31/5/’33) recalls a
placard that adorns the rear of a house in
a Melbourne suburb. It used to be in-
scribed “Beware of the Dog,” but now the
last word has been scored out and “Wolf”
substituted. Four or five dole-drawing
families occupy the place.
“Mells”: The Craig murder trials in
Sydney will be notable in criminal annals
THOUGHT HE WAS FREE.
BELLA: “You’ve kept your looks wonderfully, darling. No one would believe you were
married.”
ELLA (who has had her suspicions ): “I hadn’t thought of that. Perhaps that explains
the way John has been going on.”
not only because the central figure had
already been sentenced to 20 years’ imprison-
ment for the murder of another woman, but
because, after two juries been unable
to agree about his guilt or innocence in
the second case, the third, after nearly six
hours’ deliberation, convicted him. This
is a rare occurrence but not ah unprece-
dented one. The same thing happened in
one of Westralia’s most sensational murder
trials, 60 years ago. Wife murder was the
charge, and the case gained additional pro-
minence from the accused being a member
of one of the colony’s oldest families. In
the first trial, .it was afterwards disclosed,
all but two or three of the jury favored an
acquittal; in the second the panel was
about equally divided ; the third settled the
prisoner s chances. Strenuous attempts were
made to get the death sentence commuted,
but the Governor was adamant; there must
be one law for high and low, he ruled. The
hardest fighter of all for the condemned man,
who stood by him to the end, even accom-
panying him to the scaffold, was a brother,
who was to become a magistrate.
* * * *
“Copelen”: Extolling the virtues of the
Scotch, a Melbourne Scot claimed the Sliet-
landers as sons of the
tartan. But the Shet-
landers arc nearly
pure Scandinavian in
race, and until a cen-
tury ago the Norse
dialect was spoken all
through their islands.
Certainly, all the Shet-
landers we have in
Australia speak with a
Scottish burr, but
that is the result of
proximity and associa-
tion. There was a
devil of a fight in
Corowa (N.S.W.) be-
tween two abos. They
were duly dragged to
the watchhouse; next
day at the police court
they told their story.
One, brought up by
the fathers of a
Catholic mission, gave
his evidence with the
brogue av ould Tip-
perary. The other,
who had had a Pres-
byterian upbringing.
gave an excellent imitation of Harry Lauder
in one of his less serious moments.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s telephone directory
has grown so bulky that the latest edition
is driven to adopt contractions. The city
is getting much innocent merriment out of
identifying “Brom” and “Sema,” or “Mlswd”
and “Glnlg” and “Mchm,” as well-known
suburbs; or translating “sis mgr,” “dsptch
elk twn,” “undclo and bts” or “gen talrg”
into familiar business terms. My own choice
for the contrctn champsp hovers between
“wsle grocs” as an occupation, and “strage
and carp elng” as n carrier’s sideline.
* * * *
“Drop One”: Knitting has indeed found
favor among many peoples in many lands
(B. 7/6/’83). Among its most famous ex-
ponents were the tricoteuscs of the French
Revolution, the indomitable ladies who sat
about the scaffold during the Terror in Paris
and kept count of the aristo heads which fell
into the guillotine basket with a fresh stitch
for each in their work—I have often won-
dered, by the way, what particular stitch
they used. Dickens has immortalised them
and their leader, Madame Dcfarge, in his
“Tale of Two Cities.” Knitting is also
popularly supposed to be the favorite recre-
ation of every sailor’s wife. The song tells
us that “She knits and knits and lets him
roam,” while, on the other hand, “He roams
and roams and Lets her knit.”
“Selma”: I want you to add the Colonel
to the list of men who have wrestled with the
intricacies of purl and plain. I called on
him in his dingy little office the day after
he had been rejected as too old for war ser-
vice, and found him plying his needles. “Yes,
my dear,” he said as he laboriously poked
a needle in, shoved it along the length of
its fellow, and triumphantly tossed off a
stitch with a sudden prod that made me
leap backwards for safety, “I have —ahem —
been informed —ahem —that I am no longer
—ahem —of use to my country,, but I am—
ahem—determined to do my bit, if not with
—ahem —the sword, with the —ahem—
needle.” At every “ahem” he paused and
muttered a string of strange oaths under his
breath, induced by the failure of the wool
to go the way it should. He did ten stitches
during my half-hour visit, and I heard later
that as the work progressed his language
became so sulphuric that kind friends inter-
veiled and lured him away to a depot where
the industry was making sandbags.
<( * * * *
. “F.S.” : I have a Melb. centenary sugges-
tion. It will cost the citizens less than they
spend in a week on cigarette papers. Let
the council buy paint in bulk and distribute
it free to owners of property to brighten
up the city. Let a committee of artists be
appointed to instruct each proprietor in
the most effective and beautiful way to use
VOICE OF EXPERIENCE.
“And what would you call the latest thing in women’s clothes, Teddy?”
“Practically any woman with an appointment.”
the pigment. The result would be a better
advertisement for Melbourne than any of the
myriad projects already submitted to Brig.-
General Jess. Melbourne is at present one
of the drabbest of cities. Sometimes one
sees bridges painted with red oxide, and the
effect is as lovely as the red temples and
bridges of Japan and China. But the persons
responsible don’t think in terms of beauty,
and along comes a team of workmen and
covers the lovely red with lifeless white or
khaki. It is the same with theatres, office
buildings and electric-light posts. One is
told that if railings are not painted white
motorists will run into them; but motorists
don’t run into gum trees on unlighted bush
tracks. A good example of an elegant effect
obtained with a minimum of expenditure is
the new Chinese vermilion entrance to the
Fine. Art Society’s gallery in Exhibition-
street. The paint w r as imported from China
for fifteen shillings.
“Poetaster” : While rejoicing with “Cinna”
(B. 7/6/’33) in the creation of a rhyme
to “window,” that despair of poetasters,
there is at least one other. I have a phan-
tasma] recollection of the story of a Scottish
feud wherein the hero suffered grievous hurt.
But he was of the Clan Melndoe,
And so they threw him through the window.
❖ ❖ sjs
“Monty”: Melb. National Gallery trustees
have under offfer a first-folio Shakspeare for
£15,000. Having no money themselves, they
pass the buck to the Felton trustees, advis-
ing them to buy. The Felton trustees, who
have previously strained the terms of the
bequest to breaking point by paying vast
sums for curiosities as opposed to genuine
works of art, are unlikely to defy public
opinion further. The National Gallery, sup-
posedly a repository of art, has been
lumbered up by both its own trustees and
the Felton people with learned pigs and per-
forming fleas, land it is time that they took
a tumble to the spirit which animates the
granting of money in both cases. That spirit
is the encouragement of artistic taste, and
artistic taste is not encouraged by paying out
bags of money for articles whose sole interest
is their rarity and tlie fact that somebody
else wants them.
* :I:
“Onambututu”: That letter that circum-
navigated the globe (B. 7/6/’33) had a
mate in one posted at Tamata Govern-
ment station in Papua donkey’s years ago.
It was to an Australian sweep promoter, and
the enclosed envelope for returning the ticket
was addressed by the applicant to Tamata,
British New Guinea, as the Territory was
then called. No reply came from Australia,
and the mystery deepened when the post-
master’s receipts showed that the registered
letter with the remittance had been passed on
from the Samarai office. Long after the sweep
was closed and the race over the ticket
turned up. It had taken a wrong turning
to British Guiana.
“Pat Busliie”: As a registrar in sun-
dry country districts, I have married many
couples, and the parties always regard the
proceedings with respect. Quite recently in
a N.S.W. north coast township the bride
said “Will you please pray after the cere-
mony? You see,” she added, “Frank hasn’t
much religion in him, but he thinks that we
should get along better if our union is
blessed.” I obliged. By the way. I recall
an aged minister in Broken Hill who
was always ready to fix the young couple
up nn an instalment plan of liis own —
2s. fid. down when the information paper
was lodged, 2s. 6d. on the wedding day, and a
like amount each fortnight till a couple of
pounds had been sent ih or the bridegroom
thought he had paid enough.
sjc
“Jungor”: It looks as if the young man
“Snowy” Rowles, hanged at Fremantle some
months ago for the murder of a bush-mate,
was Westralia’s super-criminal of recent
years. Two other men with whom Rowles
had worked disappeared mysteriously in the
Murchison outback before Oarron came to
his end, and it was shrewdly suspected by
the detectives that he was the only man who
could disclose their fate. Despite alb appeals
he went to the scaffold with his lips sealed,
but a fellow-prisoner who was intimate with
Rowles has since made a statement that
Carron’s murderer admitted to him in the
prison exercise yard that he had “done two
blokes in” after a quarrel arising out of
the ownership of a motor-lorry. Rowles, it
is asserted, was even then more appre-
hensive of their deaths being fastened on
him than that of Carron, because his earlier
victims had been buried in shallow graves,
whereas Carron’s incinerated remains would
be beyond identification. Further investiga-
tions may yet enable the police to sub-
stantiate the grim story of the murderer’s
confidant.
* * * *
“St. Aignan”: It takes a good deal to
surprise Hubert Murray, for many years
proconsul of Papua, but it happened when
he was visiting Misima Island gaol in the
Louisa des. He found something unusual in
a long table at which prisoners took their
meals instead of on the floor, “New Guinea
fashion.” Even more surprising was a
native-built chair at the head of the table.
It was explained by the sooty lags that this
was for the chairman, “white man fashion” ;
the office was held by the senior prisoner,
who valued the dignity highly. He super-
vised proceedings generally and served oUt
the hat. On each side of the table sat the
other prisoners, each in his order of
seniority.
* * * *
“Iluna” : Touching the score of Newcastles
in the British Empire (B. 7/6/’33), Maori-
land only narrowly escaped having one. When
the early Waikato settlers were faced with
the Maori name of Ngaruawahia they
stumbled badly over the pronunciation, and
there w T as a tendency to corrupt it to New-
castle. But the native name had a fascina-
tion for a few hardy spirits, and they in-
sisted on sticking to it, just as a few of
the farseeing some time ago prevented Auck-
land’s Karangahape-road from becoming
Cheapside.
“General Prac.”: King Alfonso, late of
Spain, and now taking deep breaths in Hun-
gary, is said to frown on the proposed mar-
riage of his son, the Prince of the Asturias,
to a Cuban damsel; presumably for the
lady’s sake rather than from any family con-
siderations. The prince has the misfortune
to suffer from haemophilia, “the bleeding
disease.” Such a patient’s blood will ooze
unceasingly from any wound, however slight
—it simply will not clot. A bad cut or a
kick may mean a fatal haemorrhage. The
affliction, like the queer condition of “night-
blindness,” differs in effect on the sexes. The
men do the bleeding, and the women transmit
the disease. Thus, it is a safe bet that half
the prince’s sisters (if they marry) and all
his daughters (if they should arrive in spite
of Alfonso’s protests) will hand on the
horror to half their sons. Hwmophilia has
knocked at palace doorways before to-day.
The last Czarevitch of Russia was a
“bleeder,” racked by the pain in his blood-
swollen joints. His parents lost faith in
the Court doctors, and had recourse to the
sinister Rasputin. The monk helped to seal
the Romanoffs’ doom, and thus a tortured
child wrote a paragraph in the red history
of Russia.
* * * $
“Beta”: Talking of signatures as
the indirect results of drink. I know a Syd-
ney lady who once forged her husband’s
name. Being on a strenuous bender, he had
forgotten to sign a cheque that she had
thoughtfully filled iu for him. Coming back
to normal a couple of days later he visited
the bank to ascertain if her delighted boast-
ing of the success of her coup was justified.
A quiet word with the teller and he found
that it was. I don’t know which was the
more upset, the victim of the forgery or the
bank official who had passed it, but the
latter pointed out in extenuation that the
signature was a vast improvement on quite
a number of genuine ones that had been pre-
sented lately. The exchange of a genuine
cheque for the forgery and the tearing up of
the latter removed all evidence of a woman’s
perfidy.
AN EPITAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To me it matters not, once I’m dead,
That curious strangers passing by
Should learn by the tombstone at my head
What sort of a chap I was; for I
Would sooner be sure that, now and then,
Some mate of mine in a cheerful spot
Will say by way of a last Amen :
“He wasn’t a bad old sort— your shot.”
I’d like to think that, the rubber done,
When someone has gently pressed the bell,
Remarking, “Ah, well, another one
Won’t hurt, while we have a little spell,”
They’ll greet my name with a story gay,
And just as another rubber starts
The dealer across his cards will say:
“He wasn’t a .bad old sort—four hearts.”
I hope when the boys have time to spare
For a friendly yarn and a spot or two,
Someone will wish I was there to share
The fun, as I always used to do;
That, dinner over, when bright lights play
Amongst the radiant-hued liqueurs,
Somebody, mentioning me, will say:
“He wasn’t a bad old sort —what’s yours?”
I hope and trust when I step at last
Over the gunwale of Charon’s boat
That never a backward look I’ll cast,
Or wonder whether I’m sheep or goat;
I only pray, as I’ve pushed my way
Right through and out of the ghostly ruck,
And wait at the gate, some pal will say :
“He wasn’t a bad old sort —good luck !”
QUEENSLAND.
MORORE.


“Oxmead”: What struck me as the un-
kindest gibe of all projected by Lang at
his old pal Willis during the Bulli dog-fight
was that the Welshman was “fresh from the
halls of Westminster,” and had fraternised
with oppressors who wear top-hats during
his term in London. Seeing that it
was Lang who sent Willis across the
seas, and that an Agent-General has got
to be decently civil to all sorts and condi-
tions of men, the sneer seems to have lacked
point, besides being the last word in in-
gratitude. If Willis had consorted only
with sturdy Laborites in London how > on
earth could’he have got wind of that atrocious
plot to throw Lang off the Harbor Bridge?
The foul conspiracy, according to a hys-
terical cablegram dispatched by Willis on
the eve of the Bridge celebrations, was one
in which several top-hatted members of the
House of Commons were directly implicated.
But for Willis’s tireless vigilance, it might
never have been nipped in the bud, and
Lang might have gone hurtling into the
water before De Groot had staged his stunt.
At least, that was the impression I got 15
months ago, and neither Willis nor Lang
ever admitted that the thing was a mare’s
nest. What base ingratitude of Lang to
forget all this!
PRESERVING THE EXHIBIT.
CUSTOMER: “You say the hair restorer is infallible. Why not
use it yourself?”
CHEMIST: “Impossible. I’m the ‘before using’ example!”
“Oran”: The will of a just-dead Maori-
lander recalls a war-time incident that made
an Auckland girl a potential heiress for
some months, though she never knew of her
expectations and was therefore spared dis-
appointment when the prospect of wealth
eluded her. One evening, just prior to leav-
ing on a troopship, three young Maorilanders
sat in a well-known hotel, and the talk
turned on wills. Two of them had made
the necessary arrangements; the third, who
had just inherited considerable property and
Avas without any near relatives, had not
decided how to dispose of his portion. He
listened to the other two talking, and heard
them say that a young waitress at the hotel
Avas the sole support of an invalid mother
and a' sister whose rascally husband had
left her Avith two children. Promptly he
secured a Avriting-block and a pen, wrote a
brief will naming the girl as his beneficiary,
and asked the others to witness it. He came
home safe two years after, married later
on, and on his death recently his estate Avas
divided among his four children. His pos-
sible heiress he never saw or heard of again.
* * * *
“R.G.”: The itch for bringing things up
to date has attacked our novelists. In a
recent instalment of a “S.M.H.” serial, a
tale of the Parramatta-road in Governor
Macquarie’s day, I find an old Scotch lady
comparing the lads of her time to missing
links, and talking of “swanking” and “plush
fours.” As I only came in at the 22nd
chapter, I don’t know what other develop-
ments these forward-looking colonists may
have foreseen, nor with what other antici-
patory slang they may have adorned their
speech.
“Baton Sinister” : That rumor that Hora-
tio Boftoniley was a by-blow of his hero.
Charles Bradlaugh, Avas scotched long ago,
though the man did all in his
power to encourage it, as might
have been expected from him. Bot-
tomley’s father was a small trades-
man in London, and Bradlaugh did
not come in contact Avith his
family until Horatio was five
years old. Bottomley’s death lias
called attention to the fact, pub-
lished many years ago.
“Lao-dah”: One of Australia’s
most trustworthy meteorologists
places less reliance on reports from
inland stations and ships at sea
than on the almost uncanny pre-
science of a leech. H'e keeps the
aquatic wonn in a glass of water
which is changed Aveekly. If the
Aveather is to be fine, the leech
lies motionless at the bottom of
the glass and coiled together in a
spiral form. If rain is to be ex-
pected it Avill creep up to the top
of its habitation and remain there
till settled weather arrives. If a
gale of wind is imminent it Avill
move about with astonishing
rapidity, and it seldom rests until
the blow comes. The approach of thunder and 1
rain moves it to creep out of the water and
show marked uneasiness and perturbation of
spirit; and frost affects its soul in the same
way as fine weather. In snow it behaves as
in the case of rainy weather.
“Bedell”: A Sydney journal Avhich re-
cently published a photograph of the neAV
Presbyterian church at Canberra refers to
the outside pulpit as something unique. Out-
side pulpits were a commonplace of many
English churches and cathedrals in days
gone by —there was one in St. Paul’s church-
yard from which Granmer and his contem-
poraries were wont to hold forth—and the
ornamental crosses which are still to
bo seen in some parts of England and Scot-
land were also used as pulpits. John Knox
preached from the Cross at Edinburgh,
where outlaws used to be “put to the horn.”
By the way, the redoubtable John Avould
turn in his grave if lie knew that the Can-
berra kirk had been referred to as a
“cathedral.”
& & ❖
“M.G.”: When tivo motorists meet at a
right angle in Australia there is legally no
right of way for one of them. That fact was
elicited at a
Melbourne in-
quest last week
and the law on
the subject was
clearly set foi'tli
by the coroner.
Which once
more proves the
necessity of in-
troducing the
Boulevard Stop
into Australia.
With the Boule-
vard Stop there
is no possible
excuse for the
motorist wh o
dashes across an
intersection, to
collide with an-
other passing.
The stop is
plainly indicated
by a white line
drawn across
the street of
minor import-
ance. Where
both intersect-
ing highways
are of equal im-
portance, the
authorities in-
dicate a prefer-
ence, and therc-
after drivers
coming alo n g
that thorough-
fare have to pull
up dead on the
white line and
look both ways
before crossing.
Every side street
debouching on a
road carrying
greater traffic
has that white
line as a warn-
ing—and more
than a warning.
It is a rubicon
which, if crossed without pausing, leads to
a “ticket” aud a police-court prosecution,
The Yanks may be a lawless people in many
respects, but their traffic is so wonderfully
regulated and the penalties for disobedience
are so severe that there are few transgressors,
* * *, *
“Bearbrass”: In the “National Geographic
Magazine” for March is, a picture of a
statue of a Japanese prince in a Tokio
garden. At the back of the photo, rising
over the trees, is the tower of the new
Japanese Diet. It is for all the world like
the Melbourne Memorial Shrine. Just a
coincidence, I suppose, but an uncanny one.
* * * *
“About Turn”; Saluting in the army is a
confounded nuisance to all concerned, but
it has another basis than respect for the
King’s livery (B. 7/6/’33). It is one of
the outward and visible signs of respect that;
all superiors exact from their subordinates,
The average, editor would he much annoyed.
I fancy, if the galley boy came into his room
Avith his hat. on, sat on the table, and called
him “Old Cock” while lighting a cigarette
and requesting half a day off to visit his
grandmother’s funeral at Sydney Cricket
Ground.
“Sauna's Post”: In South Africa the
writer and a brother-trooper went up, the
morning after Bloemfontein was occupied, to
wash at a fountain which had been erected
SOMETHING ACHIEVED.
OWNER OF SET: “Did you get those awful noises out?”
RADIO MeECHANIC: “I did , mum , There’s only the static left now.”
in the outskirts of the town in memory of
the Boers killed at tlie battle of Boomplatz
in 184 S. While we were there a brigade of
artillery came by, at its head a beautiful gen-
eral in full regalia. Wo were hatless, so stood
to attention. The old gentleman opened out
on us forthwith for not saluting. Our explana-
tion that we had done the regulation thing
by standing to attention, since we could not
salute without headgear, sent him away
speechless with bottled indignation. That
was the only time I have ever scored off a
general officer.
* * * *
“Waimii”: A short story in a Maoriland
paper recently contained a vivid description
of a tribal battle in which the rival war
parties, standing 20 yards apart, hurled
spears at one another. Actually, Henare
never used the spear as a hand missile, even
though Missionary Yate mentions that the
Maoris speared ducks. The mere, brought
down with crushing, force on his opponents
head, was the favorite weapon ; next came
the spear, used bayonet-fashion. Occasion-
ally the sling-spear was used. Stuck into
the ground in a slanting position, the short
cord, of the four-foot whip-stick was attached
a few inches below the point, ana, using both
hands, Henare jerked the whip-stick for-
ward with a quick, forceful movement. As
the spear shot forward, the hitched cord
automatically released itself. Old-timers
reckon that a range of 200 yards was pos-
sible but. judging by the spear-throwing of
more modern days, 60 or 70 yards was the
rlnml limit
- * * *
“Soustralian” : Add to the slips in “Caval-
cade” the reference to the year 1900 as “the
dawn of the new century. That year, of
course, was the last of the nineteenth cen-
tury; the twentieth commenced on January
1,1901. I recollect there was a solemn eon-
troversy on the point at the time, but there
is really no ground for argument.
* ... * ~ * ~ * ... .
Siiibad : Saxon says the Britisii
sailor s term for tinned meat is ran y
Adam” (B. 17/5/33). It may have been so
once, but ask any modern saior w
and he will to‘reply
( What luck / a “ d , “® T'IJXT 1? ? -
bweet Fanny A > 3 ,, • ' •mi’
meaning that he received nothing. lhe
nautical slang for tinned meat, at any rate
since 1911, lias been “Harriet Lane,” another
piece of grim humor. A girl of that name
disappeared from a Chicago meat-packing
works: a tin of meat, opened some time
afterwards, contained a ring which was
proved to have been hers. As nothing more
was ever heard of the girl, people drew
conclusions which may or may not have been
correct
ij * * *
“Centurion ’: Lloyd George visiting the
U-.S-A., told Southerners that la
opinion Stonewall Jackson was a gieatei
general than Robert E. Lee. He was on
safe ground since both were Southerners, but
military capacity is a ticklish subject
for the Welsh wizard to touch on. It, was
lie whose backing gave the fluent Nivclle
practically supreme command on the Western
Front. . Nivelle destroyed part of, the French
army and drove whole divisions into
open mutiny in the disastrous attack on the
CMemin des Dames positions. That show
all but lost the game for the Allies.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Victoria’s indecision regard-
ing the best method of inducing rain (B.
17/5/’33) was experienced during a drought
in North Otago (M.L.) many years ago.
The suggestion of a campaign of prayer was
overruled in favor of a proposal that the
skies be bombarded—at the expense of the
Government. To assist the “big tohungas”
(as a flippant M.P. termed them) the Gov-
ernment sent down its meteorologist to
supervise operations. A high hill outside
Oamaru groaned under the weight of ex-
plosives, and when the mass Avas touched ott
parts of the hill littered the landscape for
miles; but the brassy skies refused to re-
spond. Curiously enough, Dunedin, a hun-
dred miles away, at the precise moment of
the explosion, suffered a deluge that flooded
the cellars of its hotels. The Scotclibyterian
city strongly objects to water getting into
its whusky, and the Mayor dispatched an
indignant wire to the Itaimnaking Committee
at Oamaru threatening to apply for an in-
junction from the Supreme Court to restrain
them unless they desisted from further bom-
bardments.
* * * *
• One of the last links with
Blaektoot . One ot the last 1 s v
one of the most romantic episodes in the
military history of the United States broke
the other day with the death of Elizabeth
Bacon Custer. She was the wife of General
Custer, the U.S.A. cavalry commander and
Indian fighter whose command was wiped
ou t fiy the gioux under Sitting Bull at the
j jittle Horn R i ver in Montana in 1876, the
happening occupying the same place in Ameri-
can military story as that of the Light
Brigade in British annals. Mrs. Custer.
w fi o accompanied her husband in his cam-
paignS! wro te a book of her experiences,
an <j fi er s tory of how the news of the disaster
came to her and the other women of the
military post is a poignant one. Incidentally,
when Sitting Bull and his following later
crossed the Canadian border, they were taken
prisoners and disarmed by two of the North
West Mounted Police,
* * * *
_'
“S.T.S.”: S.A. had a fine show of war
veterans at its annual dinner for them,
Egypt, Zulu aud Afghan campaigns were
well represented. There was one survivor
from the Franco-Prussian War, and one
from the U.S. Civil War. The local cliam-
Pion ■was unable to attend; Freeman, of the
Cumea. 1804 56, is now 100.
* *
“Farleigh”: Miss Scanlan, the Maoriland
author, has furnished material for another
those periodical discussions with which
the public is familiar by telling a Sydney
paper that “prejudice in London against
Australasian literature is a myth.” Miss
g can i an; R seems, hasn’t found it so; nor
Henry Handel Richardson, whose last
, , «Tji tim a'Thule ” proved one of the
best ’of best-sellers only three years ago
The M - L - writer thinks that the idea of an
“anti-colonial literary conspiracy” is no
more than a comfortable excuse for failure,
tlint ‘‘Australian and ML
and „ tJiat Australian and m.j .
autlmrs suffer from an_ inferiority complex
Wl {‘ le leavin £ decision m such weightj
SldteS he
secona »tatcmenc anecuy contradicts tm
The author who complains that there
» a conspiracy to prevent lus or her literary
worth being recognised doesn’t, suffer from
an infer unity complex, it is surely a
superiority complex, if any.
* * * if
“Tales” : Touching that Queensland Judge
(B. 7/6/’33) who, aggrieved at the action
' •. .... , .
of a jury in acquitting a man charged
with unlawful wounding, discharged the
panel “without the thanks of the coun-
try for your services.” It is some-
what doubtful if the latter deprivation
would weigh heavily on the erring ones
a s long as they received their fees. For
that matter, is a man really entitled to be
thanked by his country for doing sonie-
thing he is compelled to do under penalty of
fine? I sit on juries occasionally without
any expectation of earning my country’s
gratitude thereby, but simply because I
anticipate being punished if I disregard the
summons. I have occasionally—though not
very often-—voted for no other reason.
In these circumstances I should be amazed
if any Government were to thank me for
helping to return a candidate to Parliament
—and so far none has done, so.
THE CHIC-KNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Quite a new garment is the ‘chic-knic,’ which
has been designed for wear under backless evening
frocks. A one-piece inspiration, it has an adjustable
uplift brassiere and form-fitting knickers.”
—Fashion note in Sydney daily.
It’s not a scientific appellation,
As the unimaginative might conclude;
It’s merely a sartorial inspiration
For the girl Avhose spine is partially nude.
Though, the details seem indelicately clamant
(To all except an artist, anyhow),
It’s the latest thing in fashionable raiment;
It’s what the vulgar designate “a wow.”
For a festive hop, or maybe water-picnic,
It’s an absolute essential, the chic-knic.
It makes the girl who’s somewhat lightly
laden
With exterior apparel, more secure;
She feels a much more comfortable maiden.
While losing not a scrap of her allure.
In short, there lurks a subtle fascination
About the hyphenated word, it seems;
It’s a dainty and delectable creation,
It’s a conscientious modiste’s dream of
dreams.
And my notion is they’ll fall for it in quick
nick.
That feminine accoutrement, the chic-knic.
Those “harem skirts” once furnished com-
ment festive
(W’hen you and I, mayhap, were in our
June),
And “fascinators” had their call, suggestive.
I rather fancy, of a honeymoon.
But here’s a new excursion in apparel,
A something fresh in mystic bric-a-brac,
A sort of supplement to single-barrel
Attire adoxvn an alabaster back.
At many a hop, I’ll bet, and seaside picnic
’Twill fill a long-felt need, the snappy chic-
knic.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Director* *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world. . ™ . ,
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.^
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
YOU'VE WASTED MONEY
in shares and other speculations, and are likely to do so again. Make sure that one of your
investments is safe; be certain of some provision for your dependants should they lose your
support. A good and safe way is to take out a policy with the
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., liTD.,
which has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal
bonuses in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. The
office is solid and progressive. For review of actuary's report see
“Bulletin,” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A, Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WLSTLRX AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Thranghout the States.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Labor party frowns on titles and
gauds, except the P.C., which for some reason
is supposed to retain a democratic flavor.
But Billy Angwin, Westralia’s just-returned
ex-Agent-General, figures among the new
C.M.G.’s, so presumably another precedent
has been created. William, a Cornishman,
is the only dyed-in-the-wool Laborite who has
ever represented the State in London.
S. W. Jeffries,
who is Attorney-
General, Minister
of Education and
Minister of Indus-
try and Employ-
ment in the Butler
Cabinet, is 48 and
a native of Lanca-
shire. The son of a
clergyman, he chose
another learned
profession and took
his degree of
Bachelor of Laws
in 1909 at the
Adelaide Univer-
sity. He is a
partner in the legal
firm of Fisher,
Powers and Jeff-
ries. Elected for
North Adelaide in
1927. he was de-
feated for the seat
three years later,
but regained it last
Apr i 1. In his
young days he
played Australian
football for Nor-
wood at the same
ti m e as Lionel
Hill, - and repre-
sented that club in
1907 when it won
the premiership of:
Australia. He is
an ardent church-
man.
Young (N.S.W.)
was the first town
in Australia (and,
S.A.'s new Attorney-
General.
it claims, in all the British Dominions)
to adopt municipal electric lighting; George
Cranfield, who was mayor in 1888 when
the light was switched on, was the pioneer
of the innovation. He died the other day
at 78. Cranfield was the last survivor of
Young’s first municipal council, elected in
1882.
Edward Mitchell, Iv.C., followed Attorney-
General Menzies in voicing congratulations
when Justice Charles Gavan Duffy took his
seat on the Supreme Court Bench in Mel-
bourne last week. Mitchell’s dad, William,
and Duffy’s grandad, Charles, were both
members of Vic.’s early Parliaments. Wil-
liam Mitchell, after several terms as an
Upper House Minister, ended up as Presi-
dent of the Leg. Council, and the first Duffy
was Premier and Speaker in turn.
James Slater, who has passed over in
Brisbane at 95, enlisted at 18 in a High-
land regiment and got his first taste of
fighting in the Indian Mutiny. He next saw
service in the Maori War of 1863, at the
conclusion of which he went to Queensland
in time to take part in the Gympie gold-
field rush. For the last 60 years he had
been farming in the Petrie district.
Australia should have a useful citizen in
Rex Ferguson, an Adelaide boy who at 22
has won the Timber Utilisation travellihg
scholarship offered by the Science Develop-
ment Committee of Victoria. He is already
an Adelaide graduate in engineering and
an associate of the Institute of Architects.
The scholarship gives him a year in America
and another in Europe.
Sydney Herbert, of an old S.A. family,
is dead at 81. His late brother Charles was
Administrator at Port Moresby and Norfolk
Island. His own lifework was surveying,
largely in the N.T. (about which he wrote
a book) when it belonged to S.A.; and as
a young man he had a personal hand in
constructing the overland telegraph line from
Adelaide.
With the death of Dr. R. T. A. Innes an
early link with astronomy in Sydney has
been snapped. Born at Edinburgh in 1861
and educated at Dublin, Innes came to
Sydney as a young man and went into busi-
ness as a merchant, but he spent most of
In's spare time studying the heavens with a
telescope lent to him by Gale, doyen of Aus-
tralian astronomers. He left this country
to become secretary-librarian of the Cape
Town Observatory; in 1903 he took charge
of the Johannesburg Observatory, a post lie
held until he retired in 1927. Elected to
the Royal Astronomical Society when 17, lie
was probably the youngest member that
august body has had.
Livingstone Frederick Mann, who retired
from the N.S.W. Lands Department a dozen
years ago, died in Sydney last week at 73.
His forebears have a niche in Australian
history; his fa ther, John Frederick Mann,
civil engineer and surveyor, was a member
of Ludwig Leichhardt’s second exploring
expedition, which left the Condamine (Q.)
in 1846 with the intention of crossing the
continent, but was dogged by misfortune
from the start and returned to its starting-
point seven months later. Livingstone
Mann’s grandfather was Colonel Sir Thomas
Mitchell, a Peninsular: War officer under
Wellington, who subsequently succeeded
Oxley as Surveyor-General of N. S. Wales.
L. F. Mann was a prominent yachtsman
in his spare time and keenly interested in
everything pertaining to the sea.
Dr. Lewis Radford, Bishop of Goulburn,
who is resigning his charge owing to indif-
ferent health and will return to England,
has spent a quarter of a century in Aus-
tralia, where he was warden of St. Paul's
College, Sydney, before his consecration in
1915. The son of a Mansfield (Notts)
solicitor, the future bishop took high honors
at Cambridge, which led on to a fellowship
at St. John’s. He is o,ne of the best-equipped
scholars in Australia and the author of
several books and Biblical commentaries.
Dr. Radford is still in his early sixties.
Keith Murdoch, managing director of
Melb. “Herald” and companion publications,
got his K.B. on the recommendation of
Priminister Lyons. Murdoch is the second
Melb. newspaper knight this century; the
other was Mackinnon, the late g.m. of the
“Argus.” In the ’nineties David Syme re-
fused a K.C.M.G., and apparently also put
his protege, Alfred Deakin out of coyicoit
with handles.
Arthur Fames Budd, of the Cocky group
in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, has one of
those secure seats that politicians dream
about. In 1927 he got in for Byron. At the
following election nobody bothered to opposo
him. Last June in a 96.05 p.c. poll he de-
feated the only other candidate by 4 to 1.
The member for Byron, who looks like a
kindly school-teacher, is the head of a flour-
ishing stock-and-station agency at Murwil-
lumbah. He is an Ipswich (Q.) native,
who crossed the border 40 years ago to
grow sugar on the Tweed River. Road
and railway construction work occupied
him after he gave up sugar-growing,
and so did dairy-farming. For five years
he was Mayor of Murwillumbah. Arthur
is a prime favorite with the C.P. Whip, for
he never misses a division.
Jack Sweeney, the latest addition to the
Lang forces in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, is a
long veteran with a slight stoop. He was
born 67 years ago at Campbelltown
(N.S.W.), an Australian of the third genera-
tion 6n the maternal side. He left school
at 11, working in the forests and on
the roads before taking to mining. In
1902 he was one of the miners’ reps, on the
Arbitration Court, and in 1914 he was the
South Coast miners’ advocate before the
Hibble tribunal. For a period he was
Built's Choice.
checkweighxnan at the South Bulli colliery,
and was later elected district secretary of
the South Coast Miners’ Union, a position
which he held for 16 years. He resigned last
year, but the death of “Ironbark Andy”
Lysaght brought him out of his retirement.
Sweeney conducted his campaign with a dig-
nity and good temper sadly lacking in most
of his Labor supporters and opponents.
Robert Masters, Maoriland’s Minister of
Education and Industries, who is one of the
M.L. repi-esentatives at the World Economic
Conference at London, was returned to the
Lower House for Stratfoi-d in 1919, but lost
the seat six years later; in 1930 he was
appointed to the Legislative Council, of
which he was deputy leader for 13 months
He was Minister without portfolio in the
first Forbes Cabinet and has held his present
rank since September, 1931. Joe Ward’s
1928 campaign was managed by him, and
he has been chairman of the M.L. Trans-
ROBERT MASTERS, of Maoriland.
port Board (1929), M.L. Railways Royal
Commission (1930), member of the Cabinet
Economy Committee (1931) and representa-
tive of the Government in the Hawkes Bay
earthquake area in February, 1931. Masters
is in his middle fifties, was born at Brun-
nerton, educated at Greymouth and is man-
aging director of Masters, Ltd., merchants,
Taranaki.
The shortly-to-be-rcformed N.S.W. Leg.
Council lost another of its veteran members
last week when Nicholas Buzaeott died at
Ashbury. He was 67, and dated as M.L.C.
from 1899. George Reid, then Premier, put
a batch of a dozen appointees into the
Chamber to make sure of passing the Federal
Enabling Bill, and Buzaeott, a coachbuilder
at Broken Hill and a J.P., was one of them.
His new job brought him from the Barrier
to Sydney, where he presently entered the
real estate business and took an active part
•in municipal affairs at Newtown and Can-
terbury—he was mayor of the former for a
term. He was a native of Clare (S. Aus.).
R. 11. Chapman, elected to Adelaide Uni-
versity Council in place of Bickerstetli,
headmaster of St. Peter’s, leaving for Eng-
land, was in N.S.W. railways before the
war and is now Chief Engineer of S. Aus.
His father is a professor (also of engineer-
ing) at Adelaide. Tlie other candidate for
the council was R. R. P. Barbour, origin-
ally of N.S.W., now head of S. Andrew’s
residential college.
Frank Fairley, assistant distribution en-
gineer of the Melb. Tramways Board, has
had a more varied career than falls to the
lot of most tramwaymen. He was educated
at Harrow, where he had the privilege of
seeing Winston Churchill ducked in a pond,
and at King’s College, London. He learnt
engineering with the Armstrong, Whitworth
firm and applied it in Shanghai, Hankow
and Nanking. -From China he gravitated
to the Vic. railways and thence to his
present job. With 11. R. Harper he
drew up the plans and estimates for the
original Yallourn power scheme. Ills private
passion is the development of the vast
kauri timber forest on Vanikoro in the
Santa Cruz group of the Solomons, where
La Perouse was wi*eckod in 1791. Fairley
and his wife sent three expeditions to Vani-
koro at a time when it was inhabited only
by cannibals.
In 1927 Norman McTaggert Evans, a Gee-
long College student, left Port Melbourne in
the cargo steamer Otira, it being his ambi-
tion to work his way ai'ound the world for
the sake of adventure. He found it. After
leaving the Otira in England he shipped on
the Quiriston, only to be wrecked; he spent
four days in an open boat before being
rescued. Landing in the U.S.A. he tramped
through 28 States. One night, near Chicago,
a truck-driver gave him a lift, and then asked
him to take the wheel. He did, and with
the young Australian in charge of the well-
covered load of bootleg spirits, the truck
dashed through a dangerous ambush of
hijackers. Next Evans got a job in a news-
paper office. Then he acted as linesman for
the American-Australian tennis matches at
Evanstown. Finally, after many adventures,
he shipped on a schooner from Nova Scotia,
left the ship at Southampton, and walked
up to London. Now back in Victoria, he is
wilting a book on his experiences.
Macplierson Robertson, the Melbourne
millionaire confectioner, who dips heavily
into his pockets not only for charities but
for spectacular world flights, is himself one
of the mildest of men. It was a long time
before he could overcome his horror of sea-
sickness to make his only trip abroad, and
his pet recreation is a leisurely game of
croquet on a secluded stretch of greensward
in a sleepy old street in Ivew (Vic.). Mac.,
who still retains the agility of a youngster,
lives an unobtrusive life, hidden from the
public gaze by squadrons of Packards.
Pastoral and agricultural interests should
be well represented in the new S. Aus. Par-
liament. New members include the chair-
man of the S.A. Farmers’ Co-operative
Union (11. G. Hawkins), the secretary of
the Australian Wheatgrowers’ Federation
(T. C. Stott) and A. J. Melrose, proprietor
of noted sheep, cattle and horse studs at
Mintaro. His Percheron horse stud is the
largest of its kind in Australia.
“Exile”: I can testify to Bottomley’s
persuasive powers. Many years ago I
attended a shareholders’ meeting of the
Northern Territories Gold Mining Co. at
the Cannon-street Hotel, London. Horatio
was chairman, and nearly a thousand angry
people packed the hall waiting to hear his
explanation of how all the capital had been
lost and what he proposed to do about it.
They all looked ready to tear the chairman
to pieces, and the storm of hoots and yells
that greeted him might have daunted the
stoutest heart. In ten minutes Bottomley’s
oratory had calmed the mob, and at the end
of the meeting they cheered him again and
again. What was more important, they
agreed with hardly a dissentient to pay
another call of sixpence on the one million
shares of the eo., called on the Stock Ex-
change the “Northern Terrors.”
“A.M.”: The passing of Admiral Lord
Wester Wemyss has a special interest for
the A.I.F. He and Roger Keyes, then a
commodore, urged De Robcck to follow up
his setback in the Dardanelles; but the
old admiral had no stomach for another
scrap and advised the Admiralty accordingly.
Churchill supported Wemyss and Iveyes, but
without avail; otherwise history might have
been written differently. Wemyss later suc-
ceeded Jellicoe as First Sea Lord, and Keyes
advanced to the command of the Dover
Patrol. First bottling Zeebrugge, they then
fought the submarine menace to a standstill
and revolutionised the whole outlook of the
war. The spirit and enterprise that were
strangled and knee-haltered at the Dar-
danelles found their vindication in the North
Sea.
Charles H. Peters got his company and
an M.C. in the A.I.F. (38tli Batt), and he
has been a boon to the Vic. R.S.L. and Im-
perial Service Club since their inauguration.
But his job consists in managing Robertson
and Mullens, in which capacity he keeps in
CHARLES PETERS, of Robertson and
Mullens.
touch with world literature, and boosts Aus-
tralian works where possible. He is able
to do it not only as a bookseller but in his
broadcast talks about books ; these are heard
all over Victoria, and have been picked up
at fantastic distances from that place. A
cheery soul and a first-class story-teller.
“Gallery Hand”: The late E. M. Clark.
ex-M.L.A., had some ups and downs, but
nothing ever wiped the complacent half-
smile off his face from the day he entered
the Assembly in 1891 with the political
scalp of Parkes hanging from his belt.
Many a late night I have crossed the harbor
in the police boat with North Shore members
of Parliament, and on these occasions one
of the “Hansard” reporters delighted in
telling stories of the old lion. Clark never
laughed at them. “Ah, ’Enry!” he would
■say complacently, while he licked his lips
as if he had just finished a meal.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
1923 .. 58,655 10 p.c. = 39,207 13,000 27,826
1924 .. 55,303 10 „ „ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23,537
1925 . . 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,613 18,000 24,437
1926 . . 89.526 10 „ ~ 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 . . lO „ „ 61,375 27,700 31,316
1928 . . 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
(7 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
1929 .. 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
(8 p.c.)
1931 . . 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) ..
Provident fund, £lOOO .. J 4i,00i
All reserves written off assets, £41,667..
(10 p.c.)
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
(8 p.c.)
1933 . . 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 \ 77a
Provident fund, £lOOO .. ) “
r -i .iis co. has not been brought under those
provisions of the Lang Government’s Gas
and Electricity Act which fix the div.
at 54 p.c. on pref. and 6 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, restrict the allowance for depreciation
and other reserves, and provide for the issue
of new shares by auction. Nevertheless,
at the close of accounts in 1932, all visible
reserves, including provision for deprecia-
tion (£310,242 at April 30, 1931), were
used to write down book values. Also a
smaller-than-usual allowance for deprecia-
tion enabled the div. to be lifted to 10 p.c.
again; it had been steady at 10 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930, but
had dropped to 8 p.c. in the following year,
owing to the slackness in industry and growth
of unemployment.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts business generally improved
a trifle, and more current was used; the
growth in the number of consumers was
768. So despite two cuts totalling three-
twentieths of a penny per unit in the price
of electricity to ordinary consumers, there
was a spring of £7.504 in the year’s revenue:
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,564 £9,463
1916 . . 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 .. 7,596 80,496 31,456
1924 . . 15,032 147,086 78,533
1926 . . 19,310 187,719 83,693
1927 .. 21,267 207,509 97,994
1928 . . 23,125 226,183 104,237
1929 .. 24,928 243,373 117,553
1930 . . 26,239 270,005 126,420
1931 . . 26,880 259,309 110,821
1932 .. 27,476 241,169 104,040
1933 . . 28,244 248,673 106,421
The growth in working exes, was £2381, but
the allowance for taxation (£20,000) was
£lOOO lighter, making the net improvement
£6123. However, after striking off £47,150,
or £18,781 more than in the previous term,
for depreciation (shown as written off in
the table), sending £lOOO to the staff fund
and paying the pref. div., the balance of
the year’s net earnings was 8.1 p.c. on ord.
capital; so the div. was dropped to 8 p.c.
Considering the nature of the business
and the limitations imposed upon cos. operat-
ing under the Act already referred to, it
would be an indiscretion for the co. now to
pay more than 8 p.c.
About four years ago a quarter-million of
scrip was issued to finance plant extensions
and the purchase of city office premises.
The following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows what lias happened in this and
other respects—
iqon IQSI 1939 1933
Capital .. £875,000 £916|067 £916,667 £937,500
Other liabilities 126,096 99,326 143,555 83,913
Fixed assets 1,312,605 1,358,004 1,016,030 1,017,339
Stocks, etc. .. 21,072 16,586 14,126 13,357
Book debts .. 11,289 11,718 8,593 9,192
Cash, etc. .. 6,182 19,988 15,545 31,961
Another 2s. 6d. (£20,833) was got in on
the prefs. last year, making paid capital
£937,500 in 166,667 prefs. and 833,333 ords.
—the prefs. are paid to 17s. 6d. and 83,333
of the ords. to 10s. The fresh capital and
the year’s allowance for depreciation, etc.,
enabled £59,642 to be lopped off the debt,
while £16,416 was added to cash, etc. When
the books closed liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £29,403, an improvement
of £75,888 over the twelvemonth.
Over the last 12 months the ords. have
advanced from 21s. 9d. to 30s. in the market.
The return at 30s. is 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. At 225. 6d. the prefs., which
carry a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. and enjoy
priority as to capital, return 54 p.c.
Prestige, Ltd.
r Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 12,941 544 10 p.c. = 3.761 8636 14,660
Written off buildings, £2OOO .. 12,660
Share premiums, £3425 . . .. 16,085
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9.668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 . . .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 . . . . 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 . . . . 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2,711 104,143
This 11-year-old is one of the most suc-
cessful of the Australian hosiery mills; it
is a noteworthy example of the proper use
of the tariff in fostering the growth of local
industry. Outstanding features of the busi-
ness have been, and still are, the enterprise
of the management and its vigorous war
against costs. Regularly members of the
staff have been sent abroad to investigate
production methods, the aim being to im-
prove quality, reduce costs and therefore
selling prices, and thus liven turnover;
and some splendid results have been
achieved. Paid capital bounded along from
£33.181 in 1925 to £215.259 at the close
of last accounts. The div. and bonuses,
which had reached 20 p.c. in 1929, dropped
to 15 p.c. in the following term, followed
by a steady 10 p.c. for the last three years,
despite slump, the hand-to-mouth policy of
retailers and price-cutting, due to a
scramble for ready cash in the trade.
That the board’s policy has enabled the
co. to take prompt advantage of the fresh
opportunities which the emergency tariff
and exchange have provided is plain from
the fact that more plant is now being in-
stalled, and that the business has been
extended to Maoriland, where an interest
in one of the leading mills was bought last
year. Trade generally improved. The
spring in gross earnings (£325,266) was
£15,568. Including an extra £1273 set
aside for taxation (£6371), exes. (£105,999)
took all but £7B of the increase. Allowing
for the pref. div., enough remained to show
12.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against 13.
12.3. 37.7. 44.1, 30.3 and 34.7 p.c. back to
1927. The div. was kept at p.c. and
the 21 p.c. bonus was repeated, making 10
p.c. for the year ; and the co.’s future appears
to be as bright as anything of the kind can
be these days. But share premiums make
10 p.c. worth no more than 6.6 p.c. on all
capital gathered since 1925, while the jetti-
soning of half the capital in the early post-
war slump reduces the return to half the
declared rate on old holdings.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows :
1925. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £165,014 £169,459 £215,259
Debentures . . 9,563
Overdraft . . 7,460 17,814 14,524 2,709
Sundry creditors 3,948 46,226 67,939 69,152
Freehold . . 15,126 59,355 59,695 75,815
Plant, etc. . . 15,059 114,516 96,372 115,870
Shares in other cos. -—• 26,360 52,546
Stocks . . 16,646 144,214 159,014 125,043
Book debts, etc. 9,669 15,391 21,869 24,875
Cash.. .. 6,679 24 24 14,573
To finance the Maoriland deal and the in-
stallation of new plant, £45,800 of fresh
pref. capital was gathered during the last
term at a premium of 2s. 6d. per share. The
premium (£5725) was added to reserves.
The year’s net additions to book values
were plant, £19,498: freehold. £16,120:
shares in other cos., £26,186. Stocks were
reduced by £33,971, while £11,815 was
clipped off the overdraft and cash was
strengthened by £14,549. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus (£92,630, in-
cluding stocks) was £5814 lighter than at
the previous balance.
The market expresses its confidence in
the management by paying 17s. 3d. for the
fully-paid 10s. ords. The return at that
price is 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At
265. 9d. the prefs. return 6 p.c.; their
annual requirements were nearly 24 times
covered by last year’s net earnings. The
net tangible cover for the prefs. is £3 25.,
and for the ords. 19s. 3d.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
—-Dividends ■, Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 p.c. =12,915 7,040 256,502
New share costs written off, £3856 . . 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ ~ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 ~ ~ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar., ’27. .38,580 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar., ’28..48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 10,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~ ~ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Kept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 ~ ~ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar., ’3l. .28,109 4000 8 ~ ~ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8 ~ ~ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 ..259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20.000 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8 ~ ~ 20,000 260,923
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 1,678 262,601
For a while it looked as though S p.c. might
prove to be beyond the co.’s reach. Slump
reduced sales and complicated the debts
problem, of course, while exchange and
primage raised the cost of imported books
and periodicals, and traders complain that
the State lottery in N. S. Wales lias affected
.the book business there. Still, by weeding
out dead lines, livening others, stopping up
some of the outlets, providing better facili-
ties by alterations and additions to premises
and by strengthening the finances the man-
agement got the business into splendid
trim for difficult, trading. Thus when the
tide turned, and the Government gave the
co. a little relief by removing the primage on
imported literature, the figures started on
the up-grade again.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the spring in gross earnings
(£96 840) was £7740; exes. (£47,704) took
£4697 of the increase. After allowing for
minor reserve adjustments and the pref. div.,
which was over six times covered, enough
profit remained to show 8.2 p.c. on the half-
million of ord. capital as against 7.6. 8.8,
13.3, 18.9, 17.4 and 14.5 p.c. back t 0 1927.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and, at the
moment, prospects of the margin widening
appear to be bright enough, though it is
doubtful whether anything better than an
8 p.c. distribution need be expected for a
while.
Still, the market has advanced its bid for
the ords. from 265. to 345. 6d. over the last
12 months. At the higher figure the return
is no more than 4.6 p.c. on an 8 p.e. div.
basis; a lift of 1 p.c. in the distribution
would increase the return to 5.2 p.c. The
prefs.—there are 100.000 of them —are
entitled to a fixed cumulative 8 p.c., and
have priority as to dividend only. They
fetch 31s. 6d. as against 225. 6d. a year ago.
The return at 31s. 6d. is 5 p.c. The cover
for all shares is 245. lOd. in net tangibles.
During the 54 years to the end of March
last no less than £226,657 has been knocked
off the outside debt, stocks and debtors’
balances being worked down for the purpose.
as the following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’32. Mar.,’33.
Paid capital ... £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 69,000 - - —•
Sundry creditors .. 127,050 98,538 96,030
Bank overdraft . . 79,880 17,418
' Total liabilities . . £275,930 £115,956 £96,030
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £206,881 £206,056
Leaseholds . . .. 25,515 20,728 20,030
Plant, fixtures, etc. 46,595 38.218 35,032
Stock .. .. 332.896 192,521 195,161
Book debts . . 353,249 253,643 239,594
Other assets . . 18,560 181,374 187,005
Tangible assets . . £966,045 £893,365 £882,878
Last year debtors’ balances were reduced a
further £14,049, and £2508 was knocked off
the amount coming to sundry creditors. The
money was used to wipe out the overdraft
(£17,418 at the end of March, 3.932) and
add £2640 to the book value of stocks. Other
assets, mainly cash and investments, in-
creased by £5631. Altogether the more or
less liquid surplus (£525,730, including
stocks) improved £14,14S over the twelve-
month.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
1926.. 36,535 224 p.c. = 21,318 2,960 17,361
1927.. 46,575 35 „ „ 35,423 2,661 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that defied-
amount capitalised .. . . . . 67,505
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31,034 11,855 68.973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 63,837
1930.. 38,270 lli„ ~23,659 3,617 52,843
1931.. 24,291 6 „ ~ 12,745 6,735 48,032
1932.. 17,275 2 „ „ 4,208 17,455 52,420
1933.. 32,853 7J „ ~15,741 15,391 50,699
The scattering of loan money and the suc-
cess of this co. and Gordon’s brought a crop
of cash-order concerns into the field, and
there was a scramble for paper, much of
which has turned out not to be worth 20s.
in the £. Thus many singed their fingers,
and the market lias lost much of the affec-
tion it used to have for this class of busi-
ness. For the investor one of the lessons
to be learnt is the importance of manage-
ment. Opportunities for judgment in this
respect have been somewhat limited, but a
pretty good idea of the quality of the con-
trol can be had from a survey of the
accounts.
About 13 years ago Buckinghams, the
drapers in Oxford-street, handed a fine cash-
order cdunection to some of their employees
who had been trained in the business ; thus
the present co. began. Of its £206,900 of
paid capital £133,609 is bonus scrip, the
last £93,367 of which was provided by adding
that amount to goodwill, raising the intan-
gible to £112,087, not treated as an asset
herein. Thereupon the div. dropped from
35 p.c. to 15 p.c. With the arrival of hard
times came keener competition for a
smaller volume of business at reduced rates,
bad debts exceeded expectations, taxation
made off with more of the attenuated earn-
ings, and the moratorium increased the diffi-
culty of collections, thus adding to over-
head. For the year to the end of March,
1932, the amount written off for bad debts,
etc. (£17,455), was £lBO in excess of net
earnings, which had fallen to less than half
the 1929 figure. Still, 2 p.c. was distri-
buted ; and the bonus scrip makes 2 p.c.
worth 57 p.c. to old holders.
Conditions became a bit more settled dur-
ing the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. Gross earnings (£61,961) sprang
£9207. and administrative charges, etc.
(£29,108). were £6371 lighter, a net improve-
ment of £15,578. After striking off £15,391
for bad debts, etc., there was enough to show
8.2 p.c. on capital, and the div. was lifted
to 74 p.c. Since the percentage of bad debts
arising out of recent business is much less
than it was; prospects of something better
than 71 p.c. appear to be bright enough.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances :
1926. 1031. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £98,774 £206,900 £206,900 £206,900
Liabilities 52,589 33,515 34,845 32,769
Freeholds . . 39,065 39,135 39,135 39,135
Furniture, etc. 2.038 2,809 2,640 2,458
Stock . . 1,805 3,711
Book debt's, etc. 135,028 133,100 126,192 118,372
Loans on
mortgage .. 20,000 20,000 16,000
Cash.. .. 10,084 3,760 19,776
Liabilities include payments received in
advance, etc. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£125,090, in-
cluding stocks) was £9178. Everything de-
pends upon the soundness of debtors’
balances, of course.
The public is interested in 167,068 fully-
paid £1 B shares, which have priority as to
capital. In addition there arc 18,700 A
(vendor), 19,315 B paid to ss. and 16,308
C (employees’) shares. All scrip ranks
equally for dividends. For the B shares 16s.
is offered; sellers stand off at 245. The
cover is 18s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, Dividends v
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1923.. 997 200 797 400
1924.. 3,556 200 8 p.c. = 432 2,924 3,324
1925.. 6,905 1250 200 8 „ „ 586 4,809 8,193
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 „ „ 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 . . 19,514
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.c. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 . . 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929.. 11.011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on new shares, £521 .. 41,990
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,101
12 p.c.
1931.. 9.996 3745 300 12 ~ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14,073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
That this little 11-year-old has been able to
lift dts div. from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c., despite
slump, is due largely to the fact that re-
serves equal to more than twice the paid
capital bad been accumulated and invested
largely in Government securities at the close
of last accounts. For the 12 months to
that date interest, etc., alone turned in
£2370, or a shade under 91 p.c. on capital.
The investment possibilities of the scrip
depend mainly upon underwriting perform-
ances, which have moved in this way:—
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1925.. £26,055 £6,200 £13,800 23.8 p.c. 53.0 p.c.
1926.. 50,819 16,871 22,520 33.2 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 ~ 42.0 „
1933.. 50,062 17,866 20,493 35.6 „ 40.9 „
Though last year's gross premiums (£101,280)
were £8502 lighter, loss of the business was
reinsured, hence the spring of £11.078 in
net premiums. The risks were a satisfactory
lot, claims making off with nearly £0 per
cent, less than in the previous term, and
exes, were over £1 per cent, lighter, too.
Thus the underwriting surplus improved
£5290, reaching £11,073. Of this £3103
(= 5 p.c., the same as in the previous year)
was set aside for bonuses to policy-holders.
Thus, including interest, there was £10,910
available for shareholders; it was equal to
43.0 p.c. on capital as against 23.8 p.c. in
1932.
The co. was given a flying start by the
Royal Auto. Club of Vie., but it severed its
connection with that body about five years
ago, when it was decided to accept all classes
of risks, and “Fire and General” was welded
into the title. The connections have since
been strengthened by the patronage of tin;
United Travellers’ Association of Australia
and the “Herald” Touring Club, and though
a smaller amount of mixed business has been
written, underwriting has continued to show
satisfactory surpluses.
At April 30 policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 160 p.c. of the yearis net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate. There was £11,914 coming
to outsiders. Government securities and cash,
etc., totalled £50,725; book debts, £5213:
shares in other cos., £1447; freehold and fit-
tings, etc., £43,509.
Capital is in 50,000 £1 shares paid to 10s„
of which 5000 carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and
advance with the oi'ds. beyond that rate. At
19s. 6d. the ords. return 6.1 p.c. on a 12
p.c. div, basis. The cover per share is
325. Id. in net tangibles
Red Funnel Fisheries, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£££ • £
1926.. 9566 71 p.c. = 4304 5262 1814
Deficit.
Added preliminary exes., £4392 .. 2578
1927.. 8605 8 p.c. = 6645 1960 618
Reserves.
1928.. 1963 Nil 1963 1345
1929.. 1953 Nil 1953 3298
Capital reduced by 12s. per share —
6s. returned and 6s. written off —
and £BOO of reserves disappears .. 2498
Loss.
1930.. 2498 Nil
Deficit.
1931.. 473 Nil 473
1932.. 8070' Nil 8543
It has been a disastrous experience, for
shareholders. Much of the trouble began
with unwise investment in vessels. Includ-
ing a couple bought at the beginning (setmn
years ago) from D. P. H'ann, the co.’s fleet
soon grew to eight trawlers. The amount
paid to Hann and the New State Fish and
Ice Co., whose business was also, taken over,
was £35,000 in scrip; the other purchases
lifted- paid capital to £124,550. Meanwhile
fierce and well-organised competition came
from a new quarter, and the co. soon found
itself overcapitalised. Captain Frederick
Waley then took control, and, after overhaul-
ing tiie fleet, sold half of it. The loss was
wiped out by lopping 6s. per share off capi-
tal ; the cash released enabled another 6s.
per share to be returned, thus reducing
paid capital to £49,940.
Conditions have grown worse instead of
better, and trading losses are eating into
the cash reservesso efforts are being made
to sell the business. What shareholders
are likely to get it is impossible _to say at
the moment. Here is the position so far
as the published figures show it: —
1926. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £57,389 £124,850 £49,940 £49,940
Liabilities . . 43,885 14,425 3,607 2,291
Fixed assets . . 103,201* 136,591* 29,877 27,630
Book debts .. 3,816 4,939 3,368 2,028
Cash . . . . 375 1,043 19,829 14,030
1 ’’lncludes investments.
There are 124,850 fully-paid Ss. shares. At
the end of last November, the more or less
liquid surplus was equal to 2s. 3d. per share;
the book value of the fleet was equal to
another 4s. 5d., _ making 6s. Bd. in all. The
market doubts whether the fixed assets will
fetch their book value, when they can be
sold, and prices the scrip at 3s.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Man, Profit. Dividends. serves, s.: es.
1923.. 27,407 10 p.c. = 27,407 102,220
1924.. 11.809 4 „ „ 11,788 21 102,241
Loss.
1925.. 34,560 Nil 67,681
Deficit.
Assets written down, £70,000 .. 2,319
Reserves.
Capital written down, £73,674 . . 71,355
Profit on sale of assets, £2,651.. 74,006
1926.. 11,527 Nil . 62,479
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 .. 46,776
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £64,281 .. 17,505
1927.. 3,738 Nil 21,243
Reserves.
Capital written down, £22,102 . . 859
Profit on sale of assets, £1172 . . 2,031
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924.
Profit.
1929.. 3,098 Nil . 3098 5,022
1930.. 792 2.7 p.c. = 4,911 903
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,257 Nil 10,354
1932.. 13,936 Nil 24,290
1933.. 11,643 Nil 35,933
Certainly the co. has met with more than
the ordinary difficulties of the industry- In
1925 £70.000 (= ss. per share) was slashed
off capital to cover losses in connection with
the Patrick line of steamships and the
failure of the co.’s Fraser Island (Q.) ven-
ture. A further cut of Is. 6d. per share
was made in 1928. when Is. 6d. was also
returned in “cash not required for busi-
ness purposes.” leaving paid capital at
£176,819 in fully-paid 12s. shares. Still, the
figures are indicative of the general experi-
ence in the trade of recent years; and when
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 16.)


HADFIELDS (Aust.) LIMITED
Incorporated on the 18th day of May, 1933, under the provisions of the Companies Ordinance, 1931,
of the Territory for the Seat of Government.
HADFIELDS
LIMITED
BAS-IWOCAN
t>£.KT (HtffRAHA
AUSTRALIA
(l I f
UKSOMP
I AUSTRALIAN J
• • ms®* -
ym
Sr.
| HADFIELDS
I iaUSIRALIA’ j
I LIMITED !
Mi wswea «o«> AiOA»i*)A :
2 yAu
an
ON
FOUNOtH
TV
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF ISSUE OF 10,000 6% FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURES OF £lO EACH
The Debentures will rank as a First Charge over the entire assets and undertaking of the Company, both present and future, and will carry
interest at the rate (not subject to the Interest Reduction Act, 1931) of 6% p.a., payable half-yearly. Subject as hereinafter mentioned, the
Debentures are redeemable at par on Ist July, 1943. The Company reserves the right to redeem, after the end of the fifth year, all or any of the
Debentures at par, on giving six months’ notice or on payment of six months’ interest in lieu of notice. The Moratorium Act, 1932, is excluded
from this Issue. Payment for Debentures subscribed shall be £lO per Debenture on Application.
Arrangements have been made whereby each Applicant shall receive in addition Five (5) Ordinary Shares of £1 each in the capital of the
Company, credited as fully paid up, for each £lO Debenture applied for and allotted to each such Applicant.
BALANCE SHEET OF HADFIELDS (AUST.), LIMITED,
as it will appear after completion of the Debenture Issue, and after the disposition of the Funds arising therefrom.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Share Capital Subscribed: 7 Ordinary
Shares of £ 1 each, paid up
in cash . . . . . . 7 0 0
50,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each
credited as fully paid
up . . . . . . 50,000 0 0
100,000 Deferred Ordinary Shares
of 1/- each paid up in cash 5,000 0 0
£55,007 0 0
Capital Reserve Account . . . . . . . . 106,106 13 11
Sundry Creditors for Formation Expenses, etc. . . 1,000 0 0
First Mortgage Debentures, 6% p.a., secured over
all the Assets and undertaking of the Company 100,000 0 0
£262,1 13 13 11
ASSETS.
Freehold, Land and Buildings
Plant and Machinery, Tools and Equipment . .
Patterns, Drawings and Formulae
Office Furniture and Fittings
Stocks of Materials and Partly and Wholly Com-
pleted Stocks
Sundry Debtors . . . . . .
Cash at Bank available for Working Capital . .
£ s. d.
35,500 0 0
141,687 0 0
32,846 0 0
1,599 0 0
20,710 7 1
9,764 6 10
20,007 0 0
£262,113 13 11
The above Balance Sheet has been prepared by E. S. Wolfenden, Chartered Accountant (Australia) and Consulting Actuary, from sources including a Valuation made
by B. W. Jones, A.1.M.E., as at 19th May, 1933, of all Fixed Assets; and a Statement made by Messrs. Hungerford, Spooner and Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.). of
the estimated values at 27th April, 1933, of the Liquid Assets, Stocks and Debtors.
SECURITY FOR DEBENTURES.
It will be noted from the Balance Sheet that the Security for the Debentures is represented by Assets now valued at over £262,000 —or more
than £2/10/- for each £l of Debenture money —and including Assets of £2l 1,632 which cost the original Company over £300,000. Furthermore,
on the basis of the same Balance Sheet, the security will include Liquid Assets —Stocks, Debtors and Cash—equal to almost 10/- for each £1 of
Debenture money.
ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION FOR DEBENTURE SUBSCRIBERS.
Reference has already been made to the proposal to issue to each subscriber, on allotment of his Debentures, the number of Ordinary Shares
of the Company, credited as fully paid up to £l each, equivalent to five shares for each Debenture taken up.
The result of this arrangement is that, after the repayment of the Debentures at the end of the stipulated term, the persons who have assisted
in ensuring the Company’s success by subscribing to this Issue will find themselves still part-owners of the venture which their courage and
foresight will have made possible.
QUOTATION.
It is proposed to make application for a quotation of the Debentures on the Official List of the principal Stock Exchanges of Australia.
DIRECTORS:
Major-General H. GORDON BENNETT, C. 8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., V.D., 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
President, Chamber of Manufactures, N.S.W.
JOHN E. DONOGHUE, Esq., M.1.E.E., M.Am., 1.E.E., M.I.E
Aust., 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Managinj
Director of The Electric Light and Power Supply Corporation, Ltd., and of
Parramatta and Granville Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
GEORGE ALEXANDER HOBLER, C.E., F.R.G.S..
Mona Vale, N.S.W.
Former Chief Engineer Commonwealth Government Railways.
tralian Administration Commission.
Late Member North Aus-
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Head Office, Sydney,
New South Wales, and Branches in the Capital City of each State.
AUDITOR:
E. S. WOLFENDEN, F.C.A. (Aust.), A.I.A. (London),
Chartered Accountant (Australia) and Consulting Actuary,
Mercantile Mutual Building, 1 1 7 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS •
DODDS & RICHARDSON, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
SECRFTARY-
W. V. ARMSTRONG, F.C.A. (Aust.).
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Liverpool and London Chambers, 62 Pitt Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
MELBOURNE BUILDINGS, CANBERRA, F.C.T.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEBENTURES
To the Directors, Hadfields (Aust.), Limited,
Liverpool and London Chambers, 62 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen
1 beg to apply for Debentures of the above Issue in the terms of the Prospectus issued by you, and now enclose herewith
cheque for £ being payment in full.
1 undertake to accept the same or any lesser number you may allot to me.
It is understood and agreed that I am to be allotted five (5) fully paid up fj Ordinary Shares in the Capital of the Company for each Debenture applied for by
and allotted to me. Yours faithfully,
c Address
Christian names
Occupation
Date.
If tor any reason this Application is not accepted, the money will be returned in full.
All cheques should be marked “NOT NEGOTIABLE,” and made payable to the order of “HADFIELDS (aust.), LTD.”


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Uollison and Co. (Melb.L — Advt.
* * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
GOLD
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
r
tmrnm
mm
_.y .< ••••
> y.
y»: :
&
xv :
v (?w>
He's playing the game
-ARE YOU ?
THIS young husband is entitled to be light-
hearted. He is “playing the game” fairly and
squarely by his wife and boy. He is providing
them with comfort according to his means, and he is
insured for £l,OOO in the A.M.P. He took out one
policy for £5OO when he married, and another when
the boy was bom. These call for an investment of
only a few shillings a week. Should anything happen
to him his wife will have £l,OOO, plus bonuses, and
many an A.M.P. policy has doubled its value with
bonuses before it was claimed. There isn’t a better
way of saving money in all the world. The Society
is the largest mutual life office in the Empire, and
every member’s policy is backed by £90,000,000
worth of assets.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office or officer what you
will need to invest to earn that peace of mind that
comes with an A.M.P. policy.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE, A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A..
Assistant General Manager. General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch offices in the capital and principal cities of the
Commonwealth.
BRANCH OFFICES AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
New policies issued fastyear
£i 3, 6 SO, 326
the position clears sufficiently for the board
to see more definitely where the business
stands, assets are to be revalued again, and
another cut made in capital. Yet there are
some, whose own capital is not invested in
the timber business, who would have the
public believe that fat profits are to be won
from the milling and marketing of forests at
the moment.
The trouble is that the plant has lately
got only about one-eighth of the work
it is capable of doing. It lias been
thus unable to earn enough gross profit
to cover the cost of manufacture and
distribution plus the inescapable fixed
overhead charges. Last year gross earn-
ings (£6599) fell away a further £2622;
but savings reduced the net loss to £11.643,
an improvement of £2293 on the previous
year’s result. Leaving the depreciation re-
serve (£30,338) out of the reckoning, the
deficit on shareholders’ account was £35,933
(= 2s. sd. per share) at the end of March.
Since then the outlook has greatly improved,
but it is difficult to say when divs. are
likely to flow again.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —
1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £294,698 £176,819 £176,819 £176,819
Liabilities . . 38,409 3,521 1,331 891
Freehold, plant,
etc 105,503 105,597 105,615 102,619
Stocks . . 175,023 74,198 47,812 39,396
Shares other
cos 105,020 3,785 3,795 3,795
Book debts ) , q RO , ) 12,242 13,576 12,707
Cash, etc. j | 2 ,148 15,964 13,597
The year’s contraction of £3OOO in the book
value of fixed assets reflects the writing off
of the Elliot-street buildings, now demol-
ished. Cash was drawn upon for £4367 and
the stocks item was reduced by £8416, while
£440 was chipped off the debt.
The market prices the scrip at 2s. 6d.,
thus valuing the undertaking at £31,212, or
£109,674 less than its net book value at the
end of March, excluding the depreciation
reserve.
The Electrolytic Zinc Co. has announced
that the prices of lead and zinc do not yet
justify starting up its new treatment plant
at Rosebery. This plant is ready to handle
3500 tons weekly of mixed feed from the
Rosebery and Hercules, averaging 22 p.c.
zinc and 6 p.c. lead. Owing to the low iron
content of the zinc blende, the zinc flota-
tion concentrates are expected to carry 60
p.c. zinc, compared with an average grade
of 52.5 p.c. at Broken Hill. The lead con-
centrates will be somewhat lower in grade
than at the Barrier, due to the lower lead
value of the ore. _ Still, the price of lead
rather than of zinc may be the principal
factor in determining whether production
should begin. About £l6 or more per ton
for lead would make operations profitable.
The ore contains up to 3dwt. of gold per
ton ; this will be mostly recovered from the
lead concentrates. From the flotation tail-
ings a pyritic concentrate, containing 50
р. sulphur, could be recovered should de-
mand warrant.
v ij:
Bulolo Gold Dredging has announced that
the total number of five-dollar shares to be
allotted to the parent organisation, Placer
Development, for the Bulowat and Burn-
side areas will not exceed 235,000. To date
Bulolo has issued 765,000 shares, which are
very widely held. In the combined Bulolo and
Bulowat areas the co. has over 100,000,000
с. of dirt, which it figures to treat with
four dredges during the next 11 years for an
estimated profit of 23,250,000 gold dollars.
The first div. is expected to be paid towards
the close of this year. No. 3 dredge is
scheduled to set in on the Bulowat before
the end of 1933, and No. 4 is to begin on
the same ai’ea about seven months after
No. 3. Each will handle about 300,000 c.y.
monthly. During May the two dredges on
the Bulolo area dug 490,500 c.y. for 12,1540 z.
of bullion; in the previous month 11,1470 z.
was recovered from approximately the same
yardage.
* * « *
Gold-mining cos. operating in New Guinea
have vigorously protested against the Gov-
ernment’s 10 p.c. tax on mining machinery
and the 5 p.c. royalty on gold won. These
levies, high lease rentals and heavy trans-
port charges are all transmitted into costs,
of course. _ Considering that most of the
machinery is manufactured in the Common-
wealth, _ where, in order to encourage the
production of gold, a bounty was paid until
the end of last year, both the royalty and
the tax are difficult to understand.
* * *
Amalgamated Ivawarau is about to hunt
up new capital of £lOO,OOO to make a total
of £250,000 for the purpose of building a
second dam on the Kawarau River, Central
Otago (M.L.). Fully-paids amounting to
£95,000 will go to claimholders who found
the cash to build the first dam, and a further
£12,000 to the parent co. for its interests,
comprising 42 years’ lease of the river and
water rights. Professor Hornell, Swedish
hydraulic engineer, reported on the scheme
in 1931, and gave four alternate methods
for the dewatering of the Kawarau, one of
which is to be adopted by the co. This calls
for a second dam that will shut off the dis-
chai'ge of the Shotover and Arrow rivers.
* * * *
“Cuzinjan”: A new method for the con-
version of copper into copper sulphate—
it also provides a profitable outlet for waste
sulphur dioxide gas—it being developed
in Germany. Finely divided copper, or
roasted copper ore or concentrates, is agi-
tated in a solution of salt, and roaster gas
containing 6 p.c. sulphur dioxide is passed
in. The copper sulphate formed is crystal-
lised out and sold as such, or turned into
copper. This method is worthy of con-
sideration in the treatment of the oxidised
copper ores of the Cloncurry district (Q.).
* # * *
Silaya has exercised its option over the
Big Shine at Lolworth (N.Q.) ; gold won
will provide the balance of the cash, con-
sideration (£425) coming to the vendor. A
grab sample from the 42ft. west level assayed
over loz. 9dwt. per ton. To obtain more
stone from the rich chute, the shaft is to
be deepened, and shareholders are being
asked for another 14d. to help finance the
work.
* * *
There’s a chance that the Joadja shalefield,
near Mittagong (N.S.W.), will be opened
up again. Speculators have been sniffing
round the deposits, which are undoubtedly
rich—lo 9 gallons of crude oil have been got
by ordinary retort. Also (lotting and Son
are experimenting with a small retort con-
structed on a new principle. They reckon
the new refining treatment will produce kero-
sene, lubricating oil and motor spirit. The
bed extends to Reedy Creek, and is said to
be 3ft. 2in. through. It will be interesting
to see if the old field can stage a comeback;
much, of course, will depend upon costs.
* * 1 * *
Adelong Gold Estates’ dredge, which is
to handle SOjOOO c.y. monthly, is expected
to begin operations by the end of August
in the Ovens Valley, near Bright (Vic.).
A test shaft ahead of the dredge paddock
has shown surface wash 7ft. thick, carrying
payable values. Dredging costs are esti-
mated at per yard; and it is figured
that there is at least seven years’ work
ahead. The vendors are to get one-fifth of
the estimated annual profit (£12,250).
* * * *
New Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.)
has repaired its 10-h'ead battery, the mine
has been unwatered to 600 ft., and stoping
will begin on the 20Oft. and 400 ft. floors
in stone which was too low-grade with gold
at its statutory price. The Morning Star
diorite dyke bulge, in which the zig-zag reefs
occur, has yielded over £1,000,000 worth of
gold to a depth of 1000 ft.
* * :!-• *
Ironbark South, Bendigo, has struck a rich
patch below the 512 ft. level; a crushing
of 16 tons returning 15oz. On the 512 ft.
level to the south there is 800 ft. of ground
to be developed. The same reef was worked
on the 325 ft. and 400 ft. levels of the Little
180 many years ago.
* * * *
At Monument Hill, on the Deborah line,
Bendigo, gold is showing over widths from
lft. to 6ft. on the 280 ft. level. The latest
crushing gave 3dwt. per ton. On the 740 ft.
level, the west leg and the east leg are 6ft.
and 4ft. wide respectively; each carries 3dwt.
There is ample stone available; but thus
far the grade is a bit too low to make the
show attractive.
* * * *
New Deloraine (S. Aus.) recently crushed
90 tons for 360 z. fine, which is a bit less than
recent recoveries. A winze is being sunk
50ft. below the 140 ft. level, and the reef will
be tested by driving.
* * * *
Although Lake View’s scheme for amalga-
mation with Great Boulder Prop, is young, it
has received rough treatment from quarters
expected and otherwise. Boulder manage-
ment’s opposition to the scheme is easily
understood; unions, mine workers, tributors,
the Kurrawang Firewood Co. and the West :
ralian Department of Mines are all averse to
the proposed merger. Since Lake View
holds over 500 acres, with ore reserves run-
ning into, hundreds of thousands of tons,
shareholders are curious concerning the rea-
sons for securing Great Boulder. During
the last 12 months, Lake View disclosed
practically a new mine, containing several
lodes, in the old Lake View lease, north of
Chaffers lease, on which the treatment plant
is erected. To transport ore from the recent
discoveries to the plant means a roundabout
and costly process of underground and sur-
face haulage. Once in possession of Great
Boulder, Lake View would be in a position
to send its underground electric trains
through Great BOulder ground to the new
lodes, thus greatly reducing costs. Still, the
terms offered to G.B. are exceedingly gener-
ous if improvement in ore-extraction facili-
ties is the only advantage to be gained. A
lot more should be heard about the matter
at Boulder’s meeting in London this month.
* * $ *
The Westralian Government has granted
a gold-mining reservation of over 10,000
acres, 20 miles south of Southern Cross, to
Western Mining Corp. The area embraces the
Great Victoria, Broncho-Horseshoe and
other lodes which have been tested with little
success in the past. Some importance is
attached to the laterite, the superficial cover-
ing of the district, particularly in proximity
to lodes. It is highly ferruginous, and in a
state of division ranging from extreme fine-
ness to pieces up to six inches in diameter.
It is commonly known as ironstone gravel,
and is used in cheap road construction.
Although pioneers met failure in this
locality, big plants capable of recovering
gold worth 7s. 6d. a dwt. might do better.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) expects to treat 40,000
tons a month very shortly. Meanwhile last
year’s accounts are being prepared for sub-
mission in August, and a 10 p.c. div. or
better is expected. Down to 1000 ft., the
present deepest workings, the gold carriers in
the property aren’t causing the management
the slightest anxiety.
* * * *
Princess Royal (W.A.) has surprised the
market by announcing a 6d. div. A couple
of months ago the promising life of the
Princess was threatened by an intrusion of
pegmatite, but the unwelcome visitor seems
likely to be replaced at depth by gold-bearing
quartz. The cash position is satisfactory,
mine development is well advanced and pros-
pects generally are pleasing. The deepen-
ing of the underlie shaft below No. 5 level
has greatly reduced ore haulage costs.
* * * *
The Norseman (W.A.) has been examined
by geologist M. V. Weatherall, who reports
that the reef is primary, that it is likely
to continue north and south beyond the
present limits, that it will probably widen
in depth and should yield a handsome profit
per ton. The battery has been given a trial
run. and the eyaniding plant is being made
ready. The market responded, the shares
jumping from 12s. 3d. to 15s. 4d. over the
last four weeks.
* * * *
For the three months to the end of May
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) treated 122,630
tons for a gross yield of £19,113 (gold 845.),
of which £5130 was profit on working
account. Working costs are now 2s. 3d.
per ton, compared with an average of 2s.
6d. for 1932. But since June, 1932, the
grade of the material has dropped from 4s.
7d. per ton to 3s. 4d. per ton. At the close
of last year approximately 1,900.000 tons
remained to be sluiced.
* * * #
The Siamese Government recently passed
an Income Tax Bill, which came into opera-
tion oil April 1. Tin cos. have now to pay
taxation on their profits, in addition to
royalty. This means that tinminers in
Siam, what with royalty, and taxation, will
be among the most heavily taxed people in
the world.
* * * ❖
Kotuku Oilfields, on the West Coast of
the South Island (M.L.), which have yielded
some thousands of gallons of crude oil, are
to be tried again by a new co. The shallow
bores, down about 350 ft., are to be drilled
to 2500 ft.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.R.C.: (1) Glauconite is a hydrated silicate of
iron and potassium, in which aluminium, magnesium
and calcium are often present. (2) Send samples
to O. T. Lempriere and Co., or Frank Hambridge,
both Sydney... .C.R.: The prospectus estimates are
pure guesswork; they are not supported by the
general experience of those in the trade. The bonds
are long-term speculations; if you cannot afford to
lose keep out. The whole question was fully dis-
cussed in the “ “Wild Cat’ Monthly” for August,
1932.... A.R.: No record of either co E.H.8.:
A gamble at very long odds J.R.C.: It’s a
gamble, not an investment. All that can be said
definitely is that the co. is going the right way
about things; it has won high praise from Dr.
Woolnough... .F.S.R.S.: If your shares were for-
feited in Sept., 1925, for non-payment of calls, your
liability in respect thereof Inis ceased n0w....
A.W.H.; William Adams for preference... .J.R.M.:
Care Alluvial Tin, .Tamieson-street, Sydney.


S. H. PRIOR OF “THE BULLETIN”
SAMUEL HENRY PRIOR, editor of
The Bulletin since 1915 and manag-
ing. director since 1927, died on June
6 at his home in Bradley’s Ilead-road,
Mosman, Sydney. Death came to him
<>n a Tuesday, the day on which The
Bulletin’s week ends, arid which brought
him in life a little respite from his
labors ; the day on which, 11 weeks before,
he. had rendered the final tribute of friend-
ship to James Edmond, whom he succeeded
as conductor of the “Wild Cat” pages, as
associate editor, as. editor. He died as,
standing at Edmond’s coffin, he said lie
wished to die; suddenly, and a short time
after he had been working at full pressure.
Prior avoided the public eye even more
sedulously than Edmond (who was once pre-
vailed upon to make a lecture tour), and
immeasurably more so, of course, than Archi-
bald, who had a weakness for social gaiety.
Prior’s whole life' was lived between his
home and hi.s office.
He said once that he had never felt so
nervous as on the day he began at The
Bulletin office. It is hard to credit that
this tall, self-possessed man with the steady
grey eyes and resolute jaw ever knew what
nervousness meant; but he was always one
to hide his emotions. As a result, nearly
every conception formed of him by strangers
were misconceptions. One gets to know
some men quickly. Prior was the other kind.
The writer was associated with him for
nearly 30 years, and took perhaps five years
to catch a glimpse of the deeps of his char-
acter. His simplicities, not his profundi-
ties, made him baffling. He was devoid of
vanity. He never wanted to impress any-
body or to be praised or even mentioned in
the papers, or to be seen at public functions,
or to be placed in any position of promi-
nence. Vanity,, in one or other of its aspects,
is such a constant factor in human nature
that when it is totally missing curtains are
drawn across the personality under investiga-
tion.
And Prior never showed anger. As many
mistakes are made in The Bulletin as in
the next office, no doubt, and Prior, who
was efficiency personified, hated mistakes;
but no one ever heard him raise his voice
or saw him lose his level-headed composure.
No detail of the office work escaped his atten
tion. He might notice that part of a page
looked too “white”; thereupon he would
put aside the leader or financial article he
was at work on and write in enough to a
personal or dramatic or literary paragraph
possibly to satisfy his newspaper-man’s eye.
He aimed at perfection. Yet when others
S.H.P., as David Low saw him.
[The drawing was made in 1915, when Prior
was 46.]
fell far short of it he understood, and never
blamed. His orders to high and low were
given in the form of requests. But they
were explicit, and they were obeyed impli-
citly.
His system and his astonishing business
foresight had fortunate results so far as the
employees were concerned. It made The
Bulletin what lias been called “the plea-
santest club in Sydney,” wholly free from
social distinctions, yet as comfortable to live
m as a well-disciplined regiment; and it had
solider consequences. Prior foresaw what
came to pass at the end of 1929, strove to
save the people from the fruits of prodigal
finance—oven to the extent of being de-
nounced as a calamity-howler—provided
against the bad times which ho knew his
publications could not escape, and gave his
staff the benefit of his wise measures. He
was a just employer. When a member of
the staff fell ill, his wage went on as a
matter of course. It was not in Prior to exult
over the. misfortunes of others, but in his
unobtrusive way he felt proud, not only that
The Bulletin, the “Mirror” and the “‘‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly” had weathered the storm in
which so many other enterprises have gone
down, but that he had been able to help
fellow-craftsmen by the establishment of the
Endeavour Press and the “Radio News,”
and artists by the opening of the Macleod
Gallery.
There were as many misconceptions
amongst outsiders, even amongst some who
were fairly regular visitors to the office, on
the subject of the work Prior did as there
were on the subject of his character. Just
as many thought him cold, whereas he was
exceptionally warm-hearted, and thought him
hard, whereas he was very amenable to a
hard-luck tale, so there was a widespread
“He had done his work and held his peace, and did not fear to die."
idea that he wrote only about finance. The
legend went with the personality which those
who didn’t know him "well had imagined for
him. Actually, he was the most versatile
writer the paper has had, Edmond not
excepted. Right to the end his contributions
were liable to appear on literally any page.
Prior joined the staff, at Archibald’s invi-
tation, as a mining authority and financial
writer of rare clarity. Within six months
he was doing the dramatic criticisms, which
in the early days of the century were an im-
portant feature of every paper, and of The
Bulletin in particular. He was a brilliant
writer of verse, light and otherwise. There
never was a better paragraphist of his type;
he could say more in a few words than Archi-
bald himself. He lacked Archibald’s pun-
gent wit, but he also lacked Archibald’s spice
of malice. He hated hurting people’s feel-
ings : he wouldn’t have used the rapier if it
had been in his armory. He could turn from
paragraphs to polishing gags, or judging
stories or poems, or reading proofs, or writ-
ing a leader, or criticising a book. A recent
Red Page review of a batch of publications
on economic subjects was from his pen. It
would be easy to compile a complete issue of
The Bulletin, from the Red Page to the
concluding stories and poem, composed of
writings by him. He did everything well,
and some things supremely well, but his
forte was probably the economic or financial
leader. His vast knowledge of Australian
finance and politics, his clear, judicial mind,
and his simple style, which in its freedom
from anything like affectation was a mirror
of his own nature, made this the medium in
which he appeared at his best.
Labouehere’s biographer relates that the
proprietor of “Truth” once sent an overworked
editor to the Continent for a spell, promising
that he would look after the editing himself.
The editor was just beginning to enjoy him-
self when there arrived a letter that cut his
holiday short. “London,” Labouchere wrote,
“was never so flat. There’s nothing doing
at all. I*don’t think I’ll bring out the paper
this week.” Knowing that Labby was
capable of the enormity, the editor cursed
heartily and went back to London that night.
Prior was like that editor, and most unlike
Labby; but once he, too, wms of a mind to
suspend publication for an issue at least,
though for a very different reason. Low had
done a fine war cartoon, which had been
duly submitted to the censor and passed. The
telephone tinkled:
“Mr. Prior, isn’t it? The editor of The
Bulletin? About that cartoon you sent
along to-day,”
“Low’s cartoon, you mean?”
“Yes. It must not be published.”
“What’s that?”
“Mr. Hughes will not allow it to be pub-
lished.”
“And who is Mr. Hughes? There’s no
Mr. Hughes on the censor’s staff, as far as
I know.”
“It’s Mr. Hughes, the Prime Minister.”
“I don’t know him in the matter. The
cartoon has been passed by the censor—the
chief censor —and that’s all that concerns me.
You’ll see it in The Bulletin next week.”
“It mustn’t appear, Mr. Hughes says.
Don’t you understand? The Prime Minister
will not allow it to appear.”
“Then The Bulletin won’t come out
next week.”
“You can’t be serious.”
“I was never more serious in my life.”
And, as always, he meant every word he
said; he never bluffed. Mr. Hughes graciously
waived his objections, and The Bulletin
a ® u ® l ' a ; .
Prior had another war experience which
may be mentioned. He was one of the
editors invited by the Allied Governments to
visit the Western Front. For once he did
not say no; his sons Kenneth and Bruce
were serving in the A.I.F. The editors
chummed up and addressed one another by
nicknames; Prior, someone said, looked like
one of the kings of old Egypt, so lie war
dubbed “Pharaoh.” Frank Anstey, M.H.K.,
joined the party in France. Prior liked
Anstey, and admired the way the member for
Bourke stood up to Haig when the leader
of the British armies bespoke support for
his attempt to get the death penalty intro
duced in the A.1.F.; but his favorites among
the politicians who came to the office were
Senator Jack Barnes and Randolph Bed-
ford. Both were his friends before they
turned politicians, and Bedford had been a
Bulletin writer years before he became one
himself. In the heart that he never wore
on his sleeve he had a soft spot for all old
contributors, Rod Quinn especially.
With the members of the board immortal-
ised in Low’s drawing. Prior was always on
good terms. Archibald he admired as an
editor (“Archy’s” methods of “soleing and
heeling” paragraphs he always recommended
to new sub-editors), and Edmond as a
writer; and he had a personal regard for
both ; but his greatest affection was reserved
for Macleod, as was Macleod’s for him. They
were almost like father and son. It was
a proud day for Prior when on the death in
1919 of Norman Macleod the Old Man chose
Henry Kenneth Prior to succeed Norman as
general manager. Ken Prior had gone from
school to The Bulletin office, and soon
demonstrated that he had inherited his
A Leason impression of S.H.P., 1921.
father’s aptitude for finance; bin his train-
ing in the “Wild Cat” department had been
interrupted by the war. In spite of this
check he obtained a thorough knowledge of
the business in all its branches, and (as the
Old Man was the first to acknowledge) he
abundantly justified his appointment as
general manager, sharing the confidence and
affection inspired in his workmates by his
father. When, stricken in years and desir-
ous of leisure, Macleod .sold his interest and
S. H. Prior became managing director, it
was no mystery in the office who the father’s
successor would be.
For S. H. Prior did not build for a day
or for his time only. Always in his mind
was the thought that The Bulletin would
sooner or later have to go on without him ;
and he laid his plans accordingly. He never
made an appointment without satisfying him-
self that, the man had it in him to assist in
carrying on the traditions of the paper when
the founders of The Bulletin were no
more; and he recognised no narrow hori-
zons in selecting his staff. Scorfield he got
from England, as Macleod had got Phil
May. H’e sent to Westralia for two writers
whose work in that State had impressed
him; to Maoriland for a third. Of
late years he had abandoned more and
more of his directorial functions to his son,
more and more of his editorial work to his
associate, who took his place when he was,,
on holidays or when —as unhappily occurred
more often —he had to obey the doctor and
rest for weeks, sometimes months. He re-
solved years ago that his associate-editor
should follow him in the chair, as he had
followed Edmond and Edmond Archibald.
He personally trained the present conduc-
tors of the “Wild Cat” pages and the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” and for years he had left
the whole of this work to them. He was
thinking of retirement also when he induced
Norman Lindsay to return to The Bulle-
tin. Of all the artists with whom he has
been associated he placed Lindsay at the
head, and there was none of whom he was
fonder as a man.
Prior married at 19, and was an editor
at 20. His home life was ideal. He is sur-
vived by Mrs. Prior, a daughter and three
sons. Bruce Prior is a member of a Sydney
firm of manufacturers; Phil Prior is man-
ager of The Bulletin’s Queensland office.
To his family their father has left proud and
happy memories; to his staff an example
of lofty endeavor and achievement, of
modesty, generosity and unselfishness, winch
will not cease to be an inspiration.
S.H.P.
Never a star that firm and steadfast shone
But dims and dies when dawn and dark
have met;
Worn with the night-long watches, pale and
wan,
They fade before they set.
But some there are beyond the verge that go,
Deep’ning the darkness over lands and
seas,
Still softly radiant, still a-gleam, aglow—
And his was such as these.
Uncramped the vision’s sweep, the keen
brain’s k<-n,
Unfailing counsellor, unfaltering guide,
Sudden, his voice is still. His tireless pen
Is laid at last aside.
He passes, with the sorrowing tributes due
To high achievement, and the silent grief,
The grief too deep for words, of those who
knew
The man beneath The Chief ;
Who marked, beyond the judgment ripe and
clear,
r The generous sympathy for others’ stress,
The ever kindly word of praise or cheer,
The ready helpfulness.
Honored and loved and mourned by one and
all.
What, liallowing thoughts, what memories
rich and rare, ...
Cluster and linger where the shadows fall
Across an empty chair !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
An Old Friend’s Tribute.
It was my privilege to know S. H. Prior
for nearly 85 years. I first met him in Sep-
tember, 1898, at Broken Hill on my second
visit to the Barrier, where—a talented youth in
his twenties—he edited the “Barrier Miner”
so ably that his financial acumen induced
my ]ate cMe f, J. F. Archibald, to offer him
the editorship of tlic “Wild Cat” column.
T + i,„ -• ..
,*. a f e . to j ,ai . uci la ™ lcl '
*9 * us P e ffc a show at Silverton
111 which I had an interest, and which turned
a a , Half of Silverton was at that
time wheels and trekking towards Broken
, * ’ then n „ „ c whirl of the big silver
boom; and I followed the rush,
G R m T defeat for the Gipps division of
West Sydney, which I had represented in
three Parliaments, I accepted in September,
IS9& an invitation to. transform ‘‘Barrier
a ruth” from an intermittent monthly and a
financial burden into a weekly. I returned
to Sydney on December 31 to undertake the
editorship of the “Worker.”
Ere. I left the Hill, however, I had met
the editor of the “Barrier Miner,” and would
have been glad to take advantage of his
friendliness and to see more of him.
were it not for the antagonism with which
the “Barrier Miner” and its editor were re-
garded by certain Laborites on the advisory
committee of “Barrier Truth.”
It was my good fortune to meet, in days
of ill fortune, with a kind friend and bene-
factor who restored me to the staff of The
Bulletin, from which I had sorrowfully
resigned in 3891, because of my election as
member for West Sydney,
When I was told that my kind friend
and benefactor had passed away, the dav
was darkened and the call from the other
side of the River gained fresh volume and
additional intensity.
GEORGE BRACK.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Honi Soit”
Criterion “The Middle Watch”
Statu Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Hold My Hand”
King's Dante
State Movies and Talkies
»
There was only one thing that mattered
to the musically critical part of Sydney
that attended Philip Hargrave’s second re-
cital, and that was how he played the first
part of the so-called “Moonlight Sonata.”
A legend that has scarcely a scintilla of
siftable evidence to support it alleges that
Beethoven, rambling about in the woodlands
after sunset, came to a lonely cottage in
which were a pale, interesting girl invalid
and a battered old upright piano. Hearing
Nicholas Hannen as Captain Maitland in
“The Middle Watch.”
the p.i.g.i. play the b.o.u.p. he barged in,
announced himself as the great Beethoven,
and, at her request, sat down at the ancient
instrument prepared to play some little
thing of his own. At that moment the lamp
went out and moonlight filtered through the
window, making mystic dapples on the
threadbare carpet. So Ludwig commenced
to extemporise, and translated (to be a little
more literal than the most literal of the legend-
mongers) the pattern the moonbeams made
on the old floor-covering. Later, the night-
wind arose and the moon was covered by a
cloud, this natural phenomenon being inter-
preted by the improviser in the final move-
ment. The beautiful little allegretto isn’t
explained, but it would be easy enough to
explain it in consonance with the legendary
circumstances as an addition made from
memory afterwards. “You. love the moon-
light?” asks the interesting young invalid
“It appeals to me strongly and strangely,”
says the great composer, “and it makes me
sad and joyful all at once.” The diction
becomes more understandable if you re-
arrange the sentence so that the verb comes
at the end of the sentence, as it so often
does in German.
In- the interpretation of a musical work
a story is a help, even if it isn’t very well
authenticated. Young Philip Hargrave gave
a reading that would stand muster as a
recital of the legend. The recital wasn’t
so profound as some great players can
make it, but it was never within coo-ee
of banality, and it sometimes hovered dose to
the portals of great art. That it got so close
is wondefful. The performer has a hand so
small that when it stretches an octave his
palm scrapes the intervening keys. His
arms are so short that he has to slither
from side to side of his stool to compass
the seven and a third of octaves. Young
violin players can be provided with instru-
ments to suit their . physique. The young
pianist has to conquer the compositions of
adult composers (many of whom based
their idiom on their own exceptionally large
hands) on the full-sized keyboard. That’s
the reason why the juvenile prodigy in
pianism is so rare and so significant.
* *
High lights of Philip Hargrave’s third
Sydney recital were the Mozart C Minor
“Fantasia” and Mendelssohn’s “Rondo Cap-
George Benson as Ah Fong in “The Middle
Watch.”
riccioso.” Mozart in his most masculine
and dramatic manner was gracefully played
by those small fingers, and an intelligible
and nicely-shaded picture was given of Men-
delssohn’s fantastic dream. The youngster
also essayed the “Spinning Song” or “Bees”
Wedding” from the “Songs Without Words,”
and made it sound more like the hum of bees
than the purr of a spinning-wheel. Some
Bach, one of Henselt’s delicate little walzes
and Granados’s best-known Spanish dance
gave variety to the programme.
¥ (f ¥
At the beginning of last year Doris Fitton’s
player’s had a go at the English comedy
“The Middle Watch.” On Saturday, the same
play was staged at Sydney Cri. by the Seyler-
Hannen co. There were interesting differ-
ences between the productions. The v ama-
teurs managed to give the impossible hap-
penings an air of credibility. Their naval
characters looked and spoke as if they had
stepped off a man-o’-war. Their women were
natural. The Seyler-Hannen version was pure
farce. There never were naval officers who
indulged in such antics as did Nicholas Han-
nen’s Captain Maitland, John Longden’s .Com-
mander Baddeley, and Harold B. Meade’s
Admiral Hewitt. No grown-up female, unless
insane, ever hopped, skipped and jumped like
Charlotte Frances’s Fay Eaton; Maureen
O’Moor was too young-looking as Lady
Hewitt and didn’t look as if she could tame
a middy, let alone an admiral; but what of
that? Slapstick farce the audience ex-
pected, and slapstick farce it got. Students
of the drama, if there were any in the house
outside the professional critics, had to con-
sole themselves with the finished acting of
Athene Seyler as Mary Carlton. Miss Carl-
ton was an actress, and her stagey manner-
isms and her gleeful disrespect for the sedate
ways of the Navy fitted the picture, looked
at from any angle. Others in the cast who
played their parts in the spirit in which Mr.
Hannen produced the play were George
Benson, who doubled Ah Fong and Corporal
Duckett, Sydney Bland (Marine Ogg) and
Norman Barrington (an A. 8.). Christopher
Hassall (Captain Randall), Margery Cal-
dicott (Charlotte Hopkinson) and Cecily
Clarence (Nancy Hewitt) were more sub-
dued and might have been strays from real
life.
* * *
“Le Gendre de M. Poirier,” done by the
Alliance Frangaise at Mosman Town Hall
(Sydney) on Saturday night, is a bright
domestic comedy which has as the setting
of all its four acts a room in a Paris house
in 3846. E. Dulieu did very well as the
fast-living marquis who married Poirier’s
daughter for her dot, and who finds in the
end that he loves her. Henri Segaert gave
a consistent idea of Poirier, a retired
merchant who longs for a title, and Poirier’s
crony, Verdelet, was equally well done by
J. Playoust.
The three Prockter sisters in their
chamber music recital at Melb. Assembly
Hall played the Brahms B Major Trio and
the A Minor Phantasie of John Ireland.
Performed for the first time in Melbourne
was the Sonata for piano and ’cello of Jean
Hure. The opening movement savors of
Debussy, but this is followed by melodic
Harold B. Meade as the Admiral in
“The Middle Watch.”
passages of a more conventional sort in which
Gwen Prockter made the strings of her ’cello
sing very charmingly. Later she demonstrated
her mastery of the big fiddle in a group of
short pieces. Unusual brilliancy was dis-
played by Marjorie Prockter in the Handel
Sonata for violin in ' D Major, the rapid
movements being played with beautiful
clearness. .
The Palette.
The Australian Art Society’s exhibition
at the Education Department’s gallery, Syd-
ney, is chiefly notable because of the fine
work in oils of William Oates and Rhys
Williams.; Both painters are a little broad
in style. Oates has a sense of form and
color which makes his canvases into well-
composed pictures. He has realised the
poetry of the eucalypt, and in a seascape—
moonlight on foaming breakers—he makes
an effective job of an often-tried and diffi-
cult subject. Rhys Williams is at his best
in his harbor glimpses of Sydney city, and
in his studies of the pleasant countryside
round Windsor. There’s a richness in his
treatment of these scenes which goes one
better than Streeton on Streetonesque lines.
Noel Rubie shows four portraits, direct and
simple, well-drawn. The best of these is
“Norma,” a lady in black, effectively posed.
11. C. Hadley in “The Picnic” gives the real
appearance of sunlight. Kate Beard, a
water-colorist, deserves praise for finding a
picturesque spot in a Sydney right-of-way.
There are two nudes in the show, both more
conscientious than graceful. The bird
studies of James A. Crisp are pleasant, and
Walter Dowman and W. M. Whitney exhibit
water-color landscapes and river scenes that
demonstrate sound technique.
“Fedup”: Sydimy usually harbors at least
one show of paintings or sculptures which
flaunt the adjective “modernist,” and some-
times it has two or three of these flourishing
synchronously. I’ve seen at least 50 of
these exhibitions, and I’m no further for’arder
in understanding the cult than I was when
I started. If there be any virtue in modern-
ism it must consist in originality, but all
these modernists seem to be bound by con-
ventions. Among these conventions are
Margery Caldicott as Charlotte Hopkinson
in “The Middle Watch.”
(apparently) (a) that large designs composed
of things like tulips and their stalks can be
used as a background for anything. (6)
That nothing (especially the human body)
should be drawn with any regard to its
measurable proportions, (c) That the laws
of perspective, as generally understood, must
be disregarded. ( d ) That in color prefer-
ence should be given to debased or muddied
hues, a first rule being that they shouldn’t
have any parallel in nature. In 23 out of
36 exhibitions of which I have tabulated
notes the favorite color was a weak magenta,
and this was invariably applied to the stalks
of the tulip-like things, (e) That in sculp-
ture, if the contours of the human figure
are presented with any resemblance to ana-
tomic fact, only a portion of the figure must
be done. Stomachs seem to be most favored
in this respect, and their dismembered
appearance has inspired me with gloom. (/)
In sculpture, rule (6) applies to complete
figures. (g) Vegetation and, occasionally,
apports from the animal kingdom must be
deemed to be transparent. I could go on,
but I won’t. I’ve asked the sort of people
who open shows of this sort of art what
they think about it, and they tell me the
aim of the artist is to interpret not the body
but the soul of things. Souls must be
horridly ugly.
Sam Atyeo, who gave great promise in
his student days at Melb. National Gallery,
is showing some of his most recent paint-
ings at 367 Little Collins-street. The artist
seems to have, been experimenting with
various modernist cults and styles, and has
found nothing very significant to express
in any of the new manners. A couple of
pleasant landscapes, apparently thrown in
for contrast, provide evidence that Mr.
Atyeo can still paint in the old-fashioned
way he was taught.
Adelaide Society of Arts has been housing
two shows. One was of rare books; Public
Library and University collaborated’ in exhi-
biting, but private citizens came to light with
an astonishing lot of treasures. The other
was Mrs. Dunstan’s hand-weaving work,
artistic and practical. Her strong sideline is
the extraction of a wide range of dyes from
walnut-husks, roots and suchlike unpromising
matter.
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
Arthur Murch, who was a member of a
scientific expedition to Central Australia,
exhibits paintings and pencil sketches of the
scenery and native inhabitants in the region
he visited. An earlier example of his art,
a nude study, “The Judgment of Paris,” is
included in the show, and the excellence of
its technique encourages belief in the veri-
similitude of the studies of aboriginals of
various ages and both sexes. Some of these
are admirably vigorous. The landscapes in
oils are not so convincing. They may con-
vey, to the right sort of metaphysician, the
spirit of the interior, but their message is
not for the average man.
At Melbourne Athenaeum Septimus Power
has been ventilating his affection* for the
horse in canvases that grow larger and
larger at prices that soar higher and
higher. Power paints horses straining
strenuously at loads in a manner which
conveys conviction to the citizen not too
deeply versed in the mysteries of equine
anatomy. In his studies of flowers he uses
brilliant colors almost unmodified by tone,
and the confusion of planes causes a feeling
of uneasiness in the observer. The slick-
ness of Power’s method is seen at its best in
the new—for him —medium of pastel.
A memorial exhibition of sculpture and
painting at the Grosvenor Galleries. Mel-
bourne, reminds one that the late Charles
Douglas Richardson had the grandest mous-
tache ever worn by any Victorian artist.
Like his painting and his sculpture it be-
longed to a vanished era. The assembled
relics of the artist are more interesting his-
torically than artistically, though a vigorous
figure of a naked girl dancing (No. 39) is
a stray from the academic fold.
William Dobell, holder of the Sydney
Society of Artists’ travelling scholarship for
1929, is doing well in London. In this
year’s Academy show he has a small in-
terior hung on the line. It is called “Boy
at the Washbasin,” and depicts a youth
stripped to the waist in front of a wash-
stand in a Bloomsburyish bed-sitting-room.
Details are done with a delicate precision
that earned high praise from eminent critics.
At Slade School, Dobell won the first prize
for painting from the nude —an honor
gained by Orpen in his time.
Poverty Point
“S.S.”: This Page hasn’t hitherto
harbored a book review, but the matter con-
cerns drama and music. The Firm has
dropped a bouquet on the bier of Sydney’s
Her Majesty’s, and The Bulletin and the
theatre have reigned, as Mr. Dooley said
of Queen Victoria and himself, over" about
the same era. The bouquet is a well-done
souvenir of the old stand, the connecting
story by John Sandes. The eyes of old
theatre-goers will rest very, very kindly
on this record, literary and pictorial, of
the life of a theatre which, for close on half
a century, played a part, the value of which
is not easily assessable, in the aesthetic
education of a city which had a rough up-
bringing. There, as reproductions of old
programmes and photographs remind us,
Melba was Mimi in “La Bohfeme” ; Pavlova
danced; Bernhardt showed how French
drama should be acted; John McCormack
sounded his golden notes, Galli-Curci her
echoes from fairyland; George Bignold,
Wilson Barrett, Julius Knight and Oscar
Asche ascended heights (sometimes on-
h'orses that didn’t look a bit like Pegasus,
but that’s a tribute to their art), and Mag-
gie Moore and Nellie Stewart and a host
of other magnetic ladies exercised their fatal
fascinations. Down in the orchestra well
Slapoffski oft wielded his well-instructed
baton. Only a few of the great figures that
took that stage remain with us. If James
Cassius Williamson revisits the glimpses of
the moon and finds the place a cash-and-
carry he won’t be sorrier than the members
of the Old Brigade who survive him.
“Garrick”: Sydney Carroll, organiser of
London’s first permanent open-air theatre
at Regent’s Park, recently opened with a
Shakspearean performance, is an Austra-
lian by birth. He has been actively inter-
ested in the theatre for years, and has made
a name for himself as a dramatic critic.
The stage at Regent’s Park is of green
sward; floodlighting apparatus has been
installed, and amplifiers are affixed to the
trees surrounding the space set aside for
an audience of thousands. The backstage
technical apparatus, dressing-rooms and
entrances and exits for the performers are
concealed behind natural shrubberies.
“Hamfat”: Gus Fi’ancks, a German-Aus-
tralian who has been so long in America
that he has been forgotten on tins side, has
played his last talkie role. He did small
parts, but he did them very well. He was
a leading juvenile in Australian travelling
shows before he decided to try bis luck in
the U.S.A. A handicap which weighed
more against him in Australia than in poly-
glot America was his German accent and
a liability to trip over English. I once
heard him declare “Not another step shall
you advance over my dead body!”
“L.H'.P.” : The biggest flop in the history
of Sydney Her Majesty’s was the great John
L. Sullivan as the blacksmith in “Honest
Hearts and Willing Hands.” John’s idea of
the proper attire for a farrier at a-forge was
a stiff white shirt, black knickers, gorgeous
stockings and patent leather boots. The
Sydney “gods” jeered him, asking why he
didn’t fight Jackson and so forth. John,
one night, strode down to the footlights and
yelled to the thin audience “After the show
I’ll put a tail on some of you ducks!” On
his dismal farewell night he gave the Sydney
press beans.
“Cauboy”: A .Czecho-Slovakian Ambassa-
dor stepped out of a motor-car in Mel-
bourne’s Collins-street and proffered a two-
shilling piece in exchange for a “Herald.”
“Keep the change, boy,” he said airily, step-
ping back into the vehicle. The boy closed
his fist on the coin and stared open-mouthed
after this fairy godfather. “Ai!” said his
mate, “make shore you’ve got it —that’s
Dante!” The boy’s expression changed
quickly, and he opened his hand, but the
coin was there all right.
Norman Barrington guards Athene Sayler
and Charlotte Frances in “The Middle
Watch.”
“Bra”: France recently honored the
memory of Antoine Joseph (or Adolphe)
Sax with a musical gala. Evidently the
inventor of the saxophone has been forgiven.
It was stated in “The Times” that he died
a natural death (not being stoned as some
imagine) in 1594. Sax was a Belgian who
migrated to Paris and made a name for
himself among the French military hands.
In 1851 he won the Council medal at Lon-
don’s Great Exhibition. Subsequently r
Belgian band of his schooling, armed with
six different sizes of tlie saxophone, invaded
England and introduced the instrument (or
weapon) into London. German musicians
were probably the first to make the saxo-
phone famous (or infamous) ; and the in-
vention of jazz in the U.S.A. (1910 was
the date of that calamity) was the means
of creating a sax.-music epidemic that has
since spread throughout the uncivilised
musical world.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Siam Can Do It
Between April and December, 3932. the
State railways of Siam showed a profit of
£270.105 on a revenue of £690,731, expendi-
ture being £420,566. As in Westralia and
Queensland, the gauge is 3ft. 6in. A magni-
ficent train makes the round trip, Bangkok-
Penang-Bangkok, twice weekly; it is hauled
by a German Diesel motor, which insures
cleanliness, steadiness and comfort, as well
as clipping 16 hours off the time taken by
locomotive haulage. There are baggage and
mail cars, a model kitchen and dining car,
and comfortable day-and-night cars, with
single and double berths. Three classes
are carried; the average fare is 1.4 d. per
mile. The Department of Communica-
tions does not have to fight road competi-
tion. Roads ara> constructed at right angles
to the railway as feeders; there are no
parallel highways. Thus the railway car-
ries everything. Pity Australia wasn’t as
farsighted.— Skiamka’t (Siam).
Where Did It Go?
The report of the Commonwealth Wool
Inquiry Committee mentions that the
U.K. “is the principal buyer of Australian
wool, taking over 30 per cent, of the amount
exported. It re-exports 43.9 per cent, of
its imports of merino wool and 43 per cent,
of its imports of crossbred wool, 96 per cent.,
of such re-exported wool being re-exported
without treatment.” After discovering some-
thing which clearly looked worth while in-
quiring into, it would appear that the in-
quiry committee ceased to inquire. If a
profit was shown on so huge a resale, and
it is fair to assume that there was, one is
forced to the conclusion that, while depriv-
ing the woolgrower of even his cost on pro-
duction, the depression was quite able to
protect the speculator. To where this huge
quantity of wool went in the grease and
upon what terms it was transferred to a
third party is information to which the Aus-
tralian producer is entitled.— Harold Sims
(N.S.W.).
And They Blame the Banks
As a fruitgrower who docs not export, I
get no exchange bonus. The price of my
fruit has slumped as disastrously as that of
wool and wheat; but no one worries about
me. Yet I have to pay more for my fer-
tilisers, spraying material and anything
else I use that is .imported. On top of that
the Queensland railways have increased
freight rates and fares; and I pay on every-
thing I send away and receive. The commis-
sion agents in the markets still charge 10
Per cent, on my sales returns. The C.O.D.
takes a penny a case. Why; it costs me lOd.
to travel by train to the next station, four
miles 14 chains.— -Friar Tucic (Q.).
A Medical Book of Signals
We read sometimes that a steamer has
sent a request for medical aid owing to an
accident or sickness on board. There is a
great need for some book of signals for such
cases, one part to be devoted to a list of
accidents and of symptoms, and a second
part to remedies. The military and the wire-
less people have signal, books, and lives
would be saved if the idea were extended
as I suggest. Sometimes the master —poor
devil—is the patient, and the distant doc-
tor has to prescribe on insufficient data.—
M.D.Mo. (N.S.W.).
The 44-hour Week
It is no use expressing an opinion in dis-
favor of the 44-hour week without backing
it with some evidence. So here you are.
It was tried on the Queensland sugar fields—
the shortest week in agricultural work in the
world. To-day it is generally agreed that
during that period there were more workers
unemployed than from any other cause since
the old days of a quid a week and tucker.
In the first place, it meant that 2s. 4 9-lld.
per hour northern district, 2s. 3 2-11 d. cen-
tral district and 2s. 2 1-lld. southern dis-
trict were too much to pay for chipping (the
weekly wage remained the same while the
hours were reduced) ; accordingly, no chipping
was done to ratoons, and all the plant cane
was mechanically stripped by spinners, bran
weeders, etc. On our property of 260 acres
it also meant that with an eight-hour day
too great a proportion of the 24 hours was
taken up in getting the teams to and from
work, as compared with actual time worked
in the field (the horsedrivers’ day begins from
the moment they enter the stables)- —roughly
4s. 4d. to 4s. 9d. per man per day spent
in taking teams to and from work, and
expensive teams fed to do only six hours’
work and only two hours fifty minutes on
Saturday. To get over this difficulty we
built temporary stalls at different parts of
the farm and had a lad to cart our feed and
water so that 20 minutes going home and 30
minutes going out again at midday would
be cut out. This was only a slight saving,
and on going over our figures again at the
end of a month we saw that to us horse
teams were an impossibility. There was no-
thing else for it but the tractor and multi-
plough, with a rotary cultivator and grubber
for ratooning. More ground is worked under
the plough, and lighter and dirtier crops are
grown, but we have a chance now of pulling
out even —we had none with the horses
Now, overseas countries supply tractors,
oil and fuel, while local workers (who are
also our best consumers) go on the dole.—
Ooela (Q.).
Four-and-seven and a Hanky
While we’re on the subject of making
marriage easier (B. 31/5/’33), I’ll introduce
a way they have in Scotland. The charge
for the proclamation of banns is 2s. 6d. and
a certificate of marriage costs 2s. Id. Now,
as there is a belief in the land of haggis that
May marriages are unlucky, the rush starts
in June. On the first and second Friday
nights, the meenister lines up all the young
couples in a circle around him and does the
job. The recognised payment for his ser-
vices is a white silk handkerchief. —Jock
(Q).
Wool for Mattresses
Rank me with the advocates for the using
of Aus. wool in mattresses instead of im-
ported kapok. To blow out the main argu-
ment against it, I’ll make an affidavit, from
personal experience, that when wool is put
through curling machines it comes out the
size of a French bean and it never mats.
Another virtue is that it will not turn to
dust as kapok makes a hobby of doing. It
should be pointed out, however, that machines
used for curling flock (rags, etc.) are not
suitable for wool.—W. J. 11. (N.S.W.).
Devaluation of Land
Will the lending of further money help
to make over-valued farms pay? Of course
it will not. The bigger the mortgage the
greater the struggle, and, in the end, the
sadder the collapse. It would be difficult to
calculate the money lost in N. S. Wales m
land purchase during the last 30 years. Leav-
ing out the exorbitant price paid for city
blocks, we find that in many of the distant
suburbs thousands upon thousands of pounds
have been wasted. In one suburb, for
example, land was bought for £1 per foot.
To-day, after paying 30 years’ rates, you
can get no more than half that price. In
the country the writer saw farms sold for
£4O per acre which would not pay 2 per
cent, on the money invested, and which re-
quired on top of that the labor of a whole
family without any charge whatever. —
Searchlight (N.S.W.).
The Limitation of Families
Evidently “Sandig” (B. 5/4/’33) holds to
the old idea that sex knowledge should be
confined to doctors; yet he admits that when,
through lack of knowledge, undesired and un-
desirable conception takes place, abortion is
resorted to. He advances a solution: mar-
riage, with a dowry. But if birtli control
is banned, children will arrive with (to the
woman) terrifying regularity. Such a life is
enough to break any woman, even the
strongest, as the respite necessary for the
rebuilding of the physical and mental sys-
tem is lacking; whereas a properly spaced
and moderate-sized family is a pleasure and
joy to her. It may be urged that our
mothers and grandmothers survived the
ordeal. Many did not, and those who did
kept paying for it all their lives. Marriage,
either with or without a dowry, the mere
legal sanction of the union of man and
woman, will not solve the social and econo-
mic problems. Rather does at least a part-
solution lie in the very knowledge “Sandig”
condemns. Uhdesired children can never be
other than a burden on the State; desired
children are always an asset. The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury said (4/4/’3O) : ‘‘l
would rather have all the risks which come
from free discussion of sex than the great
nsks we run by a conspiracy of silence.
L 6 S f • y
‘ ' ' '
•
Pounds or Quids?
m tt cs a
Mhen England m 1931 and the U-S.A.
recently went ott the gold standard” the
average person gathered the impression that
there was then no connection between the
currencies of those countries and gold. In
England the change has been to make gold
more valuable in sterling. In the TT.S.A. gold
is now more valuable in dollars than was the
case before the standard metal was said to be
abandoned. There is need for clearer defini-
tion of the “pound.” In the good old days
the variation in actual value was small, but
to call the English or Australian £l note
a pound” now is irrational. I think it was
Mr. Justice Starke who suggested that to
overcome the difficulty Australian pounds
should be called “quids.” They often are,
and it would be helpful if the custom became
gcneral.—A. H. P. M. (Tas.).
'
. .. , ,
The Civil-Service Hammerlock
Almost every law that is passed gives
more and more power to the public-service
departments until the position is such that
Australia is no longer a democracy but a
bureaucracy. A privileged class has always
been one of the essential ingredients of a
revolution, and the civil services of Aus-
tralia are fast becoming as greedy and irre-
sponsible as were the pre-revolutionary rul-
ing classes of France and Russia. Most
federal and State Ministers soon find that
their troubled life is made easier if they
leave administrative matters to their depart-
ment officers. A committee of experts offered
some advice in connection with aviation, with
the result that the Ministry for Defence
issued a statement which had the brand of
the bureau all over it, and which was an
insult to the intelligent Australian seeking
something more than puerilities. We
found the same thing in regard to the censor-
ship of books. In fact, the real rulers of
the Commonwealth seem to be the civil ser-
vants—and sometimes not too civil at that!
— ; C'ato (Q.).
Where’s That Gun?
I! , , J
Plul May s Bulletin drawing of things
we see when we go out without our gun
suggested a gun for some things that annoy the
unemployed: (1) Any professor, economist,
statistician or politician who expresses the
opinion that we have “now definitely turned
the corner”; (2) the announcement that
Ramsay MacDonald lias called a conference to
propose a procedure for preparing a protocol
t 0 provide a protection that must precede
an y project for preparing a war-debts con-
ference as a conscientious concession to
civilisation; (3) the camouflaged advertise-
ment in the “Positions Vacant” column
which the hopeful is induced to read, only
to discover at the end that pupils are re-
quired for a correspondence school or a
dancing academy; (4) the statistician who
reportß that the revenue from the sale of
broken beer-bottle caps this quarter exceeds
by 2s . 7-Jd. that for the corresponding
quarter last year. (5) The cheerful optimism
0 f the friend in a cushy job who. after ask-
j n g U s if we are still out, says. “Never mind,
something is sure to turn up soon.”— Dicky
Doleticket.
The Small Farmer as Employer
When Trades Hall secretaries complain
v , vinon
about farmers ,^. ho are not pajmg £lOOO
a year (°r something like that) to their wage
workers, some details are overlooked, ihe
farmer with a capital of £2OOO and a mort-
gage of £lOOO will have a net income of any-
thing up to £2 a week. This represents not
only his own work of 70 hours a w r eek or
more,, but also the work of his family. His
children begin to toil six or seven years
earlier than city children. How can he
possibly pay £3 12s. for 44 hours’ work?
If by some miracle, he contrived to pay it
Irades Hall blatherskites would be dissatis-
opt‘- Heresone (Q-) -
Unemployed Problem
The new scheme of work for everyone
under local municipal council supervision is
going to have one unlooked-for result. For
the first time since their problem became
v « w . „ .
acat£ g .' e N.S.W. unemployed have been & i\en
a Dcfiiaitc opportunity to get together and
organise. Ibis, of course, will foster and
spread the natural antagonism against a
condition under which, it is no exaggeration
to say, thousands of youngsters are growing
up with the unemployed outlook on life,
Relief works arc getting the country no
further, unless it is into debt. Settlement
on the land would hold out the prospect of
permanent solution. It would cost more to
start with, but it would be a great asset in
the long run. Apart from everything else, it
would provide a vent-hole for revolutionary
s team. Sanely led, a genuine unemployed
organisation, unfettered by any particular
political allegiance, might be advantageous,
On the other hand, it might be merely a
nuisance, and the world is overstocked with
nuisances.— Kendall (N.S.W.).
THE CONQUEROR.
“While the world is saying that cheap Japanese goods, largely the produce of sweated female labor, are menacing
Western civilisation, the Japanese Government has unreservedly accepted the Roosevelt disarmament proposals.”
“But, honorable officers, SHE is conquering for us."


LIFE —A BUSINESS
It is a paradox, perhaps, that while Home Life is a refuge from
business, it is itself a business.
Money enters so largely into everything that it must be planned
for in every phase of life.
It is in business that money is earned, in the Home, chiefly, that it
is spent, and there is no sound reason why the spending should not be
regarded as being just as important as earning. In fact, it is far more
important, for earning is difficult, and must employ wisdom, forethought
and energy, while spending is easy, so easy that there is temptation to
spend unwisely.
Every Home, then, is a business, and needs an economic system, of
which the Savings Bank Pass Book can be the valuable basis.
i&mmonwealtl) Savings JBanfc o! Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
DIRECTORS —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G,
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
c*
Now in its 92nd Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
- R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Mr. \V. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“FY7”: Frith’s drawing of the aristocratic
“Clarence Clodhopper” (B. 7/6/’33) recalls
a long-ago invasion of the Diamantina (Q.)
by English pastoralists by deputy. The
party of both sexes included the owner of
Diamantina Lakes; he was one of the lordly
house of Percy, and lived right up to it.
They came in a special Cobb coach, and the
men introduced the first plus-fours ever seen
on the Diamantina, while the women were in
short-skirted tweeds with spiked shoes and
alpenstocks. They had a complete battery,
from an elephant-gun down to a derringer
pistol for each woman. Big game was dis-
appointingly lacking, but the party shot
pretty well everything else, including the
Scotch overseer, before departing for Merrie
England.
“Erua”: At a station home near Moree
(N.S.W.) the owners for many years har-
bored a huge goanna, domestically known as
Elizabeth. Elizabeth wandered round the
homestead by day, and at night had
a habit of climbing over the one-
storied part of the house and
reaching the dizzy height of the
main roof. To the family was con-
signed an English visitor on a
health tour, whose only hope of
recovery from a severe nervous
breakdown lay in lack of excite-
ment. He was accommodated in a
room with a small balcony attached,
and awoke one. dawn after a hair-:
raising nightmare to see a dim form
sliding down a balcony post, accom-
panied with a devastating crash and
clatter. If it wasn’t a dragon the
designers of such had lied, and -as
lie knew dragons didn’t exist for
normal folk he decided he had at
last lost, his sanity, and fainted
from shock. Elizaboth-’s habit of early rising
cost her her life and nearly cost her horrified
beholder his also.
“J. 8.”: The oldest “colonist” I have
known in Australia is Mrs. Sarah Musgrave,
who celebrated her 103rd birthday in Sydney
recently by being as young as usual. She
was born at Burrangbng (N.S.W.) on May
4, 1830. You ought to hear her yarning
THE NEGLECTED CHANCE.
ATHLETE: “You ain’t half up to date here. All these bonzer cinders an’ no running
track!”
about the abos. of her early blossoming on
the station of her dad. John White. She
was seven years old when a young native
was wounded to death in a tribal fight,
DATING IT.
“It’s the anniversary of our wedding to-morrow, dad.”
“’Struth! Strawberry’s calf must be eleven months old.”
When he died his two girl-friends were fran-
tic with grief. As Mrs. Musgrave went into
details I could look past her and almost see
the gins tearing at their hair and chopping
criss-crosses on their heads with tomahawks
till blood streamed down their faces and over
their bodies. Not content with these proofs
of remorse, the girls snatched blazing sticks
from a fire and rubbed them up and down
their bare legs till the smell of burning flesh
was horrible. The terrified white girl
pleaded with the gins not to hurt themselves
any more, but she could not make her voice
heard above their agonised screams. It was
12 months before Jackie’s sweethearts recov-
ered from their wounds.
“G.F.Y.”: A couple recently from Eng-
land who settled near us went in for fowls
as a sideline to bailing up Strawberry. The
man came along to borrow a rooster. I told
him he could have “that one” because it
crowed too early in the morning, and thought
no more about it; I meant it as a gift. But
a month or so later he returned the disturber
of my. rest and thanked me. H’e didn’t need
him . any longer, as “all the hens are now in
chick.”
“Bioko”: In Vic. it is a serious offence
to kill a ’possum without a permit, though
’possums are a terrible pest to farmers. They
pollute his water supply by crawling over
roofs, ‘and play havoc with' the vegetable
garden and wfith stored grain. However,
the cookies are law-abiding and they line
up every year to the local constable to
obtain permission to destroy a limited num-
ber. Robbins faced the John Hop the other
day for, this purpose; and was told that he
would be given a permit to kill only six.
“But,” Robbins said, “you will, have to let
me kill more than six. I already haver the
skins of a dozen.” The Haw; when it re-
covered its breath, struck out “six” - and
made it “twenty-four.”
“Drap”: Oh yes, there’s a lot of money
in cattle—but not for the people who raise
’em. During the 1930-31 drought in the
Gulf country, one of the largest cattle pro-
perties there, Abingdon Downs, lost nearly
4000 head. After a lot of hard work 2800
hides were produced in top condition, and
300 of inferior grade. These were railed to
the nearest market, Cairns, a few months
ago. The transaction resulted in a debit
note for £4 18s. reaching the station
accountant.
❖ sjc s|:
“Jackdaw”: “Waranbini’s” mention of
Kaio (B. 24/5/’33) brings a flood of
memories. Kaio was chief singer and
drummer at the corroborees of his tribe and
must have had a throat of brass. He
could screech away at the top of his high-
pitched voice from dusk to dawn without
any sign of huskiness ; while other singers,
after an hour or two of it, had no voice
left. He had a son, “Little Kaio,” who, at
14, was house boy for a Government official
at T.I. Little Kaio became a regular
attendant at early-morning mass, always
occupying a front seat, tie went there, as he
told mo, “to learnim that ’nother kind
dance them feller makim. That proper
good one.” “Them feller” were the priest
and the altar boys. One Sunday he was late
for church and could only get a back seat;
but, watching liis opportunity, when the con-
gregation was standing or kneeling he
crawled along the floor, under pews and
between startled worshippers, until he
reached a half-empty seat midway to his
objective. Here he came up for a breather
He wore a small rosary which a Sister had
given him previously, and seeing a large
one on the seat near him he made an ex-
change, then continued his journey. Finding
the large rosary was interfering with his
progress, he wound it around his neck several
times and proceeded, ultimately wriggling
out from beneath the front seat between
two very devout old ladies, who nearly
fainted with terror when the black appari-
tion with its strange collar rose from the
floor and squirmed into the seat between
them.
* * * *
“Occidental” : Turning over the pages of
an old geography book, I noticed Marble Bar
(W.A.) bracketed with Basra (Persian
Gulf) as the hottest place in the world. I’m
inclined to believe it. In ’97 I spent three
weeks there. The thermometer went up to
329 for many days. We got through, most
of us, due to the hospitality of Bung, who
didn’t charge for ; bed or board. Certainly
one’s bed was one’s own swag unrolled on
the flat roof, or under a tree in the paddock,
but board was generous and free. Of course,
there was a catch in it, and I do not recom-
mend acceptance ,of such hospitality to young
men not solidly grounded in the benefits of
total abstinence. The system eliminates the
unfit. Dugong Joe, for instance, had been
too long diving for shell at Broome. He
failed to come out from under his form in
the bar for at least three rounds of drinks,
and that just isn’t—or wasn’t —done. Some
one pulled him out by, the leg to have another,
but he’d had his last drink. We buried him
as soon as the sun went down.
'•*■*■-* * *
“A.C.8.”; The little tits in the tea-tree
nest had cowered all day, menaced by the
swamp hawk that hovered just overhead.
All the time the male and female tits took
turn and turn to watch and shield their
young, though what they could do about it I
couldn’t .imagine. At last the hawk changed
its tactics and went towards the west, cry-
ing .shrilly. The sound died in the far dis-
tance. The parents, now.feeling secure, left
the, nest to forage. A few seconds later,
glancing upwards, I espied the hawk
perched oft a near-by gum. The young birds
also sensed his presence. The hawk poised
himself and swooped on the tiny tits. My
shot was a second too late, but a more
wide-awake good angel than myself was
on duty. There was a flash, and a heap
of burnt feathers was all that remained of
the swamp hawk. His wings had short-
circuited the electric-light wires.
ON THE TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world’s in mazes
Of woe and flurry;
It sure needs oiling,
Like a troubled sin.
But what the blazes
Is the use of worry?
The billy’s boiling,
Drop in the tea.
There’s scant avail in
Becoming spleeny
At the Jap’s embroiling
With the bland Chinee.
Forget grim Stalin
And Mussolini.
The billy’s boiling,
Shake in the tea.
Though minds misshapen
Assail, belittle her.
Peace has no soiling
From such as we.
Confound Von Papen
And likewise Hitler!
The billy’s boiling,
Toss in the tea.
Though Bulli bubbles
With Lang-stirred passions,
And Alby’s spoiling
Revenged to be,
Our blanky troubles !
Get out the rations,
The billy’s boiling,
Pop in the tea.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


LEATUER
LUMBER
JACKET
BROWN CHROME-
/
T $ A JO
ro WEA
BRISBANE
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.0 Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS.
r
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
Imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Recovery in the Market.
Will Prices Hold?
Outlook for Investors.
Moulton Tobacco Contracts.
Banana Bonds
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the June issue.
SINGLE COPT, 2/.
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Walkabout”: The old boundary rider
had us thinking. Every afternoon before-
sundown he would sneak away into the
scrub. I asked him the reason. “Not a
word.” he confided to me; “I'm doin’ a bit
of breakin’-in. Yer see there’s a prize at
the show fer the most original turnout.
Smith is going ter drive a bull camel and
a piebald mare, but my turnout’ll canter
in. I’ve sot an emu fer the shafts an’ a
couple er kangaroos fer the lead, but what
ought ter take the judge’s eye is the
placard I’m putting on the sulky; it’s
‘Horsetralian bred an’ born!’”
“J. Ketch”: Going north to Cossack
(W.A.) in ’!)7. I had a berth in the Sultan’s
steerage. Among my fellow-passengers was
an old chap with very retiring
habits and quiet manners. I
failed to draw him out as. to
how he earned his crust. A fort-
night later the police cutter
came out into the roads for him,
and we suspected that Nemesis
had overtaken him. Three of
us got a contract to extend the
gaol wall at Raeburn, and we
ran into my shipmate inside the
yard supervising the erection of
a scaffold. He was unabashed,
and gave us an invitation to
the hanging. The audience
assembled hours before the cur-
tain went up on a native wlio’d
speared a white fellow for steal-
ing his gin. In the front was
a. semicircle of natives, all pad-
locked to a huge chain. Behind
them was a mob of blacks, called
up to see what happened to any-
one who killed a white man.
On the drop the colored audience
went frantic with joy. For
weeks afterwards, _ whenever
two blacks met. one would place
his head sideways and with his
hands make a jerky movement
in the air, and botli would laugh heartily.
“Bramble Cay”: “Tnlm'’ (B. 3.1/5/’33),
described by “C. Coral” as made by some
of the Torres Strait natives from the
cocoanut palm, is only our old friend toddy
in a new environment. The drink is uni-
versal among the Polynesians and Micro-
ne.sians, where kava is not in favor, and, of
course, is famed throughout Eastern Asia,
whence it seems to have been introduced
to the Strait. A company has been
formed in Ceylon to manufacture the stuff
for export. It is to be hoped that some
means of taking the headache out of it has
been devised—l am writing of the fermented
article.
* * * *
“Kelly”; Tell “Chevroford” (B. 17/5/-33)
that his Healesville (Vic.) mountain ash of
300 feet high and 02 feet round is a mere
seedling compared with some other speci-
mens recorded in Victoria, which have been
measured to go 325 feet and over. Many
Gippsland and Tasmanian gums have been
rated as well over the 300 ft. mark, while in
GRATITUDE.
JACKIE (receiving gifts): “By cripes! you good pfeller, missus. Suppose you hungry
sometime, this pfeller gib it. last bit o’ 'possum!”
Gm matter of circumference a Bulii
(N.S.W.) blaekbutt has been certified at 64
feet round the waist.
, *
‘ lierpeton : In Australia and other lands
serums to counteract the poison of individual
types of snakes have been evolved, but so
far the universal desideratum, a single serum
that will he an antidote to the poison of, all
snakes, has baffled research. No less an
authority than I. \V. Fitzsimmons, of the
world-famous snake zoo at Port Elizabeth
in South Africa, now claims ho has solved
TOO MANY O’ THEY PASTIES.
“You know, Trevain, the main came of your trouble is overeating.”
"B lieve I do eat bit too much, doctor, and so do t’old teaman. But, by Gor', we
d' like doin’ it.”
the problem. His serum, he says, is anti-
dotal to the venom of all the known
poisonous snakes, including those of South
Africa, India and Australia. The list in-
cludes, the American snakes, many of which
are vipers. India, like Australia, affects
the colubers, though both countries possess
vipers, our old friend the death-adder be-
longing to this unpleasant family.
* ...
“Gad” (I toss el Island, Papua): There is
no “legend” in. connection with the wreck
of a “Chinese coolie ship” on our reef (R.
8/3/’3B) ; it is a well authenticated fact. The
ship was the St. Paul, and it came in con-
tact with the reef on . the s.-e.
end of this island about 18£>9.
Portions of the vessel are still
there. Some of the Chinese
came ashore here, and were
killed arid eaten by the natives.
From this wreck the natives
gathered, not only Mexican dol-
lars, but also gold sovereigns;
but. by now, I fahcy-thcsh have
all been traded away. There are
remains of two other wrecks
on our reef also, one -of a
Japanese boat which piled s up
in .1923; the other is uniden-
tified and has been here don-
key’s years. From this latter
wreck the natives acquired a
quantity of blue enamelware
which they gradually wore out.
Somewhere about 1899 two
escapees from Nou landed on
these shores. . They subse-
quently re-embarked for the
neighboring island Of Tagula.
One returned. He was killed
and eaten by the.good people
of Bamba (Bamba means
“good” in the Rossel tongue),
in which village I now have
my headquarters. Nowadays
they touch nothing stronger
than a tin of bully beef, and
that only when they can get it.
* <■.■■■ *
“Roga”: The three weather-
board rooms of a house stand-
ing near the Murray at Mildura
(Vic.) are connected together
by means of large screws in-
stead of nails, so that in case
of a flood the walls can be
unscrewed and the place
shifted in parts to safety. At
least three practical tests have shown that
the novel plan can be successfully carried
out in a short time. The inventor is a former
Melbourne bricklayer.
“Caballus”: I cannot agree with “Lon-
ginus” (B. 31/5/’33) that the warhorses of
the armored knights of old were not gener-
ally of the heavy type. There is a good deal
of sculpturr: showing warhorses of those
days, and all of them are built for weight-
carry:- < Take the, liorse in the famous
equestrian statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni by
Verrocchio in Venice. The work was com-
pleted at the end of the 15th century, when
heavy armor was going out. Yet the rider
is elad in steel panoply which is evidently
ceremonial, for lie carries only mis baton
and wears on his head the open morion
which was the great-grandfather of the
modern tin hat. The horse is a big and tre-
mendously powerful beast, though clean-
legged and with the semi-circular jowl, short,
eager ears, and wide nostrils which suggest
an Arab strain —-quite possible, since the
Venetians were well acquainted with the
Arab horse.
“Man-at-Arms” The warhorses of the days
of Crecy and Poictiers were heavy types.
Among many chroniclers, Froissart has de-
scribed them minutely, and contemporary art
confirms him—-to go back a little, the horses
in the Bayeux tapestry are sufficient evi-
dence. When full plate was the only
wear for a knight it is estimated that he
rode close on 30 stone —a modern Life-
guardsman in full panoply rides a little
under 20, and even a Light Horseman is
lucky if his prad has to carry less than 14
—and in addition the steed was in steel
that covered his frontal, his crest and the
forepart of his body back to the girths of
the heavy steel saddle, while the croup was
also covered with armor. No Arab ever
bred could carry such a weight, and in addi-
tion the horse itself required to be a heavy
mne. to get the most out of the shock tac-
tics which were then the onlv method of
cavalry fighting. The legend of Warwick’s
chargers does not say that they were pure
Arabs, but “of Arab stock,” as was likely,
since the presence of the Moors in Spain
made these horses available in other Euro-
pean countries.
‘•Plankton”: An eccentric-looking native
°7 in h' lt !' a 1S the fiddler beetle (Mormolyce
phyllodes ). It gets its name because its
wing-cases are developed into broad, rounded
expansions, which, in conjunction with the
lofig, narrow chest-segment and curiously
elongated head, resemble the shape of a
violin. The insect measures about two inches
in length. It is a member of the carabid
family, numbering some 15,000 known
species, including the peculiar bombardier
beetles. All are predacious, and the month-
parts of one have palps like long-handled
spoons, for drawing snails out of their shells.
* * * t]t
“Speranza”: Two Renmark fS.A.)
drovers have had a successful season on the
roads with sheep, lifting ‘ about 12,000 and
Inn! 1 a 3o : P n . some of the trips thee
tallied out at their destination with the
same number as was counted over to them
In one instance 3000 sheep were lifted from
Memndie district and delivered at Loxtou
with the loss of only three, which must be
very near a world’s record.
A GENTLE HINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man sat upon his swag; his eyes
were red and bleared :
1 doubt he'd had a wash for days or even
combed his beard.
He cadged my pouch and filled his pipe and
calmly blew a cloud.
“Some blokes ain’t got no pride,” he said,
“but I was always proud.
I mind one time I humped me swag along
the Lachlan side;
A blazing drought was on the land and all
the stock had died.
One night, a good bit after dark, I reached
a country town,
1 nils up outside the local hall and flings
me bluey down.
A dance was gain’ on within; a crowd was
on the floor;
I hitches up me pants a bit and mooches
in the door.
Some janes are fakin’ round the grub.
Thinks I, ‘l’m just in time.
A cup of tea will do me good—them sand-
wiches look' prime.’
But all at once the head serang, a great
lug hulkin’ brute,
Hopped right across the floor to me and
landed me a beaut.
He never said what made him narked or
what he did it for;
fie simply hit me good and hard and knocked
me out tile door.
“I landed fair upon me back and got a
nasty jar.
Thinks I, ‘Now that’s a funny thing- I
wonder who he are?
But p’raps he didn’t mean no harm.’ I
up me pants
An’ made me mind up. come what would. I'd
take another chance.
‘I mooches in the door again. They’re
takin’ round the sweets.
Cream puffs and buns an’ rainbow cakes
and other fancy eats.
I’m just a-reachin’ but me hand when, strike
me blue and blind !
One feller grabs me in the front, another
one behind.
They swings me like a bag of chaff and
shouted ‘One—two—three,'
And then they laughs and hollers ‘Go,’ and
it was go for me.
I hurtled out into the night, I landed on a
stump.
Just put your hand behind my ear—you still
can feel the lump.
“That settled me; my oath, it did ! They’d
hurt me in me pride.
And I decided then and there I wouldn’t go
inside.
I knew I wasn’t welcome there; I saw it
clear as print.
Some blokes ain’t got no pride at all, but
I can take a hint!”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


Rapid Ore Crusher
ŕ
UNIT COMPRISES:
Compressed Air-
operated Stamp,
N ightingall Patent,
Amalgamating Table.
Made in All Sizes.
No. 1 Size.
Output 11 tons per
dav.
FI. P. 2
Table Size 4ft. x 4ft.
0 in.
Speed, 175 Pdow.s
per minute.
rKICKS &
PARTICULARS
ON REQUEST.
BETA ENGINEERING Co.,
390 Spencer Street, Melbourne, VIC.
ŗ
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, tits Jin., Jin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/0 each, post free.
Ufie PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
ltral Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Jin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
“The Church, like other institutions, is having
its financial worries.”— Melb. cleric.
What! No surplice?
ft ft
“Canberra Works.”— “Argus” headline.
This is news, as against “Canberra Loafs.”
which isn’t.
ft ft
“In Russia everyone bas an aim in life.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
And very good shots some of the Q.G.P.U.
aimers are, by all accounts.
ft ft
“Mr. Lang employed the rapier of sarcasm and
the bludgeon of investive.”— Melb. “Herald.”
His investive is understood to run to
£13.H00-odd. '
“Old Bill’s got three years for stealin’ a car.”
“What did he want to steal a car for? Why didn’t he
buy one and not pay for it, like a gentleman!”
“The winner was a Moss Yale club girl, while
a member of the same club won the scratch com-
petition for girls.”
A catty lot, these golfing girls.
H*
FREE COMPETITION.
I work in a factory. Pay day is Friday.
On arrival home each evening I am greeted
by the wife as follows: —
1. —“Why, don’t you wipe your hoots before you
come in? Day after day I’ve got to slave cleaning
up the mud you bring into the house.”
2. —“Home already! Did you knock off early, or
have they sacked you?”
3. —(Note on back door) : “Gone to Oleaginous
Picture Palace with Mrs. Nextdoor. Tin of sardines
ftiid biscuits in safe. Don’t forget to wash dishes.”
4. —“Hullo! Back early again. You’ll have to
fc satisfied with tinned salmon for tea. You didn’t
chop any wood last night, so I couldn’t light the
ixe. Besides, I was out shopping.”
5. —“Darling, we’ll have tea in the dining-room
this evening. I’ve lit a fire there. And I’m having
yeu? favorite meal —roast mutton and baked
potatoes.”
Competitors are required to name the day
on which I receive greeting No. 5. The
entrant sending in the correct solution will
be entitled to a prize-—the wife. Should
more than one correct solution be received
she may—so far as I am concerned —he
equally divided.
S. Y. D.
“Most of our politicians, says a critic, are merely
time-servers.”
And another critic says that a good many
more ought to he.
“There is a definite- language in bridge which
every experienced player learns how to use.”
— “Herald.”
And when an experienced user of the lan-
guage fails to make his partner understand,
lie uses the language.
ft ft
“W.A. man proposes to fly to England.”
Isn’t this carrying secession to extremes?
ft ft
“He was presented with a. wallop of notes.”
— “Sun,”
And we’re willing to bet that he didn’t
sue anybody for assault.
ft ft
“The theft of the Emden bell was the work of a
master mind.” — “Sun.’’
The Ringer?
ft ft
TURNS.
“Life is full of strange turns.” — Rev. T. E. ltuth.
True. There’s the corner we’re always
turning, stage turns, the sale or return, the
good turn, the queer turn we feel these days
when showers are mentioned, the turned-
down feeling, the breakfast egg that’s slightly
turned, the turnip, the turnout, the turning-
point, thru-ups—trumps, unexpected, and
waiting for something to —the turn of the
tide, returns from invest-
ments, the turn-down and
the return of the compli-
ment.
And the best of them all
is the turn-in and forget all
about it.
H.
DOES RIPLEY KNOW
THIS?
There is a Sydney subur-
ban alderman who is not
a J.P. and doesn’t aspire
to. become an M.L.A. or
M.H.R.
The world’s costliest joke
is cracked periodically in
Australia. It takes the
form of a Royal Commis-
sion, costing up to £2OO a
day. The essence of this
joke is that those who pay
for it never understand
what it is about.
There are so many Secre-
tary Birds ( Langinus bos-
sicus) in Australia that in
some districts they out-
number those upon whom
they prey.
M’s.L.A. in N.S.W. en-
joy nearly six months’ holi-
day each year on full pay,
and few do any work dur-
ing the rest of the year.
Hence the expression, Poli-
ticians’ Paradise.
Mrs. Sam Bloggs-Smythe,
of Rose Bay, Sydney, holds
the world’s record for
press pars, and three-col.
photos. She lias been de-
scribed as “this tireless
worker for charity” 1384
times.
A Water Board in Aus-
tralia constructed at cnor-
mous cost a high-pressure tunnel which was
unable to stand high pressure owing to
faulty design. The designer was awarded
an 0.8. E.
S. K.
ft- ft
“Gandhi’s Fast.” — “Sun” heading.
No doubt; but it’s safer to back ’em both
ways.
“The. Bessarabian Robin Hood was popular among
the poor, possessed motor-cars, horses and carriages,
and often dressed as a country magnate.”
Sounds like a fellow we once knew at
Auburn.
ft- ft
“Britain has asked foreign nations to restrict
their cream supplies by 20 per cent.”
It looks as though the first in will take
the cream off the market.
It must, cost a lot for running repairs in
the Chinese army.
¥ ft
The Inner Group is now known as the
Thinner Group.
Bnlli may prove a good-bye election to
Willis.
ft- ft-
WINTRY SPORT.
It’s great to think, these icy days, of
springing out of bed; of sprinting through
the morning haze, and
then (your garments
shed) of diving in tin-
frozen sea till glowing
is each vein, and you
recall you’ve still to
shave, and sprint for
home again.
It’s great, I say, to
think of this —all this
—when snug in bed,
refusing to forsake its
bliss for what the Ice-
bergs said than coddl-
ing ways were better
far. Though bedtime
hours must end, I
wonder if these Ice-
bergs are the fools
that they pretend !
H. M.
Rumored that the
Houston Everest ex-
pedition’s next pro-
ject will be an attempt
to reach the cost of
living.
ft ft
Europe will never
be free from war-fever
till they get the Germ
out of Germany.
What N.S.W. Labor
wants just now is not
a leader but a -referee.
ft ft
The question is,
What does Europe in-
tend to pour on the troubled waters —oil or
blood?
THE NOISY WORLD.
“Half our nervous troubles arise from noise.’’
And how’s a man to dodge it when con-
federates squeal, friends shout, money talks
and companies crash? Many people’s clothes
arc loud, and to add to the din goods often
speak for themselves. Furthermore, tables
groan,, taxpayers growl, kettles sing, gales
howl and boots squeak. Can you wonder at
the resulting pandemonium?
H. M.
Stevens hopes the wave of confidence will
become a permanent one.
HIS LANGUAGE.
“The musician was allowed to give his evidence
in his own fashion.”-— “Sun.”
The disturbance began in A flat, y'r
Worship, and that was why the girl had a
quaver in- her voice. I’d been having a few
minims in the bar, and I couldn’t C natural,
otherwise I wouldn’t have been in A fiat
at all. The next thing I knew the girl’s
father called me a B sharp, and took to
me fortissimo and without a rest. He
seemed to think I was after his notes ' His
SOLICITOR: “And wnat began the dispute over your marriage
anniversary celebration?”
CLIENT: “Me ’usbin goes an’ drinks the toast in vinegar.”
blows were an arpeggio, and he didn’t give
me any time. In fact, if the policeman on
the beat had not introduced his baton the
old devil would have cleft me.
H. M.
Say what you like, these Nazis are all
riot.
ft V-
“The financial aspect of wav has become all-
i m port ant. ’ ’ — Mmsolini.
In fact, it has become s. d. as well as £.
ft ft
“In most animals thickness of hide seems to be
associated with longevity.”
A sad fact, this, when we muse upon some
of our politicians.
UMPIRE: “I saw no foul. One can’t be all over the field at
once, you know."
PLAYER: “You will be after the dame, lad, if y’ don’t give us
a better spin,”
WIIISKO REVEALS.
Your Character Told from Your
Handwriting.
Applicants should forward a sample of their
writing on a cheque for 10s. to “Whisko,”
the “Sunday Glub,"
and their characters
will be read free of
cost. Some samples
of “Whisko’s” art: —-
“Constant Reader":
Intelligent, literary
and given to good
habits; is discrimi-
nating. Knows when
lie’s on a good thing.
“Miss X.’’: Flirta-
tious, frivolous,
always on the look-
out for a thrill.
(P lea g e forward
address and ’phone
number.)
“Antonio”: Slov-
enly. Eats, spaghetti
with hands and
onions with knife.
Quick temper. Dark
complexion. lakes
fat, but not when it
is compounded in
soap.
“Dismal Dan” :
Dissatisfied. Pessi-
mistic. Regards life
as a curse, and suf-
fers from an inferi-
ority complex. Mar-
ried.
T. W. N.
“An orgy of head-chopping will follow the Bnlli
result.”
However, we can depend on the "heads"
to look after their own.
THE NAME OF POWER.
Home names hold music that inspires.
What tender thoughts in Mary dwell!
And how a lover’s fancy fires
At Imogen or Claribcl!
Mona our minds with mystery fills;
Esma’s a fascinating doll.
Hut where's a female name that thrills
Like luring , lilting Alcohol?
T. W. N.
NAUGHT TO HER.
His bank account teas down to naught—a
most disturbing figure.
His future bride was told the news and
knocked him back with vigor;
For was she not a girl who from the early
age of ten
Had. heard her mother say. “My. child,
beware of naughty men!"
Mc.
SAD CASE OF UNCLE GEORGE.
Uncle George; he used to say
That if any of his neighbors couldn’t pay
their way
And meet all their hills right down on the
peg
They were either dashed unfortunate or
just had egg;
Which was so darned trite
That it sounded right.
( Tic put a nasty emphasis on “just had egg." \
Uncle’s now not the unc. Jve was.
I asked him for a fiver. He said “No—
because
The business that I’m in is in a difficult
state,
Hemmed round by creditors who simply
won’t wait.
Not a soul gives a damn
How unfortunate 1 am.”
(And oh, how he emphasised “nn-for-tn-
nate”!)
HYRAM.


◄
“It’s a remarkably strong-looking two-tonnef
and the Cab is as comfortable to ride in as
my Roadster*’
* . said the Observant One
i
“Cost is so reasonable, too—-we’ll buy this
British Bedford”
. . . said the Shrewd One
Drop-sides Truck
The Drop-sides Model of the British
Bedford is admirably suited for general
haulage work, and is on either the I 3 I" o
157* wheel-base. Available on G.M.A.C.
olan. Bedford Truck chassis in I 3 I*and
157* wheelbase.
/
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
«.T.»
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW THIS
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should
-know how to save money by making their
own family cough remedy that will prove
safe and effective for every member of the
family from the youngest baby up to the
oldest adult. Here is the recipe, given
by a leading .chemist: Into a jug put
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either
treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and a
large breakfastcupful of warm water; stir
until dissolved, and when cold, pour into
a large bottle. Then add a bottle of
concentrated HEENZO (it costs 2/- at all
leading chemists and stores), and you will
have a family supply equal in quantity and
superior in quality to eight ordinary
sized bottles of the usual remedies for
chest and throat ailments, which, if
purchased in single bottles, would cost up to
£l. You will be astounded at the speedy
way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases
the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis, influenza and whooping cough.
Make it a practice to always have HEENZO
in your home. —Advt.
BACKACHE, NEURITIS
RHEUMATISM
What a London Doctor Says :
Dr. Harrison, the London medico, says
that sufferers from uric acid troubles, back-
ache, rheumatism, joint pains and urinary
disorders would do well to leave expensive
“patent” remedies alone. The doctor
recommends, instead, a combination of
about eight of the most valuable agents
known for the treatment of uric acid,
kidney, bladder and urinary complaints.
This combination is known to every
chemist as Harrison’s Pills; it is widely
recommended as a safe, prompt, and effec-
tive remedy. The cost is surprisingly small,
and those who try Harrison’s Pills are
always astonished how quickly relief comes;
how soon backaches, joint pains, headaches,
dizziness, night worries, etc., become things
of the past. For “middle-age” symptoms
generally chemists say there is nothing to
equal Harrison’s Pills—an honest, inexpen-
sive combination of medicinal agents of
generally accepted value.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write to the
.
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
J
l
f;
£4 A WEEK
lOR IIK
MV
* mm
wts «onf^ s 4sw«y -_ . C
19
NEW SOUTH
WALES
GOLDEN CHEST
Ist Prize valued at
£3OOO
2nd Prize valued at
£lOOO
CASH VALUE
GUARANTEED
One ticket can win
both first and sec-
ond prizes
£4,000 for 1/-.
GREATEST LOTTERY
VALUE
Here is the greatest Lottery
offer made in Australia
to-day— two solid golden
chests (weighing 700
ounces) with a guaranteed
cash value of £4ooo—in-
vested this will give £4 each
week for life—and a fifth
share in a State Lottery
ticket which can win £lOOO
next week.
Send a postal note for 2/-
to the Manager, New South
Wales Golden Chest. By
return mail you will receive
one-fifth share in a
ticket in the next New
South Wales State Lot-
tery—this can win you
£lOOO in cash next
week—and one ticket
in the Golden Chest,
which can win two
solid golden chests with
a guaranteed cash
value of £4OOO.
DON’T DELAY—POST TO-DAY
—START YOUR FORTUNE ON
ITS WAY.
COUPON.
The Manager, New South Wales Golden Chest,
Government Savings Bank Building,
Desk 81, Box 3555 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me a one-fifth share in the State Lottery, which can win me £ilooo cash, and
'i. the Golden Chest, which can win nie prizes with a guaranteed cash value of
£4OOO. Here is a Postal Note for 2/- and a stamped, addressed envelope.
NAME
STREET
TOWN
STATE
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Tell Me To-night,” at the Mayfair, is
another proof of a phenomenon which has
been stressed more than once by this Show-
man—namely, that acceptable British films
are always partly American or German. This
one has a Continental setting and a couple
of Teutons for principals. The story is thin,
as in most musical comedies, and disjointed
owing to the necessity of interpolating
operatic items for the leading man. Yet the
interest never slackens, and the general effect
is. delightful in its innocent gaiety. Jan
Kiepura can’t act, and doesn’t try to, but
his splendidly masculine tenor is heard in
"O Sole Mio,” the most luscious numbers of
Boh&me,” “Traviata” and “Rigoletto,” and
a theme song. To listen to him after the
recent plague of emasculated screen crooners
is like emerging on mountain air after a
spell among fungoid jungle growths. Magda
Schneider is the maiden in the case. She
can’t act either, she doesn’t sing and her
English is extremely German; but she is a
liuggable little lass, with a permanent smile
that reveals unimpeachable teeth. While jour-
neying to the Swiss lake on whose romantic
.shores he meets . her, Jan picks up Sonnie
Hale, a crook, in the disarmingly fatuous
Ralph Lynn manner. The two young men
swap identities, and most of the fun is
based on the efforts of a music-loving mayor
to persuade the impostor to sing. Edmund
Gwenn plays the emotional mayor and
Athene Sayler is his affected wife. Every-
body overacts, in accordance with German
farcical convention (except, of course, the
hero and heroine, who, as aforesaid, don’t
even try to act), but the general effect is
interesting, even exciting. The scenic shots
are ingenious; a blend of the most theatri-
cally lovely views of some such regions as
snow-capped St. Moritz and summertime
Como. There is an idea here for Australian
producers. Settings composed of selected
aspects of Kosciusko. Sydney Harbor and
the North Coast of N. S. Wales should im-
press the untravelled as much as any of those
in “Tell Me To-night.”
V V- *
“Let Me Explain, Dear,” the Capitol’s
first, is an English farce which contains
practically all the recognised guffaw-getters,
ihe hero has a jealous wife, so, naturally,
when he starts an affair with a strange girl
he leaves the girl’s photograph (in undies)
about for his wife to find. He has an im-
becile frjend, whom he shaves forcibly and
disguises with false moustaches, which the
friend puffs out in the usual way. He also
forces the friend to disguise himself as his
(the hero’s) mother-in-law, and when the
old lady turns up he mistakes her for his
friend, and, after considerable argument,
kicks and. otherwise maltreats her; he only
realises his error after he has torn most of
her clothes off. And then there are the
siphon which is squirted over the friend’s
head, and the picture which keeps falling
down and ends by falling on the hero’s head,
leaving him peering through it, and the
policeman who chases the hero—in fact,
hardly anything has been forgotten but the
savage bulldog and ruined pants. Believe
it or not,, these venerable situations were
greeted with yells of merriment by a big
audience on Saturday night. Gene Gerrard
is the flirtatious hero, Claude Hulbert is
the friend.
“Ladies They Talk About” is another
American gaol idyll. .Barbara Stanwyck,
who. has. a remarkable gift for looking and
talking like a stunt newspaper’s conception
of a gangster queen, belongs to an under-
world younger set. In this capacity she
comes . across Preston g. Foster, a mission-
ary with the soul of a Pilgrim Father and
the appearance of a Hollywood beauty man.
As a slave to duty, he gets her five years in
one of those astonishing U.S.A. prisons, where
the ladies seem to lead a work-free existence,
accompanied by such amenities as rocking-
chairs and unlimited cigarettes and social
intercourse. With all Barbara’s faults, Pres-
ton loves her, and after her release he
marries her. While in prison she had tried
to engineer the escape of two male bandits,
but they were shot, and it is only after she
has failed to murder the missionary in re-
venge that she finds she loves him. Whether
or no she is the sort of girl to make a help-
ful wife for a clergyman is a moot point;
still, many a divine has taken bigger matri-
monial risks—-in movies.
* # #
At the Regent, ‘John Barrymore and
Katharine Hepburn are carrying the screen
version of Clemence Dane’s “A Bill of Divorce-
ment” on their joint and several shoulders.
Barrymore plays Hilary, the husband who
has been in an asylum for 15 years, and
returns to discover that his wife has divorced
him. Miss Hepburn is the daughter, Sydney.
Barrymore’s return is impressive. His joy,
and his bewilderment at the changes he finds
are gripping and they are heightened by the
almost complete elimination of sound effects.
The scene between father and daughter is
memorable, and so is the closing one, which
shows them rescuing a certain amount of
the happiness from the wreckage left behind
by Margaret. Margaret is played by Billie
Burke, on stilted and mechanical lines, and
Paul Cavanagh, as the lover, is also dis-
appointing. But, of course, they have thank-
less parts. The direction is admirable; no
bathos . anywhere and a note of suspense
maintained throughout.
. “Sailor’s Luck” is another one about the
girl-chasing yahoos who, according to Holly-
wood, form a considerable percentage of
Uncle Samuel’s lower deck. James Dunn,
Sammy Cohen and Frank Moran steal
bananas, fall foul of a boardinghouse keeper,
and burst into a swimming ‘pool to the
annoyance of the bathers. This provides the
required atmosphere of boyish deviltry. Then
James “pirates” penniless but proud Sally
Ellers, and pays for her board before his ship
sails. Il’e returns to sate her from a detest-
able crook. An explanation of these Ameri-
can naval films may be that they are pacifist
propaganda.
# *
“Two. White Armsf,*’ at Sydney Hay-
market,, is.an English comedy with a wistful
and, incidentally, preposterous ending.
Adolphe Menjou is an Anglo-French-Ameri-
can philanderer, who keeps photographs and
locks of hair. In a moment of weakness
he marries a slip of a girl, Jane Baxter. The
lady he should have espoused is understand-
ing Margaret Bannerman. Married life
proves too much for him—the white arms
of girlish affection become menaces to his
peace of mind—and he tries to escape by
feigning loss of memory. Margaret Banner-
man steers him back to the path of duty—
the very last thing such' a worldly-wise
female would have done of course. They’re
all highly efficient—particularly Miss Ban-
nerman.
Have you seen the latest in westerns?
Secret passages, sliding panels and phan-
toms are superimposed upon the normal
quota of galloping horses, bad men, nice girl
and brave young man. “Haunted Gold’ p is
a specimen of the modernist school. Or
should it be kindergarten? John Wayne is
the chap who triumphs over evil, Duke is
his horse and —but nobody else matters.


SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
Work Well and Last Long
The SUNTYNE
Combined Grain and Fertiliser Drill
and Spring Tyne Cultivator.
m
m
m
m
m
The Machine that prepares the seed bed
and sows the crop for the great bulk of
Australia’s annual grain yield.
The popularity of the Suntyne is based on the solid
foundation of efficiency.
It prepares a perfect seed-bed, bringing the coarse
particles to the surface and sifting the loose earth to the
bottom.
The bottom is consolidated, evaporation is retarded,
and the seed, which is placed with the fertiliser on the
compacted seed-bed, is enabled to take full advantage
of the stored moisture in the soil.
Sowing and cultivating can be accomplished
as deep or as shallow as desired.
The jointed floats have a stump-jump action that
reduces tyne breakage to a minimum.
For perfectly cleared country the floats can be locked
and rigid tynes can be fitted.
ř
8 row —17 tynes —cultivating sft. 12 row —25 tynes —cultivating 7
14 row —29 tynes —cultivating l6 row —33 tynes —cultivating 9
20 row —-41 tynes—cultivating 12ft. 24 row —49 tynes —cultivating 14ft.
toll-*
H. V. McKAY’S
SUNSHINE
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Manufactured at the Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
(H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., Ltd.)
State Distribution jrorn
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 27 George Street West, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray & King Streets, PERTH. Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Bcxcl^cicHe
Stop That Awful Pain
This Easy Way
PAIN —awful pain—constant pain—nerve-irritating pain all day and all
night, too. Yes, the martyr to chronic backache soon begins to know
what the word “pain’ means.
Why do you let Backache, Lumbago, Joint Pains, Rheumatism,
Sciatica ruin your health and make you a misery to yourself and all
around you.
Many people say “Oh ! I must have caught cold,” or “I must have been
sitting in a draught. My back feels like breaking. . . . That dull, down-dragging
weakness in the back makes me feel exhausted. . . . Pains in the muscles —I
just can’t get on with my work.”
WEAK KIDNEYS CAUSE YOUR PAIN
Actually it is kidney weakness that is the cause of the down-dragging
weariness and constant pain you suffer. If weak kidneys are sapping your
strength, causing body pains, rheumatic twinges or perhaps distressing bladder
trouble, bad nights, you cannot possibly do better than start with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills at once.
They will banish your pain and their splendid tonic qualities will make you
feel and look years younger.
This splendid remedy, through the kidneys, expels the poisons such as uric
acid in excess and other impurities that are the cause of your suffering These
are not “cure-
all ’’ pills. They
are prepared to
tone up the system
and give you back
your real manly
strength and
vigour.
o'*
o^ v
rC*
m
!
i
BiS
j
**
:■
mm
■■ m
lltli
Lf
>
/I
I
' Ml \i
m
V*
.. ? A
r . ■■■-.
• ' - - * ' .
£HARP twinges,
stabbing pains —
Nature’s urgent
warning of serious
Kidney Trouble !
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering:
when all else has failed. Men and women in dreadful pain for years say they
have ended that pain and brought back health, strength and vigour in a
marvellously short time.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
No more “too-old,” worn-out feeling. You join with the youngest in all the
pleasures of life. In 24 hours you will see the action of De Witt’s Pills and know
how quickly they have reached the seat of your trouble—the kidneys. Why stop in
pain and weakness when here is health for the asking? Thousands have blessed
the day they read about De Witt’s Pills as you are doing now. Let them bring
you health now. This splendid remedy is sold by chemists everywhere only in
the white, blue and gold boxes with signature name clearly shown on the side.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made specially
for the relief of kidney and bladder troubles. Good for young and old and
women at all times. Refuse all substitutes, there is nothing just as good.
De WITT’S
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address be-
low. Use Id.
stamp.
Please send me, free and fast f>aid,
a trial stiffly of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
NAME
ADDRESS
F. A. 16
E. C. De WITT i
Co. (Australia) Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 26, MELBOURNE.


LOWEST RATE
per reader
by A.B.C.
AUDIT CERTIFICATE.
Brisbane’s lowest rate per
reader —classified or display ad-
vertising—is in
QThe Brisbane (Courier.
Member Audit Bureau Circulations.
Representatives:
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt St., Sydney.
85007.
Louis S. Marks. Newspaper House,
Collins St.. Melbourne. F 3906.
ŕ
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS W CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chaiiman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell,
we to * 6: v & j?- Bulldln £> corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
fO SUCCecd—— THINK OF
ŗ
ř
SCHUTE,
OEL.L& O u<t
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Oifico: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PLANT FODDER TREES !
Valerin ’: Now is the time to prepare a
plantation for fodder trees. If you decide
upon it, do the job well; plough deep and
harrow a couple of times. Among fodder
trees three stand on their own: kurrajong,
oid-man saltbush and tree lucerne. They are
practically drought-resistant and carry 'very
little waste.
Kurrajong is superior to any other tree;
its foliage provides a splendid fodder; it
stands lopping right to the trunk and shoots
quickly in the spring. It is easily raised
tiom seed. . Get some soil from under an
old tree, mix with avoocl ashes and provide
plenty of drainage. Keep the bed slightly
damp, and the leaves and decaying matter
will furnish sufficient heat for germination.
V hen tlm plants are Sin. high transplant
to plantation and give them ordinary atten-
tion. Seed or seedlings can be put in old
tree-stumps out of reach of stock; the de-
cayed matter in the stump cavity makes a
fertile seedbed, and the taproot penetrates
f ™j gt h of> the stump., bursting it asunder.
Old-man saltbush is a rapid grower and
gives more fodder in drought-time than any
other tree. Raise seedlings in an ordinary
seedbed; in the following winter plant out
about 10ft. apart.
Tree lucerne is very hardy and easily
grown from seed; it stands cutting back and
provides large quantities of green, succulent
fodder. The foliage is an acquired taste,
and stock will not take to it at once.
RAGWORT POISONING.
Gould”: D. Murnane, of the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, has
been investigating cases of cattle poisoning
at Toora (Vic.). His researches have
proved that ragwort poisoning was respon-
sible for the deaths of cattle in Toora and
the outlying districts.
The. cows affected Usually kept in good
condition for about twelve months after
being brought on the property; they then
developed symptoms, and died within three
or four weeks, most in spring and some
m autumn. Certain animals acquired a
special liking for the weed, which seems to
be. more palatable after being cut and partly
dried. A bull which was used by l Murnane
m his experiments died of ragwort poison-
There are many districts in Victoria where
this weed is much in evidence. In some
places farmers aver that ragwort, though un-
desirable, does no great harm, chiefly because
its deadly effects do not show at once. But
it’s often the slow poison that’s least sus-
pected and most disastrous. I have known
of mysterious deaths in cattle and also in
horses where ragwort was plentiful, but was
not suspected, because the stock had had
access to it for six months or more.
Ragwort quickly gets established in pad-
docks which have had their crops taken off
and are left unfilled the following season.
Old pea paddocks or potato paddocks which
are left very clean capture and germinate
the seed most easily. These fields, if they
are not to be cropped the following year,
should be sown down to some good pasture
grass or grasses until they are to be cropped
again. Stink wort, ragwort, and St. John’s
wort are all on the increase in Victoria,
and wo must put a lot more ginger into
our efforts for eradication.
DESTRUCTION OF DINGOES.
‘‘The Breaker”: If you decide to go in
for trapping, make sure the traps are in
working order and the springs not too .stiff.
Wrap a piece of rag round the trap jaws:,
so that the latter will not cut too deep into
the imprisoned leg. Smear fat and strychnine'
over the rag; dingoes have a habit of trying
to bite the leg that is caught to get free.
The best place to set a trap is at a bend in
the road or the pad ; dingoes stop at bends
and invariably move about a few feet. Bo
sure to cover the trap plate with sufficient
strong paper to prevent dirt getting on the
plate. Too much dirt beneath and over will
prevent the trap from snapping.
On both sides of the road or pad where
the trap is set, drag the paunch of a sheep
along. I have had success by hanging a piece
of the paunch on wire just above where
the trap is. Don’t tie the trap on a tree; a
strong dingo is apt to break the chain or
wire. Tie the trap on to a good heavy log.
A caught dingo might pull the loc away a
few yards, but the give will not allow any
breakage. Never set a trap in the same
place after a dingo has boon caught. Wild
1 °Z? ar ® canning and always avoid passing
spots where one of their number may have
been trapped. If there is a road or track
on the place along which a car is often
driven, set traps along the wheel tracks.
Dingoes like soft going, and they will follow
car tracks a long way.
“Braeh”: The dogs imported by James
Tyson to Queensland (B. 31/5/’33> may
have been wolfhounds, though I never heard
ot the old gentleman interesting him.self in
any kind of dog for dingo-killing. In anv
case, he would have been hard put to it
to get wolfhounds, for the only known varie-
ties are the Irish wolfhound and the Rus-
sian borzoi, both show-bench breeds and
useless for hunting dingoes or anything save
fleas*- But more than one .squatter of
tysons day, ('specially in the forested eoun-
tr.v of s.-w. Queensland, tried the Scottish
deerhound.
This deerhound, which hunts both at gaze
and by scent, was the ideal dog for the pur-
pose. But for practical dingo extirpation
it was too expensive. My own experience of
the hounds was that they were no menace
to sheep, while they were closely kept and
carefully watched to prevent any canoodling
with the dog ladies of the wild. As kan-
garoo dogs they were unsurpassed, and their
puppies from, greyhound and kangaroo dog
bitches were in great demand. ,Withal, they
veie quiet, kindly beasts in their reserved
way, and I never heard of an attack on a
human being by one, a happening periodically
reported of the Alsatian. But the Alsatiaii
is a sheepdog, and of all tykes those bred
tor sheep-fending are the most unreliable in
temper. The collie is notorious in this
respect.
REARING THE OUTSIZE LITTER.
J.W.W.”: A relative in S. Gippsland was
concerned because his Large White sow had
not sufficient milk for her litter of 14. Be-
lieving that some form of porridge spread
on top of the green grass had possibilities, he
decided to experiment.
„-S irs *-n e fmc oatmeal porridge made
with mdk (half new and half separator),
and then mixed in molasses—a teaspoon to
a pint—-and spread out when cold. This
they took to fairly well, but not so readily
as when he added a sprinkling of salt The'v
seemed to thrive well on this in conjunction
with what milk the mother could supply.
He then mixed wheatmeal with the oatmeal,
and later on. a little linseed meal was added
The result was 14 splendid pigs. At four
weeks o d two of the pigs were taken from
the mother altogether and fed on the last
mixture,, along with separator milk. Thev
held their own almost a.s well as those left
on the sow. .
BREED IN PIGS.
‘•Roseworthy” ; For some time past the
quality of. South Aus. pigs for export has
been criticised by experts. Recently at the
instance of the Society of Stud Pig Breeders
a party visited the Government Produce
SrfiS a f f °i rt f'¥. aidc t 0 wateh the slaugh-
.lV,l,! slll Pment of pigs selected by
the society. Those attending were satisfied
that pig-breeding methods in South ‘ Aus.
J eVlSlOn - • Xt was P° int «l out that the
short, dumpy pig was not favored on tln>
British markets, the demand being for the
long, rangy type with a minimum of fat and
a maximum of meat. It was realised that
liLn vera rl ; - Sout , h Aus - Product; lacked all
these_ qualities. At a subsequent meeting it
W d f eC « de( li t lat ’ considering the small num-
bei °t South Aus. pigs suitable for export.
n Ul het+ev 8 h . lpment „ s should be postponed until
a bittu type of pig was produced s This
Export" Boa?d beeU approvcd b ->' the Meat
The p igs selected by the society were well
up to London standard, and will 'be exported
on account of owners. 11. J. Candy the
president, impressed on the visitors’ the
necessity for building up an export trade,
without which it would be useless to con-
™ W ltll pi S- b i'eeding. At present prices
tvT wL 1 South Aus. it would pay better
to knock the young pigs on the head than
to rear them. It is an old story Breeding
is much more important for the production
of marketable pigs than mere feeding, how-
careful - Th at breeding must be to a
fixed type the one that the overseas buver
is asking for. Lamb and beef exporters
have in this respect already learned their
lesson. Pig-breeders will have to follow
suit if tlieiv work i.s going- to meet with
success; and this is true of other States
as well as South Aus.
VALUE OF FIELD PEAS.
“D.J.H.”: They are a cheap crop to sow r :
you need only 1| bushels per acre if you
sow with an ordinary drill. They will do
well on practically any soil that is worked,
and will thrive without deep cultivation or
much rain. The leguminous nature of the
plant; improves the ground. The tops can
be fed chaffed green, or may be grazed off
after the peas are harvested. But never feed
the green crop off when damp, as it may
cause stomach and other troubles.
The harvested peas find a ready market
at about f>s. per bushel. Properly dried,
they are one of the best drought-reserve
fodders possible. They can be stored in
sealed tanks and will last for years. Con-
taining 20 per cent, of protein, they are excel-
lent fat- and flesh-forming lines, especially
for lambs and wethers, or for ewes before
and after the gestation period. They arc
pig-fatteners and milk-producers. Pea-meal
is a good body-builder for all classes of
young stock and poultry ; the whole grain is
relished by chooks. For all stock other than
horses, feed peas whole; for the noddy they
are best crushed. Early Dun and Bruns-
wick are, in my judgment, the best varieties.
BURYING VINE CUTTINGS.
YYoorinen : For many years tile prim-
ings of vines have, been burnt. It would
lie impossible to work the ground between
rows if they were left to lie on the ground
near the vines. The quantity of wood
removed from vines at pruning contains from
two to five pounds of dry matter, the rest
being just . water. In irrigated vineyards
the vines are most vigorous, and it has
been the practice for many years to drag
these primings out to the headlands by
means of specially-constructed horse-drawn
rakes. A variant of this practice is to use
an old square tank as a furnace and drag
it along- as the vines are pruned, throwing
the cuttings straight into the tank to be
burned immediately.
There m a Digger at Merbein (Vic.), the
younger V oullaire, who has experimented
in many things in dried fruits. Thinking
that the best way of disposing of these prim-
ings was to use them to maintain the fer-
tility of the soil, he began a few years back
to cut deep trenches in every alternate vine
row and throw the cuttings into them, lie
designed a species of double mouldboard
plough and a delver, and after two or three
years was able to get down nearly two feet
with his trench. Consequently the ground
was being opened up and enriched by decay-
ing cuttings and a deeply-drained soil was
being formed. The surface soil was disced
back into the trench after the cuttings were
thrown in. So interesting were, the results
that the C. S. and I. R. began to take
notice. Professor Prescott and Dr. Rivett
inspected the vineyard, where soil profiles cut
the _ ground disclosed a wonderful
difference in soil texture whero the cuttings
had been buried. After a thorough investi-
gation this is being recommended as a stan-
dard practice in irrigated vineyards on heavy
soils which do not take water easily, and is
being adopted wholeheartedly in several Vic
settlements.
An interesting aspect is the interest
shown by several Australian implement firms
m designing special implements for this job.
which is not as easy as it looks. It takes
considerable power to pull an implement
cutting a trench up to 18 inches deep in
tough soil matted with vine roots and it
is only possible to work two horses abreast
comfortably in the vine rows. Demonstra-
tions have been given by several firms of
implements capable of cutting a fairly deep
trench with only two horses.
WASTE TOBACCO.
Nick O’teen” : A cigarette or a cigar butt
oi the scrapings from a pipe are unusually
strong m nicotine, because the alkaloid con-
denses in the .mice of the butt or bowl. The
amount of tobacco (and nicotine) wasted
a ! n V?:W by smokers is enormous, but it is
of little interest to the man on the land
However, the waste tobacco from the plan-
tations is a matter of considerable import-
ance and the correct method of extracting
nicotine therefrom on the farm should be
widely known ; it may mean pounds into the
pockets of amateur and market gardeners
horticulturists and graziers.
™ etho< ? • of extraction outlined by
E.H.M. in his short par. (B. 10/5/’33)'
is wrong. Boiling tobacco waste in water
volatilises the nicotine. Very little boiling
quickly reduces whisky in its alcoholic
strength, and the same applies t 0 tobacco
decoctions as regards their nicotine content
The “smoker” gardener (and there are
many) who thriftily saves his waste tobacco
should use four times the quantity of tobacco
suggested by “E.H.M.,” i.e., Sozf instead of
20z., in gallons of cold water, soaking for
24 hours and then adding about half an
ounce of freshly-slaked lime, straining and
spraying at once, because the solution thus
made ferments and deteriorates if kept for
any length of time.
Tobacco 'residue is a useful fertiliser. A
large quantity of tobacco, unsaleable as such
but eminently suitable for the manufacture
of farm-made spray, was available last
season in Victoria, and unfortunately more
is promised this year owing to disastrous
fj'osts in early autumn. The value of waste
tobacco for the manufacture of insecticide
on the farm or in the factory will depend
upon the amount of nicotine it contains.
The darker the leaf the higher percentage,
and vice versa. Very dark leaf will con-
tain as much as 7 per cent, of the alkaloid.
Stems and plant-butts will not average more
than i p CI - C ent.
Generally speaking, frosted whole plant,
air-dry and in good condition, obtainable at
anything up to 2d. per pound, is worth a
“fly'' in any part of Victoria, but unselected
waste at anything above Id. per pound re-
quires careful consideration.
The method of extraction? Place 1001 b. of
leaf in a 200-gallon tank or barrel having
a tap outlet at the bottom; add 100 gallons
of soft water and allow to soak for 24 hours.
If given an occasional stir or turn over, all
the better. It is advisable to have two or
more equally-sized tanks, commencing with
one, and utilising the others as operations
necessitate. Drain the solution from No. 1
tank into No. 2 tank, into which approxi-
mately 1001 b. of tobacco has been previously
placed; add a further five gallons of fresh
water to the residual tobacco in No. 1 tank,
and after half an hour has elapsed again
drain - off through tap, adding the solution
to No. 2 tank. Allow the tobacco in No. 2
tank to soak for 24 hours as before, and.,
empty No. 1 tank, placing the residual to-'
bacco aside for subsequent use as a fertil-
iser. Refill No. 1 tank with tobacco and
water, and carry on extraction as before.
Drain No. 2 tank, and use the solution,
diluted with lime water in the proportion
of one gallon of solution to three gallons of
lime water. U.se immediately.
If it is required to make a stock solution
which will keep for a month or two, it will
be necessary to acidify with sulphuric acid
(testing with blue litmus paper, which will
turn red when acid), and preferably boiling
down to half the volume in iron drums. A
more intense extraction providing a liquid
of higher concentration may be advisable in
this case. Care will be necessary not to over-
do the acidity. The concentrated acidified
solution will stand boiling without loss of
nicotine, and should be diluted eight times
prior to using.
We pay a lot of money away annually for
nicotine. A little co-operation in installing
a cheap central extraction plant is going
to knock back this bill considerably.
CLAY-BAT BUILDING.
“G.J.A.S.”: A solid house can be built
inexpensively with bats, and, if a little
extra care is taken, an ornamental one also.
A foundation of stone or concrete is essen-
tial, as the walls are heavy, and settlement
in any. part of the foundation will cause
cracks into which rain will penetrate.
From the boards of an old packing-case
make a mould to turn out the bat required;
one 18in. long, Sin. wide and 6in. deep is a
handy size. Let the side boards extend about
I-Un. at each end of mould, to which can
be nailed a small crosspiece to serve as
handle to lift it off the finished bat. Select
surface soil with not too much clay in it,
work into a stiff png and flop into the mould
with a spade; press down compactly, smooth
off and set out on a' level surface to dry.
A smart man can turn out many in a day.
As soon as foundations have set and the
bats, are dry, smooth all outside joins neatly,
leaving those inside as rough as possible to
take the plaster. This can be made of the
same soil as the bats, but must be carefully
sifted before mixing so as to remove stones
or rubbish. The mixture also serves for
mortar to lay the bats. An old wire mat-
tress makes a good sieve for the purpose.
Where the walls are protected by verandahs
they can be left as they are, or can be
colored. All unprotected walls and chimneys
can be rendered waterproof by making "a
fairly thick paint with raw linseed oil and
cement: apply with a stiff brush, rubbing
well into crevices. If this job is well done
one coat will suffice. We have a bat build-
ing treated this way ten years ago; it has
required no further attention. Overlap the
roof an inch or two, keep the gutterings in
order, and you have a house that will last
many years.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(transferred from Service Department.)
One of my horses has footrot or “thrush.”
What can / d0? —6176.
Apply the following solution after cut-
ting away all ragged frog; Oil of creosote
i°z and methylated spirits sufficient to
make 5 fluid ounces. Keep the horse on a
dry standing, and apply daily.
Method of clearing springs of magnesia,
with which they are highly impregnated?
{Land Pane continued on pane 26.)


A ;
?3 w&xMPm
Real comfort for
aching feet
Nothing to equal the ease of
this restful Abbey Shoe. It s
so light.... so pliant and well-
shaped .... that every foot-
muscle can relax luxuriously.
It’s smart, too. . . .and very
suitable for everyday wear.
The flexible sole is made of the
toughest leather.
Three widths per size
ORDER BY POST: Both full and
half-sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fittings. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a con-
venient cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS —No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL.337
If any Illustration in “The Bulletin’
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The big thing
about the new
Pontiac* is the
Luxury in the
little things
♦With the new V radiator
PONTIAC
THE LUXU RY CAR
Consult
your local authorised
Pontiac dealer.
P. 2
>*
K
s
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication —-Every Friday 2d.
For use in
FACTORIES
ON FARMS
8 STATIONS
“MACSON”
Double-
Acting
Piston Pumps
are designed
to give a
large flow
of water at
considerable
pressure.
M
Macson
1 Double-
Acting
Pumps
Made in five sizes for li, U, 2, 2\ and 3 inch piping, giving
outputs ranging from 400 to 3500 gallons per hour.
Cylinder is fitted with a DOUBLE THICKNESS brass liner,
ensuring practically an unlimited life to this most important part.
Suction and discharge can be adjusted several ways.
“MACSON” Pumps are also available coupled direct to Electric
Motors, making a very convenient portable outfit.
Ask for further particulars of these modern, powerful Pumps.
Hundreds nf other Tools for the Home,
Farm and Workshop are shown in our
latest catalogue. Send for a copy now.
r
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street .
582 Collins Street ...
llfi Waymouth Street
532 Murray Street ..
SYDNEY
ME choc km:
. . ADELAIDE
PERTH
The water is to be used for irrigating a
vegetable, garden. —s 749.
No simple and effective method can be
recommended. The addition of lib. of slaked
lime to each 1000 gallons of the water may
render it somewhat more suitable, for irri-
gating the! vegetable garden.
Method of clearing water of green moss?
—5768.
Both bleaching powder (chloride of lime)
and copper sulphate (bluestone) are em-
ployed for preventing the growth of green
moss or algae in water —2oz. of the chloride
or 11 grains of the bluestone to 1000 gallons
of water. For water used for drinking and
kitchen purposes, bleaching powder should
be used.
(1) Area under bananas on the Tweed
River (N.S.W.) t (2) Area under bananas
in N.i S'. IF. ? —6107.
(1) Between 2000 and 2500 acres. (2)
Approximately 13,000 acres.
(1) I have a few fruit trees in their
second year. Would it be advisable to apply
sheep manure? (2) Quantity to each tree?
(3) Would, such treatment encourage white
ants? (4) Would stable manure be better
than sheep manure? (5) Best spray for
curly leaf in peaches? (0) Can the mix-
ture be applied with a brush if no spray
pump is available, and best time to apply?
0149.
(1) Yes. (2) About a kerosene bucket
to each tree, well worked into the soil to
a radius of 3ft. or 4ft. around the tree.
(3) Not if properly applied and the soil
round the trees is kept stirred. (4) No. (5)
Leaflet posted. (6) The spray should he
applied in the winter, before the buds swell.
It is difficult to make a thorough applica-
tion with a brush.
(1) Where can Queensland-nut seedlings
or seeds suitable for southern Riverina
(16in. rainfall) be obtained? (2) Is there
a near-by market for the nuts? —6os9.
(1) The trees are native to the semi-
tropical areas of N.S.W. and Q’land, and
it is doubtful whether they will succeed in
areas that are subject to severe frosts.
Trees can be obtained from H. J. Rumscy
and Son, Dundas (N.S.W.). and from L. P.
Rosen and Son, Pennant Hills-road, Carling-
ford (N.S.W.). (2) There should be.
(1) How old is the soft-shelled Queens-
land-nut tree before bearing? (2) How
many trees should, be planted to the acre?
(3) Average yield per tree? (4) Present
price of nuts in Australia? (5) At what
time of the year are seeds available? —6012.
(1) Five to six years from planting the
seed. (2) Depends on class of soil. At
corners of 24ft. squares, 70 trees are re-
quired per acre. (3) Maximum production
attained from 12 years onwards. Average
701 b. to 801 b. per tree. (2) Sixpence to Is.
per pound, (5) March, April and May.
I am growing vegetables for profit on 1-1
acres of sandy loam along a salt-water
creek. In the last two years I have taken
off splendid crops. Creek opens at bath ends
to the bay. Recently, strong winds caused
exceptionally high tides, and the water over-
flowed on to land, subsiding after a day.
Any serious detriment to soil, and what
remedia l measures ? —SSS3.
Considerable quantities of salt may have
been left in the soil and this may interfere
with growth. Sample the soil to a depth
of one foot and have it tested for salt con-
tent. Tlie chemist of the Vic. Agriculture
Dept, will analyse at a cost of 2s. per
sample. Instructions as to method of tak-
ing samples may he obtained from him.
T have a race which discharges water
through a 2in. pipe with a fall of 40ft. (1)
Power developed? (2) Would this be suffi-
cient to drive a small generator supplying
current to three lamps for four hours daily?
(3) What plant would be necessary, and
cost ? —6160.
(1) Depends upon the length of the pipe.
A two-inch pipe, 500 ft. long, will deliver
about 7.5 cub. ft. of water per minute, cor-
responding to about \ h.p. (2) Yes. (3)
Cost of turbine and dynamo about £120;
piping, wire and lamps extra. Full par-
ticulars obtainable from W. G. Watson and
Co.. 279 Clarence-street, Sydney. A small
petrol-driven generator would be cheaper.
These arc obtainable from Buzacott and Co.,
7-11 Market-street. Sydney, at prices from
£6O.
(1) What variety of pigeon is best suited
for squab-raising? (2) Where can they be
procured? (3) What number of birds would
be necessary as breeders to ensure a fair
return and approximately how long would
it be before the squabs are ready for
market? (4) What books on the subject are
available? (5) Smallest amount of capital
on which one could start? (6) What arc
the prospects of success? —6106.
(1) Carneaux are the most prolific
breeders. White Kings are the next best.
(2) Advertise in the local press, as the cost
of transport from Sydney would be heavy.
(3j ’l'he average pair of birds produces from
eight to ten pairs of squabs per year at an
average of 4s. per pair (Sydney prices).
Period of incubation IS days. Squabs ar;'
ready for killing when 28 days old. (4)
“Squab Culture,” by A.Darge, obtainable from
“Poultry,” Goulburn-street, Sydney. (5)
The book should give you a good idea. (6)
Present conditions are unfavorable. Squabs
are a luxury even in the best of times. Since
the depression the demand is poor. A first-
class hotel would be the best to approach.
(1) I have heard that some wattles hare
no leaves, but only flattened leaf stems. Is
this true, and, if so, how do they differ from,
leaves, and how docs the tree breathe with-
out leaves? (2) Are there any orna-
mental ivattles that flower in spring or
summer? (3) Where can I get seeds of
flannel flower and other Australian flowers?
—6216.
(1) Wattle species fall mto two classes,
those with feathery or much divided leaves,
and those which have no true leaves, but
flattened leaf stalks, which, however, are
similar in general appearance to ordinary
leaves and perform the same functions. The
seedlings of all species show true (feathery)
leaves in the very early stages, but gradually
the leaf stalks flatten and become leaf-like.
The true leaves then drop off and are no
longer produced. (2) Most of the ornamental
species flower in winter and early spring.
One of the green wattles ( Acacia molissima)
and the cedar wattle (Acacia data) flower
in summer. The cedar wattle is grown
chiefly as a foliage tree, as the flowers are
not very attractive. (3) Some of the larger
seed merchants may be able to supply seeds
of native species.
I am paying 6 per cent, interest on a
loan from the 'Q’land Agricultural Bank
and on a dog-netting loan from the Q’land
Lands Department. Gan 1 get the interest
reduced? —s9s4.
No. There is an Act to confer jurisdic-
tion to grant relief to certain mortgagors
in certain cases (assented to September 22,
1931), but this docs not apply to the Crown.
Best substance to give cattle to counter-
act mineral deficiency, principally phos-
phatic; where procurable, price and amount
to give daily? —6ols.
The following are rich in phosphorus and
lime and easily obtainable: bonemeal, dicalcic
phosphate, superphosphate and raw rock
phosphate, and are recommended in the order
given, but in all cases mixed with equal parts
of salt, except in the case of dicalcic phos-
phate, which is mixed 1 part of the phos-
phate to 1-i parts common salt. There are
two methods of feeding. In the first the
mixture is placed in suitable receptacles, to
which the cattle may have free access at all
times. In the second an amount is placed
in the food, 2oz. to (ioz. of the mixture per
day, the larger quantity being given to milch
cattle and pregnant animals, bearing in mind
what the animal will consume. Cattle
showing typical symptoms of phosphate defi-
ciency may take larger quantities of the
supplement than that indicated at the com-
mencement of treatment, but the quantity
used will decline as the craving is satisfied.
The prices for the various phosphate supple-
ments in your State (S.A.) are approxi-
mately : Sterilised bonemeal, £1 per 1401 b.
bag: dicalcic phosphate, 17s. Gd. per cwt.;
superphosphate, £4 15s. per ton; raw rock
phosphate, £5 2s. 6d. per ton.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mimosa” : A lotion for sores and wounds
in cattle and horses that has stood the test
for years; it is antiseptic, cooling, astringent,
non-irritant and cheap: loz. of acetate of
lead, 6drs. sulphate of zinc and 1 pint of
water. A bottle should be always on hand.
“Willeroo”: A worn-out planting hoe
makes a good top hinge for a small gate.
Drill or punch two holes through the blade,
and spike it on top of the gate post. The
top end of the back piece of the gate goes
in the eye. For bottom hinge a wooden
block or an inverted bottle suits.
“Karaway” : It pays to keep a few killing
sheep on the farm where the usual fare is
salt meat. When the oat or lucerne crop
has been cut, turn them on to the field for
a couple of days. There is always feed
among the stubble that they will pick up. On
other parts of the farm also, as various crops
are harvested, there is picking for sheep.
At the same time they help to manure the
ground. On dairy farms the poddy calves
do well on these plots.
“R. E. Ward”: Dairymen who don’t separ-
ate the evening’s milk or don’t wash the
separator injure their own pockets. The
best method is to stand the milk container
in a tub of hot water and stir milk until
it is warm. If milk is separated while cold
a lot of butter-fat is lost in the skim milk.
“Valerin”: Even digging-out rabbits re-
quires some skill. Before starting probe
the burrow with a short length of twisted
No. 8 wire, and as you go along use
the wire. By this means one gets the
lie of the burrow, which prevents piling
the earth' on top of branches. When fol-
lowing the main burrow keep a sharp look-
out for offshoots, where the rabbits mostly
congregate. Leave the burrows open for a
time and examine for “misses.”
“Dimon”: The spokes of an old bicycle
wheel are useful for many purposes. If the
handle of a saw or spade is split, bore a hole
through it, then cut a spoke about half an
inch longer than the width of the split part,
and bend the cut end to fit in a recess. The
little hut on the other end will screw the
handle together and hold it.
“Kirby”: For blight in stock, try milk.
Pour a few drops in the corner of the eye
with a spoon, or use a syringe when the
eye commences to “run,” and work the lid
slightly. Two applications, evening and
morning.
“Deekay” : Don’t leave your empty super,
bags lying about. Throw them in the dam
or trough to soak for a day and then wash
them out and hang out to dry. They will
be useful for the seed wheat next season.
“Titre”: The Grafton (N.S.W.) experi-
ment farm is busy on the propagation of
sugarcane seedlings, an unusual undertak-
ing in Australia, where the cane is grown
from cuttings or from the resulting ratoons.
The “fuzz,” the fine feathery, seed-bearing
material from the “arrow,” which is the
flower of the sugarcane, has been imported
from Porto Rico, Cuba, Hawaii and Barba-
does, and a glasshouse will be used for the
raising of the seedlings from it. Last season
some hundreds of seedlings were planted.
They have made good progress in spite of «
dry conditions.
The W.A. Chief Inspector of Rabbits
mentions that, in places, netting in the
rabbit-proof fences erected over 20 years
ago is as good as the day it was put in. It
is always advisable, he says, to dip one end
of the coil, before unrolling, in a mixture of
hot tar and kerosene, or tar, kerosene and
bitumen, to a depth of 12 in. Two dippings
with a week’s drying between would be
better.
Livingston Bros., of Moree (N.S.W.),
have sold 300 Bullawarrie stud rams to M.
L. Byrne for his 250,000-acre property,
Wallacooloobie, Julia Creek (N.Q.). Byrne
was on his way to the Riverina, where he
has been buying stud stock for 18 years, and
stayed over for the Moree show. He was so
impressed with the Bullawarrie rams, which
are pure Haddon Rig blood, that he made an
immediate deal. Tic considers the rams com-
pare favorably with the southern animals
both for wool and frame. The 300 rams will
travel 1700 miles to their home.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover. of last
Bulletin to hanu
To avoid confusion in . filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Printer seeks wider scope. All-round exp. and
ability to attract new business; advt. layouts, ideas.
—6229.
Compiler of musical history of Australia would
appreciate subject matter and assistance from any
who can offer it. —6817.
To buy (second-hand) novels by William Faulkner.
—6329.
To buy Sabatini’s “Torquemada and the Spanish
Inquisition.”—6263.
To buy copies of “Reveille” for Sept., Oct. and
Nov., 1927; Feb. and Nov., 1928 ; and April, 1929.
—6299.
To buy copies of “Reveille” for Nov., 1927 ;
Feb., Mar., June, Sept, and Nov., 1928; and Jan.,
1929. (To Editor, “Reveille,” Wingello House,
Angel-place, Sydney.)
To buy IJeller’s transcriptions of S'chubert’s songs
(complete), “Twenty-two Favorite Songs of
Schubert” (Peters, 124), and pianoforte transcrip-
tion of Beethoven’s Quartet, Op. 131 (Stradal),
Peters, 3729, or any edition. —6314.
To buy small etching press cheap.—63o2.
To exchange papers with persons living in Pacific
Islands for used P.I. postage stamps.—62sB.
Lyric-writer wishes to get in touch with composer.
—6257.
, Will exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism”
for any two of the following: “Lasseter’s Last Ride,”
“Flynn of the Inland,” “Prospecting for Gold,” by
lon L. Idriess; “Sheepmates,” by W. Hatfield;
“Cattle Camp,” “Lantana,” by J. J. Hai'die;
“Tragedy Track,” by F. E. Baume. —6295.
Copies of monologues in the repertoire of Rupert
Hazel. —6261.
Copy of “Canberra Christmas Illustrated” (1925),
by D. B. O’Connor and Jones, and “The Working
Man’s Paradise,” by John Miller (William Lane),
published 1892.—6313.
Will Arthur Yandell (of S. Aus.), who returned
from U.S.A. about 1922, please send his where-
abouts. Former mate inquiring.—629l.
Radio station VK4PW, Ipswich, Q’land, would
appreciate information as to reception results. It
broadcasts every Sunday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and
from 4.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on 220 metres. Late
night session first S'aturday in each month, commenc-
ing 11.30.
Information Sought.
Hoio can I place designs on the doors of
cabinets, in stain, with a dark wood stain
outline? —6310.
Make the required design on ordinary
drawing paper and prick all the outlines
with a large darning needle. Make the holes
about sin. apart. Put an eggeupful of
whiting into a piece of fine muslin and tie
it into a ball. Fasten the pricking to the
panel and pounce all. over the pricks with
the bag of whiting. This will faintly out-
line the design in small white specks. Out-
line this pattern with a fine brush in dark
oil color. Let this dry and stain in be-
tween the lines with spirit, oil or water
stains. The dark outline in oil will prevent
the various stains from running into one
another.
I have found that papers which take etch-
ings and woodcuts well are unsuited for
applications of color. How should paper be
prepared to make hand-colored woodcuts? —
6303.
That kind of paper is insufficiently sized.
Dissolve one and a quarter ounces of white
curd soap and an ounce of the finest pale
blue in a pint of boiling water, strain
through linen while hot, and add three-
quarters of an ounce of alum. Apply to the
sheets ot paper when cool with a broad wash
brush and pin them up by the corners to
dry. This is for water-color tinting.
Is the moon visible at the Poles? —6129.
The moon is visible at one or other of
the Poles during a lunation, and partly
visible at both when it crosses the Equator
going north or coming south. When the
moon is north of the Equator it is not vis-
ible from the South Pole, and when it is
south of the Equator it is not visible from
the North Pole.
’ If an aeroplane flying at a height nj
20,000 ft. crossed over a mountain 10,000 ft.
high, would the altimeter reading drop to
10.000 ft. 7—6178.
An altimeter gives the height of the air-
craft above its original starting place or sea-
level, according to whichever point it was
set before flight. It is usual to set the dial
to the zero mark at the height of the aero-
drome from which the flight began, unless
it so happens that the aerodrome is at a
high altitude with a recognised definite
height above sea-level. The altimeter gives
a reading of the height of the aircraft irre-
spective of the type of country passed over,
since it works on the principle of the aneroid
barometer.
(1) What is an electrolytic condenser?
(2) In what part of a radio receiver is it
used? (3) Maximum voltage it will with-
stand? (4) Nature of the electrolyte? —
6330.
(1.) A compact condenser of high capacity
consisting .of a positive aluminium plate
immersed in a liquid electrolyte which con-,
stitutes the negative plate. The dielectric
consists of a very thin layer of gas which
torms on tlie aluminium as a result of the
potential applied to the condenser. (2)
In the smoothing unit of the power pack.
(3) Up to about 480 volts, depending on
the nature of the electrolyte. (4) Borax,
ammonium citrate, ammonium
sodium silicate, potassium cyanide, to men-
tion a few. (When connecting up an elec-
trolytic condenser always connect the alu-
minium plate to the positive side and the con-
tainer to the negative side of the circuit.)
1 have some water-color paintings on
wood, and want to french-polish them. How
can I do it?— o332.
Such treatment is quite unsuitable for
paintings. If you must do it, clean the sur-
face with breadcrumbs, removing greaSe-spots
with petrol, and then polish in the usual
way. Recipes for french polish can be found
in any book on wood-finishing.
What constitutes a foul in boxing? —63sl.
Hitting below the belt, on the kidneys or
back, behind the neck (the “rabbit-killer”),
and striking an opponent when he is down.
Must a boxer stop fighting when his sec-
onds throw in the towel? What is the
Sydney Stadium ruling in this respect ? —
6360.
It is generally understood that a boxer
must consider himself beaten when his
seconds “sky the wipe.” In most parts of
Great Britain and at the. Sydney Stadium,
however, the referee has sole right to say if
one of the contestants is unfit to continue,
and seconds cannot surrender for their man
-where this rule is in force.
How is cobbler’s wax prepared? —6l66.
Melt Mb. pitch over a closed fire until it
boils, add M CU P neatsfoot oil and stir till
well mixed. Pour the warm mixture into
a kerosene-tin half-full of water, and work
it with the hands until it will float, Roll
and cut into sections. .Will remain good for
years if kept under water.
What qualifications are necessary to obtain
a, commission in the British Army in Eng-
land or India? —5993.
Applications for nomination to the Royal
Military Academy and the Royal Military
College, England, with a view to qualifying
for appointment to commissioned rank in the
regular army for service in England or
India, are called twice annually. Notifica-
tion is made in the “Commonwealth Gazette”
and leading Australian newspapers in March
and August each year.
(1) How long should a 120 -volt B battery
last operating a three-valve set —(a) if
tapped at 120, 82 and' 60 volts; (b) at 120,
105 and 82 volts? (2) In the latter case
should the discharge rate exceed 16 m.a.?
(3) A nine-volt bias battery is required.
Would the set operate if this battery were
flat?— 622l.
(1) The battery would last practically the
same time in each case, as the 120-volt lead
is connected to the last valve, which takes
most of the current delivered by the battery.
The life of the battery depends upon its
capacity, the value of the grid bias and the
type of valves used, and on an average lasts
seven,months used a few hours daily. (2)
The discharge rate should not exceed 9 or 10
m.a. (3) A run-down bias battery reduces
the lives of the valves and B battery due
to excessive plate current, and it also causes
distortion. If the life of your B battery is of
importance, use the correct bias voltage.
What is meant by the basic wage? What
is the Federal basic wage for Sydney and
Melbourne and the average: for the Com-
monwealth ? 6151.
The basic wage is the minimum that may
be paid to an unskilled laborer, who is
assumed to be a family man; as fixed by
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, it is
based on the normal needs in a civilised
community of a man, wife and three
children. The Federal basic wage which came
into operation on February, 1933, is shown
below for Sydney and Melbourne and for the
six capital cities of Australia averaged, the
10 p.c. emergency cut being allowed for.
From May 1, a new basis for calculating the
basic wage has been used by the Court, and
these figures are also shown for Sydney
and Melbourne. Sydney: Basic wage per
week from Feb. 1, 1933, 745. Weekly wage
after 10 p.c. reduction, from Feb. 1, 1933
(old basis), 665. 7d.: from May 1, 1933
(new basis), 675. lOd. Melbourne: Basic
wage per week from Feb. 1, 1933, 675.
Weekly wage after 10 p.c. reduction, from
Feb. 1. 1933 (old basis), 60s. 4d.; from May
1, 1933 (new basis), 635. 4d. Average, six
capital cities, new rate: 645. 2d.
(1) Causes of static? (2) Under what
weather conditions is it most prevalent?
(3) When and where most frequent? —6os6.
(1) Lightning, ionisation by the sun’s
rays, and effects of wind or rain. (2) In
rain accompanied by wind and in fierce sun-
shine. (3) More frequent in summer than
in winter and usually worst between sun-
set and early morning. More intense in the
tropics than in temperate zones.
Can you tell me anything about Thorold
Rogers? What were his chief works, and
what teas his standing as an economist? —
6191.
James Edwin Thorold Rogers (born in
1823) was an English political economist,
a professor at Oxford from 1862 to 1867.
He was ordained an Anglican priest and
took part in the High Church movement.
Resigning his orders, he later represented
Southwark and Bermondsey in the House of
Commons. In 1888 he was again appointed
professor of political economy at Oxford.
Ilis chief works are “History of Agriculture
and Prices in England.” “Six Centuries of
Work and Wages,” “First Nine Years of
the Bank of England,” “The Economic In-
terpretation of History.” In politics he was
an advanced Liberal and the personal friend
of Cobden and John Bright; he did much to
promote the historical study of economics.
He died in 1890.
I intend forming a skating rink. The
present floor is of concrete. I wish to place
a glazed concrete surface over that, already
down.. Would this be possible, and how
should it be done? —5607.
A new surface of. concrete can be placed,
provided the existing surface is well chipped
or hacked. This surface should be well
wetted before the new floor is laid. The
mixture recommended is 1 part of cement to
2 parts of fine sand, applied to a thickness
of about lin. The glazed surface is obtained
by finishing with a steel trowel.
(1) lloio to convert gallons into cubic
feet? (2) Cubic feet of water into pounds?
(3) Simple formula for finding the theoreti-
ial h.p. of a fall of icatcr? —6240.
(1) Multiply by .16044. (2) Multiply by
62,288. (3) Divide the product of the dis-
charge in cub. feet and net fall in feet by
il, which gives a result based on an efficiency
of 80 per cent.
(1) Can copper be welded? (2) Particu-
lars of process? —6234.
(1) Yes, but with difficulty. (2) The
flame must be carefully adjusted, and a
welding-rod which contains a small quantity
of phosphorus must be used. A flux is use-
ful, and preheating to avoid adhesion is
necessary. The tip of the white cone should
be about, a quarter of an inch from the
surface of the molten metal. The welds
should be hammered at a dull red to improve
their ductility and strength, and afterwards
annealed.
Names of evergreen creepers suitable for
hiding an unsightly fence in a Sydney
qit rden ? —6219.
Australis (cream and brown flowers) ;
Chcrerc (scarlet) ; Jasminoides alba
(white); Lindleyana (lavender); Vcnnsta
(orange); Dilochos lignosus (pink) ; Lig-
nosus alba (white) ; Manettia bicolor
(yellow and red) ; Lonicera or honeysuckle
(six varieties, with Aurea reticulata and
Sinensis outstanding); Jasminum (white):
Thunbergia gibsoni (orange) ; and Lauri-
folia (blue).
Material used for permanently mounting
microscopic specimens? —s4oo.
Depends on the sort of specimens to be
mounted. L. S. Beale’s “How to Work
with the Microscope.” which may be con-
sulted at the N.S.W. Public Library, and
Beavis’s “Book of the Microscope.” obtain-
able at Angus and ltobertson, Sydney, con-
tain the information you need.
I ioa,nt to copy diagrams drawn in Indian
ink. (1) Wild an ordinary plate' camera
be suitable? (2) Best type of plates? (3)
Any further particulars ? —6228.
(1) Yes, if fitted with a ground glass for
focussing and a double extension if full-size
copies are required. (2) Process plates.
(3) Point the camera to the centre of the
diagram, which must be perpendicular to
the axis of the lens. Even illumination is
essential and stray light must be prevented
from entering the lens by using a lens hood
blackened inside. Develop with hydro-
quinone or glycin.
(1) Date of departure of sailing ships
that carry wheat to England? (2) llow can
1 get a job on one of these ships? —6*923.
(1) No list available. Most of such ves-
sels arrive at South Australian outports
such as Wallaroo, Port Victoria, Port
Pirie or Port Lincoln between November
and March annually. (2) Practically no
prospect of employment.
(1) Where is sandalwood oil distilled in
Australia? (2) Is Q'land sandalwood suit-
able for distillation? (3) Commercial
method of obtaining oil? (4) Annual pro-
duction of sandalwood in W.A.? —5443.
(1) In Westralia, by a couple of
firms. (2) The species Euearya spicata,
which yields the oil of commerce, does not
occur in Q’land. The Q’land species, San-
talum lanceolatum, is exported largely to
Asia for incense purposes. It contains
an essential oil to the extent of approxi-
mately 2 per cent., which' has found only
very limited use in commerce. (3) The
roots and butts are reduced to sawdust,
which is then treated with extraction spirit,
the solvent recovered and the oil prepared
for the market by distillation under reduced
pressure. A very costly plant is required,
and it must be supervised by trained
chemists. The oil can also be obtained by
distillation with steam. (4) Approximately
109,0001b'.
(1) Name and price of a cheap book on
photography? (2) Method of speedy develop-
ing and, printing used by commercial
photographers, or where method could be
learned? (3) Method of making one’s own
films or plates from old material? —6099.
(1) Any large bookseller will show you a
dozen. “Gaslight and Bromide Prints,” by
G. E. Roberts and J. Monteith, obtainable
from Kodak, 379 George-street, Sydney, 2s.
6s„ can be recommended. (2) See Frank
Henningham, Photo. Service Club, lieiby-
place, Sydney. (3) Can’t be done.
(1) What are the first symptoms of tuber-
cular disease in a human? (2) Are tuber-
cular disease and consumption similar in
their effect upon the lungs? (3) In what
way does either of these diseases affect a
hum,an in its early stages? —6oBs.
(1) and (3) Symptoms vary. Modern
science inclines to the view that cough is
not an early symptom. Loss of energy, a
little loss of weight, loss of appetite and
mild indigestion combined always need in-
vestigation. They are early signs of many
things, and T.B. is one of them. Afterwards
come a cough and night-sweats. An X-ray
photograph is a most valuable means of de-
tecting early tuberculosis. (2) They are
the same thing.
(1) In the event of a matron of a N.S.W.
Government hospital going on holidays where
there is no deputy matron appointed, which
sister is supposed to relieve her? (2) Has
the senior sister in such hospital any special
claim to be appointed deputy matron if the
committee decided to have one? (3) Where
ivould I get a book of rules relating to such
hospitals? —6ol4.
(1) It is a matter entirely for the board
of the institution. (2) No, unless provided
for in the rules of the hospital. (3) A
copy of “Model By-Laws and Model Rules
for Hospitals” may be obtained from the
Government Printer at the price of 6d.
These are not necessarily applicable to indi-
vidual hospitals. The rules of any hospital
should be obtainable from the secretary to
the institution.
Does Anybody Know?
Whether there is a farm or sheep station
named “Stretton Park” in Victoria? —6253.
What is the origin of the name Weddin
ML, near Eugowra (N.S.W.)? —6362.
Brief Answers.
K.„8.J.: The course recommended by the
Public Trustee (Eng.) seems best. You are entitled
to the information, and if fully informed of the
facts and clothed with your authority your attorney
should be able to obtain it. .. .E.D.8.: Qualification
or registration is not required in the instances quoted,
but there is a Registration of Firms Act (N.S.W.)
requiring every firm carrying on business or having
any place of business in a firm name which does
not consist of the full name or usual names of all
the partners to register. Write Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney. .. .T.H.R.: Your scheme does not come
within the scope of an invention, so it can’t be
patented. If you publish it in book or pamphlet
form you may copyright it, but it is the publica-
tion, not the scheme, that is copyrighted. There is
nothing to prevent you offering the scheme to a
Government at a. price... .P.P.W.: Continuous occupa-
tion, undisturbed, for that period would give the
occupant a title by adverse possession, so that he
could not lawfully be disturbed... .A.J.CJ.: A bank
is protected if it pays a cheque in good faith and
without negligence. Whether there was negligence
would be a matter for the Court to determine... .
J.R.M.: Write to the Assistant- Paymaster-General,
Whitehall, S.W.I, London. Fee depends on what
is required. . . .J.M.: Obtain pamphlet “Bacon Cur-
ing on the Farm” from Agriculture Dept., Sydney.
. ...R.S.: The Customs Dept, does not issue a list
of prohibited books for general circulation.. . .A.R.P.:
No preparation on the market. Re-blueing of,gun
barrels is carried out by Cowles and Dunn, 71 King-
street, Sydney, under a special process, 1 aking 14
days to complete... .W.M.11.: All firearms being kept
on the coastal area require a preservative counter-
acting the action of the salt atmosphere. Burr’s
threo oil is suitable. Same oil could be used to
preserve .weapons in the dry climate of the back
country... .A.G.M.C.: Write Postmaster, Rabaul,
New Guinea W.J.8.: Write Harry Crabb, 261
Riley-street, and Chown Bros, and Mulholland,
Wattle-street —both Sydney 1.1,.: Existing regula-
tions provide for a residential period of 12 months
in order to become eligible for such assistance....
V.D.: Particulars are obtainable from the District
Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edward-street, Bris-
bane. .. .A.H.H.: Robert Muller was a German
painter of historical episodes who flourished in the
last half of last century. A great deal of his
work was reproduced in oleograph, and probably
you have got hold of one of these. Neither original
nor reproduction is of any particular value nowadays.
. ...A.8.: Apply to the shipping cos J.T.: Yes,
they have been in use for many years. It is only
lately, however, that they have come into vogue....
E.W.D.: It would be necessary to know the make
of car and type of body in order to give an
approximate estimate of the duty. .. .'T.L.: See
“United Empire,” August, 1924, and “National
Review,” April, 1922.... J.J.R.: The essential treat-
ment is frequent washing of the scalp. Use soap
spirit and wash it out with two or three fresh
washings. .. .R.J.M.: (1) Yes. (2) Not to our
knowledge... .W.J.8.: Write to the British Consul-
General, Batavia, Dutch East Indies... .T.P.: We
have no knowledge of sulphur dioxide having been
used by the Germans as a shell filling. Some Ger-
man smoke shells were filled with sulphur fnoxide.
. ...A.J.8.: No. Probably you are thinking of the
proposal to appoint an additional 25 members to
the N.S.W. Leg. Council, which was made after the
appointment of Mr. Lang’s 25 nominees in November,
1931. This proposal followed the defeat of a Gov-
ernment measure in the Leg. Council, but it was not
pressed... .R.V.T.: Detailed information is not avail-
able. Suggest you get in touch with Kingsford
Smith... .M.K.S.: Suggest a Winchester focusing
headlight, especially adapted for night-shooting.
Price is 225. 6d., plus postage, from any gun firm.
. ...J.A.S.: Roclil’s “Harness Repairing” (12s. 6d.)
and Farnham’s “Home Tanning and Leather Making
Guide” (10s.). . . .F.A.A.: It is a novel by Bonn
Byrne and can be obtained from any leading book-
seller at ss. ...,A.A.: Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia, head office, Sydney, base of polished trachyte
quarried at Bowral, upper section Sydney sandstone ;
Commonwealth Savings Bank Building, Sydney, base
of imported red granite, upper section locally-made
architectural terra-cotta facing. .. .A.S.C.: Depends
on extent and density of the marks. Don’t attempt
self-treatment. Consult a skin specialist... .H.G.L.:
It was their suggestion that you should write direct
to them. It is natural that they should require
particulars as to why the information is needed.. ..
J.S.: Information required as to age of vines, dis-
trict, soil conditions and the treatment that the
vines have received in the past as regards pruning.
It is possible that the vines are allowed to carry
too much fruit and have not had sufficient wood
removed from year to year. .. .H.S.: Write Director,
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney....
F.D.: The “Gramophone,” 10a Soho-square, London,
W.l (monthly, Is.) ... .H.C.: He is looking at a
photograph of his son... .D.J.L.: No vacancies at
present. Full particulars can be obtained from the
Commissioner of Police, Sydney... .E.G.: (1) The
proper line would be the surveyed one, but you
say the creek “is the boundary by rights.” (2)
You must remove the fence and, if a new one is
required, make a claim for half the cost of the
dividing fence. If you fail to remove the old one
you maybe charged with the cost of its removal....
E.W.: It would be a ease of actionable negligence,
and this would be difficult to prove between two
schoolboys engaged in play. It looks more like
pure accident. As to the schoolmasters, their re-
sponsibility seems remote... ..J.A.P.: (1) There is
no binding rule, but that generally observed is for
the chairman to remain in the chair and give a
casting vote. (2) Any of the leading booksellers
can supply a handbook on the conduct of meetings.
... .C.M.G.: It means that either may act separately
or that they may act jointly... .A.T.G.: If you
can conduct your own case, and your witnesses do
not ask for expenses, your costs should be small. If
you do not succeed you will have to pay the costs
of the other side, which may be considerable. .. .8.D.:
To qualify as a solicitor you would have to pass
tho law matriculation exam, and be articled to a
solicitor for five years, or, in the case of a Uni.
graduate, for three years. Formerly a fee was re-
quired, usually £2OO, but this practice is not now
followed invariably. Salary during articles is a
matter of agreement, being merely nominal where
no fee is charged. You could not qualify by spare-
time study.... F.M.G.: “The Bulletinl Australian
Year Book,” obtainable from 252 George-street,
Sydney (Is. 3d. posted)... .W.H.M.: You could have
a pair of barrels made as desired, but the portion
of the weapon would have to be sent to English
manufacturers, who hold details of every gun manu-
factured by them. There is no firm in Australia in
a position to undertake this work. Cannot give
estimate cost.... J.E.C.: (1) Said to have been first
erected 585 b.c„ but earliest inscriptions date from
1485. Restored several times in nineteenth century.
(2) Unknown. Various potentates have restored it
from time to time. (3) To house relics of four
first human Buddhas. (4) Height 368 feet from
pedestal, which is 685 feet by 900. (6) Not given
by any authority.... (Many other mailed.)


ŕ
Obtainable
from your
local Dealer
Moire
powm
toVMI
Clyde
BATTERIES
The CLYDE ENGINEERING
CO. LTD.
61-65 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY
Personal and Missing Friends.
T tttitr WANTED. —If BLAIR LOCK-
HART (otherwise Robert Lockhart),
son of the late Mrs. Agnes Blair or Lock-
hart, who resided some time at 9, Abbots-
ford Place, Glasgow, will communicate with
the Subscribers he will hear of something
to his advantage. The said Blair Lockhart’s
last known address .was .Hotel Roma, Syd-
ney. Any persons acquainted with the said
Blair Lockhart, or who have information
of his whereabouts, are.invited to communi-
cate with the Subscribers. DIXON, ERS-
KINE AND CO., Solicitors, 117, Douglas
Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
WOODS’ GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
FOR COUGHS
COLDS AHD
INFLUENZA
9
x>
m
o
1
S'®
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes, Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.S, Meinourne.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday—2d.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Flavedo came into prominence as a Grand
National Steeplechase candidate by scoring
over the fences at Williamstown. Owned
by W. Lindsay, president of the Warrnam-
bool Racing Club, he is trained by J. Molo-
ney, who landed the York Hurdle on the
opening day of the V.R.C. Birthday meet-
ing with Belar. Moloney may annex the
Grand National double with these provincial
prads. Belar is favorite for the event, over
ihe battens, while Flavedo has firmed con-
siderably for the cross-country contest.
Twelve months ago Flavedo (lOst. 31b.)
finished second to Precocious (9st. 131 b.) in
the Williamstown Steeplechase. That was
good form, as Precocious subsequently
romped home in the National, wherein Flavedo
fell. 11. Leek, of Caulfield, owned Flavedo
at that period. He tired of the gelding, who
was sold and transferred to Warrnambool
quarters.
It may be that Moloney has discovered
the ideal way to handle Flavedo. On Satur-
day the son of All Black was allowed to
remain at tlie rear of the field until five fur-
longs from home, and his pursuit of the
leaders did not begin in earnest until the
straight was entered. He unwound a won-
derful run over the last furlong, to score by
three-quarters of a length from Calfly, with
Jumna third. At the concluding obstacle
the issue appeared to rest between Calfly,
Jumna, Precocious and Lanilda, but Pre-
cocious struck heavily and Lanihla tired.
Wirrate (favorite at 2 to 1) had a new
pilot in Sandiford. He completed the course
but did not jump with his accustomed dash,
and was never a possibility. Jumna’s form
9/
Bert- V/hY all "WE attentiqh to
FIDO 1 "
GeRT*. HER IK the show
4, , •*.
Bert: She wont set a, prize
GeRT.' Vraps not, but sheu. meet
SUCH A LOT OF NICE DOQ3.
was a vast improvement on recent efforts,
lie is a half-brother to Mosstrooper, the
champion timber-topper of 1980, and to
Kongo. Flavescent, the dam of Flavedo. is
,-i sister to The Fortune Hunter, winner of
the Sydney Cup of 1917.
There were three jumping contests on the
Williamstown programme. Zetheus annexed
the Maiden Hurdle, for which Sarokos
started favorite at 2 to 1. Bob Inkson tried
to win all the way on Sarokos, but the grey
shot his bolt half a mile from home and
faded right out of the picture. Place-getters
Zetheus, Purple Cap and King Siris are
all aspirants for G.N. Hurdle honors, but
Zetheus alone looks worthy of considera-
tion. Originally he was trained by George
Scobie, who won the G.N. Hurdle of 1909
for his uncle, James Scobie, on Fossil. How-
ever. it was not until he entered the stable
of Vin Ryan, that Zetheus had his attention
turned to jumping. By Claro,. ho claims
relationship on the dam’s side with Beeline,
a Can tala Stakes winner. Zetheus has 9st.
21b. in the National. Five years ago Long-
lands was successful in the Maiden Hurdle
at Williamstown, and went on to victory at
Flemington.
Over a quarter of a century has elapsed
since a Tasmanian horse gained Grand
National honors in Victoria. The last occa-
sion was in 1907, when Bribery won the big
hurdle for I. Gatenby. In view of the dis-
play that he gave on Saturday at Wilhams-
town, Baanya (Salatis—Queenette) _ will
have to be reckoned with in both Nationals
this year. He won the Port Phillip Hurdle
with ease from Prime Seal and Lanour. In
September last Baanya scored over brush
obstacles at Bendigo and then made a dead-
heat with Tezpur in the £IOOO Steeplechase
at Moonec Valley. He possesses unusual
pace for a jumper, having been successful in.
a six furlongs race at Deloraine (Tas.) on
Easter Monday. St. Magnus, favorite for
the Port Phillip Hurdle, failed dismally, and
clearly is far from being fit. Salatis, the
sire of Baanya, won a Caulfield Futurity
Stakes and is by Shepherd King from the
famous mare Traquette.
Williamstown racing was productive of
many sensations. Early in the afternoon
Duncan sustained a fall off Rose Valais in
the Juvenile Handicap. This occurred right
opposite the grandstand; the filly probably
fractured her shoulder before falling. Duncan
clung round her neck for several moments,
but was obliged to let go. When on the
ground he appeared to be struck by On
Parade. Semi-conscious, the jockey was con-
veyed to the casualty-room and subsequently
removed to a private hospital. In November,
3929, Duncan had a bone in his neck frac-
tured through a fall at Epsom. The doctors
were, reluctant to allow him to ride again,
but the champion Vic. jockey has not ex-
perienced any recurrence of that trouble. G.
Godfrey, an apprentice, had a marvellous
escape from dreadful injury when Beaunilly
unseated him at the start of the Point Cook
Handicap. Ilis left foot became caught in
the stirrup iron. If Godfrey had not held
on to the reins with grim desperation Beau-
nilly would have bolted and dragged the
helpless jockey after her. Fortunately a by-
stander rushed across immediately and extri-
cated the lad, whose foot had passed through
the stirrup as far as the ankle. This race
was won handsomely by Shadow King, who
holds the record as a Melbourne Cup place-
getter by finishing third in 1930, second in
3931 and third last year.
* # «= *
Only one favorite turned up at Randwick
to heip backers along, the deliverer being
Kongo (9 to 4) , who won the Second Hurdle
Race fairly comfortably from Yarrawin (7
to 2). S.‘ Fielder wisely kept the winner
at the tail of the field for tlie first mile, then
gradually moved him up. Two fences from
home ho was in front, and was not after-
wards troubled. Spider King (7 to 2) was
a poor third.
Dunere (5 to 1) was always favorite for
the Flying Handicap, but McShortodds had
to shake a reef or two out of liis price-list
before backers were induced to support the
chestnut seriously. The opening quote was
a meagre 7 to 2. O’Rourke’s steed had every
chance, but subsided into third place. True-
si'gn (8 to 1), with only 6st. 81b. to carry,
led practically from start to finish, and won
by two lengths from Bonnie Valerie (12 to
1), who cut Dunere out of second money
by a head. Sir Duninald touched sixes, but
eased to outside odds. Tom Pinch and
Greenline were the last two home. Their
big weights and the heavy going were too
much for them.
Although not prominent until the field
had entered the straight, Australia Fair (6
to 3) was much too good for the juveniles
in the Second Nursery Handicap. The stable
apprentice, L. Lamb, took him to the front
at the Leger, and McGrath’s colt, who seemed
to be at home in the going, was not troubled
to win by a length and a half from Rona
Valley (20 to 1). Emily Rose (14 to 1)
was a neck further back third. Journal
went out a hot favorite at 7 to 4. He drew
No. 3 marble, but never looked dangerous.
Australia Fair’s effort was remarkably good
considering that he was not asked to extend
himself.
Cordova, who carried most of the punters’
money in the first division of the Novice
Handicap, was hopelessly left at the post.
The race went to Dark Roger (8 to 1), who
incidentally gave his trainer, England, a
welcome change of luck. The black scored
from Delmond (14 to 1) by three-quarters
of a length. Delmond finished strongly and,
considering that he stood the winner u” 111 b..
he was by no means disgraced. Brown
Cream let her supporters down with a thud
in the second division. As much as 8 to 1
was laid, but at the close 4 to 1 was the
best on offer. Brown Cream was never in
the hunt. The winner turned up in Ex-
chequer (S to 1), who, going great guns
over the last furlong, beat Speldon (6 to
1) by three lengths. Two outsiders, Samo-
var and JBarrierform, both at 20 to 1, divided
third prize, half a length behind Speldon.
Gippsland was the opening favorite for
the Winter Plate, but Khartoum (7 to 2)
displaced him. “Tangible’s sore,” it was
said, and the veteran eased from sevens to
10 to 1. He firmed again later to 8 to 1.
Beyond his usual cramped style of locomo-
tion he gave no evidence of soreness when
he went out on the track. Wailes ‘shot him
to the front as soon as the barrier lifted, and
he lasted long enough to beat the fast-com-
ing Gippsland (4 to 1). who cut Winro.se
(7 to 1) out of second money by a long
head. Khartoum was fourth, followed by
Ranchero (4 to 1).
Ably steered by apprentice Lamb, Light-
ning March (8 to 1) annexed the Exeter
Handicap by two lengths from Blairfort (20
to 1), thus completing a double for McGrath.
Version (10 to 1) was third, a length and
a half away from Blairfort. It was Lamb’s
second win that day and the youngster
showed judgment in both races. The favor-
ite, Love Song, shaped rather poorly.
Trenette (5 to 1) was near the tail of the
field for the greater part of the journey.
Her turn will come presently.
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Dundas Handicap : Lightning March; next
Dame Moab.
Rosehill June Handicap : Khartoum; next,
Phlare. . t _
Parramatta Mile: Rowan; next, La
Vixen.
Ilarrv Rayner, who died at Randwick
last week at 92, was probably the last sur-
vivor of that band of great trainers of the
latter end of the nineteenth century whose
names remain household words in Australian
racing. Hi's successes were too numerous to
mention, but at one time or another most of
the big Australian racing events were taken
by his horses. A Melbourne Cup with
Arsenal (1884), the Newmarket and Epsom
Handicaps with Bungebah, the Victorian
A..T.C. Derby with Australian Peer and
Melos respectively, the Metropolitan with
Nobleman and the Sydney Cup (twice) with
Australian Peer and Street Arab were only
some of them.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
At times Labriola and Lurich did as muck
biting as wrestling at Leichhardt on Satur-
day night, and their clowning brought the
“count” on many occasions. Lurich, seem-
ingly overcome, permitted himself to be
pinned with a forward slam and a body-press
in the fourth round, and in the next couple
of terms he was tossed about like a schooner
in a southerly buster. As he looked hope-
lessly beaten towards the end of the sixth,
Lurich back-slammed his opponent and put
him out of commission. When Labriola
could not continue the spectators thought
Lurich would be crowned the winner, but the
thing was declared a draw, An uninterest-
ing departure from precedent.
Footbrawl
The question whether Fitzroy is what
it is cracked up to be drew a 30,000 crowd
to the local ground on Saturday, when the
opposing Richmond had to do its darnedest
to stave off defeat, and then did so only
through ’Roy’s bad shooting. The slippery
ground and greasy ball were against the big
Richmond high-markers, while ’Roy had the
handicap of losing its best goal-getter, Mori-
arty. through injury. It was a fast, close
game, with but 8 points of difference at the
end— Richmond, 93; ’Roy, 85- Zschech, the
Tigers’ centre, again dominated the play, but
his forwards failed to carry it on effectively.
A 20.000 crowd saw a good, clever game on
the Metropolitan Ground, but Collingwood
was too steady and .systematic for the flash-
ing brilliance of Melbourne, and won com-
fortably with 126 points to - Melbourne’s 97.
The Carlton-St. Kilda collision was notable
for its one-sidedness and the sweet sym-
metry of the final scores —Carlton, 20 goals
10 behinds; St. K., 10 goals 5 belnnds: loO
to 65. At Geelong, some 14,000 parted £330
to see South Melbourne do its dash. It
dashed all right for half the game, ; but
faded away after the interval and lost with
93 points to Geelong’s 116. North Mel-
bourne, having just beaten .Collingwood for
the first time in its history, arose in its
might and crashed through Footscray’s de-
fences with great vim. It wasn’t a day for
short passing and neat play, and ’Scray
went down wallop, its star forward getting
himself reported for disputing the umpire’s
decision. North, 78 points; ’Scray, 62.
Hawthorn went out to Essendon, and, find-
ing that once-mighty combination in poor
form, pushed it down to the bottom rung
of the ladder by gathering in 105 points to
’Don’s 96.
The Rugby Union grade competitions were
continued on Saturday, when Western
Suburbs increased its lead by beating
Northern in a wet-weather game by three
tries to one—9-3. The Western men quickly
adapted themselves to conditions, and made
the game a forward one. They have a rare
rucking pack, and occasionally varied then-
game by giving the backs a show, the move-
ment ending in a try by Arthur being excel-
lent. The Northern pack was bettered, but
far from outmastered, Sheldon and Joyce
being the best of a good lot. Rowe made a
creditable first-grade start in tlie backs. In
the Western pack Grow and Newham were
outstanding in the hard work, while McKeon
was always conspicuous in the open. Storey
was safe on a bad day for full-backs. In the
other games University got home from East-
ern Suburbs by three tries to one (9-3),
while Randwick, on its home ground, had
none the best of it to beat St. George 14-8.
On the day Drummoyne was expected to defeat
Manly on the Reds’ own midden. It was not
to be. Drummoyne led most of the game by
4-3, O’Gorman landing a snap field goal for
the home side. Then the side went to piece*
in the closing stages, and Manly came out
on top by 17-4.
The Wallabies had their first experience
of a real South African pack on Saturday
when they met Johannesburg and .Country
at Jo’burg, and went down 13-6, Doneley
goaling two penalties for the visitors, while
a field goal by Dudley, a try by Daniels and
two penalties by Lange made up the home
score. The cable says that the handling 01
the Wallaby backs was consistently poor,
but one suspects the South African inside
backs and their fast-following forwards had
a lot. to do with this. Our men will have
to shake off the League leaven which is spoil-
ing the Union game in Australia, and realise
that solid forward work is the first essen-
tial against the Afrikanders.
* * ❖ *
The third of the Rugby League trial
matches in Sydney between N.S.W. and
Queensland—won by N.S.W. by 17-14, oi
3 tries, 4 goals to 2 tries, 4 goals—was
easily the best of the series, but drew a
very poor crowd for a fixture of its kind.
The football was at times fast and exciting,
but neither side at any time rose to first-
class heights, though occasional interludes
of bright and purposeful play relieved what
was otherwise just a fast and fluctuating
scramble. The most attractive spot in the
game was a try by the St. George wing-
three-quarter Gardner, which was m the
grand manner. He ran down the wing, draw-
ing the opposition, propped and went down
inside, past several nonplussed defenders, to
score.
N.S.W. selected its side to play the soli-
tary inter-State match with Queensland ai
Brisbane on Saturday, and it is the first
reallv representative batch to wear the blue
jersey this season. Only seven of those
chosen played against Queensland in the
last Sydney match.
' m &
The All Black Soccer players are improv-
ing They played a drawn game (2-2) with
a strong Australian XI at Newcastle on
Saturday, and will be heard of again, for
they seem to have shaken down to a team.
(Continued on page 30.)


/
t-lf c
««-
lV a
too.
000
•*n.«
My
iJtP fisht
is hardest
Q 0.000
60
70
20 30
40
50
'fE A«.s'- IO
p average Lite
ends at
Gfty-five
60.000
m
70,000
* wiwifAWrt Wi
The fight
for Child life
U partly won
io
60,000
m
50.000
bti-m
M
m
m
7\
a®
4-0.000
Miin ■***ii.
*4+***bti! » > l«W »
m
Sn.ooo
Steeper \
ami Steeper
slant# the Jhine
-Xvucwopfjpft vm a, ? ii
Wi
/rW
fcwiiVn miiww
t
t 5 —k feT" 30 Jo « to 2$ io
7J 30 <ss 90 95 /oo /05
20,000
iOtOoo
(Wears 5
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
' turning point or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may now be
extended; 5, 10—or more
years of healthy, active life
being gained by timely atten-
tion to the symptoms of disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women .
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
L age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy —maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble--begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75 % of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
HARRISONS am
KIS..C V 4 BLADDER '*“**' W^S
0 PILLS
U*—
>
HARIH SON’S
K.*/NfcY AND DL^i/DLR
PI LLS
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed —by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Lab>ratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing_Ache* s. Pain* fc
Make You QUICKLY Young * Well Again !


EADE’S PILLS
Dispel Rheumatism
Eade’s Pills are indeed a famous remedy,
they make no extravagant claims to cure
everything, only to be what they are, namely,
a famous and marvellously successful
remedy for all Rheumatic Complaints.
Read the following letter; it is one of
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. The
sum of £5O will be paid to anyone proving
that testimonials published by Eade’s are not
unsolicited appreciations from the public.
2 Portland Terrace,
Moons Hill, Freshwater, 1.0. W.,
October, 1932.
Dear Sir, —Thank you for the good your
pills have done me. I have been talcing
them for 1 14 years, and they have com-
pletely cured me of Gout and Rheumatism. I
take one Pill, and pain leaves me like magic.
I have recommended them to all my friends,
who have also found relief. I would not be-
without them for love or money. My wife
is notv taking them for Rheumatics in her
a " n - W. KELLEWAY.
Every high-class Chemist in the Common-
wealth sells Eade’s Pills, which are packed in
two . sizes. ’ i _ . .
314 George St.
SYDNEY
& (ompany
The leading makers of
Gentlemen’s Clothes for
:: every occasion ::
Polo Shirts, from 16/6
Polo Jerseys, from 307-
Polo Breeches - 52/6
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MEANS FOR
HANDLING DETACHED VEGETABLE
MATTER.
the proprietor of Commonwealth rate
A No. 25734/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights m the abo\e,
fm- the '■ranting of 'a license to make, n
Sd v4fTe invention within the Comm*;
wealth of Australia. Particuhns ot
invention obtainable fro™ Griffit 1,
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS INME™OD AND
APPARATUS FOR TREATING FOOD
MATERIAL.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Paten
A No. 27183/30 is prepared to 1
for the sale of its rights m the
for the granting of /a. license to m ,
and vend the invention within the C
wealth of Australia. Hassel
invention obtainable from
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydn y
ŕ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
IB Page Buying and
Selling Ust Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Footbrawl
“M.G.”: Nominate Albury as the hub of
Australian football. Nearly every League
team in Melbourne has an ex-Alburyite
playing with either the first or second
eighteens, and among them are some of the
most outstanding men in the game. In
Sydney’s Australian-game teams, the Albury
men are also fairly prominent, and, no doubt,
Adelaide and Tassie and the West also hold
a few. If the border town could only stage
a Back-to-Albury football week and turn
out all its former players in one team,
they would probably wipe _ the floor with
any of Melbourne’s or Adelaide’s best. Any-
how, Melbourne’s best would be sadly de-
pleted if there were no ex-Albury men with
them. . ...
“Hotham”: There was a comic item the
other day on the Melbourne League foot-
ball stage, which is usually deadly serious.
In a. match between St. lvilda and North
Melbourne 11 of the Saints were martyred,
one to the extent of a broken leg. No offi-
cial action was taken, but the St. Kilda
supporters talked loudly and regrettably.
The result was a letter from the North Mel-
bournites demanding an apology for St.
Kilda’s slanderous conversation. failing-
winch, etc., etc. This insult, added to the
injuries, fairly staggered St. Kilda’s citizens,
and at last advices they were still gibbering
helplessly.
-j:
Australian Rugby Union players were
busy last week in various places. In Syd-
ney’ Victoria decisively beat N.S.W. in the
return match at Manly by 14-8. The visi-
tors showed marked superiority forward,
and the win was the more creditable since
there were several replacements due to in-
juries in the first match, two of the men
having to be rushed over by train. The Dark
Blues had beaten Ma twice previously in the
14 matches played, in 1894 and 1929. They
are going to- do it quite a lot of times
in the future. At Potchefstroom in the
Transvaal the Wallabies prevailed over
Western Transvaal by 20-8. The opposi-
tion was not the best in South Africa, but the
visitors had the game. their own way. In
Maoriland the Combined Australian Uni-
versities suffered their final whacking of a
disastrous tour by 11-0, Canterbury College
being the offender.
* * * >!=
“Haere' Mai” : After an absence of many
years, as the heroes used to say in the old
melodramas, Australia will see a Maori
Rugby Union side next season. The last
team came in 1928, playing four matches,
all in Sydney. Three against N.S.W. were
lost and 'a draw with a Metropolitan team
was the best showing. Australians were
due to visit Maoriland. but that will be
managed before M.L. sends its third side
to invade Britain.
The N.S.W. “Rugby Union Annual” for
1938 contains all the features of its pre-
decessors arid some additional ones. There
is interesting reference to the solid estab-
lishment of the code in Westralia -and Vic-
toria and its arrival in Adelaide and
Tasmania on what promises to become a
fixed footing. The records and lists of inter-
state and international players have been
brought up to date, and recent amendments
of the rules are also included in the excel-
lent little volume, which reflects every
credit on its compiler, secretary J. Noscda.
* * * *
In the N.S.W.-Q. Rugby League match
at Sydney Cricket Ground, N.S.W. won, 15-13.
Queensland played practically anew side
from its combined clubs, and N.S.W. did
likewise, only three of the previous Satur-
day’s Toowmomba team being fielded and one
man .from the N.S.W. side of that first
match. The chosen team will leave Sydney
by train on July 6 to catch the boat for
England at Melbourne. The League authori-
ties at the last moment reversed their deci-
sion not to allow players or managers to
write for the press, any official or player
being now eligible to write accounts of the
matches and a book afterwards if he feels
like it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hesketh Park” : The annual golf tourney
for the Ryder Cup between British and
American professionals is due to be played
at Southport in Lancashire on .June 27. The
teams are of eight players from each coun-
try, and, as usual, the Americans have been
preparing for the event long in advance. So
far all the honors have been with the Yanks,
who have had the best of the matches at
home and abroad. Britain’s team this year
lias a welcome infusion of new blood, and
this may point the way to victory, though
veteran Abe Mitchell, who has been a failure
in these matches, has been chosen again.
Ilowever, in Davies and Lacey, winners re-
spectively of the Southport and Leeds £IOO6
tourneys this season, there are two promis-
ing newcomers who are in top form.
* :|: =:= *
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. golfing authori-
ties are again on the point of declaring war
against Victoria. Vic. has the right to hold the
Australian championships in Melbourne this
year, but next year they are set down for
Sydney. Now the Cabbage Gardeners have
the nerve to ask that they be also allowed
the 1934 fixture because they are celebrating
the State’s centenary or something. The last
Australian championships in Sydney were
played in 1931. If the Victorians get away
with their proposal, Sydney will have to wait
until 1937, since Adelaide is to get the 1935
fixture. Meanwhile, Brisbane and Hobart,
which have watched the three centres named
hog the big meeting for years in spite of
their protests, are watching the shindy with
malicious enjoyment.
* * * *
“Patsy Pan” : Though old soldiers may fade
away, golfers who are not in their first youth
can give Tennyson’s brook two stone and a
beating anywhere. If proof were needed,
Victoria can produce Mrs. A. Sutcliffe, who,
at S 2, regularly swings a wicked driver. Re-
cently the Royal Park club elected the
lady to a life membership and wished her
enjoyment of the honor for many a year to
come. Also it has issued a challenge to the
world to produce an older associate golfer,
even America being included in the defi.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian golfers are
divided as to whether gate-money should
be charged this year at the State champion-
ships. The first step was made in this
direction at the State amateur championships
last year and was successful. Opponents
are talking the
usual tosh about
“c o m m ercialising
the game,” but that
has long come
about. So much so
that the English
Golfing Union has
had to shut down
on the universal
custom of free
“gifts” to golfers
accomplishing not-
able feats, and to
club secretaries
signing certificates
that the feats have
been accomplished,
by firms manufac-
turing any sort of
golfing requisite.
* * *
“C a r noustie” :
The 1000 - guinea
Leeds tournament,
the third of the .big
professional prizes
of the British golf-
ing season, was re-
markable for the
crashing of the re-
puted giants of the
game. The two
finalists were
Arthur Padgliam, who won the British pro-
fessional title as an unknown in 1931, and
F. Lacey. The latter won at the 35th, 2 up
and 1. Henry Cotton, Abe Mitchell, the
Whitcombs and Allis were among the slain,
while more than half those nominated for
selection in the British Ryder. Cup team
against America also failed to finish.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : The Australian profes-
sional golfers are not the only ones at odds
with the golfing authorities (B. 31/5/’33).
The British body which controls professional
golf has decided to cancel the annual match
between England and Scotland at St.
Andrews and play it somewhere else on July
1. Tlie trouble'rose out of the refusal of
St. Andra’s Toon Cooncil to allow the pro-
fessional body to charge admission money to
watch the play. Why the council took this
step is not stated, since gates have been per-
mitted in other cases. Perhaps the announce-
ment that the takings were all to go to the
Professional Golfers’ Benevolent Fund, with-
out giving the council a cut. was at the
bottom of it. The St. Andrews councillors
are all golfers, of course, but they are Scots-
men first.
Racquet and Bawl
“Garros”: The Australian Davis Cup
team fairlv wallowed in the limelight as
the result of the French championships in
Paris. Jack Crawford downed Satoli in the
singles semi-finals, and went on to out the
mighty Cochet in the final, in three straight
sets. 'John is the first Empire man to lilt.the
title since one Britt, who succeeded m lbJl,
when French tennis was very immature.
On top of that Crawford won the mixed
doubles with Miss Scriven, a comparative
unknown in English tennis. Yiv. McGrath
won the junior title and fought tellow-coun-
tryman Turnbull in the final of the Consola-
tion Cup, being beaten by the South Aus-
tralian by’ three sets to two. With Quist,
McGrath was runner-up in the mens
doubles.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The sustained improvement
in Crawford’s tennis as exemplified in the
French championships—his consistency is par-
ticularly worth noting—can fairly be credited
to his meetings with the American cham-
pions during their tour of Australia. His
last trip to Europe probably helped, but
the experience gained against the Americans
and the confidence acquired that he was on
equal terms with the acknowledged, world s
champions undoubtedly did him an immense
amount of good mentally, for he has hitherto
shown signs of ap inferiority complex on
occasion. A meeting in one of the world s
leading championship finals with such a re-
nowned player as Cochet is calculated to
make the stoutest of players feel windy, yet,
of the two, Cochet proved the more rattled,
for all his reputation and experience.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Apart from the
Davis Cup fixtures, the next important ten-
nis affair in which the Australians will
take part will be the All England meeting
at Wimbledon, which begins on June 26.
The placing of the teams has not yet been
settled, but on this occasion Crawford and
McGrath will probably play together in the
doubles, Quist joining Turnbull, the origi-
PILLARS OF THE PROSPEROUS WRESTLING INDUSTRY.
Tom Enrich and Bonnie Muir.
nal partner of Crawford. This promises to
be the last important fixture for the team,
unless that with Germany can be rated as
such and a possible match with Britain,
now that the American and Japanese tours
have been cancelled.
* * * *
“Baseline”: By all accounts France is
rattled over the latest Sedan at the hands
of the Australians. A tentative side to
defend the Davis Cup has been chosen, and
the Old Guard, Cochet, Borotra and Brug-
non, with Boussus as the reserve player, is the
team. Bernard, who is to partner Borotra in
the Wimbledon doubles, may be added to
the side. It is definite that the French have
no extra-good youngsters to draw on, and
their prospects of retaining the Cup, only
kept last year by something akin to a
miracle, are gloomy, whoever the challengers
may be.
* :|: * *
“Footfault” : While Viv. McGrath is con-
quering overseas, his American opposite num-
ber as a youthful prodigy, Frank Parker, is
carrying all before him over there. Parker is
the lad whom the Americans were extolling
when they were here. He is only 17, and
already this season has cleaned up some of
Uncle Sam’s best, including Lott and Sut-
tor, both Davis Cup representatives. If we
entertain the Yanks again next year, as is
likely, it is to be hoped Parker will be among
them. He aucl McGrath at work on each
other would be “champion,” as they say in
Lancashire.
Car and Cycle
“Differential” : The Australian motor-speed
record for an hour was broken on Maroubra
(N.S.W.) Speedway by W. B. Thompson
driving his super-charged Bugatti, the figures
being 7S miles from a standing .start and
78 miles 325 yards from a “fly.” This
easily topped the previous best, 71i miles,
by Wizard Smith in a Studebaker on Perko-
lili Lakebed in Westralia some years ago.
Thompson has won the Phillip Island (Vic.)
Grand Prix for light cars three times.
* ❖ * *
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell is being
snowed under by letters' from almost every-
where in the world except the top of Mt.
Everest, all setting out the superlative
advantages of some spot in the vicinity for
his next attempt on the world’s speed
record. The backers of Lake George in
N.S.W. are hard at it pushing their claims,
but the distance' from Britain is evidently
troubling the motor king. One recommenda-
tion of the lakebed is its size, which gives
any amount of room for getting up speed.
Campbell says Daytona is now too short, so
it must be considered as ruled out. Hun-
gary wants him for the Hortobagy Plain
where a long stretch of road has been used
for motor-cycle records by German Henne
and Allan Bruce, of Australia* and is offer-
ing every assistance if the Englishman
comes over for a shot at his own record.
* * =' ! *
“Daytona”: The win of’Louis Meyer in
the Indianapolis 500 (B. 7/6/’3S) is his
second, the first having been in 1928, when
he averaged 99.48 m.p.h., so he has jumped
nearly five miles in liis last try. The record
does not beat Frame’s, as stated, but equals
it, and the time, 4hr. 48min., is remarkable
in that it included several stops at the re-
plenishing pits. The only other driver to
win this event twice was T. Milton, who
was first in 1921 and 1923. He was one
of the American drivers who had a try at
the world’s speed record at Daytona.
* * * *
“Corner”: The invitation to Australian
dirt-track motor-cyclists from the British
promoters (B. 24/5/’33) has had an enthusi-
astic response. Victoria alone has sent in ten
names selected from a bagful of applications,
and South Australia’s quota is five. Re-
sponses from the other States, have not been
overwhelming, but the invasion of Britain
by a considerable reinforcement of the many
Australians already riding there will soon
be an accomplished fact.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : It is an old experience for
professional peds on tour to. strike a snag
in some quiet backwater. Victorian Austin
Robertson, who is bound for America as
Winooka’s offsider, went after a bit of easy
money in Fiji the other day on liis way over,
and took on the local crack, a Suva native
policeman. Robertson gave the noble savage
five vards in 100, and was well beaten, though
he is credited with having run the distance
in 9 9-10 sec., which makes the darky 3
time just over evens. Perhaps Fiji watches
are as imaginative as Fiji uncles.
... * ♦
“Backswoodsman”: Sydney bowlers have
started another uproar. This time the re ;
peal is demanded of the “unbeatable bowl
rule, which has long been a sore point with
the fraternity. The fuss rose out of a match
in which a bowler took the jack into the
ditch with his own bowl alongside it. Any
attempt by his opponent to beat the shot
would have been futile, though in this case
the opponent had a bowl in hand, and i
other circumstances might have won the
match. A new rule whereby a jack sen
into the ditch may be replaced on the green
to give the next player a chance of at least
making his shot is demanded to replace the
present law 15.
* * v *
“No 2”- The N.S.W. polo season opened
last week-end at the Cobbity grounds, when
four teams turned out, including Goulburn
and a Tamworth quartette. On June
the venue will be shifted to Kensmg ,
where the Hordern .Cup and the Australasian
Gold Cup will be played for. In addition
to Tamworth and Goulburn another commy
team from Scone, styling itself the Nomads,
will turn out. The feature of the me Ain*
will be a challenge match for the Gold (.m
between the holders, Goulburn, and
picked from other combinations.


WINTER.
HOLIDAYS
have often been like this
►Sa
\ </
•sd KBggJte^
now they can be like this
Under the best holiday conditions . . .
On an Orient Line Winter Cruise. You
*
will have no dull moments. You will
enjoy Orient Comfort; see new and
interesting places making more of
a short winter holiday than was ever
before possible within the time or cost.
r.
Winter Cruises
ORONSAY to NEW HEBRIDES
leaves Sydney Aug. 3
13 DAYS from 17 and 20 gns.
ORAMA to NOUMEA
leaves Sydney September 2
II DAYS from 15 and 18 gns.
Cruise Fares are Free of Exchange
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
SATURDAY—PRICE 3d.
dr
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
burns philp
tours
mffcj
pWn
- A'/
&
rvtLN
*t%.
’M^m
(*n>
SOUTH SEA
HOLIDAYS
What a difference between
just an ordinary holiday and a
cruise to the Solomon Islands.
Four and a half weeks of novel
and amusing incidents and the
delights of a sea voyage under
the best conditions. Numerous
ports—coral lagoons—colourful
native life—wonderful scenes.
There are no hotel expenses on
the trip and the fares from
Australia are free of exchange.
I At your request we shall I
be pleased, to forward I
illustrated folder No. 22 I
OLTCO'?
mu
i I vl
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . . TELEPHONE 37901
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday—2d.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P, McLEAN. General Secretary: 11. V. BOOTH.
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
NORTH QUEENSLAND
k
i
w
WHEN winter grips the tem-
perate South, the call to
tropical Queensland reaches a
clarion note and makes a
powerful appeal to those who
seek warmth, colour and
beauty.
'HEN the Northern State
smiles under azure skies;
and the air, exhilarating as
champagne, brings the joy of
living that is reflected in the
brilliance of the foliage and
flowers. Here is Australia’s
Riviera.
A SUNSHINE CRUISE
VISIT
MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS, AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
BOOK TOUIt PASSAGE BY
MANUNDA, CANBERRA, KATOOMBA, ORUNGAL.
| Full Particulars and Pamphlets from:
A.U.S.N., Ltd. Adelaide S. Co., Ltd. (
Howard Smith, Ltd. Mcllwraith. McEacharn. Ltd. i
AT AXTi
TORTS.
Round
Round
Trip from Melbourne 26 Days
Trip from Sydney 19 Days


And now another “Bulletin” Publication in the Field.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week's advance programmes; devotes sections to the music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things
you don't know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most up-to-date and reliable short-wave and
technical information. pnirc o j
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY. PRICE 2d.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
This Letter bids farewell to a great editor
and a good friend, whose pen has written in
its pages many a brilliant, witty and help-
ful paragraph to the women of Australia.
Years ago the present writer, fresh from
Maoriland, entered The Bulletin’s service.
On that well-remembered first morning
she went up the stairs in the old building,
214 George-street, the smell of printer’s ink
and acid that often seeped up from the
machine-room and down from the etching-
room in her nostrils, and her heart in her
mouth. She was starting her first newspaper
job, and in the room at the top of the stairs
overlooking George-street was her first editor.
Very awe-inspiring to the raw cadet for a
few weeks was that tall, grave man with
the piercing grey eyes, Then one day she
had to go into his sa: ; ' um with some MS.,
and there she saw a srna.. boy, barelegged and
barefooted, holding a small tin from which
the editor had just taken the two cakes of
camphor lying on his table. With one
hand he was patting the kiddie’s . shoulder,
with the other he was handing him a six-
pence. How the youngster had dodged the
doorman and the secretary was a mystery
S.H.P. didn’t bother about. He just helped.
A man as accessible and kind as that couldn’t
be a hard man to work for.
A few days later the editor’s bell rang.
The new recruit found him at his desk
with a large pile of verse in his hand.
“Will you take this to the room on the other
side of the landing? There are two men
there; one’s a big chap, rather like a prize-
fighter. He’s got a loud, gruff voice, and
he’s very bad-tempered. That’s ‘Kodak,’ and
I want you to give him this from me.” With
a solemn face he handed over the verse.
Rather nervous the cadet went across to the
other room, and, opening the door, found sit-
ting looking at her a frail little man with
twinkling eyes behind pince-nez. He was
rather like a gentle, rosy curate, and when he
spoke he had the mildest voice in the world.
He was the lovable “Kodak.” In his wisdom
S. 11. Prior knew that the quickest way of
putting another at ease is to share a joke.
The recruit went back, put her head in the
editorial door and said : “He threw me out!”
Then they both laughed, and on that laugh
all her fears faded. Three years later she
took over the Woman’s Letter, and behind
anything of gaiety or wisdom that it has
carried forth each week has been the person-
ality of her first editor who trained her brain
to think and her pen to w’-ite.
Lady Game put up a rong appeal the
other morning for the limbless soldiers, “who
gave their youth and health and strength
for us in the war days.” The occasion was
a meeting in the vice-regal ballroom to whip
up enthusiasm for a matinee to benefit the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association. The date
is July 11 and the place is the Theatre Royal.
Both Charlie Westmacott, of the J. C. Wil-
liamson firm, and Mrs. J. C. Williamson are
on the committee, which is extensive and
business-like. Miss Josephine Marks will
organise the sweet- and programme-sellers.
Perhaps the royal blood of our ancestors
is beginning to run a bit thin, for on Satur-
day, although Randwick was staging the
sport of kings, the smart-setters buzzed off
to polo. Of course it was handier for the
Macarthur Onslows, being just around the
corner at Cobbitty. There were Dangars
and young Horderns among the spectators,
and these helped to swell Mrs. Jimmy Ash-
ton’s applause when her four sons played
their usual dashing game. The weather was
typical polo weather —grey and showery—
but was wreathed about with rainbows.
The curtain will never rise again at Her
Majesty’s. Where will the theatrical ghosts
of forty, thirty and twenty years ago now
keep tryst? The thought blew like a grey
dust between the writer and the color and
the life on the stage last Saturday, when the
air was dancing with the golden notes of
Gladys Moncrieff’s voice, and the funny men
were pouring out the wine of laughter. But
it is really the staff of the theatre who
command sympathy. Thirty or twenty years’
service at one address, without the actor s
excitements, without his changes of scene!
It fits a man or woman as snugly to the
room or corner as an oyster to his shell.
The house was gaily decked for its last
public appearance, and was crowded with
face-gay and heart-sad old friends who,
dressed in their best, came to say farewell,
not only to tbe theatre, not only to the
ghosts of old stage favorites, but maybe
to the ghosts of lovers and old dreams.
There in the circle was Yinia de Loitte,
widow of Howard Vernon, and herself a
Gilbert and Sullivan actress of note, selling
souvenir programmes. Down in the stalls
was Carrie Moore, Sydney’s original Merry
Widow; Hugh Ward alternated between the
audience and back stage; Charlie Westma-
cott, who as a youngster trod Her Majesty’s
boards in a staggering list of character parts,
saw that things in the front of the house
ran smoothly. Henry Wenman was somewhere
about; so were Arthur Allen, constant first-
nighter for close on half a century, Ernest
Watt and his wife, and, of course, Mrs Sep
Levy and Mrs. Eva Wunderlich. Minnie
Love and Olive Godwin were in the house,
as was Minnie Hooper, and they appeared,
at the end, on the stage. Near this writer
sat a man who had seen every show from
George Rignold’s day. His sentiment grew
with the advancing hours, until at the end
two tears fell glistening and unnoticed
by himself on his hands. This was when
Longstaff’s portrait of J. C. Williamson
appeared in the centre of the stage, after
his old favorites, Rignold and Titheradge,
Julius Knight and Wilson Barrett, Bernhardt,
Maggie Moore, Nellie Melba, Pavlova, Nell
Stewart, Carrie Moore, Florence Young and
the rest of that good company had one by
one crept ghost-like for a moment on to the
blackened stage in the part each has immor-
talised for Australia.
At the end of all there were balloons and
gaily-hued streamers fluttering down. From
Frank Tait there was the promise of a new
Her Majesty’s. Gladys Moncrieff sang a
song of farewell in which the packed charac-
ters on the stage joined. Complete strangers
clasped hands as they sang “Auld Lang
Syne,” and then came the “Anthem.” The
curtain was down, the shutters were up.
The Arts Club musical last week centred
in Mary Soady, the clever artist, for-
merly of Brisbane, now of Sydney, who is
the 1933 winner of the George Taylor
Memorial prize. This is given every year
for the outstanding piece of work exhibited
at the Society of Women Painters’ Show.
Miss Soady’s group of statuary symbolic of
harmony between commerce and the arts was
awarded the cheque for twenty-five guineas.
Mrs. Florence Taylor, widow of the donor,
handed over the prize tied up with suitable
words, A programme worthy of the occa-
sion was supplied by Carl Budden Morris,
Eileen Boyd and a group of front-rank vocal-
ists and musicians.
In St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, Kathleen
Wiltshire, a daughter of the Malcolm Wilt-
shires, of Beverley (Q.), and John Hawker,
of Orange, entered into the lifelong part-
nership. Ivory velvet cut on medimval lines
sheathed the bride, who was further adorned
by rare old lace and a sheaf of hyacinths
and Cecil Brunner roses. Two brides-
maids in primrose satins, wearing gold
turbans and carrying nasturtiums, added
color to the processiom Later the Carlton
Hotel housed the reception, which was
hostessed by Mrs. Malcolm Wiltshire, the
bride’s mother, who had brought an Everest
of wedding-cake from Queensland with her.
Mrs. Walter Swinson, of Turramurra, last
year opened the season for musical parties,
whereby she did kindness to both lovers of
music and to Sydney musicians. In this age
of broadcasting and phonograph, the flesh-and-
blood maker of music, unless he is a star
heralded by fanfares of publicity, is apt to
be pushed into the background. This affects
not only the artist’s income, but also his
morale, for an artist who cannot pour bis
music out to an audience is rather like a
bird with a broken wing. Mrs. Swinson’s
idea is to encourage a circle of hostesses to
give parties where good music will be the
entertainment; and the lady, who before her
marriage was the pianist of a trio of sisters,
all professional musicians, is persuaded that
once the idea is planted in the consciousness
of the city it will flourish.
One of Sydney’s best-known and youngest
matrons smiles at you from this Russell
Roberts photo-
graph. She is
Mrs. Anthony
Hordern, whose
husband is of
course a de-
scendant of the
founder of the
original Brick-
field Hill de-
partment
store. Mrs.
Tony is the
president of
the Polo Ball
(her husband
is one of the
game’s enthusi-
asts) , which
will be held in
the Palais
Royal on June
19. The Aus-
tralian Polo
Club is behind
the affair, which, however, is not to be a
purely selfish night of fun. Half the takings
will be scooped in by the Country Women’s
Association for Keera House, their beloved
holiday home at Dee Why.
Young pianist Philip Hargrave, in a
grey woollen sweater and chubby bare
knees, sounded the tocsin ori behalf of
the kiddies of Dalwood last week at
a morning tea in the Cavalier. Mothers
were many among the hundred or so
guests, and they eyed the youngster’s
obvious well-being with a satisfaction that
overflowed into eager friendliness for , his
guardian, Miss Garnaut. She was radiant
above her mink coat, and niece Helena
Fisher was a credit to Adelaide in her grey
furs. Numbers of Dalwood’s junior helpers
aired the latest high bonnets, and went
furred to the ears, although the day was
mild as mid-spring. As was intended by
the organisers, the plans for the “Melody
Cruise” Ball were the subject of conversa-
tion over every tea-table. This, of course, is
a money-raiser, but the catch is that
the title has nothing to do with a trip to
Honolulu or a harbor excursion. It is the
name of a picture whose management is
giving Dalwood the takings on the opening
night. . ,
The talk of the town is Mrs. Rodney
Dangars newly-decorated room at Arlington,
the Dangar Edgeeliff home. Artist WoocV
ward Smith was commissioned to do the job,
and the walls of the 20-by-lS room with its
parquet floor resemble a rippling translucent
green lagoon, through which gaily-hued
tropical fish are darting singly or swimming
languorously in schools round and round
the walls. A bridge party, nearly 100
strong, invaded the spacious house last week,
but the fish room was the great rallying-
point; and Lady Game herself was loud
in her admiration of the clever murals. The
Rodney Dangars are great friends of young
artists, and encourage them in the best
way—that of buying their pictures. Roy de
Mestre was another whom the Rodney
Dangars cheered along.
Phyllis McDonald, a young Sydneyite
who went to London with a Royal Academy
scholarship, and through sheer musicianship
had that scholarship extended by the
authorities to a seven years’ course, is back
in Sydney and will give a concert under
J. and N. Tait management before the end
of the month. Phyllis, who went away from
Australia with numerous medals she had
garnered at Eisteddfods and local com-
petitions, continued plucking awards at the
Academy, among them the gold bow be-
stowed on the most brilliant student in the
last exam. A member of the 8.8. C. orches-
tra under Sir Henry Woods’s baton, she
has been associated with that veteran since
her arrival in England, when she played in
his special Academy orchestra. One of her
notable achievements was a series of
quartet recitals she organised and led, in the
course of which 83 Haydn compositions were
performed. These recitals were given every
Tuesday afternoon in the Duke’s Hall, and
took seven month's to complete. The next
feather in her cap was to give two solo
recitals in London without paying any agent
a cent. Mother booked the hall, saw to the
printing of the tickets and distributed them
throughout the music-shops. The concerts
paid all expenses and left a bit over.
This Letter’s congratulations go to Goul-
burn, the home town of Phyllis Boissier,
matron of
Prince Alfred’s,
who was
membered by
King George
in his birthday
honors. Matron
has now an
M.B.E. to pin
on her uni-
form as well
as the Royal
Red Cross she
was awarded
for her service
in the war
zone. Previous
to going to
the war Miss
Boissier was
matron of the
Manly District
Hospital, and
after her re-
turn she went
as matron to Prince Alfred’s, where she had
received her training. Our photograph is
from Dorothy Welding.
The engagement of Anne Jamieson and
Venn Wesche brings two old and> interesting
N. S. Wales families together. She is the
great-granddaughter through her mother,
Mrs. Sydney Jamieson, of General Stewart,
who built The Mount, near Bathurst, in the
very early days. If you want to infuriate
the family it is only necessary to repeat the
legend that he acquired his estate by climb-
ing the hill on which he was buried and
claiming all the country within reach of his
extremely keen eyes. The truth is he got his
property in the customary manner—partly
by Government grant and partly by pur-
chase. Anne’s late father was a popular
member of the Union Club, and so are her
young man and his father, who was a P. and
O. manager here for years. Mrs. Gordon
Wesche, her prospective mother-in-law, was
a Twynarn of Goulburn —a family which is
as well known in that part of the State as
the Stewart family is in the west.
A woman who went north with the Nieuw
Holland gives details of the one romance of
the showboat. It was that of Suzanne
Blackie, until recently secretary of the
Feminist Club, and A. B'. Frew, inspector
of police at Singapore. The bride travelled
from Sydney on the trade ship and Mr.
Frew joined the vessel at Singapore ; the two
were made one in St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
kirk, Penang. L. B. Bolton, M.D.C., repre-
sentative of the Westralian Government,
squired the bride to the altar; the matron
of honor was Mrs. Robert Thomson.
Frank Weitzel, whose adventures in modern
expression took him so far that many of his
decorations smack of the mediaeval, is a
distinct loss to the art world of Australia.
The ill-starred young man, just as he was
mounting a wave of recognition, went a
journey to Europe. While in England, the
story goes, some friends lent him a house in
the country. The house had a garden the
young artist delighted in; one day while
pruning a rose.-tree he was pricked by a
thorn, and death from tetanus swiftly fol-
lowed.
John D. Moore opened a posthumous show
of Frank’s work last week in Dorrit Black’s
Modern Art Centre in Margaret-street.
Sculpture, designs, drawings and lino-cuts
till the two rooms of the studio. This Letter
liked the sculpture best, and was tremend-
ously attracted by the figures carved in
wood. Of the lino-cuts, Strelitzia, and of
the designs, Water Lily and Fawn, stirred
her imagination.
The nice unassuming Swiss airman Carl
Nauer was quite taken to Sydney’s heart.
Switzerland’s Consul-General Eugen Bloch
staged an impressive lunch in his honor, and
another of the young man’s public appear-
ances was made at the ball of the Austra-
lian Flying Corps Association. This was
held at the Wentworth and Carl danced in
his flying uniform. He was the star of the
Harold Durants’ party, and his eyes gleamed
with pleasure when he saw that the table
was decorated in the Swiss colors, red and
white.
At Ida Rentoul Outhwaite’s fairy-picture
show in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery, framed
and glazed water-colors (with here and there
a pen-and-ink drawing such as “The Bird’s
Funeral”) reveal the latest filmy ballet
skirts on exquisite tiny beings who sail
across the sky in daffodil petals or similar
strange aircraft. The Melbourne woman’s
exhibition is a revelation of fairy forms and
dream colors.
From the Adriatic to the Baltic, Palmer
Kent, Australia’s equivalent to “Shadow
Show” Curie, has travelled with a haver-
sack on his back and a letter of credit for
£2BO. On that amount he managed to see
24 countries and learn much about the folk
music and the customs of each. Naturally
he did not travel first-class and put up at
de luxe hotels, but lived the family life of the
Lapps, the Scandinavians, the Albanians,
the Finns. He broke his rule at Riga by
patronising the best hotel in the city, but
the exchange was in his favor there. It
cost him only 2s. 2d. a day, and he was able
to stagger taxi-drivers when he gave them
a threepenny tip. But music was the Aus-
tralian’s quest, and he tracked the native
wood-note wild in every corner of Europe,
as he had previously done all around the
Southern Seas. He has notated the war
songs of cannibal chiefs, the love croons of
the gentle Polynesian, the folk songs of the
Yugoslav. And here is a curious coincidence.
In a cathedral in Yugoslavia, a musician
tapped out for him on a fluted column a
national tune of 15 notes. It was exactly
the same melody, note for note, as one of the
native chants of Bali. Palmer was the guest
of the Musielovers’ Club last Friday.
Earl Beauchamp’s Sydney friends were
bidden to drink a parting cup with him before
he left for Tahiti. The evening was still, and
the first star shone bright and aloof above the
lawns of Carthona when the first guest
arrived. Presently the windows of Rose
Bay and Darling Point sprang to life, and
to the gentle slap of the waves on the little
beach beside the swimming pool the tall
jugs of cocktails were circulated. The bar
and buffet were in the dining-room; the
savories were such as one expects from the
art of Mrs. Rainaud. Hugh D. Mclntosh
came down from Springwood for the occasion,
and some amusing people from the “Honi
Soit” company were among the revellers. The
host looked handsome and fit and wore the
inevitable red carnation in his lapel.
Queensland’s quillful:—
His Ex. took Lady Wilson and daughter Marjorie
to the Lady Mayoress’s ball in aid of the Queens-
land Social Service League. Lady Wilson wore a
morning-mist matte lace frock and a white foxaline
cape; the Mayoress was in ember-glow tricotine
with musquash fur; Dulcie Jensen’s state-blue mari-
ette had a pattern in beige and maroon; Marjorie
Wilson wore cafe au lait luminous satin; Lucy
Martin, the only deb., wore fine Breton lace in a
water-wave design and carried a posy of deep-pink
carnations and roses in a gold holder; Mrs. F. W. S.
Cumbrae Stewart, possessor of the most beautiful
shoulders in Brisbane, wore soft black mousseline
with a velvet bow; Mrs. G. A. Stronach chose
lacquer red; the Glasgow lady was in Lido blue;
Mrs. A. E. Moore wore black lace; Mrs. J. B. Brig-
den’s black mariette had a design of pastel roses
and convolvuli.
For the King’s Birthday levee at Parliament House
the C.J., Judges Macrossan, Henchman and Douglas
donned their scarlet, and Archbishop Duhig his
ecclesiastic robes. Bishop Dixon represented Arch-
bishop Sharp, who is ill; the Lud Mayor and the
military officers added their quota to the color
scheme. Among the women onlookers there were
many new frocks. The Blair lady was in black
marocain; Mrs. Kay Stanley wore black with touches
of grey; Elsie Stirling chose prune and beige; Mrs.
Forgan Smith wore metal-grey tweed; Mrs. E. M.
Ralph, chocolate and daffodil; Mrs. A. E. Moore,
agate brown with a tiny yellow flower pattern ; Mrs.
Norman Pixley was in light-grey tweed and pale
blue.
In the afternoon at the races, a number of beauti-
ful furs were shown. Lady Wilson wore maroon
wool erSpe de Chine with touches of rose beige:
Marjorie Wilson was in black-and-white patterned
silk eiApe; Mrs. F. M. Bell (Aroo) wore air-force
blue; Mrs. Gilbert Wilson was in black with a
dove-grey hat; Mrs. Cadell Garrick was in black
and white; Mrs. Dangar (Sydney), in grey cloth;
Miss O’Shea wore buff tweed.
St. John’s Cathedral was decked in arum Llies and
poinsettia for the marriage of Kenneth Matheson to
Muriel L. Crowley. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in magnolia flamisol and Limerick
lace veil caught with posies of orange blossom.
May Cross ’maided in gipsy gold, with a swathed
sash of leaf brown. The feasting was at the Can-
At St. Mary’s, Warwick, Arthur Kelly married
Moira Bomvick. The bride was in ivory mariette
with a broidered tulle veil. Edna Bomvick and
Dorothy White ’maided in pale-pink angel-skin satm,
and Beryl Galvin was flower-girl in blue. Melbourne
and Sydney will see the ’moon.
The Council of Jewish Women had its fust
annual ball in the Trocadero. The C.J. and his
lady were present, she in black mariette and orienta
lani6. The Mayoress wore crocus-pink; Mrs. Cohen
was in ruby-red chiffon velvet ; Mrs. A. E. Mooies
bouquet'of mauve sweet pea matched her lilac gown,
Mrs. Hynes was in apricot and white fur; -us.
Goldman chose mignonette green.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
R
t 3*
3, <1
?' iV **
3 5 ),’’«
?>j{i:;t
5 <3if
p 11
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
252 George Street, Sydney.
KAYS
I
STEP 3
ft 1
Coughs &*Colcls
Be Warned against that Slight Chill
Kay'S Compound is Convenient
and Marvellously Remedial in all cases
of Bronchial Affections, Influenza,
Catarrh, Sore Throat, Quinsy, etc
Enjoys a World-wide Reputation.
Every High-class Chemist Stocks it.
The split in the Labor party
does not worry the Labor people at
Broken Hill. They are far more con-
cerned about their work and their
spending money. The spurt in the
metal market makes everybody in the
City of the Far West feel quite bright.
They look in their newspaper, the
famous “Barrier Miner,” every day
for the latest news. So do all the
wool people, too, away West of the
Darling.
Legal Notice.
Tt) FLORENCE ELIZABETH ROSENTHAL, of
* Sale, in the Slate of Victoria, Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing' date the
Third day of January One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-three lias been issued out of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of CECIL PHILLIP ROSEN-
THAL of Carnamah in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Medical Practitioner praying for dissolution
of marriage. IN DEFAULT of you so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce sentence therein. AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within FORTY-FIVE DAYS after the date
of the last publication of this notice to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of
the Supreme Court of Western Australia and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
T. F. DAVIES, REGISTRAR.
FRED CURRAN, of Padbury Buildings, Forrest
Place, Perth, in the State of Western Australia,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHABD in
HOLD MY HAND.
Melbourne
Chatter
The sunshine of Saturday afternoon drew
a crowd to the Williamstown racecourse.
The lawns were gay with phlox, petunias,
begonias, snapdragons and violas. Tartan*
or fancy plaid woollen skirts allied to jackets
of a harmonising color were a feature of
the dressing. Mrs. J. J. listen, wife of
the chairman, covered her dahlia-red frock
with a full-length coat of beige-dyed squirrel,
and her felt hat was of the roseate hue.
Mrs. W. P. Mein looked attractive all in
brown. Mrs. F. E. Shillabeer wore a mink
coat and a brown hat. Mrs. Albion Walkley
sported frock, coat and felt hat of bright
blue. Mrs. Ben Chaffey wore with her black
suit a vivid green felt hat. Others in the
members’ stand were Dr. and Mrs. Gerald
Slieahan, Mrs. A. Hunter, Mr. and Mrs.
M. J. Canny and Mrs. Rolls.
The Rotarians held a cabaret ball at the
Wattle Path, St. Kilda, to raise money for
the Children’s Hospital and Toe H. The
wheel of Rotary made its appearance amid
the decorations in various forms. It blazed
in blue and gold on the variegated back-
ground of the musicians’ dais, and appeared
elsewhere in huge dimensions, done in yellow
chrysanthemums and cornflowers. Silvered
emblems with a rose-liglit centre were about
the gallery, and a tiny gilded wheel gaily
revolved all night on the president’s table.
There were special exhibition dances, and a
ballet. The head of the organising com-
mittee was the Rotarian president, F. B.
Hartnell; he was accompanied by Mrs.
Hartnell, whose black gown was showered
with sequins. H. F. Cargeeg, the hon. sec.,
came with Mrs. Cargeeg, whose frock was
primrose-tinted flat crepe. Joan Mitchell, in
forget-me-not .blue chiffon, and Marion Steele,
wearing satin of the shade of oxidised gold,
were the ticket secretaries. G. R. Barham,
who looked after the financial side, was there
with Mrs. Barham, she in wine-colored georg-
ette. The president-elect, Fred Walker, and
his wife, were there, the lady in a gown
of ruby tone. Mrs. Philip Glass wore a
short white fur coat over her ecru lace frock.
Mrs. .T. Officer Brown sported dark-brown
lace and georgette. The Mackey lady came
in black velvet with a little cape of silver
sequins, and Mrs. Warren Kerr was another
who chose velvet of raven hue.
Huntsmen and huntswomen of the Oak-
lands Hounds and the Ballarat Polo Clubs
combined to answer the tally-ho for the sea-
son s opening (six weeks later than usual
for reasons connected with the weather) on
a delightful autumn afternoon. The rally
at Ballarat for the drag hunt of approxi-
mately 14 miles, over 26 jumps'; revived mem-
ories of past hunts. Oaklands was the first
visiting club to assemble at Ballarat since
the Fmdon Harriers went there in 1901. To
commemorate the occasion, this year’s chase
led over fields where stags—red deer im-
ported by Andrew Spence Chirnside, a kins-
man of the earliest settlers at Wyndham.
now _ Werribee—were hunted in the
eighties. The course taken may be justly
described as Gordon’s country—the poet
made many dashes across these fields. E C.
Robertson (master of the Oaklands Club)
had charge of the hunt from the throw-off,
and among the party were Lud Mayor
Smith and the Acting-Mayor Stewart, of Bal-
larat. They were all entertained at after-
noon tea and later at a hunt dance bv Dr.
Spring, president of the Ballarat Turf'Club,
and Mrs. Spring.
Society gathered at a billy-boiling at
Grosvenor, hostessed by Mrs Oscar Lom-
Priere and her daughter, Mrs. Rodney Sea-
grave, the latter on a visit from England
with her husband. Cards and chat occupied
the afternoon. Among the guests were the
Robinson and Best ladies, Mrs. F. Thiel,
Mrs. R. G. Casey and Mrs. P. Blackbourn.
Mrs. Dempriere’s black suit had a collar of
lynx, and was topped by a black velour hat.
An ensemble of French blue shade, with grey
fur collar and smart cap toque blending the
two shades, was worn by Mrs. Seagrave,
and Margot Lempriere was in all black.
Teetotal cocktails were a feature of a
bridge party at the Windsor, engineered by
the American Women’s auxiliary of the
Children’s Hospital. _ Tomato juice was
favored as a foundation, and vinegar, lemon
juice, pepper and salt entered into the
recipes. To make the concoctions more
palatable it was averred that the Hollywood
stars were partial to ’em. At cake- and
sweet-stalls doughnuts, squash pies, cookies
and fudges were on sale. The four-o’clock
brew—oh, yes, tea was added to the mixture
—had as . accompaniment coon songs and
negro spirituals warbled by June Mills and
William Innes, made up as Ethopians. Mrs.
John Dye, wife of the IJ.S.A. Consul, was
president of the committee; Mrs. W. S.
Kent Hughes, vice-president ; Mrs. Norman
Picot, honorary organiser. Helpers included
Mrs. S. P. Lindsay, Mrs. G. W. Saengar
and Mrs. P. Balmer.
Former scholars of the Yaucluse convent
school danced at No. 9, when a number of
debs., carrying variegated posies and wear-
ing white frocks, made their entrance to
society. The president of the dance com-
mittee, Mrs, Neild, was hostess, wearing
ruby-tinted lace, other office-bearers being
Miss G. Loughnan and Kathleen Kennedy.
M.L.C. Old Collegians danced at St. Kilda
Town Hall in a setting that resembled an
old-fashioned garden. Ten debs, in pastel-
hued taffetas stepped with their partners
in a minuet. The vice-president of the O. C.
Club, Mrs. Basil Ivilvington, wearing twine-
colored lace, gave these young people wel-
come with the support of the lion, sec.,
Edith Barker, who chose a frock of miduiglit-
blue satin. The ticket-secretaries were May
Pescott, in petal-pink velvet, and Eva
Hayler,, in a picture frock of pale pink
organdie daintily embroidered. Guests of
honor were the principal of the college, the
Rev. J. W. Grove, and the headmistress,
Mrs. R. Landen, whose black gown was
traced with a pale gold design.
Accompanied by Miss M. Macpherson,
Mrs. Ben Chaffey is leaving Melbourne by
the Maloja on a winter cruise to Papua
Mrs. R. G. Casey, of Melbourne Mansions,
will also undertake this trip.
Elizabeth Lux ton, wearing biscuit-hued
silk crepe, gave a welcoming tea-party to her
cousin Tom Luxton’s fiancee, Betty Rank-
ing, just arrived from England. The petite
youthful guest of honor came all in bright
blue.
Painters Rex Battarbee and John A.
Gardner, back from their third caravan tour
of Centrajia, have a show at the Athenaeum
gallery of landscapes depicted during their
wanderings. Their tour occupied ten months,
and they proudly state that they took their
Ford truck further into the interior than
any petrol-driven vehicle has yet penetrated.
The poster competition in connection -with
the Buffalo Chalet Cabaret Ball was won
by Athol Thompson, who suffers under the
handicap that he is armless, and works with
a brush placed between his teeth. He re-
ceived his training at the Working Men’s
College.
George Colville is the first painter to
make use of the walls of the International
Club, at the top of Kurrajong House,
Collins-street, to hang a show of his pic-
tures. His oils, over fifty in number, depict
scenes in Melbourne and the near country-
side. Mrs. Herbert Brookes, president of
the International Club, launched the show.
The Victorian Railways Commissioners
have established a day nursery at Flinders-
street station, where parents can _ leave the
youngest of infants in safety while mother
goes shopping or spends a couple of hours at
the pictures.
Looking from out this Broothorn photo, is
Mrs. F. W. Head, wife of the Archbishop
of Melbourne,
but no camera
can do jus-
tice to her
nice com-
plexion, blue
eyes and soft
white hair.
Her days are
very busy
ones, for, apart
from helping
her husband
on the social
side of his epis-
copal duties,
.she is a mem-
ber of the
council of the
Church Mis-
sion Society
and of the
British Mis-
sion a r y
Society. St.
Hilda’s Training Home, East Melbourne,
is one of her special interests. An-
other movement which has her support is
the Queen’s Fund, founded as a memorial
of Queen Victoria’s jubilee. Prior to her
marriage Mrs. Head was a school-teacher,
and for some years she was on the staff of
a school for girls at Birmingham. During
the Great War she taught at a preparatory
school for boys. While at Cambridge, where
she scored high academic honors, she first
met her future husband, who was a contem-
porary undergrad. Mrs. Head is the
youngest of a big family, of which 11 mem-
bers are still living. Her parents lived
to celebrate their diamond wedding; both
died at the age of 86. Archbishop and
Mrs. Head have one son, who is at present
at Cambridge.
Ethel St. John Clarke is back in Mel-
bourne after a sojourn in Asia. She was
headmistress of a girls’ school at Assam.
She returns to stay awhile with her mother,
Mrs. 11. St. John Clarke, who lives at Black
Rock. The lady has had an adventurous
career. She was a V.A.D. worker in Eng-
illlt* became senior officer in
the W.A.A.C. After returning to Australia
she went to Palestine. One, of her most
interesting experiences ivas her term as
guardian to the three orphan Princesses of
Bharatpur, royalties of Rajputana.
For the benefit of students doing French
for their leaving certificate this year the
Alliance Francaise gave two performances of
the comedy “La Poudre aux Yeux,” the
play which figures in the syllabus. The
dressing was picturesque, the ladies sport-
ing hooped gowns, frilled from waist to ankle,
and coal-scuttle bonnets. Their partners
flaunted gorgeously-colored waistcoats and
velvet coats.
The happy-looking lady is Madame Anna
Llischer, a recent arrival from London. She
is Dutcffi and
has made a
name for her-
self as a pian-
ist in Europe.
While in Aus-
tralia she will
stay with her
daughter, Mrs.
W. G. Burnett,
a singer known
on the concert
stage as
Madame Editli
Elisc h e r.
Madame Anna,
pictured here-
by Broothorn,
has held tin-
post of Court
pianist to the
King of Hol-
land. As a
young student
she won a
Royal scholarship, studied at Cologne and
Paris, and later had lessons from Liszt. In
concert tours she has been associated with
Adelina Patti and Ysaye.
Knight Harold Luxton, who has been
abroad for some months, returned by the
Otranto, accompanied by Betty Ranking,
daughter of a Tunbridge Wells medico. She
is to wed his second son, Tom, who met the
young lady while at Cambridge. The eldest
Luxton boy, Lewis, is engaged to Miss Rank-
ing’s elder sister.
Premier Argyle has joined the ranks of
motorists who fly flags; his choice, perched
on a British car, is a tiny Australian ensign.
Groperland gossip:—
In honor of her niece Lenore, Mrs. Edward Kerr
gave an evening party at the Palace. A coal fire
sent out a cosy glow on a night of wind and rain,
and chrysanthemums and marigolds added to the
note of cheer. Mrs. Kerr and Lenore were both
clad in black. Guests brought welcome additions
to the linen cupboard of the bride-to-be. Another
party for Lenore was given by Mrs. Drake-Brockman
and her daughter Betty. Gifts ran from tones of
deep flame to delicate gold, which shades will pre-
dominate in the country home of the newly-weds.
For her marriage to Bill Irwin Flanagan, Lenore
Kerr chose a frock of navy-blue marocain. The
smart cape was trimmed with globular steel buttons
and a braiding of beige and white. With it. went a
little felt hat of navy blue dashed with white.
Florence McKenzie was the sole attendant, in beige
crSpe rornain, the brown velvet tucker collar being
repeated in the toning of her millinery. In the
unavoidable absence of the bride’s father, Mrs.
Thomson, an old friend of the family, performed the
“giving away.” The ceremony was a morning
affair at St. Hilda’s. Afterwards Mrs. William Kerr
handed around toasts, and the cake with its farm-
yard decorations came in for a heap of admiration.
In commemoration of the State’s natal day the
Historical Society held its ball in G.-H. ballroom.
An “evening at home,” as indulged in by our
grandmothers, was portrayed on the stage, with furni-
ture brought out by pioneers in the brave old sail-
ing-ships, and over all the soft glow of candles.
David Lyle and Leo Chase entertained the after-
dinner party with music. Among the dancers were
a sprinkling of Cliftons, Mrs. and Miss Southern,
Mrs. Mary Farrell and, several Cowan and Slier-
wood representatives. A lilac crinoline undulated
in Mrs. Webster’s wake; Mrs. Birtwistle’s green
silk, with its laced corsage, was braided with lilac
and black 1 ; Noel White wore a gown of blue bro-
cade; Alice Biggs had an important bustle to her
biscuit frock; fringes and panniers were nodding
additions to Miss Pitt-Morrison’s royal-blue poplin;
Nell Clarke wore a coal-scuttle bonnet and demure
shawl with her sprigged muslin.
The Younger Set dance, arranged by some Cot-
tesloe maidens, was a jolly frisk of the week. Molly
Manning, Joan Church, Duleie Armstrong, Dora de
Witt, Nancy Allnut and Dorothy Flemming did the
organising.
Sister A. W. King has been promoted from her
job as matron of the Repat. Sanatorium at Vic-
toria Park to South Australia, where she will reign
over the Repat. General Hospital at Keswick. After
six years here she will be missed by her Diggers
and the returned Florence Nightingales.
At Adelaide: —
The Aero Club ball was held for the first time
at the Palais Royal, and promises to be featured
from now on as another successful annual affair.
Smart frocks were worn, and the airmen thoroughly
enjoyed the reunion.
The local branch of the Mothers’ and Babies’
Health Association organised a cheery dance at the
Maison de Danse, Glenelg. The married women on
the committee concentrated upon the supper arrange-
ments, and the younger set devoted their energies
to selling tickets.
Thirty-nine different societies were represented
at the welcome-home to our vicc-regals in the
Town Hall under the auspices of the National
Council of Women. Lady Hore-Ruthven was received
by the president, Mrs. L. L. Leal. Speeches were
interspersed with vocal and musical items, followed
by tea. Lady Hore-Ruthven was in a fawn pony-
skin coat with a sable collar and a small brown felt
hat; Mrs. Leal wore a Lido-blue ensemble with
a squirrel fur and gray felt hat.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were out at
Buckland Park for the meeting of the Adelaide
Hunt Club, and looked in at the Adelaide Racing
Club meeting at Victoria Park the same afternoon.
Lady Hore-Ruthven wore a bottle-green coat with
a mink fur collar, and a green felt hat.
The Welcome-home Ball given in honor of his
Ex. and Lady HoreTßuthven—and-incidentally to
benefit the Boy Scouts—was a huge success. Seven
debutantes were presented to his Ex. ; each had a
Scoutmaster for a partner. Mrs. ,T. H. Morish ran
a most attractive cigarette stall, decorated with
bunting, and her 15 girl sellers carried trays of
red, white and blue. Mrs. 11. J. Lipman had a
carnation stall and did good business in button-
holes. Lady llore-Ruthven wore black ring: velvet,
the bodice of pale-blue ripple silk with touches of
mauve. The vice-regal brought a niece of
Lady Hore-Ruthven back with them, Rosemary
Fleischmann; she wore a shrimp-pink satin frock
at the ball. Marjorie Day, the pretty daughter of
the chairman (Mr. H. M. Day), presented Lady
Hore-Ruthven with a bouquet of violets and daphne.
The organising committee received the vice-regal
party; Mesdames H. Rymill and Lavington Bonython
in black ring velvet and white flamisol respectively.
There was a record crowd of 2000 present.
The Y.W.O.A. is living in a whirl of tea parties
in honor of Miss Charlotte Niven, the world’s general
secretary for the organisation. The lady was ten-
dered a civic welcome in the Town Hall by the
acting Mayor and Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs. Cain).
The official hostess wore a leaf-brown frock of wool
georgette, with yoke of crushed velvet, and a brown
hat. Miss Niven was gowned in rum-brown wool
de Chine, and her toque was of brown velvet.
Mrs. Arthur Rymill and a sub-committee are
arranging a special dinner at the Wentworth tea-
rooms on the night of the Adelaide Children’s Hos-
pital Ball at the Palais Royal.
Tas. talk:—
Committee members of the Tas. Sanatorium ran
a successful ball on the Zealandia. Shipboard
dances are always attractive, especially when winter
breezes are shut out by canvas. Three saloons
were occupied for bridge and supper, and there
were masses of flowers in the saloons. The com-
mittee comprised Mayoress Wignall, Mesdames
Gordon and G. Evans, Misses M. Caulfield and M.
Watchorn, Captain Wyllie, Messrs. Cloke, T. Laird
and T. Conway—the last two joint secs. —G. Heath
(treasurer), knight John Evans and Roy Bryce.
Nurses put off their uniforms for something
daintier at the Committee Dance at Lindfield. The
hostesses were Sister Millicent Stephen and Pat-
ricia Shoobridge (joint secs.), Misses Barbara Ches-
terman, Hilda Fisher, Nancy Guesdon, Sheila Head-
lam, Heath Hildyard, Edna Mason and Joyce
Williams. Their badges were little wristlets of
natural flowers tied with ribbon. There was a big
muster of dancers and a fine display of pretty
frocks.
Barbara, daughter of the J. L. Butlers, Fern
Tree, and James Guthrie, from Edinburgh, were
made one at Chalmers Church by the Rev. Kin-
mont. Only the family and half a dozen intimate
friends were present. The bridegroom has been in
Persia, engineering, for the last five years.
Col. T. J. McColl, Military Commandant, had
hardly had time to get acclimatised in the Speck
before he -was transferred to Melbourne, Lieut.-001.
J. L. Whitham takes temporary command in his
place.
Doris C. L. Henri, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Henri, Lindisfarne, and Hans Christian Bjelkc-
Petersen, Sydney, made their vows at St. Paul’s,
Glenorchy. Col. and Mrs. Petersen are spending
the honeymoon on the mainland.
Aubrey Walker, an old Launceston Grammar
School boy, has just had his first novel, “Brief
Authority,” published in England.
Passed away at St. Helen’s Private Hospital,
Nurse J. H. Milne, the doyen of her calling in the
Speck. Many years ago Miss Milne and Miss
Rathie came out from Scotland, at the request of
Dr. Smart, Hobart, to institute the training of
nurses in Tasmania. Later, she was for years mat-
ron of Launceston Public Hospital.
The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady looked in at the
Hutchins School dramatic show in the Gymnasium.
The boys take their society seriously and present
their plays with care and brains. “Confounding
the Queen” and “Pirate Island” were the pieces
chosen.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
Tim page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that del'ghted an earlier one.
“Does Parkes smoke?” Not in this world.
[ls/8/’9l.]
They say of a certain M.L.A. that he was
first a sundowner, then a burntdowner; now
he’s a rundowuer: [B/8/’9l.]
At Sydney last week, in the eternal fitness
of things, Mr. Lamb married Miss Mutton.
Happy woman, thus to renew her youth!
[S/8/’9l.]
“Honest Hearts and Willing Hands” has
struck Sydney at a mighty cold season. In
the first place, Sara Bernhardt has elevated
the standard of judgment to a hitherto un-
attained altitude, and brawn has thereby
suffered when brought into direct compari-
son with brains; next, the management shut
out the unthinking who might have filled the
galleries by an uncalled-for rise in prices;
lastly, a name without something to back
it up won’t draw in Australia worth a cent.
Folks who would gladly have paid a round
sum to see one of the greatest sluggers the
world ever produced performing profession-
ally don’t feel the least curiosity to see him
in the r6le of the world’s worst actor, and
their commonsense and artistic perception
is doubtless most laudable. Indeed, it would
have been just one whit more ridiculous to
have expected Sullivan to have filled the
Town Hall by his performance of an organ
solo. Therefore is the atmosphere chilly at
Her Majesty’s, particularly in the vicinity of
the treasury. Everyone must sympathise
with the disappointed stranger in a far land,
and therefore Duncan B. Harrison, who is
a good and genial fellow, deserves to be let
down lightly ; nevertheless, it must be said
that his play, written on the lines of the
conventional Irish drama, is not artistically
designed for the introduction of a slugging
match.
John Lawrence Sullivan is a splendidly-
constructed _ creature, from the eyebrows
:lown (albeit a little fleshy) ; above, the con-
tract has been scamped. In speaking, he
A RELIABLE OPINION.
TOURIST ( loq.): “What do you think of the weather?”
INHABITANT: “Well, it may keep fine or it may rain. I ought
to know, as I’ve lived here 30 years.”
[Phil May — 28/1/’88.]
•knows not the stop, and wastes no breath
on inflection, but shoots off his lines with the
untutored gruffness of an unsophisticated
grizzly b’ar, while eyeing the house with the
calm, unblinking, unthinking tolerance char-
acteristic of Ursa Major. John. is funny
though he doesn’t intend it, but as he isn't
funny often enough, therefore he is dis-
appointing. As a fighter he must have been
a hurricane in his dandy days, for his blows
are straight and sudden, and look as if there
were at least a ton weight behind them.
Anyhow, Mr. Jack Ashton, a spry, limber
and well-developed athlete, who might make
a fair match with Choynski. is mighty glad
to keep out of their way. But as the tight
isn’t worked up to and doesn’t last long, and
as the audience know that it is “a put-up
job,” it fails to arouse any enthusiasm. The
author has a good stage presence, and speaks
clearly and forcibly, but kills himself by the
delivery of lay sermons. [S/8/’9l.]
Charley Kingston, Q.C., of Adelaide, boldly
states that a knowledge of Latin is of little
or no use to a lawyer. He also holds that
THE DISADVANTAGES OF A CLUB.
[“Hop” — 5/2/’87.]
doctors’ prescriptions should be written in
English. What would the chemists do in
the latter event? How could they have the
gall to charge 3s. 6d. for threepen’orth of
sal-volatile, syrup of orange and water,
colored with solution of burnt sugar? Or
Is. 6d. for a ha’porth of sulphate of zinc, 10
drops of opium wine, and water as an eye
lotion? [l5/8/’9l.]
There is a great art in knowing just how
to go bung—to pay your creditors little or
nothing and yet rake in your own dues. In
the Far North Dobbs keeps a store for
Nobbs, but in Dobbs’s own name—say, on
the diggings. Nobbs runs another in some
town or city. Dobbs and Nobbs file their
schedules, separately
and jointly. Forty
others of their own
kidney—all business
men with a leaning
towards insolvency—
call a meeting and
weep over the firm’s
misfortune ; big-head-
ed, windy men get
up and say how
much good Dobbs
has done for the dis-
trict, and thunder
curses on the diggers
customers be-
cause they don’t get
more gold out of the
ground and pay
Dobbs’s and Nobbs’s
accounts 17 times
over. Also Nobbs
has come up from
town to wind up the
firm’s affairs, and he
reads out a list of
names that no one
ever heard of before
—all good marks,
bless you ! These
book debts are obvi-
ously worth selling,
and Jobbs, confiden-
tial clerk to Nobbs,
buys th e same.
Dobbs pays 74d. in
the £, and is feted
by the weeping 40
sympathisers, who
let him go at that.
Jobbs starts to pro-
secute everybody who
does owe the firm,
and crosses out on
his list the strange
names that puzzled
the 40 conspirators.
Jobbs levies on
tents, properties, leases, and generally cleans
out the field, and goes back to be confiden-
tial clerk to Nobbs. Dobbs starts afresh
to do more good for the district.
[S/8/’9l.j
New Guinea missionary Chalmers was a
passenger per schooner Harrier when she
came to grief—the fourth time Chalmers has
been wrecked during his Papuan career. He
and Minister Perkins ought now to fight to
a finish for the Jonah championship of Aus-
tralia. [B/8/’9l.]
Toast for a doctors’ dinner “ Our
patients—God help them !”
N. S. Wales needs more national politics
and less metropolitics. [S/S/’9l.]
A few years ago. whilst an escort was
bringing down a string of Chinese prisoners
to Rockhampton (Q.) gaol, two of them
escaped. To save bother at headquarters and
keep tally the troopers skirmished around
and arrested the first two Mongolians —all
Mongols look alike to the unpractised white
—they came across. These happened to be
a couple of pensive fossickers. Nobody knew
the difference except the two unfortunates,
and it didn’t matter anyhow. They couldn’t
vote and they don’t buy newspapers.
|B/S/’9l.]
Tommy has a selection six miles from
a rising town on the River Darling. When-
ever Ted, who lives further afield, makes
for the town, lie invariably calls at Tommy’s
to break the journey, generally arriving at
about 2 o’clock in the morning, when his
habit is to quietly disrobe and climb over the
sleeping Tommy and bunk alongside him
without ceremony. Now, recently another
friend of Tommy wived, and Tommy lent
his selection to the honeymooning couple.
Of this fact Ted was totally ignorant. Dur-
ing the honeymoon time, Ted journeyed
townwards and pulled up as usual at
Tommy’s, taking the horses out of his buggy
and entering the house and bedroom as he
was accustomed to. Not wishing to dis-
turb Tommy, he refrained from striking a
light, disrobed in the dark, and—well, you
can fill in the rest of the story to suit
yourself. [B/8/’9l.]
As a rule the woman whose dress is cut
lowest among all the crowd in the circle is
the immense corpulent female whose
arms look like two red sacks of flour, while
the gteat desert of her shiny flesh expands
so far that you feel tired before you have
walked twice round the bare part of her.
And the woman who runs her very close in
the matter of scarcity is the scrawny indi-
vidual whose bones jut out like crags
and pinnacles and old yellow knobs in a
great waste land of skin. When you find
a plump and fresli-looking maiden among
the crowd it is three to one that she is so
disguised in bits of lace, muslin and other
small mysteries that she is about as invisible
as if she had no evening dress at all. Heaven
knows why this is—we don’t! The bare and
mountainous old female or her famine-
stricken sister might be able to explain it,
but we have never had the pluck to ask
either of them. [l5/8/’9l. |
The question concerning the origin of the
word “Toowoomba” is thus conclusively
settled by Archibald Meston, of Brisbane.
He says: “Toowoomba” is a word in the dia-
lect of the “Goo.neeburra” or “Fire Blacks”
of the Darling Downs, who spoke “Wakka.”
It is derived from “Toowoom,” the name of a
small native melon which grew prolifically
in the Toowoomba Valley. The terminal
“ba” is equivalent to the adverb “there,” and
the whole word to a Gooneeburra black
would mean “the place where we get the
Toowoom.” Toowoomba is one of the few
native names spelled exactly as pronounced
by the old blacks and by the survivors of
to-day. [B/8/’9I.J
Did Nelson say to Hardy what it is tradi-
tionally reported he said? The last chapter
of the discussion goes to confirm the tradi-
tion, and to show that the man Capper,-who
heard from Fletcher, whose master was told
by Admiral Smythe, who knew Hardy, “that
Nelson never spoke after lie was wounded,”
is .simply in the last stage of senile forget-
fulness, or in the first exercise of his faculty
of fiction-writing. A Colonel Henderson, a
son of a niece of Beatty, surgeon of the Vic-
tory, possesses the doctor’s‘narrative of Nel-
son’s closing hours. This paper was read by
Hardy twice, and as Southey derived his
account of Nelson’s last words from it, it
is safe to say that the dying seaman’s com-
mendation of Lady Hamilton and his daugh-
ter to the nation is authentic. By the way,
Captain Crawford Pasco, of Queenscliff
(Vic.), the son of Nelson’s flag-lieutenant,
who hoisted the famous “duty signal,” should
have something to say on the matter. Over
his mantel at Queenscliff hangs a letter from
his father dated from on board the Victory at
Portsmouth. It is framed in Victory timber.
Pasco pere brought Governor Macquarie to
N.S.W. He beat to quarters just before
entering the Heads, and every gun was
shotted. Macquarie expected to have to
fight the Johnstone-Macartliur crowd.
[B/8/ yi.j
One of Disraeli’s friends, Sir William
Fraser, has published a biography. Disraeli,
according to this authority; doesn’t look like
good material to build a Primrose Deague
upon. He didn’t care for, primroses, but his
tastes in upholstery were loud enough to
alarm the whole neighborhood. He was
addicted to green velvet pants when he was
young, and shrieking brass jewellery; and
when he was old he had black velvet waist-
coats and howling gold chains instead. An
idol in green pants is too much. [lo/S/ 91. J
Speight, the Victorian railway-king, lias
two pet pugs which wag their respective
tails to the names of Soda and Brandy. The
bigger dawg is named Brandy.
[l5/8/ 91. J
Mem. for lady witnesses. Purves, Q-C.,
said that Miss Mackie need not have been
untruthful about her age, as she was not
bound to have answered the question.
Higinbotham, C.J., did not object to tins
statement, so it may pass as good law. But
how would this work in a marriage-promise
case in which the bride had understated her
age? [l5/8/91.]
Fish, the voluble M.IT.R. for Dunedin
(M.L.), was seated at a crowded Welling-
ton table d’hote one day recently, while
opposite him sat an old gentleman whom he
did not know, and who knew not Fish. They
were talking politics, and Fish asked the
venerable sage his opinion of the present
Maoriland Parliament. “I am a stranger
here,” replied the old ’un cautiously, “and
I have not had much opportunity of form-
ing an opinion, but those members I have
heard speak in the House appear to me to
be passable—nothing remarkable about any
of them. There is one member I have not
heard yet, however, and I am, I confess,
very curious to see and hear him. His name
is Fish, I believe, and I am told he is a
perfect whale at spouting.” Then the pair
were introduced amid the roars of the
assembled company. [25/7/’9l.]
A disastrous accident happened to a charm-
ing girl who was out riding with her beau
in Sydney’s Centennial Park the other day.
They were sailing along serenely, when
suddenly the lady pulled up and commenced
hurriedly to dismount, and the “bo,” think-
ing she was faint, was on terra firma i.n-
stanter, of course. But guess his cold horror
and the lady’s feelings when there upon the
track lay a glittering upper-set of false teeth !
Alm.ost with sobs she explained that the
joggle of her hack had shaken “them” out
of her roseate gums, and her best boy turned
away his head and wiped off a tear as he
saw how fearsome she looked fitting them up
again! The fall of teeth is the end of love.
Yea, it is the beginning of hate. Mr.
Sebastian Oldmixon, a friend of mine
[Sappho Smith], went to the Sydney Metro-
pole the other day to have lunch. While he
stood at the wash-liand stand fixing himself
up, an elaborate swell came in, took off and
hung up his hat and coat, and then, taking
out a full upper-set of teeth, dumped them
right down on the marble slab. “Don’t you
find it very hot?” suavely inquired my dis-
gusted friend, who wanted to see liow a man
talked who had shed all his teeth in one
act. But Mr. Gummy only bowed and
smiled a vast smile. “I presume you mean
NAKED, IS IT?
STOREKEEPER: “Buy a trunk cheap, Mickey?"
MICKEY COME HITHER: “Phwat for?”
STOREKEEPER: “ Why, to put your clothes
in, of course.”
MICKEY: “And go naked, is it?”
[l7/10/’91.J
to sharpen your teeth before lunch?” then
calmly remarked Sebastian, trying the other
tack.' N.B. —Flease speak in a very low
voice if you happen to tell this story at or
near the' Sydney Stock Exchange.
[l7/1/’9l.]
Heigho! Billie Barlow,
There’s never a man so crusty
But he will say, in. a humdrum way,
When, merrily O, you trill your lay,
That Billie is not so dusty.
Your voice is clear as the draught of beer
We drink to your eyes whilst foaming:
And your style is light as the rhyme we
write,
Or the dews that fall with the shades of
night.
As we softly sigh in the gloaming—
fleigho! Billie Barlow.
[O/l/’92.J
PANTOMIME.
What’s a pantomime?
Folly of a season,
Rhyme without a reason,
Reason out of rhyme.
Ghosts of Christmas time —
Elves in fairy bowers,
Demon sprites and giaours,
Maidens in distress,
Villains in full dress —
Run a pantomime.
Same old rot sublime:
Maid and Lover-Prince meet;
Villains bashed to mincemeat;
Traps in place of portals ;
Mortals meet Immortals^—
Good old pantomime!
Virtue slugging Crime;
Villains making blunders;
Transformation wonders;
Penny dips and dime lights;
Lissom legs in limelights—
That’s a pantomime.
[2/l/’92.]


PVH
a
Won Over £19,000!
for his Syndicates
Lucky Fred can change your luck!
I ■■l'fcfk'!/ ET the luckiest lad who ever purchased tickets
■ i in the N.S.W. State Consultation, has won
the enormous sum of £18,365 for people who held one of his lucky
shares in a lucky ticket.
WON £5OOO TWICE
Lucky Fred is the only person who has won the first prize of £5OOO in
TWO STATE CONSULTATIONS RUNNING, a feat which had never
before been accomplished in any consultation or sweep.
One of Lucky Fred’s fifth shares in a ticket costs 1/6. A couple
of days after the postman hands you this share, you can win £lOOO
cash if Lucky Fred wins the first prize with your ticket.
There is no waiting. Your share is sent in the very next State Con-
sultation to be drawn after we hear from you,, and here is something
else. You can receive your winnings the day after it is drawn. There
are two drawn every week in N.S.W.
If you win a prize, Fred writes and tells you, or wires you the day the
drawing takes place. That is Fred’s service to his clients.
Lucky Fred’s Syndicates are guaranteed. They have been established
for fifteen months, and the enormous sum of £19,050 has been sent
to his lucky shareholders. You can read all about them on this page,
and remember, the amounts won and the names of the people are
absolutely genuine.
LUCKY FRED’S CHARM
HIS SECRET!
Lucky Fred puts down his truly amazing luck in the Consul-
tation to his Lucky Charm, which he always carries with him.
It is beautifully made, of solid metal, with Fred’s lucky sign,
the swastika, which forms his initials, engraved, and the charm
is beautifully enamelled and gilded. It is attached to a pin,
and you will be really proud to wear it. Anything is possible
when you own one. Justi try it, as many sceptics have done—
you will soon be convinced that it is really lucky.
After owning Lucky Fred’s Charm for only a few days, Mr.
A. Bonnette, Box 2883, G.P.0., Sydney, won the first prize
of £6OOO in the well-known Southern Consultation.
The wonderful wins which charm-owners have when they
purchase tickets themselves are never included in Fred’s totals
of winnings for his syndicates.
These Charm Owners won £lo,ooo—with Lucky Fred’s Shares
Mrs. *l. Litticicood, of Mackay
Street, Sunshine, Victoria, has
a large family. She icon
£2,500 in the 34th N.S.W.
State Lottery ivith Lucky
Fred’s Lottery Share.
Mr. R. K. Thiele, of Kenthurst,
Parramatta. N.S.W., who won
£2,500 with Lucky Fred’s
Lottery Share in the State
Lottery after wearing Fred’s
Lucky Charm for only five
days.
Mrs. D. Mitchell, of Franklin
Street, Traralgon, Victoria, is
only 22 years of age, and she
received the fortune of £2,500
with Lucky Fred’s Lottery
Share.
Isn't Fred lucky for the ladies ?
Here is Mrs. G. Strybos, of
Tooan East, via Noradjuhd ,
Vie. She believed in luck —
sent to Lucky Fred for a
Lottery Share and Lucky
Charm—and icon £2,500.
HERE ARE SOME GOOD REASONS
why you should always have your . . .
Lottery Share in Lucky Fred’s Syndicates,
You can have a fifth share in a ticket in
each N.S.W. State Consultation for the
small sum of 1/6. This eighteen pence
can win £lOOO cash for you! That’s a
fortune for a small outlay!
LUCKY FRED has won the enormous sum
of over £19,000 for his syndicates up to
June 12, and has won the first prize of
£5OOO TWICE, and holds every record
for buying winning tickets for his syndi-
cates, so keep trying, and soon you will
win BIG CASH for yourself.
Lucky Fred’s Syndicates are legal and
guaranteed, and you can receive your win-
nings, even if you win £lOOO cash, the
day after the Consultation is drawn.
There are two drawn every week in
Sydney.
When FRIENDS FORM SYNDICATES
between themselves there are frequently
disputes over the prizes. There are never
any disputes in Lucky Fred’s Syndicates.
You have your share with the Consulta-
tion number and ticket number on it. If
it wins, your cash is waiting for you.
You have no trouble—your share is sent
to you by return mail, and if you win a
prize, Lucky Fred sends you a wire or
writes and tells you the SAME DAY
THAT THE LOTTERY WAS DRAWN.
There is no waiting! As soon as we hear
from you, Fred sends you, by return mail,
a fifth share in the VERY NEXT N.S.W.
STATE CONSULTATION TO BE DRAWN.
This means that when the postman hands
you your share, you have only a day
or two to wait for the results. That’s ser-
vice, isn’t it?
He Causes a Sensation Whenever He Appears
The above plioto shows girls at the N.S.W. State Con-
sultation Office watching Lucky Fred selecting Consultation
tickets for his syndicates.
“Half your luck, Fred,” they say when lie comes to
collect Ins big wins for his shareholders.
READ THE COUPON AND
REMEMBER THAT EIGHTEEN
PENCE CAN WIN £lOOO CASH
QUICKLY!
NEWSPAPER MEN AMAZED!
Advertising men looking at the two cheques for £5000
which Fred received when he won the first prize twice
running for his shareholders.
COUPON-CUT THIS OUT
A FIFTH SHARE FOR 1/6
SPECIAL OFFER
Luck y Fred will be pleased to send you by return mail a fifth share in a ticket in the
next N.S.W. State Consultation to be drawn. (This can win £lOOO cash, or a fifth of
r ny t °. f * he P rizes offered), if you clip out this coupon and send it with a postal note
for 1/6 and a stamped envelope bearing your own name and address—don’t forget this.
OR A LUCKY CHARM AND ONE FIFTH SHARE FOR 2/6.
If you would like one of Lucky Fred’s Charms AS WELL AS A FIFTH SHARE IN A
N.S.W. STATE CONSULTATION TICKET, send a Postal Note for 2/6 and a stamped
envelope bearing your own name and address.
You know Fred’s address:
LUCKY FRED,
C/o LUCKY
BOX
FRED’S SYNDICATES,
3908TT,
G.F.0., SYDNEY.
Eighteen Fence Can Win £lOOO Cash Quickly!


When the Blinds Were Drawn.
[As in the case of his old chief, Edmond, literature lost something when S. H. Prior gave himself, heart, soul and body, o
journalism. The subjoined sketch, written for The Bulletin of May 30, 1912, shows how feelingly and vividly he could wn e.
and with how fine an economy of words. One and twenty years later to the day he was back on his bed of pain, lying_
beautiful dark, with leeches once more at work on his tortured eyes. Then the tired heart gave way, and he slid softly into the
sleep which no little devils can break.]
THE doctor threw his hopes overboard
at last Plainly enough now it was
iritis again So the blinds were drawn,
and I settled down to wait for the little
devils that have charge of the torture of
the iritis-damned
Four years ago I had found out the differ-
ence between this and the common or garden
variety of sore eye; and then it seemed to
me lying in the beautiful dark, that the
little devils were happiest when they took
the shane of two cats. One sat on the bridge
of mv nose the other on mv temple, and thus
fachi- one another they clawed at the ball
of fire that floated between them in a sea
of inflammation. This time the little devils
had apparently run out of cats, so they sat
mi the ed'm of the sea and shot fiery arrows
into the quivering eyeball. Sometimes the
darts only pierced the surface; at others
thev sped on till they collided, with an ex-
plosion that sent electric sparks .sizzling
along the nerves to the uttermost hair-root.
It was at the end of the second century
(other people said it was the second night,
hut T prefer my own reckoning! that the
doctor said that leeches might be given a
chance He didn’t appear to regard leeches
with enthusiasm. If he had been making a
Sessional call 50 years ago lie would pro-
bably have prescribed leeches in the first
five minutes- blit the modern doctor regards
the ugly worm as a sort of unqualified prac-
titloner, to be called in in much the same
spirit as Kitchener would whistle up a
corps of Chinese stinkpot cavalry, or as an
Admiral would refer a question of naval
strategy to the bo’sun of the North Shore
horse-punt.
But it was one thing to say “Let there
be leeches” and another thing to let the
leeches be. The chemist on the first corner
said he was sorry but he had none. The
chemist on the next corner had none and
didn’t appear sorry. The third chemist said
wo might have five for half a crown. As
an afterthought, he added that we might
have the rest of his stock for a shilling. He
seemed to have little hope of ever meeting
anybody else who would want leeches.
I had my own ideas about leeches. I
vaguely regarded them as ravenous beasts
that scented blood from afar and made haste
to the banquet, no matter what sort of flesh
it happened to be in. The leech of com-
merce is a different animal. You capture
him from his bottle with great difficulty—
unless ho is dead, which he seems to be
pretty frequently. If he isn’t dead his one
aim in life appears to be to stay in the
bottle and avoid work. When you grasp at
him he is a four-inch arch of wiry worm:
in the twinkling of an eye he shrinks into a
shapeless blob, and your fingers close on
space. Having with diligence arrested him,
you make a guess as to which is his busi-
ness end, and insert it into a glass tube.
According to your old ideas he should rush
down the tube and get to work. But he
doesn’t. You prod him, and he doesn’t move.
You smear the flesh with milk, and he still
despises it. You take him out of the tube
and hold his head against his banquet, and
lie turns away in disgust. Nobody is ever
really so contemptible as everybody feels
when he has newly-acquired a bad eye ; and
the man with a bad eye never feels quite so
cheap as when a leech has definitely turned
him down. There is no insult beyond that.
The trouble with the leech of commerce
is that he is no good unless he is hungry.
His keeper, the chemist, is therefore in this
position : if he feeds the brute, the brute is
no good, and if he doesn’t feed the brute the
time comes when the brute ceases to take
any interest in food or anything else. Some
days afterwards, when the local supply of
leeches had been exhausted, the city shops
were ransacked. Four said they were sorry,
but all their leeches had died waiting for
customers. The fifth, which wore a crest,
said haughtily that it was a chemist’s shop,
and not a menagerie. The sixth said briskly
that it had three left. When it came back
to deliver the goods it confided sadly that
those three were dead too.
Still, you do occasionally find a leech of
commerce with an appetite. When he has
been prodded sufficiently the enraged worm
begins his meal. You feel a few sharp stabs
under the eye; then the pumps get to
work, and gradually a damp, clammy
sausage fills itself upon your cheek. With
a fringe of these I believe no patient can be
regarded as really beautiful. An energetic
leech will feed for just half an hour. But
if lie has done liis work well it is possible
that the wound lie has made will bleed gently
for another 12 hours. Science has tried to
produce a cleanly substitute; but science
doesn’t know how. The ugly worm, when
lie has sunk his artesian bore, lines it with
a substance which prevents the coagulation
of the blood; so it flows on gently lo.ng attei
he . has fallen off, a helpless, swollen capi-
talist.
When that happens the leech of commerce
is mostly hurried to destruction. There is
no created thing which enjoys quite such
rotten luck. If he waits too long tor a cus-
tomer he dies. If a customer comes while
yet he has strength to take in a meal which
would comfortably last him 12 months, he is
hurried from his banquet to his grave. He
has no hick either way.
Yet he deserves a lot; for a-s he gets to
work and eases the congestion, the little
devils fall farther and farther back into the
darkness, and you slide softly into sleep,
It was six hours before the little devils came
back and woke me with the horrid sugges-
tion that -there might be something in the
idea of the transmigration of souls. They
wanted to know what were the odds that I
might not be this other sort of luckless worm
next time!
The Wages of Sin—Seventeen Guineas.
BY RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
BURNSIDE, chief of the staff of the
“Evening Age,” at nine .o clock m the
morning wrote the day’s assignments
in the duty-book. Burnside was a mean man
with a liver up to liis neck, yellow-faced,
slack-mouthed, small-eyed, the bile so chang-
ing his blood that his grin was yellow—lus
grin that had so little merriment in it that
it was like the menace of a trapped fox. He
had few likings for the staff and many dis-
likes that increased in intensity until they
reached hatred in his regard for Lambert,
the carelessly-efficient journalist who was
star-reporter by the grace of his' ability and
its recognition by the ‘ Age s _ proprietor.
That recognition only strengthened Burn-
side in his desire to catch Lambert in some
failure of duty. Slavish to the master, lie
hated any other man approaching even the
lowest step of the throne. He had held
down liis job by cumiifig more than by worK.
He escaped tlie carpet for his own errors,
by attributing them to subordinates, the.
said subordinates being dismissed - without
stated reason and going away .puzzled and
injured, not knowing. the hand ‘ that had
struck them out of the job.
Tu his eyrie in the “Age” building Burn-
side tried to make cunning atone for in-
capacity. As : he wrote' up" the' engagemeni;-
book this morning he thought of a. scoop
of the “Age’s” rival which he had missed —
escaping the fury of a machine that punishes
omissions and never rewards performance
by falsely deposing that he had ordered the
Government roundsman to “cover it.” The
Government roundsman had - had a black
mark memorised against him, and didn’t
know it yet. But Lambert was. 1 the man
Burnside wanted to get; and Lambert with
half a dozen good things to his credit, was
too. powerful :to be pulled down. He was
even suggesting the reputation of such organ-
ising ability that he might already have the
baton of chief-of-staff in his knapsack.
Lambert lfad nothing of greatness, really;
but among the mediocrities of a daily news-
paper liis more than average newspaper-
man’s "ability made, him appear great, as the-,
one-eyed man is said to be king, in an asylum
for the blind. He had the nose for news'
and the ability to turn out rapidly readable
copy in an emergency, and more than a
policeman’s ability to find a clue smaller
than a Town Hall, and follow it.
Burnside searched the morning paper for
items to be followed up by the evening paper
and could find nothing. He was almost
making an entry opposite Lambert’s name
for one of the foolish “special” articles
which the crime of an accidentally and very
temporarily underworked staff causes a news-
paper to order in the dull season, such as
“Scriptural Reading in State schools,” “Fish
in the Sea,” “Do the Poor Eat Enou'gn
Vegetables?” “Are Women Changing?” At
last he compromised on one entry:—
“Rounds: Mr. Lambert.”
Presently Lambert came in, and proved
the chief-of-staff again to be incompetent.
He brought a cutting from the “Herald,” an
obscure item that Burnside had missed:—
A WOMAN MISSING.
Mrs. If. Burrows, of Ifogarah. reported to the local
police yesterday that a lodger, whose name is given
as Mary Drew, disappeared four days ago. Miss
Drew had resided at Mrs. Burrows’s house for over
a month and is not known to have any friends or
relatives in the city. All the metropolitan police
stations have ibeeh notified.
“Nothing in that,” said Burnside, annoyed
that Lambert had noted the item and that
he himself had missed it. “The girl is '
probably back by this time. Don’t waste
any time over it beyond police inquiries.”
So Lambert left the office to do hi- rou-
tine job. Ilis sense of being smtbbi .! .lasted
only to the front door. Yet, lie felt there
must be something in the case of Mary
Drew, although he contented himself for
that day with the perfunctory inquiries
ordered by Burnside, and waited until the
next afternoon to know if he were alone
in curiosity. The absence of any mention
of Mary Drew in the afternoon and morn-
ing papers told him that, but for that one
paragraph of her disappearance, Mary Drew
was as forgotten as the hole made in the
water by the pebble thrown into it last
week. Then Lambert got to work.
He found Mrs. Burrows, a kindly woman,
willing to talk, but knowing little of lier
vanished lodger. Miss Drew paid always in
advance, and the last payment was made
the day before she disappeared. She was
nearly a week in credit.
“So,” said Lambert, “something occurred
between the time she paid you and the next
morning ?”
“Yes, there was a little change. : She was
lively and hopeful the day before; and I
thought how quiet she. was that night.”
“Did she say anything that sounded like
good-bye the day she disappeared?”
“Yes, yes. I remember that as she was
leaving she kissed me and said I’d been
very kind. And I hadn’t been; nothing more
than ,ordinary, y.on. know.”
“She was prqbably. in trouble and your
kindness by contrast seemed greater than
it was.” -
“It,, might.,.. .She. used to type a lot of
papers-—looked like stories.”
“May be a poor little literary disappoint-
ment. _ Have you got .anything of what she
used to type?” !
“There’s some crumpled sheets of paper
in' the basket. She did her own room her-
self.” ' '
“May I see them?”
“Why, yes. It won’t do her any harm
and it might help to- find her. You’re a .re-
porter-gentleman and you wouldn’t hurt her,
would you?”
“On the contrary, I|m trying to find who
has hurt. her.”
“Come in, .then. This is the room.”
Lambert entered the room with the quiet
touch of at lady <.m it—tidiness and cleanli-
ness so complete as to be meticulous. There
were a few books, mostly verses-—Shelley,
Keats, Browning and, Victor Daley among
them. Lambert made the interesting dis-
covery that-.the .fly-leaves were missing from
all. The typewriter had a sheet of paper
in the carrier. On this Mary Drew had
typed these disjointed lines, apparently as
notes:
The egotism of a child necessary to its life... .
this unspeakable woe that would utter “Why was
T ever born?” —The widow’s lonely meal; bread is
ashes. ’
Must do Women Government, but have no heart
for it.
There’s pansies—that’s for thoughts.
Oh, Land! Oh, Land! for all the brokenhearted.
Set me as a seal.
The crumpled papers in the basket were
nothing. Notes unintelligible to any but the
maker, to whom a stray word represented
a coherent sentence, but they told Lambert
that Mary Drew divided her time between
literary quotation and unknown languages :
Magyar—ribbing—plain-stitcli up; cast off
twelve; K 2, P 2, end row P 1.
Double garter.
Brash before S.
And much more of it.
“Examined her baggage, Mrs. Burrows?”
“Yes. All her things were jumbled in as
if she had unpacked and thrown everything
back again.”
“Searching for something. No photo-
graphs? No papers?”
“Not a photo. Not a line.”
“She took them away or destroyed them.
Did she have a fire?”
“No, not since she’s been here. She used
my kitchen.”
“Sue could have burned them there. Well,
thank you.”
During the journey to the city Lambert
studied his scrawly material for reconstruc-
tion and read into it this:—•
“ ‘The egotism of a child necessary to its
life.’ (Mary Drew was soon to bb a mother.)
‘Why was I ever born?’ (The man had
deserted her.) ‘The widow’s lonely meal;
bread is ashes!’ (She was not married and
the man lfad deserted her. She couldn’t
settle herself to work. She had to type an
article on ‘Women in Government.’ She
thought in a circle and always round to
death.) ‘Set me as a seal.’ (She is still
in love with the man.) As for the cryptic
stuff,” thought Lambert, “I’ll get good old
Sophie to tell me that.”
Sophie Wild, big-boned, irregularly-
featured, ugly-cheerful—Sophie, the best of
good fellows —passed judgment swiftly when
Lambert ran her to earth next day. Sophie
is fashion and afternoon-tea gossip writer
for the “Courier,” and she knows all about
women’s clothes and the newest variants of
them, although for herself she is faithful to
the fashion of the first years of the century.
And Sophie translated quickly: “Magyar?
It’s a sort of knitted jumper. Ribbing is
a stitch. ‘K 2, P 2,’ means knit two, purl two.
Double garter is another sort of stitch, and
‘Brush before S’ means brush before sewing
on.”
“It’s her notes to knit a jumper, is it?”
“No. It’s too disjointed. She must have
known her subject well. Why, it’s like the
notes I’d take to write an article on it.”
“Is it? Thanks. You’re a good chap,
Sophie.” . Lambert left her with' his boun-
daries of inquiry narrowed, for he now knew
that Mary Drew was a Little Sister of the
Pen.
“The notes had been crumpled and thrown
away. That means that she had written
the article. To-morrow I’ll search every
woman’s page in every Sydney paper.”
But that night brought a new develop-
ment. The body of a young girl cast ashore
at Rose Bay, It was too late for the morn-
ing papers ; but before noon next day Mrs.
Burrows had, been brought by Lambert to the
morgue and had identified the body as that
of Mary Drew. And the autopsy had estab-
lished death by drowning; also the fact that
Mary Drew had been with child. With the
only story of the affair worth having, Lam-
bert returned to the “Age” office with a
column for the afternoon .edition, and Burn-
side, unable to find fault with the body of
the story, objected to Lambert’s headlines.
“Too tame,” he said. “We’ll do it this
way. You have no imagination :
“THE WAGES OF SIN.
“MARY DREW DROWNS HERSELF.”
Lambert objected. The story was written
with charity and the headings contradicted
the spirit of it; but the term's of his: state-
ment of objection merely earned for him
another snub. He resumed his inquiries
the more determined to find out all there was
to be discovered. After two hours of exam-
ining the city newspapers he found in that
week’s issue of an obscure weekly, “Woman’s
Life,” the little article “Knitted Jumpers,”
by M.B.
The editor of “Woman’s Life” had never
heard of Mary Drew, but he knew of Mary
Bryce, whom he had not seen for a fort-
night. When he described lier Lambert had
no doubt that Mary Bryce was Mary Drew.
As to which was the real name and which
the alias, he was still at a dead-end.
Mary Bryce had written many little
articles for “Woman’s Life.” Sometimes she
called for the money; at other times it was
mailed by postal notes merely addressed,
“Miss M. Bryce, G.P.0., Sydney.”
‘ “Was she to write an article on ‘Women
in Government’?” asked Lambert, trying for
the last proof of identity.
“Why, yes; but how did you know?”
“I—er—l just heard she had been making
inquiries.”
“I see. That’s all I know. If you sec
her tell her to call or send a receipt for the
last money. Is that all?”
“Just one more question. Did you know
her people?”
“Not; a hair or hide of ’em,” replied the
editor cheerfully. “Nor where she came
from, either.”
“I’ll break my word about that question
being the last, old man. How did you come
to know of her?”
“Oh, she just called in and submitted a
story. - Let’s see —what was it ? Oh! an
article about baby clinics. She has rather
good observation. Just wait a minute. Yes,
that’s it. She came here introduced by a
letter from a newspaperman. Why, it was
a man on your own paper—Burnside!”
“Burnside?”
“That’s the man. Three months ago—or
two—something like that. Of course, it was
Burnside’s introduction that got her a trial.”
Lambert went back to the office wondering,
losing himself in speculations on this new
development. The final edition of the
“Evening Age” was being cried on the streets,
and Lambert saw that the contents bill car-
ried the star item
THE WAGES OF SIN.
MARY DREW DROWNS HERSELF.
He hurriedly wrote a stop-press para-
graph „ . ,
“At a late hour this afternoon a special
reporter of the ‘Evening Age,’ pursuing his
investigations in the Mary Drew case, dis-
covered that Mary Drew was really Mary
Bryce, recently an article writer on women’s
interests in the weekly paper ‘Woman’s
Life.’ ” , „
He took the paragraph to Burnside s office
and laid it on the table before the chief-of-
staff.
Burnside read. Read it again. Read it
yet again, his head bending close to the
copy; but he did not speak.
“What do you think of it?” asked Lambert.
No answer. Only the head bowed closer
to the desk.
“You knew her? The editor of ‘Woman's
Life’ told me you introduced her by letter.
Burnside’s head jerked up to the light
at that. The yellow face was greenish with
fear; but he spoke no word.
“By God!” said Lambert, illumination
coming to him in a flood, “you’re the man.
You introduced her. She was happy until
before the day she disappeared. Did you
write to her throwing her down or telling
her it was Dead Finish the day she dis-
appeared? Did you? Did yon—you”
“For God’s sake, leave me alone.”
“If I do it will be for another paper. _ Tell
me. You wrote her saying it was all finished.
You’re the man?”
“I’m- —I’m a married man. How was Ito
know she’d changed her name?”
“She. changed her name to Mrs. Burrows
only; and only then when she knew she
was in the family way. Mary Bryce is in
the morgue with her baby that will never
be born. Tell me, or I’ll go to the other
paper.”
“Will you keep it secret?”
“No conditions. You’re the man?”
“Yes.” The greenish-yellow face went
down to the table again and the folded arms
hid it.
Lambert had it out with himself for an
hour. To expose Burnside would not make
Mary Bryce alive again, and would destroy
the fool’s paradise of the other woman and
her children. But this mean fellow must do
something; must take on the burden of
something. And then Lambert remembered
the hypocrite’s uncharitable alteration of his
article, “The Wages of Sin”; —the great
literary effort of that thin-lipped, clay-
hearted wretch; and he was the more de-
termined that some of Mary Bryce’s terror,
if not her baseless shame, must rest on
him who had deserted her.
While still raging within, he reached one
of his rest-houses —the office of Jarrett, most
cheerful manager of a company of under-
takers.
Jarrett had news of Mary Drew.
“Inquest to-morrow, adjournment and
burial. Fine-looking girl she was. Aot
a friend has come forward. It’s a contract
funeral.” »
“As a pauper?”
“Yes.”
“No fear. Do it decently. How much
will it cost?”
“No friends. One mourning, coach, bay
seventeen pounds—er— -guineas.”
“It shall be paid.”
“Subscription or newspaper?”
“Newspaper. We made a scoop on it.
Make mo an account and I’ll write a letter
to the Chief.”
While Jarrett made out tlie account Lam-
bert wrote this note to Burnside:— ,
“I am not coming back to the Age.
couldn’t breathe the same air with you. Pay
Jarrett’s account as enclosed. Not for the
paper or I’ll tell the Old Man. Pay it your-
self. The Wages of Sin— Seventeen Guineas
—and thank God that it’s the total and not
only an instalment.”
Burnside almost choked; but he paid. He
almost published a paragraph about his own
kindness, but refrained, fearing. that Lam-
bert might sub-edit it after publication, and
provide a sensation for the adjourned inquest.


Tke new Buick is tke finest car tkat
Buick ever kuilt! Wkile extremely
interesting as a statement of fact, tkis
accompliskment can never ke seen in
its full significance until you drive tke car
yourself. For only tken can you realise
tkat Buick kas faskioned a motor car,
not only to please itself, kut to kring a
ricker and more unique satisfaction to
tkose wko kuy and use it.
UIC
1933
The Finest Car Buick Ever Built
Consult Your Local Authorised Buick Dealer
und ‘Dii
vm
m
\rion
r. -
Sunny Pacific Islands
“Where Winter Never Comes
Delightful Sunny Ocean Trips to
TAHITI, RAROTONGA,
FIJI and HONOLULU
by the comfortable C.A. and UNION
Liners, including the AORANGI and the
NIAGARA
at most economical rates
Sailing dates, fares and literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
.
A
Famous for Blood and Skin Disorders
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO
ECZEMA
ULCERS
RASHES
SORES
CLARKE’S
BLOOD MIXTURE
Of all Chemists and Stores
Avoid all Imitation*
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Mushrooms
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
FRED’S cap, thrown across the kitchen,
narrowly missed landing in Dad’s plate,
but Fred didn’t mind that. And Dad
had got so used to that sort of thing that
he was far past minding it himself. He
picked up the cap, shook the dust out of it,
and hung it on the back of his chair.
‘‘This is a hell of a time to come in to
tea,” Clem growled.
“Well, I work,” Fred panted out indif-
ferently to his father, “and I have to get in
what hell of a time I can.” He took his seat
and a gurgling gulp of tea and looked round
the table. “Where’s the artichokes?” he
demanded.
“There; I forgot the things,” his step-
mother said sharply. “It’s you being the
only one that likes ’em, and there weren’t
any dug”
“Why weren’t there any dug?” Fred de-
manded truculently, his pimply face suffused
with anger.
“ ’Cos there weren’t, see,” Liz told him.
“Think there’s nothing to do here but remem-
ber what you want for your tea?”
He glared back into his sister’s highly-
colored face and flashing, leering eyes, and
decided that he wouldn’t answer her. Liz
took after father. She was dirty in a row
and a bully on top of it. He turned back
to his stepmother, jerking his thumb in Dad's
direction. “Couldn’t Lord Tom Noddy have
dug a few' for me tea? He might as well do
something, once in a way.”
“Do something?” Alfie, aged eight, stopped
snivelling to get in a spiteful word. “Well,
he does a bit more than run about the roads
with flash tarts in his sidecar.”
Fred’s working-boot trod hard on Alfie’s
bare toe while Fred listened with an air of
engaging innocence to what Dad was saying.
“Yes, I’m sorry,” Dad said mildly ; “they’re
seldom wanted, and I didn’t know you’d run
short of them, Judy. Of course I’d have dug
them for you.”
“I’ll bet you w r ould, Dad,” Clem put in. a
half-threat underlying the false bonhomie;
“quick and lively, if you’d been told to.
Wouldn’t you?”
. "Of course I would, Clem,” Dad agreed,
shrinking a little away from him. Fear
sounded faintly in his voice. “You know I
would, Clem.”
Clem laughed heartily. “ ’Course I do.
’course I do.” He dominated the kitchen, all
flashing teeth, flashing eyes and high color.
Sick of baiting Dad, he turned to Fred.
“Well, Fred, they didn’t cook you no arti-
chokes, didn’t they?”
“Well, look at the daddy I’ve got,” Fred
smiled at his father, baiting him. “It isn’t
likely that I’d miss a few 7 artichokes. I mean
to say, a daddy like a big blow 7 fly in the
home-—all noise and” Fred took another
gurgling gulp of tea and pushed his plate
away. “Thank God that’s over,” he added
wearily.
“Good-oh, me lad,” Clem w r arned him.
“Wait till”
"Yes, and it’ll be bettcr-oh if they remem-
ber me artichokes,” Fred cut in indifferently.
"I pay board for me board, see.” He pushed
his chair back and stood up.
“Remember to dig some to-morrow, will
you, Dad?” Judy said sharply.
"Of course I will, my dear,” Dad repeated
gently.
"Well, make no mistake about it.”
Clem, Fred, Liz and Alfie were filing
morosely out of the kitchen.
“Hey, youse,” Judy called after them,
"what. about the washing-up? Here, Fred
and Liz—you bog into the washing-up.”
"I got a date,” Fred said, without turning
round.
“So’ve I,” Liz said, giggling. “Dad'll do
it.”
“All right,” Judy said, looking at Dad.
“There’s a kettle of boiling water on the
stove. Oh, and Dad” —she turned at the
door—“set your alarm and get up and get
us some mushrooms to-morrow 7 . They’ll be
good after this rain. Fred likes his plate
of mushrooms for his breakfast. And take
young Alfie with you. You can give him a
call when your alarm rings. I don’t w 7 ant
those Nicholses stiekybeaking again and say-
ing w 7 e send an old man out to gather our
mushrooms. It won’t look so bad if you’ve
got a kid with you”... .
He supposed he was an old man, as she
said; anyhow, he felt old enough. They
never meant anyone to do the washing-up
but him. No one else ever did it. And
why did he do it? he asked himself for the
millionth time. They w'ere all strangers to
him, except Judy, who was his dead son’s
wife, and > who had married this Clem and
brought his spiteful, quarrelling family into
the house. Jim and Judy had had no chil-
dren. Jim had died a couple of years after
they were married. Why should he do these
strangers’ greasy washing-up? he asked again,
w 7 hilo he stacked it, poured the boiling w r ater
on the cutlery and refilled the kettle in ease
they wanted a cup of tea later on. Cheats,
that’s what they were, and bullies. He had
a pound a week, which Judy pocketed—for
his board, she said. He never saw 7 it —and
why, why....the thoughts and grievances
scattered. He washed-up doggedly, tired, old,
thinking of nothing.
It .had got to be a habit, and you clung
to habits, if you hadn’t got much else. He
supposed the pound was useful in the house-
keeping ; he hoped so, anyhow.
What sort of a woman could Clem’s first
w 7 ife have been to have Fred and Liz? They
were wrong-’uns. Young Liz, n0w.... But
all that scattered, too. as he dried and hung
up the last cups. Alfie, Judy’s boy, was
bad enough; always snivelling. But
Dad sighed. It wasn’t worth bothering about,
any of it. He had stayed on when .Tim died,
and looked after the place for Judy. When
she had gone down to Sydney that time and
come back with her husband, Clem, and Liz
and Fred, lie had stayed on. Imprisonment,
that s what it was. He started to sweep the
kitchen-floor; a burst of strong laughter from
( lem across the corridor made him drop the
broom, trembling with terror.
That was it. He could talk to himself and
think as much as he liked while he was doing
his w r asl ing-up, but he was frightened, and
that was the plain truth. They’d got him.
That was the end of it. He couldn’t get
out. Ever.
The savage bullying laugh came again,
and he shuddered away from the strong
sound. Unaccountably, Jim came into his
drifting mind; Jim’s bright smile, his quiet,
kind voice. A good son, Jim had been. Dad
remembered the evenings when young Herb
used to come over—Jim’s mate —and they’d
talk carpentry and fretwork till all hours.
Happy, they were; and they never made Dad
feel out of it, youngsters as they were. Dad
could feel himself happy and quiet till the
end with them——
But wlrat was the good of thinking about
that ! Jim was dead and Herb was married—
lived down the line and had a family and a
place of his own. He’d been up once or
twice to see Dad, but you could see he didn't
care about Clem and Fred and Liz, and he
hadn't come again. He’d stayed a moment
at the gate and looked hard at Dad as he said
good-bye—he’d laughed and blushed and
ottered Dad a room if he ever thought he’d
like to pay board somewhere else.... But
Dad had shaken his head. He couldn’t; he
hadn’t the Well, he couldn’t. Herb
didn’t know he was imprisoned, of course;
and it wasn’t any good trying to tell him.
He wouldn’t understand. Nor would he
ever know what his offer had looked like to
Dad.
But he was tired now. It was a long day
for an old fellow, what with feeding three
pons of fowls, looking after an acre of vege-
table-garden and two hundred orange-trees,
and doing a bit of housework, too, whenever
he was told to, which was pretty often. Time
for bed. He shuffled out of the kitchen and
down the corridor, past the comfortable room
that Jim bad given him and that was now
Ireds, and out into the yard to the out-
house he shared with young Alfie. There
was still a bit of a drizzle falling; he was
shivering as he lit the candle. Young Alfie
was snoring on his stretcher—snivelling even
ui his sleep.... He set the alarm for five
o clock and got into bed.
He woke lightly as the alarm rang, slipped
out and had a wash at the tank. The drizzle
had ceased, but it looked like being a grey
day. Alfie s snore still whined softly in his
corner, and Dad spent a moment looking at
inin and listening to him. No; he wouldn’t
wake him he’d take a chance on that dis-
obedience. Judy’d kill him, but He
thought of Alfie dragging on his hand, want-
ing to go home every second step, snivelling
and crying, kicking his shins He took the
flat basket he used for mushrooms from its
nail in the wall, the basket he’d made for
himself, and crept out, closing the outhouse-
door softly behind him. Judy’d kill him,
lie supposed again, but
it was soft out here on the slopes of the
gentle uplands, soft and kind in the early
morning, as if the day had not yet got its
grip on you. He shuffled along through the
net grass, savoring his solitude. No mush-
rooms, though; it looked as if someone had
stripped all the near paddocks. Of course,
there’d been no sun yet. He shuffled on in
the_ sound of the birds’ voices. Singing in
their sleep, they seemed to be. Judy’d kill
him for being here alone in the gentle air.
But there were still no mushrooms. He
couldn’t go back empty-handed.
Taylor’s paddock—it was years since he’d
been there, but it used to be good. A longish
way, but he couldn’t leave Alfie behind and
bring no mushrooms. His shuffle became
quicker. It was a good step to Taylor’s;
lied be late for their breakfast.
Mushrooms.... There was a fog round the
word, though the birds and the early morn-
ing, the blessed solitude, were all trying
cleared suddenly. Emmy—
that was it! Dear Emmy... . He used to
go mushrooming for her in the early morn-
ings—used to creep out of bed inch by inch
so as not to wake her Lord, Lord, what
would she think to see him now? Perhaps
she could, and was wondering where her
fine upstanding young husband was—the
young fellow full of g 0 and belief in himself
who used to come into the room and wake
her and surprise her with a hatful of mush-
rooms for breakfast years and years
ago Laugh at her, he used to, and kiss
her, and cook the mushrooms for her in a bit
of butter.... Dad’s heart filled abruptly, and
lie closed his eyes, shuffling on under the trees.
The sun had got through the grey morning
now and it was better—dark and light in
patches, dappled....
Here was Taylor’s.
And mushrooms —you’d never believe the
mushrooms dotted about the grass. Some of
them four and five inches across. And all
sorts: buttons and flats and umbrellas—
you could have gathered a ton of them. Dad
had his flat basket covered with the best of
them in no time.
Now he must get back quick and lively.
A shaft of sunlight came through the trees
and caressed his old face as he stood upright.
Emmy—the thought of her and her nnish-
rooms came back on the bright ray.
Why should he go back?
The thought terrified him. There was Judy
looking for his hide, and Clem and Fred and
Liz and little Alfie... .of course he must go
back. Why, he’d got their breakfast....
A little wind shook the leaves and made
the sunshine play over his face. Emmy. Why
should he go back? He’d walk—walk on to
Herb’s place. It wasn’t above forty miles.
The train-fare was four-and-eight; there
wasn’t a hope of that, but he could walk.
The main road was just across the rise
there. Emmy, Emmy..... He scrambled
up the rise, carefully balancing the basket of
mushrooms, until he reached the highroad.
Swiftly, Emmy’s voice began to speak to
him out of the grave, calling old memories
to her aid so that he should be given no
time to think back or weaken. His shuffle
became a trudge as she recalled their wed-
ding-day, the day that Jim was born, the
day
(Continued on next page.)


r
“If you’re feeling
RUN-DOWN
—get rid of self-
poisoning
urges Dr. C. Oppenheimer,
celebrated Berlin Physician
Read how to Banish “THAT TIRED FEELING
Appetite gone. Vitality lacking. Subject to head-
aches, to frequent colds, to fits of “blues ... so
many people are like that . . . when they could so
easily be really well.
Self-poisoning Responsible.
Modern methods of eating, lack of exercise, cause
weakness and flabbiness of the abdominal organs.
Particles of decaying food waste are not completely
evacuated. This waste encrusts and accumulates in
the creases of the intestine, and harbors disease-
breeding germs, which enter the system and pollute
the blood. Result is dreaded self-poisoning, from
which nine out of ten suffer—caused by hidden and
unsuspected constipation. his self-poisoning spoils
the appetite—makes you feel weak and irritable. It
is the origin of constipation, indigestion, gas in the
stomach, catarrh, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, and hosts of other ailments.
Drink Coloseptic.
Practically everyone is more or less in the grip of
autoxima. But you can change all this by washing
away the germ-laden mass with COLOSEPTIC.
NERVOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
“Armidale, N.S.W.
“Have given Coloseptic a thorough trial, and l am so much
satisfied with it that I want you to send samples and literature
to all my friends. My Nervousness and Indigestion have
entirely left me and I feel years younger!’
A. B
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of the Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
It loosens and dissolves off the encrusted waste, and
then passes it gently out of the body. It rids the
system of all circulatory impurities through the other
outlets provided for that purpose —the kidneys the
pores of the skin—and respiratory apparatus.
New Life —New Energy for You.
COLOSEPTIC increases secretion of the gastric and
intestinal juices. ... It combats headaches, fatigue
and other symptoms of constipation. Taken regu-
larly, COLOSEPTIC stimulates your whole intestinal
tract. Complexion blemishes disappear. Better diges-
tion, more abundant energy are yours.
COLOSEPTIC—ReguIar full-size jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself. . . . Fill in the
coupon and send it in together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet
and a Special Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
COUPON.
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
Dept. C 4,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (stamps or
postal notes). Send me one SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION
JAR and "AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
Name
Address
A ear swooped round a corner and slowed
up. “Fine mushrooms,” a voice said.
“Eh?” Dad stood still, looking up out
of Emmy’s thoughts. “Eh?”
The big man at the wheel laughed. “Fine
mushrooms,” I said. “My word, they are
fine.... Fresh gathered?”
“Just now,” Dad muttered, jerking his
head back towards Taylor’s.
“Are they for sale?”
“No; for breakfast,” Dad began uncer-
tainly until the strength of this reached hifii.
“Yes.... they're for sale.”
The man felt in his pockets. “I don’t
know how much change I've—you must have
pounds of mushrooms there” —he counted
the coins—“here’s four shillings. How will
that do?”
“It’ll do fine,” Dad told him. “Four
shillings’ll take you a long way on a four-
and-eightpenny journey.”
“Hullo, here’s another bob. We’ll put that
in for the basket, eh?”....
Dad, holding Emmy’s hand in his, peered
after the car. It. wasn’t a minute to the
railway station
A sound, hard and insistent, cut into the
morning quiet like a steam-hammer. Fred’s
motor-bicycle, complete with sidecar, I red
and hanging cigarette, lurched round the
bend and pulled up per boot.
“Where the hell you been?” Fred demanded.
Even the live shillings in Dad’s pocket
seemed to vanish.
“Mushrooming, Fred,”' Dad quavered.
“There weren’t any near, and I got a bit
far”
"I should think you flaming well did. They
sent me after you to find you and fetch you
back. Lose a coupla hours over this, damn
yer,” Fred said. “Hop into the sidecar, will
yer, quick and lively! I got to get to work.
All gone in despair again, Dad shuffled
round to the sidecar. Yet here the trembling
sunshine touched him again. Emmy....
At the flap he turned and looked at Fred.
“You be damned,” he said, an old man’s
undying anger lying cold and still in his
implacable eyes. “I’m not coming back. I'm
off. I’m going to live—with friends, ’ he
said, his voice strong and resonant on the
word.
He nodded to the astounded Fred, turned
his back on him, and walked firmly into
the railway station..
Fishing at Night.
BY RODERIC QUINN.
sun sets, lighting up with his last
I rays the tops of the tall hills that wall
the narrow waterway where our camp
lies.. From a spotted gum, foamed over with
bloofns, at the head of the cove comes the
unlovely clamor of gill-birds. Kookaburras
in chorus call from ridge and ridge. Then
the light dies out and silence comes. All
things become soundless except the tide,
stealthily making. Even that seems hushed,
as though it is shy of, making too much noise
in the general stillness.
In the growing gloom, our boat, afloat now
on the incoming waters, loses shape and
definiteness. Rocks and logs and trees also
take on a vagueness, an indistinctness. In
the middle of the cove we see a mirrored
star. When a mullet leaps, sending c rc r.
ripples across the face of the cove the star
is multiplied into many stars. Presently
one of the party knocks the ashes from his
pipe, rises and goes down to the wateiside.
From there, having noticed the progress
made by the tide, he calls to us to
bring the bait-bag and join him. Our lines
are already in the boat.
Making as little noise as we can, for'it is
the way with .practised fishermen to be as
silent as possible in the pursuit of then
sport, we take our places m the boat, it is
well known to all who go down to the sea
to fish that the black bream is the shyest ol
all shy fish, and as it is black bream that we
are trying for, it is necessary that we should
go warily—stepping softly like Agag; speak-
ing in whispers, like men engaged on some
perilous adventure and aware ol listening
ears. Even when the mosquitoes come down
from the mangroves and attack us we are
compelled to swear gently. To swear thus
is little better than not swearing at all. ilalt
the satisfaction to be got from a curse lies
in voicing it robustly. No man ever yet did
justice to his feelings in a whispered male-
diction.
An hour before sundown we took the pre-
caution of “berleying” the ground over which
our boat lies moored. The “berley i consists
of oysters taken from the rocks and pounded
up shell and all, in one mass. It is our
hope that, lured by this delicacy, the nsh
will gather to their doom. Eager to assist
them to that doom we drop our lines over-
board. As my baited hook disappears in
the water, carrying a little cloud of white
fire down with it, I think of the words ot
a friend of mine who rvas once an ardent
fisherman, too, but now fishes no more.
“I think it mean,” said he, “to offer food
to a fish and then stick a hook in him.”
Our lines sink to the bottom, but do not
rest there. The tide takes hold of them and
crawls off with them, their contact with
the weeds through which they are being-
dragged making them tremulous, and giving
us the impression that a crab is walking
off with the bait.
On the shore side of the boat a shoal of
mullet, pursued by a bonito or a kingfish, or
it may be a shark, makes a sudden tumult
on the surface of the quiet cove.
When all is still again I find that my hook
is fast to something. By its pulsations, its
tremors, its efforts of resistance, I know it
is something that lives ; but, because it does
not fight as a bream does, I know it is no
bream. As I draw the line in the man sit-
ting next to me becomes interested in my
doings. His hand on the thwarts of the
boat, he leans over and searches the water
with his eyes, to discover what may be the
shape and size of my capture.
Presently it comes into view—a grotesque,
wriggling thing that sets the water on fire
as I drag it to the surface.
“It’s an eel,” he says disgustedly; and
then, as I lift its head out of the water, he
yells, “Don’t bring the damn thing into the
boat. It’ll tangle the whole show up.”
I have no intention of bringing it into
the boat, and I tell him so. Experience has
taught me to keep wide of eels even in the
daytime. At night they would puzzle any
man, even the most expert in such matters,
to deal with them without mishap, fccizmg
a stretcher I batter the eel’s head to a jelly.
The noise makes an echo in the hills.
From the stern, where the third man of
the party is sitting, comes a deep, disgruntled
voice.
“Nice fishing this,” he says, “isn’t it? Why
don’t you make some more noise. Eaock
a bit louder so as to make sure the fish li
hear you, arid get from under —eh?’
From the shores of the cove, where the
tide is now nearly at its high-water mark,
conies a sound as of things sucking and
drinking and gurgling. We know that this
is only the water finding its way through
channels in the rocks and washing about the
roots of the mangroves ; but all the same these
sounds give the night a weirdness, an eeri-
ness, which makes us glad that we are three
men together.
Up on the hills a night bird utters a sharp,
harsh cry, and somewhere on the dark slopes
a dry branch snaps and falls to the ground.
From these things I know that over there on
the hillsides, among the rocks and trees,
things are moving. I know that soft-winged
owls and soft-footed cats are prowling about
in search of bird and squirrel, ’possum and
bandicoot. I shudder at the red work going
on there, going on there always —night and
day. In her wild state Nature is a bar-
barian uncontrolled by man. She is a wild
wanton, who slays and slaughters when and
where it pleases her. It is good for the
world that civilisation has gentled man.
Just as I finish thinking in this wise one
of the party draws a fighting bream to the
surface, and with the aid of a landing net
brings it into the boat. In the light of the
lantern the beautiful, shapely thing, thrill-
ing with life and shining like silver, tumbles
to and fro, gasping for breath the while, and
thrashing the boards with its tail. Ihe
man takes hold of it and, thrusting his thumb
and forefinger in its gills, crushes out its life
for ever. As I watch him, I go back to my
thinking again, and meditate on the beauti-
ful manner in which civilisation has gentled
man.
Presently the black bream come swarming
round about us, running off with the bait
before it has fairly reached the bottom, and
biting with the speed and voracity ot a
shoal of mackerel.
After a good zestful hour they leave us.
going as they came, suddenly and without
warning. Lifting our kelliek, and unfast-
ening our shore-mooring, v we row homewmi'd.
Though nothing compels us to be silent now,
we move along without talking, or, if we talk
at all, we talk in low, hushed voices. hat
is it that, when all around us is still, makes
us still also, as though in sympathy with
our surroundings? Perhaps, after all, wuh
all our willing and our doing, we are jusi
pliant, plastic things in the hands of Nature,
behaving as she wishes, and taking on her
moods as the trees and the hills do. As
we row between the hushed hills on the quiet
waters it may be that Nature, with her hngci
to her lips, is bidding us be still and respect
her sleeptime.
Back in camp we stir the fire to red acti-
vity, boil a billy, drink tea, and, wrapping
our rugs around us, go to .sleep too, like
the hills and the trees and the softly swaj-
ing tide.
In the Castle.
Across her lids one long dark plait of hair
Shielded her eyes from that white peering
moon
That stared in through the casement, making
pools
Of brightness in the midnight of the floor.
Her little maid had set a bowl of flowers
Close to her bed, ahd in her dreams she
smelled
The musk of cloves and pale bee-haunted
stock ;
Until upon her lips she felt love’s touch.
And in thq maiden fairness of her arm
Hot kisses burned, and over her small hand
His knightly fingers closed in fierce caress.
So straight she lay one might have deemed
her dead,
Save that the cool fine linens on her breasts
Stirred with her breath, and once in sleep
she smiled.
Her golden slippers in the moonlight lay
Like fairy craft lapped in a silver sea,
And on the high carved chair a dainty heap
Of lawn and ribbon drifted lavender.
From the oak crucifix above her head
A Christ in ivory looked wanly down;
A moonray in a trembling 'whimsy made
His pierced hands move as though they
longed to bless.
Yet, in a secret bower, with gay silks hung.
Of that great castle, he of whom she dreamed
Lay drugged with feasting and with passion s
lees
Against the broken laces of a breast
Sated with kissings; and a scarlet mouth,
Loose with the treacheries of her easy loves,
And thin with greed, was pressed against
his own
In calculation. From the tapestry
A wind blew dust and orris root. A mouse
Nibbled the broken seed-pearls on his glove,
Flung with his sword upon the trampled
floor.
A prie-dieu overturned, its tasselled gold
Tarnished with wine; a goblet that had
rolled
Against a hassock glimmered in the dusk
Of curtains drawn against the peer ng moon.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


A SEDENTARY LIFE
RESULTS IN
CONSTIPATION
I
I
£
f
*
s*
! r,/' , "‘* ' $
* / '-.V. .: r* ,??■
jtffcßi . „ ML.., . ™- a , . ■,
,w‘\\ > \\*\i*' t s f , rii i-. ;*,£V ' ,' '”' t x . }»*“ ’ ,r-f *
; •?:;'' -i ''■■tfM&W* tWm S&
ffiiM
s• j ilHl
,■ ■ i. .• ■• ■>
Dr.MORSES
I
-
4 «er
Are you one of the thousands of men and
women who either through their class of
occupation or some physical disability are
compelled to lead a more or less seden-
tary life ?
If so, you will no doubt find such a
method of living prevents sufficient exer-
cise being obtained and a constipated con-
dition naturally exists. In cases of that
type something is needed to assist nature.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are excellent for this
purpose. You will find them used and praised far
and wide. They stir the Liver, cleanse the Stomach,
and stimulate the Bowls, thus opening and toning the
clogged-up system and making it better able to com-
bat Life’s Little Daily Ills.
A\AD E IN AUSTRALIA
Worms
A Common Complaint with
Children, How to Treat It.
Worms, by their movements and the, inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness to the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and yet very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the Nose,
which is characteristic of the affection. The
Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable; in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The Abdomen is often hard, swollen,
and tympanetic, the breath heavy or fcetid,
and tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and dis-
position to grind the teeth during the sleep
are Pther characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
Alimentary Canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms or
of the disordered digestion which they occa-
sion. Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposition to
excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden start-
ing out of sleep as if from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movement of the eyelids, temporary
blindness and deafness.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones have
worms, are suffering intense pain and dis-
tress, and are practically irresponsible for
the outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear, nothing is done to alle-
viate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother
need have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion, a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms:
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in the way of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms, but cause no injury to
the Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they would
an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from ttye W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang-street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price
4/- per packet (6 packets 23/-), post free.
If writing, please mention this paper.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA
e
GENERAL:— Postage
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT
By A. B. Paterson, illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay.
2nd edition. 2s. 6d. (2d.)
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD
By Ambrose Pratt.
Illustrated. 5s. (2d.)
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY
By Charles Chauvel.
Illustrated. 6s. (3d.)
A' MESSAGE FROM “BAWRA”
By Harold Sims. 32pp. Is. (Id.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE
By Ena Burrows. Revised
Scoring. 2s. (Id.)
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin.? Offices.
V
»v<®;
„■+ «* +.,.'
< v °
0 T
o
a*
0°
e
r t
0*
v. V’
A\
w e
k 0 »S>*. *
'* 'S’ V vV °<


WHY
mm
r*
ONE
&
Sifflil
-.■s'x'.x-x':'
<5 mm
a
m
mm*
; • fi
ALL
THIS
TALK
TWO ill
■ ■
,
Mm
s
*
!
three
1
POUR
m
ABOUT
FRESHNESS
ms
m
I
V.
I
;j:sx
i
THREE THREES
have always been and will always be
"QUADRUPLE - WRAPPED
for Perpetual Freshness
STQTE fXPRpSS
9for 6;
IBLI 7 - 77 Ue
Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds,
and Round Airtight Fifties.
333
è
