

A MEAT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
THE
BROKER HILL PROPRIETARY
e
•MINE OWNERS* SHIP OWNERS.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS •
£ COLLIERY PROPRIETORS •
81
p,
. a. 4
ll pi
«isjkwm
1 ;f: I
flu' wsrm
n *
mtm
wm%
** I-v
:
. wff"' r*=* *■s» mma» >
**ppSi s »-^
rsr<« ,sp«L*.
%wfw^aerrv 5 ;y«iwfiL£3EEJ|
WMUW :
“f..
Blast Furnace Plans of
NEWCASTLE. * STEEL-WORKS
11
' A
,- \ m
Hwslc \
.
|f§| > r Ip pf§§ill
I*l ft
MhBI
BH
I t
I*
BROKEN HILL
Silver-Lead Mine
NEWCASTLE
IRON KNOB
, Iron Ore
Coal Mines
Steel Works
sa u
Sydney jSiIIHSS!
Perth
Adelaide
Melbourne
DEVONPORT
Limestone
LIST OF MANUFACTURES:
Tee Rails, Bridge Rails, Fishplates, Bridge and Sleeper Plates, Plates, Beams,
Channels, Clutch Bars, Angles, Tees, Locking Bars, Joint, .Ring Bars, Squares,
Rounds, Flats, Octagons, Alloy Steels, Pig Iron, Ingots, Blooms, Billets, Slabs,
Reinforcing Bars, Wire Rods, Benzol, Tar, Toluol, Crushed Slag, Solvent Naphtha, Naphthalene, Sulphate of Ammonia, Foundry
Coke, Coal, Bunker Coal, Household Coal, B.H.P. Blowfly Oil.
WIRE PRODUCTS manufactured from B.H.P. Steel by Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
“WARATAH” BRAND Steel Wire (all classes for all purposes), Black and Galvanised Fencing Wires, Wire Netting
(Rabbit and Assorted), Hinged Joint Fence, Motor By-passes, Barbed Wires (“Iowa” or “Waukegan” patterns), Nails, Steel
Fencing Posts (Star pattern 8.H.P.), Clothes and Guy Lines, Keyhole Wool Baling Ties.
For all classes of Wire Products, specify “ WARATAH” BRAND, and be sure of the best!
THE BROKEN HIEL PROPRIETARY COMPANY, LTD.
Offices: Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tasmania), Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin
u 9 QaaxAjl / i/yy\A\At&A&jAshA $.B
Vol. 54.—N0, 2760.
Wednesday, January 4, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'J'HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street. Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 332
For Real . . .
Cy
\ use
tuticura
Soap and Ointment
IVNIDId
Bathe your face before retiring
with Cuticura Soap and
warm water to remove the dust
and grime from the pores. When
the skin is irritated, as with
clogged pores and blackheads,
gently smear with Cuticura
Ointment before bathing.
Consistent use will assure a
clear, healthy skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,’’ and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
THE PATRIOT
ibj^CTM|EfflM w^,V^^Nri
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firm, Hornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER' 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher—Bsoo7,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. ; weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE -----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
-ec
V
f
That the Soundest State
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane . “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TE LEG PA PH
BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEYMPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Functions of the Biographer
Shelley wrote somewhere that the poet’s
business is to clear the obscuring mists
from familiar things. We know many
objects so well that we can’t see them in
their right perspective. Particularly human
beings. Johnson was a “mountebank” to
Walpole, yet Walpole saw a lot of him and
was as shrewd a judge of character as the
next man. Similar generalisations were
uttered about Pope, " Byron, Burns and
others. It only means that the great ones
were unsympathetic to’’their critics, and
that the critics looked for the bad rather
than the good in them. No doubt Johnson
was a mountebank, and no doubt Byron was
a vain cad in some moods, or in the com-
pany of some people. Quite a plausible
life of Nelson might be written on the
assumption that he was a cynical lecher
and a conscious hypocrite in religious
matters. Biographers are always doing this
kind of thing, debunking the illustrious,
clearing the mists from some aspect of the
mighty facade that no one has noticed
before; and the practice does a good deal to
maintain public interest in biographies.
Many celebrities appear different persons in
all kinds of important respects in each
fresh estimate. Boswell is a leading case
in point.
Boswell as a Villain
Professor Chauncey B. Tinker’s Young
Boswell was the last book on the subject
to be noticed on this Page. He liked
Boswell.
A man who with all his weaknesses was
cheerful and gay, always eager for the
punch-bowl to be brought out and the talk
to begin; a man who lo ved drollery more
than most, and knew that the solemnest
moments in life took on point and lustre by
being set over against the actualities of
daily existence; a man, too, who even in his
folly was more natural than most human
beings will care to admit.
C. E. Vulliamy in his James Boswell
(Bles; 10s. 6d-) takes a different view. With
wearisome iteration he reverts to Boswell’s
love of drink and his “surprisingly frank”
references to the subject. But the second
half of the eighteenth century was the age
of the three-bottle men; an age when Pitt
could go behind the Speaker’s chair to be
sick and return to continue his speech
without, shocking anyone who mattered.
Boswell was a drunkard, but he fought
against it—and fairly successfully on the
whole—to the end of his life. Macaulay’s
libellous essay is quoted from freely by
Mr. Vulliamy and there is a show of counter-
ing some of the more outrageous aspersions.
Boswell’s mind was not that of “a boy of
15”; 18 would be nearer the mark. But in
certain respects, he thinks, Macaulay doesn’t
go far enough. He only had the “Life” and
the “Tours” to go on. If he had had access
to the mass of documents now available
he would “have seen full evidence of the
diseased mind, the moral depravity, the folly
and drunkenness, the puffing and ruffling of
insane vanity. He would not have seen any
trace of literary skill.” This biographer
advances an original proposition: that his
subject was a lunatic. One of the very
qualities that caused Boswell to be liked
by some of the greatest men and women of
his time is cited as proof of the existence
of “definite mental disease”—a form of
erethism.
A touching story or a noble sentiment will
bring the tears to his eyes. Let him but
hear the skirling of pipes and he is ready
to grasp a claymore and rush to battle.
There are times when his adoration of
Johnson reaches the level of ecstasy; he
went to the length of imitating him habitu-
ally, of copyin'g his loose clothes and fidgety
manners.
It is not denied that Boswell was popular
in the early part of his career; Burke,
Malone, Fanny Burney, Hannah More,
David Hume all testified to his “good
nature” and “good humor.” But as time
went on, says Mr. Vulliamy, he was found
out, and dropped. He spent a lonely,
friendless old age, haunted by the realisa-
tion that he was a failure. The truth is
his old age was inevitably friendless in one
sense (he had always made friends of men
like Paoli, Lord Hailes and Sir Alexander
Dick, who were much older than he was—
in many cases twice as old), and there is
plenty of evidence that he knew he had
immortalised himself. “Whatever merit I
may be allowed,” he wrote a few years
before his death, “the world will at least
owe to my assiduity the possession of a
rich intellectual
treasure,” He had
the failings of his
lax but he was
an affectionate
husband and father
and an enlight-
ened and humane landlord, and he was
the greatest journalist England has known
—greater than Defoe himself. His sense
of character and gift of selectivity were
phenomenal; when he had done with his
subject there was no more to be said about
it. The proof is that whoever wants to
learn about Johnson must go to him to
this day, and that he has drawn a man
whom many know better than they know
their own friends.
A Mid-Victorian Prophet
Emery Neff, author of Carlyle (Allen
and Unwin, 10s. 6d.), is an admirer of the
Sage and an authority on the period. He
is extremely reticent in some particulars.
The Carlyles’ domestic differences, which
have given other commentators scope for
ribald speculation, are hardly touched on.
There are a couple of references to Jane’s
of Lady Ashburton, but on the
whole she appears as an almost perfect wife.
Some interesting. lights are thrown on the
forward-seeing quality of Carlyle’s mind.
When he began his career the United King-
dom was facing a depression and serious
social disorders. Nearly all his remedies
were anathema to most of the people he
was meeting, and on whom he was depend-
ing for a livelihood. He saw the weaknesses
of representative government when it was
regarded as above criticism. He prophesied
that for this imposture the world would
repeatedly stage revolutions; “there will
be revolutions and misgovernment in
cycles and in eternal cycles as far as I can
see.” Education was the universal panacea,
but he saw the weaknesses of a system that
turns out increasing armies of black-coated
workers. The endowment of manual train-
ing for the restoration of good craftsman-
ship was his ideal. It explains why his
warmest admirers were men of half his age
like Froude and Ruskin. Among the many
features of this biography, which is a social
and political history of mid-Victorianism as
well as an appraisal of Carlyle and his
works, are its glittering little sketches of
contemporary celebrities. Leigh Hunt, in
his study, on the floor above a living-room,
littered, dirty and full of wild children—
“a gentleman in the midst of the poverty
to which improvidence and the collapse of
the literary market had drawn him down”;
Hazlitt, who wrote to Jeffrey, “Dear sir, I
am dying. Can you send me £lOO and
consummate your many kindnesses to me?”
and died as the money was on its way;
Dickens, Thackeray, Browning, Stuart Mill,
Disraeli, Schiller, Scott—revealing glimpses
are given of them all. But the book is
valuable chiefly for the light it casts on
present-day problems.
Moral responsibility, lately out of fashion,
begins to be perceived as the indispensable
cement of a fast disintegrating society. The
great public is listening to writers who say
incompletely and imperfectly what Carlyle
said with unparallelled brilliance and cog-
ency.
He scorned the feeble government which is
provided by politicians whose principal
talent is a capacity to bamboozle mobs. Mr.
Neff considers it highly significant that
“editions of translated excerpts from Car-
lyle’s writings accompanied the rise of
Fascism to power in Italy,” and that “Ger-
many, under the frightful strain of war
ruin, reparation payments, and economic
and political instability, is imbibing courage
from selections from Carlyle that have
sold to the extent of 300,000 copies since
1926.”
Red Page.
The Murder of Australian Letters
[The writer is a sub-editor of the
“Woman’s Mirror.’’]
When the A. W. Jose of An. 2032 pre-
pares his “Australian Encyclopaedia” he will
write something like this of the Australian
literary period 1895-1935:
It was a time of great output, but the offspring
was choked through being given too many super-
latives in its literary milk.
Crude and false “patriotism” is doing
serious damage to Australian art and
letters. To see “By an Australian” written
of a book, play, volume of verse, example
of art or craft, even of a painting, is to
know that if good the work will be lauded
fulsomely, and that even if thoroughly bad
it will be praised.
The gossip writers of the daily stunt press
are accepted by our cults as literary arbiters.
The cults form societies within themselves,
(Hcd Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Without Deviation at Anthony Horderns .
‘THE SENIOR STORE."
Anthony Horderns
ARGAINS in SHEETS
11/9 “H ordura” Sheets
“Hordura” (Regd.) Sheets. Plain
or Twill.
Prices, pr.—
54 x9O 63 x9O 72 x 100 80 x 100 90 x 10S
11/9 14/3 17/11 19/9 24/6
Sale Prices, pr.—
10/6 12/11 16/6 18/6 22/6
106
7/9 Single Bed Sheets
5600 Pairs Single-bed Sheets greatly
reduced.
Plain weave, 54 x 90in.
Prices, pr. .. 7/9 10/11 14/3
Sale Prices, pr. 5/11 9/11 11/6
Twill weaves.
Prices, pair—
-10/3 11/9 13/- 14/3 15/3
Sale Prices, pr.—
6/9 8/6 9/11 H/6 12/11
é
11/3 Double Bed Sheets
6700 Pairs Double-bed Sheets at
Bargain Prices.
Plain. Twill. Twill.
80 x 1(70 80 x 10 0 8 0 x 100
Prices, pair .. 11/3 15/9 21/3
Sale Prices, pr. 9/9 11/3 16/11
ë
1/9 Pillow Cases at
“Hordura” Pillow Cases. Buy now.
Taped, 30x 30. Price .... 1/9
Sale Price, each .......... 1/7
Housewife, 20 x 30. Price . . 2/-
Sale Price, each 1/10
/
25/6 Marcella Quilts
Double-bed Marcella Quilts,
qualities, greatly reduced.
Prices—
-25/6 29/6 35/-
Sale Prices—
-19/11 23/11 29/6
Four
45/6
42/6
/
£6/6A Satin Quilts at
High-grade Satin Down Quilts in a
particularly smart model. Floral Satin
centre. Plain Satin Border with 2-tone
goffered panel filled with super-quality
Down. Buy your winter quilt now.
Use our D.P.S. if it is not convenient
to pay cash. Colorings, Rose, Blue,
Gold. Double-bed size.
Price, £6/6/-. Sale Price, £5/10/-
/
15/6 All-Wool Blankets
All-Wool Tasmanian “Waverley”
Blankets. Silver or Dark Grey. Superior
quality. These Blankets are guaranteed
for 10 years against any fault due to
imperfect manufacture.
54 x 72 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Prices, pair—
-15/6 16/6 21/- 25/11 31/6
Sale Prices—
-14/6 15/6 19/6 23/11 29/6
/
29/6 “Hordura” Blankets
Our standard “Hordura” All-wool
White Blankets. Buy quality
Blankets.
Sizes— 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Prices, pr.
29/6 35/11 45/11 56/6
Sale Prices, pr.—
26/11 32/11 42/- 51/6
m
lOid. White Flannelette
2000 yards of White Flannelette,
soft and absorbent, for nursery pur-
poses. Outstanding values, 27in.
Price, per yard IOJd.
Sale Price, per yard 6d.
ē
(Manchester Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in NJS.W.)
extend the Purchasing Power of
the People’s Earnings during a
HALF-YEARLY
Big Bargain Event commences Jan. 5.
Behold these Manchester Specials!!
ft’s such values as these that earn for Anthony Horderns’ an
A unchallengeable reputation for QUALITY Merchandise at
LOWER PRICES. . . .from originally LOW PRICES, as this con-
tinent knows. Over the breadth of Australia Anthony Horderns’
are respected and believed. They never deviate from the tmfh.
4/3 White Damask
Cloths selling at
Sale Price of . . ..
36
White Damask Cloths of superior heavyweight quality, in Desert
and Seascape designs. Rose, Blue, Gold and Helio borders.
Sizes 36 x 36 45 x 45 52 x 52 52 x 63
Prices 4/3 6/11 8/11 10/11
Sale Prices 3/6 5/11 7/11 9/6
Sizes . . ; 52 x7O 56 xBO 56 x9O
Prices 12/3 14/11 16/11
Sale Prices 10/6 12/11 14/11
1 /" White Towels
9d.
He re is real sale value. Heavyweight
absorbent White Turkish Towels. Four
qualities. Outstanding value.
Sizes — 18 x 34 20 x 40 22 x 44 26 x 52
Prices, ea. .. 1/- l/4£ 1/11 2/11
Sale Prices, ea. 9d. 1/- 1/6 2/6
2/1 1 Colored Towels
2/6
1200 Turkish Towels to Clear. Three
qualities, at special sale reductions. Don’t
miss this opportunity.
Sizes 21x 32 22 x 35 24 x 36
Prices - ea 2/11 4/11 7/6
Sale Prices, ea. 2/6 3/11 5/11
Motorists !
See these Calico Car Covers.
Superior Calico Car Covers, protection from dust and rain. A special purchase
enables us to offer the following generous reductions.
Sizes 12x15 12x18 15x18 15x20 15x24 18x20
Prices, ea 26/6 31/- 38/- 43/- 51/- 51/-
Sale Prices, ea. . . 22/6 26/6 33/- 36/- 43/6 43/6
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
‘Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.CX


S Ta
niouA
ydicLa/i± Say
Jar “tnSj.
nfi
: limit
rrtHt;
t*
UKKH GOOD for YOU!
The medical profession has never hesitated to endorse the
health-giving properties of good pure beer. For many years
leading Physicians have recommended beer, in whatever
form their patients most enjoy, as a tonic, a health food and
as a refreshing beverage which will restore energy lost
through work and worry.
Here are the words of Lord Dawson of Penn, Physician to the King
—words which have a special significance for most of us tn these
times of stress: w
"A glass of beer at the end of the day will lighten the mental
horizon, brighten the outlook, enable a man to drop those grey-
colored spectacles with which he views the world after the
hardships of the day, and give him content, ease of mind and
happiness”
Lord Dawson’s verdict is endorsed by another of the World’s most
famous medical men, Sir James Crichton-Browne , M.DLL.D .,
F.R.S. He says:
Beer acts as a means of relaxation. It quickens the emotional
responses of individuals, and therefore helps them to bear the
troubles and anxieties which beset them in these strenuous
modern times.”
Dr. Josiah Oldfield, M.D., quite frankly states that good beer has
played an important part in the development of the British race.
He writes:
"7 attribute very much of the stamina which the British race
possesses to the phosphates and salines contained in beer.”
Sir William Arbuthnot Lane, C. 8., M. 8., Lond., 8.5., F.R.C.S.,
world-famous physician and surgeon, makes a statement which
definitely and finally ends all argument:
"/ do not hesitate to assert that 1 have saved more lives and
rendered others healthier and happier by the reasonable use
of alcohol than by the administration of any drug”
In a recent contribution to the News-Chronicle (London) " A
Family Doctor ” states:
"The best and safest taste to cultivate is a taste for beer; the
percentage of alcohol is low, and its volume self-eliminating”
DRINK
ĕ
ė
REGULARLY
Its good for you f
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS RESCH’S
B-3--75


HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
You may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to ‘‘The Bulletin,” Sydney.
m i
sag
■
~hi ‘**4v -miw w fri SHySaßk Hnnnni ;
n
i
1 IS
f
I
Bj
»
«
11
f
II
m
Sr
w*
CT^CaJJbJ^n 5
iH
in
St
(CJhisfc
m
Scots
you"®’*
Distributors for the House of McCailum;
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. .. .. ..
Sydney,
Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son .. .. Fremantle
Macfarlane Bros. & Co Hobart
and give prizes and awards with themselves
as judges.
Cults fall easily into groups which are
to be found in all the States: the Bun-
thomes, arty, soulful and precious; the
stark Nietzscheans and the Persnurkuses,
dull, dogged and usually degreed. They are
sincere enough. A Bunthorne really believes
every other Bunthorne is a god-inspired
genius; and so with the Nietzscheans
and the others. When a Bunthorne
gets anything published all the other Bun-
thornes rush to boost him—in the daily
press in letters to editors and articles, at
back-scratching dinners, in papers read be-
fore societies, and over the air. The same
with the Persnurkuses and Nietzscheans.
Unhappily, those who don’t belong to a
cult, seeing a very ordinary f.a.q. piece of
work given Parnassian honors, tend to be-
come suspicious of and prejudiced against
anything Australian. Publishers, editors
and producers are among them—and that’s
bad for Australian letters.
Proof comes in recent letters I have re-
ceived
“We are not prepared to risk production of any
Australian work in the present condition of things.”
—A theatrical entrepreneur.
“Good human story, but publishers are very diffi-
cult to interest in Australian writers.”
—A London literary agency.
“Australian editors’ are kind to Australian writers,
but unforturiately booksellers say there is a pre-
judice on the part of the reading public against
Australian writers.”— A Melbourne publishing firm.
The camp-followers of Cultism are a
worse problem. The ‘cultists may some
day be as good as their claques say they
dre; the others never will. Yet by them
much of Australian, culture and letters will
be judged.
These camp-followers, failing to get
editor, producer or publisher to grant them
that measure of approval which backs con-
fidence with cash, try other means. They
publish or present at their own expense, or
they give their services, their ideas or their
completed opuses free to some charity,
repertory society, or sectional paper, and
they cultivate mutual-admiration bodies
like the Guild of the All-Gifted or the
Society of Frustrated Elect.
There have come to my desk within the
last few weeks six Australian books which
should have been banned by a censor,
not for their moral tone, but for their
badness as literature and the harm they
do to Australian authorship and letters.
Five were privately published. I have sat
out half a hundred Australian plays (some
on the screen) of which not half a score
should ever have been allowed presenta-
tion, so rotten in craftsmanship were they.
They all had social blessing, and all received
lavish newspaper praise. In fairness to
Australian letters the bad should have been
damned utterly. What Australian letters
requires is a board of censors composed of
soured and savage sub-editors primed for
duty on raw meat and vinegar cocktails.
A magazine has just been compiled for
charitable sale from free contributions; and
any tradesman knows that the value of a
free gift is just the sum he receives for it—
nothing. That magazine will be praised to
the skies—and not only by the Bunthornes,
its sponsors.
Now it is commendable that those who
write, play, sing, versify and produce for
charity and without pay should be praised.
But they should be praised for their good
heart only, not for their bad art. Their
art should be considered only as art.
In the plays I saw the considerers—the
judges, appointed and there on paid ticket—
bothered little about art; they were Bun-
thornes judging Bunthornes, Persnurkuses
judging Persnurkuses. So with books, arts
and crafts. But the awards went forth as
judgments, not Bunthornisms—and those
jealous of Australian letters writhed.
The question is not one of opinion. There
may be opinion concerning style, plot,
treatment, canons, ethics and taste, but not
about facts. The books and plays I recall
were full of fallacies about facts; several
were dependent on fallacy for their whole
theme. A junior sub. would have spotted
the error and scarified the error-maker for
his own good.
One book had Australians talking like
Tennessee hill-billies, another like Bulwer
Lytton or Disraeli heroes. Periods were
mixed. Fantasy and raw life were blended.
Alleged fiction was simple political, social
or war-time treatise. Some were cast in
Australian scenes that do not, cannot,
exist. Character-limning was of anyone but
Australians; the most stable national type
on earth. People dressed in the clothes of
1932 spoke the thoughts of 1902 or even
1892, and vice versa. Chicago and Bowery
convention was overlaid on Darlinghurst
and Collingwood. Australian politicians
were presented as statesmen. And so on.
In short, they were, in a literary and
artistic sense, thoroughly bad books and
plays, but the Bunthornes and the Per-
snurkuses praised them and the critics did
not protest. We shall never create an Aus-
tralian literature that way.
OBFUSCUS.
A Satchel of Books
The Case Against Einstein, by Dr. Arthur
Lynch (Philip Allan; 10s. fid.), marshals
logically and with great fairness tlie argu-
ments, philosophical, physical and mathemati-
cal, against the theory of l’elativity. The
Australian doctor-soldier-psychologist-mathe-
matician-engmeer-poet enters the fray with
a many-knobbed shillelagh, and the lusty
Y*? or . w^i he wallops the Einstein-
“ystenes and paradoxes will arouse
cneers, not the less hearty because they must
be sotto voce, in a hundred universities. One
observation among a hundred that probe
close to the roots of the matter is likely to
stick in the memory of readers: “A sight-
less Einstein would declare with the same
conviction and the same degree of truth that
there is no velocity in nature exceeding that
of sound.” The reference is, of course, to
the postulate of the relativists that the
velocity of light is not only constant and
unaffected by the velocity of its source, but
is the maximum possible velocity of any-
thing. An interesting aside in a volume that
otherwise sticks very closely to its brief is
the most lucid description of the nature of
differentials and integrals this critic has
ever seen in print.
The Graft of ,Finding God, by C. Irving
Benson; Refining Fires, by Lionel B.
Fletcher, and Why I Believe in Christ, by
Rev. J. W. Burton, M.A., are explained by
their titles. These beautifully-turned-out
little works are published at Is. each by the
Sydney Book Depot.
The results of the annual short-story com-
petition promoted by Art in New Zealand
(Harry H. Tombs, Wellington; 3s. 6d.) are
published in the December issue. Also the
first-prize winner. “Manhandled” is its name ;
it may be a little over-sentimental, but it’s
a fine yarn all the same. There are some
attractive color plates and an interesting
article on modern art by Paul Edmonds.
Everyman’s Talmud, by A. .Cohen (Dent;
7s. 6d.), represents the first attempt that
has been made to provide a complete survey
in English of the teachings of the great
Jewish classic. The doctrines of God and
man, and man’s domestic, social, physical
and moral life are discussed in separate
chapters; a 50-page chapter deals with juris-
prudence, and there are nearly 40 pages on
folk-lore. Ezra, founder of the Great
Assembly, taught that the daily lives of good
Jews must be regulated in every detail by
the Divine Will, so the teachings of the
Talmudic Rabbis form a complete guide to
life. They even include the treatment of
minor ailments:—
For bleeding from the nose take a Kohen [i.e.,
descendant in the male line from Aaron the High
Priest], whose name is Levi and write his name
backward.
This book is interesting to Christians for
the light it throws on Jewish culture, the
workings of the Jewish mind down the ages,
and it is indispensable to practising Jews
who only know English.
■James Stansfeld, a Victorian Champion
of Sex Equality, by J. L. and Barbara Ham-
mond (Longman’s; 155.). This biography
of an eminent Gladstonian has an Australian
interest. Sir James married in his closing
years a lady who is described as “Frances,
widow of Henry Severn, of Sydney.” She
was the mother of the late Montgomerie
Severn, who married a daughter of Alfred
Stephen, one of N.S.W.’s greatest Chief
Justices. Sir James Stansfeld spoke in
favor of women’s franchise as far back as
1869, and he was one of the first to take
up the question of admitting women to the
practice of medicine. Opinions differ as
to Avhich of the many social reforms
Avhich he helped to implement did most for
the happiness and well-being of his country.
His biographers obviously think that Eng-
land has most cause to be grateful to him
for liis work in keeping the kingdom rela-
tively free of the white-slave traffic.
And a Little Verse
ENDING.
When the desire
That lights our hearts
In the old fire
Of love departs;
And Avonder is over
Because Ave can see
No more ip each other
Serenity;
And the soft touch
Of body can bless
No longer Avitli such
Deliriousness—
How bid farewell
To wonderment,
Where joy can dwell
Along with content?
Shall I be dumb
When you are not mine,
After we come
To the end of the wine?
Or mimic laughter?
We will be sad,
All the years after,
That we seemed glad.
Is it with weeping?
Often we’ve thought
Love’s not worth keeping
When it is sought.
Shall I just say,
Without smile or sigh,
To you, going away
From my heart, “Good-bye”
QUEENSLAND.
PETER MACGREGOR.
THE UNFALLEN.
To you who have escaped the ultimate pain
We offer salutation, and a proud
Content and thankfulness our hearts, un-
bowed,
Can borrow of the victory of the slain:
High gratitude wc know that you have lain
Lapped in your warrior’s slumber, while
the loud
Drums of disaster deafen, and the crowd
Have felt the whips of God on soul and
brain.
You have survived, but we have found
defeat
And death—that death which barely knows
reprieve;
And, seeing your flame’s white splendor, can
we grieve
That no despiteful years upon it beat?
That, screened so blessedly with timeless-
ness,
Upon your heart’s rich shrine it grows not
less?
N.S.W.
BEVERLY BERRY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Old Grazier: But what’s the use of com-
paring English prices of 20 years ago with ours of
to-day, and blaming the difference to the tariff?
The selling price of Australian wire-netting is £33
18s. 3d. The landed cost of British netting without
duty is £37 17s T.O’C.: Immature; but keep
on. And read.... Hesperian: No; but we wish some
of our other writers would think half as much....
N.E.T. : They both ran very well. ... J.W.H.: Has a
pictorial quality; but there are lines that jar—
“ Though I guess he’s checking the hours,” for
instance.. . .D.A.S.: It barks too much.... Y.T.W.:
But does it mean anything?... .Scribbler: You get
very near, then flop lazily... .Minero D.: If hus-
bands only would! The other is dull moralising.
... .G.H.T.: Follows an old track... .Sigma: May
be a world-moving scheme, but what’s the use if it’s
written so unattractively that nobody will read it?
... ..L.W.: Needs shortening.., .A.P.: Strange how
those lonely houses always contain a madman or two.
. ...H.D.: That miscarriage of justice seems hardly
possible... .W.H.L.: Touching in a way, but it won't
touch us for a cheque... .R.D.: You overdo the
adjectives... .W.G.P.: Hundreds try to tell the same
'yarn every year... .G.T.: Shows a scholarly mind, but
it’s poor fiction... .T.R.: A waste of words....
C.H.W.: Starts well, but degenerates into balder-
dash... .L.F.S.: Try to remember that the characters
and their actions matter more than the scenery, and
you’ll do better... .S.M.: Nearly the oldest bank-
embezzlement story... .F.J.: Not interested in those
hoodlums... .W.K.: Fairly good for a novice; but
write about things you’ve observed and felt....
T.S.: Bill’s life history makes dreary reading....
8.E.P.: A pointless tale... .C.R.M.: Bristles with
inaccuracies... .M.M.P.: Give up reading cowboy
stories... .J.F. A.: Gambling tale a bit too involved.
... .R.H.M.: It wasn’t much of a man-hunt, anyway.
. ...D.C.: Prefer the one about the schoolteacher,
but neither is a winner... .F.F.: Needs a lot of
trimming .. . . V.W.: You take so long to come to
the point!... .A.8.R.: Don’t you revise your stuff
before sending it in?. ... W.S.F.: You have a copious
supply of words, but very few ideas. .. .D.Q.: Have
met that poultry thief before. .. .A.G.: Merely an-
other old bore sighing for the bride he didn’t get.
....Liber-two: No possible use for a book of Yirgil
translated into English hexameters... .A.M.W.:
I shall not kneel where Fame lives crowned
Her feet unstaying kiss,
But may I not help humankind
To climb from some abyss ?
You’ll hardly do it by writing cryptic verse....
W.G.: Read it four times without finding a glimmer
of sense.. . .Olinda : Sugary nothings... .T.C.: Truly
callow... .S.S.S.: Your allegory makes dreary read-
ing... .R.P.H.: Crude stuff, although it has some
swung. .. .N.S.: Daily-paper matter. .. .D.L.S.: You’re
out of your depth. .. .E.M.G.: Good, but much too
long for this paper... .J.D.: “The Comeback” has
an apt title. .. .P.0.M.: “While of Unsound Mind.”
Well, we wouldn’t go so far as that... .F.L.: Edwin
Gerard (“Gerardy”) has published two books, “The
Road to Palestine and Other Verses” and “Australian
Light Horse Ballads and Rhymes”... .B.B.: Frederic
Manning, author of “Her Privates We,” is a brother
of H. E. Manning, the N.S.W. Attorney-General....
D.G.S.: Practically everything that can be said about.
Belarus Jack has been on Abo. pages.... A.J.:
No space for one-act plays. Have a go at the
Independent Theatre play competition; it closes on
February 28. Particulars from the secretary, 60
King-street, Sydney... .A.J. S.: Ode in praise of
rum was only a gurgle J.F.: Story about down-
and-out who wins first prize in the lottery joined
its mates in the basket. We get about a dozen a
month. .. .S.D.E.: Keep your characters on land until
you learn something about life on a liner... .T.M.:
Your enthusiasm doesn’t make up for your disregard
of grammar. .. .R.A.: Put some dialogue into the
storysurely they are not all dumb... .S.H.: That
country-feud theme has been done to death....
L.E.S.: Not interested in the removal of Edythe’s
appendix... .Jabba: Larwood-wormwood, Voce-bloke,
Verity-merrily, Sutcliffe-Coalcliff. No, your Test-
match pome won’t d 0.... North C.: Yes, Senator
Hardy is a returned soldier. He enlisted at 18 and
was in khaki for three years... .Constitooshun:
According to section 24, the Parliament at Sydney
could veto the formation of new States in the
Riverina and northern N, S. Wales even if a majority
of the electors of N. S. Wales voted in favor of
such new States at a referendum.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) .
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.T.: Obviously you have never harnessed up a
horse.. .G.H.: He may talk like an abo., but he doesn’t
look like one.. .S.L.C.: Don’t care for that sprawling
style. .. .T.L.A.: Always prepared to consider jokes
apart from drawings; you’d better stick to jokes.
... .F.W.: Crazy linework and stale puns. .. .D.W.C.:
A smudgy mess... .G.V.: You give all your little
boys - adults’ faces... .M.H.A.: Unpolished....
S. : Want more than “a few , strokes of the pen”
and a cribbed gag. .. .F.S.G.: There’s a fault in
every square inch. . . .G.L.G.: You seem to have
drawn it against your better judgment... .P.W.H.:
Where have you hidden Daphne and Diana? We
went over the sketch with a magnifying glass and
couldn’t find them.. . . W. 0.: Thanks for the com-
pliments of the season, but not for the joke printed
three months ago... .H.P.: You have some skill with
the pen, but no humor... .8.F.L.: Devote 1933 to
study... .N.M.: A trip to the Zoo will teach you
what a kangaroo looks like. .. .L.S.P.: If lettering
alone counted you would be consistently accepted....
T. : Be content with simple compositions until you
have improved your style considerably... .T.H.: It
bulges in the wrong places... .R.K.: Likeness to well-
known artist’s style rules it out. Be yourself.
. ...T.M.P.: Inferior head studies and crude jests.
. ...H.W.T.: Useless, and you forgot the gag....
S.S.: Harsh and heavy. .. .R.M.: Use solid blacks
more sparingly.... T.C.: Burn the 10t.... R.L. J.:
Don’t want translations of jokes printed in foreign
papers. . . .K.F.: All were jettisoned. . . .8.G.: Dread-
ful, as usual... .F.W.D.: An old Babu jest....
C.C.M.N.: An eyesore.


e
jß'tue
Sil&
& ‘SEPPEtT & SONS
I SOOTH AUSTRALIA
ns3
■ ■■
H
*»**#*.
è
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2760.
January 4, 1933.
“GOOD-FELLER NEW YEAR!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box, 2521 B B; ’Phone 81911.
Victoria: 111i-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, l-j Panama
Street, Wellington,
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.j 6 months, 12s. bid.;
3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for J/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
UNEMPLOYMENT IS QUITE
UNNECESSARY.
For three years past The Bulletin has
been urging that unemployment in Aus-
tralia is quite unnecessary—that the un-
employed might be profitably occupied in
supplying their own needs. For the pur-
poses of argument it has again and again
transported a hundred thousand unem-
ployed miraculously to an uninhabited
island, reasonably fertile, and asked what
would happen. Most certainly they would
not sit down and die; they would get to
work to supply their own needs, just as
the population of the world does normally.
Any hundred thousand of the unemployed
have the same wants as any other hundred
thousand people, and, by and large, are
just as well qualified to satisfy those wants.
That being so, the obvious thing is to put
them to work, knowing that for whatever
they produce there will be a hundred thou-
sand customers.
Of course there are difficulties in our
way. On our uninhabited island there
would be no landlords such as we have in
Australia. On the other hand, there would
be no idle tools and plant and stores that
they might use. All we really need do, in
view of the presence of these things, is to
arrange a plan for financing the operations.
The Bulletin suggested the issue of Pro-
duction Certificates with a limited cur-
rency, these certificates to be issued to the
additional workers employed and in pay-
ment for all other services, and to be
available for the purchase of the additional
production. That, plan was elaborated by
Professor Milhaud, of Geneva. Now the
American Professor Graham, of the De-
partment of Economics, Princeton Univer-
sity, has examined the whole problem of
unemployment in a book which is making
a deep impression in his native country,
and not only comes to almost precisely the
same conclusion as The Bulletin, but
offers much the same remedy. “No com-
petent economist,” he says, “holds that
unemployment is irremediable, and all
agree that there is no inherent reason why
we should not, year in and year out, pro-
duce at the full capacity of our population
and resources. Failure to do so is con-
clusive evidence of defective organisation.”
When The Bulletin put forward its
plan it said that what was aimed at was
“the simplification of barter.” It was
not convenient for the bootmaker to
exchange his product for bread, because he
wanted more than bread; therefore what
was required was a handful of chits to
represent the boots so that part might be
exchanged for bread and part for meat, etc.
Professor Graham takes the same / line: his
reasoning has led him “in search of a plan
whereby, in times like the present, resort
may be had to the principle of barter, as
a temporary expedient by which the other-
wise unemployed may supply their own
needs.” His plan, like that of Professor
Milhaud, is to set up a National Emer-
gency Corporation. Graham proposes,
however, that it should do more than Mil-
haud contemplated; Graham suggests that
it should undertake production by arrange-
ment with owners of existing shop
giving employment to men who would
accept, pay in Consumption Certificates
representing proportional shares in the
product. The difference is little more than
a matter of detail.
Organised labor is, however, very ner-
vous; and apparently it sees in any such
plan an attack on wages. Professor
Graham meets the objection in this way:—
Under the scheme proposed the laborer will get
what he can earn without derogation from the
established wage rate in ordinary industry and there-
fore without prejudice to his future earnings when
profits, under something like full employment by
private industry, again emerge from drdinary
economic processes. If we were at war we would
not tolerate the waste of productive power now
involved in unemployment. The present plan is a
war against unemployment, and its success is purely
A matter of fairly simple organisation.
Actually, unemployment is the worst pos-
sible attack on wages. No power on earth
can long sustain wages in the face of an
army of unemployed. And, apart from
that, the wage that has to be spread out
over months of unemployment as well as
weeks of employment is not a real wage--
it is purely nominal. Any plan which will
mop up the unemployed, and give them
the full product of their labor, must be, not
a bad thing, but the best conceivable
thing for wages.
“Presumably,” says one friendly critic,
“the money value of . the wage [under the
Consumption Certificate plan] would be
less than the union wage, for avowedly it
is an emergency plan to provide employ-
ment at times when union wages cannot
be had for many would-be workers.” But
that does not follow at all. Where there
is barter, money wages have no meaning.
The aim is to secure for the additional
workers the full product of their labor, after
paying, of course, for raw materials and
the use of plant, etc. It does indeed, as
another says, “bear a resemblance to sys-
tems that have been proposed for socialistic
societies.” It promises to turn the whole
army of unemployed into producers and
give them the whole product of their labor,
much or little; it promises, to that end, to
turn the whole present army of unemployed
'into consumers; and it promises to lift the
whole present army of unemployed from
off the shoulders of industry. Surely if
we can do all that we shall be well on the
way back to normal prosperity.
WHAT IS NORMAL?
Different countries put it in different ways,
but always the meaning is the same—few
of us can stand oats that we haven’t had
to work for. The first generation gets rich;
the second often gets richer; the third,
brought up only to spend, begins to lose the
family riches; the fourth is back on scratch,
learning that it can eat only what it can
earn, and often handicapped by inheriting
everything but a taste and a capacity for
hard toil. Australia is suffering from the
troubles of the fourth generation.
A hundred years or so ago we came into
possession of the greatest unoccupied estate
in the world without having to pay anyone
a farthing for it. Since then what have
we done? In the first place we set out to
sell this estate and spend the proceeds.
The total area alienated up to the present
amounts to about 150 million acres —66
millions in N. S. Wales and the balance
of 84 millions in other States and Federal
territory. For the most part we have used
this money not for the creation of other
assets, but in relief of taxes, and to buy
ourselves a good, easy time. With a great
deal of the money we have built up our
public services and, naturally, have built
them up extravagantly. But all that has
finished. There still are lands in process of
alienation —conditional purchases and the
like —but so-called revenue from new sales
of the public estate has almost ceased. The
total “revenue” from land sales, old and
new, in all Australia had got down to
£394,000 in 1929-30, and much more than
half of that was collected by Westralia.
Except for a few acres, all the land thus
sold is used for agricultural or pastoral pur-
poses. But the mining and forest lands, even
though not sold, have been denuded of their
wealth. From the soil we have won 635
million pounds’ worth of gold alone. There
may be other rich goldfields in Australia,
but we have robbed all that we have thus
far found of almost all their easily-got wealth.
For 60 years—from 1850 to 1910—we dug
out an average of £8,800,000 per annum; in
that period our total harvest of gold was
528 millions. To-day we can do little more
than scratch over the old ground, picking
up what we had passed by, and, until the
recent great depreciation in sterling and the
Australian £, we had not been turning out
two millions a year. Our other mineral
wealth we have been rifling with equal
zeal. Of metals other than gold, we have
dug out 380 millions. To-day there is only
one great Coppermine left at work; the
bones of a dozen others have been picked
clean. The total value of our output of
metals other than gold has fallen below
six millions a year. As to our forest wealth,
it is not what we have cut and converted
to our use that matters so much as the
vastly greater quantity we have wantonly
destroyed.
So our Governments have taken posses-
sion of a continent and sold 150 million
acres of it and used the proceeds as revenue;
and they have taken toll of the gold-
diggers and the metal-miners and the timber-
getters, and have used that money also as
revenue. In 80 years our people have dug
up over 1000 millions’ worth of minerals
apart from coal, and have scattered the
proceeds among the community—to the
enormous gain, of course, of Governments,
which have taken a large proportion of the
wealth for their own uses. But they have
gone further even than that. Not content
with borrowing from themselves for what
were alleged to be public purposes, these
Governments have raised outside 650 million
pounds, which carries an interest burden of
something like 30 millions a year; to our
own people they owe approximately 600
millions. To-day our chances of getting
new money from abroad are almost nil;
our prospects even of converting loans
which nominally we have the right to con-
vert are not brilliant.
True, some of this money we have been
talking about has been merely shifted
from one pocket to another. The millions
paid for land was chiefly our own money.
But it was taken by Governments for
revenue purposes; and upon that utterly
false standard of income our Government
expenditure has been based. At the same
time, as we have seen, we were digging
up our mineral wealth furiously and also
borrowing from abroad; and our Govern-
ment revenues were bloated from these
causes also. Now, as we have also seen, our
land revenues have shrunk to almost noth-
ing; our mineral output is a mere shadow
of what it was; our foreign borrowing has
ceased. How can we, then, maintain our
Government expenditures on the old false
basis? They must be cut down, probably
by 50 p.c.
But it is not only Government expendi-
tures that must be cut down. We have been
living like the third generation. We
thought that it wasn’t necessary to work
hard any more. We told ourselves that
we occupied a land specially blessed by
Providence, where the economic laws that
other peoples have to observe do not apply.
We shall have to wake up to find that
Australia has only seemed so different be-
cause our Governments have used as income
the proceeds from the sale of 150 million
acres of land, and because we have dug up
over 1000 millions’ worth of metals and
have borrowed from overseas 650 millions
sterling. We talk about “getting back to
normal.” Not many of us know what
normal is. For 60 years we averaged
£8,800,000 of gold a year; and we shall be
fortunate if we average £1,800,000 in the
future. Our mineral output other than gold
has been cut down to less than one-third
of what it was. For many years we have
averaged 20 millions per annum of foreign
loans; and not only may we not hope for
any new loans, but in the future we must
pay nearly 30 millions a year by way of
debt charges.
Australia can be as prosperous as ever
it was; but it cannot be prosperous in the
old way. The future demands hard, steady,
useful work; and we shall have to cut out
many of our extravagances. We shall have
to realise, for one thing, that we cannot
afford to make even cricket the chief inter-
est in our lives; and above all we shall
have to realise that the burden of our
public expenditure, both on the public ser-
vices and on so-called social services, is
entirely beyond our capacity.
DON’T DEPEND ON THE POLITICIAN.
The U.S.A. and Brazil swapped products
some months ago, Brazil having no money
to pay for the goods Uncle Sam wanted
to sell, but being overstocked with coffee
and a few other tropical products. Now
Canada, being in need of petrol, is
considering the offer of Russia to supply oil
in exchange for 100,000 cattle, mostly
breeders. And the arrangement seems so
sensible that, notwithstanding the pre-
judices against the Soviet Republics, it will
probably be completed.
It all amounts to a dreadful reflection
not so much upon our money system as
upon the politicians who have so signally
■failed to make adjustments to meet altered
circumstances. Nor is it merely a reflection
upon the overseas politicians. It is quite
as serious a reflection upon our own. Here
for three years we have had hundreds of
thousands of unemployed, practically all of
them ready to barter their work for the
work of others of their number, and we
have not had the initiative to arrange a
scheme for bringing them together. In
ordinary circumstances the money system
and private enterprise make barter unnec-
essary; but when the money system and
private enterprise fail, then it is surely
obvious that we should fall back temporarily
on the older system—with modifications, of
course, to meet the times. If it is possible
to arrange for an exchange of oil and cattle
between two widely-separated countries it
should not be beyond us to arrange a plan
by which our own bootmaker who wants
bread can get wheat from our own farmer
who wants shoes.
But the politician must not be loaded
with all the blame for inaction. He is the
last person in the world to feel industrial
and commercial distress: he can go on
piling up the public expenditure when others
are economising everywhere, because he
has the right to dip into every private
pocket so long as there is a bean in it.
In such circumstances it is silly to expect
him to be as much concerned about dis-
covering a way out of the distress as the
business man must be. If the politician
were told that he must budget for a revenue
no more than one-third of that of a few
years ago, and with no hope in the wide
world of borrowing a shilling, he would be
in the position of the bulk of the people he
is supposed to represent; and then he would
be really interested in getting these people
off the dole. As it is, if anything is to be
done it is pretty certain that people out-
side politics will have to set it going.
THE LAW INSTITUTE.
rn T , , T T at CJ
The Incorporated Law Inst tute 0 . •
Wales is housed at No. 3 Castlereagh-street.
Meet the officers, the president, the secre-
tary, councillor Waldron and the blameless
Mitchell, and be at once convinced that a
quieter and milder body never brandished
cleaver. They are gentle, kindly, pitiful
men who would much rather sob over
the woes of a mortgagee than hunt a
truant solicitor over the landscape of
Default. They were not born to the fatal
block, they have had it thrust upon them,
and they go through with it, though the
blood of a hundred attorneys reddens,
figuratively, their threshold.
The layman is recommended, if he has
a grievance against Blegg, the attorney, not
to go to the Institute with any half-baked
tale. The Institute will not present its ear
to mere rumors, suspicions, fears, fables
and conjectures. It does not trade in con-
jectures. That Blegg was seen at the races,
or that his wife is playing shilling bridge,
or that he has bought a new car, or that
his clerk was at the tin hares, or even that
Blegg was seen winking at barmaids —none
of these things will the Institute gravely
heed. But give facts, narrate in a declara-
tion that Blegg gave a bad cheque on his
trust account, or refuses to hand over
Uncle Titus’s black box, then the hairs
rise upon the Institute like quills upon the
fretful bandicoot.
The Institute, most decorous, nicely-
mannered thing in the world, is garmented
with deep-rooted conservatism. Its officers
and council are not young men with that
schoolgirl complexion. They run to
whiskers, spectacles, things Augustan and
the heavy father. No member of the
council is permitted by his doctor to run
for a train. It is not done. Some of the
younger members of the profession regard
the council as too Olympian; fledglings
mutter that the “officers” are above such
things as costs. This is false. The Insti-
tute is chiefly composed of practising
lawyers, many of whom are capable <of
bending to pick up a wind-blown £5 note.
Patriotic souls, the council work hours and
hours, week by week, in gratuitous service
for the profession. That is, in inquiries, in
keeping up status, and giving opinions to
practitioners from Woop Woop, and in
advising the Judges how to make new rules
discouraging any more Blegg.
To join the Institute is quite simple.
You don’t need to be moved and seconded,
and then to be ridden on a goat. You
write to the secretary and say, “Behold
an attorney, pure as snow. Here is an
application form and 63 shillings.” The
thing is done, you are a member, entitled
to go in and out and find pasture, and to
read “Byles on Bills” in the Institute’s
great library. The Institute, however, will
not be influenced by your 63 marks; it will
on due occasion, like Saturn, devour its
own offspring. You can join the Institute
on Monday, be accused on Tuesday, car-
peted on Wednesday, and guillotined on
Friday. All of which is very proper, but
unrefreshing to practitioners in these days
of gloom. The Institute is not like the
embattled Plumbers. Now, your Society of
Plumbers will strive heartily to keep up
the price of plumbing. So much for a trap,
so much for a down-pipe, so much for
waiting for the tools, all duly scheduled;
and beside the schedule sits the Society,
teeth bared. And the Society does not
want to do anything else than keep you
a-plumbing. It does not want to deplumb,
explumb, unplumb, whatever is the mot
juste. It is in a mood of defiance against
the economies of all the vast unplumbed
world. “Not so with the Institute,” says
the scornful Blegg. “It wants to Unfrock
me! It takes my 63 bucks, and then,
ingrate, loosens the dog! And it does not
keep up costs. Fie!” Most of which, of
course, the Institute denies, in a high elderly
treble.
The Institute was founded in earlier days,
when Queen Victoria wore hoops and every
attorney the white flower of a blameless
life. Its councillors sit in high places and
wear spotless linen. No one ever heard of
a councillor getting struck off the roll,
or being less than 63 years of age come-this-
Michaelmas.
To join the Institute should be the ambi-
tion of every attorney. For there shall he
be among the elect, venerables, doctors,
bearded pundits and mandarins of the law,
and at low cost, only a few guineas, sanc-
tioned to enter and sit beside the nectar
of “Chitty’s Forms” in half-calf.
The Supreme Court is believed to dote
on the Institute. When it wants to know
the true character of Blegg it may ring
up the Institute. When it admits anyone
to the Bar, the poor wight, already faint
mayhap, must pay 20 guineas to the InsM-
tute. Blood money? No; for the library
funds—he-he! And yet when Blegg is in
trouble, in real trouble, the curtain rises on
the Court, with a tear in its bright blue
eye, looking at the Institute’s own barrister,
unfolding, coil by coil, the tale of Blegg’s
ingenuity against Psmith, his client.
The Institute could not be called highly
democratic. The Old Guard are there. But
a large part of the profession are not yet
in the fold, some deterred, it is said, by
Funds, others absent merely because the
Institute will not send out propaganda,
circulars with green coupons or lottery
tickets. It is not a little astonishing that,
after a hundred years, the lawyers of Sydney
have no real abiding place, or Jerusalem.
No continuing city, no club. The Institute
is tabernacled in a rented room; compared
with the Commercial Travellers or the
Plumbers or the Slaughtermen, it may be
regarded as without real Union glories.
Withal, it has a venerable record of un-
selfish work, integrity, of undoubted effort
for the public, lay and lawyer. It has kept
up a high standard among the vast majority
of the long robe, and retains the high
respect of them, even though it perforce has
so often to wield the abhorred shears,
and slit the- thin-spun life of Blegg the
Damned.
E.H.T.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Inlanders.
“Womerah”: A year ago a Bulletin
correspondent alleged racial degeneracy
against the country children of some un-
named State of Australia. At the time my
avocation had already brought me into
intimate contact with thousands of children
in the inland of a State that shall also be
unnamed, but is not the youngest by any
means. During the past year, over an area
as large as some European countries, I have
investigated the disquieting statements pur-
posefully; at the end of 1932 I feel that I
write with some authority.
I know the schools where the teachers
have to contend with the rattle of the
traffic and the clamor of “mechanism.” I
am familiar with small bush schools half-
hidden beneath groves of pine or maybe on
the edge of a mallee scrub, or in limitless
wheat paddocks; others where the wilgas
or kurrajongs grace some far-off station
run, or by scalded plain which per-
versely turns to quagmire with the scanty
rainfall. I know those inland schools shaded
by box and river gum which fringe the
banks of western stream or billabong, and
those amongst gravel ridges which nurture
rich-robed, straight-stemmed ironbarks. I
know these hardy and ingenuous country
children, their proud and gritty sires and
their big-hearted, self-sacrificing mothers.
And I know that, though life is still hard
in what this State of which I write calls
“the West,” no people show such tender
and wakeful solicitude for their youngsters’
welfare. Thq children work when work is
to be done, but it is never heavier nor more
protracted than is reasonable. It is good
for them; it gives them a sense of moral
obligation and self-reliance which is foreign
to pampered town children.
Degeneracy would be exhibited in poor
physique and in low mental endowment.
The inland children compare more than
favorably with the mass of city minors,
and have greater powers of endurance. I
have seen a tiny-tot of six ride seven miles
to school daily and hardly miss a school
day.
Intermarriage is rare. The small farmer
has come from all points. The shearer, the
drover, the fencer of yesterday has become
the small farmer or share-farmer of to-day
—these are the big men of to-morrow.
Tennis is the sport out West, and distance
is nothing to the Young Lochinvar with a
Ford.
The annual examination results are to
hand. Hardly one small school cannot
show better results than those of the town
schools.
There is nothing to worry about in the
future of the Inlanders. Just recently at
lunch a boy of 11 was showing me how to
distinguish a “budda.” Casually I asked
him what he had for lunch. “ 'Squeaker’
sandwiches,” he replied with a humorous grin.
“ ‘Squeaker’?” “Yes. You know—rabbit.
Dad won’t take the dole. We’ve five acres
of land on the creek. Dad’s started a
vegetable garden, but we’ll have a farm of
our burn soom” There it is: the spirit of
the West.
Physically these people are the core of the
nation. They have their defects, due to
their isolation and old A.W.U. associations,
to the new brand of Father Christmas poli-
ticians and to R. 1.8. indulgences which have
dislocated the old-pioneer sense of propor-
tion; but it is my reasoned judgment,
based upon clear evidence, that racial
degeneracy cannot be charged to their
account even by so speedy an impressionist
as Foster Fraser.
4
Gambling and Purchasing-power.
Quite apart from those characteristics which
cause members of the cloth to denounce it,
gambling is a great evil from the financial
point of view. And, still from that point
of view, it is neither the sport of kings nor
the humble tin-hare that produces the
most disastrous results. In his new book
On banking, H. E. Evitt pauses to discuss
J. M. Keynes’s latest theory of money.
Referring to the disasters caused by un-
stable price levels, Evitt says: “He [Keynes]
eventually reaches the conclusion that, as
savings do not vary so much as investment,
variations in the investment factor mainly
determine the cyclical fluctuations of
price This would seem to support the
contention that variations in the market
value of securities, mainly due to stock-
exchange operations, are the main cause
of fluctuations in prices; and the more this
question is investigated, the more it seems
that the very limited services to the com-
munity performed by the Stock Exchanges
are very much more than offset by the
dangers and disasters which seem to accom-
pany their at present uncontrolled opera-
tions.”
Except in an indirect way, the share- and
realty-markets are both as unproductive as
the N. S. Wales lottery. Each has its
legitimate use; but for several years prior
to the crash, in Australia as well as in other
parts of the world, the share- and land-
markets became, principally, outlets for
a fever of speculation. If this gambling
meant simply a redistribution of wealth,
one man’s loss being another’s gain—well,
that would be nothing more than the loser’s
funeral, and something he might have ex-
pected, anyway. But it amounted to a
great deal more than that. It created arti-
ficial prices and bogus prosperity, and
eventually undermined our very financial
structure.
Shopkeepers in N. S. Whales complain that
the State lottery is bad for trade. Why?
Because each week when two drawings are
made, 200,000 “five-bobs” are diverted from
the usual business channels and, after
paying exes, and the hospitals’ cut, are
redistributed amongst 1628 people. Approxi-
mately Ijalf the money is divided amongst
48 people, and winners of the larger prizes
may not spend all their windfall in a life-
time, whereas before there were 200,000
people ready to spend ss. each immediately.
In a more roundabout way the big fish on
’Change usually swallow the smaller fry,
and purchasing-power is cornered. But
the damage doesn’t stop there. Money is
diverted from its legitimate channels, and
the real creators of wealth and employment
suffer. Share prices are forced up beyond
the inherent worth of the stocks, thus creat-
ing new and false standards of values;
land and commodity prices and interest
rates soar in sympathy, thus tending to
overcapitalise and fetter all legitimate new
enterprises and extensions to old ones.
The N. S. Wales lottery, though it
diverts the best part of £40,000 a week from
the shops, is otherwise comparatively insig-
nificant in its reactions. The Wall-street
boom caused such an influx of foreign
capital to an already wealthy country—to
finance nothing more than a bubble —that
the Bank of England became embarrassed
about its disappearing gold-stocks and
raised the discount rate to 6i p.c., thus
penalising struggling British industry. And
the profits on the Stock Exchanges and
real-estate markets that w r ere apparently
created out of nothing are now being dearly
paid for by those who were left holding
the bag. Trifling though the Australian
boom was compared with Wall-street’s, it
is largely to blame for the overcapitalisation
and burden of debt which many indus-
tries now find such a heavy load.
Here is a lesson for all Douglasites who
talk about shortage of purchasing-power
as the fundamental cause of our financial
ills. The truth is that purchasing-power is
often diverted into the wrong channels,
there to be foolishly played with, redis-
tributed amongst fewer holders, by its con-
centration creating an artificial standard of,
values, and, when the bubble bursts, it is
partly “frozen” or “sterilised” owing to its
chaotic distribution. After years of sacri-
fice and hardship by the unlucky ones,
new wealth is usually created, and the
congealed purchasing-power commences to
flow again. One way of hastening the
flow would seem to be by compromise and
forbearance on the part of all boom-time
creditors. But there are no easy short-
cuts. As already shown, easy ways of
making money are largely to blame for
our present mess.
4
Ten Years of Mussolini.
Italy has been observing its tenth anniver-
sary of the Fascist “march on Rome,” and
the results of the inevitable stocktaking are
extraordinarily interesting to Australia, not
only because there is much in common
physically between this continent and Italy,
but because Australia is suffering from
almost exactly the same political, economic
and industrial diseases that afflicted Italy
before the coming of Mussolini.
The first job taken in hand by the Fas-
cists 10 years ago was the reconstruction of
national finance and the rehabilitation of
the currency; after that, the reconciling of
capital and labor and securing their collabo-
ration in the national interest. The steps
towards the reconstruction of national
finance have not yet produced a perfectly
balanced budget; nevertheless, great pro-
gress has been made. The perfectly
balanced national budget has not, however,
been at any time regarded as the most
essential thing: the struggle to secure a
trade balance has had far more attention.
With this end in view, the Confederation
of Italian Industries said in a recent survey,
“The wheat campaign, which is rapidly
making the country independent of foreign
wheat supplies, has been extended to all
farm products—cereals, rice, fruits, vege-
tables, silk cocoons, livestock—and for all
of them the average yield per unit has been
raised, thus lowering production costs and,
by reducing imports, improving Italy’s
balance of international payments and
strengthening the position of the lira.” It
has not been such a simple matter in Italy
as it could be in Australia. Italy has an
area of 119,710 square miles and a popula-
tion of 41 millions; N. S. Wales alone has
an area of 309,432 square miles, and the
population of the entire Commonwealth is
under seven millions. Italy, with nearly
350 people to the square mile, has therefore
been compelled to extend its cultivable area
by drainage and other means: under an
Act of 1928 it set about the reclamation of
7i million acres of malarious swamps, and,
by the construction of walls and the regu-
lation of torrents, seeks to prevent the
further denudation of mountain-sides.
At the same time it has turned to the twin
problems of reducing power and assembly
and distribution costs, a matter of great
importance, because, as over the larger part
of Australia, coal is scarce and oil non-
existent. In one respect, however, Italy
is more fortunate than most of Australia:
it has many swift rivers. Harnessing these,
it has increased the power production of
its hydro, plants from 1,250,000 h.p. in
1922 to 3,600.000 h.p. in 1932: this has in-
volved the construction of no less than
130 mountain reservoirs. To a ® sl ® t m
reduction of assembly and distribution costs
it has laid down motor traffic roads con-
necting almost all the great cities. It is
above all on her own resources that Italy
relies,” the Federation of Industries reports;
and proceeds:—
Industry is adapting itself to changed conditions.
liquidating top-heavy over-complex .concerns, forming
trade associations to strengthen certain industries,
relying on private initiative and resourcefulness to
overcome the difficulties of the situation. The
Guild State is steering a course between the bcylla
of State ownership and the Charybdis of excessive
individualism and laisser jaire.
It has set itself resolutely against every
avoidable depreciation of the hra. J
look on the lira as the tangible flag of the
nation,” Mussolini declared lately.
Italy has no faith in short cuts to pros-
perity. Its business world is sceptical even
of the* advantages of international price-
raising through credit- or currency-inflation;
it is satisfied that the market can be
healthily stimuated only by the lowering of
costs. To that end practically the whole of
its stupendous national effort is being
directed.
4
South Australia’s Centenary.
South Altstralia is already making
arrangements for its centenary in 1936;
and the question arises, What can the State
do, or what can it encourage, to its own
greatest advantage?
Where do its chances lie? It has, to
begin with, no coal, and, so far as it can
discover, no mineral oil. Its one river of
any size is the sluggish Murray, and its
prospects of harnessing any hydro-electric
power are as small as its coal resources.
In the development of those manufacturing
industries which depend upon cheap power
it is therefore heavily handicapped. It has
been able to hold on to the Associated
Smelters for the treatment of Broken Hill
silver-lead concentrates; but the zinc
product goes to the cheap hydro-electric
power of Tasmania to be turned into metal,
and the Broken Hill Prop, found it more
profitable to take S. Australian iron ore
to the coal at Newcastle than to bring
Newcastle coal to the iron quarries along-
side Spencer’s Gulf. Here and there a
factory may thrive, in spite of the natural
handicap—General Motors-Holdens is a case
in point—but that will be mostly because
of the human factor.
Fortunately, though nature has been very
niggardly with its minerals, it has provided
the State with much fertile land; and,
unlike almost every other capital on the
Australian continent, Adelaide has been set
in a plain, cultivable to the city’s edge.
But it is neither very rich land nor very well
watered, and an uncertain rainfall makes
the State’s harvests irregular and their aver-
ages comparatively low. Over any period
of, say, seven years there has never been
a large margin of profit in wheat-growing
in S. Australia; and the wheat country is
not well suited for anything else. Further,
the future of this market looks drab.
The area under crop in the world in 1929
was 40 million acres more than the pre-
war average. That is to say, since the pre-
war years the new area put under crop in
Canada and elsewhere is nearly three times
greater than the average area under crop
in all Australia; and it looks as though
the world’s harvest has been increased by
something like 600 million bushels a year.
Moreover, the engineer and the chemist
have brought such changes to the industry
that sufficient to satisfy the world’s needs
can be produced at a much lower price
than was possible 20 years ago. Even in
S. Australia the average yield has moved
up from 4.69 bushels in the 10 years 1890-
99 to 10.72 bushels in the 10 years 1920-29.
Wheat, it seems certain, then, is going to
be a low-priced commodity in the future;
and, as on present appearances South Aus-
tralia must be largety dependent upon this
grain—more dependent- certainly than any
other State —it looks to be of the utmost
importance to S. Australia that it should
further reduce the cost of production.
That certainly cannot be done by more
wage-cuts. The reward for labor in S. Aus-
tralia is already too small. We must turn
still to the chemist and the engineer. The
possibility of reducing power-costs is par-
ticularly attractive. Already some pro-
gress has been made with wood-gas trac-
tion. The centenary of the State could
bring it no greater blessing than a machine
which would make the State’s very con-
siderable timber resources as valuable to
the farmer as an oilfield at his door.
4
Tasmania and the Navigation Act.
Dear Bulletin, —Making provision for
vessels exceeding 10,000 tons register and
14 knots speed to carry passengers from
certain Australian ports to Hobart during
specified months, though in itself a recog-
nition of Tasmania’s need, is a miser-
able pretence at smoothing the feathers of
Tasmania without ruffling those of the ship-
ping combines.
The two isolated States, Tasmania separ-
ated by hundreds of miles of water, and
Westralia separated by thousands of miles
of land, were both necessary for a federated
Australia. The millions required to connect
Westralia by rail were the bait used to
secure Westralia, and later on, thanks to
John Forrest, the money was voted and the
rail connection completed. Tasmania re-
mains now the only State entirely isolated
from its sister States except by water
traffic, and because of this disability it
should have been excluded from the pro-
visions of the Navigation Act and all its
ports thrown open to all British ships of
any size, instead of being, as now, a close
preserve for a shipping combine which de-
mands a bonus of £6OOO per annum to run
an ordinary steamer between Sydney and
Hobart. Some of Tasmania’s disabilities
under Federation can never be removed,
but the disability of being cut off from the
mainland by an Act which created a ship-
ping combine and isolated Tasmania can
and should be removed by amending the
Act and excluding Tasmania from its pro-
visions.
If the present Government, with a Tas-
manian Prime Minister and a working
majority, will not do justice to Tasmania,
then in self-defence the electors should
exclude from both Senate and Representa-
tives all candidates who will not pledge
themselves to rescue Tasmania from the
provisions of the Navigation Act.—Yours
etc., Edward T. Miles.
The Land and the Unemployed.
“Onerahi” (Hamilton, M.L.): The Bulle-
tin's interest in Maoriland’s scheme for
settling relief workers on the land prompts
me to describe a typical example I have
just investigated. A married man of 51
was given the lease of 19 acres of improved
farm land, valued at £l5 an acre. Govern-
ment built a cottage costing £l5O, and
advanced £5O for purchase of posts, wire,
manure, timber and equipment. Possession
was given July 23, 1932. Since then the
erstwhile relief worker has subdivided the
area into five paddocks, has built a cow-
shed, erected pig-pens and a fowlrun, an
has planted a quarter of an acre in vege
ables. He is milking 15 cows, 12 of them
his own, and the farmlet is running calves,
pigs, sheep and hens. The cows he acquired
in return for labor. He works on his own
section in the early morning and late even-
ing, and spends most of his time on wages
for neighboring farmers. For 13 weeks he
received £1 per week sustenance from
Government; after that he kept himself
and his family, despite the fact that butter-
fat has slumped to 7|d. per pound. The
Government has 50 such settlers in the
Waikato.
4
Taxation in Queensland.
Dear Bulletin, —Just look at the incidence
of income tax levied in Queensland on indi-
viduals with net property incomes from
rents or interest (Commonwealth securities
excluded) :
NET Taxable Income .. .. £2,500 0 0
Tax —State . . . . £350 12 6
Federal . . 573 19 2
Unemployed
Relief . . 125 0 0
1 1,049 11 8
Remaining to taxpayer .. . . £1,450 8 4
NET Taxable Income . . •• £lO,OOO 0 0-
Tax —State • • £3,519 0 0
Federal . . 4,066 14 2
Unemployed
Relief . . 500 0 0
8,085 14 2
Remaining to taxpayer . . . . £1,914 510
Let the Commonwealth recede ever so,
slightly from the taxation arena and the
Queensland Parliament immediately piles on
the agony, so that the £lO,OOO man is very
little better off than the £2500 man when
it comes to counting up what the Govern-
ments leave. The excess of £7500 over
£2500 which the £lO,OOO man earns is appro-
priated in income tax to the extent of
over 93 per cent. It is interesting to observe
that purely personal-exertion incomes do
not show the same results. It is only the
income from property which is being “ex-
propriated.”—Yours, Arthur J. Morris.
4
The Depression in Malaya.
“Feng-Shui” : This depression seems to
bring to every country its own special brand
of trouble. The spidery Malay peninsula
has long since' ceased to be Malayan. It is
more like a colony of Ifidia and China.
The rubber and tin industries brought floods
of immigrants from both directions. Many
of these coolies settled in the country. The
Chinese, with their invincible commercial
instinct, collared most of the trade and a
good deal of the finance. Singapore is a
Chinese city with a small British com-
munity and a few Malay fishing villages.
The British raj very decently strove to
save the Malay from being overwhelmed
altogether, but the effort was beyond it.
Attempts to qualify him for administra-
tion has been largely a failure. When he
governed himself he kept the Chinaman
more or less in subjection; but he went to
the wall as soon as the British Govern-
ment brought in the ideal of a “free go”
for all nationalities. When the depression
hit Malaya surplus Chinamen and Indians
were shipped back to their home countries
in boatfuls; but there is a huge residue
which is Straits born and regards itself as
having the same rights as the native.
Lately a policy, largely due to the senti-
mental leaning every British official feels
for the Malay underdog, has been intro-
duced to redress the balance in favor of
the native. The Chinese, however, are
very well organised under their secret
societies, which have most of them a revo-
lutionary origin. Hence recent troubles
in the dominions of the Sultan of Johore.
The future will depend on how the various
forces are balanced. The Malay is a
lovable creature, but he isn’t a fighting
man, like the Sikh, and he is not much use
in the control of a country on the “Divide
and Rule” principle.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
£12,000,000.
- - £4,739,012 10
. . 4,300,000 0
. - 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR. ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 3.43 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.^
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
m Fine Diamonds
i £2O
SFinc Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2B
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems — the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silver plate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
SYDNEY;
\3 HUNTER STREET
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Stevens Government in N. S. Wales
has queer ideas about economy. Though
there must be a score of men in the over-
loaded Railway and Tramway Department
with twice as much experience of traffic-
work as any available outsider, the Govern-
ment brought in a man to manage the new
State ’buses. At the same moment the
Minister for Local Government was forcing
the Broken Hill Council to engage an engi-
neer, at £6OO or thereabouts a year, though
it has no works programme in hand and is
scratching desperately for enough money to
carry on with.
“And listen to me; what we want this year
is less cackle and more eggs!."
State-conscious Queenslanders have gloomy
thoughts about a year which began with
sugar reduced to fourpence a pound retail
and Fiji bananas back in Sydney and Mel-
bourne shops. Sympathetic agents would
not handle the first lot of cases from Fiji.
A man who refused to be a party to a boy-
cott which, if successful, would have ugly
results for Australia declared that the
limited proportion of Fiji produce would
level up prices for good Queensland and
northern N. S. Wales fruit; people realised
there was something in it when they had to
pay threepence for one Fiji banana.
Growers who send rubbish to market have
reason to be alarmed; but such growers are
not worth considering.
Rebuilding of Melbourne’s shabby Spencer-
street station is on Argyle’s little list of
unemployed-relief works. The back of the
Flinders-street central station building may
also be improved, but that structure has
cost barrels of money already. Elaborate
central stations, in Australia, at least, never
justify the buoyant expectations of their
builders, as Adelaide could ruefully testify.
Another aeroplane has crashed in an effort
to locate “Lasseter’s lost reef,” and more
dangerous and costly rescue work is in pro-
gress. There is no satisfactory evidence
that Lasseter ever found a reef, but dray-
loads of rubbish have been written about the
alleged discovery, and a mint of money has
been dropped in the silly search. Portion
of it was provided by the credulous Sculli-
dores, while saying they were too poor to
take the decennial census. Since 1894 or there-
abouts many good bushmen, starting from
places like Laverton, have prospected the
same country and found nothing. The only
redeeming feature of the latest fiasco was
the resourcefulness of the pilot, who mended
his damaged ’plane with rawhide thongs and
strips of green timber and brought back
one of his two passengers—it would not rise
with the other.
Stevens and Bruxner will have to get the
Hotel Kosciusko off their hands. It failed
to pay in good times, and last year expenses
exceeded earnings by £10,237. Losses for
the four years to June 30 were £27,215, and
all that 99 per cent, of the taxpayers saw
for their money was a lot of photographs
of breeched flappers skylarking in the snow.
Yet there Avould be no dearth of private
tenderers for a pub which even last year
took £1556 in the bar and made another
£875 by hiring out sporting material. And
if the private licensee prospered he would
pay State and Federal income taxes. The
Government concern never does.
The high prices that wheat brought five
or six years ago sent all the nations of
Europe scratching up land that had been
allowed to fall out of use, with the result
that, whereas France, Italy and Germany
imported 224 million bushels in 1925, they
don’t expect to want more than 56 million
bushels in the coming year. Yet there still
are people who tell Australia not to bother
about manufacturing the goods it wants but
to stick to growing the wheat that other
people don’t w r ant.
While the anti-socialist Stevens Adminis-
tration is extending Government ownership
to motor-’buses, a socialist Administration
in Queensland is applying the axe to the
last gf the Government enterprises inaugu-
rated in the roaring days of Theodore. The
State sawmills and timber yards, with all
machinery and stocks, are to be sold to the
highest bidder. They paid when things were
booming, but have been losing money steadily
for a long time.
South Africa has gone off the gold stand-
ard, and Hertzog’s Government, which
adhered to it for no better reason,* appa-
rently, than that it likes being unlike J.
Bull, is in danger. The loss of the Germis-
ton seat and the secession of one of the
Labor factions, which gave it a kind of sup-
port, were bad blows. Now Tielman Roos,
who was Hertzog’s first Minister for Jus-
tice, has resigned from the Bench, planning
to re-enter politics and, form a composite
Government. “Tilly” has always been
noted as a moderate, and showed himself an
able Minister, Hertzog had previously an-
nounced his intention of retiring before the
next general election, due in 1934. Perhaps
he realises, as Lang did last May, that the
situation has become too much for him.
Many veterans on Parliamentary staffs
have been retired these last few weeks, hav-
ing reached or exceeded the age limit. In
Queensland the manageress of the Parliamen-
tary refreshment-rooms and all the female
kitchen staff have been put off as well. Even
the lady cook is to be replaced by a male
chef. These jobs have been wished on to
Speaker George Pollock. He seems to have
got rid of the kitchen helps without suffer-
ing casualty, but there may be a different
story to tell when he carpets the cook.
Pascoe, senior member of the South Aus.
Parliament since Stirling’s death, has been
passed over in the Lib.-Cocky plebiscite for the
safe Midland district seats in the Leg. Coun-
cil. E. W. Castine gets the nomination, along
with Hannaford, the other sitting member,
Castine belongs to a noted South Aus. pas-
toral family, and will probably make a good
member; but it is rough on an old Parlia-
mentary hand to be turned down with-'
out reference to his constituents—rough on
the constituents, too. Pascoe has been in
the Council for 33 years. He was Minister
of Agriculture under Peake.
Lionel Hill is off to Tasmania to see
Lyons about the condition of South Aus.
and the position of the Hill party. Their
conversation would make an interesting
column. This time three years ago both
were Labor leaders. Lyons, after two terms
as Premier of the Speck, had just entered
the Federal Parliament and become one of
Scullin’s Ministers; Hill was preparing for
the general election which was to make him
Premier of his State. Within two years
Lyons had become head of a non-Labor Gov-
ernment, his old associates having been
JOE (to Lionel): “I didn’t quite catch the
name of your party. What is it again?”
ro uted in the constituencies, and Hill, though
gm Premier, had been expelled by the
a.L.P. and cold-shouldered by the Lib.-
Qockies. He has the support of the “Herald”-
“Advertiser” group, which helped to put
Lyons where he is, but has nevertheless been
reduced to a dismal search for a seat. He
long ago decided to leave Port Pirie, which
ff e has represented since 1918, and it is now
expected that he will return to his old love,
East Torrens, for which the Lib.-Cockies
have already chosen a ticket.
Lang acknowledges that “the 1927-28
kind of prosperity is not coming back any
more”; and he is right for once. “The
1927-28 kind of prosperity” was fed by
British loans, and there will be no more
British loans while Lang adorns the Aus-
tralian scene, or while what he calls “Labor
LANG (with a far-off memory of Blucher) :
“What places to sack!”
principles” are active. But “a prosperity
will come”: —
It will come—and it will only come—when a
Labor Government is in power and has taken the
control of the public credit from out of the hands
of private finance and placed it under the control
and at the service of the people who own it.
By “the people who own it” he means, not
the minority with shares and deposits in
the banks, but the majority with votes. The
funds of the minority are to be at the dis-
posal of the majority, through its political
leaders, who, with restricted opportunities,
have presented Australia with such a prime
collection of bankrupt railways, tramways,
steamers, meatworks, irrigation works, treat-
ment works, coalmines, factories and fish-
shops. God help us all if it ever comes
to pass!
An accountant has succeeded a former
brewery manager as boss of the N-S.W. Gov-
ernment railways. T. J. Hartigan, the
accountant in question, was recommended for
appointment as Commissioner of Railways
(one of three) by Fay and Raven, the Eng-
lish experts whom the Fuller Government
brought out to advise on railway manage-
ment; but that particular recommendation
was ignored. The subject of it remained in
the accountancy branch of the Railway
Department till he was transferred to Lang’s
Transport Commission, with the title of Com-
missioner of Finances. He is an able public
servant, and there is a certain appropriate-
ness in placing an accountant at the head
of affairs, the system and the superannuation
fund being insolvent. And the appointment
is some guarantee of continuity of policy,
since Hartigan is not likely to be sacked by
the Langsters should they return to office.
They would have sacked Cleary.
The organised Queensland public servants,
having received almost every other conces-
sion from the Government which owes its
existence to them, have now demanded a
five-day week. The bowelless Moore revived
Saturday-morning toil, with the result that
file-builders had to stick round the office for
39J hours altogether. The grievance was
borne when resistance would have meant the
sack, but now, when a sympathetic Ministry
is in office —and also when the fish are biting,
and the surf is calling, and Percy has a cer-
tainty for the first race —it is felt to be
intolerable. So the sympathetic Adminis-
tration has been ordered to close the depart-
ments at four o’clock on Fridays and look
sharp about it.
The loss of £70,000 of good A.W.U. money
on the “World,” for which levies were col-
lected before the war, has infuriated mem-
bers of the big union, and there will be a
hot debate on the subject at the annual
convention, to be held shortly. Meanwhile,
dissatisfied branches are crowding the busi-
ness paper with demands for 'reductions in
the price of tickets (now 255. a year), in
the pay of officials, in the number of organ-
isers and in the expenses of delegates, who
are allowed first-class fares both ways and
30s. a day. And “We, the A.W.U. members
at Farleigh, demand that organiser Bush-
nell be expelled as an official on account
of his biased attack on us.” The “attack”
consisted in “referring to us as chronic
narks.”
Naturally more Christmas shopping was
done in Sydney than when Lang was be-
having like a wild man; but there was an
almighty slump in the tourist trade. The
A.J.C. depends largely on visitors for the
success of its Christmas meetings. Though
it had perfect weather for Boxing Day, the
Randwick crowd declined from 34,900 on
Dec. 26, 1931, to 23,000, and tote receipts
fell correspondingly. Of course, the Oronsay
and the Strathaird bore away to the islands
a good many people who, in ordinary cn-
cumstances, would have put up at Sydney
hotels and gone to the Randwick races ; out
that is not the only explanation. It has got
about among tourists that if they come to
Sydney and stay long enough to receive
money from other parts of Australia or tiie
Empire, they are liable to be pursued toi
unemployed-relief tax at the rate, of Is in
the £. So those who object to being robbed
in this fashion either give Sydney a wide
berth or, if necessity compels them to make it
a port of call, remain on the boat. . The
Stevens Government had the opportunity ot
repealing this bushranging impost last ses-
sion, but it preferred to pass 40 or 50 small-
beer bills instead.
Adelaide “Advertiser” reports that McKell,
Lang’s Minister of Justice, sent Christmas
greetings to its protege, Premier Hill. This
in spite of the fact that there are two Lang
“parties” in South Aus. which hate Hill
almost as much as they hate one another.
McKell has a shrewd head on his shoulders,
and he is not the kind of politician to take
unnecessary risks. Apparently he is satis-
fied that, Lang’s star having waned, he can
do with impunity what would have cost
him his political head in December, 1931.
The Federal Government’s 20 p.c. cut was
not so indiscriminate as it might appear. It
went through the naval allowances as well
as the pay; after 15 years’ service, with “con-
tinuous v.g. conduct,” a rating now gets £l6
instead of £2O with his long service medal.
This must save nearly £5O a year. The
midshipman getting his first stripe used to
be allowed £5O to buy the necessary uniform,
which, incidentally, cost nearly twice that.
Now he gets £4O and has to save up the rest
from his Bs. 6d. a day. The cost of purchas-
ing a discharge from the Navy is. the same
as in the boom period. But that is paid to
the Government.
From the Melbourne Steamship Co.: —
In a par. (B. 28/12/’32) headed “Australian Ship-
ping,” a correspondent refers to our steamer Diin-
boola “taking about 60 hours between Brisbane
and Sydney, 600 miles.” The Dimboola’s average
steaming time between Brisbane and Sydney when
she was temporarily in that trade two years ago
was about 40 hours, and her fastest trip 35 hours.
Your correspondent asks is it any wonder Australian
ships are without passengers. May I state that the
first-saloon accommodation in the Dimboola for the
fortnightly round tours, Melbourne, N.W. Tasmania,
Sydney and Brisbane, which she inaugurates from
Melbourne on January 4, is almost entirely booked
up three months in advance!
Flogging their Labor joss is a favorite
pastime with the railway unions in Queens-
land. They periodically indulged in it at
the expense of Theodore and McCormack,
and now they are giving Forgan Sihith a
“ Take, that, see! And if I don’t get what
I want, you’ll go where the others went.”
turn. They have ordered that statesman to
return all the money they have paid into the
superannuation fund and to reinstate forth-
with the strikers whom McCormack sacked ;
and each demand is verra eenconvenient.
“Beta”: It isn’t only political appoint-
ments to high-salaried positions in the pub-
lic service that are scandalous; these at
least see the light of day. It is the innumer-
able appointments to the lower grades, made
by every Government and never heard of.
In my neighborhood (N.S.W.) there are
half a dozen men who will be found quite
indispensable to the public weal when Labor
rules again. They are at present running
sports-meetings for kids, arranging dances
for the local league, etc. An examination
standard is required for all entrants without
political pull. What an exodus there would
be if all who could not produce the supposed
necessary qualifications, or who only acquired
them after appointment, were pushed out !


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Black Mountain”: Bike most N-.S.W.
municipal bodies, Queanbeyan Council is
feeling the pinch, especially since con-
struction work at Canberra was halted.
It suggested a further reduction of in-
terest to two life-insurance concerns, and
the replies were read at a recent council
meeting. One was painfully formal (“while
realising the difficulties that councils are
experiencing, it is regretted that it is impos-
sible Id grant further concessions”); but
the other broke new ground in corres-
pondence between insurance cos. and coun-
cils. It started off brightly: “You have the
.‘statutory reduction; what more do you
want?” Followed a few remarks about the
blighting effect of income taxes, and then
came the concluding passage: “Have a
heart, son, have a heart! How are we
going to pay our policy-holders unless we
get interest on our loans?” A few chuckles
were heard in the council chamber when the
letter was read. They did not come from
the aldermen.
LIGHT WEIGHT.
“Billy Robbins screwed up his courage to propose to Ethel—and then she refused him.”
“M’m, I suppose his screw wasn’t quite enough.”
“.Teames” : Sydney has always been the
most ancestor-conscious city in Australia,
It has a flourishing Pioneers’ Club, and now
it has evolved a Society of Genealogists
with a promising official organ, “The Aus-
tralian Genealogist.” The genesis of all
these organisations is of course a desire
to be different from the herd. The
Sydney Film Society is an example.
Members of the Pioneers’ Club enjoy
a feeling of superiority over members
of the Union and Australian who are
not 1 ioneers comparable to that enjoyed
by members of the Film Society who sit
through a rotten Elstree picture and deplore
the low mental and aesthetic level of per-
sons who are amused by the Marx brothers.
Members of the Society of Genealogists also
acquire a superiority complex by the know-
ledge that they are not as other Sydneyites:
they have ancestors, and aren’t ashamed to
talk about them. A significant feature of
the new movement is disclosed in a sentence
of the principal article in “The Genealogist.”
The writer is stressing the desirability of
a study of the Transportation Registers:
“There were thousands of decent folks who
made good on their arrival and reared some
of the finest families of pioneers that it
was ever the lot of any country to have.”
Sydney is evidently approaching the stage
when the possession of an ancestor who came
out in, say, the Red Rover will be regarded
as a distinction rather than a disability.
* ❖ * ❖
“Valetta”: I was in Ghain Tuffeiha con-
valescent camp, Malta, in Dec., 1915, when
Methuen was Governor and Commander-in-
Chief of Malta. The troops were an ex-
Gallipoli collection of Tommies and Anzaes,
and among them was an Afrikander serving
in the A.I.F. On an occasion when we were
ceremonially paraded for Methuen’s inspec-
tion, I was alongside this chap. The C.-in-
C- stopped in front of him and scrutinised
his dial closely for a minute before he
remarked, “Your face is familiar to me.”
“Yes,” was the reply ; “I am the Boer lieu-
tenant who captured you in South Africa.”
the Field-Marshal moved on so rapidly that
he failed to see the following dozen men.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A friend of mine—call him
Binks—started to leave his Darlinghurst
hash-house in 1927, and is still there. It
is the record, according to my knowledge,
for unsettled domicile. Binks was the first
to announce that he was quitting, but the
notice has mostly been on the other side;
sometimes it has been given in notes pushed
under his door or delivered with his break-
fast, sometimes by word of mouth, with some
added references to his drinking habits and
late hours. Occasionally Binks has arrived
home to find his trunks piled on the door-
step. Always he has put them back,
even if he had to get through the window.
An element of strategy was introduced when
the landlady, in a seemingly pleasant mood,
suggested that Binks should change his
quarters to an upstairs room; but Binks
saw the possibilities of an effective lockout
and refused to bo shifted. But on Monday
I found him perturbed. “There’s something
going on at my bug-walk that I can’t under-
stand,” he said. “Of course, I don’t
remember getting home on New Year’s Eve,
but I recollect everything that happened on
New Year’s Day. I saw the old girl at
least a dozen times; and for the first New
Year’s Day for six years she didn’t tell me
to clear out.”
* * * *
“Clerk”: Australia’s 600-odd rural and
provincial newspapers share only 90 names
among them. The “Times” is easily the
most popular label, being the common pro-
perty of n 0 fewer than 67 papers. Then
come the “News” (41), the “Advocate,”
“Herald” and “Advertiser” (33 each),
“Chronicle” (28), “Express” (25) and
“Courier” (19). There are 17 “Guardians,”
nine “Observers,” eight “Examiners,” seven
“Recorders,” six “Sentinels,” five “Specta-
tors,” two “Mirrors,” a “Broadcaster,” a
“Scrutineer,” a “Reformer,” an “Alert,” a
“Critic,” an “Eagle” and a “Watchman.”
Primary industry is represented by four
“Graziers,” three “Miners ” two “Farmers ”
two “Irrigators,” a “Cultivator” and a “Pro-
ducer.” supported by three “Pioneers ” a
“Colonist” and a “Yeoman.” Astronomy
gets a look in with IS “Stars,” 15 “Mer-
eurys,” eight “Suns” and a solitary “South-
ern Cross,” and there is competition for the
P.M.G. in the shape of 17 “Mails” eight
“Posts,” five “Dispatches,” four’ “Tele-
graphs” and a “Telegram.” S. Aus. has
Australia’s only “Bunyip,” although n's.W.
displays some imagination in a “Voice.” and
Vic. and Westralia each supply an “Echo ”
And probably John Norton would have
approved of the title of the Kondinin and
Kulin “Kourier” (W A )
“Heresone”: Don’t worry, it’s not only in
Parliament that queer things happen. In
our N.S.W. township an unsophisticated
constable began his career by enforcing six
o’clock closing of pubs instead of the cus-
tomary 11 p.m. He also condemned the
butcher’s shop,
slaughteryard and
cart, and gave
offence to other in-
fluential people. In
a few months he
was transferred to
'a less desirable
district. The suc-
cessor allowed 11
p.m. closing, but
put his foot down
when polo week
arrived and the
publicans proposed
to stay open all
night. He was
sent off on an un-
necessary four
days’ patrol, and
the pubs were open
all round the clock
till he returned.
A railway station
was closed, and a
ne a r-b y selector
wrote to the de-
partment offering
£230 for the sta-
tionmaster’s co t-
tage if it was for
sale. Nothing hap-
pened, but a little
later he heard it
had been sold for
£l5O.
* * *
“Clio”: I was
told by a public
typist that the job
she most dreaded
was one she had to
tackle the day be-
fore the English
mail went out,
when a client
arrived regularly
at the office at 9
a.m. and spent the
best part of the
morning dictating
a tremendously
long love-letter to
a girl in London.
He was always full
of extravagant ex-
pressions of devo-
tion, which he in-
sisted on being
worked in. After
about three hours
spent addressing
the far-off damsel
as “my little lotus-
bud” and “star of
my gloaming” the fed-up typist frequently
was on the verge of refusing his further
business. But she kept on, and only told
me of her experience after the man had
committed suicide, following on the news
from London that the lotus-bud had jilted
him and gone off to blossom elsewdiere.
“Fed Up”: It isn’t that Sydney’s bridge
is a public thoroughfare that makes it so
attractive to intending suicides
(B. 2S/12/’32) .but that it
offers something new. Nearly
every big bridge that the
modern world has known has
developed a special crop of
suicides. But the novelty wears
off and some other agency for
self-destruction catches the
public fancy. I doubt if a toll
would make any difference.
When the Brooklyn suspension
bridge in New York was opened
many years ago there was a
toll, but this did not prevent it
being rushed by those bent on
wiping themselves off the slate.
$ * * *
“Centurion”: It i.s like a
breath of old times to read that
a British firm has contracted
to supply Persia, with which
Britain is at odds over the oil
concessions, with bomber aero-
planes. This custom of provid-
ing actual or potential enemies
with munitions seems to be con-
fined to the British and the
Maoris. It is on record that
the in one of the tribal
wars with Britain, asked during
a lull in the firing if the stop-
page was due to a lack of am-
munition on the British side,
and offered to supply the defi-
ciency. In the Napoleonic wars
boots, clothing and other odd-
ments were supplied to the
French armies by British mer-
chants. Writer has had a
personal experience of the prac-
tice. When the South African
War opened the British troops
were disagreeably surprised to
find that the Boers possessed
a light automatic gun firing lib.
shells. This, the famous “pom-
pom,” had been designed, manu-
factured and forwarded to the
Boers by the great British firm of Vicars-
Maxim —quite legitimately, of course.
* * * *
“One Pip”: The changes in the British
Army service uniform may make for com-
fort on the whole (B. 28/12/’32), but I
am doubtful about some of the details. Mud-
drenched puttees are certainly a nuisance
to remove —by the way, why has the Army
never adopted the strap- and buckle-fasten-
ing type of puttee which some firms put on
the market towards the end of the Great
War?—but I can assure “O.” that the but-
toning web gaiter is worse than any puttee
to don or remove when it is water- and
mud-logged. Any naval man who has served
in the wet in shore kit will back me up.
The open-necked tunic with collar and tie
may be comfortable, but the man in the
ranks will have extra work when dressing
for parade. The old button-up tunic could
be thrown on in a second over a singlet, or
even the buff, and no one would be any
the wiser. Now a shirt cannot be dodged,
and there is the additional time-wasting
affliction of buttoning on a collar and adding
THE HUNTER OR THE GAME?
“I’m watching out for my Wife —have you seen her?”
“No-o-o! Are you trying to find her or avoid her?”
[An unpublished drawing by the late Alf Vincent, dated 1904.]
a tie. These two last, “with studs, collar,”
fasten on Thomas Atkins, as .someone has
already noted, several more gadgets to lose
or have pinched from his kit, with conse-
quent stoppages on pay-day.
* * * *
“Nerang”: Another coincidence for “Ike
Mcßagg” (B. 28/12/’32). A bather on the
ocean beach at Southport (Q.) during the
holidays had a large surf ball carried away
by the heavy breakers. When last seen the
thing was heading for Capetown or there-
about on an ebb tide. It was mourned for
lost, but next day, when the owner went
down for a swim, she was met by the missing
ball riding triumphantly ashore in the surf.
“Mako”: A Maoriland youth, off to the
wars, left his sailing-boat under the care of
his sister, who kept it at anchor at the
foot of the garden and used it sufficiently
to keep it in condition. During a severe
gale the small ship broke away, and was
believed to have sunk somewhere in Auck-
land Harbor. A month later a man arrived
with the news that the yacht was safe in
Islington Bay, between Rangitoto and Mota-
tapu Island. Not only had the small craft
drifted along through a terrific storm, but
she had negotiated the difficult entrance to
the bay, and come to rest on a beach on
which her owner used to camp in pre-war
times, 20 miles from her former moorings.
* * * Hi
“Rustyface” : I come from “Steele Rudd’s”
Country, and the other day, when I hap-
pened across a reproduction of portion of a
page from the first register of Emu Creek
(Q.) State school, 1875, the seven-and-
fifty years were “a mist that blows away.”
The names are written in perfect copper-
plate: Mary Davis, later Mrs. “Sandy”
Burton; Richard Davis, S.M. at Allora in
other years; Edward Davis, honest, hard-
working Ned, who is probably still farming
near the old Toowoomba-road; Margaret
Davis, who married Harrison Beck; Arthur
H. Davis. “Steele Rudd” (he calls on me
frequently at a city office far removed
from the Darling Downs), and Harrison
Beck himself. Harry figured in a local story
in which a short-sighted young man went out
’possuming. He noticed a dark object in a
tree, fired, and a fluttering something fell
to earth. Rushing up to his prize, the short-
sighted one, to the delight of his companions,
cried in disgust: “Oh, ’ell, a howl!”
❖ ❖ ❖ Hi
“C. Coral”: When Bligh passed through
Torres Strait in the Providence with his
cargo of breadfruit he named Darnley
Island, and had occasion to remember
his call; his boats were attacked by
canoes. Strangely enough, Darnley and the
neighboring Murray Island are the only two
islands in the strait which grow breadfruit,
although it varies somewhat from that which
formed “Breadfruit Billy’s” cargo. Accord-
ing to native legend, breadfruit was brought
t 0 Darnley by a mythical hero named Sida,
who came from New Guinea way in the
form of a great bird flying over the seas.
It is highly unlikely that Bligli would have
spared any of his precious trees to the
Torres Strait islanders, but all the same
one wonders whether there is any associa-
tion between the legend and the bit of his-
tory. The Darnley Island fruit, by the
way. is rather sweeter than the Papuaii
product.
THE JAVA SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A hazy land-line on our lee,
A perfect morn, a smooth, warm sea,
And Phyllis in a di>ss of white
To cream the cup of my delight—
Who would not thus a rover be?
If races rise, and nations fall,
It matters nothing at the call
Of morning on the Java Sea;
With you and I in company
It matters, matters not at all.
And such is Fortune, such is Fate.
The moon that silvered Lombok Strait
But yestere’en, not you nor I
Can e’er forget until we die—
For such is Fortune, such is F'ate!
The spicy perfumes from the shore,
And red-roofed houses dotted o’er,
The jungled isles we leave behind.
To you and me must bring in mind
The Orient for evermore.
Our steady steamer onward bears
Its living freight of joys and cares. . ..
To-night we part at Samarang—
Ah, morning on the Java Sea!
So sweet to you, so sweet to me....
To-night we part at Samarang!
So', Phyllis, in your villa fine,
I know your dreaming eyes, like mine,
With sad delight will sometimes see
The Straits of Lombok .all alight,
The Straits of Lombok in the night,
And morning on the Java Sea.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


SURMISING.
[Foil The Bulletin.]
I love your dignity.
You walk as a king might;
Your head is firmly set,
Your step is sure and light.
Your eyes hold hidden dreams
Behind their unwavering gaze.
Your life is cool and sweet;
Well-ordered are your days.
But when your barricade
Of dignity is thrown
Aside for a short space,
And you are quite alone,
I wonder do those dreams,
Hidden behind your eyes,
Lure you along sweet paths,
Flower-strewn and laughter-wise ?
I wonder do you drink
From goblets filled by Love’s
Alluring little hands,
Soft as the wings of doves?
Sir, I rightly surmise,
Your coolness is a pose,
And melts when little Love
Proffers a crimson rose.
MAORILAND. IVY GlBBS.
* * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Going along to
an Adelaide job, I saw a sedan car parked
in a lane; • in it were three lads and two
lasses, all sozzled. Just as the eight o’clock
whistles blew a girl, walking briskly, came
into the picture. She stopped at the sight
of the car, her expression plainly showing
that she recognised it, and tripped across
for a closer view. Smiling impishly, she
gazed at the face of tlie knut who lolled
in the driver’s seat, meditated a moment,
then dragged him away from the wheel, got
in and drove away. A milk-carter of my
acquaintance saw the end of her adventure.
She drove the car up to the door of a big
house in a fashionable suburb, rang the
front doorbell and walked away, leaving at
least one lad to face angry parents. Now,
I wonder what little story of feminine ven-
geance lies behind that prodigal’s home-
coming.
* * * *
“Deekay”: The Sydney suburb of Ryde
has a Tucker-street. Fronting it is a soli-
tary building: the Food Relief Depot.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Adelaide”: A man who admits that gaol
is his proper place has just gone back to
the Adelaide “Stockade” after being out for
four days. He offered absurdly valueless
cheques at two business houses, was told to
clear out, and then went round to the detec-
tive office and said, “Get me three years if
you can. What for? The old game.”
Next morning he was given 12 months, and
with a grateful “Thank you, your Worship,”
went back home.
!|: * *
“Craigilee”: “Jeviel” (B. 14/12/’32)
stresses the danger of the front-seat cock-
pit in two-seater aircraft. The death of
Captain Shaw, R.A.A.F., at Pittsworth
(Q.) last April is another case in point.
Shaw was crushed and imprisoned by the
engine being forced back, and could not be
freed until the machine had been partially dis-
mantled. His pupil in the after-cockpit was
practically uninjured. The latest type of
SAFETY FIRST.
“The constable says you were travelling
at a speed of sixty miles an hour.”
“It was necessary, your Honor It was a
stolen car.”
“Oh, that puts an entirely different com-
plexion on it. Case dismissed, of
course.”
Gipsy Moth with the metal fuselage is a
step in the right direction, providing as it
does more resistance between engine and
forward-cockpit; but much needs to be done
yet in the way of shock-absorbing apparatus.
;jc :'c *
“Whitehall”: Some friends of mine had
a boy at the Sydney Grammar School. The
depression came along, and they had to
send him to the High School, where, I
understand, the fees are nil or thereabouts.
I used to meet his S.G.S. friends in the
days of the family’s affluence, and now I
sometimes meet his new S.H.S. friends in
company with some of the others. There
is practically no difference between the two
sets of boys; their voices and articulation
are the same, their manners are the same,
they are interested in much the same things,
und they dress in much the same way. This
I regard as an extremely significant social
phenomenon. In the U.K., to quote Bert-
rand Russell, the great public schools are
“for the educating of a self-perpetuating
aristocratic class.” Not all the boys at Eng-
lish public schools are aristocrats by any
manner of means (I, who have no claims
to being an aristocrat, was at one), but they
do provide certain distinguishing, marks. It
would be impossible for a boy to leave Eton
or Harrow, Winchester or Rugby, and
mingle easily and naturally with the boys
of a board school, or even, for that matter,
with the boys of a grammar school. An
English public-school boy talks, dresses and
even thinks differently from other English
boys. This compartmentation of the classes
is in evidence everywhere. For example,
any Englishman can tell the difference
between a typical R.N. and a typical P.
and O. or Orient officer by the test of speech
alone. I will defy anyone to identify the
average Australian officer, naval or military,
as a member of the officer class by his
accent; and I will defy anyone to distin-
A FALSE ALARM.
“But didn’t you get off once before to attend your grandmother’s funeral?”
“Yes, sir—she came very near being buried alive that time.”
guish a typical G.P.S. boy from a typical
State-school boy by his voice or general
behavior. Set that to the credit of Aus-
tralia’s much-abused educational system,
anyhow. It has done more than anything
else to abolish class distinctions throughout
the Commonwealth.
H; * * *
“Gwi”: If tobacco-growing isn’t yet as
it might be in Australia, it isn’t for lack of
advisers with world-wide experience of the
conditions under which it can be produced.
In a Westralian lawsuit brought by several
shareholders in an unsuccessful tobacco ven-
ture against the directors, the manager of
the co. deposed that he had grown tobacco in
the TransVaal, Brazil, California, Peru,
Connecticut, India, British Columbia,
Northern Nigeria and Borneo. Further, he
had made inquiries into the industry in
Maoriland, and his services had been in
request for a plantation in Fiji. Yet he
modestly disclaimed being a tobacco expert.
It would be interesting to know what does
constitute a tobacco expert; one meets dozens
of mining experts who have never been out-
side Australia.
* * * *
“J.S.”: A lady from Glebe, Sydney,
was holidaying up country, and her hus-
band stayed at home dutifully for several
nights. Then one evening he went to a-
theatre, and returned about midnight to find
the house had been broken into. First thing
next morning he was confronted by a decply-
suspicious wife. On the previous night, she
said, site had rung up the house from the
country and a strange woman had answered
the ’phone. “No, he is not here,” she said,
and rang off. The explanation that the
housebreaker must have been a woman,
though true, sounds fishy.
# sf:
“Dundreary” : Not often in Britain’s rough
island story have soldiers gone bearded like
the pard (B. 14/12/’32). Wellington’s men
were clean-shaven save for an occasional
side-lever, such as “The Dook” himself
affected. The men who fought at Minden
and earlier under Marlborough were
also bald-faced. It is l in the early-
Victoriah period that we find the mous-
tache becoming the hall-mark of the
officer, and often whiskers were worn also.
Later came the period of the cavalry
“Plunger,” distinguished b’ 7 inordinately long
moustaches, such as “Ouida” loved to write
about. The South African War period was
a moustached one, and with senior officers a
whiskered one in addition. Gradually shav-
ing cut down the hair growth to the atrocity
affected by junior subs, in the Great War,
and now even the “toothbrush” seems to be
going the way of its predecessors.
$ * * *
“J.”: I run a literary page, and in that
capacity periodically get letters like this;
the average for the past three months has
been nearly four a week :
Could you tell me where , which was
reviewed some time ago by you, can be bought in
Australia? I have written to leading booksellers,
and none of them have it. Messrs. say they
had never heard of. it till your review appeared.
Apparently London and New York publishers
senrj hundreds of costly books to Australian
reviewers without making any attempt be-
forehand to sell even half a dozen copies
or so to Australian booksellers. Again,
some plan to sell a few hundreds, or even
an edition, in Australia, and fail to deliver
them before the reviews begin to appear. Or
it may be that local booksellers fail to
distribute them before the reviews begin to
appear. I once wrote a novel which was pub-
lished in London, and praised in Melbourne,
but no copies were available for Melbournites
till the Victorian public for books by local
authors had forgotten all about my work
and turned its attention to the work of a
friend —which also remained unprocurable for
several weeks after the “Argus” and
“Herald” had noticed it. If there is a more
lunatic trade phenomenon than this I would
like to have it revealed. It amounts to going
to a lot of trouble and expense to let the
public know about your goods as a pre-
lude to omitting to supply them.
“Erua”: Some legal history has been
made in Maoriland. An aeroplane catas-
trophe occurred just after the big earth-
quake, resulting in the death of the pilot
and his two passengers. The father of one
of the victims sued Dominion Airlines,
owners of the ’plane, for £5OOO, and was
awarded £3OOO under the Death by Accident
Compensation Act. The decision was upset
by the Court of Appeal. Maoriland legal
authorities received communications from
America asking for full reports of both hear-
ings, followed by similar requests from the
Institute of Air in Germany and the civil
aviation heads in Australia. The case was
the first of the kind in the Empire, and
already the details have been embodied in
a textbook published by an English bar-
rister.
“D.” : After 15 years the Russian revolu-
tion is going the way of all revolutions — i.e.,
it is ending, after an era of bloody absolutism,
in an indigenous variant on democratic gov-
ernment —and in all that time it hasn’t
dowered humanity with a single important
new idea or invention. The Reformation
gave England a literary renascence and
opened a new era in exploration and science.
The French Revolution brought seekers after
exact knowledge to France from all over
the earth, including Liebig (German) and
Humphrey Davy (English). Lavoisier
(chemistry), Amp&re (electricity), Lagrange
(mechanics! and a dozen other great men
were evolved by
the uational quick-
ening of thought.
Everything wa s
altered, from
methods of making
war to methods of
town-planning and
presenting art and
theatrical shows.
The Russia of
Lenin - Trotsky-
Stalin hasn’t pro-
duced a single first-
class man in litera-
ture, art, the
drama, music, or
any of the sciences ;
its engineers have
all been im-
ported from the
U.S.A. and Eng-
land, its soldiers
from Germany,
and most of the
notions in the art-
form on which it
seem,s to be con-
centrating (namely,
the cinema) from
Hollywood. Rus-
sia led the world
in ballet under
Czarism, but by
all accounts it has
gone back even in
dancing of late
years. Its experi-
ments in educa-
tion, child wel-
fare, motherhood endowment and after-care
have been widely advertised, but, like its
grandiose experiments in militarism, they
are only copies of similar movements in
Western Europe, America and Australia.
It is doubtful if any large-scale rising since
the Revolt of the Slaves has done so little
for civilisation. %
* * * *
“Justin Case”: Mention of Tom Mann (B.
21/12/’32) recalls Broken Hill’s most peace-
ful strike. In 1909 Tom was sent to the Bar-
rier as chief organiser of an offensive against
the waverers who threatened to undermine
the strike proposals. The Wade Govern-
ment’s response was the rushing _of 300
police to the scene. The campaign was
fought with much verbal but little phy-
sical violence. Tom was arrested, but
released on condition that he refrained
from addressing meetings in N. S. Wales.
H'e kept his undertaking by “deporting” him-
self to the neighboring State,' and for several
Sundays afterwards special trains conveyed
Barrier citizens to the S. Aus. boundary
fence, where they were addressed by Tom
from the roof of a pub verandah. When
the trouble was at its height a Sydney
weekly published a full-page sketch of a
waggon, escorted by police, being bombarded
with bricks as it passed along Argent-
street. The cargo was far too pre-
cious for such treatment; it consisted
of kegs of beer, donated by sundry shrewd
business people, for consumption during the
daily cricket match played on Western Oval
between police and strikers.
* * =l= *
“Hamer”: The best school howler of the
year now dead was included in an answer
on an English paper. “The poet does his
work in bursts of perspiration,” said the
earnest scholar. As I have written verses
myself, the statement has, perhaps, a special
appeal to me.
* * *
“In and Out”: It is true, as “D.” notes
(B. 28/12/’32), that the wealthy folk of
Europe and America used to go to London
for their clothes. But it is one thing to
buy expensive habiliments and another to
wear them with that unconsciousness of
being well turned out which is the hall-mark
of the English aristo. Germans were
pathetic failures in this respect. Indeed, it
is said that one of the primary causes of the
Great War was the comment of Ring
Edward the first time die saw the Kaiser
in plain clothes: “Good God, he looks like
a valet wearing one of his master's cast-off
suits!” This went back to Wilhelm, who
never forgot the wound to his vanity.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: “O. de V.” (B. 21/12/’321,
in correcting “Sans Faire Rien” (B.
14/12/’32), slips into a bigger bull himself
when he states that the euphemism “ Tid’apa ”
is handed out on the west coast of Africa.
That expression is exclusively Malay.
* * * *
“Prodeegious”: It has been said of an
eminent but absent-minded Australian pro-
fessor that, though he frequently mislays his
spectacles, he never forgets his manners. One
night he climbed aboard the last and fastest
tram from a steep hillside suburb, and, be-
coming lost in meditation, failed to notice
that he had the compartment to himself.
Half-way to the city a lady entered. The
prof, solemnly rose and hung gallantly to
a strap for the rest of the swaying journey.
* * * *
“Pivot” : The calm that broods over Gee-
long has been disturbed by an error of
judgment on the part of the mayor. Visiting
a hospital he picked out a red-headed child
and hailed it as a future Prime Minister.
The infant was a young female, as Jane
Austin would have said. His Worship has
had to stand up to a lot of crude humor
from his associates and the press, but he
has also experienced a measure of approval.
The Women Citizens wrote that they had
looked up the Constitution and found nothing
therein to debar a member of the superior
sex from becoming Prime Minister.
Hi * * *
“Verri” : A novelist from these parts, dis-
heartened at having failed to take London
by storm, put her just-returned masterpiece
NO, NO—FIFTY-FIFTY.
“Waiter, I’ve found, a hair in my soup!”
“Ah, thank you, sir! But I shall be quite satisfied with half of
it, sir!”
in the grate and looked round for a match
with which to set it alight. She. couldn’t find
one, so she left the MS. in the grate and
went to bed. She was aroused next morning
by a great rapping on the door. _ An agitated
messenger stood there, demanding her MS.
at once. It had been returned in error, hav-
ing actually won first prize in a competition.
The lady fished it out of the grate and col-
lected the cash and the limelight. I have
been waiting ever since for her to publish “A
Matchless Moment,” or something to that
effect, but so far the opus has not arrived.


SI 363
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Gullett family came from Devon:
Henry was 16 when his father reached the
Vic. goldfields. Soon Dad went on the land,
and the boys with him. Henry presently
got the eye of Wilson, of the “Argus,’’ who
put him into that office. The new K.C.M.G.,
Harry, is a son of the elder Henry’s brother
Charles; Charlie was a Victorian farmer,
t°°. Harry started off on the same line, but
like his uncle turned into journalism, getting
a job under his uncle with the “S. M.
Herald.” A third brother of the first family,
Phil, mixed law and journalism. Harry,
after doing immigration work for the Aus-
tralian Government both before and after
the war, turned definitely to politics in 1925
and was elected for Henty (Vic.). Ilis
knighthood comes to him as a reward
for his services at Ottawa. His and
Lawson’s are the only K.C.M.G.’s on the
Australian list: the others —Kingsmill, ex-
President of the Senate; Walder, ex-Mayor
of Sydney; Gepp, ex-chairman of the De-
velopment Commission ; and McKelvey, Syd-
ney surgeon—are K.B.’s, who are “lower
than the knights proper,” and don’t really
belong to an order of knighthood at all.
Walter Kingsmill, the Senate’s just-
knighted ex-President, has had nearly 36
years of Parliament with, a couple of very
brief interludes. Pilbarra r (W.A.) sent him
to the Assembly in April, 1897—an Adelaide
Uni. graduate and mining engineer who had
been some years on the nor’-west goldfields.
Kingsmill was always a speaker who could
command attention, and in his early Parlia-
mentary days he was something of an icono-
clast, a rebel against the existing order, and
a co-fighter with such advanced democrats
as F. C. B. Vosper against the existing
Groper Administration.
Senator Harry Lawson, who gets a
K.C.M.G. as a New Year’s gift, had made
his name as a stayer in Victorian politics
long before he heard the call of Canberra
four years ago. Son of a Presbyterian min-
ister, and educated at Scotch College and
Melbourne Uni., he made the law his pro-
fession and Castlemaine his home town, and
Castlemaine (afterwards Castlemaine and
Maldon—-later still Castlemaine and Kyne-
tonj reciprocated by sending him to the Vic.
Assembly when he was a young man of 24
and, .keeping him there continuously for 30
years, from 1899 onwards
Dr. CLIVE SHIELD, one of the Young
Nats, in the Vic. Assembly.
J. L. Fegan one of the pioneer Labor
Ms.L.A. of N.S.W. (lie came in in 1891), had
a queer experience: though he was a Free-
trader who broke away from his party be-
cause it would insist on sinking the/fiscal
issue, he got his one and only taste of office
as a reward for supporting Bill Lyne. the
Protectionist, against George Reid; Lyne
made him Minister for Mines. “Oom Bill”
never forgot a friend especially if the friend
was hard up, and when he became the first
hederal Minister for Home Affairs he tried
8. lve Jegan a permanent job as non-
political head of the department. But he
couldnt get Barton to go that far.
Australia’s oldest woman is said to be
Mrs. Scarrfe, of Traralgon (Vic.), who cele-
brated what is claimed to be her 108th birth-
day on Christmas Day. A stewardess in
the days when paddle-steamers were ocean-
going liners, she tried, during the Crimean
War, to enjist as a nurse under Florence
Nightingale, but was too late to join the
contingent which left London for the war
zone. Later, with her husband, she went to
the Vic. diggings, and for some time was
a storekeper at Omeo.
F. A. Cooper, Queensland’s Minister for
Education, is a New South Welshman who
has played many parts in his 61 years. At
different times he has been head clerk in a
church office, an employee of a big engineer-
ing concern, a free-lance journalist and a
Labor official. Settling in Queensland in
Queensland Minister for Education
COOPER.
1912, he soon made his mark as a Labor
organiser, and three years later was returned
to the Assembly, for Bremer, a seat he has
held ever since. A keen and experienced
debater, lie has long been knocking at the
door of Ministerial office.
Mrs. Mary Ann Adamson signalised her
entry into her 100th year the other day at
Hastings (M.L.) by taking a flight in an
aeroplane over the town she knew when not
a street or road was in existence. Among
the spectators was the old ladv’s son, aged
77.
Tas. University will soon be looking for
a successor in the Chair of Law to the
brilliant Professor McDougal, who is about
to retire. The professor has been expound-
ing the law and delivering delightful lec-
tures to Tas. undergrads, for two decades;
few men in this hemisphere have a better
style of “putting it across” in class. But
at 70 or so signs of weariness appear.
Jim Long, who passed over suddenly in
Melbourne the other day, had a rare dis-
tinction : at the time of his election to the
Speck’s Assembly in 1906 he was in the
North Lyell mine, and was recognised as
the best man with a drill-hammer in the
State. His speech was then as rough as the
West Coast itself, but he studied hard, and
when he reached the Senate in 1910 he was
a cultured speaker. Long was responsible,
with Jim Ogden, George Burns, Walter
Woods and others (Woods alone survives),
for having a commission appointed in 1907 to
inquire into allegations of sweating in Tas-
manian industries. The disclosures secured
brought about the passage of the Wages
Board Act. Under that Act the Hobart
cabmen were awarded 80s. a week of 90
hours —which suggests that a revolution
was about due. When Ogden and Long
finished their first session in the Assembly
they went back to work in the mines, but
Long was sacked almost immediately—it
was not considered advisable to have an
M.P. on the premises. Tasmanian M’s.P.
got only f 100 a year at the time.
F. N. Drayton, the Guinea Airways pilot
who was killed iast week in a crash, was
in his 29th year. He got his training at
Point Cook (Vic.), and served with the Aus-
tralian Air Force until 1927, when he took
up civil flying in New Guinea. When his
license was last renewed he had 2000 flying
hours to his credit. L. H. Harper, his pas-
senger, who' was just completing a flight
from the New Guinea goldfields, and who
also perished, was an American surveyor.
The late “Money” Miller’s son Edward,
who for years was chairman of the Bank
of Victoria, which his father founded, died
worth £104,669. “Money’s” father was the
first Commandant of the Moreton Bay Settle-
ment. Edward Miller’s friend Percy'Landale
cut up for £293,158. But Miller had sons to
provide for, while Landale had only an
adopted daughter.
Gerald Mussen, who is still pegging away
at his scheme to set up paper-making in
Tasmania, spent his early working life on
the press, and was on the Sydney “Tele-
graph” in its brightest days. His writing
on the money page attracted attention in
Melbourne, and the Baillieus invited him
south. Later he was a sort of liaison officer
between the Broken Hill cos. and their work-
men, and instituted many of the co.’s social
services. His paper co. has everything it
needs but the capital: it has a big timber
concession in Tasmania (one of three
—the others are owned by De Bavay’s and
the Melbourne “Herald”), but it has been
stuck up by exchange difficulties. When it
can get hold of £700,000 —and Mussen now
reports good prospects—it will jump into
the collar. Several of the largest news-
print consumers in Australia are behind him.
Had an 83rd birthday in S.A., Lewis
Cohen, formerly Mayor of Adelaide for a
record total of years, and a leading busi-
ness man ; he takes things easily nowadays.
Also an 81st anniversary, C. M. R. Dumas,
father of Lloyd Dumas, “Advertiser” editor,
and still active in management of his own
“Courier” at Mount Barker.
Major G. R. Russell, whose death at
Aldershot (Eng.) is reported, was born at
West Maitland (N.S.W.), where his father
was a doctor. From Rossall School in Lan-
cashire he passed into Woolwich, and
emerged just in time for the 1914 un-
pleasantness. He was promoted captain at
Salonika at the age of 23, and was brigade-
major in 1918, when he held the M.C. and
the order of the Crown of Roumania. Seven
years’ service in India followed, the last two
at the Staff College at Quetta.
H. A. Mullett, who succeeds Robert
Crowe as Yic. Director of Agriculture, has
reached the top at an extraordinarily early
age—he is only 42, and has been hardly
10 years in the service. A. E. Y. Richard-
son’s departure for Adelaide to join the
Waite Institute gave Mullett his first big
lift —from senior inspector to supt. of agri-
culture. Crowe specialised in butter; Mul-
lett inclines to wheat and pastures.
John Francis Ryan, who died in Mel-
bourne last week, owned Nyangay and
Kerarbury stations in the Riverina, and
raced some good horses. But he was proudest
of all of his two boys, William and John,
who had stroked Xavier to victory in liead-
of-the-river races.
There seems little doubt that William
Woodhouse, born at Kirkcaldy (Scotland),
who died in Tasmania the other day, actu-
ally was 102 years and seven months old.
He had attended to his orchard and swung
an axe until just before his death. Fruit
and regular exercise, he said, kept him fit.
Margaret Susannah Tipping, a native of
Richmond (N.S.W.), who has died at 90,
was the ninth child of a family of thirteen.
Her parents, the Cornwells, of Richmond,
died at the age of 81, but their family circle
w r as not broken until the youngest son passed
on at the age of 76.
Bernard Farley, who has died at Canow-
indra (N.S.W.), built St. Patrick’s College
at Manly for Cardinal Moran. Another of
his jobs was St. Columba’s College at
Springwood. Fifty-six of his 86 years wei'e
spent in N. S. Wales.
T. J. Hartigan, the new Chief Commis-
sioner of Railways in N. S. Wales, has had
a good training for the job. He went into
the Accounts Branch as a youngster (he is
55 now), filled every office up to accountant,
has been sent abroad to study railway man-
agement (especially on the accounting and
A r .S.W.'s new Chief Railway Commissioner
HARTIGAN.
costing sides), and was mentioned as a
probable assistant commissioner as far back
as 1924. He has the goodwill of the staff,
and has been provided with a very capable
young assistant—Garside, who began as a
fitter-apprentice, and has reached the second
place in the service at 45. The Chief is a
younger brother of that Father Hartigan
who wrote “The Boree Log.”
A Tas. University youth, Macdonell
Woods, this year established a local record
by taking honors in each of the 22 examina-
tions prescribed in the four-years’ Engineer-
ing course —15 “high distinctions” and seven
“distinctions.” A last-year law student
named Green at this university took 10
subjects in the year, and at the exam, scored
10 “high' distinctions.”
HAROLD WYLDE, F.R.C.O., the new City
Organist of Adelaide.
Arthur Lynch, one of the most extraordi-
nary geniuses Victoria has produced, gives
most of his time in London these days to
the study of philosophy: he is at the moment
one of the star lecturers of the Metropoli-
tan Secular Society. An M.A. and O.E. of
Melbourne, Lynch studied medicine later in
London, Berlin and Paris, and is an
M.R.C.S.; among other things, he has been
a colonel in two armies and a member of
the House of Commons, and probably has
more books to his credit —some in English,
many in French —than any other Australian.
Alf Hales is the only one whose score
approaches Lynch’s.
The death of J. Lionel Fegan—who wasn’t
an Irishman, by the way, but an Eng-
lish Methodist local preacher—probgbly re-
called to Lord Beauchamp an anxious hour
or two he had when he w r as the very youth-
ful Governor of N. S. Wales over 30 years
ago. J. C. (“Jawbone”) Neild had gone
abroad as a “commissioner” and made a
report on old-age pensions, and Reid had
paid him £3OO for doing it. The House
boiled over—“ What, spend £3OO without
Parliamentary authority!” Lyne moved a
vote of censure, which Fegan crossed the
chamber to second, and it was carried.
Reid was understood to have put it to the
Governor that he was entitled to a dissolu-
tion ; but Lyne insisted that he could carry
on—and did, until Federation arrived.
“Wai-hoi”; Still fairly hale and hearty
in a Sydney suburb is Alfred Kingsland,
the only survivor, as far as I know, of. the
Escape Cliffs (N.T.) expedition which the
South Australian Government sent out in
1864, under the impossible Colonel Finniss.
There is no worse spot in the Territory than
Escape Cliffs, what with bloodthirsty nat-
ives, _ unhealthy conditions and insect" pests,
and in addition there was quarrelling among
the expedition. Later on, Kingsland was a
lands inspector on South Australia’s wes-
tern coast, and later still he made a bit
on the Westralian goldfields during the Cool-
gardie boom.
Somebody in the U.S.A. has stolen the
name of “Feng-Shui,” The Bulletin’s
well-known writer —Australia’s foremost
living authority on Chinese and Japanese
affairs—and given it to a dog. The dog is
supposed to produce a paper—obviously
founded on the “Believe it or not” model—
called the “Dog Town Bark,” and devoted
to odds and ends picked up anywhere. The
Bulletin can’t object to an American steal-
ing its old contributor’s name, but it exploded
when by the last mail a communication
arrived from a counsellor-at-law in Portland,
Maine, saying that he had read in the “Liter-
ary Digest” an article by “Feng-Shui” re-
printed from The Bulletin, and begging
this paper to be careful because “Feng-Shui”
was known to him as a perfectly unreliable
person—in fact, a notorious crook and impos-
tor ! It is hardly necessary to say that The
Bulletin’s “Feng-Shui” has no connection
with the American impersonator.
A well-practised member for the heavenly
choir when his call comes will be Frederick
Lawes, who started choir-singing at eight,
and lias been: doing it for 70 years—for long
past in St. Thomas’s church in Lang’s
Sydney suburb of Auburn. In his old age
he preserves a silvery tenor.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. *• •• •• £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . • • • • £3,660,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . • • • • £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
Any Test Will Prove
PIONEER SUPERIORITY
In Australia’s leading industries
where transmission belting is
selected with the same care as
other sections of the plant you
will find Pioneer Belting giving
many years of efficient service.
When you buy Pioneer Belting
you immediately overcome
breakdowns, loss of power and
costly repairs.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1358
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 569,894
1924.. 448,628 54,055 214,970 179,603 749,497
1925.. 357,212 69,196 149,226 133,790 ( 7
Superannuation fund, £5OOO .. I °
Added to establishment, £174,340 .. 708,947
1926.. 382,789 66,728 129,313 186,748 895,695
Superannuation fund taken in, £5000.. 900,695
Sept.,
1927 t. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 .. 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152. . 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623. . 2,286,598
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO. . 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 . . 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352 ; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537; 1930,
£8926. fNine months.
It has been a splendid achievement. Six
years ago there were obvious weaknesses in
the financial structure, and the outlook for
both, policy-holders and shareholders was
unpromising. Then a new board, headed by
E. S'. Paul, took control, and it placed the
immediate interests of policy-holders in the
foreground. For the five years to the close
of last accounts it had distributed £216,091
in bonuses among them, while shareholders
have received only £34,478 in divs., averag-
ing 2 p.c.—they have been passed over alto-
gether in the last two years. In the five
years no less than £368,942 of establishment
charges have been wiped out of the accounts,
purging them entirely of this will-o’-the-wisp,
and substantial sums have been written off
for bad debts, depreciation, etc. All this
has been done notwithstanding that taxation
and provision therefor mounted from £6OOO
in 1926 to over £44,000 in 1931, and the
statutory cut in returns from Government
securities, mortgages, etc., added to the diffi-
culties. There is every reason to believe
that the business has now been set upon
sound foundations; certainly prospects for
policy-holders and shareholders alike have
been substantially enhanced despite the dis-
abilities.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts gross income (£384,011)
slipped £50,431, of which £26,839 was in
respect of net premiums (£270,878) and
£23,592 interest, etc. (£113,133). Out-
goings (£304,035) were £3663 heavier, due
to a larger crop of claims, leaving the sur-
plus £54,094 lighter at £79,976. Including
£15,000 previously reserved for bonuses,
£3592 brought forward and £27,383 that be-
came available from previous actuarial
reserves, there was £125,951 to be dealt
with.- Of this £31,338 was distributed in
bonuses, ranging from 30s. p.c. to 50s. p.c.
on whole-of-life policies, £58,000 was used
to wipe out the establishment account, £lOOO
was struck off the Canberra leasehold and
£38,613 remained to strengthen reserves
(now £50.000), apart from actuarial require-
ments. Now that the drain on earnings
to obliterate intangibles has ceased, more of
each year’s surplus will become available
for division amongst policy-holders and
shareholders. The size of the surpluses will
depend partly upon the support which policy-
holders give the co., and partly upon con-
tinued reduction of exes.
There was a shrinkage of £15,995 in the
amount of new Ordinary business put on the
books during the year
1926. , 1930. 1931. 1932.
Sum assured £1,356,663 £562,935 £434,824 £418,829
First pre-
miums .. 42,884 16,914 12,026 11,951
Renewal pre-
miums . . 234,961 273,552 254,462 231,026
Interest, etc. 68,410 148,926 136,725 113,133
Claims ..' 51,156 96,948 170,695 202,881
Exes. . . 111,628 95,375 108,124 78,462
Excluding taxation, exes, took 22.6 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 23.7 p.c. and
25 p.c. in the two preceding terms and 40.1
p.c. in 1926. The year’s first premiums cost
157 p.c. as against 169 p.c. in 1931; that
is assuming new business is 10 times more
expensive than old. Surrenders were £66,407,
which was £1740 more than in the previous
year.
The next table shows how the protection
for policy-holders and shareholders has been
strengthened during the last six years:—
1926. 1931. 1932.
Public securities.. £639,474 £1,031.436 £1,281,848
Mortgages . . 521,155 831,976 818,556
Loans on policies,
etc 35,234 191,714 167,354
Book debts, cash,
etc. . . . . 102,911 215,643 85,647
Equipment .. 16,302 9,988 8,191
Properties. . . . 198,270 449,707 449,259
Shares in other
cos. .. .. 71,172 224,580 232,832
Tangible assets.. £1,584,518 £2,955,044 £3,043,687
Sundry creditors. . 318,151 129,376 125,646
Net tangibles .. £1,266,367 £2,825,668 £2,918,041
Assurance fund*.. 1,195,112 2,457,075 2,461,031
Paid capital .. 339,046 357,028 357,028
*lncludes reserves for unexpired risks —
£12,178, 1926; £13,367, 1930 ; £11,985, 1931;
£10,608, 1932.
Last year an extra quarter of a million was
invested in Government securities, before the
big lift in the market; so there is an inner
reserve of over £45,000 in. that item, the
board says. Net tangibles exceeded lia-
bilities under policies and the reserve for
un expired accident risks combined by
£385,755 at Sept. 30, an improvement of
£314,500 since 1926. Over the same period
the backing for the 10s. shares has thus
advanced from 2s. Id. to 10s. lOd. These
shares the market prices at 7s. 3d. as against
3s. 6d. a year ago. The return at 7s. 3d.
would be 5i p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The office assumes that its funds will earn
4 p.c. Last year’s net return on mean
funds was 3.7 p.c. as against 3.8 p.c. and
5.6 p.c. for the two preceding years. Taxa-
tion is the trouble; for this and other
reasons the board has decided to discontinue
lending on mortgage. ’> :
Western Australian Insurance
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
To Unexpired
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
£ £ £ £
1922 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341.. . . 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543.. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation, £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21,164 Nil 1 9V o „ 4 o
Transferred to Accident Fund, 1297 ) ’
Written off, £11,421.. .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 .. . . 262,617
1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 ' 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59,821 5 ~,,5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676
From Life Fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Surplus.
1930.. 13,874 Nil 13,874 282,291
1931.. 10,899 Nil 10,899 293,190
1932. . 8,890 5 p.c.= 5,000 3,890 297,080
The capital and reserves, together £397,080,
are invested mostly in mortgages, debentures
and public securities. Thus shareholders
ought to be assured of regular and satisfac-
tory returns from investments alone, notwith-
standing the statutory and other cuts in in-
terest rates. Yet last year’s 5 p.c. is the first
taste they have had since 1927, and divs.
averaged only 3 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium. : The fact is the management
has had no luck with other lines since the
flood of war-time marine business subsided —
this had sent the co.’s premium income from
a few thousands to over a million and lifted
reserves to nearly three-quarters of a million,
all inside half a dozen years. During the
five years to the close of. accounts in 1925
losses (marine underwriting is a long-winded
business), together with the special demands
of the taxgatherer and adjustments of the
book value of securities, swallowed over half
a million of reserves, reducing them to
£257,483.
Since then the Accident branch has given
most trouble, due to the unsatisfactory
nature of motor-car insurance, including ela-
borate extensions of third-party cover. Here
losses over the last five years aggregate
£148,454. But only £3294 of this was in
respect of the last term—most of the frills
have been eliminated and the business dras-
tically restricted: —
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Surplus.
Fire .. ..£28,050 £11,012 £16,225 £Bl3
Loss.
Accident .. 43,166 25,257 21,203 3,294
Surplus.
Marine . . 62,552 48,638 12,295 1,619
Net underwriting loss .. .. .. £862
Interest, etc. .. .. . • • ■ 9,752
Surplus as per table .. .. .. £8,890
Thus, with the Fire and Marine sections each
showing a small surplus, and enough from
investments alone to give 9.7 p.c. on capital,
prospects of something better than a 5 p.c.
div. are encouraging. Everything, however,
depends upon underwriting performances.
Combining the figures of the three de-
partments we get these results: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate. .
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918. . 1,142.001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1927.. 326,481 186,809 112,228 57.2 ~ 34.4 „
1928.. ,292,856 239,825 119,725 81.9 „ 40.9 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
1930.. 170,969 105,502 65,772 61.7 „ 38.4 „
1931.. 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
1932.. 133,768 84,907 49,723 63.5 „ '37.1 „
A tighter hold has been kept upon exes., but
while reinsurance bulks so largely in premium
income it is doubtful whether much may be
expected in the way of underwriting sur-
pluses.
Funds are invested in this way :
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Public securi-
ties .. .. £144,211 £159,582 £172,421 £177,852
Mortgages, de-
’ bentures, etc. 350,600 264,043 300,552 291,544
Properties . . 68,584 36,951 37,310
Book debts, etc. 230,564 47,656 36,876 51,313
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 34,556 40,312 45,345
Odds and ends 5,753 5,935 5,853 6,119
Total assets £1,026,936 £580,356 £592,965 £609,483
Liabilities* .. 141,715 72,594 56,357 50,336
£885,221 £507,762 £536,608 £559,147
including provision for taxation (1926, £BO,OOO ;
1927, £40,000 ; 1929-32, ■ £2000).
Thus, provided the mortgages and other
assets are worth their book value, policy-
holders could see net tangibles (apart from
the Life fund, £157,070), equal to 296 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums—150 p.c. is
usually considered adequate.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
Net Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1924.. 3*5 Nil 35 251,700
Added to intangibles, £2OBO .. 253,780
1925.. 795 Nil 795 252,985
Added to intangibles, £1139 .. 254,124
Pref.
10 p.c. Ord.
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,455
Added to intangibles, £791 .. 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
■reduced, £152,824 .... 84,806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
•etc., £19,400 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,-939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
This enterprising member of the Hume group
is now manufacturing pipes from Australian
plates—it used over 3000 tons of B.H.P.
steel for the purpose last year. Also it has
developed a new process for turning out
small pipes (down to jjin. diameter), and
B.H.P. is putting in special plant to supply
the fabric.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts output was better, but still
well below capacity, and competition was
so keen that there was little profit in the
work. The £2535 claimed was less, than half
a full meal for the prefs., who were passed
by again. Including their arrears, £68,538 of
the £250,000 of ord. capital (it was all issued
to the parent fully paid for rights in 1923)
was unrepresented by tangibles in the books
at Sept. 30. That is excluding provision
for depreciation, taxation, etc. (£24,632,
down £3419 during the year).
In 1028 the co. sold its foreign patents to
the Steel Pipe and Lining Co. for £500,000
in fully-paid ords., and bought 20,000 8
p.c. cum. prefs. for cash. All _this .scrip
it took into its own books at £154,528, reduc-
ing the patent item (now £100,900, not
treated as an asset herein) by £152,824.
Subsidiaries have since purchased the rights
for S. Africa, India and part of the U.S.A.
—they all met with trading conditions more
difficult than those experienced in Australia
last year; their prospects depend upon im-
provement in world conditions. The sale
of the rights for Japan “on an extended
cash basis” is expected to be announced in
a few weeks, and the business is to be
extended to China.
Notwithstanding all this, and that Hume
Steel now has over £120,000 worth of orders
on hand, the market notes the effect of com-
petition upon earnings, which depend largely
upon Government expenditure, and prices
the 10 p.c. prefs. at 13s. At next balance
there will be £16,701 (=6s. per share) com-
ing to them in accrued divs. The book value
of the cover is £4 ss. 2d. in net tangibles,
all plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £302,010 £305,670 £305,670 £305,670
Liabilities . . 17,343 102,062 63,284 106,987
Freehold and
leasehold .. 3,975 18,785 14,187 14,814
Plant.. .. 17,680 92,152 79,479 87,51(1
Stocks . . 7,758 24,602 26,403 27,508
Contracts .. 23,960 32,098 3,540' 20,473
Book debts.. 5,433 36,460 33,996 45,814
Cash and de-
posits . . 7,563 7,089 4,933 9,239
Shares in other
cos. .. 174,528 174,528 174,528
The movements reflect the better volume of
business when the books closed. Liabilities,
including a loan of £84,032 from Hume Pipe,
then exceeded more or less liquids, exclud-
ing shares in other cos., by £3953, a slip
of £9541 during the twelvemonth. This was
due to the expenditure of £8658 more than
was written off on fixed assets.
Australian Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 27,890 20 p.c. = 27,722 168 5,916
1925.. 18,233 12 „ „ 16,633 1600 7,516
1926.. 16,873 12 „ „ 16,633 240 7,756
1927.. 26,883 12 „ „ 24,950 1933 9,689
1928.. 27,435 12 „ „ 24,950 2485 12,174
1929.. 27,536 12 „ „ 24,950 2586 14,760
1930.. 28,640 12 ~ „ 24,950 3690 18,450
1931.. 30,943 12 „ „ 24,950 5993 24,443
Surplus on sale of assets, £11,304.. 35,747
1932.. 30,061 12 p.c. = 24,950 .5111 40,858
This co.’s mill (the Mourilyan) is in the
South Johnstone. district (N.Q.), part' of
the best sugar-producing area in Australia;
and a big wad of the scrip is tucked away
in Howard Smith’s investment portfolio.
Since the flow of 20 p.c. divs. was inter-
rupted seven years ago by a cut in the base
price of raws and a lift in the award price
for cane, distributions have been steady at
12 p.c., notwithstanding changes in seasonal
conditions and fluctuations in the average
price for raws. Large tonnages—the quan-
tity of cane crushed has more than doubled
since 1923—have been mainly responsible
for the attractive results, while increased
efficiency and the 7 p.c. cut in wages at the
end of 1930 have also helped.
The co.’s crushings and the average price
of raws compare as follows:
Crush- Crush-
ings, Average ings, Average
Tons. Price Raw. Tons. Price Raw.
1923.. 70,209 1 1929.. 161,794 £2O :17 11
1926. .153,028 £l9 10 7 | 1930.. 152,287 20 5 10
1927. .135,473 24 10 4 I 1931.. 164,952 19 13 1
■1928. .164,882 22 0 4 | 1932. .168,802 18 6 6
The latest figures are in respect of the 1931
crushing, which was a record. The surplus
sold abroad was larger, and that pulled down
the average price of raws by 265. 7d. a ton.
Still, there was enough profit to show 14.1
p.c. on capital as against 14.9, 13.7 and 13.2
p.c. for ,the three preceding years. That
was after sending £5OOO to the staff fund,
and striking off £21,275 for depreciation,
etc., equal to over 12 p.c. of the book value
of fixed assets at June 30, 1931. Also some
of the assets were sold at a profit of £11,304,
which was added to reserves.
To help pay for a new 6ft. crushing mill
shareholders have put up £69,305 since 1925.
Apart from that, additions to plant, etc.,
have been paid for out of earnings, and the
assets have been liberally written down from
the same source :—-
1925. 1930 1931 1932
Paid capital. . £l3B,eio £207,915 £207,915 £207,915
Liabilities . . 99,974 70,458 102,499 92,945
Land, plant, etc. 206,597 181,854 166,171 164,304
Stores . . 29,567 17,442 16,088 15,155
Debtors . . 12,292 101,048 157,170 164,321
Investments . . 5,960 7,100 6,100 6,091
Cash . . 1,854 1,803 4,322
Excluding stores, the more or less liquid
surplus (£81,789) was £19,215 stronger than
at the previous balance.
As for the current season, the co. expects
to crush 167,000 tons of cane. But |d. per
pound has been chipped off the retail price
of sugar, reducing it to 4d., as from Jan. 1.
The cut is equal to £4 13s. 4d. per ton. This
means about £22 ss. per ton for raws for
home consumption as against £26 19s. last
year. The Australian outturn of raws for
the current season is expected to be about
54-0,000 tons. Assuming that 40 p.c. of this
will be exported at an average of, say, £9
10s. per ton, then the average return to the
miller and grower for the whole crop would
be £l7 6s. per ton.
The scrip is tightly held. .It is covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 28s.
lid.
0.T., Ltd. (Vic.).
r- -Dividends—— >, Nominal
Net Prefs. Ords. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. 20 p.c. serves, serves.
■ £ £ £ £ £
1928.. 36,427 2000 26,720 7,707 83,402
Written off, £2OOO .. .. 81,402
Shares in other cos. written up
£133,598 and that amount capi-
talised .. .. .. .. 81,402
Surplus on sale London busi-
ness, £228,989 .. .. 310,391
10 p.c.
1929.. 29,563 2000 26,720 843 311,234
Taxation on sale of London busi-
ness, £5OOO . . . . . . 306,234
Reserve, for depreciation of invest-
ments, £6OOO .. .. ~ 300,234
1930.. 11,681 2000 Nil 9,681 309,915
3f p.c.
1931.. 820 1544 5,010 - 304,181
5 p.c.
1932.. 5,590 1000 6,680 302,091
Though the sale of its London interests in
1928 altered the investment prospects of
the scrip, the co. still has its Australian
business and an abundance of surplus funds.
The profit on the sale of the London section
(Continued on page 16.)


&
r
-
m
*
m
m
•r.
1
N.
■ <-•''
*%
w-
jBR;.
S ;::>;
4
s >;;
c:
.
is
a
: V
*
hi
' '3
i
I
" *** ......
c&tdures of^
I TEST
CRICKETERS
in etferg packet
t&* mm
MJfi
m
■
tt
r Xi
VM®.'
K tl
ir
af
4
u
10/0:
20/5/1
/00/o DntpoirtecL
llirginui Jobacco .
BCC-5.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colljson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. — Advt.
GOLD - BEARING
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight by post). We will assay, investigate and
report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartrids. es
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Di rectors
P. N. YARWOOn
(Chairman^
THOS. MJCKLAND
J. 11. S. ANGUS
E. V T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
was £362,587. The intention was to reinvest
the money in trade, but the outlook became
so glum that the board decided to return
half of the capital instead, reducing it to
£146,098, including 12,500 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
Of the balance some £lO,OOO was invested in
a new subsidiary for the manufacture of
waxed-paper containers, and the rest was
put out on loans, mortgages, etc. The ords.,
whose holding was doubled by the bonus
issue of 1928, have had their original
capital returned in full, and still retain an
interest in the business equal to their
former holding.
The stoppage of the juicy returns from
London —they accounted for about two-thirds
of the parent’s net profits—was followed by
a slump in the co.’s Australian earn-
ings from the sale of fruit juices and soft
drinks. Thus a trading loss of £9993 showed
up last year, compared with losses of £17,803
and £4037 for the two preceding terms and
profits averaging £12,330 p.a. for the three
years before that. But the money invested
outside the business brought in £15,553
(£3040 less than in the previous year) ; so,
taking everything into the reckoning, the
year’s profit was £5590. That was £2090
less than the pref. div. and 5 p.c. to the
ords. called for.
Still, dividend prospects are encouraging,
for there seems no valid reason why trading
should not be got on to a profitable basis
again. New lines have been introduced, and
turnover Is expected to benefit. The subsi-
diary’s sales are reported to have doubled
during the co.’s last term, and further expan-
sion is anticipated, though no hint is given
as to whether the business is yet profitable.
Shareholders would be on a pretty good
wicket even if the trading broke; last
year’s return from investments showed 10.9
p.c. on ord. capital after providing for the
pref. dividend.
How well equipped the co. is to take
advantage of any opportunity this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows :
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £133,599 £292,197 £146,098 £146,098
Sundry creditors 27,930 9,647 14,165 14,746
Premises . . 18,380 67,421 67,480 74,069
Plant, etc. . . 19,500 42,834 37,389 33,202
Investments.. 47,455 45,086 236,990' 235,887
Sundry debtors 41,270 36,742 26,220 23,343
Stock'. . . . 26,534 62,346 50,629 44,785
Cash, etc. . . 5,842 312,665 2,527 10,165
Investments consist of shares in other cos.,
£75.110; mortgages, £85,163; Consols,
£75.614. The more or less liquid surplus
(£299.434, including stocks) was £2767
lighter than at the previous balance.
The ords., which fell to 21s. 6d. in the
market a year or so ago, are now priced at
28s. The return at 28s. is 3.5 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis; each variation of 1 p.c.
in the div. would affect the yield by 14s. 4d.
per cent. The cover is 565. 4d. in net tan-
gibles, of which 15s. 9d. was represented by
fixed assets. At 28s. the well-protected 8
p.c. cum. prefs return 5.7 p.c.
The Coal Trade
The N. 8. Wales coal trade has been in
the doldrums since 1928, and it may be a
while yet before it emerges. Certainly the
estimated output of 6,700,000 tons for 1932
was 300,000 tons better than the dismal
figure for 1931; but competition for the
business that was available kept prices at
a level which left no margin of profit for
most in the industry. The 1932 output was
valued at £4,440,000, or £167.000 less than
its immediate predecessor. Exchange and
the reduction of railway freights on coal
exported helped this section of the business.
Still, including bunkering, exports for the
11 months to the end of November (2.177.528
tons) were only 21,032 tons better than
for the corresponding period of 1931. Also,
those miners who have retained their jobs
find themselves working much broken time.
_ Of the 15 coal cos. listed on Sydney
’Change, only three paid dividends last year
—Bellambi 2$ p.c., Cessnock 5 p.c. and J.
and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham If p.c.
Tin' lastnamed is an amalgamation of the
old Abermain and East Greta Cos. (Adelaide
Steam was largely interested in both of these)
and the Browns’ coal interests, which date
back to 1845, when .Tames Brown opened a
pit near East Maitland, and, incidentally,
broke the Australian Agricultural Co.’s
monopoly of the coal trade. The pits con-
trolled by this new co. are Pelaw Main,
Richmond Main, the two Abermains, Ducken-
field, the two Seahams, Stockrington and the
tw 0 Stanford Mertliyrs. Bellambi, which
operates on the southern seam and has one
of the best bunkering connections in the
Commonwealth, has returned 13s. 6d. per
share of its capital since 1929, reducing the
figure to £130,000 in 6s. 6d. shares. In May
last the B. 11. Associated Smelters closed
their cokeworks at Bellambi; they had
drawn their coal from South Bellambi col-
liery for over 30 years. The big Caledonian
Cor, which is Howard Smith controlled, and
Iletton Bellbird have not paid a div. for the
last three years. Since work was resumed
at Maitland in the middle of 1930, pits on
the western field have had to struggle desper-
ately to retain a footing in the overcrowded
trade. Invincible, another Howard Smith
concern, has been off the dividend list for
the last two years, while shareholders in
the once-prosperous Yale of Clwydd, whose
new pit at Wallerawang has sapped the co.’s
finances, have gone hungry since 1929.
Perhaps 1932 was more notable for what
threatened than for what actually happened
in the industry. When the Lang Govern-
ment fell Mr. Baddeley had carried the Coal
Industries Bill almost as far as the Statute
Book. It was a mischievous measure which
proposed to place the industry under 4he
thumb of a board charged with keeping coal
prices high enough to pay wages that would
satisfy special conciliation committees. The
Lang Government thus threatened to make
a present of a lot more of the N. S. Wales
coal trade to producers outside the State,
which is powerless to prevent the importa-
tion of coal from other States or from over-
seas, or to control the price paid for such
imports. Though attempts were made on
three occasions (in January, September and
November) to bring about stoppages on a
large scale, the miners as a whole remained
at work, slump having bound tighter the
link between capital and labor. Neverthe-
less, there were a number of small stoppages,
but none caused serious loss of working time.
Towns like West Wallsend and Greta,
which depend upon collieries now unable to
find profitable markets for the type of coal
they produce, have become shadows of their
former selves; and the increased use of oil
and electricity for transport and other indus-
trial purposes doesn’t make the outlook very
bright. Hopes are that better ways of burn-
ing coal may be developed and new indus-
tries established for the production of by-
products. About 40 p.c. of the members of
the unions concerned in mining and quarry-
ing in N. S. Wales were unemployed in the
second quarter of 1932.
Tin
The international tin restriction scheme
has recently come in for a lot of criti-
cism by investors on the London market.
Under the scheme quotas are assigned to
each of five producing countries, and by the
Governments thereof to companies operating
within their jurisdiction. It is contended
that the scheme has not influenced the price
of tin, taken on a gold basis, that visible
supplies at the end of last October (55 948
tons) were substantially the same as they
were a year earlier, and that Malayan pro-
ducers have suffered more than others.
As things stand, Malayan mines can pro-
duce only one-quarter of their normal out-
put until July, 1933; but costs have been
greatly reduced. Chief danger lies in trying
to bolster up the price at too high a
figure. The average London price advanced
from £lO9 Os. lid. last April to £152 16s.
3d. in September, but had dropped back to
£149 2s. 6d. at the close of 1932. The fall
lias been due partly to the shrinkage in
output of motor-cars, etc., in the U.S.A.
There the October production of motor
vehicles was 42 p.c. lighter than in Sep-
tember and 38 p.c. below the October. 1931,
figure. Total output of cars, etc., for the
first 10 months of the year was 45 p.c. below
that for the corresponding figure of 1931.
Owing to the rise in the price of the
metal and the high exchange premium there
was a marked revival of tin-mining in Aus-
tralia during the last half of 1932. But the
future of the market is very uncertain.
The Electrolytic Zinc Co., which had re-
duced its output slightly under the inter-
national zinc restriction scheme, is operat-
ing at full capacity again. The output for
the four weeks to Dec. 14 was 4209 tons
as against 4195 tons and 4172 tons for the
two preceding months and 4138 tons in Dec.,
1931. The co. is meeting with no difficulty
in selling its output, and the London average
spot price of the metal strengthened
from £ll 14s. 2d. for June to £l5 at the
close of the year. For the year to June 30
last zinc averaged £l2 18s. lOd. and the
board claimed a profit of £85.000. A full
year’s prof. div. calls for £120,000; after that
there is £1,100,000 of ord. capital calling for
attention. The market closed with the ords.
at 17s. Id., and the prefs., which advance
with the ords. beyond 8 p.c., at 275. 4d.
* * * *
British Tin Investment Corp. has been
formed in London with a capital of
£1,600,000 to take over the assets and busi-
ness of the British American Tin Co. The
new co. has a large holding in Consolidated
Tin Smelters, which handles 50 p.c. of the
world’s tin; it is also interested in New
Consolidated Goldfields of S. Africa, which
has provided capital for Lake View and
Star and Wiluna, and in the British Metal
Corp., through which the big Broken Hill
cos. market their outputs. Oliver Lyttleton,
a director of Zinc Corporation, is chairman
and managing director of the new co.. which
is another step in the linking up of Empire
metal interests. The 10s. shares were re-
cently quoted at 11s. 6d. in London.
Return Creek, Mount Garnet (Q.), pro-
poses to reconstruct. A new company with
a capital of £BOOO is to be formed. After
paying the old co.’s debts, £2OOO would be
available to recondition the dredge and shift
it back to the richer ground, worked early
in the year. The dredge has a capacity of
75,000 c.y. monthly, but has averaged only
about 20,000 c.y. Poor water supply and
bouldery wash have proved to be insuperable
difficulties in the past.
* * * *
Acting on information from an old abo.,
three prospectors have been searching the
Blue Mountain district, 45 miles south-east
of the Batavia River diggings on Cape York
Peninsula. They have sunk three shafts
from 35ft. to 50ft., and a 15-ton parcel sent
to the Towers yielded 35|oz. of gold. More
stone is coming forward. Gold was first
discovered in the locality, at Coen, in 1893;
to the end of 1924, when the place w’as
abandoned, 51,4850 z. had been recovered.
❖
Several concerns are nibbling at proper-
ties in the Mt. Perry district (Q.). Here
two promising areas have showed up along
a lode formation two miles long. On one
claim a 40ft. shaft has exposed 6ft. of ore,
and on another an outcrop 6ft. wide is being
proved. The Wonbah molybdenite mine in
the same locality is opening up well on Nos
1 and 2 levels.
:Jc ❖
Shortage of water is hampering opera-
tions at Mt. Wandoo (Q.). Still, the two-
million gallon dam has been completed, so
the first good rains should solve the diffi-
culty ; the mine and mill are both ready.
Recent developments on the 125 ft. level have
greatly increased ore reserves, and the main
shaft is down 187 ft., with the bottom in
good stone.
* # * *
The recent gold find at Convex Creek,
near Almaden (Q.), occurs in decomposed
gossan in two areas, five chains apart, and
the Government Geologist has favorably re-
ported upon both. In the same district three
other properties are being developed ; on the
Federal a 53ft. shaft has been sunk on a
rich vein 20in. wide, while driving from two
shafts, each 35ft. deep, is in progress on the
Australian, and rich surface veins are being
opened up on the New Zealand.
* * * *
The Venus State battery, Charters Towers
(Q.), put through 215 tons for 1690 z. during
November. The stone came from 18 separ-
ate shows; the best was 10 tons for 360 z.
from the Day Dawn. Also the cyanide plant
recovered 1470 z. from tailings and slag. It
is proposed to shift the battery and cyanide
plant to a more suitable site, and carry out
extensive repairs. The idea is to reduce
costs ; perhaps a new battery would be best
for this purpose.
H: * ❖ ❖
Towers Drilling, Ltd., completed its
fourth hole at Mystery Flat, Charters
Towers, and has moved the plant to a new
area held by Towers Mining Exploration.
Of the four bores only No. 3 showed payable
ore-—2 ft. of lOdwt. stone, 292 ft. down.
* * =t= *
The Cornishman, Herberton (Q.)„ has
just crushed 75 tons for SJ tons of tin con-
centrates. The mine has been a steady pro-
ducer since 1924. A patch of very rich
stone (26 p.c. tin oxide) is also being taken
from the Canberra, near by. The ore occurs
in the usual pipe formation.
X X si!
Queensland Quicksilver, Ltd., at Ivilkivan,
recovered 2401 b. of mercury during Novem-
ber, partly from a new find. Other new
ore veins have been met in a tunnel near
the main shaft. The London price of quick-
silver recently advanced from £9 to £ll per
761 b. flask, notwithstanding that stocks
(190,000 flasks) exceed 2J years’ supply.
At Curnow’s tinmine, Torrington (N.S.W.),
tributors in the slopes above Nos. 1 and 2
levels are working some nice stone. A crush-
ing of 450 tons recently yielded tons
of oxide.
* sf* -l-
Bendigo’s gold production for 1932 is put
at 23,0000 z. fine, which is the best since
1924, when the figure was 26,2190 z. The
cos. produced 15,5120 z. from 37,161 tons.
Excluding the Hercules, which got 74920 z.
out of 4854 tons, the other cos. averaged
approximately sdwt. per ton. Dividends
from the Hercules totalled £21.000 (7s. per
share), and from the Ironbark £l5OO. Calls
paid by 13 cos. during the year aggregated
£16,261. There is also much activity in
alluvial mining at Bendigo, particularly in
Long Gully, where wmter is available for
sluicing. Numerous small slugs have been
found.
Hi * ❖ ❖
The Champion at Ten Mile, in the Wood’s
Point district (Vic.), lias amalgamated with'
the adjoining North Champion and Alabama.
It is proposed to raise fresh capital to erect
a 10-head battery and for further develop-
ment. The co. recently crushed 40 tons for
12oz. of gold.
At Beaufort (Vic.) a Melbourne syndi-
cate has taken up 250 acres of alluvial;
boring results show up to 15dwt. gold per
cubic yard. Another 450 acres to the south
is also to be tested. The wash is about
110 ft. deep and up to 20ft. thick.
* * * *
Tributors at the old Pioneer (Tas.) con-
tinue to win a lot more than tucker money.
They recently got 64 tons of tin oxide from
sluicing, and 14 ton from dressing residues.
The co. is in liquidation.
He * * *
It is estimated that over 8000 small
gold shows are being worked by individual
miners or syndicates in Australia to-day.
Mostly these are yielding their owners small
returns, but some in Westralia have proved
to be real bonanzas. During the last 12
months a party at Southern Cross crushed
758 tons for 17100 z., on the Murchison a
prospector got 24190 z. from 20 tons, and in
the Waverley district a fossicker recently
dollied llOoz. from a few pounds of dirt.
The State batteries play an important part
in the development of these shows, from
which company operations often spring.
SJ; * *
During the year to June 30 last develop-
ment exposed good values in a number of
expected and unexpected places in Lake View
and Star. Ore reserves were raised by over
400,000 tons to 1,832,400 tons, assaying
approximately 345. per ton with gold at
85s. an oz.; and a large block of payable
stone is known to exist outside the measured
area. Also, costs are expected to come
down to 235. and later to about 20s. per ton
as the monthly quantity of feed put through
passes the 40.000-ton and approaches the
45,000-ton mark. As in the case of Sons
of (iwalia, Lake View’s success is due to
good management, plus exchange.
;1; * * #
Star Explorations (W.A.) has declared a
10 p.c. div. and placed £4500 to reserve for
the year just ended. At an early date those
on the register are to be offered 301,583
new Is. shares “on favorable terms.” The
co., which is an offshoot 0 f the old Hannan’s
Star, used to own some of the Kalgoorlie
tailing dumps, but is now mainly an invest-
ment concern. Shareholdings, etc., figure at
£33,656.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has repaid the
£76,132 borrowed some time ago from the
State Government. An improvement in the
shoot at depth and other finds assisted, but
the exchange premium did more than any-
thing else to put the co. on its feet.
$ $ H 5
At the annual meeting in London the
other day chairman F. H. Hamilton told
shareholders in Golden Horseshoe (W.A.)
to look forward to another div. during the
first half of 1933. A shilling per share was
returned in sterling last September.
* * * *
Freney’s shareholders met in Perth on
Dec. 19 and discussed, without heat, the pro-
posed winding-up of the present co, and the
formation of a new one. Chairman Nichol-
son, who did most of the talking, put a
motion for the registration of the new con-
cern, but strong objection was raised to
underwriting in Adelaide, so proceedings
were adjourned for a month. This means
sending out 2500 notices for another roll-up,
and further futile argument; the board and
its friends hold most of the shares.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.M.: Both 10s. and £1 notes are issued by the
Bank of England, and both are legal tender in
Great Britain F.J.M.: Please forward copy of
prospectus C.H.R.: Life assurance contracts are
not mortgages within the meaning of either the
Moratorium or Interest Reduction Acts; hence
interest on overdue premiums is not subject to the
221 p.c. cut. .. .W.J.G.: (1) Actual sales on Sept.
30 were Colonial Sugar, £54 12s. 6d. ; 8.N.5.W.,
£3l 5s (2) Yes; the survey lines are horizon-
tal S.S.: The co. appears to have added a few
frills to ordinary building society methods of
finance; the promise of 6 p.c. was probably made
before moratorium and interest-reduction legisla-
tion became effective. Please forward the litera-
ture you have, together with balance-sheet, and we
shall deal fully with the question. .. .X.Y.Z.: Roan
Antelope, formed in London in 1927, is one of the
largest copper shows in Africa. Paid capital is
£1,198,935 in ss. shares, and there are £1,500,000
7 p.c. debentures. The co. recently contracted to
deliver blister copper in Europe at about £l7 (gold)
per ton. The plant is capable of turning out about
100,000 short tons of copper annually. Ore
reserves are put at 100 million tons, averaging
3.43 p.c. copper.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Strassfurt brought from Sweden to
Melbourne recently 700 cases of cream
separators. Can’t w y e make these things
in Australia? Their manufacture is surely
simple enough.
* * * *
“Cane” : As an out-patient at one of the
nig Sydney hospitals I paid 6d. a bottle for
two varieties of medicine, plus 3d. each for
the bottles. I took the same prescription to
a suburban chemist. The cost was Bs. and
2s. 6d.
* * *
A Brisbane firm advertised some jmper-
tect sheets of galvanised iron at about 25
P® r cent, off the regular price, and over
10,000 sheets had been sent all over Queens-
land within a few weeks. It shows what
general price-lowering might be expected
to do.
* * * *
“Waddy Mundoie”: At Brisbane the other
day a steamer from the south discharged
quite a. big cargo of margarine. I am told
the shipments are fairly regular. Is this
how Brisbane encourages its State’s butter
producers? Most of the stuff was marked
pastry”; but somebody’s luck will be stiff
if some of it does not get into consumption
as “best Downs butter.”
* * % *
“Gasper”: The last thing I was offered
before I left The Granites was petrol at
os. 6d. a gallon. What had rather astonished
me a month' earlier was that I could get a
fair brand at Alice Springs for 2s. 10d. It
only shows that you can carry a gallon of
stuff a long way for a bob once you’ve got
it aboard a train. It’s the handling that
costs the money—in Australia more than
most places.
* -•!* -I’ *
Reports from London say that the British
motor-trade has picked up wonderfully during
the year, and one co., the Vauxhall, is put-
ting another half-million into extensions of
factory and plant. Approximately a thou-
sand Vauxhall cars and Bedford trucks have
lately been sent overseas every month.
Several Continental countries have been
buyers—including Russia—and the pressure
of orders has become so. great that work
on the extensions is proceeding right round
the clock.
* * * sit
Of the heavy shower of Christmas greet-
ings that fell on The Bulletin office there
was nothing more impressive and nothing
more artistic in it unpretentious way than
Peeps at Queensland’s Timber Wealth,”
which bore the season’s message of the
Forestry Branch. Among pictures of bunya
Pines, timber-hauling by caterpillar tractors
forest plantations, there is one of the
Board Room of the National Society of
Printers in London, which, it seems, has
been decorated in Queensland figured maple
veneers'; and a very attractive job it looks.
*"‘* • * *
The sugar season just through in North
Queensland saw two new world’s records
made by the Tully mill. It crushed 11.284
tons of cane for the week ending September
24, beating its previous best of 11,180 tons;
these are believed to be the only occasions any
sugar mill has exceeded the 11.000-ton mark.
Bhe mill’s total crushing for the season was
~0J,526 tons, exceeding its previous world’s
record of 256,509 tons for last year. Yet
this year’s crushing period was 16 days
shorter. The mill is no chicken either—it
was established in 1925.
* * * *
Cooktown, for many years one of the
ghost towns of N.Q., is to have an-
other kick. Timber rights' of about
100,000 acres , are to be thrown open. The
area, situated from 20 to 40 miles from the
town, embraces dense jungle on the head
waters of the Annan and its tributaries,
estimated to contain over 30,000,000 super,
feet of marketable timber, including kauri,
cedar, silky oak, maple and hickory. In
the roaring ’seventies Cooktown had 35 pubs ;
to-day. there are five, and most of them have
been living on hope. A few diehards believe
that tobacco-growing may yet be a big in-
dustry in the district.
* * * *
Within the last two years acres of glass-
houses have been built around Sydney,
especially in the sheltered valleys at the
back of Rock Lily, near Narrabeen. Some
strawberries are grown, but most of the
houses are devoted to tomatoes, which can
be ripened almost all the year round; and
so far it has been found easy to keep diseases
in check. For some years the early
tomato had been brought from Queensland';
the glass-houses have lately cut deep into
that trade. One result has'been the setting
up of a plant in Queensland to extract
tomato juice, which has been a craze in the
U.S.A.—it is alleged to be chockablock
with vitamins.
* * * #
“Joseph Scott”: What does it cost the
forestry cos. to procure their business?
Between Derby and Wave Kill, 1000 miles,
there are S 8 permanent white residents;
yet this district was lately canvassed by two
members of a forestry bond co.’s sales staff.
To work the district they travelled by car
no less than 6000 miles after they left Perth,
and took 12 weeks to do it. Salaries, com-
missions and expenses must have absorbed
£2OO at a low estimate; car mileage would
account for another £l2O. Their main grouch
to me was not the fact of the sparse popula-
tion or that prospective clients are at times
over 100 miles apart, but that benzine cost
645. for eight gallons at Wave Hill.
*■* * *
“Wart” (Launceston, Tas.) ; A quarter-
century ago I spent some time in North
Queensland. I was a year in Mackay and
came back to the Speck satisfied that sugar-
growing was a white man’s game. I have
barracked for the sugar-growers and the
White Australia policy ever since; but I
have to admit the Tas. fruitgrower has a
grievance. Sugar lands that were being then
sold for £lO per acre have, I am told, been
sold since for as much as £2OO per acre.
The fruitgrower who bought land for £5 an
acre twenty-five years ago. and spent
£lOO per acre in bringing his orchard to
full bearing, would be lucky to get £25
to-day. It is tilings like this that make the
fruitgrower kick.
* * * *
“Vidle” (Brisbane) ; Having something
on hand which needed typing I decided to
play my part in the “Give Employment”
campaign by employing a temporary typist.
I put an ad. in a newspaper and received
over 200 replies. Of these 90 per cent, were
from girls between 21 and 23 with excellent
credentials, but thrown out of employment
for the crime of being over 21. About 30
per cent, of them said they would be willing
to work for 355. per week. But if I were
to employ one of these I would make myself
liable to prosecution ; so I engaged one aged
18, and if I could keep her on till she be-
came 21 I should certainly have to fire her
then. Surely some alteration to the law is
required so that young women may at least
earn something toward their keep, even
though they have passed their 21st year.
* * * *
The slump in industrial corporations’
profits in the U.S.A. has been worse than
anything Australia has experienced. In one
tabulation 205 cos. are represented: they
include all the biggest American concerns.
In the first nine months of 1931 they showed
an aggregate profit of $363,781,000. In the
first nine months of 1932 the same cos.
showed only $18,013,000 profit. In other
words, there had been a shrinkage in profit
of 95 p.c. The average rate of return in
1931 was 4.4 p.c. p.a.; in 1932 it was down
to one-fifth of 1 p.c. And the average would
have been much poorer if 16 food-product
cos. hadn’t come to the rescue with an aver-
age of 10.7 p.c. and seven baking cos. with
9.3 p.c. Groups which showed more or less
heavy losses were automobile cos. (other
than General Motors), auto accessories,
building materials, coal-mining. U. S. Steel
Corporation (a deficit of $54,542,000), other
iron and steel cos., machinery, mining, paper
product, and textile cos.
* * * *
“Pearler” (Broome) : A planter writing
from the Pacific the other day complained
that his “boys” don’t get proper nourishment
from Australian rice and said the article is
over-cleaned and over-polished. Over-pol-
ished rice induces beri-beri; and it is a re-
markable fact that, since we have been using
Australian rice, beri-beri, once the bugbear
of the pearling industry, has almost entirely
disappeared, and the big ward at the Broome
Hospital erected solely to deal with sufferers
from this complaint has outlived its purpose
and is now being used for the general treat-
ment of natives ! There is one thing, though,
to which I would draw attention. A well-
known brand of meats, etc., has as its trade
mark the picture of a pig. Everywhere
throughout “the East” there are large num-
bers of Mohammedans, and most of these
will not enter a shop where pig products
are even offered for sale or are on display.
Shopkeepers choose their brands with this
fact well in view, to the detriment of this
firm’s most excellent gefods.
"C. 0.5.”: I arrived in Queensland in
1866, a youth of 15, and remember two
private offers being made to build a railway
line from Dalby to the Gulf, payment to be
made by land grants along the line. The
first offer was not entertained by Parlia-
ment. The second offer, made, I think, by
Collier Bros., only fell through when the
contractors declined to accept blocks a'ong-
side the line for the first 100 miles out from
Dalby, as the district was covered with
.scrub; they wanted a corresponding area
elsewhere in Queensland. “FY7” (B.
21/12/’32) says the last offer, made in
Mcllwraith’s day, was the most important.
He should have said the most outrageous.
Not only were the blocks alongside the line
to be granted, but the terminal town area
at the Gulf and the islands thereabouts were
to be included. Had either of the original
offers been accepted Queensland would have
forged ahead, and the railway lines running
west from Rockhampton, Townsville and
Cairns would have been connected years ago.
* * * *
“Black Mountain”: The suggestion of
C. H. Regelsen that friendly societies should
adopt some form of surrender value in order
that members in difficult circumstances may
retain membership is timely, though at least
one friendly society has forestalled him. At
the last annual conference of the Hiber-
nians a resolution was carried that a full
benefit member of 15 years’ continuous mem-
bership should be entitled to a non-forfeit
policy, any money drawn to be used solely
in meeting obligations to the society. Prac-
tically every friendly society has a huge
surplus in the funeral fund, and each year
the Registrar is asked by one or another to
allow some of this surplus to be used to
augment other benefits. There seems to
be no good grounds for him to refuse the
above demand when the scheme is finalised,
and no doubt we will find that in a couple
of years’ time the principle will be generally
adopted.
* * * *
There is a firm of chemists and opticians
in Auckland (M.L.) which decided to try
the plan of issuing Production Certificates
and see how it worked out. Harold Schmidt
and Son is the firm’s name. It formed a
“circle,” issued advertising literature and
got busy in a small way. Its idea was
expressed in these words :
Can J' ou not see that if you ordered a quart of
milk from a milkman each day and paid him for
it in certificates which entitled him to call on you
to paint his house that you wouldn’t be long out
of a job ? And vice versa. Everyone, by simply
giving another a job, would get one himself. You
give a man a job who is out of work, pay him
in notes drawn on your own products and you get
customers.
Evidently the firm has been able to do some
good; anyway, one of its enthusiastic sup-
porters sends The Bulletin a dozen photo-
graphs of jobs done by members of the
circle. One house was painted, the painters,
taking these certificates, which they ex-
changed for the goods of other members of
the circle; and various tennis courts have
been laid, electric light installed, walls built,
etc. It is simply barter organised, and the
scheme is none the less effective because of
that.
* ijs ❖ #
“Man of Kent” (Canterbury, Eng.) :
From my Bltlletin I see that there is some
dissatisfaction in Australia with the Egg
Marketing Board. A correspondent, “A. 8.”
(B. 21/9/’32), said that since the board took
in hand the packing and foreign marketing
of Australian eggs the product had been
getting a bad name. He is quite wrong. Aus-
tralian eggs come into competition in Smith-
field (London) with eggs from all over the
world, and generally bring from Is. 2|d. to
Is. 6d. per dozen—exactly the same as the
South African, which have a sea-trip of only
three weeks. I was a poultry-fanner and con-
tributor to the voluntary pool in N.S.W. and
one of the first license holders under the
E.M.B. and speak from experience. Here
in England, with the best market in the
world for table poultry and eggs, we have
no organisation to protect the interests of
the producers; consequently, in times of
glut, eggs are sold as low as Sd. or 9d.
per dozen. The Poultry Producers’ Union
(of which I am a member) is now trying to
bring into being a board somewhat on the
lines of the Egg Marketing Board of N. S.
Wales.
* * * *
“Cliffwell”: More than a decade has passed
since Australia adopted for everything but
calendar purposes the July-to-June year, and
nearly as much time has passed since Aus-
tralian printers secured a virtual monopoly
of Australian diaries; nevertheless no one
has yet issued a diary which' conforms to
the July-to-June year. The result is that
anyone who uses a diary for account-keeping
must either have two books in use or each
December laboriously transfer from the dead
year’s diary six months of records to the
new book,—in which no provision is made
for the transfer. It would perhaps promote
a riot if publishers issued a July-to-June
diary unqualified bv a preliminary January-
to-June section, but .it would be a step for-
ward in convenience to include in diaries
a July-to-June accounts section which could
take the place, perhaps, of the. dominical
letters. Mahommedan dates, eclipses, Gov-
ernors’ names, seasons, national loafing days,
postal misinformation and similar space-
fillers which now occupy several pages.
**‘ * *
“L. Ree”: Is nothing to be done in
methodical re-afforestation with Murray pine
instead of imported pines? It is a beautiful
timber, white-ant and rot resistant, and its
dark rosewood heart and soft cream sub-
cortical layers make it one of the most attrac-
tive timbers for inside work in the world.
In the old days river pub. bars panelled
with it were a joy.
THE NEW PLAYER.
THE OUTGOING BATSMAN: “Cripes, you’re a little feller to face bowling like this. But keep your pecker up—the
wicket's improving every minute. H


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs”
Royal “The Gondoliers”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal . “Waltzes from Vienna”
King’s .. “Treasure Island”
State Movies and Talkies
Strange Happenings in Melbourne
Tarantism is a peculiar disease which pre-
vailed epidemically during the Middle Ages,
the most prominent characteristics .being
leaping and dancing. It was a matter of
common belief that it was caused by the
bite of the tarantula. Those who were
bitten generally fell into a state of melan-
choly, . and appeared to be stupefied and
scarcely in possession of their senses. This
condition was, in many
cases, united with so
great a sensibility to
music that at the very
first tones of their
favorite melodies they
sprang up, shouting
for joy, and danced on
without intermission,
until they sank to the
ground exhausted and
almost lifeless. In
others, the disease did
not take this cheerful
turn. They wept con-
stantly, and, as if pin-
ing away with some
unsatisfied desire,
spent their days in
the greatest misery
and anxiety. Others
again, in morbid fits
,of loye, cast their
longing looks on
women; and instances
of death are recorded
which are said to have
occurred under a
paroxysm of either
laughing or weeping.
Certain phenomena
which have suddenly
made their appearance
“Morbid condition
of the disease.”
in Melbourne are being viewed with grave
concern by the medical profession, which
fears they indicate either a recrudescence
of the disease or the presence of an allied
and more virulent germ with similar attri-
butes. The spider theory is nowadays dis-
carded.
The chief areas of infection are the Prin-
cess, Palace, Bijou, Tivoli, Royal and Play-
house theatres. It has been observed that,
generally speaking, males suffer less fright-
ful symptoms than females, though this is
by no means a rule without exceptions.
“In an advanced
stage.”
Alriiost every theatre ’
has at least one
male. in whom the ;
virus works such
fearful havoc in
the nerve centres
that he cannot be
restrained from
repeatedly flinging
women to the
ground. Strange to
say, the women,
when also victims
of the disease,,
show no resent-
ment at this extra-
ordinary behavior.
The victims have a
tendency to discard
their usual clothing
or to wear it in a
most unusual man-
ner. Another aspect
of the disease is
the inclination of the sufferers, especially
the men, to talk incoherently.
The epidemic has taken its most virulent
form to date at the Palace, where, in the
middle of a performance of “Dancing Part-
ners” by Nellie Bramley, an unfortunate
young man named Guy Pennel, maddened by
the disease, jumped down his own throat in
full view of a large and horrified audience,
thus totally disappearing from sight for
several minutes, or so it is reported. It was
not until the administration of a serum,
hastily obtained from the Royal Park Lab-
oratories, that the unfortunate youth made
his reappearance. It is at this theatre, too,
that the painful spectacle is to be seen of
one Alfred Frith, said to be formerly a
famous interpreter of Shakspearean tragedy.
He is in the morbid condition of the disease,
having had it for a long time. It takes the
form of a grin so fixed that repeated blasts
of dynamite have failed to remove it. While
in this state the doomed man was heard
to announce that he would sing the Lazy
Man’s Lovesong, entitled “Moon, Kiss Her
for Me To-night,” but, fearing the onset of
maniacal frenzy, his medical attendants led
him off before he
could carry his
threat into execu-
tion.
;At the Princess
che outbreak is
marked by re-
peated interrup-
tions of the ex-
cellent libretto
written by J. D,
Gray for “Dick
Whittington and
His Cat” by
numbers of par-
ti all y - clothed
females. They
swing their arms
and legs in perfect
unison and in a
curiously mechani-
cal fashion. The
management has
been asked to
stop the nuisance
“Wear it in, a most
unusual manner.”
by confining the girls in strait-waistcoats
of boilerplate with chilled-steel rivets,
but says it* is powerless. Similar svm-
tofus have manifested themselves at the Bijou,
the Tivoli, and the Playhouse; in fact, the
resemblance is, so exact that , bacteriologists
have n 0 doubt whatever of a common origin.
Sundry institutions known as dancing
schools or terpsichorean academies are
pointed to as nurseries of the germ. It is
stated on good authority that these institu-
tions capture children of tender years and
deliberately inoculate them. After a period
of incubation
varying from
weeks to several
years, these un-
lucky victims of
commercial greed
are so possessed
by the disease
that certain well-
marked charac-
teristics appear
in all of them.
At the sound of
music they move
their limbs in a
preconcerted man-
ner which impar-
tial witnesses de-
clare to be neither
graceful nor ele-
gant, though the
victims, when in-
terrogated, per-
sist in claiming
that they are danc-
in g. Moreover,
“To kick their heads
off.”
at the slightest provocation they will leap
high in the air, descending to the floor with
both legs at right angles to the body, vary-
ing this behavior by repeatedly attempting
to kick their heads off. Walking on their toes
like cranes is another of their symptoms.
They appear to be so unconscious of pain
or discomfort when at the height of the
frenzy that they accompany these various
actions with fixed smiles, apparently of
enjoyment. Some authorities, however, claim
that this is no index of their true feelings,
which they are compelled to conceal under
threat of instant dismissal. When in an
advanced stage of the disease they are sold
to unscrupulous theatrical managements.
Not only is this considered repugnant to
Australian ideals concerning the liberty of
the subject, but it is feared that it will
lead to the epidemic spreading to the public.
The authorities take a serious view of the
situation and there are various opinions as
to what preventive measures should be taken.
Some say that these academies should be
closed and others say that it will be sufficient
to throw sanitary cordons round them and
the other infected areas. Dr. John Dale, the
City Health Officer, declares that if the popu-
lation remains quite calm and avoids collect-
ing in large numbers in closed spaces the epi-
demic will, probably cease quite sqddenly,
leaving nothing behind but unpaid bills and
unsatisfied judgments. Dr. Dale also advises
that on the onset of the disease patients
should be kept warm and put on a milk
diet. They should be allowed to listen as
often as possible to Mr. Lyons’s Prosperity
speeches, except in the case of persons who
have been out of employment for . more than
two years, when more harm than good would
be done by this treatment.
A case that is puzzling the experts is that
of the Theatre Royal. The Royal outbreak
is said to be due to a more aristocratic
microbe, of refined manners, possibly left
behind by Pavlova. / ■/;,./
An example of everything that a play,
historical or otherwise, ought not to be is.
“The Lady with a Lamp” of Reginald Berke-
ley, planted on the boards of Melb. Comedy
for a few nights by the Gregan McMahonites.
Present writer knows nothing about Flor-
ence- Nightingale that is not derived from
“Males suffer less frightful symptoms.”
Strachey’s essay and the encyclopaedias. It
is not demonstrated that Mr. Berkeley knows
anything more. His story follows the facts
faithfully. We see Miss Nightingale fight-
ing her parents for the right to follow her
chosen profession of nursing. She rejects
the offer of a rich suitor to build her a hos-
pital to play with if she will only marry
him and not go to the Crimea. He subse-
quently joins the army in despair and dies
in her arms at Scutari. We see her fighting
officialdom at home and commissariat bureau-
crats on the war front. She returns to
England to coritinue the battle with politi-
cal timeservers on behalf of her sick and
wounded soldiers. In the last scene, a blind
and dying woman, she is wheeled on to the
stage to receive the Order of Merit from
her Sovereign and the freedom of the City
of London, and the scene appears to be so
photographically correct that one feels that
one is looking at the actual proceedings.
But the function of an artist is not to give
us an exact record of an event. A dicta-
phone can do that better; in fact, the
talkie newsreels are engaged in that form
of representation at the moment and nobody
would call them artistic. The job of the
artist is to create in us the emotion that he
got in surveying certain aspects of human
nature. Mr. Berkeley’s emotions don’t
appear to have been very profound when he
contemplated Florence Nightingale, and he
appears to be conscious that his play is
merely an illustrated “Who’s Who,” so he
tries to make, it human by throwing in some
obvious sentiment, such as the girlish dia-
logue between Florence and a fountain. One
can’t believe in the reality of the Florence
Nightingale who weeps maudlin tears over
the death of her rejected lover, Henry Tre-
mnyne. while her hospital is filling up with-
gangrened and vermin-infected wounded. It
■> a good old stage stereotype. Lord t’anuer-
ston is an altogether too melodiously virtu-
ous statesman and Sidney Herbert is only
the bare bones of a personage. Dr. Suther-
land, Miss Nightingale’s faithful Scottish
supporter, is a bit more human, but the rest
of the enormous cast of characters are faint
outline sketches.
_ Nevertheless, as a record of the accepted
historical version the play interests, if only
through stimulating the imagination to fill
in the blanks left by Mr. Berkeley. It was
the most elaborate production the McMahon-
ites have yet engaged on. The dresses
were really beautiful. Nancy Ford, as the
Lady of the Lamp, played a solemn part
solemnly, with intonations apparently bor-
rowed from a close study of the Sybil
Thorndike school of elocution. Frank De§-
browe’s Lord Palmerston had all the mag-
nanimity but none of the aggressiveness of
that famous statesman. If a politician like
that could become Prime Minister, then a
corpse could govern the Empire. But his
make-up was excellent. John Gorbutt’s
Secretary at War was a secretary at war
with an actor’s self-consciousness. Beatrice
Day’s beautifully-modulated voice and prac-
tised art were at the service of Mrs. Night-
ingale. John Bagot’s Dr. Sutherland was a
breezy Caledonian. Mary Wren’s Elizabeth
Herbert was a tart piece of portraiture in
the first scenes, but later relapsed into sen-
timentality. The only historical personage
concerned who did not make an appearance
was Air. Gladstone, but that was- because
lie hadn’t made an appointment with Miss
Nightingale, and so that tyrannous old lady
left him waiting on the doormat.
* * *
If Sir Arthur Sullivan and W. S. Gilbert
had been told on the first night of “The Gon-
doliers” that 43 years later the second city
of the Empire would be receiving the
“Even seem to like it.”
umptieth performance of the trifle with rap-
turous applause, according triple and quad-
ruple encores to the catchiest numbers, they
would have been highly flattered, but, as
both had a very good sense of perspective,
just as highly incredulous. They could not,
of course, realise that their partnership of
talents was unique not only in the history
of comic opera but of all opera, and that it
was not going to be paralleled in a hurry.
With the possible exception of Lehar and
Straus the world in the last 50 years has
produced no composer of comic opera who
could hold a candle to Sullivan even in the
matter of orchestral skill, not to mention
melodic invention, and the librettos that Gil-
bert didn’t write are forgotten as soon as they
are performed, even though buttressed with
Sullivan’s music. It’s a melancholy confes-
sion, but the Savoy operas continue to hold
the stage on sheer merit, and that’s a quality
that can’t be quarrelled with.
Of the performance at the Royal almost
everything that can be said was said on
this Page the last time —just a very few
months ago—“ The Gondoliers” was done in
Sydney. The cast is practically the same —
Ivan Menzies, nimbly tapping his feet as
the Duke, Stroud and Darnton, vocally
highly respectable gondolieri, and John Ral-
ston a Grand Inquisitor whose flavor is
distinctive and unforgettable. The girls
sing as sweetly as ever, and Casilda is as life-
less as a doll —whether it’s Maisie Ramsay’s
fault or Gilbert’s this Showman isn’t pre-
pared to say, but it may be said in Miss
Ramsay’s favor that Casilda,s invariably are
like that. Andrew McCann, whose assidu-
ous eyeing of the score must by now be pure
camouflage, does himself and his orchestra
proud, and the scenery and dressing leave
nothing to be desired.
Sydney Pickwickians celebrated their first
birthday by staging a revue, “Crazy Pages,”
at the Savoy. There was plenty of variety
in the fare provided, but intervals were
“Deliberately inoculate them.”
numerous and long. Best effort of the
evening was a potted panto., “Cinderella,”
with a male cast. Neville Goodall, Phillip
Lcwit; and Eric Howell sparkled in this.
..... * * *
The 446th concert of the Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society was devoted to the 112th
performance of George Friedrich Handel’s
“Messiah.” These are impressive figures and
suggest that the 500 Dubliners who raptur-
ously applauded the first performance of the
oratorio on April 13, 1742, were uncannily
astute musical critics. There is a tradition
that when the chorus sang “For the
Lord God Omnipotent” in the “Alleluia,”
they spontaneously stood up and remained
standing till the chorus ended. It would
have surprised the composer if he had been
told that in an antipodean city that didn’t
then exist in a continent that hadn’t been
colonised a couple of thousand people 190
years later would emulate the audience in
Dublin. The latest rendering was the finest
that has come from .under Bernard Heinze’s
baton. Orchestra, choralists, soloists and
organist Isabel Matthews were in excellent
agreement. The thundered “Wonderful!”
which came after the whispered “For unto
us a child is born” was a staggering piece of
musical dramatics. John Brownlee’s rich
red baritone rolled voluptuously through the
initial recitatives and his “Why Do the
Nations so Furiously Rage Together?” had a:
sarcastic intonation, as if the great singer
were issuing an admonition on the war debts
controversy. Emelie Hooke’s well-rounded
soprano was easier to listen to in “Come
unto Him” than was her singing in the
recent performance of G. and S.’s “Princess
Ida.” Etta Bernard’s contralto was correct
without being overpoweringly impressive.
John Dudley’s youthful tenor was as clear
as running waters and full of a sense of the
words, especially in “Thou Shalt Break
Them.” x \ line sung by the chorus, “Who
whizz the King of Glory,” is not to be found
in the authorised version. The final “Amen”
was grandly sung and left the rafters ringing.
* * ¥
Perth Repertory Club’s latest effort was
Milne’s fantasy, “The, Ivory Door.” The
long legs of. Gerald Ruse, who played King
Perivale, made a hit with the kids in the
audience, as did the clanking accessories of
Captain Bruno. (R. Trethowan). Lesley
Everett was a beautiful Princess Lilia, and
Tom Tracy and James Ottaway appeared as
the Chancellor and the Mummer respectively,
A feature of the three nights and matinee
was Mrs. E. C. Campbell’s singing of scraps
from “When We Were Very Young.” Molly
Ick produced the piece and Billie Atkinson
designed the attractive programmes.
The Palette.
“M.G.S.’,’: The annual display of the
Vic. National Gallery students’ work is a
procession of academic conventionalism, as
in former years. There are a forest of male
head studies, enough market produce to
stock a large;barrow, some nudes and a num-
ber of gigantic; groups, and they all look as
if they had been turned out by mass produc-
tion with a machine imported from the
Slade School in London. S. Atyeo’s “A
Gentle Admonition,” which was removed
from the exhibition by order of the authori-
ties, is on view at 52A;/Gollins-street. Mr.
Atyeo has registered: his revolt from the
academism of the Nat. Gallery by rushing
into another form of academism, that of
Cezanne, Matisse and co. The two nude
women being surveyed' by a young man or
woman in a shimmy are accompanied by
what looks like a pig’s bladder gushing blood,
but which is probably meant to be a cushion,
plus a bottle which looks as if it had been
kicked about by a .Cbllingwood eighteen. It
is being solemnly 1 hdile'd as. a work'of incipi-
ent genius by local modernists/ but it is
really in the cartoon class.
The annual outburst of the art of John
Hennessy at Melb. Athenaeum is this year
reinforced by the work of son John J. John,
junr., is a chip off the old block, who is
a tough piece of hardwood' arid artistically
an out-and-out Conservative. Unless one
consults one’s catalogue it is impossible to
tell where the old-fashioned principles of
the father end and the Toryism of the: son
begins. Both paint the vegetable kingdom
with the same tenacious adherence to their
conventions, and their portraits show the
same unvarying fidelity.
Elioth Gruner’s show at Sydney National
Gallery is a bit disappointing. Pictures that
one recollects as bright jewels of miscellane-
ous shows look commonplace when placed
on a wall with a hundred others from the
same brush. However, the collection, from
which nothing of note , seems to have been
omitted, demonstrates very forcibly Gruner’s
virtues, and liis limitations. As the recorder
of certain phases of the Australian landscape
he has few peers. His effects are more
atmospheric and poetic than those of the
greatest of liis indigenous contemporaries,
but his affection for a scene or a lighting
that enchants him blinds liim sometimes to
banalities. He is a rapid but very consci-
entious worker, completing his pictures on
the spot, and that is the secret of the vitality
that infuses his best-inspired canvases.
Adelaide Art Gallery has bought the “Con-
versation Piece” of Orpen, characteristic but
hardly attractive, lately showing in Mel-
bourne. The gallery’s only previous Orpen
was a powerful portrait of Each. That is,
not counting the curious “Sowing New
Seed,” now in private ownership, which
Adelaide owned for a few hectic weeks, and
then cast out.
Van Raalte, formerly curator of Adelaide
Art Gallery, left a lot of etchings at his
untimely death, and the S.A. Society of Arts
has staged a showing of these. His eucalypts
are as self-assertive and individual as ever.
An unusual feature, and a relief to the
black-and-white, is some quite brilliant color-
printing.
“L.H.P.” : The theatre in Sydney attained
its centenary on Boxing Day. Dra-
matic shows were given as early as
1789, but. not in regular theatres. Barnett
Levey opened his Theatre Royal, originally
an old store or saloon adjoining the first
George Hotel, George-strcet, where Dymocks
are now, with the double bill of “Black
Eyed Susan” and a farce on December 26,
1832. Prices of admission were ss. and 3s.
The show caught on, and Levey erected
a bigger and more elaborate theatre at
the back of the Royal Hotel. The new
house w T as opened on October 5, 1833, with
“The Miller and His Men” and a farce.
Prices, 55., 3s. and 2s. The theatre was
closed in September, 1838, and shared the
fate of the pub, which was burnt down on
March 17, 1840. Levey died, aged 39, on
October 2, 1837.


Hairdressers
BARGAINS
La Reine 1
Model
PERLA No 1 PEDESTAL
BARBER CHAIR.
New stocks. Oak finish, adjustable
head-rest, patent lever, revolving and
reclining, Pegamoid upholstered.
Regular Price, £26/10/-
To clear £l9 net
(No Sales Tax.)
PERLA No. 2 PEDESTAL
BARBER. CHAIR.
New stocks. Hydraulic, revolving
and reclining. Adjustable head-
rest, patent lever, Pegamoid uphol-
stcrcd.
Regular Price, £3O/3/3
To clear £23 net
(No Sales Tax.)
LA REINE PEDESTAL
BARBER CHAIR
New stocks. Hydraulic, revolving
and reclining. Pedestal base and
seat rim porcelain enamel. All
other exposed parts heavily nickel-
plated, upholstered in genuine
leather.
Regular Price, £4l/6/-
To clear £3O net
(No Sales Tax.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
January Issue,
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
What Will 1933 Bring?
Are Interest Rates Too Low?
Trade Prospects: Where Are
They Brightest?
The Future of Share Prices.
These and other matters vital to
investors will be discussed in the
January issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
m
m
i
A\Wv\i\*3
TIME
►r
w&Mim
o\b
W
sS
SSSHB
/>
o
m
m
m
<s%
*s\\
m.
> \
SS M
!ftSrw^:4fik
j
*
eb
■ ?
r»
■ ■
i
ms
tX&HF/ELO
•••.
March is the doorway of Spring in Japan. The soft radiance of
the Plum—extending into April—begins an exquisite cycle of
blossoms. Spring Time, scented and joyous, is also Festival Time.
Round Trip Steamer Fares
SYDNEY TO YOKOHAMA
First * £9O Second - £56/15/-
S.S. Tanda -
Sails Jan. 14
S.S. Nankin-
Sails Feb. 11
S.S. Nellore -
Sails Mar. 15
No Exchange
Escorted Tours through Japan.
12 days £123/10/-, including
First Saloon Return Steamer
Fare from Sydney. No Exchange.
Passengers making Round
Trip may live on board
E. & A. Steamers at all ports.
AGENTS
IN ALL STATES
AND
NEW ZEALAND
, £
SHADOW SHOWS.
Almost the only thought-provoking talkies
that Hollywood is now exporting are satires
on aspects of American life. “Rackety Rax,”
at Sydney Regent, is funny in its crude way;
it is also tragic.’ Victor McLaglen, as an
ex-pug who run's numerous big businesses
and prevents competitors from muscling
in by bumping them off, is, in addition to
being a figure of burlesque, an intelligent
anticipation of a typical U.S.A. captain of
industry of the near future. The head of
the Chicago Employers’ Association has just
revealed that in his city there were 120
armed attacks on businesses in which lives
were lost last year. '
. , ■
T , , ._,. , „
McLaglen, though an illiterate thug, co -
ceives the idea of becoming president of a
university after being told that as many as
80,000 people pay two or three dollars each
similar lines. B Tear bombs, Mills bombs and
finally machine-guns are brought into play
before the police arrive. The production is
elaborate. A fortune must have been lavished
on the shots depicting McLaglen’s offices and
armories alone, and then there are the col-
lege scenes, in which the opposing sides are
manceuvred like armies. It is impossible to
imagine a British film flaying any British
business or sport with such savagery, and
it is not altogether a matter of the
Americans’ well-known readiness to admit
their failings. These merciless skits on
gangster business men come very near to
being pictures of life. The U.S.A. crime
nmvp it-
“Six Hours to Tive” which follows bears
no refation to life It’all It is a blend of
cheap sentiment and sensationalism. Warner
Baxter, overdressed as usual, is an envoy
fighting for his country’s cause at Geneva,
He loves and is loved by Miriam Jordan,
The talkie-addict soon realises, however, that
the lady is destined for John Boles. Baxter
is strangled by a political opponent, and the
big moment comes when George Marion, a
genial old inventor who carries his compli-
cated revivifying apparatus about with him,
first brings a rabbit and then Baxter to life.
The catch in the process is that, after six
hours, the ex-corpse becomes a corpse again.
Baxter strides about in his gigolo’s dress-
suit and pigeon’s-egg pearl stud doing meri-
torious actions —persuading Miss Jordan
that the emotion she feels for him is
“glamor, not love,” buying violets from a
street child, and the like —till his hour
approaches. He then strangles his strangler
and passes to his reward. The photography
is exquisite, but the preposterous plot, the
drawn-out and often irrelevant dialogue and
the false pathos (as when the violet-seller
mistakes the top-hatted Baxter for an angel
and inquires after her sister in Heaven)
makes this a dull entertainment in which
many of the laughs come where they aren’t
wanted.
“The Mask of Fu Manchu,” at Sydney
State, is a Sax Rohmer thriller with an ela-
borate cast and settings. Only a child
would swallow the absurd story. A group
of English scientists set out to excavate the
burial place of Ghengis Khan. Fu also has
designs on the contents of the tomb. He
proposes pilfering various objects which be-
longed to the dead ruler and using them to
give a genuine touch to a contemplated im-
personation of the corpse. His object in
faking a reincarnated Ghengis Khan is to
inflame the East against the West. Scot-
land Yard is aware of the ambitious plot,
and one of its officers (Lewis Stone) is
detailed to put a stop to the Chinaman’s
destructive plans. But he has a tough and
wily bird to deal with. The leader of the
expedition is shanghaied and tortured, his
daughter’s fiance is hypnotised by Fu Man-
chu’s daughter and also tortured, and even
the ’tec is grabbed by the yellow plotter.
In the end —but everybody knows how these
things end. Juicy bits in the shocker are
an immense robot controlled by mysterious
rays, a gathering of leaders of Asiatic tribes,
the torture of captives by the clanging of
a giant bell, a sinister laboratory and weird
catacombs. Boris Karloff could hardly be
excelled as Fu Manchu, Karen Morley makes
a tolerable heroine, and Charles Stafrett is
an acceptable young hero.
“Stranger in Town,” also at the State, is
a business romance of a standardised Ameri-
can type. Old Crickle (“Chic” Sale), a vil-
lage grocer, is in danger of ruin through
young Jerry (David Manners), who opens
a chain store. Marian (Ann Dvorak),
Crickle’s grand-daughter, who becomes
Jerry’s wife in the end, Brice (Lyle Talbot),
a villain, Raymond Hatton, a small-town
funny man, and Noah' Beery, a surly village
copper, are characters.
* # *
“X Marks the Spot,” at Sydney Hay-
market, deals with the murder of a chorus
girl. An obtuse detective arrests Ted Lloyd
(Wallace Ford), a gossip-writer on a tab-
loid paper. Ted, out on bail, traces the
crime to a gangster, Riggs (Fred Kohler),
who had once befriended him, and decides
to keep quiet. But Ted’s sister, who has
had her ear to the keyhole, informs the
police. Riggs escapes from the courtroom,
locks himself in a room with a juror, and
threatens to shoot the juror unless Tod elects
to come in and get shot instead. Ted goes
in and in the gun duel which' follows proves
himself the better shot. Sally Blane supplies
the love interest, and Low Cody is polished
as an editor. Photography is poor.
In the supporting Haymarket film, “Hello
Trouble,” Buck Jones wears the badge of
the, Texas Rangers and is engaged in a
guerilla war with cattle-rustlers. In an
encounter with a trio of ruffians Buck shoots
an old comrade and is so conscience-stricken
that he resigns from the force. Arizona,
where he hopes to find tranquillity and for-
getfulness, calls him, and there he discovers
that evil men have slaughtered poor old Jona-
than Kenyon, the owner of the Silver Circle
Ranch, and are in the act of filching the
property from the deceased’s niece, Janet.
After much galloping about the landscape,
the expenditure of enough powder and shot
to run the war in Manchuria, and many
exciting catch-as-catch-can tussles, the ras-
cals are routed and love triumphs. Wallace
MacDonald and Alan Roscoe make an excel-
lent pair of gunmen, Otto Hoffman is pass-
able as a rancher and Lina Basquette, as
Janet, shows signs of camera fright.
# V Y-
Morguekcepers, gravediggers, pallbearers
and sextons should flock to “Strangers of the
Evening,” now doing the subbubs. There are
corpses everywhere and the audience is kept
busy guessing who they were. The principal
corpse is presumed at the beginning to be that
of one who in life had objected to his daughter
marrying a rising young medico. Then it is
thought to be the body of a political boss.
It turns out to be the remains of a minor
crook. During all the bother over the
identifying of the body, the father of the
girl remains missing; it transpires that he
was knocked out by thugs. Zasu Pitts is a
slavey, but even she does little to relieve the
gloom.
“Illegal,” now going the rounds, is devoted
to life at a London night club run by
Evelyn Dean, who has discarded a worth-
less husband. Her object is to make enough
to keep Dorothy and Ann, her two daugh-
ters, at a finishing school. Of course
the maidens don’t know how their mama is
earning her living. Evelyn is nabbed on a
sly-grogging charge, and the girls have
to leave their school. After their first sur-
prise at mama’s calling, they nobly decide to
carry on the business themselves. Ann cap-
tures a young aristocrat, but Dorothy falls
into the clutches of her dissolute stepfather
and commits suicide. Evelyn, upon her,
release, is so full of remorse that she burns'
the night club down. Whether she stands
her trial for arson or collects the insurance
rnonev isn’t disclosed. Isobel Elsom is good
as Evelyn. D. A. Clarke-Smith plays the
villain.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting;
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Cbmmonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
&mmonwealtf) Savings jfak of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
mm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from I 9/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“O. W. Waireki”: Timi’s schoolboy son,
Moko, wrote informing his father of a
great honor the school had bestowed upon
him. Timi’s reply was brief and to the
point: “Very nice to be best swimmer of the
boys, but learn to spell it. It is d-u-c-k-s,
not d-u-x.”
% * * *
“Arbeep”: Smithie is a guard on a branch
railway, and general messenger for the
farmers and their wives all along the line.
He had been inquiring about buying a cow,
and some of the farmers he serves so
well decided they would present him with
one. Descending from the mixed, he saw
Daisy tied up to the picket fence, and a
label on her horns, “For Smithie.” There
A FRAIL CREATURE.
COUNCILLOR TREDINNICK: “Your boay Thomas Henry’s wife do seem a tumble hard
grafter. But she baint too strong, seem to me.”
THOMAS HENRY'S FAATHER: “Why do ’ee think that?”
COUNCILLOR TREDINNICK: Well, me and Town Clurk was a-walching her put a load
o’ spuds ’pon spring dray yestiddy, an’ she took tumble time wi’ laast few bags.”
was no empty truck on the train, so Smithie
coaxed Daisy into a passenger coach, pulled
up the blinds and labelled the carriage
“engaged.” There was so much scuffling and
bumping in that carriage when the train
stopped that Smithie had to tell the other
passengers there was a honeymoon couple
on board, an explanation which seemed
to please everybody. But as they pulled
into the home station Smithie was horrified
to see the District Superintendent on the
platform. He hurried his passengers out, and
gave the “right away” signal, avoiding the
great man’s eye in his apparent bustle to
get his train down the yard and do his
shunting. But, of course, the road to the
loading bank was blocked, and Smithie had
to enlist the help of the driver and fireman
to. unload the cow on to the permanent way,
five feet below. With two pushing and one
ipulling. the cow came out of the compart-
ment like the cork out of a bottle just as
the superintendent, his suspicions aroused,
walked round the engine. But luck was still
with Smithie. The super, had not been well
for some time, and at this strange sight he
gave a horrible moan and hurried off to
consult a , doctor, while Smithie arid the cow
faded into the gloaming.
* ❖ # *
“Uramao”: Farm methods in Maoriland
are not viewed favorably by a youth who
came from the Cold Country to acquire a
knowledge of agriculture. Arriving in town
after a brief sojourn under the supervision
of Dad at Stragglers’ Flat, he asserted that
Maoriland farmers are 999 years behind the
times; they don’t even know the purpose of
the appliances civilisation provides. “The
old pot down there,” Choom related, “told me
to go and clean ’the pigsties. After I got
through with one, down comes old wire-
whiskers in a towering rage because I was
using the vacuum cleaner. Sickenin’, isn’t
it?”
t- * * *
“Venturino”: Jimmy, our pub useful, has
an impediment in his speech, but he is a
garrulous old yarn-spinner in spite of it.
“Wad y’ eyer bit be a tnake?” he asked me.
“One ’tinkin’ hot day I wad trampin’ into
Dawler and I touldn’t raide d’ prite of a
drink nohow. I teen a bid tnake on d’ road
and it dave me a idea. I dot me potet-knife
and tut me leg and ran into d’ pub. ‘Twick,
twick,’ I yelled, ‘I bin bit be a tnake! A
drate bid b’at tnake wid a red belly!’
‘Oh, d’ pore tow,’ taid d’ publican. ‘Put a
lidature on and div’ him brandy! Don’t let
him do to tleep!’ Dey poured ’bout a bottle
o’ brandy into me and tept me trampin’ up
and down d’ bar. I dot tick and tired of it
and d’ brandy made me pretty tcheeky. 1
taid, ‘Aw y’ tilly lot o’ fool! I ain’t bin
bit be no tnake!’. By tripe, dey did det
wild! I gan feel ’em gickin’ me now.’ ”
* * * *
“Wire-Neck”: Years ago when I was
tramping south from Sydney along the
N.S.W. coast, looking for work, I met a dairy-
farmer who told me of the strangest cow I
ever heard of. He had bought a black
heifer in a mob of poddy calves. As each
calf became a cow it was placed in the ranks
with the veterans for milking. Milking
machines were used, otherwise the mystery
would have been solved sooner. After the
black heifer joined the milkers the farmer
noticed a dark strain in his milk, but was
unable to. account for it. Thinking there
was an oil leak in his machine he had it
overhauled. Whilst the overhauling was in
process, he had to milk by hand, and it was
then discovered that the black cow was pro-
ducing black milk. The milk was tested and
it was found it contained all the properties
of ordinary milk. What is more it was
drinkable, and quite fit for use.
Hs ❖ ❖ *
“Pila”: December 30 marked the 95th
anniversary of the inauguration of the over-
land mail service between Sydney and Mel-
bourne. On that
day in 1837 N. S.
Wales postmaster
J ames Raymond
sent out by
mounted postmen
the first batch of
letters addressed
via overland
route to Victoria,
each letter being
accepted for
transmission at
the rate of Is.
3d., by arrange-
ment with con-
tractor John
flawdon. The
Sydney mailman
travelled as far
as Yass, where
he was met by the!
Melbourne mail-
carrier ; the two
exchanged bags
and then set out
on the return
trip to their re-
spective head-
quarters. Both
in Sydney and in
Melbourne these
pioneers had been
farewelled in a
manner that
plainly suggest-
ed doubts about
their ever return-
ing, but they
managed their
contracts all
right. The Mel-
bourne mailman
carried a pair of
duelling pistols
and wore a tough
leather suit. His
diary (preserved
in the Adelaide
Museum) shows
that he risked his
life time and
again. Once,
while he was
camped in the
Granite Ranges,
a tribe of blacks
ventured near,
and one threw a
spear which
struck his horse.
Th e maddened
animal dashed
into the bush,
with its master
in pursuit. He
caught it after a
long chase, cur
out the spear, and
then rode it to the nearest settlement. On
the same, day he was almost drowned in a
flooded river, while on another occasion a
pack of dingoes kept him treed for hours.
But he never failed to deliver the mail.
* Hs Hs
“Barangkali”: The report of the captain
of a small coastal steamer that he had
noticed a crocodile swimming strongly off
Smoky Cape, N.S.W., suggests that adven-
turous crocs, may work their way down to
southern beaches. Certainly the distance
would. not trouble them. Years ago a 14ft.
crocodile was washed ashore at Cocos Island,
1400 miles from his nearest habitat. After
his long ocean journey he must have been a
little hurt at his reception, for he was killed
a few hours after arrival.
* * $ .
“Avon”: I must congratulate “Ehoa” (B.
28/12/’32) on the patriotism which has
moved him to such an enthusiastic paean
on Maoriland’s botanical glories. But I was
referring to trees useful for town beauti-
fication. . On my morning walk to the rail-
way station of the Sydney suburban hamlet
in which I reside, I pass along an avenue
containing, in a quarter of a mile, a hun-
dred Australian trees of at least twenty dis-
tinct varieties, most of them planted in the
last seven years, but all well grown. If
“Ehoa” will tell me of just one town or
village in my native Madriland where a
similar use has been made of indigenous
trees, and a similar fine show made in a
similarly short period, I’ll be prepared to
admit that there is some point to his com-
ment.
* * * *
: In addition to thermal springs
(B. 23/13/’32), there is another natural
occurrence in Western Queensland which may
achieve fame if the Bourke-to-Birdhm rail-
way is built, as the proposed line will pass
within a few miles 0 f the spot. The site is on
Springvale station, between Boulia and Dia-
mantina Gates, and at first glance it looks as
if a trench-mortar school had been operating
in the paddock. An area of an acre or so is
closely pitted with craters of dimensions
varying from whizz-bang to 5.9 excavations.
The water, which is clear and lukewarm,
is only a few inches in depth, but is con-
GLAD TIDINGS.
PARSON: “Sydney is a place of great depravity. Shocking things
are done there.”
DAVE: “No. are they?.... Gripes, this train moves pretty slow,
don’t she?”
tinuously bubbling up through the sandy
floor of the craters, and in winter a misty
vapor hangs over the springs. I passed
there with a big mob of cattle one bleak
June day, and will never forget the luxury
of slipping out of my clothes in the lee of
a crater and soaking in the warm water
bubbling up through ’ the shifting sand,
shielded from the chilly breeze overhead. It
takes a war or a long droving trip in winter
to make a man really appreciate the advant-
ages of h. and e. laid on.
* * * *
“Pikekeeper”: Readers of that droll
story “Pigs Is Pigs” will recall the quandary
of a railway baggage master who could not
decide whether guinea pigs should be classed
for freight purposes as “pigs” or “pets,” and
the disastrous consequences that ensued.
The tollmaster on the George’s River
(N.S.W.) bridge faced a similar problem
the other day when a circus elephant pre-
sented itself for the journey across. Long
investigation of the list of toll charges threw
no light on the question, and in the end the
ponderous brute had t 0 be passed through
free, since he was obviously not cattle, sheep
or horses. The local authorities have resolved
to include elephants in future toll lists. If
they resolve to levy a poundage charge,
circus proprietors will probably decide to
go round by road through Liverpool.
* * * *
“Timer”: “J.A.” (B. 23/11/’32) has got
muddled over the giant rat. Hydromu cliryso-
gaster is a marsupial, and not, as he says,
a rodent. It is a beaver rat, with real fur,
not a water rat. The water rat is a rodent
and not a marsupial. It differs from ordi-
nary rats by having two pairs of molar teeth
in each jaw instead of three, and by its
webbed feet. Its nostrils can be closed when
swimming under water. It feeds on water-
fowl and is partial to yabbies. Marsupials
are wholly vegetarians.
CICADAS IN COLLINS-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A thousand green cicadas sing
This summer day in Collins-street;
Above the tramways’ piercing ring
I hear the sun-born chorus beat.
When nothing moved upon this hill
But beast and reptile long ago,
The crooked native trees were shrill
With the same chant the plane-trees know.
Tribesman and beast and bird are gone;
And the old hill a city sees
With new-sprung spires of brick and stone,
And pavement-rooted alien trees.
Nothing remains of what has been ;
Only the sun appears again,
And in the street-bound, leafy screen
Wakes the cicada’s thin refrain.
Hid between earth and Heaven above,
The unseen host that shrills on high
Knows nothing but a pang of love,
Heeds nothing but the summer sky.
O ageless miracle of birth !
The green cicadas break anew
Their tiny sepulchres in the earth,
And climb towards the eternal blue.
VICTORIA.
PATRICIA MURCHISON.


THE
lIUITCn insurance
U 11 1 I E U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsurances cffctcd 011 ad classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks 011 Wool, Merchandise,
■■ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
EOTHEN
yt 128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
ndusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
PAYING GUESTS Mrs. parker
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
ŕ
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
5v
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. M. S. Allan,
73-75 Paterson Street, National Bank Chambers,
Launceston. 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. IV. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original
“Mako” : A kindhearted M.L. family during
a severe water shortage decided to take the
family goat to the river and give her a real
drink. The river was five miles away, but
on a hot summer afternoon they pulled,
pushed, abused and cajoled that reluctant
animal to water. When the Waikato came
in view they proudly shoved Nannie into the
tide and listened for her gratified gurgles.
The goat looked with calm indifference at
the river, turned and set off for home at full
speed. The water shortage lasted another six
weeks, but Nannie, now utterly drinkless,
survived it.
* * „ * *
“Waranbini”: Grafton’s jacaranda-lined
street has been lauded as the most beautiful
of public thoroughfares, but a more notable
avenue, in my opinion, is the main street in
Tambo, on the Barcoo. This is planted
wholly with Queensland bottle-trees, one of
Australia’s beautiful curiosities. Though
they don’t make a floral show, they are
beautiful all the year round, and the shape,
like an old-style lemonade-bottle, is a novelty.
The tree is also valuable for fodder, every
particle of it, including bark and trunk,
being eaten by stock. In the bush it has
saved many a life, for it provides food and
drink for man as well as animals.
“SHE’D LOOK BETTER WITH HER HAIR BOBBED, MOTHER"
“Red Dog”: Most people associate dingoes
with the far outback, where the pigs root up
the daylight. In point of fact, provided there
is timbered country to shelter them, they are
quite often suburban residents. At present
they are such a pest in some_ quarters within
10 miles of Brisbane, even within the Greater
Brisbane boundaries, that the districts
affected have been placed under the control
of the District Improvement Board, which
has for one of its jobs the suppression of
the wild tyke. The board finds that, though
payment of subsidies for scalps is authorised
in outback sections of the State, there is
no authority for paying them in the Greater
Brisbane area. Sheep being few and far
between in the infested neighborhood, the
dogs have taken to robbing poultry farms
after the fashion of the fox, and have been
only too successful.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Thursday Island branch of
the Royal Geographical Society, which has
for a good while been trying to find
out who first named the outpost,
thought it had struck a patch the
' '-Vr day ’"hen someone turned up
Cramp’s “Story of the Australian
People” and found Cook’s name
figuring in that respect. Further
investigation, however, brought a
report from the Royal Historical
Society of N.S.W. that nothing defi-
nite can be found before mention of
Thursday Island during the voyage
of the Lady Nelson, which was a
considerable period after Cook
passed along. Though Bligh named
Wednesday Island on his memor-
able boat voyage, he could scarcely
have noticed Thursday Island, since
it is well hidden amongst the large
islands of the Prince of Wales
group. That seems to be a satisfac-
tory reason for not finding the name
on his charts. Cook, too, in going
through Endeavor Strait, is unlikely to have
detected it as a separate island, and it is
certainly not recorded on the charts he has
left.
* •!* * *
“Barangkali” : I don’t agree with “Shop”
(B. 30/11/’32) that the war service of
homer pigeons was negligible. Towards the
end of 191 S, there were 150 mobile lofts
on the French and Italian fronts, and
over 200 fixed lofts behind the lines in
France. Between February and April, 1916,
when Verdun was getting so badly battered,
the only method of communication was per
pigeon, and records show that over 300
birds were used to carry the messages, the
percentage of losses being nil. On one day
- —September 25, 1916 —400 messages were
received during the Somme offensive from
advanced parties. Later the French, during
the battle of the Somme, used 5000 carriers,
and', notwithstanding heavy shell fire and
adverse weather, only 2 pm. of the winged
messengers failed to return, which didn’t
matter, as all important messages were
duplicated. In 1917 another use was found
for these birds. Small parachutes were
constructed with a metal band holding a
small basket in which was a carrier pigeon,
These were dropped from Allied aeroplanes
over occupied territory, with letters in
French and Belgian asking the finders
to supply any information that might be
of value to the Allies by writing on the
enclosed tissue and sending it off with the
pigeon. There was such an enthusiastic
response that the Germans placarded all
occupied territory threatening the inhabi-
tants with death if they gave information
to the enemy, and imposing a heavy fine
on any town in which one of the baskets
and pigeons was discovered. Despite the
threats information still came in regularly,
During the war over 100,060 birds were
used by the Allies, and after the Armistice
THIS QUEER LANGUAGE.
SQUATTER'S WIFE: “I hear you’re the father of a bouncing
boy, Jacky!”
JACKY ( puzzled): “Bouncin’? Bouncin’? Oh, my word, yes. Him plenty big bawl,
missus.”
the U.S.A. was presented with 5000 homers,
the start of the present defence establishment
of 20,000 birds.
* '* * *
“GG6”: Though common enough in the
southern States, the wombat is rare in
Queensland. A Toowoomba collector who
has been looking for one for 10 years was
overjoyed the other day to get a live specimen
from a near-by district. Only two others
are known to have been captured in Queens-
land, and the writer can testify to one of
them. After the great 1893 floods in the
south-w r est, where the Balonne River and
its branches sometimes flood the country for
miles on each side of the banks, a black
stockman came on some tracks he had never
seen before. Following them in the drying
mud, he found a recently-defunct wombat.
A station manager forwarded skin and bones
to the Sydney Museum. There it was identi-
fied as a new sub-species and christened,
after the donor, smithii (that
second title is fictitious), or the hairy-nosed
wombat. Unfortunately the manager was
himself blessed with a fair crop of hair on
the end of his nose, and it followed as the
night the day that for the rest of his life
he was known as the hairy-nosed wombat.
* * :!= *
“Runa”: Campers penetrating the dense
forests of the little-known south-west corner
of Otago, M.L., have been asked by orni-
thologists to keep a sharp look-out for the
rarest of M.L. birds, the takahe (Notornis
hochstetteri). Only four specimens of this
handsome bird, which stands about two feet
high, have ever been recorded, the last one,
34 years ago, being brought into a camp by
a dog. The bird was alive, but died soon
after capture. Forunately one of the campers
recognised the find as something out of tin
ordinary, and subsequently collected £2SJ
from the Government for his discernment.
As the bird is flightless, its chances of sur-
vival are small, but at intervals hopes are
aroused that there may be a few still in
the fastnesses of the Sounds district, where
small islands afford sanctuary.
* * • • . , . * *
“Felis”: The prevalent notion that cats
hate water (B. 21/12/’32) is probably de-
rived from an old proverb. Most domesti-
cated cats, once given a lead, will take to
the water and soon learn to catch fish.
This trait is probably hereditary, since there
are wild cats in Africa and India—the best-
known of which, perhaps, is the Indian
“fishing cat,” Felix chaux —which have no
other means of livelihood. These live in
reed beds by swamps and watercourses, and
capture their prey by diving for it much as
an otter does.
“GG6”: “Trausdet’s” frog (8.14/12/’32)
must have been a newchum. No self-respecting
frog would try to swallow any prey except
head first. I have seen the big green fellows
stuff themselves full of cockroaches till the
last two or three arrivals were practically
sleeping out. In every case the prey was
nabbed by the lasso-like tongue and was then
turned head on by the paws and jammed into
the wide-open smile so characteristic of frogs,
If “Trausdet’s” frog- had taken the mouse
down tail first, as he says, pushing with his
hands pressed on the mouse’s: nose, he would
certainly have been bitten—and a mouse can
bite. As to the frog’s persistency, I can,
vouch for that. I once saw a big “greeny,”
who used to come up on the table at nights to
dine on the insects drawn by a lamp, grab
a bat that had bumped the light globe and
fallen, stunned, on the table. Froggy took
him head first, but the wings blocked him. Yet
when the bat was pulled out of his mouth
he had another dash, and was again stuck
up by the widespread wings. This time we
held the frog down, and, taking the bat out-
side, threw him into the air. He went off,
apparently unharmed.
* * * *
“R.T.”: An extraordinary insect was dis-
covered by a walking party on Mount
Kaputai, the new scenic resort near Nar-
rabri (N.S.W.), at a height about 5000 ft.
above sea level. It resembled a snail in
shape, and had two spines projecting from
its head, with bright red spots at the base
of the spines. In general color it was deep
red, and, when touched, was able to' flatten
itself out to resemble a gumleaf. A speci-
men packed in a tin escaped by so flatten-
ing itself, but another was not so lucky, and
has been forwarded to the museum for,
identification.
t- *
“Pick”: Way back in the ’sixties, shear-
ing having finished at Bibbenluke woolshed
(N.S.W.), two sheep washers, Jones and
Hill, and Peter Drynob, a shearer, planned
a bushranging raid upon the surrounding
sheep stations. Their career was brief.
Inside a fortnight, whilst looting Milligan’s
Hotel in Bombala, Drynob was overpowered
by Abercrombie, a station overseer, and after
three months, whilst sticking up Nila
station, Jones was shot and Hill taken by
the Bombala police. Prior to setting out
on the highways Jones had secreted in the
bush a revolver, a rarity in those early
days. Afterwards he failed to find it. The
other day a rabbiter working in a paddock
at Poddy Hut found the 'rust-encrusted gun.
It had lain in the hollow of a gum-tree log
for 65 years.
:-t i]i 4: 4«
“Cooramin”: When horses and bullocks
were supreme on N.S.W. highways there
used to be a competition nearly every
wheat and wool season for the honor
of carrying the heaviest load. So far
the horses have the best of it. The
record for the horned team was put up
by Tom Edgerton, who drew 343 bags Of
wheat, weighing 26J tons, from Syphill to
Wyalong with 18 bullocks. Then Hugh
Lamont drew 354 bags of wheat into Girral
Siding with 14 horses; gross weight 33 tons
6cwt. Threats of shire councillors to make road
wreckers pay for the damage they did _de-
terred other ambitious carriers from putting
on a bag or two more, and the man who had
planned to astonish the brotherhood with 30
tons net gave up the notion.
CABBAGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lights limn the dark, deserted road; the
trucks are running late ;
They’re loaded high and loaded deep, and
lurch on flattened springs.
When it’s cabbages for market it’s a poor
and bulky freight;
And they’re hardly worth the carting at
the price a cabbage brings.
For it’s toil and moil and trouble, from dawn
to dusk o’ day;
And when you truck to market, full forty
miles away,
At eighteenpenee a dozen, why, cabbages
don’t pay!
But -when your neighbor’s buying you extend
a hearty fist,
And help a fellow-cocky with a price
within his reach:
Three-ha’pence ftmv do city folk, but on
your local list
They’re down to suit liis pocket—and the
price is threepence each.
For it’s toil and moil and trouble, from
dawn till shadows meet;
Though there’s nothing much in cabbages,
somehow we keep our feet;
And three-ha’pence in the city still leaves
threepence down the street!
victoria.
J. H. GOSS.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
ř
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Fife,
Endowment,Children'#
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FREDK. LEVY,
Managing- Director.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
with offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Hank oners the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Ciga
=.v-
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day ; Double
from 7/6; and meals
optional (also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe), and
Room with Breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double —all less
10 p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
] 0/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, if you
motor, Win. Fowles
r
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we wall gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
SMOKE-OH!
“Young waitress (fair preferred) for fish cafe.”
— “S.M.H. "
So fish prefer blondes, too.
* *
Some complain that Voce and Larwood
bowl at fool speed.
¥ *
“Many hikers are temperance enthusiasts.”
Yet they keep on going from one spot to
another.
* *
“There was the usual pealing of hells in the
city to usher in the New Year.”
And the usual peeling of belles on the
beaches.
¥ *
“Sydney nudists are trying to get permission to
camp on a beach near Cronulla.”
It might help if they organised a bare-
back to Cronulla week.
* *
“At a championship billiards match in England
recently, women were engaged as spot girls.”
-—“ Herald.”
Their only lapse is said to have been an
occasional absent-minded powdering of the
red.
H- H-
“Glass has been produced in Germany which
neither splinters nor breaks.”— “Argus.”
That’s the stuff to put our cook-general
on her mettle.
* *
DUST TO DUST.
“Some men seem able, at will, to drag women’s
names in the dust.” — Film, advt.
When this your mind impinges on
There is no need to guess;
The problem plainly hinges on
llow much dust they possess.
P.
* *
THE NEW LAW.
“After profound consideration, Acting-Chief Justice
Cussen has decided that a ‘monkeyface,’ as pastry,
is not subject to sales tax.” — “Sun.”
Really these matters should be decided
by an Acting-Chef Justice in the Court of
Patty Sessions. Certainly anything in the
“Alfred is so brave. He rescued over a
dozen girls last year."
“Yes, and didn’t have the courage to pro-
pose to one of them.”
nature of a tempting tart would go along
to the Judge in Divorce, and his brother in
Bankruptcy would handle anything connected
with rolls. Court tables would be stacked
with cookery books, and, as usual, all law-
yers would impress upon clients that they
kneaded the dough !
McM.
* *
“Collecting buttons is the latest schoolboy craze.
One South Yarra lad already has over 1000 different
specimens.”
No doubt the laundries are already com-
peting for his post-school services.
QUALIFYING IT.
“The alderman explained that when he made the
remark, ‘l’d sing Hallelujah if he died,’ he did not
mean any disrespect.”
“He’s a blank old scoundrel, of course, and
I happen to know he robbed his maiden aunt:
and the way he neglected his wife amounted
to murder. The cow’s as mean as dirt; he’s
got the manners of a swine and the morals
of a monkey. But, of course, this is only
a private view.
“In my public character I admire our
friend as one of the shining lights of the
community, a man whose integrity, generos-
ity and high standard of ethics have endeared
him to the hearts of the people, regardless
of party.”
H. M.
* ¥
THE LURE OF THE TEST.
8.30. —Joined queue. Position, 30 yards
north-east of gate.
10.00. —Still waiting. Position, 200 yards
south-east of gate.
11.00.—Still alive. Minor injuries only,
comprising black eye, abrasions on body,
gravel rash, slight concussion.
11.30. —lnside. Comprehensive view of
people’s heads.
12.15. —Another black eye.
1.30. —Saw one of the players as he walked
from the field. Lunch provided. An orange,
two apples and a banana—all from behind.
1.45. —Got a view of playing area.
2.15 —Lost sight of it again. Play re-
started.
2.45. —Banana-skin.
3.00 —Beer bottle.
3.20—Tw0 stones.
3.45. —Saw the scoreboard.
5.45. —Saw the ball.
U.oo.—Started to leave.
7.15. Out.
B.oo.—Went to see match at pictures.
S. Esq.
* *
TAKE A PAIR OF SPARKLING
EYELASHES.
“Experts are exhibiting two systems, enabling
eyelashes to be removed nightly before retiring or
changed in color to suit the rest of the toilette.
A dainty blonde was observed with a bright green
frock and eyelashes to match.”
—Melbourne “Sun News-Pictorial.”
“Muriel!”
“Yes, mother!”
“What colored eyelashes are you wearing
to-night? You know, we mustn’t clash,
dear.”
“Oh, I don’t know! Positively I’ve hardly
got an eyelash to wear. I wore my lettuce-
green pair to the Butt-Innitts’ dance, and
my rainbow ones to the dinner at the Swish-
Robinsons.”
“Why not put on your beige and rose
pair to go with your
marocain? You know,
the ones with the mar-
cel wave.”
“I couldn’t really!
I wore them to auction
bridge only yester-
day.”
“Well, what about
your almond and
lemon pair? I’m sure
they look sweet.”
“Don’t you remem-
ber ? When Captain
Coddington took me to
the Spluz, one of the
damned things got
stuck on his upper
lip! No, I’ll have to
wear my berry-reds, I
suppose. What are
you wearing?”
“Oh, my dear ! I’ve
got a perfectly ducky
new pair of powder-blues cut extra-long,
with orange eyebrows to contrast. They’ll
go beautifully with my new floral crepe,
don’t you think?”
“Of course. You’ll look absolutely luscious,
you darling old boll-weevil!”
Norbell.
H- ¥
OUR GREAT COMPETITION.
(Name the papers responsible for these two leaders,
and fill in the missing words.—N.B.: No Prizes.)
I.
In Retrospect.
Unmitigated disaster marked the half
of 1932. A repudiatory was in power
composed of spineless —— abjectlv subser-
vient to the Premier the Mother
has ; we refer, it is hardly necessary to
say, to Mr. . During this period
the of the State fell to a ebb over-
seas, while legislation aimed at the pro-
pertied afflicted it with , and threat-
ened it with , at home. By its Tin
vices for the workers ; by its bloating
of the already bloated Upper , and by
its abominable treatment of the King’s
it had caused the fair of —. —. —. to
stink in the nostrils when the
providentially came. Driven to face its
the Sovereign its condemnation was
. L ism ceased be. This
and glorious of on which
sun breathed again.
II.
Fakes and Frauds.
How the Boodlers and Niemeyers
Outed Honest Jack ,
Aussie’s Noblest Son.
Unmitigated disaster marked the half
of 1932. Six ago the borieheaded——
“Help! I’ve changed my mind.”
of —. —. —., bemused and bediddled by the
press of the octopus, rose in their
brainless thousands, and, with the assistance
of Scullin’s Alias , put Jack , the
Statesman Aussie has ——, on the
outer. Tin , Machines, all the
beneficent devices of our —— Leader for
improving the —— of the downtrodden ,
were flung into the . The very L
was menaced. Bert , the hypocritical,
Bible-banging from , took the reins,
and, surrounded by a subservient pack of
octopi, proceeded to the boot into
the workers and hard. And serve them
—— well right for their folly in letting
themselves be bamboozled by as a gang
of as ever trailed the name of the
State in the slime of Capitalistic
d- is r .
D.
* #
“No less than 1700 brewery companies have
registered since the American Presidential election.
Next year will see the U.S.A. wringing wet.”
The only trouble is that with the depar-
ture of prohibition the Americans won’t
know what to ascribe their unprecedented
wave of crime to.
* *
HOROSCOPES.
Familiar characters, with the zodiacal
signs:—
Our milkman: Aquarius, the Water-carrier.
Royal Commission officials: Pisces, the
Fishes.
Old-age Pensioners: Leo, the Lyon.
Punters: Capricornus, the Goat.
T. B.
* *
A visitor from England told a Sydney
paper that what surprised him most was
to recognise in the waiter at a restaurant,
a man he had seen in the surf at Bondi
only an hour before.
Hasn’t he heard that they also surf who
only hand and wait?
¥ *
The English team has the first fast
Bowmsy bowler on record.
¥
OLD BORE’S ALMANAC FOR 1933.
January. —lntense heat and wicket fever
prostrate press and public. Attempt to
kidnap Larwood. Britain retaliates by
declaring Australian wool “black.” Police
quell riot in Union Club, following discussion
on leg-bowling practice.
February. —Labor party sprouts first new
wing of year. Brain storms do great damage
in daily newspaper offices owing to lack of
public interest in usual summer drivel. Octo-
genarian limelighter gains front-page interest
by appearing at Bondi in neck-to-knee ■ cos-
tume she wore first in 1857.
March. —Liquor declared legal in U.S.A.
Many breweries forced to close. League of
Nations appoints commission to inquire into
Anglo-Australian cricket dispute in interests
of world peace.
April. —Governor of Bank of England de-
clares he no longer knows what money is.
Tears up monthly salary cheque and jumps
off dome of St. Paul’s. Sharp rise in sterling.
May— Six new wings of Labor party
formed. Roof of Federal Parliament House
begins winter leak. Mr.
Lyons discovers white ants
in Prime Minister’s lodge.
Windstorms sweep Auburn
and Reid electorates. A
gander is the only casualty.
June. —Daily press revives
underworld fairy tales for
readers to pass away long
winter nights. Bluffem, Iv.C.,
talks Blither, K.C., under
table at end of 90-day hear-
ing of Sydney’s most costly
divorce case. Petitioner wins
case, files schedule and makes
98th Harbor Bridge suicide
on learning news.
July. —Professor Codliver
applies Einstein’s theory of
relativity to the exchange
rate and shows how credit
may be bent without being
broken. Discovery of world’s
largest turnip at Ncvertire
shatters midwinter complac-
ency of metropolitan press.
August. —Lord Rutherford
solves problem of the disin-
tegration of the atom after
intensive study of Australian
Labor party. Lady in Pata-
gonia gives birth to quad-
ruplets. Hotels raise ex-
change rate on all saloon bar
transactions.
September. —B ri 11 i/a n t
game of skill called hop-
scotch invented. Declared by
“Sun” to be more intellec-
tual than chess. King George
hopscotches from Palace to
Westminister to open Parlia-
ment. Professor Picard rises
50 miles in a balloon in vain
endeavor to escape' broad-
casting nuisance.
October. —Experts declare end of depres-
sion is in sight, but are not sure which end.
Associated Newspapers buy and kill “War
Cry,” “Turf Life,” “Gardeners’ Guide,”
“Brewers’ Journal,” “Rechabite News,”
“Medical Journal” and “Comic Cuts.”
November. —Commonwealth economic con-
ference assembles at Flemington. Book-
makers succeed in restoring financial equili-
brium by judicious deflation of prices.
League of Nations commission issues report
that both sides are (or were) right in Anglo-
Australian cricket dispute.
December. —Santa Claus files schedule
owing to crippling sleigh registration • fees.
Lottery Director Whiddon and Meteorologist
Mares appointed a Royal Commission to in-
quire into the depression. Westrafia is dis-
suaded from secession at last minute by pro-
mise of six representatives in next Test team.
Angus O’Cohen.
“People sometimes tell me I talk too much,
but I always believe in saying what
I think.”
”Of course, darling — but — er—where do you
get all the rest from?”
SPECULATION.
Why does Patricia never smile?
Has she conceived an amorous flame
For one tvho’s cold? Or has the guile
Of man o’er cast her soul with shame?
Or does she sorrow for the plight
Of others overcome by fate?
Or is my first suspicion right —
Does she require a dental plate?
T. W. N.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A good story is told about an Australian
batsman and his dislike for Peate’s bowling.
The Yorkshireman beat him with a clipping
leg-break in one innings. The batsman,
determined that it should not happen again,
got hold of a bat in his own room at the
hotel and began to make strokes at imagin-
ary balls. At one he would play back and
mutter, “That’s the way to play you, Peate,”
Then he would play forward, remarking,
“Not this time, Peate, my boy.” At last
MORE SELF-DENIAL.
HE (sol.): “Now, let’s see, of what shall I deny myself? Ah, I
have it! The wife can do without that new bonnet.”
[Percy Spence —22/7/’93.]
he ventured on a big hit at . a leg ball, and,
swinging round with a “How do you like
that, Peate?” sent the toilette set, which
he had forgotten all about, in fragments to
the floor. Later on in the day, confident
that he would make a score, he faced the
real Peate, and was clean bowled first ball.
[l2/2/m]
The adoration of Ranjitsinhji broke out at
the international match, when the dusky
potentate was mobbed at the gates of the
M.C'.C. ground by a fatuous “push,” mainly
females. Here and there a red, hysterical
person in skirts hurled garden stuff at the
gritted Indian, and all made audible little
comments about the “darling prince” and his *
“expressive eyes, dear,” and fought and
gasped and giggled about God’s image in
coffee until the princelet shrieked for a cab,
or a balloon, or .something, and was borne
away, trembling, whilst his admirers reached
for scraps of his wardrobe, and got off with
a shred or a button or two. Ranji is having
a patent boiler-iron suit fitted up in order
to obviate the possibility of his having to
race to his hotel one of these days in a
tattered umbrella and a pair of braces.
Heaven, or the Firm, send us a beauty actor
at once to divert female Melbourne from
this chocolate hero ! [l5/l/’9B.]
Joe Darling, the man who laid the foun-
dation of the big Australian score against
England in Adelaide, must be glad that he
gave up farming for cricket. Joe was a
great cricketer at school —he made 252 for
his college on Adelaide Oval—but his father,
a prominent S.A. politician, and, in busi-
ness, a keen wheat-buyer, apprenticed him
to a farmer in the dry northern areas of
S.A. Joe, however, after about two years
of farming, rebelled, returned to Adelaide
and started a cricket depot, much to the
parental disgust. Joe’s cricket prowess put
him into the S.A. Eleven against Stoddart’s
last team, and he thumped the English
bowling mercilessly, making a century in
one innings. Gradually the old man re-
lented, and he much astonished his family
by happening down to cricket matches when
his lad was batting. By and by there
came a reconciliation. On top of a big
score the Hon. John D. walked into his
son’s dressing-room. “Joe, ma boy, I think
you’re best at cricket. Here’s a gold watch
and a cheque to ye representing one poun’
per run of your score to-day.” Joe was
speechless. That year the old man followed
his offspring to Melbourne, and when he
got tliece he said : “I don’t keer aboot beez-
ness so much noo,” and he went from there
to Sydney. And now the Hon. John —who
five years ago had never seen a cricket
match —is always there, provided that Joe
is there, too ; and the score of 178 against
England on Friday week brought a cheque
for £7B. The old man only makes it £1
a run over the hundred, noo —“one has to
be canny wi’ Joe, who bats better when the
siller is up.” [29/l/’B9.j
Clem Hill is surely a cricket prodigy—
witness his scores during his, as yet, brief
first-class career. As a boy of 16 he made
352 (retired) in a college match, thus wip-
ing out Laver’s Australian record (since
beaten by Worrall, however). This brought
him promotion to the N. Adelaide club, the
team for which his father once played, and
the boy scored again. Then a player dropped
out of the S.A. team through illness, an<
Clem jumped into the vacancy, playing foi
his province before he was 20 years old.
Then Hill —his luck had been good—just
scraped into the Australian Eleven by mak-
ing 205 for S.A. against N.S.W. in March,
’96; and the boy, rising 19 years, came out
third in the averages of the tour, making
1196 runs for 49 innings, average 27.81.
Clem is the fourth son of John Hill (an
enthusiastic Adelaide cricket supporter),
and has three brothers playing in Adelaide
cricket. Popular old John Hill, moreover,
says there are two more younger than Clem
coming on, but The Bulletin fears there
can be only one C'lem. [l9/2/’9B.]
The evils 0 f golfing have not been fully
recognised yet, but are coming gradually
to declare themselves. Quite lately a Mel-
bourne lady golf en-
thusiast noticed that
her right hip had
become much larger
than her left, so
much so that when
she wore a tightly-
fitting “tailor” gown
the deformity was
clearly noticeable to
all. Several other
golfers thereupon dis-
covered th a t the
same calamity was
descending upon
them, the swing of
the club while play-
ing producing a
marked enlargement
of the right hip-
joint. Many fashion-
ab 1 e dressmakers
have consequently
received orders to
insert a layer of
padding over the left
hip of their golfing-
customers’ r a c e-
gowns to equalise
the size of each side
of the figure. Golf
seems to be the only
hidden power except
the ocean which
can make a woman careless as to her
personal appearance. A group of female
golfers, after a wet afternoon’s play, whereat
they have been wet to the slun six or seven
tunes, is a deplorable sight, Such a group
was on Caulfield railway-station lately. The
colors in their hat-bands had all run and
made dreary little rivulets over their
straightened “fringes.” Their wet, flappy
skirts clung round their muddy boots and
their talk was all of holes ’ and unskilful
“marking,” and other mysteries which they
disc ussed with much enthusiasm. They were
*»»» ** DWIO/W.J
ANOTHER THING NEEDFUL.
CONVERTED BUSHMAN: “Yes, Tom, I’ve
found salvation. ‘Heaven is my shep-
herd!”
TOM ( reflectively ): “Then ’Haven’ll want
a couple o’ good dorgs to keep you
together.”
[Alf Vincent — 2 1/ 10/’93.]
The Sydney express was just about start-
ing from Melbourne station the other day
when a wild-looking youth fled along the
platform dragging an exhausted girl by the
arm and humping a large quantity of lug-
gage. H'e butted the lady into the first
empty compartment he saw, and threw him-
self and a cataract of bandboxes after her,
and then he tipped a porter two-and-six, in
consideration of which the latter locked the
door. A moment or two later a conventional
heavy father burst in, bowling over the
ticket-officer as he came, and galloping on
his prostrate form; he clung to the door-
handle, but couldn’t get it open. Then he
put his head in at the window and bade the
girl come out and return to her parents; but
the youth, who was pale and hairless, but
with the light of a great resolution shining
in his eye, got up and shoved him back.
The girl retreated to the furthest corner
of the carriage and wept, but the indignant
father hit out with his umbrella and destroyed
her lover’s hat, and the lover defended him-
self with a bandbox. Next the old man
tried to crawl in at the window, but was
hauled back by an official, and the youth
leaned half-way out and started to harangue
the multitude and explain the situation. Just
then the engine started, and the stout father,
growing apoplectic with rage, burst from the
porter who. held him and ran after it to get a
last whack at the erring pair through the
window; but he was too fat to do more than
overtake the last carriage, and as he ran
frantically alongside and pounded the rear
TREACHERY.
DOMAIN DOSSER (to high -personage): “Yes-
sir, me own bosom friend robbed me
of all I had in the world.”
H.P.: “How was that?”
D.D.: “I’d just begged thruppenee, sir, and
my mate, Bill, snavelled the drink I
bought with it, sir.”
[ “Hop” — 12/8/’93.]
of the train with his umbrella, a' yell of
wild derision went up from the audience.
Somehow, a short, stout, elderly parent never
gets much sympathy from the mob.
[23/5/’91.]
HOW YOUNG AUSTRALIA FEELS
ABOUT IT.
Oh, list to the lay of Australia,
Oh, list to her triumphing trill,
Concerning the way that her failure
Was stopped by the genius of Hill—-
Clem Hill!
Here’s a hip, hip, hurrah ! for your skill!
Oh, sad was the tale of our scoring;
Soon after the play had begun
Two batsmen were duck-eggs deploring,
McLeod was no louder than one.
Young Gregory, chancing to miss it,
Was bowled by a yorker for nought,
And Iredale, brief in his visit,
By Storer was prettily caught.
My brothers, Australia was crumpling
Like leaves in the breath of a flame,
’Twas all Broken Hill to a dumpling
That England would crush us with shame.
But Hill faced the task that they set him,
And, proof against every shot,
With Trumble to aid and abet him,
Soon stopped that unfortunate “rot.”
Some folks may have built up our nation;
What matter! At cricket they’re nil.
But, Australia knows, with elation,
’Twas saved by a party named Hill——
Clem Hill!
Here’s a hip, hip, hurrah ! for your skill!
[5/2/’9B.]
ZEF.
DIES IRAK.
It was some millions of years after the
great Judgment Day. Satan had been sleep-
ing, and when he awoke he felt somewhat
chilly.
“Confound those imps!” he exclaimed,
“I believe they’ve let the fires down a bit.
A more careless set of devils I never had
to do with in all my eternity. I’ll give them
particular sheol for this.”
As he spoke he touched the electric bell
and a few seconds afterwards a trapdoor
QUITE SIMPLE.
THE NEWCHUM: “You say you have come
all the way from Cape York Peninsula
to here—over one-third the length of
Australia—and never used a compass.
It’s wonderful! I cannot understand
how it is you do not lose yourself.”
THE NORTHERNER : “Well, you see, as you’re
travellin’ down you’ve got the East
Coast on your left and the Inland
Telegraph-line on your right. Why, it’s
like travellin’ down a big road all the
way.”
THE NEWCHUM: “Ah! I see. Never
thought of that It’s quite simple,
after all.”
[Frank Mahony —2/9/’93.]
in the floor fell open, and a devil, burnt
to a ricli terra-cotta by the eternal fires,
shot into the presence of the Lord of Hell.
“How now, sir ?” thundered the potentate;
“do you think Hell was meant to be an
ice-house, that you let the fires die so low?
You seem to have mistaken your vocation.
The whole stoking department ought to
have been angels with white robes and
crowns of glory. What do you mean by it,
anyhow?”
The stoker-devil trembled like a leaf.
“May it please your Majesty,” he said, “it
isn’t really our fault; the fact is, we are
running out of fuel.”
“What!” roared Satan, “running out of
fuel, with the whole universe to draw on?”
“We’ve been using ten constellations a
minute for the last three million years,”
explained the stoker; “and now the supply
has given out. We kept the Milky Way
till last, hoping against hope, but this ween
we had to use it. We are running the
furnaces now with the Magellan clouds, but
the quality is none of the best, and we’ll
want a fresh supply in a few hours.”
“Search the ends of Space then!” ex-
claimed Satan, “there must surely be any
quantity of constellations left,”
The stoker-devil shook his head sadly.
“We’ve used ’em all up,” lie replied. “Our
cinder-heap reaches to the farthest depths.”
“Search that cinder heap then!” cried
Satan; “plenty of suns and constellations
may have been thrown out carelessly.”
“No,” replied the stoker-devil despon-
dently, “during the last million years the
ashes have been carefully sifted, and all
burnable parts have been returned to the
furnaces.”
Satan ground his mighty teeth in despair.
“This comes of damning too. many souls,”
he exclaimed. “I begin to think that I was
far too active in the old days. If I had
had any foresight at all I’d have let the
parsons save all the souls they wanted. Here
I am brought to beggary in my old age —
burnt out of house and home by a lot of
miserable souls who have not the common
decency to thank me for giving them the
chance. But I will not submit, I’ll strain
the universe through a hair-sieve before I
give up the game. Here, you, turn out
ten thousand of those Australian miners
we damned in the nineteenth century. Tell
’em to prospect ail Space. Tell them I’ll
give threepence each for planets, and nine-
pence each for suns—in asbestos orders good
for whisky at the refreshment-room. And,
while they are routing around, I’ll see what
I can find on my own account.”
In a few seconds thousands of eager souls
swarmed out on to the clinker-heap. There
they were gaunt and grim, seared by millions
of years of searching fires, grilled for ages
on the unmelting fire-bars of the Inferno,
racked and torn by the torture. But there
they stood with the old prospecting fever still
strong within them, and before them lay the
biggest prospecting field ever offered to the
sons of men. There lay an apparently
duffered-out universe, with just a chance
that somewhere in • it were constellations
every sun of which was worth a drink at
the private bar of Hell; and so with a whoop
that shook the grim portal of the Inferno
they dashed into Space.
But little they recked of the task before
them. For days they wandered, tliat troop
of disconsolate diggers, and many a billion
miles they prospected without success. At
last, when the search seemed almost hope-
less, something huge and filmy hove in
sight on the great black wall of starless
space. With a simultaneous rush the pros-
pectors went for it, and, hooking themselves
on by every available point, they dragged
it, with a wild hurrah, through billions of
miles of emptiness, till they triumphantly
dumped it at Hell’s gate, and sent it bodily
down into the furnaces.
A stoker-imp rose up and thanked them,
with tears in his eyes.
“Just in time, oh, just in time!” he
exclaimed in broken accents. “The weather-
prophet in third gridiron has prophesied a
white frost.”
But suddenly a mighty form spun up from
the exterior darkness. It was Satan re-
turned from a fruitless search.
“I hear the roar of the furnaces,” he
said ; “what have you found?”
They told him. “A filmy thing floating in
space.”
“Oh, fools!” lie cried. “You have gone
and burnt up Heaven. It won’t last ten
minutes. We are lost!”
And, sure enough, fifteen minutes later
Hell froze over. [24/7/’97.]
TO THE UP-TO-DATE CRICKET
REPORTER.
Must you fix a greedy talon
Upon Cosstick and Frank Allan?
They could bowl and take a wicket,
But, for God’s sake, let them rest
From the Inter’ and the Test,
For they’ve given up big cricket,
And they know their business best.
Several score of years ago
There were men could play, I know,
But their bats have long been barren
And their bails have ceased to clink,_
And the thoughts those ancients think
In the matter of Maclaren
Are not worth the waste of ink.
Now. do not think I’m sneering,
For I don’t the least mind hearing
How Ranji hit a fourer,
Or the ways that four was got;
But I bar this jolly rot
Of what Stoddart said to Storer
Or some idiot said to Trott.
Tell us all about the cricket,
And the wearing of the wicket,
And the manner of the playing;
But be sparing, if you please,
Over details such as these:
How you heard Bill Howell saying
That he' saw George Giffen sneeze !
[26/2/’9B.]
W. H. O.


Handy Hints
for the
Farm
Every effort has been used to make the book
of the greatest value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds
of the things in it. It is those he doesn’t know
or has forgotten that will make it worth
pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head
office of “The Bulletin,’’ 252 George Street,
Sydney; or from any branch office: 114-120
Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; James Place, Adelaide; 33
Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street,
Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1,000 practical Hints
from the Land pag'es of
s*J%ulLetCn
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have
been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a
thing about book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and
shown how accounts are kept. Every entry is explained in the
simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a
proper basis and keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made
.and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing
that he was going back a little further every year. Had he
known in time he might have made changes that would have
saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to
keep accounts is that they assume he knows something about
book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers,
decided to produce a cheap textbook in which the whole
business of book-keeping would be dealt with from the very
beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within
the means of everybody. It will be sent from any “Bulletin”
Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be
found just as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto
had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
Missing Friends.
p\ —No letters, worried, is all well? Best
wishes and regards as ever.—E.
WILLIAM HODGSON FALL,
who was at one time residing in
Melbourne, or anyone able to give informa-
tion concerning him, communicate with
RITCHIE & PARKER, ALFRED GREEN
& CO., Solicitors, Launceston, Tasmania.
r ARMERS
r
RurauTopics. Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
I Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc .... All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 6-
ŕ
ŗ
No. 300.
HAIR
CLOTH,
21/-.
Post: N.S.W., 1/6;
Q., Vic., 2/6.
A GOOD STATION POLEY
SADDLE
No. 145.—With its long kip flaps, pig-
skin seat and pigskin pads set well up
along the rider’s thighs is a most suit-
able saddle for station work where low
pads are preferred. For cash with
order we will send it freight paid to
any N.S.W. railway station, and for
5/- extra to any Victorian station.
Write for our catalogue No. 329 it will
interest any horse-user.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
395 George Street, Sydney.
SAY GOOD-BYE TO SORE BACKS
No. 300 HAIR SADDLE CLOTH will prevent
sore backs and is made entirely of tail hair
with colored braid edging:. Swill it in the creek
before you start your lunch and it will be
dry by the time you finish and your horse
will feel like a man with a clean shirt on.
We have one showing very little wear after
four years’ use, so it is cheap at the price.
1
No. 145
KEMP
STYLE
POLEY,
£B/5/-
Bare
Mounts
20/-
Extra.
Within the Same Month!
SYDNEY • • AMERICA ' ENGLAND
on the triumphant ocean sovereigns
MARIPOSA’ & MONTEREY’
nnn
4
’•V N>' . •##s.
IMPORTANT
TO SAN FRAN-
CISCO and COS
ANGELES . .
SOUTH SEAS
ř
THE incomparable trans-Pacific,trans-America
route via Auckland to ENGLAND is also
the shortest! A taste of the South Seas (you
stop at Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu). California
in 18 days 3000 miles of constant interest
across America! These are NEW ships —the
result of a NEW marine conception marking
a NEW travel-era, a NEW revelation in sea-
going savoir faire!
On these ships your stateroom, that radiates
home-comfort, is equipped with individual beds,
electric fixtures, pier glass mirror and number-
less other conveniences. Special suites; de luxe
rooms with “lanai” (private verandah). Con-
stant and attentive service that is efficiency-with-
sea-legs! Complete itineraries can be arranged
to any point in America or England.
FARES TO ENGLAND
First Class Cabin Class
From Sydney—
(Single ) from £lO5/10/- ( single ) from £B3/-/-
(Return) from £194/10/- ( return ) from £ 152/—/
From Melbourne- —
( Single ) from £lO7/10/- ( single ) from £B4/10/-
( Return ) from \£ 198/10/- ( return ) from £155/10/-
Fares subject to Exchange.
Special REDUCED seasonal FARES to
AMERICA. In effect during January and
February.
With time cut by super-speed of the super-
liners “MARIPOSA” and “MONTEREY” and
with costs cut to the lowest on record you can
now make this matchless voyage to America
and return within seven weeks and on a sur-
prisingly modest budget.
About face from the beaten paths of travel—
and chart your course to America. Avail your-
self of this opportunity by BOOKING EARLY.
ROUND TRIP PROM SYDNEY.
First Class from £99/-/- Cabin Class from £7O/-/-
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
First Class from £lO3/-/- Cabin Class from £74/-/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
— ■
An economical holiday in the SOUTH SEAS
is now accessible through the swift service of
these new ships, and the very moderate fares
obtaining. Discover for yourself those storied
isles that spell Romance and a perfect holiday!
MINIMUM FARES FROM SYDNEY to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- £65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU. Hawaii £75/0/- £55/0/-
MINIMUM FARES FROM MELBOURNE to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £39/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa, £35/5/- £69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU. Hawaii £79/0/- £59/10/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
Next Sailings to America
Via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii.
Sydney Mariposa January 14
Melbourne Mariposa January 10
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, SYDNEY 'Phone: B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
‘Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
IM-1A


r
PERFECT INSULATION LIFE
1» DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES /
'J’HE interna! insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It «
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, **n
tirely protected from leakage on sides
and bottom. It is at the base of the cells
where corrosion is most dangerous. No\|
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
/
INS-I
13IAMOMD
RADIO BATTERIES TORCH REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
MOLASSES AS FERTILISER.
For many years a great part of the
molasses produced in Queensland could not
be sold. Last year the quantity run to
waste (910,400 gallons out of 17,313,100)
was the smallest on record. One reason is
that molasses is increasingly used as a ferti-
liser, particularly in the cane districts.
In an experiment reported on by E. J. R.
Barke, chemist in charge of the sugar experi-
ment station at South Johnstone, a 10-ton
application of molasses, before planting, was
responsible for an increase in cane yield of
almost 13 tons per acre over plots re-
ceiving no treatment. Further, the molasses
gave a yield of almost 3 tons over plots which
received fertiliser (sulphate of ammonia,
super, and sulphate of potash) equivalent to
tne plant food contained in the molasses.
(i “The soils of this station,” says Mr. Barke,
show a marked response to super, and sul-
phate of ammonia, and but little return from
potash. It may, therefore, be concluded that
the greater proportion of the crop increase is
due to the large amount of nitrogen and
smaller amount of phosphate contained in
the molasses. The superiority of the plant
rood applied in the molasses is probably due
to the fact that in this form it becomes
slowly available throughout the growing
period of the crop, whereas the influence of
the sulphate of ammonia is more intensive
but not protracted. In addition, the heavy
applications of sulphate of ammonia (almost
one-half ton per acre) would be responsible
for a substantial intensification of the acidity
of the soil—an effect which is not produced
in like degree by the molasses. The con-
tinued supply of available nitrogen from the
molasses is reflected in the delayed maturity
of the crop on those plots receiving this
treatment. When it is remembered that the
main plant-food constituent of molasses is
potash, results to be expected from the use
of this by-product as a fertiliser on red vol-
canic soils should be even more outstanding.”
Reporting on a similar experiment carried
out at the central sugar experiment station
at Mackay, chemist Iveogh insists that “the
benefits of molasses as a fertiliser, even in
an unfavorable year, are clearly borne out
by the results of this trial. In contrast to
the returns from a similar trial at South
Johnstone station, the fertilised plots gave
slightly superior yields to those receiving
molasses, but the difference is not signifi-
cant; Past experience has shown that this
soil responds favorably to nitrogenous
manures, and also in a smaller degree to
phosphates. The increased yield due to pot-
ash is generally slight. It may, therefore,
be concluded that the nitrogen, supply of the
molasses has been chiefly responsible for
the increased yield observed.” Queensland
has a fine asset in its molasses, and it has
been shamefully neglected in the past.
CROSSBRED EWES AS MOTHERS.
“Yelin”: “Golightly” (B. 30/11/’32) sug-
gests that it would pay farmers to stock
Merino ewes as mothers for fat lambs in
order to secure a better wool clip. I question
it. To meet the requirements of exporters,
a lamb should be of good shape, fine in bone,
the weight, dressed, about 361 b.; the meat
should be fine in grain and well-balanced
with the fat. To produce this type of lamb
you can’t beat the Border Leicester-Merino
cross mated with a good-quality Southdown
or Dorset Horn ram.
The crossbred is superior to the Merino
as a mother, being more fecund and giving
a better flow of milk. The value of milk
for lambs cannot be over-estimated. There
is truth in the old saying : “Half the breed-
ing is in the feeding.” When their day as
breeders has passed crossbreds bring a
better price fat than do Merinos. Admittedly
crossbred ewes cost more in the first place,
but the extra cost incurred is negligible com-
pared with results obtained.
yeaij a farmer in this (Tamworth,
N.S.W.) district shore 700 pure Merino
ewes and 500 Border Leicester-Merino first-
cross ewes. Each top-line brought
and the crossbreds cut 20 per cent, more
wool than the Merinos. The farmer with a
small flock on fattening country can’t com-
pete with the large grazier who has true
woolgrowing country. Besides, the difference
in price of Merino and crossbred wool is
offset by the marked superiority of the
crossbred in the more important phases of
fat-lamb production.
LUNGWORM CAN BE CURED.
“W.D.Mc.”: Someone has been saying
again that lungworm cannot be cured. He
is wrong. I have cured thousands of cases
in the last 30 years with an arsenic and
tobacco drench. And this is the way to make
it. Take a 10-gallon oil drum or similar
vessel, half-fill with water and put on to boil.
Then get lib. of strong tobacco (say Bar-
rett’s Twist), cut it up in small pieces, and
put it in an oatmeal bag. then in the drum.
When boiling add 31oz.‘of arsenic (no more
and no less) and sl”b. of carbonate of soda.
Have a bucket of cold water handy or it
will boil over and thus weaken the drench.
Boil for an hour and keep stirred; strain
through hessian or cheesecloth and then
add water to make 10 gallons of drench. To
make 5 gallons just halve the given quanti-
ties.
The doses are 2oz. for full-grown sheep,
LVoz. for weaners and loz. for lambs. For
very small lambs use your own judgment.
A set of three drenching horns, 20z.,
and loz., can be got from Dalgety’s, price
about 4s. 6d. Yard the sheep for 24 hours
before drenching: keep them yarded 6 hours
after drenching and away from water.
To be successful, drenching, like dipping,
must be done correctly and carefully, accord-
ing to directions. Anyone who has not
hitherto prepared an arsenic drench is
advised to try one on two or three old culls;
if they are all right he can then proceed.
I have treated weaners dying at the rate
of ten a day with lungworm; the mor-
tality ceased at once. As a rule a dose is
sufficient, but very bad cases may require
a second dose in ten days or a fortnight, and
an odd sheep three doses. This drench is
a cure for nil kinds of worms, and if
is a splendid tonic to give sheep that are to
be fattened. If it is stored in a demijohn
or any stoneware vessel it will keep indefi-
nitely and will always be on hand when
wanted. I use it when sheep or lambs show
signs of scouring or coughing.
SELLING “IN THE WOOL.”
“GG6”: Owners of full-wbolled sheep
ready for marketing are often in two minds
whether to sell them “in the wool” or shorn.
As far as Queensland is concerned at present,
the better return .is undoubtedly obtained
by selling them carrying the wool.
In the case of a prime 451 b. wether with
a 12 months’ fleece, 17s. should be realised'
on a 24d. market. If the same sheep was
offered off shears it would be unlikely to bring
more than 95., and the owner would need
to realise a net return of Bs. for his fleece.
Under present market conditions that is
most unlikely. It may be said that the same
applies to sheep carrying less wool, the value
of the skins being more than could be got
for the wool if the sheep were shorn.
THE CLOVER SPRINGTAIL.
Most people call it the lucerne flea, but
Dr. R. J. Tillyard, Chief of the Division
of Economic Entomology, insists that clover
springtail is a better name. For “it is not a
flea, and lucerne is by no means its com-
monest food-supply.” It is widelv dis-
tributed in south Westralia, and in conjunc-
tion with the red-legged earth-mite has done
serious damage to vegetable and field crops
there, particularly sub.-clcver. It also preys
on lucerne in South Aus., though the climate
of that State is not suitable to it, and is
established in Victoria and Tasmania; it
is believed to be spreading from Victoria to
N. S. Wales.
This information is contained in a fore-
word to a preliminary account, published in
pamphlet form, of the researches of H.
Womcrsley, an entomologist deputed by the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search to consider springtails and red-legged
mites and their ways, and to discover, if
possible, a method of checkmating them. In
Westralia he had the valuable co-operation
of L. J. Newman. It w r as found that lime-
sulphur sprays, of a strength of 1 to 60, gave
a good measure of control, provided a first
spray was about a week after the first
autumn rams; a second, not more than
three weeks later, was generally found to
be necessary. More important was the dis-
covery that in certain areas in the south-
west the pest seems to be dying out. A
predatory mite of the genus Biscirus feeds
on it. This mite is a European species,
probably introduced into Westralia accident-
ally. It is very difficult to handle in cap-
tivity, but Mr. Womersley has established
it in grounds around the insectary at
Berth, where he proposes to study its life-
history and to evolve methods for its safe
transport to other areas.
Meantime the need for more data is
urgent. There are other springtails which
are mischievous, but not nearly enough is
known about them. Farmers and pastoral-
ists interested in these insects are asked
to send specimens in alcohol to the Division
of Economic Entomology at Canberra.
IT PAYS TO TEST.
“A.C.8.”: A Bellinger River (N.S.W.)
dairy-farmer lias proved the value of system-
atic herd-testing and culling out. poor cows.
In 1929-30 he milked an average of 22 cows
and production from the herd was 35201 b.
The next year he culled strongly, and with
an average herd of 15 cows production was
39901 b. In the third year with an average
herd of 17 cows he made a jump of from
151 b. to 281 b. per cow, aggregate of butter
fat for the herd being 47771 b. In short, the
17 picked cows produced over half a ton
more than the 22 cows produced three years
before he started to test and cull.
WARE HEAT APOPLEXY.
“Bonomo”: This is the season when pig
farmers should watch for heat apoplexy,
which usually occurs as the result of over-
exertion, whether the animal is fat or not.
As a rule, it is fatal. The animal becomes
distressed and feverish, and then comatose.
A long struggling fit succeeds this condition
and is followed by death.
Treatment after the attack has set in is
difficult, though the administration of strong
stimulants has been found efficacious. Pre-
ventive measures are what the farmer should
aim at. Pigs should be kept as cool as
possible and provided with an ample supply
of clean drinking water. Juicy green feed
is also strongly recommended.
HINTS ON PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
“A.C.8.”: If there are callous spots in
the paddocks, or places where big burns have
taken place and no grass grows, get a mat-
tock and turn fresh soil to the top. Then
sow paspalum or clover seed, dragging a few
logs over the spot so that the cattle will not
be able to eat it out before it becomes
established. Carry a small bag of grass
seed with you, and every time you dig out
a fern or bush chip some seed in. By going
over the paddocks in this maimer you can
improve carrying capacity.
Often a scrubby patch that lias not been
thought worthy of attention will, if burnt off
and sown with paspalum, repay the trouble.
And it is well to remember that logs lying
about a paddock lessen its grazing value. If
paddocks become choked with old paspalum
it is advisable to plough up sections with a
team of bullocks, and by thus disturbing the
root-bound lot give new grass a chance to
establish itself. Paspalum slioujd never be
allowed to seed in paddocks which are being
used for grazing purposes, but .should be
well eaten down.
Poor paddocks are best treated with a top-
dressing of super, and allowed to rest, if
possible, for a short period. If clover seed
is placed on the salt lick occasionally it will
be distributed in cattle droppings and will
thus be established through the pastures.
Lastly, if cattle can be alternated week about
on two paddocks they will be found to do
better. So will the pasture.
THE TREVATT APRICOT.
“7346” : The apricot is nowadays most pro-
fitably grown in warm inland districts under
irrigation. The main commercial line is the
mid-season variety known as Trevatt; very
hardy, it bears heavily, and it carries, dries
and cans well. Over 97 per cent, of the
apricots on the M.I.A. are of this variety,
and the M.I.A. produces the bulk of the
canned and dried article in N.S.W.
. The apricot may be propagated on peach,
almond or plum stock, but seems to do best,
on stock grown from its own pits, young
trees being lifted from the nursery about
18 months after budding. It will not thrive
So well as the apple, quince, prune or pear
on harsh, shallow clays, nor does it produce
good carrying fruit on very light sandy soils.
Under N.S.W. irrigation conditions the best
distance apart for planting is 22ft. x 22ft.
on the square ; this gives 90 trees to the acre.
For green manure crops winter legumes
should be grown between the trees during the
first four years after planting. Thencefor-
ward the trees take such a hold of the soil
that it is impracticable to grow further green
manure crops, and humus is best added by
applications of sheep manure or cuts of
lucerne which may have been spoiled by rain
before being stacked. Any of these humus
applications should be ploughed under not
later than September. One ton or more of
gypsum per acre is beneficial under irriga-
tion conditions.
The pruning of the Trevatt apricot is
simple enough. For the first two winter
prunings cut hard to form a symmetrical
sturdy base of about eight main leaders,
spreading wineglass fashion from a head
18in. or 24in. above the bud union. For third-
year winter pruning allow the strongest
leaders to remain unchecked and remove only
misplaced or other undesirable growth. No
variety of fruit tree shows better results
than the apricot if summer pruning in
November is judiciously carried out. _ With
proper attention the Trevatt should yield at
least live to six tons per acre during its
fifth, sixth, seventh and perhaps eighth years.
During those years it should not, under irri-
gation, be heavily pruned, but should be liber-
ally helped with artificial fertilisers. When the
plantation has produced four or five heavy
crops it may be advisable to head the trees
back hard and, by good feeding and cultiva-
tion, induce a refurnishing of fruiting wood
capable of bearing a medium crop of large
fruit.
Under inland conditions the Trevatt is
subject to few diseases. Shot-hole fungus
occasionally appears, but this is controllable
by winter spraying with lime sulphur. In-
deed, apart from the periodical Rutherglen
bug, the apricot seems to lead a charmed life
as far as diseases and pests are concerned.
The trees make heavy demands on soil mois-
ture whilst.the crop is maturing, but other-
wise do not require many or heavy irriga-
tions. Marketed fresh fruit in half-bushel
cases, the Trevatt is exported to Queensland
and M.L. The bulk of the N.S.W. crop,
however, is either canned or dried. Although
prices have been low during the past few
years a well-sized crop of sound fruit has
seldom failed to show a fair profit. Whereas
last season Sydney canners required only about
250 tons at £lO per ton, they want this
season nearly 1000 tons at £l2, and are find-
ing it hard to get them. The Government
cannery at Leeton seems to follow the lead
of the proprietary canners in tonnage
requirements and prices paid.
The apricot should be worth £20,000 to
the M.I.A. this year. A demand has set in
for the pits, useful oils and other substances
being extracted from the kernels. Germany
is a buyer—not necessarily, perhaps, because
the apricot kernel contains substances used
in the making of certain high explosives.
On present indications it seems that irriga-
tionists might plant more apricots with less
risk than would attend going in for most
other varieties of fruit. But every grower
should provide himself with an adequate
drying plant so that he will not be left in
the lurch in the occasional years when
neither canners nor consumers have much
use for his produce.
REJUVENATION OF OLD VINES.
“Woorjnen”: Many vignerons are asking
themselves whether age is reducing yields of
their vines and how to rejuvenate them.
This is especially the case in the non-irri-
gated areas of South Aus., where vines: are
up to SO years old, and have suffered a lot
of ups and downs. They have been hacked
and torn and twisted year after year till
their stems and arms are a mass of calluses
and scars. They were well treated in good
times, but neglected in periods of depression.
The most venerable vines at Mildura are
not yet 40 years old. but at the Mildura
High School, where vines approach this age,
it has been established that the younger
vines alongside were producing more fruit.
This discovery is being followed up system-
atically by the Research Station. Rows, of
vines have been taken from the old piece,
replanted, and the yields of the younger
vines compared with the older ones for
weight and quality. Other rows are being
treated in different ways to force a sh'oot
to spring from the main trunk near the
ground. This shoot will be trained to the
trellis wire and the top of the older vine
sawn right off. The weight of yield of these
rejuvenated vines will be compared with test
rows of untouched vines alongside. One way
of inducing these shoots to spring from the
trunk is to drive a chisel into the triink,
making a cut which checks sap flow and
forces a dormant bud to grow.
If these old vines can be brought back to
full vigor simply by producing a vein tap on
the old roots it will save S.A. growers a lot
of replanting. Probably some system of root
pruning by subsoiling will be adopted in con-
junction.
CITRUS PRESERVATION.
“W. 0.”: The Citrus Preservation Com-
mittee, which consists of representatives of
the Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search and three Victorian bodies, has
just issued a progress report after four
years’ experimenting. It advises against
cool storage of navel oranges for more than
five weeks, and against their export to ports
more than three weeks’ steaming distance.
I don’t agree.
At Fremantle on August 28,1924,1 shipped
by the Jervis Bay 19 cases (f-bush.) of
oranges, 10 of them navels. They reached
London on Sept. 27, and were sold right away.
The navels realised from 17s. to 30s. Whether
because of seasonal conditions at time of
shipment, market conditions at time of
arrival, good storage conditions on the boat,
or a combination of the three, my best re-
sults by far in two successive years came
from shipments by this particular vessel.
I also stored a few navel oranges in a cool
(Continued on next page.)


ŕ
Light and restful!
Tired, aching feet find instant
relief in this pliant Abbey Shoe.
The upper arches over the
instep in a way that eliminates
tightness. It has no toecap. . .
nothing to cause stiffness or
strain at any point. And its
sole is supple and strong. Let
the cramped muscles relax
naturally. . . wear Abbey Shoes.
Three widths per size
ORDER BY POST. Both full and
half sizes available each in narrow,
medium or wide fittings. Specify
width and length. Ask also for the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a convenient clean-
ing outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS —No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
FPL) 314
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
A LL persons, firms, companies and associ-
•**' ations being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State, are hereby notified that they
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board ot Ine
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the yeai
1932. . . ..
The time appointed for receipt ot tne
returns is on or before January 31, 1933;
subject to a penalty not exceeding fl per
day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only ot tne
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire Dis-
trict under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
November 23, 1932. __
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board ot
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending December 31, 1932, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909-
1927 applies ; less any part of such premiums
actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before January 31, 1933:
subject to a penalty not exceeding £5 for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from J lie under-
signed. .
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
November 23, 1932.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WINLITE
me
u
FREE
Electric
and Power
forYour Home
Winlite costs less to instal than the
smallest engine-driven lighting
plant, and once installed provides
all the light and power you want
FREE. Write for Catalogue W.B.
ria3 OIL-CEAR
INDMILLS
Totally Endoseti-Running m Oil -
Webb’s Windmills are built to last.
Guaranteed against breakage through
faulty parts for three years. En-
tirely automatic and self-regulating
in all weathers.
Oil once a year only—the oil
cannot leak out—dust and water
cannot get in. No oil pump or
rocker arms. All working parts
fully enclosed and running continu-
ally in oil on ball-bearings. Write
for Catalogue M.B.
Ask also for particulars of “Reel
Rain” Self-Propelling Irrigating
Sprinklers (Catalogue R. 8.), and
“Konkrete” Paint, the Paint for
every purpose (Catalogue K. 8.).
The Most Perfect
Windmill ever
built
One of several
25ft WEBB OIL
CEAS TOTALLY
ENCLOSED
WINDMILLS erected
in Centrol Oustrolia
l for Commonwealth
4 Railwoys.
&
WEBB BROS.
PTY.
LTD.
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
286-290 City Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
Phones: M 3221 and M 3222
(W-McF).
slu'd for three months (July to October),
then sent them anonymously to the West-
ralian Agricultural Department, which pro-
nounced them “beautiful fruit in perfect con-
dition. ’’
If that committee intends to continue its
investigations I make these suggestions.
Let it choose some good trees in a well-
drained orchard; supervise the handling ot
the fruit from tree to boat; reserve one
refrigerated compartment in the ship’s hold
so that no fruit of a higher temperature
may be added; keep a daily record of tem-
perature throughout the voyage; and have
a thorough inspection and report made after
the arrival of the fruit in London. If this
were done several times during the orange
season it would supply practical data. All
the theoretical experiments could be carried
out then under normal export conditions.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Most suitable type of tractor to use for
cultivating in heavy soil, with sufficient
power to pull a 4- furrow disc plough, 10-
disc sundercut or harvester, working up to
300 acres ? —3357.
You need a machine developing a mini-
mum of 12 drawbar horse power, which
probably would be rated by the maker as
12-24. Wheel tractors are cheaper and do
good jobs on heavy soil, but are not so
good as track-laying types on cross cultiva-
tion, loose soil and hilly conditions. A
good grip of the McGregor type is worth
its cost in increased efficiency, lessened slip-
page and lowered fuel costs. Stick to well-
established makes, of which there are many,
and consider relative costs of fuel, oil con-
sumption, spare parts, etc.
My 3- year-old mare after about a week's
work tucks up in the flanks and blows a
lot ivhcn working , but is not broken-icinded.
Cause and treatment ?- —3536.
Probably the marc has been brought on to
work too suddenly or in poor condition. At
the same time feed may be unsuitable. Get.
a vet. to examine the animal.
I have a 4.000-gallon tank, and I want to
prevent green algw growing in the water.
What should I do? —3630.
Copper sulphate in the proportion of 151 b.
to 1,000,000 gallons of water is a preventive.
One ounce of sulphate would be sufficient
for your tank.
What is the reason for the high cost of
Mauritius beans, so necessary in the N.Q.
sugar-cane districts? —3628.
It’s due largely to the labor involved in
harvesting the pods and threshing and shell-
ing the seeds. The humid conditions where
the beans are grown produce a luxuriant
crop of vine with a corresponding low yield
of seed.
During the last 12 months I have been
shipping bananas to Sydney. Over that
period the average return for cases of sevens
containing 30 dozen has been Bs. Market
reports are always 4s. or ss. higher than
T have ever got. How can I institute an
investigation? —344o.
Forward copies of account sales to the
Department of Agriculture, Sydney, with
all other details available. Also get in touch
with W. S. Orr, 21 Lackey-street, or D. G.
Wills, 661 George-street, Sydney. It would
be a good plan to advise either of these
gentlemen in advance when consignments
are being forwarded, with full particulars
as to whom consigned, etc.
The pads of my dog are constantly crack-
ing, especially in hot, dry weather , and he
becomes lame. Cause and cure? —3533.
Rub well into the pads night and morning
borate of glycerine. Remove the loose horn
with scissors, but not too much at a time.
After application of borate keep the feet in
bags for a while to prevent licking; they
should be tied round the ankles with broad
tape so as not to interfere with circulation.
Administer also 3 to 20 grains of sulphate of
magnesia and 2 to 10 grains of bicarbonate
of potash (according to size of dog) twice a
day with food. Exorcise the dog for a time
on grass.
The point of my dog’s elbow is swollen
and tender, and has caused the dog to go
slightly lame. Cause and treatment? —
3616. '
Probably caused by lying on hard boards
or bricks instead of soft bedding. Apply
hot fomentations three or four times daily
for some days; then apply the following
lotion, dabbed on frequently: Goulard’s
extract of lead, 1 drachm; laudanum, 1
drachm ; spirits of wine. 4 drachms; water,
Soz. Later, if the swelling continues, rub
gently into the swollen part a little iodine
vasogen once a day. Keep a good soft bed
under the dog.
(1) How can silver-eyes be identified?
- (2) Are they a pest? (3) How are their
nests built? —3534.
(1) They are small birds, greenish or
yellowish above and whitish below, with a
ring of small white feathers round the eye.
(2) Not entirely. They peck fruit, but they
also destroy aphides, scale-insects, and other
orchard pests. (3) Nests are round, deep,
cup-shaped and extremely light, fastened by
the rims to slender branches, and swinging
clear like hammocks, composed of grass, moss
or wool and neatly lined with fine grass or
fibrous rootlets.
Method of destroying cockroaches? —3361.
A half-and-half mixture of boracic acid
and flour should be dusted or blown into
crevices, under and behind skirting boards,
furniture and fittings of rooms where the
cockroaches hide by day and places they
frequent at night.
(1) Current price of wattle bark for
tanning purposes? (2) Price prior to the
war? (3) How much bark does an average-
sized tree yield? (4) At what age are trees
fit for stripping? (5) Where can details
of the culture of wattle for bark production
be obtained? —3537.
(1) £9 10s. per ton, chopped, good
quality. (2) About £B. (3) Approximately
251 b. dried bark for 5-year trees and 401 b.
for 9-yoar trees. (4) Not less than 5 years,
preferably about 8 years. The older the
tree the heavier and more valuable is the
bark. (5) Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kooragai”: A daily mixture of carrots,
turnips or mangolds with the chaff is
relished by working horses and helps to
keep them in condition. The roots are par-
ticularly beneficial to horses constantly fed
on hay. They can be cut up with the chaff-
cutter.
“Mulgo”: A farmer on the Murrumbidgee
irrigation area who had a block badly
infested with rabbits caught five lively
bucks and gave them a good coating of lum-
inous paint. When they were let go at
dusk there was a wild scamper from the
warrens. The more the ghosts tried to con-
sort with the mob the more the mob
scattered. The five also ran from each other,
and in a little while only a few stragglers
were left on the holding for the farmer to
clean up.
“J.A.S.”: Don’t take a risk feeding hay
which has become mouldy. Some moulds
are innocuous, but others are harmful. And
don’t make sudden changes in the ration.
Vary it gradually.
“Wen” : If using arsenical dips don’t dip
in the heat of the day. A north-west N.S.W.
grazier put sheep through the race when
they were hot; the animals were then placed
in the yard and left there overnight. About
100 died, the arsenic dip having evidently
been absorbed through the skin while they
sweated in the yard. There would have been
fewer losses if they had been allowed into
a paddock where they could have moved
about and dried off.
“Bill R.”: To unscrew a tightened or rust-
fast metal cap of a tube or can, wrap once
round it a leather strap. With a strip of
strong board or iron pressed firmly along
one side of the doubled strap, lever inwards
round the cap. Under this pressure the
most stubborn will yield.
“A.C.8.”: George Hubbard, of Maryvale
(N.S.W.). made his wheat crop pay by feed-
ing it boiled to his cows. He reckons it
returned him 4s. 6d. a bushel that way.. In
other parts poor-grade wheat is profitably
fed to turkeys, which are driven when fat to
the trucking yard and sent to Sydney.
“Wa.ndi”: To wean a calf without separat-
ing it from its mother, fit it with a light
headstall, made with pieces of strap, and
drive half a dozen small flat-headed nails
through the strap that goes over the muzzle,
so that the points stand out. These prod
the cow when the calf attempts to suck, and
she drives it away. After about a week the
headstall can be taken off.
“Ivariah”; In spite of precautions frogs
occasionally find their way into the home
tank, and if not removed will die and pollute
the water. If a. small piece of pine plank-
ing is placed in the tank so that the frogs
may rest at times they will remain alive,
and if the periodic inspection is delayed
no harm will be done to the water.
“Mimosa” : Rip up a used motor tube on
the side. Lay a pair of braces on . top,
mark out with' a pencil for size, and cut with
scissors that have been wetted. Dad, Dave
and the other lads can thus get one-piece sus-
penders that are perspiration-proof, comfort-
able, cheap and won’t drag buttons off.
“Sylvester”: Before putting your mould-
board plough away after use, oil the mould-
board with sump-oil or some similar
material. If kept, bright it will not clog
when the ground is wet.
“Boko”: Never hang gates on the posts
of the fence; they will either lift or fall.
If a couple of stout posts are sunk along-
side and and the gates hung thereon they
will last twice as long as if attached to the
fence.
“A.C.8.”: It has become a practice with
many orchardists to overprune. Judicious
pruning brings results, but continuous hard
cutting-back of fruit trees means reduced
cropping. Trees must carry sufficient wood
to allow of a fair crop setting. It is better
to thin out than to overprune.
“Tena”: If prices are low every orchard-
ist should see that there is a goodly amount
of bottled fruit available for the family later
on. Fruit can be preserved in ordinary
lightning jars by using the household copper
and a little straw to separate the bottles.
Peaches cooked in this manner are delicious.
Small poor fruit should not be marketed, as
it brings down the general average price.
“Willeroo”: An old shovel, light spade,
or chipping hoe that has been worn down
too much to work with can be made into
a. garden trowel by straightening the neck,
cutting off the front corners and bending
the sides. The blade should be ground before
being bent into trowel shape, and only suffi-
cient of the original socket left on to hold
a small wooden handle.
“J.P.” : Vitamins are of greatest import-
ance to young stock. God-liver oil may
profitably be added to the food of calves,
chickens, foals, piglets—anything growing.
As a rule good pasturage and a balanced
ration of grain foods will furnish all the
vitamins necessary to adult stock, but
remember that sunlight is of great import-
ance—it has the power of multiplying them
and calling up reserves in the animal’s body.
“V.S.M.”: Ragwort has become a nuisance
in Auckland province (M.L.). Spraying with
sodium chlorate was discovered by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture to be an absolute remedy,
but the method is expensive, slow, and small
plants may be missed. W. E. Cayley Alex-
ander. a settler at Pio Pio, has evolved a tech-
nique 100 per cent, satisfactory. He mixes
the sodium chlorate with ground lime in the
proportion of 1 to 20 by weight (thorough
mixing is most important) and applies the
mixture through the drill to the whole pad-
dock. Thousands of acres of pasture which
ragwort threatened to ruin have been restored
by this method. Local supplies of sodium
chlorate have run out; here is a market for
Australian factories which produce it.
“Sunny Hill”: Almonds (B. 21/12/’32)
are very little trouble. Mine were planted
at the beginning of a two-years’ drought.
They were ringbarked by hares, chewed down
by cattle, and were given up as a dead loss
for the best part of a year. Then the rain
came and the almonds showed life. They
soon made up for the setback and grew
splendidly. I found little pruning needed:
they were grown as a windbreak and will
pay for their keep. It is necessary to plant
more than one variety in order to get cross-
pollination ; but there are varieties enough.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Station hand, N.S.W., lo years’ exp., used to
horses, can drive lorry or tractor, knowledge market
gardening, seeks employment.—3646,
To buy copy of Burns’s poems.—36o6,
Copies of any periodicals containing biographical
information concerning Opal Whiteley.—3s4l.
Copy of Lillie Langtry’s “The Days 1 Knew.”
—3597.
Will J. M. Williams write to George Ashmore,
High-street, Dimboola, Vic., for valuable documents.
—3594.
Information Sought.
What are Lard Lytton’s recommendations
for solving the Manchurian problem? —3629.
(a) Direct negotiations under League of
Nations auspices between Japan and China
and a conference for creating a special
regime in Manchuria. (b) The grant of
a large measure of autonomy to Manchuria,
(c) Creation of a special gendarmerie for
maintaining internal order. (d) Separate
treaties- to settle Sino-Japanese disputes,
(e) Certain measures of international con-
trol by foreign advisers. (/) Manchuria
to be gradually demilitarised.
(1) How to treat suckers from the base
of rose plants? (2) Koto to tell briar leaf
from rose leaf ? —3522.
(1) Where the rose plants are well-
pruned and shaped it is advisable to cut
out the new growth'. (2) The briar suckers
are thinner, the leaves are smaller and paler ;
rose suckers are red. If the suckers are
briar, dig down and cut them out. Well-
rooted plants are not affected by such treat-
ment.
What was the Stevenson scheme for con-
trolling rubber output? What did it achieve
and why was it dropped? —336o.
Export from British-controlled plantations
was reduced by certain percentages from
time to time until the price, which had been
as low as 7d. per lb-, became stabilised at
Is. 3d. per lb. A little later the objective
was raised to Is. 6d. The scheme failed
principally because the Dutch-owned planta-
tions in Java and adjacent islands were not
in it, but they seized the opportunity
to undercut British planters. Prices have
gradually come down until crude rubber was
sold a few months ago as low as 1 5-Bd. per
lb. To-day it is 24d. and 3d. per lb. It has
been decided after investigation that no good
purpose can be served by putting into opera-
tion any system of control until the world’s
consumption has very much increased.
(1) How are thermo-electric currents
generated? (2) Has this form of electricity
any practical applications? —3s4o.
(1) By placing two different metals in
contact and heating the joint. The voltage
so produced is proportional to the degree
of heating of the junction. Practical com-
binations are made from copper and con-
stantan; iron and constantan; antimony
and bismuth; German silver and copper sul-
phide, etc. (2) The principle is applied in
the measurement of high-frequency currents
such as those used in wireless, the instru-
ments being known as thermo-couple
ammeters.
What is the wiring of model T Ford tremb-
ler coil, and what is the purpose of the
trem biers ? —3380.
It is an induction coil. The current
travels from the battery to the ignition
switch, thence to the primary coil, from there
to. the commutator, and through the frame
to the battery. The secondary circuit con-
nects with the spark plug, thence to the
frame, returning to the secondary winding
through' portion of the primary winding. The
trembler blade is the contact-breaker, essen-
tial to the production of vigorous sparks by
induction.
(1) Hoio does the 4-cycle Diesel engine
operate? (2) Type of oil used?— 3s49.
(1) During the first down stroke the
cylinder sucks in air, no fuel being intro-
duced. On tlie up-stroke, the air is com-
pressed and its temperature raised to about
lOOOdeg. Fah. Just prior to the completion
of this stroke the fuel valve opens and fuel
is injected into the cylinder through an ato-
miser. The high temperature ignites the
fuel and the power stroke follows. The
piston, travelling up on the fourth stroke,
expels the gas through the exhaust valve.
(2) The cheapest of petroleum, crude fuel
oils or tar oils.
I can play ordinary nap. What is seven-
card nap?— 3619.
It is played on the same lines as ordinary
nap, except that each player is dealt seven
cards. There is no exchange of cards and
no peep. The players may call anything
from three up to “the lot” — i.e., seven tricks;
but nap is still five tricks, and is paid
double, six tricks being paid three times,
and “the lot” four times. Misere is played
at seven-card nap, and ranks as the next
highest bid to nap (five tricks), being paid
double.
Reasons for the gradual displacement in
British motor-cars of the small six-cylinder
engine by the “four”? Is not this a retro-
grade step? —362l.
The vogue of the six-cylinder motor was
a consequence of the public demand for
smoothness and silence of running, which a
year or two ago could only be achieved by
multiplying the number of cylinders. Owing,
however, to developments in engine-mount-
ing and the employment of rubber buffers
between motor and chassis, vibration has
been damped to an extent which enables
the present-day four-cylinder engine to run
with all the smoothness and silence of the
six of yesterday, plus the economical advant-
ages which a small four possesses over a
small six.
(1) When was the N'.S.W. Unemployment
Tax first imposed? (2) What was the
original rate? (3) What income was
exempt? (4) Subsequent alterations in tax?
—3374.
(1) July, 1930. (2) 3d. in the £. (3)
Wages under 30s. per week. (4) From
January 1, 1931, the rate was Is. in the £,
payable by all persons earning £2 per week
or more. As from October 1 last, earnings
from £2 to £2 10s. a week carry a. tax of
Is.; £2 10s. to £3, Is. 6d.; £3 to £3 10s.,
25.; in excess of £3 10s., Is. in the £ on
every complete £. Earnings are defined to
include the value of any allowances provided,
such as board and lodging.
(1) Why was Scott's last Antarctic expe-
dition a failure? (2) Did J. 11. Speke desert
Burton in the expedition to Africa, and why?
—3385.
(-1) It wasn’t a failure. With Wilson, Oates
and Bowers he reached the South Pole, and
the fact that Amundsen attained the same
point a month earlier does not detract from
the merit of the achievement. The end was
disastrous, for Scott and his companions
lost their lives. (2) No. After the discovery
of Lake Tanganyika Burton was taken ill
and, acting on his instructions, Speke
pushed on and discovered Victoria Nyanza.
How does the process of engraving on
wood differ from engraving on copper? Is
the printing process similar? —3622.
In working on metal the lines that are
intended to appear black are incised, and
the plate thus cut is covered with ink, which
is later cleaned off, so that the paper when
pressed firmly with considerable weight on
to the plate only receives impressions from
the engraved lines, the ink having remained
in these. With wood the process is reversed.
The lines that are to print black are left
standing, and the white spaces are cut away,
leaving the lines in relief, which when inked
with a roller are transferred, to the paper.
(1) Where are buffaloes in the N.T. to
be found, and how does one go about getting
near herds? (2) Equipment necessary for
a buffalo-shooting expedition? (3) Quali-
fications necessary to join such an expedi-
tion?-—3570.
(1) Mostly on leased lands. Permission
to shoot thereon is not easily obtained.
Experienced shooters might make contracts
with lessees on shares. (2) About 25 horses,
also saddles, rifles, etc., for four persons,
tents, camp utensils and rations. Cost
about £3OO. (3) Ability to shoot and ride.
(1) In cricket would a batsman be out if
in making a stroke he hits down his wicket?
(2) Would he be out for breaking the wicket
either icith his bat or person when in the
act of running? (31 If his cap fell on the
wicket and dislodged a bail, would he be
0ut?— 3617.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Yes, if while
playing at the ball, but not otherwise.
In order to claim maternity allowances
what conditions must be complied with? —
3483.
Applicant must produce evidence that the
total income of claimant and husband for
12 months preceding the date of birth did
not exceed £2OB. Claim, on Form B, must
be accompanied by certificate of doctor or
midwife and certificate of registration of
birth.
(1) Who discovered radium, and when?
(2) What are its peculiar properties? (3)
Where is it mostly found? (4) Principal
minerals containing radium? —36s3.
(1) Prof, and Mme. Pierre Curie and G.
Bemont of Paris in 1898. (2) It is a
shining white metal, volatilising at 700 deg.
C. It possesses the power of emitting
alpha or beta particles ; in so doing, the
radium breaks up into a new element called
radon. The alpha particle is a doubly-
charged particle of helium which is expelled
from the centre of the atom with a velocity
of about 10,090 miles per second. The beta
particles consist of a stream of electrons
whose speeds vary from 50,000 to 186.000
miles per second. (3) Czechoslovakia, Bel-
gian Congo, Colorado, Utah and Australia.
(4) Pitchblende, carnotite and autunite.
(1) What are the rules for the electrical
■wiring of petrol pumps and stations? (2)
Where can I obtain further particulars? —
3660.
(1) Flame-proof fittings must be used
when the pump is installed in a closed build-
ing or where the canopy over the petrol
bowl has an open space leading into the
glass dome. When installed in the open,
ventilating fittings of the approved type
must be employed where flame-proof fittings
are not used. Gas-tight fittings must be
used in all cases where inflammable gas is
likely to be present. The wiring inside the
pump must be enclosed in galvanised con-
duit or water pipe, provided with a connec-
tion box, and the whole made gas-tight.
(2) “Service Rules and Installation Rules,’’
obtainable from Standards Association,
Science House, Gloucester-street, Sydney,
Is. The work must be don© by a qualified
electrician.
Is it possible for an interested party to
obtain a copy of a will in an estate in
N.S.W.? If so, what is the cost and to
whom should one apply? —36o7.
Yes; you can buy a copy on application
to Registrar of Probates, Supreme. Court,
Sydney; cost depends on length of will. Or
you can inspect the will for a fee of 2s.
(1) Is it safe to extract the bullet from a
rifle cartridge and replace it with shot for
shooting crows? (2) Method of extracting
bullet?— 3s77.
(1) Safe enough, but you mustn’t expect
good shooting. (2) With a hammer tap
round the brass shell which holds the bullets;
this will loosen the case and allow the
bullet to be removed. After removal of the
bullet ram in a small wad to cover the
.powder. After placing the shot another
wad or packing will be necessary. The rim
of the shell should then be slightly turned
to hold the charge in place.
Has the chairman of a society the right
to exercise a deliberative, and then, in the
event of equal voting, a casting vote? —3s9B.
There is no binding rule. In the House
of Commons the Chairman of Committees,
when the numbers are equal, gives a casting
vote, but does not otherwise vote. On the
other hand the usual practice in Australia,
in municipal councils where the Mayor pre-
sides as chairman of committees, is for him
to vote on the resolution with other aider-
men, and, should the vote be equal, to give
a casting vote. '
When should hydrangeas be cut in Sydney?
I cut mine in June and I am told that is
why the flowering has been so p00r. —3650.
Your informant is correct. Hydrangeas
should be pruned when the flowering is over,
preferably in February. The new wood will
send out new shoots to mature for flowering-
time in November.
How can I prevent the roots from a
privet hedge hindering the growth of flowers
in a near-by bed? —3643.
Dig a trench at least 2ft. deep between
the garden and the hedge, and place a piece
of sheet galvanised-iron vertically. All
roots should be cut on that side, especially
those that might spread under the iron.
My fuchsias are infested with caterpillars
(similar to those on grape vines ) which are
eating the leaves and plants. Treatment?
—3637.
Spray the plants with weak arsenate of
lead (trade formula), getting well under
the leaves, and give another spraying in a
fortnight. Stake up the plants, then give
them a few doses of liquid manure, and the
foliage will soon shoot out again.
(1) When was the electro-magnet in-
vented, and by whom? (2) Will a magnet
attract metals or alloys other than steel?
—3657.
(1) By William Sturgeon, an English
electrician, in 1825. It was improved upon
bv Joseph Henry in the TJ.S.A. and by J.
P. Joule, a British engineer. (2) Iron
and steel are the only substances attracted
by magnets with any force. Nickel, cobalt
and manganese are’ feebly attracted, and
bismuth, phosphorous, antimony and zinc
are feebly repelled.
(1) What is the rule for rubato playing,
as in the works of Chopin in particular?
(2) Is it true that Chopin played very softly
at all times? (3) What was his standing
as a virtuoso? —36lB.
(1) Rubato playing is a transgression of
the rule of tempo rendered necessary by
Chopin’s methods of embellishment. The
best rule for the solution of the many knotty
problems of time presented by his works is
that laid down by himself—preserve strict
time with the left hand, which is to be
regarded as the conductor, and take such
liberties with the right as are necessary to
graceful phrasing. (2) He was by no means
robust, and unequal to the physical strain
of sustained fortissimo chord passages.
Therefore he obtained his effects, in just
proportion, by developing an exceptionally
light, delicate touch. The contrast between
his pianissimo and fortissimo actually
seemed greater than in the case of other
noted players. (3) Groves includes him in
a list of the greatest executants. He did
not like playing to large audiences, and
was at his best when entertaining a few
discriminating friends.
(1) Name of a dictionary for use with
the Bible? (2) At what period did Spanish
literature influence English writers? (3")
Who were so influenced and in what works
is the influence seen?— 34l*o.
(1) There are many Bible dictionaries.
Smith’s is usually obtainable in a cheap
edition. (2) In Elizabethan literature there
are evidences of the influence of Guevara and
Cervantes. It became noticeable again with
the birth of the modern novel in the early
part of the 18th century. (3) The method
of narration of Fielding and Smollett seems
to be derived in part from Le Sage, the
French novelist, who was an imitator of the
picaresque romances of Spain. Smollett’s
Sir Lancelot Greaves” is reminiscent of
Don Quixote.” Traces of Spanish influence
have been discovered in the work of Defoe,
Dickens and Scott.
Best method of storing flower-seeds and
best containers? —3s3o.
When the seed-pods are dry and ripe cut
them off during dry weather and place them
m small brown paper bags. Label each with
variety, color and date.
Cause of and cure for warts? —34l6.
Cause obscure. Large single warts in
sites where scarring is not important are
most quickly removed by excision. Elec-
trolysis is favored by many doctors, the base
of the wart being pierced in all directions
with. the negative needle. Carbon-dioxide
freezing is also extensively used. Good
results are obtained sometimes from the
application of certain caustics, but this
should be done under medical supervision.
Is it, possible to get a good Australian axe-
handle? I have tried all local makes, includ-
ing Tasmanian, and have had to fall back, on
the Yankee hickory. —3s2l.
Good service can be obtained from Tas-
manian leatherwood, N.S.W. spotted gum,
eurabbie, and water gum, and Queensland
coondoo and native hickory. In N.S.W.,
river oak is now being tried.
What was the origin of Rugby League
football in N.5.W.?— 3626.
Rugby League football originated in Syd-
ney in 1907 as the result of a dispute
within the Rugby Union as to the adequacy
of the allowance for out-of-pocket expenses.
The Union at that time allowed to players
on tour only 4s. per day. Several de-
manded more, and went on to suggest that
payments should be made even for matches
in the home town on the lines of the Eng-
lish Northern Union arrangement. This
raised the question of professionalism, and
a Rugby League was formed, which agreed
to pay its players 10s. per day and 7s. 6d.
for out-of-pocket expenses. The Union
authorities thereupon declared all League
players professionals, and expelled them.
Does Anybody Know?
How to prepare turtle meat for sale?—
3068.
Brief Answers.
AX.W.: The U.S.A. machine would cost
£36, and the English or Canadian £31....
M.R.: “The Advertisers and Publishers’ Guide of
Australia and New Zealand” (7s. 6d.), obtainable
from “Newspaper News,” Sydney... .A.E.S.: They
are one of the oldest A.D.F.A. sheds in Mil dura and
have been licensed since the inception of Government
control. .. .D.E.S.: There is an idea that this) causes
cancer. Know nothing to support it. .. . J.S.P.: (1)
Yes. (2) Some fair skins cannot withstand the sun’s
rays, and so some fair people cannot “bronze.”
Specialists say there is danger in over-exposure of
fair skins (especially ruddy ones) to constant sun-
light... .A. W. 8.: Slake half a bushel of lime in
hot water; add eight quarts salt dissolved in hot
water, 241 b. ground rice boiled to a thin paste and
stirred in hot, and lib. fine whiting crushed and
stirred in. Mix all to a creamy consistency, adding
more hot water if required. Let it stand for a
day or two, then heat it again and apply h0t....
H.H.: (1) Applications are invited when vacancies
occur. (2) Applicants must be unmarried, and
between, 20 and 24. (3) Yes, must have passed the
Leaving Examination at one of the Australian Unis.
(4) From the Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra../.
T.D.A.: “The Microscopy of Drinking Water,’’ by
G. C. Whipple, published by Wiley, New York....
G.S.: You will find it in the Crimes Act (N.S.W.)
No. 40 (1900), sec. 576. Wilfully and obscenely
exposing the person in view of “any street, road or
public highway, or in any place of public resort,”
is an offence under the Vagrant Act, and indecent
exposure in the view of any street or public place
an offence under the Police Offences Act....F.R.:
(1) No. (2) No, the brand is registered in the
name of the owner of the stock and he alone has
the right to use it. You should come to some
understanding with your father as to the disposal
of the property by his will.. ..W.: It has been
held in the English courts that “to libel the dead
is not an offence known to our law,” also that “an
action of libel or slander will not lie in respect
of the defamation of a dead person”.... S.M.M.:
Payment and delivery have completed the contract
and you cannot get out of it. .. .C.A.M.: Too
large an order, and outside this Page’s territory.
It has no political opinions... .D.J.: N.S.W.
Dept of Health will send literature on application.
. ...A.W.: Can’t answer the questions unless we
know what exemptions are claimed on the rates of
income stated. .. .P. 8.: (1) You can learn it at the'
Tanning School, Sydney. (2) Know of no firms
specialising in this class of business. (3) There
is a demand, but you would have to ascertain by
extensive inquiries in the trade what the business
is worth. (4) A boiler, frames, vats and dye trays.
. ...J.M.C.: Hides tanned with wattle bark generally
receive on both sides, while wet, a coat of dubbin,
made with equal parts of tallow and fish 0i1....
W.J.8.: (1) Budapest, on the Danube, is the capital
of Hungary. Population (1930), 991,522. (2)
Collins-street, Melbourne,- is 63ft. wide from kerb
to kerb, with footpaths 18ft. wide. .. .Q.E.D.: It
takes about an hour for an Orient liner to come
from Sydney Heads to the wharf... .T.E.H.: The
longest stretch of straight railway line in the
world lies between Pt. Augusta and Kalgoorlie; there
is no curve for 300 miles. The next longest is in Sth.
America... .J.M.: For 1931-32 Australia contributed
£46,588 to the League of Nations. ...E.V.8.: The
Welland Canal (Canada) was opened August 6... .
S.L.G.: No one has ever reached the summit of Mount
Everest. .. .N.S.Q.: The fourth Test match is to be
played in Brisbane, beginning February 10. The
English team will play Queensland in Brisbane from
Feb. 4 to 8....F.5.: You cannot deal with the pro-
perty, or any rights you claim under it, during the
ocntinuance of the caveat.... E.W.: The Moratorium
Act (N.S.W.) provides that an agreement for the
sale and purchase of land shall be deemed to be a
mortgage. The purchaser has therefore the protection
of the Act, as in the case of an ordinary mortgagor.
. ...F.H.: The bank is not bound to take over the
property and failure on your part to keep up pay-
ments will not rid you of your liability. Probably
your mortgage to the bank contains a covenant
rendering you personally liable for the mortgage debt.
. ...J.R.H.: The rubber rings may not be in a
position to allow the two edges of the bowl to
meet properly, or the nut may not be screwed down
tightly enough. Send it to Anthony Horderns’
for overhauling... .C.E.R.: (1) Yes. (2) A patent
attorney’s ' approximate charges are £5 ss. for
provisional protection lasting nine months, and about
£23 for .full patent rights. (3) If mechanical power
is used, yes; if four or more workpeople are
employed, yes; otherwise, no. .. .H.G.H.: Use of
birdlime is prohibited... .P.H.: Write Harden and
Johnston, 117 Flinders-street, Sydney. .. .D.T.R.: If
you are a member of the A.W.U. and your em-
ployer is bound by the Pastoral Award, you are
entitled to 565. 9d. per week without keep or
375. 4d. with keep. .. .R.N.: Consult (1) the
Biology Dept, of the University of Brisbane or (2)
Dr. Vickery, Food Preservation Research Laboratory,
Brisbane Abattoir, Cannon Hill, Brisbane... .E.J.8.:
Write Lone Pine Bear Farm, Brisbane. .. .T.G.:
There are three arms factories in Australia, employ-
ing 266 hands, and nine explosives factories, em-
ploying 495 hands. .. .R.F.: Communicate with
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Office, Chalmers-street,
Sydney.... L.K.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney.... C.S.:
Unemployment Relief Tax is Is. for each complete
£1 of the monthly payment... .C.11.N.: Can trace
no artist of that name. If you furnish full particulars
of the picture we may be able to help y0u....
Anon: Chemical cause of action of coffee on alu-
minimum is unknown. It is unwise to leave food
or drinks standing in any metal receptacle. Alu-
minium is particularly susceptible to injury from
acids... .C.W.P.: Can’t be done at home. Take it
to a jeweller... .R.Q.D.: To every lib. of fat, add
4oz. powdered resin ; or to every 51b. fat, add lib.
beeswax J.C.H.: -The sample skin is not tanned.
The following quick process is used in Europe:
Soak in water and scrape skins until soft. Tan in
liquor containing 101 b. salt, fib. sulphuric acid
and lOgals. water; time, three days. Drain skins
from tanning solution, do not wash, hang up to
dry and, when nearly dry, stretch skins. When well-
drained, skins should be dressed with soap and oil
on the flesh side... .H. 8.5.: William Bryce, 54
Lothian-street; W. and R. Chambers, and Jas.
Balloway, 3 Fevid-place—all Edinburgh... .W.J.H.T.:
Nauru phosphate is brought regularly to Australia
and M.L.; super is manufactured from it. More than
2f million tons has been imported from Nauru into
Australia during the last 12 years C.H.R.: Aus-
tralian Fertilizers, Ltd., 5 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
....W.G.A.: Have never heard of the b00k....
T.W.K.: (1) The principal amendments, so far as
they relate to hire-purchase agreements, are in
the direction of simplifying the legal process by
which the vendor can recover payment. Leave, also,
is given to either party to apply to the Court for
a readjustment of the times and amounts of payment.
(2) Assuming you refer to the Federal Financial
Relief Act it is limited to the grant of assistance
to necessitous wheatgrowers, the amount appropriated
to N.S.W. being £570,902. The assistance may he
given in any form but a bonus. It does not affect
bananagrowers (Many otheiis mailed.) <


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
by
H. Drahe Brockman
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, a young
English aristocrat, educated at Oxford,
who has been turned down by his
cousin Lettice on account of his
poverty, comes to the Nor'-West
pearling grounds hoping to make
quick money and return to her. While
he is in Broome (to ichich he has
gone to give evidence about an attack
made on Horton, a pearler, by a
colored “boy") June Goer, daughter
of another pearler, arrives from Mel-
bourne, where she has been living,
and is greatly interested in Chris.
She tries to find out something about
him from “Uncle Monty” (Mr. Mont-
gomery), an old’ friend. Young Peter
Fordyce, a wealthy pearler, is greatly
interested in June. June makes a
friend’ of Queenic, a girl of her own
age, about whom there is some mys-
tery. Together they visit Ah Chi,
the pearl cleanei'.
CHAPTER VI ( Continued ).
IN his halting pidgin Ah Chi told June
how he came to possess the diamond he
loved with an ardor far surpassing any
other of his emotions. How, one day, long
years ago, before either of the young missies
was born, when Broome was a very differ-
ent sort of place and hardly any white
missus lived there, ' a lady ran—yes* ran
—into his store one day, all covered up in
a big veil. She pushed him into this little
room and threw that ear-ring down on the
table, saying she wanted three hundred
pounds for it. “Tlee hundled,” said Chi.
“Velee much too muchee for me. I say
no can do. But,” he smiled at June, “to-
day I no sell for tw T o times that much. I
say no can do. Lady cly behind her veil.
Chi say might be one hundled.” It appeared
Chi had known who she was. A French-
woman. “Velee plitty lady,” he said. She
had come out from France with one of the
big buyers. Chi had seen her often, and
she was always laughing when she passed,
swinging her sunshade; but she wasn’t
laughing in his shop. She pretended to go
when Chi first offered her a hundred for
her diamond, brought her little fist down
on the table with a thud, called him nasty
names. “But,” said Chi blandly, “I savee
she sell.” And sell she had. “She speak
something about not stay one minute more,
old pig!” Chi winked. “She mean that
one buyer. So I take one look at the
diamond and I say: “Might-be tlee hund-
led for two ear-ling.” But she laugh in her
cly and say no. Chi sighed. “She take
one hundled, and she leave for Singapore
on boat that night. I go down look-see.
She run away all li’—no one else savee till
morning. She take all her jewels, and
she sell other ear-ling in Singapore. I
poor man then, or might-be I offer more.
Look, missie.”
He suspended the glittering bauble be-
tween finger and thumb, twisting it for
June to savor the full beauty of its
flashing fires. But she said she would
rather possess the all-but-completed string
of pearls lying loose in their wrappings on
the table.
• “Oh, pearls,” said Ah Chi, indifferently.
“Missie should ask her Daddy.”
“Wouldn’t you rather pearls, Queenie?”
demanded June.
“If they were worth more! I wouldn’t
mind Chi’s string here. When will it be
finished, Chi?”
The Chinaman shrugged. “Who can tell?
Maybe one month, maybe tlee year. He
take five year match’m so much.”
“Oh, that’s too slow for me,” retorted
Queenie. “I like to get things quick and
lively. I’ve got a few pearls a.t home now.
but I’d hate to spend years collecting a
sti'ing.” Her restless fingers patted the
dark hair into place beneath her hat. A
glint sprang into her roving eyes as they
paused for an instant on the collection
scattered on the table. Mentally, she was
trying on the pearls. She gave a little
laugh.
“They say you went right up to Singapore
chasing the mate to your diamond, Chi.”
Ah Chi bowed. “Velee tlue, missie. But
I no can find. Someday I go ’nother time,
maybe Ignore better luck. I tink maybe
missie get’m pearls before Ah Chi find’m
oiler diamond belonga plitty lady.”
“Do you?” said Queenie sharply, look-
ing up.
But she only beheld Chi’s face, inscrut-
able as ever, and her glance travelled on to
June, who was playing with the pearls, her
lips parted, her cheeks flushed by heat of
the tiny room.
June raised her head to answer Queenie’s
smile, entirely unconscious of any new
current of thought.
“Do you really think you’ll find it?”
she demanded, touched by Ah Chi’s tale.
“And I wonder what became of the poor
lady?”
“Oh, I shouldn’t worry about her; she’d
soon find, some other man to get her more
ear-rings,” answered Queenie carelessly.
“It’s getting hot here, June; let’s move
on.”
June’s brows contracted. Queenie’s re-
mark brought a nasty suggestion of solid
fact to the romance in which she had
already clothed Chi’s story. She did wish
sometimes that Queenie wouldn’t persist
in making everything so sordid—well, not
exactly sordid, but common. That was it;
common, and matter of fact.
“Do you really think you will some day
find the mate?” she repeated.
“Who knows, missie? I tink might-be
some day I get what I want. The world
velee funny place.” He smiled at June.
June followed Queenie into the bright
sunlight of the street.
“I wonder,” she said. “Chi seems to
think if you want a thing enough you get
it. But he’s been a. long time wanting that
diamond and he does seem to be extra-
ordinarily keen on it. Funny old thing!
It’s a good idea, anyway.' I like it.”
“You would!” retorted Queenie. “I bet
because mostly you’ve always got what
you wanted. So far.”
“Well, haven’t you?” persisted June.
“The things you’ve really wanted —with
every bit of you?”
Queenie gave a dry little laugh, sur-
prisingly unlike her usual giggle. “If I
go after them,” she replied.
CHAPTER VII.
Monty and June.
Mr. Montgomery was sitting alone in his
box of an office when June peeped round
the door. His white coat hung from a
nail; he was about to-fill his pipe, but he
rose at once and struggled into the coat
as June entered. He belonged to a genera-
tion which could not, under any circum-
stances, talk to a lady in its singlet; and,
however much thirty-five years in the
tropics might have altered other of his
opinions, they had in no way lessened
his attention to such minor details of
behavior.
June walked in by herself; she had con-
trived to leave Queenie in the squash-shop
with Peter Fordyce, a feat which pleased
her considerably, for she well knew Peter
had only asked them to have a drink in
order to talk to her. But, however adroitly
she might have managed that little
manoeuvre, she felt embarrassed now. She
stood nervously running one finger up and
down the haft of her sunshade. It wasn’t
exactly easy to explain her presence; you
couldn’t very well tell someone you had
changed your mind about them, that you
now wished to be friends.
“Hello,” cried Mr. Montgomery, “this is
nice. I was just wanting an audience. June,
I’ve let myself in for the very devil of
a row.”
How stupid of her to have worried! Of
course Uncle Monty never asked awkward
questions, he always seemed to know what
to say, and, even more important, what not
to say. She flashed him a smile radiant
with relief. “Tell me!” she said.
“It’s all due to the confounded tele-
phone,” he began.
“I know. You’ve been caught out pre-
tending to be somebody else. Oh yes,
Daddy has warned me about that. He told
me you’d be sure to try it on me.”
“Right in one, my .child. But a chap
has to liven up the morning somehow.
And I’ve done it this time! Nothing doing
at all in the way of business yesterday, so
I just thought I’d have a bit of sport.
Rang up that policeman with the trom-
bone.” Monty’s deep'voice climbed to a
falsetto, and June began to giggle: no
wonder people were taken in. “Is zat ze
Constable? Madame Spinet speaking. You
are ze so-terrible man with ze trumpet!
Not one wink of -sleep do I get in ze
afternoon. I shut my eye and turn, turn,
turn—ze most ferocious ding-dong! Ze
music—mon Dieu, zere is not one note of
ze music. No time, no melody, no soul!
Etcetera.” Monty chuckled, then resumed
in his normal tones: “Oh, I let him have
it good and handsome and rang off in his
ear when he started to shout. You’ve heard
of the Spinet? That old Frenchwoman
who lives on her
own in a shack
close to all the
half-caste houses?
Well, five minutes
ago the telephone
rang and a voice
asked if that was
Meester Munt-
gumry. Then
away it went com-
plaining about the
noise 'my boys
make close to her
yard. “Aha,” says
1, “you don’t catch
me!” and I called
that voice a few things not suitable for
drawing-room consumption. But, oh Lord,
it wasn’t the trombone at all—it really was
the old girl! ’Nuff said.”
Mr. Montgomery looked down into June’s
laughing face and laughed with her. This
was the first time she had come alone to
see him; always before Goer had been with
her, or Queenie: a couple, thought Monty,
very retarding to the growth of real friend-
ship.
“How’s shell?” queried June, stepping
across the rough board floor to peep into
the sheds opening behind the office.
“Better than I anticipated,” replied
Monty, following. “Jimmy has his work
cut out this morning.”
June smiled a greeting to the native boy
squatting on the floor sorting shells. Like
a gnome he looked; behind his dark form
towered a stack of empty oyster shells,
drab backs or gleaming faces, little irides-
cent lamps pricking the gloom of the shed.
Beyond the pile a wide open doorway
framed a dazzling square of oozing white
mangrove mud, from which dribbles of
water still drained away to the vivid slash
of the creek channel. A lugger had come
in on the last tide; now she lay stranded
almost on her beam-ends, and across the
sand staggered two of her crew carrying
in part of her cargo of shell in a. huge grass
bag slung upon a pole. Their queer Asiatic
cries plucked at June.’s consciousness like
fingers seeking a note upon a stringed in-
strument: romance!
“Whose boat is that?” she asked.
“Haven’t noticed. Shell going to oppo-
sition,” replied Mr. Montgomery, who knew
too much about worm-eaten shell and
sudden drops in the market to care any
longer about the romance of pearling. Yet
that morning even his accustomed eyes
had beheld. enchantment beckoning at the
sea-door. What in the world could equal
youth? He sighed, and jumped from his
thoughts to find he was being cross-
questioned about his shell. Whose was it?
He must tell her all the men whose take
he bought. He told her.
“And Mr. Kent’s?”
Aha! So here was the reason, thought
Monty. Well, it didn’t matter—he couldn’t
really expect to be sought out for his own
sweet sake! But why Kent? The dogs
had been barking about young Fordyce
for weeks.
“Chris’s? Oh, I don’t know. He’s new
to it, and I expect Fordyce and Sons
financed him.”
“New to it? Hasn’t he been here long?
Do tell me what you know about him,
Uncle Monty. I think he’s so interesting.”
June imagined she spoke as if nothing
more vital than some unusual specimen of
marine life was being discussed, yet Monty
felt a pang of dismay. Already? But
what an old fool he was to be imagining
things! Woman-like, she was only in-
quisitive about the man because of the
past at. which the tag to his name hinted.
“He only came last Lay-up,” he replied
casually. “This is his first season outside.
Rather a coincidence how he got here. He
came out to Australia as an aide to the
Governor of Victoria. Told me he soon
tired of poodle-carrying and one day picked
up a newspaper and saw an advertisement
asking for someone with a small capital
who would be prepared to go into pearling
partnership, here in Broome, with a Captain
Kent. It was the name which caught his
eye. “Of course,” he says to me, “there
was only one family of Kents in the world
that I knew of. So I felt sure. this must
be a distant cousin.” Cousin! Have you
ever seen the old Captain, June? Met
Chris at the boat in singlet and the week
before last’s pants. Awful disillusionment
for Chris. But he survived it, and decided
to stay. Up-to-date as far as I can hear,
he’s been having no luck. Pity, because
he’s a decent fellow, even if he does take
life a bit too seriously.”
“How awfully interesting! I’ve often
wondered how r he happened to get here.”
“Lots of people get here—we’ve had a
couple of lords in our time, to say nothing
of lesser lights. Industry specially suited
to sharks, bankrupts and decayed gentle-
men.”
“Oh, Uncle Monty, don’t be bitter. It
doesn’t suit you.”
“Bitter, my child? I’ve never been such
a thing in my young life. I’m only speak-
ing the truth. When I was a boy I was
taught never to do anything else. And of
course I’ve always done as Mother said.”
June’s bright laugh echoed through the
shed. He really was a dear! Strange how
much she had disliked him at first! She
walked over to the scales, called Monty to
weigh her, poked her sunshade into a pile
of boards imported from Singapore and
waiting to be knocked up into shellcases,
then leant against the street door which
opened out on to a platform close to the
rails of the tramway running down the
centre of the road. Opposite rose the iron
walls of a saloon; within the wide open
windows she could see a couple of colored
men playing billiards.
“A penny,” said Uncle Monty’s voice
at her shoulder.
How could she tell him she was wonder-
ing what else he knew about Mr. Kent —
Chris? Wondering if he had shown any
interest in Australian girls, if—oh, what
a silly she was! Why, she had only seen
him that once, at breakfast on the day of
her arrival, but she just couldn’t get him
out of her mind or forget his drawling
voice. If only he would come in again!
“No sales, sir,” she retorted lightly, with
a sudden movement slipping her arm
through Monty’s, in unconscious reflex of
her longing for the presence of the man so
often' in her thoughts.
“Now, June,” warned Monty severely,
“you can’t be too careful. D’you know
what a man up here once told his wife?
‘Never,’ he Says, ‘never let that fellow
Montgomery lay a hand on you. You
wouldn’t be safe if he did!’ And here
you are compromising me in the sight of
all Carnarvon-street. I’ll never be able
to live down the scandal. And there goes
Mrs. Fordyce—she will tell Peter, and I
don’t feel it’s nice of you to let me in
for pistols for two and coffee for one. I
really don’t!”
“Were you as bad as that?” demanded
June, curious. “You do seem to know a
lot about women, sometimes.”
“H’m,” replied Monty, hastily retreating
from dangerous ground. “Not as much as
you seem to know about most, of the
young men in Broome, so I’m told. Now,
Peter”
“Doesn’t his mother look sweet?” inter-
rupted the girl, her bright eager eyes leav-
ing Monty to follow the figure of a woman
who was strolling down the street, her
face shaded by a flowing white lace veil
and sunshade lined in green. “I’ve never
seen her wear anything but white, and it
suits her so. I hope I’ll have lots of
silvery hair when I am old—but I haven’t
got nice dark eyebrows and dark long
lashes. She has the loveliest grey eyes I’ve
ever seen, and the nicest smile. Have you
noticed how it flashes out? But isn’t it
funny that she won’t go about to parties
and things? Of course she’s old, but she
always seems young to talk to. The first
time I saw her she made me think of all
kinds of lovely things—romances—you
know, something about her. Yet she stays
home all the time and doesn’t seem to
care much for anything but Peter. I’d want
lots more than a son to bother about if
I were such a fascinating old lady.”
A fascinating old lady! Then June must
regard him as—well, as an amiable old.
gentleman, for he was only a few years
younger than Sophie Fordyce! Good Lord!
Extraordinary how difficult it was to regard
oneself as old! Yet, if it came to that,
he thought of Sophie as old himself,
although not infrequently it had occurred
to him that if all old women could take
note of Sophie and behave accordingly, it
would be a blessing. “Old woman” would
soon cease to sound opprobrious if they all
followed her lead.
“Peter is all she has left,” he replied.
“And I’ve always heard his mother is not
the only woman who bothers about him.”
“Oh, Peter!” June 'exclaimed.. “He’s
quite nice. But tell me about his mother.
Once Dad started to, but thought better of
it. Most people seem to have a vague
idea about some sort of story—wasn’t her
husband one of the first pearlers to make
a station of Broome?”
“He was. They were well-established
when I came. Sophie was the only married
woman here. She lived out on the schooner
in the early days. There were only a few
—well, barmaids and such-like then. And
a. lot of Japanese women. Pretty little
things they were. Any amount of ’em here.
House-boys and all sorts before the White >
Australia business. I knew old Johnnie
Fordyce well. ‘Handsome Jack’ they used
to call him. He was one of the first to
come up the coast when the crowd cleared
out from Cossack and started pearling here.
All naked diving in those days—none of
this elaborate modern business with im-
ported Japs and engine pumps and what-
nots. Simple life. Do as you please. Old
Johnnie eloped with Sophie. Ran off with
her one fine day. Other chap unfortunately
turned up before the tide, and there they ■
were stuck on the mud in Cossack Creek,
the pair of them, with a bloodthirsty ruffian
after ’em! But Johnnie held him up with
a gun till the tide came in and nearly ■
drowned him—serve him right—and away
they sailed. Got wrecked in one of the
big blows later on. Oh yes, Sophie For-
dyce has had her share of adventures,
which perhaps accounts for her liking to t
stav at home now.”
“What other man, Uncle Monty?” de-i
manded June.
“My child, if you will get your Uncle •
Monty to tell you stories, you must not.
ask leading questions. It’s not fair.”
“Oh.” The ready blood flooded June’s;'
cheeks. But she protested that, after all,
this was the twentieth century, and he
mustn’t be so silly as to suppose that girls r.
were still wrapped up in, cotton-wool. To
which Mr. Montgomery replied that there rr
had never been quite so much cotton-
wool as was popularly supposed. Girls
were too inquisitive, he said teasingly. ■
Still, some day, when she was a little older,
she should hear the lot. Older in experi-
ence, he added. She might be a little harsh
in her judgment now. And he didn’t want


The First Bank in Australia
One hundred and fifteen years ago, when the Bank of
New South Wales first commenced business in Sydney,
the term “ New South Wales ” represented, in effect,
all that is covered to-day by the geographical name
“Australia." ,
This Bank, the oldest and largest in this country, and
Australian in origin, is still Australian in ownership,
directorate and management.
Over 65% of its shareholders are small investors, holding
20 shares or less and the average holding of all share-
holders is under 30 shares.
And to-day, this great Australian institution, keeping
pace with the development of the country, offers,
through its 705 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand and the Pacific Islands, the most complete
facilities for the transaction of banking business through-
out the World.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce are amalgamated.
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
0 •
# •
0 •
# •
0 •
0 •
Jft 4
Sydney
• •
• •
9 •
V. VANCOUVER
San Francisco
«
FIRST CLASS
RETURN
£99
CABIN CLASS
RETURN
£7O
Usual fares £125/10/- and £87 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER —
Via Auckland (N.Z.)> Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Full particulars fror&
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by th«
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada o!
U.S.A.
Bu
N
No Exchange Charges.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTM
CTAT MEANS
"STATE vi*
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
i/s
r&""
SsS
BOTTLED & CUARANTEEO
PURE DVTME PRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
THe .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
t&he following <tatemenl defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters nay be offered to you,,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super*
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumav
. ism, unc gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, dubs, restaurants,'
chemists and stores throughout the arorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATERIs
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes J
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iVS.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
her to be that. Old Johnnie and Sophie
had been a regular pair of turtle-doves.
But the old fellow had gone down on the
Koombana when she was lost in a willy-
willy, together with his eldest son. They
were on their way down to see after some
of their boats shelling out from Onslow,
when the willy struck the old tub and she
went out to it with all hands. A lot of
Broome folk aboard. Shock nearly killed
Sophie. And she had hardly got over that
when the war broke out and her two other
boys enlisted. She stayed in Broome the
whole of that time, with Peter. She had no
daughters, only the three big lads and
Peter, who had turned up years after the
others. Well, one of them was killed at
the Lano'ng and the other died of enteric
in Palestine. So perhaps June would
understand now why she was so wrapped
up in Pqter. She had no folks of her own,
and had never cottoned on to her husband’s
family in the South. She just preferred
to remain in Broome, and had practically
managed the business while Peter was away
at school. A good lad was Peter, and he
came of good stock. Fordyces were well
known in the South.
June sighed. It all sounded so tragic
and exciting. She hoped -when she was old
people would think of romances and things
when they looked at her. In the meantime
she was glad she was young and had put on
her prettiest linen dress and come to see
Uncle Monty. A satisfactory morning.
And if only Mr. Kent’s lugger would sail
up the creek and he come off in the dinghy
just as she walked along the foreshore
In a flash through her brain passed pic-
tures and conversations, the tangled bright
threads of youth, weaving a veil of dreams
through which the outlines of reality glim-
mered with enticing promise.
“When will the boats be in for the Lay-
up?” she asked.
“Soon now,” answered Monty. “Some
stay out until Christmas, but only a few.
We’ll get the rains before long and the
cockeyes with them.”
He stood at the door of the sheds to
watch June pass down the street. Saw
her meet Queenie, which made him chuckle.
He was too old to fume, as Peter For-
dyce did; he could not help but appreciate
the irony of that friendship, however much
he might scent trouble.
A second later Fordyce himself came
round' the corner and turned to walk
back with the two girls. Monty felt for
his pipe and took off his coat. He’d have
another smoke before lunch, but he’d have
to watch his tongue or it might lead him
into all manner of trouble with June.
Cotton-wool, eh? Well, she had need of
plenty in Broome! But if it had to come
off—and he did not see how it could be
avoided—he hoped it would do so gradually,
and not leave her all ra-w and tender.
Anyhow, she wasn’t interested in Peter
Fordyce, whatever people might be saying.
But people said anything here. When
were the boats coming in? In other words,
when was Chris coming in? Oh, well!
CHAPTER VIII.
The Conjuror.
Christopher Kent found no gem awaiting
him when he rejoined his boat after the
run into port as witness for Horton; nor,
in the months which followed, did he find
much of greater value than the baroque he
already had. Even the shell-take was far
from plenteous, and he ran south down the
Ninety Mile Beach in search of better
banks. So it happened that he did not put
back to Broome for the Festival of the
Lanterns. He and a few others dropped
into an uninhabited creek and let their
crews make the best of the holiday where
they were.
But the seasons wait for no man, and at
last Chris had to turn north and run for
safety before an army of piling, threaten-
ing cockeye clouds, the vanguard of blows
to come. Into Dampier Creek he sailed on
top springs, and there he laid his lugger
high up on the beach, stripped and anchored
her, and walked into a town spiked by
flaming red blossoms of poinciana, and
crowded and bustling with the business of
the Lay-up.
His first pearling season had failed to
bring him a balance, let alone a fortune.
Old Captain Kent seemed hopeful enough,
even though the ledgers told so sorry a
tale. Quite cheerfully he informed Chris
that the divers’ advances were bound to be
heavy for the coming year—general expenses
seemed to be mounting all the time. Chris
wondered a little, supposed everything was
all right. The Captain was a decent old
pot and had been pearling long enough to
know what he was talking about.
Vaguely Chris felt he would rather like
to ask Montgomery’s advice; but, somehow,
that seemed not quite playing the game
by his partner. If he had asked, Monty
would certainly have told him the old
Captain went in for “high finance”—per-
haps things were all right—but did he know
exactly how they stood with Fordyce and
Sons, because before old Kent advertised
for a partner he was badly involved, much
in their books, owing hundreds for gear
and tucker, and perhaps Fordyce and Sons
were not the only creditors, even if they
were supposed to be? But Chris restrained
himself; he studied the figures he was
given and dipped again into his small
capital, whilst old Captain Kent paid off
arrears and plunged afresh, bringing the
wrath of the Pearlers’ Association roaring
on his head by seducing one of the best
divers from h;is last boss wiith a stiff
advance, so that all the other divers forth-
with demanded more and had to be met.
Chris didn’t like that. But the Captain
laughed and said he was squeamish. He
had the same thing done to him in the
past, he said; they’d got the money, and
they’d got the right man. Splendid diver,
Hashimoto. And old Kent rolled away
to buy drinks ticked up to Kent and Kent,
and so pour oil upon troubled waters. He
bought a number of drinks that Lay-up,
did the old fellow; the one before he had
spent scrounging round without a penny,
glad to talk to anyone in the hopes of
being shouted. So much time did the
Captain spend lounging over barcounters
that Chris found himself attending to most
of the business, signing on crew, renewing
tackle, tuckering up; often enough when he
would have been glad of the Captain’s
advice, his old partner was too merry to
tell him anything but that next year they
would most certainly make their fortunes.
Peter Fordyce went home one day and
told his mother that he had really felt
obliged to head Chris Kent off from spend-
ing too much on fitting up the luggers.
“The truth is, he doesn’t realise what he’s
doing. Wants the best of every thing, over-
anxious about them being seaworthy be-
cause they are old boats. But I know
they’re sound enough. Then he wants the
very latest improvements; possibly he’s
got tons of money and this pearling is only
a stunt, but I don’t think so. His sort don’t
come out here on stunts. Old man Kent
is tight half the time, and I guess Chris
is footing all his bills. Bad business on
my part, I suppose, to interfere, because
at this fate we’ll soon have ’em back work-
ing their boats for the Firm. But lie’s
such a decent sort of cove, mater, and
always seems to think people can be
trusted.”
Chinatown was crowded out; there were
three or four Asiatics about for every white.
The bars and ‘the chop-suey shops, the
saloons, the picture-hall, the shi-poo, all
did tremendous trade. The pearlers were
engaged in signing off old crews, signing
on new ones, in wrangling over divers and
the amount of advance moneys which were
paid to divers in earnest of their season’s
takings; a hundred pounds, a hundred and
fifty, in cases of exceptional ability even
three hundred, later, at the end of the
year, to be made up to a total in accord-
ance with the number of tons of pearl-shell
each diver fished. Three to four hundred
pounds was big money for a Japanese: he
was ready to risk his life beneath the
waves quite cheerfully for that, in order to
buy luxury of port wine and fan-tan for
himself, or comfort for his family in
Nippon.
But the social life of the town had prac-
tically ceased. A good many of the
pearlers’ families went South to escape the
heat; the women forced through lack of
means to remain in Broome stayed at home,
only venturing forth in the evenings. Cock-
eyes swirled down the broad streets; minia-
ture tornadoes they were, sweeping up
everything in their track; clouds banked
and burst into torrents of rain, deafening
on iron roofs, and the sun chased the
clouds and thirstily drank the showers until
the whole land turned into one vast Turkish
bath. Only the sea, tepid to the touch,
still looked cool as jade.
But it was June’s first summer in the
North; and though heat stole the color
from lips and cheeks and painted small
blue shadows beneath her eyes, it did not
blunt her enthusiasm. She loved the bustle
and movement, the men calling at the
bungalow at all hours, Japs, Koepangers,
Manillamen, Europeans. Her father, as
was to be expected of the pearlers with
the largest fleet, appeared to be extra-
ordinarily busy.
{To be continued next week.)
The Hill Child.
He walked in the ways that we walked, and
yet
Was a soul apart,
Because of the vision the great Hod set
In the human heart.
Ripple of rain on the roof at night
Was speech to him;
Whisper of woods on the windy height
Held meanings dim.
Ever the voice of the waterfall
At the long day’s end
Sank on his soul as the far, faint call
Of a distant friend.
In Autumn’s amber, and Spring’s gold days,
And Winter white,
He read the message, in woodland ways,
Of winds aright.
So, when Death touched him, liis presence
proved
Devoid of pain ;
It seemed that an alien whom we loved
Went home again.
Set in the sweep of the circling hills
Is the mossy mound;
Chained by the chant of the changeless rills
His sleep is sound.
Ever he hears in his dreaming now,
By dawn or day,
Lilt and laughter of leaf and bough
In winds asway.
Here in the sunshine, shadow and shower.
And Spring songs borne,
Folded in valleys of fern and flower,
He waits the morn.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


Nestle s
"CIT
It#
lIOHT
The sportsman’s drink . . .
Invigorating!
There’s new energy in this delicious drink . . . full of the
rich nutriment of pure malt and full-cream milk.
A daily glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk ensures perfect
physical fitness . . . always.
y
NESTLES MALTED MILK
808 COPYRII
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES PROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
TREASURE ISLAND.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For the most part, the Carrington Stakes
has been a bad race for favorites, but it
wasn’t in Valicare’s year, nor was it on
Saturday, when Closing Time placed his
name on the roll of winners. A three-year-
old, as Yalicare was when she accounted for
her Carrington Stakes, Closing Time looks
every bit as fast as the flying daughter of
Valais was at six furlongs, although he has
to prove himself (she did) at a mile. Mc-
Shortodds would not lay more than evens
in a field of eleven ; it was 8 to 1 bar one
until Tom Pinch received support that led
to his going out at sevens. Then Closing
Time went to 5 to 4 on. Nothing else was
inquired for to any extent. Closing Time,
who is by Tippler—Miss Myra, and is leased
to Jamieson, the trainer, is a very free
mover. Though in No. 9 position, he was
soon in front, and after that the result was
never in doubt. With Bartle sitting easily
in the saddle, he won by two lengths from
Lucre (20 to 1), Tom Pinch being another
length off, third. The jockeys on some of
the others did not belt their mounts out.
Closing Time will now go to Melbourne
for the Newmarket. He may have sterner
opposition in that race from Tom Pinch, who
has grown into a very big horse, and may
require more racing before he is at his top.
J. J. Leahy has done well at these meet-
ings with young mares he bred himself. He
and his friends landed a good stake on Wan-
derlust (Archery—Wandar M.) in the
A.J.C. Handicap on Boxing Day, and some
of the winnings were played up to advantage
on Nachara (Archery—Dancing Rose) in
the Novice Handicap at 6 to 1 and better.
Aurelian (15 to 1) and Maltdale (7 to 1)
made Nachara travel, and Maltdale looks
like turning out a good horse, provided he
can get fid of the soreness that troubles him.
He is a brother to Jocelyn, the Metrop.
winner. Roman Spear ran an encouraging
fourth. She is being prepared for the Adrian
Knox Stakes.
7- V “
depth It was a brilliant same
Giert;" Were you there all the
TIME ? "
Bert'.“ Ves, the fielders were on
THEIR TOGS ALL DAT."
(pERTfREAULV T 1 HAD NO IDEA THEy
HAD TO PLAY so QUiETcy,’ 1
Ranchero was another horse for whom Mc-
Shortodds showed high respect. He had run
fourth, unbacked, in the H’ighweight Handi-
cap on Villiers Stakes day, and was at 6
to 4 for the Pace Welter. He looked anything
but a 6-to-4 chance with two furlongs of the
mile to be traversed, but, putting in long
strides in the straight, got up in time to
deprive Merryland (20 to 1) of a victory
that would have been very welcome to the
ringmen, by a head. Mr. Kerry (20 to 1)
was another head away; his backers got £3
10s. for their 10s. tote tickets, and Merry-
land’s received £5 ss. 6d. It was McCarten’s
third winner for the day (he had ridden
Nord in the Maiden Handicap and Shakuni
in the Juvenile Stakes)- and his sixth in four
days.
McCarten was taken off Magnetic in the
Denman Handicap to enable the horse to
get a 71b. allowance, Harvey being substi-
tuted. Six to four was offered and taken.
Magnetic looked bright enough, but, for the
first time this season, he ran a bad race.
Gold Digger (8 to 1), showing a startling
improvement on previous essays, set a smart
pace (so smart that they broke 2.5 for the
ten furlongs) and had enough left in him
at the finish to beat off a challenge from
. Pentheus (8 to 1), Topical (9 to 2) being
a fair third. Magnetic finished down the
course.
Stonebrook failed in Tatt.’s Cup, and so
did Pretzel. Pentheus; not previously re-
garded as a stayer, broke up most of the
field by the pace he set, and hung on sur-
prisingly well in the straight. But Miss
Nottava and Inducement came with great
runs, and a most exciting finish resulted in
the little chestnut mare being placed first,
Pentheus second and Inducement third.
Weiss again rode Miss Nottava, who put
up a 101 b. penalty for her dead-heat with
Pretzel in the Summer Cup. She is a rare
bit of stuff. The lucky backers got as much
as 15 to 1.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Promptitude; next,
Labor Girl.
Park Stakes: Pantilla; next, Mince Pie.
Canterbury Handicap: Balgay; next,
Lavington.
Welter Handicap: Confab; next, Hava-
spot.
* * * *
On the threshold of the New Year Mel-
bourne punters contributed to the wealth of
McShortodds by endeavoring to pick seven
winners at Mentone and failing in every in-
stance but one. It afforded them little satis-
faction to see Hard Words roll home in the
Mentone Plate, as only three horses started
and odds of 10 to 9 had to be laid on the
Diacquenod gelding. F. W. Hoysted with-
drew Harry Gavin from this event, and Fred
Foulsham drew the pen through the name of
Hatliallie. These owner-trainers bet in
rather a substantial way, and they did not
feel inclined to “buy money,” as the saying
goes.
Betting disasters began with the downfall
of Lady Syghton in the Juvenile Handicap.
Lady Syghton had 9st. and was carried off
her legs to some extent by Free Wheel, a
colt by Chivalrous from the dam of Henare
and Cable, noted performers over hurdles.
Tiring in the run home, Lady Syghton missed
a place. She may be depended on to do
better before long. The winner, Maid 0’
Mine, is by Sol Green’s imported stallion
Son o’ Mine, from Mottola, by Piquet.
Backed to 6 to 4 for the second division of
the Trial Handicap, Count Orloff lost to
Kitty O’Shea by 2£ lengths. Dan Seaton,
the N.S.W. studmaster, bred Kitty O’Shea,
who is by Wolaroi, from Lydia.
Harvest King is being brought into pro-
minence as a sire by Pearlfisher. This geld-
ing registered his third successive victory
by taking the Mentone Purse in hollow style.
Cold Shoulder, the favorite, began too slowly
to have any hope, and Pearlfisher, taking
charge from Rhynus as soon as they entered
the straight, scored as he liked. The Jumpers’
Flat went to Perides, from Sydney, who
wont out at 10 to 1.
Pembroke vanquished a short-priced can-
didate in Rex Aurantic in the Welter Mile.
Tindall must regret having parted with Pem-
broke, who is perhaps the best-looking of
the Limond stock to perform in Victoria.
$ * * $
“Greendale”: The Central Queensland
Racing Association had to stay proceedings
at a recent meeting and order an extra
round of drinks. The cause of the trouble
was an application of a lady publican in
Tambo, a classic hamlet on the Barcoo, for
a bookmaker’s license. The lady explained
that she did not intend to field on courses,
but there was a good deal of Tambo money
going away to back horses elsewhere, and
she wanted to keep a lot of it in the town,
and at the same time “augment my billiard-
table and saloon business.” The application
was turned down.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: In the racing-control law,
passed in 1929, the Vic. Government pro-
vided for compensation to the proprietary
courses to be closed down: Aspendale and
Sandown (horses) and Fitzroy and Rich-
mond (trots and ponies). The money was
to be derived from a fund built up from the
profits of special race meetings conducted
by the remaining metropolitan and suburban
ciubs. The board appointed to decide the
total compensation has fixed the amount at
£76,000, to be distributed over 71 years at
the rate of £lO,OOO per annum, the largest
individual amount being £28,000 for Aspen-
dale. Some of the cash has already been
paid over, but the clubs concerned are asking
that interest should be paid on the unallotted
money remaining in the fund. The Govern-
ment will probably amend the Act to permit
this.
“Retired Urger” : Randwick tote officials
liave been upset by the discovery of forged
tote tickets. There are several reme-
dies. One would be a paper on which
an erasure would show at once. Still better
would be the punching of each number in
tiny holes in addition to the printed figures.
Many firms use this safeguard in their
cheques, and the innovation should not be
ultra-expensive.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
v ,, „ . ,
Sydney has a good flyweight in Midget
Brodie. Boxing Bert Ryding m a North
Shore hall, Brodm ( got all over his man and
floored him for nine . Wlt b
placed right to the point in the fifth round.
Ryding was again punished plentifully in
the sixth, and Brodie won easily on p ints.
They both weighed 7st. 7 b.
.
Ins and Outs
The second Test match between England
and Australia in Melbourne was full of
thrills. Winning the toss Australia batted on
a perfect wicket, and was dismissed for 228,
the runs taking all Friday and a bit of
Saturday morning to collect. Visions of
another huge score settled on the despondent
multitude when England went in to bat, and
the gloom was not lightened as Sutcliffe and
Wyatt plodded steadily along until 30. Then
a collapse began which saw England 161 on
the board at stumps and 9 wickets gone.
a i 1 ■ t. -1 * f , ~ .. P
Australia had to face a battery of four
fast bowlers, Jardme dropping Verity. Pons-
ford was twelfth man on the Australian
side. The first wicket went at 29, when
Woodfull was bowled off his legs by Allen
for 10. Fingleton batted on steadily, - hitting
the loose ones hard, and was partnered by
the stodgy O’Brien, who was run out for
10. Bradman added to the excitement by
going for a duck first ball to a long
hop from Bowes, and then McCabe stayed
with Fingleton until he had made a quiet
32, when Jardine caught him off Voce.
Richardson followed with’ . a confident and
hard-hit 34. Oldfield made a most useful
stand to be 27 n. 0., O’Reilly helping with a
quick and lively 15. Voce, with 3 for 54,
had the best bowling figures. Larwood, con-
tinually in trouble with his boots, took 2
for 52, but by far the most troublesome-
looking English bowler was Allen (2-41).
The wicket was excellent.
The Englishmen showed early in their
innings that O’Reilly was troubling them.
Both Wyatt and Sutcliffe were very scratchy
, . . „ , , . w ... iq
to him, and he got Wyatts wicket fo o.
Hammond came in; W all clean-bowled him
for 8. Pataudi pottered for a bit, to go to
O’Reilly for 15. Meanwhile Sutcliffe had
been missed in the slips by McCabe, and
should have been easily stumped by Oldfield,
who muffed the ball badly with Sutcliffe
four or five yards down the pitch. Grimmett
was the sufferer and both let-offs were in
the same over. Sutcliffe went soon after to
a catch at short leg by Richardson off Wall.
He made an unconvincing 52. .Leyland, who
was batting confidently was joined by Jar-
dine, who was caught by Oldfield off Wall
for a single. Ames went in and out for 4,
bowled by Wall, and Leyland followed, going
to O’Reilly for a well-made 22. Larwood
was bowled by O’Reilly for 9 and then
Voce made a short stand with Allen who
took all the strike he could. Grimmett was
brought on and had Voce caught by McCabe
for 6 off his second ball, Allen being ~6
n-0 ‘ The partnership had yielded a very
useiui -o. . .
Wall, 4 for 52, bowled untiringly all day,
his 21 overs resulting in 4 wickets for 52
runs. O’Reilly, too, was at his top, and
showed convincingly that the spin bowler
still has his place in cricket. His figures
were 33 overs, 58 runs, 4 wickets; and, by
getting Allen (30) on Monday, he made his
figures 5 for 63. He had all the English-
men in trouble, as did Grimmett, who took
1 for 21. Ironmonger was ineffectual on the
true pitch.
The Australians began their second inn-
ings with a lead of 59, but soon glum looks
had succeeded to grins. Fiugleton was
caught behind the wicket off Allen for 1,
and Larwood skittled O’Brien’s stumps when
the lefthander had put on 11; 2 for 25.
Woodfull and Bradman made a useful stand,
the champion batting brightly; then Wood-
full (26) went, caught by Allen off Lar-
wood, and Allen—who was having a great
match—clean-bowled McCabe for a duck.
The 100 went up without further loss, Brad-
man being 44 and Richardson 11. Richard-
son was shaping well when Hammond got him
for 32. Bradman carried on the score
steadily, though Oldfield (6) and Grimmett
(Q) gave k j m Bt tle help. At tea Bradman
was 77 n. 0., with Wall 2 n.o. “Will lie
ge j. b j g h und red?” the crowd asked, “and
w j d Australia get two hundred?” He got
b j g bundred (103 no ) magnificently, but
the j ag j. w j cket (ironmonger’s"' fell at 191.
Hammond (3-21), Allen (2-44), Voce(2-47)
and Larwood (2-50) got the wickets.
Those who attended the N.S.W.-Queens-
land Sheffield Shield match at Sydney
Cricket Ground mostly did so in order to
watch the Melbourne Test-match scores as
they were posted on the board. The home
team was barely a second eleven, and
Queensland’s side this season is the poorest
for years. Ma began the business with 273,
Nutt topscoring with 58, while Alec Marks
batted brightly for 45. Gamble (3-82) and
Brew (3-91) were the wicket-getters,
Queensland’s first hit, on a pitch affected
by rain, yielded 150. Leeson scored 52 and
(j. Hill took 7 wickets for 18. It was Hill’s
atch . he contrib uted 91, top score, to
n.S.W.’s second-innings total of 303.
* * * *
“Statist”: “Dainty”, Ironmonger’s 7 for
13 against Queensland recently placed him
among the ranks of the truly great. In
Sheffield Shield matches lie has now taken
196 wickets, equalling the Sheffield record
of Victorian J. V. Saunders—another left-
hander. Four more wickets and Ironmonger
joins E. Jones (209) and Clarrie Grimmett
(258)—the only bowlers to have captured
200 Shield wickets. With 61 Ironmonger
is the only Victorian to take over 50
Bananalanders’ wickets—his average in these
games is 13.9 and he has bowled 104
maidens.
* * * *
The death of Blackham, the world’s great-
est wicketkeeper, will set old-timers reflect-
ing on changes in the game. Blackham first
played for an Australian XI. against Lilly-
white’s team, _ one of the finest that
®ve r ?, an ? e , t ,^ s , wajr : , days
‘Tests’ hadn t been invented and gate-
money wasn t the only consideration, where-
fore ma t c hes were played against twenty-
bwog 0 f Hawkesburv, Clarence River,
Maryborough (Vic.), Ballarat, Benalla,
Wagga, Wollongong, Candelo, Shoalhaven,
Moss Vale, Maryborough (Q.), Gym pie,
Maitland, Singleton, Narrabri, New England
and Wellington. These days English Xl.’s
feel hurt if they are asked to play at
Hobart. ___
(I . . ' ,
w^ lgbu * b : Much unnecessary alarm has
g£
going . All the cricket kingg of the p | st
su ff ere( j j n the same way, Hill, Trumper,
c re g or y (Syd), Bardsley, Murdoch and
“mt.G.” being among them. Here are a
few of the b ” d « W .G.,” 14. 19, 8,4,
and then 170 Murdoch. 0, 0 17, 28, 10. 17
and 211 . Bar ’ dsleyj 0 ; 30, 2,9, 35 and 136;
Gregory, 9,6, 0, 3 and 201; Trumper, 4,0,
0> () . 10 ai ' ld ’ 166 . H iU, 1, 16, 3, 5 and 160.
j n Hill’s case fast-bowler Fielder clean-
bow]ed the champion lefthander three times
running for 1, 16 and 3. All the foregoing
are Test-match performances.
( Continued on next page.)
“Gate”: Another attempt is to be made
to introduce Rugby League football to the
Rugby Union South of England when the
Australian team tours next season. The
other day the game was tried on the dog,
so to speak, in an electric-light match at the
White City in London. According to the
cables, the affair was, like its daylight pre-
decessors in the past, a dismal failure.


rease
VjREASE” is a word costing motorists many
thousands of pounds each year. The modern
motor car repays care in freedom from trouble
and repair bills. When metal meets metal—not
“grease” but the best of lubricants is needed.
Insure perfect lubrication by demanding
Alemite Lubricants for differential and transmis-
sion, for water pump, for all chassis bearings, for
springs, shackles, and wheel bearings. K-Aust4-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION ' • Chicago. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
564 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
Alemite
Ins and Outs
Jack Blackham, admittedly the Greatest
wicket-keeper the cricket world has “known
is dead in Melbourne at 79 This leaves
Tom Garrett of N.S.W the sole survivor of
the first Australian XI in England—that of
1878. Jack played for Australia in 35
Tests in England and Australia, being in-
eluded in all teams from 1878 to 1893 in-
elusive. He was the first ’keeper to dis-
pense with a long-stop, and he always stood
right up to fast bowling; and that was some-
thing of a feat on the wickets of his early
days in both countries. He captained the sue-
cessful 1893 team in England, and his last
appearance in Tests was in 1894, when an
injury compelled his retirement ’ from the
game. In that season he led Australia in
Sydney, when the home side lost to Stod-
dart’s team ; it dropped an apparently cer-
tain win, after having only 64 runs) to make
with 8 wickets to fall. A thunderstorm in
the night and a hot, drying sun next morn-
ing saw Peel and Briggs get the 8 wickets
for 54.
* * * *
N.S.W. won handsomely from Victoria in
Melbourne—l3o runs on the first innings,
Under Sheffield rules this gives the Ma State
3 points, making her total 18, and placing
SAFETY FIRST!
THE FIELD : “ ’Owzat!”
AGONISED BATSMAN ( quickly): “Out! I think, umpire.”
the side in an unassailable position 7 points
ahead q! Victoria. Ma won last year on
averages, after tying on points with South
Australia'. Victoria replied to the N.S.W.
total of 388 with 258. The ex-Laneashire-
Westralian lefthander Bromley played a
dashing innings for 84, and was well helped
by O’Brien (53), Barnett (39) and King
(30). Howell (4-69) and O’Reilly (4-52)
got the wickets.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Ronnie Oxenham has few
admirers on Sydney papers, M. A. Noble
always . excepted. One of his most in-
veterate critics has been Arthur Mailey, a
bowler of some note in his day. In a recent
bit of comment Mailey committed him-
self to the assertion that for the life of
him he could not see where the Queens-
lander’s reputation as an all-rounder came
in. A summary of Oxenham’s performances
in Sheffield cricket may be interesting, and
by way of added piquancy I propose to com-
pare them with those of his critic. In Shef-
field matches since Bananaland entered
the Sheffield tourney, up to the end of the
match against South Australia, Oxenham
lias made 1586 runs in 49 innings, with a
highest score of 162 and an average of 34.47.
His bowling figures show 106 wickets for
2066 runs, averaging 19.49. Mailey has
scored 553 runs for 54 innings with a highest
of 66 and an average of 15.36. In bowling
the critic has taken 180 wickets for 5867
runs, averaging 32.59. Further comment
seems superfluous.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: At the close of the Queens-
land-South Australia match at Adelaide,
Queenslander Oxenham brought his total of
wickets in Sheffield matches to 106. As he
has amassed 1586 runs in the series he joins
the select band of 13 Australians who have
scored over 1000 runs and taken over 100
wickets. The others are Armstrong, Craw-
ford, G. Giffen, Hendry, Howell, sen., Kelle-
way, Laver, C. McLeod, Noble, Ryder and
Trumble. Grimmett heads the bowling list
with 265 wickets, while Noble tops the bat-
ting with 4996 runs.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: In traversing my theory
that modern international cricket does not
improve relations between the parties con-
cerned, “Lansdowne” (B. 28/12/’32) sup-
ports a weak case by playing on the infer-
ence involved in the use of the word “enemy”
as applied by the “Manchester Guardian”
when referring to the Australians. Since
then the Tasmanian incident has increased
the ill-feeling, and some further extracts
from the English press are not likely to allay
it. The “Times” says: “The first Test was
enveloped in... . unpleasant acrimony and
ungenerous criticism. ... Jardine and his
men were threatened with everything
short of imprisonment.” The “Daily Mail”
refers to “Australian attacks on English
methods, even on the personalities of the
players and on Jardine’s cap and captaincy ”
' the italics are mine. Even Neville Cardus
has accused the Australians of doctoring the
Sydney wicket in the first Test so as to
render Larwood and Voce innocuous. There
is very little evidence of sporting camera-
derie in the foregoing.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”; The second lot of matches be-
tween Australia and America in Melbourne
ended in a win for the Yanks by 8 rubbers,
22 -sets, 204 games, to Australia’s 4 rubbers,
15 sets, 175 games, a considerable improve-
ment on tlie deba de in the first of the series
at Brlsba ne. After Crawford and Hopman
• beaten Allison and Vines in the opening
sln » les > things looked quite good. However,
bot j l thei f matches later with Vines
and Allison, though young McGrath made
amends downing Gledhill. In the doubles
VravHord and Hopman proved too good tor
the leadin S American pair, Allison and Van
R y n - bub pould 110 t Ptcvail against Vines
? ud GEdhill s pro ule was the weak spot
la . the Australian team going down in every-
R ? he t attempted though many expected
’T- , to beat Van Ry - n , \ n , the fina singlcs ’
whlcb practically decided the match,
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The withdrawal of McGrath
from the third Test at Adelaide was no
surprise. The unfortunate youth has played
so much tennis during the past 12 months
that it is a wonder he is not undergoing a
rest cure. His thin, drawn face in Mel-
bourne was in strong contrast to the boyish
roundness characteristic of him a year ago.
There is legislation to prevent the exploita-
tion of child workers and theatrical infant
phenomena. Time some thing was done to
protect youthful athletes from the gate-money
hounds.
“Top Spin”: Now that the third tennis
Test with America at Adelaide lias been
tucked away, interest centres in the fourth
and last, which begins in Sydney on Thurs-
day, January* 12, and will be continued the
two following days. The composition of
the Australian team is doubtful, but it may
include both Moon and young Adrian Quist,
of Adelaide, who figured in the third. This
will be the last appearance of the Yanks
in Sydney, and as Country Week will also
be on tap just about that time, the gates,
given fine weather, should induce the Aus-
tralian tennis authorities to skip like rams
and the N.S.W. ditto like young sheep, to
quote the Psalmist.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Koopa” : A stranger somewhat disturbed
the Sydney golfing world the other day when
he told a press interviewer that in his tropic
abode golfers employed monkeys as caddies.
It wasn’t till he added that “monkey” was
the local “pidgin” for small boy that a
great light dawned on all and sundry. The
traveller swears, too, that the monkey is
far superior to his Caucasian cobber in Aus-
tralia. At finding a ball in the “rough,”
which in that country may mean anything
from 6ft. high grass to 200 ft. jungle, the
monkey has no equal. Moreover, he is good-
tempered and obliging, and not given to
sarcasm at his employer’s expense.
❖ ❖ ❖ sf:
“Hamilton”: One point frequently over-
looked by Australian golf clubs is the proper
training of caddies in their duties as such
and in their knowledge of the rules and
etiquette of the game. The Brisbane club
at Yeerongpilly is a notable exception. There
the club professional, Mick Stafford, has
trained his corps of youngsters to the pink
of perfection until they are a source of
admiration to visitors from other centres,
particularly those from Sydney, where caddy
training is more honored in the breach than
the observance. The boys’ interests are
watched also, and the player who expects
his lad to hump round a whole go.lf out-
fitter’s shopful of clubs, not a third of which
he ever uses, is politely but firmly discour-
aged.
* $ $ $
, “Muirfield”: The next match for the Ryder
Cup between America and British profes-
sionals will be played on a Yorkshire course
yet to be decided. The cup is the hands of
the Yankees,, as it has been for the greater
part of its existence, for, with one or two rare
exceptions, the British professionals have
shown themselves as incapable of dealing
with their American brethren as the British
amateurs are of prevailing over the Ameri-
can lilywhite in their special annual tourney,
the Walker Cup.
“Carnoustie”: Lister Hartley, one of the
last British Walker Cup team which was
so unmercifully walloped by the Yankees, has
been giving his impressions of U.S. golf.
Hartley thinks America’s superiority lies in
her young players. After 28 years of age
or thereabouts American and British golfers
are much on a level. But every year America
produces fresli young players “who do not
kno\v how hard the game is” and play
accordingly. These youngsters begin much
earlier tharf the average British boy and
are broken in by competent coaches at
school and university, all being taught a uni-
form style "which gives them a great advan-
tage over the haphazard Britons. There is
a good deal in Hartley’s inference that
ignorance is bliss in golf. Who doesn’t know
the new hand 'who plays like a raw angel
until he begins to know a bit about the
game, and then drops into the dud class?
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Nowadays when the
ploughman or his Sydney equivalent home-
ward plods his weary way anywhere in the
outer environs of the bloated N.S.W. city
there is always the chance that he may break
his neck by tumbling into some unsuspected
bunker. Courses are springing up everywhere,
and it is quite possible to cross a patch of
bare and vacant land going to work in the
morning and find it a golf course in full
blast by the time six o’clock has released
the toiler from his urban obligations. The
very latest instance is a nine-hole links for
residents and ratepayers of Randwick muni-
cipality. The new course is set upon a hill
which was once a garbage tip, but to the
eye at least it seems fair enough. Mayor
Moverly opened the new venture with great
ceremony.
-!' *!• •!-
“Susie Swattit” : It is just possible that the
British women’s golf team may invade Aus-
tralia this year after its South African
tour. Miss Austin, secretary of the Austra-
lian women’s golf union, has forwarded invi-
tations with a notification that expenses
have been guaranteed. Her opposite num-
ber in Britain, Miss MacFarlane, says that
a strong endeavor will be made to visit Aus-
tralia, playing there first about September
and then taking in South Africa on the way
home. The mouse in the path, so to speak,
is the long time entailed by the journey to
Australia and back, which will run the pro-
posed tour into more than six months.
Car and Cycle
“Tray”: Something new was seen last
week, when a three-wheel machine made
the trip from Brisbane to Sydney for
the first time. The car is Australian-
made, save for engine and clutch, and
the designer and builder is J. Pelgrave,
a young Sydney mechanic. No night
driving was undertaken, and • the car,
which left Brisbane on the Saturday,
reached Sydney by the coastal road at 11
a.m. on Monday, being delayed half a day
by a broken steering bracket. It weighs
44cwt, is of 7 h.p.—developing 9 h.p.—
and on some stretches hit up 60 m.p.h. Fuel
consumption was 40 miles to the gallon, and
oil about 200 miles to the pint. The thing
has a rear-wheel chain drive and three-wheel
brakes, and is fitted with forward gears and
a reverse.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Another small-car record was
hoisted for Britain on the Montlhery track
in France the other day. G. E. Eyston, who
seems to make a habit of this sort of thing,
driving in turns with two other Britons,
covered 1704 miles in 24 hours. The car
was a 7-li.p. M.G. standard pattern. The
previous best for a car in the 750 c.c. class
was 1554 miles.
* * * *
The Royal Automobile Club forwards from
London its programme for the annual Rally,
which takes place on March 14-18. Nine
starting points have been plotted: London,
Leamington, Bath, Norwich, Buxton, Harro-
gate, Liverpool, Newcastle and Glasgow. The
finishing point will be Hastings on the
Sussex coast, and not more than 100 com-
petitors will be allowed to start from any
one point. Routes will be planned from each
starting point, the approximate length of
each being 1000 miles. Average speeds will
be 22, 24 and 26 m.p.h. for the three classes
respectively. On arrival at Hastings cars
will be locked up until next day. when the
eliminating test will be held. Entries should
go to the secretary, R.A.C., London, forth-
with.
«•» sjs H* H*
“Formula”: The N.S.W. Light Oar Club,
in conjunction with the Institution for the
Deaf, Dumb and Blind, will hold a speed-
way ’meeting on Maroubra track on Anni-
versary Day, January 26, for the benefit of
the inmates of the institution. This is the
second meeting of the kind, the first, held
last October, realising a handsome profit and
being successful in other respects. There
will be a Relay Grand Prix, with a prize
of £lOO, for all types of car.
* * =l= *
“Kingston” : Queensland will be well rep-
resented in the Australian Tourist Trophy
race for motor-cycles. As a result of a test
race, the first and second riders, R. Todd
and M. R, Anderson, were selected, while
1,. Sherrin, third in the test, decided to go
to Vic. at his own expense. If funds
will permit of their getting down in time to
get an eyeful of the tricky course, they
should be well up when the sprint for home
commences.
Miscellaneous
“Thurston’s” : The fortnight’s billiard match
between England and Dominions ended
in a win for the latter, Lindrum and McCon-
achy making 28,644 to the 25,348 of New-
man and Davis. All four players scored
over the 1000 mark on several occasions.
Interviewed after the match, Lindrum de-
scribed the baulkline rule as the world’s
worst idea. Attendances at the matches had
fallen off heavily since the introduction of
the new rule, and every leading professional
was “down” hundreds of pounds on his usual
earnings. Walter' says that in his next
season in England he will not play under
baulkline rules.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“The Gaffer”: N.S.W. and Victorian
athletes have started a new war. This
time the swimmers are concerned. The
watermen on the Murray banks have recently
formed a Victorian Border Swimming Asso-
ciation. Many Victorian clubs along the
Murray have affiliated, and Albury desires to
join the new body, since the distant crowd
in Sydney is no use to it. Now the ruffians
on the Victorian side have kidded Albury to
hold a carnival, organised by them, at which
the visiting Americans will appear. The
N.S.W. heads, who have peremptorily re-
fused Albury permission to affiliate with
the .Cabbage Gardeners, have now informed
the Riverina rebels that if the forbidden
carnival is held the end of the Albury crowd
will be something with boiling oil in it.
“Blade” : The centenary of amateur row-
ing in N.S.W. was celebrated in Sydney
the other day by the Union of Old Oarsmen.
Chairman T. B. Cooper claimed that it was
the largest gathering of past and present
oarsmen in the history of N.S.W. Those
unable to be there in the body attended in
the spirit, as a telegram from S. H. Martin,
who rowed in the State eight in 1884-85,
testified.
* * * *
“Blue Bar” : The Victorian Homing Asso-
ciation. the leading body of its kind, in Aus-
tralia, has rearranged its schedule for the
coming season. For the past eight years the
clubs in the north and south of Victoria have
conducted their own federation events. This
year only one route will be flown, and the
sectional races will be abandoned, making
nine prizes available instead of six. A
notable innovation is special events for two-
year-olds during the old bii'ds’ season. The
first of these will be from Tintinara (S.A.),
an airline of 298 miles, and the second from
Hammond (S.A.), 540 miles, both ending
in Melbourne.


/membeb\
lIB'UIRICA'U It
OiRCULaVIID^*
Queensland's Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
/l; . . , , ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: B1522.
JUST PUBLISHED
Contract Bridge
by ENA BURROWS
winner, with the highest points, of the
Culbertson Cup, N.S.W., for Contract Bridge.
WITH COMPLETE NEW
SCORING TABLES AND
REVISED RULES.
A handsome little book, beauti-
fully bound and printed.
21-
All Bookshops or
“The Bulletin” Office
Educational.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, BURWOOD
Foundetl 1886.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOD.
In addition to the classical classes, and included ?
in the ordinary curriculum, a new Secretarial and j
Business Training Course will commence with the '
next term, which begins on February 8.
Principal,. REV. T. F. POTTS.
Head Mistress,, Miss SUTTON, B.A.
New illustrated prospectus upon application to the 2
Principal.
Twelve years ago the Big Strike on
the Broken Hill Mines ended. Since
then, peace has reigned. Three more
years of peace have been ensured by
the new wages agreement. Here’s a
Town for Business!
“THE BARRIER MINER”
has been g
who want it
YEARS in
Far West!
etting business for those
for OVER FORTY-FOUR
City and Country in the
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The wind blew cheerily on the last night
of the Old Year. It came straight m off
the Heads and playfully ruffled the hair of
the people who sat tier upon tier in the
Amphitheatre at Balmoral, looking down on
a stage that is like the entrance to a Greek
temple. So ’thirty-two expired in a last
jocund flare, as if encouraging us to say:
“Well, after all, the worst never happens!’
And in the first hour of ’thirty-three this
Letter swears it met the New Year on the
Bridge, hanging a cherry-colored lanthorn
above the city. He said it couldn’t be blown
out because its flame was Hope.
From Palm Beach to Cronulla thousands
danced the old year out and the New Year
in to the usual accompaniment of squeals and
raucous cachinnations. At Palm Beach the
summer visitors and their friends, some hun-
dreds strong, danced, the ladies beacli-
pyjamaed, tlie men in highly-colored shorts.
A thousand, young and middle-aged, took
the floor at David Jones’s in the interests of
deaf and dumb and blind children. At Mark
Foy’s another thousand (and four hundred
turned away) welcomed 1933 with trumpets
and suchlike expressions of joy. The gate-
money from this goes to the N.S.W. Com-
munity Hospital. At the Town Hall there
was 'a picnic ball to raise funds for
the Service to Youth League. The Yacht
Club at -Kirribilli sparkled, and one of the
most pictorial ideas was featured by the
Broken Bay branch of the R.M.Y.C.: tlie
dancers shipped five minutes _ after midnight
and cruised about the Bay in gaily illumi-
nated boats. The Australia was booked out,
there was hardly a foothold at Romano’s,
theatrical clubs, golf clubs and bowling clubs
and almost every block of flats threw a
party. Sydney was determined to be gay.
Thousands of punters slipped out to Rand-
wick on Saturday for a last flutter of the
year. Knight James Murdoch and some of
his family were having a run of luck,
the daughter, in a white frock patterned with
black discs, picking winners with monoton-
ous accuracy. Miss Kate Egan, the Dan
Carrolls and Mrs. T. J. Ryan were risking
a bit on the luck of the Irish. But by and
large the meeting was dull. Tubs of hydran-
geas and little fir-trees bordered the front
of the Tattersall’s and members’ stands, the
entrance to the official eyrie was gladdened
by gay baskets, and the lawns were emerald
green—these were the brightest spots in
a day too hot for woman to worry about
being fashionable.
Swans and flame-trees, flowering gums, a
canvas town hugging the lake at Narrabeen,
Christmas bush rosy red in the sun, and an
amazing peace after. the night-before’s din
greeted the traveller to Palm Beach on
January the first. And one of the prettiest
sights of all on this New Year’s Day was the
procession, led by Padre Drummond, of girls
and boys from the parched Far West going
down to the beach at Manly. Three cheers
for Padre Drummond, who not only helps
these kiddies to health, but opens their eyes
to beauty such as was abroad in the first
lotus-blue morning of 1933!
Sydney has three new knights—Walter
Kings mill, John McKclvey and Sam Walder
—and their ladies, all three, are popular hos-
tesses and good charity workers. The wife
of Walter Kingsmill, former President of
the Senate, is president .of the West Aus-
tralian Association and a keen worker for
Dalwood and the N.S.W. Community Hos-
pital. She has a trig figure, a kind heart
and a witty tongue, and Walter Kingsmill
needed no knighthood to make him a happy
man. Surgeon John McKelvey’s wife is tall
and slight, among Sydney’s best-dressers, acts
on many committees and is always one of the
women worth looking for at Randwick. Our
former Mayoress is small and slight, a splen-
did hostess, an untiring worker for good
causes and something of a needlewoman.
Another small person with a great deal of
vitality who is among the new title-bearers
is Harry Gullett’s wife. She is a daughter
of the late Lady Hedley, better known to
Australians as short-story writer Barbara
Baynton.
Artist Florence Blake, back from the
Strathaird trip to Norfolk Island, has made
a collection of jazz caps. One is a Shaker
sunbonnet in yellow crepe paper with an
orange streamer around its crown. Another
could be worn with great taste at a Hog-
manay dinner: it has a turn-back in red
tartan and something like a prize orange
thistle ornamenting its front. No fewer
than 1100 took the Strathaird trip, and a
great part of the harmony and fun was the
result of the efforts of a sports captain and a
group of girl hostesses, who saw that every-
body was mixed up in the amusements. From
the moment they left the wharf the cruise
was a non-stop party. Cocktails, sports,
dancing, marvellous food, a fancy-dress ball
and a captain popular with every passenger
are the theme on 1100 tongues—a dozen or
two this Letter can vouch for, anyhow.
Norfolk Island? Oh, yes, the ship called
there. The Strathaird’s first holiday cruise
of the Pacific having been so successful, the
P. and O. Co. is sending her on a five-day
cruise to Hobart at Easter.
After spending an afternoon in Anthony
Horderns’ gallery last week, this Letter
heartily commends a chess tournament as
splendid training for cricketers. Certainly
some of the impetuous players occasionally
made a move after only twenty minutes’
deliberation, but a real dyed-in-the-wool
champion, so a student of chess whispered,
may chew the cud of thought for two hours
before shifting one of his creatures.
The middle of the long gallery has been
cleared, and here the chess tables are placed.
From the players the “fans” are divided
by barriers so that, when they grow deliri-
ous with the. exciting action of the game,
their passionate breathings and cheers may
not blow Knight and Queen and Pawns to
perdition. You’d be surprised to see the
hundreds who stand about for hours to
watch the manoeuvres. Three-, four- and five-
deep, old men with snowy mops of hair,
middle-aged men with no- hair at all, men
with bowler-hat fronts and youths with
slicked-back hair stand about their fancies.
Girls are there, too. Some of them are
very young girls, and some are obviously
mothers and wives and aunts of the gladi-
ators. The other afternoon young Purdy
with his eye-shade, Koshnitsky of the
shining black topknot, and Australia’s cham-
pion, G. 0. Watson, were the star attractions.
The players are very knutty in. their styles:
some of them sport blue shirts like the
Prince of Wales, and some are turned out
in pearl-grey flannels. The etiquette of the
affair seems to be to emerge as from a coma,
move a piece, then arise—even as might
Napoleon when he . had marched his armies
across the maps of Europe—and pace about
the enclosure.
But most -interesting are the different
types who are drawn by this conservative
game. Three clergymen of as many creeds,
a serious-faced Chinese and two men, pain-
fully thin, whose buttoned-up-to-the-neck
coats suggested the absence of anything in
the way of a shirt, were among the ardent
onlookers at what one uninitiate described as
a charming game for tortoises.
Herewith a late photograph of Helen,
daughter of William Morris Hughes and
Dame Mary.
Helen is just
17, has silky
fair hair, and
is, according
to Laszlo, the
man who has
painted all the
beauties and
most of the
notable women
of Europe, a
true Botticelli
type. With her
parents she
has just re-
turned from
Europe, where
she stayed
with Lady
Novar, who is
her godmother
in everything
but being pre-
sent at the
christening. Actually, Helen’s godmother is
Lady Northcote, another former wife.
Helen says she wants to be a journalist,
and that’s one of the many things her father
has been —or is.
In the wide court as you enter the
National Gallery is that institution’s proud
new possession—a Venetian scene by Turner.
It is a lovely bit of the Grand Canal in
clear yet kindly light and melting blues.
Time has done nothing to the colors but
soften them, despite that it has etched its
passing in innumerable little cracks on the
canvas. One of the lower courts is being
got ready for the judging of the Archibald
Prize entries. This year several women have
entered —and surely it is about time one
of the sex plucked the credit and the
cash. But, as the Girl in the Flat Opposite
remarked gloomily, “Though Adam let Eve
pluck the apple, I never yet heard that he
allowed her to lay her hands on a plum.”
Already 30 entries have arrived, and judg-
ing day is not till mid-January. Director-
of-the-Gallery Jimmy Macdonald is very
blithe over the success of the Gruner show,
which is luring visitors by the hundred.
Sydney rushed the reception of that fruity
old grandee of Spain, the Duke of Plaza-
Toro The Royal was packed with middle-
age and youth'making New Year whoopee
with the ever-young Gondoliers and their
best-girls, Marie Bremner and Mary
Hotham. One of the happiest in the front
of the house was Vinia de Loitte, who was
doing a brisk trade with her book of the
G. and S. operas. “Over 4000 copies sold
already,” Vinia whispered.
Seventy-five happy Westralian school-giils
invaded Sydney last week, travelling under
the guidance of the Parents and Citizens
Association. Some come from as far north
as Kimberley. One had a 10 days journey
between her home and the ship, at Ire
mantle; another’s home is 50 miles away
from a settlement. The director of the tour
is Miss E. Hooton.
Another party, fifty-one strong, has
descended on Sydney. These are a group ot
schoolgirls on a Christmas vacation tour
arranged by the Victorian h ederation ot
Mothers’ Clubs. They had already sampled
Canberra its swimming pool, its Parliament
House and its theatre, and while here they
intend to see the Harbor and its Bridge,
Centennial Park, Taronga, the Town Hall,
the Hawkesbury, the native-bear sanctuary,
Cronulla and as much more as. they can
tuck into the time. On the morning of the
9th they are to be the guests of the Dud-
mayor at tea.
When you are next in the National Gal-
lery look for some delicate and charming
fans painted
by Florence
Blake. From
painting on
silk to portrai-
ture is a big
jump, but
Mrs. Blake
has taken it
and entered
the result for
the Archibald
Prize. It is a
picture of a
lady with hair
Like black
satin, and a
very vivid
e x p r e s sion
against a dull
red back-
ground. When
not painting,
Mrs. Blake
turns to the
writing of fairy stories. She is well into a
book now, and Professor Brereton has given
her such a good report of it that she intends
to take it to Europe on her next journey and
have it decorated. The Bulletin photo-
grapher made this picture.
Who remembers the original Australian
production of Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird’’ and
the pretty little girl who played the boy?
She was Mollie : Brandon-Cremer, now grown-
up and about to enter into matrimony. The
man is C. A. R. Thomas, wfyfse father is
Colonel C. S. W. Thomas v (,formerly R.A.),
of Wooth Grange, Bridport, in Dorset.
Mollie’s father was well known in Australia
as an actor-manager. The family’s present
address is. Mornington-avenue, West Ken-
sington, London.
The wedding at St. John’s. Young, of
Elizabeth (Betty) Gordon to Clive Harold
Milson united two of the oldest families
in'Australia. Betty-is a descendant of the
Gordons of Manar, a family prominent in
the State in the days of Macquarie, while
the ’groom is a descendant of the man after
whom Milson’s Point was named. The
bride wore a gown of magnolia satin with
a long satin train and an exquisite veil.
From a man who often briefed him :
It is easy for an advocate to be steady in success;
but it is another thing to be steady in adversity,
and Harry Braddon was one of the steadiest and
most courageous advocates I have ever known when
the luck of the case was against him and the facts
were too strong in his adversary’s favor. He never
acknowledged defeat, and it was fine to . see him
fighting with his back to the wall. Apart from
his ability and courage, he was thoroughness itself.
He not only knew his case; he was never satisfied
until he had absorbed it. Thus, he refused to under-
take appraisement cases for the valuation of land
unless he was afforded the opportunity of inspect-
ing the country which was the subject of valuation.
His death is a tragic loss to his people and the
profession.
A sorrowful Christmastide was passed by
Dr. Blackburn, of Macquarie : street, and his
household. The family—mother, father, two
sons and daughter—were camping on the
Murrumbidgee when tragedy overwhelmed
them. One of the boys, Thomas Arthur, left
camp before breakfast to shoot rabbits. When
he did not come home the family looked and
found him lying dead, shot through the groin.
A wide circle of friends grieve with the
family.
One of the tapestry chairs worked for the
Town Hall reception-rooms was at the Arts
and Crafts show, and was among the
admired pieces. Now there are four others
to keep it company, and they make a plea-
sant corner in the rooms of Sydney’s
Mayoress. The background is beige, and on
each a floral design is worked in soft pinks,
blues and browns. Four of the chairs are
of fine old cedar and belonged to the Town
Clerk’s room. The Walder lady persuedod
Mr. Hendy to let her have them, and then she
and four embroidery enthusiasts set about
doing for the Town Hall what has been done
for Holyrood, where there are many chairs
embroidered by ladies of the Court. Each
Town Hall chair bears a silver plate on
which is inscribed the name of the needle-
woman responsible for its beauty. They are
ex-Mayoress Walder, the Herbert Maitland
lady (her chair is a delicate piece of old
Sheraton), Mrs. A. W. Whitney (Waugoola.
Woodstock), Mrs. I. Whitney (Coombing
Park, Carcoar) and Miss Agnes McMahon, a
sister of the alderman.
Plutocracy is stepping Port Hacking way;
and one of the nicest homes is that owned
by the Mackay Sims. It is called Coolan-
gatta, and its swimming pool is big enough
to be a playground for mermaids. There
was a real gathering of the clan for the
Christmas week-end ; among them were Mar-
got and Don, fresh from Swiss school and
English university.
A wide circle of golfing and other friends
is mourning the too-early death of Mrs. T.
S. Summerhayes, wife of the head of the
Metropolitan Business • College and an en-
thusiastic Rotarian. Mrs. Summerhayes died
after a very short illness on New Year’s Day.
Palm Beach may have its Pat Levys and
Byron Wrigleys, its Gretcl Bullmore and
Sunbeam Mylius, but Bondi has its big
noises, too. There’s a merry-go-round that
whirls to practically a continuous tune.
There are wirelesses and gramophones in
the flats, and motor-horns on the waterfront.
And at Manly the sand-modeller never fails
to draw a crowd. How anyone can mould
those firmly-standing groups from nothing
but sand and water and a little paint is a
great mystery. This Christmastide a stable
in which the Holy Family and the Kings
from the East are gathered is a striking
example of the modeller’s art.
The competition of the untrained woman
with the fully-qualified nurse has stirred up
direct action, and the Australasian Trained
Nurses’ Association is about to open an
agency for the purpose of putting its mem-
bers into touch with hospitals, associations,
factories, clubs and such places as need the
Nightingale’s services. The first of February
is set for the opening day of the agency,
whose office will be in the M.U.1.0.0.F.
Building in Elizabeth-street. An A.T.N.A.
nurse will be in charge.
Brisbane’s chronicles:—
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson went to Redcliffe to
unveil the Oxley Memorial. The Oxley Memorial library
is to have its home in a room at the Aj r illiam-street
Public Library: the intention is to promote the
study of Queensland authors and of literature relat-
ing to Queensland history. When in Europe, Dr.
F. W. Whitehouse, of the Uni., discovered and
captured a book by Leichhardt written in German—
an account of his trip from New England to
Durundar.
Herold Kyng has dropped his career as a singer
to go into partnership with his father-in-law, Dr.
Paul. He left recently to study doctoring at
London Uni. His wife will stay at Kangaroo Point
with Dr. and Mrs. G. AV. F. Paul while her husband
is away.
Harold, son of Captain and Mrs. S. T. Blakely,
Red Hill, married Maisie, daughter of the J.
liennedys, Annerley, at Park-street kirk. The bride
was in white georgette and lace, and carried Novem-
ber lilies and roses. Sonia Crawford and Jean
Kennedy ’maided in blue broderie Anglaise with
white hats, and bouquets of pink roses and carna-
tions.
Norman Reilly, Camooweal, married Gladys Meyer,
of Enoggera, in St. Finbar’s, Ashgrove. The bride
worn cream mariette and Chantilly, her picture hat
wreathed in daisies. Kathleen and Edna Meyer, in
Nile green, ’maided with black straw hats and
bouquets of pink roses.
Shasta daisies were on the altar for the wedding
of Andrew, son of the late Andrew Grant and of
Mrs. Grant, South Brisbane, to Marion, daughter of
the late G. C. and Mrs. Matheson, Clayfield. The
bride wore beige pique voile and a brown straw hat
with a touch of tangerine. Pink and blue hydrangea
decorated the table at Rowe’s for the tea.
Members of tennis clubs entertained J. S. Dix at
Rowe’s, in a setting of roses, and Cecily Barton
had a bridge party at Hawthorn for bride-elect
Mildred Jessup. Lupin blue with white fox gauntlets
was worn by Miss Jessup and her hostess was in
white floral organdie.
A young Australian who should get on is a
relief worker’s son who wrote from Southport to
Sir Leslie Wilson to ask for the job of caddie to the
Governor when he came to the seaside. Sir Leslie 1
drove the lad home after his first game, and found
him one of ten, living in a little shack.
Thomas, son of the late J. T. and Mrs. McCarthy, ■
Mount Morgan, married Freda, daughter of the C. A. •
Leavers, Ashgrove, in St. Benedict’s, East Brisbane.
The bridal array was ivory satin. Mary Tonks and
Kitty McCarthy ’maided in pink and blue ninon, ’
with wreaths on their hair and posies to match. •


/Member'
-XUIDIIH
118 'UIRIEA't 'Dir
ClilßC'UlUVllliDft!*
HAPPY AND
PROSPEROUS
NEW YEAR
If You Advertise in
THE PERTH
The Largest Newspaper in
Western Australia.
SURE RESULTS AT
MINIMUM COST
Guaranteed Circulation and State-
wide Coverage.
N.S.W. Office: Wingello House., Angel
• Place, Sydney. 85690.
Special Announcemen
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lis‘<- ar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179. i J
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building
Elizabeth Street.
The Expert
View
Che D.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing.
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee ’
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Patents.
ROTARY PUMPS.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24725/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
MANUFACTURE OF CEMENT CON-
CRETE AND APPARATUS FOR USE
THEREWITH.
''THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 4094/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from .Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Melbourne
Chatter
The tennis finals at Kooyong were con-
tested on a cool day, when furs were neces-
sary items of feminine attire —such is our
mid-summer. Lieut.-Governor Irvine at-
tended and was welcomed by knights Edward
Mitchell and Leo Cussen, patrons of the
tennis association, and president Norman
Brookes. In the special enclosure was Mrs.
Norman Brookes, whose brown and fawn
patterned silk frock was allied to a dyed
squirrel coat and a shiny white straw hat.
Also among the onlookers were Mrs. Jack
Crawford; Mrs. Harry Emmerton, the Harry
Whitings, John Brownlee and his wife and
Mrs. W. Seymour, the last-named in a suit
of wool georgette of light fawn tone topped
by a swathed white cap.
The Sunday-afternoon orchestral concerts
in the Botanical Gardens, which were plea-
sant summer interludes for a couple of years
under the direction of Fritz Hart, are to
be revived this year. With the amalgama-
tion of our two symphony orchestras, the
Melbourne and the University, impressive
performances are expected. As both Ber-
nard Heinze and Fritz Hart are away, Citv
Organist McKie will wave the wand for the
first concerts of the season.
Portsea is claiming its usual large quota
of holiday visitors. Among the folk who
have taken houses are Mr. and Mrs. George
Wright of Warrawong, Castle Hill, N.S.W..
whose daughter, Mary, has become engaged
to Burdett, son of the F. C. Laycocks, of
Camberwell, who are also at Portsea. Mr.
and Mrs. Me re on Cooper are in residence
at their house near the Sorrento Hotel, Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Ronaldson being their
guests.
Knight Harold Luxton and his lady, with
members of their family, are renting a cot-
tage. Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Wilks are at their
holiday residence. The Byram Gowans, Les-
lie Kimptons, H. C. Cornforths and daughter
and Mr. and Mrs. Hartley Styles are among
those who have settled into their own domi-
ciles for the vacation.
A dance at the Wentworth in aid of St.
Vincentes Hospital was engineered by Mrs.
J. G. Cotchett, who danced in black, with
a little green cape, and Mrs. M. J. Canny,
who chose lacquer red georgette.
Red, white and blue designs .in beach
pyjamas are an innovation this season. One
miss expressed her patriotism by wearing
on her white silk trousers a hip yoke of
royal blue that joined a white jumper
with a band of scarlet about the waist.
Her hat combined the three colors.
The little steamer Alvina, which plies
between the city and Phillip Island, has
a history. It was built as a yacht for
Lily Langtry. When that lady had done
with it the craft passed into the Vic. pilot
service, and now ferries the thousands of
trippers (and in some cases their motor-
cars) to the Bay resort.
William, second son of the late Ben Lem-
priere and of Mrs. Lempriere, of South
Yarra endowed with all his worldly goods an
English girl, Kathleen Elizabeth Griffiths,
whose people live in Worcestershire, at All
Saints’, East St. Kilda. The bride was the
guest of Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Burnside when
the romance developed and Mrs. Burnside,
who is a cousin of the bridegroom was mat-
ron of honor, wearing apricot-pink georgette
with a matching turban toque. The bridal
array was magnolia-toned satin and billows
of tulle that descended from a coronet of
pearls. Ilhoda Guy Smith, the train-bearer,
had a powder-blue velvet sash brightening
her white net frock.
Mary Hotham, of the Gilsullivan Co., who
at the time this appears is nightly warbling
“When a Merry Maiden Marries,” as Tessa
in “The Gondoliers” at Sydney Royal, knows
all about the subject, for at the Independent
Church, Collins-street, on a recent evening,
she became the bride of Harold Owers, of
Maoriland, whose folk reside at Palmers
Green, London. The young singer, who got
her vocal training at the Albert-street Con.,
was born in England, her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. James R. Hotham, being now settled
at Yarra Junction. White satin and tulle
was worn by the bride, who had Winifred
Chapman as attendant ’maid. There was a
dinner at Scott’s afterwards. Mrs. Owers
intends giving up the stage at the conclusion
of her present contract, and will rejoin her
husband in M.L., where they will make their
home.
Has any Australian troupe of barn-
stormers, beaten the record of Nellie Bram-
ley? Her co. has now played for 237
consecutive weeks in five capital cities,
with a change of diet every Saturday. Its
efforts have ranged from drawing-room
comedy to mystery drama and for Christmas
it presented a revue to Melbourne Palace
patrons. Nellie’s appeal has the popular
virtue of simplicity. Any shopgirl or fac-
tory ’and can see herself triumphing over
male villainy in the way Nellie triumphs.
There is to be a reunion of the Leon
Jona family at Colombo, the doctor, with
his daughters Meryl and Gwen, setting
off the other day to meet there Mrs. Jona
and Claire, who are returning to Australia
by the Moldavia after a European trip of
some months.
Alan Thompson, who has completed with
honors the first year of the diploma course
at the Uni. Con., has an advantage over
most of his fellow-pianists, being a tuner
by occupation. A year ago he won an
Ormond exhibition scholarship and shared
with three other students the Lady Turner
prize.
Boobed for European travel in February
are the Allen lady and her youngest daughter
Biddy. Besides teaching the piano and run-
ning a children’s orchestra, Miss Allen has
been for the past year or so the musical
critic of the “Argus.”
With the death of Louis Hattenbach the
Uni. Con. lost a fine teacher. He came here
about 30 yearsi ago as a ’cellist with a small
concert co., and Marshall Hall encour-
aged him to remain. Mr. Hattenbach was a
member of the original staff of the Con.
He composed several works which have been
heard in this city. His two daughters have
inherited their late father’s talent. Edna is
a ’cellist, and Alva has taken up the violin.
Contralto Victoria Anderson and soprano
Viola Morris, former students of Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Browning, who went to Eng-
land some years ago for study, gave a con-
cert at the .ZEolian Hall, London, recently,
and received high praise from the critics for
their performance, both as soloists and
duettists.
When John Dudley, pictured . here by a
Francie Young camera, sang the tenor solos
in two recent
p e r formances
of Handel’s
“Messiah” by
the Philhar-
monic Society,
he realised a
boyhood’s am-
bit io n. He
heard the ora-
torio when he
was about 14,
and made up
his mind that
lie would one
day sing the
Tnor music.
Mr. Dudley
was formerly
a s tndent
under A. C.
Bart leman,
and during the
recent opera
season he had
some lessons from Apollo Granforte.
Australia is to have a deluge of Italian
opera in 1933, as well as a flood
of instrumental music. Following on Hugo
Larsen’s announcement that he is bringing
a co. from Naples, the Firm proclaims that
some of the disbanded subjects of Mussolini,
here with the Williamson-Imperial Co., aie
to be remobilised and reinforced by Austra-
lian artists. Lawrence Power, the Melbourne
tenor who won a local aria competition
some years ago and has been making a hit
in Italy under the pseudonym of Lorenzo
Poerio, is being sought after by both parties.
Larsen promises some new operas.
A Melbourne scribe met an old friend the
other day. He was rounding the corner
into Collin-street when a broad-shoul-
dered, ruddy-cheeked man whose face was
vaguely familiar stopped him with a
matey “Hello, there!” “Hello, Digger!”
responded his victim. “My brother’s sick
up Mildura way,” said tfie ruddy-cheeked
one, “I suppose you couldn’t lend me two
quid to pay my fare up.” Well, the Inky-
wayfarer couldn’t, so amiably, after ten
minutes’ chat back and forth, a compromise
of eighteen pence was arrived at. “Let me
see,” said the writing man, “I know your
face quite well, but I don’t remember your
name. You were in my battalion, weren’t
you?” “Battalion be blowed!” said the
other, laughing heartily. “I empty your
dirt tins every week!”
There is a mild rage for old ivory and
cornelian of the carved variety. Such trin-
kets go well with the laces and velvets now
so popular. If your fingers are long and
sensitive and your wrists slim you can load
them with such ornaments and be called an
individualist. If your hands are wide or
pudgy, let their only adornment be a good
manicure.
The Royal’s costumiers, electrical geniuses
and scenic artists have suceeded in mak-
ing “Waltzes from Vienna” the talk of
the town, and the probable duration of that
love story of music is confidently mentioned
in treble figures. Melbourne has never seen
a better ballet than this one, which dances
with heads and arms as well as with legs.
But for bizarre effect the military parade
in the second act beats anything previously
seen on the Royal premises, and local
modernist painters are claiming infringe-
ment of copyright. Another ingenious piece
of stage legedermain is the fireworks dis-
play in Doumayer’s Gardens.
This is Mrs. D. Iv. Thompson, who headed
the poll for the Phillip Island Municipal
Council re-
cently. She
is the second
woman to
gain a seat on
the council,
Mrs. Dawson-
Davie, who
served but a
short period,
being the first.
Mrs. Thomp-
son and her
husband, who
manages the
Cyclone Fence
Co., have been
residents of
the island for
twenty - one
years and their
two daughters
are settling
down there,
too, one hav-
ing become Mrs. Keaston Sambell, while
the other. Molly, is to be married in March
to Rex Dixon, who has land at Cowes. Mrs.
Thompson is secretary of the Woman’s Pro-
gress Association., a pillar of the Girl Guides
and organist of the kirk.
In a contest with his employers a
foreign star playing in Melbourne won hands
down. His good looks are considered to
be one of his chief claims to popularity and
an item in his make-up is a head of curly
hair. The daily coiffure costs two shillings
and the management refused to meet the bill,
so the actor went on with straight hair
and gabbled his lines so quickly and in such
a private manner that nobody but the front-
stallites could hear a word of them. At the
first interval, in reply to official protests, he
declared that, like Samson’s, his hair was
intimately related to his abilities; so in the
second act the house was presented with the
remarkable spectacle of a character who had
suddenly acquired a head of naturally curly
locks as the result of a night’s slumber.
Hobart hops in :
Mrs. T. A. Chandler, backed up by a big com-
mittee of girls, ran a dance in aid of the Free
Kindergarten, at the Continental. Chinese lanterns
and a big Christmas tree in the middle of the ball-
room made a gay setting. Fancy dress prizes were
won by Joan Chandler (mandarin), N. Stilwell (Don
Quixote), Pat Thompson and Jack Spencer.
The League of Nations’ Union had as guests for
lunch at the Imperial the Consul-General for Switzer-
land and Madame Bloch, and Mr. Otto Coufal, vice-
Consul for Czec-ho-Slovakia. The president’s table
was decorated with sweet-peas and bowls of Tassie’s
best fruits.
Mr. Tom Murdoch had a “hail and farewell” party
at Hadley’s, the departing guests being H. T. Parker,
of the Education Dept., and his wife, who are off
for a trip abroad, and the newcomers, Senator and
Mrs. Johnston, of W.A.
Grace, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. J. T.
Stops, and Keith, son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
H. Archer, Deloraine, were tied up for better or
worse at the Cathedral. The slender little bride
wore a frock of white romaine, swathed closely at
the waist and hips and falling very fully to a long
train. The Limerick lace veil was an heirloom in
her mother’s family, and was arranged to fall from
a tiara-arrangement high on the forehead. The
’maids were the bride’s sister Freida, Nancy Field and
Mary Harbottle, all in soft mauvish-blue pique
voile with white organdie fichus and little headdresses
of mauve and white organdie.
Lois, daughter of the Keith Ritchies, Launceston,
and Maxwell Arthur Glover, Camberwell (Vie.),
announce their engagement.
Another young pair who launching on the
seas of matrimony are Betty, only daughter of the
15. A. Bennisons, Battery Point, Hobart, and Tom
Stephens, Newtown.
The Eric Booths are over from Melbourne on a
visit to the W. P. Booths, Claremont.
Kettering, that small beauty spot in the Channel,
runs a Repertory Society and scored a success lately
with “The House of a Thousand Thrills.” Staging
and production generally were good.
Adelaide doings
The two meetings of the Port Adelaide Racing
Club were well attended. Dr. A. V. Benson (chair-
man) and his wife presided over large tea-parties in
the committee-room upon both days. On the first
day Mrs. Benson wore a modish black, green and red
striped crepe de Chine frock with a black baku
hat ; on the second her toilette was a brown woollen
marocain with a panama hat. Several well-known
racegoers favored white marocain, Mrs. F. A. Ten-
nant, Mrs. J. H. Morish and Miss Madge Markwell
among them.
Mr. and Mrs. Lavington Bonython have taken the**
family to their summer residence at Mount Lofty
for the college vacation. Mr. and Mrs. K. C. Wilson
are spending a fortnight with them.
Miss Alice Burke has returned to her North
Adelaide home from Melbourne, where she has been
studying at the Albert-street Conservatorium under
Miss Mary Campbell for the last four years.
All our leading lights seem to have departed.
The Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven are in Eng-
land, the Premier and Mrs. Lionel Hill have gone to
Tasmania, and the Mayoral Glovers to New Cale-
donia. The New Year’s Eve celebrations in tire
Town Hall were not held this time.
S.A., which is planning for its centenary,
kept its 96th birthday at Glenelg, at the Town
Hall on the shore where Governor Hindmarsh landed
(after first having a look at Port Lincoln).
Pioneers of before 1840 are down to four now, but
old-time memories were everywhere: “rode against
A. L. Gordon” ; “born in a mud hut on the Torrens
bank where Government House is now” ; “wheat-
fields inside the city” ; “lost in the bush where the
cathedral is”; “went to the Bendigo diggings and
there met Hargreaves, the first gold-discoverer.”
And one veteran revived the heresy that the
Leaning Gum-tree was not really the site of the
official proclamation.
Perth prattle:—
Women went to the Derby in their coolest frocks,
though men, with few exceptions, stuck to their
stuffy tweeds. The W. H. Vincent family was
there in force to see their Olympian canter off
with the big prize money. The James lady, in blue
figurings, chatted with Mrs. Bob Black, recently
arrived from the Murchison; Mrs. Guy MacLeod,
who has just come down after three years in the
hot North, topped her foulard with a leaf-green hat;
Mrs. Marillier, in sapphire tints, paced the lawns
with Mrs. Walter Cross; Mrs. Geoff Drake-Brock -
nian’s black organdie was much puffed as to sleeves;
Mrs. Ednie Brown wore white pique millinery with
her black spots; pink and gold poppies blew upon
Mrs. J. P. Dwyer’s featherweight ninon ; Alice Walsh
topped her sheer linen with a pink-and-white hat;
Mrs. King’s red gown had criss-cross embellishings
upon the bodice; Mrs. Gilbert Barker chose royal-
blue ; Joan Solomon, just returned from two years’
nursing in Sydney, wore navy with tartan inlets
upon the vestee; fluted sleeves and yoke made
fanciful the pink frock of Viola Bathgate, who did
her punting with Edna Cockram, in pink and
white; Margot Law was smart in royal-blue with
a pointed yoke of cream lace; Mary Durack wore
navy, and Jean Smith was slim and cool in her
pastel-patterned georgettes.
Yvonne, elder daughter of Mrs. Nairn, of Mount-
street, is betrothed to Oliver Williams, who hails
from Melbourne.
Mrs. T. A. L. Davy has gone a-holidaying to
palmy Ceylon. Pat Hyde is visiting friends in
Victoria, and the Vincent girls are off to Noumea
in January. The Walter Dwyer couple, with their
daughters and a brace of the Connaughton girls
under their wing, sail on a round trip to Java
and Singapore.
Margaret Flecker, who has a host of schoolgirl
friends in this State, has become a fully-fledged
medico. In February she commences her job as a
resident at the Adelaide Hospital.
The young things who imbibe music and the art
of speech from Miss Lily Kavanagh got a huge
thrill out of their annual concert, while proud
parents and friends filled the hall and beamed upon
their offspring. In “The Doll’s Wedding,” a triumph
of production and costuming, Molly Brady rejected
the Tinker, Beryl Brear, and a miscellaneous assort-
ment of suitors, with a blackground of bridesmaids,
pixies and soldiers. The “Tinies” class talked about
Elizabeth in London and a little glutton who ate
toffee. Youthful Misses Dunphy, Day and Carr
raised chuckles with their “Widows,” as did the
boys’ class with its bit of comedy at a photo-
graphers. Marion Haynes and Joy Ruse had most
to do in an excerpt from “Hamlet.” Among the
soloists were Mary Ward, Shirley Grave, Ainslie
Thompson, Mae Downs and Helen Richardson. The
last-named miss has also a talent for writing verse.
Mr. Walter Dwyer handed forth prizes and certifi-
cates and a heap of verbal posies.


Here’s what you need to do
your typing .... a British
Imperial “Good Companion”...
the new and better portable
ŗ
£l 9/19
Terms Available,
You will find that the
“Good Companion” is
handy and light, and it
will type all your work
easily, quickly and legibly.
Ask for full particulars from the nearest agent:
L DOBELL & 00., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawier Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
Empress of Britain”
c
K
i>>3
t 3
mrT nrlhl '~Catk at/ -Cornu/1.
Empress^jlritain
%
CANADIAN PACIFIC
provides the most en-
joyable journey to Europe
—taking in the famed
Canadian Rockies —Banff
and Lake Louise and the
utrtiost in travel comforts
and service. 32/13
TO
EUROPE
The new Ocean Travel
luxury.
This great British
Steamer offers all
that is new and
thrilling in shipboard life,
plus Canadian Pacific cuisine
and personal service to every
guest. Spacious private
apartments like city flats,
distinctive furnishings and
decorations, a Beauty Salon
with experts in attendance,
Shops in the Mall, Grecian
Pool, big Ballroom, Stage and
Screen, a whole Deck for
Sports, full size Tennis Court.
These, and many other exclusive
innovations have made ' Empress
of Britain ” the most popular
Steamer on the Atlantic.
Write for details and beautifully
illustrated booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel Syytem
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTELS
Peace and Quiet.
BY E. V. TIMMS.
MR. PETER KASS, corpulent proprietor
of the Cafe Melange, a snug little re-
treat that exhaled appetising odors
into the appreciative nostrils of Pitt-street,
concealed his surprise with difficulty when
Mr. Hepplebloom walked in. Mr. Kass was
not surprised at Mr. Hepplebloom’s walking
into the cafe, nor at the little man’s suit-
case, overcoat and travelling rug; but he
was surprised at the expression of utter
melancholy on the thin Semitic face of his
friend. Mr. Hepplebloom, a I’iot of sartorial
extravagances, seemed dejection personified.
Mr. Kass, enthroned behind his cash register,
stared at him, at his pale blue sac suit,
twinkling patent leather shoes, pearl-grey
tie, crimson handkerchief and tilted bowler
hat. When Mr. Hepplebloom dumped his
luggage at the foot of the cash register Mr.
Kass spoke. His voice, round and deep and
fat, like himself, was vibrant with concern.
“ ’Lo, Heppy. Bit early, ain’t you ? Any-
thing wrong V”
Mr. Exodus Barre.nhead Hepplebloom—at
the moment he looked as though he really
deserved his full name —slowly took off his
pince-nez and polished them with his hand-
kerchief. Hi,s pale, weak blue eyes
blinked up at the gigantic Mr. Kass.
“No,” he replied. “I’m not early. I’m
late. Just missed a train for the, country.
Going away for peace and quiet —I must
have peace and quiet. My nerves are like
frayed fiddle-strings.”
Mr. Kass pursed his lips. They looked, of
course, the more hideous for that.
“Women?” he barked.
Mr. Hepplebloom winced.
“Don’t be a damn fool, Peter,” he retorted
severely. “You know I detest women. No,
it’s not women!”
“Money?” jerked out Mr. Kass.
“No ! Plenty of money. No,_ no, Peter!
You wouldn’t understand! It’s just my
nerves—must have peace and quiet. I’m fed
up with everything and everybody.”
Mr. Kass nodded.
“Ah ! I get you. You’ve been at it again.”
Mr. Hepplebloom’s expression became cold.
“At it again? I’m afraid I don’t” — —
Mr. Kass went into a wheezing convulsion
of laughter. “Of course you don’t,” he
chuckled, hoarsely. “But I bet you’ve been
kiddin’ someone you’re a married man.
Somebody, I s’pose, poured three drinks into
you—an’ you know you always kid every-
body you’re married after the third.”
“Bosh!” said Mr. Hepplebloom, nastily.
Mr. Kass came down from his throne. His
bulk, considerable at all times, looked enor-
mous when placed beside his diminutive
friend.
“Have a drink, Heppy.”
“No thanks.”
“Some food, then.”
“Just a glass of water and a little dry
bread:”
Mr. Kass glanced pityingly at Mr. Hepple-
bloom.
“Sit down, Heppy. You’re bad all right.”
Mr. Hepplebloom seated himself. Mr.
Kass also took a chair.
“Peter,” said Mr. Hepplebloom, “your
mind runs on one thing only—food.”
Mr. Kass nodded again. “It’s my job,
ain’t it? But never mind being insulting.
Open up and confess. What’s the matter
with you, anyway?”
“Nerves. I told you. I had intended
going into the country for peace and quiet.
There’s no place' like the country for peace
and quiet.”
“Ain’t there?” said Mr. Kass, a little dubi-
ously. “Well, I s’pose you know best. An’
you missed your train, eh?”
“Yes.”
“I bet she followed you.”
Mr. Hepplebloom stiffened. “Don’t be an
ass, Peter.” he snapped. “I tell you I am
not mixed up with women—any woman! Is
that clear?”
Mr. Kass shrugged. “The trouble with
you, Heppy, is that you don’t know when
you are an’ when you ain’t. But never mind
that. Where are you goin’ ? Anywhere
particular?”
“No. Just anywhere where there is peace
and quiet.”
Mr. Kass watched his friend swallowing
cold water. Then he leaned forward and
tapped the table with a fat finger. “How
about goin’ out to my farm? You can take
a car, an’ it’s only a couple of hours’ run.”
Mr. Hepplebloom nibbled some bread. His
thin white hand looked transparent against
the blue sac suit.
“That’s very kind of you, Peter. But
perhaps I should be a nuisance.”
“Rot!” shouted Mr. Kass, heartily.
“There’s only old Podd, and Zelle, his
daughter.”
Mr. Hepplebloom started. “His daughter?”
Mr. Kass waved a fat hand deprecatingly.
“She ain’t nothin’. Probably gets round
suckin’ her thumb. She won’t worry you—
I’ll see to that when I ’phone them. What
about it?”
“Thank you, Peter. You are sure the
woman”——
“Forget her. S.he’ll probably look you up
an’ down, wonder what you are, an’ then
forget you exist.”
“Weil, if that’s the case”
Mr. Ivass got up from the table. “Good,”
he grunted. “I’ll ring ’em up an’ get you
a car.”
“It’s really good of you, Peter”
“Rot, man —rot! You want peace an’
quiet, don’t you?”
“Above all things,” was the earnest reply.
“Then hop out to Podd’s. It’s so quiet
there that when you cough you’ll think you’ve
shot yourself.”
“It sounds as though it might be just the
place I want.”
“Never doubt it,” boomed Mr. Kass,
“Fresh air, fresh eggs, fresh milk, and they
cure their own bacon —oh, I forgot, you don’t
eat bacon. Well, you don’t have to.”
“I begin to think I’ll like it.”
“Man,” said Mr. Kass convincingly,
“they’ll treat you like a prince.”
Mr. Hepplebloom looked at his well-kept
hands. “I’ll go,” he said. “I hope they
won’t put themselves out in any way
because I’m coming. Thank you, Peter.”
When the car stopped in the gloom of the
early night Mr. Hepplebloom saw that there
was a barbed-wire fence running both ways
into the darkening distances. Beside him
was a crazy gate with tall gateposts, sharp
at the tops. To the west a rutted track
vanished in the gloom in the direction of
a house that stood, an immense distance
away, on the top of a hill. He could not
see the house, but a lighted window shone
like a star. Between the tall gateposts
loomed the shadows of a waiting horse and
cart. When the car departed Mr. Hepple-
bloom felt anything but at home. He spoke
to the silent man in the cart.
“Pardon me, but are you from Mr. Kass’s
farm?” he asked, his voice sounding like the
chirping of a cricket in that empty sound-
less waste. “I am Mr. Hepplebloom.”
The shadow of the man uncoiled itself. It
seemed seven feet high to the startled Mr.
Hepplebloom. Even more startling was the
man’s grating laugh.
“Mr. Pepperbloom, eh? Har! liar! liar!
Well, ’op in, ’op in. You can chuck y’ things
in amongst th’ milkeans.”
“Amongst the milkeans?” murmured Mr.
Hepplebloom. “I—but is there a step—or
something?”
“Har! har! har! No, there ain’t no
step, Mr. Pepperbloom. But ’op in, ’op in
fer Gord’s sake. I bin waitin’ an hour. If
y’ listen y’ can hear Zelle yellin’ herself
mad that dinner’s ready. There’s heggs agen,
I bet —’ard-boiled heggs—always ’ard-boiled.
heggs—har ! har ! har !”
“Really? I’m afraid I don’t care for
hard-boiled eggs.”
“Well, you will, Mister. Har! liar ! har!”
Mr. Hepplebloom winced. “Who are you?”
he asked.
“I’m Todd —’op in ! Zelle’s got a cow of
a temper, an’ ol’ Podd’s drunk agen. Podd’s
always drunk, an’ Zelle’s always rousin’, and
Podd goes about whisperin’ ‘I ain’t sayin’
nothin’- to nobody—l ain’t sayin’ nothin’ to
nobody.’ You’d think he’d murdered some-
one.”
“Good God!” breathed Mr. Hepplebloom.
He suddenly noticed that the night was chill.
Then he got a grip on himself again.
“Would you mind helping me into the —er,
vehicle? I’m afraid I’m not used to”
“Har ! liar ! har !”
Mr. Hepplebloom felt a large hard hand
grasp his coat collar, and all at once it
seemed to him as though he were going up
in a lift.
“You ain’t no ’eavier than a kid,” said Mr.
Todd with his deep, contemptuous laugh.
Mr. Hepplebloom gasped. “Really ? f ” lie
murmured. “Where do I sit, please?”
“There’s only one plank, ain’t they?”
“Oh, I see. Thank you. Is all my lug-
gage here?”
“I ’ope so. You chucked it in.”
“Yes, of course. Shall we go?”
“Right. Let’s go. Mind you-—I don’t
think ol’ Podd really is a murderer, but th’
ol’ devil’s got ’orrible shifty eyes.”
“Isn’t it getting c-cold?”
“Cold? Har! har! har! When I left th'
’ouse ol’ Podd was outside sharpenin’ th’
axe, an’ he didn’t even ’ave a shirt on —
git ap, you lazy swine!”
Mr. Hepplebloom started as though stung.
“I—l beg your pardon.”
“Har! har! har! I -was forkin' to the
blasted ’orse. She’s a lazy bitch. A real
jib, Mr. Pepperbloom.”
Mr. Hepplebloom was silent. The cart
rumbled on, the swaying milkeans crashing
out an earsplitting symphony, and Mr. Todd
punctuating all the resounding noises with
his “Har ! har ! har !”
It came to Mr. Hepplebloom suddenly that
Mr. Todd merely desired to be friendly, and
the thought brought strange relief. The
little man looked about him, but it was now
too dark to distinguish more than the
sharpest outline. The utter strangeness of
it began to thrill him. The disquieting re-
ports of Mr. Podd and his daughter Zelle
he put down to Mr. Todd’s eccentric manner
of speech. Here, he decided, was life in the
raw—the real thing. And soon there would
be peace and quiet.
The cans rattled merrily behind him, the
cart swayed, the harness creaked, a woman’s
voice called shrilly from the house on
the hill, and the hard plank rubbed furiously
against the seat of his trousers. A hard
life, but a man’s life, decided Mr. Hepple-
bloom. He took off his pince-nez and polished
them in the darkness. It was delightful.
Already he felt a bigger and better man, fit
to tackle at least one hard-boiled egg.
“This ’ere’s the bull paddick,” said Mr.
Todd.
“Then there is a bull here?”
“Har! har! har! . Ain’t you a real
towney? No bull, no milk —see?”
“Not really?” murmured Mr. Hepplebloom.
“Well, it don’t matter. I s’pose you think
we set everythin’ from Santa Claus. Har!
har! har!”
“Oh, not at all—not at all,” said Mr.
Hepplebloom quickly. He felt slightly
nettled. “I was. always under the impression
that cows were responsible for the milk.”
“Har ! har! har ! But you’ll learn. An’
don’t you ever come moochin’ down in this
paddick. If Demon”—. —
“Demon?”
“Th’ bull. A Jersey, an’ as savage as
they make ’em.”
“I see. I wonder if you would let me
drive? I should like to very much.”
“Don’t matter to me,” replied Mr. Todd.
“Take the reins. An’keep’er movin’. We’re
just cornin’ to the pinch. If y’ don’t keep
’er up to it she’ll jib again an’ we’ll all go
backwards to th’ bottom. Then she wants
to bolt.”
“Really?” said Mr. Plepplebloom, vaguely.
“Did you say backwards?”
“Yairs. Backwards. Not frontwards.
Backwards.”
“I see.”
Mr. Hepplebloom had no idea how it all
happened. It just happened. The whole
affair seemed to start with a terrific trashing
of milkeans. Then came Mr. Todd’s roar.
“Per God’s sake! I told yer we’d go back-
wards” —
“Backwards?” gasped Mr. Hepplebloom,
pulling on the nearest rein. It was, of
course, the wrong one.
“Gord, gimme them”
The pulling of the rein did not improve
matters. No. The sagacious beast, thank-
ful to be going anywhere but uphill, turned
at once, and the wheel, of course, hit a
stump. Now, when a wheel hits a stump
one of two things must happen. Either the
stump must give or the wheel must stop.
Mr. Hepplebloom found, after he had hit the
ground and had been hit in turn by a milk-
can, that the stump refused to give. He sat
up somewhat dazed. From somewhere in
the darkness below came Mr. Todd’s bellow-
ing voice accompanied by a frenzied rattling
of cans.
“Whoa! Whoa! Cripes ! Whoa !”
Mr. Hepplebloom adjusted his glasses and
groped for his hat. He found it and put
it on. The sounds from the disturbance
down the road became fainter. So did Mr.
Todd’s voice.
“Whoa !. . . . whoa.... blast yer!”
Mr. Hepplebloom staggered to his feet.
“I fear the horse has bolted,” he muttered.
“How ridiculous ! I shall tell Peter about
the stupid beast.”
From the top of the high hill came a sound
that froze Mr. Hepplebloom’s blood. It was
the vicious bellow of a bull, answered by
the yelping and baying of countless dogs
The paddock seemed suddenly to be filled
with bulls and dogs. One hound in parti-
cular seemed to send his slobbering note to
the very stars. Mr. Hepplebloom swallowed
hard, and did the same thing again. Dogs!
And when they yelped and bayed again he
knew they were coming down the hill to-
wards him in pursuit of some huge animal
that made the ground quiver with its tread.
Without hesitation Mr. Hepplebloom also
went down the hill. His hat flew off. but
he did not seem to care. His glasses hung
by the chain, but he did not seem to mind.
His flying legs kicked up invisible little
spurts of dust. He came to the gate as
a frantic bellow sounded a few yards away.
The sound almost paralysed him. He threw
himself on the gate and scrambled to the
top of one of the high gateposts as the bull
shot past beneath him. And the hounds
were in full cry.
“G-God!” chattered Mr. Hepplebloom.
“G-good G-God !”
He could not say any more, for the wind '
that came from his lungs was like molten
lead. The bull and the dogs went down the
road after the cart. Mr. Hepplebloom shiv-
ered and rocked with the discomfort of panic
and the sharp point of the gatepost. The
wind continued to sob in his lungs. But
the gatepost was sanctuary.
“P-peace a-and q-quiet,” gulped Mr.
Hepplebloom. “God, g-give me P-pitt-street!”
Something swished darkly past his bare
head. Again the gorge of panic rose until
it threatened to choke him. He felt the
wind from the wings beat upon his sweating
face. It was an owl, but Mr. Ilepplebloom’s
terror insisted that it was the father of all
the ravening eagles. When the bird alighted
on the opposite gatepost and stared at him
with its huge, luminous eyes, eyes that
seemed to be lighted with green fires from
within, Mr. Hepplebloom could endure no
more. With a yell that put the baying of
the hound to shame, he leaped from the gate-
post to the ground. Up came Mr. Todd and
the satisfied horse and the musical milk-
cans. Mr. Hepplebloom streaked past him.
“Hey!” roared Mr. Todd, “where y’ goin’?
Supper’ll be ready, an’ Zelle’s got a cow of
a temper”
Mr. Hepplebloom flung his reply over his
shoulder. “Tell her to eat it.”
Mr. Todd lifted his voice, for Mr. Hepple-
bloom had vanished in the darkness.
“What about this ’ere peace an’ quiet?”
No reply came back.
“Gord,” said -Mr. Todd, “ ’e’s gorn !”


What a difference
HU
H WBW
/if
\ -
i .
!fi»;
BEFORE
AND
AFTER
©These blocks were made direct from unretouched photos,
without any artist’s work. The strong high lights in the
Simonized mudguards are reflections of skylights.
CLOTHES MAKE
THE MAN!
BUT THE GOOD IMPRESSION
YOU WOULD MAKE IS RUINED
IF YOU DRIVE A DULL
DISCOLOURED CAR !!
oo na
jti3
OUDSiOBd
iNl*”
asna
v*>3
13W
iV'«
SBS'’S
aancoHXti
!*«3
ii*
SOLD BY ALL
GOOD MOTOR
STORES,
5/- PAIR (small
size), 10/” PAIR
(large size). SINGERS, 2/9, small;
Simonizing, the world-famous method to restore used cars to their original s ow
room beauty will easily and quickly convert your car to a gleaming beauty that
will last for thousands of miles. Best of all is the satisfaction you feel after
Simonizing your own car at home. It looks better than new and you
have saved pounds you would have spent for repainting or a new car.
Just apply Simoniz Kleener in the green can to remove all dulness and stains and to restore the finish to the original
color the car was painted. Kleener is so soft in texture that it only removes the powdered, dull* pxi lse acquer,
and has no action on the good, clean lacquer on your car. No other cleaning agent is so wonderful in opera ion an
so harmless to the good finish. Next apply Simoniz from the yellow tin to preserve the wonderful new ms you
have obtained with the Kleener. Simoniz provides a lustrous, transparent film of protection which, wi jus one
application, keeps the lacquer new for months of exposure and thousands of miles of travel. Sun, ram, us , mu ’
salt air or traffic fumes cannot mar a Simonized car. Be sure you ask for and get genuine Simoniz and K. eener.
0
Beware of polishes which are abrasive cleaners
only, rapidly wearing away the lacquer and leaving
no film of protection as with Simoniz. Good
painters know that Simoniz
protects the finish and that
Benzol easily removes it for
spraying.
FREE
SAMPLES
FOE TRIAL. ON YOUR CAR
SIMON IZ
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C C. Boag Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
vHislop Lloyd, Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Etd., Peel St., Nth. Melb.,
Enclosed find one penny stamp, postage for FREE
SAMPEES of Simoniz and Kleener.
NAME |
ADDRESS
“Bulletin,”' Jan. 4. ■
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s9JiuLLetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME -
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months,
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months,
12/6; 3 months, 7/-
15/6; 3 months, 8/-
d
0°
,<;C e e
6 e >
i}",i
«/*
4
\\*W
.s«
# s
$y
o<
4*


A THRIFTY
PRICE
For economy-minded
tyre buyers
ll’’
a
EACH
Pathfinder tyres ore
great, sturdy balloons, built to
Goodyear standards and with
Goodyear quality, through and
through. Only Supertwist Cord is
used in Pathfinders, insuring longer
life, greater vitality, and un-
equalled tyre satisfaction.
Can you afford to expose yourself
and family another day to skids
and blowouts with old, worn-
smooth tyres, when your Goodyear
dealer has ready for you, these
Pathfinder values at such amaz-
ingly low prices?
Look at these
VAL U E S
(29 x 5.00-19).
For Chevrolet, Ford, De Soto, Dodge, Durant, Essex,
Graham-Pa ige, Morris, Nash,
Pontiac, Rover, Rugby, Singer,
Standard, Vauxhaii, Whippet
Cars. EACH
3'-
(30 x 5.25-20),
For Alvis, Auburn, Chrysler, Durant, Hupmobile,
Nash, Oakland, Oldsmobiie,
Graham-Palge, Stude baker,
Willys-Knight Cars.
EACH ,
ř
Prices of other sixes correspondingly low.
These prices do not Include Commonwealth Sales Tax
or Freight Charges.
1
i
Cl 14-33
ft
////
/A
///
i riiiij
hij
*n*utpn*><f
\ NS..
BUILT WITH
CORD
MADE IN AUSTR.A L I A
