

isf®!
Mm
PH
i
8®
■
SB
KOV
,
;-f ,■
*OV
: :
tfUSMj
■£&,-« •:
H
Si
• •■ ■
1
■ ■
SI
warn
mmm
■m
m
'MM
m
m
m
The establishment of a Bank or Branch of a
Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which
is to be operated by man for the service of man.
The human factor is the vital spark that gives life
to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and
currency, and makes of them a friendly, helpful
service for the convenience and benefit of the
people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its
facilities throughout the length and breadth of
Australia, through Branches and Post Office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those
facilities into understanding human service to the
thrifty.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank Service may
be used by men, women and children, and by
Friendly Societies, partnerships, etc.
B
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
tst££ (Qasr ty&c(esiAj£ f ?
Vol. 54.—N0. 2781.
Wednesday, May 31, 1933,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'TTIE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and/ will be posted free to
ativ address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
II
nil*.
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College **"
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send,, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System, of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Up Address
S.B. 233
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
LADYRHONDDA’S
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
This Was My World I Os. 6d.
RECOMMENDED BY THE BOOK SOCIETY.
“Her candour, her courage, her gentleness
and her undertone of humour have combined to
produce a memorable piece of self-portraiture.”
—Robert Lynd, “News Chronicle.”
Constitutional Law of the
British Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH. 18s.
“Professor Keith's survey is comprehensive.
....Contains a valuable exposition of the con-
stitutional law .of the Dominions.”— “Scotsman.”
All Souls’ Night
A Book of Stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE. [DOMINION EDITION
“The greatest living mastef of the macabre.”
— “Everyman.”
Pull Devil, Pull Baker
By STELLA BENSON.
[EMPIRE LIBRARY
Wonderful and entertaining stories
of the adventures of an old Russian
count discovered by the author in the
Far East.
General Impressions
By E. ML DELAFIELD, author of
“The Diary of a Provincial Lady,’’
etc. [EMPIRE' LIBRARY
“Open this book of sketches anywhere and
it is excellent fun.”— “Daily Express.”
Tom’s A-cold: A Tale
By JOHN COLLIER, author of
“His Monkey Wife,” etc.
[EMPIRE LIBRARY
“Mr. Collier writes with a fine sense of
•words, his landscape is the landscape of a
poet, his thought is unforeseeable and stimu-
lating.”— Sylvia Lynd , “News Chronicle.”
England, Their England
By A. G. MACDONELL.
[EMPIRE LIBRARY
“Rattling high spirits and irony and wit.”
— “Sunday Referee.”
Bride of Quietness
A first book of remarkable quality.
By ALEXANDER KNOX.
[EMPIRE LIBRARY
“Written with composure and definiteness,
with a natural felicity of phrase.. ..a Canadian
idyll of very young love ending in tragedy.”
—“Times Literary Supplement.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
'■r.M
' S^ss£-
Your Boy Should Use
Cuticura §©ap
Regularly
It Keeps Skin and Hair Healthy
Price Is.
Australian Depot : R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE ACE”
Established, 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price l id. per cqpy at all Newsagents _ and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Cqmmonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere —all over the State, in Town
and Popular Weekly goes
regularly into tiie homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
lit.erary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart..
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous"
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Advertising Efficacy for Nearly a Century ! !
“The Examiner”
is the eldest
and most effi-
cient advertising
medium in Tas-
mania.
For 92 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the only
one pubished in Launceston, has been THE
Advertising Medium for Northern Tasmania.
It is a record of Advertising efficacy, based
on known results, and establishes its claim
of being
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Roliph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors allso of “Weekly Courier’' and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271. Collins St., Melbourne,
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
A New Novel Technique
The old-fashioned historical novel was
often.less entertaining than a history book;
it had many qf the elements of a twice-told
tale, yet most of the characters were imag-
ined. Modem writers have evolved an
improvement on it. They take a historical
personage and show his life or a part of
it as it was lived according to contemporary
report, inventing little or nothing except
his conversations with other historical char-
acters and their conversations about him.
The method is fascinating because the whole
truth as revealed by an efficient researcher
is always more exciting than fiction, and
because the reader’s interest in a hero is
heightened by the reflection that he actu-
ally walked the earth in something like the
manner described. The heroes of the two
novels reviewed this week were widely dif-
ferent beings. At a glance it may seem
oomic to associate Alexander the Great
with Bligh; yet Alexander was no more
unique as a soldier than Bligh was as a
sailor. Alexander was a patrician, Bligh, as
the sailors say, “came up through the hawse-
hole”; Alexander had & highly-cultivated
mind, Bligh was uneducated; but in a hun-
dred other directions—courage, self-suffi-
ciency and the brutal arrogance which sub-
ordinates begin by admiring and end by
hating—they were, as Alexander is made
to say of himself and Callisthenes in The
Macedonian, “the same kind of person.”
History’s Most Illustrious Dipsomaniac
Mary Butts in The Macedonian (Heine-
mann; fls.) is chiefly concerned with Alex-
ander’s efforts to be accepted by his friends
as a god. She has a style—Biblical in its
glamorous simplicity and high articulate-
ness—which is well suited to her purpose.
She begins with a chapter on Olympias
which throws a light on the mystical side
of Alexander’s nature. Did he, at any
stage, believe in his godhead? Almost cer-
tainly not. The man who had spent his
formative years with Philip and Aristotle,
and whose friends were disciples of Demos-
thenes, could hardly have believed such out-
of-date rubbish as that Zeus was his father.
Callisthenes analyses him in a letter to
Aristotle.
Alexander must have the divine only for
master, under the shape of all the gods.
Or of. such gods as most reflect- and mag-
nify himself. It is Hephsestion who encour-
ages this in % him; who, without knowledge,
with something of the blind logic of a child,
promotes in him this uncorrected exalta-
tion. It is fatal because it is simply not
true; as Clitus died to point out.
Alexander’s trouble was that of so many
Roman emperors of several centuries later
—a temperament that was unable to with-
stand power and flattery. When Callis-
thenes wrote his letter Clitus had • been
murdered for the new heresy, and he him-
self was about to be tortured and hanged
for it. Alexander still had human emotions
and weaknesses; “when he wounds others
he wounds himself.” Later he was to grow
completely remorseless, and, like every other
degenerate despot, become a lunatic in a
society of normal people. Mrs. Butts
glosses over or omits to mention nearly all
his worst crimes—his hanging of the
Tyrians, his slaughter of the eitizens of
Fasargadae, his murder of his friend Par-
menion, whose torture he watched from be-
hind a curtain—and she has little to say
about his passion for the debauch which
caused his death before his prime. His sor-
did end at Babylon is transmuted into a
thing of beauty. He isn’t shown drunk day
and night in the home oPMedius. Instead,
Ptolemy, Nearchus, Perdiccas and the rest
are revealed.
It was after nightfall. They stood in the
Serapeum, in state, in armor, and listened
to the liturgy of the priests for Alexander’s
salvation.... The hours passed. It was
night now in the Serapeum, blue with in-
cense, its lights burning down, extending
the vast .shadows of its dark brick.... Sil-
ence after the liturgy; priests moving about
before the altar, under the image of the god.
A message was brought to Ptolemy. “There
is no change.”
The passage gives an idea of the vigor and
beauty of the writing, and also of the man-
ner in which Alexander has been roman-
ticised. The greatest general probably that
ever lived, but fundamentally a treacher-
ous savage ; one of whom Plutarch wrote
“Hi's pleasure was man-hunting,” and of
whom Demosthenes said onKhearing he was
dead “He can’t be or the whole earth
would stink!”
Destroyed by Power.
Of the many attempts to show Bligh in
his habit as he lived, Mutiny, by Charles
Nordhofi and
James Norman
Hall (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d.),
is by far the best.
As in The Mace-
donian there is
only one fictitious character, but whereas
Mardios, the satrap, is of minor importance,
Midshipman Byam, of Mutiny, is the narra-
tor. He tells his story in the plain lan-
and unemotional tone of voice of an
old naval officer yarning about his adven-
tures to friends. Byam first met Bligh
on the evo of the departure of the Bounty
for Tahiti.
Bligh was at the time in the prime of
life. H’e was of middle stature, strongly
made and inclining to stoutness, though he
carried himself well. His weather-beaten
face was broad, with a firm mouth and
very fine dark eyes, and his thick powdered
hair grew high on his head above , a noble
brow. His voice, strong, vibrant and a
little harsh, gave an impression of uncom-
mon vitality.
Bligh doesn’t reveal his violent nature and
love of cruelty for its own sake till he is
in a position to do so without hindrance.
A man is being flogged.
Mills endured the first dozen without cry-
ing out. though by that time his back was
a red slough from neck to waist. Bligh
watched the punishment with folded arms.
“I’ll show the man who’s captain of this
ship,” I heard him remark placidly to
Christian. “By God, I will!” The thir-
teenth blow broke the iron of Mills’s self-
control. He was writhing on the grating, his
tongue bitten half-way through and tin;
blood pouring from his lips. “Oh!” lie
shouted thickly. “Oh. my God! Oh!”
“Mr. Morrison,” called Bligh sternly and
suddenly, “See that you lay on with a will.”
Bligh was great in his barbarous way. A
slave to duty. One who believed that “no
laws were more just than those governing
the conduct of men at sea,” and who
administered them accordingly. A brave
man, and a sailor as accomplished as Cook
or Columbus. But supreme power, enjoyed
over a long period, acted on him like an
irritant poison. In this story the reader
sees his doom drawing nearer and nearer,
as his explosions of fury become more
frequent, and when the climax comes,
though there is sympathy for the mutineers,
there is also admiration for the indomit-
able ruffian who remains defiant with a
bayonet at his throat. Byam doesn’t join
in the mutiny, but he is taken on to Tahiti
by Christian, left there and court-martialled
with Burkitt, Millward and the others
aboard H.M.S. Duke in September, 1792.
This novel is as near as may be a literal
transcript of what happened on the Bounty;
at Tahiti; on the Pandora (wrecked in En-
deavor Straits while bringing the mutineers
who were found at Tahiti back to England) ;
on the Gorgon, to which they were tran-
shipped, and finally on H.M.S. Duke in
Portsmouth Harbor. The authors live in
Tahiti, and they got their information
about the lines and rigging of the Bounty
and the other ships they write of, the
appearance and character of Bligh and his
crew, the proceedings at the famous court-
martial, and so on, from the British Museum
and the Admiralty. Mutiny, in addition
to being as accurate in detail as most Eng-
lish historical studies of the period, is so
readable that become a best-seller in
America.
RED PAGE.
Australians as Horsemen
It was said (R.P. 3/5/’33) that Austra-
lians had “lost the reputation they once
enjoyed overseas as horsemen”; that “four
young men out of five at a Randwick
meeting would be likely to fall off if put up
in a preliminary canter, while at Leopards-
town the same proportion would have a
good chance of, staying on”; that the
possibility of an amateur riding a G.N.
winner at Flemington was remote, whereas
amateurs often won at Aintree. Some typi-
cal protests:—
1. When the Red Page critic compares the
Australian unfavorably with the British
amateur rider he does a fearless race of horse-
men an injustice. What racegoer forgets
the 1924 Grand National when Claude Grice,
a leading Victorian amateur, landed Fleet-
stone a head winner over the great Haoma?
Other amateurs to ride National winners
were J. >S. Edge (Fearless IT) in 1890 and
W. S. Cox (Redleap) in 1892. —G. M.
2. The Red Page says Australians have
“lost their overseas reputation as horsemen.”
But what meaning does it attach to the
term? Could the best of the so-called riders
of Ireland sit a buckjumper as most Queens-
land stockmen can? I doubt it.— “Bondi.”
3. The Red Page comparison between
Randwick and Leopardstown is singularly
ill-fitting. A fairer comparison would be
between any part of pastoral-agricultural
Ireland and a grazing district in Queensland
or N.S.W. A Leopardstown meeting may
be compared to an outsize Australian picnic
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —without deviation at Anthony Horderns'.
'THE SENIOR STORE.”
Everything for the Man on the Land
Anthony Horderns’ are recognised throughout the
length and breadth of the country as the Man on the
Land’s Headquarters for all his equipment. Whatever
you require for yourself or your farm, you can rest
assured you will receive the utmost satisfaction at
their “Famous Low Prices’’—at Anthony Horderns .
%
Lowest Prices for Quality
HORSE
CLOTHING
These Rugs are designed and
made in our own factory specially
for local conditions. Our policy
of buying the materials direct
from reliable English and Aus-
tralian mills enables us to offer
such high-grade quality at excep-
tionally low prices.
3JD
Leather Cross Belly or Leg Straps. Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea. extra, 57-
Extra Breast Straps. Price, each extra 1/6
Horse and Cow Rugs, fitted with Cross Web Belly Straps and Fillet' Rope and
Breast Strap. “The Universal.” Heavy Jute Canvas. Lined with Grey Check.
Birkmyre “Genuine” O.M. Green Waterproof. Lined Grey Check.
Sizes 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in, 7ft.
Prices 25/- 27/- 28/9 29/6 30/6 31/9 33/-
Birkmyre “Genuine” O.M. Khaki Waterproof. Lined Grey Check.
Sizes 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
Prices 26/3 28/6 30/6 31/6 32/6 33/9 35/-
Saddlery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
For Poultry Farmers!
jl-
Cement Poultry Cistern
Reinforced Cement Poultry Ot /
Cistern, complete with ball a
cock and dust-proof cover.
Capacity two gallons.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/-
Depdrtment—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.
Best Quality for Horsemen!
Park Saddle, 84/-
Park Saddles, roll pad. Hogskiu
seat and bag pads, plated tree.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each,
84/-
FITTINGS—
I Pair 4 Bar Stirrup Irons.
Price 4/6
1 pair ljin. Stirrup Leathers.
Price 4/6
I Pair 3in. Web Girths.
Price, pair 4/-
The “Kemp”
SADDLE,
90/-
Tlie “Kemp” Pattern
Park Saddle, built on
best steel-plated tree.
Allover kip, leather
points to panel, full
skirt. Victoria facing,
liin. girth strap.
Price 90/-
FITTINGS—•
1 pair 4 Bar Stirrup
Irons. Price .... 4/6
1 pair liin. Stirrup
Leathers. Price .. 6/-
1 Folded Leather Girth.
Price 3/3
1 Ring Surcingle.
Price 6/3
ffiSSs
S 3
Gv.*Jß'
m
atv
Saddlery Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City
.and Suburbs only.
• Best Quality . .
• Long'est Service
• Lowest Prices
Be your own Blacksmith !
No. 210 Portable “BUFFALO”
h
FORGE,
£ll/15/-
Buffalo Portable Forge, with geared
Hand Blower. Size of firepan 1 Bin.;
height to top of firepan 32in.; 44in.
overall; diameter of fan case 12in.
Price £ll/15/-
Gears, fan case, firepan, standard
and legs are detachable. Simple
gearing running in oil in a dustproof
case. A deep firepan (6in.) and
strong blast fit it especially for rivet
heating.
ALL STEEL BLACKSMITHS’
Department Fourth
Free Delivery City
Suburbs only.
Floor.
and
ANVILS,
Bd. lb.
Blacksmiths’ Anvils. All steel.
Various weights from 841 b.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, lb.,
Bd.
A great compendium for Home and Farm!
Anthony Horderns’
MAIL ORDER CATALOGUE.
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! POST FREE!
Every Man his own Cobbler !
“HORDURA”
STICK-ON RUBBER SOLES
Rubber soles are still as popular as
ever, because of their all-round relia-
bility. . . .they are waterproof. .. .
there is far less danger of the shoes
slipping.... they are economical,
being cheaper and easily outwearing
leather. . . .they are more comfortable,
as they do not jar on rough surfaces.
These soles are obtainable in two sizes,
men’s and women’s; either being
obtainable for the one astounding low
price of 1/3 per pair.
For Men
a nd Women
r,
■ j
pair.
‘Hordura” Soles are best.
Five Reasons why
1. “Hordura” Soles are manufactured in Australia from the highest-
grade raw rubber.
2. —Each sole is separately moulded under a pressure equivalent to one
ton to the square inch, making the sole absolutely free from porosity.
3. The junction rubber used is of the finest quality obtainable, assur-
ing that the soles will adhere thoroughly to the leather.
4. —The Latex solution supplied with the soles is specially manufac-
tured to accord with the properties possessed by the junction rubber.
5. —These soles are the LOWEST PRICED, HIGH GRADE, SEPAR-
ATELY MOULDED SOLES MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
Rubber Soles are obtainable on the Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.


ted,
7/
A
oa
V§hP
THE PARTY DRINK
A
I'srt~"
■ ft**: ■
i
r
iiililii
WHETHER it be
Bridge—or a more
convivial party that is
intended Tooheys
Pilsener is always in
good taste. Its mellow
flavor pleases the palate
and adds zest to the
supper you place before
your guests. Its influence
sends your friends away
happy.
COOu PLACE
MONEYS
S? i
h ®"CwCo K 80'fi.to -.»■»
o v JOOHEYS ITO.
, ONFV AiTiITOAtLS
TOOUI-Yf,
W /MEW LIG
/MEW LIGUT LAGER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE YELLOW LABEL


LJ
cc
a
Ll_
□ C
LLJ
i
m
tkati wkeie
HEALING
RADIO.
icoiet!
WHAT IS
NATURAL TONE?
In many Radios the
simplifying of music
for the loud speaker
creates distortion and
harsh, unrealistic
tone.
If you are not con-
tent with this per-
formance hear
Healing Radio and
appreciate its
NATURAL TONE.
NATURAL TONE
... not distortion
If you could consult a radio engineer he would tell you that Healing
Radio is the best you can buy because it gives NATURAL TONE
without the usual distortion prevalent in ordinary radio.
This is because Healing Radio is designed as a unit AND IS NOT
MERELY AN ASSEMBLY OF RADIO PARTS.
Each component part in Healing Radio is matched; the speaker
is specially designed and the exclusive “Golden Voiced circuit” is
retained. The result is the famous Golden Voiced Tone.
Healing Radio dealers are located in all parts of Australia.
Write to us for literature and we will direct you to your nearest
Healing Radio dealer.
A. G. HEALING Ltd.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin St.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
IF fT*S A
h
IT’S THE BEST YOU
CAN BUY
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
Please send vie illustrated folder on the t new
Healing Radios.
NAME
ADDRESS
race-meeting. Eandwick, unlike Leopards-
town, is not set amid rural surroundings. The
young Irishman of the farming class from any-
where within the Free State (or the North)
imbibes with his mother’s milk, as did his
father and his father’s father, an admira-
tion for hunting folk. Perhaps he, too, may
one day wear the coveted “pink,” and the
logical road is via horse-breeding, -dealing
and -racing. The youth is reared in an
atmosphere of crops and cruppers. Hunters,
hurdlers and hacks form an integral part of
his life. I have followed the hounds in Co.
Meath and in the North, and have spent a
deal of time with stock in Australia, and I
say, without fear of contradiction by anyone
of like experience, that as a skilful (and,
incidentally, fearless) horseman the Aus-
tralian stockman wins by a good many
lengths. —Terence Lambaet.
In reply:—
1. A single G.N. win by an amateur in 41
years is little to boast about. In the same
period 15 amateurs have won at Aintree, and
if the wins of men like Percy Woodland
(whom many Australians will remember as
a Yeomanry officer in Palestine) are counted
the tally is much bigger. Of late years few
amateurs have even had mounts in a Flem-
ington National.
2. It is true that many prominent Irish
horsemen couldn’t sit a buckjumper: neither
could most Australian steeplechase jockeys.
Anyhow, it is beside the point. The world
test is, and always has been, the capacity to
get a horse across the kind of country that
the nation’s cavalry is liable to encounter in
war-time. That is why British, French and
Italian regiments hold point-to-point and
steeplechase meetings and run drag packs,
and encourage their crack riders to compete
at shows and at Aintree and Auteuil.
3. The type of young Irishman referred
to by Mr. Lambart has little ambition to
wear “pink”; which, by the way, is rarely
seen even wuth the Meath Hounds nowa-
days. He breeds, schools, hunts and races
well-bred horses, and for preference thorough-
breds, because he knows how, and because
there is money in it. Most of the money
comes from foreign Governments and from
the thousands of sportsmen in England and
Europe who need “made” hunters or
chargers.
The comparison between Leopardstown
and Eandwick was fair inasmuch as both
are within easy reach of the hearts of capi-
tal cities. There is as much farming country
near Sydney as there is near Dublin. It
isn’t fair to compare Leopardstown, Punches-
town, The Ourragh or any other Irish
country meeting with one of our picnic
meetings. At picnic meetings all the events
are on the flat; in Ireland, between Novem-
ber and April, all the events are over fences.
Australians arc losing the overseas reputa-
tion for horsemanship which was held by
their forefathers largely because few ex-
cept professionals of one kind and another —
jockeys, boundary riders, stockmen, etc., who
constitute a tiny proportion of the popula-
tion—ever ride over a fence. In all N. S.
Wales there isn’t a single pack of hounds.
No amateur has ridden in a steeplechase at
Eandwick or Eoseliill for many years, and
a small band of professionals have a virtual
monopoly in the Show hunting classes.
Shows are held in most parts of England
and Ireland (North and South), and the
riders in the jumping classes are farmers,
squires, soldiers and the like. Cross-country
riding is as popular in England as it is in
Ireland. Londoners hunt with nine packs
of foxhounds, three drag packs (five, if the
' Household Brigade and Staff College Hounds
are included) and the Boyal Buckhounds.
There are half a dozen racecourses near
London, such as Lingfield and Gatwick, where
steeplechasing goes on throughout the winter,
and where at least 25 per cent, of the
riders are amateurs. The army holds steeple-
chase meetings at Sandown. Hawthorne Hill
and elsewhere, and the Bar, Stock Ex-
change, etc., hold annual point-to-point
races which attract large fields. Much the
same conditions exist in the vicinity of
other cities find important towns. A recent
gazette at the State Theatre, Sydney, showed
a couple of dozen members of a single
Oxford club (the Bullingdon) competing in
a point-to-point, and giving a very fair
display. It is doubtful if" all the Bars,
Stock Exchanges and Universities of Aus-
tralia could now muster as many as 24 young
men between them capable of riding over
four miles of fences. Not that the modern
Australian isn’t as fearless as the Aus-
tralians of the past, nor that he hasn’t the
same faculty for horsemanship, but simply
that—outside the cattle country and a few
Victorian and South Australian hunting
centres —he gets no more chance to learn to
ride than the British get to learn to surf.
RED PAGE.
Dignity
The New Year toast of Lady Marryot in
“Cavalcade” —“To the return of dignity”—
is an ironic comment on her own behavior
in a crisis. It is not surprising that this
woman, who was afraid of “misbehaving”
when she saw her husband embark for the
Boer War, and her son for the Great War,
and was reassured each time by the admir-
ing comment that she couldn’t possibly
misbehave, should have an overwhelming
belief in the power of decorum. But what
if she had broken down in public? No
one would have blamed her for being
natural then, if among all those around her
in a similar plight she had been noticed at
all. True, the great God of Appearances
would have been slighted, and self-esteem
sacrificed. But how gracious the sacrifice
of self-esteem can be at times! It was
the narrow pride of this typical upper
middle-class Englishwoman that betrayed
her into an act of rudeness as baneful as
it was decorous.
No one can help admiring the superb
deportment of her exit from the public-
house parlor as she times the gesture of
catching her skirt to sweep imperially past
the offending Bridges—after her patron-
ising “I understand” to the crestfallen
Ellen. Yet her exit is that of a fool and
a snob. A gracious handshake might have
saved the situation. Poor Bridges was
sober enough to have appreciated a human
gesture of the sort. No drunk is taught by
disapproval, however august. But then one
of the most effective scenes in “Cavalcade”
would have lost its realism, its ironic savor,
its climax and its purpose.
True dignity is a quality of soul that no
God of Appearances, no ethical code, no
law system, no art school can supply. It
flowers among the vile and anarchic as
beautifully and as rarely as among the well-
known and highly-civilised, as every thinker
has known.
E. V. BARTON.
A Satchel of Books
Key to Psychology, by A. E. Mande (Mal-
vern Publishing Co.; 2s. 6d.), analyses the
human emotions and passions (hatred, fear
and the like), and indicates how they may
be directed to produce the maximum of con-
tentment. The book contains some per-
ceptive notes on character formation.
The Art of Flower Arrangement in Japan,
by A. L. Sadler (Country Life; 12s. Cd.).
Lionel Lindsay says of the Japanese in a
preface to this beautiful book that they are
“the one people whose sense of art has per-
vaded their life and given it unity and pur-
pose.” It is Seen in the cult and arrange-
ment of flowers. Japan had Flower Masters
in the Middle Ages, and to-day flower
arrangement is taught in every Japanese
girls’ school. Professor Sadler discusses the
principles of the famous schools of flower
arrangement, and his remarks are elucidated
by over 200 illustrations.
The Great Romantie, by E. Barrington
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.), is a reconstruction of
the life of Pepys which begins when he had
been wedded to his Elizabeth for some ten
years. A faithful enough picture is given of
the filthy, lawless little London of the period,
of Samuel’s infidelities and domestic rows,
and of the lives of some of the people about
the Court, such as Lord and Lady Sandwich.
The defect of the novel is that it tells us
no more about Pepys and his circle than the
“Diary” does. .But what novel could?
Friends of Men, by Charles Franklin
Thwing (Macmillan; 15s. 6d.J. Another
collection of estimates of the great, men
whom Professor’Thvfing has known during
his busy and travelled career, with some
estimates of men who, if not exactly great,
were greatly lovqd. He has the late T. P.
O’Connor’s capacity for . unenvious admira-
tion of his fellow-mad, and a polished
variant on O’Connor’s flowing style. He seems
to write with ease, yet he is remarkably
easy to read. Men as diverge in character
and culture as H'aldane and Taft, Balfour
and Finck, the musical critic, are analysed
and gossiped about in this interesting book.
Harold Mercer has written an engrossing
adventure yarn in Amazon Island (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.; 2s.). The Seaflower, with
its crew of treasure-seekers, discovers a
Pacific island which is-ruled by women. The
narrator, Briggs, is immune to their often
shameless advances; hip true love, gentle
Evelyn, is waiting for him in Brisbane. Not
so some of the others. Noel Carter, for
example, left Mahariri with a breaking heart.
He would have had to leave her in all like-
lihood, even if there hadn’t been an earth-
quake .which destroyed most of the Amazons
and nearly the whole of their island. The
ladies had their good points, but it is hard
to picture one of them marrying, acquiring
a Pet Charity and settling down as an Aus-
tralian society leader. Mr. Mercer’s narra-
tive faculty and imaginative gifts are seen
at their best in this unusual novel.
The Picaroon Knight Errant, by Herman
Landon (Cassell; 7s. 6d.), is supposed to be
an Englishman conducting his fight against
law and order in London. A Scotland Yard
inspector arrives in pursuit at a fashionable
ball, and interviews the Picaroon’s host:—
“You don’t mean- ” the host stammered.
“Ridiculous! This is Mr. Martin Dale.”
“Alias The Picaroon,” Summers elaborated. “Make
your little spiel to the crowd. You’ll find us in
the library.”
And again :—
Two stalwart individuals entered. One of them
fumbled in his pockets. “We’ve ‘ come for the
safe,” he announced. “It’s this baby over here, I
guess. Looks like a tough job. C’mon, Jerry.”
Problem: Arc the movies turning London
bobbies into New York cops, or are Ameri-
cans starting to write English thrillers in
their own language?
And a Little Verse
THE UNREPENTANT.
They tell me life’s lesson is almost ended,
And I must repent for having offended
With fine deception, for I have pretended
Life gave to me blessings worth while;
And I have despised sad Melancholy,
Finding my pleasure with Mirth gay and
free,
While flouting my soul-mate dull Misery,
Repressing her wailing and tears.
But I have grown weary of all deceit,
And the days that are left to me are fleet;
I care not who knows I have been a cheat.
Love and laughter were never mine.
Does Love masquerade as a tyrant queen?
’Twas the siren Vanity who has been
My consort, and ever her eyes of green
Have distorted and withered love.
Life snatched, opportunity which I sought,
And killed fair, young Joy whom I nearly
caught;
To hide from derision I dearly bought
The suave mask of hypocrisy.
I buried my scars with smiling pride,
And those who would praise and those who
would chide
Never knew that within me hope had died .
And I was but an empty husk.
Stripped of all pretence, with my heart laid
bare,
At the deep sloughing wounds you all may
stare,
And be sure that rejoicing had no share
In that cauldron of seething pain.
Bewildered am I. now the day is done,
For I know not whether I’ve lost or won;
Either or neither, regret I have none
For scorning the chastening hand.
Vic.
N. YOUNG.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. Ho liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.L.M.G.C.: Not this time; but it has
some quality. Read good modern verse and try
again E.H.8.: Sixteen has a tendency to be
solemn. In three or four years you’ll do a lot better.
....M.D, (Lond.): There’s promise in them....
G. (Vic.): “Attached hereto please find copies of
two poems which you may consider worthy of publi-
cation in your paper.” And one is “Not Under-
stood” !... ,S.S.: Rhymed nothings... .L.W.A.: Com-
monplace... .G.W.: Hope the kiss got home on the
lady’s shoulder. The poem missed... .E.A.S.: Mere
statement of obvious facts MIC.: “Good-Night” is
the best of the bunch, and even that is only album
verse... .L.P.1.: A bit too rough-hewn Loy H.:
Nothing above mediocrity in the last batch....
M.J.S. : Merely a few trivial incidents strung together.
. ...A.S.: Don’t want rehashed history... .M. 8.:
Nicely done, but it needs a stronger story....
H. : Would have been better without the com-
parison... .F.L.C.: Sorry, no space for it... .R.W.:
Not suitable in its present form. .. .J. W.C.: Worth
no more than a par H.A.: Get more action into
it and cut out the technical details... .J.R. : “Just
As Well” is not so g00d... .5.C.8.: No vacant cot
for that case G.J.8.: Needs to be told more
brightly W.S.C.: Off our beat R.M.: Dull
J.J.D.: One thing about the lottery—it has given
fiction writers cues for plots. Yours won’t d 0....
P.E.J.: Needs a second “Kodak” to do justice
to that kind of story.... M.F.: Too long for u 5....
C.T.R.: All missed the 'bus... .W.L.P.: The ump-
teenth ghost to crash this week... .M.A.L.K.: Social
climber went down in the scramble....E.J.S.: Mate-
ship yarn roughly handled... .R.K.D.C.: Not suffi-
ciently improved... .E.C.S.: Try a woman’s paper.
. ...C.J.8.: Good atmosphere, but the wild brother
is overdrawn... .A.S.J.: Yes, you are very young
Bellerive: It was worth waiting for:—
MABSTAR,, WINNER OF THE AUSTRALIAN CUP.
Amazed were betters
From near and far.
At the brilliant victory of
The outsider Madstar.
The spectators whom
Crowded the flat and hill.
When the steeds lined up,
* Experienced a thrill.
Egaculations did waft
- When off they sped.
As they rounded the bend.
The outsider led.
A sensation ensued
When the numbers went up.
Won by Madstar was
The f Australian Cup.
... .H.C.M,: Apparently, the copyright has not
passed, you having sold only a print for newspaper
reproduction in N. S. Wales. Unless you sold under
condition that - the sale conferred exclusive rights
of reproduction throughout the Commonwealth, there
does not appear to be any,objection to your selling
another copy outside N. S. Wales. .. .H.C.: Fortune
doesn’t .sfijile on yop... .P.G.W.: Those “fluted notes”
moved us' not... . VE.D. : Bumpy. . t .U.C. : A bit too
pompous... .R.E.: Returning... .M.H.: Not Bulletin
material... .D.0.C.: Shaving-cream yarn landed on
its ear....L.T.: You’re as mushy as a flapper. Try
it on an arty woman’s paper... .W.J.C.: An old
dodge... .E.S.H.: It’s wildly improbable... . R.J.R.:
Near the mark; needs strengthening... .A.P.: Should
be condensed and treated humorously... .J.R.H.:
Silly tale... .E.R.E.: No fonder of that butcher
than we were T.A.S.: Longwinded and unconvinc-
ing.... P.M.: Racecourse yarn follows a well-worn
track... .T.H.: Reads like a freelance artist’s dream.
....B. Gun: “Roddy Owen died of cholera while
serving with his regiment in Egypt.” All right;
we’ll take vour word for it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.A.M.: You need a steadier hand... .J.C.: All
have a half-finished look R.J.H.: Juvenile....
H.J.8.: Lady who had a shilling each way has been
tripping up to that bookmaker for as long as we
can remember G. 8.: Sick-bed jest also needs to
be put between blankets S.S.S.: Felt like making
the housewife’s retort... .A.T.: Horrible... .G.IC.S.:
They’re recrossing the Tasman D.R.: No applause
for undersized figures and smudges.... H.P.: You
might as well try to draw on blotting paper, and
the only artist who could do that in style was Phil
May. Some samples of his work on blotting paper
were published a couple of years ago in Sydney
W.M.: Didn’t fancy lady with gas-pipe legs....
A. : You draw eyebrows fairly we 11....
J.P.S.: Sketch doesn’t harmonise with gag
B. Industrious, but incompetent... .G.F.D.: So you
claim Ownership of that wheeze ? It’s an early
Phil May....M.V.: Spindle legs, hollow chest, out-
size in noses—take her away !... .H.E.H.: Looks as
if you drew the sketch through a smoke screen....
F.P.: Digging a special grave for drunk who
thinks a hairbrush is a mirror S.R.K.: Not worth
a biscuit... .N.G.: No g00d... .W.H.W.: Your eyes
should tell you we don’t print colored sketches.
E.K.: Shaggy linework spoils it W.C.: Too
easygoing. You’ll never be any good till you take
pains with your work O. J.: Bachelor girl is
merely catty F. 8.: Lacks liveliness S.W.G.:
Cumbered with decorations C.A.: More apt to
bring tears than laughter D.W.: Looks as if you
just pitchforked that pair on paper... .M.J.D.:
Ancient wheeze.., .W.F.: It may be the setting sun,
but it looks more like a volcanic eruption....
M.T.D.: As unwelcome as Mavis’s suitor... .S.D.:
Try to stand in that position yourself A. 8.:
Cricket cartoon weak in body lines... .L.S.: Made
its way straight to the w.p.b E.S.: Stolid
drawing... .T.R.: A pair of frumps... .C.R.C. : Joke'
about Pataudi is not only out of season, it’s in
execrable taste J.W.: Childish H.F.: Make
them less angular W.S.N.: Not doubting its
originality, but it couldn’t raise a grin M.J.:
Try something simpler for a start W.D.E.: Could
scarcely be worse C.L.: Stark and stiff P.E.S.:
Not keen on sketch built out of triangles... .A. 1.:
Good idea, but badly drawn W.M.8.: Where did
you dig up that pair?


9
■
m
m
wmsm
m
■
WL _ ... J
■ .
mmssm
. - !
mwMi
i *
:V;
? jam
m
**»?► ‘
,
"p.W *
-v-:
: ■
■ ■
.
wml Western
WM
■
m
m
£|P :
3'. • .
>
x' '
Ml; *
t-p#
i
V


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2781.
May 31, 1933.
CONTROLLING THE DOGS OF WAR
“Mr. W. M. Hughes has made an eloquent speech in which he said that the League of Nations had his full support.”
BILLY: “It’ll be all right in a minute. I’m going to make a speech at them.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 2J/7-2Ji9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, Hi Panama
Street, Wellington,
London: 177-178 Fleet Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l/s.; 6 months, 12s. fia.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
(1 months, los. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. Neio
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, ■{\d.
CAN IT LAST?
The proposal to set up a commission “to
investigate and report on” the annual appli-
cations of State Governments for financial
assistance is a characteristically feeble
attempt to conciliate the 138,000 Westralians
who voted for secession from the Com-
monwealth, and the South Australians and
Tasmanians who would vote for it (they
are in the majority, their Premiers say) if
given the opportunity. There are to be five
commissioners, and they are to be appointed
for five years and to get salaries (£3OO a
year for the chairman and £2OO for each
of the others), sitting fees (£5 ss. a day
each) and travelling expenses. Travelling
expenses will be considerable, since three
States are concerned and each will have
to be visited at least once a year. Then the
commission will need a secretary, and its
proceedings will presumably be recorded by
shorthand-writers and typists; at all events,
it is to furnish printed reports to Parlia-
ment, and Parliament will want to know
something about the evidence on which its
conclusions are based. The Prime Minister
admits that the five gentlemen will “cover
much ground which is covered already”;
but heaps of persons in public employ have
been doing that for years, so it is thought
that a few additions to the number will not
be objected to, except by politicians like
Gabb, who are regarded as freaks. Obvi-
ously, the commission cannot remove the
causes of the small States’ chronic embar-
rassments, nor is it promised that these
causes will be ascertained and grappled
with. The disease is not to be attacked, but
expensive consultants are to be engaged to
advise how much brandy will keep the
patient quiet.
As was the case last year, the Common-
wealth will have a surplus at the end of
June, and all the States will have deficits.
The aggregate deficits will not be as huge
as when Lang was performing, but those of
South Aus., Westralia and the Speck, which
have had nobody like Lang, will probably
equal the Commonwealth surplus if they
do not exceed it. This is one of the many
unsatisfactory results of the wurking of the
Federal system, nor can the unique position
of the central authority be attributed
to superior finance. All our Governments
have been extravagant, and Commonwealth
Governments have been as bad as the rest,
if not worse. When things were booming
and politicians imagined that they would
always be like that, employees were added
to the Commonwealth public service at
the rate of nearly a thousand a year, and
blank cheques were handed to the State
Governments for soldier-settlement expendi-
ture and the like, while old-age and invalid
pensions were pushed up to a pound a
week. Having decided to sleep on their
job of developing North Australia, Com-
monwealth Governments had little occa-
sion for borrowing (though borrow they
did), and they never tried to dissuade the
State Governments from floating loans to
the limit. They encouraged the mania
.instead, charged Customs duties on goods
bought by State Governments with over-
seas loan money, and called the proceeds
revenue. They ministered to the folly of
vote-catching State politicians even after
the Loan Council was formed; hence,
among other things, those appalling New
York loans, on which interest payments
have had to be supplemented by as much as
77 per cent, for exchange. In the meantime
they competed with the State Governments
in the land- and income-tax fields without
taking over departments which it became
increasingly difficult for those Governments
to administer. That would have been a
a reasonable and healthy extension of
Commonwealth power, and the thing could
have been done (it could be done now)
without costly and uncertain referendums;
but it has never been seriously proposed.
The depression found the States with edu-
cation systems costing £10,000,000 a year,
railways on which the admitted losses in
a twelvemonth were £7,584,000, and hun-
dreds of thousands of unemployed to main-
tain. The Commonwealth had troubles of
its own, but it was not obliged to share
any of these great burdens, though if the
founders of the Constitution could have
foreseen the depression they would scarcely
have exempted it from all financial respon-
sibility in such emergencies. This they,
in effect, did; and they also, in stating
what powers the Commonwealth Parliament
was to have, expressed the conciliation-and-
arbitration clause in terms so indefinite that
expensive argument about it has raged for
30 years. The clause, it was contended,
meant, among other things, that State Gov-
ernment railway and tramway employees
were entitled to have their wages and work-
ing hours fixed in the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court. There were three parties
in the second Commonwealth Parliament,
and in four months of 1904 Australia had
three Governments, all because the mean-
ing of the clause was disputed, and be-
cause members of the House of Reps, were
divided as to whether Commonwealth arbi-
tration for State Government employees
would be a good thing in any case. Ulti-
mately those who were in favor of it
mustered up a majority somehow, and the
first of the 15 Commonwealth Arbitration
Acts said that State Government employees
might take cases to the Court to be estab-
lished. Then the High Court said they
couldn’t; it would be unconstitutional.
Long afterwards the High Court changed
its mind and said they could; and for
several, years Commonwealth Arbitration
Judges have fixed the wages and tried to
fix the hours (they have been overridden
in this respect by State' Labor Govern-
ments) of State railwaymen and tramway-
men, in effect ordering the people of the
States to pay taxes without being in any
way responsible to them. It is utterly
wrong, but that is the position, though the
argument, recently decided by the Full
Arbitration Court against the State Rail-
way Commissioners, is still unfinished. It is
sure to reach the High Court again, per-
haps after the next appointment to the
Bench; and the High Court may change its
mind again.
It has been urged at four referendums,
unfortunately without effect, that the Con-
stitution fails to clothe the Common-
wealth Parliament with adequate trade and
commerce powers. The competitive im-
posts introduced during the depression have
shown that it does not protect citizens
against robbery disguised as taxation. It
is necessary to our development as a
nation that we should have industries cap-
able of standing up to fierce competition
from overseas; and that, as a rule, means
industries with all Australia for their market.
The establishing of such industries is im-
peded, even imperilled, by practices like
those of the Queensland Taxation Depart-
ment, which assesses the Queensland profits
of, say, N. S. Wales and Victorian manu-
facturers trading in Queensland at what
it thinks they ought to be and taxes them
accordingly, sometimes grabbing the whole
profit, the Victorian Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion protests. The Bulletin has before it
the taxation papers of a Sydney man who
got a little less than £3 a week last year
from a Victorian property. On this he paid
in Victorian income and unemployed-relief
taxes £2 ss. Id.; the N.S.W. Taxation De-
partment demands in unemployed-relief tax
£7 11s. The man is, of course, a citizen
of the Commonwealth, and it is alleged
that the Commonwealth Constitution per-
mits such swindles; certainly it does not
expressly forbid them. The law under
which this extortion is practised was passed
by the Bavin Government and is being
administered by the Stevens Government.
Mr. Lang, of course, attempted robbery
under legal forms in defiance of the Com-
monwealth Constitution on a vast scale, and
claims even yet that he would have brought
it off but for Governor Game. Perhaps
he would have, though a really strong
National Government would have laid him
by the heels before he got that far. The
Lyons Government’s strength was never
thoroughly tested; but its attitude when its
taxation papers were seized was anything
but inspiring. “In those days,” one of Mr.
Stevens’s Ministers has said, “we were very
close to civil war.” This is a danger
to which countries with imperfect Federal
systems seem especially subject. The
Americans, from whom we borrowed so
much of our Federal Constitution, had a
civil war, which very nearly succeeded. Ger-
many has just had a sort of civil war, and
its Federal system has been smashed.
“Ours is a legalistic system,” Mr. Latham
says. It will have to be a lot less “legal-
istic” if it is to last. If his Government
really believes that feeble palliatives like
the Commonwealth Grants Bill will suffice;
if his party is not going to try to redress
the economic grievances of the dissatisfied
States and put them in the way of besoming
solvent; if it is not going to strive for a
complete separation of Commonwealth and
State powers and taxes and for the satis-
faction of legitimate demands for new
States—then his “legalistic” system will not
last, and it will not deserve to last.
THE IMITATIVE JAPANESE.
“In a native posa.r in Surabaya, the Australian
delegates found electric irons at 2s. 6d., electric
torches at 2s. 3d., 100 boxes of matches at Is. 4d.,
women’s cotton dresses at 41d., phonographs at 125.,
cowhide attache cases at 6s. 6d. They came
to the regretful conclusion that, even with the ex-
change 43 p.c. in Australia’s favor, there would
be/nothing doing in these lines; and most of the
competition came from Japan.”
“Alarm at Japanese trade onslaught, a London
message says, may result in an international self-
defence movement. Some high foreign authorities
consider that Japanese methods of competition
menace the stability of Western civilisation.”
There is possibly a simple explanation of
this sudden appearance in all parts of the
world of Japanese commercial competition
in a more intensified form than ever be-
fore. National traits are persistent things;
and the Japanese have always been imitative.
When Chinese Buddhism first penetrated
to Japan the Emperor commanded a
number of his courtiers to embrace the
new faith so that he might see the effect
it had upon them. When Western civilisa-
tion reached Nippon a number of young
men of noble family w T ere selected to pro-
ceed to Europe, Westernise themselves and
return with a report. European financial
methods, manufacturing ideals, nation-
alistic sentiment and expansionism were
copied, and they were carried to amazing
lengths because there were no counter-
acting influences to check them. The re-
sult has been that Japan has developed a
vast and efficient productive system which
manufactures a plethora of cheap goods,
and a faulty distributive system which
necessitates unloading the steadily increasing
surplus on a more or less closed world.
To prevent a complete breakdown there
had to be expansion. Korea was seized and
developed without providing any real relief.
Manchuria has followed, and is to be de-
veloped as Korea was. There is to be a
10-year plan, after the Russian model. At
the end of the term Manchukuo, it is con-
fidently predicted, will have 2500 miles of
railway; Mukden, Harbin, Kirin, Hsinking,
Tsitsihar and Dairen will be model cities,
and all mining will be under the control of
the Government, the objective being the
co-operation and rationalisation of com-
merce and industry throughout the Far
East.
It is typical of the imitative Japanese
mind that Nippon’s rulers should speak of
rationalisation at a time when that prin-
ciple, having been applied in America and
Europe as a panacea for mankind’s ills,
should have fallen into disrepute. America
has tried rationalisation on a grand scale.
After the Great War factory plants were
reorganised, huge combines arose, labor-
saving devices.were installed and it looked
as if the logical result would be one huge
machine producing everything the nation
needed when a solitary individual pressed a
button. It never occurred to the sponsors
of the scheme that if one man produced
all the goods in America he would be the
only one in a position to buy them, since
he would be the only one with wages to
spend. So the system crashed. The U.S.A.
now has an army of unemployed variously
estimated at from 12 000,000 to 25.000,000
strong, and people who used to talk of
rationalisation are now talking of destroy-
ing machines as the only available means
of getting the people back to work. Japan,
for its part, goes on turning out goods
far beyond the capacity of its people to
buy. So they are being unloaded on the
outside world at the cutthroat prices which
so astonished the Australian manufacturers
in the Javanese bazaars.
If the dreams of its rulers come
true, the Japanese Empire will eventually
be a vast business concern, with a popu-
lation greater than the U.S.A., glutted
with unconsumed goods in a world glutted
to the same extent. By that time, perhaps,
the West will have solved its economic
problem and the Japanese will send a dele-
gation of samurai to see how it was done.
On the other hand, the Western countries
may imitate Japan for a change, and go to
war with one another, in which case there
may be very little left in either Europe
or America worth copying. Meanwhile, the
Rising Sun appears to be having things
all its own way.
GERMANY AND THE JEWS.
Some of the committee that organised the
Sydney Town Hall meeting, faithful readers
of The Bulletin, are astonished at the
prominence given to the article by “Taci-
tus,” which serves up over again the official
German denials so shatteringly demolished
at that meeting by non-Jewish speakers,
Bishop Kirkby in particular. The distress-
ing fact remains that since the quoted dis-
avowal was written in March the Nazi
Administration in Germany has exposed
itself to the condemnation of the civilised
world by extending its vengeance on its
political opponents to the whole of the Jews
in Germany, including among them Germans
of Christian faith who had but one grand-
parent of the race discriminated against.
“Tacitus” claims that Germany was in-
vaded after the war by a Jewish element
from further east. Actually, German official
statistics show the post-war Jewish popula-
tion was smaller than before the upheaval.
And is there not an obvious contradiction
between the two accusations in the one
paragraph that the alleged hordes of east-
ern Jews were profiteers who battened and
squandered, and that they were soaked in the
Marxist-Communist doctrines of their Rus-
sian Bolshevik confreres? Profiteers and
Communists as confederates can exist onfy
in the imagination of Jew-baiters looking
for an excuse for their baiting. As Lessing
makes a prominent character say: “Be it
as it may, the Jew is to be burnt.” No
wonder this great German’s name is banned
by the Nazis!
Now I have known through half a cen-
tury of office in England and here the very
same type of immigrant as “Tacitus,” misled
by his Nazi informants, sneers at;, and if
it were indeed true that such of them as
entered Germany impoverished and cor-
rupted that country, it could only be Ger-
many’s own fault. For, as a brilliant Ger-
man of a former generation concluded:
“Every country gets the Jews it deserves,
and its Jews are a barometer of its civilisa-
tion.” Precisely such maligned immigrants,
when they enter a generous country, pro-
duce in one generation, or at most two,
faithful subjects enriching their new home,
such as those brilliant Australian sons of
Eastern-European immigrants John Monash,
Isaac Isaacs and Daniel Levy.
Yet truly it is “Jew-baiting,” and not a
virtuous clean-up of pernicious elements, at
which the whole world outside Germany is
aghast. This is not because affected persons
deservedly driven out from Germany have
spread- “lies and calumnies” and figments
of their own imagination, as “Tacitus”
asserts, but because the trusted corres-
pondents in Germany of all journals of inter-
national reputation revealed a relapse into
mediaeval race-hatred. Does “Tacitus” really
expect readers of The Bulletin to believe'
that the London “Times” and the Man-
chester “Guardian” (since banned in Ger-
many), the Amsterdam “Telegraaf” and the
rest of the British, Dutch and Scandinavian
press could be easily taken in? Or that
men of such scrupulous care in judgment as
Sir Austen Chamberlain, Sir John Simon and
Professor J. B. Haldane could not discern
between interested propaganda and deplor-
able fact?
It would be easy to fill your whole issue
with independent testimony that the sys-
tematic revilement of all Jews has long
been a feature of the Nazi programme. Its
organised and premeditated attack was pre-
pared through years of incessant anti-
Semitic propaganda, and was in no wise a
mere reprisal for Jewish criticism of the
present German regime. That Government
is deliberately attempting in cold blood to
destroy German Jews, native as well as
foreign, by ejecting all energetic and intel-
ligent, Hebrews above their mere numerical
census proportion from every honorable and
useful occupation, thus making it impossible
for Jews, as Jews, and not as political anta-
gonists, to earn any living or to tear up
their roots and seek sustenance elsewhere.
By April 25, 80,000 middle-class Jews, shop-
keepers and professional men, had been
driven for mere subsistence to the soup-
kitchens.
“Tacitus” writes of a “pernicious influ-
ence on national life”; but does civilisation
regard doctors and nurses, teachers and lec-
turers, Judges and lawyers, musicians and
scientists, civil and municipal officials, uni-
versity and high-school students, as a per-
nicious influence or the reverse? For it is
just Jew's of these occupations who have
most of all been victimised. The excuse
for all this racial persecution, cabled to.the
German Consul-General here and sent
round by him to me a few hours before the
Town Hall protest, was that Jews in Ger-
many take to intellectual occupations such
as law or medicine in a far greater degree
than their Gentile fellow-countrymen! Bui
already the Nazi programme (page 19,
edition of 1932) denied that any Jews can
be fellow-countrymen, or equal citizens,
or anything but aliens in their native Ger-
many! It is. this negation of all modern
ideas of citizenship and liberty, and not any
propaganda by Jewish refugees, which sticks
in the throat of the free peoples every-
where. This “silent pogrom” goes on; but
it is a hopeful sign that the apologists for
the Nazis are now restless under the uni-
versal condemnation of their Jew-baiting.
I need add nothing further or more con-
vincing than two press telegrams:—
London, April 8. —A severe setback was
given to Prince Bismarck, who came here
to enlist the sympathies of the British public
towards the Hitler Government. At a meet-
ing of the Royal Institute for International
Affairs, the speakers following the visitor
without exception expressed unqualified con-
demnation of his attempt to minimise the
anti-Jewish campaign in Germany by throw-
ing responsibility for anti-German propa-
ganda on Jew's abroad. Sir Alexander Mac-
Fadden said that nobody in Britain believed
the rebuttals. The cases of Einstein, Feucht-
wanger and Walter alone proved that mal-
treatment was not confined to East-European
Jews. The secretary of the International
Law Union pointed out that some of his
own friends, comprising the most brilliant
minds in Germany, had been “turned out.
London, May 24. — An Academic Assist-
ance Council has been formed in England
to assist .Tews and Socialists displaced from
German universities under the Hitler regime.
Viscount Cecil, Mr. J. M. Keynes, Lord
Rutherford, Prof. Grafton Elliot Smith, Sir
Josiah Stamp, Sir William Bragg, Sir
Joseph Thomson and Prof. A. E. Ilousman
are among those backing the appeal.
Your readers may be guided in their esti-
mate of Germany’s present treatment of
its Jewish element, native as well as foreign,
not only by the view of these illustrious
Britons and Australians, but by utterances
of Hitler’s foremost Nazi lieutenants. Goer-
ing, now Premier of Prussia, at a mass meet-
ing at Berlin on April 14 stated: “We will be
generous and remember the days when many
of us thought that respectable Jews also
exist; we will now catch the big Jews and
let the small Jews go free for the time
being.” Goebbels, now Minister for Pro-
paganda, at a mass meeting at Cologne on
April 25 said: “We exercise too great
mildness towards, the Jews: they do not
deserve it; the Jews are our enemies.” And
then “Tacitus” lets himself be told by the
docile subordinates of these gentry that
there is no “Jew-baiting,” only a moral
clean-up!
FRANCIS L. COHEN. Rabbi.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
In the Kingdom of the Blind.
The Lyons Government, having come to
the unwilling conclusion that the peace of
the world is not as assured as it and the
Scullin Government assumed, announces
that it is about to revive the moribund
Australian defence organisation. Some money
will be spent on aerodromes, Wapiti ’planes
and coastal forts. One real step towards
decisive action will be the replacement of
the present ancient destroyer flotilla by a
flotilla leader and four V-class destroyers
of a modern type to be lent by Britain.
A naval sloop for surveying northern waters
is to be built in Sydney, and the cordite fac-
tory in Victoria is to be extended and fitted
to manufacture the latest type of explosive.
Nothing is likely to impress the future
historian of Australia more than the spec-
tacle of the gradual decay which was per-
mitted to overtake the splendid defence
system which did such good service in 1914
and provided so sterling a nucleus for
the A.I.F. All the post-war Administrations
are to blame, but it was the Scullin
Government, living in terror of the revolu-
tionary section of its party, that suspended
compulsory military training. The same
Government hamstrung the naval services
by abolishing the training college at Jervis
by cutting the instructional personnel
to the bone, and by laying up fleet units
to rot. Worse even than that, it blindfolded
the remnant left—and here its successors
carried on the work—by paying off the
special ships engaged in surveying the in-
tricate northern waters which are at once
the most important gateway to Australia
and its strongest defensive position.
The past few months have shown that
any fatuous hope that the influence of the
League of Nations would save Australia
from the necessity of having to defend
itself was unfounded. It has become evi-
dent also that, however willing the Mother
Country might be to attempt the defence
of the entire British Empire, it is help-
less to do so under existing conditions. The
world has lately seen an original member
of the League of Nations pitch into another
original member, while preparing to hold,
close to Australia’s north-eastern frontiers,
the greatest naval manoeuvres ever seen in
the Pacific. What a fool’s paradise Aus-
tralians have been living in!
4
More Bond Issues.
It’s not softwoods, flax or tobacco this time;
it’s bananas. And not common or garden
bananas either—“sunkissed” bananas. Sun-
kissed Bananas (Tweed), Ltd., has issued
the prospectus. It has a great project for
enriching persons not insensible to the
golden lure of the banana, being desolated
at the thought that “out of every 1000
people ■who have lived in Australia and died
within the past 10 years only three were
wealthy.” At the same time it doesn’t
expose prospective buyers of bonds in its
banana-growing project to the risk of over-
working their brains and dying of cerebral
hemorrhage. They are to have no say in
the management.
If the money is right the co. proposes to
plant 2000 acres in the Tweed River
(N.S.W.) district. Banana-growing land in
that locality could have been bought
recently for £5 an acre; but bondholders are
invited to pay £l5O for the right to seven
years’ profits (the term may be extended to
10 years’ “by arrangement”) from an acre
of bananas, subject to some extraordinary
deductions in favor of the co., which has
the right to increase its charge to £2OO
without notice. It will take 20 p.c. of the
proceeds from the sale of bananas, and will
be entitled to deduct “other charges and
expenses as provided by the trust deed.”
Whatever is left, if anything, after pay-
ment of all working costs, is to go to the
bondholder, and the bondholder is assured
that “wealth is acquired by putting money
to work,” and darkly reminded that in the
three years referred to “five hundred and
twenty-eight died poor, many being buried
as paupers.” But he is never to own the land,
which belongs to the co., and no provision
is made in the prospectus for repayment of
capital, except whatever may be handed to
him by way of “profits.” Minimum profits
are estimated at 50 p.c. p.a., but the pro-
spectuses careful to repudiate any liability
if that figure is not reached.
Now, how are shareholders to fare? Since
the land always belongs to the co., and is
only leased to bondholders, its cost can be
ignored. Figures obtained from the Tweed
Banana Growers’ Association put the ex-
pense of clearing, logging, planting and
maintaining an acre of bananas to the pro-
ducing stage at £33; after production com-
mences expenses are charged to revenue.
But suppose the co. was extravagant and
spent £5O an acre. Even then it would show
a profit of £lOO an acre right at the jump!
After that it comes in for a preferential
claim on the proceeds of whatever bananas
are grown. On the sale of 1000 acres the
co., on these figures would be showing an
initial profit of £lOO,OO0 —later to be aug-
mented by the 20 p.c. rake-off and other
pickings—and ultimately reselling, or deriv-
ing all the revenue from, the plantations.
Though bondholders are invited to sub-
scribe £300,000 at £37 10s. a bond, control
of the co. is virtually vested in the holders
of £5OO worth of ordinary shares, which
were issued as fully-paid to Existing Timber
Brokers, Ltd. These shares, of sixpence
each, carry one vote per share; 19,500 pref.
shares which may be issued are to carry
one vote for every three; bondholders, who
put up practically all the money and take
all the risks, have no vote at all.
The prospectus is adorned with illustra-
tions copied from Banana Growers’ Associa-
tion posters and booklets. The cover is a
fetching example of color printing and deli-
cate symbolism: two bowls of golden
bananas, one as blue as the outlook for
bond-buyers; more bananas, peeled, on a
white doyley, or something like that, and
a wineglass, empty. An Omar Khayyam
touch, perhaps; “turn down the empty
glass.” Not a word is said about bunchy
top, to fight which Tweed growers volun-
tarily pay a levy of £2OOO p.a. Not a word
about competition from Fiji. The prospec-
tus is a disgrace to the company laws of
N. S. Wales.
4
Chemical Warfare.
Dear Bulletin, — Despite all the rattling of
European sabres, I think it unlikely that
there will be another war, unless it be
the war of one big nation on a defenceless
adversary or unless the scientists evolve
some new method of combating what they
have evolved up to date. The wars of
the past were made by twenty or thirty
elderly gentlemen in good clothes meeting
after a hearty meal in a warm comfortable
room and signing papers which would send
half a million young men to death or dis-
ablement. Those elderly gentlemen during
the months or years following made
speeches extolling the courage of “our brave
boys” at the front and woulding to God
they themselves had been young enough to
shoulder a rifle. Meanwhile those brave
boys were getting mown down and blown
to pieces, or were being sent home shattered
wrecks, to live out the rest of their pitiful
lives in poverty.
But chemical warfare, which was only
suggested in the last imbroglio, has been
brought to a pitch of perfection during the
last 14 years. The venue of the Front
has changed. It is no longer the trench
which the brave boys will take some hours
in reaching, even with modem transport.
The front line is now the comfortable warm
room in which the elderly gentlemen are
conducting their deliberations. In fact,
it is just possible that the other elderly
gentlemen who form the Ministry of the
enemy may have met first and that, while
they are in the act of signing the declara-
tion of war, something odorless and invis-
ible may percolate through the ventilators
to make those elderly gentlemen die the
deaths of heroes. The idea is a ghastly
one. Especially will it so appear to the
elderly gentlemen whose duty is the making
and unmaking of wars. But more valuable
than its ghastliness is the sobering effect it
will have on elderly gentlemen who gratify
their vanity by the vicarious process of let-
ting somebody else like a soldier fall. When
it comes to falling like a soldier yourself,
and that before you have time to get your
hands up, this idea of warfare is getting
beyond a joke.—Yours etc., M. G.
4
Commonsense and Performing Rights.
For once in a way a Royal Commission has
been able to suggest an equitable bargain
between the public and a monopoly, and
as this particular commission, which dealt
with the right of reproducing copyright
music, was the recipient of evidence which
was given by people who respected the
truth, its judgment ought to be helpful.
Exactly how much a musical copyright
ought to yield to the composer is a matter
difficult of assessment. His work may be
made immensely popular by constant repe-
tition in public, and the agencies which
purvey music publicly—principal among
which are the broadcasting stations—have
hitherto been in the position that the more
publicity they gave to a copyrighted com-
position the more they would have to pay
for the privilege of doing so. The matter
affected not only the ephemeral works of
jazz-composers and other contemporary
writers of music; it was extended to cover
transcriptions and arrangements of music
by composers whose works had lived after
they had long been dead. When broad-
casting managers invited the A.P.R.A. to
give a comprehensive list of its copyrights
it was explained by the association that its
list was so large and so frequently added to
that a catalogue wasn’t practicable. And as
the A.P.R.A. has a lot more money with
which to fight litigation than individual
purveyors of music have, that was that.
The commission’s suggestion that charity
performances should be buckshee, that
charges should be standardised, and that
there should be a tribunal, outside the ordi-
nary Courts, to decide the fair thing in
matters of dispute, ought to be acceptable.
It is in the best interests both of composers
and arrangers and of the people who give
them a public. So with the recommenda-
tion that charges for radio usage should be
reduced from 13 p.c. of the Broadcasting
Commission’s revenue to 6 p.c.; it doesn’t
seem likely to impose hardship on anybody.
The rates imposed by similar copyright-
owning associations in Britain amount to 5
p.c., in Germany to 3i p.c., and in Maori-
land to 6 p.c.
4
A Vocational Leg. Council.
Dear Bulletin, —The Referendum vote in
N. S. Wales gave the Government a man-
date to make a radical change in the State
Constitution; but it will depend on Parlia-
ment whether that change turns out to be
a blessing or a disaster. The old Leg.
Council had the defects of the House of
Lords. Like the Lords, it was unwieldy in
size, and contained a large majority of
members who never spoke, and could have
said nothing of value if they had spoken.
Like the Lords, also, some of its ablest
men were the champions of a few vested
interests.
The N. S. Wales Leg. Council has always
had members who could speak with autho-
rity about the pastoral industry but no one
with any personal knowledge of, say, the
cinema business. It has always had mem-
bers representative of trade-unions, of
banks and insurance companies, above all,
of the legal profession; but it has
had hardly anybody whose remarks car-
ried much weight among scientists or
higher educationists. Barristers and solici-
tors have usually outnumbered doctors and
dentists by about three to one, though
there are many more invalids than litigants.
Appointments were fortuitous and unrepre-
sentative, being based on such considerations
as the desirability of rewarding faithful
party hacks who were unable to get a con-
stituency to elect them to the Assembly;
and the periodical necessity of enlarging
the Chamber to push a distasteful Bill
through.
Under the Bryce device of indirect elec-
tion it should be possible to provide a
Second Chamber which may wield con-
siderable moral power by reason of the men
who are in it. Governments are showing a
tendency all over the civilised world to
take the advice of experts. Russia’s eco-
nomic plans are founded on that principle.
Mussolini does little without reference to
one of his transport or financial or agricul-
tural or educational authorities. Germany
has an Economic Council, England an
Economic Advisory Council. And so on.
A well-chosen Upper House might serve as
an example and inspiration to Australia.
After the Parliamentary electors have de-
cided on the number of representatives to
be allotted to the State’s chief activities- —
primary industries, manufacturing, com-
merce, education, law, medicine, unionism,
shipping, banking, insurance, journalism,
even, perhaps, literature and the fine arts—
they should devote themselves to selecting
the most serviceable men and women from
those available.
An Upper House of 60 recognised experts
in their individual lines, or even of, say,
20 experts and 40 persons of intelligence
and goodwill, should be of vast assistance
to the Government of the day. It would
also help the electors to take a common-
sense view of. questions such as transport
and finance, regarding which the public
mind has been deliberately confused by
party politicians.—Yours etc., Henry
SINGEMOINE.
♦
The Inner Group’s Blunder.
A feature of every - democracy—meaning
government by elected persons—is that
there are few subjects of importance on
which the electors have a corporate will.
The People’s Day, as the somewhat humor-
less party newspapers call it, dawns only
at long intervals. In anticipation of it the
professional electees, or politicians, choose
a slogan which is likely, at the time, to
get votes. In one era it may be "Make the
Huns Pay,” in another “Socialise the Means
of Production and Exchange.” The party
leader who wins on one of these cries
takes office, and 95 per cent, of the electors
turn their attention to business dnd sport
till another political campaign begins.
Sometimes the winner makes a sincere
attempt to implement his policy; some-
times he just settles down to enjoy the
fruits of office. He squanders the tax-
payers’ money on himself in the form of
luxuries of all kinds; on his friends in the
form of trips abroad; and on the rank and
file by constructing vote-winning works in
their constituencies. He may have second-
rate brains and fifth-rate manners; but so
long as he is able to go on delivering the
goods—producing policies that sound attrac-
tive to large numbers of electors at the
time they are produced, and winning an
occasional election —nothing untoward is
likely to happen to him. A more pictur-
esque promiser or a more subtle intriguer
may displace him, but even so care is
taken by his successor, as a rule, that
he shall fall on his feet. At the tax-
payers’ expense, of course.
There is only one unforgivable mistake
which a political leader is in danger of
making: that of revealing himself as “un-
democratic.”
The Sydney Trades Hall is a perfect
microcosm of a democratic State. Mr. Lang
and his colleagues of the Inner Group have
been chosen by vote; some of the ballots
may have been suspect, but the material
point is that there were elections. The
Inner Group’s Parliamentary candidates
have been pre-selected by their local unions
before facing the electors, and even though
strange methods were often adopted to force
a candidate who was -persona grata at
Goulburn-street on a constituency, at least
there was something that looked like a
genuine pre-selection. In fact, Mr. Lang
has been a dictator as absolute as Musso-
lini for several years. Any member of the
party who disagreed with him automatically
became “a traitor to the movement”; he
and his Commissars of the Inner Group
made and broke Ministers wholesale, and
got away with it. They were elected
persons, and under the rules of the demo-
cratic game they were entitled, for the
duration of their term of office, to interpret
the corporate will of the A.L.P. as they
professed to understand it. Their blunder
in respect to Mr. Sweeney, of Bulli, can
only be explained on the ground that too
much power wielded over too long a period
is liable to send anybody mad.
Bulli is a safe Labor seat; its electors are
in a position to pick and choose where a
prospective candidate is concerned. Yet the
Inner Group—which is to say, Mr. Lang—
has the audacity to tell this constituency
that its candidate has been chosen for it—•
by the Inner Group. This has given the
astute Mr. Willis an invaluable chance to
come out as the standard-bearer of the ideal
which enthuses every worker who is a poli-
tician for a month or so every two or three
years, and a sporting expert the rest of
the time:
My aim in this fight is to keep the con
trol of the Labor movement where it belongs.
Neither the Inner Group nor any individua*
is going to control the Labor party and the
“Labor Daily.” There must be no dictators.
The joke is that Mr. Willis is no less dic-
tatorial than Mr. Lang. Amurath to
Amurath will succeed if he wins Bulli, and
gets control of the Trades Hall. A new set
of toilers will find themselves being flung
out . of their movement as “twisters,”
“traitors” and “enemies of solidarity”; in
other words, of the Willis dictatorship.
But it will all be done in the name of “rank-
and-file control.” The forms of democ-
racy will be preserved.
4
Broadcast and Radio Patents.
Since 1927 the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has had an agreement with
Amalgamated Wireless relating to broad-
casting and radio patent rights owned
by A.W.A. It was provided that either
party might terminate the agreement on
giving 12 months’ notice; this the Govern-
ment did on March 9. The arrangement
was that, out of the 245. charged annually
for a radio license, A.W.A. should receive
3s. For this it suspended its rights in the
many patents held by it, manufacturers and
traders being exempt from royalties and
other charges for embodying them in radio
supplies. Those who entered the trade were
thus enabled to take advantage of A.W.A.
research and development in the building up
of their businesses.
The Commonwealth Government’s view
now seems to be that these businesses are
established, and in a position to pay direct
for patents. It has been said that since
the agreement was terminated A.W.A. has
considered itself hardly used by the Gov-
ernment. There seems no warrant for this
assertion. The patents will remain the
property of A.W.A., and whether it will
retain them for its own use or permit manu-
facturers to use them is a matter for that con-
cern alone.
There has been complaint also that
A.W.A. has been enjoying a monopoly. On
the mechanical, as well as the entertaining,
side broadcasting has grown very rapidfy.
Much money has been spent in research
and experiment, and those spending it,
among whom A.W.A. must be included,
have naturally protected themselves. Yet it
must be remembered that, though a patent
gives the sole right of making and market-
ing an invention for 16 years, with a right
of extension if circumstances warrant, it
may be challenged and declared invalid
even after it has been granted.
Britain reconciles the interests of paten-
tees and manufacturers by separating them
into groups. Manufacturers and traders
take out licenses which permit them to use
the patents of the other group on payment
of a fixed charge. Since radio sets differ
great!}-' in design and cost, the license
charge is a fixed payment on the basis of
the number of valve sockets (not valves,
be it noted) in each set, details being sub-
ject to variation as circumstances demand.
The manufacturer pays a flat rate for a
fixed term. He may not utilise a particular
group patent during this period or part of
it, but he pays the flat rate just the same,
neither more or less.
We have nothing like that in Australia,
but it must come if something like chaos
is to be avoided. For instance, patentees
may resolve to keep their inventions to
themselves and use them only in their own
manufactures. No maker will be sure what
the other man’s appliances are, and may find
himself making use of the same, idea.
Others may wait to see what their'rivals
put on the market before coming into it
themselves; and that sort of thing is poor
business. Patentees might decide to issue
their own licenses, charging arbitrary rates,
and making confusion worse confounded.
The manufacturer with no patents at all
would be at the mercy of independent
patentees, while challenges of the right
to use patents would be as thick as critics
of bodyline bowling.
It has been suggested that the Govern-
ment should assume control. This would
mean another Government department, and
we have too many Government depart-
ments already. Further, the Government
has no power to compel any patentee to
let out his rights to another person.. Gov-
ernment control would be a calamity; an
adaptation of the British system is the
obvious remedy.


h
IN THEIR WRAPPER OF MOISTURE-PROOF
'CELLOPHANE Veg d)
Iof>r9*
20 Tins
50..3'9
Cbve y'actciu-fiAdh
when you open the packing
CRAVENA
made specially to prevent sore throats
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
mm
MADE BY CARRERAS LTD.
. 145 YEARS' REPUTATION
FOR QUALITY .......
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lyons is pleased with the way White, the
new Minister of Customs, got the tariff
through the House of Reps., and said so in
handsome terms. “We disposed of it in 28
sittings,” he declared, “and we have chiefly
Mr. White to thank; the Massy Greene
tariff occupied 38 Sittings,” The House hav-
ing adjourned for a couple of months. White
will be able to take things easy. He had
better keep fit, for if imports go on increas-
ing much of his work will have to be done
all over again.
His better nature asserting itself, W. M.
Hughes apologised in the House of Reps, for
his attack on Belgium. This put him in the
right frame of mind for a speech about the
League of Nations, based on impressions
formed as a delegate to Geneva. Billy, it
seems, is in favor of it, so Woodrow Wilson
did not live in vain. If the League lasts
another year or two, Australia will be
entitled to a place on its Council; and per-
haps Billy wouldn’t mind representing it
tlieae if nothing better turns up.
As the Liquor Licenses Reduction Board
can carry on with two members (Barr arid
Dixon Hearder), the Vic. Cabinet lias de-
cided not to appoint a successor to J. J.
Lock. A salary of slightly more than £7OO
p.a. net will be saved. The “net” qualifica-
tion is necessary in these days of financial-
emergency cuts.
The Dawson Valley irrigation scheme,
launched in good King Theodore’s golden
days, has engaged the attention of the Land
Administration Board, sitting as a Royal
Commission, which pronounces the thing 50
years ahead of its time. It has cost over a
million, the outlay per settler being £8492.
The board recommends increase of farm-
areas, reduction of rents, and postponement,
for 25 years at least, of the construction of
the great dam, which was to be the heart of
the enterprise.
By nominating against poor old Sweeney
for the Bulli by-election, Willis, the State
A.L.P. executive announced, “automatically
placed himself outside the movement.” Anti-
cipating the declaration of the Miners’ Fed.
in favor of Willis, James, the Federal
member for Hunter, said he was support-
ing that gentleman ; so James must also be
UNCLE T OM: “It may be your way of being
kind, massa, but I call it crool — crool!”
“outside the movement.” In that case there
are three Labor “parties” in the House of
Reps., as there are in the South Aus.
Assembly, and as there will soon be in the
N.S.W. Parliament. Sweeney is “Uncle
Tom” to the miners and truckers of his baili-
wick ; but the Macquarie-street law factory
is unlikely to become known as “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.”
Non-official members of the New Guinea
Leg. Council were not long in finding out
how much ice they cut. Standing Orders
were introduced with a motion that they be
passed in one heap. Members disapproved,
and they were read seriatim, but at such a
tremendous pace that the audience could not
keep up with them. Each was declared car-
ried in the same breath without being sub-
mitted to a vote. The reading began at
3 p.m.; by 4 p.m. 89 orders and an ordinance
had been read and declared carried.
By a majority of 40,000-odd votes N. S.
Wales electors have decided that they want
a reformed Leg. Council as proposed by
Stevens. The defeated party—the People’s
party it calls itself —is trying to prevent
their having it on the ground that the issue
was not properly submitted; the contention,
it seems, is that a copy of the reform
measure should have been handed to every
elector (there were nearly 1,400,000)
deemed capable of reading it, while Braille
versions should have been thrust on the
blind and surgical operations performed on
the rest. Flattened out in the State Full
Court, the Friends of the People announce
that they will appeal to the Full Court, and,
if necessary, to the Privy Council, where
they were beaten before. These Friends
of the People spend money like water on
efforts to keep the people in their place.
There were some who were inclined to
class the intention of Queensland industrial
unions to apply for a 30-hour week with
the application to the N.S.W. Full Court
for the nullification of the referendum. But
it is not a joke; at least, it isn’t meant for
a joke. The application is in. and the hear-
ing has been fixed for June 16.
“The £5,000,000 Commonwealth loan having Been
a success, the proceeds will now be available for
public works.”
WESTRALIAN CAT: “An extra share for me,
Joe, and if I don’t get,it I’ll scratch.”
Amalgamated Wireless, which pays steady
dividends, of which the Commonwealth gets
half, has been taken to task in the House of
Reps, for another grievous offence —adver-
tising in newspapers. In a letter to the
P.M.G. it showed itself quite impenitent,
brazenly mentioning that in one way and
another it had contributed £506,600 to the
Commonwealth revenues in four years. Park-
hill frowned when he read the communica-
tion in the House, and darkly hinted that
the last had not been heard of the matter.
The little gentleman had better drop it and
concentrate on his inept department, which
bans dictaphones and the latest type of tele-
phone (having laid in huge stocks of instru-
ments now obsolescent), and helps starting-
price bookmakers to break the laws and
cheat the tax-gatherers; and which took
14 months to discover that Wynyard station,
which gets most of the railway traffic that
comes over Sydney’s Harbor Bridge, needed
a letter-box. Running a department like
that is a full-time job for even a Parkhill.
While Parkhill is about it, he ought to
let the public know how much less than
nothing it has received from the telegraph
and telephone branches these last five years,
notwithstanding the revenue they have
drawn from starting-price bookmakers. It
would show once more that ill-gotten gains
never prosper.
Melbourne’s centenary celebrations com-
mittee has just discovered that it has used
up £5OOO of the City Council’s £25,000 grant,
and the council is concerned because no
other sources of revenue have revealed
themselves. One suggestion is that £50,000
be raised by means of a centenary sweep.
It looks like a direct invitation to a free
fight between the committee and the people
who object to gambling in any shape or
form.
How Miners’ Federation funds were
thrown aboutj particularly during the Willis-
Baddeley regime, was indicated by a Willis
man at Helensburgh: “The miners have
‘between’ £20,000 and £40,000 in the ‘Labor
Daily,’ and it is unsecured.” Of course the
thousands “between” are neither here nor
there to these gifted leaders ; but some of
the miners from whom the money was
dragged have been out of work for over
four years. Incidentally, Baddeley (now
Ba-DEix-ay) is in a tight corner. His scalp
has been secretly sought by “Bondy” Hoare,
leader of the northern miners, for years, and
now that Baddeley is committed to Sweeney
and the Miners’ Fed. has declared for Willis,
“Bondy” may lift it.
Both Nats, and Labs, abused the privi-
lege of making appointments to the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground and Caulfield race-
course trusts. When somebody died or re-
signed two or more gentlemen were thrust
into the vacancy, with power to make dead-
heads of friends. Ashamed of the practice,
the' Argyles have resolved to ask Parlia-
ment to amend the Act which permits it,
although it was never the intention. Mean-
while, Dick Linton’s place on the M.C.C.
trust will be left vacant.
Not only in N. S. Wales have two mighty
chiefs of Labor fallen out. Snowden, now
a lord, has turned savagely on his former
leader, declaring it “a positive danger to
the country that its affairs should be in tho
hands of a man who, every time he speaks,
exposes his ignorance or incapacity.” An-
other huge payment to the U.S.A. is due in
two or three weeks, and nothing lias been
done about it; “the American debt question
has been woefully bungled and mismanaged,
especially this last year.” MacDonald Went
to Washington, and might just as well have
saved his country the expense; the joint
statement issued by him and the President
said riot a word about the debt; it was “a
mere repetition of platitudes.” That it
assuredly was. And the bitter experience
of the world these last 14 years is that out
of airy nothings nothing comes.
Many Queensland Laborites would like to
succeed the late Tom Wilson as M.L.A. for
Fortitude Valley. Among the starters for
the ballot are Mick Kirwan, for many years
member for Brisbane; Quinn, president of
the Valley A.L.P., who has been nursing the
seat, and Brassington, who saw his Balonne
electorate wiped out when the Moore Govern-
ment cut down, the constituencies—he is an
industrial inspector nowadays. Nominations
close on June 30; polling day is July 15.
The price of petrol, which went as high as
3s. Id. a gallon in the boom days, is down
again—to Is. Bd. a gallon first-grade, Is. Gd.
second-grade, in Sydney and Melbourne. The
cuts, have followed manoeuvres of the Com-
monwealth Government, which is struggling
in the face of constitutional difficulties to
have the petrol business probed by a Royal
Commission; but it is positively declared
that there is no connection. Parties inter-
ested in imports of Roumanian oil will not
refuse any bouquets that may be thrown at
them. It is given out that these imports
will increase. Unfortunately it is a one-
way trade. Roumania buys nothing from
Australia, though after the war, when the
Germans had looted all its granaries, it did
buy a bit of Australian wheat, paying in
Roumanian bonds. The bonds are, still held
on Australia’s account in London.
Superannuation schemes for Government
servants are generally decided upon just
before a general election. They have one
feature in common; they always cost heaps
more than the politicians said they would.
Queensland’s Railway Superannuation Act,
passed in 1930, has moved even the mild
Forgan Smith to strong language. The. Act
is to be repealed when Parliament meets;
employees leaving in the meantime will be
paid premiums and bank interest. The
actuary’s report shows assets at £4,400,000
less than liabilities. He estimates that the
deficiency could be made up by Government
paying £286,227 annually into the fund for
30 years, or £241.016 for 50 years ; but the
moil frae Pairthshire says Government wull
dae naething o’ the sor-rt; and Smith is
Right.
“In the debate on the Antarctio Territory Accept-
ance Bill it was mentioned that Mawson named two
lonely points Scullin Monolith and Cape Bruce.”
MONOLITH (disgustedly): “‘Cape’s’ right;
he’s always shoving his nose into some-
thing.”
John Allan, the Vie. Minister of Agricul-
ture, is to carry on for a while as leader
of the Cocky group. Had a ballot been
taken on the question at the party meeting
last week, Allan would probably have been
re-elected, particularly as an old minute
establishing the right of Upjpish House mem-
bers of the bunch to vote had been exhumed
from the records vault; but it might have
been a Pyrrhic victory at that stage. Two
new recruits, Bussau (Ouyan) and Coyle
(Waranga), suggested a way out; at their
instance it was agreed that the central coun-
cil of the organisation and the Parliamen-
tary party (10 in the Assembly and six
in the Council) should confer with a view
to composing differences. Bussau has had
experience in these delicate matters. While
on the A.N.A. directorate he managed to. get
on with Conservatives, Liberals, Laborites,
extreme Protectionists and rabid Free-
traders.
Nothing is easier than to condition the
public to a new environment. It was re-
ported the other day from Berlin that the
authorities are about to introduce “compul-
sory school instruction in anti-aircraft mea-
sures, including procedure during gas
“What are you doing, mother?"
“Just finishing something jor baby, darling.”
attacks" ; from Paris, that “the Air
Ministry is arranging for officers trained
in gas courses to instruct school-teachers.”
This indicates a condition of barbarism oni.v
comparable to tho relationship between
tribes of Borneo head-hunters. Yet Euro-
peans who, accept such a situation as normal
and natural will go out to China or some
other “backward’ country, and solemnly lec-
ture the natives on putting their house in
order.
Uncle Sam is to go off gold by statute,
having already put an embargo on gold
exports. This means, a spokesman for the
Government explains, that “no bonds or
obligations of the U.S. Government will have
to be paid in gold or gold currency” ; and
it will lighten the burden on its overseas
debtors a little, Australia among _ them.
But it is not meant as a contribution t<>
the success of the Economic Conference, and
hopes of that affair, and of the disarmament
palavers, are fading. The Senate has re-
turned to its old game of thwarting Presi-
dents. Roosevelt’s representative at Geneva
led the other parties to the Disarmament
Conference to believe that his nation would
throw its full weight against any nation
wantonly going to war. Now “the Foreign
Relations Committee of the Senate has de-
cided that the President will be given power
to declare an embargo only against hotli belli-
gerents in case of international hostilities.”
if this restriction had operated in 1914-18
Uncle might now be paying indemnities to
the Hohenzollerns.
Until some political orators were fined for
obstructing the traffic there, Sydney-road.
Brunswick (Vic.), had no special signi-
ficance. Now everybody who has something
to throw off his chest makes a point of
throwing it off on Sydney-road, although
there are scores of more suitable localities.
The result is that the police are giving tin'
vicinity their special attention, and both
sides regard it as a sort of Hill 60. About
20 persons are now languishing in gaol as
a result of storming Sydney-road. The
latest and most determined assailant was
an artist, aged 18, who had himself incar-
cerated in a steel cage that had once been
a goods lift. It took the police half an hour
to saw through the bars, the hero meanwhile
bellowing for intellectual freedom through
a megaphone. The little episode cost him
£l5 or three months.
Dismissal of the registrars of civil mar-
riages in Melbourne and suburbs has been
decided upon by the Argyles. No overt acts
are charged against them; it is not even
insinuated that they have failed to encour-
age match-making. But the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department wants to centralise the
assembling of vital statistics, and for this
getting rid of the registrars is alleged to be
necessary. Laughton, the Government
Statist, will appoint several of his staff to
deputise for him as knot-tiers, and, unless
impecuniosity is proved, a fee of a pound
a wedding will be demanded. Hitherto the
State has received nothing for its services,
but it has been cutomary for the bridegroom
to hand a gift to the registrar.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
_ “S.T.S.”: Enter for the misprint cham-
pionship an Adelaide paper which, report-
ing Larwood’s outburst against barracking
“demonstrators,” split the word up, and made
him describe them as “demons and traitors.”
“Kerys”: There’s going to be an interest-
ing court case some day over those “Beware
of the Dog” placards. In our suburb, seven
miles from Sydney G.P.0., every third house
displays the printed warning, and amplifica-
tions are becoming usual. “Beware of the
Dog: He Bites,” one reads. Another
footnote says “You enter this gate at your
own risk.” In the case of a caller on legi-
timate business being mauled the Court
would probably have an interesting few days
deciding where the responsibility lay. At all
events, if the notice is mainly nailed up
as a defence against the peddling profession,
the thing can be better and more completely
done, as witness the comprehensive sign on
one semi-detached villa: “We do not want
pins, toothpaste, cotton, soap, tape or
bootlaces. We have a piano, gramophone,
mangle, wringer, wireless, bicycle, sewing-
machine and all accessories. We are all
insured, all healthy, grow our own vege-
tables and make our own cakes. Keep out!”
Added to the list in pencil in another hand
was, “When we die we bury each other in
the back yard.” Presumably the contribu-
tion of some hawker.
“Selma”: I_ know quite a lot about the
hobbies of visiting potentates, which in my
melancholy case were M.L. school inspectors
of the olden days. In their ranks were a
geologist, a botanist and an entomologist,
and we were urged to pander delicately to
their respective fads. So when the botanist
vvas hovering round the district we draped a
few twigs and branches on the mantel-
piece, which were replaced by stones and
pebbles when geology was in the ascendant.
We hadn’t met the entomologist, but his
approach led to a frenzied hunt for bugs and
beetles, which we placed alive in bottles to
attract his approving interest. There was
nothing_ approving about the gentleman’s
expression as he surveyed a bottle in which a
large hou-hou beetle was making frantic
efforts to climb the glass wall. “Is it pos-
sible, Miss Blank,” he asked, “that you en-
WHEN THE SLEEPER SLIMS.
“Is your mother a heavy sleeper?”
“Since she took to dieting she has become quite a light one.”
courage this kind of cruelty to harmless
creatures?” He then turned to the class and
orated for ten minutes on kindness to grubs
and earthworms; and his report was not
favorable to our school habits. The trouble
was, of course, that he Wasn’t the entomolo-
gist at all. He was a pillar of the S.P.C.A.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: As The Bulletin tipped
some time ago, the Maharajah of Alwar
has been invited to take a compulsory holi-
day for a couple of years until the Sirkar
has cleaned up the 'mess in his taxation-
broken kingdom, a large proportion of his
subjects having taken up arms against him.
He is not the first of his kind to feel the
strong hand of the Indian Government, but
he has been luckier than many of liis pre-
decessors on the ice. The last was Holkar
of Indore, a very big potentate indeed. He
was passed out for good and a successor-
appointed. The reasons read like a page
from the unexpurgated “Arabian Nights.”
After his deposition he married an English-
woman and is now living near Paris.
“Bukshi Sahib”; The cabled news that the
Maharajah of Alwar has been disciplined by
the Indian Government for extravagance has
been followed by the publication of a warn-
ing to his fellows by the Nizam of Hydera-
bad, chief of the Indian princes. He has
appealed to heads of royal and princely
families to cut short the tendency of their
sons and wards “to lead luxurious lives and
indulge in actions which stain the reputa-
tions of their forefathers.” Most of the
aforesaid forebears showed no desire to shun
delights and live laborious days. A genera-
tion or so ago every up-to-date Indian prince-
ling’s ambition was to own a lacquered four-
in-hand drag, with silver or gold railings and
gold mountings for the velvet-lined harness
of Morocco leather, with which to appear
at the big gymkhanas and race meetings,
and most of their other tastes corresponded.
Guns and rifles built at fabulous prices were
inlaid with gold and jewels, for and
Hatton Garden and the Rue de Paix were
ransacked for the ornament of more or less
reprehensible ladies, while professional
cricket teams were imported and vast racing
stables set up.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. is stronger than ever
against lotteries. Adelaide “News” con-
ducts a “Find-the-ball” competition, a snap-
shot of a football match being given with the
ball omitted; readers have to locate it
by studying the gaze of the players. In the
Australian code, the ball may be .almost any-
where at any moment, and with thousands of
attempts an exactly successful one is rare.
A prosecution for conducting a lottery was
dismissed by the S.M., who said it was a
test of skill. The police took the matter
to the Supreme Court, which has uphold
their appeal, saying that the competition is
just guesswork.
“Blade Sight”: That Perth marksman who
makes a living by shooting rats in ware-
houses with the help of an electric torch held
in one hand (B. 24/5/’33) should move with
the times. For some time past there has
been on the market an electric light gadget
for attachment to a rifle. This throws a
bright spot of light on the target and there
is no need for aiming; press the trigger when
the light is on and the hit is registered auto-
matically. For a short-range job like rat-
shooting the contraption seems ideal.
“Chevroford”: There was a dull roar, and
an unattended motor-car parked in Flinders-
street began bucking and rearing. Suspect-
ing spirit control, a crowd began to gather.
After pawing the air with its radiator for
some seconds, the car suddenly plunged for-
ward, and the cause of its behavior was re-
vealed when a column of wav vr shot up
nearly to the full height of the Melbourne
building level. A crowd several thousands
strong gathered, stopped all traffic, and
cheerfully submitted to being. drenched to'
the skin for the privilege of seeing a genuine
geyser without having to go to the expense
of buying the fare to Rotorua. Among minor
incidents of the Water Board’s free display,
a woman fainted and fell on to a fruit bar-
row, scattering the fruit in all directions.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: This actually happened in
Melbourne. A dear old lady entered the
shop very timidly and intimated her interest
in radio. After the salesman had obtained
station after station with the very best re-
sults, and to the evident enjoyment of his
listener, he was discomfited at her inquiry,
“But will it do all you claim in your adver-
tisements?” “Well,” said the salesman, “you
have heard from all these stations; selecti-
vity was perfect, no interferences, a mellow-
ness that is”- “Yes, yes,” said the old
lady; “the music was beautiful, and it was
all wonderfully clear, and one couldn’t wish
for anything better ; but will it cure my lum-
bago?” “Why should it?” said the sales-
man. “Well, your advertisement says the
Healing Electric Radio, and, as I have tried
almost everything else, when I saw your
advertisement I thought I would give it a
trial.”
“Rokko”: Add to those who follow un-
usual pastimes the miner with whom we
travelled up from Bulli by train. He was a
huge specimen, with large, horny hands and
the general air of an unrelenting pugilist.
EXONERATING THE CHURCH.
GRANDMA: “That noo minister’s a bold young feller.”
G RANDDAUGHTER: “That wasn’t the minister, Granny; he was a specialist we called in
to see you.”
GRANNY: “Ho! I thought he was a bit familiar, haulin’ me about and tappin’ and
listenin’ at me.”
He produced a pipe, fossicked in the small
black bag he carried, and brought forth a
roll of gaily-hued material. We blinked at
it incredulously. Yes, it was his knitting.
And there and then he proceeded to carry
on, undeterred by the fasciiiated gaze of the
entire carriage, with a speed and accuracy
that placed him well above the ranks of the
moderately competent. Interest in his un-
usual occupation soon started a general con-
versation, during which he told us he was
knitting himself a sweater, had knitted his
own and others’, socks for many years, and
made most of the knitted garments worn by
“the kids.” A long spell in a soldiers’ hos-
pital started him off on purl and plain.
“Fourwalls” : J. W- P. Ham has presented
to the Melbourne Centenary Committee
the original copper dies which his grand-
father used to cast Melbourne’s coat of
arms. It recalls that a suggestion that civic
arms should be devised was discussed at one
of the first meetings of the first town coun-
cil in 1842. The matter was left in the
hands of the first mayor, Henry Condell, and
Aldermen William Kerr and Andrew Russell,
who were appointed to make a design. They
agreed to representations of the golden
fleece, a whale, a bull and a sailing ship.
Wool and tallow have more than held then-
place through the years, but whale oil has
long gone into limbo.
* * * *
“Little Minch” ; The family bed was by no
, confine< J rural France (B.
24/5/oo). A forebear of the writer’s was
once attracted to the
Isle of Skye by reports
of excellent snipe-shoot-
ing. He took up his
quarters in a lonely
spot with a crofter’s
family which dwelt in a
small cottage with im-
mensely thick stone
walls. There was only
one room, and when
bedtime came he won-
dered how mother and
two sonsie daughters
were going to manage
about bedtime in his
presence. The old lady
solved his problem by
throwing open the
shutter of one of the
wall-beds which were
then common in Scot-
tish shielings. There
was a huge featherbed,
and he was motioned to
get in first, clothes and
all. The two daughters
followed, also in full
day-rig, and then the
mother. The old lady
reached up, drew down
over the recumbent
party a board hinged on the inner wall and
snapped the hasp on her own side. Then she
blew out the tallow dip and all parties com-
posed themselves to slumber.
“Amity” : In honor of the production of
“Blonde Venus.” the manager of our local
picture-show instituted a competition with
a handsome rewmrd for the “blondest Venus”
of the town. His conception of what was
appropriate to such an occasion was brought
home to us when he announced that the dis-
trict stock inspector would judge ’em.
* * :!:
“Light Horse”: The censorship of war
souvenirs was not confined to France (B.
24/5/’33). When the Light Horse had
moved into Sinai after their Gallipoli ex-
perience's the spirit moved the Cairo Pro-
vost-Marshal to investigate the piles of
officers’ baggage stored at Cook’s. Locked
boxes were smashed open if the keys were
not forthcoming and clumsily closed again
with wire. Everything in the nature of
Government stores or equipment was ratted,
and quite a lot of people out in the desert
got nasty “please explains” in connection
with items found in their luggage. One I
recall was an unexploded Mills bomb, in
those days something of a curio. More than
one M.O. was caught in possession of fine
little field-operating cases, many of which'
had to be abandoned unused when the Penin-
sula hospitals were evacuated leaving all
standing.
“H. 8.”: First pioneer of South Canter-
bury (M.L.), famous for its sheep, was
Barnard Rhodes, skipper of the Sydney
whaler Australian. After he’d thrown up
the sea he went farming, and drove the first
mob of sheep into South Canterbury in 1850.
He was joined by two brothers from London,
and the trio in 1854 split up a grant of
159,000 acres. Brother George was a con-
firmed diarist. Strikes were common even in
the early days, and he records that in 1860
both the wool-pressers and the shearers were
out. Two quid a week was the ruling wage,
but trenching fo'r growing fruit trees was paid
at the rate of 3d. a rod. with a 125.-a-week
allowance for board. Those were the days
when crossbred wool was fetching 6d. a
pound in London. When I was at Levels a
few years back one of the original Rhodes
homesteads —a long, low, thatched affair—
was still standing on C. N. Orbell’s property.
* * * *
“Reusa”: “Pawang” suggests that a visit
by Einstein, in acceptance of the Melbourne
Centenary Committee’s invitation, wouldn’t
be successful, because “it is doubtful if
there are 20 people in Melbourne who would
understand him.” Einstein managed to make
himself intelligible to U.S. reporters, and he
has had a fairly long association with Henry
Brose, of Adelaide, now Professor of Physics
at Nottingham University. The two first met
at a Gorman internment camp during the
war. Brose was released on parole and he
became a welcome visitor to Einstein’s home.
Both ardent musicians; Einstein would play
the violin and Brose the piano. After the
war the Australian began translating Ein-
stein’s works into English, and five editions
distributed, among people in English-speak-
ing countries made the German famous out-
side his own country. Einstein could speak
a little English in 1923, when Brose per-
suaded him to visit England on a lecture
tour.
“Pawang”: Not all the shoplifters in
Melbourne get into court. There is one un-
fortunate kleptomaniac who lives in one of
the best suburbs, is the wife of a very high
personage and patronises beauty parlors.
There, when the barber’s back is turned, she
pockets all the scent, brushes and objects of
luxury she can lay her hands on. The barber
makes no comment but sends the bill to the
husband. Still another curious case is a
small, boy who, to the distress of his parents,
purloins articles from the houses of neigh-
bors and presents them to his mother. This
case came under my notice because the infant
walked off with my watch, which the agi-
tated mother returned. Her husband brings
her expensive presents. When I suggested
that the boy’s behavior was in emulation of
his father, the couple were annoyed.
“Idle Imp”: The latest portrait-selling
stunt is a variation of an old dodge. A
canvasser called to take photographs of the
kiddies for free insertion in a book to be
issued shortly. Wondering where the catch
was, I was wary, but he assured me it was
free. The camera having clicked, however,
he informed me the studio hoped to reap a
return by selling prints to the parents. At
the prices he quoted, the studio must
be making a big profit. As for the
book, he told me it would appear in due
course, and I’d receive a card advising me
about it. If it does materialise I’ll bet a
quid to a goanna’s egg I’ll be asked to pay
very dearly for it.
❖ * *
“El Dear”: John Chinaman rarely seeks
the aid of courts to settle private disputes.
Instead, he agrees on an arbitrator of liis
own race, and some of these gentlemen dis-
play the wisdom of Solomon. A few days
ago. two brothers in a Sydney suburb in-
herited a market garden with a stream run-
ning. through it. Unable to agree on a
division, they appointed an arbitrator, who
settled the argument in two minutes. “You
divide the garden in two,” he said to the
elder claimant, “and,” turning to the other,
“you make the choice.” He explained to the
writer that when he was a child his mother
always settled in this manner disputes
between him and his sister regarding a piece
of cake or some other delicacy.
BONDI JUNCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Junction many faces—
Age-worn, youthful—sadly, gaily,
Meet and pass, nor greet each other,
Hourly, daily.
There a little space stands Laughter;
There a little space droops Grief;
Wealth and Hardship there foregather,
For a moment strangely brief.
Goes a funeral round the corner;
Sounds a joyful wireless air,
Meaning little, less than little,
To the throng that gather there.
Till his sands run out, and, worn out,
Time, Old Time, forgets to function,
They shall meet, those alien faces,
At the Junction.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


“10-2-4” : My objection to dictators, and
specifically to Mussolini and Hitler, has no-
thing to do with their hostility to Hebrews
and Bolsheviks. What I take exception to
is their habit of filling the suburbs of our
cities with counterfeit presentments of them-
selves. There has always been a percentage
of Napoleons among the ink-stained legions
who serve in shops and add up figures in
offices; but the supply was, and is, limited
by the fact that an imitation Napoleon
has to be small, fattisli, pale and aquiline-
featured. The physical qualifications which
entitle an Australian suburbanite to orna-
ment his mantelpiece with the usual bust
and death-mask of the Man of Destiny, and
stand about railway stations, tram-stops
and the like with his hat cocked over his
eyes, his back humped, his feet apart and
a hand thrust into his waistcoat, are provi-
dentially rare. Mussolini and Hitler, on the
oilier hand, can be, and are, imitated
by hordes. Our milkman is Mussolini’s
double, and he obviously knows it. It
is difficult to imagine a man looking
like II Duce while filling a billycan, but I
have seen our milko perform the feat. Bogus
Hitlers are assuming the dimensions of a
pest in Sydney. Practically any man in the
thirties with black hair, a stern expression
and a Charlie Chaplin moustache is eligible
for inclusion in the newly-born army. There
would be no objections by lovers of clean
fun if most of the masqueraders had not
seen fit to adopt the swift, panther-like stride
which the movies show Hitler employing at
Nazi reviews. An accountant who lives near
us has fallen over more than one child while
walking to the tram in the aloof Hitler
manner, and several of our local Musso-
linis are equally dangerous. To give credit
where credit is due, Stalin appears to look
where he is going. The suburbs of Aus-
tralia would be a deal safer for children
and small dogs if the same could be said of
Europe’s anti-Bolshevik dictators.
tf * *
“Lizzie”: Canberra railway station was
thronged with the usual Friday-afternoon
crowd. Into the throng swept Mrs. Social-
EXCEEDING HER SPEED LIMIT.
GOLFER: “What happened?"
Ex-RIDER: “The brute changed gears.”
Tonnage, her host and hostess, Mr. and Mrs.
Pure-Merino, in close attendance, the
chauffeur bringing up the rear with the
luggage. A housemaid, who had been
brought to town in the station car so
that she might visit her mother in
Queanbeyan, joined the group. During Mrs.
Social-Tonnage’s stay at the homestead she
had championed the maid on occasions when
the girl’s awkwardness and inexperience had
incurred her employers’ displeasure. “After
all, it is delightful in these sophisticated
days to find such really rustic simplicity,”
the distinguished guest had remarked. “The
girl is a delicious survival of an almost
extinct type.” In the friendliest manner the
delicious survival extended her hand and
addressed the departing visitor. “Well, I’ll
say good-bye, Mrs. Social-Tonnage. I don’t
suppose I’ll be seeing you again. You’ll be
going in the smoker and I always travel in
the ladies’ carriage.”
•-!: * * *
“A.M.”: A little slip can cause a heap
of trouble. The industrial agreement for
hotels ’ and restaurants issued in Westralia
in 1925 contained one of those little slips
in clause 25, referring to holidays, which
stated: “In lieu of one full day in hotels
where one cook is employed, two half-days
may be given, and in addition the wages paid
by such hotels to employees shall be in-
creased by one-twelfth above the rates
herein provided.” The slip consisted of the
omission of the word “such” before the
word “employees,” which would have made
all the difference. Obviously when the boss
handed out two half-days instead of one full
day, the entire staff was entitled to hold
out its hand for the additional one-twelfth,
instead of only the workers directly affected,
and they promptly did. It took the employers
four and half years to persuade the Arbi-
tration Court to appoint an Industrial
Board which rectified the error.
“General Prac.”: Ever since I was a
young ship’s surgeon gazing at the ports oi
the world for a wage of one or
two shillings a month, I’ve pon-
dered about the value of inter-
ship wireless talk in cases of
illness. Given a case of gross
injury—a bad cut or a broken
limb, for instance —the wisdom
of a surgeon on a neighboring-
ship may be invaluable; but
when the affair is purely medi-
cal, one minute’s glance at the
patient is worth more than all
the radio advice in the world.
To treat a case of pneumonic
’flu, which fairly obviously
killed the captain of the Clyde-
field, bound from Constanza to
Sydney, by wireless directions
from the surgeon of the
Ascanius seems rather useless.
Still, one does one’s best. I
remember being rouged out one
stormy night off Amboina, on
the road to Shanghai. “Sparks,”
a married lad, and fond of his
kids, told me that a lady mis-
sionary (American) aboard a
ship 150 miles away was about to in-
crease the complement of the steamer by
one. My directions were that the first mate
on the lady’s ship was to scrub his hands
and arms as he had never washed them
before, and await events. And just as I
climbed on to the bridge to have coffee at
the commencement of the morning watch, up
came a Malay quartermaster with the news
that both my patients by proxy were “doing
very well, thank you.”
❖ ❖ $ *
“Tom Bowling”: That story of Nelson
(B. 17/5/’33) reminds me that Christie’s
lately offered for sale a telescope presented
to Midshipman Pollard for some good, if
rather belated, work on board the Victory at
Trafalgar. When Nelson fell the sniper who
had “got” him was spotted in one of the tops
of the Redoubtable. Pollard was sent into
one of the Victory’s tops and bagged his
bird just half an hour after the admiral was
shot. The enemy marksman was a Swiss,
that nation being noted'then, as now, for
its skill in shooting.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: A big fortune has been going-
begging in S.A., One William White left
land of steadily growing value to certain
relatives for life, and afterwards to “re-
ligious, char i t-
able, educational,
philanthropic or
scientific” bodies
at the absolute
discretion of his
trustees. The
time has now
come, and they
asked the Supreme
Court whether it
was a fair thing
to expect them to
juggle in this
vague way with
£86,000. The
Court found that
the whole clause
was “void for un-
certainty.”
“R e t i r e d
Urger”: In a
Sydney case in
which the pro-
prietors of rival
“sporting news-
papers” were con-
cerned last week,
the presiding beak
delivered himself
of some caustic
comment on tip-
sters and their
trade. How old
that trade is, and
how opinion about
it has not varied,
may be seen in a
letter written by
Charles 11. to his
favorite sister,
the Duchess of
Orleans. She
had sent him over
one Pregnanii ari
Italian astro-
loger of great
repute. Characteristically, Charles took
him to Newmarket, and then promptly sent
him back to France. In a covering letter
the Merry Monarch told his sister that her
infallible prophet bad been invited to pick
winners for the Court. As he failed to spot
a moral for the whole meeting it was con-
cluded he was a dud, and so he was returned
empty, so to speak.
* * # *
“Orwell” : On the doorstep of Usher’s Hotel,
Sydney, I ran into Mo'ggs, for the past two
years an unmoneyed man of leisure, but pre-
viously the holder of several well-paid news-
paper executive jobs. At the bar we were
joined by a former bank manager and the
ex-manager of a picture palace. They
started a heated discussion on vulgar frac-
tions. In reply to my inquiries I learned
that they had all sat for examination for
census clerks’ jobs at Canberra, salary £3
18s. a week. Among the 1500 candidates
they had met a surprising number of
acquaintances who in happier times had
risen high in their various professions. As
only 200 clerks are required from the whole
of Australia, it looks as though' only Oxford
and Cambridge honors men will have a
chance.
* * * *
“A.1.M.”: The bouquet thrown to the
Postal Department by “Jobber” (B.
10/5/’33) reminds me of a personal experi-
ence. A photograph of mine was sent to
my London publishers for reproduction in
English literary papers. When its rounds
were finished, it fell into the hands of some
casual cuss who posted the photograph with-
out wrapping and without address. It bore
no indication on either side as to destination
or identity, beyond the name of the photo-
WRONG LEAD.
FRIEND OF THE FAMILY: “I know how it is in these rows with the wife: one thing leads
to another.”
HUSBAND: “You wouldn’t say that if you’d ever played bridge with her.”
grapher—“Blanks,” Newcastle. It reached
me in an undamaged condition, telling on the
reverse side the talc of its journeys, begin-
ning with Newcastle-on-Tyne, followed by
“Try S. Africa,” “Try W. Australia,” “Try
N.5.W.,” in various handwritings. It came
home to roost in Newcastle (N.S.W.) and
was delivered by the postman, who told mo
that at the local ptist office they’d “recog-
nised my phiz.”
* * * ill
“Lord Luvus”: A tobacco war is raging-
in the British Isles, and firms are offering
handsome prizes to collectors of cigarette
coupons. The managing director of a Glas-
gow commercial house was about to retire.
His secretary suggested a presentation. The
5000 employees subscribed sixpence apiece,
and the secretary asked the m.d. what .he
would like for the £125. “An electric wire-
less set,” he said. The secretary had an
inspiration. He bought 5000 packets of
cigarettes and gave them to the staff. Then,
armed with the coupons, he went to a
tobacco concern and secured an excellent
electric radio. The m.d. got his token of the
Staff’s heartfelt admiration and esteem, the
staff got its money back in fags, and every-
body was satisfied. The secretary hails from
Aberdeen.
“Ike Holler”: British authorities are mov-
ing to put the police force upon a higher in-
tellectual plane; as far as the N.S.W. police
force is concerned, no such movement is
needed. There are in the force several Uni.
graduates, and not a few others are tak-
ing Uni. courses with a view to other
careers. A policeman’s life does not unduly
interfere with a course of study; even on
beat duty a John Hop, without losing any
official alertness, can cogitate over his last
lecture and memorise its facts. Recently I
was preparing an address for a man who
wanted to pose as a person of erudition
when a policeman called with a blue paper.
I explained that he had interrupted me in an
effort to remember a Latin phrase which
could be usefully employed. My John Hop
promptly supplied it. He is one of the
Uni. students.
“The Dip”: It is stated (B. 3/5/’33) that
breaking on the wheel was abolished by
France in 1789 and Prussia in 1811, and
that is correct so far as general practice
goes. There was, however, an execution by
this brutal and savage method at Wreitzen,
near Frankfurt-on-Oder, in 1826. For 25
years there had not been a murder in the
district, and when one occurred the old mode
of execution was revived for the last time.
The Earl of Clanwilliam, at that time Brit-
ish Ambassador in Berlin, witnessed the
execution, and left a full account of it in a
MS. diary.
"Dial”: “The Commission feels that it.
stands in the position of something more
than a mere entertainer —-it must strive to
lead public taste and spread real culture
through the community,” said Major Cornier,
general manager of the Broadcasting Com-
mission, over the air the other day. And
before the purrs of gratification from lis-
teners had subsided, a voice, spoke, saying:
“Two cee dee broadcasting over the,
national network. We arc now to have
‘l’m Gonna Dance wi’ the Guy What
Brung Me.’ by Walt Wailer and his Save-
loy Band.”
* *
“Norbell”: The knife-grinder who sharp-
ened my pocket-knife—thrippence a blade —
in a Melbourne street the other day lias a
small electric motor installed in his barrow
to run his emery- and buff-wheels. He told
me, with pride in his voice, that he is the
only itinerant grinder in Melbourne who uses
electric power. I may add that he had a
Dundee accent that you couldn’t cut with
my sharpened knife.
“Viau”: Have just met-a vigorous pessi-
mist. Called at a house and found the young
son busy in the kitchen with floured hands
and wearing an apron. “Yes, I’m teaching
him to cook,” his mother told me, “while
he has the chance. I’ve seen so many young
fellows round here on the dole who are ill-
fed because they don’t know what to do with
their food. If my boy comes to that stage
he is going to know how to make the most
of what he does get.” The boy is eleven and
his father is proprietor of a seemingly still
flourishing country store.
* $ ❖
“Ivoopartoo”: The telephone has claimed
another victim. Mrs. Smallbeer sold ha-
very wayback pub and retired in affluence to
Sydney. Jim Grass-seed, who had been a
good customer, paid Sydney a visit some two
years later. Feeling lonely, he remembered
Mrs. Smallbeer, found her ’phone number and
gave her a ring. She gushed delightedly, and
invited him to dine that night, ringing oil
with the coy admonition “Don’t forget
some chocs.” Grass-seed blew in on time,
leading a rather lumpy parcel by the
It contained three pounds of loin
chops.
PROVISION FOR A RAINY DAY.
WELFARE WORKER: “And have you any plans for the future when your sentence expires?”
EDGAR THE INCORRIGIBLE: “Yus. I’ve got the plans of two foolers and a post office to
start with.”
ROUE (ELDERLY).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. How lovely lovely women are!
(Thank God, my liver’s good to-night!)
Even their dresses cannot mar
How lovely lovely women are!
Distant, the dears, as any star;
Yet one may look, and at such sight
How lovely lovely women are
Thank G0d!.... My liver’s good to-night.
N.S.W.
C. M.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: S 4 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
h
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Fife,
Endowment, Children’s
Endowment, family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FREDS. BEVY,
Managing; Director.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
h
BRAKE
LINING
TRADE _ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving-
h
Representative: J. ARNOLD, 0.P.0 Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
JUNE ISSUE ON SALE
SATURDAY.
Recovery in the Market.
Will Prices Hold?
Outlook for Investors.
Moulton Tobacco Contracts.
Ware Banana Bonds!
These and other matters vital
to investors are discussed
in the June issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some June birthdays :
Dr. Alexander Leeper (Melb.), 85, on 3rd; W. B.
Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres,), 72, on 4th;
Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 64, Major-Gen. Kenneth
Mackay, 74, and Mrs. Gunn (“We of the Never
Never”), on 6th; Major-Gen. Glasgow, 57, Justice
tnglis Clark (Speck), 51, Arthur H. Adams, 61. and
Justice Boyee (N.S.W. Supreme Court), 61, on 6th ;
Dr. Prescott (Newington Coll., Syd.), 76, and S. L.
Gardner, M.H.R. for Robertson, 49, on 9th; Vic.
Speaker Peacock, 72, bn 11th ; J. Lane Mullins,, M.L.O.
(N.S.W.), 76, hon, Minister Kent-Hughes, M.L.A.
(Vic.), 38, on 12th; J. H. Prowse, M.H.R. for
Forrest, 62, on 16th; R.C. Bishop Barry (Goulburn),
58, Frank Tate (Vic.’s former Director of Education),
70, T. L. Afford, V.C. (W.A.), 38, and Joe Darling,
Speck M.L.C. (captain three Aus. touring cricket
elevens), 63, on 18th; Dr. J, 11. Cumpston (Director-
Gen. of Quarantine), 53, on 19th; J. M. Fowler,
ex-M.H.R. for Perth, 68, on 20th; Major-Gen. Coxen,
63, on 22nd; R. O. Blackwood (Vic.), 72, on 24th;
T. J. Roseby (long of Syd, Water Board), 67, and
Knight Harold Luxton, M.L.A. (former Lord Mayor
of Melb.), 45, on 25th; geologist Dr. Frank Stillwell
(Vic.), 45, J. Nevin Tait, 57, and Dr. Fred Watson
(editor of “Historical Records”), 55, on 27th; Dr.
S. S. Cameron (for many years Vic. Director of
Agriculture), 67, on 29th; Knight Victor AVilson
(ex-S.A. Senator), 56, on 30th.
The just-retired A. W. Lamport, who had
long service Avith the Bank of N.S.W. and
finished as northern districts inspector, Avas
the hero of the Henty (N.S.W.) bank hold-
up. When told to “Put ’em up,” Lamport,
manager of the little branch bank, whipped
a revolver into action. The two bandits were
captured, one being shot. Lamport’s son is
a Rhodes scholar who has made his mark
in Rugby football at Oxford.
A. Penry Evans, installed last week in
Melbourne as head of the Congregational
Union for 12 months, is pastor of Coliins-
street Independent Church, and a person-
ality. He never minces his words; in his
first address he made it clear to Anglicans
that there was no chance of Nonconformists
coming in with them unless they abandoned
their mitres.
Philip Whistler Street, C.J. of N.S.W.,
has decided to retire on July 22, anti-
cipating his attainment of the age-limit, 70,
by a week or so. Born in SydnejJ-, he gradu-
ated at Sydney Uni., and was called to the
Bar in 1886. He was elevated to the Bench
in 1907, to preside over the bankruptcy and
probate jurisdictions. He became Chief Jus-
PHILIP STREET, Chief Justice of N. S.
Wales, who is retiring.
tice in 1925, and as his portrait, recently
installed in the Sydney National Gallery,
shows, he wears the red robe with great
distinction. A K.C.M.G. came his way five
years ago, and two years later he succeeded
William Cullen as Lieut.-Gov. He takes an
interest in various charities, the Red Cross
and the Bush Book Club.
J. J, Leahy, appointed police magistrate
and city coroner in Brisbane, was born
in Toowoomba 54 years ago, and after pass-
ing through the State schools and Nudgee
College entered the Justice Department in
1899. He was private secretary to two
Attorneys-General, Arthur Rutledge and
.Tames Blair, now Chief Justice. He began
in the courts as C.P.S. at South Brisbane,
and after service in several Queensland
centres became C.P.S. at Brisbane, where
for some time he has also been acting P.M.
and magistrate of the Children’s Court.
Brigadier-General C. H. Jess, who took
over the handling of Melbourne’s centenary
celebrations from Major Conder, is bringing
military experience to bear on a problem
that threatens to be as complicated as a
major operation in the Great War. One of
his first moves was to implore press and
public to grant him a breathing space while
he consolidated his plans. This Avas probably
a hint to- the multitude of imaginative citi-
zens who have suggested schemes ranging
Brigadier-General C. H. JESS, who has
been appointed boss of Melbourne’s
centenary celebrations.
from gigantic mounds of earth to 500 ft.
steel towers. It has been unofficially esti-
mated that if one-half of these schemes were
carried out it would mean an addition to the
National Debt of £400,000. Jess’s playtime
hobby is drawing, and he has executed
designs of all the military uniforms that
have appeared in Australia since Governor
Phillip’s day. These ought to be useful for
the historical pageant proposed.
Maoriland’s youngest doctor of science,
F. J. Turner, who is 30, received his degree
at the Otago Uni. graduation ceremonies
this month. For the last four years he
has been engaged in petrological research
under Dr. Benson, a former S. Australian,
and prof, of geology at Otago. Dr. Turner
went to Auckland Uni. College for his B.Sc.,
and after completing a term with the State
Forest Service was given a lectureship in
the Geol. Dept, of Otago Uni.
Many Diggers who had London leave will
remember the leader of the orchestra at the
Piccadilly Grill. He had a smile for any
entering Australians, and frequently made his
band play “Australia Will Be There” for
their benefit. De Groot (same name as but
no relation to the cutter of ribbons on the
Harbor Bridge) may have been moved by
business instincts at a time when Austra-
lians were building up a name as free
spenders, but he appeared to have a genuine
admiration for Diggers, and knew more
about their military achievements than many
of them did themselves. A cable message
reports his death.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Wester Wemyss,
Avliose death is reported, was the skipper
of the Opliir when the Orient liner brought
King George and Queen Mary, then Duke
and Duchess of York, to Australia, and
in other years he Avho had charge of the
landing of the Anzacs and their Imperial
cobbers on Gallipoli, and of the evacuation.
Before that he had seen to the crossing of
in other years he had charge of the
Canadians to Europe. He went to the
Admiralty in 1917, and succeeded Earl Jelli-
coe as First Sea Lord. He retired in 1929.
W. Pestell, water-colorist, etcher, archi-
tect and engineer, is retiring after half a
century of railroading in Victoria. He and
Gerard Wight were prize-winners when
designs were invited for the construction of
Flinders-street station, and Pestell helped
to prepare the plans. He has railroading
in his blood-; Darbyshire, the engineer who
assumed control of Vic. railways as a Gov-
ernment concern and built the Melbourne-
Bendigo railway, Avas a relative. Pestell
is an associate of the Vic. Institute of
Architects, a qualified municipal engineer
and a local-government engineer of the Ma
State.
One of Maoriland’s foremost authorities
on literature, William Barker McEwan,
Dunedin City Librarian, has passed over at
63.’ He was fra Edinbro’, where he Avas
chief librarian at the West End Reading
Club. He took over the Dunedin job in
1908, and put his whole soul into it. Some
months ago the Carnegie trustees gave him
a free trip to Canada and America to en-
large his knowledge on library matters. He
searched the Avorld for copies of Maoriland
troopship magazines and succeeded in secur-
. ing a complete set, in one case obtaining the
only copy in existence, the enemy having de-
stroyed the rest of the issue.
Major A. T. Pierson, superintendent of
Brisbane gaol, is dead at 66. Born in New-
castle-on-Tyne, he came to Queensland in
1885. He was connected with the State
Garrison Artillery and was a leading mem-
ber of the long-defunct Brisbane Hunt Club.
As a prison official he Avas responsible for
the system of teaching Hades to long-sen-
tence men. It is a tribute to his memory
that during his last illness inquiries were
made as to his condition by numbers of
his one-time “clients.”
John French, who passed over in Mel-
bourne I‘ecently at 93, was Victoria’s first
Government Entomologist, founder of the
State’s Field Naturalists’ Club and author
of a standard work on its destructive insects.
The old man retired in 1893, and lived long
enough to see his son Charles, the Govern-
ment Biologist, join him in the ranks of civil-
service pensioners.
Frank Scott, recently retired, had been
postman on the Pitt-street, Sydney, round
for 27 years. The N.S.W. record for length
of service on the one letter-carrying job is
held by Tom Cambridge. When he retired
on April 30, 1925, he’d been Windsor’s post-
man for 40 years. Grandfather, an eccen-
tric Avith a penchant for collecting scraps of
iron, took on the job back in the ’4o’s, and
held it for 20 years; he was succeeded by
his son, and when the latter moved out in
the ’eighties his son Tom stepped into the
job.
Not many people can claim to have camped
on the site of Anthony Horderns’ in Syd-
ney, but Harriet Jorgenson was one. She
was born while her parents, named Mansfield,
were travelling from England. On arrival
in Sydney, the family camped on Brickfield
Hill pi*ior to going to Kangaloon, then all
virgin land. She died at Berry the other
day, aged 79.
G. M. Colledge, who has been appointed
Under-Secretary for Public Works in
Queensland in succession to the late A. 11.
Smith, entered the department as a cadet in
1889. An Ayrshire Scot, he came to Queens-
land when only five years old and was edu-
cated at Brisbane Grammar School. For 12
years, from 1896 to 1908, he was hon. sec.
of the Queensland Cricket Association, and
was a Queensland member of the Board of
Control. A mighty player at bowls, he has
represented his State in that ancient game.
Melbourne Inman, whose classic features
adorn this paragraph, is now appearing in
Sydney in a match with young Horace
Lindrum. A Londoner born, he was a youth-
ful prodigy in billiards, and he rattled
up the ivories so successfully that in 1908-09
MELBOURNE INMAN, veteran of the
billiard table, revisiting Australia.
he was professional champion of England.
He also took the title in 1912-13-14 and
1919, and dropped it by default in 1920.
Of late years he lias kept a racing stable,
but whether that has kept him is a matter
of some doubt, as he himself has admitted.
St. Peter’s, one of Adelaide’s two big col-
legiate schools for boys, loses its headmaster,
Bickersteth, who goes back to a similar job
in England after 14 years’ very successful
work in S. Australia. He came this way
first as an assistant to Melbourne Church
of England Grammar. Though he has been
the most paternal of headmasters, he has
never married.
ERNEST BLUNDELL, one of the brothers
who guide the destinies of M.L.
“Evening Rost,” Wellington.
Thomas Wilson, M.L.A. for Fortitude
Valley, has heard his last division-bell. Vic-
torian-born, Wilson worked as a miner and
shearer for years until he settled in Bris-
bane in the ’nineties. In 1895 he was
elected to Brisbane City Council for Merthyr
ward, and he became Mayor of Brisbane in
the city’s jubilee year, 1909, and again in
1925. One of the earliest members of the
State Labor Party, he succeeded the late
David Bowman as member for the Valley in
1916. He was Minister for Public Instruc-
tion under Gillies and held the portfolio
until the McCormack Government went out
in 1929. The welfare of school children was
his particular interest.
A, S. Hoey, the young Queenslander who
has received a scholarship at Yale under
the Commonwealth Fund Fellowship, was
born in Brisbane 26 years ago. After Bris-
bane Grammar School and Queensland Uni.,
he went to Balliol College, Oxford, on a
scholarship and there graduated in Arts.
At Yale he will continue research work in
ancient history.
“C.Q.”: An artist tells a story of the late
Leo Cussen as a family man. He dined Avith
the learned Judge at his Melbourne, home,
and the seven children of the Solon sat
round the board. Addressing himself to the
youngest, Cussen asked, “Soup, Alan?”
“No!” Making no comment, father! pro-
ceeded to the next in order, and, having gone
the round of the table, turned his eyes once
more on his youngest. “Soup, Alan?”
“No!” “No what?” “No soup!” ’Sonah
joined in the shout of laughter that greeted
this domestic example of contempt of Court.
“J. 8.”: James Edmond had a wonderful
memory. Here are two instances out of
hundreds. Having occasion, when on his
staff, to make some fleeting mention of
Siamese potentates then flourishing their
crowned heads in Europe, I asked the big
man about it. He replied at once and at
length; then he added, “To be quite sure
I’ll look it up.” He opened an encyclo-
paedia and read aloud the exact confirmation
of his answer. At an evening party
at William Macleod’s someone mentioned
a new novel of the trivial kind. Edmond
joined in. “It goes something like this
to start with,” he said, and reeled off
portion of the opening page (I happened to
have read it that morning) almost verbatim.
“W.E.F.”: I picked up an old bound
volume of the “New Idea” for 1904, and
Avas struck by the brilliance of a sketch
of a rhinoceros in the January number
drawn by a “David A. C. Low (12), Christ-
church, N.Z.” Could this be the David Low
of Bulletin and London “Star” and “Even-
ing Standard” fame? “Who’s Who” revealed
that the world-famed Low was born at
Dunedin (M.L.) on April 7, 1891, and edu
cated at Christchurch. Name, age and
address all corresponded, and there Avas a
remarkable resemblance in the style, allow-
ing for youthful immaturity in the case of
“David A. C. Low (12).” A further perusal
of the “New Idea” revealed that David A. C.
Low was a consistent prize-winner in the
children’s section. Incidentally. “Who’s
Who” states that Low had his first sketch
published in 1902 in the “Spectator,” Christ-
church.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (10 p.c.) ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,67 S 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529. . 2,315,871
1925. . 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 508.254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2.644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
(84 p.c.).
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
(6 p.c.)
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
Exchange adjustment, etc., £300,000.. 3,125,951
(5 p.c.)
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,147,895
Prior to the last decade the National
attracted little attention outside its home
State. Measured by the size of its advances
and deposits, it is now giving the ’Asia a
close run for third place amongst the 11
associated banks.
A year ago the co. held an “increased
amount” of overdraft interest in suspense
as not being “definitely ascertained profit” ;
and the banks do not yet know definitely where
they stand in respect of some of their
advances, though the outlook is in many
respects now less obscure than it was. Trade
and industry, gripped by slump, have failed
to provide safe outlets for all the credit
available. Thus, while business has shrunk
in both local and export markets, money
has accumulated on fixed deposit, taxation
has increased and lending and other interest
rates have been forced down. Thus far,
however, the loss of revenue from cuts (1
p.c. and more in some cases) in charges for
advances has been only partly offset by drops
iu the prices paid for deposits, many of
which still carry interest as high as 5i p.c.
Nevertheless, the position in this respect
continues to improve as the old contracts
run out, though it will be well beyond the
close of next accounts before the co. derives
full benefit from current deposit rates.
After setting aside whatever was consid-
ered necessary for contingencies, the slip
in last year's gross earnings was £105,751 :
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525,491
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1925.. 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
1928.. 5,000,000 3,148,495 1,548,480 908,079
1929.. 5,000,000 3,257,773 1,602,091 942,813
1930.. 5,000,000 3,362,907 1,624,924 969,790
1931.. 5,000,000 3,449,113 1,596,756 1,035,550
1932.. 5,000,000 3,425,951 1,225,989 949,151
1933.. 6,000,000 3,147,895 1,120,238 828,294
The drop in exes, was £120,857, of which
£92,101 was on acount of taxation (£93,221).
There was no reduction in the rate of assess-
ment, which suggests that the previous year’s
earnings were much better than the published
figures claimed. Still, bad and doubtful
accounts have to be provided for, and how
bad they are and how doubtful, and there-
fore what they will ultimately cost the
bank, can only be guessed at until the final
realisation or liquidation.
Visibly last year’s net earnings were
£15,106 better at 5.8 p.c. on capital as against
5.5, 11.2, 13.1, 13.2, 12.8 and 14.5 p.c. back
to 1927. The div., which had been steady
at 10 p.c. for nine years to the close of
accounts in 1930, was lowered a point to 5
p.c. But owing to the fall in interest rates,
the market now prices the fully-paid £lO
shares at £l2 12s. and the £8 shares paid to
£5 at £6 2s. 3d. as against £ll 4s. and
£5 12s. 6d. respectively a year ago. At the
higher figures the return is approximately
4 p.c. in each case on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
visible backing per pound of paid capital is
325. 7<L in net tangibles. That is to say,
5 p.c. on capital alone would call for no more
than a shade over 3 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a solid
financial structure :
1920. 1932. 1933.
Notes .. .. £49,809 £47,708 £47,613
Bills, etc. . . 962,908 264,891 421,305
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 11,477,025 10,243,837
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 23,142,038- 23,418,362
Liquid assets . . 13,194,160 13,748,702 12,470,935
Advances . . 13,903,139 29,148,762 29,560,678
Premises, etc. . . 643,636 1,369,724 1,315,041
The most encouraging movements over the
last 12 months were an expansion of £411,916
in the book value of advances and a growth
of £156,414 in the bills figures. The con-
traction of £1,233,188 in current accounts
partly reflects the migration of funds into the
investment market. When the books closed
liquids were equal to 225. Bd. of each pound
of call liabilities and to 36.5 p.c. of all
outside liabilities. Also the bank was hold-
ing only £4 3s. 9d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
t Dividends ,
Pref. , To Re-
Feb., Profit.* 71 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 150.320.39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929.. 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
*After deducting debenture interest.
This more-than-century-old universal pro-
vider furnished the Hordern family with
large fortunes. The present co. took over
in 1926 for £2,900,000, paying partly in cash
and partly with 20-year 7 p.c. debentures,
redeemable in whole or part after 10 years.
The public contributed £2,000.000 of share
capital, including 750,000 71 p.c. cum. prefs.
Goodwill, etc., figured at £272,373, or less
than 14 months’ profit at the average rate
of earning (£241,763 p.a.) of the old busi-
ness for its last three and a half years. The
properties were conservatively valued, too,
though they are now in excess of the co.’s
immediate trade requirements. In addition
to these advantages the co. is blessed with
an alert management. A large slice of its
turnover consists of city trade, but its sheet
anchor lies in the country.
Results exceeded prospectus figures for the
first four years. But slump, exchange, the
tariff and taxation made it impossible to get
overhead back in proportion to the fall in
turnover, while stocks and debtors’ balances
became troublesome. After taking stocks
into account at £156,533 below the 1931
figure, net earnings for the 12 months to
the close of accounts in 1932 were £16,907
short of the debenture interest. Last year
there was a spring of £20,197 in the declared
profit, due to (1) the management’s success
in dealing, with the new trading problems,
and (2) improvement in conditions gener-
ally:—
Net Debenture Available for
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders.
1927.. £262,922 £112,602 £150,320
1928.. 267,714 70,767 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907*
1933.. 66,727 49,910 16,517
*Loss.
The statutory cut has lowered the deben-
ture charge from 7 p.c. to a wink under 5§
p.c. Thus £16,817 became available for
shareholders, an improvement of £33,724 on
the previous year’s result. Still, the £16,817
was less than half a full year’s pref. re-
quirements (now £43,580) ; so, for the
second time, both lots of shareholders were
passed by. At the end of next August there
will be over £116,000 coming to the prefs.
in accrued divs.
The market sums lip the co.’s prospects
by paying 17s. for the prefs. as against
13s. 6d. a year ago, while the ords. have
remained fairly steady at 9s. or thereabouts.
At 17s. the prefs. will return 6.8 p.c. on a 5.8
p.c. div. basis; the ords. at 9s, would return
p.c. on a 21 p.c. distribution. Again allow-
ing for statutory cuts, the debenture in-
terest, pref. div. and 21 p.c. to the ords.
would together call for £123,430 p.a., or a
shade over 4 p.c. on the debenture and share
capital and reserves combined as at Feb. 28.
The debenture interest and pref. div. com-
bined would call for £92,420 p.a., or £25,693
more than was netted last year.
How well ribbed the co. is financially, and
other things, are shown in the: following
table:—
1927. 1932. 1933.
Ord. capital . . £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures 1,000,000 1,000,000* 900,000
Sundry creditors 249,210 112,808 83,843
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc... 1,750,237 1,742,126 1,726,387
Stocks .. .. 1,130,878 674,464 646,942
Book debts, cash,
etc. .. .. 441,777 761,207* 692,321
*lncludes £lOO,OOO of debentures held by
trustees on behalf of . the co.
Last year £160,000 of debentures, held by
trustees on behalf of the' co., were appar-
ently cancelled. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£355,420)
was £32,557. Over the last half-dozen years,
the book value of stocks has been reduced
by £483,936, of which .£27,522 was in respect
of the last term. The year’s contraction in
the book value of fixed assets was £15,739,
notwithstanding expenditure on improve-
ments. The board has planned to spend a
total of £l5O 000 or thereabouts on altera-
tions, etc., and the co. has the money.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 ■' 4,303 386,384
1925.. 689 568,113 226,659 2,047 ) ... R7ft
Superannuation Fund, £13,000 .. J 441,»<u
1926.. 1.428.152 591,843 242,131 2,875 1 ron
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO ..)
1927. 621,418 270,181 3,494 ) r1 „ 7 „.
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO .. | bl2, ' ul
Policies of Mutual Life Co. of N.Y. taken over.
1928. 679,124 271,763 3,779 ) , nQ -
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO .. ) A *
1929.. 1.791.046 810,954 290,883 4,583 (
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ( ’
1930.. 314 951,986 314,949 3,870 I .-o, -no
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. (
1931.. 1.860.2561.145.843 338,960 50,909 ) 0 2 0
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..) ’
1932.. 1.911.2431.225.812 ,367,822 5,169 1 011
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..j di ’ u
iNnosTniAi, Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
192 C .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 ) iotor,,,
Superannuation Fund, £650 LdJ-J.mu
1927 .. 484,272 187,208 164,060 ) . . „
Superannuation Fund, £650 . . ( ’
1928 .. 534,140 150,570 180,561 ) ,
Superannuation Fund, £5O .’ ’
1929 .. 587,221 89,372 185,272 )-. qq7
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. ( ’
1930 .. 631,293 209,684 184,4291
Written off, £53,184.. .. 2,143,093
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ...
1931 .. 592,230 213,173 169,159
Written off, £21,995 .. .. 12,330,096
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..
contingency funds, etc.
1932 .. 592,052 140,114 170,458)
Written off, £24,380 .. ..) 2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
The effect of taxation and reduction of
interest and rents upon the amount avail-
able for distribution amongst policy-holders
is one of the outstanding features of the
accounts of all Australian life offices over
the last few years. In a well-established
office, interest is the most important of the
three chief sources of bonuses to policy-
holders —loading for exes, and mortality are
the other two. The amount of surplus under
each heading depends upon the extent to
which actual results exceed what the office
assumes that its experience will be.
The Colonial counts on its funds returning
a clear 31 p.c. Here is a detailed analysis
of its actual experience over the last half-
dozen years:—•
Tax Interest p.c.
Interest Income p.c. mean funds,
and rents. Tax. Interest. Gross. Net.
£ £ etc. £ s. d. £ s. d.
1927 509,797 10,886 2.1 5 11 3 5 8 8
1928 547.329 15,314 2.7 5 7 6 5 4 6
1929 607,936 36,625 6.0 5 7 5 5 1 1
1930 660,702 44,221 6.6 6 7 8 5 0 11
1931 652,989 94,564 14.4 5 1 2 4 7 5
1932 610,811 104,410 17.1 4 10 9 3 15 10
It was not until last year that the co. felt
the full effects of extra Government bleed-
ing and cuts in interest, etc. Thus the
taxgatherer, who took only 2.1 p.c. of the
interest and rents in 1927, made off with
17.1 p.c. last year. Over the last two years
interest and rent receipts have fallen _ away
by £49,891, notwithstanding the addition of
over £705,000 to the funds. Accordingly the
rate of gross interest on mean funds slipped
16s. lid. per cent., while the growth in
taxation reduced the net return by no less
than £1 ss. Id. per cent.
The effect of it all upon surpluses avail-
able for distribution amongst policy-holders
is shown in the next table:—
Net surplus:— 1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Ordinary . . £380,933 £433,607 £393,654 £321,309
Industrial . . 80,430 96,578 77,873 89,020
Accident . . 7,536 16,823 11,345 21,367
Total .. .. £468,949 £547,008 £482,872 £431,696
Thus over the last two years the contrac-
tion in the total net surplus was £115,312.
After deducting income tax, the shrinkage in
net interest, etc., was £llO,OBO over the
same period.
Bonuses have•suffered, of course. In the
Ordinary department the year’s reversionary
additions ranged from 375. p.c. on contracts
less than five years old to £4 p.c. on those
45 years or more in force. The previous
year’s additions ranged from 465. p.c. to £5
p.c. respectively. To ensure equitable dis-
tribution. bonuses have been scaled accord-
ing to Government levies in the countries
where the society operates. In S. Africa
the full declared rate is, paid; in Australia
the reduction is 7s. in the £; in Britain
and Maoriland, 2s. in the £. Bonuses in
the Industrial section ranged from 20s. p.c.
to 50s. p.c.
To provide for the maintenance of satis-
factory bonuses in the future, the co. has,
since the close of accounts in 1930, strength-
ened the basis of valuation at an extra cost
of £216,408. Also, the book value of Gov-
ernment and local-government securities is
being written down in order to show’ gross
returns of 41 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively.
The amount of new business put on the
books last year was £6,350,443 (up
£792,370) in the Ordinary branch, and
£1,648,342 (down £2396) in the Industrial
section. Including Accident business, the
growth in the year’s net premiums, etc.
(£2,045,667) was £107,823. Excluding
taxes, exes, took 25.2 p.c. ,of the net pre-
miums in the Ordinary and 32.3 p.c. in the
Industrial section as against 24.3 p.c. and
32.4 p.c. respectively in 1931.
Tlte funds are invested in this way:—
Public securities 1931. p.c. 1932. p.c.
and- debentures £7,138,488 52.3 £7,812,118.54.8
Mortgages.. .. 2,753,150 20.2 2,487,257 17.5
Freeholds. . . . 1,602,709 11.7 1,729,044 12.1
Loans on policies 1,509,068. 11.0 1,597,690 11.2
Premiums and in-
. terest outstanding 358,950 2.6 346,685 2.4
Cash and deposits 205,319 1.5 199,820 1.4 •
Other assets . . 100,681 .7 90,182 .6
All assets can be taken as well worth their
book value. Owing to their freedom from
extra taxation, more attention is now being
given to Government securities, up £673,630
last year.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
,.— —Dividends s
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (6 p.c.). Ordinary. serves, serves.
1923.. 11.800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. =■ 8518 16,608 26,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO .. 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written ofl, £3587 35,912
1926. . 36.014 10.100 121 p.e.=10,648 15,266 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 ~,,8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976. . 31,258
Loss. 7 i p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil _
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit,
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21,087. 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO . . 2,395
Deficit.
1932.. 9;890 Nil Nil 7,495
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil 17,324
The outlook has cleared sufficiently to enable
the- board to see more; definitely where the
business stands; and if trade continues as
it is proposals for another reconstruction of
the capital account will presently be submitted.
Paid capital is £122,296 in 101,000 £1 prefs.
and 106,480 ords. of 4s. each. At the end
of January £17,324 (= 3s. 3d. per share)
of the ord. capital was unrepresented by
tangibles in the books. The prefs.’ rights
to a cumulative 7| p.c. (reduced from 10
p.c. by the statutory cut) and to priority as
to capital are, therefore, nominal.
The position as the published figures show
it is as follows: —
IQ9 A IQOQ TQqo inqo
Capital .. £186,*182 £186,182 £122,296 £122,296
Sundry creditors 257,491 121,236 5,539 7,807
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 79,993 82,062 21,834 20 948
Plant, etc. .. 10,349 12,181 ) , R7n .
Stocks .. 202,189 1,067 j 1,8 ™ I>7lb
Book debts .. 86,052 195,828 73,106 84,690
Shares in other
cos., cash, etc. 7,034 39,522 23,529 5,122
Leaving investments (£5122, chiefly shares
in Overland Sydney, Ltd.), plant, etc., and
leaseholds (£948) out of the reckoning, and
assuming that freeholds (£20,000) and
debtors’ balances are worth their book values,
the net tangible value of the undertaking at
the close of last accounts was £96,883, equal
to 19s. 2d. per pref. share. That is dis-
regarding arrears of pref. divs. (£37,938), of
course.
The market, however, notes the history of
'the business, and expresses its doubt as to
the future by pricing the prefs. at 6s. and
’the ords. at Is., thus valuing the undertaking
as a going concern at £35,624, or £69,348
less than its net book value at the end of
January. Shareholders averaged 10 p.c. for
the decade to the close of accounts in 1927;
but 4s. per share was struck off the ords. to
wipe out losses in the 1921 slump. Another
12s. was slashed off in 1.929, mainly on
account of losses on Fiat cars, stocks of
which, together with the agency, had passed
to another concern which lost its capital
and most of the unsecured creditors’ money
besides.
The loss on last year’s trading was £9829
as against a loss of £18,990 in the previous
term —the £18,990 was reduced to £9S9O in
the p. and 1. account by transfei-s from inner
and other reserves. Business has further
improved since the close of accounts; and
some of the old leases, which had been a
heavy drag, ran out at the end of last year.
The Queensland branch is said to be earning-
satisfactory profits, and in N. S. Wales the
board looks ahead with optimism. Thanks
to the comfortable state of the finances, the
co. has been able to take prompt advantage
of the opportunities offered.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
& £ £ £
1922. . 6,376 10 p.c. = 4000 2376 16,127
1923.. 7,696 10 „ „ 4000 3696 19,823
1924.. 7,969 10 „ „ 4000 3969 23,792
Provident fund, £lOOO .. .. 22,792
1925.. 7,749 10 p.c. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ „ 6000 2663 28,204
1927. . 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928 . 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 1 „ Rn9l
Provident fund, £lOOO j 3514 36 ’ 084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 „ „ 90001 , 7 „, .7,0,
Provident fund, £lOOO j ' ’ 1
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ „ 9000 1213 50,504
This little Adelaide trustee co. was hatched
under the wing of Elder Smith and Co. 23
years ago. It has none of its own funds in-
vested in premises, returns from which are
very meagre these days. The effects of the
fall in values and cut in returns from Gov-
ernment securities upon its commission ynd
interest earnings have been largely offset by
the continued growth of the business.
Here is a close-up view of the way in
which the business has stepped along and the
cost of handling it: —
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Profits, Exes. Gross.
1919. . £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1925.. 6,213,625 29,203 20,454 70.0 „
1926.. 7,281,377 ,31,772 23,109 72.7 „
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24,120 69.9 „
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3 „
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2 „
1933.. 1] ,614,705 39,490 29,283 74.1 „
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the net growth in the volume of
trusts on the books was £490,703 as against
£578,718 in the previous term. Still, corpus
and other commissions, which range from 1
*p.c. to 2\ p.c, on capital values, and from
21 p.c. to 5 p.c. on incomes, were £571
lighter at £31,081, and interest, etc. (£8415),
fell away £lB5. Exes, took an extra £l9l,
leaving the final figure at 11.3 p.c. on £90,000
of paid capital compared with 12.4, 13 and
14.5 p.c. for the three preceding years.
For the fifteenth year in succession the div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and there is a good
chance that it will not be interfered with.
The year’s gross interest, etc., alone was 9.3
p.c. on capital, which had the support and
assistance of £50,504 of reserves when the
books closed.
At that date the balance-sheet totalled
£150,497, of which £138,864 was represented
by Government securities, which are free
from the Federal super tax of 2s. in the £
on income from property and from all State
taxes. All but £5OO of the balance was
represented by book debts, cash, etc.
The market prices the pound shares paid
to ss. at 12s. 6d. as against 9s. Bd. two
years ago. The return at 12s. 6d. is 4 p.c. on
the basis of a 10 p.c. distribution.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
Pref. Ovd. to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. Clients, serves, serves.
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 t msb 00 9111
Provident Fund, £3047 . . J 6086 33>2J4
1924.. 21,275 3004 3756 10,149 ) 0<?0 „ „cm
Provident Fund, £2140 . . j 2226
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 1..., oqorb
Provident Fund, £1262 . . ( 4446 39 ’ 966
1926.. 26.986 3425 7665 6,798 1 -coe A 7 zzi
Provident Fund, £1513 .. j ' SB! L ’
1927. 28,186 8 p.c = 14£00 7874 ) 46n 52)222
Provident Fund, £1641 .. J
1928.. 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 ) 4948 57170
Provident Fund, £1791 .. ( ’
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 1 o qq4 61164
Written off, £3645 j
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil 1 5407 66,571
Provident Fund, £612 . . }
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil)
Provident Fund, £5OB . . S 3319 6y ’ b9U
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 ) 71
Provident Fund, £524 .. f ~
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) „ nR7 7 ,
Provident Fund, £612 .. j 2087 7i ’ ua
Sales notched records in all departments,
thanks to a run of good seasons which
bumped up the tally of sheep in the State
to the highest yet. The co. started the .term
with 12,735 bales in hand, another 91,137
were received, and 95,967 (17,855 more than
in the previous year) were sold. At Flem-
ington it put 397,094 sheep and 13,463 cattle
under the hammer, an increase of 174,075
sheep and 5991 cattle; and more produce
was sold, too. Prices, though a trifle better,
remained low. Wool averaged £ll 4s. sd.
for the 10 months to the end of April as
against £lO 18s. 5d., £ll 2s. lOd. and £l3
ss. 9d. for the three preceding seasons.
So. despite a cut of 10 p.c. in warehous-
ing charges, gross earnings (£81,011) sprang
£BlB9. But exes. (£68,544) took £7591 of
the increase; so, after refunding 20 p.c. of
the wool-selling commission and sending £612
to the staff fund, the balance was no more
than 3.9 p.c. on capital as against 3.9, 4.4.
2.3 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1929, when wool
fetched £2l 11s. lOd. per bale. The div. was
kept at 3 p.c.
For the 16 years to the close of accounts
in 1921 shareholders averaged 7.2 p.c. Dur-
ing the next eight years the business expanded
(“Wild Celt” continued on page 16.)


mmmmm
Mill
i - V
llplpl
iiilllliiiSl
gsgr ~ • • w
;p W&
;. p|; %S:S %v P
p &
Stent
!l "= i( ' if '
& •••;
ipppg
K*
G 9° v
V-fcpP
Co'
o
\\o
o^L
e
h
Bette**-
ckeJ^
14 for r
21 (or l'6
Also in Tins of 50, 100,
and 150. Also 50s, Round
Airtight Tins.
NTRY LIFE
5162 - 5 3


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.Mson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.i. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * #
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try LEMPRIERE
AND CO., Sirius House, Sydney. — Advt.
TESTING of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination.
We advise regarding- most suitable method of
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Flow Sheet.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMB
*A sure friend in uncertain times'
How one can be
HAPPY AT 60
THERE lives not far out of town as happy an old couple
as anyone could wish to see. The old man and his wife
are reaping the reward of an A.M.P. policy that they
took out in their early married life. What they did any couple
can do to-day, with the promise of similar results. The A.M.P.
is “one of the greatest financial institutions in the world,” and
the men and women who trust their financial future to it make
no mistake.
When this old couple were just married they decided to “put
about a pound a week” into an A.M.P. Endowment Policy
that would give them £2,000, plus bonuses, at 60 years of age.
This is what they drew in cash at 60:—
Amount of Policy
Bonuses added . •
£2,000 0 0
1,548 0 0
£3,548 0 0
That sum has been safely and wisely invested, and the old
couple smile benignly, safe in a steady little income that, plus
their other savings and the possession of a small cottage,
makes life a joy to them.
Write to, or call on, the nearest A.M.P. office or representative
and see how little such a policy will cost YOU.
AMP. SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE, A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary
Branch offices in the capital and principal cities of the
Commonwealth.
New po/icies issued last ye ar
£ /3, 6 /O, 3 2 S
rapidly, prices were high and a steady 8 p.c.
was paid; clients, who are mostly share-
holders, got £64,566 in rebates, £12,298 was
sent to the staff fund and £34,387 to reserves.
But with the change in outlook the scrip
lias fallen to a heavy discount in the market,
which prices the pound shares at 14s. as
against 9s. a year ago. The return at 14s. is
4.2 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis, or 5.7 P.c.
should the distribution be lifted to 4 p.c. The
cover is 265. 4d. in net tangibles, mainly
freeholds.
The growth of the business and the way
in which it has been financed are reflected
in the following comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1924. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Capital .. £93,871 £232,314 £232,314 £232,314
Sundry creditors,
etc 169,790 206,222 101,958 116,693
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 257,308 255,872 272,464
Stocks.. .. 2,170 1,340 8,829 9,270
Book debts . . 90,553 1
Cash and public 1 271,885 178,113 180,411
securities .. 15,753 J
To provide itself with a permanent head-
quarters, the co. bought the Highland
Society’s premises in Phillip-street, Sydney,
last year for £15,000. The book value of
freeholds advanced £16,592 and £14,735 was
added to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, which includes provision for taxation,
etc. The contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£72,988, including stocks) was
£11,990. To what extent, if any, advances
have been made on broad acres is not ascer-
tainable from the published figures.
The £5,000,000 31 p.c. Loan
The Commonwealth’s new £5.000,000 3f
p.c. issue at par, maturing in 1942, was over-
subscribed on the local market within seven
days. It is a tangible expression of confidence
by Australians in their own Governments,
and should do much to assist the now vexed
question of conversion on the* London
market, and thus help to relieve the burden
of our overseas debt. The Australian Gov-
ernments are awaiting a favorable opportu-
nity to convert about. £85,000,000 (sterling)
on the London market. Nominally, the
average cost of this money is now approxi-
mately 5£ p.c. Allowing for the fall in
export prices, which are about half what they .
were when most of these loans were issued,
the cost in goods and services is nearer 11
p.c. Further, the interest is payable, in
sterling, which now commands a premium
of 25 p.c., thus raising the aggregate cost
in terms of Australian currency to 13 p.c.
or thereabouts. Australia’s excessive bor-
rowing overseas and Mr. Lang have proved
to be two of the greatest disasters the coun-
try has yet experienced.
The partial failure of the local issue at
3f p.c. last December was due to the fact
that its terms were a little ahead of the
time. None of the new money from
the present issue is required for redemption
of floating debt; it is to be spent on
public works by the States. Owing to the
suspension of war-debt payments, the Federal
Government will balance the current year’s
accounts a couple of millions or more on
the right side, and the money is being used to
retire short-dated Treasury bills. Public
works are henceforth to be financed by open-
market operations instead of by discounting
short-dated Government paper at the central
bank. All the States promise to. wind up
the year within their planned deficits.
Australian gold production for the first
quarter of this year was 174,6250 z., as
against 156,7460 z. and 115,6210 z. for the
corresponding periods of 1932 and 1931 re-
spectively. Queensland’s output, which was
26660 z. for the March nuarter of 1932,
increased to 13,1280 z., while Victoria’s was
13,0570 z., a gain of 33000 z. With larger
outputs from Wiluna, Lake View and Star
and Mt. Morgan, helped by small yields from
the scores of cos. now in the course of
unwatering and development, it is probable
that the 1933 gold yield will approach
800,000 oz. fine.
* * =:• *
• Mt. Isa milled 66,245 tons of mixed car-
bonate and sulphide ore during April. The
grade was the lowest yet, 9.8 p.c. lead and
5.40 z. silver, as against 10.9 p.c. lead and
5.80 z. silver for March, when 59,203 tons
was treated. Bullion production for April
was 4603 tons, valued at £59,044 for lead
and £18,691 for silver. The price of silver
thus has a big influence on Isa’s earnings.
An important method of drilling is being used
in the stopes of the Black Star section,
whereby up to 400 tons is broken from one
set-up of the rock drill. This system, new
to Australia, is expected to give yet another
reduction in mining cost.
❖ H: ❖ *
At Mt. Hope, Duchess (Q.), a sulphidic
copper lode, assaying 13 p.c. over a width' of
4ft., is being developed from a 50ft. shaft.
Regular parcels of similar grade ore from
the Trekelano in the same district are being
sent to Chillagoe, the total for April being
704 tons. The Trekelano is the principal
gouger copper mine in Queensland; the ore-
body on the 600 ft. level is 60ft. wide.
* # * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.). is driving
its tunnel at the rate of 62ft. weekly, which
is claimed to be an Australian record. The
cost, exclusive of rails and sleepers, is 545.
a foot, Hume Steel has the £12,000 con-
tract for the seven-mile pipe line from the
Dawson. On the Surprise the lode, which
outcrops for 200 ft., is expected to live at
depth. The plant is scheduled to be ready
for the feed by the end of this year.
* * * *
During April the Palmer River Gold Co.’s
dredge (N.Q.) treated 34.200 c.y. for 670 z.
3dwt. of gold, valued at £473. Since the
year began the co. has recovered 2690 z.
14dwt.. worth £l5OO.
* * * Jj:
B. H. Prop., which has been boring
alluvial areas on the Macquarie and Gwydir
rivers (N.S.W.), reports that results from
the Gwydir area are unsatisfactory. No
conclusion has yet been reached regarding
the propertv on the Macquarie.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Mines Department is
making a geophysical survey of auriferous
deep leads at Corowa. The system is
believed to be a continuation of that worked
at Chiltern Valley and Rutherglen. Several
cos. are closely watching developments.
For the last half of 1932, Gold Mines
Development, working the Yankee at Trentham
(Vic.), recorded a loss of £1242. The battery
treated 962 tons, averaging 9dwt. Since the
beginning of this year 1312 tons of similar
grade has been crushed at a profit. The
main shaft is now being sunk below 230 ft.:
all development above that level is in pay-
able stone.
* *
Binalong Gold, which was opening up a
property at Mt. Mylora (Vic.), is putting
up the shutters. The rich patch cut out
unexpectedly.
$ * $ $
Sluicing equipment is being installed by
Golden Cora on its property on the east
coast of Tas. It is claimed that there is
10 million c.y. of payable wash available.
s*e s': Hi *
Ten distinct quartz lodes have been
located on Hunter Island, off Stanley
(Tas.), where prospecting is being carried
out by Bass Gold Mines, a Melbourne co.
So far only low-grade stone has been
reported.
Hi Hi sfc H«
During 1932 Boulder Perseverance (W.A.)
treated 88,592 tons for a gross return of
£166,071, of which £48.860 was net profit. The
new bromo-cyanide plant, erected at a cost of
£62,000, commenced in August. Thus the
full benefit of the higher recoveries and
lower milling costs derived from this
method of treatment was not felt. Tribu-
tors saved the mine between 1918 and 1922 ;
during that period they treated 163.000 tons
of ounce stone. Since the reorganisation in
1923, the co. has paid divs. totalling 140 p.c.,
the years ’27, ’29 and ’3O being blanks. A
30 p.c. div. is due shortly. Ore reserves are
put at 600,000 tons, equal to seven years’
work at the present rate of extraction. But
developments on the 1100 ft. level are expected
to disclose further large quantities of pay-
able ore.
* * *
Lake View’s offer for Boulder’s mine and
plant of one share for three, at first regarded
as attractive in London, has been turned
down by the Boulder board on the advice
of the management. Also the door appears
to have been banged against further negotia-
tions. Lake View is now investigating
another neighboring property, for which it
may make a bid before long. At Boulder
extensive development underground and the
erection of a modern treatment plant have
been planned.
# * # #
The recent London buying of Wilunas was
inspired by reports of good developments at
depth. The most important of these is said
to be in workings off a winze at a vertical
depth of about 1000 ft., where values are
reckoned to be equal to any yet obtained.
Hi Jfc * He
On the strength of a report by C. G.
Gibson, Gold Mines of Australia has paid
the Dundas Co. (Adelaide) £lOO for the
assignment of a 12 months’ working option
over the Wentworth. (W.A.). If the option
is exercised, the Dundas Co. is to g n t £lO,OOO
cash, plus a number of fully-paid ss. shares
equal to the number of shares then issued
by the Dundas Co., but not exceeding 204 500
shares, together with the right to take up
'not less than 10 p.c. of the original issue
for cash in any co. formed to work the pro-
perty.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is stoping 20dwt.
ore for a distance of 22ft. and over a width
of 7£ft. above the 255 ft. level. On the
355 ft. level,, ore of the same grade is being
taken out for a length of 32ft., width 61ft.
A winze from this level is in 15dwt. stone.
The ore treated during February (1934
tons) assayed 13.6dwt., as against 11.6dwt.
in January. There is still no news of the
result of negotiations with B.H. Prop, for
the sale of the mine, or of the co.’s future
policy. Ore reserves exceed 270,000 tons,
assaying lOdwt.
H* H* ❖ ❖
At the Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.),
stone assaying 40s. per ton (gold 845.) is
now being prospected on three levels. Dur-
ing 1932 the 150,000 tons milled averaged
275. per ton. The co.’s wood producer-gas
plant is generating power at a cost of 0.68
pence per unit, which compares very favor-
ably with large Diesel-engine installations.
Hi H* H« Hi
Fair profits are now being got from low-
grade oxidised ore treated at Huntington
mills in Westralia. At Kalgoorlie one party,
which has the advantage of a big ore-body,
electric power and scheme water, puts its
mining and milling costs at 6s. a ton.
Extraction is about 70 p.c.; so 3dwt. dirt
pays well. Residues are also cyanided. At
Hampton Plains trucks are being backed
into large open cuts, none of which carry
more than sdwt. Here a public mill has
been running three shifts on this ore for
about a year.
* * * *
Australian coal production for 1932
totalled 8,153,505 tons (excluding the Won-
thaggi state mine, Vic.) compared with
7.829 918 tons in 1931 and 8,827,872 tons
in 1930. Tonnages for the various States
were; N. S. Wales, 6,784 222; Queensland.
841,711; Westralia, 415,719; Tasmania,
111,853.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Price of scheelite and likely buyers? —
6021.
Last London quote to hand, 10s. 3d. to
10s. 6d. per unit, or £32 6s. 3d. to £34 2s.
6d. per ton for ore containing 65 p.c. tung-
stic acid. Try Frank H-unbridge, 22 Bridge-
street, or O. T. Lempriere and .Co., Sirius
House, Macquarie-place, both Sydney.
(1) What is inflation? (2) How would it
affect the mortgagor, mortgagee, primary
producer and wage-earner? —s9ol.
(1) An issue of currency or credit in
excess of normal trade requirements; usu-
ally an over-issue of inconvertible paper,
following over-extension of credit. It can
occur when a currency is on a gold basis. In-
flation of credit is made effective by the fur-
ther issue of legal tender. Sometimes a Gov-
ernment deliberately creates' inconvertible
legal tender to pay its own internal debts.
(2) Owing to the rise in prices owners of all
fixed-money claims, including mortgagees,
suffer, and debtors, including mortgagors gain
because they can pay their debts in money
worth less in terms of goods and services
than the money they borrowed. Wages lag
behind the rise in prices, and the wage-earner
is worse off. Costs increase, and the primary
producer, who has to sell his products
abroad, suffers to the extent to which ex-
change fails to offset the rise in local prices
and costs. If inflation is continuous, a point
arrives where capital itself is consumed.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.E.8.: (1) Wales or Q.N. (2) Hold Washington
Soul. At the moment you will find it difficult
to get an equally sound investment which will yield
you the same return. (3) Australian Provincial
Assurance and Morris Hedstrom are worth consider-
ing. (5) The outlook for copper is very uncertain.
. ...A.8.: (1) The holder of a gold-mining lease
can continue in possession so long as he observes
the conditions of the lease, the principal of which
are representation by labor and payment of rent.
(2) By instituting forfeiture proceedings Alpha:
(1) As a permanent investment they promise well.
(2) No. During year £20,000 was struck off
book value of plantations and £12,400 on account
of hurricane losses, leaving reserves at £148,501.
(3) Because copra has been fluctuating at low prices,
and, until recently, the exchange position was very
uncertain.., .Smoker: (1) Doesn’t seem to be. (2)
Very doubtful. (3) Not likely. (4) No. Leave
them alone... .W.C.: (1) Hold. They are an in-
vestment, not a Speculation. (2) Wales or Q.N.
appears to offer better prospects. (3) Hold. (4)
They appear to be worth while at 11s A.W.H.:
Prospects for either not very bright. William
Adams for preference.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Make Another Start
Dear B., —Let us start all over again in
the constitutional field. Have two Houses
for the Commonwealth, the second Chamber
to be elected for five years, and, say, 20
provinces to be governed by councils; Cus-
toms, excise, land and income taxes and
death duties to be levied by the Common-
wealth, all others by the councils, with no
duplication. Wouldn’t this be an improve-
ment, or is the Commonwealth Government
already drunk with power, and too expensive
and dangerous to our liberties?—Yours etc.,
D.L. S. (Q.).
They Should Advertise
Dear B., —A Queensland Government
picture-screen announcement reads: “Sup-
port Queensland-made Goods and then
Ninety Per Cent, of the Unemployed will be
Employed.” Housewives and others are
asking how they are to know what goods
are made in Queensland. Manufacturers
don’t advertise them; if the Government
doesn’t publish a list, people can’t give the
preference asked. —Yours etc., W. J. W. (Q.).
Scrap Obsolete Machines
Dear B., —Thousands of obsolete machines
kept going by ignorant owners are adding
to unemployment. Scrap them, and the need
for new machines will revive trade and in-
crease purchasing power. Australia ought
to be doing an enormous trade in the East
Indies and Asia, whereas it does little or no-
thing. We put in machines and reduce our
labor force, which reduces our own home
market, instead of putting in machines with
the idea of securing fresh business abroad,
which would not only keep the labor force
intact but increase i ITerri n.tal
(N.S.W.).
Why Orchardists Leave Home
Dear B., —My suggestion is that prices of
things which fruitgrowers have to use be
substantially reduced. I had to take Is. to
4s. 6d, a case for pears and Is., to 3s. 6d.
a case for apples; and they returned uo
div. My quinces were bought by a canning
factory at £7 per ton, equal to 2s. 4d. a
case: they paid, .but to get prime fruit I
had to cull them and reject a lot of rain-
damaged stuff, thus picking only 28 tons
when _ I should have had 42 tons. After
charging for pruning, two work-
ing, manure, water, picking and carting to
factory, they yielded £2 a ton profit. Thera
was no spraying. What I do myself I have
charged at three-fifths of what I allowed five
or -six years ago, but the charges for water
are still the same; so is the charge for cart-
ing. Last w r eek I spread the manure on
the quinces, two tons of blood and bone at
£B_ S.s. per ton delivered —the same as I
paid in ’27 and ’2B. The amm. sulph. that
I shall put on later on will cost £l2 a ton
-six-sevenths of what it was five years
ago. Now I want to know why the charge
lor wmter and the price of blood and bone
and the cost of the many spraying materials
haven’t been reduced. —Yours etc., GrosoN
(Tic.).
Catch More Fish
Dear B., —Because Australians don’t catch
enough fish, this country is rapidly being
converted to shark-eating. It has long been
suspected that fish cutlets which masquer-
ade as snapper in cheap restaurants are
really shark. The issue has been cleared by
some recent revelations by G. B. Minns,
superintendent of Melbourne city markets.
He gives the weekly weight of shark sold
for food at the markets as seven tons, the
average price being from ss. to 18s. per box,
or about the same as mullet. In the week
before Easter prices were as high as Sid.
per pound, and best cutlets were being re-
tailed in the shops up to 2s. 3d. per pound.
The same thing is probably true of all the
big Australian cities. All sharks are said
to be excellent eating, but, the usual variety
retailed as snapper or Murray cod are the
small crustacean-eaters known as “gummies”
in the trade. I object to eating shark when
I pay for snapper, .so I suggest that we catch
more fish. —Yours etc., Bouragi (Vic.).
Anzac Day
Dear B., —Before Anzac Day comes round
again shouldn’t we decide to make it an
occasion for remembering the living and
needy soldier as well as doing honor to the
dead? The Tas. Parliament forbids hotels
to open before 12.30 p.m.; places of amuse-
ment are closed till 6.30; horseraeing may
not be held at all. We have a dawn and
a 10 a.m. parade and service at the
soldiers’ monument; in the afternoon the
only outdoor feature is the school sports.
Consequently men, for lack of anything else
to do, fill in time at the pubs. I offer two
suggestions : (1) No holiday at all. Parade
at dawn and the other services at night.
Five per cent, of each person’s earnings for
that day, be he worker, employer, salaried
man, investor or politician, to be given to the
Diggers’ associations for needy members.
At present the daily wage-earner loses his
pay; the salaried man gets a holiday at
other people’s expense. (2) Services as in
(1) ; a half-holiday from midday ; a pro-
portion of gate and other receipts to be
devoted to Diggers. Though the Act does
not forbid them, football and tennis matches
are not held in Tas. on Anzac Day; they
are held on the mainland. Spending the
day in idleness is surely a poor way of
remembering our soldiers. —A. B. (Tas.).
Valuing Wool
Dear Bulletin, —It seems to me the prac-
tical system of appraising wool used under
the Imperial purchase scheme should be
reinstituted; the “Table of Limits,” which
provided for 848 distinct types, is recog-
nised as the most complete classification of
wool ever made. Why was it pigeon-holed?
It is available and could be immediately re-
quisitioned for arriving at a price for each
type of wool in its relation to the average
price established from week to week. Prac-
tically every commodity is sold on quality,
so it seems strange that under a system of
wool-selling claimed to be the “finest in the
world” a scientific method of determining
values is not availed of. Of course, we
know the buyers object to it and brokers
are not wildly enthusiastic; but if every-
thing is aboveboard why should objections
be raised? —Yours etc., Valerin.
Fewer Assemblymen
Dear B., —It is not only the N.S.W. Leg.
Council that needs reforming. While we have
90 members in the ‘ Lower House, Victoria
manages with 65, Queensland with 62, South
Aus. with 46, Westralia with 50 and Tas-
mania with 30; and the Commonwealth Par-
liament gets along quite well with 75—7!1
if you add Nelson, the man without a vote.
Even under the amended law N.S.W. will
have 150 legislators, almost tWice as many as
any other State. A referendum to reduce
the number of Assemblymen would be popu-
lar with the taxpayer, but not with the
politicians.—Yours etc., Eureka (N.S.W.).
A New Capitalist State
Dear B-, —Yankee technocrats so far have
been too busy throwing things at each other
to unload the details of their scheme to. save
the situation, but they have made one arrest-
ing point: under a capitalist system it should
be the work of the State to get complete
data of all production agencies. Till that
is done capitalism has not had a fair run
for its money. Take the big tobacco concern
as the model of a new form that Stato
activity might assume; it has the costs of all
its processes and materials worked out to a
six-point decimal fraction of a penny. On
those data, piecework rates, wages and sell-
ing prices are fixed; distribution is handed
over to a party that produces nothing. Ought
not a logical capitalist State be worked on
similar lines, restricting its activities to legis-
lation for good order and defence, and having
as little as possible to do with actual pro-
duction, apart from a complete industrial
census and the fixing of piecework rates and
labor conditions? The State might, indeed,
without jolting capitalist principles, be the
distributor of products. It could, in that
line, take a lesson from the British co-opera-
tive societies —really a State within a State,
whose revenues and expenditure are larger
than those of many a full-blown nation.—
Yours etc., Lomkey Ree (S.A.).
Redistribute the Load
Dear B.,—Figures just issued by the Com-
monwealth Statistician on Melbourne whole-
sale prices from 1929 to March, 1933, are
illuminating. Taking the 1911 base at 1000,
metals and coal have dropped from 1912 to
1732; leather, wool, etc., from 1556 to 997;
agricultural produce from 1792 to 1101;
dairy produce from 1853 to 1143; groceries
from 1690 to 1688; meat from 2246 to 1190;
building materials have risen from 1754 to
2064; chemicals from 1942 to 2121: these
two items show a steady appreciation since
Sept., ’32. The average for all groups has
fallen from ISO 3 in ’29 to 1333 last March,
But always the unorganised primary pro-
ducer has been hardest hit. Wool, lower
than in 1911; wheat, butter, meat, vege-
tables, fruit, but little higher; while groceries
are 68 per cent, dearer, and chemicals
and building materials more than double
the 1911 price. Obviously the secondary
industries are not carrying the burden they
should.—Yours etc., V. F. L. (Vic.).
d j 11/ 1 1 •
Bad Wool-classing
Dear B.,—Graziers cannot expect wool to
be conscientiously handled so long as they
leave the choice of classer to the contrac-
tor; the latter is out to get the maximum
number of sheep shorn in the minimum
number of days with the fewest possible
shedhands on the payroll, so the classer who
suits him best must not hold up shearing
even though the wool is too wet to press,
or be over-fussy about the way the pieces
are picked and the oddments handled. A
boy can get rid of the wool—somehow—
and he costs less than an experienced piece-
picker. The graziers have the remedy in
their own hands. There are sufficient ex-
perienced woolclassers in Australia to
handle all the wool we grow, and most of
the well-known clips are classed by the same
men year after year—a fact that is realised
by the woolbuyers, although not always
adequately. I have heard graziers com-
plain that they did not know where to get
hold of a good classer; and, although every
woolbroker has a list of classers on his
books, there was never a time when the
need of a responsible body or bureau of
cxperienced, certificated classers was moro
apparent. Nobody realises how the Stan-
dard of wool-classing has declined more than
the regular classers themselves, yet every
attempt they have made for recognition as
a skilled body—in N.S.W. at least—has been
frustrated of late years by the Graziers’
Association. Yours etc., MuRRAWONG
(N.S.W.).
“Make Marriage Easier”
Dear B.,—“Larrapinta” (B. 26/4/’33)
suggests the problem of the unmarried mother
is linked up with the costs incidental to get-
ting married. This is rubbish. In such
cases, so far from charging any fee, it is
the ordinary job of any parson to try to
legalise the position of both mother and
child by performing the mamage ceremony
free of charge; there’s nothing unusual
about it—l have performed two such mar-
riages free of charge in the last month,
Total cost of getting married, about 10s. for
the ring. Plenty of young people come and
quite frankly state they want to get mar-
ried, but can only afford to pay a fee of
(say) a pound. That and the ring are the
sole costs in many instances. If a prospec-
live ’groom is in receipt of a good salaiy
he can afford to . pay the tee charged and
mostly does so willingly. Marriage is easy
enough. I don t like. Larrapinta s snee
about people not considermg it the t
marry at the Registry Office and so obtain
a license to cohabit at a cheap rate, to l
tunately most people want something mo
than a license handed out by a cj a t u se -
vant when they enter into a uni n ■
as marriage. It s a sl »n that g
means just a bit more to them than the ega
right to cohabit. Long may the prejudice
continue against the Registry Office, not-
withstanding the cheap marriage fee!
“Larrapinta'’ confuses the issue when he
tacks on the cost of buying a house to the
cost of getting married. Ninety per cent, of
young people are content to begin married
life in a flat or its country equivalent.—
Cleric (N.S.W.).
The Farmer and the Industrialist
i> ea r 8.,—1 am interested in the plan
of “j.F.H.” (B. 26/4/’33), who suggests
tlml - a u our wa ges should be governed by
the pr i C es of exports. These plans always
arr i ve w hen the devil is sick; he never sug-
gests such things when his prices are high,
Trades Hall officials, like other people, recog-
njse the plight of the primary producer, and
want to help, but if the only idea from the
f arm j s t o cut wages to the lowest point
where existence is possible, we have no alter-
native—we must fight it. The point “J.F.IL’’
misses is that we have more than one pro-
blem. We can easily solve the problem of
the primary producer by sacrificing every
other interest, but is that what is wanted?
c e t us face realities. The wage-earner in
manv cases has sacrificed everything, includ-
ing the savings of a lifetime, and those in
work have sacrificed conditions that repre-
sent half a century of fight as well as up to
50 p.c. of wages. The problems will only be
solved by recognising that it is a collection
0 f problems.—A Union Official (N.S.W.).
All Should Send Returns
Dear B.,—Under the present system of
administering the N. S. Wales Income Tax
Act, the prospect of roping in all tax-dodgers
is remote. The Act states that returns need
not be furnished for State purposes by any
person, a company or an absentee excepted,
whose total income is less than £lOO, or
whose income derived solely from wages or
salary does not exceed £250. Herein lies
the trouble. It gives the dishonest a lo'ophole
for escape. If all adults had to submit
returns annually by registered post, irre-
spective of the amount of income, the Oom-
missioner would be in a position to check
the returns and locate defaulters. The re-
form would help the Treasury through the
Taxation and Postal Departments, and I
am confident it would result in a substantial
reduction of the burdens now borne by tax-
payers.—Yours etc., G. D. M. (N.S.W.).
AND DOWN WITH THE CAPITALISTS!
"Mr. Lang describes his old friend Willis as ‘a top-hatted gentleman fresh from the halls of Westminster.’ Mr. Willis and
his friends retort that the miners ‘put between £20,000 and £40,000 into the “Labor Daily,” and it is unsecured; Mr. Lang’s £13,000
is secured.’”
STRANGER: "Who are these prosperous-looking elderly gents., and why are they wrangling?”
WORKER: “It’s Comrade Jack and Comrade Alby. They’re barneying about who’s to lead the downtrodden proletariat.”


And now another ‘ Bulletin” Publication in the Field.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things
you don’t know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most up-to-date and reliable short-wave and
technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICE 2d.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Maid of the Mountains”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Honi Soit”
Criterion “Escape”
State Movies and iaikies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal . “Our Miss Gibbs”
King’s Dante
State Movies and Talkie*
«
Uncle James and the Academic Formulae
The National Gallery at Melbourne is
always getting mentioned in the newspapers,
and latterly has been bathed in a veritable
blaze of glory due to the acquisition of a
veritable Rembrandt and a very large his-
torical painting by an Italian old master. In
these circumstances it occurred to Frith
and the Showman that something ought to be
done to stimulate public interest in Sydney’s
National Gallery, so they made a pilgrimage
thither. One of the peculiarities of Sydney’s
Gallery is that you can’t go there in a
tram. If you arc anywhere near the G.P.O.
when you get the urge to feast your eyes
upon its treasures, the only thing to do is to
gird up your loins and walk steadily and
firmly eastward. Your way lies through the
Domain, where Dame Nature provides a pic-
ture gallery of her own —such seascapes and
landscapes and skyscapes as you’ll never
see on canvas. Another unique feature of
the Gallery is that the attendants wear
straw boaters with red bands —not because
these are temporarily in the fashion owing
to a whim of the Prince of Wales, nor
A unique feature of the Gallery.
because the attendants are ardent socialists,
but because that is their uniform, so to
speak.
Exactly what Frith and the Showman
would have made of the Gallery had they
just gawped at the pictures like ordinary
persons is a matter for speculation. They
were lucky enough, however, to have expert
guidance. A very tall gentleman with bushy
hair was convoying a majestic-looking matron
and two young ladies. His voice was loud
and firm ; his critical canons were inflexible.
As Frith and the Showman approached
he was pointing at “The Sea Hath Its
Pearls,” and the expression about his nose
seemed to indicate the presence somewhere
in the vicinity of a very bad oyster. “Re-
productions of this atrocity,” he said, “are
to be found in any furniture shop. It is
puerile! And so” —here he wheeled to con-
front Lord Leighton’s “Wedded” —“is this.
A horrible, yes horrible, example of what
academicians call morbidezza.” “What is
morbidezza, Uncle James?” inquired one of
the young ladies in a Sandford-and-Mer-
tonish tone. “A formula, an academic for-
mula, Lucy,” expounded Uncle James,
“evolved by painters who had no conception
of what Nature looks like.” Lucy didn’t
look quite convinced. Possibly, poor girl,
she thought “Wedded” was quite a nice
picture. “Is he kissing her hand?” she in-
quired timidly. “I suppose so!” snapped
her relative. This gave Frith his opening.
Classical lore is his specialty. Addressing
the Showman in a tone as loud as Uncle
James’s, he said, “An interesting Roman
eustbm, from which, possibly, the symbol
of the wedding-ring derives. The husband,
after the marriage ceremony, bit off the first
joint of the bride’s third finger. As depicted
here, the poor girl usually swooned.” Uncle
James favored Frith with one suspicious
glare and hurriedly hastened his little flock
onward.
Frith and the Showman found them
later grouped before Poynter’s great can-
vas “The Meeting of Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba.” “Photographic treatment
of historical detail,” said Uncle James scorn-
fully, “but the whole thing is childish. No
unity; no subordination of interest; no
restraint; all formula; no seeing eye.” “How
would you have painted the scene, Uncle
James?” asked the second young lady. But
before Uncle could reply Frith had turned
on his tap of historical reminiscences. “The
scene,” he remarked to the Showman, “isn’t
quite so romantic as it seems. If you read
the account in the Koran you will find that
Balkis of Saba came to Solomon to raise
a loan. Her pledges are those monkeys
and vases and things that are being dis-
played by her attendants. Solomon, in the
actual scene, held the pawnticket or tablet
in one hand and a stylus in the other.”
Uncle James was speechless, but the matron
gave Frith one glance through her lorgnette.
“Preposterous!” she snorted. But Frith and
the Showman tailed along. It isn’t every
day one can find an art critic who is
superior to everything.
But Uncle James had his weaknesses.
Pausing before a very large and drab-looking
canvas that depicted impressionistic sheep
roosting outside the walls of Paris on a dull
bleak day, watched by a shapeless shepherd,
Uncle James’s dull eye brightened. “The
tones,” he said, “are almost worthy of
Cezanne.” “The picture,” proclaimed the irre-
pressible Frith, “was presented to the Gallery
by the Graziers’ Association of New South
Wales in 1871. They paid a lot for it, too.”
“Indeed,” said Uncle James. “Do you
happen to know the price V” “I believe it
was eighteen and six.” said Frith, “but the
frame cost seven quid.” This was too
much for Uncle. He shooed his little flock
to the exit, and as the Gallery seemed a
dreary place without him, Frith and the
Showman came away too.
More or Less About Music
I have lately been listening to the playing
of Philip Hargrave, the boy prodigy from
Adelaide. I read in the newspapers that he
is a genius and a great creative artist. I
do not know what those terms mean, though
I presume their authors do; but they never
tell us what creative artistry in a musical
executant is. In fact, I have never been
able to get from a practising musician or
from a critic any aesthetic of music at all,
and it is a pity, because a sound understand-
ing of what music is must be as essential to
the art as it is to any other. Some light
appears to be thrown on the subject in The
Bulletin Service page for May 24, where
it is stated that “the skilled pianist, playing
for himself, uses the instrument and the score
as means of expression of his mood.” This
seems to mean that every time a musician
plays he creates a new piece of music, not
merely a reproduction of the composer’s
original intention. I would like to consider
this by attempting an analogy with painting,
as I know something about that and it seems
to me that music and painting have a great
deal in common.
When a painter copies a work of art by
somebody else, he must be doing the same
thing as when a musician plays a piece of
music by a composer. The picture is com-
posed of colors in various keys and in par-
ticular relation to one another; there will
be patches of light and patches of dark, arid
these will comprise what is called the com-
position. The copier may be in love with
a girl or be filled with hatred and jealousy
of his wife or envy of his neighbor, but I
don’t see how he can express any of these
emotions in his copy of the picture. His
copy will either be a bad copy or a good
copy. If it is a good copy it will be prac-
tically the same as the original. If it is a
bad copy it will be another picture alto-
gether. I do not see how he can improve on
the original picture. If he thinks the
original work is a bad picture he may alter
the relationships between the various patches
of tone, but, as he hasn’t the original effect
that was before the original painter, he
cannot possibly know what the correct rela-
tionships should be. In other words, he is
simply guessing. How, for instance, can
the copier of a landscape know what the
exact tone of a shadow on a hill cast by a
“Pointing at ‘The Sea Hath its Pearls’”
passing cloud should be if he hasn’t the
original scene and precisely the same effect
before him?
The copier or performer of a piece of
music by a dead-and-gone composer appears
to me to be in exactly the same position.
I don’t know what the subject-matter of a
composer is as I know what the object of
a painter is, but I presume it is something
in the external world or in his own subjec-
tive self or in both together. Well, he puts
down notes in certain relationships, in vari-
ous keys and in particular sequences and
combinations. The result is accepted as a
work of art. A virtuoso comes along and
plays the piece with the score before him
or in his head. If he tries to improve on
it, it can only be because he thinks he is
a better artist than the original composer,
but as he is in the same position as the
copier of some other painter’s picture, he
is merely being pretentious. We have had
many pretentious virtuosos visiting Aus-
tralia, and those are the ones about whose
“souls” some critics speak ecstatically. When
these virtuosos compose something of their
own the result is usually pretty awful. I
should say they were bad artists. The only
great artist whom I have heard give expres-
sion to a personal emotion at the expense
of the composer was Paderewski during his
Sheba and Solomon ( Frith’s version ).
last visit to' Australia. He played the
“Appassionata” with what appeared to me
intense indignation. He probably hated the
Taits making him do the dashed thing for
the 100,000 th time for the benefit of the box-
office, and he had to vent his spite on some-
one. The result may have been great art,
for all I know, but it sounded to me more
like a savage parody, and was certainly not
Beethoven’s “Appassionata.”
As I see it therefore —though I am open
to correction —the. artistic virtuoso should
endeavor to reproduce the original inten-
tion of the music before him, as far as he
is able to grasp it. If it is a bad piece of
music then he should play it in all its bad-
ness. That is the only effective criticism
he can give of it. If it is a good piece of
music, then he is bound to accept it with-
out reservation and in a mood of complete
humility. That is the only way he can
praise it. As far as Philip Hargrave is
concerned, half the stuff written about him
appears to me to be bunkum. His extra-
ordinarily fine playing has been attributed
to a profound insight into life, deep
spiritual understanding and an emotional
maturity equal to those of the composers he
interprets. If this boy of ten has these attri-
butes he must be nothing short of an arch-
angel. In fact, nine out of ten of all the
middle-aged virtuosos I have met haven’t a
soul above poker or South American rail-
Avay shares, yet they succeed in interpreting
Bach and Beethoven to the general satis-
faction. At a guess, I should say that the
lady behind Master Philip has a good under-
standing of music and a proper humility,
and that she has instilled these virtues into
her protege, with results that are admirable.
The worst thing that can happen to the
boy is that he should come to believe the
nonsense written about him.
Criticaster.
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, will be but a
memory after next Saturday week, having-
been sold by the Firm to a cash-and-carry
concern. The Firm selected for the old
stand’s swan-song the Harris-Fraser Simpson
hybrid, “The Maid of the Mountains,” with
Gladys Moncrieff in the leading rQle. Miss
Moncrieff has seldom been in better form
than she was on Saturday night, and she
held her audience spellbound while she de-
claimed “My Life Is Love” and “Love Will
Find a Way.” Encores were plentiful, and
she received bushels of bouquets at the cur-
tain-call. Norman Wlster used his voice
to good advantage as Baldasarre, but he
was a rather-too-gentlemanly brigand chief.
Sidney Burchall (Beppo) made a faltering
start, but warmed up quickly, and w r ound
up strongly. Phil Smith played his original
role of Tonio in the happiest of moods.
Nothing was too ridiculous for him to exploit,
and his clowning in the last act will serve
as a pleasant memory of the last show at
the old house. Three other jesters who
gave the piece extra frills to commemorate
the occasion were the veteran Arthur Stigant
(General Malona), Henry Wenman (Crum-
pet) and Leslie Donaghey (Mayor of
Santo). There was a jocose scene between
Stigant and Miss Moncrieff which ended with
the lady playfully pulling his wig off.
Miriam Sabbage made a charming Angela,
and Dorothy Stanward put zest into the
part of Vittoria. The rest were up to the
mark, the chorus sang admirably, and
the piece w r as well mounted. Andrew
McCunn’s orchestra attended to the tempo,
Minnie Hooper arranged the ballets, and
George A. Highland produced the show.
* # H-
The improper relations existing or pro-
posed between the parties to the two love
affairs which occupied the stage at Mel-
bourne Palace on Saturday aroused anxious
speculations as to how the playwright—pre-
sumably the world-famous Mr. Boxe Office,
since his name wasn’t mentioned on the pro-
gramme—would extricate himself from a
difficult position and enable Respectability
to bury the dagger of retribution in the
breast of Naughtiness before the final cur-
tain. Doubt deepened as the first two acts
developed into a paean of praise of the insti-
tution of Unmarried Love, the lovers con-
cerned being John Cameron, as a novelist
with a wife, and Nellie Bramley. The task
of the dramatist appeared to be beyond the
power of mortal man until the fruit of the
illicit relation, tearing a leaf out of her
parents’ book, decided to love the son of a
peer without troubling the parson or the
registrar. However, the special providence
which watches over writers of kindergarten
comedy came to the rescue of the manage-
ment by killing off the novelist’s wife.
Widower Cameron was now left free to
marry Nellie, which he did with decent
promptitude. This praiseworthy example
was not lost on the children, who straightway
did the same. In the nursery sex-play, how-
ever, Axiom 4578 ordains that if a character
or set of characters have had a Good Time
outside the moral code they shall be com-
pelled to do public penance. In “Marry at
Leisure” they did this by revealing that
bickering is the normal behavior of couples
until they realise that love, whether inside
or outside the married state, must be
“natural.” A fourth act, depicting the course
of natural love, would have been welcome, if
written by somebody who knew what it
meant.
The latest vehicle for Nellie Bramley’s
domestic muse bubbled and burbled more
brightly than its predecessors. As the
adored helpmate of novelist Cameron, the
radiant leading lady doubled the output of
Oohs and Ahs from her audience. Frith
looked more like a real actor than a real
artist, but a good piece of realistic acting
was provided by Ronald Riley as a parson
with an inquisitorial complex.
* * *
“The Divorcee,” a French bedroom
comedy, put on by the New Sydney Reper-
tcrians on Saturday night, is, innocuous. It
was very capably done, however, so far as
Edna Cregan, as the divorced wife, and Ron
Roberts, as an impressionable young male
engaged to be married, but not to the
divorcee, were concerned. Helen Lohan dis-
tinguished herself as Lady Gower, at whose
house the philandering takes place, and
Marjorie Simpson was another who got the
most out of her lines. lan Cook’s divorced
husband was rather too much of an idiot to
be convincing.
* * *
“Our Miss Gibbs” may be on her last legs
at Melbourne Royal for aught this paper
knows, but if so she displays no indications
of advanced senility. The limbs of the
ballet composed of Australia’s Most Beauti-
ful Girls still swing in rhythm, and Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard continue to pre-
sent nightly a symbol of Eternal Love.
“Preposterous!”
The biggest surprise Dante has provided
at Melb. King’s is the length of his run.
The magician with the appearance of a
waxworks Mephistoplieles is, however,
nearly due for his final vanishing trick.
* ¥ *
Houses mainly of students have been giv-
ing roars of welcome to “Stude Prunes,” the
University revue served at Melb. Comedy
last week. Blithe commentaries on contem-
porary affairs included a sketch in which
Lieut.-Col. White, after banning the Bible
and Shakspeare, exchanged smokeroom
stories over the ’phone with his Ministerial
friends. A more painful item about nothing
in particular was redeemed by the clowning
of Norman Atkyns, who seems to be the
makings of a comedian. Another mildly
meritorious feature was a satire on the Rus-
sian ballet, in which .special emphasis was
placed on the familiar undergraduate obses-
sion that there is something peculiarly
humorous in the spectacle of hairy male
legs. The music for this item was well-
contrived parody. The dreadful crooning
of a tall young man was presumably a pro-
duct of the pathology school. The fun ran
a banker in the caricatures of famous
persons in the closing scene.


During the last few days I have endeavoured to
correct any idea that the Shell Company has
not contributed its proper share to the revenues
of Australian Governments, and I have stated
that in 1932 alone £3,497,939 were paid by my
Company to Federal and State Governments.
Apart from these payments to Governments, my
Company spent in 1932 a further sum amounting
to £202,000 on capital works (largely on office
buildings), and I venture to think that this
expenditure at such a time is almost unique.
I have no illusions as to the likelihood of mere
individual efforts of this sort overcoming the
great depression, but I do feel, in view of the
unjust remarks sometimes made about my
Company, that I should stress to the Australian
public our very genuine efforts to relieve Aus-
tralian unemployment, and to assist Australian
industry to carry on until international common-
sense has found a way out.
O. W. DARCH
Qeneral Manager
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
Melbourne, May, 1933
POVERTY POINT.
“Youngest Inhabitant”: A good deal has
been written about Sydney’s first entrepre-
neur, Robert Sidaway, and his £lOO
theatre, but not all of it has been accurate,
Sidaway, an ex-convict who had established
himself as a baker, opened his theatre on
January 16, 1796, with John Sparrow as
manager. Sidaway was then said to be
affluent and respectable. His reputation had
improved. Wh™ Thomas Barrett the first
man executed m Australia, was strung up
on February 27, 1 <BB, lie asked, so surgeon
Bowes tells us, “leave to speak to one of the
convict men (a very bad kind of man), one
Seddiway, which wa.s grantee! lam.’ On
June 4 of the same year—the King s birthday
in those days—we find ‘ Sideway,” with other
convicts, being released from Pinchgut. There
can be little doubt that “Seddiway” and
“Sideway” and “Sidaway” were the same man.
The Sydney Theatre was ordered to be closed
two years after it was opened, but if it ever
really did close it was later reopened, and
in 1800 was still going strong. Most his-
torians declare that the place was demolished
in 1798, but, as playbills, in . the Mitchell
Library show, it was active in that year,
“Henry 1V.,” “The Irish Widow,” “The Re-
cruiting Officer,” “The Virgin Unmasked”
ai )d other plays being produced. Exactly
where the, theatre stood is obscure, but it
is on record that in 1807 Sidaway had a
small allotment in George-street (then High-
street), opposite the granary and provision
stores, and possibly this was the site.
“Emsworth”: Although it never attained
the popularity of the Royal or the
Ula ViC, ’ Her Majesty s, doomed to close
™ doors for .% last time on June 10 has
“W “ em « old-time Sydney first-
trSeed lack tor a Sur? In 1834 Joseph
Nobbs occupied the narrow strip on the
corner; behind him, fronting Market-street,
was onc Farrell, and then, in a slightly
deeper block, F. Lowe. Next to Nobbs on
the Pitt-street front was Michael McQuaid
( or McQuade) and then James Smitliers.
Not long afterwards McQuaid purchased the
whole of the corner site now occupied by
Her Majesty’s, and probably the rest of the
area to where the Victoria Arcade runs
through to Castlereagh-street. In 1848 a
butcher’s shop stood on the corner, with a
fishmonger’s and a tailor’s adjoining, and in
1879 the butchery and fish shop were- still
there, but the tailor’s shop had been con-
verted into dining-rooms. Then came two
small shops, a fruiterer’s, another small
shop, and then the Civil Service Stores, the
latter roughly marking the boundary of the
present Her Majesty’s. All these small
shops were swept away when the first theatre
was built by George Rignold. It was opened
with a spectacular presentation of “Henry
V.” on September 10, 1887, and stood until
it was burnt down early in the present cen-
tury. Rebuilt, it was reopened on August
1. 3903, with Belasco’s stage play “Madame
Butterfly” (source of Puccini’s opera) and
Boucicault’s “Kerry.” J. C. Williamson,
who had not appeared on a Sydney stage
since 1892. made his reappearance on this
occasion—the 29th anniversary to the very
day of his first appearance in Sydney in
“Struck Oil” at the old Queen’s in York-
street. By a strange coincidence it was at
Her, Majesty’s that he made his last appear-
ance on any stage. That was on February
22, 1913, shortly before his death in Paris.
Throughout this period the corner block on
which the theatre stood had been owned by
the McQuaid family, but in November. 1922,
the block (with the adjoining hotel) was
sold to the Firm for £150.000.
“A. Major”: The success of “Waltzes
from Vienna” and “Lilac Time” shows that
there’s nothing much wrong with the musi-
cal taste of the average citizen. As a matter
of fact, while the rnusicomedy stage has been
deluged with some very poor music, it has
brought to light, in the last 30 years, an
astonishing amount of really bright melody.
Just a few years ago I was sent to inter-
view a tenor singer who had achieved a tre-
mendous American reputation. I noted that
his programmes were devoid of the works of
Brahms, Schubert, Schumann and Grieg, and
I asked him why. “Too hackneyed,” he
replied. Keeping in mind some of the things
he did sing, I asked him his opinion of such
comic-opera composers as Lehar and Straus.
“I never heard of Lehar,” was the answer;
“and as to Strauss, I can’t sing rum-turn
waltzes.” I explained patiently that 1 was
referring to the composers of “The Merry
Widow” and “The Chocolate Soldier.” “My
dear fellow,” he exploded indignantly,
“they’re beneath the contempt of any musi-
cian-!” But they aren’t. Brahms and Wag-
ner weren’t allowed to live long enough to
enjoy the lilting melodies of the later school
of Viennese composers, but they were united
in a firm admiration for Johann Strauss, the
elder, both as melodist anti master of
orchestras.
“L.H.P.”: The average actor knows pre-
cious little about any play beyond the one
in which he is appearing, and precious little
about any part in it except his own. Apropos.
I once asked an actor to describe the plot of
“Hamlet.” “I don’t know it.” he said. “I
have only played Polonius.”


The Commercial Banking Company
- of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYFIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, 8.C.3. ■ ( .
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ass
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy.
adjusted, tits fin., fin. and Jin. blades.
jj/6 each, post'free.
15he PLUM RAZOR
•' - ... '
Black Vulcanite, Handle <l2/6 each
Xylo.- Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real.- Ivory Handle .. ...... 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained ’ leather hinged' case
provided free with each razor.)
Each razor set ready for use and / guaranteed
CRAIG & AITKEN,
i Seven-day sets, S'even Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/--. Xylo. 100/-. Ivory 140/-
ALI. POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and Jin.
and kept in order for two years free of charge.
654 George Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Black Mountain”: Dave's wedding was
(after the show) the event of the season
and the little church at Gumnut Valley was
crowded. The girl looked charming in her
wedding finery. Dave’s new suit fitted well,
his tan shoes shone resplcndently, and lin-
seed oil kept his hair well plastered down.
Everything passed off beautifully till the
parson asked: “Is there any just cause or
KEEPING PACE.
FATHER O’FLYNN: “Ye must have a large family be now, Pat!”
PAT: “Thrue, Father. But have ye counted me cows?”
impediment why this man and this woman
should not be joined together?” Dave was
quick to answer: “I’m all right, Parson, but
Stella lisps a. little.”
“Akularn” : You meet some queer coves in
the bush. In a fencing camp west of the
Darling we experienced a snap of horribly
cold weather, and there was a rush for
chaff-bag ! and the like to serve as extra
covering during the night. Groaky Joe
stood scornfully aloof, and while we
others were snugly protected from the
bitter air he shivered Hie ’fights away
wrapped in a pair of blankets so oiu and
worn that they looked like museum relics.
Joe’s chattering teeth at first amused but
later annoyed us, but he was impervious
to all our- taunts until one biting morning
we unanimously told him he was mad. “It’s
youse blokes ’re mad,” he replied, “not me.
Youse sleep warm fin th’night, all right, but
when it comes mornin’ youse moan fer an
hour erbout getting up. But not me. I
sleep cold, but it ain’t no trouble ter me ter
get outer bed. I’m only too blarsted glad
ter leave it!” W
* *
“Pouritana” : . The brown man of Maori-
land Takes an interest in politics, and when
he becomes a candidate he has a more sting-
ing way of dealing with opponents than the
pakeha. For instance, at the last election an
orator belonging to a tribe which in-the early
wars had emerged, from many battles with
victory smashed with a ‘ 20-ton afiswqr the
broadsides of an interrupter whose, tribe in
those same 1 wars had suffered partial annihi-
lation. “Him*” roared tlfe candidate to his
audience; “him should hide .ihfe/sea; my
people.eat his ancestors —and him te result!”
, . * & *
“CqssyV: Bill, my foreman, is a stolid
blighter, but the most dependable: man in the
world at carrying out instructions. A few
days , ago I yvas suddenly called away from
the plant we are putting up on a W.A. show
60 miles from anywhere. Noticing Bill looked
a bit bewildered about some instructions I
was giving him about getting on with the
job, I illustrated with a large-scale “mud-
map.” I have just got back to find the job
well advanced according to instructions, and
my map protected from careless feet with a
stout pdst-and-rail fence.
t. * t- *
“Aorangi”; I Ten a re. who is a six-footer
and weighs 15 stone, was telling us .about the
“baby” car he had won in the raffle. “But
how do you get into a car of that size?” I
asked. “I ton’t kef into him,” he replied.
“I put him on.”
* * * *
“Maluka”: Dogs may know their un-
clothed masters (B. 17/5/’:?”), but horses
do not. Fresh from the city, I was set
to. carting water the creek. On my
last trip I decided to have a dip, and
had just hung my clothes on the back of
die dray wh“’> 'ho horse turned round and
saw me. Dobbin needed no second look.
He headed west at a pace r that belied his
age and "-’oon took him out of sight. Still,
the wheels left a track cas J y to follow* and
when they collapsed the axle, with the
weight of the dray on it, made a broad path
impossible to miss. When I found it some
distance farther along, I paused only long
enough to souvenir the remnants of my cloth-
ing and continued the chase, guided now by
the furrow of the one remaining shaft. It
was pretty late when
I returned to the
homestead with a
much-cliastened prad.
but the boss merely
grunted when I told
him I had left the
dray in the paddock.
His remarks when he
found the various
localities in which I
had left it were bitter.
“Wynne”: Dogs
may fail to recognise
their masters in the
bath. My cat delights
to watch the opera-
tion. He sits in the
bath whilst the heater
is boiling, and on the
end when water be-
gins to flow in. He
sits there whilst I
perform my ablutions,
purrs softly to him-
self, and accepts damp
caresses with dignified
approval. Sometimes
he makes a tour of in-
spection along the
rim, reaching down a
paw to test the water.
The business com-
pleted. he watches
with interest the dis-
appearance of the
water through the
outlet, sometimes with
an inquisitive nose
pushed as far under,
the bath as he can get
to solve the mystery.
After it is all out I
am again graciously
permitted a caress by
a cat who apparently
considers that I am
still worth knowing,
even if I do indulge in
queer habits.
“Proteron”: The
fiisory that Mark
Twain’s “Jum p i n g
Frog” story derives
from Aristophanes (B.
17/5/’33) has a curi-
ous origin. . Years
after it was written a
friend confronted
Mark with a version
of his story in Greek
and the announcement
that it was an extract
from the Greek play-
wright. Mark, -as- he
tells himself, was’ con-
founded. as v lie 1 was
supremely -.confident
the yarn was Ameri-
can in origin. Then
the truth leaked out.
The Greek text was from a book of
Greek prose for use in schools by Professor
Sidgwiek, whose habit was to take choice
extracts from writers in English and con-
vert them into classic Greek.. Writer him-
self came in contact with this work in his
school days and recalls that the Stranger
of the original became in the translation a
Boeotian—a people who always figured as
the supposed “mugs” of Greek comedy—
and that he filled the frog with small stones
while its owner was catching another—
leaden shot was used in Mark’s version.
* * * *
“Engaged” : The often-heard slander that
the cat is lacking in intelligence has been
refuted by a happening reported in a Mel-
bourne daily. The caretaker in a large city
building which had been vacated by office
tenants , for the night was attracted by
persistent ringing at the switchboard. Listen-
ing in he heard a mysterious wailing, and
going to the office * from which the noise
came found a cat which had been locked in.
A table-telephone had the receiver off the
hook, and it is surmised that the intelligent
beast had knocked it off with its paw and
meowed into; the receiver until assistance
came. ' 1
*.* * *
“Larrapinta”: There’s nothing like get-
ting in first. At a recent Agricultural
Bureau conference in S.A. an officer of the
department jumped up and said: “Before the
meeting proceeds to business I should like
to say that drake does not come from wheat,
and that those little red worms in
your horse-troughs are not bloodworms.”
Having thus summarily disposed of two
questions which are always asked, he sat
down.
* =!: * *
“Wainui”: Wherever the Maori came
from he was well posted in the more sports-
manlike customs of mediaeval Europe. His
soc’al system was that of the robber barons.
When there was a clash and a pitched battle
was staged, any warrior might step from the
ranks and offer to settle the dispute by
single combat. More often than not, if he
A REFLECTION ON THE HOUSE.
“Times is that bad, Mrs. Stidgers. My pore husband was ashamed
to face the bottle-o this mornih’, we ’ad so few to offer
him.”
wasn't too old and fat, the chief would
volunteer. The offer had to be accepted;
seconds were appointed, one to each man.
The war parties were drawn up facing one
another, and in the cleared space between
the two men battled with mere and
patu. Custom acknowledged the right of
the second whose principal fell to challenge
the victor, this secorid clash taking place
on the spot, but the issue between the rival
gangs was decided by the result of the first
fight,
“Walk-about”: The folk in the south who
are declaiming against the bullfighting epi-
sodes at the Townsville (N.Q.) rodeo needn’t
worry. The first bullfight will be the last.
The bullfighters, garbed in traditional Spanish
costume, were willing, but the ten-year-old
scrub bulls were not enthusiastic. One.
after being teased, rushed its tormentor, who.
through slipping, received a scratch in the
abdomen from the horns. The 12,000 spec-
tators were unanimous, that bullfighting in
Australia is a wash-out. ■
* $ ❖ *
“ITerpeton”: Nature students up Coff’s
Harbor (N.S.W.) way had a rare chance of
picking up some first-hand information re-
cently. Some banana-planters came on a
12ft. carpet snake swallowing a _ large wal-
laby. Considerately waiting until the mar-
supial had gone to his last—and literally
long—home, the watchers took the snake and
meal to town and put it in a shop window.
After two days the snake was found dead.
It had bled to death, one of the wallaby’s
claws having cut its throat.
“Yacko”: Surgeon Harris Browne, Cap-
tain Sturt’s companion on his expedition in
1844-45. was not the first to note the Sturt
pea (B. 3/5/’33). During his visit to
North Westralia in 1688 or 1699, buccaneer-
botanist William Dampier collected the plant
on Rosemary, one of the Dampier Archi-
pelago islets. Other botanical specimens
first observed by the keen-eyed pirate were
the acacia and banksia. Part of his collec-
tion is preserved at Oxford.
THE SLEEPING QUAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No sound is there on ship or street,
From fret of day set free,
And Midnight walks with muffled feet
Along thfe sleeping Quay.; '
The shore-lights stirless vigil keep
On silent slope and. hill,
While, mirrored in the pulseless deep,
The harbor lights burn still.
That rover from bright ways and blue —
. Wave ways, salt ways and vast—
The nor’-east wind that blew day through,
Has sunk to rest at last.
Anigli and far strange stillness lies
On sleeping ship and street,
And yet a something hither hies
On strong resistless feet.
A tryst to keep, a goal to win,
Fresh from the Outer Sea,
The midnight tide comes marching in
Along the sleeping Quay.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


LEATUER
LUMBER
JACKET
IL
BROWN CHROME
67'e
ITS a JOY
TO WEAR
BRISBANE
h
ON
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. liart, Esq.: M. J. Ryan Em •
K E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
...., HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
For the treatment of
BLOOD AND SKIN DISORDERS
Rheumatic Complaints, Eczema,
Rashes, BoMs, U'cers and Sores
h
OJ alt (Jnemtsts & Stores
Avoid ail imuaaoas
The Richardson Chain Hotel
r.f
tUt
%w
iSIHf Jl ?} 3! n??
W- ' ' ~
* .
t Hu
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
“Trapper” Fashions in furs change
almost as rapidly .as fads for dress materials,
.lust now only furs composed of small skins
can be worn by anyone aspiring to be some-
one. Silver fox is about the only example
of a large-skin fur still holding its own, but
sea-otter js the limit in extravagant demand.
As the little beasts can only he caught at
NO DECEPTION WHATEVER.
"Are they genuine?”
"Too right—I make ’em in me own plurry factory.”
sea far from lnncl and within sharply de-
fined limits it is not surprising to hear that
oniy seven have come- on the London market
hrni t ,*Rf la «L«wi ? ear i\ 2 nd tha 1 t eacl L skni
hundred pounds. Sables
are so lare that orders for a coat must do
SSVSS&
pedTs^^hidt 1 Vide? thl°title f of
water vole, are bringing big prices. An Aus-
traliaii species which is comparatively plen-
tiful has a golden-and-brown coat. This
sort is welcome to Australian skin-buyers.
“Lizard Passage”: A steamer from India
which reached Melbourne the other day had
a ta f e t° t e ß of the murder of a passenger—-
a squirrel which had wandered on board at
Calcutta and become the ship’s pet. Austra-
grecantio... mab tl.o little
chap an im P°ssible immigrant, and he went
overboard in a bag before land was sighted.
In the North Queensland years that the local
cockroaches have eaten, the late German
Harry, who used to run the ketch Jeera from
Cooktown to Samarai, in Papua, had a
.possum which stowed away in the same
Rishion. The Australian, however, would let
nobody near him, and attempts to catch him
ln the rigging all ended in- failure. made
many baek-and-forth trips with the Je.era
before disappearing. What he lived on was
a mystery, for ..he would take food from no
one.
<<T>l ’ ! ’ < * * *
Blue Tongue : Our old friend the sleepy
lizard, who for years has enjoyed the respect
*be community because of liis rather un-
expected habit of carrying on an intensive
war with the much more agile snake, is
under suspicion of being a reptilian Herod
£n disguise. A Victorian naturalist has
reported him as having been several times
caught in the -act of clearing birds’ nests of
eggs and nestlings, and argues that the
lizard must thus be a dangerous enemy to
ground-nesting birds. This is doubtful. In
the days before intensive stocking and burn-
ing off, the lizard was much more plentiful
in the grasslands of Australia than he is
to-day. So were the many species of Aus-
traliaii ground-nesting birds, some of which
are extinct now and others fast disappear-
ing. One fox would probably do more harm
in this-respect than a thousand “stumpies.”
* * * *
“Sidnee”: Years and years ago I, a timid
youth, took a job as jackeroo on a station.
There was.a large family of girls—regular
Amazons by the look of them. First night
I retired early so as to get a flying start
next morning. Two a.m. by my Waterburv
watch, illuminated by one-match power, I
was awakened by loud bangs on the iron
roof, streams—shrill soprano ones—and
dogs barking. I ventured stealthily out on
to the verandah to view the murder at a
distance. The moon was partly under a
cloud; Shadowy forms seemed to be doing
n kind; of witches’ dance around a tree. A
stable lantern on the end of a long pole
joggled about like a demented firefly. Bangs
continued; the dog-barking was terrific. Sud-
denly there was a concerted shriek, then a
loud flop. Something thudded past me into
the night. It was a huge possum Then
sr i
W ® S silant — the lianas had missed their kill,
~ ,
. Yiau : Trading with savages is a job
v ! dt b kinks in it. Going to a N.G. plaiita-
ti°n > I took some German knives, made of soft
iron, but looking worth a lot more than the
threepence each cost, as presents for native
chiefs. An old buck called and traded a
line of vegetables carried by his womenfolk,
and thanked me for the buekshee knife. He
THE ABERDEEN TOUCH.
"That’s old Macpherson. Drives with the
hood down to save petrol!”
was so impressed with my business methods
that he named a day for ine to come to his
village and get a boatload of foods. Went
along, found everybody wanted knives,
handed out good British cutlery, filled the
tub, and tried to get away quickly; the'
Tuluai had been freely
displaying his knife,
with, nicks all along the
edge, an old rust spot
ras showing up again,
and I wanted to dodge
. recriminations. II ow-
over, he got me by the
. arm, and the crowd set
up, a loud howling.
“Master,” he said. ■' “all
same this fella. All
like good fella* khift
like givim you this
othUr fella now catchim
ba c k kai-kai belong
him.” And I had-to let
them take back their
goods; ; they refused
money or anything .else
in lieu of the spurned
knives. In four years
I never managed to sell
them anything or buy
from them; the breach
was healed only when
I got some of the de-
sired German knives—
and let them have them
at the equivalent of two
bob a time. They
weren’t, absolute fools';
the article was a nice
shape, well balanced,
and the blade could be
smoothed and sharpened
on any old stone.
* * *
“Polyp”; One of the
most remarkable fea-
tures of the beche-de-
mer found in large num-
bers along the Barrier,
Beef is that when a-
creature is disturbed, or
in dartger from an enemy,
it ejects ’the whole of its
stomaeh-'ahd associated ■ a'pparritiis. The ptir-
suer usually'stops to feast upon that which
has been ejected and the bgche-de-mer goes
into hiding to grow a new set of innards.
-Lhere. are 33 different varieties of beche-de-
mer m these northern waters, ranging in
length from four inches to a couple of
feet or more, and all practise the ejec-
tion habit.
Molar ’: Concerning those underground
rivers, in the Mt. Gambier (S.A.) area (B.
10/5/’33), the geological supposition is that
fissures were left in the limestone bed, allow-
ing for percolation of water to the water-
table. It is assumed that the water then has
a southerly movement to the sea. Hence
"Huffin-Guffin’s”’ fresh water along the sea-
frontage. That the rise and fall of the
waters in the Mt. Gambier crater lakes is
due to the thawing of the snow on the Aus-
tralian Alps is wide of the mark. The
Alps have had much snow in recent years,
but the lakes have not risen for a decade
or more. As to the cave in the centre of the
town being used for the deposit of “all rub-
bish,” the town health authorities would be
glad to show “Huffin-Guffin” the garden that
surrounds it. A system of underground
channels diverts flood-waters from the town’s
thoroughfares into this cave, where they
quickly disappear.
“N.S.”: Here’s an entry for the queer-
paving stakes. The drive leading to a can-
ning factory in the Goulburn Valley dis-
trict (Vic.) is made entirely from fruit
stones, so tightly packed and rolled down
that they present a smooth solid surface,
like concrete hut much more decorative.
‘‘Longinus” : While admitting that a man
m armor would need a pretty hefty prad
(B. 3/5/’3B), there is no evidence that des-
triers generally were of; a heavy type. Many
of the nobles bred their horses from Arabs.
Richard Neville, . Earl •of Warwick, had
two famous destriers, .Malech and Saladin,
whose forebears were presented to a Crusad-
ing ancestor by Sala-eb-Din himself. War-
wick speaks of these two stallions as being
the last of their race, and asserts that they
‘‘disdained to mate with any of lower degree.”
At the battle of Towton in the Wars of the
Roses, when the Lancastrians were getting
the better of things, the Earl, who led the
lorkists, deliberately dismounted and killed
Malech with his dagger in full view of his
fleeing men, signifying that he would rather
die than retreat. The ruse was successful;
the lorkists rallied round their leader and
the Reds were eventually routed. Years after
at Barnet, Warwick (by this time on the
other side) tried the same stunt. Saladin
™ sacrificed, but this time with no avail:
1 ne_iviiig-mak(T died beside his slaughtered
steed.
Run a : In Maoriland, where the breakers
are tremendous and the backwash very
strong, it was the fashion of our elders to take
us youngsters. Surfing on a rope. About a
aozen of us would be spaced along the line
with a grown-up at each end, and stern in-
structions were issued that we were toehold
the rope firmly Although a big breaker
would carry us ,all inshore, we might be buried
and tossed off our feet by the receding water
■ and ■> l (‘as the waves .are much ™ slower
V ian those Ahat beat on Sydney beaches)
drowned betoreVhe next wave sent us shore-
wards again. We of course'’surfed only on
the incoming, tide ; -surfing., on the ebb was
suicide.
* * =5 $
“C. Coral” ; Lately there has been an out-
break of tuba’ drinking in some of the
Torres Strait islands, and Jimmy Susu has
been told that unless he goes more carefully
he will have trouble with the law. Tuba is
the product of the shoot of the young newlv-
torming bunch of cocoamits, the liquid drain-
ing out into suitable receptacles from inci-
sions made m the bent-over shoot. When
it first trickles out it is sweet, like honev
but later it assumes a different flavor and
if allowed to ferment lias quite a ’kick
especially when mangrove bark or tobacco
is added Tuba seems to have been intro-
duced into Torres Strait by the South Sea
men. The Filipinos also favor it ea
HE BADGE OF SERVITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yn„ mnef „
Now old and weak and my S ° n ‘
While vet t-fiere’e rime t m i i
Thlthtg yom'fSr wo -e
He carried it when he wa - Voimo-
y oul ! father’llSind
He came of men tint L-tve W
fl Lt sn Vnd 5 b G
Hit badge of seivitude.
Your father’s palms are hard mv son •
His brow is damp wMi sweat ’
Deep in his heart are bitter thoughts
That he migh> well forget • 8
And he is faint ami needing’ rest—
The journey fiaa been lorn -
And men though" weak that wear the
Must keep abreast the strong *
.
His eyes are dim, his sunken cheeks
Are crossed by many seams;
So pass the turn that leads you to
The graveyard of his dreams.
Gaze high, and travel straight ahead
And do not halt or swerve;
Mark well the pitfalls by the way—
Your father lived to serve. '
You’re with the tide to-day, my son;
But you may sink or swim.
Strike out beyond your father’s wake
Or you’ll go down with him!
With valiant effort mount the crest
Tbat crowns the highest wave
And carries men beyond the pool
That holds them till the grave.
„ •
t° use another’s hoe through life
_ Will cramp and warp your soul.
Uh aching backs and breaking hearts
lo earn the hired-man’s dole!
Take not the badge of servitude—
Pn „,^ a ™ ed ybile yet there s time —
J 4iffi T". ? rung
- nd climb, climb, climb.
n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. ~£1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
iicn 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHAI.L STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
DraftTlmd Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
self-help.
(Übmmoiwealtt) Savmoslank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
ItBuiPIEAU C»
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great .newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 87.522.
SMOKE-OH!
Willis wants to see the Inner Group on
the outer.
* V
Westralia is finding that nothing recedes
like secess.
* *
“Fliers who surmounted Everest report having
seen another peak much higher.”
Would this be the peak of the depression?
*
ANOTHER SURGICAL TRIUMPH.
Sir Scalpel Chloro-Forme, the brain
specialist, confronted the anxious father. “I
can only save your son by an extremely deli-
cate operation. I propose to remove his
brain and treat it by the cyanide-arsenic
method. Pending its replacement, the cavity
will be filled with the grey matter of a
rabbit. Do you agree?”
“Carry on,” said the father.
A couple of months later Sir Scalpel
called at his patient’s domicile with the
latter’s now renovated brain in a box. He
“You and your sister have been divorced! Wodger
mean, boy?”
“Pa’s got Betty and ma’s got me."
proposed to replace it in its original resting-
place. , ....
“Thanks,” said the father, “but it’s simply
not worth the trouble. There was an elec-
tion a week after the operation, and George
got in as our member. They’re saying down
at Parliament House that he has as good
a brain as any of ’em.” O/D
SEVEN AGES OF WOMAN.
1. Her age.
2. Tlie age she’d like to be.
3. The age she tells her husband she is.
4. The age her husband thinks she is.
5. The age she thinks her husband thinks
she is. , , „ . ,
6. The age she tells her best friend.
7. The age her best friend tells people
she is.
“There are only two known methods of government,
the ballot and the bullet.”— J. T. Lang.
He should know; he was given the bullet
by the ballot.
V- *
According to Larwood, Australia is a
great whine-producing country.
* *
TOO ENRAGED TO FIGHT.
“Although war has been declared between Para-
guay and Bolivia, following years of border blood-
shed, no hostilities have begun.”— Cable.
The “Blurb’s” special representative made
haste to interview General Oxenfato.
“The ‘Blurb’ is anxious to hear the extent
of your casualties,” he began.
“We hava none,” responded the General.
“But you are at war !”
“Basta! Thata da reason. We no longer
whata you call da friends.”
“But, dammit, you used to fight when you
were friends.”
“Si, senor. But now we are ata da war,
and we, how you say, cut one another. No
spika, no fighta no more.”
“You mean to say you’ve got so annoyed
with the other crowd that you- won’t give
them the- satisfaction of a battle?”
“Thata da position,” said the General, an
expression of relentless hatred in his eye.
“We no spika, no fighta, till da war finish.”
Dazedly the pressman staggered to the
cable office and sent his message: “Nothing
doing hero. Fill up with .some more Lar-
wood.”
11. M.
«.* r V.
“Larwood expects to get £2OOO in royalties from
his book, ‘Bodvline.’ ”
Well, the income-tax people will hit him
to leg if nobody else can. .
* ¥
SADIE BARES HER SOUL.
“Some bf. these American films are teaching our
children that to be good means that you are going
to be old-fashioned and poor.”— “Feminist.”
“My parents,” complained Sundae Sadie,
“never gave me a chance.
Many’s the time I was told
to my face that I was a good
little girl. At six I was
brutally, callously, awarded a
pink good-conduct card. It
seemed hopeless to try and
live it down. But the clouds
broke in time; It was after
I lifted a rag doll at Snor-
derns’ that I realised that life
might mean something to me
after all. At ten I was looked
upon ,at C. 1.8. headquarters
as the cleverest chocolate-bar
dip in Australia. At thirteen
I pulled off the biggest job of
my career —a string of glass
beads at 800 l worths and the
‘Daily Dingbat’ featured me
as the queen of the juvenile
underworld. Percy, the Boy
Scout, Australia’s most sinis-
ter office-stamp racketeer, is
my slave. Yet, although I am
fifteen and a hard-boiled
woman of the world. I nurse
a terrible fear —-the fear that
Percy will find out about that
pink good-conduct card. Percy
is ruthless. Percy is prompt.
Percy would put me on ‘the
spot’—on the spot.”
Mc.M.
* *
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
“Larwood keeps a poultry farm.”
Exactly, and the result is
his fliers have often made
Woodfull duck and Bradman
cock them up for Allen to
clutch at. McCabe pecked at
them once too often, and went
back to sit and brood after-
wards. Apropos, Larwood
says Bradman is chicken-
hearted, but that Richardson
and McCabe are well-plucked. Jardine
egged Larwood on, and the crowd gave him
the bird. Larwood believes in cutting the
cackle and getting on with the game, except
when the cackle means feathering his nest.
His greatest joy is to bowl batsmen neck
and crop, and when he succeeds he certainly
knows how to crow.
R. G.
* ¥
“There is only one donkey in the British army.”
— “Argus.”
We’d like to see this one tried on a sar -
major.
* *
The whole .trouble about this body-line
business is that the Aussies want to make
Tests safety matches and the English want
to strike them.
“The moon will present a series of attractive
combinations.’ ’ —‘ ‘Herald. ”
Diana, Diana!
T T
Hans won’t be separated from arms.
H- *
PRODUCING A GREAT PAPER.
The managing editor of the “Dotard"
frowned the heavy frown which he had
copied from a half-tone block
of Mussolini, and pressed one
of the score of ivory buttons
on his desk.
“Mr. Tinkler!” he roared
into the void.
Tinkler materialised gasp-
ing, and stood to attention.
The Great Chief placed a
minatory finger on a quarter-
column interview with a visit-
ing politician. “You do this?”
“I—er—in point of fact —
er —that is to say—er- —to tell
the truth—er —-yes.”
“Well, it’s flapdoodle, punk.
P-U-N-K! You understand
plain English, I suppose?”
“Er—quite'—that is—yes.”
“Now here,” indicating a
copy of the “Morning Wit-
ling.” ‘ ‘is a journalist who
knows how. I’ve marked his
stuff. Take it and study it,
Tinkler. I want people with
gumption in this office. Gump-
tion. Mens sana non compos
liter arum, if you know your
Greek. As you butter your
bread, Tinkler, so you must
lie on it. That will do !”
When the “Dotard” came
out next day, it had accurately
copied a “Witling” feature.
There was a streamer row of
tabloid interviews, surmounted
by a row of heads, reminiscent
of Maori carvings. The inter-
views ran like this: —
“Mr. Vert Igo, champion
Yo Yo player of Czeclio-Slo,-
vakia. says Sydney is nicer
than- Nice.”
“Mr. Hiram Iv. Jobbernowl, fashionable
mortician ( anglice, undertaker), from Pea
Ridge. Pa., says he allowed Sydney was
dead but is tickled to death to find it dead
livelv, and then some.”
“The Hon. Monty Mbrosis,, London club-
man. says he thinks Australia quite equal .
to his expectations- -which were low.”
“Professor Pugwash, the eminent authority
on the wishbones of Wolverhampton, says
Sydney’s climate is superior to that of
Shoreditch.”
Inadvertently Mr. Pugwash’s photo,
appeared over that of the Hon. M. Morosis.
but no one noticed, and Mr. Tinkler found
an extra ten shillings in his pay-envelope
that week.
0. N.
The Jews of Germany seem to have been
done brown by the Nazis.
# *
If only Britain and U.S.A. would agree
to defer!
* *
“President Roosevelt has been manoeuvred into a
tight corner.” — “Sun.”
The corners find it easy to get tight m
the U.S.A. nowadays.
%•
Jardine and Larwood are determined to
write their wrongs.
H- ¥
Depvesh text: “Millions now living will
never buy.”
¥
THE PUNTER FOLLOWS A GOLF
MATCH.
Well, we gets to the course all right,
and it’s an 18-furlong flutter. The favorite’s
called Stan, and the dogs is howlin’ him for
a cert. There’s a big field, and the leaders
gets away early. Goin’ along the rise, Stan’s
out in front about two lengths clear, but
runs a bit wide roundin’ for the third, and
loses distance. Coinin’ on to the fourth a
maiden named Robby, a flash little colt, gets
the runnin’ and leads the favorite to the
fifth. Robby flounders in some heavy goin’
as they approach the six, and a big moke
named Baldy cuts through on tlie fence and
is lengths clear at the back of the course.
The favorite is in the race again at the
seven, and the know-alls is all callin’ his
name. Goin’ to the mile —I mean the eight;
—Stan gets pocketed in some scrub. He’s
out of the race as they turn for home, but
Robby runs wide, and Baldy gets off the
course too. Goin’ for the ten, Stan puts
in a great run along the centre of the track
and stalls off a challenge from the outsider,
MoQuirk. The order is the same to the
mile and three-quarters, where Stan leads
from McQuirk, with Robby and Baldy just
in front of the rest of the field. At the two
miles. McQuirk gets an inside berth, and
has the favorite hustled. When they turn
for home Stan falters an’ lands in a ditch
full of sand. McQuirk takes the lead, and
Stan (who got outer the ditch quick-time 1
just pips Robby out of second money, with
Baldy back in the ruck and blowm’ hard
when they comes to the flag. Then the
stewards puts their heads together, and the
race is awarded to Stan, because someone
says McQuirk forgot two strokes at the
sixteenth. You’d ’a’ thought they was playm
billiards.
“This milk looks rather weak."
“It’s going round , mum. I’m feeling dead weak myself."
WIIAT AIIK YOU DOING FOR HIM?
Muddle and Hash's Business College will
train your boy for any of the following
lucrative professions:—
Dole Drawing : Boys are apprenticed on
the baby bonus, and work up through the
family endowment and the various dole
scales to the old-age pension. We prepare
PUPILS FOR THE DOLE QUESTIONNAIRE. At
the last exam, we secured the highest passes
in the State. N.B.—We have a one hundred
per cent, record. Every M. and H. pupil
in this section is now on the dole.
Racecourse Urging : This department is
under the personal supervision of Professor
Robbery-Parke. We assist each pupil in
the purchase of a practice on the Flat:
he can then build up until he is well
established in tlie Paddock. As an auxil-
iary to this course we have recently in-
cluded a helpful leeturette —“Climbing Race-
course Fences.”
<'o Nfidenhalts m : Based on our standard
publication “How to Sell George-street, in
Two Lessons.” A sample testimonial:
“Thanks to your training, I have solved one
of life’s major problems, viz., How to Get
Money Without Work.” This ivas our
grateful pupil’s income for Show w r eek: —
3 sales of G.P.0., at £5 each £l5
27 sundials at £1 £27
Notes to be changed to English money £lOO
£142
Special Concession : Graduates in the
foregoing course may take our Political
Course at a reduced fee.
S. Esq.
BATTLE OF THE PENS.
Ye poor little bush-bred peoples who sampled
the English snag,
When a million steel-shod fountain-pens
stood fast by the English Flag,
And never an English nib gave ground to
the ravening Aussie foe—
For what could they know of Larwood who
only Bradman know?
Would ye sneer at the demon bowlers who
rattled your craven ribs?
Then it’s little ye know of England and the
temper of English nibs.
Till our fists go stiff with writer's cramp
and our inkpots empty stand,
So long will otlr toast be “English, Sport”
and its synonym “Jardine’s Band."
WOODYARD CIIIPLING.
A SONG OF THE DEPRESSION.
When every prospect pleases and, no matter
how you try,
You can't see any reason why you, should
mourn and cry,
Your condition is unwholesome, and all
science teaches that's
Exactly the occasion when you'll get it in
the slats.
When the Income Tax Commissioner admits
he’s satisfied,
And beyond the. week's disbursements you've
got something on the side;
When the grocer quits his troubling, arid the
butcher says it's jakc,
And the doctor doesn’t ask for each spare
farthing that you make :
Muster up your courage, brother, for the
worst is looming near.
Some long-forgotten blister that you’d long
since ceased to fear
Will conic crashing from the welkin. You’ll
feci dizzy for a while;
But you'll gird your loins and meet it, and
you’ll soon commence to smile,
Saying, “Nothing now can harm me," in a
tone half-strong, half-meek,
Knowing well , you sclf-dccciver, that there's
worse to come next week!
HYRAM.


the age old
SYMBOL
■1
OF CELEBRATION
m.
M.
%
#«
I
M
7s.
t
ii"'»tti Hii,
V'
H
J"
I
m
r
a
!3 t
\^/
■ i
N®J
rW|
USS
8S
5S
as
I\V
hK
Castor and Pollux bringing to Rome news of their victory in the Battle of Lake Regillus. After the famous painting by Matania
in the possession of the Distillers of White Horse Whisky.
When the
white horses of victory
brought rejoicing to Rome
Flower-showered ... triumphant
• •t the victorious Roman Generals
returned from the wars. And—
at the sight of the snow white
horses of victory, all Rome re-
joiced. Then as now, the white
horse brought in its train,
celebration and good cheer.
Take home a bottle of White
Horse or one of the three
sizes of handy flasks to-day.
You’ll find that a nightly
nobbier of White Horse puts
the cares of the day behind
and sets the seal on your
evening’s content.
White Horse
" SCOTCH WHISKY
Guaranteed Pure Scotch & bottled in Bond under Government supervision
Look for the circular seal
“Product of Scotland” on
the neck of every bottle of
White Horse. It is affixed
under the supervision of the
Commonwealth Customs,
and is your guarantee that
the contents are “Scotch!
All Scotch! And nothing
but Scotch!”


Commences Ist June, 1933.
*
RED SPO
It’s here again. Accompanied by thou-
sands of wonder bargains, the Red Spot
Sale again makes a welcome reappearance.
As a basis, everything throughout the
As a basis, everything throug
Store (excepting a few pro-
prietary lines) is reduced at
least
10%
Many lines, to effect rapid
clearance, are selling even as
low as . . .half price
—for a £4/18)9
Suit - to - Measure
Although the price is so low, you still get
the same excellent quality of material and
skill in workmanship. Choose your cloth
from all-wool Worsteds, Tweeds and pure
Indigo Dye Serges. Tailored to your indi-
vidual measures and wishes, for .. £3/7/6
£4/13/9
Formerly
£6/6/-
£5/2)9
Formerly
£6/15/-
The latest in superlative weaves is faithfully
interpreted in the higher-priced Suits to
Measure. Tailored from superb-quality all-
wool Worsteds and Serges, to your measures.
Other Sale Prices:
£3/3/-, £3/19/6, £5/12/6,
£6/5/6
Write for
FREE Patterns /
m
s
■
■ ‘ ■ . • '
HW
. :*£-■>!* i*
M
■ i
■;■■■■■<
.
I
■
. :
y
y
Name,
y Desk “R,”
S MURDOCH’S, LTD., \
X* Box 3875 XT., G.P.0., Sydney. \
y Dear Sirs, — \
' Kindly forward me, without delay, comprehensive range of »
Suiting Patterns at Red Spot Sale Prices. Send those priced .
at about £. ,• • - \
Address
22/6 Fur Felts
Sale
Price,
©
Special release of men’s SILK
LINED pure Fur Felt Hats, in “Snap
Brim” shape. Colors of Fawn,
Beaver, Light, Mid and Dark Greys.
Sizes, 6-| to 7§.
Thousands of other
Bargains.
' 7v I
m
m
m.
'.?s%oPxi
Sale
Book
FREE!
Send to Desk “R” for a FREE copy of
Murdoch’s big Sale book. It will save you
pounds.
We pay
freight.
Murdoch’s B
Kindly write
to Desk “R.”
PARK & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
4
“The/ say this 1933 model is the best value
obtainable anywhere, and I believe, too, that
it’s the most popular 2-ton truck in England”
. . . said the Tall One
i
“Well, the long and short of it is that we’ll
buy a British Bedford”
. . . said the Short One
Model W.l.G. . . . Zf-Ton
Chassis , . . 157 Wheelbase
Designed to suit Australian condi-
tions, the British Bedford offers the
maximum in dependable and econo-
mical service. Available on G.M.A.C.
plan. Bedford Truck Chassis in
i ST' and I 3 I" wheelbase.
The British
BEDFORD
Consult Your Local Authorised Bedford Dealer.
TAKE
EADE’S PILLS
AND LAUGH AT
RHEUMATISM.
Eighty-six years ago Mr. George Eade,
Chemist, discovered this famous remedy.
From that day to this Eade’s Pills have
been the most successful remedy for Rheu-
matism, Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica and
Lumbago in the world.
There is no need to suffer the agonising
pains caused by these dread complaints,
Eade’s Pills have proved successful in thou-
sands of other cases, and will do so in
yours.
Every Reputable Chemist sells Eade’s Pills.
READ THIS LETTER:
August, 198®.
Manningham, Bradford..
Sirs, —Two years ago I had an awful
attack of rheumatic gout in both feet. They
had to get a doctor in the night, to me,
as I thought I would go mad. I took three
Eade’s Pills, and in three days I was up
walking about. They are the most wonder-
ful pills I have ever taken. — Mrs. E.H.
Every testimonial published by Eade’s is a
genuine unsolicited appreciation.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
STANDS BEHIND ITS
PRIMARY PRODUCERS
SECESSION REFERENDUM
COUNT.
Yes. No.
Secession . . 138,653 70,706
Convention . . 88,175 119,131
Relief from Federation means a
prosperous market for your goods.
Increase your sales by advertising
in the Perth
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL PAPER.
THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE!
Its power and prestige as a news-
paper in the West is demonstrated
by the 2-to-l majority for Secession,
notwithstanding press and political
opposition to the Secession Move-
ment.
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Angel Place. ’Phone: 85630.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
1 AUSTRALIA.
No. 275 of 1933.
Between NELLIE STUART Plaintiff
And NORMAN NOBES STUART Defendant.
To NORMAN NOBES STUART.
Notice is hereby given to Norman Nobes Stuart
whose last known address was care of Mrs. E. D.
James Dove Street Thebarton South Australia that
a writ has been issued in the Supreme Court of
South Australia in an action in which his wife
Nellie Stuart claims an order for divorce on the
"round of his desertion and habitual and wilful
failure during the five years preceding the com-
mencement of such action to pay the maintenance
for his wife which he has been ordered to pay by
an order of a Court of Summary Jurisdiction on
the 7th day of September 1923 and in such action
liis wife intends to ask for an order for maintenance
and if Norman Nobes Stuart desires to be heard m
opposition to the claim for any of such orders he
must file an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Slip re ine Court of South Australia within
thirty days of the publication of the latest adver-
tisement directed to be published in this action
otherwise orders may be made against him m his
absence. LBMpRIEKE ABBOT T & CORNISH,
Remington House, 29 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE ESTATE OF GODFREY HAYWOOD late
* of Little Daisy Flinton Queensland Fanner
deceased Intestate.
THE UNDERSIGNED are anxious to communi-
cate with MRS. DORA WILSON the wife of Archie
Wilson who was a Sister of the abovenamed
deceased or any of her Children one of whom is
believed to have become MR.S. DORA PRIESTLEA.
It is believed that: Mr. Archie Wilson was at one
time a Mine Manager at A\ est Maitland and after-
wards went to live in Western Australia.
McLAOHLAN westgarth & CO..
Solicitors,
74 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PHONOGRAPHS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No 26936/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting - of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FLUID PRESSURE
ENGINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 7548/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Some Broken Hill Figures.
Ore mined to date, 44 million tons :
Value produced from the mines, £157
million.
Dividends to date, £37 million.
Still going strong.
And then there is “The Barrier
Miner,” noty in its 46th year of office
as the Great Daily Newspaper of
Broken Hill and the Far West.
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is yours free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.


THE
lIMITCn
U II B I L. li
insurance
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE $ HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranoes
i
Marine Risl; s
(effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, See.' H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
h
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then I To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
9S PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. jtTell
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
u Agency Co., Ltd.
h
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
fo SUCCWd—”"” THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&O?t<t
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
h
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THAT FERTILISER SUBSIDY.
The Commonwealth Relief Act, 1932, pro-
vides for payment of a subsidy of 15s. per
ton of artificial manure used between Decem-
ber 1, 1932, and November 30. 1933 (neither
before nor after) in the production of pro-
duce other than wheat. If a man has used
two tons during that period he will be
eligible to receive 305., and so on; if he
ha.s used less than one ton no subsidy is
payable. Nor are fractions of a ton recog-
nised ; if the quantity is 1J tons the sub-
sidy will be 155.; if 2| tons, 30s.
The thing: applies to. every product except
wheat. Growers of oats, hay (wlieaten hay
t°° } _ this point has been decided by the
Solicitor-General), barley, hops, beans,
apples, pears, citrus fruit, tobacco and so
forth will therefore be eligible to claim the
subsidy, which will also apply to artificial
manure used in top-dressing of pastures.
Forms of application can now be got at
country post offices. They should be
addressed to the Officer-in-Charge, Fertiliser
Subsidy Section, Department of Commerce,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth or Hobart, as the case may be; and
they can be obtained from that functionary
if there should be no local supplies. After
forms have been filled in they should be sent
to the supplier of the artificial manure for
his certificate, with a request that the appli-
cation be forwarded to the department. The
full quantity claimed for should have been
applied before the application is submitted.
FREE FROM LOOSE SMUT.
Loose smut is a cause of loss to many
Australian wheatgrowers, particularly in
seasons when there is excessive humidity at
flowering-time. Most Australian varieties
are susceptible, and copper carbonate is no
preventive. A discovery made at the
Bathurst experiment farm and announced
by the N.S.W. Director of Plant Breeding
strongly suggests that two varieties are
immune.
At the Bathurst farm it was found that
some wheats had 100 per cent, infection
from artificial inoculation of seed. Florence
and Carrabin nevertheless remained free.
Carrabin, bred in Westralia, is a Cedar—
Florence cross. Cedar has been found to be
susceptible; the ’scutcheon of Florence is
unstained, as far as the records show.
More evidence will be required before the
matter can be regarded as settled. Still, the
indications are that Florence is immune
from loose smut and can communicate immu-
nity as a parent. So it is hoped that this
useful character may be transferred to more
productive varieties now being developed,
filorence, of course, is a variety that has
been known for a long time. It was
obtained by crossing White Naples and Im-
proved Fife, the type produced being crossed
to White Naples, and the product of that
mating being paired with another type
derived from the crossing of Improved Fife
and Eden.
FEEDING DAIRY CATTLE.
“Dubious”: I was interested in the con-
tention of “W.D.McC.” (B. 26/4/’33) that
test records in milking and butter-fat com-
petitions are just advertising splashes with
no attention given to costs. Recently, Pro-
fessor McKillop, of Ohio University, tackled
the proposition from the point of view of
producing butter-fat in large quantities by
special feeding with an eye to profit. He
supervised a group of test cows in Ohio
which averaged 1821 b. of butter-fat. They
ate 241 b. of silage, 91b. of hay and 81b. of
grain for each pound of butter-fat produced.
A second group under test, which averaged
3871 b. of butter-fat ate 91b. of silage, 51b. of
hay and 61b. of grain for each 11b. of butter-
fat. Thus, while the first group ate 411 b. to
produce lib. of butter-fat, the seci nd onlv
needed 201 b.
The obvious moral is that one must begin
with the cow and select or breed the type
which gives the best return for a given quan-
tity of food.
FODDER TABLES.
“Hatter”: “J.W.W.” (B. 10/5/'33) asks
for tables of feeding stuffs. For economic
feeding it is essential to know the exact
proportions of carbohydrates and protein re-
quired by different animals for growth and
milk production, and the cheapest form in
which these can be supplied, with due regard
to the amount of food normally consumed by
an animal of any specified weight. Over-
eating, which is not only wasteful but also
leads to digestive troubles, is the result of
an animal’s attempt to balance a defective
ration.
Since the requirements of each kind of
animal are different, and these again vary
according to age and size, stores or fats, and
in the case of cows according to the milk
yield, scientific feeding calls for con-
siderable study. The prepared tables, if
available, make it possible for a farmer to
put lib. increase in live weight a day on his
young stores, or 2-Jlb. per week on his pigs,
as he wishes; but some elementary know
ledge of the terms used and the system on
which the tables are compiled is necessary.
ihe modern method shows the quantities
of carbohydrates and protein actually digest-
ible in each variety of foodstuffs and gives
tneir nutritive value, in place of figures based
simply on chemical analysis. Carbohydrates
and oils contain only three chemical ele-
ments —carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Pro-
tein contains in addition t 0 these about 16
p.c. nitrogen and a little sulphur and phos-
phorus; some succulent foods like mangolds,
cabbage, etc., contain also nitrogenous com-
pounds. Crude protein stands for the per-
centage of all these digestible compounds as
distinct from pure protein. Protein equiva-
lent (the best; figure to use in calculating
rations) is the percentage of digestible pure
protein plus half the difference between the
percentages of digestible crude protein and
digestible pure protein.
The _ net digestible values of energy-
supplying foods are expressed in terms of
starch, not because starch is used in practice
as a feeding, stuff, but because it has been
long used as a standard of fuel value in
scientific experiments. The Gross Digestible
Energy contents of a food include the sol-
uble carbohydrates, the oil contents multi-
plied by 2.3 (because lib. of oil equals
2.31 b. of starch), the pure protein multiplied
by 1.25 (because lib. of protein equals 1.25
of starch) and the fibre contents. Thus the
total digestible energy of good meadow hay
expressed as starch is 481 b.; that is to say,
481 b. of starch equals 1001 b. of good hay. The
Net Digestible Energy, commonly called now
the Starch Equivalent, gives the actual pro-
ductive value of feeding stuffs and is based
on direct practical experiments. In some
coarse fodders, such as straw, there is a
considerable difference between the gross D.E.
and the net D.E. (or starch equivalent), due
to the fact that much of the energy contained
in straw is used up by the animal in the
process of chewing and digesting, This
energy is certainly converted into heat, but
cannot be used for growth, fat, milk or work.
The relative proportion of proteins to
carbohydrates that forms a suitable nutritive
ratio for most animals is 1 to 8. Good short
pasture is in the ratio 1 to 21 and is very
nearly as rich in protein as linseed cake. It
follows that any concentrates used for heavy
milkers on the best pastures should take the
form of cereals, rich in carbohydrates, rather
than bran or cakes as commonly used. The
figures that concern the farmer deal with the
Protein Equivalent, the Starch Equivalent
and the nutritive ratio of fodders ; and these
are therefore chosen in the following table
asked for by “J.W.W.”
Approx.
Nutritive
P.E. S.E. Value.
Wheat 9.6 72 1:7
Oats 7.6 60 1:7
Lucerne in full flower.. 7 29 1:4
Maize 7.6 78 1:9
Turnips 0.4 4 1:9
Maize ensilage . . . . 0.6 8.6 1 :13
Good pasture closely grazed 4 14.7 2 : f>
Meadow hay (good) . . 4.4 37 1:8
BENEFITS OF MIXED PASTURE.
“A.C.8.”: Study of the cream returns
from such districts as the Dorrigo (N.S.W.)
has convinced me that a mixed pasture is
best for dairying. The Dorrigo grows cocks-
foot, rye and clover in conjunction with pas-
pt.'nm; this provides the utmost cream feed
during the full milking season. In N.S.W.
districts which have gone in for paspalum
to the exclusion of other grasses the cream
flow ia ->rreased at seasons of the year when
this grass is not at its best.
For paspalum has its disadvantages. It has
a pronounced tendency to mass up and to
eliminate other growths. One of the best
control methods is the division of the farm
into smaller paddocks.; this prevents grass
fouling and allows of paspalum being eaten
down. Once a paddock becomes matted with
paspalum, it is necessary to plough out the
older roots, leaving room for the newer and
more succulent shoots. In cooler districts
paspalum allows other grasses to live side
by side with it.
A simple, test with a meal of green maize
or some prairie grass will prove that benefit
comes- from the mixed diet. Should mixed
pastures he difficult to establish try planting
the various grasses in different small pad-
docks to which the cows are admitted at
intervals. Mixed pastures, in addition to
producing higher cream returns, also have
a beneficial effect on the health of the ani-
mals pastured on them.
AGAINST THE ZEBU CROSS.
“FY7”: Ignoring the fact that the British
beet breeds have no superiors in the world,
numerous Australian cattlemen have lately
been extolling the supposed virtues of the
Zebu or Brahman cattle under Australian
conditions, especially in the so-called tropical
north. C. F. G. McCann, the South A us.
Trade Commissioner in London, is of the
opinion that good thoroughbred bulls are
much more suited to breeding purposes for
Australia than the Zebu crosses, which are
on k second- and third-grade beef at the best.
Ihe commissioner, who has seen much of
the Zebu cattle in Brazil, and . their crosses
with Herefords, says that a good proportion
of the shipped from Brazil are
Zebu-Hereford crosses. He thinks North
Australian difficulties could be overcome with-
out crossing on outside breeds. In Northern
Brazil and South Paraguay, where much the
same conditions obtain—the climate resembles
that of our north, and ticks aro prevalent—
the country lias been developed by immu-
nised Herefords, which produce excellent
beef off comparatively rough land, win the
hides are at a premium in the world’s best
markets. Mr. McCann regards Australia
as better suited by straight-bred cattle such
as the Herefords for all types of country,
and by Shorthorns for the more difficult
areas, particularly now that cattlemen are
concentrating on the establishment of a
chilled-beef trade and in view of the fact
that first-class Hereford and Shorthorn bulls
are, cheaper now than for many years. Aus-
tralia also has plenty of evidence of the
suitability of . the polled Angus and the
Devon, which, have proved their adaptability
to country and climate all over the cattle-
producing world.
Although the Zebu-cross meat has a bright
color, it is restricted to a much more limited
market than the best chilled quality. Another
handicap is the disposal of the forequarters
no\v that canning beef is, of little value.
Further, the compulsory cutting out of
the brisket has given Brazil, only a fort-
night from the London market, a problem
which, so far, it has been unable to solve
since brisket cutting is not observed there.
VALUE OF MEADOW HAY.
“A.G.E.": Grass left standing over the
winter in the paddock rapidly loses its feed-
ing value, according to experiments at Gat-
ton (Q.) Agricultural College. During the
winters of 1931 and 1932 samples of the
grass on ungrazed areas were taken at regu-
lar intervals and analysed for protein. It
was found that every shower washed out
some protein, so that by the end of the
winter the feed consisted of very little except
fibre. Besides the reduction in protein per-
centage, the grass rots away, s 0 the loss of
protein per acre in meadow hay makes it
almost useless as winter feed.
This, of course, applies only to districts
with summer rainfall and a dry winter.
Under such conditions, late growth of herb-
age must be cut aiid stored as hay or silage
if it is to be of ally value as winter feed.
BUTCHERING THE BEAST.
V alerin ’: Having the beast in overnight
makes the job easier. Best method of
Slaughtering the bullock is to shoot it. To
bleed make a small incision in the throat
and run the knife along the windpipe until
the forked vein is reached. Cut this through
and let the blood thoroughly drain from the
body Place the beast on its back, skin
cheeks and remove the tongue, then cut off
the head. Next start skinning at knees of
front legs and hocks of hind. Open the skin
from,the neck to the. scrotum ; skin then as
far down as possible, keeping the skin well
spread out. Saw open the brisket and open
body right down to the tail. Remove the
caul fat. Hoist up and complete skinning;
remove tail and “innards.” Saw through
the backbone, leaving a portion of the neck
to prevent sides slipping from gamble. Salt
the hide with clean salt; fold up by turning
the outside edges in; double over and roll
from neck to tail.
POLICE HORSES.
“Liss”: Judging from a motion passed at
the. conference of the N.S.W. Police the
craze for mechanisation of transport has ex-
tended to the force. And it is a great pity
The motion was to the effect that “where
practicable in country districts motor
vehicles replace troop horses.” Whether or
not it is practicable in any particular dis
tnct depends, presumably, on the condition
of that district’s roads. The police—or
any other representative body—would do
well to look all round this matter before
administering another knock-back to the
breeding of remount types.
The breeding of remount types, both gun-
ners and troopers, has been slipping for the
last 15 years, and if the business is to be
kept alive at all the State must give it all
the assistance possible. Buyers for the
Indian Army have lately been complaining
that they cannot get more than a small per-
centage of their requirements in this country,
which was once noted for the quality of its
horses. The Waler had a world-wide repu-
tation for hardiness, greatly enhanced by
the performance of the hoi'ses which served
in Egypt and Palestine with the Light Horse.
An exceptionally high standard for export
and low prices for rejects on the local
market, brought about by the general use of
the car in the country, have practically killed
the industry. Once a man required of his
hacks that they should be ■ able to make a
journey when asked, and a horse that could
not do it without distress was no ,use. Nowa-
days the car docs the journeys and the horse
is needed only for poking about on.
Most countries subsidise the breeding of
army types by making some form of grant
to those stallions which are judged to be
suitable, and the least this country can do
is to give the business such encouragement
and support as it may be capable of, the
purchase of as many remounts as possible
being a practicable form. It would help
considerably, too, if the country police horses
were cast for age before becoming eligible
tor long-service medals.
A WONDERFUL LARGE WHITE.
“Thormanby" : The Large White Yorkshire
is an increasingly popular pig in Australia,
and none of the many breeds of pig excels
it in fecundity. In this direction a world’s
championship is claimed for a Large White
sow owned by H. S. Pedlington, of Worces-
tershire, which has produced 353 pigs in
nine years. Since December, 1923. she has
had 19 litters, her last being 16 pigs in
January. In 1930 she farrowed three times,
producing 65 pigs. Her highest score is 24.
recorded twice; her lowest. 12. She is
still in fine condition and of remarkably
youthful appearance. A feature of her record
is that a litter above the average number
lias been produced every six months with-
out fail since she began breeding.
Challenges to beat this record have been
broadcast among pig-raisers in Britain.
America and South Africa, but there have
been no takers. Can Australia come for-
ward with something as good or better?
ALSATIANS AND DINGOES.
“Wandi’ : Pastoralists don’t fear the
Alsatian so much as the Alsatian-dingo cross.
Dingoes are more numerous in outback dis-
tricts than they have been for a long time ,
and a large percentage of these marauders
are half-breeds, the result of crossing with
sheep- and cattle-dogs. Half-breeds ate
worse than the pure dingo. The Alsatian is
a highly intelligent animal; the pure dingo
is a thinking animal, too; and the cross is
likely to be more cunning and vicious, and
certainly more powerful, than any of the
wild dogs now doing so much damage.
Those who think that the Alsatian won’t
pal up and mate with the warrigals art*
depending on a rotten stick. Many years
ago James Tyson imported .some wolf-hounds
to combat the dingo menace on one or two
of his Queensland stations. They hunted the
dingoes all right, as any other dog would—
while followed and sooled on; but it wasn’t
very long before big crossbreds were dis-
covered. They were more wily and destruc-
tive than the native dogs; and the wolf-
hounds were quickly passed out.
Of all dogs I know, I like the look of the
Alsatian the least. In the lonely bush I
would put more trust in the dingo! In only
one or two instances, and then only in a
half-hearted manner when driven by hunger,
has a dingo been known to tackle humans.
But in its brief career in Australia many
instances have occurred of the Alsatian turn-
ing viciously on its master. It is easy to
imagine what the undisciplined crossbred in
the wild would be. The wolf-dog is not
wanted. We have the best sheep-dog in the
world in the Australian kelpie; we have
excellent cattle-dogs, and there is no place
or need for this latest importation.
BREECH WOOL
“Jumbuck": Since wool and sheep values
have declined, few owners now bother to
cull their breeding ewes, and anything and
everything is allowed to be joined with the
rams. As a consequence, the increase in
strong-quality breech wool is marked, and
if it is not taken away from the fleeces on
the rolling table sales are affected. . Cases
are frequent where the difference between
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


Action!
There’s no hindrance to it if you
wear Abbey Riding Boots. Slip them
smoothly on. Enjoy their pliancy
.. . .the complete muscle-freedom
they allow. Never any cramping or
tightness. . . .and the elastic ankle
pieces keep them close fitting.
Abbey Riding Boots are lined
throughout with soft leather.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 335
% ✓
7
ty
Monarch
Cig&iy.
Craig rAitken
h Wholesale
Distributors
Sudneu N.S.W.
Make an appoint-
ment to see the
appointments
that make Pontiac*
the Luxury car
♦With no-draught ventilation
PONTIAC
THE LUXU RY CAR
Consult
your local authorised
Pontiac dealer.
p.i
h
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
... Notes Etc .... All in ..
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES Q-|
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the' telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
4S Multi-Purpose Tool
Sawing: in
awkward
corners.
h
Showing how
lead, leather,
etc., are slit.
noprictanj limited
It Saws
It Slots
It Slits
It Scrapes
For garage, plumbing, electrical and
general workshop work the 4S Tool will
prove invaluable.
The Outfit contains 16 tools made from
the highest-grade Tungsten Steel, neatly
contained in a partitioned metal. con-
tainer. The nickel-plated holder is de-
signed to allow ample clearance for the
operator’s fingers.
Tools are—
Six Sawing Blades, for working in
awkward corners, cutting grooves,
etc.
Six Double-edged Slotting Blades of
varying gauges.
One flat and one half-round Scraper,
for scraping bearings, etc.
One Engineer’s Slitting Knife.
One File, second cut, with one safe
edge.
So many are the purposes to which this
handy Tool may be put that users find
it equivalent to a group of other less
compact and more expensive tools.
Illustrated and descriptive leaflets on
request.
Price - - 9/6
Hundreds of other Tools for the Home,
Farm and Workshop are shown in our
latest catalogue. Send for a copy noiv.
582 Collins Street ..
51 Bathurst Street .
116 Way-mouth Street
532 Murray Street ...
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
‘ PERTH
the bulk of the fleece and the breech wool is
as much as 10 counts of spinning qualitj.
No wonder buyers complain.
If owners will not cull out their strong-
quality breechy sheep and prevent their
breeding, they should at least see that the
breech wool is taken off the fleeces and
baled by itself. Ousting breechy ewes from
the flock is the best plan, for the tendency
is for wool of this objectionable quality to
spread throughout the fleece; it is certain
to do so in the progeny.
CITRUS PRODUCTION.
“Limoil”: The Federal Citrus Council
recently had before it proposals foi
the stabilisation of the citrus industry which
deserve the attention of every grower. I hey
were put forward by A. W. Schwennesen,
president of the Vic. Central. Citrus Asso-
ciation, the main principle being the elimi-
nation of unsuitable growing districts. It
is argued that stabilisation is the only
method by which the industry can be organ-
ised on an efficient basis, with payable puces
in the home and overseas markets.
Five States are growing oranges, rainfall
varying from 90in. to Tin. per annum. Soil
and climate vary in marked degree, and in
many cases citrus-growing is only carried
on as a sideline, quality ranging from rub-
bish to the world’s best. .
The area planted with citrus fruits in
Australia for 1929 was close on 48,000 acres.
It is suggested that 10 per cent, of the trees
in the most unsuitable areas be taken out
and the growers transferred to new blocks
determined by expert opinion as being suit-
able. This would reduce immediate produc-
tion to the limit of home consumption and
growers would feel reasonably secure for a
few more years, when further areas could
be taken up. The estimated cost of such a
project is £250 an acre, or, for the. taking
out of the first 10 per cent, of trees,
£1,175,000, spread over a period of five to
eight years. At the end of eight years the
trees should be producing profitably. The
estimate is on generous lines and makes
allowance for the growers’ subsistence during
the non-producing period. Thrifty, hard-
working growers could bring their groves
into profitable production at a cost of from
£l5O to £2OO per acre if the original cost
of the land were reasonable.
Stabilisation of the industry is of national
importance, and it is contended that Govern-
ments should bear the cost —-if they can.
removing an old fence.
“Setren” : It’s a tedious job for a man on
his own; but this is how I managed it. I
got an old sulky wheel, with axle. In every
alternate spoke I bored a hole, about half-
way down, and in this I inserted -Jin. bolts
Bin. long, tightened with nuts back and front.
1 then put in a bolt I2in. long, with a short
piece of piping over itj to use as a handle
for turning the wheel. Next, I fastened the
sulky axle to the bearer of the dray, leaving
enough clearance at tlie tailboard to allow
the wheel to spin easily.
With axe and w irecu tiers in the dray, I
made for the fence. Carefully inspecting it
for knots or other impediments, I cut all the
wire at the strainer posts, attached one
end to my wheel gadget and began to wind
it out. It was a success. The wire was
coiled like clockwork. In the event of knots
in the wire, lead the horse along, cut them,
and start to wind from there. To avoid
trouble, broken posts must be split.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Tloic to cure a horse affected with long
white 'wormsf —sBo4.
A common and safe drench consists of
linseed oil 1-J pints, turpentine 20z., admin-
istered after starving the horse for 24 hours.
This should be repeated after ten days. After
treatment the horse should not be worked
for three days but should be gently exercised
and allowed freedom of movement in a small
paddock. If the drench is not effective, con-
sult a vet.
Recipes for (1) corned veal and (2)
pickled veal? —s9o7.
(1) 41b. brown sugar, 3oz. saltpetre, 1
teaspoon pepper, Ooz. bay salt, lib. common
salt, a little allspice. Mix all well together,
rub into the pieces of meat, and turn every
day for a week, rubbing well each time.
Where the pieces of meat are very thick,
make incisions with the point of a long, thin
knife, and insert the salt mixture. (2)
2 quarts water, 21b. brown sugar, 4oz. salt-
petre, 21b. common salt, Ooz. bay salt. Boil
all together for 35 minutes from time of
coming to boil; let it grow cold, put in the
meat cut into neat pieces, and turn every
day for a week.
(1) Recipe for preserving grape-juice to
he used as a cordial? (2) Recipe for pre-
serving tom ato- juice ? —5953.
(1) Pick and clean the grapes, place them
in a preserving pan and smash them with a
wooden spoon. Heat very gently until almost
at boiling point, and allow to liquefy
thoroughly, breaking up all pulp to release
juice. Strain carefully through fine muslin,
and return the strained juice to the pan.
Bring up to boiling point, allow to steam for
a few minutes, then pour quickly into jars
or bottles which have been made very hot in
an oven. Add a little hot, melted wax, and
seal quickly with hot sterilised corks or lids,
making all airtight. To use, dilute with
water and add sugar to taste. Everything
must be sterilised by heat and made air-
tight. (2) Wash and cut up tomatoes into
quarters or smaller, place in pan and crush
well, bring gently to the boil, and boil
rapidly for 3.5 minutes. Strain through a
colander to get rid of skins, pressing the
pulp through if it moves slowly. Return to
the pan. and bring up to boiling point.
Bottle and seal as for grape-juice.
Can I kill cattle on my property ( N.S.W.)
for use as meat by my family without noti-
fying the meat authorities? —6ol3.
" Yes, Cattle slaughtered on a person’s
own residence, for use as meat by himself,
family, servants or laborers, are excluded
from the provisions of legislation requiring
notice of intention to slaughter.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mulgo”: It is always bettor to grub a
dead tree out than to burn it down. JNo
one can judge how long a tree will take
to burn down ; it might fall while someone
is passing or while cattle are grazing about
it. A Victorian dairyman lost six cows
in that way. Another thing; dry roots
might smoulder underground for months,
and some day start a disastrous lire in
grass or crops.
“Setren” : Whey for calves must be broken
down with water and combined with a cereal.
I use Meggitt’s meal and have reared splen-
did poddies. Allow a handful of linseed
to a quart of warm water for each calf, and
cook it like porridge; the calf lias 1| to -
gallons of whey, according to size. 1 have
never had one scour and all love their drink.
Pure whey is too strong.
“Gland”: “Bibbo” (B. 10/r>/’33) has been
successful in treating mammitis with phenyle
without blistering the udder. Maybe, but
he was lucky. Carbolic acid, the active
principle of phenyle, can bring about death
by being absorbed through the skin. My
firm absolutely prohibits the use ot phenyle
in any of its operations —all dealing with
dairy cattle. It uses Monsol, oo times
stronger than phenyle; the cost is propor-
tionately greater, but results more than
justify the expenditure.
“Sylvester” : To get the length of posts tor
a barn, work around the site, driving a level
peg in at each hole. Suppose you want posts
to stand Bft. above your level pegs; measure
Bft. on the post, and add the distance from
top of level peg to bottom of hole.
“Werrimee” : For horse stalls,- fowlhouses
and milking sheds the shingle roof is the
best. It is warmer in winter and cooier
in summer than any other, and will last a
lifetime—longer if it is given a coat of oil
or thin paint. The shingle should be about
16in. long and not wider than sin. When
too wide it is apt to split or warp. Sawn
shingles are cut by many country
but split shingles make a stronger job, and
as the farmer can split them himself, where
suitable timber is available, they are also
cheaper. .
“Wrash” : To- set a fence post m perfect
line tap 3in. nails centrally on top of the
last two posts erected and the one about
to be rammed in position. Then sight along
the nails. , , _ .
“Minthall” : Watch your headlands. Going
with a judging party among many farms, I
noticed that most headlands were dirty with
noxious weeds, many at the seeding stage.
Headlands should be kept cut, burnt or fal-
lowed lightly with a cultivator. . Remember
one year’s seeding is seven years’ weeding.
“Bufforp”: If you want to coax on pul-
lets that are lagging, try giving them a light
warm mash at midday instead of a gram
issue. This hastens maturity and egg-pro-
duction. For breeding-pens that are a bit
strange, try the same; but not much, as a
hen will get too fat while a pullet cannot.
If the fowls are off their feed, reverse the
order, giving them grain in the morning.
“Beady”: For forcing ewes and lambs
along when yarded for lamb-marking, use
a green bough; it’s better than having dogs
in the yards. , , „
“Salmon Gums”: A convenient label for
fruit trees can be made from a strip of zinc
about 12in. long by lin. wide, cut diagonally
from a point lin. from one end to a point
the same distance from the other end. This
leaves a square end for the inscription and
a tapering end, which can be so wrapped
round the tree that it expands as the tree
grow r s and doesn’t cut the bark. For mark-
ing ink, dissolve a few crystals of chloride
of cobalt in water. Use a clean steel pen,
and allow ink to dry without blotting.
“O’Campbell”: Save all the leaves from
fruit and other trees. I hoe between my
cabbage-cauli. rows and put buckets of
leaves in between them to keep the ground
warm. The surplus goes into an old tank
with oddments of soil and manure. The leaf
mould is valuable foundation for future seed
boxes.
“Wliooplesnitz” : Another use for old rail-
way sleepers. Bed them in the ground
through the sheep race and drafting gates,
and you will thus prevent the deep trench
that will inevitably appear if no flooring is
used There is also this advantage, that a
wool-blind sheep can hear its mates tapping
along the sleeper in front; it will then
follow with confidence.
“Willeroo”: Bottles are often thrown
away while jars are wanted for preserves.
If the bottles are filled with' water up to
' the shoulder, and a ring off an old bridle-bit,
heated red-hot, is dropped over the neck, in
a little while the top will break off, and
you’ll have a good jar. If this method makes
the jar too long, dip a piece of twine m
kerosene and wind it round the bottle where
you want to break it, then. burn, off the
twine and plunge the bottle immediately in
cold water.
“Dimon”: A dairyman who didn’t like
the bother of feeding a big mob of poddies
made each of his old cows, rear twins. This
lie accomplished by coupling the extra one
to the cow’s own calf until she got used to
the imposture. Whenever her offspring had
a suck the other one was able to do like-
wise. Moreover, they were good mates.
“Cleveland”: Wild lucerne has been men-
tioned on the M.O.L. pages.. A native of
South America, it is spreading rapidly in
Queensland; the distribution is credited to
the railway yards as the result of travelling
slock depositing the seeds. It appears in
(be spring and remains in good growth
through the winter —not the least valuable
of its qualities—while it mats heavily
and closely when grazed down. It likes a
soil with a firm bottom, and does not do
well in the deep loams affected by the tall
native grasses. When planting by hand, a
hard seed-bed and a mulch of yard manure
will give it a good start.
“Phoenix”: At Muresk (W.A.) a stack of
old straw was placed near poultry-runs.
During a hot summer’s day this was drawn
upon for litter. The straw, which was dry,
brittle and dusty, was taken in small bundles
to the pens and dropped in heaps. On six
or seven occasions these burst into flame some
minutes after they had been dropped. The
fire was attributed to the fine particles of
dust released during the handling of the
straw taking fire spontaneously.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the-service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to han»
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young mechanical engineer, Sydney, exp. turning,
repairing and fitting, wants job. Refs. —5998.
Auctioneer (47), Sydney, exp. as sheep-station
book- and store-keeper, wants position, either capa-
city, anywhere.—s99l.
Country boy (15), mixed farm exp., leaving
school, seeks position Hunter River district. —6018.
Address of Rosicrucian Society, Sydney.-—6042.
To buy “The Old ’Bus,” by Kingsford Smith.
—5986.
To buy books on aboriginal place-names and their
meanings.—6000.
To buy book of humorous recitations suitable for
15-year-old gir1.—6045.
To buy “Australian Photo.-Review” for Feb.,
April, May and June, 1922 ; October, 1924; and
January, 1930. —6032.
Inmate of Old Men’s Home wishes to buy “Sin
and Its Consequences,” by Cardinal Manning.—6o36.
To buy “An Anzac Muster.”—6o3s.
To exchange information regarding symptoms, ex-
periences and treatment with sufferers from labyrin-
thitis (ear complaint).—6olo.
Information Sought.
Docs modern medical opinion incline to
the view that chronic alcoholism can he
better cured by a psychiatrist than by tak-
ing drugs?— 5854.
Yes. Chronic alcoholism is a drug dis-
ease. The modern view is that a chronic
alcoholic is a sick man who finds himself
unable to face the realities of life and seeks
to escape them. Psychiatry is in its infancy
and many cases do not respond, but that’s
the road.
In what circumstances are returned sol-
diers entitled in times of peace to be
addressed by the rank they bore in war-
time?—s7lB.
The Australian military regulations forbid
any officer to add the title of his military
rank to his signature except when signing
in performance of military duty. Apart
from this there is no regulation restricting
the use of his rank by any officer, whether
on the active list or the reserve of officers.
The same applies to officers who have been
granted rank on retirement.
Location of directional furrow used in the
laying-out of the Cairo-Bagdad airline? Why
was it necessary?-— 5587.
The furrow was ploughed from Amman,
which is situated in Palestine, about 20
miles n.-e. of the Dead Sea, to Bagdad. It
was necessary on account of the particularly
featureless nature of the desert country lying
between these two points.
Recipe for a mastic varnish for oil-paint-
ings?—sB27.
Take 14oz. mastic, 440 z. turpentine and
ooz. powdered glass or fine sand. Mix the
sand or powdered glass well with the mastic
and dissolve in the turpentine. The pow-
dered glass is warmed before being mixed
with the mastic. Clear it by filtering through
a plug of dried cottoh fixed into a funnel.
Cover the funnel with a piece of glass to
prevent evaporation during filtration and
store in vessels with glass stoppers. This
is an almost colorless varnish with a very
brilliant surface.
From what source did Epsom salts get
their name? Where do the salts occur?
Their chemical name? —sB92.
They were so called because they were
first manufactured by evaporating the
water of the mineral springs at Epsom.
They occur also in sea water, in the mineral
springs of Pullna and Seidlitz, etc., and in
the Strassfurt mines (as Reichardite). In
America they are procurable from limestone
beds. The chemical name is heptahydrated
magnesium sulphate.
What is the Fabian Society? —s9oo.
An association founded in London (1883)
tor the advancement of Socialism. Similar
organisations now exist in many other cities.
Its rise was due to private discussions on
literature and the social duties of the times,
started by an American, Thomas Davidson.
Meetings were first publicly held in 1888.
lhe name is adopted from that of the famous
Koman general, Fabius, in token that the
society desires to fulfil its aims gradually,
by educational and legislative methods, and
not by any sudden violent upheaval.
~.SS W to rid a small garden of earwigs
0927.
Spray foliage which is attacked with a
solution of 2oz. arsenate of lead to 4 gallons
of water, or the pest may be destroyed by
providing traps such as inverted flower-pots
halt-failed with moss, or the hollow stem of
any plant cut into short lengths. The insects
will harbor in these during the day and can
be shaken out and destroyed.
Recipe for a nitro-solvent gun oil which
will neutralise the rusting effects of the
primer and powder? —s746.
The gases generated by modern explosives
are so corrosive and destructive in their
action that the only method of keeping a
gun in good order is to clean it as quicklv as
possible after use. Olive oil containing a
tew drops of lysol is all that is used by
many marksmen; white vaseline is also
recommended. If the gun has been allowed
ro fall into bad condition, the parts should
he taken down and soaked in kerosene fol-
lowed by a thorough cleaning with one of
the mentioned lubricants.
Is a mixture of 1 part cement, 4 parts
sand and 81 parts gravel suitable for mak-
—sB32 hlocks f° r a 12ft walled house?
mixture is much too weak. The main
difficultywith mixtures such as this is in
lhe handling.m the early stages, A richer
mix would enable the same number of
moulds to turn out a greater number of
blocks than would be the ease with the mix-
ture you specify.
What are the rules upon which a tennis
club “ ladder ” is based f —5844.
Players are listed 1 to 10 and so on. No.
16 challenges No. 15, No. 2 challenges No.
1, the _ one below challenging the one
above in each case. A time limit is
stipulated within which a challenge must be
accepted and played'. In the event of the
challenger being defeated by the person next
above on the ladder he or she may, not again
challenge for, say, a fortnight or longer, but
may accept a challenge from the person
below. x
Tlow to prevent a cat from licking and
scratching a sore on her neck which I am
trying to heal with ointment? —5838.
Paint the bare patch with tincture of
iodine every second day for a week. The
skin immediately surrounding the bare patch
should also be treated, the cat being held
till the tincture dries. If this does no;t suct
ceed try painting with 1 part of iodoform to
7 parts of collodion.
I have an old fox-terrier which has taken
to biting herself and pulling bunches of hair
out. Thinking she had worms, I gave her
a course of powders without result. The
skin at times takes on a peculiar black color.
What can I d0?— 5907.
Dress the parts the dog bites every alter-
nate day with a solution of sulphurated
potash 40z., glycerine loz., water to lpt.
Peed only once a day, and at least every
.second day give raw meat. Should the black
appearance of the skin develop, consult a vet.
How to make a luminous paint from
crushed oyster-shells?— 6o4B.
Wash some clean shells in warm water ;
place them in the, fire for 30min., and when
epol pound them up very fine, removing any
grey portions. Place this powder in a
crucible with alternate layers of flowers of
sulphur. Put on the lid and cement it
round. When dry place the crucible in the
fire, baking for one hour. When cold the
white product is .sifted through fine muslin
and mixed with either varnish or gum water.
(1) Value of'N.S.W. Bd. diadem stamp,
bright yellow in color and watermarked
“Grown N.S.W.”? (2) Particulars of issue?
(3) Value of N.S.W. green) diadem stamp,
watermark sidetvays? —s9B3.
(1) and (2) There are two “Crown
N.S.W.” watermarks; the first (small
crown) appeared in 1871 and the second
(large crown) in 1882. The Sd. on the
small “Crown N.S.W.” paper is catalogued
at from 4s. to 10s., according to the perfora-
tion, and on the large “Crown N.S.W.” paper
at from 3s. to 255. (2) May be of interest
to - N.S.W. specialists, but is of no special
value. Worth a few shillings at the most.
How can I produce white or clear glass
lettering on a background of red or blue
glass?— s969.
Use a colored flash glass. Draw the letters
and cover the background with Brunswick
black and the back and edges of the glass
with a mixture of equal proportions of bees-
wax and tallow. _ Lay the glass in a rubber
tray and cover with a solution of fluoric acid
diluted with an equal, bulk, of water. In
about ten minutes the colored surface should
be bitten away. Bub the parts being bitten
occasionally with a bit of cotton-wool tied to
a stick to see how the work is progressing,
and take out of the acid bath with pincers
as soon as possible. Wash the glass in run-
ning water and clean the wax and Bruns-
wick black from the front and back with
turpentine.
I have some framed oil-paintings, unglazed.
Are there any preparations such as a trans-
parent varnish with which I can treat these
paintings to preserve them from fly-marks?
How is such varnish applied? —sB2l
Two or three reliable kinds are" on the
market, obtainable from any artists’ color
store for about a shilling. Apply as thinly
as possible with a flat camel-hair brush If
two coats are needed let the first which
should be applied in horizontal strokes, dry
before putting on the second, which should
be brushed on up and down the canvas. If
a coating of varnish already exists it would
be advisable to clean off as much as possible
with gentle friction of the fingertips. Wipe
the canvas over with a rag damp with tur-
pentine and let the picture dry before applv-
ing the varnisli.
Who discovered Peter Jackson, the fighter?
Was he ever married-? What was his hardest
fight? Who was his manager and trainer 9
—5878.
Tom Waterhouse, of North Sydney, in
whose boatshed lie worked after coming'from
the West Indies, discovered Jackson, who
was later developed by Larry Foley. As
far as is known, Jackson never married
Jackson’s hardest fight was with Frank
Slavm in London on May 30, 1892. although
ins 61-round draw with Jim Corbett in San
Francisco on May 21, 1891, was also a very
strenuous affair. Slavin was knocked out
in 10 rounds by Jackson, and their fight
after which neither did any good, is still
said to he the most savage seen in Great
Britain. Jackson’s manager in America
was “Parson” Davis, and he was trained by
Sam Fitzpatrick, an Australian who man-
aged Jack Johnson when Johnson beat
tommy Burns.
(1) What are the prospects for one wish-
ing to join the Queensland police force? (2)
Qualifications and age?' (3) How does one
become a plainclothes detective? (4)
Where should I write for full particulars?
— 5823.
(1) No appointments are being made at
present. (2) Eligible age is 21 to 27. Quali-
fications are good physique and a sound
elementary education. (3) By promotion,
on merit. (4) Commissioner of Police,
Brisbane.
In cricket a batsman hit a ball into the
pocket of an umpire’s coat. A fieldsman
ran up, took the ball from the pocket and
appealed for a catch. The umpire said
‘Wot out.” Was the decision correct? —
5902.
Yes. See Laws of Cricket 33 (6) and notes
thereon published in the . N.S.W. Cricket
Association’s Year Book. Note 3 states
“the ball does not become dead on merely
hitting the umpire unless it lodges in his
pocket or clothing.” A batsman can’t be
given “out” when the ball is dead.
There are advertised in certain English
radio magazines H.T. supply batteries com-
posed, I believe, of small nickel cells which,
when connected to a. 6-volt accumulator, will
step up the voltage and charge a battery
of 120 or 150 volts. (1) How is this done?
(2) Any Australian firm supplying these
units? (3) Cost? —s922.
(1) Yon probably refer to the “Auto B
eliminator,” This gets its supply from a
O-volt accumulator, the current being inter-
rupted by a mechanical interrupter and
then passed through a transformer whose
secondary is wound to deliver an E.M.F.
of over 200 volts. The secondary voltage
is rectified by a full wave rectifying valve
and then smoothed by the usual filter circuit,
the output of this eliminator is 20 m.a.
at 200 volts or 30 m.a. at 170 volts. (2)
Martin de Launay, Ltd.. 289 Clarence-
street, Sydney. (3) £ll 10s., not including
the 6-volt accumulator.
I am building an electric radio receiver
from a diagram wherein the values of the
various bias resisters have been omitted.
(3) Is it possible to calculate the correct
values of these resisters knowing the bias
voltages and plate currents? (2) Would
this method apply equally in the case of
push-pull ? —6029.
(1) The value of each resister is obtained
by dividing the bias voltage by the plate
current in mdliamperes ,and multiplying the
answer by 1000. For example, a bias volt-
age of 45 and a plate current of 15 m.
amps, will require a bias resister of 45
divided by 15, equals 3, multiplied by 1000
equals 3000 ohms. (2) In the case of push-
pull amplification the total plate current
will be double the plate current of each
valve and therefore the value of the re-
sister will be reduced by half.
How can a young girl rid her face of
pimples and blackheads?— s644.
Massage the _ face with hot water and
soap at least twice a day. Follow this with
a cold-water wash. With a sterilised needl ■
' (leave it in methylated spirit for a few
minutes) prick the pimples and gently press
out the contents of each. Then put a little
of the spirit on each. Eat plenty of fruit
and vegetables and don’t block up the pores
with powder.
How pan I stop a galvanised-iron roof
from’ dripping inside on frosty mornings? —
5836.
Faint the underside with a thick bhu-
mastic paint and dust with fine sawdust.
(3) Which type of reproducer gives the
better quality sound, a gramophone or an
electrical pick-up with associated amplifier?
(2) Will electrical reproduction give greater
volume than an ordinary gramophone and, if
so. by what factors is 'this volume limited?
(3) Where can gramophone pick-ups be
purchased, and approximate cost? —5924.
(3) Depends upon the quality of the
pick-up, amplifier and speaker. High-class
electrical equipment will deliver better-
quality music than will a gramophone. (2)
Yes. The volume is limited only by the
undistorted output of the amplifier. (3)
From any of the wireless firms or dealers
m wireless parts. From about £2.
There is a type of refrigerator which
operates by heat from a primus stove. (1)
Upon what principle does it work? (2)
Is there any danger of explosion? (3) How
does operation cost compare with that of an
electric refrigerator? (4) Where obtain-
able and price? —s922.
(1) Ammonia absorption. (2) Haven’t
heard of any accidents. (3) Can’t say. An
analysis would have to be based on an en-
cyclopaedic experience of every machine of
both types. (4) New System Telephones,
Ltd., 276-8 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney. From
£35 to £65.
(1) Is there any preservative for motor-
car tyres, and, if so, what? (2) What is
the best kind of bed for motor camping? —
6100.
(3.) Modern motor tyres do not need pre-
servative. Certain chemicals are com-
pounded with the rubber to give it long life
If. however, tyres are painted with a good
tyre paint, of which rubber is the base, the
action of light will be lessened and the life
of the tyre consequently increased, for light
is a great rubber-destroying agent. The spare
tyre should be kept either covered or painted,
and should not be carried indefinitely on
the back. Rubber lasts longer with use. (2)
A very good one is a Latex sponge bed of
similar material to that used in hospital
operating beds. It occupies a very small
space. Suitable beds, 6ft. by 21in. by 24in„
can be bought from the Dunlop-I'erdriau
Co. for 455.
What redress is available in N.S.W
against billposters or their employers'*—
5839. ' '
The Police Offences Act provides that
“Whosoever posts or otherwise affixes any
placard or other paper upon any wall -or
building” shall be liable to a penalty and
penalties are imposed when offenders are
caught in the act.
Leaves of ivy on my property are infested
with the pink wax scale (Geroplastes
rubens). Cure? —5767.
The scales should be sprayed in their
youngest stages, usually during November
and January, with a solution of 141 b. wash
ing soda crystals in 4 gallons of water.
Does Anybody Know?
Completion of the following lines and
their authorship:—
Earth’s fired with heaven and every common bush
aflame with God,
Yet only those who know take off their shoes;
The rest stand by and..,.”.—6038.
Brief Answers.
E.IT.C.: (1) For round, logs, measure the
circumference of the log at equal distance®. Add
these together. Divide by number of measurements.
This gives “mean girth.” Divide “mean girth” by
four. Square the result. Multiply the square by
the length of the log. If measurements are expressed
in feet and fractions of feet, result is in cubic feet.
Multiply by 12 to get super, feet. (3) For a
square log, multiply together average thickness,
average breadth and total length, in feet. Result
gives cubic feet. Multiply by 12 for super, feet.
(2) and (4) Angus and Robertson’s “Table Book”
(3d.) contains all you need.... Home Hill: (1)
22 years 2 months. (2) £744. (3) 4.23 p.c.—
all computed on annual rests. (4) Can’t print
formula?, which are complicated, but if you under-
stand use of logarithms we can post them to you on
request W. 8.: Only way to be absolutely safe
is to insure him. The law is full of pitfalls....
A.F.: The Commissioner of Police in S.A. is Brig.-
Gen. R. L. Leane... .R. 8.: Dates of earliest records
in General Registry Office, Brisbane, are as follows:
Births, April 19, 1829 ; marriages, July 24, 1839;
and deaths, April 4, 1829 11.L.A.C.: Matheson’s
“Timber Heady Reckoner” P.E.P.8.: (1) Band
should stand. (2) If whole band is in civilian
clothes, should remove hats. (3) When in uniform,
caps or hats are not removed. .. .J.M.: Almonds are
not successful in Queensland... .D. 8.: It wall be
necessary for you to furnish an income-tax return
for State purposes in respect of income derived
during the period in which he was in N.S.W
C.R.8.: The Deputy Commissioner may, if he thinks
fit, after an investigation by a magistrate, cancel,
suspend or reduce the pension of an old-age pensioner
who is of intemperate or disreputable habits, not-
withstanding that the pensioner may not have been
convicted of drunkenness H.W.H.: Write Dept.
of Taxation, Warwick Building, Ilamilton-street,
Sydney J.W.W.: “The Homo Electrician,” by K.
Robson (Is. 6d.), and “Electric Accumulators” (2s.
3d.) ... . A.G.C.: The first units of the Royal Aus.
Navy, which arrived in Sydney Harbor on October 4,
1913, comprised the battle cruiser Australia, the
cruisers Sydney, Melbourne and Encounter and the
destroyers Warrego, Parramatta and Yarra....
N.G.N.C.: there is no variety of bees known as
Black Italians. The type referred to was no doubt
a cross between the black bees and Italians....
F.A.S.: Send larger sample to Dept, of Mines, Bris-
bane... .N.P.: Go over the old lettering with:
a fine brush dipped in white of egg and
lay on gold leaf. When dry burnish with ah
agate... .11.J.C.: (1) Interest received from Com-
monwealth loans is not subject to unemployment-
relief tax. (2) A resident of N.S.W. is subject to
unemployment-relief tax on income derived by him
from all sources (other than exempt income) unless
it be from a business carried on outside the State,
not being an investment business... .F.J.R.: You will
have to furnish a return showing income derived
from all sources, upon which an assessment as to
the amount of unemployment-relief tax payable, if
any, will be based. You will be entitled to claim
in your return wages paid to members of your family
employed in connection with your business W T .C.;
On the figures stated you would not be liable to
either Federal or N.S.W. income tax P.A.: It
depends upon a proper proportion of tar and sand to
give density to the extent of eliminating the oozing
of the tar when affected by heat or pressure. All
joints must be watertight D.W.E.: Publication of
such information is prohibited in N.S.W P.W.:
No publications on the market W.S.: (1) Write
Shaw, Savill and Albion Co., 15 Bent-street, Sydney.
(2) and (3) Write to Colonial Secretary, Kingston,
Jamaica, West Indies. (4) Can't tell from such
vague particulars. Furnish full details to Poultry-
Expert, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney. (5) He
cannot take it, whether he wants to or not
A.H.: There is at present no market for cured
shark hides in Australia. There is a market in
Europe at from 9d. to Is. a square foot. Inquiries
are being made as to dealers L.A.M.D.: Cannot
trace makers of stove. Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Sydney, could, if you forwarded them the old parts,
have new parts cast for you L.T.: (1) Cousin
once removed. (2) Second cousin. (3) Aunt. (4)
Great-nephew or great-niece (as the case may be)
once removed. (5) The first question supplies an
illustration P.W.8.: The lessee has the rights of
possession and user, but has no interest in the
property as such. The gravel taken from the land
being the property of the owner, he is entitled to
the payment J.D.: Directors of a Q'land co-
operative association are not allowed to borrow from
the association’s funds.... S.M.W.: Minmi means
“home of tne giant lily'”; Turrella, “reeds growing
in water”; Quipolly, “waterholes containing fish”;
Collymongle, “very long lagoon”—all are abo. words.
... .A.S’.M.M.: Cannot tell you anything about the
engraver unless we know his name.... W. 8.: The
. Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, David Jones’
Chambers, 355 George-street, Sydney R.F.W.: No
vacancies at present. Apply to the Commandapt,
Third District Base, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
. ...R.J.8.: Write Bradley Bros., 55 Wentworth
avenue, Sydney... ,’C.H.: Can recommend “Burr’s
Threo,” in 2Cz. tins (Is. 3d.), obtainable from
Cowdes and Dunn, 71 King-street, Sydney....
C. 11.5.5.: All plantation cos. in the Pacific Islands
are at present fully staffed.... H.C.W.: (1) Full
particulars relating to the course for the B.Sc.
degree can be obtained from the Registrar of Adelaide
Uni. (2) The degree of B.E. is conferred after a
four years’ course in applied science, when a candi-
date has also completed 12 months’ practical experi-
ence. (3) Can’t prophesy about the prospects of
getting work for the holder of any diploma in six
or seven years’ time T. 8.: The night jars (cap
rimulgidae) , found throughout the world, are repre-
sented in Australia by three species, none common.
They lay beautiful marbled eggs on the bare ground.
C.A.: (1) “Mendel’s Principles of Heredity,” by-
Bateson. (2) This subject was dealt with in the
”Pastoral Review” of last January and February..
A.E.S.: G. E. Crane and Sons, 33 Pitt-street, Sydney
W.K.S.: The size of the original is 15 jin. by
20in J.W.D.: We cannot answer purely hypo-
thetical questions of that sort 11.C.M.K.: Miles
Franklin has written “My Brilliant Career,” “Old
Blastus of Bandicoot,” “Some Everyday Folk and
Dawn” and “Bring the Monkey” (just published by
the Endeavour Press, Sydney) ... .H.T.S’.: Your dog is
affected with chorea (St. A r itus’s dance), which is a
sequel to distemper. It is quite beyond cure....
1.V.E.: Cannot advise unless the nature of the
duties performed is stated in detail. Furnish full
particulars to the Industrial Registrar Dept, of
Labor and Industry, Sydney. Inquiry will be treated
as confidential F. J. 8.: (1) Murray cod will take
baits of great variety, including fish bait, frogs
and yabbies. (2) White grubs used as bait for
Murray cod occur in the roots. of mallee, w'attle
and honeysuckle. (3) Decoy whistles for foxes may-
be obtained from Mick Simmons, Sydney, 2s. each.
... . T.P.A.: Write to the Chamber of Commerce,
Papeete, Tahiti H.G. : Get in touch with Adam-
son, Strettle and Co., 482 Bourke-street, Melbourne;
and W. Calnan, Thomas-street, Sydney... .J.R.G.:
(1) Never heard of anyone suffering after handlirn
these skins. (2) Skins probably at their best is,
June... .D. 8.: Merchants and Traders’ Assoc., 17
Martin-place, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


YOUR SUIT—Now,
OR LATER.
QUALITY CLOTHES
from our New Patterns
prices from
£4 4s. to £8 Bs.
COUNTRY CLIENTS: We guarantee a
perfect fit with our new scientific
measurement chart. All our suits have
unbreakable fronts and are silk lined.
Leather Overcoats from £l/7/6 to £5/10/-.
Made from finest selected hides, and
storm-proof lined. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded.
Call or write for patterns and chart.
G. S. BELL & SON,
Lyceum House. 214 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Tel.: MA1376.
DonLkeep a Cold
OODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE.
In the house !
FOR COUCHSsCOLDS
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Having such a big team F. W, Hoysted,
the Mentone trainer, is able to ring the
changes in Victorian cross-country events.
Recent winners in Redditch and Solo King
were kept in the stable on Saturday, and
Hoystead elected to depend upon Nauru in
the Commonwealth Steeplechase at Moonee
Valley. Twelve months ago this gelding was
easily beaten in the Grand National Steeple-
chase by Precocious, to whom he conceded
lUlb. At that period Nauru was owned by
James Clark, of Moira station, near Echuca,
and amateur-jockey Claude Grice. The horse
came up for sale recently, owing to the
death of Clark; he now belongs to J. Fell,
of the V.A.T.C. committee.
Nauru scored at his first outing in Fell’s
colors. Backed down to 5 to 4, he kept
Venetian close company for a circuit of the
Course and then assumed control. Bob
Inkson rode a very confident race on him.
H'is mount made a spectacular leap at the
last fence, gaining fully a length on
Venetian, on whom Wraigfit was making a
desperate effort to recover command. After
entering the home stretch Inkson grew ner-
vous of being overtaken. He drew the whip
on Nauru, but punishment really was not
required, and the favorite scored handsomely
by a length from Venetian, with the fast-
finishing Widgiewa a close third. With the
exception of Calfty and Tabralong, all of
the 13 runners are engaged in the Grand
National Steeple. King’s Street, Jumna,
Curious Boy, Calfly and Worthington fell.
Worthington is owned by L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon, chairman of the V.R.C., but is a long
way below the calibre of Kentle, with whom
Mackinnon landed the G. N. Hurdle four-
years ago.
It may be within the compass of Nauru
to appropriate both Grand Nationals at
Bert. Its an awful feeling, to
BE BRok.e''
Qert: "If you had money, what
would you oo ?"■
BERT', 'travel"
e,ERT ’ " How MUCH DO voii WANT V
Flemington next month. In 1932 he went
out equal favorite with Redditch for the
G. N. Hurdle, but finished eighth. Hoysted
has effected a great improvement in Nauru,
who was never in such fettle as at present.
Nauru will again be opposed in the big
cross-country event by Precocious, whom
Dorothy Sheil trained and owned; the young
ladv is now the wife of Frank Dexter, turf
writer for the “Argus.” Whurlic’s form at
the Valley was most disappointing. He
fenced badly and was second-last. Venetian
will have to be seriously reckoned with at
Flemington. This half-brother to Ancient
Mariner is well seasoned and looks a better
horse than he was last winter.
Five candidates for the King’s Cup, to be
run at Flemington on Monday, competed in
the Mount Alexander Handicap, hut none
is likely to be dangerous. High Brae
dropped in public estimation by his inability
to gain a place. The chestnut carried 9st.
101 b. and his apprentice jockey may have
erred in trying to win from end to end over
a mile and a quarter; but High Brae met
weak opponents, and a thoroughbred of real
calibre would not have knocked up so far
from home. The spoils went to old Myarin,
who cut down Scobie’s candidate, Petau, in
the straight and stalled off a late challenge
from Croscon, a cast-off from Scobie’s stable.
Yaropian had a poor passage, but no excuse
can be found for Lampra and Menelik.
Duncan, the champion Victorian jockey,
had two wins at the Valley, but they were
not very profitable to punters, who were
obliged to accept 6 to 4 about Lisburn in
the juvenile race and practically the same
odda when Ileros disposed of Keilor Handi-
cap rivals. Pure luck enabled Lisburn to
score by a short head from Hostile. Had
Poi’cia not run off the course she must have
Avon. The Heroic filly narrowly escaped a
collision with the outer rails; she fell and
unseated Kerr. Ha\ T ing his first run m
public, Game Bid displayed exceptional pace
by leading for a feAv furlongs. He belongs
to Mrs. A. B. Nagel, of Queensland, whose
husband paid 1000 guineas for the colt in
Sydney last year. Game Bid is by Heroic.
Frank McGrath has trained many good
horses for patrons of his stable ; one of the
latest, and perhaps the best of all, is Peter
Pan. He has now a most promising young-
ster racing in his own colors, Australia Fair,
by Heroic —Fair Rosaleen. Australia Fair
couldn’t have been greatly fancied for his
division of the Maiden Nursery Handicap at
Canterbury Park, otherwise he wouldn’t have
gone out at 8 to 1. But lie was quickly in
front, and Bartle couldn’t hold him hack to
the field. lie won with ridiculous ease by
six lengths from Lora tip (20 to 1), the rest
of his 16 opponents being strung out. If lie
and Hall Mark winter well. Heroic is going
to be strongly represented in the spring
classics.
Australia Fair’s time for live furlongs
was lmin. 3|sec. That is nothing to write
home about, but the Canterbury track was
not quite at its best —and it is never fast.
It took Tactician, winner of the Flying
Handicap, lmin. lfilsec. to cover six furlongs,
and he was all out at the finish to beat True-
sign (5 to 1) and Polydorus (7 to 1).
After an unsuccessful trip to Victoria and
many disappointments on the Sydney side,
Khartoum has struck form again. He
looked to be nicely handicapped for the New-
castle Cup, but his party preferred the
smaller, and perhaps sweeter, fish at Canter-
bury. The betting indicated that the 11-
furlongs handicap would be a match between
Agincourt (5 to 2) and Khartoum (3 to
1), and so it proved ; but the gelding out-
stayed the little mare —both are by Spear-
head. Babili dead-heated with Peter Pan
in the chestnut’s first race as a three-year-
old, but has shown nothing like that form
since. Favorite for the Campsie Handicap,
he failed ingloriously, victory going to Barren
Corn (10 to 1) from Nash (8 to 1) and La
Vixen (4 to 1). Barren Corn enabled
McShortodds to' show a good profit on the
day ’ *
For a change, no weights were issued in
Sydney on Monday; for Randwick (Mon-
day) as well as Rosebery (Saturday) they
will not appear till Thursday. If the handi -
capper is not too hard on them Diamond de
Rouge (June Stakes) and Spearman or
Akuna (Ellesmere Handicap) may be
dangerous at Randwick.
* * *
Action taken by the Q.T.C. stewards after
the second day’s racing at Doomben met
with greater approval than their dismissal
of the protest against Wollun, winner of the
Doomben Newmarket., Unbacked and un-
placed in Ihe Wlunstanes Handicap, won by
his stable-companion Legislator, on the first
dav, Pentheus came out for the Doomben
Cup, was backed from fourteens to eights,
and led throughout. He was so far ahead
a furlong from home that McCarten eased
him up; even then he won by four lengths
from Sun Eagle (33 to’ 1), the latter being
five lengths in advance of the third horse,
Rivalli (40 to 1) ; the time was 2min.
sfseC. C. P. Brown, the lessee and trainer,
was invited to explain the atiiazing improve-
ment, and also the showing of Fragrant
Zephyr in the Trial Handicap; Ellis, who
rode Fragrant Zephyr, as well as Pentheus
in the Whinstanes Handicap, was also ques-
tioned. The inquiries .were adjourned, the
stewards desiring further evidence. Wollun
was favorite for the Doomben Cup, but
finished eleventh. Evidently just a sprinter.
“Thormanby”: The death of the great
English trainer Richard Marsh on the eve
of the Derby in which his charges were so
conspicuously successful can hardly be rated
as untimely—he was born in 1851. He began
as a steeplechase jockey, riding in several
Grand Nationals, and his first important
owner as a trainer was the Red Duke of
Hamilton, for whom he trained Ossian,
winner of the 1883 St. Roger, and Miss
Jummy, winner of the 1000 Guineas and The
Oaks in 1886. It was as a trainer for
King Edward, then Prince of Wales, that
Marsh had bis most successful period, win-
ning his first Derby for him with Persimmon.
He won again for the Prince with Diamond
Jubilee, and crowned his career when
Minoru took the great classic for the King,
as he had then become. Marsh also trained
for King George and, until his retirement
in 1.924, handled many of the greatest horses
in England for owners of lesser degree, J.
W. Larnach’s Jeddah capturing a fourth
Derby from his stable.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney never wearies of Lurich and
Browning, and 8000 people would have wit-
nessed their show at Leichhardt on batui-
day could the hall have accommodated them.
Quite £2OO was turned away.' Browning,
younger and stronger than the Russian, had
the better of the wrestling, or whatever it was.
He punished Lurich’s leg (the one broken
in their match at Newcastle) before winning
the first fall with a forward-slam and body-
press in the fourth round. Referee Labnola
contributed to making the fifth look like; a
drunken sailors’ brawl, but the police did
not interfere. Browning came up for _ the
sixth swinging his water-bottle, club fashion ;
the referee, again getting into holds, relieved
him of the weapon. While wrangling with
the official, Browning fell an easy victim to
Lurich’s body press. Thus each had a fall to his
credit, and honor or something was satisfied.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s chief . League game on
day drew some 30,000 to Victoria Park, where
Carlton’s Blues and Collingwood provided
thrills galore. Starting with a systematic
swing Collingwood piled on 47 points m the
first quarter. The Blues were too surprised
to get going and had a 40-point deficit facing
them on changing over. But once they found
their feet they steadily overhauled the
’Woodsmen and at the interval were a point
ahead. It was a fine recovery and gave
barrackers great opportunity for argument.
The third quarter found the visitors still
vigorous, and, playing a fast, open game, they
were six points ahead at the last change.
The the Magpies staged a few chains of
passes, with clean handling and perfect
shooting, and though the Blues retaliated
with some success they were still four points
to the bad at the end- —’Wood, 104; Carlton,
100. ’Wood is building up a strong even
team; perhaps Kelly, Fraser ;and the Coven-
trvs did a bit extra, while Davey, Vallence
and Green were Carlton’s best, Hughson,
about whom League and Assoc, have had
so much discussion, marked well and kicked
a goal for Carlton. Footscray looked like
going down before Melbourne, but a surpris-
ingly vigorous finish left the Red Legs stand-
ing and Footscray with 97 points to Mel-
bourne’s 77. The unbeaten Fitzroy Maroons
visited Geelong, where 15,000 of that city s
elect parted £430 10s. to see a game that
wasn’t worth the odd half-note. The Hub-
bites were all right, but the seaside air or
something so affected the Maroons that the
half-time scores were Geelong, 75 points;
’Roy, 4. It wasn’t a game, merely an un-
accountable rout, and most of those who
stayed to the end were glad when the bob
rang—Geelong, 123 points; ’Roy, 19. St.
Kilda compassed its first victory this season
—over North Melbourne—but at heavy cost,
the game being so willing that _ North lost
one man with a cut eye, while Saints finished
with only 15 men, two getting head wounds
(one was replaced), another a broken rib, and
another a broken leg. So Saints did well to
win by 97 points to 83. South Melbourne
notched 117 points to Essendon’s 83; and
Richmond managed 63 to Hawthorn’s 56,
only rotten kicking losing the Mayblooms
the game.
The week-end weather in Sydney was
ideal for football, and the game in all the
codes was seen at its best. The Rugby
Union fourth round for the Shute Shield
again showed how level in performance are
most of the senior sides. Western Suburbs
now heads the list, unbeaten. In the Rugby
League trial games City overwhelmed
Country in both' matches.
With conditions made to order for its
style of play, twice-beaten Randwick gave
Northern Suburbs its first defeat by 22-17
(five tries, two converted, and a p.g. to three
tries, one converted, and two p.g.’s). Both
sides played extra fast and open football
and gave the big crowd at Norths’ Oval a
treat. The Randwick backs, with Rown-
tree again showing grand form at centre,
were the match-winners. Western Suburbs
was fairly lucky to beat Eastern, for
Barnes, its five-eighth, scored 22 points
out of its 31, crossing three times and
kicking six. goals, one a penalty. The ex-
Welsh schools rep., much improved m
defence, is in great buckle this season. East
scored 19, coming with a great rattle towards
the close. At Drummoyne the depleted
University side was beaten by the locals
18-3, fullback Sharman scoring two tries
for the winners. St. George staggered the
Manlyites by defeating the “Village ’ on
its own midden by 11-8, the Saints’ second
win.
The Rugby League trial matches between
Country and City teams _ at _ Sydney
Cricket Ground were a disappointment,
the metropolitans proving too good alto-
gether. The first game was a runaway for
City, which won 47-6, the Country going to
pieces back and forward; but the Country
second division made a much better showing,
though the score against it at the whistle
was 26-9. The 25,000 spectators showed
their appreciation by starting to file off the
ground long before the Number One teams
had finished their performance.
It is difficult to give credit to the City
players against such weak opposition. Hie
City forwards had everything handed them
on a silver salver, while the backs got theirs
on a spoon. The recent recruit from the
Rugby Union, Thicknesse, was the outstand-
ing back on the ground. He has been play-
ing spectacular football this season and can
be considered a certainty for one of the
scrum-half possies for the English tour, as
his selection for the State against Queens-
land foreshadows. Sponberg, a young
fellow from Western Suburbs, played n rare
game in the forwards. The Country, badlj
led, was indecisive throughout. Kingston
played well in the vanguard, but the once-
clever Prigg faded out of: the picture._ In
the Seconds’ game, McKinnon at five-eighth
impressed. He is another recent recruit
from the Union. Brown and Delaney were
good of the other backs, while Bishops
hooking helped his side a lot.. The Country
backs were ragged, with Miller, of Bega,
the best of them. The team that meets
Queensland on Saturday includes no Coun-
try players. There are three —Gibbs and
Prigg. of Newcastle, and Bailey, of Litb-
gow, all forwards —in the side for Monday.
Queensland has made history by bringing
to Sydney the entire Toowoomba team, wlncli
beat Brisbane badly in a trial game 22-<,
and this will meet N.S.W. on Saturday.
Fourteen other players are included m the
Maroon party.
The Australian Universities _ team in
Maoriland continues to miss the bus badly.
It was beaten by Victoria College at Wel-
lington 21-15 and went down in the second
Test against N.Z. Uni. at Otago by 25-0.
The Rugby Union team to play against
Victoria for N.S.W. on Saturday at North
Sydney Oval is more remarkable for those
left out than for those chosen. The side
is full of veterans, including the perennial
Towers, and while backs like Mowatt and
Rowntree have had to stand down, Voung.
a centre, has been placed on the wing, lhe
forwards are also a questionable selection.
Victoria, narrowly beaten in last year s
match, should shake this lot up. Rhodes
scholar .Tan McShane skippers N.S.vS.
“Polyphemus” : The V.F.L. made history
the other day when it compelled its umpires
to. submit to’an eyesight test. Writer cannot
recall any other football body taking the
same course, uor does there seem any par-
ticular need for it. Barring occasional
charges of having taken up a one-eyed atti-
tude. the whistle-wielders in other football
codes have never had their powers of vision
questioned.
(Continued on page 30.)
After Crawford and Turnbull had been
beaten in the French championship doubles
at Paris by Cochet and Merlin (presently
licked by Berry and Hughes), McGrath atm
Quist revived Australia’s hopes. In the
quarter finals they beat a strong pair in the
American Shields and the German Prenu in
four hard-fought sets. Few gave them a
chance in the semi-final against the world-
famous pair Borotra and Brugnon, but tie
kids won with a strong run by three sets to
two after the tide at one period looked set
against them.
Walter Lindrinn won the English profes-
sional billiards championship in Co niton,
beating Englishman Joe Davis by 21,810
to 21,121—by no means as large a margin as
Walter’s admirers expected. English critics
have been noting signs of staleness in the
Australian, hut it must be said that Davis,
after leading for most of the match, stuck
to his man like a bulldog. This is the hrst
time the title has been won by a player
not of English birth.


Handy Hints
for the
Farm
Every effort has been used to make the book
of the greatest value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds
of the things in it. It is those he doesn’t know
or has forgotten that will make it worth
pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head
office of The Bulletin,” 252 George Street,
Sydney; or from any branch office: 114-120
Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; James Place, Adelaide; 33
Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street,
Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT
Contains over 1,000 practical hints
from the Land pages of
430 Contacts with
Australian Business
J~)URING the past seventy-four years the
National Bank has been closely associated
with the development of Australian trade and
industry. Commencing with a small capital in
1858, it has since added to its resources and
widened its establishment until it is now repre-
sented by branches and receiving offices in 430
towns and country districts, spread throughout
the several States. In all those centres a wide
range of banking facilities is made available
to every individual, every business and every
industry, assisting to further develop and utilise
the resources of the Commonwealth.
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
430 Offices in Australia.
“The Brisbane Courier”
Representatives:—
“Member Audit”
Bureau
Circulations
RgM. D. Fisher. 74 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 85007.
Louis S. Marks, Newspaper House, Collins St., MELBOURNE.
This is the cause of your
Bacl^ctche
OH! my back its nearly breaking! I can’t get straight again
■ ■ ° n . Ce .* Sto ° P down - 14 seems just as though an iron hand is
® M gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making me just sick with
pain ” That is the daily story of a host of people just crippled
with pain. Thousands of women—and men, too—suffer for years
with chronic pains in the back, and believe it is due to sudden cold, a chill or
too much work or fatigue. As a matter of fact, the stabbing, weakening,
lowering backache, that dreadful down-dragging weakness is almost certainly
due to hidden kidney trouble.
There are thousands of men and women suffering daily “untold agonies”
because of kidney trouble in one form or another. It is no use doping the system
with drugs. The only possible means of ending your trouble is to cleanse the
body of pain-giving poisons, and that is a function the kidneys must carry out.
It is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time sufferers, backed
by our own 40 years’ experience, which enables us to state that if you will
commence a course with a simple straightforward remedy, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, your pain and weakness will be ended.
In 24 hours you will see results. Persevere and your pain goes for good.
Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-destroying
pain? Why be weak and ailing when you can, at such little cost, start once
again building up full vigour and vitality?
No extravagant claims are made for these pills. They do not represent a
cure-all, craze-of-the-moment find. Solid testimony proves their efficacy in all
complaints which
are caused by weak
or sluggish kidneys,
especially backache,
rheumatism, bladder
trouble and general
weakness.
\^ v
\\
rng
*-‘*>v.;i-;
W£mm
:
De WITT’S
Kidney and Bladder
Pills
£HARP twinges,
stabbing -pains —
Nature’s urgent
warning of serious
Kidney Trouble!
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have ended chronic pain and suffering
when all else has failed. Men and women in dreadful pain for years say they
have ended that pain and brought back health, strength and vigour in a
marvellously short time.
If you will only give these pills a fair trial by taking them regularly for a
short time, we feel confident they will end the cause of your chronic rheumatic
pains or kidney trouble. If you would like to “try before you buy,” write for
the free sample offered below to-day.
Why put off until to-morrow the health you can have to-day? Tried and
trusted so many years, \ a safe, sure, family remedy, “De Witt’s’’ will not fail you.
Blit be sure you get the genuine remedy, sold only in the original white, blue
and gold box.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not purgatives, but are made specially
for the relief of kidney and bladder troubles. Refuse all substitutes, there is
nothing just as good.
Post coupon
in unsealed
envelope to
address be-
low. Use Id.
stamp .
Please send me, free and post ■paid,
a trial supply of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pit’s
NAME
ADDRESS
C.A.
X C. De WITT & Co. (Australia) Pty., Ltd., P.O. Box 26, MELBOURNE.


Rapid Ore Crusher
UNIT COMPRISES:
Compressed Air-
operated Stamp,
Nightingall Patent,
Amalgamating Table.
Made in All Sizes.
No. 1 Size.
Output 11 tons per
day.
H.P. 2
Table Size 4ft. x 4ft.
Gin.
Speed, 175 Blows
per minute.
h
PRICES
particulars
ON REQUEST.
BETA ENGINEERING Co ,
390 Spencer Street, Melbourne, VIC.
&
Pattern and
penetration are
the two factors that
count, and both these
can always be relied upon
in Eley & Kynoch All-British
Cartridges.
Add to these, perfect ignition, high
velocity, low recoil and long range,
and you have the reason why
Eley & Kynoch ARE the world’s
foremost, for in no other brand
are all of such combined.
In actual performance under all
conditions Eley & Kynoch Cart-
ridges are absolutely reliable.
Obtainable Everywhere
Wq
&
%
h
OBE
ELEY & KYNOCH
h
msnm
For the DEAF
SUPER-EAR.
NO BATTERIES.
NO CORDS.
NO NOISE. |
WORN WITH
LIGHT HEAD
RAND.
Absolutely New
Acoustical Principle.
Write for Particulars—
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers & Opticians,
42 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I
;
STAMPS FREE.
Six pictorial Mozambique or four big:
Crete FREE to collectors writing to see
Bargain Approvals and sending postage.
STIREING CO., 117 Manchester Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The trouble the Victorian.
Football League has had in its efforts to
limit payments to players under the “Coulter
law” is illustrated in the conclusion of what
is known as “the Bunton case.” Bunton, an
outstanding player, was brought to Mel-
bourne from Albury in 1930. Allegations
of heavy payments were made, and the
matter has been sub judice ever since. The
League has now decided that the law was
infringed as alleged. Bunton, who has been
awarded the Brownlow medal for the best and
fairest footballer in the League for the past
two seasons, lias now been reprimanded, and
everyone connected with the matter has been
sent home contented and covered with white-
wash.
* * * *
“Gash Amateur”: Writing from Mel-
bourne, the manager of the Rugby Union
Wallabies on the way to South Africa seems
greatly impressed with the hold the amateur
code has taken in the Victorian metropolis.
The game has now definitely found a foot-
ing in the Great Public Schools, and in a
little time it will hold its own with, if it does
not displace, the Australian code there. From
the point of view of the average G.P.S.
player the one disadvantage of the Austra-
lian code is that if he has to shine in the
game after leaving school he must plunge
into professional sport. The fact that the
game is confined to Australia is a compara-
tively minor matter.
* '1: * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League, has
made a new departure in its preparations
for selecting its share of the team for Eng-
land. It has chosen two entirely different
teams to meet Queensland in Sydney on
June 3 and 5, in the hope that this will give
it an eyeful; of all available talent under first-
class conditions. Queensland has gone eveh
further. Toowoomba City recently beat Bris-
bane, and „it was suggested that the entire
Toowoomba team should represent the State,
as rowing club crews do occasionally in the
King’s Cup races. Yet another suggestion
was that the Red Mud side should be brought
down in addition to a team, selected from
the rest of the State players.
* * * *
“Cuttlefish” : The coves in control of the
N.S.W. Rugby League have told their dele-
gates on the Board of Control to prohibit
managers and players of the combined
Queensland-N.S.W. team which is to visit
England from writing for the press. The
decision is a wise one, for the gentleman
with the leaky pen has done more harm
to Australian sport in the past decade than
enough. The situation in which international
cricket finds itself to-day has shown us that
anyone associated with a sports combination
should not only be banned from chronicling
the exploits of himself and his mates, but
should be muzzled as well, and have his
hands fettered behind his back. _ And it is
not only the sport that suffers, either. One
must consider the agonies of the public ex-
posed to the perusal of the stuff written.
“Outside Right” : The visit of the Maori-
land Soccer team is to be just the beginning
of a set of invasions if the Australian Soccer
authorities find their dreams come true.
Negotiations with Spain, Austria and Italy
to send teams to Australia are in progress,
while another Axistralian side may go to
Java and, at the end of the year, one
to New Caledonia. There is also talk of a
visit to South Africa. The game there is
rigidly amateur and this may present difli
culties. For instance, the cash allowances
paid to the M.L. side visiting Australia and
to be paid to Australians to visit M.L. will
certainly stick in South African gizzards.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Chelmer”: Fatal accidents on golf links
are more frequent than is generally supposed.
Most of them result from blows from clubs
or flying clubheads which have become de-
tached during a stroke. A death caused by
a ball is more rare, but one was recorded in
Brisbane the other day. A player was driv-
ing off and pulled his shot. His caddie, who
was forward on the left to mark the flight,
was struck on the head by the ball and died
on the way. to hospital.
* * '■< *
“Gregory Terrace”: The Brisbane muni-
cipal golf links at Victoria Park are faced
with a deficit of £2OO, and the usual plan of
increasing the fees to the public is to be em-
ployed. As a rule, this sort of finance
defeats its own ends, for people who could
afford the old fees cannot manage the new,
while the vacancies, they leave are not filled
at the higher prices. In any cdse, it is to
be tried, and visitors will in future be asked
2s. instead of Is. 6d. for an I.S-hole round,
with a shilling rise for all-day tickets.
Moore Park municipal links in Sydney were
once experimented with in this fashion, and
the revenue fell off so alarmingly that the
council woke up to itself. In any case, the
Brisbane deficit is due to expensive improve-
ments, and that is the council’s funeral, not
the public’s.
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. Golf Coun-
cil, which will never win a medal for tact,
has started something which threatens to
brew a peck of troubLes. It has passed a
rule permitting any professional, if he is
backed by a recognised golf club, to play
in any event open to professionals, whether
he is a member of the Professional Golfers’
Association or not. In the past only P.G.A.
men were eligible to enter, and this asso-
ciation demands that, candidates for its
ranks must first serve an apprenticeship in
a professional’s shop or its equivalent for
two years. The P.G.A. is considering its
reaction to the Golf Union’s challenge, for
that is what it amounts to. The conditions
laid down for championships by the Austra-
lian Golf Union definitely state that players
can only enter through the P.G.A. As the
Victorian governing body is also at logger-
heads with its section of the professionals,
things are looking interesting.
$ * * *
“Hoylake”: The British women’s golf
championship was won for the third year
in succession by Enid Wilson, who thus
rivals the long-standing record of Lady Mar-
garet Scott in 1893-95. One other player,
Miss M. Hezlett, won it three times but did
not manage the hat-trick. The final was
played at Gleneagles, and the winner finished
5 up with 4 to play on Diana Plumpson,
a 22-year-old lass from Essex. Miss. Wilson,
who gets as much distance with drives and
iron shots as any of the foremost male
players, says she is now retiring from big-
golf.
“Parwood”: A body-line controversy has
arisen over the contention that the new
lay-out of the Australian club’s course does
not fit in with championship requirements.
The kensington people reply that the cor-
rect length of the course is 6448 yards—only
seven yards less than that of the reptile con-
temporary at Rose Bay, which has long
been the accepted championship lay-out. The
HIS MISTAKE.
ENRAGED SOCCER CAPTAIN (to stranger, picked up on the ground to fill a vacancy):
“Thought you said you could keep goal? You’ve let every shot go through.”
GOALIE: “Wot? Have I got ter stop ’em? I thought that’s wot th’ net was for.”
length of the two halves is 3423 and 3025 —
a difference of 39S yards. The difference at
Royal Sydney’s course at Rose Bay is 499
.yards—so there!
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Viv McGrath is proving
a godsend to the newspaper folk wherever
he goes. Wallis Myers, who is becoming
quite a wag, states that he must get the
credit for being the first on record, to play
hockey in a tennis match —this is* a hum-
orous description of his double-fisted back-
hand, in case you don’t see the point. The
French critics are also full of admiration for
the promise he shows, and forecast. a great
tennis future. Both he and Quist have
greatly impressed the French crowds, used
to tennis temperament at its zenith, with
their imperturbability. The contrast be-
tween the pair and two excitable French
lads whom they met on their first appearance
in Paris intrigued all hands.
Sfc * *
“Cut Shot” : Australia’s next battle in the
Davis Cup will be against South Africa at
Queen’s Club in London on June 8, 9 and
10, The South Africans came over with a
reputation, but their showing against Swit-
zerland in the* second round was . not im-
pressive, though they won. Still, they
proved a hot lot against England in their
own country recently. Their leader Kirby is
a fine all-rounder who was in the Springbok
team of 1931. The match will be played
on turf, however, and that should 'give our
men an advantage over the ’Boks, who do
most of their tennis on hard courts. _
“Ton Spin” : The third round of the Euro-
pean zone of the Davis Cup must be
bv June 13. The American zone final was
won easily by the United States, which Peat
Canada in doubles and singles, and must
now meet the winner of the European zone
for the right to challenge France, the cup-
liolders. The draw for the round is Australia
v South Africa. Greece v. Czecho-blovakia,
Britain v. Italy. Germany v. Japan. Aus-
tralia, Czecho-Slovakia. Britain and Japan
should be the four left in. ...
“Rev. knucklebone”: They can’t keep
away from it. After announcing some 50
times she was out of tennis for good, the
ageing Suzanne Lenglen—l call her that in
the happy confidence that 10,000 miles sepa-
rate us —has announced that she will give
Helen Wills-Moody one more go for it pro-
vided £lO,OOO is put up for her end of the
scrap. Surprising as it may seem, the mug-
lias been found already, and the rest is the
business of Helen and the International L,
T. Federation. It is long odds that the
latter will not permit Helen to play and
retain her amateur status. Recently it re-
fused to allow professionals, and amateurs
to play together in an American open tour-
nament, thoug-h it was sworn that all the
lily whites would get out of it was the glory,
while the pros, took the gonce.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: For once ill a way. British cars,
which have been cutting a wide swath in
Continental racing, have had to take the
knock. On the Berlin Avus speedway the
other day, the Italian Varzi, driving a
specially-built French Bugatti, won the
German International over a distance of 294
kilometres at 207 k.p.h. Another Bugatti
was second and an Italian Alfa-Romeo third.
A Bugatti also won the light-car event,
Britain, represented by Earl Hope, getting
no further up than third.
“Disc Clutch” : Ernst Henne, the German
motor-cyclist, has hoisted two more motor-
cycle records on his specially-built B.M.W.
machine. In a solo ride he covered five
kilometres (3.1065 miles) at an average
speed of 144 m.p.h., and with a sidecar got
over the same distance at a rate of 124
m.p.h. For some years Henne has been
having a speed duel with the Englishman
Wright. The latter, when last reported,
was also having a special' cycle built to
hoist a fresh set of figures, and he will
probably be heard from shortly, for as
soon as one of them does something new
the other fellow beats it.
Sj! ’ ❖ “!* ' 'i'
“Fitzcray”: For some years two Vic-
torian motor-cyclists, George Stapleton and
Frank Barr, have been passing the buck to
each other in the matter of new speed
records between Adelaide and Melbourne.
Decently Barr left Adelaide P.O. at 4 a.m.
and arrived at the Melbourne equivalent,
609 miles away, 13hr. 47min. later, knock-
ing 49 minutes off Stapleton’s standing
figures. The average was 44 m.p.h.. which,
considering some portions of the Adelaide-
Melbourne road, is mighty rood going.
* ❖ * if:
“Lillie Bridge”: Drastic changes have
been made in the control of dirt-track
cycling in Britain. The Autocycle Union
has swallowed up the National Speedway
Association and has appointed a board to
take charge of affairs. Matches will con-
sist of nine heats, and a points scoring sys-
tem is introduced. Test matches will take
place at Bellevue in Manchester,, Crystal
Palace, .Wembley, West Ham and Wimbledon.
No management will be allowed to retain moie
than nine riders, the surplus being allotted
to the weaker clubs, but nothing will be
done in this respect until the return ol tne
Australian and Maoriland tourists,
transfer fees between clubs will be aliowec
this season, and the payment ot riders,
apart from purses and trophies, except 1 1
one or two special races, will be to, t- am
f 1 for the first three home in each beat. 1 01
Tests there will be additional prize-money.
■At * *
“Hotham”: In addition to the proposed
motor-car rally in connection with Mel-
bourne's centenary spree, it is suggested
that there should be a relay dispatch race
for pushbikers over 10 routes of 1000 miles
each, 100 riders per route. Twenty years
ago Dunlops staged a military relay dispatch
race between cyclists, motor-cyclists and
motor-cars from Adelaide, via Melbourne, to
Sydney. Three military dispatches were
raced night and day over the route of 114.
miles. The cars gave six hours start to the
motor-cycles and the bikes got 24 hours
from the puffing billies. The cyclists reached
home first in 69hr. 32min.. 6hr. 18mm. ahead
of the motor-cyclists. The cars arrived 46
minutes later than the motor-cyclists.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Inter-University athletics are
always of a high standard, but this years
meeting of the Australian Unis, m the
Bridge City was responsible for some special
thrills. The outstanding performance was
the high jump of J. P. Metcalfe, of Sydney,
who got over 6ft. s{in., and but for a shoulder
touch after he was over the bar would have
accomplished an inch higher. The figures aie
an Australian, inter-State and University
record. The Olympic best is 6ft. 6m and
the world’s 6ft. 8-Jin. Almost as notable
were the performances of J. C. Horsfall, the
Victorian sprint champion, who took the 100
in 10 l-10sec.—equalling the inter- Varsity
record—and tho 220 in 22 2-ssec. The 100
figures have stood for 30 years. Melbourne
and Sydney tied, scoring 64, with Adelaide
and Brisbane in the places. Melbourne,
holder of the Hunter Cup, thus retains it.
* -f * *
“Hide Off”: Polo in N.S.W. has been
on the peg, though unofficial matches have
continued at Cobbity. It is to be good-bye to
all that, and there will be a regular meet-
ing at Kensington during the Sheep Show
The Dudley Cup will remain in its case, but
the Australian Gold Cup for the inter-State
championship will be played for. Goulburn
Club, consisting of the Ashton brothers, wifi
be a contestant. The Australian Club led,
probably, by Curtis Skene, will also throw
its hat into the ring. The presence of
teams from other States is uncertain.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: The Australian Rowing
Council, meeting in Brisbane the other day,
fixed the next King’s Cup and Champion-
ship Sculls meeting for Hobart next year.
On this occasion, the King’s Cup event and
the sculls will be the only races permitted
on the programme. It was resolved to ask
all affiliated bodies to levy 6d. per head on
members to supply funds for sending a rep-
resentative to the next Olympiad. This is
necessary, for the Olympic Council has
decreed that sporting bodies failing to part
up this levy will not be allowed representa-
tives in the team, and Australian rowing
authorities hope to send a sculler at least.
* * * *
“Shell” : Australian followers of amateur
sculling may have the chance of seeing an
overseas practitioner at work this year. He
is the German G. von Opel, who. is at
present in England training for the Diamond
Sculls in July. Opel has to come to Aus-
tralia on business, and has written to ask
if there is anything doing at the end of the
year for amateur scullers. Henley-on-
Yarra’s Challenge Sculls should give him
one chance at least to show his paces next
November. “Paces” is used _ advisedly, for
the title-holder and Australian champion.
Herbert Turner, of Sydney, will certainly
make him travel to win.
•$;
“Blue Chalk”: Following on his match
with Davis for the English billiards cham-
pionship, Walter Lindrum is leaving Brit-
ain for Australia on June 3. With lnm
will be Maorilander Clarke McConachy, and
according to the cable the pair are to show
in South Africa, India and Singapore.
Walter has already mapped out a 1934 tour
of Australia w T ith Davis.
* * * *
“ ’Badian”: An interesting item in the
cricket cables records that one Ah Chong,
playing against a Marylebone C.C, team,
took five wickets for 49 with his slow left-
handers, contributing considerably to the
defeat of the home side. Presumably he
is a Chinese, which seems rather incon-
gruous in a W.I. side. But there are a
good many Chinese in the West Indies,
notably in Trinidad.


LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin’’ Publication—Every Friday—2d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
h
m
3
3
I
m
i
m
vl
V-*
*l3l
&
if
m
ilill
iMill
■Hi
I
SSSSSM
I
iS$
iW
it*l
aw*
PLUME sets the Standard
for all-round performance- .
fin'll ° Ut Prove it/
Fill up at theVACUUM pump
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The King’s Vacation,” at the State, will
appeal to those who believe that monarchs
dislike their jobs and yearn secretly to abdi-
cate and take up poultry-raising, fretwork
or model-aeroplane building in some secluded
spot. George Arliss, as one of these sov-
ereigns, has little time for the lady (Flor-
ence Arliss) whom he has married for State
reasons. He loathes aristocrats, loves prole-
tarians, and pines for his first wife, his
daughter and the simple life. A revolution
occurs, and he makes tracks for the old
home. He finds that his wife is living in
the very atmosphere from which he thought
lie had escaped. She has also grown into a
snob and is doing her best to break up a
romance between her daughter and a young
mechanic. Arliss is to be remarried. Acci-
dentally meeting Wilhelmina, now jobless
like himself, he discovers that she is really
a simple old lady who likes doing her own
marketing. So, after seeing that his daugh-
ter gets her mechanic, he returns to good
old Wilhelmina, and everybody is satisfied.
Arliss is as polished and natural as ever,
and Florence Arliss is a great old mime too.
The direction is smooth, and some of the
shots are exquisite.
* ¥
“To-day We Live,” at the St. James's, is
an oddity even as Hollywood war films go.
The period is 1916. Joan Crawford, an
aristocratic English lass in 1933 clothes, has
just lost her foither. Her brother and his
friend, who is Joan’s fiance, are hearty young
R.N. officers with Noo Yoik accents, who
talk impartially of "lootenants,” and of
Joan as a “stout fella.” Gary Cooper
arrives from the IJ.S.A. to do his bit, and
he and Joan fall in love. We see her next
at a Channel port as a W.A.A.C. of sorts.
She never seems to work, wanders about the
waterfront at will, and lives alone in a
house to which her R.N. admirer is carried
when drunk. She believes Gary is dead
until he confronts her one day in an R.F.G.
uniform with a D.S.C. up. " Yet his unit
seems to be composed of wise-cracking dough-
boys. As he is one of the officers who de-
posited Joan’s alcoholic admirer on her bed
he suspects the worst. In order to test the
inebriate for he-manliness Gary takes him
on a bombing jaunt to Germany. The lad
is so unaccustomed to machine-guns that he
lets off the one he is to use against the
enemy by accident before the trip starts.
Shouts of laughter! The sequence in which
the ’plane reaches the German ammunition
factory, blows it to smithereens, and
accounts for a Hun squadron single-handed
on the way home is one long laugh. The
R.N. officer nearly machine-guns Gary more
than once, the reckless young rascal! To
crown the fun they find on landing that a
bomb is hanging loose from the under-car-
riage. _ In return, the R.N. boys take Gary,
who, like them, doesn’t seem to have a C. 0.,
tor a jaunt to a German port in their speed-
torpedo-launch. There is talk of making
Kiel Harbor! They burst into the Boche
stronghold, _ and career about letting off tor-
pedoes while the poor Huns behave in a
comically futile manner, xlnd so home to
Joan and the explanation which unites two
loving, hearts. Charlie Chaplin’s “Shoulder
Arms’’ was no more preposterous as a repre-
sentation of the way in which a great war
1S waged, and, of course, it was funnier.
* ¥ #
In “Those We Love,” at the Regent, Ken-
neth McKenna plays Joseph to Lilyan Tash-
rnan’s Mrs. Potipliar. He has been married
to Mary Astor for 15 years, and has never
strayed from the path of righteousness when
the temptress, who takes pride in the fact
that she “always gets her man,” sets out to
ruin him. He resists with a resolution
which inspired incredulous guffaws in this
.Showman’s vicinity on Saturday night. How-
ever, his wife believes he has fallen, and
leaves him, taking their 14-year-old boy with
her. _ Miss Tashman continues her assaults
on his virtue, and is repeatedly spurned, till,
on the very night his wife decides to come
home and make it up It was unfortu-
nate that on this night Miss Tashman’s hus-
band should have engaged a detective to
watch her. Miss Astor nobly saves the situa-
tion by announcing to the stupefied husband
and detective that she was with the sinners
during the material period. The agony now
begins in earnest. To say that the head of
the household is made to feel his position is
putting it mildly. Eventually the boy brings
his father and mother together in a sequence
of almost intolerable maudlinity It was
said of Chamberlain that “no Joseph was
ever an entirely satisfactory character,” and
the same may be said of Kenneth McKenna’s
Fred Williston, novelist. If he hadn’t been
a complete ass the break with his wife which
led to the trouble with the other lady would
uever have happened. Mary Astor conveys
the possession of all the domestic virtues in
addition to looking lovely, and some of the
sets are attractive.
Diana Wynyard’s part in “Men Must
Fight” resembles her “Cavalcade” part, and
she plays it on the same lines. Her methods
of registering affection, grief, scorn, despair,
are stereotyped, and she is as English as
South Kensington; yet it is hard to think of
a Hollywood star who would have been more
satisfying as an idealistic American matron.
The film is worth while if only because, alone
among W’ar films, it makes a definite state-
ment about war. Not a new or profound
statement certainly, but one which is time
and which can’t be made too often in these
days of muddled thinking. Phillips Holmes’s
putative father is an American statesman
who has. worked hard for peace, and his
mother is a proselytising pacifist. (His
actual father was an airman who fell in the
World War, leaving the girl he had loved
unwisely to be chivalrously married by
Stone.) War breaks out between America
and Eurasia. Within a few hours practi-
cally every pacifist in the country becomes
a howling jingo. Diana Wynyard makes
a gallant attempt to stem the homicidal tide.
Her meeting is smashed up, her house is
stoned, and when her son stands by her and
says he won’t fight Stone repudiates him
and tells him of his airman father, and his
sweetheart turns him down in scorn. When
last seen the young man is flying off to give
the Eurasians a taste of the bombs and gas
they have been unloosing on New York.
May Robson, as his wise old grandmother,
says something at the end about women
stopping future wars, a venerable bromide
which has been inserted, like the National
Anthem in “Cavalcade,” to enthuse the flap-
pers. In the war depicted in this picture, as
in all actual wars, the women are every bir
as bloodthirsty as the men. Phillips Holmes
is admirable as an impressionable mother’s
boy, a sincere type who is usually to be
found in the front line while his hard-
headed contemporaries are either shirking
o r warming armchairs at bases. Robert
Grieg’s low-comedy butler is out of the pic-
ture, but otherwise it is a level and con-
vincing production.
H- * *
“Frisco Jenny,” at the Capitol, is the old
one about the maiden who is seduced and
forced into a life of infamy. Her babe is
taken from her and reared in luxury. We
duly get the harrowing spectacle of the
mother on trial for murder being prosecuted
by her son. She can reveal her identity,
save her neck and wreck her son’s life,
or lie low and die. The noble creature elects
to lie low. Regrettable as it seems, Ruth
Chatterton plays Frisco Jenny and seems to
enjoy the inane job.
“Clear All Wires” records the hazards of
Lee Tracy’s life as foreign correspondent of
a Chicago daily. lTe is first seen bluffing
news out of the rival armies in a. shindy in
Morocco. In Paris he exchanges glad eyes
with Una Merkel, his boss’s girl, and takes
her with him to Moscow to interview the
head of the Ogpu. The minor Bolshies eat
out of his hand, but he finds the head of the
Ogpu more difficult to reach. Meanwhile
his boss has learned of his perfidy regarding
Miss Merkel, and fires him by cable. Tracy
sets out to rehabilitate himself by invent-
ing a scoop. Things don’t go according to
plan, but he ends by marrying Benita
Hume, who is far preferable to gold-digging
Una Merkel, and they leave for China. If
you hanker for yet another satire on Ameri-
can journalistic methods you should like it.
H- * *
Zone Grey’s “Wild Horse Mesa,” at the
Haymarket, is good as Westerns go. Ran-
dolph Scott is effective as a horse-loving,
horse-hunting friend of the Indians. Sally
Blane is the heroine and Fred Kohler is the
bad man who traps horses with barbed wire
—the local equivalent of bodyline bowling.
“P.C. Josser” is an English farce in
which Ernie Lotinga is an idiotic constable
and later a private detective. He is engaged
to guard a racehorse, which gives him the
opportunity to hop in and out of a dog’s
kennel in music-hall clothes. Garry Marsh
is the very vile villain ; Robert Douglas is
the heroic trainer. There are some pictur-
esque shots of country roads and a racing-
stable, but it’.s English films like this make
us sigh for Hollywood.


LENNON'S HOTEL
BRISBANE
The centre of Queensland s
distinguished social life and
leading hotel in the State.
ISV3 H^s.aoKlN
PASS EXAMINA TIONS.
SPEAK WITHOUT NOTES.
GRIP FACTS, LODGE RITUAL, Etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. WM. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, MELB.
SALTS HABIT CREATES
FATIGUE POISONS
Constipation can only be
cured by Natural Methods
If your system is continuously jaded, harassed,
forced and over-worked by the unnatural habit
of taking harsh mineral salts, habitual irrita-
bility and unrest will creep upon you. Salts
are a common fallacy—unsuspected cause or
much fatigue and nervous tension. Change
vour laxative, and watch results. Try Cramers
“Australian Root” Pills for a few days and
see how your former vitality and sparkle
returns. “Australian Root” Pills are a purely
vegetable, non-mineral corrective, a natural
stimulant of liver, bile and stomach, a gentle
regulator and health ensurer for all tne
family. Economical, too, for a bottle of ou
Cramer’s “Australian Root” Pills c'osts only
1/- at any good-chemist’s. Let Australian
Root” Pills get to the root of your ills.
Amusements.
i c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD in
OUR MISS GIBBS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Under the glare of Kleig lights, and in
a spatter of speeches broadcast from all
around the Southern Seas, from London and
from Canada, the Royal Empire Society’s
twenty-fourth of May dinner was con-
sumed. The Southern Seas broadcast, coupled
with the perennially burning iires of their
loyalty, had acted like a magnet on the
members of the society and they rolled up
hundreds strong to the Wentworth. Looking
around the ballroom, where the dinner was
spread, it was easy to believe that the Vic-
toria Barracks had been beggared of its
flags. Everywhere the eye ranged it was
caught by the draped folds of the Union
Jack, Australia’s flag or some other pennant
of Empire. On the table at which the
Governor-General, his lady, president Hugh
Denison and all the other bigwigs sat were
two more flags. This time in flowers glowed
the Union Jack and the Australian flag.
You can take it from this Letter that the
broadcasters’ voices did not entirely sound as
the tongues of angels. Lord J ellicoe’s, for
instance, seemed to have got a bit entangled
with a fog in the North Sea, and Lord
Bledisloe, speaking from Rotorua, occasion-
ally sounded like something being shot out of
a geyser, though here and there were heard
sentences in the notably clipped and barbered
speech of Maoriland’s Governor-General. The
Maori hakas, too, came weak and puling.
But all the same it was a thrill to sit at
meat in Sydney linked by sound to London
by word of mouth of the Duke of Con-
naught, to Nukualofa by the Queen of
Tonga, to Suva, to Port Moresby (Bulle-
tin’s old friend Hubert Murray was spokes-
man here) and to Canada by Sir Henry
Gray.
Our own G.-G.’s speech was as good as
any, and Lady Isaacs was as handsome, as
her husband’s speech in pearl-white satins.
In fact, the frocking of the whole company
of women plus the decorations of the men
was as eye-dazzling as the glaring white
lights which beat 'unmercifully on beauty
and the beast. (This last refers to the sac-
rificial bullock, which in this instance was
a turkey.) Hugh Denison’s lady wore
sapphire-blue velvets with an air; and
black velvet, supple and lustrous, was the
right setting for Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s
fairness; Miss Muriel Lee was another of
her daughters of whom the Empire might be
proud. The British Government’s E. T.
Crutchley was seated with his wife among
the important people; so were the Archdale
Parkhills, the Chief Justice Streets, the
Mayoral Hagons, Brigadier-General O. F.
Phillips and Mrs. Phillips. Hundreds of
others, all glittering of garment and loyal of
sentiment, clapped the speeches.
Sam Hordern and his lady did the hand-
some thing by daughter Audrey when she
became Mrs. William Alison Winter-Irving.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point, the scene of in-
numerable fashionable weddings, has never
been more beautifully decorated. Chrysanthe-
mums, bronze and golden, gladioli, golden
strelitzia and garlands of autumn foliage
decked pillar and aisle and altar ■ and on
each pew a Victorian posy of mignonette,
violets and nasturtiums breathed romance.
Filling the church were 300 invited guests ;
but outside the doors and leading to the
church was a crowd of uninvited sentimen-
talists, three million strong, or so it seemed.
A dozen policemen were busy making way
for the guests long before half-past three, the
appointed hour; and a platoon of traffic
policemen knew some hectic moments. The
bride arrived in one of the afternoon’s few
bursts of sunshine, and when she stepped
forth on father’s arm she was everything
that a bride should be. Her frock was of
ivory velvet, softly flowing, and drew a long
train that finished sinuously in a point. The
shoulders were wide, but the sleeves nar-
rowed in till between the elbow and wrist
they were close-fitting. A mist of tulle,
allied to her mother’s wedding veil of
Limerick lace, floated from a coronet of real
orange blossom, and the whole was lit by
the fires of a diamond brooch caught in tin;
front of the frock.
Sister Doreen, cousins Dinah Hordern and
Irene Anderson, and ’groom’s sister Frances
Winter-Irving followed the bride, their frocks
of golden crepe, very flared of skirt and
long of sleeve ; diamond brooches fastened the
cross-over bodices. Their heads were
wreathed in autumn leaves, and their hands
were filled with golden strelitzia. During
the approach of the impressive procession
the ’groom (he’s tall and dark and the only
son of the John Winter-Irvings, of Yandra,
Nagambie, Victoria) stood supported by
best man Darren Baillieu, of Melbourne, and
’groomsmen Gordon Macarthur, Sam Hor-
dern and Jim Ashton.
Babworth House, the Sam Horderns’
home, made a handsome background for the
toast-drinking (champagne all the time) and
the speech-making; and the Hordern lady
in her leaf-brown chiffon outfit, its short
velvet coat collared in fox fur, was one of
the most pleasing of the interior decorations.
The flowers, of course, were something to
write a lyric about; for nobody knows more
about flowers than the knightess, her garden
at Bowral being one of her absorbing in-
terests. Mrs. John Winter-Irving carried
red roses with her Quaker-grey ensemble;
and Sam Hordern himself made the best
speech of the afternoon.
The Isaacs lady made her first stage
appearance last week, and nothing smarter
than the black-and-white creation in which
she spoke her lines could have been devised
by Irene Vanbrugh or Marie Tempest. The
occasion was the matinee organised by the
Women’s Guild of Empire in aid of Canon
Hammond’s pioneer home scheme; and a
house packed from the top gallery to the
stalls smiled complacently at her eulogy of
the guild. Mrs. David Maughan, who was
the driving force behind the great turnout,
was rosy and radiant in bright blues and
sables; Mrs. Pankliurst Walsh was a front-
seater in the dress circle; Dot Brunton, red-
frocked and squirrel-coated, sold programmes;
active young things sold flowers and. sweets.,
Sam Walder and his lady were in the audi-
ence; and “Land of Hope and Glory, sung
lustily by the whole house, was the exhilarat-
ing finish of the afternoon.
The P.E.N. Club celebrated its first birth-
day by a dinner at the Metropole. It wasn t
such a big rally as usual, owing to its being
cast for Empire Night. Nelle Scaiilam was
again a guest of honor, and she find _poets
Derek Burnell and liuth Bedford talked a
great deal about spring in England; Munici-
pal Librarian Bertie told of convicts, gal-
lant and otherwise, and the foundations tney
have laid in our midst. Ethel Turner Cur-
lewis and lon Idriess found a bone in
common. At 11 o’clock the' friendly but no.
hilarious group trekked for home.
Australian writers in Sydney had a night
out last week, and gambolled about the ball-
room of the Arts Club —that is, after the
musical programme by singer Joan Mac-
kaness and a young violinist and Dulcie
Deamer’s one-acter, “The Mind of a Child,
had been disposed of. During the stage events
the light in the room was subdued to a dim
religious gloom, and latecomers barked their
shins or cannoned into the last row of chairs
as they stealthily crept to cover.
There were several lions of the evening,
“Man-Shy” Davison, Hugh McCrae, lon
Idriess and Nelle Scanlan among them. Ail
the women wanted to meet lon. He turned
a dreamy inward eye on. the flutter-
ing fair, and one wondered if he saw the
room at all, or was glimpsing some far-away
bit of Australia. Louis Stone walked aus-
terely handsome from one group to another;
and Hugh McCrae laughed mightily with
all. President of the Fellowship Mackaness
was a busy M.C., aided and abetted by Mrs.
Mackaness and secretary Marjorie Quinn, in
gipsy-red laces.
These F.A.W. parties cast' a wide net.
Among last week’s haul was Father Murphy,
the brilliant scientist of Rivetview; the legal
John Gould, whose wife hostessed a supper
group that included the Arthur Adamses,
H. Godsall and architect Carl Green-
well. Mary Gilmore brought a group of
beginning writers. P. R. Stephensen, of the
Endeavour Press, and his small wife; Mrs.
William Macleod, Henry Lawson’s widow
and daughter Bertha, tall novelist Hardy,
Bill Moore and his poetess Dora were all
there. And how those writers can talk.
Towards midnight, the chat was going, all
flags living, down mid-channel, and artist
D. H. Souter was vainly trying to tug his
two pretty daughters home.
The alert and smiling girl pictured by
Lupton is Loys Hodge, an indefatigable
worker in the
cause of help-
less children.
Her pet chari-
ties are the
Darlington In-
stitution for
the Deaf and
Dumb and
B 1 in d and
the Camper-
d o w n Hos-
pital for
Children. She
is striving
hard at pre-
sent for the
success of the
Madame Pom-
padour Mas-
querade Ball
to be held at
the Wen t-
worth on
Thur s d a y
night, June 15, in aid of these two institu-
tions. toys will appear as a lady of the
period. J. C. Williamson, Ltd., will wave the
wand and produce the costumes. Loys, when
not up to her eyes in good work, is an ex-
ponent of modern dancing and an amateur
actress of promise.
Belgium’s Consul-General will produce for
the Alliance Frangaise the French play ‘ Le
Gendre de Monsieur Poirier, by Emile
Angier, at the Mosman Town Hall on
Friday and Saturday, June 9 andl 10. The
thing is a classic of the period 184 b. Mrs.
Georges Brenac, who played Athalie, is the
only lady in it. Edouard Dulieu will play
the ‘’Marquis de Presle,” and Mr. Segaert
himself will be “le bonhomme Poirier. The
play has been selected by Sydney Uni. as
the examination text for French this year,
and the performance should be of special
interest to students.
One of the most smartly-dressed dances
of the week was the Home Ball, at which
Sydney Jewry danced for the good of the
Moses Montefiore Home and the Jewish
Benevolent Society. The ballroom of David
Jones’s store was crowded, more than GUO
dancers keeping the orchestra busy. The
Governor-General and his lady came to re-
ceive the debs., of whom there were 20.
After passing under an arch of roses, the
girls were presented by Mrs. Lesnie, presi-
dent of the dance committee, and having re-
ceived the social accolade they and their
partners enjoyed a waltz all to themselves
on the shining floor. The Isaacs lady did
the occasion proud in rich raiment of tur-
quoise-blue velvet, lit by diamond earrings.
Mrs David Cohen, who accompanied her,
added a cape of chiffon to her rose-pink
taffetas.
The report that Chief Justice Street is
to celebrate his retirement by a long and
leisurely journey through Maoriland and
Europe’ in company with his energetic little
wife has filled charity organisers with some-
thing like dismay, for the C.J.’s lady has
acted as president for innumerable functions.
She has been capable and efficient, and
always smooth of manner and speech.
Nobody on a committee has ever seen her
ruffled. The artists, too, will miss their
friend, for she has never been too busy to
open their shows, and she and her C.J. are
great supporters of the Art Gallery.
One of the most interested of the Mel-
bourne visitors over for Audrey Hordern’s
wedding was Mrs. Edgar Rouse, who was
Muffle Layton: the two Hordern girls,
Audrey and Doreen, were the youthful
bridesmaids at her wedding some years ago.
Mrs Rouse, who arrived at St. Mark’s with
her ’ parents, the W. G. Laytons, was as
autumnal in lier dressing as the flower deco-
rations. Her frock was the yellow brown
of chrysanthemums, aud her coat had an
upstanding collar of golden fur. The im-
pressive W. G. Layton was created Master
of Ceremonies as soon as he entered Bab-
worth House, and it was he who proposed
the health of Sam Hordern and his lady.
One of the smartly-hatted was Mrs. Bruce
Meade, a sister of the ’groom, whose small
lid was of Persian red velour. Mrs. M . A.
Anderson was handsomely wrapped in brown
velvet and fox furs. Mrs. Tony Hordern
wore silver fox .with her black outfit. But
indeed the women guests made just one long
parade of fashionably-cut raiment in rich
materials. The officiating clergyman was
the Rev. Distin Morgan, of Bowral (where
the Sam Horderns spend so much of their
time), aided by the Rev. F. T. Perkins, of
St. Mark’s. Another Hordern touch was
the sending, at bride Audrey’s request, of
the posies that had adorned the church to
the youngsters at the Royal Alexandra Hos-
pital for Children. There was some beauti-
ful old silver among the glittering display
of presents, and much rare china and crystal.
Ex-students of the Dominican convents in
N. S. Wales made merry at their fourteenth
annual hop last week. This was held m
Hordern Brothers’, and the.decorative scheme
included the five pennants of the convents
of the State. President Mrs. W. T. Hegarty
entertained the official party, of which Dame
Barlow was an important member ; it was
she who received the four debs. The ex-
students’ bursary fund benefits. The young
old girls of the Brigidine Convent at Rand-
wick gathered their friends around them in
Romano’s, and had a night out to help
raise the money for the memorial organ at
their old convent. Mrs. James Brennan was
president of the success, Nora Barry and
Ruth Harford the secretaries. There were
nearly 200 dancers.
This is a Dorothy Welding study of Maori-
land novelist Nolle Scanlan, now busy on
the third volume of her story of an Enzed
settler and his
family. “Tides
of Youth,” the
second of the
trilogy, will be
on the book-
stalls within
tlie next, few
weeks. Miss
Scanlan, who
has travelled
widely, and
who before she
took to novel-
writing was a
journalist and
occasionally a
lecturer, has
in the inter-
ests of her
work pen e-
trated to Rus-
sia and to the
equally mys-
terious Holly-
wood. One of the things she is proud of is
that she numbered among her friends the
great and wise T. P. O’Connor. Miss
Scanlan travels back to Europe by way ot
Panama.
In aid of the Millions Club’s blanket fund
there is to be a bridge afternoon on Thurs-
day, June 8, in the lounge of the club. Tea
will be served upstairs in the dining-room.
The Rickard lady is president of the ladies’
committee, and was in the chair at the meet-
ing on Friday morning, held in the lounge.
The committee wants the whole of the pro-
ceeds to go to the fund, and so it is pro-
viding sweets, the tea and the prizes.
Already 19 tables have been booked.
St. Mary’s Cathedral choir is to have a
new conductor. He is the musicianly Will
Caspers, who has been at St. Patrick’s on
Church Hill for many years. His two
sisters are singer Ella and pianist Agnes.
Church music is born in the Caspers; their
father was a church organist, and the kiddies
were brought up on Mozart and Handel.
World-famous Violet Vanbrugh, who paid
a rush visit to Australia two or three months
ago. has now an Australian grandchild. He
is the son of the James Dicksons, of Holm-
wood, Darling Point—Mrs. Jim until last
year was Prudence Vanbrugh.
Mrs. Allan Innes, of Salamaua, linked up
with' old friends in Sydney on her way to
England via Auckland and the Panama
Canal. She leaves to-day by the Monterey.
Athene Seyler, of the Seyler-Hannen com-
pany, is almost as fluent and frequent a
speaker as Sybil Thorndike. Like Dame
Sybil she has been running the gauntlet of
the women’s clubs, and lunches and teas are
being thrust upon her with unabated en-
thusiasm. Last Saturday afternoon she was
feted at Bryant’s Playhouse, and a fright-
fully well-clad crowd turned up to see the
graceful actress sparkle even as the rings
upon her slender hands. Beryl Bryant and
her company of young players put on a
programme of acts from three of their recent
productions, among them the last act of
Pinero’s “Enchanted Cottage.” Miss Seyler
is a £reat barracker for the little-theatre
movement, and she was very complimentary
about both the players and the playhouse,
which is a tiny bandbox of a place. Athene
stepped on to the stage after the perform-
ance, a bright figure in rust-red frocking
and hat. To her the young males of the
company brought tea and rich cream-filled
cakes, while bright-eyed girl actors hovered
like moths about a candle. Alexander
Cordon’s lady, in a wine-colored ensemble,
Beryl Bryant, in black, Jean Cheriton. in
dove-greys, Mrs. M. F. Bruxner and Mrs.
Shepherd, both in black, were in the group
about Miss Seyler.
The officers of the 2nd Division will hold
their annual ball in David Jones’s on the
evening of Saturday. June 3. Lieutenant-
Governor Street and his lady will be present
and will receive a number of debutantes.
As in previous years, the ball will be con-
ducted with military ceremony, and the 2nd
Division is out to make it one of the social
features of the year.
The Mark Sheldons are acquiring their
first daughter-in-law in June. Son Thomas
is marrying an English girl, Elizabeth Ovey,
of Henley. Her father is a gallant colonel
(retired since 1921) who served in the
Great War; and an uncle is Sir Esmond
Ovey, British Ambassador in Russia.
Last week was set to the rhythm of “Land
of Hope and Glory” and “God Save the
King.” For 12 months local orators had
been conning, over their patriotic speeches,
and they unleashed them on an Empire-
minded world on Wednesday, when lunches
and dinners were eaten to the glo'ry of the
Union Jack. The reason why human nature
always runs to the kitchen stove _to rein-
force its expressions of loyalty is a bit
obscure, but whenever man wants to make
a really grand gesture he does it with a
knife and fork.
How is the J. C. Williamson firm going to
subdue the fumes from the wine _ cellars
below the Q.V. markets, if it decides to
make it the site of the theatre to replace
Her Majesty’s? Perhaps it won’t try, and
the audiences can intoxicate themselves with
visions of the purple grape crushed and
vatted and bottled in the cellars below then-
feet. Two people should be pleased if the
plan carries through. They are Municipal
Librarian Bertie, who will have to be pro-
vided with a new home for his precious
books, and the proprietor of Romano’s. That,
neat little dance place, just across the way,
will be right in line for the after-theatre
supping public.
Brisbane’s bright moments :
At Doomben races the Blair lady wore Havana-
brown chalky cr6pe with sipokestitching and scarf of
beige mariette, looped stone-marten fur and cloche
of cardinal red. Mrs. Green chose ivory with touches
of black and a white felt hat. Mrs. Charlie Persse
(Beaudesert) was in black with a posy of narcissi
and stitched felt hat : Mrs. J. P. Petersen black and
white with a blue leaf design; Jean Bell picked
chrome yellow. Mrs. T. M. Ahern, whose husband
is chairman of the committee, hostessed the official tea.
A native of Jersey, Mrs. Ellen Elliott, came to
Australia 8\) years ago. She married Thomas Elliott
in Victoria; their elder son was General “Pompey
Elliott; another son, Dr. G. S. Elliott, was killed in
France. Mrs. Elliott, who was 83, has died at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Avery, in Brisbane.
Charles H. Grevell, sou of the C. H. Grevells,
Byrnestown, married Mona Mattingley, daughter of
the C. L. Mattingleys, Springsure, in St. Peter’s,
Springsure. The ’maids were Misses B. Mattingley
and M. D. Bomford,
Donald Burnell McDonald exchanged vows with
Fiora Jean Reid in Mowbraytown church, East Bris-
bane. The bride was in cream flat crepe with a
Brussels veil. Dawn pink was worn by Gladys Nott
and blue by Margery Raymond (Boonah), who
’maided.
Audrey Helen, daughter of the W. Mackays
(Maryborough), is engaged to Hugh A. O’Donnell,
son of E. J. O’Donnell and the late Mrs. O’Donnell,
Toowoomba.
Dr. Daniel Quinlan, son of the late T. F. Quinlan,
of Perth, W.A. (he was once Speaker of the
Assembly), married Molly, daughter of the
A. M. Tynans, Ascot, Brisbane, in St. Agatha's,
Clayfield. Father A. Tynan, the bride’s brother,
officiated. The bride was in magnolia velvet with a
Venetian point veil. Jean Tynan ’maided in apple-
green velvet with toque to match.
At the Empire Pageant John Bull called to his
children in the opening scena and there were songs
of Empire and historic figures. Mrs. C. V. Baily
was the producer and the Mayoress impersonated
Australia.
At the Russian Church, South Brisbane, there
was a requiem service for Mrs. Garland. Canon Gar-
land wore the vestments of the Greek Orthodox
Church, presented to him by the Patriarch at
Jerusalem. The archpriest, Father Antonieff, con-
ducted the service to show the regard of the Rus-
sian community for Canon Garland.


finest car & uic(c ever dB ui It
A few of the many features which
contribute to the superiority of the
new Buick are—Buick Valve-in-head
engine, Silent second Synchro-mesh
transmission, no-draught ventilation
individually controlled, and rare
luxury in all interior appointments.
•W
Consult Your Local Authorised Buick Dealer
Melbourne
Chatter
A drought which had endured for weeks
broke late on Thursday afternoon and made
conditions less pleasant than they might
have been for the dance aboard the
Katoomba in aid of the Free Kindergarten
Union’s funds. However, in the liner ail
was snug and cheery. One of the two saloons
where supper was spread was decked with
masses of holly and autumn leaves, and
hydrangeas and chrysanthemums made a.
brave show in the second. Captain Moodie
Heddle and his officers helped the function
to sail smoothly. Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
who headed the organisers, wore a white fur
coat over her black lace gown, and was com-
panioned by the president of the F.K.U.,
Mrs. T. a’Beekett, in black velvet robe. Both
received posies. Lucy Rowe, hon. sec. of the
jollo, wore pale-blue silk figured in leaf
design in darker hue and black. Mrs. Cutli-
bert Francis, her colleague, was in sapphire-
blue velvet, and Mary Emmerton, who looked
after the bridge-players, sported petunia flat
crepe. Ruth Good, who came in a frock
of apple-green velvet with puff sleeves. of
flowered chiffon, shared the duties of ticket
secretary with Cynthia Brookes, who was
squired by the Lud Mayor. Miss Brookes’s
snuff-colored wool georgette frock was worn
with a brown cape and sash. The Raws,
Howse, Spencer and Clarke ladies were
among the handled folk present, and Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Mcllwraith, in golden-lined
velvet, J. Y. McEachern and Rita McEachern
demonstrated by their presence the friendly
interest of the shipping firm that lent the
vessel. Others in the throng of dancers
were Mrs, Len Buxton, in white satin with
a cape edged with black velvet, the Fred
Krcrouses, the Jim Paxtons, Mrs. Lawrance,
Mrs. David Syme, in white satin with a little
cape, Dr. Nyulasy, Mrs. C. R. Cowper and
Miss Nyulasy.
Dark brown was the favorite dress hue
of women at the Moonee Valley races on
Saturday. Bottle green also, was popular,
and black had its usual innings. Splashes
ot bright blue and scarlet here and there
showed that there were still folk alive who
Put their trust in the luck of the Valley.
Ihe luck held good and the afternoon was
up to Vic.’s best autumn sample. Roses
from the garden of the chairman Alister
(lark decked the committee’s luncheon
tables. Among the wearers of brown were
ihe Luxton lady, Mrs. A. V. Hiskens. Mis.
G. McArthur, Mrs. T. V. Miller, Mrs. Drake-
tord and Alison Madden. The Chauvcl lady,
who w r as in navy blue, was accompanied by
her general, with them being Mrs. R. G.
Casey and Mr. and Mrs. V. L. O. Shepherd,
visitors from England. Mrs. Shepherd was
in coat and skirt of dark green with a felt
hat that sported a variegated band. Philip
Russell was there with Mary Russell in a
suit of woollen corduroy cloth of Lincoln-
green tint and matching hat. Mrs. J. C.
\v esthoven, all in grey, was accompanied
by her niece, Josephine Davies, of West-
ralia. With Mrs. F. ChallingsWorth was
her daughter, Mrs. W. M. Davidson, whose
costume was Lido blue.
Much of the success of the ball and bridge
party on the Katoomba was due to the work
of Lucy Rowe
and Mary Em-
in er ton. Miss
Rowe, here
pictured by a
D i c k i nson-
Monteath
camera, is ex-
perienced in
s ■ e c r e tarial
duties, having
given her ser-
vices to many
charitable en-
terprises, in-
cluding the
Antiques Ex-
hibition of last
yea r. Miss
Rowe, who is
a former stu
dent of the
Albert - street
Con., was for
many years
hon. sec. of that seat of learning, resigning
when leaving for a tour abroad. On her
return she became lion. sec. for a while to
the Lydeum Club, of which she is still a
very active member. Miss Rowe is a sister
of Mrs. Oswald Syme.
The children's ward of the Alfred Hos-
pital and the William Foster Try Society
divided profits of a Cafe Cliantant, with
bridge, at the Wentworth on Thursday. The
organising committee had Mrs. Barn
Thomson, who came in cyclamen-hued goorg
ette and lace, as president, Mrs. Gratton
Esmond being hon. sec. Among those who
sold sweets, jam, flowers and raffle tickets
were Mrs. P. H. Lock, Louise Lovely, smart
in begonia-red coat trimmed with black
astrachan and a military-looking little cap :
Mrs. F. Hoysted, Madame Ren of and Mrs.
Edgar Dye. David Sisserman with his
’cello, Mrs. George Haines, Marie Doran,
Rene Riano and Robert Graham entertained.
On Empire Day Union Jacks fluttered
from the flagpoles of Government offices and
business premises, the cable cars were deco-
rated fore and aft with the Australian flag,
and the Town Hall put out an array of
bunting. The Royal Empire Society had
dinner at the Windsor, and listened to greet-
ings from other parts of the Empire. Lieu-
tenant-Governor Irvine and his lady were
there, she in sapphire-blue velvet. The pre-
sident of the society, medical-knight James
Barrett, extended the welcoming hand, at
his side the Barrett lady, whose draperies
were of black velvet. Uni. Chancellor Mac-
Farland, Prof. and. Mrs. Ernest Scott, Mr.
arid Mrs. Heibert Brookes and Cara Barrett
were among the guests.
With _ the opening of the Glaciarium,
society is taking to ice-skating, and skating
parties are being substituted for bridge and
dance gatherings. Tea and supper . ming-
liugs at private homes after an afternoon
or evening at the rink are frequent. Mr.
and Mrs. J. Paxton entertained in this way
at their Toorak home last week. Among
the g’uests was the Lud Mayor, who is be-
coming very expert on the ice, accompanied
by his fiancee, Cynthia Brookes, Mrs.
Norman Brookes and Mrs. Brookes’s two
other daughters.
In aid of the Homoeopathic ,Hospital the
Footlights .Club put on a revue, “Tune In,’'
at the Bijou, under the direction of Mr.
and Mrs. Hugh H'uxham. Beryl Huxtable
was ticket-secretary of the gay production.
At Lismore kirk Elizabeth, second daugh-
ter of the Colin P. Robertsons, of Camper-
down, kept a tryst with William, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Lillie, of East Mal-
vern. The bride wore a travelling frock
of wood-brown wool de Chene with a biscuit-
hued satin vest, topped by a felt hat. Patricia
Robertson, her sister, attended in corded
velvet frock of mole tint and felt hat to
match.
The engagement is announced of Vera,
elder daughter of the Edmund Thornleys, of
Camperdown, to John, only son of Dr. and
Mrs. Lewis, of Adelaide.
There is no necessity to go to the Aus-
tralian Alps to indulge in ski-jng. On the
slopes of Eaglemont, Heidelberg, parties of
young people go ski-ing on grass.
Prof. Ernest Scott and his wife are off
for their long holiday on June 24. Leaving
in the Mariposa, they intend spending some
months in America before going on to
Europe.
The first of a series of winter dinner-
dances at the Oriental was held on Thurs-
day. Among the dancers were Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Tait. she' in beige-hued angel-skin
lace, and their daughter Marie; the Charles
Wenmans, the Howard Smiths, Mrs. Britten
Jones and Jean Sinclair, both from Adelaide,
and Peggy Shields, in sky-blue chiffon.
Broothorn here presents a picture of .VI rs.
H. Septimus
Powcj\ wife of
the artist whose
show at the
Athenaeum is
creating so.
much interest.
She. manages
tire business
side of her
husband's pro-
fession. She
hails from
Adelaide,
dabbles a little
in art herself,
is a great gar-
dener. and is
keen on her
h o m e. The
Powers have
o n e s o n.
Harold. who
has -a eeo m-
panied them
to Australia.
Yet another Australian girl has taken an
English husband. Mollie. only daughter of
the Percy Chirnsides, of Brandon Park, Oak-
leigh, will wed on July MO in London Cap-
tain Nicholas .Charlton, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Charlton, of Ckilwell Hall, Not-
tingham. Captain P. F. Chirnside, of the
Bth Irish Hussars, Aldershot, Miss Chirff-
side’s brother, married her fiance’s sister.
Mrs. Percy Chirnside and her daughter are
at present abroad.
Iris Johnson, who has been for some years
on the staff of the Australian Broadcasting-
Commission, set out for Europe during the
week, her purpose being to study broadcast-
ing methods in other lands. T. W. Bearup,
manager of the Vic. section, at a farewell
party put on by the staff, presented Miss
Johnson with a leather hatcase.
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Maxwell, of Frank-
ston, have departed for England, where
their son is established as a motor engineer.
The doctor has been in practice in
Frankston for 20 years, and there were
many farewell functions, culminating in
a combined party staged by the citizens
of Frankston at the Fernery, with dancing
and songs. Dr. J. F. Mackeddie spoke on
behalf of the medicoes, Cecil Ramsdale for
the returned soldiers, and Weston Pett and
Philip Wheeler for the rest of the residents,
Mr. Wheeler handing to Dr. Maxwell an
illuminated address and to' Mrs. Maxwell
a. travelling trunk and other useful gifts.
The parishioners of St. Paul’s recognised the
doctor’s services as churchwarden with a
wallet of notes.
The curiosity of passers-by in Collins-
street is being titillated by a screen Of
hessian that hides the first-floor facade of
Newspaper House. The windows of Tin
Bulletin office are hidden from sight, and
there is much conjecture as to what is going
on behind the veil. Napier Waller is apply-
ing mosaic decorations to this section of
the front of the building.
University women from Brisbane, Sydney
and Adelaide came with their tennis racquets
for the inter-University matches at Koo-
yong courts. A welcoming brew of tea was
put on by Mrs. W. E. Agar at her home,
the lady receiving her guests in a frock of
burgundy-hued flat crepe.
The Robinson lady, in fur-collared dark
brown cloth with matching toque, presided
at a luncheon at Menzies that was a fare-
well to Mrs. lioystone Davey, of Sydney.
Mrs. Alan Robinson, daughter-in-law of the
hostess,, gave her mother a hand in enter-
taining.
Among the gifts received by boy-pianist
Philip Hargrave w T as a pair of love-birds,
and he was delighted to find that they
appreciated his music. He tried them first
with Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song,” which
set the birds whistling and chirping joyously.
Eileen, daughter of the M. Robertsons,
of Hampton, having won the travelling
scholarship of the National Gallery, has
gone off in the Moldavia for two years’
study abroad. , ,
The Clive Gauuts, taking a holiday here
after long residence in Burma, are Dooked
to leave us this Aveek. Mr. Gaunt is a son
of Judge Gaunt, and Mrs. Gaunt is a sister
of “Chinese” Morrison.
Painter Mrs. Phillips Fox, returned after
several years in Europe, was given a wel-
come at the International Club at the mid-
week, when the president, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, voiced the greeting. Mrs. 'Fox,
whose sprigged patterned black gown was
topped with a black musquash coat fur col-
lared, and a lacquered straw toque, talked of
her foreign travels.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes launched the show
of Mrs. Fox’s paintings at Everyman’s
Library.
Jeanne Teychenne, who won the “Sun”
aria prize at the just-held Bendigo competi-
tions, intends to study in Europe. She is
a former student of Mary Campbell, of the
Albert-street Con.
Adelaide dances and other doings:—
The Kooyonga clubhouse made a pleasing setting
for the dance given by the A. E. "W. Shorts, of
Unley Park, for the debut of daughter Mavis. Beauti-
ful flowers were massed everywhere, and bright fires
crackled cheerily. About 150 guests were present.
The hostess was gowned in black rjng velvet and
the debutante wore a charming frock of white ninon
bordered with chiffon roses.
There was a dance at the Palais Royal the same
night under the auspices of the Junior Red Cross,
of which Mrs. Lavington Bonython is the presi-
dent. There was a tableau of the League of Nations,
in which children took part, and a red rose distri-
bution by four receht debs., Molly Murray, Mary
Cave, Mary Ashwin and Honor Wilson, who flung
the flowers among the dancers. In 12 of the roses
numbers were concealed which entitled the holders
to prizes.
The Elder Con. opera class staged “Mtrvrie Eng-
land” at the Royal. An outstanding performer
was Kenneth Ward as the Earl of Essex. The
costumes were a notable feature.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth .Wills left for England by
the Moldavia. Prof. A. L. Campbell has taken a
lease of their residence for the period of their
absence.
Dt. Geoffrey de Crespigny is. returning next month
from London,:. His, .marriage with Kathleen, daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. A. M. Cudmore, will be celebrated
soon after his: arrival. Their future home will be
in North Walkerville.
Dr. and Mrs, G. 1!, West arid their daughter
Dorothy left by the Ormonde for Toulon. They
will visit Paris and London.
At the marriage of Tom, son of Mr. and Mrs.
C. L. Moorhouse, of Glen Osmond, to Beryl, daugh-
ter of Mrs. V. B. Ritchie, of East-terrace, the bride
wore Lido-blue wool georgette, witty a felt hat to
match. Mi’s. Ritchie afterwards entertained a small
luncheon party at the South Australian.
About 700 guests attended the Mayoral Ball at
the Town Hall. Gorgeous flowers decorated the
stage, and the Supper-tables were gay with pink
and, crimson roses. Mayoress Glover was gowned
in black lace with coatee of the same material.
Lieut.-Governor Murray and Miss Murray were
present, also the Premier and Mrs. R. L. Butler.
Miss Murray wore rich purple lace; Mrs. Butler
chose pale-grey crinkled chiffon, Worn with a coatee
that had a large grey fox-fur collar. The Sowden
lady was in dull black satin and a deep cape of
black coque feathers. The Gordon lady favored
silver-grey georgette and lace; the Bruce lady
wore a smart black frock, the bodice of black
sequins. ( .■■
Pertlf tunes in
The Northam Town Hall twinkled to some two
hundred guests of Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Viveash at a
merry party in celebration of daughter Betty’s 21st
milestone. The stage was an arbor of autumn leaves,
Virginia creeper and chrysanthemums, and the
supper-tables radiated the glory of roses. Upon
the square cake, with its coffee-tinted icing, flickered
a candle for each ( of Betty’s years. The young
hostess was garbed in'ivory crinkly crepe With bril-
liant shoulder buckles, the dashes of green upon
the corsage being repeated in her apple-shaded
slippers. Mi’s. Viveash was in black taffetas.
Members of the Dempster,. Clarkson, Hamersley and
Parker clans predominated 'among the dancers.
Women and a sprinkling of inquisitive men filled
the reading-room at the Palace for the charity
fashion display. Mrs. I. Herman and Dulcie Allen
were organisers, and the proceeds rattled into the
Free Kindergartens’ money-box. Foundation gar-
ments, sporting tweeds, coats and gowns for after-
noon and evening were displayed by the mannequins,
Madame Lauri Alwyn, her daughter Evie, Betty
Smith, Lesley Vincent, Clarice Sainsbuvy, Dulcie
Allen, Flo Broadhurst, Gladys Grossman, E. Venice
and three Jeans —Herbert, Dyson and Faulkner.
Madame Alwyn was mistress of ceremonies.
Mrs. Charlie Gallagher, who has spent several
months with her mother, Mrs. J. L. B. Weir, is
returning to her home in Brisbane, with a break of
a few weeks in Melbourne en route. Among good-
byes for the visitor was an evening of bridge given
by her sister, Mrs. Geoff. Lynn. The hostess chose
a long-sleeved gown of Burgundy tint, and Mrs.
Gallagher was in angel-skin lace of a powdery blue.
Margaret, daughter of the David Brisbanes, of
Singapore and Claremont, is being welcomed home
by her family and Kobeelya school friends. A final
polish has been rubbed upon her education in
Lausanne.
From Bridgetown comes news of the engagement
of Dorothy Gwyn, daughter of Mrs. W. Wheatley,
and Reginald, thii’d son of the G. W. Hesters.
Molly, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Munro, of Claremont, is affianced to Stewart Irwin,
who hails from Sydney.
The Speck’s record of gaiety:—
Glimpses of other days and other manners were
given at the 1880 party at the Technical School, when
the art students entertained a big crowd —not all in
costumes true to the period. Artist Mildred Pat-
terson, as Queen Victoria, was one of many successes,
Works of art by various students were auctioned at
the end of the show, J. M. Counsel and R. Hudspeth
wielding the hammer.
Though the sun shone on the A.J.C. meeting
at Elwick, winter dressing was in order, and coats,
furs and dark woollens and velvets were general.
The Thorold Finks (Melb.) were there, and in the
throng were Mrs. Eric Brock, the Russell. Ibboffs,
Mrs. Ml. D. Williams, the R. St. Hills, Col. and Mrs.
Young, the Aslibolt lady, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Lyons,
Mrs. W. B. Propsting, the Norman Fergusons, Lt.-
Commander and Mrs. Heriot, the Bruce Gibsons, the
Lindsay Millers and the H. C. Ikins.
The F. J. Gunns, Clanmont, Launceston, threw
open their house and bad festive doings for young-
daughter Kitty, who emerges from the chrysalis this
season. The rooms were gay with berries and autumn
flowers and foliage, and the supper-tables were decked
with berries, Iceland poppies and gypsopliila. Mrs.
Gunn wore black lace, and Kitty was in ivory silk
net with flared skirt and tight-fitting bodice.
The Sanatorium Ball, held in the Albert Hall, was
Launceston’s big social, event. Flags and balloons
made the chief decorations. Supper was served in
the big hall upstairs, where Mrs. F. E. Thomas had
devised decorations that included hanging festoons
of vivid chrysanthemums with colored lights twinkling
among them and gilded wicker baskets of the same
blossoms. Specially invited guests included all the
brass-hats connected with the Sanatorium. Knight
John Evans (president) and C. Collins (sec.) went
up from Hobart.
Mrs. 11. Riddell-Stanley, who has been spending
a few months in the Speck, has gone back to
Melbourne.
Joan, eldest daughter of the V. C. Halls, Laun-
ceston, and Robert Osborne, of Hobart, made their
vows at nuptial mass at the Church of the Apostles,
Launceston. Bride wore ivory georgette, the bodice
made with small puffed sleeves, a fichu of lace and
flounced skirt with shortish train. The veil of
Limerick lace had done duty for l , eight brides in the
family. Sister Barbara ’maided in pale-blue taffeta
with full skirt and little cape of ruched georgette.
The bride’s parents entertained guests at the Bris-
bane Hotel afterwards.
St. Mary’s College engineered a big show with
dancing and bridge at the Continental. Card tables
filled the Eastern room, and the ballroom proper was
crowded with dancers. Home-made supper was
served in the cafe. The three hon. secs, were Kath-
leen Moore, Kathleen Landsell and Molly Bruce.
Banners of the three school houses, College, Presenta-
tion and Manresa, hung over the balcony ai the end
of the ballroom.
Commem. celebrations were comparatively demure
this year, even the Mock Commem. passing off with-
out disorder. The Commem. Ball at the Imperial
was a jolly affair. Frocking was very youthful and
pretty, and an excellent supper, good music and
good organisation made the show enjoyable beyond
the ordinary.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin’ of last century, so t »at
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the- things that del’ghted an earlier one.
Sara Bernhardt is always changing lim-
pets; No sooner out of One; pet than she is
into another. [lB/7/ 91.]
Longest run ever known in Melbourne,
“Tambour Major,” 100 nights; the next,
about 80 nights, or a little over, lies be-
tween “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” and a Royal
Pantomime. [lB/7/’9l.]
When Cooper and Bailey’s show came to
Australia, their biggest-billed deception Avas
“Behemoth! On earth there is not liis like.
See book of Job. He was brought across
the Sahara Desert in a glass tank by
camels.” This turned out to be a miserable
agouti, or South American river-hog, about
four feet long, in a tank. They pretended
the giraffe was alive, but it ivas stuffed, and
mechanism wagged its head. Titania, the
magnificent big female elephant, died in
ART, AS IT IS IN YASS.
TOM RAGGLES (to his. aunt, from up Yasn way): “That statue
was evidently done from, a living model.”
HIS AUNT: “WHA-AT! Do you mean to tell me any live woman
would take off her petticoat before a man to be sculpt
like that?"
TOM RAGGLES (a bit of a dab himself): “Why, of course —nothing
more common.”
HIS AUNT: “Common! I should think so. No wonder she came
out brass!’’ [20/1/’94.]
Auckland, through eating the keeper’s
monkey-jacket, with’ phosphorus matches in
the pocket. She was towed to sea, and
fishermen reported on her as a miraculous
whale. [lB,/7/’9l.]
There are some people who are never so
happy [writes Sappho Smith] as when
flunkeying, and, of course, the lady-scribe is
the most willing hand at it. Her latest local
flight is to speak of (say) “W. Snobbs,
Esq., of Snobbsville, Potts Point; and Snobbs
Park, Bowral” —which is duly impressive
until one drives past “Snobbs Park”—a board
cottage in a, few acres of uncleared paddock
and a visible clothes-line at the back. It
is one thing to “keep up a place m the
country” and quite another to run a recu-
perating "wattle and dab” shanty, which
ten to one the owner lets furnished when-
ever he isn’t recovering in it himself. Not
that there are not dozens of mansions witu
gilded gates scattered about the country, but
the people who live in them do so ail tiie
year round. The gentleman who is so
elaborately billed as “Potts Point and
Bowral” generally has to take off his tail
hat to squeeze through the door of his Arca-
dian “seat.” Which lucid explanation makes
me'feel quite myself again. [l/S/’9l.]
Another anecdote of Gerard Krefft. Dr.
Benjafield went lecturing round with a
snake-antidote, and was expatiating to a
select: assemblage, at Sydney School of Arts
—or somewhere—when the cry rose from
the boys at the back, “Here’s Gerard
Krefft!” So Gerard, with the inevitable
gunny-bag under his arm, was passed from
hand to hand, till he bounded on to the plat-
form. “I say, Doctor, do you say you’ve
got an antidote for snaag-bides ?” “Yes,
certainly.” “Den try this one!” And out
it came waggling from the bag. The doctor
vaulted to a top shelf. [lB/1/’9I.J
Posted on the Sydney City Coroner's
office door: “The City Coroner will be at his
residence, Qakhurst, West-street, St.
Leonards, till 0.30 p.m. to-night, but not
later. After that he can be found in the
dress-circle of Her Majesty’s Theatre, where
he will be sitting, on the left-hand side as
you go in the door. If the police bring in
report from Botany re dead infant, they will
know where the coroner is to be found. He
(the coroner) will want to see the parents,
or one of them, also the doctor’s report
about the child.” | l/8/'9I.J
The Burdekins at latest were staying at
the Alexandra Hotel, South Kensington,
where they, of course, occupy the swellest
suite of rooms. Lord Carington sent them
tickets for the Royal enclosure at Ascot,
where Sydney Burdekin’s portly presence
created a profound sensation—for. after all,
men who have real incomes of £BO,OOO to
£lOO,OOO a year aren’t plentiful even in the
Big Smoke. They are so enamored of all
they have seen .since they have been in
London that they have decided to pitch their
tent in England for some years; but Sydney
B. will pay occasional visits to Australia,
just to see that Woolloomooloo pays its
“rint.” He was at the last levee, and made
a brave show in his new togs. [25/7/’9l. |
Another snake yarn, ditto a tight place.
Jack Barber lived in the usual stringy-barb
hut with the usual slanting roof. When he
lay on his bunk his face was about 2ft.
below the lowest part of the roof. One warm
Sunday morning he woke rather late with
an idea that a cold
hand was being pass-
ed over his cheek.
When he opened his
eyes he encountered
a dark, indistinct ,
object suspended
directly over his
f-i ce. A sec on d
glance convinced him
it was a snake, a
large snake, two-
thirds of the body of
which hung from the
division between two
sheets; of bark on the
roof. The' body came
to within two
inches of his lips,
turned upwards
again, and the lean,
d adly head, from
which the tongue
dart ed, oscillated
with a rhythmical
circular . motion.
Barber lay for a
moment frozen in
flesh and blood, arid
simply glared, ex-
pecting death,, but
the snake’s diamond
eyes were fixed
upon the wall about
six inches above his
head, and it con-
tinued its strange,
methodical m o v e-
mont. Th e n the
power of action re-
turned to Barber’s
limbs, and he simply
flung himself from
the bunk and' jumped
for the iron fire-bar.
When lie- turned
around the snake
had not altered its
position, and still
its head went slowly
round and round.
The navvy’s watch
hung open on a tack
in the wall, a ray of
sunlight fell across
the glass, and it was about this shrine
that the snake was performing its quaint de-
votions. The snake continued its actions
even when Barber approached it, when a
blow from the bar sent it squirming to the
floor with a broken neck. Jack was sure
the brute had just looked in to see the time
of day, but another has since seen a snake
performing somewhat similarly in the
presence of a white glass. [l5/l/’B9.]
Parry Okeden. the present Queensland
Commissioner of Police, is one of the first of
the “Men from Snowy River.” He was.
born the ire on Maranumble station in ’4l.
The only available Lucina was a faithful
aboriginal woman. At three years of age
he was carried on horseback to Rosevale
station, in Gippsland, where his father was
the first squatter to establish friendship with
the wild tribes. Young Okeden was also
taken on a visit to Flinders Island, where
he saw the last of the Tasmanians —a for-
lorn group, seated on the seashore, gazing,
heartsick and homesick, at the far-off blue
hills of that beloved native land which they
were never more to inhabit. [3l/7/ 97.]
A story of the courtly Victorian Judge,
Sir Redmond Barry. He was presiding in a
case in which a handsome and handsomely-
attired woman gave evidence. It was elicited
that she was engaged in one of the large
warehouses all , day and resided alone in one
of the suburbs at a given address. In, the
Victorian Supreme Court, in Barry’s time,
the Sheriff always occupied a seat on the
Bench. That night two tall, commanding
figures might have been seen approaching the
lady’s house, but from different directions.
Sheriff Farie had his hand on the knocker
when Judge Barry came up and prevented
the knock being given, and, with a courteous
bow, said: “Pardon me; the Judge before
the executioner.” Barry, by the way, once
He wanted a clove, “so that his,, wife would not
smell his breath.”
[Tom Durkin —21/4/'94.]
received a letter, in a lady’s handwriting,
inviting him to a meeting in the Carlton
Gardens. The Judge, who was a gay old
dog, notwithstanding his austere appearance,
kept the appointment, only to find, instead
of a beauteous woman, two men, who robbed
him of watch, chain and purse, and pro-
mised, if he made a noise, to return and
crush him up into his funny old stovepipe
hat. He kept this little episode strictly to
himself for years. | 25/7/’9l.]
It is said that the Duke of Edinburgh
once asked Bernhardt what had become ot
the “h” that ordinarily concludes her front
name. To this she replied: “Oh, I have lent
it to ze pauvre Engleesh; zey want eet zo
mposh.” [ll/7/’9l.]
;It would be possible for Bernhardt to give
her performances in French, With ,an Eng-
lish-speaking company, and perhaps some
people would like it better, for the incon-
gruity is by no means so great as may be
imagined. Rossi and Salvini, the. Italian
tragedians, went all over America with Eng-
lish-speaking troupes. Booth ; spoke Eng-
lish, acting in Berlin, as Hamlet, with the
German company, and it came out beauti-
fully. [fi/6/’9l.]
Bernhardt [writes Sappho Smith] doesn t
wear corsets —but the ladies of her co. (and
some of the men) do. aggressively. Madame
Gilbert goes a step beyond and wears what
looks like a lifebuoy round her hips to widen
them. There are two things local actresses
may pick up from the Bernhardt: To keep
a little block of moist red paint in the hand-
kerchief to apply to the lips from time to
time : and to keep white* powder in the top
of her corsage to be smeared over the face
in agony-scenes. It is very easily done.
“Ah! despair!” ' (two hands clasped over
the easily-concealed powder puff). My
cheek turns pale!” (floured hands to face,
which emerges, of course, as white as a
miller). The other night, though, Sara B.
hit herself on the powder-puff, and out
floated a betraying white cloud. [l/8/’9l,|
Most of the Melbourne flood-yarns are
so- truly sad that a funny one deserves to
be remembered. The lord of the low-lying
manor and occupier of the only two-storey
house on his estate refused to retreat before
the advancing waters, for economical reasons.
The family would have to go to an hotel,
there was the furniture to be shifted out
and in again, so. on the whole, he preferred
to hank his goods and chattels upstairs and
let them all camp on the top floor, or roof,
if necessary, until the coast was clear again.
He revelled for a. few hours in the thought
that the house rested on a good foundation.
Then the flood made such a violent rush
on the estate that the beastly tenants had
to slush out and seek shelter under their
landlord’s wing, Most of them had managed
to save a few pet animals and a frying-pan
or two. all of which they dumped down in
the. midst of the reigning family. The boss,
disgusted to find hiimself running a sort of
Noah’s Ark, suggested that his visitors should
scream for boats to come anti carry them
away, but they fell upon his bosom and ex-
plained that there was nowhere else to go,
and they would be content to put up witn
anything he liked to give ’em. They ar . e
still staying with their dear, kind landlord,
as likely as not being all of them stone-broke
poor things! [25/7/’9l.]
The late Chief Justice Martin (N.S.W.)
once thought a witness was not quite compos
mentis, and suddenly asked him: ‘Are you
drunk?” “No, your Honor, I am as sober
as—well, as sober as you are.” “Then, said
his Honor, “you are sober.” [25/7/91.]
Some years ago Quong Tart, Sydney s
boss Chinese, was tendered a banquet locally.
Replying to the toast of his health, he said:
“Some people t’ink ’cos a man born in China
he must be a heathen and savage—mignt
just as well say ’cos Jesa Clist born in a
stable He a horse.” The soul of Dean
Swift has apparently been reincarnated m
Quong. [ll/7/’9l.]
The world is full of actresses who can’t
faint worth twopence, and they grow weari-
some Some of them become worse than
wearisome. The average barn-
storming female seems to lift up
her insensible figure with both
hands, and cast it wildly at the
furniture or the scenery or the
house cat; and she comes down
with such a thud _ that she re-
bounds into the air, and thirds
down again, The worse the
actress is, the heavier is the wal-
lop with which she strikes the
floor. Sara Bernhardt, on the
other hand, faints quite inaudibly,
and this style looks a lot better,
and doesn’t cover her with big
bruises. But, all the same, the
Bernhardt method is not true to
nature. The present writer
speaks from experience. He lived
next door to a 12-stone widow
once, who hung out in a galvau-
ised-iron cottage. About twice a
week she used to get thinking of
him who had departed, and then
she would faint. The first eight
times she did it writer took her
for the Day of Judgment, for
the house used to double up like
a concertina, and all the crockery
flew off the shelves; but after
that he got used to it, and when
he heard a roar, and then a
sound like large quantities of coal
falling down a stair, he simply
looked in to see that she wasn’t
in the fireplace, and then left.
When she recovered she used to
weep until she was quite damp,
and moan and splutter on the sofa
till her head seemed to swell to
about double the orthodox size.
After this experience we can
state confidently that there is a
wide difference between an actress fainting
on the stage and a real female fainting m a
galvanised cottage. The former may look
well, but the performer’s head doesnt swell
up enough, and her shoes aren t. sufficiently
trodden down at the heels, and she isn t
genuine. [25/7/91.]
A certain Hebrew lawyer once drew
NS W. Crown Solicitor Williams’s atten-
tion’ to the fact that he was out at the
e l bows _] le was inadvertently wearing m
the street an old office-coat. “How you Jews
do hanker after old clothes!” was Johns
pleasant reply. [25/7/’9l.]
Governor Jersey turned up at Melbourne
in due course last week, and an honorable
native at once seized his carpet-bag and
carried it up to Government House without
embezzling any of the shirts out of it on
the road. His Excellency wore a pair ot
speckled pants and a liat that had seen
better and brighter days, and his coat was
bulgy at the back as if he had frequently
carried ’sausages home in the hind pocket.
He proved to be small and somewhat baggy,
and he had a baby smile partially disguised
at intervals by an eyeglass; also he had
seven whiskers on one side and nine and a
small one on the other. His hair is the
same color as a brown dog seen indistinctly
in the dusk, and he stutters badly with both
legs. [l7/1/’9l-]
An Afghan concerned in an Adelaide local
court case refused to be sworn until he
bad had a bath, in accordance with his
religion. [25/7/’9l.]
THE PRIDE OF WEALTH.
DEADBEAT (humbly to swell, old-tune friend
of his ): “Lend me five bob.”
SWELL (handing it over): “Now, old man,
for goodness’ sake don’t booze it up.”
DEADBEAT ( haughtily , pocketing the two
half-crowns ): “What right have you,
sir, to dictate to me how I should spend
my own money?”
[Percy F. S. Spence —28/1/’91.]
NEVER A FOE!
They preach and they patter of peace, do
' the Avise,
As though Truth ever kissed with the Lovers
of Lies;
They bid us be meek and they bid us give
hand . ..
To the caitiff and craven that creep iff the
land;
And the battle that puttetlf the man to the
test,
And sunders the base as a dross from the
best,
They tell how it worketh but evil and woe,
But I Avot that each man with a soul hath
a foe!
Now gather thy friends as a flock to thy
fold,
And garner their love in thy heart as a hold;
Be cheery of brow, but be chary of hand,
And hope for no truce with the sycophant
band.
Dost call thyself comrade, yet palter and
pale?
Dost prate of thy love and yet falter and
fail ?
Wouldst tho-u bind me as steel thou must
back me with blow —
He hath never a friend who hath never a,
foe!
So ready with hand on the hilt, brother
mine;
To-day; Ave drink deep of Bellona’s red wine.
Dost hear how the trumpets all joyously
swell?
Dost see the grim front of the armies of
Hell? ‘
Aye! Life is.no Sybarite rose-bed, I ween,
But a battle to-day as it ever hath been;
For from Heaven above to Gehenna below
Must the true man be‘tried—in the fire of
a foe.
[3/7/’97.1
P. LUETIG.
A SUICIDE’S EPITAPH.
Here lies—where Could and Would and
Should
Are done with: past—
Of many Resolutions good
The best- —and last.
[25/7/’91.]
V. J. D.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Kickero”: Apropos Hitler’s scheme of
breeding only from the pure Nordic stock,
a census taken some years ago revealed that
there was only about 11 per cent, of pure
Nordics in Germany.
* * * *
Alaska Juneau, the world’s lowest-grade
goldmine, milled 337,670 tons during January
last. The average yield was no more than
jdwt. per ton. Operating costs were 2s. 3d.,
and the profit was 9d. per ton.
* * * *
N. T. Lambourne succeeds T. B. Strong
(retired) as Director of Education in Maori-
land. He is a native of M.L., where he
was born in 1877. He spent many years as
inspector, before becoming in 1931 chief
inspector of primary schools. At one time
he was vice-principal of Auckland Training
College.
“Pouritana” : Browsing among Maoriland’s
archives I found that a missionary, Rev.
John Butler, put the first plough into the
soil of the isles, on May 3, 1820. Six bul-
locks were landed by H.M.S. Dromedary for
the job, at Kerikeri (Bay of Islands). What
language the Rev. bullocky used in handling
his team isn’t recorded.
“M.L.C.” : Ingenious as are the croc, yarns
of “Imbaga” and “It-i” (B. 10/5/’33) Dr.
Mackenzie, who was sent to Liberia by the
League of Nations last year, caps them both
by a sober statement of fact. Most of the
villages, he says, had tame crocodiles, which
would leave the water and crawl inland
when called. The natives fed them with
chickens, and finally poured gin down their
throats,_ after which they trekked back to
their lairs. He omits to mention what kind
of a track an inebriated crocodile leaves.
“O. W. Waireki”: Twenty years ago,
when I was a lad of nine, I commenced to
read _ a serial thriller, “The fled Rovers,”
running in an English comic Weekly. I fol-
lowed the story till I was 15 or so, and then
stopped taking the paper. I often wondered
afterwards how the yarn ended. Recently
I picked up an issue of the same journal
dated early this year, and found “The Red
Rovers” still going strong! The yarn
seemed to be well under way when I -first
encountered it.
“0.K.”: Talking of tall timber recalls a
remarkable English oak in France which
ten of us with our arms extended were
barely able to encircle. It was growing at
the village 9!' Allonville-Bcllefosse, on the
Le Havre line, and was said to be over
1000 years old. Inside the tree are two
chapels. In the first chapel is a statue of
the Virgin Mary, presented by the Empress
Eugenie. An elegant whitened stairway
surrounds the tree and leads to the second
chapel. The villagers asserted that the tree
had sheltered Charles 11.. King of England,
and Louis XV.
“Uramao” A Masterton (MX.) lad
sought a novel way of bringing under the
notice of the farming community that he
THEY DIDN’T UP HIS WAY.
PAINTER (describing his nude): “ I had to give her two pounds for a sitting.”
SALTBUSH: “Cripes! She doesn’t look like the sort that would keep fowls.”
wanted a job. A horse sale was on, and
cockles were plentiful. After the auctioneer
had dispersed the horses the lad mounted
the rostrum, informed the assemblage that
he was open for engagement, and invited
anyone in the audience to take him on. There
was no response, but the youngster wasn't
daunted. He descended and buttonholed the
farmers individually till he found one who
could appreciate the character-value of such
determination.
* * * *
“Coral Strand”: The story of measles in
Fiji (B. 17/5/’33) has been repeated
throughout the Pacific islands at one time or
other. Much of it was introduced by the
early-day missionaries, and the custom then
in vogue among these good folk of com-
pelling their converts to dress in European
clothing hastened the incidence of the
scourge. The tendency of the native to try
to find coolness anyhow when in a high
fever helped towards pneumonic develop-
ments. I saw my first epidemic in British
New Guinea early in the century. There it
was found impossible to keep stricken
natives from trying to cool off in sea
or river, and the consequences were disas-
trous, mortality being very heavy.
**‘ * ‘ *
“Whizz”;. Mrs. G. M. Stewart, who
specialises in the smaller-car records —she
held no fewer than 13 at the end of 1932
has hoisted yet another thus early in the
European season. This time it is the mile
record for the two-litre class. Her time for
the flying mile was 26.115ec., making an
average speed of 137.8 m.p.h. The previous
best was 136.27 by E. A. D. EldridgO in
1926. Both records were done on the
Montlhery track, Eldridge’s in an American
Miller, and Mrs. Stewart’s in a British
Derby Special with a front-wheel drive.
* =i= * *
“Kick Starter” : Though American' motor-
cyclists put up plenty of fast spins, their
records are not officially recognised on the
world’s lists. The reason is that for some
reason or another-the American controlling
body has hitherto refused to affiliate with the
International Federation of Motor Cyclists,
which .has. its headquarters in Paris and is
the recognised head of the game throughput
the world outside Yankeedom. It was hoped
that an application from the Americans
would have be received at the recent annual
meeting of the federation. It would have
been welcomed, but the Americans were too
proud to write, apparently.
* * * *
“Dan. Lambert” j Few British golfers run
to beef, so we may expect the : spectators to
register astonishment when Olin Dutra
comes along as one of the American Ryder
Cup team to meet the professionals of Bri-
tain shortly. Dutra is regarded as the
Camera of the game, for he weighs 19st.,
and he seems to be a lot cleverer at his
specialty than- the big Italian is at boxing.
Dutra is of Spanish parentage, and is to-
day considered the most consistent scorer
in American golf, reeling off par holes as
if he were stringing fish, to use the metaphor
of the country he represents.
❖ u' -i' i
“Lakeside”: America, which is always
ready to try anything in golf once, has been
experimenting with a hole 6in. in diameter
instead of the regulation 4jin. No less a
star than Gene Sarazen favors it, his idea
being, not that the mug player would benefit
much, since even a 12in. hole would test
bis capacity in most cases, but that experts
would never miss on the green, and the
standard would thus be heightened. Sara-
zen himself is hardly in need of help from
the suggested change. In the last American
open he had only 82 putts on 62 greens.
In the 62 he did the trick in once 40 times,
and had only one 3.
* * * *
“Iloylake” : Golf is like football in that it
usually carries on, no matter how infernal
the weather. At the British women’s open
championship begun the other day at Glen-
eagles there were violent thunderstorms
Either the squalls or the thunder and light-
uing got on the nerves of the competitors, for
it was agreed that with the approach of each
storm they could drop their clubs and bolt
for Shelter, notwithstanding section ! of rule
2 regarding stroke competitions. To cap an
unusual situation, a siren was blown to warn
players of the approach of a squall—another
job, apparently, for the unfortunate secre-
tary, who is always the mug on such occa-
sions.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: In spite of strenuous
opposition from the powerful professional
coaching interests on which American foot-
ball is based in Uncle Sam’s universities, the
GREW THAT WAY.
CUSTOMER: "Those apples you sold vie yesterday were all withered.”
B AROWMAN: "Yes, mum. That’s right. They were Grannies, mum.”
Rugby code is making steady headway. Dur-
ing last season, Harvard and Yale sent
Rugby sides abroad, the first-named touring
while Yale went to Bermuda.
’K ith these two foundations taking up the
amateur code its
spread to the others
may be expected.
American football in
the universities is a
business, and during
the season no stu-
dent has time for
any disturbing non-
sense like studying,
so' extensive are the
demands of training
and coaching. There
is none of that draw-
back attaching to
Rugby, and this is
only one reason why
it should recommend
itself- to the univer-
sity authorities as
well • as the players,
❖ * :]:
“C a r n o usfie” :
Cyril Tolley, ex-
amateur champion of
England, and one of
the most spectacular
of British golfers,
has recently returned
from a stay in
America full of re-
forms. He was par-
ticularly critical of
the British amateur
championship, the
conditions of which
he considers call for
drastic revision. His
idea is a qualifying
round instead of the
present interminable
knockout process,
with those left in
playing matches
over 36 holes instead
of the present 18.
An 18-hole game is
too short, he con-
siders, for an event
of such importance,
since it rarely gives
a player who makes au early mistake, no
matter how good he is, a fair chance to
retrieve himself.
>j: ijc $
“Raeakiaki”: In the early days of Maori-
land settlement, Henare possessed a weird
armory of braying trumpets, used for signal-
ling in the manner of those in alpine dis-
tricts of Middle Europe. Most were made
of wood, but temporary ones were con-
structed from flax leaves, and in the North
Island, at any rate, the shell trumpet or
horn was also widely utilised. According
to early writers who heard these instru-
ments, they were decidedly unmusical, but
an authority declares four notes could be
produced, the two middle ones, correspond-
ing to the concert-pitch G and B, being ex-
ceptionally clear and far more pleasant than
the 0 and E of the pakeha brass bugle. I’ve
only heard one pu-kaea in action —a bell-
mouthed, six-foot signaller. Being some-
what the worse for wear, it had to be mended
before a single note could be obtained, the
lashings that joined the two hollowed-out
halves of the trumpet having come adrift
and the mouthpiec l b 'ing somewhat decayed.
it was certainly unmusical, producing only
a discordant roaring, but it admirably suited
the purpose for which it was designed, since
the Mdeous ]loo ti lig cou ld be heard at a
great distance . 1 tramped five miles, and
could hear it clearly, so that its range for
signalling purposes, particularly with a
favorable wind, must have been very great.
Incidentally, tin- shell trumpet, fashioned
from the univalve Sepia tritonis, differed
from similar instruments throughout the
Pacific by having the mouthpiece at the coni-
c.r point instead of being let into a hob-
minched in the side,
* * * *
Major”: The writer of the references
, Philip Hargrave (B. 3/5/’B3) raises a.
~ ~ , ' , A , „
crop ot questions when he says that ‘auy-
onc able to plumb the depths and climb the
heights of Beethoven cannot be really int.er-
-1 sted in toy balloons.” It is quite possible
to have a dickens of a lot of manual or men-
tal proficiency in some particular direction
without being, burdened by an encyclopaedic
brain. To keep, the discussion to music, He
Pachmanu was under the age of ten, men-
tally, ill. every department save music,
,hroughoiit the greater part of his brilliant
concert career. American mdiences applauded
f°i* years the performances of Chopin and
other classical masters by Blind Tom. a
negro .imbecile. Huneker, in the fictional
dress in which he disguises Iris too-personal
reminiscences,; tells of a virtuoso whose digi-
tal powers remained unimpaired even when
he tvas so drunk that he fell off his chair in
the middle of,a recital. There are similar
cases j n m y own experience. As to the
“heights and depths” of Beethoven or of any
other com P° aer > n °t one of them—not c.veu
Schumann, who could express his ideas jour-
nalwtically in very good German—has been
able to give a rational explanation of his
own music. Beethoven was a bad-tempered
and uncouth person, so egotistical that it
never occurred to him there was anything
in the world worth study outside music. It
has been left to other people to find out far
mo re about his compositions than he ever
knew. Music, more than any other art,
comes people. To some, like Schubert,
Beethoven and Chopin, the visitation is in-
, . A ,-. . . , , ,
cessant A mathematician might endeavor
to explain it by saying they -were out of
the normal line at exactly the angle where
the forces of music impinge most directly,
The sanest, most level-headed of great pian-
ists I ever met was Percy Grainger, but
Cyril Scott records that he called on Percy
in Chelsea and found him dressed in “a
most astonishing costume —a blue and red
shirt, very much open about the chest; a
pair of shorts made out of coarse, dark-,
colored Turkish towels, and round his calves
twisted, very far apart, puttees of white
calico.” Mrs. Grainger, it was explained,
had to make this rigout for her son, to his
specifications, “as he wanted to be cool.”


Gold Sleeve-linKs.
HILARY LOFTING'S BRILLIANT ST ORY OF A CONFIDENCE MAN
WHO FLAYED A LONE HAND.
BLACK MARIA’S sudden jolt threw
Madison into the lap of the man oppo-
site, an evil-smelling man who was very
dirty, and who grunted without smiling.
“Sit tight, Digger,” he suggested wearily;
“that’s me breakfast, and there’s only skilly
for me tea.”
“Sorry,” Madison muttered, disentangling
himself and lurching back into his seat on
the wooden bench. “The man drives like a
fool.”
The odorous man glanced at him agaiu,
but still wearily. “Yer first trip in the
waggon?” he asked.
Madison nodded.
“What did they get you for?”
“Assault and robbery—three years’ hard
labor,” Madison told him curtly. The deso-
late evil in the man’s face, the ruin of all
ordinary human conduct that looked out of
his tired animal eyes, made an affront, even
in the police waggon cn route for Long Bay.
Telling him the truth might shut him up.
“Ah well, it won’t be yer last trip, so
you’ll get a chance of learnin’ what you are,
once they’ve copped yer. We're not pas-
sengers”—the waggon lurched hugely, and
the man gasped and almost fell on Madison
—“we’re flamin’ prisoners, which is the
same as dogs. Or dirt.” tie wedged him-
self into his corner again, pulling his filthy
coat round him. “Did you expect a Rolls-
Royce and a footman?” lie added, a faint
edge of scorn on the lifeless fatigue of his
voice. “After the Bloke passed you three
years’ for pushin’ someone’s face in an’
pinchin’ his envelope.... You want too
much, Digger.”
The truth having the unhappy effect of
making the man talk, Madison tried silence,
this time, which in the end did shut him up
Grey eyelids came down over his watchful,
criminal eyes, shutting out _ their lazy defi-
ance even in the trap of this Black Maria;
he slept, or so it seemed. Perhaps he was
like a cat or a dog and could snatch a
moment’s sleep anywhere, in any circum-
stances. He was uglier, more inhuman, in
sleep even than in waking. Madison’s gaze
turned from him with relief to the spare
muscular back of the constable riding on
guard on the step of Black Maria; he was
authority, grim and hard perhaps, but he
was better than this foul brother of the
underworld. Over the strong blue shoulder
Madison could see the busy street, the people
chattering and laughing, the heads turning
to stare at the police waggon.
The street suddenly vanished as the
waggon hurled itself under the archway and
stopped abruptly at the cells exit of the
Central Court. The constable slipped off
the step and disappeared into the bleak
stone doorway, reappearing at once with five
more malefactors, whom he herded rapidly
into Black Maria. In less than a minute,
it seemed, the waggon backed out into Pitt-
street and was lurching swiftly on its way.
Madison glanced at the silent faces of these
five, who were also his brothers now for
three years—as they had been in spirit for
nearly ten years—and receded into himself.
Like the man opposite, they were flabby,
evil nothings, trapped- for a space, to be set
free to sin and be trapped again until at
last they died, and became forgotten nothings
in death. Bag-snatchers and verandah-
thieves, “breaking and- entering” when it
was as safe as your own room, sly-grog in
a ’Loo back yard—not one of them could
stand up to a real job if it took more than
five minutes to think out before you jumped
in and got to work. They spent half their
lives in gaol and earned it.
This was his own fault, lie knew. He had
earned it, too, many times. in the past ten
years; but it had never got to him until
now. He had been clever enough to dodge
it; but this time he had been too clever. And
here he was, plunging out to Long Bay
with this riff-raff, on his way to a three-year
stretch at Goulburn or Bathurst. One of
the heads, a top-notcher who had run free
and made a pot of money out of the game
for nearly ten years Played a lone hand
all the time and not once been. caught or
even questioned. These flabby little crooks
had never heard of him —and never would
have heard of him if he hadn’t lost his
temper and punched a drunken bookmaker in
the jaw. out in the open in a Randwick
street. He had slipped ; no one in the game
had any right to have a temper, much less
to lose it. And this was the result; on liis
thirty-seventh birthday here he was, on his
way to a quiet three years to think it over
Hell of a birthday-party.... But he
wouldn’t cry. H‘e had slipped, like a fool,
and it was up to him to take his medicine
with a stiff upper lip. Still, it was a hell of
a birthday-party. , , x
Black Maria jolted and lurched to a
• standstill. The lean young constable sprang
off the step, opened the big iron gates with
the help of the gatekeeper, and was on the
step again on guard as Black Maria backed
in. He unlocked the door of the waggon and
stood aside, a picture of lean, alert strength.
“All out,” he said curtly. “Step lively.”
Here 't all was —the wide asphalt yard,
the vast unscalable wall with the armed
cops walking to and fro on its top, the half-
dozen bui l dings of cells, the dead-looking
flower-beds, the scores of armed and
helmeted cops—all here, hemming him in,
obliterating him for three years. Over there
the ocean was. blue under the sunlight, but
no one could see it; there the sand-dunes
glittered yellow, but no one could see them;
behind him the road slipped gaily back to
Sydney, but no one could see it. All that
was beyond the walls for three years. More
than a thousand da*s
He was lined up and searched; lined up
and given a number Cud a cell in Building
B; lined up and told l o step lively across
the yard to the cook-house and fetch his
dinner-pail; lined up to give his name, age,
occupation, place of birth and religion; lined
up at last to step lively to Building,B. In
the steel-lined hall of Buildiog B, under , the
steel gratings of the galleries, he and his
weary brothers were lined up again.
The sergeant at the desk let his cold gaze
rest for a long moment on each man’s face
as he called the roll. His eyes were like the
steel of the gratings aud the bare bleak hall.
They would uever forget, Madison kuew.
“Take ’em up, Jim,” he said at last to the
warder beside him.
The steady tramp of the warder in front
and of the two warders behind, the jangling
of the keys as the cell-door was thrown open,
the crashing-to of the cell-door as it was shut
and locked More than a thousand
days....
Dazed and spent, Madison subsided to the
three-legged stool against the concrete wall.
He was short of breath, as if he had been
running all day. Yet he was hard and in
good condition, as always. It was stiff going,
this. But here was cool silence and this cool
blessed solitude; he was alone and free of
his foul brothers at last.
Between him and the glare of the electric
light a vision seemed to creep suddenly into
being. He saw himself ten years ago in the
last stormy interview with his father, > saw
himself flinging out of the house and striding
down the Somerset village street, his back
turned on that quiet English life for ever.
He saw his landing in Sydney, his vague
half-hearted attempts to get a job, his bor-
rowing” of a hundred pounds from that
Queensland fool who died on the way home
to Charters Towers. That was false pre-
tences, really—and too close to the wind. It
had scared him; for a time he had gone
back to looking for work. But they were
easy, too easy; they blew into Sydney with
their pockets full, aching to give it away.
And there were dozens of confidence games
that only needed a little working-out and
some patience while you kept your head and
your temper and saw that your tracks were
always covered. You could find a new one
every day. For ten years he hadn’t done a
A SURE MARK.
“Sail in and ’it ’im.”
“I’m waitin’ fer an opening.”
“Yah! That’s erbout the only thing yer’ll ever ’it.”
tap of real work, and he had lived like a lord
Not a word from home, ever —not a word
from his father. Well, who cared?
You played a lone hand, didn’t you? And
mother had died when he was a boy. More
than a thousand days.... Perhaps father
was dead, too, now.
That bookmaker would have been a good
one, if he hadn’t slipped. Nearly eight hun-
dred He could have staked himself to
the ocean-liner game, made a trip or two,
and taken a long spell in Monte Carlo, where
there was real money....
You played a lone hand, always. Every
one did. This was his birthday. And he
was playing a lone hand in this cell, wasn't
he? On his thirty-seventh birthday... ._
For long he stared at this shadowy vision
of the years, while an unutterable fatigue
seemed to steal heavily through all his being.
He got up from the stool and fumbled his
way to the narrow hammock slung across
the cell.
The light winked and went out. With the
darkness sleep came, swift and merciful, and
fell upon him. obliterating all the past and
all the desolate future.
* * * *
The last voice he had heard was the chap
lain’s; you couldn’t count a couple of gruff
“So-longs,” accompanied by searching,
memorising stares. The chaplain’s voice
was gentle and kind without any patronage
in it—the voice of a courteous equal. During
the three years, when you were in, the
quality of the voices didn’t matter much;
it all became part of the job of sticking it
out: but now that you were out, or on the
verge of out, you remembered that note of
kind equality in the chaplain’s voice.
The sergeant in the office handed him the
slip of paper. “0.K.,” he said, searching
Madison’s face a long moment. “So-long.
Keep out of as much trouble as you can,”
So 10ng.... How long?
In the train the chaplain’s voice—that
one gentle note in the bitter, hardness of
the three years—came back again. “You see,
Madison, this friend of mine—l’ll give you
his address—is not in any way religious. He
says he has no convictions; they are too
embarrassing. But he is a very interesting
man. and I wish you’d go and see him.”
“Why?” Madison had ’ asked.
“Because you are a rather interesting man,
too. You are in the prime of life; your mind
is astonishingly alert and quick; and I
should say that, physically, you are m per-
fect condition. Yet, after to-morrow and
your return to the world, you wont kno
one single thing that you want to do with
that fine equipment.”
“Oh, won’t I?” Madison had said in curt
scorn.
“No.” The note of satisfied finality in the
easy quiet voice ignored the scorn. “Naturally,
it’s beneath a man so endowed to blunder
back here to the kennels where the unfit and
the unhappy sub-normal are chained for the
protection of society. lliat would b •
absurd. And I think a man, jumping off at
forty, fit and clever, and with his lesson
learned —starting off like a youngster with
experience and yet without the least idea
of what career he is going to make—-is ex-
tremely interesting. And Fallon will think
so, too, I know; I’ve written to him about
you, and I do wish you’d go and see him.
He is awfully good at careers and openings
for them. Half a dozen friends of mine-
chaps who were interesting enough—have
looked in to see him and he was cap-
able about it. Fixed them up in no time ....
And so on. , What he said was the usual
Oh-be-joyful bosh, sign-the-pledge and what-
not ; but the music of the way he said it
lingered like a happy memory. One hadn t
the least intention of going anywhere near
his helpful friend, of course; but lus voice
in that dead three years was unforgettable.
As a happy memory, only, in a bleak un-
happy dream; that was all. For all realities,
more than ever it was a lone hand now, to
the end; and Fallon, this Mosman reform-
ing friend of the parson, wouldn't come into
it anywhere, except as a threadbare joke.
This fortieth birthday was better than his
thirty-seventh. But—oh, well, he was tired,
and his calloused hands were hurting again.
The train ran into Central Station, and he
got out of the compartment, awkward and
constrained in the leisurely crowd of pas-
sengers who felt like a hurrying tumultuous
multitude to him. There was a terrifying dm
of voices and tramping feet and engines
blowing-off steam, too. That would all
wear off, of course.
Sydney looked tired and dead, too, in
spite of the row. and the-tearing hurry every-
one was in. There was a grim, pitiless feel-
ing in the place: even Darlinghurst—gay,
don’t-care Darlinghurst—peered and watched,
ready to pounce. Or so it seemed.
Standing in the doorway Mrs. Bull looked
twenty years older instead of only three.
Her glance seemed to flicker over his un-
pressed suit, the grey pallor of his face, his
huge rough hands, and to lose interest in
him at once.
Yes, his trunk was safe. Yes, he could
have a room; half the house was empty
he could take his choice of a dozen rooms.
He did so, feeling some life flow back into
his spi it in the effort to be bright ana
casual with this woman. She knew, or
course; but the small exercise in the old
trade of putting-a-face-on-it braced and
heartened him. The veiled, half-eontemp;cl-
ous look in her eyes only made him put his
back into being cheerful and indifferent.
At last she went drearily away. He
opened the trunk. Yes; all O.K. And the
money was safe: he counted the notes.
Quite correct; Izzy had played the game
about the storage of the trunk, and kept
his fingers to himself. Good-oh ! He shaved,
had a shower, and put on another suit.
Barring his broken nails and his hands, he
was himself again. The three years might
never have been; it might be his _ thirty-
seventh birthday instead of his fortieth.
The streets were bettor this time. He
walked down William-street and across the
Domain ; and every second man didn’t soom
to be a plainclothes cop eyeing him. The
din was not so bad, either, nor the crowds
in so much of a blazing hurry. By the time
he reached Izzy’s office in the dim light of
the Arcade he knew that he had got a grip
on it again. He could play the lone hand
for all it was worth once more, with the
beacon of Monte Carlo to make it worth
while.
Izzy was just the same —heavy and silent
and half dead, except when lie was talking
shop. There was nothing new no money
in Australia... .nothing in the game now
.... and so on.
Madison glanced at the cases of Italian
glass and high-class china of which Izzy
was reputedly the Australian agent. All
just the same.
“Oh.” Izzy opened a drawer in his desk
“A letter and a packet came for you. From
the Old Country. Addressed to Cook’s, to
be forwarded. They went back to the post-
office and were put in my box, as usual. No
other mail for you.” He handed the packet
and letter to Madison. “Look in at the
Barcelona about 4 o’clock to-morrow, will
you ? I shall be there. And I might have
a friend with me.”
This was polite dismissal. The Barcelona
to-morrow at 4 o’clock.... That was like
old times, eh? And Izzy would have a
friend.... Something doing But he'd
play a lone hand, as heretofore. Izzy would
take his small rake-off for introduction or
whatever he did on his own; but no double-
harness at fifty-fifty, three years or no
three years. If Izzy thought his first
stretch had broken his nerve for the lone 1
hand, Izzy could think again.... He be-
came conscious of the small parcel and the
letter in his hand. Who on earth was writ-
ing to him from England? He looked at the
envelope. He knew that handwriting....
whose ——
He stood still on the pavement of Castle-
reagh-street, staring at the letter and the
little parcel. Not a man of forty, but a boy
with a parcel on his birthday.... What a
thing to think!.... He was getting soft... .
He hurried on, and turned into the Barcelona
bar, took his whisky-and-soda to a table in
the far corner and tore open the letter.
My Dear Son , —
I am hoping that this letter and the
accompanying small gift may reach you
about the date of your fortieth birthday.
If you cannot he found within a month'
they will be returned to me. Thirteen
years is a long time, and you may hare
left Australia; hut I obey the impulse to
send them to you.
The sleeve-linlcs were my own, a pair
that I have worn for twenty-five years. _ I
have had them done-tip and engraved icith
your initials, to give myself the pleasure
of feeling that you will be sharing an old
friend with me.
Many happy returns of your birthday,
and all good wishes.
Your affectionate father,
E. Madison.
For a space Madison’s eyes stared unsee-
ing at the noisy groups at the bar. A
garden seemed to be blooming between him
and that bar where he had so often played
the lone hand; there was a climbing-rose
and a dim smell of the sea, a tea-table on
the lawn in the shade of a great tree. Quiet
—fair and quiet, like the life there and its
rewards. Father was an old man now, play-
ing a lone hand there....
Abstractedly he opened the little parcel.
Gold sleeve-links, simple and quiet, like
father. The letter was. like him, too —reti-
cent and yet to the point. Like his cour-
teous. dignified life.... Four little plain
gold discs, “W.M.” on each.... “W.M.”....
That meant something t 0 father, meant
much to him in the past, and more now,
when he was old. The initials were a tie
between him and life, him and the future,
something whereby the lone hand that every-
one must play could be shared with the
relentless passing years. Madison put the
little discs back into the box and slipped
it into his pocket with the letter. Still
abstractedly he got up and walked slowly
out of this bar, deep in thought.
Evening had lain soft on Castlereagh-
street, had hovered over the Harbor and
over the gardens of the trim Mosman roads;
here on these heights there was a faint after-
glow warming the gathering dusk. Pausing
on the verandah of Fallon’s house, Madison
thought he could hear a dim echo of the
music of the chaplain’s kind, easy voice:. I
wish you’d go and see him, Madison”—-which
somehow shared the luminous air with the
shadows. One could see the Harbor waters
again from here, fair and quiet in the even-
ing light. He touched the bell-push.
Man ‘and the Lightnings.
Despot of storms, you own the loftier will
That brooks no challenge of the ancient
night. . .
Far on dream-shores thin waves of ether spill
Where Mind at last shall claim its master-
right.
High-charioted behind your monstrous
steeds
Whose mouths grow tender to our bit
and rein,
We shall outgallop thunder and restrain
The gods of darkness with the fire of deeds.
Assassin of the sky. your sword of flame
Is sudden, sharp and poisonous with
death. . .. .
Laugh in your thunders! There is that
shall tame
Your roaring menace to a milder brea.n
Than flutings of dark birds in morning trees.
We break you to a dream as chaste and
fair
As the green valleys of forgotten prayer
Omnipotence yields up the silver keys.
All doors of all sweet places open wide
Before the gentle will of guarded powei.
The harvest of an age’s toiling pride
Shall spring to music of one thoughtful
hour.
Each simple wayside paradise shall raise
A blossom incense to the gentler sky.
Where the world-rose that never bee sucks
Laughs* to eternal Spring through happier
days.
Not making discord of the power we hold.
But setting calm to melody of ligh ,
Our living touch shall turn base things to
And banish wailing pain into the night
That it may vex our spirits nevermore.
And we, because a wheel turns tiue at
Inst, •
May break with singing from the questing
And stand’as gods upon a shore.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


I At your request tee
shall be pleased to
forward illustrated
folder No. 25.
JAVA
SINGAPORE
Lands of perpetual summer—
gay, delightful, different. Their
warmth and sunshine pleases most
of all during our winter months.
THE SHIP —Your home for six
weeks —choose carefully. On the
“MAR.ELLA” you enjoy comfort,
service and cuisine unequalled.
THE PORTS Numerous, pic-
turesque and interesting. Calls are
made at Brisbane, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Samarang, Bat-
avia and Singapore.
Ideal winter holiday trip.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST. - SYDNEY
TELEPHONE - B 7 9 O I
Read the B.P. MAGAZINE, I/- per copy—all Newsagents and Booksellers
Fortnightly Across the Pacific
I
to
CANADA
UNITED
STATES
EUROPE
via
Picturesque New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
at most economical rates.
Travel by the
splendidly-appointed
modern liners: —
R.M.M.S. AORANGI
R.M.S. NIAGARA
R.M.S. MONOWAI
R.M.S. MAKURA
R.M.S. MAUNGANUI
Cosy, restful cabins,
spacious dining-rooms,
wide promenade decks,
with all facilities fpr
games and sport, luxuri-
ous lounges, unsur-
passed cuisine and fault-
less service.
Illustrated literature and full details
on application.
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
, l!P
h i
Ifr!
mm
m
m
i '[ 'll 4
ti
n
f «
ImU
am.'— ..mill. nurnm 1111
v
-
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Doġ.
BY VANCE PALMER.
EVER since she had come wallowing
across the river-bar into open water,
the H'ilma had been having a bad time.
A strong headwind was blowing from the
south-east, thrumming through the stays,
filling the air with spume and sour froth;
every few minutes the little boat buried its
nose into the heavy seas like an ostrich
thrusting its head into the sand. And there
had been trouble, as usual, with the engine.
Olsen, wrestling with it among the stench
and fumes was on the point of exhaustion,
but his pale, cheerful eyes, beaming through
their smudged glasses, were filled with their
customary optimism when he poked his head
up for a few minutes’ breathing-space.
“When we get to port this time,” he said
to the shivering half-caste at the tiller, “I
kave_ a complete overhaul. Yes, she been
waiting for that a long time now.”
Nelson, the mission boy, was sulky with
cold and a sense of peril. “Going to run
her into Brammo Creek?” lie asked.
“No,” said Olsen indignantly. “We don’t
want for to take shelter anywhere. She get
through all right.”
He peered forward to where Corney
Banks, drenched to the skin, was tighten-
ing the tarpaulins round the deck cargo.
Disgust and surliness showed in every line
of the old fellow’s figure. There was noth-
ing of the seaman about Corney; he only
went for the run up the coast with Olsen
when there was no chance of a job on the
1 ort Mowbray wharves, and he never spoke
except with a growl till he set foot on shore
again.
But Olsen was used to having a cranky
crew. Although he was about the most
popular man in port—had been for thirty
years—no man in his senses would ship
on the Hilma with him. “That rotten little
tub! It’s murder to let her go out beyond
the beacons,” they said. But they did not
disparage her in Olsen’s hearing. She was
all he had left since he had come down in
the world, losing liis joinery business, his
home on the waterfront, the allegiance of
Ins large but shiftless family. Since Dot,
the youngest, had disappeared from the port
under a cloud, Olsen had forsaken the land
altogether, and camped on the boat for
weeks together when she was idle at her
moorings among the mangroves of the
estuary. A queer, amiable old seh fossil he
looked when lie climbed out of her and
paddled ashore for a drink of an evening,
his spectacled eyes wrinkled with good
humor, his tragedy buried deep in him.
Buried so deep, indeed, that most people
wondered if he felt the ignominy of his
dilapidated old age at all. He always had
his little joke; men crowded round him to
listen to his stories when he was drink-
ing ; it seemed nothing to him that his busi-
ness. had gone to the dogs and his family
C 0^ e J to no good - But wlleu the half-caste
talked about running into Brammo Creek
for shelter, the outer crust of him broke for
a while and the murky fire at the core
gleamed through.
"No, by cripes,” he muttered, turning
again to the engine. “If I met that fellow
again I don’t want for to have blood on
my hands.”
Since he had .taken to running with stores
up the coast he had passed Brammo Creek
halt a hundred times, sometimes so close
in that he could see Whelan standing on
ms verandah or pottering about among the
bananas of the hillside. The sight never
ceased to inflame Olsen and bring the blood
veins to his eyes. People said Olsen had no
character, that it was through sheer lack of
will that he had let his family and his busi-
ness go to ruin, but he had clung to this
hatred of Whelan like a beetle to a lump
? f ,. b^ rk / Firml y implanted in him was the
belief that one day he would find his chance
ot grinding the face of the man who had
got Dot into trouble and left her.
Except for the boat, it was the one fixed
point in his life, this secret passion for
revenge. At least, he thought so. In Whelan
he found an image of all the evil that had
brought his high ambitions for himself and
his family in ruins about his feet. Yet he
avoided Brammo Creek, where the fellow
had gone to grow bananas and cultivate
oysters Pie did not want, after all, to have
Whelan’s blood on his hands!
Night came down with low-flying masses
of cloud and an increase of wind, and every
boit and rivet of the old hulk groaned as
she lurched and wallowed in the heavy seas
The shivering Nelson, his eyes fixed on the
light ahead, knew she was only doing about
three knots an hour. That meant another
twenty-four hours before they would reach
port. A feeling of nausea swept over him
at the prospect ahead.
“H'ey, Mr. Banks,” he whined to the heap
of canvas on the hatch, “ain’t you going
to gimme a change at the tiller? I want to
go down and get a hot drink inside me.”
Corney raised himself with a growl from
under the mouldy sail. “Where’s the old
man gone?” he rumbled.
“Dunno. S’pose lie’s still down there tin-
kering with the engine. Ain’t doing no
go°d to it, neither. It’s missin’ worse than
when we started.’*
Corney shambled aft and peered down into
the little dungeon of an engine-room, the
reek of which turned liis stomach; buf
there was no sign of movement. Then by
the light of the smoky lantern he saw Olsen
lying in a crumpled heap on the floor. A
little scaled, lie stumbled down the short
ladder, turned the old man over, felt his
heart It was all right. Olsen was still alive
Musta fainted,” Corney told himself.
No wonder, in this h01e!... That settles
it. We ain’t going no further than Brammo
Creek to-night. ’ And after getting the old
man with difficulty up to the deck and mak-
ing him comfortable with blankets on the lev
side of the hatch, he said to the half-caste:
Bun for Brammo Creek. If we can’t «et
over the bar we can find shelter behind the
headland there.”
• T ! ,us :. it that Olsen woke in the morn-
himself staring at the tin triangle
of Whelans roof issuing from a clump of
stunted bananas. The mournful howl of a
dog came to his ears—lie felt it had been
echoing through his dreams all night. His
head was still aching and empty as he sat
up and looked around him, and there was a
sickness in the pit of his stomach. He re-
membered the fumes that had made him
giddy the night before, the sudden rush for
air. “Run here for shelter as soon as they
got me out of the way,” he muttered, find-
ing Corney and the half-caste asleep in the
hold below.
The thought of being so near Whelan
made his nostrils dilate and the hair bristle
at the back of his neck. He wanted to get
the anchor up as soon as possible and make
out to sea again. But the intermittent
howl from ashore roused a queer feeling
in him as he lit the primus in the galley
and made coffee. What was the matter
with the brute? He took his coffee up to
the hatch and sat staring at Whelan’s tin
roof as he drank, brooding on memories of
the old tragedy. There was no sign of life ;
not a wisp' of smoke from the chimney.
When the other men awoke they found
him shoving the paddles into the dinghy at
the stern.
“Frightened of the weather last night,
was it?” he twitted them. “Well, the wind
dropped now all right.... I’m yoost going
ashore for a while. Be ready to start when
I come back.”
Something told him his chance of getting
even with Whelan had come. He did. not
know how. But that affair of ten years ago
was as alive in his mind as if it had hap-
pened yesterday; and the dog howling from
its hidden cover evoked emotions from the
depths of liis being. He saw Dot, a flaxen-
haired girl of nineteen, stealing out through
the tea-tree at the back to meet the boat
as it came down the estuary; Whelan, in
charge, standing at the tiller in the steru,
waving his free hand to her. There was a
triumphant smile in the fellow’s eyes, on
the mouth that was hidden by the drooping
moustache.
“Yes,” lie said as he worked the paddles,
“you were very clever, Whelan —fooled the
both of us. A fine fellow you Avere those
days. But what have you got now?”
It Avas plain to the eye that Whelan had
done no good since he had left the sea and
come up here to Brammo Creek. A few
bunches of bananas, a few bags of oysters —
that was all he had to take down on his rare
journeys to the port.
As Olsen made his way up the path to
the house, a lean retriever came out from
the bushes and whined round his legs, lie
stopped to look at it. Hunger showed in its
shrunken body, perplexity in its sentimental
eyes.
“Something wrong, eh?” Olsen said to it'.
“You howl till you bring help? Well, this
time you pick the wrong man.”
He had approached the two-roomed but
and was gazing in tentatively through the
window. At first he could see nothing
through the blurred pane, and then he made
out the form of Whelan lying on the
tumbled bunk, one arm hanging towards the
floor, eyes gazing into vacancy. At first
lie did not recognise the face. It Avas hag-
gard and old, and the top of the head was
quite bald: Olsen felt he Avas gazing at
a different man from the one he had known.
But gradually the features filled out, the
eyes took on a sardonic look, the mouth
appeared to twist in a grin. The old image
of evil was re-created!
Apparently Whelan had been lying un-
conscious for days in the grip of some
malarial fever. He did not .shift his head
when Olsen came into the room and stood
staring at him.
All the hostility the old man had been
nursing for years gathered into a hard ball.
“Yes, you got something to think over,” he
wanted to say. “Dot—she died down there;
but she had a friend or two round her Avhen
she passed out. But you—no, you won’t
have no one.”
Olsen went out and sat for a while in the
sunlight, staring down through his glasses
at the mangrove-creek, the boat lying in
the shelter of the headland.
The dog came and whined round his legs.
“All right,” lie said, fondling its head.
"No need for you to worry, old boy. I
take you with me Avhen I go. Yes, it Avasn’t
you I mean when I say nothing belonging
to him ever set foot aboard a boat of mine
again.” He had always been fond of dogs,
and it gave him a twinge at the heart to
see the dumb pain in this starved brute’s
eyes. Its sorrowful howl was still sound-
ing through the cells of his brain.
But though it followed him to the dinghy
it would not let itself be tempted aboard.
For a long Avhile he struggled with it and
tried to coax it, but it dodged him and
stood whining a feAv yards away. When at
last he picked it up in his arms, it gave
way to terror and sank its teeth in his Avrist.
“What, you old devil!” he said indignantly,
“want to stay behind, eh? Very well, then.
You yyait here and die along with him.”
He began to row toAvards the Ililma; but
after a few yards he rested on his oars.
Something was troubling his mind. Was it
the dark, sentimental eyes of the dog, or the
empty, delirious ones of the man on the bed?
He did not kuoAV. Sitting in the boat, his
head bent, he let memories of the past wash
over him and tried, to recover the savage
sincerity of his earlier feeling; but tile
mournful howl from the beach only reminded
him that he Avas an old man, and that every-
thing in the world changed and passed.
It was nearly half an hour before he
approached the Ililma. “That Whelan—lie’s
sick ashore there,” he called out to Cornev.
“Eh?” said Banks, looking down. “What's
wrong Avith him?”
Olsen flushed irritably. “How the hell
you expect me to knoAV? I only take one
look at him. Better come over with me
and help carry him aboard.”
But something inside him was humiliated,
something he had cherished so long that it
seemed the most important part of him. He
had to make his apology to it.
.“ ’Tain’t him I’m worrying about,” he
said as they roAved back. “No, ’tain’t
M helan. Whether he lives or dies—it don’t
matter to no one. It’s that dog of his.
Won’t come aboard without him, and a poor
brute like that—why, you can’t go off and
leave it there to starve.”


THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l, AUSTRALIA.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James A M. Elder, K.8.E., Chairman. Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C., Vice-Chairman.
Alexr. F. Bell, C.M.G. Sir Henry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C'.B. Sir John Grice. Hugh M. Strachan.
D. York Syme.
Boards of Advice:
LONDON.—R. H. Caird, J.P. ; The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, P.C. ; The Right Hon. Lord Luke of
Pavenham, K.B.E. •
BRISBANE. —Sir Edward H. Macartney, T. F. Moxon, De Burgh B. B. Persse.
Chief Manager: E. H. Wreford. Deputy Chief Manager: James Wilson. Chief Inspector: E. J. Osborne.
Branches throughout Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales and Queensland,
and at Hobart and Launceston in Tasmania.
Agents in all parts of Australasia, the United Kingdom, and throughout the world.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
Sub-Branch: Australia House, Strand.
BALANCE SHEET AT 31st MARCH, 1933.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO Shares fully paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8 Shares paid up to £5 per share.. 3,000,000 0
Reserve Fund Used in- the Business
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
Piofit and Loss Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing Interest . .
Bearing Interest..
Other Deposits—
Not bearing Interest
Bearing Interest. .
£5,000,000
3,000,000
300,000
272,895
0 io
£8,572,895
47,013
421,305
0 10
0 0
6 0
£147.726 8
79,379 13
£227,106 1 7
..£10,096,111 1 5
. . 23,338,981 17 1
33,435,092 18 6
£4,201,318
4,750,000
Interest Accrued and Rebate on Current Bills
Balances due to other Banks . . . . ■ • ■ ■
(Contingent Liability, as per contra, in regard to obligations of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit and Guarantees, £l,03i;880/16/8.
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash at Bankers..
Commonwealth Treasury Bills .. .. •• •• ••
Government, Municipal and other Public Stocks, Debentures ani
Funds
Bills and Remittances in transitu
Bills and Cheques on, and Notes of other Banks
Balances Due from other Banks
Duty Stamps
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises
Other Real Estate ..
Bank Furniture . . • ■ - ■ • • • ■ • •
Advances and Bills Discounted, less provision for all ascertained Bad
Debts and other contingencies
33,662,199 0 1
355,356 4 4
287,286 19 4
£43,346,655 10 7
1,478.855 2
1,887.546 6
52.707 13
60,443 14
40,064 14 10
and Doubtful
£12,470,935
1,238,201
15,577
61,263
29,560,678 2 6
£43,346,655 10 7
Liabilities of Customers and others on I.etters of Credit, Drafts and Guarantees, as
per contra, £1,031,880/16/8.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
Dr.
To Expenses at Head Office, 328
Branches and 102 Agencies
~ Income, Land and Note Taxes
„ Interim Dividend
„ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account-
„ Balance
£735,073 10 0
93,220 15 9
125,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
272,895 0 10
£1,246,189 7 1
By Balance brought
forward . . £275,950 18 10
Less Dividend,
Mav, 1932 . . 150,000 0 0
£125,950 18 10
„ Gross Profits, including Re-
coveries, less Rebate on Bills
Current, interest Accrued on
Deposits, Repairs to Pre-
mises, Rent, etc., Appropria-
tions for Contingencies, and
Bad Debts written off (all
other ascertained Bad, or
Doubtful, Debts having been
provided for from internal
reserves for contingencies) .. 1,120,238 8 3
£1,246,189 7 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Cr.
Dr.
To Balance
. . £3,000,000 0 0
£3,000,000 0 0
By Balance last year .. .. £3,000,000 0 0
£3,000,000 0 0
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’ Report and Certificate and the
Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear on the original Balance Sheet, and are printed in
the Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to each Shareholder.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £98,219/17/6 for Income, Land and
N ote Taxes :
Amounted to • ■ - • • • • • • • • • • • • ' '' • • • •
Add Balance brought forward from previous year
Making available
From this sum the following appropriation has been made:—
Interim Dividend of 5 per cent, per annum on the £lO and the £8 shales paid
in November last for the Half-year ended 30th September, 1932
In reduction of Bank Premises Account • • •• • •
And it is recommended that a. Dividend be paid on the £lO and the £8 shares
for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1933, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum
And to carry forward
The Annual Meeting will be held at the Bank's Head Office, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 31st May, 1933,
at noon.
The Record.
BY J. J. HARDIE.
HE squatted in the dim corner of the
wool room, a little wiry figure of un-
certain age, alone and almost indis-
cernible in his nook among the tumbled
bales surrounding the press. Under the
afternoon sun the atmosphere of the mgli-
roofed shed was warm and humidly redolent
of freshly-shorn wool, with a whiff ot
ammonia wafting over from the sheep pens.
The bustle and whirr of machinery had
eased with the three o’clock whistle and
finally ceased, till the only remaining sounds
to break the heavy, warm silence were the
low desultory scraps of conversation from
invisible shearers recumbent on the boaru
and the muffled hiss of steam from the dis-
tant engine.
Jimmy the Rat sat ‘hunched and motion-
less, as though all the energy had been with-
drawn from his body and transferred to
the agile brain and the close-set eyes that
alone betrayed the seething activity go nig
on behind them. The skin was stretched
tightly across his sharp features, so that
the pinched bridge of the nose showed white,
and the reddish hair receding from the bony
forehead furthered the ageing yet ageless
appearance of the man. All his attention
was concentrated on the press, a tall wooden
box set under a scaffold, with a similar niov-
able box alongside, and the long spear ot the
compressor thrusting high into the root.
Big Les, the presser, slowly detached his
muscular figure from a bale —his siesta over
—and sauntered across to the row ot bins.
Stooping suddenly, his long bare arms en-
circled more and more w T ool, till he backed
out and stood erect, almost inundated be-
neath the load of snowy fleeces. Then his
short, quick gait took him instinctively to
the press • a heave, and the gaping box swal-
lowed the armful, one solitary fleece missing
the mark and cascading to the floor. Jimmy
the Rat had watched it all so often that he
knew the entire process, could tell exactly
what Les would do next: when he would
jump into the box, sinking into the loose
wool and forcing the air out with a sudden
wlioof; then the steady, rhythmic tramping
of the wool into corners and down the sides,
till the boxes were tight and full; then he
would climb to the box rope and add Ins
weight to the big sandbag, and the box
would rise and tip slowfy over on top ot
the stationary box, after which the machin-
ery took a hand. Jimmy had studied it all
for a purpose; he could never be a presser
—not like that big fool Les, all muscle and
n 0 brains—but in the expression of his own
particular gifts he would prove—to his own
satisfaction at any rate- —that brains were
a far better asset tlia.i brawn.
Two men came round the corner of the bins
conversing slowly, but the hatchet-faced
little man between the bales never moved,
lie recognised the voices—did not need the
glint of a white coat to identify his boss,
the woolclasser, or his square-shouldered,
gabardine-trousered companion as Mr. \V il-
liams, the owner of the station. But
although his features remained unmoved, all
his attention was transferred to the pair
and to their conversation.
“I don’t believe in picking the eyes out
of a clip to get a fancy price myself, Mr.
West.” The owner’s tones were slightly
apologetic. “But I have sheep _to sell, and
I’m going to get a better sale if 1 can say
that their wool brought the highest price
in the district.”
“I see your point all right, Mr. Williams,”
the other'conceded, pausing to inspect a bin
stacked high with snowy fleeces. “Anyhow,
I’ll get some of it pressed up this evening.
Damned shame to think of that stuff going
for the. price they’re paying now !”
“How do some of these fellows get the
fancy prices?”
The classer looked up with a quiet smile.
“Well, some of them have the wool, and
others don’t mind paying a bit for the pub-
licity of a big price. They generally have
sheep to sell too. Mind you,” he added,
“that sort of thing is pretty hard to prove.
The grazier nodded thoughtfully and moved
slowly on. “Oh well, I can t aftoi’d to do
it! All mv money’s tied .up in this place
Oh yes, I know what you’re smiling at.
Because I happen to have a houseful ot
trophies and cups and things, your fellows
reckon I’m a bloated capitalist rolling in
money. The Old Man’s horses collected
that lot, 'and there they are—wonderful to
look at; but you can’t sell those things.
Wish to heaven I could!”
The pair moved out of earshot; the ltat
sat unnoticed in his corner, but with a
queer light smouldering in his eyes.
The whistle shattered the silence with a
warning; from the board came the sudden
commotion of men stripping for action and
the rising note of machinery gaming pace.
A double blast of the whistle and the hum
of the machines took on a deeper note as
they entered the wool for the last run ot
the' day. 'Jimmy the Rat stirred in his
corner, rolled a cigarette deftly* licked it
and stuck it behind his ear; then he rose
quietly to his feet and made Ins way back
to his place at the wool tables.
* * V
The cautious tap, tap, tap sounded again
and the woolclasser sat up in bed, blinking
the sleep from his eyes. “Who’s that?
“It’s me. Les —the presser! Can I come
in for a minute? No, don’t light a match .
The man in the bed, shivering slightly
with the cold, stared resentfully into the
darkness of the room, wondering what on
earth had happened to the phlegmatic presser ;
then the door edged slowly open, gi\ing a
momentary glimpse of sparkling stars in an
indigo sky before a bulky form eclipsed them
and the door was silently closed.
“What’s the matter, Les/ Anything
wrong at the shed?”
The heavy breathing of the midnight visi-
tor chocked a moment. Don t speak so
loud. Boss!” He groped his way closer to
the bed and squatted on the floor. it s
the homestead, Mr. West!” „ w .
The classer sat forward tensely. “What—
on fire?” . ,
“No someone’s broke m —got away with
a lot of stuff; gold cups and things!
“How do you know? Is Mr. Williams
here?”
“No! He doesn’t know yet. It’s like
this, Boss.” The hoarse whisper paused
stumblingly. “I was up there —me an’ the
housemaid. It’s all right, Boss, we’re going
to get married. But, just as we were getting
back, somebody sneaked off the front veran-
dah—a little bloke, with a bag on his back.
I told Jessie to go in and say nothing about
it ; then I follered this fellow. He came
back this way and stops at the shed. I
looks in, quiet. Too dark to see anything,
but I hear him working with the press.
Then he comes out, without the bag, an’
over to the huts.”
“Yes, but how do you know”....
“Well, I filled the boxes with that super-
combing last night, all ready to press in the
morning. Could you put on a coat and have
a look?”
The classer swung himself noiselessly to
the floor and groped for his clothes. “Who
was it, Les? One of our fellows, did you
say? Little chap? N0t”....
“Yes, that’s him. Jimmy the Rat!”
The two men let themselves out into the
starlit night. The woolclasser’s quarters
stood apart, between the low bulk of the
men’s huts and the shearing shed, and the
presser led the treading stealthily as
an abo. The interior of the shed was
wrapped in a gloom that was almost palp
able, and they had to grope their way be-
tween the scattered bales. Wests search-
ing hand found the chill of the iron-bound
press, and as Les, with a whisper of instruc-
tion. heaved the boxes apart, the crasser
inserted a billet of hardwood to hold them
and plunged an arm into the gap.
Under a thick layer of wool he felt the
rough hessian of a sack; then his sensitive
fingers slipped over the cold, chased outline
of a trophy. There were several or them
and a heavy round tray, some flat leather
cases— Mrs.’Williams’s jewellery probably.
He withdrew his arm and subsided on a
heap of packs, his mind in a whirl. Inis
was a job for the police. But supposing
the little wool-roller strenuously denied all
knowledge of the theft, what proof had they !
Suspicion might'fall on the presser—no one
would believe his story; no one except West.
Big Les had worked for him for years and
he knew him as a man of transparent
honesty. .
As fact upon fact crowded in on him,
West felt a grudging sense of admiration
for the thief. little things that had hap-
pened, unimportant by themselves— carefully
camouflaged inquiries—all came together
now and fitted like a jig-saw puzzle, setting
the guilt indubitably on one man. But would
the police see things that way? Everything
had been planned with cunning. To-morrow
they would cut out the last of the sheep
and the men would be paid off and scat-
tered beyond recall. And what a way ot
getting away with the stuff! Who would
think of looking for gold cups in the middle
of their owner’s wool bale consigned to an
open market? ,
Then through the muddle of his thoughts
the big inspiration flashed on him. It was
a gamble—a risk that Williams might not
accept. He himself had nothing to lose
by it and little to gain, but lie was enrap-
tured with his plan, with the audacity of it.
He stood up and called the presser to him.
“Listen, Les. When the police come out
in the morning and question you, you know
nothing about this. You were never near
the homestead last night. You turned in
early, saw nothing and heard nothing. And
you’ll press this bale in the morning and
don’t be afraid to let Jimmy the Rat notice
the number of it. Can you do it?’
The big man hesitated; even in the pitch
darkness liis astonishment was very appar-
ent. Then he replied slowly: “All right,
Boss! 1 don’t know what your idea is,
and I’m a bad liar; but I’ll) give it a go.
:|i i\i ♦ *
Williams and West blended indistinguish-
ably in city attire in the crowd that
thronged Pitt-street, halted at the steps of
the Exchange and for the twentieth time
that day Williams demanded: “Do you think
it will conie off?’’ And for the twentieth
time West’s confident smile the
feverish unrest in the grazier’s eyes. “>so-
thing surer! Everything has gone like clock-
work. The police found no clues at the
shed ; the fact of the telephone wires being
cut pointed to some outsider making his
getaway. We got the bale away with the
first lorry that morning, and it has not been
interfered with since. You say the broker
kept that line away from any possible
sampler?”
“The super-combing went to a special
lock-up store, and the only two bales to
see the light of day since then were on the
show floor this morning.”
“And Jimmy the Rat had inspected them
very thoroughly! I pretended not to notice
him sneaking out.”
“He must have planned it soon after we
started shearing!” _•
The classer nodded reminiscently. I
never did like the little coot much, but he
did his work, and you don’t sack a man
because you don’t like the way he parts his
hair. I don’t anyhow. And I put down all his
odd questions about how the wool is sold,
and how an outsider could buy a few bales,
t 0 the idea that he was getting interested in
his work. He even got Watson the wool-
buyer’s address out of me —damned lucky
I remembered that! So now W'atson holds
the Rat’s £lOO deposit to buy five bales ot
your super-combing, and we have arranged
with another buyer to act as pacemaker.
What’s the brokers’ valuation of that line.'
“Fourteen pence!”
West laughed with cheerful assurance.
“You’ll get your record price to-day, all
right!” „ ,
They went up in the lift and squeezed
into seats in the crowded sale-room just
below the auctioneer’s rostrum. On their
left the steep tiers of buyers’ desks rose
dizzily to the ceiling, and the air was alive
with the shrieks and shouts of shirt-sleeved
representatives of half the globe. » est
found the place in the catalogue and nudg-
ing his companion, plied a pencil in the mar-
gin, jotting down hieroglyphics that stood
for prices and buyers.
Williams fidgeted in his cramped seat,
his eyes glued to a line in the catalogue
t he first lot bearing his brand marked “Super
Combing E.” West’s pencil was speeding
down the page, yet the grazier felt that
the pace had slowed to the point of irrita-
tion. Then suddenly the moment arrived.
The auctioneer’s crisp “Lot 152’ was
drowned in a shrill, unintelligible chorus;
the amphitheatre was galvanised into a
frantic, deafening activity of shirt-sleeved,
horn-spectacled humans, gesticulating, threat-
ening, imploring, howling, shrieking untrans-
latable things in a dozen keys all together.
The auctioneer alone appeared unmoved;
in fact, by some miraculous process he
seemed to be absorbing the split-second bids,
and occasionally through, a lull in the babel
the listeners caught his staccato chant.
“Twelve pence.... One! A half...-
Three!” The competitors were thinning but
there was no cessation of the pace. “Thir-
teen ! One! A half! Three!”
The chorus dropped to a duet. Williams s
eves were glued to the catalogue, his fists
clenched tightly on his knees, but his com-
panion was watching the duel keen-eyed.
“Fifteen pence! One! Half! Three;
Sixteen!” continued the regular bids. I* ie
amphitheatre was a maelstrom of inquiring
faces whose double centre was a pair of im-
passive spectacled men oblivious to all but
the eye of the auctioneer.
“Seventeen three!” . '
“Eighteen!” and a long whistle of meredtt-
lity rose in crescendo from the benches, btiu
the bidding continued.
“Eighteen one!” was challenged by 3
vigorous “Half!” , ,
Back came “Three!” but the house sensed
the almost imperceptible falter.
“'Nineteen!'” •
The auctioneer hesitated a second. Aine-
teen pence !” Then the whack of his descend-
ing mallet ended the suspense. “Watson.
Lot 153?” A surge of cheering drowned
his words, broke the sequence, and his im-
passive features rippled into a smile. I fie
record would do him no harm.
When Williams’s last lot had been sola
the two men elbowed their way out of the
sale-room through a shower of congratula-
tions. The grazier was still incoherent. ti]s
catalogue was a twisted, tattered wreck, ins
eyes sparkled like stars on a frosty night and
occasionally his lips formed something tinu
may have been “Nineteen!”
West was radiant. ‘ Good old W atso.n .
He took that lot to the absolute limit!
Williams recovered himself to ask wnere
are we going?” ,
“Aarons’s is the nearest!” was the repij ;
“I won’t try to thank yon yet, IV est.
And again he murmured “Nineteen pence a
P °His companion threw back his head and
laughed riotously. “Oh, I wish I could be
there when Jimmy the Rat opens that bale.
“What did you put back, anyhow.'
“Three cups—of chipped enamel! I"°
worn-out tar pots and a very nice assort-
ment of—dags! Yes, Miss— whisky, please. -


The Unique
Position
THE PITH OF PELMANISM.
“Theory is one thing, practical attainment
another. Pelmanism is vindicated hand-
somely by the astonishing record of its per-
formances.”—The late Sir William Robert-
son Nicoll.
“No man can go through it without im-
proving himself.”—Lord Baden-Powell.
“. . . . inculcates the essential conditions
of success in any career.”—The late Lord
Beresf.ord.
“Pelmanism is becoming part and parcel
of our daily lives.”—Lord Riddell.
“I can conceive of no mind which will not
find in Pelmanism the tonic to cure its par-
ticular ailment.”—Mr. E. F. Benson.
“. . . a progressive method by which all
men can profit mentally.”—Rt. Hon. J. M.
Robertson.
. an admirable system of Mind Train-
ing . . . would save any life from futility.”
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“ develops Will and makes the brain
an efficient servant of the Will.”—Sir Her-
bert Austin.
“ a definite, practical system . . .
saved me more time and labour than I can
reckon.”—Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
“ gives a mental clarity and alert-
ness that sees opportunities and uses them
rightly.”—Dame Sybil'Thorndike.
“ valuable to all men and women . . .
The results endure.”—Canon Hannay.
“ made it possible to ‘card-index’ my
mind and systematise my memory. It is
the machine-tool of thought.”—The late Mr.
Edgar Wallace.
“I marvel at the progress I have made.”
Assessoi.
“I now work with the greatest ease.”—
Business Man.
“• • • • given me an aim in life . . . better
concentration, more self-confidence, better
memory and the spirit of achievement.”—
Farmer.
*’l can now face the future.”—Clerk.
“A great improvement in self-control.”—
Teacher.
“. . . . has helped me, both physically and
mentally.”—Carpenter.
“Now I know why you say that the course
is personal.”—Reporter.
“It is a delight to digest the revised work
sheets and your letters full of sound advice
and practical suggestions.”—Farm Manager.
“My memory has improved beyond my
anticipations . . . produced mental grasp
and alertness I did not think possible.”—
Journalist.
“ one of- the wisest things I have
yet done.”—Law Clerk.
. benefited far beyond my expecta-
tions in concentration, logic and self-con-
fidence.”—Bank Officer.
_“•••• marked improvement in concentra-
tion, interest power and, in particular, self-
confidence.”—Accountancy Clerk.
You are sure to be interested in at least
one of the people who, in “The Efficient Mind,”
speak highly of Pelmanism from practical ex-
perience. It may be a prominent personality
who has captured your imagination, or it may
be a neighbor who has earned your respect. Get
a copy of “The Efficient Mind” now—write at
once.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it
20 or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are 12 lessons in the Course. It is
intensely interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught by post.
of Pelmanism
COR thirty-one years, and in every part of the civilised world,
* the Pelman Institute has been doing work which can truly be
described as wonderful.
To mqn and women of every class, business, profession and
trade, this Institute has taught its System of Mind and Memory
Training with benefits so direct, so unfailing and so permanent
as to leave no loophole for doubt as to its practical value.
Not only is the Pelman Institute unique in the full sense of
the word—being the only Institute of its kind in the whole
world-—but it must necessarily remain so. Experience is an
essential factor in educational training of this kind, and the
Pelman Institute possesses the accumulated experience of up-
wards of a quarter of a century gained in dealing with over
650,000 students of all occupations and positions in life.
The present Directors of the Pelman Institute in Australia
have been associated with the work for twenty-two years, so
that the “essential factor of experience” is one of the very
important qualifications upon which students of Pelmanism in
Australia and New Zealand can rely. During these twenty-
two years more than 31,000 men and women have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
Wc shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind ”76 pages,
post free. You can write us fully, or you can ma\e just a bare
application by using or copying the form below. In any case, your
inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the Scientific Development of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane (Corner of Market Street),
Melbourne, C.l.
The Headquarters of
the Telman Institute
are in London. There
are branches through-
out the world.
\ ■' V*'
650,000
World Pelmanists.
31,000
Australian and New
Zealand Pelmanists.
CUT OUT, OR COPY, and POST TO-DAY.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Eane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it, I incur no
obligation.
Name
Postal Address
346
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
BRING THE MONKEY.” By Miles Franklin, author of “My
Brilliant Career. Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD.” By Ambrose Pratt,
President Vic. Zoological Society. Exquisitely illustrated.
Price 5/- (postage 2d.).
SATURDEE. By Norman Lindsay. 6/- (postage 3d.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of Culbertson
Cup). 2/- (postage Id.).
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”—“Banjo” Paterson’s new
Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY.” By Chas. Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
JONAH Louis Stone s Classic of Sydney Push Life.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
Sp
o
o
li
CjVt
<>' vO „ C °c^'
v, V* S?>~
t>N\ \> e
❖
*<
X>\ S>”
*p •o"
p>
.-'lt
S e V
0°
, oi>
«£
J> ir.e.A.C' 6 ’^
#•’
vW V° <
v 'V 0<


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
■for cost of ONE hu using
#
m
m
m
rlr\
mm
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
m
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equa
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £ .
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO , the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST
